

The Bulletin


AflK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
PROOF
NBTk
Netting !
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO.. Limited.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BBO&, BIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
, ■ 512 GEORGE STREET, * SIDNEY. j
o .
s
IRONMONGERS
x
a
$
/• r
SPECIALITIES i
Dans’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES t—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0„ &c,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING'S
PW.IABT.K
BUGGIES
nun BRADS
OTiiS, :
lOALIXT,!
and
nvnen.
Bin b; Aixbhe
BMlastUlMUi
HOW
■US HOW
&
K
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
With Side Springs.
WAGGONS
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
lor all purposes.
Call and Inspect
4CS
$
riLUSTRATED CATALOGU ES;K.;£RfGE^OS^FREET-
W.H.PALING&d 1 "'"
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
iflio, Organ f Music Importers,
W Urgesystocttand |rea,test,Variety m -
feuklibjthe Wideslrpossible cft-oicer* PIANOS
V DAVMrNfi DV jJAMTUI S/ fi K 1 QTAI UCMT<
payment ev Monthly
VPAAiIG Ji fe
Australia - sivin§ the
from Jr4o, ORGANS from£l2-
NSTALMENTS TO SU/T»ALL CUSTOMERS
G &C? “ PR LING it Q>
'/7//’/itii\§§é%
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND.
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHNDANES,
BBS PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PLATE, 7 SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
jWINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, "Varnishes, &e,
Paperhangings, Dadoes, Friezes, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glasses
Overmantels, Silvering and Bevelling.
AUSTRALIAN GLASS COMPANY, Lim.,
281 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The A. G. Co. are selling
the above goods at a large discount from usual
prices, being the stock taken over from Mr. A.
Berth wick.
nquk ie will have prompt attention.
fJIHK REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much {aster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kenb-street.
£U*i2fLne£y*
Mgaask
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, A
<J» A, ROBERTS,LR.fJ.fAI.COCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. <*• WAT
GENERAL pIRONMONGEI
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY ;M
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WOB* 1
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPL^’,
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &C.
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED,
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD pVKW
BRUSHWARE; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPlJfSj(jlffiJ
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FIXED *
’ PUMPS, LATHES,^
A AVV/XIJUJUJLS KPALXAJP JLli’IVJj T Juan,
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS anu
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application* rj
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
- „ ' mm m -WW tNWH - * IWfWnl „i W
rT. DAE 1^
Head Warehouse
Iron and Implement „Yard
Bulk Stores- • !
64 YORK STREET,
. • HAY and ENGINE
. HARBOUR STREET
S3EBHD3STE!'Sr.
London Office
85 GRACECHUBCB
iSfwfp
u
Jill
5 .
>ud&Sol
TOBACCO WORKS
SYDNEY.
sues v ftfffm
sRwyjo„
io^ l, JULw
J»»lHfr
r. 3 n6N00
J. BILBERBERG <SC
32 MARKET STREET, Corner of Clarence
Street'
J
IMPORTERS OF THE FAMOUS SILBERBERG SEWING MACHINES,
WHITE MACHINES, the best and cheapest in the nia
the'
Agents wanted throughout the colonies.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and Georoe-street.
K. HAINEY’-S
1 DOZEN O -A. S IE
OF ASSORTED
WINES, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS
(DELIVERED ANY PART OE CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer. Order the ldoz. case as
you please from the list of low prices as under, viz.:—
Robertson's, Walker or Royal Blend Scotch Whiskies 4s Gd.
Dunville's Shamrock and Burke’s XXX Irish do. 4s. 6d.
Brian Boru Whisky .. .. .. .. 3s. Gd.
Hennessy’s * Cognac .. .. .. ss. 6d.
„ *** ■ .. 6s. 6d.
Square Gin .. ~ •. .. .. 4s. 6d.
Jamaica Rum «. «, .. .. 4s. 6d.
Red Heart do. .. v .. .. .. 4s. Gd.
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies .. .. 2s. and 2s. 6d.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is. or Ils. 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and invalids .. Gs.
Port Wine and Sherry from .. . . .. 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Superior ACCOMMODATION for Travellers. Every
attention afforded to Visitors from the country. The Dining
rooms are conducted under the supervision of Mrs. Hanney,
late of Wellington (N.Z.), which will be a guarantee that her
Guests will receive every attention. The Best Brands of
Wines, Spirits, and Beers always on hand. New Zealand
papers kept on file. *
T
H K
CLIM’AX OF
PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIMB FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
BOLD EVERYWHERE,
r
) t4ec/
r Q sl'
machin^j
LAND
l
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
f#
-$€
LOCOMOTIVES,
ESTIMATED
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
Iron
Designs snd Kstl


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 880
SATURDAY, MAY 14, 1887.
Price., 6d.
The Dog and the Shadow.


THE BULLETIN.
PCBL HED O.ICI A WEEK,
At J 4 Put-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only. ■
Per annum - - - -£1 Oa. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, oheques, and registered letters
payable to ,
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
• '• - NOTICE.
By sending direct toTni Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—whioh yon may pay by Post Offioe Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony—yon oan
hare Th» Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This oiler is n-st open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, bat is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter*
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MAY 14, 1887.
On Titles.
Under Article 1., section !1 of the Uniteel
States Constitution will be found :
“ No titles of nobility shall be granted by tbe
United States; and no person holding any offire
of profit or trust under them shall without the
oonsent of Congress accept of any title of any
kind whatever from any king, prince, or any
foreign State.”
The document from which the foregoing
excerpt is taken stands alone and unap-
proachable as a model of political sagacity.
It was given to the world at a time of
general unrest, a time when the old order
of government by high-born pimps and
harlots was about to be submitted to the
blaze of the French Revolution. But the
great men who fashioned it were alike un-
swayed by the trials through which their own
country had passed on the way to freedom
and by the murmur of coming troubles that
came across the Atlantic. They started
with first principles, and raised their struc-
ture on the firmest and most enduring of all
foundations —the rights of man. Their
reading and experience taught them that the
amount of liberty in a nation might be
roughly gauged by the titles of the nobility.
As titles lengthened freedom went down,
just as lengthening shadows proclaim a
declining sun. The framers of the American
Constitution, therefore, went to the root of
the matter at once, and by forbidding all
titular distinctions earned for themselves the
respect of the wise and the enmity of the
vain.
There are various human institutions with
mean histories. Even the Christian Church,
notwithstanding its alleged divine origin and
guidance, could not keep its hands clean.
Had it been able to do so there would have
been no occasion for the great outbreak of
the sixteenth century. But the meanest
record of all is that which might be called
tbe “ history of titles.” The makers of the
Constitution that was the outcome of mad
George the Third’s ideas of government had
but to look across the water towards their
old home to see the character of the men
who concealed mediocrity and vice under tne
cover of high-sounding names. The state-
ment of Mr. Roebuck in the House of
Commons —a statement at which the tuft-
hunters and parasites of a generation ago
belched impotent fury—is now allowed by
all impartial men : —“ A more despicable
set of wretches cannot be found than the
nobles of England under the Georges.
Licentious, mean, in every way thoroughly
corrupt and cruel, it would be difficult to
find their superiors in vice in the world’s
history. The history that would fairly state
all these things has yet to - be written.”
The Americans of a century ago saw all
this and they recognised besides that
it was the natural outcome of the
system which, by means of titular dis-
tinctions, gave vain and common-place men
and women a fictitious value in the eyes of
the vulgar. They determined to save their
country from at least one danger, to lop off
one of the branches from the great tree of
political and social corruption. They there-
fore banished titles once and for ever. For
a long time after this resolution there came
constant murmurs from men who were re-
duced to the ranks of plain “ misters,” and
from women—the moans from this quarter
were heart-breaking—who had to content
themselves with the homely designation of
“ missus,” but the lamentations were poured
into unsympathising ears. Even in our own
day there comes an occasional groan from
some smart dealer in wooden nutmegs who
thinks that his ingenuity should be rewarded
with a handle, or from some fair Americaine,
mortified at finding herself the only un-
titled virtue in the Prince of Wales’ wide
circle ; but, in the idiomatic language of the
smaller of the British Islands, they might as
well be “ whistling jigs to a milestone.”
Consider the kind of people who in New
York, Philadelphia, Boston, or Washington
would to-day be masquerading in sonorous
patrician appellations but for the cruel con-
stitutional rule above mentioned.
“ In f o the pleasant avenues of the Park, in the
bright May sunshine, dashes ihe railway wrecker’s
daughter, her ta-ty riding-habit floating free from
the side of her glistening bay, and her bel'ed
groom in fresh top-boots and smart new livery,
clattering after, at a re=pectful distsnee, on
another blooded horse that chafes at the bit. The
stock gambler’s son, rising from his trotter at
every stride, in English fashion, his English
riding-stick grasped by the middle, raises his hat
to her nod. And, ai he whirls past in his London-
made dogcait, a liveried servant fitting with
folded arms behind him, the exchanges saluta-
tions with tbe high born descendant of the Dutch
gardener, whose cabbage-patch, now covered with
bricks and mortar, has become an * estate ’ of
lordly income "
The foregoing is from George’s “Social
Problems.” Just as in England the coro-
neted children of boroughmongering trades-
men and the descendants of royal trull3
crowd the House of Lords whenever a fran-
chise Bill has to be blocked or an Irish coer-
cion measure hastened, so in America, the
successful railway - wrecker, mine-salter,
municipal “ boss ” and Chicago pig-sticker
would quickly find their names on the
Golden Book of nobility and as quickly set
to work in imitation of their kind all the
world over in throwing sleepers across the
rails of progress. Even if political influence
as a corporate body like the British Lords
were denied them, still their indirect in-
fluence both in political and social life could
not fail to be pernicious. No pork-butcher’s
wife, whose husband had invented a machine
for decapitating two pigs instead of one at a
single stroke ; no patent-medicine vendor’s
spouse, whose mari had made a fortune by
the discovery of a remedy for hiccups, but
would scheme and intrigue for the right to’
be called a lady without the trouble of
securing the graces of manner and speech by
which alone such a title is saved from ridi-
cule. It is not the Emersons, 1 incolns,
Websters, and Longfellows of the country
whose names would be found in the Ameri-
can Burke or Deb rett Far from it. Wash-
ington log-rollers and New York proprietors
of whisky mills, houses of assignation, or worse,
would find their homely patronymics quickly
changed to euphonious ones, while a com-
plaisant Heralds College discovered that the
ennobled person’s progenitors had hadthepri-
vilege of carrying the royal nightshirt before
some mediaeval European sovereign who
thought it time—the punch-bowl being empty
and the courtiers under the table—to go to
bed.
* * *
All we have said is in connection with
the necessity, which becomes mote pressing
as the years. go by, for taking measures to
prevent Australians from accepting titles, orat
least to ignore such distinction if accepted.
The greedy avidity with which the members
at present employed as clowns in the Im-
perial Conference pantomime in London
have swallowed the pinchbeck bait is signifi-
cant. Again, Her Majesty’s Jubilee ap-
proaches, when every Australian Mayor
whose signature and speech resemble those
of Tony Lumpkin and Mrs. Malaprop com-
bined, looks forward to a decoratkn of some
kind. The question of why wo should re-
joice at all because a respectable lady nearly
seventy has retained her digestion unim-
paired for half a century we leave for some
future time. At present, according to the
newspapers, there resides near Vienna a
vigorous old damq who has just celebrated
her 112th birthday. Yet, so far from re-
joicing, the parish authorities, it is hinted,
would gladly give this abnormally tough
female an extra allowance of snuff if they
thought that increased sternutation would
induce serious symptoms. This, however,
is beside the question From the character
of the colonists who so far have succeeded
in securing the coveted titles we cannot but
regard with the gravest apprehension the
approach of Jubilee day. It may be of
course that the very prodigality of the
honours and the peculiarities of the persons
who obtain them may have a desirable effect.
The Russian officers, we are told, hung the
Bulgarian decorations round the camp-dogs’
necks, and So it may come to pass that the
people who secure the insignia of Saints
Michael and . George may adopt some
equally significant manner of showing their
sense of the slight put upon them. Human
nature, however, is weak, and it should be
the aim of the various Australian Govern-
ments to protect their citizens from tempta-
tion. This could be t asily compassed by at
once passing such a measure as we have in-
dicated.
The reason why such a measure is even
more necessary here than in the United
States is because, owing to the struggles for
independence and for national existence, the
American citizen has been reared in a more
bracing atmosphere than the Australian—an
atmosphere the very breathing of which ex-
pels from the mind all ideas of privilege.
Australians, however, have undergone no
such discipline, and the political subserviency
of their country to another in a different
hemisphere deprives them in a measure of
political virility. The Press, again, with hut a
few honourable exceptions, has lent itself to
the inglorious task of toadyism. The re-
sult is that plummet never sounded the
depth of Australian flunkeyism. It would be
unfair, of course, to say that such sycophancy
is universal. That it is not so, however, is
due not to the press 'nor to the creatures
who begin, like Berry, by mouthing the
sacred name of Democracy from the shafts
of vegetable-carts in the market-place, and
end by trailing Democracy in the mud. To
attend a public meeting in Sydney, where
the speakers are the possessors orpossessors-
expectant of titles leaves a bad taste in one’s
mouth for months. If it be .said that the ac-
cep’ance or r< jectic-n of such honours is a
matter which concerns the individual alone,
but we deny it. It sets up a false standard of
worth, of ability, and of character, and, inas-
much as it does so, it is of public concern.
The standard set up is just as false, just a?
vulgar, Rs that placed before school children
in the innocent-looking little books which
tell how a barefooted lad came up to London
without a penny, and by slaving, and schem
ing, and petty meanness, succeeded in ob-
taining a knighthood from good King Georce
(the old monarch at the time was slobbering
about the galleries of Windsor, or tied gib
bering to a bed-post by his charming children
Wales and York), and died a millionaire.
If tbe ideal of human life is to stint, to
gripe, and to pinch for two generations in
order to die rich, having been previously-
slapped on the back with the flat of a swore
by an imbecile or a lecher, then the King of
Brobdignag was not so far wrong when
gently stroking wee Gulliver, he said: “By
what I have gathered from your answers you
are the most pernicious race of little odious
vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl on
the surface of the earth.”
“Perverts to Protection."
When the railroad man— Schky, M.P.—threw
aside his political eonvictiens as a Protectionist to
secure the Paikrsite Bedfern vote, ho was des-
cribed by a toady ier Government Press as a “ con-
vert” to Freetrade; but when Mr. John Osborne
lectures in favour of Protection be is dubbed by
the Sydiey Ev njng News as a “pervert” to
Proteoiiin. This is a veiy convenient method
of sta’irg the case. It is the style
of the man who always supports his own
argument with, “ Anybody who knows anything
about, ii will toll you the same.” &c., without
vouchsafing auy other kind of proof. Bat the
“ perverts ” to Protection are daily growing mori
numerous, aud if the question of Protection were
presented in anything like a logical manner, the
“perverts," at no very distant date, would rule
the ballot box. Eut the rollicking Freetrade
fashion of dubbing everybody a “pervert" who
dees not agree with the M’Mu, lions of fiscal
truth, hangs well with the Freetraders’ usua’
gloriously assumptive style of "jumping” cor.
elusions without stating premises.
The Sydney D.T. of a recent date, speaking of
the S. A . movement to deveiope the cultivation ot
“ fruit, olives, wattles, grapes, and other pro-
duce,” makes the following abuird statement:
“ The English consumer dees not manufacture
money to pay for them ; all he can do is to mans
facture goods to exchange for them.” Now wo
say that the English consumer most distinctly
does manufacture money to pay for them. Money
is something more than a mere medium of ex-
change—it is a commodity haviDg a real intrinsic,
value and a very tangible existence. The D.T
talks as if all England's trade were conducted
with South Australia, and that an interchange of
raw material for manufactured articles were an
absolute matter of compulsion between the two
countries. The English consumer does manu-
facture money because he takes his products to
the various markets of the world—or he did be-
fore the majoiity of his rivals adopted Protection
and with the price he receives for his products
he is able to afford the luxury of South Australian
“fruit, olives, wattles, grapes, &c.,’ if he de-
sires it. And it is utter nonsense to sa;
that, England will not trade with South Australia
in olives, &c., unless South Australia takes in
turn England’s manufactured goods. It is a ques
tion of demand and supply. If the olives of Spain
are insufficient to supply the market, consumer.,
will be compelled to go to other countries—includ
ing South Australia—for them, whether the other-
countries will consent to receive in payment Bir-
mingham spoons and Sheffield cutlery, or demand
instead hard cash.
No wonder that thinking people become “ per
verts ” to Protection ! Freetraders always argue
as though commerce were transacted through a
direct channel instead of circulating through a
thousand and one different byways the wide world
over. Another .favourite assumption with Free-
traders is that “if men were not making ploughs
they would be tillirg the ground and buying their
ploughs ready made from England. If they were
not weaving wool into cloth they would be keep-
ing sheep on the downs of Monaro.” Forgetting
entirely that the best and most vital mar-
ket the farmer can have is a local one,
and that the people employed on a sheep-run
and are too insignificant in number to be men
tioned. A good example is to be found in the
gold-mining- industry of the past. Wherever the
diggers went they were followed by the farmers,
and the original impetus given by a local mining
market to agriculture has been sufficient to estab-
lish that which would never have been established
had the first tillers of the soil been obliged to look
for encouragement to the over-glutted markets of
tha old world. AgaiD, the prosperity of a coun-
try is to be sought in its population and the dis-
semination of the country’s total wealth through-
out that population, and not in the value of its
exports and imports, which aggregate in the
hands of a few. The absurdity of the “money”
argument is seen at once when we reflect that the
returned squatters now in England did not take
home with them bales of wool to exchange for
gorgeous junkettings and champagne-suppers.
They are mostly retired from business, and are
now living in England upon the profits they have
saved from their former dealings in wool. If their
exchange of wool for some consideration be not
represented in hard cash, it certainly is, in a
very substantial “ fiction,” in the shape of a big
balance wiih their English bankers.
* * *
To put the whole question in a nutshell. That
country is most prosperous which employs its own
people in manufacturing articles for a local
market, instead of allowing them to starve in
idleness in order to reap a questionable advan-
tage by purchasing the products of European
pauper labour. Prosperity is reflex. The small
tradesman exists by virtue of being enabled to
supply the operative who is able to buy from him,
and on the email tradesman the big merchant, and
so on, up to the most bloated capitalist of them
all. When the poor are starving in enforced idle-
ness, the merchant is experiencing hard times.
The unemployed difficulty and business depression
are concomitant?. The salvation of New South
Wales is in the continual increase of “perverts”
to the solid principle of Protection for Native
Industries.
Lord Gifford’s Bequest,
Although the prevailing notions concerning the
Being who is responsible for the existence of
“this wicked world." are infinitely numerous and
diverse, there existed, until quite lately, a dis-
satisfied individual who appears to have been im-
pressed with the idea that something fresh—some-
thing entirely new and original—in the way of a
God might be invented or discovered. Not having
time to look into the matter himself, he (Lord
Gifford) bequeathed a sum of money for the pur-
pose of promoting the “study of the nature of
God, and the relations which men and the whole
universe bear to h im.’’ This bequest is chiefly
noteworthy for the fact that the learned testator,
in insisting that the subject should be studied “ as
a strictly natural science, just as chemistry or
astronomy is,’’ has put his finger right down upon
the key-note of modern thought on thisall-absorb]
ing question. The time when men considered it
heroic and virtuous to die in defence of their
religious opinions and to destroy those who dif-
fered from them, has gone. The intoler-
ance of the past is now only to be
found amongst those whose living depends
upon keeping alive the musty old notions
of their forefathers. Men whose pockets are
unlikely to be affected by the result, discuss the
question calmly and dispassionately. The day is
dead when theological dissensions and doubts
could be satisfactorily settled by (Ecumenical
Councils, where a question was determined by the
vote of the majority and the opinions of the
minority were of no value or effect. And when
we know that in order to secure this majority
vote “ all manner of intrigues and impositions
were resorted to; and the influence of Court
females, bribery and violence were not spared,”
the modern student stands aghast at the thought
that the bloodiest wars, the fiercest family dis-
sentions, and the most heart-rending andibarbar-
ous tortures have been resorted to and patiently
borne for the purpose of upholding opinions thus
obtained.
The “ orthodox ” notions concerning God and
his relation to man are based entirely on Faith,
and are absolutely dependent on that flimsy sup-
port for their existence, In their teachings and
preachings the necessity for implicit faith is
vigorously insisted on by the clergy. Now Faith,
which has been defined in a most ambiguous
manner by St. Paul is spoken of by a later writer
as “ that which enables us to believe what
our reason compels us to disbelieve.” The scheme
of attempting to obtain a knowledge of God by
study “ as a strictly natural science” is therefore
bound to meet with strenuous opposition from the
clergy, for the result of investigations from such
a basis is certain to have the effect of shutting
faith out in the cold, where it, the fountain from
which flow titles, stipends and Peter's pence,
will be indissolubly frozen.
There are several distinct religions in the world
of which the followers of each far outnumber the
Christians, and the evidence on which they are
founded is to the unprejudiced mind quite as
reliable and convincing as that upholding much of
the assertions which are so intimately bound up
wiih Christianity. Still each believes the other to
be taking the shortest track to Hell. But the fact
that even two distinct form 3 of religion, both
claiming Divine inspiration and having equal
evidence to support their claims, yet differing
widely and materially in fheir beliefs and faith,
is proof sufficient that they cannot both be right.
Of course each one insists that it is the other’s
doctrines which are false, and we thus
see that Faith is no criterion by which
to arrive at a solution of the difficulty.
Studied “as a strictly natural science ’’ the only
way in which the subject should be studied, the
result is still likely to be unsatisfactory and to
support the belief of Democritus, who asserted
that the final result of human inquiry is the
discovery that man is incapable of ab.-olute know-
ledge.” That this assertion cannot be easily re-
futed must be acknowledged even by those ortho-
dox Christians, who, tracing the origin of
everything to an anthropomorphic God, find the
have reached a point beyond which they are un-
able to pi\ c :ed, The query “ Whence came God”
blocks the way, and is insuperable. On the other


hand, the Materialists of the present day can get
back no farther than a source of emanation.
“Whence the source 2” we ask, and wait in vain
for answer. The human mind is incapable of
understanding the finality which is necessary to
satisfy it on this subject, and it is for this reason
that thousands of the deepest thinkers have re:
jected all theories so far presented with regard to
a Creator or Universal Force. /
A Land Tax, or Protection to Native
Industries.
One evening during the recent New South Wales
general elections, while the Cobden Club fledgling
of York street, M'Million, was enumerating the
gorgeous benefits arising from the pursuance of a
Freetrade policy, he referred incidentally to the
Utterances of Henry George on the same sub-
ject. He said that whatever might be thought of
the American Land Nationalizer, there was no
doubt about his being sincere, about his
being a true democrat and a true friend
to the working man, and yet Henry George
was a firm believer in the surpassing
beauty and holiness of Freetrade. Some-
body in the crowd electrified the champion of the
monopolist importers, by retorting that Henry
George was a Land Nationalizer first, and as-
suming his position as such to bo right, he was
consistently a Freetrader afterwards. M‘Million
of course glided over this by saying that Henry
George was not infallible, he himself did not en-
dorse all George uttered, though in the matter of
Freetrade he was doubtless worth listening to.
In short, M'Million was the disciple of the
author of “ Freetrade and Protection,” but not of
the author of “Progress and Poverty,” or of
“ Social Problems.”
The voice from the crowd uttered a great truth
Of course in an unthinking throng of M'Million’s
supporters he was in no position to argue the
point. Henry George addresses humanity from
an ideal platform, ne argues from the very bed-
rock of immutable justice. He makes no con-
cession to the expediency of the immediate pre-
sent. And The 'Bulletin presumes to say that
it is quite content to side with him in this connec-
tion. Granted a system of universal Land Nation-
alization. and a system of universal Freetrade
follows naturally. But a system of Land Nation-
alization is no immediate prospect, while an
adjustment of taxation which will give New
South Wales an assurance of at least temporary
prosperity, and which will also make some pro-
vision for satisfying a serious financial difficulty,
is crying loudly for instant attention. Now,
something might have been done in regard to the
incidence of taxation, which, without being in any
manner calculated to afford Protection to native
industries, would have temporarily placed the
finances of the colony on a fairly sound basis.
* * *
Had Sir Henry Parkes given evidence ot any
real intention to redeem his election pledges we
should at present hesitate to force the question of
Protection for native industries. The whole point
at issue is simply this : Parkes himself made the
issue at the recent [elections a test question be-
tween Freetrade and Protection. When pressed
to define his intended policy he both openly
avowed and covertly insinuated that a land-tax
would be the “joker” in his financial euchre
hand. This avowal procured him support from
hundreds who would otherwise have supported
his opponents. Hence, the real question at the
ballot-box during the recent geneial election was
not Freetrade v. Protection, but a Land-Tax v.
Protection, and the manner in which the Laud-Tax
has been shelved plainly shows that the Old Par-
liamentary Hand brought it forward as a supreme
political dodge, when he found that pure and
unadulterated Freetrade hung fire, and that he had
not then, nor has he since had, the slightest in-
tention of carrying it into effect. Suppose Parkes
had been honest; suppose he had made a genuine
effort to promote settlement upon the land by
adopting a policy of railway extension and water
conservation and irrigation, a certain spurt would
have been given to agriculture and a temporary
prosperity assured to the colony, which would
have had the effect of convincing cavillers that
something more than a lust of power actuated Sir
Henry in his selection of a policy which his sub-
sequent conduct [proves he never intended to
pursue. . , .
At present the New South Wales farmer pays
three or four times as much per weight on the
railway carriage of his produce as does the im-
porter for the carriage of merchandise. But this,
of course, is a species of Protection we never hear
denounced by the interested M'Millions, who
masquerade as sucking Cobdens in the Hall of
Commerce or the Legislative Assembly. And
such a Freetrade manifestation as an impartial
railway tariff savours too much of abstract jus-
tice to meet with consideration at the hands of
politicians who covertly yet really legislate for the
two classes who dominate New South Wales—the
importers and the landowners. A Land and Pro-
perty Tax would directly assist the small, strug-
gling farmer, and there would be a consequent
development of all the locked-up resources of the
colony. The lords of thousands of acres now
lying idle would, if those acres were taxed to any-
thing near their productive value, be compelled
cither to develops the land themselves or sub-lease
to those who would. But instead cl a tax on
land, Sir Henry Parkes gives us a tax on to-
bacco and colonial beer, apparently with no other
object than to crush out two industries which
employ hundreds of workmen in the production
of articles used by thousands of others.
The Land Tax is undoubtedly a dream of the
past. Instead of a system of taxation, which,
although not calculated to do half so much good
as a genuine sjstem of Protection, would at least
put the cost of government upon the shoulders of
those best calculated to afford it, we have the
real Freetrade nostrum for increasing the pros-
perity of a country—viz. : tax what you cannot
produce within your own boundaries, and tax also
your native products, but never tax the foreign
import which needs only a little local encourage-
ment to become a native product. And the coun-
try reaps no benefit from such a course of taxa-
tion. In the first instance, where the imported
article, which cannot be produced in the colony,
is taxed, there is a deterioration in quality, and
adulteration is practised. In the second instance
where a native product is taxed, the article itself
is not only largely adulterated, but the industry
dwindles, by reason of makiDg the foreign compe-
tion of pauper labour the object of a bonus in the
shape of the tax. That the raw material is pro-
duced on the spot profits nothing. r i lie impost,
the difference in wages and in the length of a
working day, more than exceeds by 50 per cent,
the natural protection of ocean carriage. All the
fiscal proposals of the Parkes Government are on
the same footing. They are framed with the inten-
tion of bolstering up the position of the monopolist
importer, and the monopolist landholder, and of
taxing in health and pocket the working-man.
Now the whole sjstem arises from two causes —
an injustice and a fallacy. An injustice, because
Freetrade is based on the principle of class-legis-
lation, and a fallacy because cheapness is sup-
posed to compensate for poverty. Why the
sudden exertions, the expenditure of money, the
candidature of the merchants—the Macmilions
and Co.—for seats in the N.S.W. Legislature ? The
answer is simply that the entire business was a
movement to conserve the inordinate profits of the
Importer. “ Protection," says the Freetrade
doctrinarian, “ would simply give the manufac-
turer a huge monopoly.” Suppose it did, although
we deny it, because lccal competition would soon
adjust these little difficulties ; suppose it did, it
would do that which the mere gathering of com-
missions upon the produce of foreign countries can
never do ; what wool-growing can never do—it
would employ hundreds and thousands of men in
the production cf articles for a local market.
Freetrade simily means a condition of things in
which the workman of New South Wales is put
in competition against all the workmen of the
world, for the benefit cf the Mac Millions and
Co ,of York-street. Protection means the em
ployment in honest labour of the unemployed, who
instead of grubbing brush on waste land for the
munificent wage of “ five bob ” a day, would be
earning from ten to twelve shillings a day, with-
out going to the Government and asking work in
the way of charity. In other words, the bone and
sinew of the country now running to waste in en-
forced idleness in Sydney Domain and Hyde
Park, or prowling in impecunious hunger round
the entrances of soup-kitchens and sixpenny-
restaurants, would be applied in converting
raw material into uu _ matured articles for a
local market.
We admit that a Land Tax would be only a
temporary avoidance of the question of Protec-
tion, but it would have shown that Parkes in
tended to keep his election pledges. We admit
that if a Land Tax were impost d, and brought
about a wholesale agricultural settlement of the
colony, still a market would have had to he found
outside the colony, and loreign markets are al-
ways precarious. What is wanted is a local
market for farm produce, and this can beobtained
only by fostering native industries, and the agri-
cultural population would in turn form a local
market for manufactured articles—the develop-
ment of the tillage resources of a country, and the
development of its manufactures are reciprocal.
Again, suppose Protection to be firmly established,
in proportion as it became operative, revenue
would diminish, and recourse would have ulti-
mately to be had to a system of taxation of the
land, the storehouse of Nature. Parkes has
shelved his Land Tax—which he was put into office
to make law—and he has broken his election
pledges. Therefore we demand that which his
Land Tax was intended to render unnecessary—
Protection to Native Industries. But we will
have the Land Tax, too, by-and-bj e !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A ‘ Jefeuitical ’ Manoeuvre.
That English divine who sat £or the portiaitof
the “ Vicar of Bray ” used to boast that he main-
tained his position as principal of one of the largest
educational establishments during various con-
flict ng administrations by his control of the boys
beneath his care. The boys ruled their mothers,
and the mothers ruled their husbands ; hence the
said divine ruled England. The R.C. Church can
afford to laugh at edicts while it controls the
education of the young. At that period of life
when the mind is as wax to receive and marble to
retain, the future fate of a nation can be cast by
the directing hand of the pedagogue. And in this
connection a new danger of an apparently benevo-
lent and praiseworthy character threatens the
budding Democracy of Australia. The Imperial-
istic Jingoes of England-on-her-last-legs have hit
upon a new expedient. Besides buying colonial
allegiance at a cheap rate by a lavish dispensation
of pawn-shop distinctions, the gay idea of catch-
ing the young bird with a pinch of educational
salt has also struck them. The modus operardi
is simple in the extreme, and the result as certain
as proverbial “eggs.” The Military College of
Oxford is charitably disposed towards the callow-
faced kangaroo-joey of the South, and is offering
tcrumptious guerdons in the shape of colonial
competitive scholarships to the gorgeous extent
of £25 and £SO respectively to youngsters between
the ages of 14 and 16, who, says Imperial
Federation, “will have everything made easy
tor them." Moreover, the juvenile aspirants to this
sort of educational and imperial “ ten-bob-a-
week charity ” need not be afraid of having to
travel to the place of ordeal in the grand old land
of liberty and slobber, for the papers will
be sent out—like a lot of other things—to
each colony. Item, the conditions of examina-
tion are to be benignantly endorsed by our highly
“ culchawed ” and overpoweringly informed
Agents-General, “thus bringing the scheme
officially under the cognisance of public opinion
in the colonies, and, although the course of study
at the college is primarily concerned with military
subjects , we understand that pupils are also
enabled to prepare themselves for the professions
generally and for a business life.” “ Primarily
concerned with military subjects; ” that’s it!
teach the youDg colonial idea how to shcot.
Kangaroo-tail soup for consumption on the old-
world battle-fle'd. No thank you! We have
nobler careers marked out for the “ young and
rising.” Instead of educating them for human
targets, and leg-ironing the colonies on to the de-
crepid wreck of the past through the easily-
manipulated sentiments of children, we intend to
educate and train them to the pursuits of Repub-
lican peace and progres?. Your thinly-veiled Im-
perial scheme for the manufacture of powder-
monkeys doesn’t flatter our hoxe-spun imagina-
tions. And we don’t need your pedagogic charity.
Keep your money for the maimed and bullet-
riddled human wreckage you have manufactured
in the past ! We’re not Imperial enough yet!
♦
Churches and Pubs.
It is a curious thing that while men like the Very
Reverend J. J. Carroll are eternally inveighing
against drinking, you cannot find a R.C. Church
or college in Sydney or Melbourne where the irre-
pressible Irish publican has not set up his name
and his sign. “Quite handy ”to every R.C. church
or chapel is the little pub. of Timothy Fogarty
or Martin Ryan. Probably Tim or Martin is a
big man in the church. He goes round with the
plate, subscribes to the schools, and pays his
Christmas and Easter dues. The clergy frequently
preach against drunkenness, and they constantly
warn people to avoid publichouses. But who ever
yet heard the keeping of a publichouse de-
nounced from the pulpit? If the effect,
namely, the going into a publichouse ar d getting
drunk, is bad and sinful, surely the cause —viz.,
the existence of the public-house and the greed
and rapacity of the landlord is infinitely more so.
It is said that Irishmen become publicans and
policemen, court-criers and messengers at Govern-
ment offices, because they have no trades or tech-
nical callings. Be it so. But is there not a living
to be made by grocery, greengrocery, boots and
shoe?, drapery, or selling The Bulletin? Is
wading through grog the only way to reach the
shores of comfort and independence? The late
Dr. Backhaus, of Sandhurst (Vic.), was a consis-
tent man in his warfare against drink. There
was, of course, a corner public-house opposite St.
Killian’s Church. The Doctor had a keen eye for
real property as well as a great “ down ” upon
grog, so he bought the public-house, and when he
got the chance, closed it up and let it as a private
dwelling. It still retains its exterior appearance
of a grog-shop, and the residents are constantly
bothered on Sundays by men calling for long beers
and nips of brandy before or after church. Now
there was another priest in Victoria of quite a
different way of thinking to Dr. Backhaus. He
saw that the inevitable church-pub. did a roariDg
trade, and instead of contenting himself with
merely making friends of the Mammon of Iniquity
and getting all he could out of the publican for Holy
Church purposes, he took the aforesaid Mammon
to his bosom in globo. He bought the public-
houte, took over the business, and “says he to
himself, says he,” “If Pat Maguinness and Timo-
thy Finegan will insist on having a drink after
Mass, I may just as well have the profits for reli-
gious purposes as Michael O’Hooligan, who sends
his children to the State school and never goes to
confession.” So the Rev. Father O'Hickey, priest
and publican, went on and prospered ; the church
was enlarged, and a school built, and many years
after Father O’H. died in the odour of sanctity-.
♦
Rolling in Wt alih.
Criticising Mr. Creer’s exposition of the prin-
ciple of Protection, the Sydney D.T. says that
Freetrade, “amongst other things, caused New
South Wales to roll in wealth to such an extent
that it is able to purchase goods from all parts of
the world.” Now, Freetrade has done nothing of
the sort. Notwithstanding that New South Wales
is four times the size of Victoria, yet during the
year 1885, the combined imports and exports of
New South Wales amounted to £39,906,940, while
those of Victoria —one fourth in total size-
amounted to £36,819,216. Where is the rolling
wealth the D.T. brags about? Look at the deficit,
the senseless retrenchment, the hide-bound im-
pecuniosity, the squandered public estate, the
yearly-increasing national debt, the depression in
trade, the long lists of insolvents, the narrow
“screws,” the solid phalanx of discharged Civil
servants, and the army of the “unemployed” in
the Freetrade colony, and then delude your-
self with visions of rolling wealth !!! The
total value of a year’s experts is no gain
to the colony when it represents a trade
in wool, an industry which employs few
hands, and consequently conserves profits to the
few, who frequently take their money to Europe
and spend it there. And the circulation of such
wealth in the old world is fuel drawn from our
own depots to keep the European workman’s pot
boiling and to assist him the more effectually to
“swamp” the juvenile and struggling industries
at the Antipodes. Wealth is of little value to
New South Wale 3 unless it i 3 circulated in the
colony. The D.T. will next account as colonial
assets the rents drawn from New South Wales by
Lord Rosebery, Sir Daniel Cooper, and Co.,
and spent in England. And what in the name of
all that’s fiscal does it matter to New South Wales
citizens that they have the gorgeous privileged
purchasing “ goods from all parts of the world ” ?
Does the D.T. realise what this means ? It means
an army of starving “ unemployed” in New South
Wales, hanging in enforced idleness round the
entrance to the Sydney Soup Kitchen in order
that the Australian “land-jumper” may purchase
the articles of his luxury at a saving of 20 per
cent., which after a few years of hoarding he takes
with him to Europe, and expends in toadying en-
tertainments to aristocratic personages in the hope
of squeezing into the circles of the “ select.” It
means, too, an increase in the profits of the Euro-
pean manufacturer, who is thereby enabled to re-
tire from business earlier in life than he otherwise
would have done, and it enables him to devote his
time in Parliament to legislating against the class
who made for him his fortune, the class to whom
“ cheap ” articles of manufacture mean in turn
from 72 to 80 hours’ work a week for a wage less
than the sum their employer expends in procuring
food for his dog. For these unfortunates the
“ cheap ” European product which it is our ex-
treme privilege —according to the D.T.— to pur-
chase “ from all parts of the world,” means a
starved mind, a sickly childhood, a hideous exis-
tence in a fever-smitten tenement, long hours of
labour, unwholesome and insufficient food, keen
competition, wasted lives, disease, starvation, an
early death, and a pauper's grave. These be some
of the blessings the people of N.S.W. are asked to
be grateful for.
Snuffing out Parliament.
The New South Wales Government are in a
mighty hurry to bring the Parliamentary session
to a close. Parkes’ excuse is that “the session
proper to the year ” must be begun early in the
Spring, if not before. Everybody knows, how-
ever, that as soon as Parliament is prorogued
Ministers will kick up their heels and forget all
about ‘ ‘ the session proper of the year ” until
further supplies are wanted. The phrase is, in-
deed, one of those meaningless absurdities Parkes
is so fond of mouthing. There is no such thiDg as
a session proper to the year. The law provides
that Parliament shall be convoked for the des-
patch of business at least once in every year, but
there is no provision agaiast its having 20 sessions
in one twelvemonth, or one session extending
from the beginning to the end of its existence.
There is no reason whatever for hastening the
prorogation, while there are abundant reasons for
prolonging the session. The Government have
been unfaithful in regard to so many promises
that the Assembly ought to view with distrust
this unseemly haste to get rid of the
House. None of the measures projected by
Parkes during the elections have been proffered
to the Legislature as things to be authorised.
The Local Government Bill, which Parkes
pledged himself to pass, has not made its appear-
ance, and has apparently been forgotten. The
Railway Bill, it is now stated, will not be pressed
forward this session. As for the Property Tax,
Parkes clearly means to postpone the introduc-
tion of that measure until the Greek Kalends.
This leaves the Apostle of Good Government with
his beggarly little Foreign Criminals Bill as his
solitary measure, and even that seems to have been
dropped. Garrett has smuggled in a wretched
Land Act Amendment Bill, but the loud and
unanimous expressions of disapproval with which
it has been met will probably lead to its being
dropped also. The idea, in a word, seems to be
to make the session utterly barren. Next
week an attempt will be made to rash the Esti-
mates through the Assembly, and as soon
as this feat is accomplished with the aid
of iron-handed procedures and a slavish
Ministerial majority, the Appropriation Act
will be forced through, and Parliament sent
about its business This is the programme
Parkes has evidently propounded to his sup-
porters, and though it may be delayed in execu-
tion to some extent, clearly it cannot be thwarted.
The Opposition is impotent—it is numerically
small, and lacks under Abbott's leadership cohe-
sion and directness of purpose. Practically
Parkes is in the position of a dictator, and his
only difficulty consists in controlling within
bounds not absolutely outrageous his dicta* orial
and arbitrary spirit. Perhaps the best way to
combat him is to let him have all his own w ay. A
beggar on horseback is sure to ride pretty straight
to the devil; and if Parkes is let alone he will
most certainly go to political perdition, as he has
done on so maDy occasions before.
Mr. Inglis, the New South Wales Minister of
Education, has been graciously pleased to declare
that he “intends cutting down accretions and
excrescences wherever he finds them.” He would
probably have said something aboutthe cataclysm
which he was raising to sweep away divers other
impedimenta, only his colleague, Abigail, sent in
to borrow the Dictionary in order to ascertain
whether “cart” was spelt with a “oh,” or a
“k.” The complaint made against the discon-
tinuance of fuel-allowance is, in the opinion of
'1 iger Inglis, a mere sentimental outcry, as in
nearly every case “firew’ood can be had for pick-
ing up." He conveniently forgets that in some
cases, such as that of Tuniberumba, Seymour,
&c., the snow lies a foot thick on the ground in
winter, and his suggestion that ‘' some public-
spirited resident should hitch his hoise up and do
an afternoon's woodcarting to supply the school
and schoolmaster’s kitchen ” has led many to sup-
pose that the Minister for Education’s office has
been removed to Gladesville. Mr. Inglis hopes
to save £20,000 in his department by the follow-
ing sapient means Allowing school-fires to go
out and the unfortunate children to freeze to
death, £IOOO ; allowing school buildings to remain
uncleaned and risk the chances of summonses
from inspectors of nuisances, £9OOO ; docking
teachers’ rent allowances, £IO,OOO. Total, £20,000
—to be spent in building educational palaces at
Jackas3 Flat, Dead Dog Gully, Tinpot Swamp, and
other places whose members have influence with
the Government.
♦
The S.M. Herald says that Sydney is behind
Melbourne in the matter of Law Courts. Rather!
That building at the corner of William street and
Lonsdale-street is the second finest temple of jus-
tice in the British dominions. Before it wa..
erected, the judges sat in all kinds of places. Poor
old Molesworth was always shunted into a
tumble-down wooden building forming part of
what was facetiously called the “New Court-
house.” Through never wearing an overcoat and
always sitting in this wretched hovel, he got
pleurisy, and was laid up for three months at death’s
door. The old Courthouse killed Lawis, and
made Gurner, the Crown Solicitor, a martyr to
neuralgia. The late Sergeant Sleigh got that
Court “ improved,” and when he left Mel-
bourne, Molesworth said from the Bench
that he wished the Sergeant had taken his
“improvements” away with him. Sir Bed-
mond Barry's favorite court (save the mark!)
was the “ New” court proper. On a wet day, the
rain fell on the barristers’ table and the reporters’
desk, and the scribes and doctors of the law were
obliged to dodge the showers. Now, that's all
past and gone. The new building contains a
Banco Court, Equity Court, Insolvency Court,
County Court, Criminal Court, two JMisi Prius
Courts, and a Practice Court, besides a host of
chambers and offices. The courts are magnifi-
cent halls, each fit to be a ball-room. The
benches and canopies have cost £IOOO each.
Before these courts were opened, the judges sat
at times in the Manchester Unity Hall, Ihe
Agricultural Hall, the Turn Verein Hall, and all
kinds of places. The New South Wales Govern-
ment had better go in at once for building new
and permanent Law Courts in Sydney. No
patching up or temporary structures will meet the
case.
Mr. Howard Vincent and Mr. Baden Powell
are, it seems, exercised on the subject of colonial
titles. They are anxious to have the opinion of
the Agents-General on a proposal for the confer-
ring of farther distinctions of that kind on Aus-
tralians in connection with the Queen’s jubilee ;
or, in other words, they want to know if there 1»


anywhere an object of derision, whether subject
to fits or not does not matter, who hasn’t already
got a distinction, and if so they desire that he
should at once be hauled along by the tail and
knighted. Putting the command into plain, com-
monplace English, her Gracious has said to her
servants Mr. Howard Vincent and Mr. Baden
Powell, “ Bring along the Australian animal,”
and the animal is being brought along accordingly.
This sort of thing is a pleasant amusement for the
old lady, who is always speculating as to what the
next patient will be like, but one unlucky result
is that she is past coming to the conclusion that
all colonists are short and podgy, with large ears,
feet to match, and have been bankrupt three
times under suspicious circumstances. It is now
rumoured that if Boshway can be caught in
time for the Jubilee he is to be knighted, but we
understand that that intelligent savage is flying light
in the matter of luggage, and has good hopes of
being able to keep ahead.
Thus the Australasian Medical Gazette in re
“Dr.” Sabatowski who committed suicide in
Sydney a few weeks ago after performing an
illegal operation which resulted in the death of
his patient:—
“ He had been practising in Sydney since August, 1885, about
which time he presented a diploma of the University of
Paris to the medical Board for registration. As no appli-
cant is required to give more proof of his identity with the
gerson named in the diploma than his own declaration, he
ad no difficulty in obtaining compliance with his demand,
though we believe considerable doubt was aroused as to his
being really the true owner of the degree, for astonishment
was expressed that a man so vulgar and apparently ignorant
should possess the M.D of so distinguished a school. For
ourselves, after having made due inquiry, we think there is
no doubt that he was not "the person named in the diploma
which he presented, but that he was an impostor sailing
under the colours of another man.”
A nice state of things, truly ! But Sabatowski’s
case is by no means unique. It is an open secret
that one soi-disa.nt ‘ ‘ doctor ” who claims a high
qualification and who has practised both in Mel-
bourne and in Sydney, “ travels ” on the diploma
of a surgeon long since dead, whom he personates.
That dear old lady, The Argus, in a Centenary
sub-leader drivel* thusly :
" In one respect Australia is more fortunate than another
nation which has announced that it intends to hold a uni-
versal exhibition by-and-bye. Australia has made not ne-
mifß, and her " historical ” pasi can be recalled withou-
offending any race, party, or creed. No nation has a grudge
against Australia, and an Australian centenary cannot po*l
sibly bd turned into the purification ef one set of people and
the humiliation of another.
We should think Egypt would have a big grudee
against us for our eagerness to help cut her throat
in t ie Soudan ; and if robbing the Australian
aboriginal of his birthright, and giving no com-
pensation save a pair of cotton blankets once a
year to two or three of his brethren, cannot be
called offending and humiliating a race, we are
prepared to go to school again.
Hard, solid, unfathomable lying, such as a boiler-
plated Czar would blush to be guilty of, is-
becoming the prominent feature of the Victorian
Jubilee. A few months ago we were told that
every son and daughter in the state schools of
Gilt iks’ colony was to be presented with a Testa-
ment with the autograph of her Gracious on the
fly-leaf, and now the meek and lowly yarn has
swelled until it appears that the grand old lady is
to write a verse as well as her signature. There
are 200,000 Testaments wanted, and she is sup-
posed to do this with every one. Yet when the de-
luded babes get their books, and the Government
prevaricator tells them that the signature is
genuine, we presume they will believe it. And it
doesn’t seem to strike the individuals who gaffer
this little scheme that it is mean to thus take in
the newly-weaned colonial infant who doesn’t
know any better.
Sydney D.T., speaking of the recent obstructive
tactics of the New South Wales Opposition,
remarks :
“ The whole proceeding was wanton and unprincipled
from beginning to end. It had not even the uneelfi-h, if
mischievous, folly of fanaticism. There was nothing in it
but malice and a vengeful desire to be nasty.”
Now exactly the same could have been written of
the obstructive tactics adopted by Parkes when
in Oppositien during the Jennings-Dibbs regime.
Of course Parkes defended his “ wanton and un-
principled” obstruction to the Government of the
day, by pleading that the Jennings-Dibbs
Ministry had not been elected to office to alter the
fiscal system of the colony, and could not, there-
fore, be regarded as representing a majority of
the New South Wales electors. Now, exactly the
same excuse is ready to hand for the present Op-
position to make use of. Parkes gained office
under the false promise of a Land Tax, which has
been since calmly and callously pigeon-holed.
Therefore, as Parkes does not represent a majority
of the New South Wales electors, the Opposition are
as much justified in obstructing his financial pro-
posals as he was, when in Opposition, in obstructing
those of the Jennings Ministry.
Queen Victoria is going to be civil to the Pope
in J übilee year, and some of her out-and-out loyal
subjects are afraid she’ll break her coronation
oath and become a Papist like her late mamma.
What next ? A Nuncio in London ? Or a marriage
with Leo XIII? Sixtus V. said he would like to
marry Elizabeth of England, and if the thir-
teenth Leo had not sworn against all womankind
who knows but he might make an honourable
offer to the widow of Albert the Good ! And
if the Queen did become Mrs. Pecci, what ruc-
tions there would be at Exeter Hall and Potts
Point, not to mention Toorak and the Scots’
Church!
Quoted from Pump Court, the English lawyers’
journal, for the benefit of the Australian cat-and-
gallows hystericists :
“ We commend to the attention of our lawgivers the fol-
lowing remarks of Baron Huddleston at the Warwick
Assizes ( n the 18th of last month. The learuea judge said :
—* That the Criminal Law Amendment Act had given great
trouble and anxiety to judges. Fifty years' experience in
courts taught him that the majority of charges made by
women against men were untrue. Now that the criminal
period was extended to 16 years, occasion was given for
charges of the most extraordinary character. The assize
calendars were full of unfounded charges, and probably
when more cases of that kind,were exposed, the Legislature
would reconsider the Act. There were many instances
showing that men rather than women wanted protection,
and it was not desirable to afford undue facilities lor such
cases to be brought forward. The experience of those
who administered justice was that the Act was open
to very great abuse, and those well-intentioned persons
who promoted it would do well to reconsider it.’ There
can be no doubt the law was passed under a shameful
scare, and on a supposed state of facts which turned out to
have no existence except in the case of a few half-witted
men of the me s* degraded class. The worst of it was that
many people were deterred irom strenuously opposing the
Act from a natural horror of being taunted with supporting
vice, and not a few people were afraid of making enemies of
a society which, if the recommendations of one of their ex-
ponent had been carried out, would have an elaborate spy
system to spy out, note down, and make public any depar-
tures from the strictest paths of virtue. And many of these,
we aare > ffirm, were among the loudest in praise of the Act
in mere fear. Let us hope they have got rid of their panic,
and will give play to the>r sense of justice. We would speci-
ally m *ke appeal to thoße good and honest but mistaken
persons who supported the movement to go into court them-
selves and see the prosecutrices and the Drif oners, those in
the witness-box, these in the d< ck. The injus'ice is not felt
much if at all yet, by the higher classes. It falls most heavily
on the artisan, the clerk, and the young struggler." A case oc-
curred a short while ago, not far from Fleet-str«-et, in which
a young man who kept a petty shop wan sent for many
months hard labour for a noted creature, painted and
powdered, who looked as old as he did. Ask the few respec-
table people of the neighbourhood, especially tne women, and
though they condemn immorality, they will tell you on which
side the cruelty lay.”—The italics aie The Bulletin h.
At the Imperial Conference, Sir F. Dillon Bell
(N.Z ) moved for an extension to the Australian
colonies of the same right as th*t already con-
ceded to the Canadian Dominion to conclude com-
mercial treaties with Foreign Powers. Bell’s
proposal was frozen,” on the ground that the
Canadian precedent did not tend to promote the
unity of the Empire. Refrigerate the Empire !
What in the name of commonsense have we to do
with the unity of a word ? Are Australian
children to be reared io enforced idleness ? Are
our vast resources to remain undeveloped ? Are
our commercial relations with the world to be
considered as naught, simply for the sake of a
phrase that Disraeli hunted up in a musty
lexicon ? Smother the Empire !
MR. F. H. DODGSON,
Editor of of the BO[?]DER POST Slan[?] (Q)
At the banquet given by the Lord Mayor of
London to the Imperial Conference delegates,
Stanhope, Secretary for War, laid on the marma-
lade. Amongst other things, he said that Sir
James Lorimer, Victorian Minister of Defence,
had “mastered the conditions of Australian de-
fence.” Good Heavens 1 Lorimer a soldier ! “ Sir
James” is quite new to politics, and is a dismal
Scotch grocer, who has never been known to
smile. His bitterest enemy cannot deny that he
has “ mastered the conditions ” of filling his long
purse with the “sinews of war,” and “defend-
ing ” the same in his well-fortified breeches-
pocket; but Lorimer a military engineer is some-
thing too much for the human imagination. That
he knows something about gunpowder tea we
admit; that he is familiar with breeches (not
“imminent” or “deadly’’) and their pockets we
have stated ; that he does some flukey “ cannon-
ing” in the billiard room at Belmont we cannot
deny ; but if he has succeeded in grasping the true
and correct theory of Australian defences then we
need not be surprised at hearing that Roberts.
C.M.G., has been elected a member of the Linnean
Society for his distinguished services to science.
A gentleman who earns his daily bread and
extras as eecretary of the British and Foreign
Bible Society writes to some Keeristian brother in
Melbourne as follows :—“ Very happy progress
has been made in respect of the Autograph Penny
Testament. In the first icftance, th* request was
refused, or practically so. . . . Butbefoiethe
door was finally closed to the request from Vic-
toria our president succeeded in getting the case
submitted on its own merits to the Queen. And
when Her Majesty understood that these Testa-
ments were for children in State school*, &c., the
Queen at once expressed her readiness to do what
was asked. Her Majesty chose the text entirely
herself , and wrote it out with the date Bth
March.” Think of that, deah friends! Her
Gracious chose a little text out of her own fair
head, and wrote it with her own fair hands in
order that her little subjects in Victoria might
get the little penny Testaments their little hearts
don’t hunger after. What a Gracious Queen it
is, my brethren! “And when Her Majesty
understood’’—ponder well those beautiful words,
and let us all be thankful that she can under-
stand—she nobly sanctioned an expenditure of
£l2OO sterling in penny Testaments to chuck at
“ teacher.” O ! and what was the text ? It was
“ Peace on earth and goodwill toward men ”
Observe the simplicity of the royal mind. She is
content with her little half-million a year. She
does not sigh for more corn and wine and oil.
Her Majesty desires nothing but “Peace on
earth.” ’Tis her gracious message to the evicted
Irish peasantry, the starving London poor, the
Scotch crofters, the suffering Soudanese, and the
Victorian State School children, deah friends.
“ Peace on earth and goodwill toward men.”
In the course of his Jubilee serpentine squirm in
the New South Wales Legislative Council, the
other day, the Hon. W. B. Dalley, PC. (Puff
Concoctor), made a gorgeously monumental
Soudan donkey of himself in more ways than one
Thus vocalates the gentle Dalley in his proud
Imperial bray :
“ When she supposed some two short years ago that there
was imminent danger to the securitv of these teas, she,
without regard to cost, procured the finest vessels that could
be obtained here and elsewhere and transformed them before
the swiftest peril could reach us into ships of war for our
defence. She spent then in a few weeks an amount equ«l to
the total of ten years of the proposed contribution of the
whole of the Australian colonies for their naval defence.”
We waive altogether the asinine nonsense which
attributes to Queen Victoria any personal
action in this connection. We confine our remark
to the figures brought into play by the very right
honourable, non-mathematical gentleman. If the
colonial naval armament subsidy becomes a matter
of concretion in actuality, the amount subscribed
by the Australian colonies in ten years will be
about £1,200 000, while the total cost of arming
the two cruisers was not, we suppose, more than
£150,000 at the very outside 1
Through some editorial oversight the Tory
Argus publishes the following from a London
correspondent: —“ No one has yet been found,
and no one can be thought of outside Ireland who
could be counted on not to turn Home Ruler.” It
is in speaking of the difficulty of procuring a suc-
cessor to Sir Redvers Buller that the writer
makes this innocent admission. The Argus con-
tinues to howl for “coercive measures” in Ire-
land, while its own appointed contributor, who is
a few thousand miles nearer the scere of action,
declares that the British Government is afraid to
eend military missionaries for fear that the poor
Irish natives will convert them to the true faith —
Home Rule. Could there he any stronger proof
of the iniquity of Salisbury’s policy, and the be-
sotted blindness of its supporters ? Experience
proves that any first-class man who goes to Ire-
land, and is initiated into the secrets of her mis-
management, invariably turns Home Ruler. The
Argus has unwittingly helped on a just cause.
Deakin, M.P., representative Australian, &c.,
evidently wishes his refusal of that empty bauble,
a knighthood, shall not be taken to mean too
much He has hastened to qualify his refusal by
joining in the common colonial criDge to Albert
Edward, and assisting to fill up the Heir Appar-
ent with the idea that Australia pines for a sight
of Tummy. According to the AG ’s own corre-
spondent, Alfred “ does not despair of inducing
the Prince of Wales to visit Australia.” Mean-
while Deakin’s constituents are buying up hens
and champagne to banquet him upon his return,
and thus afford an opportunity to publicly applaud
the grand young man, who, true to democratic
principle, scorned the glittering bribe of the aris-
tocracy. After all, Alfred dearly loves a laud.
The Argus says that the books in Melbourne
Public Library are read sometimes by creatures
who would be better bestowed within Her
Majesty’s gaols. This is always a glorious senti-
ment, this Conservative idea of dragging out the
gaol for everyone who cannot wear a black coat,
or for those who have not a quiet fireside to read
by in winter. “Are there no prisons?’’ asked
Scrooge in the “Carol”—“ are not the poor law
and the treadmill still in operation ? ”
Amid all this Jubilee delirium we observe that the
parsons have got one eye on Heaven and the other
on the main chance. We don’t hear of them rais-
irg money for a firework display, or a golden
crown, or a statue of Her Gracious, or even for a
bun-struggle. After each denomination has laid
out a pound or two in an illuminated adlress, it
devotes all its prayerful attention to a rousing
Church Fund. The Wesleyan shepherds are
shearing their flocks all round, the Baptists keep
steadily on the track with a collection list, and as
for the Presbyterians—well, the Victorian division
alone reckons on acquiring £60,000 on the
strength of Queen Vic’s, longevity. Without com-
mitting themselves to any definite plans for deal-
ing with all this “ sugar,” the clerics have
agreed that the present is a good opportunity
for scooping it in. There is a lot of common-sense
about the idea, and it admits of vast enlargement.
Every’man with Jubilee in his soul might subscribe
a trifle to himself. A good way of glorifying Her
Gracious without being one penny the worse.
MR. W. T. EDWARDS,
Editor of the Daylesford (Vic) A[?]
Pre-emine nce in Grief—gain !
Miss Stephen, Misi Parkes, the Mayoress o
Sydney, Lady Darley, and Lady Carington have
concocted the following for the women and girls
throughout N.S.W. to sign :
“To the Queen,—We, the women and girls of New South
Wales, desire to offer cur congratulations to your Majesty
upon the completion of the 50’h year of ycur reign With
respect and affection we offer our tribute of loyalty, and
trust that God Almighty may continue to bless the Queen, to
whose supreme place in birth and station has been added the
sad title of pre-eminence in grief.'
The italics are ours. The whole thing reminds us
of Tim Flaherty, who went to America, where he
broke his leg. He wrote home to his brother Pat
in Ireland as follows:—“me Deer Pat., i now
Write yer a letter to Tell yer that i hav Brok me
leg Thank God for it hoppin you are the same.”
“ Pre-eminence in grief" ! It fetches us—
The Bulli sacrifice of eighty lives
Where orphans join the wail of widowed wives
Will mock “ pre-eminence in grief” with V.,
Who, fat and rich, has reached her Jubilee.
But Jingoes won’t compare a miner’s wife
With Vic., therefore bring forth an equal li'e—
Kugenie lost a husband, throne, and son,
Nor yet “ pre-eminence in grief ” has won !
“ Sad title of pre-eminence in grief” 1
Why not have said—“ Pre-eminence in Beef V
Pre-eminence among the Brunswick brood
Who never knew the yearning pangs for food ;
Pre eminence in mighty money-bags,
While sisters toiled to death in want and rags ?”
And was there not a case in London town
Surpassing all the grief she felt for Brown ?
The Queen gave new titles to the Imperial
Conference delegates, and now the delegates are
giving her a new title. A fair deal.— Globe.
To Agents
An attractive Jubilee number of The
Bulletin will be issued. To avoid being disap-
pointed. agents should at once tend in their
orders.
The New South Wales Beer Trouble.
It is a pi f y that that collision between the New
South Wales excise-officers and the big Sydney
brewers did not come off. What is to be thought
of the Attorney-General of a Ministry—its trusted
and confidential adviser and the adviser of the
Assembly—who could not have told the Govern-
ment end the House that no excise duty could be
collected till an Act of Parliament autboiising it
had b‘en duly passed? It is left to a private
barrister to instruct the Cabinet, the Assembly,
and the country on the subject. However, it Is a
pity that the fun-loving portion of the commu-
nity has been defrauded of the diversion of seeing
a few stand-up tights between excisemen and
beer-makers. The throwing of an excise-
officer into a beer-vat would have been what
the Mikado would ca'l “ something humorous.”
A few years ago, in Melbourne, the Customs offi-
cers besieged the huge premises of L. Stevenson
and Son, the great soft-goods firm in Flinders
Lane, for the a’leged purpose of searching for
“ salted ” invoices of gloves. The door was closed
against them, and Stevenson and his employees
defended the citadel with great valour. The Cus-
toms’ men tried to smash in the door with toma-
hawks, but failed, and retired from the engage-
ment utterly discomfited. Stevenson, his manager
(Brind), a youDg clerk named Cock, and some
others, were put upon their trial in the Supreme
Couit. but were triumphantly acquitted. Had
the N.S.W. Government attempted to collect the
excise-tax on Colonial beer on the Ist of May, there
can bo no doubt that there would have been lively
work at Tooth’s and Toohey’s. Tholatter have a
few stout Irish employees, who have never been
in a good scrimmage since they left the “old sod,”
and this row- would have proved to them agodsend.
Scores of people will feel towards Owen, Q.C., in
much the same way as Sir Lucius O'Trigger felt
towards his principal in the proposed duel, when
the latter waß willing to forego the fight. There
is, however, a distinction between the two cases.
Sir Lucius's friend meant to spoil only one bloody
encoun'er —Mr. Owen has spoilt several.
Mr. Franois B. Dodgson.
The portrait attached is intended to show that
there is no physical falling-off about Mr. Francis
H. Dodgson, iditor and proprietor of the Border
Post (Stanthorpe, Q). He was born in London in
1834, his father being a well-known member of
the Bar, and afterwards Master of Common Pleas,
and he was educated at Westminster and Ch. Ch ,
Oxford. He then gained by competitive examina-
tion a lieutenancy in the Royal artillery, in which,
corps he f erved with credit for eight years, at the
end of which time he sailed for Australia with the
intention of devoting himself to pastoral pursuits.
He acquired a share in a station in the North,
Kennedy district, and went to irredeemable smash
in the ruinous times between 1867 and 1870. For
the next eight years he was a miner, a station,
hai d, and a drover by turns, but in 1878 he rose
again, and became one of the founders of the
Aramac (Q ), afterwards the Mitchell and Gregory
Mail. He edited that journal until 1884, when he
disposed of his interest, and, after a well-earned
rest, he again resumed work this year as pro-
prietor and editor of the Border Post Judging
by the success of his new venture, he has come to.
stay.
Mr. W. T. Edwards.
Mr. W. T. Edwards, editor of the Paylesfordl
(Vic.) Advocate, was born at Nantwich (Cheshire,
Eng ), in 1853, and in 1869 emigrated to Australia
vi iih his widowed mother and three brothers. The
family settled at Dayle.-ford, and he shortly after-
wards entered the office of the local Mercury"
and Express, a small paper with a long name,
which came out on alternate days. At the close
of his apprenticeship he transferred his services
to the Deniliquin (N.S W ) Chronicle, where he
remained six years, after which he assumed the
post of secretary to the Daylesford Advocate
Company. Twelve months later he exchanged
this post for that of editor, a position which he
still holds, and the rapid progress of the journal,,
under his charge, supplies the best available proof
of his abilities.
Mr. Archibald Fraser, the N.S.W Under-
secretary for Justice, has gone to Melbourne to-
get married.
The Mayoress of Sydney will give a Cin-
derel a hill shortly to youths and maidens between
the ages of 16 and 21.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) correspondent writ-
ing to us, sums up the Bulli disaster in seven jerks
and a crash. "Plenty miners! labonr cheap' 1
nice managei s ! nice dividends 1 explosion 1 amen t
God save the Queen 1 plenty more miners 1”
Tennyson’s Jubilee grovel says :
“ Fifty times the rose has flower’d and faded
Fifty timee the golden harvest fallen.” ’
Yes, that’s so. len times fifty thousand times'
has the rose faded from the face 3 of the toilers
while the fat Royal Germans were successfully
raking in the “ golden harvest”— their big annual,
scoop.
Rev. Alex. Miller, M.A., of Sydney,,
deeply regrets that many persons, in preference-
to going to church for the purpose of hearing the
joyful message of eternal damnation and hell-fire
stay in bed Sundays and read The Bulletin!
We travelled once with the Rev. Mr. Miller"
whom we found to be a first-rate’ fellow!,
considering that he was a clergyman. We-
are extremely sorry that his reverence should be
annoyed at the public preferring The Bulletin’s'
message of peace to the sour Calvinism which so>
ill befits the really genial soul of this newly-
imported young Scotchman.
General Wong Yung Ho and MrTTsing,
Chinese Commissioners, have arrived in Sydney
to find out how their countrymen are getting on.
I hey were received by a whole squadron of im-
portant yellow men, who went down the har-
bour in a steam-launch, and presented their cards,
and as a Chinese card is a weighty concern which
makes a man puff when he attempts to carry it.
this was no small undertaking. a mansion has
been taken for the ambassadors, and something
has been put in for them to sit down upon when
they get tired. Sir Henry Parkes, who runs on
another yellow ticket, is to have an interview
with the strangers shortly, and as no one at-
tempted to collect the poll-tax, there was no
hitch to mar the joyousness of the proceedings.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
We had just
got into the theatre
on Monday night,
and were passing
the time by studying an interest-
ing advertisement relating to
horse medicine, when a perfect
stranger in the next seat told us
that we were a liar. He also
said that we were a dodger and
a miserable thief, and that we
were the individual who had
stolen his small boy's shirt off the clothes-line
when it was hunar out to dry and had sassed his
grandmother when she endeavoured to recover
the garment. He concluded by asking us to come
outside and be killed, and when we explained
that we objected to have our thread of life snapped
short off by a vindictive ass, he grew, we might
almost say, abusive. It transpired, ultimately,
that the interviewer mistook us for the critic of a
daily paper, and on the error being explained, he
apologised in the handsomest manner, and went
out to look for the other man. Our opinion of the
morals of the daily Pi ess has now gone down be-
low zero
*# * *
“ Caste,” with its “pride and prejudice,”
was very efficiently interpreted by charitable
amateurs on Friday last, the Sydney Children's
Hospital benefiting thereby to the tune of some
£7O, and the general “tone” of the audience
being, we trust, raised in proportion. Personslly,
we fee no special reason why the Esther and
Polly Eceles tribe should be dowered with all the
affections which their titled neighbours are sup-
posed to lack, but the unequal distribution of
attributes once taken for granted, the plot be-
comes highly satisfactory to the moralist, and the
triumph of virtuous poverty over wealthy
Grundyism is complete. Mrs. Frisby, as Esther,
executed the Niobe business very gracpfully, while
her frisky little sister was capitally represented
by Mrs. Lovelace. Mr. Hudson made a delight-
ful Sandy ; Mrs Fitzsimmons was a sufficiently
ridiculous Marchiore’s; and Mr. Westnacott
showed as much aplomb as can be ex-
pected of a man who returns borne to
discover that he is the deceased husband of a
weeping widow, an' l the astounded father of a
brand-new baby. The honours were undoubtedly
carried off by Mr. Stupart, the fas-ieaDngplumber
and gasfltter of Polly’s choice, and Mr. Savage,
the sentimental, dntnken father of “serpent-
toothed” children. Previous to the performance,
dainty programmes were sold by some of the
hospital nurses, whose winsome faces and cos-
tumes we suspect of “fetching” a substantial
contribution out of more than one masculine
pocket. A somewhat curious illustration of
“Caste” principles was to be seen in the after-
crush, when the courteous bong-tong of Sydney
blocked the entrance-hall with the sole object of
“mobbing” vice-royalty, as though the Governor
were something to be gaped at, like an ourang-
outang or a Chinese Commissioner.
*# * *
“ Lucrezia Borgia ” was revived at Sydney
Royal on Monday evening. The old operas
seem to take better with the Sydney public than
any others, and we verily believe that if Faust
were to be cast with Parkes and Abigail as Faust
and Mepliisto respectively, and J. B. Neild as
Siebel, the people would flock to see it. But, to
our mutton. The opera was better mounted than
usual, and the minor parts fairly well filled.
Lazzarini was in good voice, and, as Gennaro,
sang and acted well, particularly in the final
scene. Ciuti’s singing was in every way excellent,
but as regards acting she shows better in Norma.
De Alba, as the Duke, was acceptable, but hi 3
part seemed to exhaust him, and his singing was
laboured, though the trio in the second act was
worthy of the encore it received. The hit of the
evening was undoubtedly made by Cavalleri
in the banquet scene, and Orsini's familiar solo,
11 Ssgretto, as render rd by her, was enthusiasti-
cally encored.
** * #
We hasten to collect our choicest flowers
of speech for the benefit of “Two Women,” a
drama which started last Monday at Sydney
Academy. The piece looks a new ore—at least
we never saw anything like it before. It
is supposed to be an adaptation of ‘ ‘ Aurora
Floyd,” but if Miss Braddon had even the faintest
idea of how she has been mangled, she would ask
her brother to leave Tasmania for Sydney and in-
terview the responsible party at once. Her hero,
John Mellish, is turned into a bounding Jew in
top-boots; the blue-eyed groom is represented as
fat and short and grim and stupid ; and Aurora
herself walks like a dark-haired bull through the
china-shop of her father’s affections, and harasses
the old man into fits. The characters take each
other aside, and there are stifled whisperings and
sounds that resemble mashed potatoes striking
against an image. The squire’s nose is bashed
on one side and then bashed straight again
by a deranged] baby-nightmare that sits on
his chest; a dog-stealer carrying a noosed rope
puts his dishevelled head into the s’ory every
five minutes, and a preachy hag in corkscrew
curls “ carries on awful." The drama having
evidently mislaid its crutches has to get on any-
how, and an ambiguous old man with a
weepful expression who acts as Aurora’s desolate
parent does not help it much. He looks almost
all the time as if he had lost his way in the piece
and wanted to go down on all-fours and bark on
the off-chance of a dcg-inspector coming along
and taking care of him. In the last act he comes
through the wall of a cottage instead of coming
in at the door, but that doesn’t matter. By the
time the proceedings are finished the drama is
crushed so flat that a steam-crane could not get it
up again, but it is satisfactory to note that the
missiDg link in the chain of Squire Mellish’s agri-
cultural joy is supplied at last, and things end
happily. The audience on Monday night was
thin, but it wasn t the thinnest thing in the pro-
ceedings—not by a while jugfull. The scenery
was unique.
** * *
“The Two Orphans,” which has risen
again at Sydney Royal Standard, is, in a good
many respects, an ancient story retold. The
pretty, blushing maid from the country, and the
wicked nobleman who sends his base minion to
abduct her in his gilded spring-van have been
served up a hundred times -hot, cold, hashed,
and otherwise —and these two are the stock, lock,
and barrel, the horns, hoofs, hide, flesh, hair,
inside and tail of the whole concern. But the
case is complicated by the circumstance that,
when the agreeable orphan is thus hauled over
the coals of sin, her blind sister is left in the street
amid dogs, vampires, and tram-cars, and this fact
piles up the sorrow to agony-point. When Hen-
rieite awakes in a haunt of gilded vice, and
the bag is taken off her head, her first thought
is for the lost Louise, and she gets up
and demands to be cast out into the street.
Then one righteous man—the only one on
the premises—gets up, squeezes her little hand,
and after letting daylight into the treacherous
peer who led her into this scrape, he nobly hauls
her up a stair and shows her out through the back
door. From this point our recollections begin to
get confused, but we believe the schemer came to
a bad end. The “Two Orphans ” makes a very
good melodrama. Miss Alice Norton, in playing
the part of the principal heroine, seems terribly
handicapped, in the tragic parts, by the big
words. Miss Lily Dampier, who is improving
every day, played the bliad orphan in good style.
As for the scenery, it de3erve3 to be preserved and
handed down to future generations.
** * *
“ Topsy,” an adaptation of “ Uncle Tom's
Cabin,” with Carrie Swain as the young coloured
lady who “ growed,” is to occupy the stage at
Sydney. Criterion on Monday next.
** # *
“ Arrah-na-pogue ’ (by request) will suc-
ceed “ First-Class ” at Sydney Opera House, next
Saturday. The man who “requested” more Irish
drama will please call at this office.
** * *
If Cogill Brothers expect a long notice of
their show, at Sydney Gaiety, they will be two of
the worst disappointed Cogilla in this hemisphere,
for we have pretty wel lused up our enthusiasm.
Mr. Walter Keen has
added himself on to the
company, and plays
Down in a Coal-
Mine” all by himself,
and later cn he does
some “specialities.”
Messrs. Tre cy and Stev-
ens perform several clog
dances, an inane species
of leg-drivel which
always seems to attract
a Sydney audience.
Lastly, Onzalo tries one
or two fresh dodges for
endangering his precious
neck, and the house still
continues to fill well.
That is about all.
* * *
Mr. Lohr, Mr.
Locke Richardson’s man-
ager, is the lneky man
who mairied Miss Kate
Bishop.
* * *
George Darrell, who
has for some time been
seriously ill, is now con-
valescing, and will be
tendered a well-deserved
benefit by the profession
on Saturday week, at
Sydney Theatre Boyal.
# * *
Melbourne Bijou was
the scene of a ghastly
outrage last Saturday
afternoon. Twelve ama-
teur dramatic clubs
squeezed their leading
talent into a performance
for the benefit of Mrs.
Hoskins and child. There
was but a poor attend-
ance of the public, and
mos.of tbesuffe erswtnt
home and quietly expired
before the curtain mer-
cifully descended Where
all deserved six montbs
it would be invidious
to make comparLons be-
tween the players. With
scarcely an exception,
they wanted new faces, figures, voices, accents,
and brains—to be boin again all round. A few
pounds may have been added to the Hoskins’
Fund as the result of this well-meant, brazen dis-
play of vanity and incompetence.
** * *
Mr. C. Haddon-Chambers is a talented
young Australian who is fighting his way in the
field of letters in the remorseless world of London.
He has written many clever tales for the weeklies,
and now we are glad to see that he has scored a
distinct success in one of his first attempts as a
dramatic author. According to the Daily
Chronicle, his comedietta, “ The Open Gate.” is
“ graceful and sentimental.” The Morning Post
alludes to it as “ a p’easant little piece of dramatic
anecdotage, flimsy enough in texture, but entirely
sweet and wholesome in sentiment.” The Stage
speaks of it mo3t approvingly, and says that “it
should have been reserved until it could hare
been properly acted.” Mr. Chambers is now, in
conjunction with Mr. Stanley Little, dramatising
Mr. Rider Haggard's “ Dawn.”
AL At- Ai- At-
•sft- ’TV -TV -7V
Brough and Boucicault have put up
“ Colleen Bawn ” at Melbourne Opera House, in
place of “ The Shaughraun,” deceased. This
hardy pioneer of all sensation dramas suits the
company very fairly well, with the single excep
tion of Mr. Brough, whose Myles-Na-Coppaleen is
too dry and chippy altogether. More bonhomie is
expected from one who runs an illicit whisky-still
in a lonely cave, and humps round kegs of liquor
to his friends and relations. The Myles of our
conception is miles away from Brough’s. He
ought to be a roguish, broguish cross between a
hotelkeeper and a hunemployed. Cleverer than
ever, though, is the Danny Mann of Mr. Bouci-
cault the younger. The slavish devotion of
hunchback Danny to his handsome master, the
conflict of passions before he can briDg himself to
drown a lovely female in distress, and the fever
which finishes him—all these were powerfully
worked out. As an Irish humourist Mr. B. may
leave several things to be desired. Asa gloomer-
ist, none. Mr. Everard succeeded in putting
dignity into Hardress 'Jregan, generally refraining
from terminating his speeches on a top-note.
Well-dressed and flaxen-wigged, he looked as
sweet as a pine apple cream, and reminded us of
the days loDg gone, when a toothless old mash
used to leer into our blue eyes and say : “ O ! you
little deah—l muth kith yer.” Happy time!
Foolish elderly female ! Both are gone—but no
matter. Mr. Fredk. Laye makes a genial Kyrle
Daly— suitably warm-hearted, and duly comic. In
minor characters Mr. Haygarth is satisfactory,
and Mr. Charles Fenton somewhat otherwise. Of
the ladies nothing but what is good. Miss Tre-
velyan is herself again as the heiress, Ann Chute.
The part requires a supply of transcendent beauty
and coquettish grace. Miss Trevelyan keeps both
in stock, aed if her voice is occasionally drowned
by the shifting of lakes and the building of castles
behind scenes, stage management is to blame.
There is nature in the Sheelah of Miss Jenny Bryce,
ditto in Miss Romer’s impersonation of Hardress
Cregan’s high-toned mamma. Quite the best thing
this experienced actress has done since she came
to these parts. Miss Boucicault is Eily O’Connor.
She drops into a picturesque pose as naturally as
the poet drops into a pub. In her hands the
character plays itself.
Tender as a forest doe,
Yet timid as a fawn,
Sure, ne'er into this world of woe,
And hate and cant and “ puff" and “ blow”
Was fairer colleen born.
Scenery is excellent and in proper working order
this time. But it is worthy of note that the great
drowning scene, which was a revelation in stage
effects three or four and twenty years ago, para-
lysed nobody on Saturday. Burning houses, rail-
way trains, horses, hounds, and many other sen-
sations have been lugged into dramas since the
“Colleen Bawn” era. Besides, Danny Mann
pressed Eily into the briny deep as though he were
trying to bury her in a mud heap, and Miss
O'Connor ran out of the ocean in a manner which
stifled sympathy.
# # * *
The S.M.H. musical criticisms are now
written by a young lady, who will improve much
as she gets older.
** * *
Brock’s Fireworks didn’t clash much with
he Carington Ground (Sydney) Pedestrian Handi-
cap last Saturday night. The cute committee
advertised a splendid view of the fireworks from
their grand stand, and 2700 people paid at the
turnstile to see the double show !
** * *
Several reputed good things will be slipped
by Melbourne managers on Saturday, 14th. At
the Royal the astute Bland Holt hopes to follow
up his “Run of Luck ” with “ Alone in London,”
and after five weeks of hard training that “Daisy
Filly ” is to have a turn in the paddock, or be-
tween the shafts of a Bourke-street cab. As lead-
ing lady in the ’ossy drama we trust she will be
liberally dealt with in the matter of corn.
“O! don’t you remember sweet Daisy, Bland
Holt-
Sweet Daisy with ha-ir so brown ;
How they yelled with delight when she carried
their pile,
And romped in at Goodwood alone.”
Yes, and while the funny fit is on, it occurs to us
that many another run of luck —bad luck—has
been followed by a loan in London. “ The Magis-
trate coldly received at the Princess’s, because
Melbourne despises “ beaks” since the Beerthirst
affair —makes way for “A Night Off.” At the
Bijou another farcical comedy instead of
“Skipped.” The whole to be preceded by a
swagger matinee at the Princess’s in aid of the
Consumptive Hospital exchequer. Sassiety is ex-
pected to muster strongly at this show.
## # #
A man writes to a Melbourne paper saying
he will back his four-year-old daughter against
a six-year-old exotic heiDg advertised as “ the
youngest artiste in Australia,” to sing three comic
and three sentimental songs, or six complete
songs containing 20 verses in all, without mistake,
for £5 or £lO. The infant phenomenon has been,
it is stated, already performing for a year.
A new [comic opera, “ Paquita,” has
made its appearance in Victoria. The words are
by Mr. G. S. Pressey, and the music by Mr.
Moulton. Cellier, when in Melbourne, expressed
a high opinion of its value, but as the Triumvirate
are not the men to risk a new work, but import
tried things from beyond the seas, it is probable
that the opera will be sent to London for pro-
duction.
** * *
The man who mangles the facts for the
Sydney E. News abuses Mr. Toohey because he
oi ec played Richelieu, and made a fearful hash
of “ Shakespeare’s creation.” We wish to men-
tion, for the information of this literary Zulu,
that it .wasn’t Shakespeare who wrote “Riche-
lieu.” It wasn’t Douglas Sladen, either, nor
Parkes, nor Pastor Allen, and Bill Holloway didn’t
dash the drama off in one of his spare moments.
i We wrote “Richelieu” ourselves when we were
I very young.”
** * *
| The other day Nellie Stewart was given
three months with hard labour for disorderly con-
duct, But it wasn’t our Nellie S. , doncherknow.
Our Nellie is radiating amongst dooks and earls.
“ What’s in a name ?”
** * *
Mrs. Henry Harwood died rather sud-
denly at her Melbourne home last Thursday As
the worthy wife of a worthy pillar of “ the pro-
fession” in Australia, Mrs. Harwood was much
esteemed in private life. She was only 45 years
of age.
-X- -it -K-
A London actress, the other day—to
ascertain whether her get-up was effective —
dressed herself herself in her stage attire —s.ipped
out —knocked at the door of her residence and
asked for alms 1 *' The make-up was so good, that
her servants sent her away,” says an admiriDg
journalist. But how about it if it had been a real
beggar!! Jennie Lee (“ Jo ”) appears in Lon-
don shortly in a domestic drama written ex-
pressly for her Sir Arthur Sullivan was very
ill a little while ago with a nervous attack. He
wrote to a friend that he couldn't bear the sound
of music. We shouldn’t wonder. We have lived
in a hash-foundry ourselves Alfred Cellier
is engaged on the music of a new opera
which deals with the reign of Queen Elizabeth....
An advertisement by the management of Adelaide
Royal for 50 “ supes ” attracted 500 applicants.
The bulk evidently belonged to u the clerical class
Audiences are not always as numerous as supers
in the Holy City The Lyceum Theatre, Lon-
don, was visited by 1700 clergymen last year. And
they brought opera-glasses, too At the Paris
Opera Comique the overture is played before the
second act so that it may be heard without
interruption by late arrivals. This custom
is worth transplanting “Fritz” Emmet
was at latest prospering in New York
We read in a Yankee paper that “Mrs. James
Brown Potter debuted in ‘Man and Wife,’ as
Anne Sylvester, at the Haymarket Theatre, Lon-
don, and her dresses achieved much success.”
Rockhampton’s a grand place for amusements.
For the past fortnight the stage of the local T.R.
has been graced by ths presence of a two-headed
calf. He was too much of a treasure to lose, so
his services were secured for the editorial chair of
a Northern print, the leaders whereof are now
topped by a new motto—“Twanuts are better
than one.” Minnie Palmer arrived in Sydney
by Tuesday’s express from Melbourne, en route
for Brisbane. Since she solicited donations for
her crazy quilt, John Rogershasbeen noticed to be
very gorgeous in the matter of neckties.
THIS WIUKED WORLD.
Major Green, sheriff of Auckland (N.Z ),
has just died—owing, it is stated, to over-excite-
ment while hanging those accomplished pirates,
Caftrey and Penn Melbourne Punch is now
publishing a series of articles, “ Sundays out,”
consisting of descriptions of churches, services,
and sermons. We are glad to see our little con-
temporary keeping up to its level as a comic
paper A Viptoiian shire councillor, lauding
Her Gracious, the other day, thumped his breast,
and cried with a loud voioe : “Queen Victoria is
worth her weight in gold 1” So that you can get
Our Lady’s exact tonnage by multiplying the
weight of a sov. by 11,c00,000 The boys of the
cadet-corps t in North Queensland are armed with
rifles seven inches longer than those supplied to
the men of the Defence Force 35,000,000 glasses
of Australian wine were drunk at the Colinderies.
A valuable clue to the origin of the Imperial Insti-
tute idea There are only 843 public-houses in
Sydney.... Tramway drivers, conductors, and stable]
men in Brisbane work from 12 to 14 hours a day
The Victorian Government propose spending
£l5OO on illuminations on Jubilee Day :From
the S. M. Herald :—“ Wanted old cast-iron
scraps.” The advertiser should call at any
“first-class Sydney boarding establishment”
after they have treated the boarders to a beef-
steak breakfast Puritanical Sawbath observ-
ance is still being enforced in Brisbane by stipen-
diary justice and English-made law The fact
that Sir Robert Stout drew “The History of Free-
thought ” and a Hebrew the two books, “Modern
Judea” and “ Self-help,” at a lottery- drawing in
Oamaru, N.Z , is enough to shake the faith of any
white man in such affairs Sydney D.T. com-
menting on a murder : “ He fell heavily to the
floor a lifeless corpse ” Perhaps under the circum-
stances the man was justified. He may have been
dead and not in the N.S W. Legislative Council....
A N.Z. candidate for parliament declared recently
that: “Sir Julius Vogel was another Beacons-
field, only with a mind greater than Beaconsfield.”
......The treasurer of the Melbourne Shakespeare
Society reports considerable difficulty in gathering
in the small annual subscriptions. The chief
eccentricity of genius is hard-uppishness, all the
world over Baron Maclay and Baron John
Norton arrived at Adelaide by the “Nectar”
from Europe on Monday.
Sydney E. News publishes with an audible
chuckle of joy a long letter from F. W. Marks,
compositor, on the evils of trades-unionism and
the tyranny of trades-unions. The only Marks
whom we ever knew was a smart youth in a light
suit whom we met at Rockhampton (Q.), and
who did his level best to found a typographical
society there, but in spite of an eloquent speech
in the back room, and afterwards in the yard, of a
second-rate hotel, the proposal fell through. We
will be glad to know if this is the same Marks,
and if it isn’t then why isn’t it, for it ought to be.
Marks and the Noose are at present travelling
together on the old story of the overbearing
workin’ man— that and the necessity of keeping
Sutherland in office being the two dogmas
which make up the Noose s creed. Suthelrand
was the fossil friend of a previous Bennett, and
on the strength of this the paper rails at every
Ministry which does not include this old relic of
the past, and lends its smile to anybody who will
give Sutherland a portfolio. Now, however,
that the old man has been forbidden to receive
deputations for fear he may make a fool of him-
self, when he has been prohibited from answering
questions in the House lest he may reveal the
ignorance he has acquired in his political decrepi-
tude, when he has been ordered by his boss to stay
away and do nothing but think—the one thing he
cannot do unless he hires someone to think for
him, the Noose begins to round on Parkes and
points out that the hoary Premier ought, for the
good of his country, to have died when he was
very small. In undertaking, however, to prop up
the wreck of Sutherland with one hand and to
crush trades-unionism with the other Alf's
vicious evening rag accepts a rather large


Pepper
And
Salt
Under the heading, “ Heaton as a
Humourist," the Sydney Evening News copies
from the Pali Mali, the following witty item—
Henniker’s latest effort: —
“Mr. Breunan prefers to let his own country reap the
benefit of his ingenuity, and it is greatly to his credit that in
spite of all temptation to belong to other nations he is an
Englishman at heart. (Ch-ers, and a voice : He’s an Irish-
man.) ‘ Well,’continued ‘he might have been a
Rooshian, or Turk, or French, or Proorhian, but he remains
an Australian. (An Irish voice: Give us the chewn.)
Heaton : If the fornas of the House will admit of it, and Mr.
Hpeaker doesn’t object, I shall be happy to oblige the hon.
member. (Much laughter.’j
Henniker was speaking on the question of remun-
erating young Brennan for his torpedo. And this
is a fair sample of what Alfred Bennett regards as
humour !
This is the National Anthem as adapted
by Dean Plumptre for Jubilee, Year
We like Plumptre’s amendments. ’Tis a graceful
fancy which can conceive the possibility of hearing
a ca'l through the changing tide, and a plucky
Dean who can discuss the Queen's “ heritage of
fame,” after reading Thackeray's “ Four
Georges ” Here is another Jubilee version pre-
pared by The Bulletin s private chaplain :
Here is a high toned bit of obituary verse
from the Age :
“ The love of the moth for the star,
Of the night for the morrow,
The devotion of someth ng afar,
The scene of our sorrow.”
The magnificent obscurity of that pome inspires us
to throw off one of our own for the next anniver-
sary notice :
The ma3h of the sun for the moon,
Of the girl for her foliar,
The evenmg come 3 after the noon,
And the rum’s in the cellar.
The Age has been varying the monotony
of daily journalism by calling the Argus “ A
Clumsy Liar.” The Argus retaliates. These
family quarrels between Ananias and Sapphira are
very improving :
“ You’re a liar,” said the kettle ;
Said the pot, “ And so are you ” ;
Who the dooce would care to settle
’Twixt these truth-perverting two ?
For the kettle or the pot,
No one cares a little jot,
They can go to somewhere hot—
Say Jamberoo.
The “ loyal ” Press is filled with admira-
tion at the valour of Wales during the earthquake
which shook things up so terribly in the south of
France. Tummy was himself pretty well out of
range, so when he was informed that several
hundred people had been killed, he merely asked
“What’s that got to do with me ?” and turned
over with a Guelphic snore. There is hardly to
much in this affair, however, as some people make
out. We ourselves once spent a night in a huge
weatherboard hotel in Far Northern Queendand,
and were awakened by a terrified individual with
a shoe on one foot, a boot on the other, and his
pants round his neck, who yelled “ Fire !” We
retired hastily through the window and broke
three or four of our legs while skimmiDg like an
airy swallow down a waterpipe. Everybody eLe,
it was supposed, had also skimmed out in a more
or less damaged condition, and it was only when
the ruins were turned over that the remains of
two true-born Englishmen were discovered. They,
like Wales, had been of opiaion that the affair had
nothing to do with them, and each was spread
out very looee with a smile on his front teeth, and
a rum bottle in wbat had been his hand before it
got roasted. Perhaps, however, Wales only took
a lemonade-bottle to bed.
About four years ago an unkempt, foot-
sore sundowner limped up to the homestead of a
station in the Wimmera (Vic.), a station famous
amongst the great fraternity ot bush footpads for
its inhospitality, for there no wayworn deadbeat
was gladdened with the pannikin of damper-dust
and scrap of old ewe—if he got a long list of
curses, and a bite from a staghound it was as
much as he could reasonably look for, unless per- j
chance he was pressing and got two bites. The
boss spotted his visitor, and froze on to him at
once. “ Now, what ’r ye wantin’ here he
growled; “we don’t feed none o’ your kind, so
you’d best cut afore that dog gets excited." The I
sundowner dropped his bluey, pulled down his
old rag hat, and snuffled : “I thought, boss, y’ j
might sling a cove a bit o’ mutton, an’ ernuf dust
fer a damper, seein’he’s near starved.” “Like
y’r blanked cheek ? I tell y’ we don’t feed loafers !
AN ILLUSTRATED ADVERTISEMENT.
“For Sale, a new Cedar Skiff, varnished; suit a family 16ft. long. B. Barnett, boat-
builder, Blue’s Point, N. S.”
Now, mind the dog 1” “ I heard y’ wasn’t a good
mark, but thought y’ might spare a trifle fer me.”
“ Well, I’m d —d! Why the blazes should I give you
tucker any more ’n others ?” “Cause,” said the
sundowner, removing his tattered tile, “I'm your
brother Dick /” The squatter stared for a moment
and said: “Great Scott! I thought you was
dead years ago 1 Here, you can have the flour,
but I ain't got no mutton to spare.”
The Royston College Amateur Athletic
Club hold their annual sports at the Association
Cricke, Ground, Sydney, on the Ist June. An
imposing programme has been arranged.
Miss Ada Wilshire proposes holding a
children’s fancy fair at The Lawn, Prospect Road,
Summer Hill, in aid of the children’s ward of the
Sydney Prince Alfred Hospital. This being a
highly deserving institution, we beg to offer our
blessing.
Unless dear Lady Loch disapproves, the
ladies of Fitzroy (Melb) have quite decided to
present “An address to the Queen from the
women of Victoria ” We sincerely hope that
dear Lady Loch will disapprove as far as is con-
sistent with the ardent spirit of loyalty which is
intoxicating her delightful sax in these Jubilee
times. The history of this projected address is
peculiarly and uniquely sickening. It has been
set afoot by the local Mayoress in the wild hope
that her signature—at the head of all the other
signatures —will come under the personal notice
of our Gracious Sovereign Lady. This Mayoress
(Mrs. Clauscen) is wife of the Mayor who pre
sented 6000 State school children with buns and
Jubilee medals. She is furthermore mother of the
sweet young thing who recsntly impersonated j
“ Queen Victoria as she was 50 years ago,” at a |
charity bazaar. Clauscen is a time-payment fur-
niture dealer, and if the Queen were just starting :
housekeeping we might think he was touting for
an order. As it is we can only hope that the poor j
gentleman—of course we mean Clauscen—will be
knighted as soon as possible. Then he and his |
irrepressible family may give u,s a rest.
[?] THE H[?]
G ather round ns, ail ye spirits of the dead and
buried wits,
And listen while we read a few of Heaton's
“ little bits.”
The Evening Alfred stamps him wit; the hall-
mark on him place —
(We'il mark it when we see him —on the brass-plate
in his face.)
Now listen, corpses though ye be, and dead and
deaf and dull,
This kind of thing should bring a smile to every
clay stained skull —
A smile, you know, the fierce set smile you smiled
in days of yore
When listening to the platitudes of some untutored
bore
Some wit of Heaton’s, Bennett’s stamp, who would
his tale unfold
And tell those little stories which you loved, they
were so old,
And ween you’ve heard the “ witty speech”
(which living you had read),
Just jump beneath the daisies and thank God that
y-u are dead.
God save our Gracious Queen,
Long live our noble Queen,
God save t he Queen.
Send her victorious,
Happy aad glorious,
Long to reign over us,
God save the Queen.
Thy choicest gifts in store
On her he pleased to pour,
Long may she reign.
May she defend our laws,
And ever give us cause
To sing with heart and voice
Ged save the Queen.
Seed sawn through fifty years,
Sown oa in smiles and tear i.
Grant her to reap ;
Her heritage of fame,
Her pure and stainless name,
Her people free from shame
Guard Thou and keep
O'er lauds and waters wide.
Through changing time and tide,
Hear when we call ;
Where'er our English tongue
To wind and wave hath rung,
Still he our anthem sung ;
God save us ail.
Lord help our precious Queen,
Noble, but rather mean,
Lord help the Queen.
Keep Queen Vie. Yorj/ous
From work laborious,
Let snobs uproarious
Slaver the Queer.
To her fresh blessmgs grant
While starving millions want,
Long may she gain.
May she defend her screw,
Helped by a favoured few
With sinecures in view,
Lord help the Queen.
“ Greed” saved through fifty years,
Wet with a people’s tears,
Long may she keep,
Though others toil and sweat,
Let her fat German set
Take all that they can get,
Eat, drink, and sleep.
Over the sea and land,
Hark to the toady band,
Hear when they bawl—
Where fools and knaves abound,
Long as the world goes round,
Snobs will be always found,
Lord help them a l.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
C.M.G.— Cringing Money Grubber.
Queen Victoria keeps her gloves on while
eating dinner.
Auckland, N.Z., has a ciiizen — Mr.
Greenaway —whose income is reckoned at £300,000
annually.
Dr. Russell, of Christchurch, N.Z., lately
sentenced to seven years’ gaol for performing a
criminal operation, has long posed as a pro jjinent
temperance reformer.
A London paper say 3, “The Queen was seen
walking with a stick last week.” We suppose
Her Gracious was promenading with Battenberg,
or somebody like that.
Sir Michael Hicks-Beach has gore blind
from cataract, and has retired from his liish
Secretaryship. Why, we wonder? Any blind
Tory can govern Ireland.
Mr. Justice Cooper gave a bar dinner at
Charters Towers (Q.), a few days ago, and the
revelry lasted till midnight. This is the judge
who can't manage on £4OO a year exes.
Sala is to give a lecture in London en-
titled “ What I saw and did in Australia and
New Z’aland’’—with special references to hia
Yorick Club experiences, we presume.
Rev. John Alex. Dowie, faith-healer,
told a Nelson (N.Z.) audience that he “did not
know reporters by sight, but he could tell the
faces by the look they have of pale brandy.
That lion-hearted warrior, the Duke of
Connaught, has been promoted to the post of
Lieutenant-General on the Indian staff, Young
men get along wonderfully when their mammas
are Queens.
Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, has commenced
his Evangelical crusade by calling upon the Church
parsons to make an unwonted splash on Ascen-
sion Day. There is evidently a clerical storm-
cloud gathering.
Henniker Heaton, the Argus states,
“ Now knows the whole British aristocracy.” As
to Burns’ line 3 about the “guinea stamp,” the
penny stamp seems to have pushed H. H. forward
pretty considerably.
Since the “Vagabond” has come over to
the commonsense newspaper, he describes the
Prince of Wales as “talking like a Hebrew.”
This is a triumph for the physiognomists who say
that voice, features, and deeds all interpret each
other.
Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, is consorting
with Wesleyans, Presbyterians, and other “ dis-
senters ” How the few remaining hairs of the
venerable Dean Macartney must stand on end I
home time ago the Dean preached on “ the Sin of
Dissent.”
At the London Cabmen’s Union dinner,
the other day, an artless jarvey said that the
Duke of Cambridge (H.R.H. was in the chair)
“looked as good a cabman as any of them.’ Cam-
bridge looked blood and thunder and then—smiled
—like Gillies.
0. M. M‘Queen, of Melbourne, died of
starvation and covered with dirt, and his whole
wardrobe would hardly have covered a schnapps-
bottle. He was worth £lO,OOO and burst up while
trying to solve the problem of living on half-a-
crown a^week.
It is stated that a prominent Sydney Civil
servant recently parted with £2OO rather than
face a “conspired” charge of criminal assault,
very similar to that brought against Dr. Wright.
However, the C. S. couldn’t have pleaded that he
was attending the lady professionally.
My Lord Beerthirst, who is now in
Queensland on his road to Coventry, has to pay
£52 10s. costs of appsal to Bookmaker Sutton,
instead of the betting-man having to contribute
a fiver to the Victorian consolidated revenue.
How now, Messrs. Panton and Co., wholesale and
retail beaks?
Lord William Beresford (“ Ulundi Bill”)
has, we read, gone to Chihuahua, in Mexico, to
buv 15 million acres of land on behalf of a blue-
blooded syndicate. It won’t be long before the
House of Peers buys the Kingdom of Heaven and
cuts it up into building allotments for the aristo-
cracy only.
From inability to “ digest great masses of
food, ’ or neglecting to have a “nip” between
meal times, Moorhouse of Manchester has already
had to get an acting ooadjutor—Marsden, late of
Bathurst If Marsden does all the work, Moor-
house will have more time for digesting great
masses of food, boa-constrictor fashion.
The result of M. Pasteur's hydrophobia
cure was an increase, during 1886, of 28 per cent,
on the average number of deaths from the disease.
These figures go to prove that hydrophobia is
chiefly a nervous complaint fostered to a large
extent by newspaper paragraphs and scientific
theories. Something like small-pox in Australia.
Old Emperor William, of Germany, pays
his physician by results. On his 80th birthday he
presented a £7500 cheque to Dr. Lauer, and when
his august fcoie stood at 00 he planked down
another £15,000 for the clever doctor. As the
tough old soldier finds the end approaching he
will probably pay a fixed fee for every hour of life.
David Syme, of the Age, has broken out
with a Jingo letter (on the New Hebrides scare) to
the London Daily Chronicle. David went home
to “shepherd” Alfred Deakin and get a Jubilee
honour. We’ll bet 6to 1 that Deakin wrote the
letter, and we ll take a shade of odds that Sj me
is “Sir David” the next time he plants his foot
upon his adopted heath.
Bichard D wyer, now of Melb. Benevolent
Asylum, was admitted into that rollicking insti-
tution on evidence which the Age describes a 3
“ peculiarly interesting.” Richard is a tottering
old ruin of 72, who may have been younger once.
He says he was. He furthermore says that he
was one of the few survivors Loan the wreck of
the London, and that his wife and two daughters
and £11,200 of his own money went down with the
vesse l . The Age also vaguely describes him as a
“ Waterloo veteran,” probably because the battle
was fought 72 years ago. Our own impression is
that Richard lost his family and fortune when the
Ark struck on Mount Ararat, and that his memory
has become enfeebled by time.
Mr. Northcroft, R.M , Wanganui (N.Z.),
who is a captain in the local militia, has intimated
to the press that he doesn’t want to be “ Cap-
tained ’’ any more. He says that a militia-officer
has no business to sport his rank except when on
duty. The press will therefore oblige by address-
ing him as plain Mr. in future. When shall we
see a Noithcroft in Sydney, the city of a thousand
“ oolonels ? ”
Robert Reid, Vice-Presidentof Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce, said to the Banking Com-
misuon there the other day that he could tell of
many a man who had valuable assets to offer as
security who had been “choked” because there
was no money to be had. See the difference.
When Mrs. Moriarty pawns her flat-irons to get a
drink of beer there are none of these difficulties,
and she doesn't choke.
Apropos of Henniker Heaton’s Imperial
penny-postage scheme, Sydney E. News says
that :
“ The man who completes the work of Rowland Hill, and
extends the area of the penny-post from the narrow limits of
the British Inlands to the vast expanse of the British
Empire, may be certain that he will have a proud and
honoured position in the annals of Greater Britain."
Nothing succeeds like success. How fond Mr.
Al'red Bennett is becoming of hU once-despised
brother-in law ?
A gushing gentleman, who styles himself
“A Voice from the Wattles,” has been writing to
the Mtlbourne Herald about Adam lindsay
Gordon's grave. This “Voice” is shaken with
emotion because the poet’s last allotment has no
railing round it. As a matter of fact, the ortho-
dox railing was dispensed with in order to distin-
guish Gordon’s grave from others on either side.
A handsome monument stands at the head, and
well-tended flowers grow on the little patch, prov-
ing that Gordon is not half as neglected in death as
he was when he lived, moved, and had his being
among the mawkish sentimentalists who have at
last learned that he was a genius. He had railing
enough to put up with In the old days, now he
only needs re3t.
H. M Stanley, the explorer, who found
Livingstone just when that much-troubled mis-
sionary had eaten his last elephant and drunk up
all the paraffin and sheepwash, has stopped lectur-
ing in Wales ; he give 3 that country as wide a
berth as he possibly can. It is alleged that a good
many years ago, when he was only 18 inches long,
he was found lying about loose in a Welsh village
with only a paper bag round him, and the local
Bumble took him to a workhouse where he grew
up under difficulties. There were no particular
points about him in those days, and he squalled
just like any other common baby. For all practical
purposes his name might as well have been Jinks.
Since he has become famous, however, 23 snuffy
old Welshwomen, with names ranging from Jones
to Griffiths, have claimed him as their son, and he
ha 3 grown tired of the amusement.
“ The Herd Laddie ” (Mr. James Wylie),
who eDjoys the mild distinction of being cham
pion draughts-player of the world, is just now
doing a steady business at Mather's Cafe, Mel-
bourne. Mr. Wylie, a rough and ready, stone-
deaf old Scotchman, takes on all comers three
days a week. His terms are moderate and easily
arranged. Each aspirant, as he sits down for a
game, handsover twasaxpences to the stolid cham-
pion, who quietly drops the siller in his pocket
and proceeds to make a move. During his first
fortnight Mr. Wylie played 200 games, winning
189 and drawing the odd 11. The “ Laddie ” has
a good head-piece on him, and is an interesting
instance of how men of real ability can concen-
trate their intellectual powers on small aims. Any
smart man of figures might, after three months’
close study of Ihegame of draughts, play “ draws”
with the Laddie till the crack of doom. But as
nobody else appears to think the game worth the
candle, the Laddie keep 3 his title undisturbed.
A man who could pitch peas into a thimble at
several yards’ distance gave a performance before
Charles 11. After the fan was over the giddy
monarch rewarded the poor devil with a bushel of
peas, remarking that it was a suitable acknow-
ledgment of such an idiotic entertainment. Which
reminds us that Mr. Wylie is well paid at a “ bob”
a time.
Cleveland declines re-nomination for the
U.S. Presidentship. It takes him all his time to
attend his new united state.
Seltzer-water has been struck at a depth
of 555 feet in the vicinity of Dubbo, N.S.W, An
eminent geologist asserts that after this fossilised
beer may pos«ibly be found at 5000 feet or there-
abouts.


POLITICAL
POINTS
On the job —the Good Government.
Ireland’s Jubilee present—the Chimes Act.
There are 205 landlords in the House of
Commons, and 400 in the House of Lords.
Can it really be true, as stated, that a cer-
tain prominent Australian statesman’s grand-
children are in a public orphan asylum!
What has become of Burdett the Beauti-
ful.' He has only been seen in the N.S.W. As-
sembly ones since his return from England.
E W. O'Sullivan is going to pose as the
Longmore of N.S.W. He has given notice that
all I he large unused estates ought to be busted up.
Of the 5005 magistrates in Ireland, 3780
are Protestants and 1220 Roman Catholics, As a
class tlio3o Js.P. are bound up with tlis landed
interest.
James Service is coming back to Victoi ia
about the end of the present year. The Kerferd
and Berry jobs will have about blown over by
that time.
The Bulletin is glad to notice, by a
variety of small signs, that the Sydney Evening
News is standing by in readiness to “ turn dog ”
on Freetrade.
Frazer Martin threatens to become a
"leader” of the N 3, w. Protectionists if the
"Freetrade” Government don’t protect his butter
and cheese constituents.
Postmaster-General Roberts of N.S.W.,
who keep; a beautiful public-house, advocates
threepenny Anglo-Australian postage. Quite
right. Threepenny drinks, threepenny stamps.
The Times editor considers the Imperial
Conference to have been a "conspicuous success.”
What drivelling idiot is this who prostitutes his
thunder to the service of some Jingoistic hireling
with an axe to grind ?
The Walgett (N.S.W.) editor remarks
that the increased beer duty means more blue-
stone in the grog, more lunatics in the asylums,
and mare criminals in the gaols. More asylum,
more gaol ; more police, more deficit.
How different is the tone of Sydney D.T.
anent Imperialism to what it was at Governci
Cariogton’s arrival in N.S.W., or when Sir
K.C.M.G. Jennings “ froze” the Twaddleqraph’s
New Hebrides frenzied proposals !
Arthur Balfour, Lord Salisbury’s nephew,
is 39, has four houses in the country, one in Lon-
don, and plenty of m oney. And still he takes
from his uncle tits miserable billet of coercing the
Irith Well, some people have taste.
Seven people have been sentenced to
death for wanting to kill one t’zar. That seems
zardly right. Now, if they proposed to kill seven
Czars for grinding the life out of one man, we
would carry the resolution unanimously.
A clergyman in England wrote to Goschen,
Chancellorof the Excheq ter, when he was incubat-
iog his Budget, to inform him that the abolition ol
tbs Income Tax wouli be " an extremely popular
measure ” Tae Income Tax only brings inl6 mil-
lions.
A royalty of 3s. per bag is charged on all
oysters grown in N.S. W. But on imported oysters
no tax is charged, and Treasurer Burns ’’empha-
tically declines” to impose a duty. Such is
"Freetrace 1 ’ Help the stranger to strangle your
own industries.
“ A Bona Fide Australian,” in a c pita!
letter to the Melbourne Herald, says that "Aus-
tralians, as a rule, are not in favour of reergni iog
the Jubilee in any way.” Hardly correct. We-al!
recognise the Jubilee—as an old familiar Tor/
game played in a new way.
The Russian papers advise the Czir to
launch out into the Eastern question while England
is crippled by Ireland. The hi vie of the late D.
O’Connell must be knocking about the newspaper
offices at St. Petersburgh. He used to say that
“ England’s diiflculty was Ireland’s opportunity.’
The colonial K.C. M.G. gang visited
Windsor Castle the other day, and were perfunc-
torily received by Her Gracious. They repaid
her enforced civility by the p-esentation of an
addres s. Leaden shade of the goddess of Drivel!
—an address! I We begin to think that Jubilated
Vic. earns her millions, after all.
Mr. Burns says that from 13i to 14
million gallons of beer are manufactured yearly in
N.S W., and 14,700,C00 in Victoria, where the
population is about the same as in N.S.W. Vic-
toria is therefore in “advance ” of N.S. W. in beer-
drinking, and yet Burns wants to handicap
N. S. W. in the race.
The British Parliament has resolved, by a
majority of 78 votes, that the Times has not com-
mitted a breach of privilege in imputing fal-e
hoods to Mr. Dillon. This has so freshened up
the great Tory organ that the proprietors are now
thinking of calling Mr. Gladstone a burglar.
Salisbury’s party, of course, will vote that it is all
right.
Instruction issued by an Irish Tory offi-
cial on receiving information that certain local
wretches were inclined to object to their houses
being burned over their heads, and their wives
and children turned out to starve in the ditches
and bogs :
‘ 1 Message Deal summarily with any organised
resistance to lawful authority. If necessary, do not hesitate
to shoot.—Plunkett, Dublin.”
Sir William Fox, speaking at Auckland
(N.Z.),.lately, said the Maori population had de-
creased’within his r; collection from 140,000 to
40,000 ; and that an appropriate epitaph on the
grave of the last Maori would be to ascribe their
destruction to the rum-bottle. In reality this
would be only one-third of the truth. A Bible
and bayonet would make three-thirds.
Incredible ! A number of Victorian muni-
cipalities have refused to use the ratepayers’
money to celebrate the Queen’s Jubilee. And this
in the colony named after H.M.G. Majesty, and
whose capital has been called after one of her
first and favourite Miaiiters ! Where now is that
“ blasted Britisher ” spirit which the Yankee told
Sir George Bowen was run mad in Victoria ?
The Parkes Government will fail to give
effect (o any of their promised financial reforms.
A property-tax will not be proposed, as it is well
known that the Upper House as now constituted
will not pass such a measure, and the bill to repeal
the Ad Valorem duties will be rejected by them
for the sufficient reason that the passing of it
would supply a good ground for a property-tax.
Hosannah Hobbs, M.H.R., of New Zea-
land, opines that Ballauce, the prop and pillar of
the Stout-Vogel Ministry, is not qualified to judge
important questions because he is “ only a
common journalist." -Hobbs himself is a common
Methodist, and when the dreary red wilderness
of his face looms up at an unleavened bun-
scramble he always begins by saying that he is a
follower of the Loard.
We have fallen on degenerate days. Plain
martial Bill, hear ye this, from the small soul of a
Macleay (Q.) newspaper man : “ It makes one’s
blood boil to think of half a million of money
wasted on war-material, and the Soudan humbug,
and not 300 yards of good road in our electorate,
save the Great Western Hoad which has no traffic
to speak of on it." Oh ! that the Royal Burdett
Smith should ever represent such common-seme
people !
John Hiynes will per-
haps be member for Mudgee
ere another Bulletin is is-
sued. John has publicly ab-
jured his former religion and
taken to Orangeism—this de-
parture beiDg coincident with
his determination to get a seat
in the N.S.W. Legislative As-
sembly. Well, wo suppose
tlio Orange - cum - Freetrade
religion—if the two must be
joined together —is as good as
any other. John was never
very pious, and it doesn’t
much matter what church he
stays away from.
Mayor Riley, soft-
goods importer, Sydney, con-
siders that the N.S.W.
Legislature should vote at
least £lOOO for a yacht-
race, and also offer a national
prize for an aquatic event to
celebrate the Jubilee year.
Shouldn’t there be some
sort of an event to celebrate
the fact that there are
thousands of men out cf
work in the colony, and
hundreds of women and
children starving under a
Freetrade regime so essen-
tially callous as to propose,
by one of its upholders, to
add a thousand pounds to the
burden of its cebt-laden po-
pulation in celebration of an
event of no special interest
to more than one person ? For
had Victoria not reigned 50
years some one would pro-
bably have k taken up the run-
ning where she left the track.
The final meeting of the
South Kensington gang in
their capacity a 3 managers of
the Indian and Colonial Exhi-
bition was held the other
Saturday with “Tummy” in
the chair. It was reported
that £35,000 remained unem-
bezzled in connection with
the late show, of which
£25,000 was to bo devoted to
the Imperial Institute. Then
Sir Francis Dillon Bell, the
N.Z gent General—who in
London pcses as a very supe-
rior person indeed arose to
perform a painful duty. He
solemnly handed back the
Jubilee hat which ha t been
passed round in the colonies
tor subscriptions, and the bell-
topper being shaken by the
committee there proved to be
nothing in it. Poor Bell ex-
plained with tears in his voice
that the miserable thing w r as
empty, but Wales insisted
that the lining should bo
taken out to make sure that
no stray coin had got behind.
Then he said in his bitterness
that he didn't think there
was a soul in the “Colonial
Empire ” who cared tuppence
for his poor old ma and her
Jubilee.
EXHIBIT FROM NEW SOUTH WALES
YOU PUT A PCNNY IN THE SLIT
AND THE FIGURE WILL
WORR IT'S JAW
AT THE COMING ADELAIDE EXHIBITION.
Abigail, M.P., is fast degenerating into a
blue-moulded Tory, and is evidently in training
for a race with the Primrose League, He objects
to the citizens of Sydney having the power to
elect their own Mayor, because once, when they
did so, they chose a nightman, and lie quite
ignores the fact that a nightman is more useful
than aK.C.M. G. any day, But, after all, what
essential difference is there between a knight and
a nightman ?
The Maharajah Dhuleep Singh, who was,
as a child, kidnapped to England after being
robbed of his kingdom, and whose Koh-i-noor cc
casionally glistens on the capacious bosom of Her
Gracious, has now established himself at St.
Peteraburgli A few months ago—after 10 years’
experience of aristocratic life in London—llhuleep
Singh turned up Christianity and shook the dost
of Great Britain from his dusky feet. He is a
fair specimen of Indian “ Loyalty.”
The Sydney Daily Telegraph says that
“ nothing willjustify revolt of any kind but suc-
cess,” and yet the D.T. pretends to bo the friend of
Democracy. The progress of the world, social, in-
tellectual, and political, is the history of revolt,
and revolt which is seldom if ever successful,
measured from the immediate result. Thegradual
enfranchisement of humanity is the wearing’ away
of the rock by the constant dripping of water.
Says a “ Bona Fide Australian” in the
Melbourne, Herald : —“ The gentleman who
writes from Toorak selects to give his loyalty to a
German lady who resides on a small island situated
some where in the Northern Sea, the area of which
would scarcely make a decent sheep-run in this
country. We, the vast majority of Australians,
are loyal to our country, and to our country
alone.” This is very terrible. Bad enough for
The Bulletin to say.
The Sydney D.T., speaking of Dibbs’
“ perversion” to Protection says : “ A more
lamentable instance of the political deterioration
j inevitably attendant on a sacrifice of principle to
! >l*s interests of party has never been afforded.”
This from a paper which supports a Ministry of
rats.” flow long is it since those shameless
office-seekers, William Clarke, “ Honest ” John
Sutherland, Francis Habigail, &c., flourished
the Protection tomahawk above the head of the
D T.’s grand and g oriou3 principle of Freetrade ?
The Sydney unemployed are beginning to
turn up in Melbourne. They are provided wi’h
iree passes to the border, and then they wa'k the
rest of the way. A few weeks ago Parkes was
publicly bemoaning “ the alarming increase in
case- of poverty, for which he could not satis-
factorily account,” and he suggested that many of
them probably came from adjacent colonies- Just
now, however, the emigration is the other way
about, and the Melbourne press is beginning to
curse the freetrade nightmare which is pourt ng
its paupers into its neighbour’s territory.
Piddington, M.L.C., of N.S.W., will ap-
plaud in the wrong place. When Salomons was
reading his choice speech about the beautiful
points ia Victoria's character, Dalle}’s “ heah,
heah came in always just where it was wanted
but Piddington waited till the ora’or started to
read a letter in which Her Gracious said that she
was going to meet somebody in Heaven, and then
he woke up. He had apparently only grasped the
fact that she was going to leave us, and without
waiting for any further particulars he started to
cheer as if he rather liked the idea of the bereave-
ment.
The N.S.W. Assembly has agreed to the
imposition of an excise duty of 3d. per gallon on
1 eer. The Government proposed id , but had to
consent to a reduction. To make up for the loss
of revenue which it was estimated would be re-
ceived from this source, the Government, it is
said, mean to continue the protective duties "n
| bacon,, butter, and cheese. If they arc willing to
j allow the dairy-farmer Protection, how can they
honestly refuse it to the wheat-grower or the
axtisan? The fact of the matter is that the
“Freetrade” Government is in a fix and is already
; bowing to the Protectionist storm.
If you want to know what your friends
think of you, go round to borrow a fiver.
“ I want to see one of the editors,” she
said. “ Which one ?” inquired the ho se-reporter.
“ The one that wears glasses.” “On his nose or
under his nose 2 ” “ Both, I think,” the replied.
And then the startled horse-reporter showed her
in to the religious editor’s room.
Mr. Justice'Williams, of Melbourne, isaclear
headed judge. Recently, when sentencing a flrst-
offence prisoner for some petty larceny, he
accused the Government of assisting to manufac-
ture criminals. He said that the action of the
State in refusing to have gaols set apart for the
reception of prisoners likely to be contaminated
by contact with hardened and lawless characters,
manufactured a criminal out of a simple delin-
quent. So, “as he did not intend running the
I risk of making another criminal, he ordered the
l prisoner to be bound over to come up for sentence
-when called upon.”
BRIEF MENTION.
Chequed—Judge Cooper.
Forging ahead- the London Times.
dhe best revolver known—Sydney Even
ino Noose, j j
The ten commandments are now closed
for repairs.
Ihe Queen’s Sh'lling.”—Tommy Atkins
Jubilee tax. J
The Queen s Jew-bilee - that Hebrew pre-
sentation casket. r
Jubilee suggestion. Let us make a bonfire
of all the Sydney Iramcara.
xt <F™ re *l an Anti-Dingo Society at Temora,
N.b. W. Now let us have an Ah'i Jingo Society.
None of the journals which howl Jubilee
appear to be subscribing to any of the thousand
and one funds.
Mackay (Q ) has just floated a Chamber of
Commerce with exactly forty members. They
might have made it 41.
Dan O’Connor has introduced a Bill to re-
gulate br° ker 3. What N.S. W. wants just now is
a Bill to regulat stone-brokers.
The Mayor of London wears a £lOOO gold
co'lar about ids neck, but never wh«n aDy repre-
sentative Australians are around.
Lightning is a fool. Jt destroyed a
\ aluable cow at Adelaide the other day and never
touched die Social Purity Society.
“Why should we jubilate?” wildly in-
quires a Victorian journalist. Because Her Most
Gracious is too mcjin to, wc guess.
“Italy wants to borrow 3,600,000 lires ”
What’s the matter with the cable correspondents
that they can t oblige II Re Umberto?
It has always struck us that the D.T. is a
terrible name for a Melbourne paper bossed by
parsors and edited by a parson and a parson’s
son.
A compositor was fined five shillings at
Melbourne last week for being drunk. “ You’ro
a nice tjp* of a man,” said the P.M. in passing
sentence.
Sydney D.T. says Mary Henson was fined
10s. for U3ing strong language towards another
r,^ hy dDu’t Mary's lawyer quote the
JN.o. \\ . Hansard in defence ?
John Hardcastle, a Napier (N.Z.) journal-
ist, has invented a newspaper-file. His inventive
faculties stopped at this point. He couldn’t hit on
a name, so he called it the Jubilee tile.
An Echuca horse-thief told an Age re-
porter last week that “solitary confinement is
x ~ , H ™ evc ' Heil ' s not solitary confinement
—he 11 find himself in swagger company there.
There is lugubrious mystery and wailino-
ambiguity about this S.M. "Herald advt. :-“a
L-efermann. call on your old mate, Undertaker,
Forbes ; bring tape measure ; business. 50 George’
street ”
Mr. David Admirable Crichton lectured
at th<* School of .Arts. Sydney, on ‘ Popular Vege-
tables,” and (says the D.T.», “dealt with the
cabbage family,” &c. Was this a social and
political lecture on Victorians, in disguise ?
The members of the Sydney Chinese
\.M,C.A. are forbidden to smoke opium, gamble,
use bad language or be dishonest. Judging from
all we read in the papers, the rules of the Euro-
pean Y. M.C. A. say nothing about dishonesty.
“ As long as there are heaven and earth
there will be Chinese in Australia,” said Sir Quong
Tart, K.C.M G . at the Chinese Y.M.C. A. last
week. We would ask what has gone wrong with
hell that Quong should leave it out of his cal-
culation ?
Written on a deserted-hut door in the
North Six hundred and fifty miles to the
nearest railway, one hundred miles to .the nearest
post-office, six and a half miles to wood, three
miles to water, six inches from hell. God bless
our home. Gone to live with my mother-in-law.”
A new blue colour known as Jubilee blue
is now out. Most appropriate. The Jubileelooks
blue.
They say that the hook that is now selling
best ill Italy is the Bible. The Italian public
think it is a collection of prohibited stories
‘ ‘ Knives that can be bought in Sheffield
at 17s a gross are sold in the Antipodes at Ills, a
gross.” Afterall.it pays the Mac Millions to go
into Parliament !
“The Bushrangers,” by Strutt, painter of
“ Black Thursday,” has been hung at the Royal
Academy. Why doesn’t Strutt complete his fame
and paint “Black Wednesday”? It would be
sure to be hung. Former Civil servants of Vic-
toria would like to see Graham Berry hung.
The value of advertising was proved in a
remarkable manner lately at Mackay (Q.). A
small boy went amissirg, and an advertisement
was inserted in the local Mercury. Two days
later he was discovered—inside an alligator, and
the animal in it? last moments had been heading
f. r the pLce whore the reward was to be paid,
From Sydney D.T, :
“ It is most instructive to remark the servile adherence of
the Toiy Government to the. principles and practice of their
Liberal predecessors in several points on which they attacked
the Liberals most savagely and unsparingly.’*
Of course this refers to the British parliament,
but had the writer substituted “ Parkes ” for
‘ ; Tory,” the eternal truth would have bsen struck
right off.
Mr. Buskin is improving in force and
picturesqueness of style every year. This ij the
reply he gave to a gentleman who wrote to him
lately, and asked him his opinion about rail-
ways
“ My dear sir,—l do not write now further concerning rail
roads here or elsewhere. They are to me the loathsomest
form at devilry now extant, animated and deliberate earth-
quakes, destructive of all wiae social habit or possible
natural beauty, carriages of damned souls on the ridges of
their own graves. -Ever faithfully yours, John Buskin."
What would Ruskin say about the Sydney trams
Rockhampton being one of the most loyal
spots in Queensland, it followed as a matter of
course that it w’ould do something to celebrate
Her Gracious’ Jub. (take notice, we mean to call
it Jub, for short). The municipal (Councils (North
and South) have drawn up an address with an
ode inserted in its middle by a local poet. The
bard ingeniously proves therein that the present
prosperity and progress of the town togfether with
the construction of the main drain are entirely
due to the reign of Victoria.


Ihe Temps say? a proposal has been
made that a hrench company should
establish police at the New Hebrides
receiving 30,000 franes annually.
MfeVer 7t> e A/ucffetfoci)* a/ Aeco Ve.4r'</e 5
gave farye e-ryouQ f> fee 7bf// -fyem-for
" -larnai >7s be Jeery
Lon Jon. Friday.—At the* banquet
giv«n lost night by the Lord Mayor in
honor of the colonial delegates * * *
Sir J. Lorimer, the Victorian Mini*
f r of Defence, expressed his opinion
that the deliberations of the Conference
had been most beneficial in the interest
of the Empire. Whilst he hoped that
the colonies would adoct the defence
proposal? generally, he reminded the
company that Victoria had already done
much to render her own defence as effi-
cient as possible, and there was little
fear of that colony being surprised
or taken at a disadvantage.
c/e/esycei coe f/ncl v'y '9
fo Cani' i /' o/ Cl decc/ijd- /ycirycl See
cl cc Co. >■> ryo ry ?nac(e Sy '/7r
Q/f{/eS ( Co/yo coorfce ci o n
- - O ' er/ft^S
4 . Mlgna that «,*« ot thc F „„ ch
m?h T IC7l C 7 * agT} mwlr
'» E«*toh pres. a , to the mOTeI J£
* th# “-n»M«n«rSr"
do cot barter it Tljc da? ffc
, tn f tha ‘ lhc Eng[ * h p»t*»
had scot th °L because R ussli
b*d sent tbree ~h lp, af b
B ,j° IOT «on f. the Cbmjl
EeaUj, tUs S easeiee S .Mp.ejpa , nJ iJ)p hen ;
S;^t
'fi O* r- a A/C
fXPvXGA Tor/6.
, ar-A~eS Z 7£ e Cl net 7f>G rs/CL //ifec^
a o >3 Oc.rjc£ 7~e rz oct rrc /y J e t/c\r>//7eSc
Tl/a.cf~ /#+
4 frt & cA
CriA-i i //> g aAcusf
"7?a m3ytS~ Sefv
fo/> r> /3cc "> So
Q-fr/' Of /fe. S^rtferf'
£' e Alx J'federvt/'e Cine/ 7%eiC- Ca-rej
Cct net .rea-rtr^j 7se </& /nan- .
Cool reflection, we think will convince
ciie majority of the Legislative Council who
passed the amendment to the Divorce Ex*
tension Bill proposed by M,r. Simpson, pre-
venting the offending parties from marrying
again for two rears, that a serious mistake
ivas made in adopting jt. Hill
" -Z'", h/meni (inthan
<yL/i»tl ,n % '
U*«r<»Sor {
rym/>°lfy. ~ J '“' <
To mJn ,n *»V**c«
:wo days ago a Chinaman with
eight spears sticking ui him was brought into Mua-
grave, a Uueentland telegraph station.
Qne. oj* f/>da.rs *<xkAzrcdoL}-t{s /cri-ecl.
vtst- /o C4,n u /r» a. 7i $
tDAicAj SAowj Aoo) ** c/e s c&f'P?
So rr>q_ /?/*>£ s Cre */> €</er> /<? /• met f/S fry
Pa rf/e S (O^c
, Peen 'e-/Te r? dupfy e£f’-
yo /'Co at ce-nd oe Co r?>e r-eco nc rfe A '
y P <Pog~s de on Pa. rc/ 7%c< Coe fr?u sp
(dec/P 7coo year-3 £ej^or e Cde C«- r> ve
it rr/Pe <U ' "
hnyerj are Conr/ucfecl fo Ja.fe tynT*
*O3 " a-f'&as/' S« /J'fi/r
ctn-nuaf '
Things in General.


The Valorous Abbott.
“ Mr. Abbott at once demanded to settle the question of Freetrade versus Protection by single combat. He challenged Mr. Matheson to contest Glen Innes
with him, the loser to pay for the game. Why does not Abbott shape up to somebody his political size.” —Daily Paper.
J. P. ABBOTT: “WILL SOMEBODY STEP ON THE TAIL OF ME COAT—WITH THE PROTECTION SIDE OUT."


Society
Governor and Lady Carington gave
dinner party on 30th April. Among the goes
were Sir Henry and Lady Locb, Admiral ant
Mrs. Fairfax, and others.
Sir Henry and Lady Loch, accompaniec
by Captain Traill, left Sydnez for Brisbane by th
Barcoo on 3rd May, upon the Jubilee-promotio
wai pa’h.
The Consul-General for Hawaii, Mr. E
O. Smith, has visited Admiral Fairfax on boar
the flagship Nelson, in Sydney harbour, and has
been accorded “ the usual salute.” Great Scott
nine guns for Consul-General Smith of the t'ann:
bal Islands ! Fancy George Oakley of Melbourn
having nine guns let off in his honor, when h
went on board a man-o'-war in Hobson’s Bay, at
tended by Jack Kennedy and Sub-Inspccto
Mackey 1 George ought to be Consul-General fo
Hawaii, instead of merely Consul at Melbourne
for that enlightened and powerful state. The poe
“ G.N.0.” is painfully conscious of the awfu
dignity of his position. An instance in point.
One day he had been at the opening of Parliamen
and had his “ uniform on.” That night he sat in
the press-gallery, as usual, in his Consul's togs
and wrote up Parliament for his country papers
When the House was up, ho went down Bourke
street with some other newspaper fellows. They
were all hungry, and it was proposed to
refresh at a coffee-stall. The other boys, who were
not consuls, went for saveloys and coffee, bn
■Consul Oakley said that although ho was hungry
he was dignified, and couldn't disgrace his uni-
form and the great nation that he represented by
-putting away saussges and baked potatoes under
the fierce light of a street-lamp. And George
was right. Fancy a man eating sheep's tongue
and potatoes at a coffee-stall to-night, and haviLg
ten guns blazing in his honour to-morrow morn-
ing ! Apropos, how many guns will Admiral
Fairfax fire, at the expense of the British tax-
payer, in honour of Consul Moon, of Costa Rica,
who will be on the job shortly, in full fig f And,
by the way, that good Mahommedan, the Shah of
Persia, is represented at Sydney—Allah be
praited!—by a scion of a well-known colonial
family of pig-breeders. Is he to have his nine
guns also, or will Fairfax write to the Shah and
tell His Majesty about tho;e unclean animals, the
swine ?
A correspondent of the S. M. Herald
complains that the use of the terms “ women and
girls” of N.S.W. in the Jubilee address to Queen
Victoria are insult ing epithets. Good Heavens!
The immortal Shakespeare summed up all human
qualities by calling an individual a man, and now
there are females in N.S. W. who wish to be c on-
sidered unwomanly and un-girlish. Tney want
to be considered lady like; tut how the deuce
they can manage that, without being womanly
and girl-like, it's hard to say. Formerly there
was a distinction bstwean '‘mamma’ and
“mother.” The aristocratic chill was mother-
less but had a mamma. “Mother” belonged to the
lower classes exclusively. Now, things are
changed and your real blue-blooded Miss calls her
female parent just what she is, or ought to be
her “ mother.”
Mayor Riley, of Sydney, whose gigantic
intellect first evolved the idea of the £5 bale of
drapery goods, is (no doubt unconsciously) on the
track of a title in real earnest. He s»js that the
New South Wales capital will celebrate Her
Gracious’s Jubilee in a fitting manner, “it it
should cost him his last shilling.” This noble
assertion should earn him a baronetcy at the very
least —perhaps he will even be made a dook. But
it won’t cost him his “ last shilling ” —not much
The woman with the collection-place is already
around in Sydney, and when the donations are got
in then the men who started the movement will
be made K.C.M.G.’a, and the poor, doddering
fco'.s who found the cash will have bought them
their titles. There is no K.C.M. G.-ship waiting
for the man who hunts up subscriptions for the
hungry widows and children at Bulli—it is the
bloated widow at Windsor who has the decora-
tions to give away.
The first private assembly of the season
took place at Nithsdale, Woollahra, last Friday.
About 130 were present. The ladies’ dresses were
too numerous to be described.
The officers of the Imperial aged-female-
of-war Nelson had at least one unpleasant experi-
ence during their stay at Auckland. It was one
of the days on which visitors were not admitted,
and thecrew weredoingnothingin particular, when
a boat came alongside, and a long, thin scrag of
cat-footed humanity slowlv clawed his way up
over the bulwarks. He had a tall, shaky hat, a
bilious face, and a twinkling eye, and he took no
notice of anybody but proceeded to investigate for
himself. He poked at the engines to see if they
were alive, and put his sorrowful looking head in
the ventilators. He whistled to the captain’s dog,
and felt in his tail pocket for some liver with
which to propitiate the brute ; he smelt outside
the galley, and he tried to turn the capstan single-
handed. When he had quite finished, he solemnly
lay down on his stomach on the bulwarks and
twirled round preparatory to dropping feet-flrst
into the boa 1 -, but he was interrupted by a comic
officer, who asked him if he wished to see the
Admiral. “ Oh, no,” he said, “ you can just tell
him thatono of the owners called ’—and before the
gaudy official could get over the shock he had
scraped his way down into the boat and was gone
There was a half-formed idea of bringing the 100-
ton gun to bear upon him, but the horse-marine 3
were too much shaken up to take any decisive
steps until it was t jo late.
The question of the day—Where is Lady
?
« * #
At one of our ownest own Queen of
Beauty’s recent receptions a very showily-attired,
bejewelled dame with an Italian accent that could
stand alone, made her entry and chose a seat as
close to Lady Carington as she cou’d. Here she
I sat—“ close at the ear of Kve”— oozing vulgarity
at every pore until such time as she had rested
her portly limbs. Then she arose with the re-
mark, “ I’m going to look round a bit.” After
about a quarter of an hour’s absence back came the
perambulating jeweller’s shop to her chair, where
she eat for some five or ten minute 3. Then, sud-
denly arisirg she eaid “ I’ve bin ere long enough.
Good bye, your Ladyship - I can’t stop any longer,
but I’ll look in another day.” “ Oh, do , so
glad,” murmured Lady Carington cordially, re-
collectirg that in olden times fools were paid to
amu 1 e kings.
A London journal gays that “ the Queen,
in giving a birthday party to little Princess Mar-
garet of Connaught, ordered only the simplest tea
for her little guests, consisting of bread and butter,
jam, and plain currant cake.” The “party" of a
Princess is only the ordinary “tea” of the child
of the well-to-do in Sydney 1 Good gracious I
* • .
A little while ago, the Hobart Mercury,
in reporting a murder, announced that “the de-
ceased did not ask any questions ’’—quite an un-
necessary statement, as the defunct was a mascu-
line corpse, not a feminine one. Lately the fame
paper chronicled the fact that a gentleman “ again
extinguished himself ”at a cricket match, The
Mercury's readf rs are just notv curious as to the
identity of the writer of “Our Melbourne Ladies’
Letter,” which appears in that paper weekly.
TWO OF A KIND.
DE JONES, to Pacet Smith, who has just concluded a most improbable yarn): “ WELL I DO
LIKE A LIAR.”
SMITH tcaimtyl: “YA-A-S, DEAR BOY, THAT ALWAYS HAS BEEN A FAILING OF
YOURS."
Sometimes whole paragraphs are copied verba*im
from the Melbourne sassiety papers, orthographi
cal mistakes and all.
A certain renowned Australian politician
will shortly be shifted from the club he has so long
absolutely governed should he continue to make
obscene remarks across the lunch-table.
What it has come to :
t( *JO the Aristocracy of Brisbane aod Suburbs.—Most
and trustworthy se vants waiting em-
A V lt t !>ood address and satisfactory reference.
Applj, .Mrs. , Adelaide-street, next Gaiety Theatre.”
“ The visitors were shown over the build-
ing (the Alfred Hospital, Sydney), the Mayoress
(Mrs. A, J. Riley) addressing a few kindly words
to the patients. She also presented each patient
with a small souvenir of her visit To each of the
juvenile pat ients she gave a Queen’s jubilee medal."
brom this, a lot of things become at once evident.
* * *
At a dinner down South the other night
there were fourteen guests, and they sang “For
lies a Jolly Good Fellow” just 18 times. We
have this item on the authority of a sick man in
the room above the one where the barquet was ;
but after the fifteenth repetition we doubt
whether his counting is reliable. Asa matter of
fact, he never recovered from the music. He is
dead and buried.
* * *
A certain Australian youth, who, to the
world’s surprise, some time ago married a rich
young widow of sixty five, was asked the other
day . You. don’t mean t© say you have really
separated from your wife?” “Yes,” was the
reply, * it’s quite true, lam sorry to say. In com-
patibility of temper brought about the result. The
money was right enough. My wife was—well,
something of a mortgage over the assets ; but
what I could not stand was my eldest step-son
trying to punch my head every morning. He was
bigger than I was, and our tempe r s wore utterly
incompatible. I knew he’d do it sooner or later
so I left
They re not a bigoted crowd up at Cairns
(Q ). When Father O’Byrne, the Catholic priest,
was going away-, and a presentation was made to
him, Kmgsford, the ex-Mayor of Brisbane and
Cairns (a Protestant), presided; and the Rev.
Nobb», the Church of England parsoD, made a
speech. Half the subscribers were heretics.
Dr. Charles W. MacCarthy, M.D., of
Sydney, has modelled in clay a bust intended for
Adelaide Exhibition. The doctor, who must be
confessed to have shown alike much ambition and
much good taste in taking for his subject Mis 3
Boake, the charming daughter of Mr. Bancroft C.
Boake, has produced a most ta'-iing and graceful
piece of work.
* # »
A marriage will take place shortly in Mel-
bourne between a widow of about forty summers
and a Potts Point youth just half her years,
who owns rich stations in the North.
The visit of the Victorian Government
House contingent to the viceroyalties of Sydney
and Brisbane is understood to simply mean Loch-
jaw over the Jubilee. That is all.
The giddy priests of Madrid have evolved
out of their inner consciousness a new way of
raising the wind for Holy Church. Need we men-
tion that the girls, the dark eyed senoras, are in it
up to their plump little necks ! When the re-
verend father wants a big pool badly he asks some
fashionable Spanish “tart ” to take the bag next
Sunday, and issue invitations to her friends. The
boys roll up as one dude, and the senora trip 3
from pew to pew with a charity-bazaar smile and
the hungry bag. It is a grand game, and we
hope to eei it introduced into Australia shortly.
Already, in our nimble fancy, w r e can hear the
Kev. Jefferis murmuring, “ Dear friends, we wil
now siDg hymn No. 22 in the book while Miss
Carrie Swain waltzes round with the plate.’
What a collection Nellie Stewart might take up
to be sure !
“Tram,” writing to the S.M. Herald,
thinks that undertakers’ boys carrying sinal
coffinB under their arms should be stopped from
travelling in Sydoey trams, especially in compart
ments containing ladies. We concur. At the
same time, we think that no Sydney tram should
ever be allowed to start without having a few
large coffins aboard. It doesn’t look well to see
human remains gathered up in pocket-handker-
chiefs, sacks, and gin-cases.
It’s about time that the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals stepped in. The
people of Adelaide have held a Town Hall meet-
ing to consider the advisability of forming a
Jubilee choir. Horrible !
* * . *
Sydney is a fine place to be taken sud-
denly ill in on the Lord’s Day. Between the hours
of o-e and six on the Sabbath you can no more
get a doctor's prescription made up in the city
than you can fish soverigns out of “ Oar Beautiful
Harbour.” On a recent Sunday a lady met with
a serious accident just a few minutes after the
drug stores closed for the afternoon, and conse-
quently had to wait four hours for the treatment
ordered by the doctor who attended her to be ad-
ministered without a moment’s delay.
Unless they fasten him across the barrel
of a steam roller and commence to flatten down
roads with it, or dispose of him in some other
way, Mayor Pile, of Portland (Vic) will
endeavour to present a Jubilee address to Her
Majesty in person. The address has been
j illuminated, and the misguided mayor is jus
about off on his miserable mission. The saddes
part of the affair is that Pile undertakes to pa
his own expenses to Windsor Castle and back
fondly dreaming that he will drop upon one knee
before Vic., blurt out some illiterate ‘'gush,” anc
rise up a full-blown Marquis, or a Donk,’ or
member of the Royal Family. Vain man! lie
will never get within shouting distance of Her
Gracious, and as far the wretched Portland ad
dress, it will be weighed in along with thousands
of others and sold at so much a ton. But what
can be said for a community that sends, in all
seriousness, an inflated person to thus act the ass
[ as a “representative Australian?”
* * *
Mrs. C. J. Roberts, of Chatsworth, Potts
Point, gives a large dance to-morrow, Fridav
May 13. ’
On dit that a Sydney gentleman will
shortly lead to the altar a favourite actress now
playing in Melbourne.
* • «
Lieutenant Lionel 6. Tufncll, R.N., late
of the Miranda, has just been married in England
to Miss Clara Evelyn Cadel), eldest daughter of
Mr. Thomas Cadel!, of Sydney. Another glorious
victory for the Navy. No wonder they like “Im-
perial Federation.”
Deerhurst’s judicial admirers have another
excuse for grovelling It is rumoured that they
will meet the noble lord's expenses in re Sutton’s
successful appeal and present him with an ad-
dress of condolence. While they are about it,
they might as well pay his passage home.
* * *
Lady Loch gives a Jubilee fancy dress
ball on June 22nd. It is understood that the
heroine of Melbourne’s latest scandal will go as
Aspasia if she gets an invite.
There was one very striking feature about
the concert held in Sydney Masonic Hall last
week. Lord Carington turned up attended by
two brobdignsgian flunkeys in catskin robes, and
while one huge menial struck epileptic attitudes
at the carriage door as his Excellency got out, the
other flicked at the horses in order to make the
noble animals show their high action. One of
them jumped in a way that made it look as if it
had Co3t £2B more than it really did, but the
other, the democratic brute, was sulky and only
gave a 30s. kick.
As a marriage-fixer, Major Wright of the
Marj borough (Q.) Army, beats the ordinary par-
son hollow. When the couple come to be spliced
he tells them if they don’t wish to be united they
can go and sit down, and he will hold a prayer-
meeting instead. This decides them, and they
are then matrimonialised right off.
The Rev. George Spencer, of Bega,
writes regarding the N.S.W. Divorce Bill that
" the question as to the lawfulness of dissolving
the marriage-bond for such causes as are named
in the Bill is distinctly a religious question, and
the clergy are the best authorities upon it.” We
base noticed that bif ore. Cats generally regard
themselves as the best authorities on mice.
* * .
Which is which ? we asked ourselves as we
strolled up William-street, Sydney. The one was
a small baboon in scarlet, coat with a fettering
chain which fastened him to his pole ; the other
was apparently a large baboon, chainless, and clad
in ordinary coat and inexpressibles, who poked up
his little brother with a stick. Little Brother
didn't seem to like it as he winked his sharp black
eyes at his tormentor. Big Brother thought it
great fun, and his lack-lustre orbs and wideo-pen
mouth expressed the content of the tyrant. We
gathered from a bystander that one was a man
and the other a monkey, but here our information
stopped, and wo longed for Darwin to arise and
speak. Which teas which ? If “ manners make
the man,” then we claim Little Brother as nearest
of kin.
A correspondent from the Far North
writei to us, calmly observing that he had the
misfortune once to be the brother-in-law of a
certain longwinded Sjdney politician, “but
thank the angels; lam not such any longer.” ’
*
An Australian clergyman is dead who, some
yeais ago, married an elderly lady, that being the
cheapest way to settle an action for breach of
promise. Rumour, however, has it that he did not
forget this little episode in framing his will, which
has just been proved, and the ex-bride doesn’t
feel very well.
The Sydney Echo mentions the astonish-
ing fact that Queen Victoria and Pope Leo once
dined together, and sat next to each other. It all
happened at Brussels, where Leo was Papal
Nuncio, and when her Gracious was on a visit to
her relative the local King. Now The Bulletin
can fearlessly go a mile further than this, for we
can reproduce almost verbatim part of the con-
versation at the dinner. Pecci said, after the
fourth course, “ I don’t think much of the biled
cabbage,” and the reply was “ Try the hash, I can
recommend it.” That was all.
Truth informs us that the young Prin-
cesses of Wales make their own dresses, and
gushes considerably over the fact. Why shouldn’t
a princess make her own rig-ou' ? We do not see
anything so surpassingly wonderful in the fact!
It wouldn't take them long to make the bodice of
a couit-dress for Grandma’s drawing-room any-
way. ’
i There’s likely to be a stir in Sydney
“ hupper suckles ” when that Nixon v. Nixon case
gets fully developed. Perhaps that’s the reason
why aH the Sydney papers except the Globe have
religiously refrained from reporting it. One eye
on the advertisements and the other on spotting
disagreeable items to be excised from the news
columns—that is the rule. And, by the way, a
libel-writ for £5OOO is out over a letter written in
connection with the case.
‘‘A Colonial Girl” writes us a short, in-
cisive letter on the woman-suffrage Question, and
lays down her propositions as if they were cart-
loads of bricks. The female voter who loves her
husband, she says, will vote with him, no matter
what she herself thinks or doesn’t think, while the
other one who disagrees with the boss of her
little establishment, will vote against him through
Many of the charming Bonnets and Costumes worn
at Lac y 1 Carrington’s last R ception, came from Mrs
McCathie 8, 86 and 90 King-street.
The best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sydney
and at a reasonable pnee, far less than London or Paris il
at Husts Boot Emnorium, 408 Gsorge-street, corner’of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low heels for com-
foi t, to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody. Come
and s
or yourself.*


thick and thin. This is true enough so far as it
goes, but she neglects to add that the young lady
who has no husband will vote for the man with
the beautiful dark moustache, and the elderly,
serious spinster will give her support to the politi
cian who made such a nice speech at the Baptist
tea-meeting, and the girl who sent us that barrow
ful of poem last week about the spring flowers and
the pallid kangaroo will plump for Parkes because
he wrote a screed about kissing a strange girl on
the top of the Rocky Mountains, and the whole
lot will declare that any olher girl who doesn’t
agree with them on these matters is a horrid cat,
and looks a perfect fright in that new bonnet of
hers. \\ e reckon there are some stormy times
ahead for the colonial girls.
* * *
It’s proposed by the new N.S.W. Divorce
Bill that respondents shall not be at liberty to re-
marry before two years after they have been
divorced. This is meant to make things uncom-
fortable for the respondent and co respondent
when the hated petitioner is got rid of and the
respondent and co-respondent aforesaid are free
to fly to one another's embraces. But will the
scheme promote morality, Sir Alfred? And how
about the petitioner's new alliance 1 In nineteen
divorce cases out of twenty it’s six of one and
half-a-dozen of the other as to purity and inno-
cence. And then it’s bo easy to get up a good
strong divorce case. Had she been in the Divorce
Court, Susanna would, to a dead certainty, have
been divorced with costs on the higher scale
against the co-respondent. There's generally
another man or woman waiting round the corner
for the petitioner. Why should the aggrieved one
be made to wait a couple of years ?
* » •
The holy city of Adelaide is evidently
going for the sad title of pre-eminence in grief.
The courts are blocked with divoice-business, and
all the sitting-room in the court is taken up by
pious ladies in nice bonnets whose religious con-
victions won’t allowthem to go to the theatre. The
trouble began last Wednesday, when John Tucker,
a prominent Wesleyan, rose to point out that his
wife had packed up her trunk and skipped with a
man who had something to do with a circus. She
w r rote to her husband in a spirit of levity and said
she wasn't coming back, and then she wrote again
stating that she wished she were dead. The
Judge, after looking up a number of authorities,
decided that she shouldn't ought to have acted in
such a manner. George Edgecombe said his wife
had rushed him with a meat-axe, and carried on
with James Howard. He caught them in the act,
but as one of them had a club and the other a saw
and a knife, he considered it best to smile and
make a remark about the weather, which was
numerous just then The Court resolved that this
sort of thing shouldn't go on. Then a bland
German asked if his bartner in life had any bees-
ness to pring a trunken masher home mit her und
call him a “leetle duck.” Alzo, if, ven a man
hat been absent in Europe for two years, there
should be a new leetle paby about the place ven
he came back. Also, vy his vife should elope
with a burly aporiginal. The representative of
the law gave this problem up as a bad job, and
then about a dozen more men came in, each with a
little matter of his own that he wanted settled.
(To be continued in our next)
• » •
A lady who writes a beautiful Italian paw,
has sent us in a shaky, greasy, gummy something,
the colour of a choking Aryan baby. We put a
specimen of it in the gas-stove and it lifted the
roof ofl the office and threw five compositors into
the middle of the harbour, where they were eaten
by the sharks and whales. On reading the letter
which accompanied this specimen we learned that
it was a sample of “ puff-pi te ” made according
to a recipe which appeared in the Sydney Mail
of 23r l April, and we therefore call on that re-
spect ib'.e, though slow-goiog, journal to make
good the damage. One of the dead compositors
has left an infant which is now beiog brought up
by hand in this office.
“ Wonderful, is it not, my dear, that the
very lady-writers who set themselves up in the
newspapers as authorities on fash'ou should dre3S
themselves so hideously ? '—Extract from a Syd-
ney woman's letter.
One of the principal annual Sydney social
events, the School of Industry ball, will be held
in the Exhibition Building at an early date yet to
be fixed.
One of the songs to be sung at the Bris-
bane children’s Jubilee concert is entitled “ Now,
pray we for our country.” ’’Pray,” is evid‘ ntly
a misprint for “ pay ” —or “prey.”
The Townsville (Q.) Herald has at least
one thing to be proud of—it has got ahead of the
whole caravan of idiots who are making the night
hideous with jubilee. It has left the Hongkongese
gush of the British Chinaman far behind, and has
gone one better thin the bowed down nigger who
throws hi 3 mother to the crocodiles of the Ganges,
while even the cheerful European fool is com-
pletely nowhere. The editor-man of this daily
Northern maniac rises to wish her Gracious many
happy returns of the Jubilea, and there isn t even
a smile on his childlike face as he says it. Britain
has nearly burst her boiler to get the old lady one
jubilee, and he calmly hopes that she will enjoy at
least half-a-dozen more, and then die prematurely
at the age of 380 or so, and it never strikes him
apparently that that will be a pretty gold age for
a woman, anyhow.
* * *
The Sydney Jubilee scheme is getting
weaker as the occasion draws nearer. So far as
the municipality is concerned it has now come
down to a proposal for entertaining the school
children with buns and harmless swipes in the
opsn air, at a coit of about £lOOO, and if this
tearing burst is broken up by bad weather then
there will be no Jub at all. Alderman John
Harris thinks that Aldermen Burdekinandßryen,
being the two richest men in the city, should
stand the racket, but these gentlemen don’t seem
t j see it. Some men have no desire for mere
e irthly glory. Heaven is the home which is
'sighed for by Burdekin.
The Irish party in the House of Commons
ft-e at it again, telling ministers to come on, and
chucking “liar” and other missiles about the
H >use. It’s a curious thing that in Victoria they
set up Irishmen to keep order in the House.
Murphy, M’MahoD, Duffy, and Lalor—all the
Speakers since the Assembly was established—are
all Paddies.
Overheard on our Block“ I aay, Chappie, old boy, look
Out for the Gov. : he's all eye*. Gad, X think he could see
th >u"h a b<ick wall now he a just bought a pair of splendid
w ire Pepple Spec'aclej fjr ss. at Osborn and HuNTtß’s,
the Spectacle-makers, 63 Arcade, King-stre.t (ffrst floor)’
With case, and postage to the con try, 6s. per pair.*
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Cough Emulsion is such as to lender it the best-known
remedy in the world for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, or Bron-
chitis. Itcan be obtained direct from W. M. Rowley, Chemist,
Bourke-street, Fast Melbourne. Price 2». 6d. per bottle, and
from all ehemists.*
WOMAN ITEMS
The Mormons are packing up their wives
and emigrating to their new colony in Sexico —we
mean Mexico.
Joseph H. Mitchell tried to prevent his
wife from going into the vestry of the Church of i
the Apostles, Launceston, Tasmania. She bested
him in court.
Potts Point mistress : Mary, what’s the :
matter with your hair?” Servant: “It's the
volunteers, mum ; they all wanted a lock of my
hair before they went into camp.”
The Marriage Reform Association want to
legalise in England the “ colonial-born children of
a deceased wife’s sister.” Success should surely
depend a lot on whether the sister is married
A deserted infant was brought up at a
Melbourne Police Court, and the Bench asked if
anybody in court would adopt it. Whereupon a
fair creature arose and said she would have done
so a month previously, but now “ she had mad :
other arrangements.”
This is how the Carcoar (N.S.W.)
Chronicle (edited by a lady) touches up
its defaulting subscribers : “ This week our
accounts will be out. Next week our collector
will be out. The following week the summons
will be out. After which the bailiff will he in.”
A perfectly new remedy for the dull times
is suggested by Knowledge, wherein we learn
that there is a direct connection between the
number of old maids and the cheapness of wheat.
The old maids keep the cats that produce the
kittens that catch the fieldmiee that nibble the
corn.
Scene from the old domestic drama, ‘ ‘ Giv-
ing Himself Away,” as played nightly every-
where: —Wife (inside): “Who’s there?” Hus-
A FAIR DEAL.
“NOW, BRIDGET, YOU MUST ALWAYS ADDRESS MY DAUGHTER AS MISS MABEL.”
“ALL RIGHT, MA’AM I’LL ’DRESS HER AS MISS MABEL IF SHE HAS THE GOOD
MANNERS TO ’DRESS ME AS MISS BIDDY.”
bind (outside): ‘ Ish me, m’ love, George (hie) ! ”
Wife: “ Well, clear out, or 111 set the dog on to you.
I don’t know George Hie, and never heard of the
beast before.”
The Amalgamated Railway and Tramway
Service of N.S. W. pays £l5 to any member who
may lose his wife, while if he marries again and
is bereaved a second time he receives £lO only. It
is naturally considered that he will be case-
hardened on the second occasion. Apparently the
third wife has got to die gratis.
It is heavy work being a nice young man
with a dark moustache in Honolulu. The ladies
there go out walking in all weathers, but when ii
rains the masher has to carry his best girl’s um-
brella, dress, and shoes, and she trots contentedly
alongside in a shawl and a red hat. If it clears
up she stops and gets into the dress.
A lady while being “asked questions ”by
that genial cross-examiner Purves, QC., in Mel-
bourne Supreme Court last week, fell fainting out
of the witness-box on to the floor of the court
Additions are to be made to these witness-boxes,
a door being provided which will prevent the wit-
ness under cross-examination toppling over and
robbing the crowd of part of its enjoyment.
At Wellington, N.Z., the other day, there
was a double sculling match between the fair
daughters of certain of the local aristocracy. Two
charming young things, with biceps like those of
a spring pullet, the daughters respectively of the
N.Z. Minister of Works and a swagger squatter,
pulled off the trophy amidst great excitement.
Kava, the juice of a Fijian root, is, we
read, being sold in London at 3e. 6d. per bottle
The native way of extracting Kava juice is very
aesthetic. The lady chews the woody substance
and expectorates the extracted fluid into a bowl.
When the bowl contains enough for a “go ’ her
lord and master comes along and gulps it down
A man who -was recently a patient in a
certain N.S. W. hospital out West, writes thus :
“ On one occasion my face became very hot on one
side through resting too long on the pillow, and
being unable to turn the pillow round myself I
asked a nurse to do it for me. She at once lifted
my head by the beard, pulled the pillow away,
threw it into a corner, and said, “ Cool your face
on the tick, there /”
London juries can’t decide whether, if you
call a woman “naughty” you really mean im-
moral, yerknow This is awful! In our gentle
nonage we often wrote to a dream-maiden and
cilled her fondly a “ naughty old puss.” Novo , if
she wishes, she can run us in for defamation of
character! We can imagine the sensation in
court, “ Gentlemen —the villain called this spotless
maiden an immoral old cat!!” We are plunged
in gloom!
The new marriage-strvice. Clergyman :
“ Will you take this brick mansion, this carriage
and pair, these diamonds, for thy wedded hus-
band?” “Yes.” “Will you take this uapaid
milliner’s bill, this chignon of foreign hair, these
affectei accomplishments, and feeble constitution
for thy wedded wifei” “Yes.” “Then, what
man has joined together let the next best man
run away with, so that the divorce-court may
tear them asunder.”
“ These wire dress-improvers are to be
recommended in preference to the hair or wad-
ding-stuffed cushion on account of their coolness,
the cushion, as everyone knows who wears one,
gets at times terribly hot, and it is trying to the
body that excessive heat should be felt. We dis-
regard the laws of health so recklessly in our
dress that if we break one rule the less by the
substitution of an open wire improver it is well if
we take advantage of it.”—“ Humming Bee,” in
the Sydney D. T.
There is a rumour abroad that Oscar
Wilde is no longer the master of his own house-
hold. Mrs. Wilde has developed strong home-
rule proclivities. Lady Wilde —mother of Oscar
and wife of Sir William Wilde—who is known all
over Ireland as “Speranza,” the name over which
she wrote revolutionary poems during the Young
Ireland rebellion in 1818 is in almost absolute want
in London. For six years she has not received a
penny of rent owing to the land-war, yet she
wouldn’t consent to a single eviction on her
estate.
Sir W. F. Butler, K.C.8., who would not
“ turn up ” to evidence in the Colin Campbell
case, is going to publish a book on the Soudan en-
titled *' The Campaign of the Cataracts.” It ip to
be illustrated by Lady Butler (Mies Thompson)
who has sent to the Academy thi3 year a canvas
treating an episode in the Egyptian Campaign.
Wc hope the “ episode ” isn’t the “ service of a
subpoena upon General Butler in Campbell v.
Campbell while in Egypt,” or “ Lady Butler’s
charge with the broomstick upon the arrival of
the Times report from England.” This would be
too much for the Royal Academy, we guess.
Bathurst is apparently the most apologetic
city in N S.W. Here is yet another lady in that
locality rising to point out that she is a miserable
liar of the shadiest description :
“ 1 beg to tender my most unreserved Apology to
Mrs. and Miss P of Durham-street, in the
city of Bathurst, for the unrelenting and lying slander
that I made uie of 01 the 31st instant, as such were
utterly void of any truth or foundation whatever. Mrs.
A lady who gives herself away so abjectly as that
certainly means to square the account some day.
SO mer or later the mangled bodies Mrs and Mifg
will be found lyicg about with their tortoise
shell back hair combs driven into their skuls.
One hot day last summer a party of Christ
church (N.Z.) girls were enjoying a quiet swim
together in the sea near New Brighten. While
disporting in the waves like a lot of mermaids, a
well-known local dude appeared on the scene, and
thinking it would be good fun to keep the girls
longer in the briny than they wanted, he took up
his position on the edge of the water and looked
on. The fair ones, who were all in bathing-cos-
tume, did not mind this at first, but at last, think-
ing the dade w'as gettirg monotonous, they made
a sudden sally, caught hold of him, and dragged
him into the water. As they were ten to ODe,
they soon made a complete wreck of him, and
only let him alone when they had almost com"
pletely divested him of clothing.
As we have seen several bearded ladies
scintillating in the very smartest society of
Sydney, we deem it our duty to mention that—
" Women can now have thtir upper lips cleared of inci-
pient moustaches by electricity. The operator on a recent
occasion, an expert in electricity, placed his patient in a
barber’s chair. Then he brought in a battery, attached to
which were wires, one ending in a needle and the other in a
handle. Then he introduced a girl upon whose upper lip
was a decidedly unpretty growth of hair. The operator
placed the handle of the machine in one of her hands, and
told her to grip it steadily. That was to keep up a current
through her whenever he touched her with the needle. He
fixed a magnifying glass in his eye, bent over her as she lay
back in the chair, and stuck the needle along down the course of
a pingle hair to its root. * Ouch-h-h ! ’ exclaimed the girl.
But she said that she could stand it, that the hurt was not
much, and so he went on gently stabbing the hairs, the
electricity each time removing one of the hirsute offences.
Fifty were thus done away with at this sitting. The opera-
tor explained that they could never grow again, but that the
process should be carefully conducted in order not to make
tiny scars.”
They met by chance —that is to say, James
Douglas Limont aud Miss Elizabeth North did—
and the occasion was a musical party at which
both made themselves exceeding merry, and took
to each other as fondly as a canning fly does to a
bald head. After the opera was over James
Douglas gallantly offered to see Miss Elizabeth
home, and as they strayed along by the pale light
of Luna s lamp, the lady suddenly became filled
with filial love, and expressed a wish to “ have a
look at poor father’s grave.” The cemetery being
close at hand, the pair strolled in, sat down on tin
upendedheadstone, and —well, at arecent Bathurst
Circuit Court, J. Douglas North was sent
up for 12 months for indecent assault. Curious
country, where, when young ladies invite almost
entire strangers to step into cemeteries and weep
over graves at midnight and then get them sent
to gaol.
A free and independent citizen of Cairns
(Q ) walked into the office of the local Post and
inquired of the editor if he was in the habit of
puffing up improvements in the town. The news-
paper man smiled all over and nodded assent.
Then the citizen informed him with an air of im-
portance that he had just put up a three-rail
fence at his place, and wanted a paragraph about
it. Tableau.
The muscular Percy Grut, of the E.S.
and A C. Bank, having been addressed, returns
fi om Sydney to Melbourne to resume work there.
The pocket Hercules looks no older than he did a
quarter of a century ago when the bank in Ger-
trude street. Fitroy (Mel.), was stuck up, and Grut
valorously and effectually defended himself and
the “sugar” with a brass candlestick against a
couple of pistol-armed highwaymen. That was a
glorious victory. It was suggested at the time
that a statue of P. de J. G. should be erected in
front of the hank premises, the pedestal to be a
brass candlestick. Grut would have been a shin-
ing light on top.
The frenzied excitement that prevailed'
round the garlanded refreshment booth is said to-
have been the principal feature of a certain ultra-
fashionable garden-party recently given in Mel-
bourne. One lady, after vainly endeavouring to
obtain an answer from a distracted waiter,
upon an unoffending journalist to ask piteously,
“ Was this cup washed ?” He pointed silently to-
a pail filled with saddle-coloured slops. “Is that
the tea?” she asked helplessly. “No, madam,
that was where your cup was washed,” was the
crushing response—and the unhappy lady was too-
paralysed to eat more than three jam-rolls and
four tea-cakes.
A correspondent thus addresses us from a
township in Northern N. S.W. :
“ There is a small township on this river, and in the town
ship a courthouse. There are also three J s.P., who usually
choose this courthouse in which to air their knowledge of law or
otherwise. A abort time since each of the J s P., whom I will
call A., B ,and C., received a summons to appear at Court on the
same date and for the same cause, viz , d“bt. As it fell
out, only the three J's.P. mentioned turned up on this parti-
cular day—a remarkable thing, I must tell you, for usually
there are more J's P. on the bench than cases to try, they,
the J’B P., being almost as plentiful as are honest men in
this district. Well, A. B and C. had to do the best they
could unassisted, poor fellows, and the way they did it was
this : A. and B. sat on the bench and gave judgment in the
case of C.; C. then took A's place and with B’s. assistance
dealt with A ; then. A and C. finished off B , who there-
upon took his place on the bench, and with A and C’s as-
sistance attended to a couple of ‘ drunks.’ The court then
dissolved. I have no doubt that each case was decided
justly and according to law, because each of the J's.P. men-
tioned get their living in the same line of business, but it
seemed to me a triangular kind of law, not square, you know.
—P. A.S.”
There seems to have been a good old time
when Australians understood the real value of
missionary enterprise. We don’t know whether
it was an aged yarn which the Rev. Bickford
snuffled from a Sandhurst pulpit the other Sun-
day, but it bears repetition, anyhow. Bickford
told his dear friends of the awful spiritual condi-
tion of Sydney when the first Wesleyan mis-
sionary came over from England to evangelise.
The godless gentlemen who constituted Sydney
society “ held a public meeting, and got up a
petition requesting Governor Phillip to have the
missionary arrested and sent as a prisoner to
labour in the Government coal-mines at New-
castle.” Evidently the chain and the lash hadn’t
quite crushed the waggish spirit of those early
white savages of Sydney. They thought that a
missionary who preached a doctrine of Eternal
Fire would be suitably employed in digging coals’!


The Keferee
Mr. Bale promises a little of all sorts at
his meeting. A three miles “ American lap race ”
is on the card, the leader at end of each lap to
count so many points, and the greatest number of
points to take the prize. Mr. Bale says this is to
prevent loitering on the track. He then gives a
novelty in the shape of an intercolonial race be-
tween an equal number of N S Welshmen and
Victorians, the first two of either colony passing
the post to take the prize. But he does not say
anything about loitering in this race. Baal gam-
mon ! Mr. Cabbege Gardener.
The N.S. W. Cyclists’ Union Council have
very properly “sat upon ’’ the Suburban Club.
The Council deprecates the action of the Subur-
bans in jumping the Sydney Club's dates in
August, and have asked them to withdraw.
* * *
Last Sunday the N.S.W. Eight-oar crew,
who have improved vastly in style, pulled over
the full course in 17.29. After the row Mr. Bros
took his men away at one of his lightning spurts
at about 50 to the minute, but the less of this kind
of thing we have the better, or there may be in
the race a repetition of
last year’s work at Mel-
bourne. For material the
N.S.W. crew is the best
that has yet represented
their colony ; they will
weigh in condition about
92st. !Übs. as against 9 Ost.
81bi. of the Victorians,
who, by the way, are to
arrive in Sydney this
Saturday.
'* # #
The Australasian
says Carington has
wagered with a Bwagger
Englishman recently on
a visit to Australia—H.E.
at odds of £lO,OOO to
£loobacking Hon. White
to win an English Derby
within the next ten years.
A one sided wager, if
you like. It White wins
within the time the lud
annexes the ten thou.,
but, in any case, he holds
his century for ten years.
Can the English noble-
man be Beerthirst ?
Abuse won two
handicaps in succession at
Bourke (N.S.W.), last
Saturday. The stable
a bused their A J.C. op-
portunity.
* * •
For the “native”
Billiard Championship
of Victoria, Lindrum and !
Gray m ade a really re- ,
sped able show at Mel-
bourne Atherueum. The
game was 3000 up, and the play extended over
three nights, Lindrum early taking the lead and
finally romping in by 1147 points. The winner
kept up a consistent form throughout, but Gray’s
play was patchy and often showed want of deter-
ruination, Hoth men totted up sundry breaks of
a “ century’’ and upwards, the best being Lin-
drum’s 200 which secured the special £lO trophy
offered by Alcook and Co. Billiards, as an art, is
beginning to be understood by Young Australia,
but even such a promising player as Lindrum has
a lot to learn before he can take 6000 in 10,000
rom the best English pros.
Little Murphy, recently beaten by
Mitchell, in Sydney, has, at Auckland, N.Z., given
a recently-imported Yank., Taylor, two stone and
a thrashing. For eleven rounds Taylor led ; then
he was put to sleep with a right hander under the
jaw.
Cerise and Blue is reported to have got
over her maternity troubles, and we may yet see
her pledge of Grand Flaneur’s affection emulating
the deeds of his illustrious parents.
» • •
The absurd charge of ss. per head kept
people away from the Dooley-O’Brien fight at Foley’s
last Saturday night. Perhaps it was just as well.
Dooley all through made a mere chopping-block,
of the Victorian, whom he knocked down with
great regularity until the fifth and final round, at
the finish whereof O’Brien’s own relatives wouldn’t
have known him,
“ Mr. Jim Clark,”of N.S.W. amateur row-
ing celebrity, witnessed the last Oxford-Cambridge
race.
* # #
Murkan man Costello writes to the States
that no money is to be made at boxing in Austra-
lia. As Mr. Costello apparently can’t knock out
fourth-class men, and as there is an amateur in
Sydney who could be backed for anything up to
£5OOO to give him a stone and a thrashing, he isn’t
likely to make much coin.
Racing has revived on the Barcoo. Forty-
geven horses, with pedigrees as long as a Spanish
hidalgo’s, have been entered for the Blackall
Flying Handicap. Eheu! how times have changed
on the “Never-never” since the honourable Ellis
Bros, (nephews of his late Grace of Portland) owned
Malvern Downs and used to boss the Blackall
racing! Grass-fed hacks ran for the biggest
prizes in all Queensland, and the length of the
settling was determined by the amount of grog in
the township. Publicans became squatters, and
the young scions of nobility settled on an island
Moreton Bay with plenty of niggers and Ashing
In their halcyon days, one of the young Ellis’s wa
superintending the despatch of the station-store
from Rockhampton. It was in the days of bullock
teams, and a 400-gallon tank was part of the con
signment. Someone remarked it was a pity t
send it up all that way empty. “ Fill it wit
rum,” said Ellis, and filled it was.
It has been decided at the late Shepparto'
(Vic.} Conference that public-house race meeting
are to be abolished, and the Sydney A. J.C. show
like symptoms, having already refused to registe
clubs whose added money does not reach £ISC
This seems arbitrary in the extreme, as the gooc
folk of, say, Goonoo Goonoo or Blue Gum Flat
enjoy running their nags for a modest tenne
quite as much as the patrons of the Imperia
course do ; and, moreover, there’s a deuced sigh
less pulling, roping, stiffening, crooks, double
crosses, and eleventh-hour scratchings at oountry
race meetings.
The smart little six-tonner Assegai has
changed hands, Murnin to Smairl.
One of Mr. M'Clerken’s birds, in the
Sydney Pigeon Society’s last race, flew from
Goulburn to Sydney (134 miles) in 146 minutes.
That’s nothing. The “ special” train for Rosehill
races left Redfern at 10.45 on May 7, and arrived
at Rook wood Cemetery at 11.40, whence, after
resting awhile amongst the tombstones, it reached
Ashfield at 12.10 p.m. ton the same day, mind)
equal to 11 miles in Somin.
* * *
The clumsiest attempt at the Running
Rein business was perpetrated at Rosehill Bulli
Relief Meeting. The widely-known Sydney mare
Lady Judge was “rung in” the Mercy Stakes as
Z.R. (1) She won, but her enterprising owner
didn’t get the plunder. Got disqualified instead.
* • *
At the Melbourne V. A..T.C. meeting, on
Saturday, six events were run off in a trifle under
three hours. For a long while the public have
been grumbling about the old system of ekeing
out an afternoon’s racing in the interests of re-
freshment contractors. A change was needed.
Henceforth there will be livelier sport and less
whisky at Flemington and Caulfield.
The latest about the “Herd Laddie”
(Wylie) is that he has been beaten by Patterson,
a well-known Victorian “ checkers” player. It’s
not easy to always keep strides with one’s reputa-
tion. Why, wasn’t Myers beaten by George in
the 1500 yards’ footrace in Melbourne last Satur-
day, and didn’t the people groan and jeer at
Myers for stopping 100 yards from home !
* * *
Senior-Constable Schweicker, of Milpa-
rinka, N.S.W., is a terror to offenders. While in
pursuit of a horse-thief, recently, he rode 720
( miles in 12 day 3, having a fresh horse every day.
* * .
The forthcoming meeting of Royston Col-
lege A.A.C., on Wednesday. June 1, at Sydney
Association Ground, will include a 300 yards
strangers’ race, as well as a race for ex-students,
and a three-mile bicycle contest. Entries close
May 25.
Beach has not done any pulling for some
time, but says— or at least is credited with saying
that he could get himself sufficiently “fit” to
row the Canadian in a few weeks. Be careful,
William. Whenever and wherever you next meet
Hanlan we will put our little half crown on the
Kanuck, if only for the sake of pure cussedness.
We never adore the god of the hour. Aprojios,
Beach s part of the stakes, and Hanlan’s expenses,
have been deposited by Joe Thompson with the
Australasian.
* * #
They are trying to cure Ormonde’s roaring
by galvanism.
“ Gambling continued uninterruptedly at
Monte Carlo all through the recent earthquakes.”
We can quite believe this. If the end of the I
world clashed with the weighing-out for a Mel- i
bourne Cup, we should hear cries of “ 6 to 4 on
the fi-e-e-ld ” sounding high above the last trump.
As the graves gave up their dead the new arrivals
would be rushed into backing something as stiff
as themselves.
G. Davies and W. Anderson are to row
for £lOO over Parramatta course May 27. On re-
cent public form, the odds are 100 to 1 on Davis
* * # *
Sullivan, champion bruiser, the “ Strong
Boy of Boston, uses 240 z. dumb-bells. Here’s
a hint for the youths built on the poor- turkey
model who won’t look at anything under seven-
pounders.
* *
The so-called horse Hubbub, which
created such a shindy at the 'B3 A.J.C. Autumn
meeting, recently changed hands in Ballarat for
six sovereigns.
Cardigan, Mitrailleuse, Simon, and Aris-
tocrat are most fancied for the Royal Stakes, and
the odds are 100 to o on the field for ihe Birthday
Cup ; 4 to 1 is all that offers against Abercorn’s
annexing the V.R.C. Derby.
Hanlan recently underwent a medical
examination at Harvard College. “He has
thickened out, and has increased half an inch in
all his measurements, without any increase in
weight.”
* * *
The “bobs” rolled in so freely for the
last bicycle tournament at Melbourne Exhibition
that another six days’ struggle will be started on
May 30th. So lor g as the public restrain their
natural inclination to bet on the result, no harm
can come of these affairs except a few spills.
Miller wrestles both Sali and Christol next
Saturday night in Melbourne.
* * «
The skin-glove fight between Paddy Smith
and Mitchell, for the American light-weight
championship, took place in the upper-room of a
New York house. After 16 “ gallant ” rounds,
the police raided the premises and stopped the
fight. Smith was knocked almost to a standstill.
The Victorian eight-oared crew are no
doubt glad to get away from the Yarra. The
tream is now a deadly mixture of mud, typhoid
germs, and corpses.
* • •
A couple of knuckles broken during the
M’Cartby fight is the reason given by the Costello
party for his forfeit to Slaven. They talk of put-
ting up a lot of money that Slaven does not knock
him out next Saturday night.
* * *
Rand wick Tom Taylor received another
shipment of goods by the Alameda. We daresay
the “dark’un” can be accommodated.
* » *
The most exciting game of tennis that has
been seen for a long time came off at the late
Sydney tournament. Webb, of Victoria, and
Fitzgerald, of N.S.W., were playing the final
round of the championship matches, and the
game was to the winner of the final three sets.
Webb won two sets to Fitzgerald’s one, and in the
next set Webb was five games to Fitzgerald’s
nothing, needing only one game to win the whole
match. The market odds would have been about
1000 to 1 on Webb, but Fitzgerald wired in man-
fully on the one chance, and started to run up
to the net and volley as much as possible. This
changed the state of affairs so much that Fitz-
gerald won seven games straight off, giving him
the set, and making the game two sets all. Fitz-
gernld then won the third set and the match,
having completely worn his opponent down.
It is extensively rumoured that Queen
Victoria will, at Jubilee time, return thanks to
the Almighty for her good luck during these last
50 years, by making Carington an Earl.
We learn that a general meeting of the
Sydney Habitation of the Primrose League (the
“Premier Habitation of Australasia”) will be
held at 8 pm. of the evening of 16th May, at
West’s Booms, Sydney, “to hear an address by
William Owen, Esq., Q.C., on the work of the
League in England, and the scope afforded for it
in these colonies, at the conclusion of which dis-
cussion will be invited.” The circular conveying
this notification is signed by “W. H. C. Tanker -
ville Bennet.” Who on earth is W. H. C. Tanker-
ville Bennet ?
It is proposed that Queen Victoria shall
he alluded to as “Queen of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland, and the colonies and
dependencies thereof, and Empress of India.” Our
only objection to this title is that it is not com-
prehensive enough. Why shouldn’t she he called
also, “ Sultana of Aden, Turk's Island, Socotra,
Ceylon, and Hong Kong; Shahess of Labuan, Cyprus,
and Fiji; Supreme Boss of the Temperate Zone:
Mikado of Australia and New Zealand; Arch-
bishopess of Burmah; Tycoon of Canada, Labrador,
and Newfoundland; and Principal Sorrowing
Widow of the Whole Earth ?” Hi-yah ! If that
didn’t fill the invoice, then she could be made a
saint.
CORRESPONDENCE
In* Blllktin Will return aU unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preserration or transmission of such
Velox : Sorry to say no opening here
"Geo. Cole" (Southport): 1. 14 Wynyard-square. 2. Sub-
scription, ss. per part, 42 parts, of which 10 are published.
The parts are iesued about cne a month. 3. Yes, by sub-
scribing for the wtole work...Albanich ": To hand....
“ XB.B.": Alfied Deakin didn't decline knighthood fo’
modesty's sake. Alfred isn't modest. lie has lately been
elected leader of the Victorian Liberal party, and if he ac-
cepted a knighthood, ho might at or.ee order for himself a
polished oak political coffin with brass handles. If “ Sir ”
Graham Berry went to Collingwood he would be thrown into
Reilly-street drain...." Navvy": Your letter is an excellent
one, but needlessly long. If you send us a condensed state-
ment of facts-say half-a-column—we'll gladly publish.,
un, : T° hac( i—“ W.C.A.": Thsnls. Next week
probably Lynx ' : Held for consideration ' John
Aston : Why should the St. James' Gazette becrammed
down our throats by the cable-correspondents ns a represen-
tative of public opinion? Were you ever in LondOß, and
did you ever see a copy of th- paper being read in the
street ? Did you ever see the St. J. Gazette outside a
Tory Club ?....“ L.”t What are you driving at ?
He s a paltry, pallid person, with a sickly sort of smirk,
Engaged upon a paper doing liteiary work,
' Nl fomit l thC Play '' by L>utton :Jook > tot hirn's a frequent
BttC count mberB ° f the Thkatris > ‘“O' are ta'en into ac-
In fact, there’s nothing literary that doth a thought reveal,
Which this rapacious jackdaw does not hesitate to steal.
These stolen scraps are served up in a daily paper-yes,
A paper that does always strive religion to impress."
Why, if we let you go on like that for three minutes more,
we'd have ourselves in the clutch of an attorney !....“Sub
scriber” (Bega): Is it sarcasm?...." J. Adams”: Thanks..."
" R J.R " (Adelaide): Your items are as old as that book
which Job wished his enemy had written and which never
came 0ut...." Sunny" (Gundagai): Your letter is a pleasing
contrast to those of some of the pagans who write to us, but
at the same time our readers don't take much interest in the
fact that your local gospeller has started a day-5ch001....
C.B.W. (Sydney): If a coal-seller likes to spot his accounts
all over with Scripture texts, let him do it, so long as he gives
you full weight...." Mac": Your verses excellent:—
.... ‘ Scotch American " (Formby): To declare the Indepeu
dence of Australia would be the best way of celebrating the
Jubilee that we know of. It would put an end to war-scares
and K.C.M.G.-ism, and a lot of other things, and there
would be fewer attractions here then for young ■■ noble "-
men who won't square up their debts of honour, and whose
hotel bills arc only liquidated by a forced sale of their shirts.
...."P. M. Haynes” (Mackay): Thanks..." Vincit Veritas ”
(Fairfield): We have felt the same way ourselves sometimes
generally always. We have dug for gold till the men who
found the backing-money gave in and we couldn’t get
trusted for a pair of boots. Then we tried to seU out to a
bloated Portuguese swindler, and that alien cureed us in the
name of a saint who was Bkinned and fired alive many cen-
turies ago. He is now a corpse—the Portuguese, we mean,
and our mine was sold off by the bailiff, and when the new
oaner had worktd it for a week, he hanged himself. We
will keep your matter in view...." Bangle ” (Urana): Of
course we know that the station-manager blackmails the
hawker whom he allows to sell goods to the met, and the
hawker makes it up by putting 50 per cent, on to his prices.
Pretty nearly eve'ybody in this world swindles when he gets
the chance.. ."Ring-up" (Burketown): Thanks...." J.C P.'
(Temora): Why shouldn't a lot of squatters call them-
relves the Dingo Association? The poor warrigal is used
to being insulted...." W.G." (Glebe): Many thanks
“Plebeian": Will read...A.B.L." :Go ahead...." New
Zealander (Brisbane): (1) A " Colonial ”is generally under-
stood to mean a person born in a colony. The term is
about as vague as "piety.” (2) Yes. (3) A " Colonist ”is
any person living in a colony. (4) If jour hair is gettingthin
on top you shouldn t wear a swallow-tail coat in bed. It's
bad for it “Honesty": Nonsense. The most accom-
plished of elopers never ran away wirh what had really been
joined together “Anti-Humbug": Thanks. We know his
reverence, who is a harmless well-meaning youth f,om Scot-
laud. ...“ Wellington " : Wonder what damages they would
have got had it been stated that they had gone to Jericho
and were looked for in Jerusalem?...." C. Clausen”
Wasn't it Cato who once declared that he would rather
people should ask why Cato had not a statue erected in his
honour than why he had one ?...“ Postman": Thanks. Here
is the old difficulty between the women and the ladies loom-
ing in the distance again, and the old grovel rising radiantly
in the east—“ James Monson”: Thanks. The two first
lines of your “New Deserted Vdliage " are the best—
“ Near yonder pub., where once the barmaid smiled
The forest flowers bloom in fragrance wild."
‘ L.A.": Hardly worth while to worry the toor wretch
“Coal Pit”: Why not go to a society offering undeniable
security ?....“ San Martine ": The doctrine of heredity is
like the empiric science of phrenology—not proven. As
Henry George points out, a daughter of Lady Clara Vere de
Vere, bred in the slums, would be the reflex of its environ-
ment, and Molly Seagrim's child, reared in the lap of luxury,
&c., would carry with it no trace of its vicious origin..,.’
“Ambulator": Eschew the parody; it is the meanest form
of composition...." W.H.M.": Too voluminous. .."Social-
ism": Doesn't follow; as society becomes more complex,
government naturally assumes functions hitherto undreamt
of; and this may happen with a tendency towards absolute
autocracy Socialism is L not necessarily involved “ Wil-
cannia Grazier": Thanks !...." C.R.": Pondering over your
ba11ad...." R.W.M." (Brisbane): Thanks; very good, but
requires a little consideration...." One of the Unemployed":
Not at all bad; will think it over “J. A. Andrews":
Quite as true of Sydney, Brisbane, or any other large city, as
of Melbourne.. Henry Boehme ” (Ironbarks): Will at-
k E- Clayton” Received “ R F."
(Fitzroy): Why do you write to us; we never did you any
ha ™ "J.M." (Bowring): Have written a member of the
Asstmbly about it “ P.T.": You must judge for yourself
We can't guarantee the bona-fidee oi anyadvt "M.T. d.G •"
(Vic.): Glad to receive such sketches... “Banchope : We
believe the best and most comfortable route is cia Adelaide
(Scores of communications held over for notice.)
“POTOIOH[?]"
" I would Dot lift my hand to stay
One flag up-floating in the skies ;
They all are Bymbols of a sway
That hath its root in leper lies.
" Tnis patriot talk—this pavid talk
Of duty done with blade and brand,
These badges for the brave who baulk
The fell invaders of a land
“ Are hollow mockerhs ; the old
Hell fire burns in every cause.
The few win glory, peace, and gold,
And make and minister the laws
What time the many, who have borne
The heat and burden of the fray,
Are left, though poor and bullet-torn—
The debt and sacrifice to pay.”


The following is an extract from a N.S. W.
State school teacher’s letter
“ Here are two points worthy of notice. Ist. Those who
have attained the ag* of 40 are exempt from examination,
and consequently retain their salary intact, irrespective of
merit or length of service, whilst their younger brethren are
paid accordin* to classification, and a:e thereby v«ry great
losers. Should not justice—a word unknown to the Depart-
ment-make tome equivalent ? The teacher’s wail is—‘ Oh,
to be one of the forties ! ’ 2nd Promotion for good service
m .y be gained according to the terms of the 86th clause of
the N.S.W. Public Schools Act after fire consecutive years,
dating from the end of 1885. Now why begin with 1886?
unless it is intended to prevent the more experienced teachers
from gaining in any way by their past effoits.”
A few Sundays ago some burglars burgled
a house at Newcastle-on-Tyne while the family
were sitting under the Rev. Aminadab Sleek at
the little church around the corner. The wag-
gish depredators finished off their job by chalking
on the dining-room-table. “ Watch, as well as
pray ! ’ The family consoled themselves by re-
flecting that they had been laying up treasures in
Heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth cor-
rupt, and thieves do not break through and steal.
Whether they laid up as much furniture and
valuables in their “ long home," as the other fel-
lows sneaked from the villa residence, is hard to
say.
WHAT IS THE CHY?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is the cry of grave J's P.
When on the Bench they’re sitting,
To some poor devil in the blues ?
“ Bear him away” (os. or a week).
What is the cry of prelate high,
When in his carriage riding,
To some poor, homeless, hungry man 1
“ Bare him away ” (Take what he has).
What is the cry of publicans,
When lauding up their rum or gin,
To some mad fool with cash in hand ?
“ Beer him away ” (He’ll pay for it).
What is the Anal cry of all,
When done with parsons, pubs, and bench,
To the useless clay, at last in rest ?
“ Bier him away ” (We’re done with him).
“L [?]NA[?]”
Theatre KOI At..
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gamer, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THURSDAY and FBI DAY,
May lfi and 13.
VICEREGAL COMMiND NIGHT.
LUCKEZIA BORGIA.
LUCREZiA BORGIA.
Prices—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls.
Ss,; Stalls, 4s ; Family Circle. 2a.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Fbank Smith.
B isiness and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
CONGRESS SAYS WHAT*
THAT TH.S SHOW IS THE RINGING
RECORD OF A GREAT SUCCESS.
THE BEST ON EARTH WHERE?
Every Evening you will see a pymamid of novelty,
and hear an avalanche of laughter
AND A NEW WORLD OF FUN IN THIS
BANQUET STILL PRS-SIDED OVER by our
S 3 CARVERS 33
Prices for this Banquet
Orchestra Chairs. 2a ; Sta.ls. Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
HOUSE.
E W OPERA
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
Immense eucreis of
GRATTAN R GG3
MAGGIE KNIGHT
and
FIRST CL AS 3 COMPANY.
By Arrangement with Mr. CHAS. M’MAHON.
RITKRION THEATRE.
Sole Lessee and Prop ietor . Mr. John Solomon.
L VST THREE NIGHTS
of
The IDOL of SYDNEY PL AYGOER 3 ,
MIS 3 CAKRK SWAIN
Mls j CARRIE SWAIN
LAST THREE NIGHTS
of
TaE REIGNING ATTRACTION,
THE MINER’S DAUGH i ER.
MONDAY, MAY 16,—TOPSY.
Admission—.is., 3i , 25., Is
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWN,
Business Manager.
Royal polytechnic, 490 george-st.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Just added, and now on view, a Monster ALLI-
GATOR, 15ft in length, and weighing lSOOlbs. To
>e s en ALIVE and swimming about in a Mam-
noth Tank. We are also showing the GALATEA
VIASTERY, or the Living Bust Also the Great
Vlechanical Model of the BULLI COAL MINES,
ihowing the miners at work, &c. Engraving on
Glass by F. P. Webb. Electrical and Mechanical
Models'of all kinds, Curiop, &c. Also just added,
the Freaks of Nature—a SNAKE TURTLE, and
i CAT with Eight Legs.
Admission to the whole of the Exhibition, Is
Children, 6d.
TO-DAY TO-DAY. TO-DAY.—Grand re-open-
ing for Season. -CARRINGTON SKATING
dt«tv Ts-n^oberh.street, near Liverpool street-
SKvTING 1
SKATING J
Don’t Forget
/ THIS AFTERNOON
\ THIS EVENING
This Afternoon at 2 p.m., and This Evening,
7.30 p.m. Alliance Band Every Evening. Admis-
sion 1 s.; skates Is. extra. Ladies, Is ; skates free.
Gents’ monthly, One Guinea. Ladies’monthly, 15s.
Robt. H. Don'n’Oli.v, Proprietor and Manager.
WAT K IN & WATKIN,
PROPER!’* AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS.
LAND AND ESTATE AGENTS,
Have REMOVED to
< tl:t p| T gritf irr. between Park A Ratlmrst-sts.
Auction Sales in the Rooms, every’alternate
Tuesday.
Subdivision sales on Saturday Afternoons.
M
R.
LOCKE RICHARDSON.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY
of the Eminent Reciter.
WEDNESDAY NEXT, 18th MAY.
Under the patronage and in the presence of
His Excellency the Governor,
THE RIGHT HON. LORD CARRINGTON,
G.C.M.G., LADY CARRINGTON, and Suite.
The initial performance will he Dickens’
CHRISM AS CAROL.
The course of recitals will he held at the Y.M.C. A.
HALL, the most central, commodious, and
comfortable hall in wjdney.
Prices —Is , , and 2s. Box plan and full
particulars at Nicholson’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
FIREWORKS FIREWORKS FIREWORKS!
The Cheapest Place to buy
JUBILEE FIREWORKS
Is LITTLE HILL’S BIG SHOP,
793 George-street.
Hill’s Half-crown Parcels are simply Surprising.
Is , 2s. 6d., 55., 10s., Jubilee Packets forwarded
on receipt of Stamps or P.O Order. No. 1 Extra
Strong Chinese Guns, Is. 6d. per dozen bundles. No.
1 Extra Strong Red Packet Crackers, 2s. Id. per box.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
BIRTHDAY CUP, run May 21th, 1887.
6000 members, each 10s First horse, £lOOO ; 2nd,
£3OO ; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £2OO ; Non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them Cash Awards—
-5 at £5O, 10 at £25. 20 at £lO, 20 at £5 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, ai d
please l’egister letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. ‘'BARB,” care of T. G Green
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh street, Sydney.
The Melbourne Cup of £20,000, is oho opern
First horse, £lO,OOO.
QEMENT, “ LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,’
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOATLING and Co ,and GOSTLING and Co.
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
•Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PEE
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Rranoh. Payable on demand. Offices. 1 Park-st
THO 3. HOLDERNESS, Acting Manager.
J
POGONOSKI,
705 l\,
Sydney.
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Post
705 GEORGE STREET.
Department ot Publio Workß,
Bydney, May 10 1887
Tenders for public works an.-i
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unles-
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature ol Works and Supplies
Dates to whic'
can be received
at this office
Construction of Wharf at Port I
Macquarie
Erection of Bridge over Kanga- |
roo Creek, Road Binda to
Biggs
Krection of Bridge over Jilliby
Creek near Wyong Creek
Supply, &c., of Steam Winches
and Boiler, Dredge Hercules
Waiting Shed, &c., Tuggeran-
gong, Goulburn-Cooma Rail-
way
Station Buildings Five Islands,
and Waiting Sheds Awaba
and Lake Macquarie, Gosford- i
Wara'ah Railway
Construction in Colony of 25 1
Passenger Engines !
Construction in Colony of 25 |
Goods Engines |
Alterations, &c., Immigration
Barracks
Removal of Buildings near office
of Inspector-General of Police,
Philip-street
Erection of Bridge over Forest, |
road Deniliquin to Balranald |
Supply of Gravel, 2000 cubic
yards, at Qnipolly Railway
6 tation
Erection of Bridge, Toongabbi
Creek, old Windsor Road
Tuesdav,
May 17.'
at 11 o’clock.
Approaches and Bridge William- I
Henry-street, Darling Harbour |
Construction of Ironwork for
Syphon, George-street West, I
Contract 21, Sydney Sswerege
Erection of Post and Telegraph I
Office, Ballina
Wednesday,
May 25,
at 11 o’clock.
Delivering and Laying about 2|
miles 15in. Pipes, Contractso,
Sydney Water Supply
Erection of Iron Sbed, Cowper
Wharf
Supply Railway of Sleepars
Bridge over Gap Oeefc, road
Kempsey to Armidale
Tuesday,
May 31,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Railway Line,
Hornsby (Pearce’s corner) to
St. Leonards
Tuesday,
June 7,
at 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
674 George Street, 674
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Is the Only Address of the
MISIC&L lISTMEIT
DIRECT SUE PLY ASSOCIATION,
With the Largest, Finest, and most Superb Assort-
ment of all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings ever seen in the Southern Hemisphere,
From a JEW’S HARP to a CHURCH ORGAN,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6. 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key... ... ... 35/-
Splendid Organ toned Concertina,
in box with key... ... ...21/-
s
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6,21/-,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : The miniature Melodeon, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6
15/-, 20/-, 25 -
Speciality : German Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Old copy Violin, with case (lock and
key), full mounted bow, extra set
of strings, Tutor, &c. £2 12s. 6d.
7£X
ti
>1 if«
rOKSK'JV. at in-. 50 . 74 . 105 . i.W Mil*
SlHufliUituix : Tim nrw " I.nv; " incnlo).
With wuter key . £5 0 0
TlirmMi "Hi ynoldl/'mode)
Willi ilimlili' vvniiir kvjr . 9 0 II
Till:ni «i •• FtfcjmoliliTHfcbo
attachment-Carnot ... 12 0 II
p uni I n W Kill
Aii nil inn vari.-ihe, in -i.m k.
■ J |n>«:lnliy : Th« ft kny Cocoa D Concert Pint*.
>v I Mi tlldo head, in case, itel
Rncli»li make 40/-
d
5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, up to £l2 123.
Speciality: Nickel Banjo, Walter Howard Model,
with 6 or 7 strings, as required, £3 3s
Strings for Guitars, Violins, Harps,
Zitras, Cellos, Banjos, Me, Bass, &c,
Speciality,: Post free, one set of Roman Violin
Strings, 2s 6d.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
All kinds of Instruments skilfully repaired
at moderate charges.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
Orders promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Please say that you saw this in
The Bulletin.
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT Wit WILL ECLIPSE ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211. Pitt-street.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headaehe, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chibs, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and afl
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILL-S for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directiona
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Yfheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly depive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, Sb. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepare ! only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
171 VERYBODY \
ll SHOULD USKj
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOITE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest an d most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
RSI fiVDNIT.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all ethers for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mepals—
PATHS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLO BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to ail
others lor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J & E ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
.Trade Mark—“ White ltose “ on“ Golden
IMPERIAL. HOTEL,
BBISBANE.
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
in Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and fire-proof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef , can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room. Sample room.
C. H. DANTELLS, Proprietor.


JDr. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSET.
iSWki
LIFE
HEALTH
ELEC4NCE
OmSMTy
These goods are sent out in a handsome box,
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electro-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named with Is 6d. added ; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover full
postage. The prices are as follows :
A Corsets, log
C Corsets, Bs. 6d.
Abdominal Corsets, 15s.
B Corsets, 10s 6d.
D Corsets, 6s. td.
NursiDg Corsets, Bs. 6d.
Electric Belt, 15s.
GENERAL APPLIANCES.
XV t flnSr Brush, .Vs.
N\t 'I M*If Brush !'*. hd.
No lUirBruah.
Tooth Ilnish. is. Od.
No. i ilnlrltrtnh. rs. td.
No. 4Hairßrush, lls. Gd
Flesh Brush, 13s. 6d,
Curlers, 2s. Gd.
Insoles, 2s. Gd.
All chemists or druggists, or direct post free Is.
extra. Military Hair Brushes, Dr. Scott’s Electric
pair in leather case, handsome goods, 30s. per set;
post free £1 12s 6i. Dr. Scott’s Electric Horse
Brush, for lameness and stiffness in horses, £1 Is.;
post free £1 3s. 6d.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, 56,
MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY. P. O. Box 221.
OF THE STAGE.
Under this heading a writer in a recent number
of the Whitehall Review gives a pleasantly
readable account of a visit behind the scenes of a
theatre in London, at which Mr. Wilson Barrett
and Miss Eastlake are now delighting large
audiences with Greek tragedy. As“Clito" Mr.
Barrett had received an ugly stab in his left arm
during the performance of one of the terribly
realistic scene in the tragedy, and Miss Eastlake,
who has covered herself with glory for her terrible
creation of “Celle,” was, at the same time, only
just recovering from a painful accident in the
shape ot a recently sprained foot. As an incident
of the visit, both these artists were loud in their
praises of what the lady called “a newly-dis-
covered cure, a sort of charm,” and it is needless
to say that this was none other than the world-
renowned St. Jacob's oil. Neither of them could
say enough in praise of the great pain conqueror,
and the writer of the article (which is contained
in the Review of June 17, 1886, but is too long
for publication) winds up by saying :
“ In concluding this article I will diverge for a
moment and say that, while it is neither my in-
clination nor business to proclaim my opinion re-
specting the merits of a medicinal discovery, the
proprietors of St. Jacob’s oil are certainly welcome
to every benefit the publicity of the above state-
ment of facts may bring to them. Wherever one
goes he learns almost daily how the marvellous
powers of this wonderful oil are becoming re-
cognised by all classes. Meeting a prominent
physician the other day, whose wife had for two
years been a perfect martyr to rheumatism, I was
told that its magical curative properties had fairly
mystified him. After only using this remedy one
week, every trace of the terrible pains from which
she so long suffered left her, and had never re-
turned. I notice, also, that the champion oars-
man of the world, William Beach, of Australia, is
among the many notables who publicly endorse it
as a really wonderful discovery.”
THE PUNISHMENT FIT THE CRIME.
The man who buys an expensive watch
W hile he is in debt for board,
With its seoond-hand split and a top to it
And a jib and a centreboard.
When a Waterbury would do him as well—
Economy him to teach —
Must earn his dinners by picking out winners
In races at ManJ y Beach.
But only in such as arc ridden straight,
So that when the season’s done
At the Sydney Museum they’ll flock to see him
A living skeleton.
And he who never will carry a watch
That hasn’t a golden case
Must love for life an old, old wife,
With a youthfully-painted face.
The man who tells you a Waterbury
Takes far too long to mind,
Must day after day hear an organ play
That only one tune can grind ;
ABd lie who thinks that he can’t afford
A watch when he knows our price,
Away down below he w ill have to go
To a place where they have no ice.
jyj ORE PROTECTION.
And this time in favor of the happy owners of
Waterbury Watches. The invaluable Waterbury
would not be the cheapest watch in the world if it
could not be repaired at a low oost. But if any-
thing goes wrong with it the owner kas only to
take or send it to the offices of the Waterbury
Watch Company, at 51, Margaret-street, where it
can be repaired at a cost according to its require-
ments, but in no case exceeding 2s. 6d. unless by
mutual consent. The cost of transmission by
post or parcel delivery on watches sent from the
country must be prepaid, and a sufficient amount
to cover return charges and cost of repairs for-
warded at the same time. If sent in the box
in which the Waterbury is sold, the postage
fee (including registration) is 2s. each way,
Q. : Why can’t any poor, harmles
Christian get postage-stamps at the Sydne
G.P.O. window between one and two? A.: Be
cause the clerk has gone to his dinner and mustn’
be hurried. Q. : What does the public think o
this ? A. : It doesn’t think—it blasphemes.
For some time a venerable patriarch with
the flowing locks, and the general unkempt
semblance of an old-time prophet, had bis abode
in a bijou marine residence at St. Kilda (Melb.
The hoary crank burrowed into a corporation tip
on the beach, fenced his impromptu villa with old
nail-kegs and settled down to winter there like
a wombat in his lair. The seer evidently intended
Eaving up to procure a youDg wife. He paid no
taxes, and was never pestered by an arrogant
agent for rent or gas-mc ney. The yelp of the
butcher and the baker disturbed not the quiet of
his snug retreat, nor did the milkman’s howl
awake him at early dawn. He toiled not, neither
did he spin, for lie had read that the Lord would
provide, and he relied solely upon that promise.
This was tho weakest part of the he'-mit's pro-
gramme, for supplies were so delayed in oomiDg
from Canaan that he waxed as lank and lean as a
Chinaman’s horse. Cows wandered in through
the roof of his abode, and stray dogs scattered
his back parlour about the neighbourhoed, but he
banked it up again, and was starving to death
with commendable zeal when the police took him
to a more substantial dwelling, and endeavoured
to get some refreshment into him ; but he refused
to p.rtake, believing, presumedly, that the Lord
never intended that such faith as his should be
rewarded with plain hominy. He had at last to
be held down and fed by means of a broom-handle,
much as you would load a shot gun.
SASSIETY-PAPEE ADVICE—ILLUSTRATED.
“Civil Servant —If you would have long eyelashes, get them cut once a month.”
“ Humming Bee," (to a correspondent) in the Sydney D. T.
Dear old Ballarat is suffering from a mania
for graven image t. The city rubbed along for 30
years without so much as tte ghost of a public
statue, and felt happy ; but when (he braw sons
of Scotia decided to fix a marble presentment of
Bobbie Burns the trouble began. The children of
Erin pulled themselves together and swore by St.
Patrick that a statue of Tom Moore was a long-
felt want ; the Englishmen went in baldheaded for
Shakespeare and Captain Cook ; while a little
grovelling crew, of no nationality in particular, are
panting to behold Her Gracious stuck up in
Sturt-street. At piesent Burns is up, and Tommy
Moore is in course of subscription. So far so
good. They will be proud to pass the time o’ day
with the Captain and the Immortal Bard. But, if
Victoria Regina comes alODg you can bet your
underneath dollar that the other four imsges will
take up their pedestals and walk.
Foon fob Consumptives. Scott’s Emulsion of Pure
Cod Liver Oil, with Hypophosphites of Lime and
Soda, is a most wonderful food for the Consumptive. It
not only gives strength and increases the flesh, but heals the
irritation of the th-o,t and lungs. It is very palatable:
children take it like milk, and in all wasting diseases
ooth for adults and children it is a marvellous food and
medicine.
Large and small bottles at all chemists.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, oomer Charlotte Place and George-
atreet. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find i> the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense.’
NOTICk !—"Beware of young Wine. Drink onlyHockirgs
high class sele tei old vintages, for invalids 43 Fitt-
street. *
TATTKRSALL’S MONSTKR CONSULTATION BIRTH-
DAY CUP. 2000 Subscribers, 20s. each. Run May 24th,
also, WINTF.R STAKES. 200 Subscribers 20s each. Run
June 4‘h. lit Horse £lOOO ; 2nd, £3OO ; 3;d £2OO. Starters,
£250; non starters. £250, to te eivided amonest them Apply
to “ TA'ITERSALL,” care of Geo. Adams, Tattersalt’B
Hotel, Pitt-street. City. Note.—Please register your letter
to ensure safe d*livery; also, enclose two addressed stamped
enve’opes, one for reply and the othtr for result of the
drawing.”
Mother : “ Ella, go to bed. Say good
night to the governess and give her a kies.”
Ella : “ No, mamma. I don’t want to give her a
tiss.” Mother: “And why not?" Ella: “Be-
cause when any one gives her a ties she boxes
their ears. Ask papa if she doesn’t.”
There’s a £40,000 libel story going the
rounds touching a certain tram-guard who is
blessed with a pair ef hands as big as prize hams.
A few days ago he was holding on to the inside of
a car-door with one hand and mashing a fair fare
in the next compartment, when he felt some one
pulling and feeling first one finger and then
another. And jerking back to see what game
was going on, he was met by the anxious freckled
face of a tow-headed five-year-old, who squealed,
“ Say, mister, how much a piece is them
bananas ? ” The guard merely smiled—but it
was the smile of a rat who has left his tail on the
wrong side of a cheese-knife.
For readiness of resource we must award
the prize to police-constable Jefferis of Melbourne.
A week ago Jeffrey “ arristed ” one Webb for
being dead-drunk, and laid his prisoner away in
Her Maiehty's lock-up. Next morning he armed
Mr. Webb with a scrubbing-brush and a bucket,
and commissioned him to wash the cell and dust
the furniture. The prisoner was permitted to go
outside to get a bucket of water, but he bad a
thirst upon him that water wonld not quench, and
wandered away to a distant pub. It did not
strike him he would be wanted when his case was
called on. But an idea of the kind dawned
upon Constable Jefferis, and he went to hunt up
his “ drunk-yer-anner,” fearing the wrath of the
constituted authorities if justice were not satisfied
in re Regina v. Webb. He searched high and
low, but failed to get the grip of the law upon
Mr. Webb once more, and it grieved him sorely.
But Constable Jefferis is not a man to give way to
despair ; a bright idea struck him, and, going to
a place where loafers most do congregate, he hired
an experienced dead beat to fill the responsible
position vacated by Mr. Webb. The prepossessing
emergency-man was willing to be Mr Webb and
stand the racket for reasonable consideration, and
so far all went merry as a circus-band. But,
horrible to relate, just as the fictitious Webb was
about to be fined five bob or a day, after beiog
subjected to a highly moral lecture by the
“ Binch,” a policeman lugged in the genuine Mr
Webb by the ear. Mr. Webb was as weak on his
legs as a wax-works outlaw, his eye was about as
lustrous as that of a dead eel, and his breath was
redolent of beer and redundant of onions. He
had returned to recover an inch-and-a-half of clay
pipe, and had been “ nailed ” by a policeman who
knew nothing of Jefferis’ little dodge. Constable
Jefferis Is now in trouble.
HOLT'S RELEASE RECOMMENDED.
How about the poor fellow who was sent to
gaol far ten years? Do any of the Ministers of
Justice call upon him with the same sympathy ?
Echo answers, “ No.’ One was a banker, and the
other only ome of the common people —one has
influence, the other not any. The way of the
world. Yes ; the bigger the rogue the lass is the
crime. Taking £4OOO is called a case of genius ;
£2OBO, shortage ; £lOOO, litigation ; £5OO, insol-
vency; £3OO irregularity; £lOO, corruption ; £5O,
embezzlement; £25, dishonesty ; £lO, thieving ’;
205., total depravity. Taking one bottle of the
ftmous St. Louis Lager Beer, war on society.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garment* to Order at Moderate Price*,
STOP RIGHT HERB I
JOY FOR EVER I
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costa but 30s. and Is a joy for ever
The Autophone la a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
ito music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pm ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctlv play, without instruction,
any of its music, wmch at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marohes, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. It is pitched, for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette*
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
end-less fund of amusement in it.
PRICK, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen,—lt gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 13,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory,
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
oan judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer!
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new whits metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2
Do. do. (key winder) ... ' ... £2
Elgin National WatchCo.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3
Same Watch in hunting case ... £?
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pitent pinion, &o. ... £3
Same Watch, in hunting-case ... ... 3
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... ... £jo o 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
10 0
0 0
0 0
’0 0
5 0
IS 0
ORIENTAL
Is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, tie oxact lustre, beauty
and eaduraace of sterliug Sold. A legi-
titaato use has been found for till noils metal, by
working; it into Jewellery of the most ezqnislte de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goeds, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
Ho one can detect the difference. Send for a.
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriented Sold—
Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Brooch, 7s. 6d. j Gent’s
Albert, 73. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled,7s. 6d.; Locket
Be., Jewelled', IQs.; Ladies’Alberts
16s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
Iggr We send theseon approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Hall, and we repay the cash,less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CSASTLEREAGH STREET.
P»ti' i unt unywhtri by post,


A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something g®od on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
MASON BROTHERS,
L
LIMITED,
263 to 239 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
HULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
„ <*ORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE.”
ARSHALLS TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W.; London, England,
AGENTS WANTED
to sell the Pictorial History
of the World. The best
and fastest selling book ever published.
The work embraces full and authentic accounts
of every nation of ancient and modern times ;
including the Rise and Fall of the Groek and
Roman Empires, &c., &c.
Send for descriptive circulars, and full particu-
lars, NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY,
367 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
S. F. PftlOSY & co.
Having purchased Bankrupt Stock of
HATS,
AT
ONE-THIRD OF USUAL CO3T,
are now retailing them
BELOW ENGLISH COST.
Special Lines :
English Zephyr Felts, at 7/6
usually 9/- to 12/6
Eo, Do. Do. at 5/6
Usually 7/6 to 9/-
At our two Establishments,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Lassetter’s,
AND ,
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
Y. R.
£5O IN PRIZES. PLEASURE AND PROFIT
COMBINED.
The best way to spead a winter’s evening in
innocent amusement, combining profit with plea-
sure, is to compete in the great WORD COM-
PETITION, and endeavour to obtain one of the
Ten Valuable Prizes offered to the persons who
can make the greatest number of-words out of the
word RHKINGOLDS.
The prizes are as follows : —lst. £l5 ; 2nd, £lO ;
3rd, £5 ; 4th, £4 103,; sth, £4 ; 6ch, £3 10s ; 7th,
£3 ; Bth, £2 10s.; 9th, £2 ; 10th, £l.
Anyone, old or young, can compete.
The lists will he examined publicly by an in-
fluential committee of Leading Citizens of Sydney
on the 24th MAY, 1887, when Prize Winners’
names will be announced, they will be pub-
lished in all Sydney Papers on first issue after
date of examination.
All lists of Words to be sent by post, accom-
panied by Twelve Stamps, and an addressed
envelope, when they will be acknowledged by
return of Post.
All lists to be addressed to Mr. H. BENNETT,
No. 11 Park-street, Sydney.
Note —In composing a word no letter must be
used more than once.
CONSULT Dr. THOMAS for the best and
safest treatment of Nervous Debility and
Skin Diseases. The Doctor has passed his degrees
at the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal
College of Surgeons, England. Consulting
Rooms, 203 Elizabeth-street. Hours: 9 till 9
daily.
;K.
rrr
(iL&
Cj\ ARDS
i, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,
<
M.A., Oxon.
M.R.C.S., England.
DESIRES to publicly announce that be Has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure, Ido not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
dfe-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this ecarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
cf treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvanic Appliances ,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. O'CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
.dvertising, as all of his patients who have con-
alted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
BASS’ PALE ALE
SOLE PURVEYORS to th»
COIOSUI AND INDIAN EIHIEHEH,
LONDON,
By Special Appointment,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES I
W, BALCHIN. JOHNSTON & CO.
Commercial C. amben, Bond- alrret, Xylai
LAWLERS.
ADVISE one and all to pay the CENTRAL
EMPORIUM,
608 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
an early visit, and there learn how to buy, and
buy well. Wealth has been acquired by a prac-
tise of economy. Why should the wealthy
squander their wealth by paying ridiculous
prices. Ic is a notorious fact that many will not
believe they can get the best of Morocco Dining
Room Suites unless ihey pay £75. But the truth
is that £l5 will be the profit to the upholsterer
fortunate enough to get even £45. Lawler’s turn
out lh* se suites at £35 and £:10.
BOOTS and SHOES for a family's use run up a
stiff sum in the course of a year; so does Mer-
cery. And yet. without touching or considering
the saving to be effected upon heavy drapery,
which is a speciality at the Central Emporium,
we make bold to say that, by purchasing at
LAWLER’S the year throughout, one could save
at least the instance money upon a policy of
I £5OO. Is it not worth considering?
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
BAYTS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
aflKr-
; W i I ;>
V-v»
\S Jit!
: ;■ ; ; : ; : ; : r; ;
Mi
Mi
3^
LICHTNER AND 00.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Largest House for Photographic Supplies
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SEND FOR OXJR NEW OATALOGTJE.
Special Notice We have now our new Enlarging Department in work, and shall be pleased to
send price lists upon application to the trade only,
DOLPHO-WOLFI
ON
17 CHEWIN'
r
, r
ILLUSTRATION (In raluotd aloe) ft JB I Order Co bs fount In Mis
‘LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFES SOHNAPP6
gRADLii, NEWTON. & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
sd
£B5
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tons. In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves fcr
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPJRTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Coc-
nell-street.
w
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for campiDg
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s Gd.
Bradley, Newton, & lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE. —A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites (or dining room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, ell
to match.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extendin
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
w
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
E-
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From sl7s,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
s
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
"\T OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
J3I SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
D
Drawing room cabi-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendales designp.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fuenitur* Warehouse**- ,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
w -Vrtfd;
lii -.'O l
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. —Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRA.DLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
A OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
JLftj ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Conne"-street.
df
BKDSTKAD3, a., aiaeg
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Groat variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BKADLEY, NSW TON, and’
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Cscnell and Spring Streatj,
sd
SPRING MATTRABSK 3
Woven Wire, bei
make ; also, Spiral Spring
Price, from 14s. eaoh,
BRADLEY, NBWTON and r.AMH


jr Waste op time! It is only pools,
’ incapable of understand my the
/uj/h dut/es X responsibilities cast
upon ftie opposition, yrho la IP of the
time of this House leinj uselessly
%facrficed when it is devoted to
w/e: pee yen/ton of /lu passu ye
an unjust lax or a policy
M // d ft Ike people.
I l 'MwßufE Fld: ttwtL'
B t
JP/i'ATKA.CT FBCM A spESCH
iJADt By
whz/v nr OPPoSiJioK
Parkes versus Parkes.—Usual Moral.


TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
f!?n^ e * aTK * 80un d teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gums, and dolipht-
featll C&n 1)0 obtaine<i by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
Odonto
hi„v,i„ v, fl '«ffrnnce to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise a
Dash..-. ohcial influence on the teeth and gums'. All Dentists allow that neither washes or
nonVJiw 1 Possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
e .ty tooth powder: such ROWLANDS' ODONTO, has always proved itself.
No other'Odonto is genuine.
.. ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL
d golden-haired people and children.
.ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
artful' a 2 d Anders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’
• °* 20* Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious and pernicious imitations*
is now sold in a golden colour for
IQUIIU mi POWDER
Is the only perfect substitute for yeast.
Ss ®ad, TEA.-CA.EES, PASTRY, &c„
T ARE
Ll6 ht, wholesome, and digestible,
WHEN MADE WITH
Uiams’ Australian Yeast Fonder.
for the TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THEjSEA.
BEWARE of WORTHLESS (IMITATIONS.
s °Lr> in ti:
W I 11 I'M I U
NS AT 6d. THE HALF POUND.
LANCASTER,
X C/S TF/T A
Xx/r//>yr /‘•'A/,
X OA
' QAL. VA/ViS/ZP .
CO/?
o
0/1/
Nn-v
VJJIIIIIIIItt
c T C -d
HOT WAT
Hfcf?
CYLINDER
“I
'Rough
b ßoken
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in th6j_ 4
Workshops
op England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool -
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
hfunnels, ventilators,
Bl'-JI&C., &C.
Estimates cheerfully given.
° r ka ;
- ,n-f
REDUCED price lists furnished on application.
GEORqe STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
i IAVt !“5 ri Row I
kejILOUR MILLS,
Si!™™*-
h^^al^^Conto 6 Sec °adB Flour, *
Nfa t\^ ays ou^t 8 ’ Bran and Pol- f
W, ery bL h^ d - All made I
he p^ e s at Procurable, '
De tectl
V 0 Force),
43,
C ' 4r> ®’ sydnkt.
"eS «* .11 kind, ol
in “'Certificates of birth,
Mh rj? P a ,rt of the world
South iff\ 8 * on ? experience
V!^aS>“
,Ma k «> h oare.
JRIDCE!
FOOD
FOi INFANTS uiu INVALIDS
Has am aaormeus sale to Kc.gJ.and
and is now being LatrodueedL tot© tb>
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should m<a% a aupply,
as ©very wise mother will
ft- < us® it.
I>R. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOlfo MHLI& •
LONDON, ENOLANB,, *
fśd
The only'place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry 1 Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSBNTTT A.L, 1 Little Collins
Street, Bast (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT-STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 628,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEI
ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C,
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson,
Secretary
Heotor Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmout, Redfern, GoSford, Nyt
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St Leonard’!, NewcaßtL
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 58 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank ol
England.
7//////ZZE
aa.de bn ey & <T?
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
rE'--^-v£L
SHIRT MAKERS?
.MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
S-YDNEY
IMPORTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
.J
gTUDY
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Framei re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equa
to New, at.... .. _.
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to matoh cos
turner -'Repairs neatly exernte* 1
■ ■■
-7
%M;
"4
■ i Y?' vi :cLA^.--Av\A;:n,:-
• •. '■ V;' c ;,r* •.■ -
■ ;'.'{. (H r Oj.' *' f; K-t.^l
1„ 4
’¥:4W‘
ISTHE BEST INTBE WORLD!
* ONE GTH
'
Y • WAUGH .vv :/W
p Y l Z ) Ml; u-;A l. •' 111
MJOMlJtttttmED' BYjiOol# OywiTßß
BAftIOUR tv
*SMtyAH CrtMiMif StorakMpan
RRSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon's RoLiiKR System of Flour Millino.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & 00.,
647 KENT STREET, STD NET,
§
r
I
A
K
c-^CT^The
s land
CB
H 3
! ASTHMA, BRON CHIT I
p.r'f.tV'.ri:.."onlt -by
fTHOMAS INSRAWI,
I—Hi'R.O C M M A M pr
p
frEJVTOii
j4/imnusike
aoJUL)
bV the proprietor.
SR-
T
ISALICYJUI
TOOTHPASTi
7 UfJßrffuto fb/f rrsfit/i/simc
_ _ fido CL£Ajfsi/te ffiOP£fiT/£S.
MELHUISH , Pharmaceutical Chemist
’ 134 William ST r SYD NE xy "^ J
mm
«BOOKS.”il« Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
l<s£ ROBERTSON,
111 MARKET STREET, g KINNEY.
Large stook otsnew and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. .Books sent by
mall to any part of Ans lia.
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited.
89 COLLINS STREET UVEIEILBOXXZEIZINrZEL i
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches— Chapel-st., Prahran ; Brunswick - st., Fitzroy ; Bay-st., North Brighton; Dundas-pl., Sj
Melbourne ; Burweod-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office— 2o sTY2 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
00 TS
O-OTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OK
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.^
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
Mots
hues
to urn fIKIBR Will LUD ADD PESTMEKI SOCIETY,
350 PITT STREET.
——— ~ — ■ “ -
hi . posits received at best Current Rates. 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
0 fhis Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend,
JAMES A. TODD, Manaobh.


ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED
J
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
'AN ORDINARY OH>’ OONTAINB MOHR AOTIVH PBOPHKTIBS
THAN A PINT OP THB BBSS ALB OB PGBI KB.’ , -k A *°* 1
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS ot
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, dec.
Braun and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmi thing, Blacks mi thing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Oirder Building, Electric and Pneumatio Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fco.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, tiaa Fires, Mentors,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prior on Application.
ard man Bros.
ANUFACTURERS
GoidehSympa
+A/0
TRCACIE
REfiRfRS
IHiTißWCsiriO
7- ~*=f£i===
HCao Office i factory, Newtown
BRANCH. CEORCF ST SYDNEY
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL.
33- X-A-KIZIIiT,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
CORNER OF
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, SYDNEY,
WHOLESALE AND SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
IjLLUSffRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRI NS'3
iAUCE
SAUCti
ftSUpfRRI
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTER SHIRE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public., Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Isabel on every bottle
bears their Signature thus-
withottf which m bottle of the origin#-' W OMCMS TEM&ETHMM
SA UCE is genu s»,
Ssk for LEA and PEKRiNSP Sauce, and see Name on Label, JSottUi find
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors. Worcester ; Crosse emd
Blackwell, London, &‘c., Ih'c „• and by Grocers avid Oilmen throughout the World*
1 Wholesale Agents i Monykeiobe, Joseph & Oo.| David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
■/Ivor
<£'
Ur^
Shoe Ba^u
facUc. aAcL a<is>ocufLJ*^ Jt *^^
OFFORD & CO/S
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have'Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL AROADS,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Batter, Coffee, Coooa, Me., With
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may toe left tot deßvny
by their earts.
They have also takes over the Agmoy »•<>
“ KOUMISS.'' so highly recommended Is mums
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00., LIMITED,
Head Offloe ... ... ... ~ 91 Harbour ■«uee»i
Stables ... Llverpool-street,
Factory Mitfcagong.
RAW VASELINE.
B
*
A
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Bnggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen's Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &©.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND BADDLERS
IRONMONGER 0
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
iHotiau MAHuttcraki
onfecliohir^^k
JANES STEDMAN
WORKS,KtNT FmSTGhShT
iv'oKotm .oM4moWr€rr matte a
* s*rryt <m*» fkmrmmmm
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tieroes and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
rTO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS,
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons |
also,
Rnm, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CHEAP and BEAUTlF^
GENERATE YOUR OWN
KEELEY & ° U ‘
Spreader Gas Oiz
AND ***$4
.\I\E LIGHTS clBCWi^B gtjStii
One to twenty-four candle power; * a t » &fi J
Guaranteed to produce 1000ft of G» 3 d rally
complications. In use in many o '^ r0 i»n<H l8?
teen towns in England and one »n j
insteadofco* 1 * 8S
nowTTrht introduced into $
—• i i
Testimonials from Noblemen 1
Corporations in England^-
9
Ireland, and
FURL INSTRUCTIONS WITH
See stock of
EAC* 1
See stocn. *
D. KEELEY *
PRICE LIST-
1 Branch Brass Bracket Lamp ■ •
With Globe or Shade extra
2 Branch Brass Hanging Lamp
With Globes or
extra
3 Branch Brass Hanging Lamp • •
With Globes or Shades extra
4 Branch Brass Hanging Lamp •;
With Globes or Shades extra
2 Branch Brass Table Lamp • „
With Globes or Shades extra
1 Branch Brass Table Reading L®
With Globe or Shade extra
Outside Lamp for Hotel, Store, o
Mecfcor •• *" •
Hall Stained Giass Hanging
Ordinary Street Lamp, fitted wi
Spreader Burner.. • • ''noed
1 Branch Bracket Lamp, Tin J»P“
le,
(P
o* r;
d
Kerosene Lamp, Tin Japanned,
Mines, Wool washes, Sugar to* ( <
or Chimneys, one burner, eq ,
Candles ‘ * buro er '
Naptha Lamp, Tin Japanned, OB .. f Jr
24 Sperm Candles .j _J'
Each burner gites a light equal to 2 cft n P‘ 0 i>i e t /
can & regulated from 1£ g i \
Gas Oil per gallon, m <=^ s of 8 f
Naptha per gallon, A
A /
Remittances
Address all communications Ji
By carrying out instructions
with each lamp, insurance can S Cj,
by applying either’ in pe rB0 ? n ? r T>itt-‘ ,t I, (; lti
BLACK* Insurance Broker, 80A flt , M e ‘
Insurance Co., 79 Collins-street,^^^'
A SOVEREIGN
To all Afflicted with Bj®* g U» ,
DOLOBKUX, ACHXNfl r *
FACB ' SSS* ? An
Why Buffer those exeraci qvj
DR. SOUTHAM’S KB®
will give Instant Reliel jjo
The Australian Remedy-
necessary 1 In Bottles, * 8 '
CUBE
ROSE’S fiOJ
his Lotion is the Best
yes. It not only eaxgjg&rfffi'
light, but strengthensi v0 fig
monials from those wb
8 agency can be seen. ,
acuity to be the Bafest
— *" .,y
Prepared by the--' mi
A, ROSE, c
gol 0
f t 0V
531 f
> O B E R T wu> ..
WINK AND*SPdj sjjj, ■
Opposite the
‘ Country Orders
r “Technical College Laboratory, Sydney, 30th
October, 188 G.—The Syphon iErated Water Com-
pany.—Gentlemen,—Having seen the process of
ASrated Water manufacture carried on by you,
and having examined analytically your product,
j I can bear witness] i its purity, and thorough
I saturation with carbonic acid gf>s. Chemical
I analysis shows that your system of water purifi
| cation is as near perfection as can be. —I remain,
V. yours truly, Will A. Dixon F.1.C., F.C.S.”
sim mo waiee no.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
preserve
The Water made W
families at each meal tb* 0
and should be adopted **
and refreshing beverage-
y
*0®
flU*
