

The Bulletin
greater than that of any weekly in the southern hemisphere.
prevention against Fraud, a id to ensure obtaining the genuine article, buy it in bottle.
m MWI PEWIT HI LAID AID IHVESTM Sim,
•350 PITT STREET,
Deposits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
of this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A. TODD, Man-ag-eb.
BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE AM) MARKET STREETS.
Ie ar S es i } > Cheapest, and Best-selected Stock of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
Quality Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
es > &c., will here find the Stock of Boots larger than any other house in Australasia and from ss. to 6s. in the £ ehoaper.
inspection of the quality and comparison of the prices is specially invited.
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Hiu public are requested to note that John Hunter, has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
John robertson
DUNDEE
JR
D
In
CAUTION*.
> W consequence of its having come to
K that spurious imitations of the
are being palmed off upon the
% °y fraudulent traders, the undersigned
Vt d to pi a sum of FIFTY
Oll the conviction, at law, of any
° r persons so offending.
allt & CO.
FI.NE. OLD
J SCOTCH WHISKY
OBERTSON iSON
.DWNDEsiiteo
3CH
4*
y#
U
ten
5v Co, V
M.&
'<)un'
w
AND SON’S
DUNDEE
SCOTCH WHISKY.
ALLT da CO.,
537-d.icl.e37-,
Solo AgentB for N.S. Wales.
f N.B.—This justly celebrated Scotch Whisky
can be obtained of all respectable Wine and
Spirit Merchants, Hotel and Storekeepers
throughout the Colony.


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE*
Ph
PROOF
m
PROOF
PNE'CS
.Setting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PAT?,RAM ATT A RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BEOS, BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
m GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BC ;S£*&
o
o
IRONMONGERS
<1
v
o
|RE&?i
. V <.cv cTv-' .
<b
SPECIALITIES:
lavis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0„ &C.
WIT ,T iTAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
SUELXABKJE
BUGGIES
water grads
. BTYfaB,
QUALITY,
mi
H2TOH.
DM) by All bfae
GUtaeni.
hoy how ohbap,
BUT HOW GQ0»!
t
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
Hardman Bros.
'lktL
HMHHOtmidM
sms
tmniiiinj»imhininitHm4tnuii«M»Mu
s'~l' (
GOlDf/vSXRI/P
AND /
Treacle
REE//VERS
Fsrm
rass
G 0
hud Office & factory Newtowm
BRANCH, GEO#C£ ST, SVZ?HSY
Aijttdng jm require from Sydney
FOIWTARDED AT
COOT PRICE.
MO COMMfflHipN CHARGED FOR BUYING.
BoodB Of any deeoription, forwarded free of all
•hugee.
SEND 'BO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MIMES & CO.,
to PIW MTKEI3 , W'I»KV, M.S.W.
PAPBRH ANQING 8
HIGR-CL.AIMI DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DBCOftATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SSLYBEtfiR. BHVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
6H, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 Georgh-street, Sydney.
miiE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
CO
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
One-half the spaee occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the neual manner in the letter-press
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
*lO Kent-Btreet.
baJcesij’i
VJZ
'A
3.
8
LIAMS'
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IKON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
S£. 1
• <
V
*
<
BRISCt
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING,
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACRBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SCR3 KTI'WIB' StmißS. Bcc.
CHALMERS, & CO.,
S3T3D3STE-S-_
*5
DMSOB&SBBS
■ WORKS.
TOBACCO
SYDNEY.
* J i>3*» « S 6 W i
r r%
V
SIX SON A SOi«S
N’QUEROR
n iu e *•
YANKEE DOODL*
&*aSON A so:.i > .
SIR ROGER
3BX&QNASOWS ,H,C * TWS®?
NASLROD
&usa>* a sons
CHAMPION.
OJ2SON4SCNS ******* »L» flft fBM*
CUT . In Tint P*cKtltJ«i£3
R.C.RU BY. ORIENTAL MIXTUH
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF.AeI*
ORGANS !
SOLE AGENTS FOK THE
“SMITH.”
BRUCE & MASSEt,
dpi-^hstos,
ORGANS, MUSIC-
-197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tio-
UOI.OKKUX, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
| Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
of '..'3&CDC m 1 M
DR. southam s rheumatic" pills
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No ehange in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., os., and 10s.
CUBE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
1 his Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
1a agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl, A. ROSE, Ptomacedical Chemist,
631 GeorBr©-Btre«t only
K CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSEKRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The New Furniture and Carp
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson bros, & Go>i
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE*
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PKIC^ 6
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY*
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 I*'
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES*
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-BOG® 1 '
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co-r
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,


The Bulletin
Vol 8-No. 367
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1887.
tn ioo., 6d.
The Grand Old Marsupial and his Protectionist “Rat.”
(See Page 4—“A Crusher for Habigle.”)


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - £,l Os. Od.
- 0 12s. Od
Quarterly - O 6s. 6d-
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is nst open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1887.
The Ransom of Millionaires.
Closer and closer to the guarded treasure-
chests of London millionaires the despised,
destitute, and well-nigh desperate proletariat
crowd. Wiih les3 and less of reverence
they regard the doctrine which asserts the
right Divine of the few, the aristocracy of
wealth, to exclude the many from even the
bare necessities of existence. Every year,
every month even, the point at issue grows
in distinctness and increases in importance,
and daily the division of parties becomes
wider and deeper. And the working of the
social system, far from removing the cause o '
strife, gives continually increasing support to
the discontented party. Inequitable socia
laws are the basis of agitation, and the con-
tinued operation of such laws but serves to
endow the forces of agitation with fresh
power, and stronger justification. In ve-
hemence also the agitation grows ; once the
mob weakly held out empty hands to beg
for eleemosynary favours ; now they demand
wide concessions as the price of peace. That
the “mob” is disunited—each of its com-
ponent parties demanding different remedies
for the evils common to all, is prejudicial to
present success, but ominous of harsh terms
to be imposed in the o'ay of triumph.
Whether that triumph will crown the ghastly
work of revolution, or will under happier
auspices be the result of far-reaching and
thorough legislative reform it is in the
power of the hierarchy of wealth to decide ;
all that can be asserted now is that monopoly
is doomed ; by what voice the doom shall be
pronounced is uncertain.
To those who depend for their thoughts
and opinions upon the cables and comments
of the Australian daily press this outline of
the present position of social affairs in Lon-
don may appear fanciful, and the forecast of
an approaching crisis absurd ; so it may
seem to Lord Salisbury who scornfully de-
clines to be interviewed by the “ agitators,”
and to the luxurious and thoughtless aiisto-
crats whose political creed is comprised in
the expression, “ After us the deluge ; ” and
so also it would be considered by pre-
lates meek on £lO,OOO a year and perks.,
who like the bishop of Salisbury declare
that men are denied the right to the necessi-
ties of life by a Divine decree wdiich it is
vain and impious to question. But the evi-
dence of approaching war between “ those
who have and those who have not ” are too
plain to be thus disregarded. A return re-
cently furnished by a Tory Commission ad-
mits that London alone during last summer
contained over 100,000 men who were abso-
lute paupers, and this number multiplied by
five would about represent the army of the
destitute during winter. Nor are these men
either quiescent in their suffering, or with-
out strong allies in their agitation. So re-
cently as. the 9th of November, 1886, the
flower of the British army was brought to
London to protect the vainglorious crew who
paraded their wealth in honour of the new
Lord Mayor, and less than a fortnight after-
wards the police were fain to invoke the
same assistance to guard against violence
anticipated as the result of a Democratic
demonstration—it was even proposed to
mount artillery in the streets, so formidable
have the “ agitators ” become. Yet a year
ago the police forces were considered suffi-
cient protection for the city ; it was only by
the tumult of “ Mob Monday ” that destitu-
tion and Democracy proved its growing
might and rising anger. Nor has the in-
creased power of the “agitators” been less
approved by public writers. A. few months
ago ridicule and contempt was the only ac-
knowledgment vouchsafed to the cry of out-
cast London ; now there are more leaders
written and more paragraphs published with
tl.e “mob ” for their subjects than concern-
ing any other theme. Socialism, far from
being scorned is now advocated as to one or
other of its features by some of the most
conspicuous essayists of the day, and even
the Tories, finding it impossible to lie the
“ mob ” out of existence, have set them-
selves to evade, for they dare not meet, the
questions at issue. So far and so fast has
the agitation progressed ; it has outlived
ridicule and lying in the press, and it has
grown beyond the power of the police in th
streets ; next, debate in the newspapers wi
ensue and the military must take the plac
of the police ; but these changes in th
manner of strife can only add to its violence
the force victorious in previous modes of war
fare will grow enormously by the prestige o
success.
Each preceding period of the social histor
of England exhibits a struggle, in one o
other of its phases, of the many against th
few ; and each of these great contests ha
ended in the overthrow of the oppressors
From the Norman conquest to the middle o
the 17th century, the struggle vas between
the people led by the nobles and the King; bu
when monarchy, by the death of Charles I
and the deposition of James It., was shorn
of its alleged Divine right to wreak oppres
sion and wrong, the nature of the struggl
changed. The people had bound in fetter
their chief tyrant, the Kir g ; now the;
turned, and with unfaltering determinatioi
worked to wrest a share of political powe
from the privileged classes. The Reforn
Bill of 1832 was the first great battle of this
struggle. It is a matter of common know
ledge that the passage of this Bill was re
sisted by the nobility until the country was
on the very verge of revolution ; then, fear-
ful of their very lives, the peers, acting
under the compulsion of their own terror,
resigned a portion of their political power as
ransom for that part which their too merciful
opponents allowed them still to retain. The
struggle, People v. Peers, still continues ;
surely and steadily the former advance ; sul-
lenly, though constantly, the peers retreat ;
and there seems to be ample reason to believe
that soon the laconic declaration, “The
House of Peers is useless, dangerous, and
must be abolished,” will be adopted by a
clear majority of the nation. This latter
war with the Peers is waged, as was also the
former war with the King, for the purpose
of giving to the units of the nation the pri-
vilege—or at least the opportunity—of shar-
ing in acts of legislation ; in either case it
has been an attack upon the. monopolists of
legislative and administrative power. But
while the political pretensions of the Peers
as monopolists of power are still in fierce
dispute, a still fiercer attack upon the mono-
polists of the means of life has been carried
on and now seems certain of attaining a
greater or less measure of success.
Various are the ways in which the mono-
polists of the goods necessary to the support
and enjoyment of life strive, to avert the
destruction of their unholy privileges. They
try to divert the minds of people by working
up a war-craze—an expedient favoured by
the Plantagenets and the Georges when
kingly prerogatives were threatened—but
this device is now almost bereft of its
efficacy. Jingoism has fallen into a catalep-
tic trance, and Randolph Churchill has
buried it ; to galvanise its torpid body
will demand more energy than Lord Salis-
bury and the prelates possess. Another
expedient adopted to stifle the voice of the
discontented is the gift of promises and the
profession of energetic sympathy ; but the
dishonoured promises and discarded pro-
fessions of the Tories line the path the
party has travelled ; their promises are
doubted, their professions now despised.
And the Divine right of the few to deprive
the many of the world’s wealth, eloquently
affirmed by the Bishop of Salisbury—as the
right Divine of kings to govern wrong was
also affirmed by the bishops who thereby led
the Stuarts on to the merited ruin of the
dynasty—is impotent to stay the onward
march of those who believe themselves to be
the missioners, and, if necessary, warriors in
a cause that is dictated by justice which is
itself Divine. Most of the expedients re-
sorted to by the English monarchs during
six centuries, and by the titled aristocrats of
ten generations or more, in vain efforts to
retain their ever-lessening political powers,
have been tried by the misers of the nation's
wealth, and so far these have only delayed
the onward march. Men, even of the
“mob,” are wiser than they have been in
past generations : the handcuffs of bigotry,
the leg-irons of superstition, have been
knocked off, and the minds of free men have
become free. The old methods above
enumerated have failed in the objects they
were intended to secure, because enlighten-
ment has come to the assistance of the
people. Some more plausible scheme was
rendered necessary to retard the destruction
of the monopoly of money—a scheme art-
fully contrived to deceive the people, and
skilfully advocated.
Terror, perhaps unconsciously, was the
discoverer of that scheme. Timorous and
trembling, the sinewless monopolists of food
on “ Mob Monday ” in Februarv last had
seen a bread riot in the principal London
thoroughfare ; they had watched outcast
London with violence assert the rights of
life over the rights of property ; had seen
shops looted, Peers jeered at, and law defied ;
and no judgment or punishment followed the
perpetrators of these rebellious acts. Then,
in a paroxysm of terror, the misers opened
their money-bags and offered a ransom for
their remaining treasures. In the sacred
name of charity the Mansion House Fund
was opened, and a gift of gold offered, just
as the effeminate and weakly Romans gave
gold to the invading barbarians, as the Saxon
princes gave ransom to the piratical Danes,
or as the French paid indemnity to the vic-
torious Germans. The Queen of England
threw out £5OO to the menacing throng, and
others followed in like manner with their
tribute money. And for the time the
scheme was eminently successful. The gifts
seemed to indicate the generosity rather
than the terror of the givers ; thus hostility
was to a certain extent disarmed, and the
Fund being of an unusual and temporary
character seemed to indicate unusual and
temporary distress. As wolves pursuing a
Russian sleigh are checked by the sacrifice
of a horse from the team, so the London
starvation brigade were checked in their at-
tack by the Mansion House ransom ; but
as the Russian wolves, having »hared the
sacrificed horse among them, still find their
hunger unabated, and pursue the sleigh v ith
unmitigated ferocity, so “ outcast, London ”
again menaces more fiercely than ever the
treasure chests of the food monoplists. And,
to continue the illustration, as the sleigh-
driver is impelled to sacrifice another horse
to save himself, so the privileged and wealthy
ones of London must offer another instal-
ment of their hoards to ransom the re-
mainder. A second Mansion House Fund
has been started, and subscriptions are now
being collected. But will the ransom be
again accepted ? Will the oppressed be con-
tent to receive, as a fear inspired gift, a
meagre dole of that which they believe them-
selves to have a just claim ? That is the
question which, in fear and trembling,
Dives asks, and as he reads the signs of the
times he concludes that it will not. The
Day of Ransom is almost past ; the Day of
Reckoning will shortly come.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Crusher for “Houoet" Frawncis
Habigle!
Diogenes may extinguish his lamp, close his over
strained eyes, and re3t his weary limb 3 ! There
is no doubt about it now—the dawn of the 20th
century has revealed an hone3t man ! He stands
forth conspicuously in the form of a— ? He may
have only one leg to stand on, but that does not
detract from his commanding stature, his luminous
intellect, or his imposing declamation when he
says :
“ Had he desired to put money in his posket he would be
be a Protectionist. The man who tri d to benefit himself at
the expense of his fellow-men was an unmitigated rascal."
It is evident that Honesty and Lindley Murray
are strangers—however, that is a hiding circum-
stance. A knowledge of political duke is far
more advantageous to Sir ’Oaourable ’Onesty, who
has to determine matters relating to duke in
sheep and ducan than a knowledge of English
grammar. He declares for Freetrade, and calmly
puts in his pocket £l5OO a year—a pleasant pro-
ceeding which he would disdain being associated
with uLder the guise of a Protectionist. £l5OO
a year, drawn by a Minister of Mines who knows
not the difference between duke and ducan is a
perfectly legitimate “ honorarium ’—it is one of
the exquisite dctions of Constitutional Govern-
ment that a Minister is not paid for his services—
but a tenth of the amount fairly earned on the
“last” is “unmitigated rascality 1 ” So much
for the dignity of labfur! It is unfortunate for
the individual who so exultingly decla-e3 his own
incorruptibility that his weakness of memory is
provided again it by a ponderous official (and dis-
interested) publication commonly known as Han-
sard. Turning to one of the many volumes of
that publication for the year 1884 we dnd that on
the 6th and 27th February the then plain “ Mr.”
Abigail, but now “ the Hon. Francis Abigail,
Minister of Mines,” declared his “ honst ” belief
in these words :
" I certainly shall use every effort to frustrate the
removal of duties already in exist nee. If we must
have more taxation I think that the fairest way to
get it is to impose a 5 per cent, ad valorem duty such as
was in existence eight year 3 ago, which was a hardship
to no one. . . . We do not expect merchants to
favour ad valorem duties. They have always opposed
duties of that kind which, however, it appears to me,
although not levied for the purpose of Protection,
will afford some encouragement to new industries.
This was plainly shown in the case of my own trade
when ad valorem duties existed, for there were some-
thing like four times as many men employed in the
trade as there have been since the. duties ivere repealed.
.., . The competition between local manufacturers
will always tend to keep the price down to a reasonable
extent. During the eight years when we had ad
valorem duties there was not a single advance in the
price of goods.
Now, Hon. Francis Abigail, The Bulletin
demands that you immediately forward to the
Mayor of Sydney for distribution among the dis.
tressed workmen of the city the £25 note—a little
more than one-sixth of your monthly “honor-
arium ” —which you publicly said you were pre-
pared to forfeit in the event of anyone proving
that you “ ever uttered a sentence which could
be construed into an expression of opinion
in favour of Protectionyou must either
do this, or prove that the official report
from which we have quoted is absolutely incorrect.
Remember that you are a self-proclaimed, honest
man! Now give us practical proof of the sound-
ness of the assumption ! In one of the speeches
from which the quotations given above are taken
Mr. Abigail spoke strongly against a property-
tax, because, said he —quoting “ M‘Clulloch,” an
authority on taxation—“ it cannot be fairly as-
sessed, it would discourage industry, and would
force capital abroad,” and he added,
“If it be raid that ad valorem duties will give rise to
fraud and perjury my rej>ly is so will a property tax"
This is delightful reading in the light of the fact
that the chief proposals of the new “ Honest ’’
Government are the repeal of the ad valorem
duties which were agreed to by the last Parlia-
ment and the imposition of a property-tax. Hon-
est Abigail ! Honest Satan !
Intelligent Fretti adere.
“I’m that igoraut that I don’t know the differen
between ’em,” was the square and honest reply ol
a prominent Sydney sporting-man when asked f
his views concerning Freetrade and Protectio
Bis “igorance” on the point is not peculiar
himself. r J here are whole heaps of electors ant
candidates for election in New South Wales w;
are just as well-informed as the athlete, but the
don’t hurry along a confession of the fact. The;
exhibit a marked inability to understand what
earth the terms mean, and if they do by an
chance get hold of the right meaning they usual
apply the wrong term to it. Mr. Want,
instance, is “a staunch Freetrader,” but he a
vocates retention of the ad valorem duties and
tariff against Victorian grain, which taxes ai
just about as consistent with Freetrade as th
Daily Telegraph’s views to-day with those ol
the day before yesterday. Mr. Abigail, who ha
at intervals in his career professed almost every
thing in the way of fiscal faith, is a Freetrade
intent on encouraging native industry, including
of course, the leather-trade, but by what measur
of Protection is not precisely evident. The doc
trines of a New South Wales Freetrader ar
usually expansive enough to suit the times
Mr. B. It. Wise stretches his “ economi
theory" sufficiently to admit of direct Pro
tection by way of bonus, differential railwa
rates and preference to local manufacturers
What Sir Henry Parkes extends his frectrad
over now we cannot say with any degree of cer
tainty, not having seen a speech of his on th
subject reported for the last two days, but it uset
to include differential tobacco duties, and specifi
duties of a strongly protective description. Ant
in the future his Freetrade must be equally dc
lueive. Despite his boastid intention to repea
a’l Protective duties he dare not and ennot do so
That was a good “gag” to go to the country with
but it was only a gag, and not deemed to b
more by any of the astute ones in his following
The pompous promulgation of the principle wa
effective in carrying elections in his favour, bu
the reduction of that theory into practice woult
prevent him, oranjoneof his followers assisting
him in abolishing native industries, from ventur
ing to face the free and independent of any elec
torate, so long as £4O deposits remain at their presen
value. New South Wales is not now, never ha
been and never will be, directed by a Freetrade
policy ; the question is betweon a Revenue tarif
on the one hand, and a Protective tarifl
on the other. Real Freetrade is not in contempla
tion, and until the widest of reforms are aebievee
in the political system it is not even a remote pos
sibility.
The Condemnation of Dibbs.
The Protectionists of Sydney and the suburbs
have not been entirely successful at the recent
elections. This is our way of saj ing that the
Freetraders have wiped the political floor with
their opponents. But there is one powerful main
cause to account for this success. The Protec-
tionists were discredited and handicapped at the
start by the fact that a gang of political incapables
had just been dismissed from the Ministerial
office. The unwholesome shade of Jennings’
Cabinet and the unpleasant aroma of their ini-
quity was upon asd about the Protection candi-
dates ; the latter were made to bear the sins of
Dibbs and the weaknesses of Sir Patrick Jen-
nings. The finances of the colony were admit-
tedly in 10 different kinds of knots, and for this
the ad valorem, duties were blamed. On the other
land Sir Henry and his henchmen were favoured
by the memory of the four years, 1879-82, of Land
Sale Prosperity, and, although there is not now the
and to sell, and people would not buy it if
here was, there was yet a strong, though inde-
finite, feeling that Parkes would bring back the
years of flnaccial plenty if only he were allowed
the chance of so doing. For this double reason
every candidate who whispered the Freetrade
shibboleth was already we’l on towards the top of
the poll. The preceding Ministry had fallen into
disrepute, while Parkes was regarded with a
superstitious adoration which will wear off ere
long, just as it did towards the close of 1882. But
there is no reason whatever why Protectionists
should be despondent concerning the result of the
elections. Revenge will surely come, and that
shortly. The inefficiency of the means proposed
for dealing with the deficit, and the almost in-
superable difficulty of passing new and heavy
taxes through the Council, will permit and entail
a continuance of present troubles and most likely
lead to an early dissolution. Then the present
conditions will be reversed. The Freetraders will
face the country with Parkes as a millstone
about their necks, and a huge deficit discrediting
their administration, and will sink down in that
same bog which now, alas ! that we should say it,
holds so many of the Protection candidates and so
much of their good led gold.
♦
Parliamentary Etiquette.
The acceptance by the ex-Speaker of the New
South Wales Assembly of a seat in the Upper
House seems not a little strange, since the reason
he vouchsafed for retiring from the Assembly was
that he wished to devote all his time to his pro-
fession. We are impelled to infer that in Mr,
Barton's opinion service in the Council need not
be permitted to interfere to an appreciable extent
with the work of a barrister. Yet if service in
;he Council involves no important expenditure of
labour and time, plainly service in the Assembly
can hardly be looked upon as an overtax of
energies in the case of a young lawyer not over-
burdened with briefs. The two Chambers are co-
ordinate, and the business of a legislator is, or
ought to be, as careiully and com cientiously per-
formed whether he sits in one House or the other.
A man who cannot spare the time to discharge
the duties of an Assemblyman clearly has no right
to accept a position in the Legislature at all.
There are too many dilettante members of the
Council of New South Wales already—men whose
chief reason for continuing to hold seats in that
chamber seems to consist in the fact that the
position carries with it sundry small privileges
and the title of “Honourable.” We do not suppose
Mr. Bar lon will swell the ranks of this class of
legislators. He will, we make no doubt, throw a
large amount of energy into his legislatorial work
—quite as much, in all probability, as if he were a
member of the popular House. Then, why has he
forsaken the popular House ? The excuse he has
himself afforded is evidently not the real reason.
Another authority has, however, supplied an ex-
planation which is apparently the true one. We
are told that “it is contrary to Parliamentary
etiquette for an ex-Speaker to take his seat in the
body of the House,” and hence Mr. Barton's
abandonment of the Assembly, Parliamentary
etiquette ! a new horror. Out of what dust-bin
was this rule of conduct raked ? Speakers of the
House of Commons are usually created peers
on retirement from office, it is true, but
then Speakers of the House of Commons are
usually old men when first appointed, and
when they retire are moved thereto by the in-
firmities of age, and the desire to enjoy a fat


pension. Mr. Barton is young, is a good
man and true, and has only occupied the
Chair for four years. The idea that
he is debarred by Parliamentary etiquette from
holding the position of an ordinary member of the
House simply because of his four years’ occupancy
of the Chair is the he’ght of nonsense ; but it is
just the sort of fustian that goes down in them
da? s. The papers have been speaking about the
knighting of • hief Justice Darley as though it
was a measure calculated to give the country
sounder law ; and no doubt if Sir Henry Parkes
were created a Privy Councillor he would be ex-
pected to wipe off the deficit by some royal method
not within the grasp of men who are not ‘right
honorables.” We are inclined to think that if
Mr. Barton can afford the time to serve as a
legislator his place is in the Assembly; hut let
that be as it may, we have no patience with the
ba’derdash about his being disabled from holding
a place therein by Parliamentary etiquette.
A Freetrade Argument.
An East Sydney elector has been good.enough (o
explain to us exactly the ratio late of his activity.
This elector, it seems, was until qui'e recently a
Protee*ioni-t. Ho was converted to Hrceiradeby
reading a pamphlet entitled “Trade Depres-
sion and Waited Resources.” The argument that
“ fetched him,” he was one based on an
analogy between foi eign goods and sunshine. The
author of this idea contends that manufactures
imported bom abroad are a blessing to a, people
lust as the light rays and heat rays shed by 1 he
sun are a blessing : and that, therefore, it is as
sensele-a to restrict the importation of manufac-
tures as it would be to restrict the free diffusion
of sunshine. We are sorry our friend the elector
has gone over to the Freetraders, but they are
welcome to him. He will doubtless prove a source
of great strength to the party, the intellectual
calibre of whose members cannot be a-ovc zero if
his argument may be taken as a cr t rion.
The premises of the argument may, of
course, be disputed. There is some diff-rence be-
tween a steam-engine and a ray of light, though
a Free-trader may be disabled from perceiving it.
But let the premises pa 33. 'I he conclusion is a
petitio principii and an absurdity, as sense.ess
to protest ourselves from cheap foreign goods as
it would be to protect ourselves from sunshine 1
Why, half the time of all civilised peoples is oc-
cupied in protecting themselves from sunshine-
in doing the very thing this Freet ade pamphleteer
says it would be senseless to do. ftere indeed we
obtain a glimmering of the bottom principle of
Protection. Sunshine is undeniably a blessing of
the very first magnitude. Without it scarcely
any of the forms of life at present extant on the
earth would survive. Without it the human race
would perish for lack of food, even if the more
direct operation of darkness and frigidity failed
to produce that result. “Then,” cries the Free-
trader, “ remove every barrier that exists against
sunshine—unroof your houses, pull down your
walls, cut down your umbrageous trees, cast away
your ’ clothe 3, haA, umbrellas; sumhme is a
good thing, and you cinnot have too much
of it!” The sunshine a r gimcnt is of course
all moonshine. But the pamphleteer has
another string to his bow. He i retends to
believe that Protection is comi arable to a range
of mountains, and piles up an imposing mass of
argument to the effect that, if Protection is righ 1 ■
the construction of roads over or through a range
of mountains, allowing the people on either side
means of intercommunication and exchange, is
wrong. Our friend, the elector, thou i ht this also was
very logical and convincing. Protectionisms are
dog-tired of answering such silly Freetrade senti-
mental nonsense. Sir Henry Parkes, or some
other genius, informed the elec 1 ore of Balmain
the other day that to go in for Protection in New
South Wales would he analogous to blocking up
Sydney Habour. Yet earn and cheapness of
transport for commodities that arc required to be
imported are as much part of the scheme of Pro-
tection as restriction in respect of things that can
be produced at home. To return to the sunshine
argument, because it is a good thing to have win-
dows to one’s house, it does not follow that they
should not be glazed and unprovided with blinds.
The glass and blinds arc for the purpose of regula-
ting the admission of heat, cold, air, and light;
and a Protectionist tai iff is for the purpose of
regulating the admission of foreign products so as
to suit the convenience of our own people irre-
spective of the convenience of the foreign pro-
ducers.
The Sydney “ Echo ” and the Ground-
Ken t Question.
The Bulletin's recent leading article on the rent
question seems not to have coincided with the
Sydney Echo’s views upon that subject, so the
Echo, after calling us a “ sprightly” journal, in a
derogatory way, says we are vieing with the New
South Wales country Press for a monopoly of
idiocy and imbecility. This all appears in a
column most appropriately headed “ N’lmporte,”
and signed “ J. o.ll.”— meaning, no doubt, “Jug-
gins's Out Break.” In another paragraph under
the same heading the writer says we sometimes
realise “how liable the hand is to grasp the
wron» tool—to seize the pen instead of the
trowel.” We certainly do realise it in his own
case. But let us now, gentle bricklayer, if such
you he, reason together. The Bulletin stated
that —
“ We find landlords enabled to extort rents outrageously
in excess of the value. George-street, S- dney, is rack-rented
from one end to the other, and it is the same in every busi-
ness thoroughfare.”
The Echo, in reply, quotes Hensy George as
follows: —
‘“That which a man males or produces is his own as
against all the world to enjoy or to destroy, to use, exchange,
or give Thus there is to eveiylhing prod, ced by human
exertion a clear and indisputable lice io exclusive possession
and enjoyment. The right to exclusive possession of every-
thing of human production is clear. The idea of individual
ownership which so justly and naturally attaches to things of
human production,’ &c.
Then the Echo man goes on to say
“ So that a man has a perfect right to charge whatever
rent he can get for Ike house that he owns.’
And this is Echo logic ! This is the man who
derides the country press ! It should hardly he
necessary to point out that the rent which the
landlord receives is return for the use of his land
far mote than for the use of his house. We have
no objection to any man receiving a full return for
whatever labour or capital he may have expended
in the construction of a house ; but how much of
the rent of a George-street property is return for
the use of the building which the landlord put
there and how much is return for the use of the
land which God put there? We can point to not
one but dozens of cases where large rents are re-
ceived by landlords .fur buildings that actually so
long a 3 they stand detract from the value of the
land We know one especial instance where a
landlord is getting £toO per annum rent for a four-
roomed shanty having 17 feet frontage to George-
street • if he were to pull the house down he
could let the vacant land on building-lease for
fifty years at £6OO per annum. To how much of
this sum is he entitled for the “house that he
owns ? He has pulled his house down ;he has
done what he likes with his own as George sug-
gests, but he need not do anything towards re-
placing, the value he has destroyed—he can find
plenty people to pay him largely for the privilege
of using the land which is so far as he is concerned
unimproved and valueless ; he gets the benefit of
the value conferred on the land by the people at
large who have built and settled all round it.
The “Centennial” Exhibition in
Melbourne.
Thf, lines for this big show are extended at every
meeting of the Commission. Premier Gillies in
Parliament said it might be done for £20,000 ; Pre-
sident Higinrotham, in the chair of the respon-
sible Executive Council, estimat es the cost at
£150,000, and there is very little doubt that the
President is right and the Premier was wroDg ;
but then it wi'l be a big show in every sense—gay
by day, with all the elite of the suburbs, brilliant
by night hr the delight of all the workmen of the
city, blazing with electric lamps from dome to
basement. All Melbourne is humming now in
anticipation of it, the great Carnival which lies
but IS months ahead. And, all things considered,
it is better that Melbourne should have the show,
and that Sydney through a period of penance
should pay her debts. It will not be necessary
for Melbourne to talk about early days. They
can get the loan of old Captain Cook's grog-
bottle and compasses from Sydney, and Bkip con-
veniently all that intervenes between that period
and the day when Hargraves panned out his
first gold. Foreign curiosity will not be stirred by
old relic 3 in Melbourne as in Sydney. Strangers
will not be poking round the back of the gaol-
wall and asking the meaning of the intaglio
carvings there ; nor yet inspecting that gallery in
St. James's Church, with the stone steps worn by
the clank of fetters and the high seats at the
corners for the officers in charge. They will not
be bothering the Sheriff either for orders to see
the gallows built for hanging four boys. All of
them will ctme to Sydney who are of any me to
Sydney, all who have anything to sell or to spend
and the only loss will be to those who anticipate
“ honours” or billets. They can wait, and and if
they die waiting, well —what matter 2
Trams.
One visit to Melbourne will convince the most
patriotic Sydney man that the smoke and the
stink, the grit and the grease, the roar and the
rush of the existing steam-power tram <, are things
which could be, and should be, kicked out of the
city without delay. There is no necessity for
them. They no more belong to the age than do
tallow candles, or flintlock guns. The cable-trams
can supply all wants. The cable-tram in Mel-
bourne, now with a maximum speed of eight miles
an hour, is doing all the passenger traffic of
suburbs at least as large as any about Sydney.
Lines run out from Spencer street to Fitzr jy and
Collingwood ; from the Hobson’s Bay terminus to
Richmond ; lines are in course of construction
through Hotham to Brunswick; lines will
be made within the year to South Yaria
and Prahran; and thousands and tens of
thousands of people ride on them without discom-
fort or annoyance, or fear of damage to themselves
or their apparel. They pas 3 the street corners as
often as the old waggonettes used to do, and pick
up and discharge passengers with equal prompti-
tude, and they are all constructed by private
enterprise, and managed on round business prin-
ciples. They could never do the traffic of stydney,
Sydney may say, but what of the traffic of
Sydney! Gable cars in Melbourne carry 5)
each trip, and, packed as the steam-cars
are in Sydney, they would hold 80.
They can follow each other in perfect safety
within intervals of half a minu'e In a quarter of
an hour, then, they would tale 2100 people from
any given point. When did 2100 people ever
leave Redfern by tram within a quarter of an hour 2
In Elizabeth-street, Sydney, the traffic of course is
as ridiculou-ly congested as is the fervice in the
Lands Depart ment. That is the city railroad of
the pre. ent, the apology for a railrea i, which com-
pares about as favourably with the Melbourne
Hobson’s Bay line as the graase-be3pattered, soot-
smudged, double decker, with the clear,convenient,
cool and easy, Troy-buih cable-car.
♦
Explo ©d “ Doctorines.”
Not long ago the M- lbourne University Council
decided that the interests if the University wiu'd
suffer were women admitted to the medical
Course with a view to qualify iog themselves as
physicians and surgeons. It is now rumoured
that a number of lady students intend to te3t the
validity of this one-eyed decision by proffering the
usual entrance-fees and asserting their right of
admission to the Medical School. May success
attend the efforts of these genile aspirants to
higher things! Of all fusty frauds, that which
denied to the weaker tex a license to kill or cme
has worked unutterable mischief in this world.
Thousands of women are at this moment pining
under disorders which they prefer to endure in
silence rather than undergo a necessarily indeli-
cate course of treatment at a doctor's hands.
More especially is this the case among the middle
classes. The “high-born” lady, judging from all we
read in the divorce-court reports, babbles secre'sin
the ear of her pet physician witbartless confidence,
and absolutely revels in long tctc-a tctes. Only the
other day the de'ectable Colin Campbell dis-
closures shed a significant ray of light upon ihe
relations commonly existing between fashionable
M.D.’s and fair patients. Lady Colin Campbell
was attended by Dr. Bird for a complaint which
comes under tne sufficiency explicit head of
“secret,’ She accepted the situation with so
much complaisance that the attentive leech made
a practice of sitting with her alone for hours in a
darkened bedroom. Naturally enough, profes-
sional acquaintance ripened into tender inti-
macy, and my lady expressed ler gratitude
by riding around with Bird in a hansom
cab, her lovely head resting upon his healirg
shoulder. But the fapt that " sassiety with its
conservative clinging to antiquated abuses—
favouis masculine treatment of strictly feminine
diseases is in itself proof of the corruptness of the
system. Honest women with cl«aner notions of
propriety —whose natural instincts are not en-
tirely the slaves of degrading custom—shrink
from discussing certain constitutional weaknesses
with a professional man, and they tell him only as
much as can be told without a blush. Hence
the woman of delicate mind too often becomes
physically delicate and dies before her time, while
the lady of quality, who “leaves nerself entirely
in the doctor's hands, my dear,” is putting in her
four-score years and ten. The dowager’s longevity
would be an unanswerable argument in favour of
the male doctor did it not happen that many of his
functions could he equally well performed by a
ski led female practitioner. Nay, lady doctors,
armed with proper diplomas, are even better
qualified than men to treat disorders peculiar to
their sex, and the sooner this fact is admitted the
better tor womank ind. Let the lady doctor take
her proper place in the social world, and sickly
girls and feeble, lackadaisical wives would become
as rare as they are now common. Therefore the
promised Melbourne demonstration deserves all
sympathy. If the handful of fair students fail in
their attempt they will at any rate call pub-
lic attention to an evil which dates from a
time when women did not dare to have ideas,
and learned their lessons in modesty from
the bulging lips of a lascivious priesthood.
When we remember the monstrous privileges
claimed by holy friars of old, it is easily under-
stacdable how maids became accustomed to bare
themselves to the gaze of a professional male
stranger, while matrons accepted the accoucheur
as a matter of course. Besides, they were kept
without power of choice. But now, when there
are intelligent women able and anxious to take up
medicito, and when their more modest sisters are
“ fighting shy ” of male soundings and all the rest
of it, decency demands that no doctor shall be
called in to perform duties which properly belong
to adr ctoress. Except in special surgical cases,
the sleek physician may confine his attentions to
his own sex, and then fathers, husbands, brothers,
and lovers will no longer regard him with the
jaundiced eye of suppressed suspicion. Speaking
of that, by the way. If a paterfamilias, patron-
ised Anna Potts— in a strictly professional way,
doncherknow—how the unfortunate Anna’s repu-
tation would suffer from the tongues of discreet
matrons who habitually call in wen to sound the
chestesses of themselves and daughters. Yet the
reverse side of the picture excites little comment
at present..
Some of the inhabitants of Katoomba and Mount
Victoria (N.S.W.) are petitioning for a discon-
tinuance of the Sunday excursion train. This
train is not profitable to the keepers of mountain
hotels and lodging-houses, for it tempts lodgers
to go back to Sydney on Sunday instead of wait-
ing for the early trains on Monday morning.
Therefore these hosts are wroth that trains should
be run on the Sabbath, and ask that the Fourth
Commandment should be observed. And sundry
good people in Sydney are also indignant at this
extension of Sunday traffic, and are likewise pre-
paring their little petition. It would be the
easiest thing possible to test the sincerity of these
Sydney petitioners. Let the Government go be-
yond the prayer of t hese people to whom the Sun-
day excursions of others are a sin and promise to
slop all trains and trams on Sunday. Thereafter
such petitions would cease. The devout church-
man is horrified that anyone should go for a trip
over the Zig-zag on Sunday, yet sees nothing
wrong in the use which he himself makes of Sun-
day trains in order to attend some Sydney church,
chapel, or cathedra'. If one train is a sacrilege
so is the other, and if the mountain passenger
breaks the Decalogue so also does the suburban
saint ; and if one train is stopped so should the
other be also. Let those Sydney church-goers
first petition for the stoppage of the trains which
they themselves use, and having so proved their
sincerity petition afterwards for the discontinuance
of the excursion trains : but while they who sit
behind one engine ask that others may be stopped
from the use of another engine travelling a dif-
ferent line, their petitions can only be regarded as
the selflsh outcome cf self-righteous and hypo-
critical minds.
The triumph of the Freetrade-cum-PARKES party
in Sydney, signal as it has been, emphasises one
very serious defect in tfte present system of voting,
a defect that is most clearly seen in such elector-
ates as return more than one member. In such,
if the majority arc loyal to the “ bunch,” the
minority are powerless to obtain any representation
whatever of their views. East Sydney may be
taken as evidence on this point. Here there were
five candidates, four of whom were Freetraders,
and the Freetrade vote was given solidly to the
•* bunch,” while Protectionists as a rule plumped
for their man For the bunch 15,976 votes were
given ; for the Protectionist, 1846. Now suppos-
ing that the majority gave 2000 “ plumpers,”
which is certainly far beyond the actual number,
this would make a total Free-trade vote of 6000,
as against nearly one-third of that number of
Protectionists. Allowing that the latter are
in a minority, it is nevertheless clear that their
views are entirely unrepresented, although on the
basis of numbers they should certainly have one
parliamentary exponent of their creed. Again,
at Newtown, the Protection vote was 1284, as
against a Freetrade total of certainly not more
than 2600, yet there, by bunching, the latter party
carried all their men along and monopolised the
representation. Hare's system of voting, or
cumulative voting, would each provide against
the operation of such an inj ustics as this That a
voter should have to throw away one, two, or
even three of his votes because his party happens
to be in a minority is to support a tyranny of the
majority which has no merit upon the grounds of
abstract justice.
The N.S.W. Local Option League report as fol-
lows respecting that expensive farce, the N.S.W.
Liquor Commission: —
“ The work of the coramißwon has now closed, as far as
the evidence is concerned. We understand that it is engaged
in considering its report. What the recommendations will
be we cannot tell, and look for them with some auxicty. The
members of the commission are representative men. They
have no pecuniary gain whatever to expect through any re-
commendations they may make. The majority are not ab-
stainers.”
The majority of the Commission are representa-
tives of temperance organisations and the re-
mainder-barring the President, Mr. Oliver— are
representatives of Noodledom ; “ decent debility,”
as Sydney Smith puts it, cannot be applied to
them. One of them centred the whole of his at-
tention, so it is said, on information respecting
“private immoral houses” in the suburbs, and he
has been in the habit of badgering all the witnesses
on the subject regardless of the fact that it has no
relation whatever to the liquor question. Another
member is ea ! d not to have developed an idea be-
yond making inquiries as to why it is that re-
spectable people from the country burdened with
very much distended carpet bags have to march
about the streets for hours before being able to
find accommodation. These “representative”
men may have nothing to gain, pecuniarily, through
the recommendations which they make, but the
fjfct remains that for at least 12 months they have
been drawing four guineas each per week from
the public funds. The appointment of the Com-
mission by wily Sir John Robertson was a diplo-
matic “ bluff,” and why Sir Patrick Jennings
allowed the extravagant folly to be perpetuated is
a mystery, lhe cost of the commission will not
be much short of £2OOO, and the value of the re-
port will be very much less indeed than that of
the paper on which it will be printed.
The Cooktown Independent, a journal which,
gravely swallows all the current lies about New
South Wales “outrages,” recommends that the
alleged perpetrators thereof should be
“Punished by solitary confinement in a prison self-sup-
ported by means of their labour, and by such mutilation of
their persons as will make them Pariahs for all time, tor-
tured Toy the Tantalus-like miseries of filthy and unappeased
passions.”
Judging from this item we are inclined to think
that mental scrofula and plain Krglish are very
much mixed at Cooktown, and we would a9k
what kind of mutilation yet invented would,
adequately meet the case of a paper run so ex-
clusively on pure brute principles. The only suit-
able method we can think of would be to cut out
the articles on drainage and similar pleasant sub-
jects, and then the miserable rag would tot ter
through the rest of its unhonoured existence a
mere debased and demoralised washbilb
CORRESPONDENCE
I The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are nc t
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ P.W.”: Your position, sir, is no doubt as
stable and important as that; of—say Brisbane Exchange ..
“ A Rail Sitter”: The’’ “ reasons why the great steam-liners
continue to arrive with a proportion of about one passenger
for South Australia, one-and-a-ha f for Victoria, and three
for fiscally-ruined New South Wales” are simply these—
that N.S.W. has of late years been much advertised in Eng-
land through her state-paid-immigradonoffice, while Victoria
has no State immigration system; that the fare to Sydney,
the furthest port from London, is the same as to Adelaide
and Melbourne, and it is in human nature always to see
green fields far off; that it is loudly proclaimed by the N.S.W.
representatives in London, that N S.W. i 3 three times as
big, and has twenty times as much good land to give away
as Victoria has “ H.R. Duff”: We read tte verses
three years ago, and heard them recited by a lacy
in London two years and a half since “ Over-
proof ” : There’s little chance of its ever being re-
issued “ Intrigue” (Melb.): Sorry we haven't time to read
your play “John Mundy”: Your verses promise wdl
“T. Campbell”: The Freetraders and Conservatives lor g
ruled Victoria. They will rule N.S.W. for a little while to
come. The real question now before the N.S.W. electors is not
really Freetracle v. Protection, but “Shall we not gne
Parkesanother turn?” N.S.W. has too long been schooled
in personal politics to be able to renounce that pernicious
system at the mock bidding of Parkes, who above all
men would be sorry to for ever rest his fate on a solid politi
cal issue, and who, when he now tells the voters to decide
between Freetrade and Protection, takes all sorts of means
to drag in irrelevant side-issues. When Parkes again becomes
so arrogant as to be unbearable, he will be thrown out and
his sins will be charged to Freetrade by the mass of the
electors who now saddle the cause of Protection with the
numerous failings of the Jennings crowd “John
IM'Donald” (W. Melbourne): You have caught the feeling,
but you have not sent us the words. The theme is a good
one, and with a double rhyme in alternate lines eould be
made most effective. Will yet work it up and let you see result.
..“ A.T.C.”: Yes, we like your matter, but please condense..
“ W.W.J.”: We suppose that, as you say, the St. Mary’s
crowd did, as usual, “ send round the straight tip.” How-
ever, there seems to be a fair amount of activity in L.O.L.
circles as well, judging from the number of advertisements
in the newspapers inviting members to “ roll up” to consider
“ mo3t important business.” Of course all this has nothing
to do with the pending elections !....“ W.J.”: The Bathurst
people will be fools if they p actically remove a good doctor
from their town by sending him to Parliament “ C.
James”: No; but the N.S.W. Freetrade party, taken all
round, are rank Conservatives—lawyers and landowners.
Those Parkesian Freetraders who belong to neither of the
classes named are men who have from time to time professed
Protectionist principles which they now find it expedient to re-
nounce—Garrett, Abigail, Roberts, Clarke, Garrard, and all
the rest of them “A.J D.”: No sinister inference can be
deduced from the fact. Lord Carington is famed in
Sydney as “ a good pay ” ; it's a pity his wit isn’t as ready as
his money....“ Anti-Gabbett” (Wagga): We are sorry to
hear that your citizens chew each others’ arms. Probably
it’s the liquor. The man who would drink Wagga grog
would probably bite his grandfather “C. Warton” : Why
should we give Parkes credit for promising to introduce a
Local Government Act in face of the fact that Victoria has
had such an Act for at least 18 years ? The absence of a
Local Government Act in N.S.W. kept in office Parkes and
the crew he last led, for many and many a day. Parkes says
Freetrade is the natural corollary of manhood suffrage. Tue
Bulletin denies that, and at the same time asserts that
payment of members, which Parkes has ever opposed, and
which has long been in force in Victoria, is the natural
corollary of manhood suffrage “A Native ” (Cobar) :
Thankb “Wagga” (Wagga): We’ve heard about your
poor dear cannibal several thousand times... :“C.H.E.‘
(no address) : We are in a solemn mood “ P. (lonian
(Ab.-rdeen): We have got your dog per post “ H.W.J*
(Tamworth): There may be some poiat in your thrice-blessed
I joke, but ....“ E.J.A.”': If you have property in Redfern
and reside in Balmain you can legally vote at both election-*.
If your qualification at Redfern were “ residence,” and you
had shifted your humpy to Leichhardt your vote in the
former electorate could be challenged “ Pint o’ Beer” :
Remarkably fine specimen of the common, or garden libel.
If some paper were to publish such a pleasant little talo
about us, we would cast aside the mighty pen which we now
wield with such eminent ability, and retire upon the cash
proceeds of the verdict “ Omnium” : Already noticed
“Ballot”: The votes of “dear departeds” at East Sydney
have ranged from a pound a head downwards. They are not
now saleable “Freetrader Vou say that he should not
have tried East Sydney, because “he was not known.” II »s
it occurred to you that Sir Henry Parkes did not try East
Sydney because he was known —“ J. Grant (Boulia): Story
not worth a shake of a rabbit’s tail—“ Old Contributor”
(Maryborough): Couldn't do it—not for Joseph or the
whole Federal Council either “T. Arawa (Rock-
hampton) : Will dish up, probably next week
‘‘ T.B.C ” : We have received both, but have so far had no
time to read either “ Argus' : We hope to see you in the
House “Viola”: You have changed your name. Iteirs
held over “Paul Seraph”: Held for consideration
“ A. 8.” (Victoria) : See below “ P.W.”: You might as
well ask the Northumberland miners to vote for the nomi-
nees of Parkes, who, a year or two ago, wanted to put an
export duty on coal “ Austin G.” : ¥our argument that
no license should be allowed to a theatre notel “ if there is
any objeckshon (are you Habigle?) to the saim” is as weak
as your spelling. According to your proposition one person
might shut up every hotel in the colony. Similarly, Parson
Jefferis should not be allowed to circulate weekly collection-
plates, if anyone, say Tom Walker, had “ any objeckshon to
the saim,” which is somewhat unreasonable ''AStauach
Protectionist” (Fig-tree): Your are entitled to vote on
account of your qualification on the old roll. 'I he fact of it
being in another part of the electorate makes no difference.
A Gippsland correspondent writes to say that “ no one
narked Wise has ever been brought up at Sue Police Court.”
We are asked to make this statement in justice to sev=ral
parties.


The Referee
The first events of the so-called “ test ”
■matches between the amateur and professional
bicyclists came off on Sydney Association Ground
last Saturday, in the presence of some 8000 specta-
tors. The mile race was won by F. Wood, the
English crack, and the five miles by Con Dwyer,
of Victoria, so that Englishman and Colonial
having each won an event, the agony will be
worked up to fever-heat for next Saturday’s
racing. This ill-advised meeting bids fair to
break up the friendly relations which have so far
existed between the N.S.W. and Victorian Unions,
and it will be a long time before Intercolonial
bicycling returns to its old footing. Con Dwyer, a
member of the Victorian Union, in starting in
these very “ mixed ” matches, will not in future
be recognised as an amateur by the Victorian
body, so that Intercolonial racing will be crippled
at the sweet will of Mr. Dwyer. Should Dwyer
de3ire to start in the Intercolonial Championships,
the Victorians will refuse to meet a professional,
as Dwyer now ranks by their ruling, and as the
N.S.W. people cannot refuse to let him start, a
dead lock will ensue. Not the least evil in these
mixed races is the heavy betting which was rife
on Saturday, Monday’s papers quoting each man’s
price. It has ever been found that heavy wager-
ing and amateur sport do not run hand-in hand.
* * *
All the “ mugs ” and Jugginses of Sydney
will put their money on Con. Dwyer next Satur-
day Meanwhile the guileless Mr. Fred. Wood
is well and happy.
From thq Sydney E. News of 31st
January :—“ The Englishmen had a bad time of
it on Saturday. The cricketers were taken down
by the combined (Australian) team, Rolfe ran
away from James the cyclist, and Hutchens was
left behind by Clark Advance Australia.” Now
the first item is a lie, for the Englishmen beat the
Australians. The second item is also a lie, Rolfe
being an Englishman, as the News well knows.
And the third item is likewise a lie, for Clark,
too, is an Englishman. The whole of this News is a
lie. Three lies in four lines ! A good average
even for the champion liar.
* * *
Some small fortunes must have changed
hands over the late International cricket match.
The Englishmen went out for 45, and the Austra-
lians followed with 119, which was very healthy
for the betting market. Then the visitors' total
of 184 in their second innings left the Australians
requiring only 110 to win—another salubrious
omen for those who bet on the natives —and the
final result, when the Englishmen won by 13 runs,
must have meant a very close skinning of the
lamb on the part of somebody.
* * #
Frank Slavin, the pugilist, hails from
Charters Towers. They could not do better than
send him to advocate Separation in London. His
style is convincing.
* # *
A writer in the Melbourne Sportsman
says that “a well prepared crew of equal merit
with hastily prepared ores is 25 per cent faster on
the day of the race.” Bedad, it would have to be
a very unprepared crew that couldn’t take one
mile in four from another lot possessing equal
skill and physique.
The meeting between Mr. George Seale,
the champion amateur of Australia, and Petten-
gell, the middle-weight professional champion of
New Zealand, “to a finish,” drew a crowded
house to Foley’s on Wednesday evening. Petten-
gell has fought any number of good fights in the
land of the moa, and although the friends of the
amateur were confident of their man winning,
they were scarcely prepared to see the well-per-
formed and well-prepared Pettengell stand as a
mere chopping-block for him. The amateur has
not, to the personal knowledge of the writer, had
a boxing-glove on since his bout with M’Carty,
some months since, but he was in anything but
bad “nick” as he rowed with h’s club four at the
Anniversary Regatta on the previous Wednesday.
Pettengell, who is the heavier man by perhaps
101 b., stands in an awkward attitude, with his
left struck straight out and his right close in to
the mark, which prevented the amateur from
playing as often as he would otherwise have
done on his favourite spot. The amateur took
the lead from the start, and the excellent
science shown by him may be judged from the
fact that, with the exception of one left-hander in
the wind, the Maorilander never got a blow home
worthy of the name. In the first round Pettengell
led with the left, when the amateur just stepped
out of distance, and, coming in with a style pecu-
liarly his own, landed a heavy left-hander on his
opponent’s jaw. This, was repeated four or five
times until Pettengell was afraid to lead for fear
of a heavy return, and then the amateur had him
at his mercy, playing all over him with both
hands, and varying his visitations between the
body and head. About the sixth round Pettengell
was knocked to a standstill, but though asked to
give in, the plucky fellow would not, and nothing
remained for the amateur but to wade in and
wipe the floor with him. The audience was a
most comprehensive one. Would-be members of
Parliament, Government “push,” and —yerra 1
listen—a couple of priests, were amongst the
thou, who parted their little half-a-cooter for ad-
mittance. But why shouldn’t priests worship at
Foley’s altar? Foley worships at theirs.
Footballers appear to be a gentle, chival-
rous fraternity all the world over. A match
played at Neath (Eng.) resulted in the referee
being stoned by the losing side until he was
smuggled away by the police.
The defeat of Hutchens by Clarke so
effectually settled the pretensions of poor Malone
that that very much deposed “ champion ” showed
his good sense (or his backers showed theirs) by
promptly forfeiting to Myers. The American
flyer is likely to return home without getting a
match on unless George—who, with Mitchell the
pugulist, is in the incoming ’Frisco mail-boat—
means business on his arrival. But, in any case,
the English ex-amateur would scarcely care about
tackling Myers at anything less than three-
quarters of a mile.
Everyone has his little cross to hump in
this life, and it seems that the brazen-faced,
leathern-lunged “bookie” is no exception to the
rule. In last week’s Melbourne Sportsman at-
tention was drawn to the unremunerative charac-
ter of bookmaking as a profession. “ The fielder,”
says this pathetic article, “ has no more up his
sleeve than if he were playing a square game of
hazard, while, on the other hand, his expenses are
tenfold those of the backer . . . and I don’t
think there can be any doubt that the ring is now
very much too heavily taxed.” Alas, poor ring !
It is hard that it should continue to suffer when
the complaint might so easily be cured. Backers
must be exhorted not to lure I key. Mossy, and
Sammy on to ruin. Let them think of the poor
martyrs’ “ expenses ” and pause. Or if backers —
naturally scheming and selfish—won’t consider
bookmakers, let them think of themselves, and
their mothers, and their fathers —anyway, let
them pause. Virtue will be its own reward, you
bet
Speaking of the way in which the English-
men polished off the Australian Eleven at their
first match, we said that if ever Our Boys were
called upon to make a decent score “on the pinch ”
against Shrewsbury’s crowd it was three to one
against their doing it. In explanation of the bold
statement we mentioned that we “knew some-
thing.” Last week's business makes it look as
though the professionals have even more up their
sleeves than we suspected. Though their batting
has been generally disappointing, it has a trick of
being strongest at the right moment, while, in the
field, they seem equal to any emergency. After
what has been seen this season, how ridiculous
read old newspaper comments on the sth Austra-
GIN AND WATER.
VOICE OF PARKES: “YOU MUST SWALLOW IT, CHARLIE—IT WILL GIVE YOU
POLITICAL LIFE.”
ROBERTS: “OH, BUT, SIR HENRY, HOW WILL IT AGREE WITH THE GIN?"
lian Eleven’s failures in England ! It was argued
that the team must be overworked, overfed, dis-
organised, or the deuce knows what, before they
could be disposed of for 100 runs in an innings.
Yet in Melbourne and Sydney, on good wickets,
two crack Australian teams have gone out for a
trifle over and a trifle under the “ century.” And
in the face of what can be really accomplished by
men who are “ cn the job ” a lot of old fossils (who
can’t perceive that long scores mean gate money)
talk about increasing the height of the wicket, or
addiDg a stump, or sweating the bat in order to
give bowlers a chance !
* * *
The hall-mark of genuineness stamped the
Samuels-Malone match run at 5 p.m. on Monday.
Malone represented the Botany, and the blackfel
low the Carington Ground, so to speak, and the
feud between the Capulets and Montagues could
not have been more bitter. Mr. Kean got his men
away excellently together ; Malone shot to the
front, and the people cried “ Malone wins in a
walk ! ” Not so. Samuels made a great effort,
and caught the Irishman (whose green trunks in-
duced roars of applause, and heaps of money into
the bookmaker’s bags) at 80 yards and came right
away. Samuels had no necessity to try for the
last 25 yards, as Malone was hopelessly beaten.
The aboriginal won by four yardsjn 15 l-10th secs.
The betting just before the start was 5 to 4 against
either man.
The cricketers, both English and colonial,
have been having a high old time of it lately, and
it now seems as necessary for a cricketer as for a
member of Parliament to be able to “use his
hands.” The first event was at a big Sydney pub,
when the harmless little word “liar” started
razors in the air. Bang went one of the Britisher’s
at a colonial, but he missed his mark, and the
wall being about the only thing he couldn’t miss,
he knocked his hand up and will not figure in the
field for some time to come. The colonial’s
friends then obligingly held him for the bold
Britishers to slog at till the row was quashed. A
second row came off on the kerbstone, this time
between a couple of colonials, who are not active
cricketers, but have a big say in Sydney cricket-
ing circles. Again the four letters “ liar ” started
the trouble and the utterer will wear his nose in a
sling and his eyes in mourning for many days to
come.
After no end of discussion, at hotel bars
and in newspaper columns, Cannon and Connor
have arranged a Grmco-Roman wrestle, to take
place within six weeks from February Ist in Mel-
bourne. One good business clause in their agree-
ment provides that “the referee shall be em
powered to call the men off for a wipe-down at the
end of each 20 minutes’ wrestling,” provided they
are on even terms at the time. The public will thus
be spared the farce of seeing two perspiring men
slipping away from one and the other's grasp like
buttered eels.
* * *
The following twelve horses will represent
us in the Newmarket Handicap: William Tell (if
he starts, which is doubtful), Middlemarch, Vol-
cano, My Lord, Quinten Matsep, Bonnie Doon,
Mozart, Vision, Dufferin, Lady Bell, First Game,
and Marie Louise. Owners will hardly be rude
enough to scratch any of the above after the
trouble we have taken to pick them out as really
good things. Backers will act wisely by investing
a trifle on each of the twelve.
• * *
Lovers of the “ noble art ” will now have
something to talk about till the 17th March, on
which date P. Slaven is matched to box Mick
Dooley to a finish at Foley’s Hall for £5O. The
match between Jackson and Slavea fell through
through no fault of the champion’s who, we under-
stand, had difficulty in raising the wager-money,
but bad the pair met the writer feels assured
Slaven could not have withstood two rounds of
Jackson’s lightning assaults. Slaven is a fast-
improving man but in Dooley he will meet a
scientific boxer, and the writer thinks that
Michael's science will more than counteract
Patrick’s strength Dooley looks in rude health,
and should his trainer not make the fatal error of
bringing him donn tco fine, he should step into
the ring in better “ kip ” than he has yet shown
at Foley’s Hall. Anyway, Michael and Patrick
will shake hands on St. Patrick’s n ! ght, and
nothing could be more appropriate.
The N.Z. horse, Lochiel, engaged in the
Newmarket Handicap and Australian Cup, is a
beautiful big brown horse, and a maiden still.
We hope Mr. Stead will be rewarded for his pluck
in tackling the cream of Australian thorough-
breds.
It is time that the in-and-out professional
pedestrianism to which Sydney has of late been
treated should be decisively “ sat upon” by the
public. Let us say it again : the man who bets
his money on a foot-race deserves, after dying in
the Benevolent Asylum, to be made into bone-
dust for the Chinamen’s gardens.
• * *
Kemp has been duly police-courted for
breaking Neil Matterson’s nose, at the recent
Bathurst Regatta Remanded, £lOO bail.
Harvester should win the Hobart Cup to-
day, while Vision’s show is none too dusty.
“ Teddy” Weeks, the burly Indian horse-
buyer, won a pot of money over Despot’s victory
in the Viceroy’s Cup. “ Teddy,” pig-voice and
all, will be back here in July.
An extraordinary thing happened in the
Mulgrave (Vic.) Handicap. Thirteen horses faced
Mr. Watson at the far side of the course, when
some interested person gave the word “Go 1 ” Off
they went, and “the Prince” could only stand
agha«t. The clerk of the course galloped over to
the judge and told him that it was “no start’ just
as the judge had declared Crown Brand the
winner. A meeting decided it was “no race,
and 1 lip delinquent ordered to appear before the
stewards at once. Yellow Hammer won the
“ second heat,” and as the “false starter” did not
run up against the stewards, nothing was done.
* * *
Slaven failed to knock out Fogarty in
three rounds on Saturday night. Mr. Fogarty ran
too well.
* * *
A Victorian bookmaker named Robert
Tait died last week at the early age of 33.
Members of the Victorian Club have taken
possession of their new rooms in Bourke-street,
Melbourne. As bad language is strictly prohi-
bited, the structure will wear full mournirg at lo
distant date.
There were no less than six spills in the
Mulgrave (Vic.) Hurdle Race, and another horse
showed his dislike for the sticky course by making
a bee line for home. Land Shark won, solus, and
on coming to scale, his rider wasn’t weight. The
bridle was sent for, but still no effect on the rusty
old machine. At length the rider gave a vigor-
ous bend with his knees, up went the balance
with a jerk, and the clerk declared “alright.”
This is the first meeting of the Mulgrave R.C.,
and it ought to be the last.
Some of the bicycle heats at Sydney on
Saturday, were ridden at a pace that would have
made the Sloth in the Zoo curse himself for not
having entered. There really should be a time
limit to these exhibitions.
The first race for the Gascoigne Cup in
connection with the R.S.Y. Squadron came off on
Saturday, when the Magic, well-bandied by Mr.
“ Pros.” Williams won from the Waitangi by over'
half a minute, without her time allowance of four
minutes and a ha'f. The general opinion is that
the old boat was much better handled by Mr.
Williams’ amateur crew than she had been in the
big races.
The Carington running track was heavy
and spongy when Samuels beat Hutchens for the
second time on Friday afternoon. The (official)
time was a little civilised, viz., 15 l-ssec. By the
way, Samuels broke away before the pistol was
fired, but Hutchens did not wish to have him put
back. This was indeed charitable of Hutchens
to the poor benighted black—especially as the race
was for £lOO aside!
The Electric-light Handicap was to have
taken place last week, but as the illuminating ap-
paratus wasn’t properly acclimaPsed the affair was
postponed to next Saturday night, when 15 heats
will be run. Now, there are four men all supposed
to be equally handicapped in 14 heats, and three
in the 15th, so we will try to show that 10 out of
the 15 can be picked. Vide : Ist Heat, F. G.
Brown; 2nd, Pursehouse ; 3rd, Stafford; 4th,
Quick ; oth, Liddle ; 6th, Monisey ; 7th, Stabbin;
Bth, M’Garrigal ; 9th, Regan ; 10th, “olomon ;
11th, W. Hore ; 12th. Small ; 13th, Creighton ;
14th, Atkinson ; 15th, Logan. If there's anything
in public form, Hore should win the final if he
tries,
The most degraded drunkard of the
N.S.W. Parliament has been re-elected.
The man who told his son to go forth and
see with how little Wisdom the world is governed
wasn’t thinking of the forthcoming Imperial pow-
wow in London.
Bega has produced a 17-inch onion. We
hope this esculent will not become popular. The
man who eats a two inch onion can now disperse
a crowd without any trouble.
A certain N.S.W. politician, who amuses
himself by local preaching, was in the m'ddle of a
sermon the other day, when an old lady arose in
the church, and flourishing an umbrella accused
him of having seduced her daughter. Whereupon
the service came to an abrupt termination.
“ Mr Garrett’s candidature is fast becom-
ing a public humiliation.” So fays the Sydney
D.T. Last week, according to the fame authority,
Mr. Garrett was “ indisposed,” this week he is
afflicted with “ mental daftness." What does it
mean ? Is there not a word in the English lan-
guage which will explicitly describe Mr. Garrett’s
ailment ?
The people of Goulbum (N.S.W.) have
come to the conclusion that that landmark of
Christian sanctity, Ihe local Bishop, needs comfoi t
and support under the affliction of Captaifi Rossi,
and accordingly the ladies of the city presented an
address to the bishojess, and that lady re-ponded
with tears. In the course of her reply she said :
” I have not yet learned, like Him whom I have loved and
honoured for the las- 43 years, to txar i gratitude or mis-
rerresentat on with calm and patient indurance.”
This is a noble sentiment, but when this lady (or
the printer) alludes to Bishop Thomas, she (or he)
shouldn't describe that pillar of the church as
“ Him.” The Bishop is not all of the Trinity.
The following little jumble of war and
swindle items came along the cable this week.
The Abyssinians have licked the Italians at
Massowah on the Red Sea. As the Italians had
no business there they deserved to be licked, and
as the Abyssinians emasculate all captives, the
pious crowd who ran the famous Mount Rennie
crusade will be pleased at their success. It is
just on these Christians’ own line. Baron Macleay
is lecturing in St. Petersburg, where he says New
Guinea belongs to Russia. The Baron seems to be
telling a what-you-may-call-it. It is reported that
Germany is going to borrow £15,000,000 for war
purposes. A fool and his money are soon parted.
The Kaiser is going to increase his army without
the consent of Parliament. The aged man is
evidently a bully boy with a glass eye. A Rus-
sian paper warns Bismarck to mind his eye, and
that astute politician has called out 72,000 men.
Most of the above has since been declared to be
an awful lie.
The primest electioneering joke comes
from Bungonia, NSW., where Holborrow and Ball,
the Ministerial candidates, went to hold a meeting.
Only one elector attended, and as he was an anti-
Parkesite the pair of aspirants considered it was
scarcely good enough to go on with the programme,
although the solitary man in the room generously
offered to act as chairman, audience, reporter,
and proposer and seconder of a vote of censure
on them. Another piece of pleasantry occurred
at the Sunday Newsman’s meeting at the Glebe.
Noticing that the candidate was spouting away
without the services of a chairman, a party named
Steel began to raise much objection, upon which
the Newsman promptly placed the objector in the
chair, and thus effectually squelched the interrup-
tion The Neo-Parkes party hero has certainly
learnt one trick from his great master viz. : that
of stopping a clamorous opponent’s mouth with an
official appointment,


SUNDRY SHOWS
Taken as a
■whole, we would
desire to wipe up
the dead leaves of
Autumn with the Sydney shows
this week. Half of them are
d: eary and dead ; the other half
are alive, but poorly 1 atronised.
Twice did we go to sleep in the
cushioned seat to which we had
been ceremoniously ushered by
an attendant duke with a split-
tailed coat, and as the voice of the tragedian
rippled gently on like running water, we dreamt
that seven other demons had entered into the cat,
and the cat had entered into the beer barrel.
Then as the tragic man grew louder we woke
with a start and found him howling forth high
moral sentiments that had a closer affinity to cate-
chism than to cat, and we realised that it was all
a dream. At this point we would wander sadly
out to offer up a bui nt offering of threepence at
the shrine round the corner, and talk politics with
some stray Protectionist, and when once we got
out we generally remained there.
## * *
After a long period of waiting, during
which this pious city of Sydney has been well-
nigh bill-posted off its head, the inimitable Carrie
Swain has at length arrived That bounceable
daughter of song is now visible at the Royal,
where she nightly drives the gaunt mule of comedy
over the field of the human understanding until
the grass of commonsense is entirely chawed up,
and nothing is left but desolation. This is our
way of saying that we regard “ The Tomboy” as
an unmitigated failure. The plot is old and stale,
and as wretched as a blind beggar ; it is dull and
stupid, and has hardly a shimmer of wit, and it
all turns on the aged hashed-up story of the long
lost che-ild, who is recognised by the way she
sings a pathetic baby song, and the wicked, bald
uncle who shoves his enemies into lunatic
asylums. The very same uncle and the very
same che-ild used to flourish in the oolitic period,
and judging from the look of some of their bones
which have been dug up, they were old and stale
and flat even then. There is an unreal, cracked-
pot olang abiut the piece from beginning to end ;
it is not refreshing, and it leaves behind it a dis-
agreeable impression that the author hired a high-
priced idiot assistant to help him in making a
smudge of the whole affair, and that the assistant
earned his exorbitant screw by the effective way
in which he did the job. There axe spots and
blotches of pathos in it h* re and there, but some-
how they look as much out of place es an organ-
grinder in a synagogue, and at times it would
take a black tracker to follow the plot. Carrie
pervades the piece everywhere—if it were not for
that we would feel inclined to turn up the whole
dreary pot of grease and have done with it. She
is an indiarubber blizzard, who washes dishes
when she is off duty and spends the rest of her
time in spanking her uncle’s bald head, turning
somersaults in boy's clothing, sassing her mistress,
singing, dancing, walking off with the gates of
Gaza, and sitting on the top of a telegraph-pole.
As a girl she is a failure, but regarded as a storm
which is calculated to tear the bowels out of a
continent she is an unspeakable success, and she
knows it.
♦ • *
Thebotcher who built this comedy evidently
put in Robert Cobb as an antithesis to the tomboy.
He is a dull bass pirate of murderous and swindling
tendencies, and his customary attitude is strikingly
like that of Cain when he had shoved Abel into a
box and then found that the legs of his slaughtered
brother were sticking out in evidence against him.
He is a bowled-out, born fool from first to last.
Life is a constant duel between him and the war-
like Carrie, who drops from an estimated height
of several hundred feet in order to spoil his
schemes upon her long lost mother. The struggle
would be a terribly unequal one if it were not for
the young lady’s abnormal activity, but she can
hop over an Alpine obstruction which would block
a prize kangaroo, while Cobb is short and grim
and fat, and is incapable of jumping over three-
penn’orth of eggs. The female schemer whom he
calls to his aid is choked by the tomboy after an
appalling struggle, for Carrie is a whole bullock-
team at fighting and a bull dog thrown in, and
when she has got the lady tied up and helpless she
smacks her ears and then makes an ugly rush out
of the top window and, getting on a telegraph post,
retires by special wire. From this moment the
sun of Cobb descends gradually to the horizon,
until in the last act the corpulent and slavish
wretch pans out—a broken, husky, bald, and
hopelessly cracked-up uncle of the meanest de-
scription. The other characters who fill up the
comedy are stacked on top of these two, and if
Ihe tomboy and her uncle were to give way they
would inevitably fall and be dashed to pieces.
They are mostly individuals of small consequence
and not calculated to benefit the brain. The tom-
boy absorbs almost all the interest of the piece,
ehe acts pietty well, she dances much better, and
she sings best of all, but we are not going to en-
danger our immorral soul by more extensive
praise—it is the only soul we have got, and as
most of the Sydney journals have none at all it is
extremely precious. N.B. —The said soul is on
view at The Bulletin office every Friday from
10 to 3. The other members of the company de-
serve more p aise than we have space for in this
issue, but we will crack them up next week, and
trust that the end may justify the means.
## # *
The audience at Sydney Royal Standard
on Saturday night was as thin as a fas'ing man,
and the house looked as if it had been sown with
salt. Most of Mr. Dampier’s patrons were out
howling for the good cause, and striving to save
their beloved country from the fangs of l arkes,
and the few who were present looked anxious and
troubled as they thought of the beer-soaked
block vote which had that day been cast hair
where brains were so much more essential. Rel,
the Romany ” deserved rather better support, but
circumstances were against it, and the desperate
valour of the Chickaleai y Bloke fell fiat on the
disheartened audience. The necessary wicked-
ness is put into the piece by Colonel May (Mr.
Holloway), a rocky sinner who hires a gipsy
band to abduct his young nephew with a view to
securing his fortune. He is an underground artist
of no mean abilities, and works as silently as a
Y M.C. A. bank-thief, when he is charging up a
stolen thousand to Smith’s overdraft ; but he is
stonewalled all through by Mr. Dampier in his
treb’e capacity as Rel, the Romany. Elliot Grey,
and the Chickaleary Bloke. This s*ar combination
pokes the Colonel into a state of red-hot freDzy on
every possible occasion, until the old soldier’s pro-
fanity splits long blue cracks through the atmos-
phere, and his teeth become gritty with chewing
up sour and venomous curses. Ficm the very
first it is evident the Colonel is going to be played
out at an early date.
Through a lot of bye-p’ay and comedy the
chickaleary cne moves steadily on. At last his
plans are complete, and he disguises himself in an
ancient split relic—the pants of an old aquatic
saint who was champion sculler of the world in
the year thingamy b c.— and, forming himself into
a hollow tquare, moves down on the Romany
camp where Colonel May’s boy-nephew is con-
fined. There by a mixture of swindle and violence,
he bowls out the gipsy band, and even succeeds in
collecting a cheque for £5OO sterling, after which
he retires singing :
“ Lord Bateman was a noble lord,
A noble lerd of high degree,
And he determined to go
Abroad, strange countries for to see.’
This is rather poor metre, but then Mr. Dampier
is jubilant and metre is of no account at such a
time. He interviews Colonel May, and that
gentleman soon has cause to feel as if he had been
praying for rain and had got a
quart-pot filled with the answer
slopped down his back. He goe3
forth to earn an honest living as
a burglar, or something, and there
is a general shake up, in the course
of which we learn that almost
everybody has been changed at
nurse and they are all somebody
eh e. A convict who comes in to
gloat overtbe difficulties of this
double-shuttle is, however, speedily
kicked out by a policeman, and all
ends well. The acting is very
good throughout, Mr. Dam pier s
rendering of Elliot Grey being
especially amusing, and with the
exception of Colonel May, who, in
the hands of Mr. Holloway, be-
comes a rocky specimen which re-
quires to be blasted out with
dynamite, there is very little fault
to be found with any of the
characters. The scenery, too, is
attractive, the brick wall in the
last act being in itself a thirg of
joy, and eminently calculated to
improve the mind.
## # #
“ Nell Gwynne,” an alleged
opera which is said to be comic,
now occupies the stage at Sydney
Criterion. It is split up into three
bursts of an elaborately amusing
character, and though the diffi-
culties of following out the plot
are calculated to strain the human
intellect, anyone who does succeed
in tracing all its windings de-
serves to be well repaid for
his trouble. The plot commences
with a duke and an earl running
a pub. on gratis principles and
serving out loads of beer to all
and tundry. They are prepared
to pour the unpaid liquor in kegs
down the throat of every thirsty
yokel who may want it; the duke
runs the shanty, and the carl
dances about in a dirty pinafore
and waits on the local louts. They
draw the line, how'ever at an old
curmudgeon named Weasel, a
pawnbroking miser of mean in-
stincts, until they discover that
he has a pretty niece, and then
they vow eternal friendship to
the hungry goblin with the skunk-
like name, and while he is filling
up with victuals they make love
to the young lady. Somewhere
about here Nell G wynne and Lady
Clare take service as cook and housemaid re-
spectively in the inn, and sliDg hash for the duke
and the earl, and the confusion gets ten times
worse confounded.
We were distracted a little here by a
youthful usurer with a bad cold who sat next to
us. He had been writhing in his seat from the
commencement, but now he said confidently,
“Holy Boses, thigk of all that beer goig for
dothig 1” We comforted him as best we could,
and when we turned to the stage again we found
the duke disguised as a beadle, the earl as a rat-
catcher, the pretty niece as a slavey, the slavey as
the niece, the two ladies attired —the one as a
gipsy, and the other in pants—and all turned loose
in a pawnshop with a tallow-dip scattering grease
over the unredeemed pledges. We couldn’t make
out why they wanted to make such a holy
show of themselves; they seemed to do it out of
pure cussedness, and they continued this fooling
until they had turned the establishment of
the country uncle into a bear-garden, and
sent the proprietor and the beadle to
wander as drivelling lunatics in the forest.
We were not surprised at this result ; 1000
beadles and 750 pawnbrokers might easily be
driven off their 1750 chumps when a lot of mid-
night roysterers start singing ditties in which one
line is as long as a horse and lhe next twice as
long as a horse-race, and though there are a few
good songs in “Nell Gwynne,” they don’t near
make up for the accompanying mass of bosh. A s
regards the music, it is pretty good all through,
but genius is a kind of madness, and we are pre-
pared to testify that the composer was perfectly
sane and was likely to remain so. Miss Emelie
Melville acted well, danced well, and sang mode-
rately—only moderately —as Nell Gwynne, and
Messrs. Armes Beaumont and G. Verdi played
the Duke and the Earl. Mr. Kelly and Mr.
John Forde d d the beadle and the miser, and the
rest of the company did all they knew. The
scenery and the orchestra did the rest.
*# # #
George Darrell’s latest effort, the “New
Rush,” has caught hold at Sydney Opera House.
George himself takes the part of an Australian
bank manager, whose name of Karadoc would
have sounded well as a war-cry for those ancient
Britons who fought against Caesar, each man
armed with a spike, and half an old hair-trunk
for a shield. Karadoc is in difficulties from the
start and wants to sell off his property, pay his
debts, and start fair in a new land. This is really
the one glaring impossibility of the story. Had
George Darrell known a little more of the Austra-
lian banker he would have made him bust his
financial institution by granting overdrafts to
all his creditors, and then steal away as
silently as the cream stfalstothe surface of the
milk, and turn up afterwards disguised as a
priest and give himself away in the last act by
publicly eating meat at a table d’hote on a Friday.
Instead of this he merely retires to the secluded
temple of the public-house and takes a great
square oath—George takes his oath hot with
water—that he will be revenged on the villain
who had tossed him with his double-headed penny
and brought him to destruction. He does embezzle
a little, of course, and he also throws his wife’s
former husband out of the window, but at the
“ New Rush” he acquires enough gold to break
the back of a Bactrian camel, and we forgive him
all the rest, and bow down before the possessor of
so ch wealth.
The scene on the “New Rush” recalls
the good old red-shirt days of Bendigo and Balla-
rat. 1 here is unlimited fighting, and bullets are
always flyiDg—
And scarcely a day there passe3 away without lead in some
body’s brain,
And the cussedest sheep in all the heap is an imp of sin
from Maine.
None of the characters are from Maine, but we
can’t spoil our borrowed rhyme by putting in
Sydney instead. Taking it all round the piece is
a good one, and the hero is a man in every sense
of the word. He evidently washes every day with
brown soap and water, and he keeps his hair cut
short and doesn’t worry himself more than he can
help. He is a little preachy at times, but when
5
€
T
O
- o
nr
0C
K.
at another theatre in the same city, a star actress
is turning somersaults and walking on her hands,
this fault can be readily forgiven. Mr. Darrell
plays his part well from beginning to end, and
Mr. Frank Gerald, as the villain who is after-
wards hanged by a committee of miners, is also
an ornament to a Christian community. Miss
Emma Bronton and Miss Blanche Lewis, as
Karadoc’s wife and sister, are uniformly good,
and with the exception of a dudeish new-chum
and a sheriff’s officer, who deserve to be dropped
into the jaws of some quiet old shark in the
deepest part of the broad Pacific, everything is as
satisfactory as can be expected. The scenery is
very pretty, and things in general seem to work
as smoothly as an eel. If George will only stay
and grow up with the country and never write
anything worse than the “New Rush’’ we are
inclined to think he may die happy after a’l.
“ The Queen of the Turf ” was produced
at Sydney Gaiety on Monday night in the presence
of a silent audience chokeful of derision. The
drama, according to the bill, is by Joseph Hatton
and Jingo Tyrrell, and one of these collaborateui s
—we don’t know which —has a solid right to mur-
der the other in cold blood. Apparently they did
their work by putting in a fact turn about with-
out any reference to each other, and, conse-
quently, one shoved in a rag-baby and the other
followed with a horse, and after this comes a
drunken woman who offers to shout tea and a
bloater. It is just possible that the two authors
knew what they wanted to say, but they left so
much to the imagination that there is a whole
Sabbath Day’s journey between each incident of
their disorganised and chopped-up screed. There
is a wronged wife in the second act, and a landlady
of loose morals who makes some remarks which,
if uttered in a pot-house, would incline us to kick
the speaker into the middle of next week. ' There
is also a Lincolnshire fiat who is losing a fortune
by backing every stark and stiff cab-horse that
runs on the turf. His house is pervaded by the
most hideous Hebrew bailiff on record, a slimy
wretch with a horse’s head cut out of varnished
brown earthenware, and when this party is got
rid of we recur to the injured wife once more.
This time she turns up outside the Horse Guards,
where two plated Babylonish gods are doing
sentry-duty on horseback. Here the afflicted lady
throws away her baby in a moment of frantic ex-
citement, picks her husband’s pocket, and borrow-
ing a bayonet from a sentry, prods the recreant
wretch in the fat part of the ribs. (Applause.)
There is a racing scene with a lady riding
the winning horse, and after this a lobster might
claw his way through the wreck for a whole act
and not get hold of anything but padding, stu-
pidity, and slush. The drama finally winds up
with a burning house, and the villain of the piece
is roasted alive and is brought out nicely done
with the crackling on. The Lincolnshire flat, dis-
daining to enter the building by the open door,
climb 3 up by a rope to a on the opposite
side of the street and hooks himself across by a
beam ; he is such a miserable ass all through that
he probably doein’t know a door when he sees it.
He is re-united to hi 3 sweetheart outside, and the
bad man dies wallowing like a scorched frog in
the gutter. “ The Queen of the Turf” is said to
have been played before some of the largest audi-
ences ever assembled in a theatre, but we are in-
clined to think the theatre must have been doing
temporary service on these occasions as a gaol,
and the piece must have been put on as extra
punishment. As a drama it is ten different kinds
of a fool, and all the ten kinds fringe over and
blend into each other. There are 20 characters in
it, but a feeling of compassion keeps us from
giving particulars of them. The majority de-
served better luck, and we fear they must have
been sent into this job as a judgment for their
past transgressions.
=*= # # #
The tear stood gently in our eye when
last we parted from Miss Nellie Stewart at Sydney
Theatre Royal. Another tear glistened in the
other eye when the sorrowful ceremony was re-
peated at Melbourne Princess's last Friday night.
But this time the anchor really is weighed, and
Nellie has whispered “Farewell”—it may be for
12 months, but it won’t be for ever. A gorgeous
crowd rolled up to assist at the fair lady’s ben.,
for which she elected to play the appropriately
tender role Of Yum-Yum. Many an ashen-cheeked
masher uttered those two little words during the
evening. They popped out involuntarily every
time Nellie pit-a-patted on to the stage. Some
fellows went so far as to drink “Yum-Yum”
between acts, but we didn’t. Gin is the poet’s
inspiration, and we confined ourselves strictly to
that cordial. After three nobblers the divine
frenzy laid hold upon us, and we sangas follows:
Like ajelly, dear Miss Nellie,
Quivers now the stricken bard—
Jonah in the fish’s interior
Never quivered half so hard ;
Goddess peerless, dark and cheerless
Seems existence for the poet
(Skittleless, as ’twere, and beerless):
We love—but you will never know it;
So be you fearless, happy, tearless—
While you’re young you ought to go it.
Just previous to this Miss Stewart had been pre
sented with a diamond bracelet by the members
of the company, and glorified in some lines written
by Garnet Wa’ch and read out in Woodfleld’s best
light tenor style. Comparing those lines with our
own we feel convinced thatG.W. never wrote ’em
on gin. There was a kind of cold-tea flavour
about them. Nellie made a sweet little speech in
reply, saying that she would return in 12 months
if the Triumvirate cared to take her back. With
the sobs and cheers of the “ brilliant assemblage ”
ringing in our ears, we rushed forth into the dark
night and wept bitterly.
*# * *
Minnie Palmer has sent to Mr. Stanley,
who alleges that he behaved heroically in rescu-
ing Miss Hicks, a cheque for £2O and a diamond-
ring. However, Mr. Stanley mustn't necessarily
take this as an undiluted compliment. He isn’t
the first person by a whole jugfull who has un-
wittingly acted as sandwich-man for the lovely
wife of “ Yours right merrily, John Rogers.”
** * *
The Triumvirate’s comic opera season at
Melbourne Princess’s closes on the 18th, and Mr.
Alfred Cellier is off to London to bring out his new
opera at the Gaiety Theatre.
-y- y. y. y.
■7V* “TT TvF
It is a very erroneous impression that a
bald head denotes that the owner has a front seat
at all the leg-shows. It is simply a sign that h ! s
wife is aware of the fact.
#* * #
One George Washington writing to* the
Straits Times (Singapore) complains that M.
Remenyi “takes too many liberties with his
score.” George seems to be down on Edouard, for
he fills three quarters of a column with disparag-
ing remarks.
** * *
Here is a peculiar statement from the
London Echo cf December 21:—“Of Mr. Alfred
Cellier’s music, it was pointed ont at the time that
it had been heard in London some years before as
the setting of a comic opera called ‘ NellGwynne.’ ’
Now are there two “ Nell Gwynnes ? ” We
sincerely hope not. Or is the statement that
Planquette is responsible for the opera of that
name playing in Sydney at present, a mistake !
#* * *
Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels are running their
variety show with success at Sydney Academy.
There are a few new songs and dances this week,"
and, regarded as an affair which keeps the father
of a family out of the public-house and yet
doesn’t wear his brain to rags, this entertainment
deserves a certain amount of prosperity.
## * #
Mr. James Pain, the fireworkist, seems to
be running a pretty good show in the Sydney
Domain, but whether his show be good or bad his
action in using the people’s recreation ground for
private purposes is an injury and injustice to the
public. Our objections to Mr. Pain’s pot of blazes
are not based on any consideration for theatrical
interests, but the usurpation, even for a moment
of public property establishes a precedent on the
strength of w'hich Parkes and Co. one day, when
they abolish ad valorem duties and come to the end
of their tether in selling country lands, may absorb
the whole Domain for revenue purposes. The
best protest which the residents of Sydney can
make is to stay away and only patronise the pre-
sent firework artist when he moves to other
quarters.
*# # *
The irrepressible Bill Holloway has
been doing a good season of Shakespeare at
Hobart (Tasmania). Miss Essie Jenyns has
proved an immense attraction, especialiy in the
part of Beatrice, and Miss Alice Deorwyn has
also struck ile on a liberal scale. These two
ladies have done a lot to hold Bill up.
** # #
Fryer’s Circus will probably open on Bel-
more Park, Sydney, on the 19th. The baby-ele-
phant is in good health.
## # #
It is reported that George Darrell’s son
and heir is to have four godfathers, and will be
christened Rupert Rignold Williamson Garner
Musgrove Darrell. We don’t know what anybody
wants to take sueh a brutal revenge on an infant
for.
** # *
At Auckland (N.Z.), a nervous old female
is trying to get the authorities to suppress the
cannon business in the “ Widow O’Brien.”
** * *
“One of the tradesmen” writes to us
complaining that a good many managers of thea-
trical companies have short memories and leave
their printing bills unpaid. Cbes'nut!


Pepper
Salt
Among the painful subjects of reflectio
■which cloud our otherwise cheerful lives, is th
mournful fact that no monument marks the las
restiDg-p’ace of the brilliant but ill-fated geniu
who invented and perfected the present style
patent-m c dicine advertisement. It is nothiD
short of a national disgrace to find that we trea
with such criminal neglect the memory of the in
tellectual giaLt who shook the world with h
solemn warning, “Look into your heart, youn
man, and see if you don’t feel well,” or charmec
our ears with the welcome words, “ One bottl
does it. Sour stomach, kidney disorders, all fl
before the Great Boshbosh Elixir like chaff befor
the wind.” However, the Hon. Dan C.’Conno
ha 3 now taken the matter in hand, in conjunctio
with his search after the unhonoured grave of th
great benefactor who first landed a hutdy-gurd
on Australian shores; and when he succeeds i
his praiseworthy labours it is to be hoped ther
will be a concerted movement made to relieve u
from the world-wide odium of our inexcusab]
neglec*-. The “Jaynil” evidently wishes to secui
the good opinion of the moighty dead, and if the
have any gratitude left they will on all occasion
give h ; m a solid v,!e in return.
* * *
“ Australia, by Henry Ha)loran,C. M.G.,” i
the touching title of a sweet little pomelet pub
lished in the Evening Noose on the 99th anniver
sary of N.tS.W. There are seven verses of it, an
it is pretty, but not crazily so. The following i
the most expressive stanza of the seven, thougl
they all express something or other :
1 lie eagles and the tricolor,
The Russian and the Austrian, where
1 he “ sick man ” sundered staggers o’er —
And Gritain strikes without despair.
She has our prayers : she has our aid.
We then shall kaow to wield the blade
Millions jf men, and undismayed.
A poem like that doesn't require senee. It only
wants rhyme and yell, and it can even do withou
the rhyme.
“ We then shall know to wield the blade ”
has an Imperial ring about it, but why we are to
wdeld it, ar d whom we are to stick the blade into
are points that are left entirely to the imagination
The man who piled up
This comprehensive spatter
Of occu t suitences outgiown
From idiotic blatter
might also explain what business it is of ours
though
“ The sick man sundared staggers o’er.”
If he is “ sundered ” it is no wonder he staggers—
a Kanaka would do the same. He must be as
tough as a horse or he would be past all stagger
ing. But are we to wield the blade to chop up
the poor wretch in a fresh place ? Are we to hash
up his already mangled carcase, and hit the poor
beggar when he is down, at the bidd ng of some
milk-and-waiter heifer without either sense or
grammar, or are we to spend £100,000,000 in
damaging these people vaguely described as
“ The Russian and the Austrian, where”
though they never did us any harm ? Or—well,
we are out of conjectures. What in thunder is the
poem about after all ?
* * *
HIS LAST REQUEST.
The last word that he uttered, ere he sank to
dreamless night.
And the waters of oblivion rolled darkly o’er his
head,
To his friend, were “Don’t forget me—but, for
God’s sake, do not write
Any Town and Kuntry poetry about me when
I’m dead.”
The good old Presbyterians of Dunedin
(N.Z.) have resolved to “secesh.” They have got
their consciences trimmed and regulated like their
old hereditary corns, and they have concluded
that they can’t endure hymns and organs any
longer. They want to get back to the blank prose
of those blessed psalms that sound like jogged
hunks of sorrow set to a tune that is half raven
and half Thomas cat—and a very sick and wailing
Thomas cat at that, and they complain that
preachers now-a-days talk of Burns and Carlyle,
while Moses is slurred over, and Jehu, the son of
Nimshi, Jeshuron who waxed fat and kicked,
Jehosaphat, and Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz are
dropped altogether. They want, too, to get back
to the good old theories about original s'n and
predestination, they object to the new-fangled
parsons who try to draw r the teeth of Satan and
break the legs of Gehenna, and not for an ocean
o’ whusky will they give up the consoling doctrine
that lots of people are sent into this world for the
express purpose of being shrivelled up in the next
whether they will or not. Consequently this
faithful handful has “ seceshed,” and are now
lifting up their testimony on pure principles
that are warranted to wash.
* * *
“ What rejoicing ’mongst the angels,
What a burst of mu3ic rare,
As they watch the tiny stranger
Toddling up the golden stair.”
That funny little verse is not clipped from a comic
journal, or selected from a nigger song-book. We
found it in the obituary columns of the Age, and,
as a family man, must sound a note of warning—
Only fancy ! if the kiddy
Toppled down through feeling giddy 1 —
Wouldn’t mamma moan !
Can’t the angels see the danger
Of letting such a tiny stranger
Toddle up alone ?
* * *
The mining boom which has kept things
so lively for the last 12 months has eat down to
blow its nose and take a rest. Kimberley is now
only useful as a peg to hang stacks of curses on
to, and the veteran Kimberley miner is reduced
to a homeless condition and loafs hungrily round
on doorsteps swearing at every man, woman,
child and deg that passes. Teetulpa proves to be
about the usual thing—a dusty fever-den, where a
man gets a ten pennyweight nugget one day and
then is doubled up and screaming with the colic
for the rest of the month ; there are 16 whirlwinds
to the square mile, and a cup of clean water is as
hard to And as a crowned gorilla. The Big Bay
(M.Z.) goldfield has been abandoned, and the
whole takings of the deluded gaDg of prospectors
hardly paid hospital expenses for a companion who
had stood too near the edge of a precipice and then
stepped on nothing in particular and flopped to the
bottom. Another little boom was started in the
same colony—an old, hard-headed genius with a
pimpled nose and a wooden leg having discovered
that the vast Pacific was auriferous, and was per-
petually throwing up slabs and chunks of gold on
the beach, and a dozen parties went out to lay up
treasure where moth and rust do corrupt. The
sand, however, only went two stove-in hats and
an oyster to the ton, except at one place, where
promising indications were struck. These, how-
ever, proved to he based entirely on a set of false
teeth with gold fixings, which had been washed
out of the jaw of a man who was drowned years
ago in the Tararua, and the claim was therefore
voted to be patchy and was abandoned in disgust.
Further south the assay showed a steady average of
one jam-tin and two degraied fools to the square
mile, and the expedition in despair passed two
cheques on a publican and got home by bullcck-
dray upon the proceeds.
Pious Jimmy Balfour, M.L.C., laid the
foundation-stone of a new Primitive Methodist
Church at Burwood (Vic.), the other day. Those
who came to see him perform this solemn cere-
mony we e allowed to come forward and lay a
brick in the building on their own account- after
paying 10s. for the privilege. Their immediate
ancestors probably got about that much for doing
the same thing from morn to dewy eve, and then
didn’t think they were much better than other
common people. This fad of paying to be allowed
to do what their fathers were paid for doing, is an
interesting illustration of the law of reversion to
type. Some day in the glittering years to come
the noble Book of Five Dock, head of the great
fanuly of Bennett, may give a compositor a purse
of sovereigns—we mean half-pence—to lend him
his case to set up an article for the Town and
Kuntry —cdrefully, of course, deducting the
amount from the compositor’s wage's at the end of
TOO MUCH OF AN UNDERTAKING.
PEDESTRIAN: “I SAY, DOC., ARE YOU GOING TO THE HOSPITAL?”
DOCTOR SKIN[?]MALIVO: “YES.”
PED.: “WELL, I AM GOING THAT WAY, TOO-WILL YOU GIVE ME A LIFT?”
DOCTOR S.: “WHY, CERT’NLY. JUMP IN.
PED. : WELL, THEN, JUST WAIT A MINUTE TILL I RUN ROUND THE CORNER
AND GET A COFFIN THAT I WANT TO TAKE WITH ME.”
DOCTOR S.: “I'LL SEE YOU FIRST!” (Drives off in great [?]dg[?]n).
the week. If we bad been at the ceremony pre-
sided over by the honourable and pious Jimmy we
would have given no half-sovereign to be per-
mitted to lay a brick in the budding, but we would
have cheerfully given five bob for the privilege of
throwing with impunity even ha 1 / a brick at his
pious head.
“ S. B. Bailey,” of Manly, writing to the
Evening Noose, raises once more the old ques-
tion of providing for Sydney yet another
image of “Her Most Gracious Majesty
the Queen.” Gentlemen who write like
S. B. Bailey generally give this title in full—it is
as gratifying as the sound of “ that blessed word
Mesopotamia.” Bailey doesn’t state, however, in
what degree the community or the Queen would
be benefited by the erection of another stony
scarecrow in Sydney—a city which is already
overrun with vacant, half-baked figureheads that
look as if they had been carved out by a naked
artist with a cheese-knife and a club ; nor does he
stixte why, being a man and not a liyeena or a
chimpanzee, he can reconcile it to his conscience
to fool away thousands on a dead block of stone,
which, when finished, will he of much less prac-
tical value than a live or a dead baby-pig, while
scores of his fellow-creatures in the same city
a-e unemployed, hungry, and homeless. Bailey
winds up by saying :
“ It has been a disgrace to the colony that the pedestal at i
the top of King-street should have remained so long un- ;
crowned. This being the jubilee year of the reign of her j
Majesty, it would be a fitting opportunity to have a grand
demonstration and an unveilling of a noble statue of our
Queen.”
We imagine, however, that the disgrace will be
piled up a little higher if sane men are goiDg to
squander money on a bricky goblin erected in
honour of a person who has done nothing but
waste other people’s money for 50 years, and bow
down before this image after the fashion of the i
cat-worshippers cf ancient Egypt.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Persons who aspire to be Ministers of the
Crown shouldn’t write private letters—to girls.
Lord Carington is to be invited to open
the annual hog-display at the Maclcay (N.S.W.)
It’ll amuse the poor dear hogs so much, you
know.
Plain Bill has resolved to follow Caring-
ton’s example, and turn horsey. He has become
proprietor of a yearliDg which he ha? christened
Nuncio —Papal Nuncio, we presume.
Caffrey, the Great Barrier murderer, “ has
read hi* Bible daily since childhood.” The first
half of the Old Testament was no doubt his
especial favourite. He would appear to have
quite filled himself up with the atrocities of King
Uavid.
There are at this end of the world thou-
sands of men and women who, though they only
knew “Dagonet” through his ballads, regard him
as a personal friend. They will, therefore, be
sorry to hear that his wife has just died “after a
lingering illness which made death a happy re-
lease to her.”
In that “ charming and interesting little
volume ” (we are indebted for this expression to
the disinterested Sydney E. News), “Vignettes
of Travel, by Mr 3. Alfred Bennett,” we read :
“ The Neapolitans, if not a p .rticularly cleanly race,
seem very indus Turns. Without their donkeys I do not
know what they would do.”
Justso. What would the Nooze do without its
donkeys ?
The Duke of Argyle, father of the Marquis
of Lome and of Lord Colin-Campbell, is a small
man with a big head and the face of a mud-
carter. He has a mass of bu3by white hair, his
shirt is always frayed at the collar, he invariably
wears a rusty frock coat, and his pants are five
inches too short Regarding the latter, a legend
has grown up that be goes in 1 artnership with
another nobleman—a perfect dwarf —and that as
the latter pays two-thirds of the bill, he gets the
measurements done on his own basis ar d enjoys the
first three months’ wear of the garments. If the
lluke is measured himself, then on the strength of
these pants he ought to lynch his tailor,
A writer to the Brisbane Courier, giving
an account of the late Chief Justice Giblin’s early
life, comments upon the great good he did as a
Sunday-school teacher, and lays much stress upon
the fact that he never went to a theatre or on to a
racecourse in his life which, unhappily, only ex-
tended to his 46th year,
Mortimer Franklyn is in London, freezing
on to the Prince of Wales upon the Imperil
Feneration ticket ! Mortimer is about to publish
a book showing that Albert Edward's scheme is
the right one. Perhaps someone will kindly for-
ward to Tummy, ere it is too late, a report of
Moi timer a cross-examination in insolvency ?
English journals notice as an astonishing
f^u!^, 1 ! Clergymen who have die 3 recently
totalled Jl5 years, their average age being 76
years. We don’t wonder a bit at this. The man
who has his little eight meals a day always cer-
tain, and gets a couple of thousand a year for
doing nothing is a despicable imbecile to die
before he has to.
In the present N.S.W. general elections,
two persons who are possessed of neither Univer-
sity degree nor legal medical qualification are
gn en by the Sydney daily press the title of “ Doc-
tor. Attention has already been frequently
directed to this kind of thing, /vhich, as it cannot
J f prcceed from journalistic dishonesty must
proceed from reportorial ignorance.
MU 11 ’ t! ' e Timiiru poisoner, lias been sen-
faw nM° r 6at f h f ° r r. hC SlaUghter of hi » father-in-
old Cain. His lawyer strongly
urged that in the first place Cain wa3 not poi-
soned, and in the second that if he was Hall had
no hand in it, but the evidence oh the other aide
was circumstantially strong, and it was generally
felt that Hall needed hanging, anyhow. He was
asked, as usual, if he had anything to say, but he
replied with Solomonic witdoni that he didn't see
how anything he might have to say would alter the
result However, Mr. Hall still has a strong last
card to play—a point bearing on the alleged im-
proper reception by the judge of certain evidence
given at prisoner's first trial having been reserved
in his favour.
Mr. J. Moriarty thinks Mr. B. R. Wise is
“ the highest, and best representative of Aus-
tralia” (v'de Sydney DT. of February f>). Tall
talk this, especially when one reads the Moriarty’s
grounds for his belief. Here they ate :—“ At his
University, president of the Oxford Unitn :
in the athletic world, winner of the inter-univer-
sity mile ; in Sydney, a position at the bar of the
first rank.” Great Cu-jar! Only think of the
kudos involved in the presidentship of a lads’
derating society and in the winning of a mile
race ! There are qualifications for a representa-
tive ! With regard to Mr. Moriarty’s third dig,.
we confers we don't quite follow him. What
does he mean by " the bar of the fir.-t rank i "
We shrewdly suspect that what he intended to
say was “ position of the first rank at the bar.”
Lawyers do make little slips sometimes, begorra
Mr. Joe Bosisto—with the despised
C.M G. bauble hidden away in his hat —has re-
turned to Melbourne. In strictest confidence
Joseph has informed his friends and admirers that
Sir Ih iI ip Ojvcn told him the Prince of Wales
declared that the Queen has often remarked that
she is continually thinking of Joseph and the
knighthood he didn't get when treacle was served
out to the colonies. Yes, unless a general Euro-
pean war calls the royal mind away from the sub-
ject, Sir J. Bosisto will soon be an accomplished
flesh and blood fact. And—in the name of Sir
Pertinax Macsycophant!—who better deserves to
take equal rank with Sam. Wilson and Graham
Beiry, not to mention the names of many great
departed ? Joseph s speech at the inevitable fare-
well banquet in London ought to fetch him a
dcokdom if (here is room fer gratitude in royal
breasts. Read this extract from Joseph's parting
prescription “The exhibition taught the people
of England that there were people belonging to
the Empire, faraway beyond the teas, far from
old England (gcb3 and hiccups), who could bring
corn and wine and oil, and lay them at the feet
of Her Majesty the Queen.” Corn and wine and
oil, forsooth 1 It’s grovel they lay at Victoria’s
tootsicums.
Let us not speak irreverently of beer.
The other day Sir Edward Cecil Guinness gave
his manager a cheque for £217,000. We venture
to state that (if sueh a testimonal were accept-
able) the whole of Christendom might be can-
vassed without a similar sum being raised for the
Twelve Apostles. The world is Pagan still, as far
as the worship of Bacchus is concerned.
Some months ago a N. S. W. railway official
was found to have a weakness in the spinal
column of his ledger to the extent of £5OO, and an
Inspector was sent from Sydney to prescribe for
him On the Inspector's arrival the money was
made up by a few of the crooked parly's friends,
but notwithstanding this (he Inspector insisted
upon a warrant being taken out for him. Whether
this was done, orlnot, we can't say, but certain it
is l hat the defaulting official (who, by the way,
was one of Adith O’Gorman’s chief supporters,
and a shining light in the lccal Orange Lodge) has
not been heard of since. Poss.bly he may
be chained in a convent cell from which
there is no escape, as there was in Adith’s time.
Again, some months ago, a well-connected'
Northern poi t and telegraph-master was pounced
on by the inspector of the P.O. havings Bank, and l
found to be £2O short. While tte inspector was
tettirg up tile figures, however, the wily P.M..
slipped out, borrowed the cash, paid it in, and all
went well until the obliging lender of the £2O,
finding how matters stood, rushed round and de-’
manded his cheque hack from the inspector, who,
accordingly returned it, and scon afterwards
started for Sydney, taking the defaulting P.M.
with him. After a fortnight's sojourn in the
metropolis, the latter returned urder suspension,
but in a month he was reinstated. This made the
fovrlh time he had got himself into trouble and
pulled through, and, straDge to Eay, he, al o, is a
distinguished member of an Orange Ledge.
A N.S.W. syndicate, who are desirous of
making an immense fortune by getting a foreign
(what treason is this?)—syndicate to relieve
them of the possession of a large blcck of land
supposed to contain extensive seams of coal—the
e-timated value of the property being several
times the amount which the unselfish owners are
prepared to accept for it - received a nasty jar re-
cently. They assembled in the private office of a
certain bank-mana 3 er to meet by appointment a
well-known authority on ceal-mining. The
managing director exp’ained to the expert that
the owners of the land were desirous of se'ling it
to English capitalists, and that a necessary preli-
minary w-as l hat the latter should have an assur-
ance of the genuineness of the affair in the shape
of a repoit lrom (with emphasis) “a recognised
and respected expert,” and, added he, “If you are
prepared to furnish us with a report yon may
leave the question of remnneration for your
trouble to our discretion.” The expert answered :
“ I have made it a rule of my professional life to
insist on definite terms, which must be strictly
adhered to irrespective of the nature of the report
which I may furnish.” “Oh, you may rest
assured that we will treat you liberally ” replied!
the managing director. “What would you con-
sider a liberal fee V asked the expert. The reply
IcouJn V, as this is a big concern, we will say
£oooo The expert, taking up his hat and stick
arose from his seat, and with a self-satisfied ex-
pression of countenance which produced a similar
expression on the countenances of the members of
the syndicate, who thought that the “little
game” had worked, said: “Gentlemen, I ac-
knowledge that your libeialit.y ij satisfactory but
I must inform you that I have been asked by the
agent of certain English capitalists to supply a
confidential report on this self-same property, and
1 I‘Jink lhat L shall well earn my fee of fifty
guineas, as well as the gratitude of the English
capitalists, by at once sending the following cable-
gram : Grab all-syndicate offered me bribe of
five thousand pounds.’ And now. gentlemen T
must bid you good-morning! ” What happened
m the room after that is known only to those who
were present, but Mrs. O'Dooian, the charwoman
is convinced from the quantity of hair which she
bad to sweep up in the morning, and the topsy-
turvy condition of the furniture and papers, that
another of them there ’orrible houtrages on a
poor, dennceless, virtuous woman must have been
committed.” It is needless to say that the expert
was neither an M.P., nor a Sydney alderman, nor
a churchwarden, nor a religious editor.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Corny t> judgment—the Jaynil Daniel.
The New South Wales G.O.M. Parkes—
the “Great Old Micawber.”
“ Elevated to a Ministerial position,” has
now acquired a double meaning in N.S.W.
“ Parkes, the man with the clean record.”
—Sydney D.T. Let us see. Wasn’t the plain-
tiffs name Webb 1
Ninian Melville threatens next Saturday
night at Wallsend to throw a little light on a cer-
tain Parkesianly-protected industry at Redfern.
Mudgec Taylor, should he be re-elected
to the N.S.W. Assembly, will piess his motion
censuring Governor Carington for his action in
the Mount Rennie case.
Mr. Want declares for Freetrade and Sir
Henry Parkes. This is quite natural. The
hungry glare of Want and misery are the symbols
of Freetrade everywhere.
The Sydney D.T. speaks of Mr. T. Garrett
as “ that conspicuously able advocate.” “ Advo-
cate” is indeed the word for thatexceed : rgly clever
politician —the champion of any cause vhich
happens to be in the ascendant.
“ You ask me if lam a Freetrader ? You
might as well aek if I am a candidate V was a
prominent line on the M’Million’s posters. “ Might
as well ask me if I am an Importer,” would have
been a much more conclusive reply.
From the value of the votes given by
corpses at the recent Sydney elections, it is evi-
dent that well-stocked graveyards will be good
paying propert es in the immediate future. “ Dead
mean tell no tales,” but they are demons at
plumping.
The Brisbane newspaper, run by a lot of
Wesleyan parsons who clamoured for the death-
sentence to be carried out upon the Mount RenDie
lads, is now repenting somewhat, and calls
for an enquiry into a recent case of flogging at
Brisbane Gaol.
The British, it is cabled, have bribed the
chief priest of Buimah to me his influence on
their behalf. Fuither, they have kirdly promised
not to murder any “ietel ” who surrenders before
the 16th inst. The Pible is indeed the “Secret cf
England's greatness. ’
We notice that Mr. B. R. Wise's denial of
the allegation t hat £25,0C0 had been subscribed by
the Calico Jemmy party for the N.S. W. geneial
election, is headed, “An Impudent and Menda-
cious statement V We don’t like to see a men
give himself away in this fashion.
Mr. Andrew Lysagbt, who has a right
estimate of the value of £4O, does not intend to
aspire to the representation of Illawarra in the
next Parliament If electors were gra’eful they
would remember that Mr. Lysaght performed one
commendable action during last session—he as-
saulted Fred. Gibbes.
The miners of Northumberland, N.S.W.,
are respectfully requested to vote for the nomi-
nees of Parkes, the person who, when proprietor
of The Empire, imported cheap nigger com-
positors -from India for the purpose of grinding
down his whi’e type-setters. “Freetrade is the
Brotherhood of Labour.”
More thieving and bloodshed ahead. “It
is a fatal mistake to overlook the importance of
Bhamo a 3 our first outpost towards China,” says
the London Daily News. This means, we pre-
sume, that when Burmah is fairly conquered the
British Jingoes want to conquer China also.
We’ll back Hi Yah against Wolseley.
For 'good, plain, shuddering ignorance
commend us to the quarterly Trade Review
published in London. That bill-broking log tells
how Sir Julius Vogel, in his last financial state-
ment, showed N.S.W. to have a surplus of £37,000,
and evidently never dreams that the eminent
financier is located anywhere else than at Sj dney.
The banquet given to Sir Sam. Griffith,
the Queensland Premier, the other night, was
nearly a failure for the want of a vice-chairman.
However, one turned up, and the one to whom
Sir Sam. to a great extent owes his position —the
writer of the pamphlet against Sir Thomas
MTlwraith’s transcontinental railway scheme —R.
Newton.
It is reported that the Hawaiian Govern-
ment intend to purchase an armed cruiser, and
“ are determined to adopt an active policy in the
South Pacific.” Ya-a-s ! Some day a hollowed-
out Kanaka log will loom up in Sydney harbour,
and then the city will be hashed up small and
sown with salt, and we won’t be able to tell t’other
from which.
Concerning the Mount Rennie convicts,
London Figaro sagaciously observes : “As penal
servitude would have met the case it is a pity
that the death penalty, to which many object for
various reasons, was imposed.” Heaven help the
reputation of the “ convict colony ” abroad when
the full history of that quadruple strangling
bungle is published.
Garrard says he will not vote for Parkes
on the abolition of the ad valorem duties, because
he thinks they have done a little good, but if a
motion based on this question is used as a means
to oust Parkos, then he will vote against the
motion. Query: What does Garrard mean to
vote for, when he is going to vote against both
sides of the question ?
The floating of coal-mine companies is
about played out in Brisbane, and gold has come
to the rescue. The members for North Brisbane
are to be asked to bring in a Bill next session
whereby men in big positions who lend their
names as provisional directors to assist to get off
bogus companies, will be held liable for all losses
made by unsuspecting investors.
George Reid, barristor-at-law, will, they
say, stump Northumberland constituency in the
interests of the Freetrade candidate. Now, if a
miner fell ill, anybody, even his political represen-
tative, could physic him and be paid for it. But
if a criminal charge were brought against a miner
and that miner wanted (say) Ninian Melville or
T ohn Osborne to defend h'm at the Bar, neither of
those gentlemen would be allowed to appear in
court, as neither of them is a barrister. The law,
in short, is a protected profession, yet G. H Reid
professes to be a Freetrader.
“This ’ere eddication is not what it’s
cracked up to be,” sa-'d the oldest inhabitant
thoughtfully. “ I never knew a manin this district
as had got any eddication at all ever to be a J.P.,
or a horlderman, let alone a member of Parlia-
ment.” An d he toddled off wearily to see if the
Im Pay who kept the corner pub. would stand to
him for another quart of stringy.
By this time next year, observes Reynolds,
if England is to be politely dragooned into cele-
brating the fiftieth anniversary of the Queen’s
reigo, it is very probable that people will have
been disgusted. It any Englishman or English-
SCENE AT A RECENT SHIPWRECK. THTS COMES OF MANNING LIFE-BOATS WITH AMATEUR
CREWS.
woman wishes to congratulate the monarch upon
having lived a long life, and on the possession of
a number of very negative virtues, they are per-
fectly at liberty to do so. To Russianize our
institutions, however, and order fetes and public
rejoicings to municipal bodies, or those holding
for a time municipal office, is a very foolish pro-
cedure
When it comes to. a question of Arctic
Pole coolness, Angus Kiameron deserves to be
ranked with the heroes of Marathon, Thermopylae
and Rorke’s Drift. In his address just put before
the Kiama electors he says: “My opinions are so
well known to you by my recent utterances, that
it is unnecessary to recapitulate them here.”
Janus! “ Hello, Weale—didn’t I bluff ’em, hey ? ”
The Queen’s speech at the opening of
Parliament was a little duller and more remote
from the truth than usual if such a thing were
possible. Foreign relations, her Majesty asserts,
are friendly—that is to say, she is on good terms
with the baby King of Spaio, and Battenberg
keep 3 quiet for fear of being sent back home to
live on his old princely screw of 30s. a week. She
also believes that things will quiet down in Bul-
garia, but she omits to give the joyful date. There
is an allusion to the “gratifying ” state of things
In Egypt—which is about as reasonable as to re-
port an iceberg in Sheol, and next comes the
statement that the condition of Burmah has Im-
proved—a remark which embodies a lie pure and
simple—not a very broad lie, but the longest,
thinnest one you ever saw. Ireland is to have
the “ serious attention of Parliament,” England
and Scotland are to have a Local Government
Bill, and other people are to have all they can get
hold of.
A bloated American monster has been
caught trying to ship Chinese idiots to Australia
He had about 100 in hand in all stages of empty
drivel, and he had taken a contract to get rid of
them. Some were dangerous and went about
looking for axes and other implements of
slaughter, and others were so incapable that they
couldn’t even be trusted to blow their own Chinese
noses.
At every East Sydney Election there is an
idol. This time the East Sydney idol, the political
saviour of N.S.W., was Mr. M’Millan. From all
we had heard of Mr. M’Millan we expected to
find him[a good speaker of the logical Scotch order.
But Mr. M’Millan is and we are afraid ever will
be an oratorical failure. If Instead of being a
rich importer he were a labour candidate he would
be pronounced a mere “ spouter.” Mr. Mae Million
—the truth must be told—“ blathers. ’
At the present time 37,000 British troops
in Burmah “ suppressing the dacoits.” As “ da-
coits ” are commonly represented as beiDg mis-
guided men who have foolishly rebelled against
their King, whose resignation the English have
just accepted, it is fair to suppose that pacifica-
tion will now progress rapidly ; but it Is rather
curious that the Burmese, who were said to he
wearing out their knee-caps praying for annexa-
tion by Britain, should require nea-ly one-fifth of
the entire British and native army in India to
say an appropriate “ Amen” to that supplication.
We have received a circular signed by
“J. Forbes Watson,” who seems to have some
connection with the new Imperial Institute in
London, in which he asks us to “ withhold our
comments until we receive a copy of a report on
the subject,’ which he has “ forwarded for sub-
mission to the Queen and also to the Prince of
Wales.” As the repo-t is announced to follow
two days later it was hardly worth while sending
such an elaborate apology so far, but perhaps
J. Forbes Watson wanted to show us that he was
on speaking terms with the Queen and Wales.
This is on a par with the rest of the affair, which
is a grovelling political fraud, a miserable, con-
temptible, lying’, leather-headed social swindle—a j
sham got up by professional bootlickers. But,
however much we dislike the scheme, we will
reserve all adverse comment until Wales has
finished with the report, and after that we will
express our feelings.
Mr. F. D. Badgery, one of the candidates
for Argyle, thus explains what, by a gilded para-
ble, he calls his ‘ ‘ principles ”: —
“ He came forward as a supporter of Sir Henry Parkes,
whose policy wis strictly Freetrade. Personally he was in
favour of a duty on grain and farm produce, and the reten-
tion of the present Customs duties; bus rather than see the
present Ministry ousted he would forego his adherence to
Badgery must be a valuable man. There are not
j many even among ParkeB’ driven bullocks, who
will openly acknowledge that they are prepared to
swallow their principles whole and vote against all
their own convictions at another man’s bidding.
A fair and square little mill, morning v.
evening papers, is now going on in Sydney, the
I row centreing round the all-important question as
to when the Southern mail train shall start. Mr.
Lyne, the ex-Minister for Works, held out golden
hope to the matutinal journals by arranging that
the hour should be 7 a.m., but Mr. Sutherland, on
acceding to office, decided to adhere to the present
hour of 9 p.m. It is anotablefactthat the Herald
and Telegraph regard Mr. Lyne's proposal as
being little less than sublime, while the News
holds it to be almost an inspiration of the Evil One.
It is notable a so that the News has always given
strong support to Mr. Sutherland in politics.
From the Nooze :—■
Oil'fLo SmUI. wishes us to say that the statement
tt Y 1 11 attend at the Glebe and speak in support of Mr
w - H -. L - Bailey (of the Sunday News) is quite un-
authorised.
A little while ago the Neo Liberal party in N.S. W.
was supposed to consist of Parkes and Bailey, but
now, when the latter goes round and gives notice
that Parkes is going to speak at his meeting, the
long-haired, ever-ungrateful old man from Parra-
matta follows on his track and contradicts him.
From this we presume Bailey has been kicked
out and that the party now consists of Parkes
alone,
Politics in N. S. W. are demoralising. They
are bad for the manners and injurious to the
innards, and they are calculated to fit a man only
for the retail fish-trade. G. H, Reid, for example,
used to be a model of suavity, and in the old days
his eye-glass beamed with the mild radiance of the
harvest moon. His utterance was as smooth as a
greased eel, and even his bitterest enemy never
hinted that he could bawl and shout and stamp.
George, however, after a long ciurse of politics
was again a candidate last week, and when we
came across him oratiDg in a back lane off William-
street the other night we were shocked at the
Change. His tones embodied two dog-fights, a
pig under a gate, and a burglar trampling on a
policeman. There was a cataract of cats in his
larynx, and a bull-pup chawing the ear off a full
grown swine in his bronchial tubes, and downin the
recesses of his throat a husky falsetto pawnbroker
seemed to be arguing with a dude about his over
due bill. George had a cocky and desperate a.-
pect too. He even whispered in a roar, and when
he spoke loud it made us think of an earthquake.
Evidently he is in a fair way for the Premiership,
but we would put it to him as a man andabrother
whether the old toddling chubby little
cherub, who hadn t an enemy in the world, wasn't
happier by far than the present husky Gorgon who
wears dear old George Reid’s clothes, and yet
doesn’t seem to be him.
A little while ago a man was found in the
bush near Cooma (N.S.W.) spread out in a negli-
gent, devil-may-care attitude, with a peacefu
smile on his features and a gun in his hand. TI e
horse who writes up these little incidents for the
Cooma Express, fixes him thus :
" By the position of the body, which was lyin» on its side
with blankets spread out for a bed and haif a billy of t< a
close to a fire, the tea and sugar-bags hung up on a bush aril
an open book lying alongside the bidy precludes the’idia
that the man shot himself intentionally—more likely he w s
looking d >wn the barrel of the gun and dozed off to sleeD
because the bullet entered the head just above the eye at d
came out again in the forehead though resulting in death ’
we want a map of that man. If the bullet went
in at his eye and came out at his forehead we
would like to know where his forehead was and
also where In all the land of Goshen was his eye ?
Evidently they were on opposite sides of his head,
but if the eye was behind, this overtaxed nation
wants to know how on earth the departed could
stoop to look at a worm, and if it wai his fore-
head that overhung his heels surely the scowl of
his back hair must have drawn somebody’s atten-
tion before he had time to grow up. Further
more, we are anxious to hear something about his
other eje, and any inf rmation about his ears ai d
'he way he wore his mouth in the middle of his
back will be thankfully accepted.
The poor old Argus seems to be dropping
further and farther behind the times. Its politics
are mediaeval, and the jokes which occasionally
creep into its musty columns belong to a buried
past. The literary Van Winkle who iansacks h'S
bewillered brain for “Linton correspondence”
. recently let the world into some “secrets” that
Noah imparted to Shem, Ham, and Japhet in the
pre-rainbow period. With a simplicity which is
positively touching this well meaning fossil says :
“ How many Bank of England notes will out-
weigh a sovereign 1 Some people will reply ‘ ten,’
some ‘ twenty,’ some ' fifty.’ The proper answer
is five.’ Think of that, now ! Why, as a mewling,
puking babe, we remember trying to “ have ” our
twin brother with that same problem. But he
knew it. He closed his fat little thumb and fore-
finger on our mottled arm, and gave us a pinch
for stale news. Then the young rascal asked us
“ one ’’ which is considerably more modern, one
that won t find its way into the Argus for ages
and ages to come. Spin a brand new s ivereign on
a perfectly smooth and level surface—which side
will fail uppermost ? Head, nine times out of ten.
If it doesn't there is something wrong with the
quid. All you have to do is to find a Juggins,
make many wagers on the results, and send five
per cent, commission on winnings to The Bulls-
; tin office.


“ Freetrado is the Brotherhood Of Labour."—Extract from a hustings oration by MACMILLon, M.P.
“ Yes, gentlemen. Freetrado is. indeed, the Brotherhood of Labour. Freetnde is the polite intermediary who comes forward and say to John Robinson, the the white Australian carpenter: ‘ Mr. Robinson, let me introduce to you your brother, How Chong, the Chinsese
carpenter from Lower George-street, sydney. Let me also have the pleasure, Mr. Robdnson, of presenting to you your black brother, niggor Jemmy, the Lascar labourer. I think you are already privileged to enjoy the acquaintance of Ali Ben Brown, the half-caste
cheap blaokfellow-compositor imported from India by Pukes, who thus sought to aubjugate his staff-necked white employés.”-Extruct from a hustings speech to be delivered one of these days.


4***'
/y £ '
' a/^
■fijts ’
J >lf
y/y j
7& y Jjyyyy^\\
'.'-■ :• c/-/- •' ' ;l '' -
&y.
j
AuJ r.
„ n /i &
fitter
sd
3^iK
"of
nr
' t L&LuX^
asuM-tu*^ *
S-oi/jy s (?****ttd — ’ > ?
•■ / ‘fr6~-'i <&y t+e
Humours of the N.S.W. Elections.


Social
Rotorua and the N.Z. Lake district gener-
ally are now going fast 10 the dogs. The inhabit-
ants depended chiefly on tourists, and when their
famous Pink Terraces were blown as small as
•chopped horje-feed and buried in mud they tried
to console themselves with the idea that strangers
'would still come to view the vast cakes of dismal
grey slush which marked their grave. But it is
<now evident that, though peop’e will go anywhere
to see the mo3t picturesque thing ia the world,
they will go nowhe r e to see the place where the
most picturesque thing was last visible and will
never be visible again. Rotomahana i 3 played
out, and though its gruesome sulphurom horrors
«.re profusely advertised they don’t draw.
A Sydney fact. He faw what he took to
ba an angel with a spirituelle face and golden
hair lounging gracefully on a low seat. Almost
too timid to approach such a saint, he hunted
about for an opening remark that should not in
«ny way offend her celestial ears. Reverently
approaching her he began : “ They are speaking
of gam 33—what are your favourite pastimes?”
Grab,” rapped out the angelic moulli : “ animal
or Yankee, and, after that, euchre!’ 1 He fainted.
On Christmas eve, at 12 p.m., the post-
mistress of a certain Eastern (Sydney) suburb
was aroused from sleep by loud knocking, and
wondering what it could be, she hurried down en
deshabille to open the door. When she did so a
carab ard box was thrust into her hands with the
remark, “ Why, in Heaven's name, don’t you
make the post-holes bigger ? I want that to go by
the mornings post.” And still they will persist
in calling us civilized !
There was a wedding the other day in the
Far North. The bride wa3 aged 45, and her
beauty was not skin deep—in fact it would have
taken a long-handled shovel to reach it. The
bridegroom did not turn up to time, and the lady
on going in search of him nearly fell over what
she at first took to be a red-faced corpse. The
cadaver presently stood up, however, and proved
to be the missing man ; ho put his arm round the
lady, and when she said fond y, “ You do love me,
John, don’t jou ; it isn’t my beau'y you’re marry-
ing me tor l" he stumbled and responded:
“ P'f'ekly kreet.” The best man was also missing,
but the future husband found him standing on his
last legs in a back yard which he mistook for a
church, and led him along. The service was gone
through satisfactorily, but at the conclusion the
male half of ths two who were now one proved to
be fast alseep, and on being shaken up he asked
where the blank Vale of Hinnom behad got to. He
also fell asleep during the breakfast, and woke
only to find himself hur g all over with sausages.
Some one then brought in a tall hat filled with
rum, and after a most enjoyable day the whole
affair wound up wiih a few practical jokes in
which a large quanti'y of hair was shed. We
nearly forgot to mention that this is a fashionable
item.
The Premier of South Australia recently
■raised several working-men to the magistracy,
and now the Bishop of Ade'aide has responded by
elevating an ex-boundary-rider to the position of
archdeacon This last appointment looks a rather
dangerous one. A few years ago a man who
• commanded a river steamboat on the Thames —
another billet that leads to profanity—was made a
churchwarden and consequently felt it incumbent
■on him to knock off swearing. But the next day
his passengers were convulsed to see the captain
■actually jumping up and down on all fours in an
■agony of vtrath and excitement and bellowing at
his call-boy : “ Oh ! you angel —you sweet little
darling-you nice little cherub—you—you duck
—you incarnate fiend—oh! — you know what I
me in. I'd give £lOOO to swear a gory hurricane,
but I can’t-I’ve been saved !” The captain did
stand the straio, but no Australian boundary-
rider could —he would burst under it, though he
were 10 times an archdeacon.
Amongst the marriage presents to a re-
cently-wedded young man of South Melbourne
was a fine blonde wig ! The benedict indignantly
burnt it. A wig as a wedding present is about
the quaintest conceit that has been round this
summer. Twang the iron tank with a maul, and
we’ll wail for the bridegroom :
Ere a twelve-month and a day.
On your skull will skeeters play,
And while the hateful sand-flies jig
You’ll curse the day you burnt that wig.
Extract from an essay on British history
by a Sydney High School boy :
“ The Piets and Scots were very troublesome. To quiete 1
them the Roman Emperors ant them large brides .”
The essayist should, of course, have written large
bribes ; unwittingly he mentioned a more drastic
remedy. The bedrock of truth is often struck by
a s nail boy.
* * *
From Reynolds:—“ In the course of the
suit for adultery against Lady Colin Campbell, her
mother, Mrs. Blood, said she considered that that
well-known adulterer, the Duke of Marlborough,
was a fit companion for her daughter. But this
lady, at the same time, gave a testimonial to
aristocratic society. She stated that the Duke of
Marlborough is still received into every West-end
drawing-room. Well, Belgravia and Pimlico
■adjoin. In the latter, vice is natural; in the
former, it is conventional; that is to say,
Belgravia adds to vice the offence of hypocrisy,
'while Pimlico is only vicious. Yet the bishops of
the Church of England are more frequently seen
an West-end drawing-rooms than at the receptions
in the Pimlico saloons.”
* * *
A much-talked-of marriage took place the
other day near the Queensland capital, the in-
terested couple being a widower of at least three
months’ standing and a very handsome shop-girl.
There was a settlement cf at least eight to ten
*' thou.”
A Melbourne weekly paper pturs gall upon
a rival for saying that “a well-known literary
lady is about to go to Europe ” “ What rot ! ” re-
marks the bitter jack-rabbit who writes for the
former ; “there are no well-known literary ladies
in Melbourne.” In the same paper, same issue, a
notice appears to the effect that “ we have engaged
the services of a lady of well-known literary re-
putation.” As, according to its own statemen
there are none such in Melbourne this one mu
bring her delicate and high-born screed to tl
office when she comes from Footscray in th
mornings with the milk-cart.
A remarkable feature in English societ
just now is that when a nobleman is summoned
co-respondent in a divorce case he always decline
to aopear—not, dontchernow, that he is afraid
anything relating to the matter in hand, but fo
fear he should be cross-examined about some otht
affair which might hurt the feelings of the othe
lady involved therein, so he stays away from cour
without a stain on his character.
In Western Queensland there lives a ric
and influential old gentleman, w>o, when in th
bosom of his numerous family is a model husband
but when “out on the boundless” this ole
warrior falls an easy prey to designing women
and, much to the indignation of the mo3t exclu
sive section of local society, he has justfalle
into the clutches of an impudent, putty-nosed
barmaid. When the victim first appeared on th
S3ene he was blessed with a flowing white beard
but the syren prevailed on him to have it removec
and to curl his moustache, and, when the joke hac
become stale, to sacrifice the latter also. Now every
Sunday sees the pair out driving, she handling the
ribbons and he trying to look as little like a shaved
poodle as possib'e.
We regret much to hear that J. F
Gunsler, caterer, has bankrupted. He spent
vast amount of morey in fitting up his establish
ment in Pitt-street, Sydney, and tried to educate
the people up to decent dinners, but the N.S.W.
ladies regard a cup of tea and a bun of doubt fu
age a “ square feed,” while the ma’ea insi&t on a
perfect gorge for a shilling, and expect to see
more gravy slopp;d on the floor from a single
chop than a rational man could hope to find on
the plate in company with a whole bullock.
Gunsler ga 7e excellent dinners but he wouldn’t
pander to this depraved taste for dry buns and
slops Hence the smash.
There were eight applicants for the billet
of doctor to the Temora ('J’.S. W.) Hospital, and
the only man who sent his photo, got the place.
It was a three-quarter cabinet, and if it didn’t lie
the young sawbones was the very sweetest kind of
a duck.
The British aristocracy is getting purified
a little by persistent intermarriage with ballet-
girls with short skirts, though no decent actress,
however, has for many years married into the
peerage—for reasons, doubtless, best known to the
ladies themsslves. Lord Hinton, now in gaol
for swindling gunmakers, has a pilot's daugh-
ter for a mother, and, while acting as
clown in a low London theatre, he con-
tracted a union for life with a pretty dancing
girl. The brother of the Earl of Feversham
wedded a music hall singer, and is, consequently,
hampered by a bioated old Semitic uncle, who is
nicknamed “Cokey,” and who sells coal off a
wheelbarrow The new Marchioness of Ailesbury
figures on the “peerage” es “Dorothy Alice,
daughter of T. Haseley, Esq.,” but Dorothy was a
ballet-girl and “T. liaseiey, E q.,” keeps a sma'l
loaf and bun shop at Brighton. Her ous'n,
Lady Val Meux.had not brains enough for acting or
legs enough for dancing, but Bhe was a theatrical
hanger-on. The two ladies met first on a race-
course, Lady Meux's servant “ Jack”
conveying a polite message to the
other dancing female that his mis-
tress “ would be honoured if she
would take a brandy and soda w ith
her,” and over that manly beverage
the pair formed a friendship that
seems likely to last through life.
“Spiers and Pond’s barmaids
in England are not allowed to shake
hands with customers.” This is
from the Sydney E. Nkw s. What
a lot of thiogs .Alfred did learn
during his recent “ grong tower ! ’
The Sydney papers are eter-
nally alluding to Mr. Bernard R
Wise as Mr. “R. B. Wise.” Which
shows how powerful an influence is
exercised by the illustrious cogno-
men of the brilliant R B. Smith
the “ Honorable ” Burdett smith
who, letus tell you, has ju.t returned
from his visit to all the Courts of
Europe.
Firework-displays have, of
late, been provoking much bitterness
of spirit among the theatrical mana-
gers of Melbourne and Sydney, for
the patroaageof Ed win and Angelina
is lost to them for the time being.
Engaged couples no longer oarry on
their turtle doveing in the unhealthy
atmosphere of a theatre. They doat
on open-air entertainments of the
firework description. Sweetness and
light is all well enough when you
can’t get sweetness and gloom. This
is a point which the ycung men
and maidens have grasped with
the unerring instinct of love. There
is an abundance of gloom at the
firework-grounds, and any lulls be-
tween the “set pieces” and rocket
flights are enlivened by s.rains of
lip music like unto thedrawing of
many corks. Sometimes a half-3tifled
“ Don't, Charley! ” breaks upon the
gunpowder scented silence of the night. But not
often —no, not often. It is pleasant to add that the
pyro-technical efforts of Messrs. C. T. Brock and
J ames Pain are d oing considerable for the marriage •
market. Before the firework season closes we
would suggest the setting up of a grand allegorical
design — ‘ Cupid lighting Hymen’s torch with a
colossal squib, while Brock and Pain fan the flame
with shilling admission tickets.”
This is the frozen truth. Some time ago
a lady went as a guest to a dance at the Callan
Park (Sydney) Hospital for the Insane. Shortly
afterwards she received a note couched in very
flowery language, saying that the writer had been
much struck with her appearance, and that if she
would meet him at an appointed place he would
much enjoy the pleasure of walking with her as a
preliminary to “ keeping company.” This was of
course regarded as being sent by one of the
patients, and the lady was greatly amused and
not a little flattered by It. For curiosity sake
they sent the note to the authorities to see
which of the “cranks” had written it. This
elicited the astounding information that the note
had been written not by a madman, but by one of
the keepers, who taken the lady for a newly-
arrived “ slavey,” and who had accordingly
adopted what would appear to be the correct
mode of opening up a flirtation. The lady did
not keep the appointment, nor does she now con-
sider the letter so much of a compliment.
James Hastings blew his brains out in
hotel in George-street, Sydney, last week. H
did it because hi« best girl looked coldly on him
and after he had shulfled off this mortal coil ih
following effusion was found in a reces3 of h
clothes :
“ From my heart I love her, and loved her since I fir
spoke to her. I will not give her name; but when she read
the pipers and sees what has been done on her accoun
she will tremble at the loss of one who loved her so dejr.
am Irish and a Roman Catholic. My last words are, giv
Ireland Home Rule and there will be peace and coutenfcinen
in old Ireland. I would give my love's name, but Ido no
wish to disgrace her; she is very r< spectable indeed, I mus
say, while I have known her. A thousand times or more
wish her God s blessing—and mine. I will think of her to th
last Good-bye, everyone.—J.H.”
* * *
That young Victorian squatter wh
wouldn’t be responsible for his wife's debts, lia
repented of his rashness. Cupid came to th
rescue and domestic harmony is restored.
* * *
That pretentious corps of bombard
ing drummers, the N.S.W. Permanent Artillerj
has earned at least one well-merited distinction
during the past year—it has probably had mor
court martials than almost any other body of its
size ind uselessness on the face of the earth. Th
matter calls for strict investigation in view of th
circumstance that heavy s 1113 are expended
pay iDg fees to the oflicers who form the courts
which are convened to deal with the mos
trumpery offences imaginable. The rate of deser
tion from the corps is phenomenally heavy, and i
half of what is commonly gossiped about the force
is true, then must its morale be n'nety degree
lower than that of the general staff of the army
ef the Third Empire in ’7O.
At the residence of the bride’s mother
Barraba, Illumbarella, was celebrated the mar
riage of Miss Milly M‘Douall and Ur. Stanley
Tre33ider, of Glen Innes. The bride’s six sisters
officiated as bridesmaids.
Miss Romilly, daughter of Lady Elizabeth
Romilly, will shortly arrive in Sydney on a loDg
visit to Lady Carington.
* * *
At Christ Church, South Yarra, Mel-
bourne, the ceremony of marriage was last week
performed be ween Miss Lydia Harris and Mr. H.
Barbour, of Belle Vale. Miss Harris was the first
lady who took the B.A. degree in Victoria
Lord Weymouth, the future husband of
Princess Mary of Cambridge, has a respectable
rent-roll of £55,000 per annum.
On Tuesday, 12th inst., Lord Carington
laid the foundation-stone of the Sydney Night
Refuge and Soup-Kitchen.
We hear that a Sydney merchant who, the
other day, figured rather below par in an abduc-
tion trial, is about to marry the girl involved in
the case. He says he intended to do so all along,
but objected to its being thought that he had been
coerced. We had written some comment upon
the affair, but now that matters have taken this
TOTTIE AT THE OPERA—A MELBOURNE SKETCH.
What we [?] at the 7 6. Circle.
turn, we have much pleasure in holding over our
remarks pendiitg the appearance of the parties
at the hymeneal altar.
* * *
Another big divorce is on the tapis in
Melbourne. A gilded widow who married a rich
young man is now repenting at leisure, for “he”
is alleged to have been spending the ex-widow’s
coin on the wife of a prominent Sydney citizen.
From Melbourne comes the news that the
long expected shent-per-3hent marriage is “off”
again.
* * *
Mrs. Malaprop, of the “Point,” declares
that scarlet pneumonias are the most elegant
flowers for the table.
Amongst the passengers by the next mail
will be Miss Nellie Stewart. Mr. Musgrove and
his mother go “ home ” by the same ship.
Lord Dudley’s yacht Marchesa leaves
Port Jackson for a fishing excursion along the
N.S.W. coast.
The Down and Gumtrek Jernil h<as at
last decided on a new name for Noose South
Wales. It offered a modest price of 425. sterling
for the best advice on the subject, and as a roeult
it appears that the majority of the people whose
intellects have been blasted by constant perusal of
the Jernil prefer the term Cooksland. The rest
of the names cho3enappear in thefollowiog order :
—East Australia, ICiogsland, New South Wales,
Cambria, Waratah, Cooksylvania, Britannia, Al-
bert'a, Ba’ania, Albertland, South Britain, Alex-
andra, Albion, Princeland, Carington (ye gods !),
Australia, Guelphland, and Saxonia. The ear-
mark of genius is not conspicuous among this lot,
except perhaps in “ Cooksyl - ania ’’; if tbe author
of this had taken his idea from Newfoundland in-
stead of from Pennsylvania, and called this bleed-
ing country Cookfoundland, he could hardly have
mado things worse. Carington is wonderfully low
down in the list, but as everything is a Carington
now, from the last new baby to the last big gal-
lows, people may be getting a little tired of the
name. It did not strike anyone, seemingly, to
call the country alter his Excellency’s plain ances-
tor-the founder of the family—the common,
ordinary, but energetic Bob Smith. Bobslsnd
wou'd have had a cheerful sound, and Smith-
sylvania would not have been bad. Albe.-tia,
Princeland, and Albertland are backed by the
“loyal” party, one of whom wants that
lea/her-headed examp'e of the banoful system of
animal succession. “ Edinburgh,” sent out as
Emperor of Australia, and weeps for the United
States because that great country has not got a
king. Altogether the Jernil seems to have had
a grod deal of amusement for its two guineas.
Dear Bulletin.—-Rabbits are the general
topic of debate in (lie Maranoa District.
Could you tell me as nearly as possible in round
numbers, what would be the produce of a pair
of the above vermin in a year, that is supposing a
doe rabbit has 11 Jittero in 12 months, half males
and half females, say five of each, and pro rata,
and that three months old is the age at which
they first produce young 1 ” —Fred Scott. [Will
the Professors of mathematics at Sydney and Mel-
bourne Universities, when next they have two
months’ holiday, kindly lay in a big stock of ice-
water head-bandages and shut themselves up in
a g >om Jj U j atil tbey have w orked °ut Ihe foregoing l
At Port Douglas (Q.) Ellen Thompson
was charged with shootiDg her husband in Octo-
ber last, and John Morrison was brought up for
bearing a hand. Ihe skull of old Thompson was
brought into court to show the bullet-hole, and it
gave an aged oony grin at the two prisoners.
Ellen was deeply affected—in other word- she
cursed the relic « ith a far-reaching curse, and
then descending to particulars she howled
anathemas at every separate bone, and uttered
profane language regarding the hollow where the
brain used to be. She was carried out leaving a
heap of broken commandments behind her and
the last that was heard of her that day was a
streak of profane language in the cell below The
skull took it all quite calmly.
“Is it well th-t while we range with Science
g.oiying in the lime,
City children soak and blacken soul and sense in
city slime I
There among the glooming alleys Progress halts
on palsied feet.
Crime and hunger cast our maidens by the
thousand on the street.
There the master scrimps his haggard sempstress
of her daily bread.
There a single sordid attic holds the living and
the dead.
There the smouldering fire of fever creeps across
the rotted floor.
And the c owded couch of incest in the warrens
of the poor.
—Tennyson*
A company of black Evangelists have
descended on Melbourne, and have been nightly
holding forth to their dear brethren and sisferen
from a CoUrngwood tabernae'e. One of these be-
nighted sons of Ham ora ed as follows :
“ I have been a great sinner in drinking and j
and they°ha & ve fee hTStot
Now, for tall imaginative powers this decisively
knocks Stiggms and Chadband. This harmony
m septa lias got so close to the Deity as to know
what is offensive to its personal tastes. Are all
tobaccoes equally iniquitous ! Allowing that
b . uby . 13 n pught but vanity, that “Barrett’s
tw-‘ v u S s“ al - c , 3 “ tortion towards Steal, and
that Natlrod is the mere liquefaction of all
unrighteousness, might not a timely and judicious
‘PPlication of cachous avert the divine thunder
bolts, and let the damned one off by the see.it of
his breath ? Chains and slavery, though t What
an appalling thing it is to contemplat? .hat but
for the happy accident, of Great Britain having
emptied the offscourings of her prisons on thif
Fair South Land a century ago, the guileless
savage might be now consuming his ngger
toe' under, he solemn eucalyptus and going fhe
way of the beasts that perish ! 8 8 e
Noo S °E-- ing is from the Sydne y Evex
t-.Cetsagai. Etprotectiun ges of f ’ ee '
box OQ the veranda 1 over his shoo and an, placeci . a
it, winch he c refuhj trd d rnd l , 1 , 1 , 51 ” 1 corn ?
tion with c„rn from th< oir side wo, d h? com P e . tl '
all his attention, th-corn isthinlv m < how respite
look’ like toe few hai-s on the head of a t 810 0 1 , a " d
be bald. Aa agunst Lhi s ecimen or r r ? 8 ? r' ho „ w ' 1 „ Boon
h 8 obtained a coup'e of <d ry aivtic av * cr
in height, grown in''theopt? T d and'onSr”' e l 6 fee >
nation he proposes to Exhibit u ,- day ,f norm-
dresser's crop and this mLS' The fo?mer U »!n g L
p. ot ec. ion,'and the latt-r'freetrade”* 1 b labelhd
The brain actually reels as it contemplates this
burst of logic. Even in the dark ages when th!
early British savage painted himself blue and ate
his raw chop in a cave—even then the protectionist
was never built who dreamt that a hafrdresslr
should necessarily be able to grow corn ; andyet
because this man of wigs and easy shaves rafff
grow corn, Freetrade is necessarily the one gospel
that can save New South Wales! In the same
way we presume the Noose would argue that be-
cause a bull-dog can’t be reared to advantage in a
portmanteau, or a palm-tree grown in a hat or
because a cow can t lay an egg ivhich hoino- off
ward 3 sat upon by an elephant would hatch out
a horse, Protection must, as a matter of course be
* “0“ and a snare. If Mr. Taylor will
that his hairdresser, thanks to the fostering
ftuence of I reetrade, can grow hair on a bald head >1
and that under a protective system the same ha'r
would die away again and wither, he will strike
oil m real earnest, but not otherwise. Corn grown
by a barber and manured yvith shajn bear’s grease
tene o ctTnd r b UmeD V and - Only a barber wh °9e in-
tellect; had been undermined.-by Freetrade would
e lent himself to such a job.


HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
A Letter From Europe.
“Am rather late this morning.
I’ll just hurry matters by pourin’
on a little of this here.”
‘My word Who’d ’a’ thought it!”
Ax Australian citizen, well-known as an accom-
plished man of letters, writes thus by last mail: —
“My Dear : It would be ungrateful not to
remember you and Tiie Bulletin which followed
and reached us at various stopping-places in Bel-
gium, on the Rhine, and Switzerland. (Three
have just arrived here, and they are by no means
the least interesting of the reading matter we
have had in the Eternal City.) They cheered our
loneliness in Continental cities, and I presented
them with many a courteous bow on both sides to
monarch ridden foreigners. At one forlorn way-
side station I gave to an Alsatian a copy with a
cartoon -where Dailey posed as a very stout Bona-
parte, and his recognition of the figure was a plea-
sant sight; w ith a good look round he walked off
with it under his arm delighted—l am sure in the
belief that I wag an emissary of Boulanger’s and
La Revanch•. lie i 3 doubtless still puzzling as
to the personnel of the other Sydney politicians in
the picture, Jennings probably doing duty as Bis
marck.
After many weeks of the bla f ancy of the London
Conservative PrcS’, you cannot conceive what a
trumpet-ring was in ‘ Plain English.’ All the
English papers, except the P.M. Gazette (the
Daily News. is provincial London), have gone
clean off their chump sines the beginning of last
election. That The Bulletin exists in Sydney,
of all Australian capitals, is a marvel, bat, at ths
same time, laus Deo —a ‘ boon and a blessing to
men.’
At Nic) I lunched with Sir Chas. G.
Duffy, and tilling him of “the 8.,” which
he already well knew, I promised to send him
my next copies, which are probably no v on his
table. He is a changed mortal, and look 320 years
younger than when I saw him in Australia six
years ago. He lives at Cuivriez for three-fourths
of the year a settled, sweet, and literary life. Our
talk was mainly personal, but he said that there
was no doubt about Home Rule. I met at Nice
W. A. C. a’Beckett (an angel of amiability—no
(Other ability), who, Duffy jemiaded me, was the
only man he could get to ropre ; ent h s Govern-
ment in the Victorian Upper House. At lhe
(Credit Lyonnais, there, too, I overheard a man
iloud in his praise of Melbourne to a bank official,
and saw J. Hingston, who cccup'es an apparte-
,ment very maub!6 on the entresol up 30 marble steps
and looking south over a boulevard and the
.cathedral.
“ A friend writes me to-dav from Nice that,
sitting at cafe-table the other night near Henniker
Heaton and Duffy, he heard the latter say that
Sir Archibald Michie was a greater orator and
statesman than Disraeli. I have heard Michie
speak and lecture very well, but always cynically,
and he reminded me then (and still more so now
after an experience of ancient statuary) in ex
pression of feature and a certain dignity of pose
of the great Greek orators. Statesmanship] I
never heard him charged with. One need not
read the Greville Memoirs to find out with how
little wisdom the world is governed. D—d
fools make the be3t statesmen, and when you get
real ones like Gracchus, Rienzi, Wolsey, Raleigh,
and that Netherlander whose body was thrown
to the dogs, the Lord’s Anointed and the many-
headed make short work of him. The “Stupid
Party” now reigning in England have their mis-
sion, the whee s of life would gang down hill
scrievin’ wi’ (too much) rattlin’ gleo without the
wooden Tory brake. Frost ripens as well as heat,
and the late avalanche, under the first beams of
the rising Liberal sun, will be found not only not
to have killed, but actually to have protected unex-
pectedly many a tender fl iwer of Truth. (From an
unpublished essay, de veritate , written cet 14.)
“ The condition of the British political mind
just now is appalling. I have heard Gladstone
charged with every crime in the Holy Roman
confessional, and how he gets votes or where they
come from is a mystery to me who have never yet
heard an Englishman at home or abroad say a
word for him.
“ I forgot to say that the last time I saw Hen-
niker H. was in Dublin at the Shelbourne Hotel.
We had got back after the Lord Mayor’s ball, and
he was gassing about ‘our Party,’ and Gladstone
trying to ‘ euchre’ the Opposition, and what ‘ We’
were going to do to the Parnellite3.
“As I had in England to listen quietly (it was
no use arguing) to statements which, if younger,
I would have resented with a plug in the eye, I
leminded H. H. (of course there were many pi e-
pent in the hall or he would not have posed) that
he was in a Gladstonian country and had received
hospitality from a Nationalist, and that if he
could describe an epoch making struggle by no
other ttrms than those borrowed from the
gambling-table, he would conserve his and his
party’s dignity better by not discussing the sub-
ject at all. Other political matters bearing on tbe
situa f ion were introduced, but ‘His Learines3’ at
once dropped (he is rapidly sloughing off his vul-
garity of statement) to the inexpediency of behav-
ing worse than the Arab with tho:e with whom
he had broken bread. I saw Henniker another
time (after this, I think) at the Hou e of Com-
mon i Finding me and another Australian
(Dr. Ahearne, N.Q. divide et imperct man) about to
mount the stairs of the gallery—a place we could
never have reached without a membe ’so-der—he
had the impudence, in Ahearne’s presence, who
had been lobbying for months, to ask us if he
couldn’t take us in, and a tually direct d ‘our’
official to show us into tin House, bowi’-g: loftily
and following w th his vone the myrmidon up-
-Btaii*3 ‘to get these gentlemen seats’ -an accom-
modation already presumed from our presence. I
was so ‘ knocked ’ that »-n our way up I looked at
Ahearne (a first-rate fellow) and then downwards.
Being Irish and unstupid, he said, as if I had
spoken, ‘ Oh, you can’t lick him !’ Nor can yon.
The National Review (editor Dobson) acknow-
ledged in their first issue that the ability was all on
the Liberal and Radical side. Henniker twig 3 this
and he is going to be a somebody. Large general
questions—Universal PenDy Post, &c —that is his
game. He will offend nobody, and doubtle33 do
good not only to himself but others. We saw him
later, on the crowded Conservative side of the
House howling near Sir Sam. Wilson against some
Liberals who were tryiDg to get information about
Burmah. Such a rowdy, ill-dressed and common
looking assemblage ! (my seat comvianded mos ly
the Tories) I have never seen. The Sydney Lowest
House, Wisdom and all (what a fine face Wisdom
has!) look like Patres Conscripti compared to
them.
“ I confess to being interested in H. H. He
has the olive complexion of the genius-breeding
Italian, the profile of Agrippa and Nero combined,
and the deep chest, Atlantean shoulders, and
muscular (helmet-beariDg, or, if needs be, yoke-
beariDg) neck of the ancient Greek ,or Roman. I
should not like to have him as the potential
successor in the old Spartan priest-
hood. How deep between one’s ribs would have
clashed hi 3 dagger before one’s second year of
office!
“ We are now (Christmas day) in Naples, which
is picturesque and full of new buildings—but
Rome, which I had never visited before, is a
wonder. They are building there at a gTeat rate
scores and scores of houses the height and size
of Hoffnung’s. When they remove their miser-
able encumbering ruins, the baths and palaces of
the Caesars, Italy will do some good. These ruins
I find are only the core of the real buildings of
old/and give one no more idea of the originals
than a skeleton of Shakspcare would of his form
and presence. I have just been fool enough tr go
up Vesuvius and look down a smoky chimney.
“ To my horror , M.P., of Australia,
has just arrived here and, and if he amuses the
servants as much as he did at The Grand in Lon-
don, Heaven help tbe reputation of the Land of the
Kangaroo in the minds of the Marehesesand 6 enerals
and Colonels of England and Germany, who are in
the Hotel.
“ S reminds me that the English care little,
and know less, of Australia. Nor will the politi-
cians, who are supposed to be the cream of our
society and intelligence, who have snobbed and
c added their way through Kd gland (thank
Htaven, none of them can speak a foreign
language) give us any better status. The more I
see of Europe, England especially, the more per-
| suaded I am Australia has nothing to learn, but
| everj thing to un’earn, from it—Soldiers armed to
' the teeth drilling on every square, got up like the
Amazons in a pantomime, and more numerous
than the citizens, A young Prussian officer tells
me that war between Germany and France is in-
i evitable next Spring. lam sorry for France, a
place and people no one can see without loving—
Russia of course will seize the opportunity.
“ The Campbell divorce case is just ended,
Butler’s not going into the box, and refusing costs,
|is doubtless due to his relig'on—[A calm assump-
tion, Ed. B.] The Colley-dog woman, whose Dame
I the genial Blandford wrote down, was on d\t Mrs.
I B (deceased), who was sufficiently like Lady
I C. to be mistaken for her by the man y. Of Lady C’s.
! guilt there is little doubt, even the Times hints it.
| (In a leader the other day on Mooihouse it called
h’m “ the recent Bishop of N.?. W. !’)
“ Riise up thy voice {tutU qio-ni e noite —I am
a choice Italian now) against the miserable imi-
tations of old-world castes, corruptions and miseries
in the—ah me ! I know now how truly —Sunny
South.
“We are on our way back to London for a
while before sailing, and I shudder at the thought.
Bid I say that except in Switzerland I have seen
no scenery at all equal to Aus’ralian;”
In the great Melbourne scandal, names
i which are great in the land are being dragged
j through the dirt. One co-respondent is an inti-
! mate of Governmsnt House.
They held a harvest thanksgiving service
at Enmore (Sydney) the other diy. The cecum-
s'ance recalls some recent comments from ilie
alwa?s neat pen of Bierce, of the S. F. Wasp,
who, by the way, writes as Carlyle would have
wri'.ten had he served an apprenticeship as a bar-
man :
“ We note (wi h approval) a revival of the ancient custom
of holding harvest services in the various churches, at which
Pr< vidence is thanked fjr the abundant yield of vegetable
products. A psculiarity of these annual rites (for their
recurrence is unaffected by short cops) is their essentially
urban character: so far as we know, the custom is not of
rustic observance. In the agricultural districts, where the
benefi s ofagenerom harvest are most cbrectly and imme-
diately obvious, th‘.v are coldly accepted wi hoot public
acknowledgment. Yet the good granger is not minded un-
godly wise; he can sport the Drayer bone upon occasion, and
is no d übt deeply touched w r ith gratitude when he contem-
plates tbe goodness of Providence in prospering the city
factories —of which benefaction public services in praise
would command his warm assent. Seeing, therefore, that
each man ascribes to bountiful Heaven the success of his
neighbour and to himself his own, and that this view of the
matter has ecclesiastic sanction in the harvest service, it has
occurred to us that a most acceptable attention to a worthy
profession would be a special ihanksgiving ceremony by
journalists for the prosperity of parsons; and we shall be
pleased to proffer our sanctum for the annual rite. We are
the more willing to do this because we have been unjustly
accused of impiously attributing the temporal welfare t f the
clergy to the favour of the Wasp— as that worthy monarch,
George the Third, was once said to have prided himself on
nothing so much as the abundance of last year's harvest.”
Here is some more of Bierce, who is probably the
most trenchant paragraphist of the century
“Denis Kearney making protrusion of his mouldy pow from
the political tomb and announcing his ‘acceptance’ of a
candidacy not offered him is a spectacle for which we are
probably indebted to the nomination of Mr. Swifr,. Kearney
is everybody’s blackguard, but he is nobody’s fool: he has a
nose for corruption, and when it is in the air he comes out of
his hole. If a Swift is to be taken seriously as an aspirant
for Governor, where is the humour of a Kearney’s ambition
to be sheriff? If the public stomach is strong enough to
retain the one, it can keep down the other. Debauched by
Swift, the political situation naturally conceives Kearney.
That the latter has no chance of election let not those who
support the former be too quick to affirm : Kearney is gifted
by nature with that rarest and most valuable of political in-
stincts, the sense of opportunity. He doesn’t go out when it
is going to rain; vhen hunted he stands behind a tree. The
fact that he is ‘abroad in the land’—prevalent, epidemic,
imminent—proves the presence of congenial conditions. Bats
do not fly by day ; buzzards do not follow the militia nor
snap their beaks above a Quaker picnic. In Kearney’s can-
didacy Republicans may discern a ray of hope for Swifts.
The golden drayman’s every boast is a benediction upon the
no head of the acephalous ticket.”
BRIEF MENTION.
The prayers for the Royal family have
been hissed in Ihe London churches. —A royal-hist
demonstration.
A disloyal Sandhurst policeman has
steeped himself in trouble through supporting
the seditious Bayles and defaming the Heir Ap-
parent. Tummy is well known to tte police,
evidently.
At Silverton the local undertaker “ re-
ioices in the name ” of Biermann. When asked
to sing at a Bible Christian concert this cheerful
individual calmly warbled 1 ‘ See that my grave’s
kept green.”
Ever since the Sydney Even Noose got
that precious “Scandal of the Century” tele]
graphed out from England, the cable hasn’t been
working well. It is now proposed to take it up
and scrape the leprosy off it.
“ The fire-fiend instantly arose and took
the skin off one of Mr. Henderson’s legs.” This
is the way a little country paper has of explaining
that the mosquito curtains caught fire. A ' hought-
ful person carried the b .by out by the leg.
Glad tidings come from the North. The
Aboriginal mission station at Bloomfield (Q.) has
been “ stuck up and looted by the natives.”
Which is probably the first time within the
memory of man that a mission station ever proved
of any real solid advantage to the niggers.
The Cooktown (Q.) Independent reports
the discovery of a large English rat in a case of
imported porter The animal had eaten all the
straw packing and had opened and drunk seven
bottle 3 of liquor. Its tail was all twisted up,
through constant use as a corkscrew.
A woman was fined £5 in Melbourne for
selling a wooden pipe on the Sabbath Day. We
hope it will console her to know that at one time
she would have had her ears slit for a like offence.
It was a narrow squeak for her, too, for though
the day of that law has fled the spirit has not.
The motto of Melbourne Punch is a singu-
larly appropriate one —“ There is something in the
distresses of our best friends which is not alto-
gether displeasing to us.” Its best friends are, of
course, its subscribers. Whenever it comes out
there is gloom among those faithful few. Then it
is pleased. Happy little cripple !
newly-appointed lieutenant of N.Z.
volunteers appeared in parade in his uniform, the
other day, and presented the tailor’s bill to the
company for liquidation. The troops were
furious, but the officer took refuge in tears, and
said he hadn’t the money, so his gallant followers
retired deeply moved and took up a collection,
A Chinaman at Athaca Creek (Q.) caught
sight of a pumpkin floating in the troubled waters
during the late flood. He grabbed the pumpkin,
and then he saw a pig further in. He grabbed it
also, but the pig and the pumpkin dragged him
down and he was drowned. This incident shows
the virtues of the pig and the pumpkin as con-
trasted with the grasping character of the de-
graded Mongolian.
Three citizens (since dissected) spent their
Christmas—we nrght say their Youl-tide—in the
Yarra. The Melbourne City Coroner (Dr. Youl)
has a reputation as a weird humourist. We there-
fore suggest to him that he should add to it by
caUicg the ledger in which he keeps his list of
suicides the Youl Log. Any corpse with the
faintest sense of fun would consider this a side-
splitting joke.
The “ aboriginee ” missionaries in S.A„
are well nigh despairing According to their last
report the youthful n ; gs. prefer the free and easy
life of the * heep-station to soap and water andl
gospel at the bush sanctuaries. Some of the :
young lubras—heady creatures that they are —
wear men's clothes, and go stock jidmg, and 1
carry on among9t the station hands, “ all a same'
a big-fellow white woman like a Missee Crawford.”
The Melbourne Herald sajs that “Av
delicate young lady recently shocked the pro-
prietors of a Melbourne journal by offering them
a complete translation from her own hand of:
Zola’s ‘Tb6rese Raquin.”’ Hum! The journal
referred to is evidently the Hekald itself. We
can imagine its bashful proprietors hiding their
blushes behind one of their o * n papers containing
a full, true, and particular account of the Colin -
Campbell divorce-case. Let us all blush together..
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne Coroner, has
exploded the oil idea that suicides occur most
frequently in gloomy weather. He s-»ys (and he
ought to know) that the greatest number occur
duriDg the long days. We can easily believe this.
Sko.t days may be gloomy, but there is not much
of them. On long days people of delicate and re-
lined taste get ti r ed of dodging creditors and
tramping about in a town full of with a
thirsc three inches thick, which nobody wilt
assaage for the sake of old times, and—wel\,
what is there left for them bus suicide ?
This is the way in which wandering sheep
are brought into the fld in Melbourne. “The
themes of two instructive discourses at the Cairns*
Memorial Church,” we learn from the Melbourne*
He raid, “ were Triangular Tiuih and Trembling,
into Trust.” The despera’e divine who evolved
these titles must have been bard driven for sensa-
tioD. We can fancy him with a triangular head,
the apex at the top. and the base-line
from jaw to jaw. “ Trembling into Trust ” may
be a hallowed inspiration, but to 113 it is flippantly
suggestive of a shatteied stone-broke slouching:
into a bar with the cold eye of the landlord fixed
on him in a frozen glare.
A genial old oyster with a taste for geology-
lias been writing articles for the Melbourne Dailv:
Telegraph, explaining how the bottom of Port
Phillip Bay has been silted up in his time. Inci-
dentally he mentions that the pr sent dry land o£
the earth was all under water at one time. He
proceeds to prove this statement by mentioning
that the remains of whales and sharks have been
found at a height of 17,000 feet above the sea-
level on the Himalayas and elsewhere. As though
the pre historic races couldn’t have their little
aquaria as well as we ! But what if they had a
far-seeing sense of humour and deliberately
planted those relics of whales and sharks in im-
probable places for the confusion of wise men who
were to come after them ! The writer has an
uncle in Adelaide who used to find a disinterested
delight in burying rum-botiles with a mixture of
the most depraved specimens of old jokes, dog-
gerel verse, and diabolical lies in them, for the
purpose of paralysing future ages with horror, and
ruining till the end of the world the reputations
of eminent characters now lying in honour
amongst us. If this scheme were properly carried
out what a majestic hash it would make of his-
tory ! Yet we are not so sure. It would be a,
difficult task to lie harder than the average his
torian.


Ostler Joe.
I stood at eve, when the sun went down, by a gray
where a woman lies,
Who lured men’s souls to the shores of sin with th«
light of her wanton eyes,
Who sang the song that the Siren sang on thi
treacherous Lurley height,
Whose face was as fair as a summer day and whos<
heart was b!ack as night.
Yet a blossom I fain would pluck to day from th(
garden above her dust;
Not the languorous lily of eoulless sin nor the blood
red rose of lust ;
But a sweet white blossom of holy love that grew
in the one green spot
In the arid desert of Phryne’s life, where all else
was parched and hot.
In the summer when the meadows were aglow
with blue and red,
Joe, the ’Ostler of the Magpie, and fair Annie
Smith were wed.
Plump was Annie, plump and pretty, with a cheek
as fair as snow ;
He was anything but handsome, was the, Magpie’s
’Ostler, Joe.
But he won the winsome lassie. They'd a cottage
and a cow,
And her matronhood sat lightly on the vi'lage
beauty’s brow.
Sped the months and came a baby— such a blue-
eyed baby boy !
Joe was working in the stables when they told
him of his joy.
He was rubbing down the horses, and he gave
them, then and there,
All a special feed of clover, just in honour of the
heir ;
It had been his great ambition, and he told the
horses so.
That the Fates would send a baby who might
hear the name of Joe.
Little Joe, the child was christened, and, like
babies, grew apace;
He’d his mother’s eyes of azure and his father’s
honest face :
Swift the happy years went over, years of blue
and cloudless sky.
Love was lord of that small cottage, and the
tempest passed them by-
passed them by for years, then swiftly burst in
fury o’er their home.
Down the lane by Annie’s cottage chanced a gen-
tleman to roam;
Thrice he came and saw her sitting by the window
with her child.
And he nodded to the baby, and the baby laughed
and smiled.
So at last it grew to know him —little Joe was
nearly four ;
He would call the pretty gemplen, as ho passed
the open door.
And one day he ran and caught him and in child’s
play pulled him in,
And the baby Joe had prayed for brought about
the mother's sin.
'Twas the same old wretched story that for ages
bards have sung;
’Twas a woman weak and wanton and a villain’s
tempting tongue,
'Twas a picture deftly painted for a silly creature’s
eyes
Of the Babylonian wonders and the joy that in
them lies.
Annie listened and was tempted ; she was tempted
and she fell,
As the angel fell from heaven to the blackest
depths of hell ;
She was promised wealth and splendour and a life
of guilty sloth,
Yellow gold for child and husband—and the
woman left them both.
Home one eve came Joe, the ’Ostler, with a cheery
cry of “ Wife ! ”
Finding that which blurred forever all the story of
his life ;
She had left asilly letter—through the cruel scrawl
he spelt;
Then he sought the lonely bedroom, joined his
horny hands and knelt :
“ Now, O Lord ! O God I forgive her, for she ain’t
to blame ? ” he cried,
“ For I owt t’a seen her trouble, and a gone away
and died.
Why, a wench like her—God bless her ! 'twasn’t
likely as her’d rest—
With that bonny head forever on a ’ostler’s ragged
vest.
It was kind 'o her to bear me all this long and
happy time.
So for my sake please bless her, though you count
her deed a crime.
If so be I don’t pray proper, Lord, forgive me.
for you see
I can talk alright to ’osses, but I’m nervous-like
with Thee.”
Ne'er a line came to the cottage from the woman
who had flown;
Joe, the baby, died that winter, and the man was
left alone.
Ne’er a hitter word he uttered, but in silence
kissed the rod,
Saving what he told his horses, saving what he
told his God.
Far away in mighty London rose the wanton into-
fame,
For her beauty won men’s homage, and she pros-
pered in her shame ;
Quick from lord to lord she flitted, higher still each
prize she won,
And her rivals paled beside her as the stars beside
the sun.
Next she trod the stage half-naked, and she
dragged a temple down
To the level of a market for the women of the
town.
And the kisses she had given to poor ’Ostler Joe
for naught,
With their gold and priceless jewels rich and
titled routs bought.
Went the yeais with flying footsteps, while her
star was at its height;
Then the darkness came on swiftly,, and the
gloaming turned to night.
Shattered strength and faded beauty tore the
laurels from her brow;
Of the thousands who had worshipped, never one
came near her now.
Broken down in health and fortune, men forgot her
very name,
Till the news that she was dyiDg woke the echoes
of her fame ;
And the papers in their gossip mentioned how an
“ actress” lay,
Sick to death in humble lodgings, growing weaker
every day.
One there was who read the story in a far-ofl
country place,
And that night the dying woman woke and looked
upon his face.
Once again the strong arms clasped, hw that had
clasped her long ago,
And the weary head lay p illowed ort the toroast o)
’Ostler Joe.
All the past had he forgiven, all the sorrows and
the shame;
He had found her sick and lonely, and his wife he
now could claim.
Since the grand folks who had known her one and
all had slunk away.
He could clasp his long-lost darling and no man
would tell him nay.
In his arms Death found her lying, in his arms her
spirit fled ;
And his tears came down in torrents as he knelt
beside her, dead.
Never once his love had faltered through her base
unhallowed life !
And the stone above her ashes hears the honoured
name of Wife.
That's the blossom I fain would pluck to-day from
the garden above her dust;
Not the languorous lily of soulless sin nor the
blood-red rose of lust ;
But a sweet white blossom of holy love that grew
in the one green spot,
In the arid desert of Phryne’s life, where all else
was parched and hot.
G. R. S[?].
Fickle Newcastle has jilted his G.A.L.
Sir ’Enry Parkes is “ going ” for the
Sydney Globe for a big sum for libel. He first
of all courts the hutmost criticism of his public
hacts and life, and then he courts his critics.
The electioneering circular issued by the
Grand Orange Lodge of N.S.W. is printed in full
in the Sydney Freeman’s Journal. It is a
peifect “ daisy,” and once more exhibits the
Orangemen as a set of mere cattle driven by a
despicable set of ignorant and unscrupulous wire-
pullers.
The “red-hot brand of shame” was
flourished before Mr. Garrett at Camden, hitherto
his great stronghold in the electorate, and he had
an unpleasant half-an-hour of it. He enjoys the
unenviable distinction of being the only Minister
who had a motion of want of confidence proposed
against him at an election meeting.
John Davies, when defeated at the elec-
tion, said ; “ In a large metropolitan constituency
a candidate might be on the mountain-top to-day
and in the valley a few months later.” What
John meant, of course, was that when a fellow
couldn’t get on the mountain-top he had to start
“ underground engineering.”
The erratic J. P. Abbott, who finally
retired from public life at Ounnedah the other
day, has reappeared on the scene at Wentworth,
N.slw. The chances of Mr. Abbott’s election are
considered good. There will be no cause of com-
plaint against Mr. Abbott if he secures another
Protectionist victory against Conservative squat-
terdom. and at the same time use his undoubted
power in his old electorate to secure the return of
a Protectionist for that place.
The whole issue of the N.S.W election
now is this: “ Are the M’Millions of Sydney and
their satellites to rule the country for their own
aggrandisement and for centralisation in Sydney,
or are the country districts to be made progressive
and prosperous ? ” The “ great triumph of
Saturday last,” as the Freetrade journals are
pleased to term it, ought to convince the country
electors that there was something more than pure
patriotism at the bottom of it.
The great “Hi-ham” of N.S.W. politics
was announced to attend an election meeting to
speak in favour of the candidature of the pub-
lisher of a secular newspaper which is issued on
Sunday, but he withdrew his promise. Perhaps
be remembered the remark >ble piece of liberalism
which suppressed the delivery on Sunday of an
instructive lecture by one of the most popular
scientists of the day, and recognised that there
would be a peculiar inconsistency in the two
actions.
A large number of people express surprise
at the fact that Burdekin headed the poll for East
Sydney. There is nothing to justify the feeling
of surprise. The importers were bound to vote
for him, and the property-holders plumped for him
because they knew that he would not vote for a
property-t.'.x unless it expressly provided that the
unfortunate tenants were to pay it. Parkes will
surely not have the impudence to repeat, “ I have
all the intelligence on my side” when he reflects
that the man who will occupy the premier posi-
tion in the Assembly, as far as number of votes is
concerned, is—Sydney Burdekin !
Quiet little land purchases are being made
by Victorian M’s. L. A. “in the know-,” in readiness
for further railway extensions. When all the
transfers are duly signed, sealed, and delivered,
the Government will buy back that land and the
new lines will be “decided” upon. Later on it
will be discovered that the railway estimates, re
land purchase, have been exceeded by an odd half
million or so. The Opposition—having pocketed
the dif.—will rise in their places and solemnly
protest; Duncan Gillies will smile his remarkable
smile, and proceedings will terminate with a
bogus “ stormy debate” and drinks all round.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
Western Australia has a balance of £83,418
on the right 5ide... ...A solid total of 8310 baby
sharks were caught in one night in Port Philip
Bay, Melbourne When sentence of death was
beiog passed on him for the Barrier murder,
Cathey, said : “I could face a lion, but to do such
a miserable murder, or commit an act of violence
like that, I could not.” The N.Z. police are not
now allowed to ‘ ‘ accept drink when on duty or in
uniform.” This is merely a ruse to discover
whether one policeman can be found to decline a
drink London Truth attacks the Mount
Britton gold mine floated by Finch-Hatton. When
the Chinamen desert it the prospects must be
looking up A dozen of wine was found buried
at a Port Macquarie farm the other day. When
it was dug up an old resident observed that he
“ believed that 'ere wine was a thousand year
old III” The N.S.W. centenary is quite wasted
on such a man A regular business is being done
by searchers after dead bodies in the Yarra. They
get ten shillings for each body. This perhaps ex-
plains the numerous suicides The defence force
MR. WILLIAM FENWICK,
Editor of the [?]go (N.Z.) WITNESS.
of Queensland numbers 2774 men exclusive of
publicans and snakes “ Ladies’ Jubilee boots ”
are advertised in North Queensland. They are
supposed to be fifties “Did she wait because
she loved me?” is the title of a pome in the
Macleay Argus. No, old man, we will venture to
bet that she waited because you were the only
chance Helena Walkenden, the little Melbourne
larrikiness, who collapsed eo miserably over her
Hotham outrage fiction, now asserts that she was
assaulted by 21 men on that memorable occasion.
Another consignment of pirated Bibles
has been intercepted in Victoria. It is to
be hoped that another wreck can be ar-
ranged that the authorities may rid them-
selves of the books with easy consciences
A malcontent, name unknown, suicided the other
day by tying four iron fish-plates to his feet and
throwing himself into the Yarra They’ve im-
ported an omnibus to Bundaberg (Q ) They were
very proud of it at first, but when they heard
that it had seen service in another town they
grew disgusted IV. Kinnard Rose, barrister,
and Benjamin Cribb, P.M., have been appointed
to inquire into the working of the Queensland
gaols. Mr. Cribb ought, as soon as he has
finished, to bo appointed to enquire into the work-
ing of the Queensland mines “ anything is
good enough for the colonies.” The Age now re-
ports that the new Armstrong guns at Melbourne
generally refuse to go off, and have to be poked
up in all sorts of outlandish ways before they will
make a start Tell me the old, old sto-o-o-ry.
The ship Kapunda was run down off the Brazilian
Coast. Crew mostly saved. PaEsengers—36s of
them mostly drowned Falconer Robert
Frazer, of Sydney, who kept a tandem, a race-
horse, and various other sundries, and married a
young lady of good position on a screw of 30s. per
week, has gone up for three years. Alfred
Bennet (not the A. 8., dear friends!) died re-
cently at Gunnedah from drinking the almost
apostolic ginger-beer, Y.M.C.A. and Sunday
schools The Australian Record is an
amoosin’ little cuss. Look at its Latin, for in-
stance : “Hinc illae laerimae. What school was
the editor at ?....New police regulations have been
issued in N.Z. One of these makes it part of the
duty of a “peeler” to remove orange-peel and
banana-skin from the pavement. There i 3 mutiny
in the “foorce.” The “loyal” Victorians are
talking of giving 1000 of their infantile infantry a
trip to England on the Jubilee racket. A recent
meeting held in Melbourne seemed to think the
thing was perfectly feasible, as the children’s
outing would notcostthecolonymorethan£3o,ooo!
In the Colin Campbell case, a waiter de-
posed that he “knew the Duke of Malbro’ and his
‘ lady ’ companion were swells, because they gave
him nothing.” A new style of announcing
births is—“'J he editor acknowledges the receipt
this morning from the authorised source of a per-
sonal item of the masculine persuasion weighing
nine pounds.” Mr. Heron, of Manchester, took
strychnine the other d >.y because his wife never
gave him a birthday present, “ not even a penny
cigar.” Blondin, the tight-rope walker, is 62
years old, and lives in London on his money A
miserable yet comic wretch turned up at a London
Court recently, and when a»ked his occupation
said he was a “ Professor of Fasting.” The beak
sent him up for seven days in order to give him a
chance of a square meal Roman Catholics
ara being excluded from iuries in Sligo ...
Pastor Chiniquy, the escaped he-nun, has just
published a book of 832 pages, in which he
says he says he has refused three bishoprics in the
course of his labours “ Do come and stay a
month with me,” said Ouida, the novelist, to the
strong minded wife of a New York millionaire.
“It would do you good, for you don’t seem to
have known any decent women,” was the New
Yorker’s reply Smokers! be wary ! In Eng-
land a summons has been successfully served in a
cigar box 1 If they get serving them in cham-
pagne-bottles this office is quashed at once !
At Cromarty, in Scotland, an octogenarian donkey
(asinine, not human) has just passed away.
Deceased had attained the age of 106 years.
Mr. William Fenwick.
The portrait which accompanies this sketch is that
of Mr. William Fenwick, of Dmiedin (N.Z.), editor
of the Otago Witness— one of the brightest and
best weekly journals published in the Australasian
colonies. He was born in Sunderland (Eng.) in
1851, the year in which the Witness was first
founded, but as he arrived in Melbourne while
cutting his first teeth he may fairly rank as an
Australian. About 1853 the gold excitement
began to flag, and in 1856 Mr. Fenwick, senr.,
who like many others probably regarded Victoria
as played out. removed to Dunedin. In 1865 Wil-
liam Fenwick entered the Otago Daily Times
and Witness office as an apprentice, and in after
yeais engaged in a number of journalis-
tic enterprises in town and country. In
1879, Mr. Robert Wilson, the editor of the
Witness, was burned to death along with most
of his family in what is known as “ the Octagon
fire," having lost his way among the tortuous
corridors of the blazing wooden building in his
attempts to escape. Mr. Fenwick succeeded to
his post, and under his control the Witness has
increased to 40 pages and has been greatly im-
proved in every respect. As there is no great
central city in N.Z., but merely some half-dozen
somi-provincial towns, newspaper enterprise is
considerably hampered, but the Witness is a
journal that would take a high rank even in a
leading Australian capital.
Mr. Frederick Armytage, the well-known
Victorian squatter, leaves by the s.s. Iberia for a
long visit to Europe He will be accompanied by
| 1 ' i s newly-wedded wife, the daughter of the late
r. Ralph Henningham, of Melbourne.
From Gundagai (S.A.) comes the news
iat Mrs. Honora Costello has passed in her
leeks at the reputed age of 105 years. Well, it’s
id form to doubt the word of a lady, especially
hen she is dead, but —
Mistress Honora Costello —
Though wrinkled, and shrunken and yellow—
You were not, we’re afraid,
Quite as old as you said,
That yarn is too tough for a fellow.
But age goes for nothing, Honora,
In your mansion beyond the aurora,
Where, as Scriptures explain,
You will be bom again,
And remain a young girl evermore-a.
Parkes has already begun his old game of
runting all his enemies, actual and possible. He
smmenced by starting off that fat glory-hunter,
ir Patrick, to the old world, where diadems and
:ars and ribands galore await him at every court
l Europe ; he means to get rid of the doughty
nd inconvenient Dibb3 by muzzling the latter
rith the Speakership; and he has asked Mr.
larton to accept the Vice-Presidentship of the
,'ouncil and represent the Government in the
Jpper House. Mr. Barton’s reply is under-
tood to have been a most unsatisfactory one : the
x-Speaker, while partly agreeing with that in-
Lnitesimal fraction of the Parkes policy which has
ip to date been laid before the credulous and
ruthful public by whom the Pro-Trade Free-
Pection Ministry has been accepted, doesn’t see
lis way to pledge his support to such an extent as
vould warrant him in taking the bait by which
be little fish-hook of the Man of Hair is sur-
■ounded.
Johnny Solomon, proprietor of Sydney
Criterion Theatre, has at last got his hotel license.
When the case came on at Court, Pastor Jefferis
lessee of the adjoining Congregational chapel)
ind his flock cast out both anchors and prayed for
lays, and they also hired a carnal weapon in the
person of Lawyer Sly to show that, though they
only made a noise in the locality on Sundays, no-
body should be allowed to eat or drink in the
whole street through the week, except by their
sanctified permission. A petition was also run in
purporting to bear the signatures of 100 residents,
but, judging from the magistrate’s remarks, 80 of
these seem to have partaken of a bogus character.
When the license was granted, the Shepherd rose
up with a shiver and a roar and talked about an
appeal, but he was promptly snuffed out. He met
Johnny outside, however, and pursued the sub-
ject, whereupon Solomon, who, though “ only a
Jew,” was obviously the better Christian of the
pair, pointed out that his Saturday night congre-
gation was less selfish and snuffling than the
Doctor’s Sunday one, and added: “ I could get
£7OO a year, Doctor by letting the place on Sun-
day night, as the rest of the theatres are, hut I
refrain out of respect to your congregation.”
Which was a crusher.
There has been a little legal trouble about
“ Mixed” at Melbourne Bijou, and later on there
may be a little more. Just at present the case
stands thus : Mr. Craven claims to be the author
(from the French) of this three-act farce, and was
paid accordingly when it was first produced at the
same theatre. Now Messrs. Majeroni and Phil.
Day deny Craven’s claim to authorship, and don’t
pay him anything at all. Craven sought to re-
strain, and the other side is allowed to run
the show under conditions which leave the
merits of the case more mixed than ever.
Whether this entertaining squabble comes to a
legal head, or collapses in a compromise, it is
quite certain that the same old ‘’Mixed,” for-
merly credited to Craven, has been revived. Once
the management issued a slippery advertisement,
implying that this was a new version of “ Les
Trois Chapeaux." But it isn’t. As ever.Jthe
whole thing is carried through by Phil. Day,
whose Bosco Blithers stands alone as an extra-
vagant, actual living monstrosity. Mr. Douglas’s
abnormal capacity for keeping his countenance
again does him good service as Fred. Singleton ;
and Miss Mainwaring plays her old part of Mrs.
Selwyn. The rest of the company is strong
enough, and “Mixed” looks like filling the Bijou
for two or three weeks to come. Mr. Boucicault
appeared as Mike until the trouble arose, and then
promptly returned t* his own shop down the
street.


Mr. W. M'Millap, in one of his recent
utterances, said that“ Freetrade had made N.S.W.
the chosen home lor British capital.” That is
just what it has done. It isn’t the home of Aus-
tralian capital by any means, and the whole
country is diained dry to pay the interest on the
British money about which Mr. M'Millan is so
jubilant. If the freetraders have nothing better
to boast of than the amount of our indebtedness
to England they really should keep quiet. We
are sure that no importer would try to prop up
his own private credit by going round saying that
his warehouse was the chosen home of other
people’s cash ; he would prefer to leave the im-
pression that he traded on his own funds. The
“ mug ” is always the “ chosen mark ” of the
Chosen —the usurers.
The remains of the late Archbishop
Y aughan, of Sydney, are to find rest at last. He
is to be shoved into a coffin in a cheap disrepu-
table manner, and rushed round to the cemetery
as if he Were the wreck of a larrikin instead of a
brilliant priest who deserved a better fate. The
damage will be £lO sterlirg—equal to about one
wheelbarrow-load of coppers—and the Kyardinal
is to be drawn upon at sight for this sum. He
may pay it—nobody knows what may happen to a
man in N.S.W.—or he may smile a half-horse
smile and return the draft marked “ Refer to Dead
Archbishop.” We wouldn’t like to express an
opinion on either side, but we trust the financial
difficulty won’t have such a fine point put upon it
that the deceased prelate will hr.ve to be dug up
again.
The very latest about the Czar of Russia is
that he believes himself to be a tom-cat, and
meeows to be allowed to prowl about on the
palace-roof after midnight. His Imperial Majesty’s
medical advisers might just as well humour then-
royal and august patient’s whim. Some Nihilist
would bring him down with a brick, sure enough.
The President of
the N.SAV. freetrade
Association denies the
assertion which was made
by Mr. Fletcher at New-
castle that the Chamber
of Commerce had contri-
buted £25,000 towards the
electioneering expenses
of the Association, and
states that the elections
will not cost the Associa-
tion £5OO. The letter in
which these statements
are made is quite worthy
of the specious advocate
who penned it. Does Mr.
Wise suppose that any
person is insane enough
to imagine that the
Chamber of Commerce has
ever more than 25,000
pence to its credit, or that
even if it had £25,000
in the bank the wily clique
would he so unwise as
to forward a cheque for
that amount to an elec-
tioneering association ?
The mere assertion that
the Chamber of Com-
merce did not subscribe
£25,000 to the funds of
the Freetrade Association
does not get rid of the
assumption that the hat
may have been passed
around and that members
of the C.C may have
contributed that amount
The statement that the
elections will not cost the
Freetrade Association
£5OO is quite as disingenu-
ous. The Association
would have to be in exist-
ence for a great number
of years before it could
raise £5OO from the legiti-
mate source of members’
subscriptions, and the
whole of the money so
raised would be absorbed
in office-rent and secre-
tary’s sa’ary. The print-
ing bill of the Association
in connection with the
elections must amount to
a good round sum to say
nothing of postage, tele-
grams, clerical assistance,
and other expenses.
The N.S.W. dailies
classify the candidates
for the elections as
“M. F.” or “0.P.” The
first means “ Mercenary
Freetraders,” and the
second “ Opposition-Pro-
tection.” “0.P.” was not
the correct ticket in the
Sydney electorates, but it
ought to be O.K. in the
country districts.
It is no more a question of “ who killed
Cain” in N.Z. The answer is Hall.
N.S.W. will be Protectionist when, in the
course of 18 months, it wants to be protected from
Parkes.
Miss Hicks, of Darlinghurst-Mount
Rennie fame, arrived in Christchurch, N.Z. on
January 27. So a local paper says.
Mrs. Charles Wyndham, wife of the re-
nowned London theatrical manager of that name,
is at present residing at Katoomba —“ up the
mountings.”
Mr. Alfred Allen, of Paddington, is in
favour of a general reduction of electioneering
expenses. It comes expensive when a man goes
up as often as Mr. Allen, and gets in as seldom,
doncherknow.
General Butler, “an officer and a gentle-
man,” implicated in the Campbell divorce
esclandre, is the husband of Miss Elizabeth Thomp-
son, who painted “ The Roll Call.”
“ Trade and Labour ” is the latest Sydney
journalistic effort on behalf of Protection. It
contains soire spirited writing, but is not, to put
it mildly, a very self-assertive production.
Dowie’s latest is that “ the newspapers
are making a disgraceful attempt to gag his
mouth, but they shall not succeed.” Glory be to
Dowie’s mouth ! Nothing but lockjaw or death
will ever close that chasm.
A Melbourne paper says : —“lt is said
that Sir W. J. Clarke’s rew house in East Mel-
bourne has no less than 72 rooms.” Pooh ! This
is not much to clamour about. There are more
than that in Melbourne Gaol, to say nothing of
Pentridge.
It is rumoured that “ The Vagabond,”
who has issued a libel writ for £lO,OOO against the
publisher of the Wesleyan Spectator (Melbourne),
would probably accept something less on a pinch.
We would suggest tw r o parsons and a church as a
suitable compromise.
A lot has been said by Freetraders as to the
number of Victorians who have migrated to
N.S W., but these orators do not care to remem-
ber that the latter colony has spent £22,000,000
loan money in the last four years. Where the
carcase is there will the vultures gather.
Two calls were lately made by Victorian
congregations—Presbyterians, of course—for a
pastor. They were both left unanswered because
the ea'aries offered were not considered sufficient.
The old Pharisees used to make broad their
phylacteries. Those of the present day make wide
their waistbands.
“ Lucy ” Wilkinson is again the elect of
the Glebe. We are quite glad of this. Mr.
“Jack ” Want will now have another opportunity
of trying to dicover whether this bread-and-butter
statesman is really “ a boy or a girl ” From our
own cursory observation we have always inclined
to the girl theory.
It is not generally known, but it is a fact,
nevertheless, that the Hon. W. Macleay, Sir F.
Harley, C.J., and the Right Hon. W. B. Dailey
are all Protectionists. Vet the D.T. would have
men believe that Freetrade monopolises the “re-
spectability ” of the community ! They must mean
the soft-goods and soft-head respectability.
A N.S.W. bank-manager, who is a J.P.,
the other day received a telegram addressed
simply “James Blank.” The following morning
he sent one rf his clerks over to the telegraph-
office to say that if any more of his telegrams
were thus insufficiently addressed he would re-
port the operator to the Poßtmaster-General!
Talk about dignity!
fki v'fyiV
Vjvri
I )\V /-f ■
“ All I ask you” (said the chairman who
formally introduced Mr. M'Laughlin to the Pad-
dington, N.S.W., electors the other night) “ is to
act on the grand rule of the British Constitution ;
hear a man first and judge him after. And now,
gentlemen and fellow-electors, without any more
parlaver, let me introduce Mr. M‘Laughlin, with
the fine old Irish saying that you know so well,
‘ Hac Homo’—behold the man.”
As Mr. Sydney Burdekin was at the head
of the poll, it is plain that in East Sydney, as
elsewhere, “talents” are more potent than
abilities. Mr. Burdekin, though he had contracted
to divide his votes with the three other Free-
traders, got 650 “plumpers” as against 38 re-
corded for G. H. Reid Yet no living man
seems ready to admit that he instigated the
plumping. The job must have been put up by
the Mighty Dead.
I Miss Fortescue, the rejected of Gumboil,
has made a decided social success in America.
One critic describes her figure as being just the
size and build that men like ; it is “ easily
enfolded, round, shapely, portable, and con-
venient. “ Portable ”is good.
There was a lot of corruption at the
recent Palmain (N.S.W.) election, as much as
three baskets of eggs, tomatoes, and turnips of a
very previous date having been unpleasantly ere
evidence at one meeting. On another occasion one
of Sydney’s most adored tenors was jostled a bit
in the crowd, and from the odour that subse-
quently protruded from his pockets it was cur-
rently believed that a turkey had chosen a nest
there “in days long past away.” Things were
not much better at Newtown, one candidate hav-
ing to orate through a wire dish-cover.
It’s a bad thing to read both the Bible and
Shakespeare. This is how an eloquent local
preacher, who is well-posted in both volumes,
mixed them up at Woolloomooloo lately. He was
orating on the terrors of the Judgment, and per-
orated thus : “ See to it, my friends, that in that
day ye are among the sanctified and not among
those who, terror-stricken and affrighted at the
coming down, will, in the anguish of their souls,
exclaim, ‘ A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a
horse! ’ as did the holy evangelist whose words
you know so well.”
The committee of Melbourne Homoeo-
pathic Hospital having declined to accept one of
Adith O Gorrman’s lectures as a complimentary
benefit, the proceeds (about 15s. 9d. after deduet-
irg expenses) were handed over to the Alfred
Hospital. This was quite in accordance with the
fitness of things. The noble Duke—Edinburgh-
after whom that hospital is named, would take
anything, from a horse to the command of the
British navy. And, speaking of the “Escaped
Nun,” Melbourne people are about full up of the
lady. They will have none of her now.
At Hartley (N.S.W.) the electors seem to
have very much more of variety than of excel-
lence to choose from. John Hurley is running on
the Freetrade ticket and seems certain to get in,
on account of the selfishness of his opponents, who
have minced up the Protection party. Ex-Mayor
Young is much the best of the remainder, who
include Brisbane Doyle, Richardson, and R. J.
Inch, a local brewer. The political platform of
the latter would seem to bs comprised in his
affirmation —reiterated ad nauseam —“l am plain
honest Dick Inch. lam a John Bull.” From the
remainder of his speech we conclude that he is
likewise a John-donkey- Our best wish for the
electorate is that Mr. It. J. Inch may contribute
to a grateful Treasury the forty sovereigns of
commerce deposited prior to his nomination.
The Sydney Herald of Saturday glee-
fully publishes with a cros3 heading an excerpt
from Mr. Dyne's speech at Ccrowa, describing his
interview, when Minister of Works, with Mr.
Bennett, of the Evening News. The account
graphically describes Mr. Lyne's assertion that he
would run a morning mail on the Southern line.
“ Then if you do,” Mr. Bennett is reported to have
said “ I will write you out of political existence.”
We can hardly believe all this. The idea of Mr.
Bennett being'aole to write or spell anything or
anyone out of political existence is so utterly
al>3urd that it is almost impossible to believe that
such a threat was ever made. Evening News is
as politically harmless as “ Lucy ” Wilkinson, and
its advocacy as efficacious as that of Dan.
O’Connor in damning the best cause that ever
W'ns heard of. Two News laudatory leaders;are
usually enough to knock the bottom outof any man’s
reputation. Mr. Lyne's “ political existence ”is
safe as houses until the News gets him under its
upas-tree of approbation.
OF INTEREST TO YOU.
Kindly give us your attention for three minutes.
We can do you and your friends good. You have
heard of the great medicine house of H. H.
Warner & Co., of Rochester, London, Melbourne,
Frankfort, and Bombay. You have heard of the
wonderful cures Wrought by the use of Warner’s
Safe Cuie, and the probity and solidity of the firm.
They do exactly as they agree to. and Warner’s
Safe Remedies have become household words the
world round. Owing to the great prevalence of
Rheumatism in the Colonies, Messrs H. H. W. &
Co. have decided to put on the market their
Warner's Safe Rheumatic Cure, a specialized form
of their Warner’s Safe Cure, and to be used in
connection with the latter remedy.
Rheumatism is a most painful, as well as
dangerous disease, owing to its liability to attack
the heart. It should not for a moment be al-
lowed to run unchecked; and a specific for its
complete cure is now within your reach. It is a
blood disease, and must be treated as such. It is
perfect folly to attempt its cure with oils, blisters,
lotions, etc. They may give temporary relief,
but they never have and never can permanently
cure, as the poisoned virus is left in the system.
Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure, together with
Warner’s Safe Cure, go to the root of the disease,
purify the blood, and drive out the uirie acid, the
direct cause of all rheumatism. We could fill
columns with testimonials from all parts of the
world, but believe it only necessary to convince
any reasonable person of the efficacy of Warner’s
Safe Rheumatic Cure, to publish the subjoined
heartfelt expression from a gentleman widely and
favourably known who writes us from Williams-
town, Vic., as follows Compelled by gratitude for
my restored health, and being desirous that others
who suffer may be equally benefited, is the sole
reason of this voluntary statement. I am 65 years
of age; for 35 years I have suffered most excruciat-
ing pains from Rheumatic Gout. My ankles, knees,
toe joints, wrists and fiDgers were swollen to over
twice their natural size. I could not grasp any-
thing in my hand, not even a pannikin of water.
Since the 20th of June, 1885,1 became worse and
was confined to my bed most of the time. The
pains I suffered were excruciating. None but
those similarly afflicted can know the agony en-
dured. To touch a joint was worse than running
a knife into my body. I was first attacked in
England in 1851, while in the employ of th'e Great
Western Railway. I doctored with the best avail-
able physicians, but they did me no good, and as
a last resort they advised Australian climate for
my trouble. I came here in 1860. From that
time I was in Government employ off and on
as my Rheumatism would admit, until June
20th, 1885, when I was obliged to give up my
position. I tried different physicians here and in
Melbourne, tried the mineral water-baths, and
various remedies, but found no relief until in
March, 1886, when I commenced the use of
Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure—one tablespoonful
three time3 a day—using in all eight bottles. My
recovery was marvellous. I am now strong ; the
swelling of the joints has been driven away. I
can walk without help of crutch or walking-stick.
I was growing blind, but my eyesight is now
restored, and I feel no pain. I am in better
bodily health than for years. I can most enthu-
siastically recommend Warner’s Safe Rheumatic
Cure, and shall never cease to be grateful for my
complete recovery from a living death.
GEORGE MOON.
“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
US’ Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
supplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
The Bulletin.
The Salisbury Estate at Sydney.
THE NATIONAL PERMANENT BUILDING
LAND AND INVESTMENT SOCIETY (Ld.)
It is satisfactory to note that the effort of the
National Permament Building Land and Invest-
ment Society to put (he public in possession of
suitable suburban-city homes has been very suc-
cessful. The Salisbury Estate is situated on the
Sydney tram line, jest beyond the old Toll-
bar, Botany Road, and all round about new
houses of various kinds, villas, cottages, and
business places are begining tu mark the outline
of a grand new suburb. The estate is particularly
well situated, being clear good land, undulating
well drained, and posssessing the facilities of both
water and gas supply. The terms are the easiest
that could be devised compatible with business,
and are a great inducement to frugal people bent
on making their way in the world. The
success of the Salisbury Estate is another item to
the credit of the National, as it clearly marks this
society as the Institution of the people. It has a
large business, but signally safe and liberal to the
investing public. As a consequence, the books of
the Society will show a remarkably large number
of people who five or six years ago had no posses-
sion of their own whatever, but are now clear
owners of their own house and land, free from
landlord or mortgage. We observe that the
National Society moved into their grand new
mises on the 15th and now conduct their business
there. Not only do the Society have grand office
room in a solid and imposing edifice, but they
reap a large profit by means of letting extensive
office storage and shop room, the buildiDg having
been splendidly designed for the purpose. All
communications regarding deposits or purchase
may be addressed to the manager, Mr. Todd,
Society Offices, Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 8, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nit-are of Worto an d Supplla*.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.


HOW TO GAUGE BABIES.
Mothers, who are above all other people princi-
pally interested in this matter, should know that
an average healthy infant grows about 8 inches in
length during the first year of its life; but for the
next two years the growth is less rapid, and on
the third birthday the child is said to be exactly
half the size to which it will attain when full
grown. This calculation i s , of course, founded
on the supposition that the child is properly
nourished ail the time, which it undoubtedly will
bs if fed on C. Gilbert's Corn Jlour, the best and
purest known.
The genuine is branded : —C. Gilbert, Buffalo,
N.Y., and Des Moines la , and it can he obtained
in Sydney from Messrs, i >. Mitchell and Co., G.
Griffith's and Co., Mason Brothers and Co.,
(Limited), Barlow, and Co., T. H. Mate and Co.,
Kobert Miller and Co , Cramsie, BowdeD, and
Arthur, Slocombe Brothers, Tillock anl Co., and
K. Butcher.
THEY NEVER WOULD BE MISSED.
As some day it may happen that a victim must be
found.
I’ve got a little list - I’ve got a little list
Of some very silly people who might well be
under ground.
And never would be missed, they never wou'd
be missed.
There’s the pestilential idiot who twenty times a
day
Runs in and asks you for the time, because he
will not pay
Thirteen and six ; for such mean tricks there’s
nothing will atone
For the Waterbury watch is as good as any
known.
And the man who says that winding one wears
out a fellow’s wrist,
He never would be miesed, he never would be
missed.
The man who laugh’s at “Yankee watches,”
speaks of them as “ tin,”
This pleasing humorist, I’ve got him on the list;
The fool who thinks a cheap watch must surely
be a “ skin.”
I don’t think he’d be misEed, I know he’d not be
missed.
The busy individual, whose minutes—in his
mind —
So wonderfully precious are, that once a day to
wind
A Waterbury watch, you know, the time he
couldn’t spare,
But has leisure quite sufficient to stop and madly
stare
In jewellers’windows for the time—if in this he
will persist,
He never will be misted, he never could be
missed.
Whose watchchain bears a door key, where his
timepiece doth belong,
Such fellows should be hissed—I’ve got him on
the list;
The man who misses trains because “ the kitchon
clock was wrong,”
He never will be missed, I’m sure he’ll not be
missed.
The boy who’s always late at school, and says he
“doesn’t care;”
The father who won’t buy for him a watch of ours
to wear ;
The man who’ll wear a “warming pan” because
it’s case is gold,
Although it’s worse than useless, it’s so worn out
and old,
And from wasting money on it, for repairs, will
not desist,
He never will be missed,’ he never will be
missed.
The Waterbury is sold by all storekeepers and
dealers in the colony, for 13s. 6d. and can be
repaired when required at a cost not exceeding
2s. 6d. at the office of the Waterbury Watch Co.,
54, Margaret-street, Sydney.
ADULTERATED TOBACCO
Mr. Prescott, author of “ Tobacco and its Adul-
teration,” notes: —“AmODg the adulterations
which have from time to time been discovered in
manufactured tobacco, the following substances
may be named: The leaves of rhubarb, dock,
burdock, coltsfoot, beech, oak and elm, peat-earth
bran, sawdust, malt, rootletB, barleymeal, oat-
meal, peameal, bear meal, potato-starch, and
chicory leaves steeped in tar oil.” A Parliament
ary return, made in 1854, of persons who had
rendered themselves liable to prosecution for the
infringement of the tobacco laws, showed that
cases of adulteration were numerous, and that in
addition to the materials already mentioned the
fo lowing were used:—Alum, lime, saltpetre,
Fuller’s ear. h, chromate of lead, peatmoss, treacle,
salt, endive, lampblack, gum, iron, liquorice, and
red and black dyes. That would be very un-
pleasant reading for smokers did they not know
that it is possible to purchase tobacco free from
such objectionable mixtures. And if the innocent
tobacco-makers of 1854 were so clever in the art
of adulteration, what may not be expected
from the scientific developments of the last 33
years? It is at any rate a fact that some of the
tobacco which finds its way into the pockets
and the pipes of the public at the present time
may, as far as the organs of taste and smell are
concerned, be made of any article named in
the above list, or a sco re of others even more ob -
jectionable, but so artistically finished as to pre-
clude all suspicion. The point upon which Black-
well’s Bull Durham tobaccos claim precedence
over all others is their purity. The most fas-
tidious smokere among all nations and all grades
of men agree that the Tobacco grown in the
Golden Tobacco Belt of North Carolina is the
most delicious and refined for pipes used in the
world. Lighter than Turkish, more fragrant than
Havana, freer from nitrates and nicotine than any
other it is j ust what the connoisseur praises and
the habitual smoker demands. The very choicest
tobacco grown in this belt is bought by Blackwell
and Co , and appears in their celebrated brand of
BULL DURHAM, Plug-cut, sold in packets and
in pound and half-pound tins in Sydney by Messrs.
Buist, J. Thompson, H. Lees, Noake, Simmons,
Levy and Scott ; and may be had wholesale from
A. W. Sutton, George-street.*
Parkes has got his hair cut at last. A
specimen obtained from the barber at vast expense
is now on view at The Bulletin office, and
Freetraders will be permitted to worship this
interesting relic on payment of a small fee to the
office boy.
She was a woman against whom scandal
had never breathed, but she had a habit of ex-
pressing herself badly Her two little boys were
quarrelling in front of the house when called
out to them, “ Come in at or ce and be good, or I
will fetch both your fathers to you ! ”
Archbishop Walsh, of Dublin, is alleged
to have recently stated that men ought to pay
just as much of their debts as they think fit and
no more.
The Welshers’ way it is to lay
And then prepare to flit—
But Walshers stay and ODiy pay
As much as they think fit.
“WHAT A FALL WAS THERE, MY COUNTRYMEN!”
THE UNDERMOST ONE (taken rather by surprise): “NOW THEN, WHERE IN SHEOL
DID YOU COME FROM?"
THE OTHER ONE: “FROM THE NORTH OF OIRLAND, SIR!”
(He smiled at the wit, but never forgave the injury).
The Tamar (Launceston) Rowing Club
have decided to have a totalisator on the ground
at their forthcoming regatta. This innovation
will keep away the clergy and should help the
affair considerably.
Poor Mrs. Hampton (who sanctioned the
murder of her little daughter by her elder sisters,
while the whole lot of them wore suffering from
religious hysteria) has come to the last act of the
“ Coburg Tragedy.” Gaol completed what the
parsons began, and Mrs. H. is a3 mad as the King
of Bavaria She is to try the doubtful cure of a
lunatic asylum, during the Governor's pleasure.
The girls—nearly restored to health now—are re-
turning to their friends. It would be well if these
young creatures of impulse were p'aced on the
same footing a3 Miss “ Looeeser ” Fleeter, and
duly provided with “ luvin’ husbands.”
In spite of the appalling disgrace which
that sandy, freckled, scrofulous larrikin, Lord
Colin Campbell, has brought upon the Argyles,
the unlucky family has still one consolation—it
has not yet sunk so low as many other branches of
the British peerage. There is a good gap, for in-
stance, between it and the Lennoxes, a ducal race
who are grubbed and driDked and supplied with
lordly togs by a system of black ms il which they
practise on fashionable London shopkeepers. If
credit is refused to the meanest and most caddish
of this race the bulk of the family work to ostracise
and ruin the tradesman who declined to grant the
accommodation, and hardly any Lennox ever
pays. The historic ornament of this parasitic
crowd was a certain Lord William Lennox, who
was in his gaudy youth some 60 years ago. He
married Miss Pa ton, a great oneratic artiste, and
being ashamed of the connection, this brazen
wretch branded the unhappy girl as his mistress.
But he reserved to himself all a husband’s privi-
leges—that is to say, Lady Lennox was perpetu-
ally bruised and lame fi om ceaseless ill-usage, and
was forced to go on the stage when hardly able to
! tand, while her husband drew her salary and
kept her almost in starvation. The story of the
marriage leaked out, but still Lord William was
received as of old in London society, while his wife
was a loathed and insulted outcast, till at last the
Duchess of Richmond appeared in public with the
unhappy lady, who was adorned with two black
eyes and three or four t errible cuts in the face.
After that Lady Lennox was admitted into
“noble ” circles and enjoyed their privileges until
her husband did her to death, and then the
whole family of oily swindlers, beggars, bor-
rowers, confidence-men, and thieves condoled
with him in his affliction. And even he was
touched with remorse at the last, and wished he
had not beaten her quite so hard—for her salary
died with her.
MANY FORMS OF KIDNEY DISASF.
Are very difficult to detect, as the symptoms are not of
marked nature. S a-istics show that more han 50 per cent,
of the deaths arise from kidney disease, direct or i cidental.
Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and live<) Bi ters never fails to im-
mediately relieve the worst cases.
The Climate of Victoria.— From its geo-
graphical position Victoria enjoys a climate far
more genial to Europeans than any other Colony
within the Continent of Australia, consequently
Consumption and many o'her chest affections do
not prevail there to the same extent as in other
parts. The popularity which Freeman’s Original
Chlorodyne has obtained by the t olonists in the
treatment of Consumption, Bronchitis, Asmathic
affections, Croup, and Whooping cough, evidence
the sincerest desire on their part to second the
great boon that Nature has granted them, by treat-
ing these diseases the moment the symptoms
evidence themselves. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s” only. Trade mark, an Elephant.—Whole-
sale Agents for Victoria, Kocke, Tompsitt, &
Co., and obtainable from all chemists.’'
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 601 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.
TO INVALIDS.
LOVERS OF WHOLESOME BEVERAGE.
ANHEUSER BUSCH ST. LOUIS
1AGER BEER.
This pure ar.d unadulterated beer we wish to
impress upon the public mind that it is the purest
article of Lager Leer in the colony, if not the
purest brewed in the world. It is made from pure
malt and hops only, by the Anheuier Busch Brew-
ing Association, of St. Louis, U.S.A., who spare
no expense in procuring the best material from
which to brew it, and whose famous brewery
affords every facility for its perfect manufacture.
The public crave after some beverage. If they
cannot get a good article they will drink a bad
one sometimes poisonous. Adulterated ales and
beers will be drunk in the absence of a pure and
unadulterated article often. It is absolutely in
the interests of health and temperance that the
famous Anheuser Busch St. Louis Lager Beer
should be drunk in preference to any other. See
you get the genuue. Can be obtained of any of
the wine and spirit merchants in Australia.
NOTICE ! - B«ware of young Wine. Drink
only Ho k ngs' high-class selected old vintages
for invalids. i43 Pitt-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
STOP RIGHT HERB!
JOY FOR EVER !
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone *costs but 30a. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the paits of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wmcn at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. tS" It is pitched for the
voice , and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Notk. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes
Do. do. (key winder)
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, ptlent pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-case ...
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world
£2 10 0
£2 0 0
£3 0 0
£3 10 0
£3 5 0
3 15 0
£lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
SOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Gold. A legi-
timate use has been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most esqaisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
Ho one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,3s.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliantc) Brooch, 7S. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, Is. 6d.j Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Locket
ss.,Jewelled, lOs.j Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
send these on approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post,


London journals assert that the practice
of exchanging pulpits temporarily is at last being
looked upon with favour. '1 his fills our soul with
a “ blessed thcrt.” Assuming that what is good
for the pulpit is good for the pres 3, why shouldn’t
the latter benefit by an occasional exchange of
editors? For example. The editor of the Pro-
testant Standard might p'ant his hoofs under
the editor’s desk at the Freeman's Journal and
fill up that organ with breezy tales of convent life,
a In Bridget O’G.unmon, and scathing denuncia-
tions of the Pope ; while the Fp.ei man's representa-
tive could iuu the f HRisnAN Advocate in the
interests of Home Rule a’.d Cardinal Moran's
Jesuit schools la like manner the Bennett
family might instil their love of truth and refine-
ment into the Globe ; and the Globe editor could
sit in the Daily Telegraph chair and preach the
beauties of Protection by the mile. [N.B. —This
would b° a good business speculation for the D. T. ]
Tre Telegraph, in its turn, might show little
Bailey’s Sunday Nooze'liow to sit on a rail during
political roubles ; aid Bailey could reciprocate by
infusing some of his sweetness and light into the
Police News columns ; wh ; le the gifted artist on
the latter rag could cram the Sydney Mail with
scurvy'ske cbe" of murderous assaults, dog-
fights, and hangings. The Evangelical Standard
m'ght fill J. G. O'Connor's boots, and load up the
Express with the stiffest scandals that could be
invented against Parnell, and an occasional blast
on the Boyne-Water Brigade bugle ; while J. G.’s
time would be occupied flooding the Tow r N and
Cou itry with clippings out of “Speeches from
the Irish Dock,” and “Butler’s Lives of the
Saints.” The Herald would, of course, take a
turn at The Bulletin crank, and show its readers
how the gayest subjects could be treated in the
gravest mauuer; wtii'e The Bulletin man would
edit every newspaper in turn, and then we should
realise the Journalism of the Future.
pOBEKT BUTCHER & CO
ill (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE SDREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
VT Country Orders receive prompt attention. "SI
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
It CURES where all other MEDICINES FAIL, as it
acts DIRECTLY and AT ONCE on the KIDNEYS,
LIVER, and BOWELS, restoring them to a healthy
action. It is a safe, sure, and speedy cure, and hun-
dreds have been cured by it, when Physicians and
friends had given them up to die.
IT IS BOTH A SAFE CORE AND A SPECIFIC.
It cures all Diseases of the Kidneys, Liver, Bladder,
and Urinary Organs, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, Nervous Diseases, Excesses, Female
Weaknesses, Jaundice, Biliousness, Headache, Sour
Stomach, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Files, Fains in the
Back, Loins, or side, Retention or Non-retention of
Urine.
HEED THE VANNING.
By not heeding the warnings of Nature, many persona
are laid up on a bed of sickness and suffering for weeks,
months, or years. There is hardly a disease that
attacks the system which is not preceded by symptoms.
Let these symptoms be attended to and the disease
will be nipped in the bud. Note the following.—
KIDNEY
DISEASE
I Pain in Small of Back, Pain in
Loins, Flushes of Heat and Chills,
with Disordered Stomach, Bowels,
Headache, Weakness, &c. In fact,
Kidney Complaint appears in so
many different ways, it is im-
possible to name them all.
Dr. Bell’s Bitters has cured some
of the most stubborn forms of
Kidney Disease ; in fact, has never
been used without good effect.
/ A VointHnonririff
DYSPEPSIA
{Variable Appetite, Faint Gnawing
Feeling at Pit of Stomach,Bad Taste
in the Mouth, Feeling of Weight and
Wind in the Stomach, Bad Breath,
Headache, aud Constipation. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters will positively relieve
any of above symptoms, and cure
Dyspepsia.
Any one of the above symptoms is not sufficient to
cause any alarm, and many persons do not pay any
attention to it until the symptoms multiply, and they
discover disease has made great inroads, and possibly
firmly established itself in the system.
Note.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
Hsnufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
Qnuth 'W'alftS & an d
M
0 N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. CUNNINGIIAM,
MABOAMT-STBUIT, WYNWA_h.D-*QUAUI, BYDNBY
$1
i-:s
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,000.
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C,
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfera, Gosford, Nyn
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank of
England.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS
of
CARRIE SWAIN in THE TOMBOY.
Prices as usual.
Al ham b r a music hall.
George street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smitf.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR,
Charm and Bewitch the Audience
EVERY EVENING.
Messrs. COWAN, WARNER, and Mr. EDWIN
ROGERS, the Comic Acrobat and Champion
Dancer of the World, his First Week in this Hall.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
rpHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “Lipp” Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
LLAS
gTUDY
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match oos
tnnnpa ReDairs neatly «?Teonfce*'
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents I
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
"health is wealth.
9-flAlfti
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order le-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. por box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TOROVTI.
p
|ST 5
O
upPL
fs
:
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
t, <Ai
HATS CAPS*.
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY %
P/yootife '
A
&
o'
V
rpt
o
fed
pA S*
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auo
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhen
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthui
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
d
K
TH
A r N nRE F
[ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
i.iraiiTM.iinniri)rr;
_ PREPARELD ONLY BY QO.
lngham.-T
p Roc KHAM PTQrJ. H
fsd
T7l CORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spiilt
sii* .Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Rare on Sale—
Maokies & Co. celebrated Whiskle
K. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, In
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.B. Gin, &c., &o.
IMANU FA^CJURING HXTTERS»j
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS GFALITHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
W THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offices, i Park-st
J. V. WARHKAM. Manager
n
sfUDOLPHO “VVOLF ES SON &C°
/ y /f? (SZD ,
tso
, &MWie'.
ILLUSTRATION (In reduced size) Tf £1 Order to be found In the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
AD
IT, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CON NELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRB,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
SELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
mi
This cli ir adjusts itstlf to any position, fiom
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction ; works automatically. The above
put represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire resc. S3T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, wiih
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, Ac. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
ess
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl
oua tizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comma
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
fs
DRAWING room cabi.
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fubnitub* W aekhousemew ,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
d
£35
pianoforte:,
’ guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, lull Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
oash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
fs
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From 275,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Limb.
df
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
' INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Conneil-street.
sd
Bedsteads, ail sizes
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
fs
OPRING MATTRASSBB
IO Woven Wire, bes
make j also, Spiral Spring
Price, from 14s. eaoh,
BRADLEY. NEWTON and LAMP,
HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d. j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 If E.; Clothes Horses, from 10s, 6d.i
Writing Tables with drawers, from 50s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMW.


MISS N.S.W. (loq): “OH, POSTMAN, THE SAME OLD UGLY VALENTINE!”


BENTO
&ALI CYli
Xfip
TOOTHPASTE
1/jJriV/lled FGf\ its fifth/ septic
fi/Io CLEAfJs/f/O PROPERTIES.
MELHUISH ~ P MARMACEDTICAL ClfiSMIST
134 William ST, S YD N£ m '
® *j4ii exquisite
AAJUty
BY THE PROPRIE TOR,
DOTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines. I*
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
S I OH
£5O
WARNING!
Kn utterly worthless ini Ration of that well-known preparation,
y-ftUSE’S INSECTICIDE, is now being offered for sale, and
111 order to deceive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
« 77- , - } ' J
/-tviusses” on the outside wrapper. The public are hereby cau-
t°ned ; against this imposture, and are advised that FIFTY
: 'to NTS REWARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
. as will lead to the conviction ot the makers and vendors of
this spurious article. The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
®* a y be easily distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE’S
foEGTICIDK has a blue wrapper and large white directions
e b with red band bearing the' words “ Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
Proprietors, FELTON, GRIM WAD E, & CO., Melbourne.”
Kruse’s Insecticide may be had of all wholesale and retail
demists, and vendors ot proprietary and patent medicines
fV3
'"W 2? -to
By Special AppoinTME* 1 '*
d
t He
<5u,
And
his royal
GOULET CEAMPAGHE.
TRAPP <fc ELLES, 54 Margaret-street, Agents for New South Wales.
_ eftfNCE OF u,
HENEY LAEOABTER,
r : o
WAT/TR CART.
B CD V '.-H
NOT AFFECTED
BY WEATHER
L-E TRD-UCH^
C ANnO7
BE BROKEN
l ft
KIM#
CYLINDER
‘RAN . I
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
op England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squafrtera, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&Pi. See.
oEwjrftilly given.g
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHEDJ3N APPLICATION.
Works: 65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
Flour! Flour! Flour 1
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flonr,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
krd, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
»fcd at the lowest prices.
0“ FUDGE’S
FOOD
m, WANTS AND INVALIDS
fiais &n enormous sale In England,
and is now being introduced, into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a. supply;,
as every wise mother will certainly
r> use it.
L ROYAL FOODMILLS s
LONDON, ENGLAND,
M . RILE
(late of the Detective Force),
ai * Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
Y
12
ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
-.and wife deserters traced, and all hinds «(
( v »ree rk i instituted. Evidence obtained in
s**ion o j ’ rau d, and inoendlary oasee, for the legal pro-
S-'bri&ao d others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
sr,5 r , death, obtained in any part of the world
K! iw debits coHeoted. From R. M. R.'s long experience
iteai t J ve orce of New South Wales, Victoria, and
'lie, kr > and established agencies in all parts of the
J® m a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
»strictest secresy, and to faitirfirily and
■» attend to all business entrusted to h care.
ssssi
fs
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL, l Littoh Collins
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
iFEIISTIST 353 3Lj3Li~y : ’2J
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Braneh Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. OARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-clast
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHER*.
SB
LIMITED,
203 to 2(39 Rent-street
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, roj
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENW A R n
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISBI
Agents tor
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
„ and CO.'S
Cognac.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Genova.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs, CHAMMONT & Go.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for tht
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highesi
praise, and are acknowledged to he beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prinoe and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
FOLEPis SIDNEY HYMMSHJM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET,
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. For
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
(%
o
OBTAINEP. A
S AWARD
! OF MtRITi
ISTH E BEST INTHE WORLD I 1
NONt OTHER BUT
WAIj?G H v
•is t V SQTHt nYe H. W 4 t
p a eo /vl §T
g*
Everybody
should USB
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
P L O U IC !
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
881 OjmKun'.-H'T'RicßiT Mnsn,
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for- its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Turn* Gold Mih-als—
PARIS, IBTB; CALCUTTA, IBB4,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CY-MBIDIUM
ire of rare anil peculiar fragrance, ana Heins’
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents
ATKINSON’S
CELEBRATED EAR DE COLOGNE
is unequalled for its strength and delightftfl
odour. It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally tine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of aii Dealers, anil of the Manufacturers —
j, & E, ATKINSON.
24, Old Bond Street, London.
-—’’WHSte Rose" on “ Gaidai
-mt*
m
j.
pm,
*
t 1
m
aiei
rfe
■V
m
In the good old days of wet-plate photography, no detective was required to recognise "a dabbler
in the practice of the art. If his clothes did not betray him, his fingers w'ould; silver stains were
everywhere, often on his face, although it was always a mystery how they get there.
Now all this is changed !
DRY PLATES have effected such a revolution that photography is as much a pastime for
the Ladies as it is for the Gentlemen.
No Dirty Finger s, no Stained Clothing, no silver bath to go wrong; no troubles to
encounter except such as can be got over with the exercise of a little care and patience,
Plates of all sizes by all the makers at home and abroad can be had from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
Catalogue® post free on application, .
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS ROBERTSON.
118 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Large stoek of new and second-hand Books. Price of any' book on application, ißooks sent by
mail to any part of Australia,


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Covrls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
# Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. -A.. r Co., Clao.clan.3o.ati
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines. 2
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
1887. PEIITCE OP 1 WALES HOTEL.
1887.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure cases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
packers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfern Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINKS and SPIRITS, containing the following :
S Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY T Bottles LOWNDES' RUM
1 Battle JAMAICA RUM I Bottle WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
i Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
P.O. Prioe Lists post free on application. Special reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods.
P. E. LAEKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-straet, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
3STEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
| LLUaffRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRI NS’S ALICE
SAU
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public „ Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label m every bottk
bears their Signature thus —
O'
without which m bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper, Wholesale and Jor Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, <srv., 6 rc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
****—'■ """' ummmirtm - rf^A
Wholesale Agents: Montefiohe, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
A
' c,&
«S <V -«eS
S»
dfsds
'OOT 1
<fr '
i HOE BAI.
26 George S*
JLale fealt ao3e jTtyncourl'. ~~~
OPFORD & CO.'S HATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
BPJBXT |TO JROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE; STBS** 1
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEORGS STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
[Establish, id 1860.]
The Place for Bargains in EARTHENWARE
FOLK
there.
TOWN
Walk
COUNTRY FO]
Write there.
GLASSWARE
CHINA
CUTLERY
FURNITURE
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
CARPETS
FLOORCLOTHS
The beat stocked Emoorium ia Australasia is
LAWLER’S, where everythin* wante - in a house
or about a house may be had at prices within the
reach of all. No puffing, or professiog to supply
goods for next to nothing, but value simply un-
precedented. and if it is not s», then none need
buy. Manufacturer and wholesale importer,
turning over in the lines above-named as much
as all the other houses put together. Value and
straightforwardness, civility and promptness at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney,
RAW VASELINE.
B
as
A
aOKSJK RUGS, P»r>tc Saddles, Horse Cllupera,
Cheek and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
r S<3 assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen's Saddles, Spurs, and aU kinds of
Saddlers' Ironmongery, &e.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
wholesale;* saddlers, and saddlers
IRONMONGEP c
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
HQtESAU MANUFACTURE
OMFECTiONER J^ey:
JAMES STEDMAN
«tt.EAM S t H6AR &*s*!« 6ST
£a&4A -&U' 4am4>, a*u>tHoA
Tor ototß eajHoirr&sT non J -
%
fftnrmr * s*>rrfi*C o*vsms fltfftmr AltOW
WJ o H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
II PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET. SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beet Tierces and Kege, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«4AIJ4wtN« IN ALL ITS BRANCHES,
rO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE ©ASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons amd upwards.
COOPERAGE.
*7 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
KiSME a Marster. otremtasu
SoW ty SHOE OEItERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDALS.
m
mm
m
m
ttAln
ioic & SONS
60STO
PQ?TON, 1869.
VIENNA. 1878’.
PHIMU 167 Q.
HAOTHAWAn
QtD FEtIASiE
A necessity in 6V6f J
family. ftblad» a JJ
poljsb&s Ladies' $
Children’s
Shoes, Rubbers
Satchels,
brushing.
giyes satisfaction.
Is conceded to*
“THE STANDARD.
C. L. HAU T HA WAY & SOt*J>
S3l A 233 CoagreSS Street,
The fresh food and ice coM* 3^
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
No. 23 ROYAL AROAD®
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, JW*»
light refreshments.
PPAt this Branch, orders may be left tot
by their carta.
They have also taken over the
“ KOWMISS.” so highly recommended 1#
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE 00.,
Head Office
Stables
Factory
21 Harboof-gf*
Liverpool-B®*"
Mittagong.
Guinness’ Extra Stout*
FIRST QUALIT*'
BASS’ PALE AL®.
SOLS PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN KVlinUl’ ,tf *'
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAL# 9
W. BALGHIN, JOHNSTON &
Commercial Chambers, Bond-street.
Try POGONOWS& 1
FOB
MUSICAL INSTRU
The Largest Assortment in the Colo 11 *®
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
COm
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY GUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER."—LanokT.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
JERATED WATERS,
CORDIALS, and BITTERS.
E. ROWLA
ONLY
GOLD MEDA^
CALCUTTA
Exhibition-
