

The Bulletin


ASK FOR COLON! AL-MADE
Wire
Netting!
PROOF
t 0 M
PROOF
BRAtfD.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BROS., BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p
vj
O
S
IRONMONGERS
512
<P
o
&J BE6 *«jC»
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing MacMne, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &t.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
StSLXABUS
BUGGIES
WEST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH.
•
Uan by Abl the
CUUen*.
IK» 1
BUT
HOW CHEAP,
::
FLEMING’S
wins
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
HARD MAN BRUS.
<«<««•< in iiff fiTuf it hj
tiil/MTO
TT?Tu<TF| IIHIIIIIMItHIUt»IHUIIII*nf|!Itt.fIMIM v ,
”@Wﬁswm.m
GoiffiJvSrfti/p/
AN<O
Y Trcacu
sro
se
RFftNfRS
w«wt
<L <*~tfp=a
HUD OPMCD* FACTORY. NEWTOWN
A3A/OAS IS JOUO'39 ‘HJNVt/8
ft il
oc
cr:
■as
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguia Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toqst" BJStJUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,;
nothing equals them. Delicious with!
milk, superb with wine, and Incompatible!
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.'
Anything pn require from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
OooSa of a*iy description, forwarded free of all
Bbargaeu
BEND TO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN T. MTNNES & CO.,
•O WTT MTRKiar, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Z-CajnrteM
3
'oji^
. ,
PJIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than Mj>ert pen-men, and condensing matter to iess than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kant street.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
<J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK. G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKIN'S.*
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MINING,
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS' SUPPLIES. &c.
=
,iLn:i.ll! ' ni V!'j "i;;i iVu!!ii:in 'iL-
-1
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and PLAIN
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD ; OILS, PAINTS,
BRUSHWARE ; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, BUILDERS’ IfV
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FIXED ENGINES, VERT]’ST
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING,!
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, See. ■&
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLE ST||g
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT PULb»*
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application. . j
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse
Iron and Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores - ■ !
London Office ?
54 YORK STREET.
. HAY and ENGINE STREETS.
• • HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOR
s"srx3JsrExr_
85 GRACECHURCH STREET.
www W W!“ m
ilj;}“331‘§4ls:;l‘"‘i“ “I 19151”;'I“"3I"‘;‘Mtw" 3“" ,llli‘ l Lt: g, M """iT'H: W
Tri>~i!»‘u!H!‘f"iev 1' “WWWIf”.‘W’w" ‘ "m” M'W :rlflililfiﬁﬂiw I‘l,""""
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
»;jrso»« 4. sows
CONQUEROR
2**So* 4 SOWS '
YANKEE DOODU
SfUSOh 4 &OMS
SIR ROGER
e**sa*AsOfii ft " e ‘ Tr#
N A !LR 0 D
GDIS On ft SONS
CHAMPION.,
SMfcSON A SCNJ>
CUT . In TJoi PtcuU B****
SX.RUBY. 0 Rl ENTAL MIXTl*®
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF.&cI^
-b
O
0
4PUL
v;
.4
\>
Aram MARTIN & COMPAQ
(ESTABLISHED 1860), , T *W>
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, »>
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Governme 11 *'
tioneer for Brisbane. ■
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart,
Btreet, Brisbane.
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
CHARtOTSB-PLACB AND GEORGE-STB.BET.
K. HAMEY’S
1 DOZEN CASE
OF
ASSORTED
fills, SPIRITS, and MALT LIQUORS,
DELIVERED ANY PART OP CITY FREE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer.
Order the Idas:, ease as you please from the list of
W'm low prioes as under, vie. :
Robertson’s Walker or Royal Blend
Scotch Whiskies ... ... 4s. per bottle.
Dun villa’s Shamrock and Burke’s
XXX Irish Whiskies
Brian Born Whisky...
Hennessy’s * Cognag
4s.
Ss.
ss.
6s.
4s.
4a.
4s.
Is. Bd.&2a. 6d,
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Red Heart d 0...
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies
English Ales and Stout, best brands la,
or lls 6d. per dozen
Port Wine, for connoisseurs and
invalids ... Bs.
Port Wine and Sherry, from ... 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy
from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Griffin’s Sparklimg Ale, 9s. 6d per dozen quarts, champagne
bottles
Guinness’s English Stout, 9s. 6d. per dozen quarts, do.
Do. Dagger brand, stone, Bs. 6d. per dozen quarts.
AH first-class Uoodß. ®ne trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Oomer
Georze-street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited.
Mrs Hanney iHenda personalis’ on lady patrons
The New Furniture and C&P
W arehouse
Jones, Lawson bros, &
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITU#®
LESS
AT
THAN ENGLISH
if*'
EiGHT-FEET EATEN SiuN
With three spare leaves, JA
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and
for
DINING ROOMS, jS #>
At Hie Exceedingly Luw Prise of &
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUI?® 3,
At Correspondingly Low Prises.
FURNITURE lor
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM, „ H o°
THE DRAWING'^
black and BRASS BEDSTEAD 8 ’
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
O'


The Bulletin
V ° l- B ~Na 365.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1887.
Frio©., t<i.
/ (&
y((y
Xpj
'.VO
~c* # V
4w*\
1 n)° p \t^
0
t
I
rf>'cv"


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STBEET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance).
E*C3r annum - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - O 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - v - - O 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING-,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Thr Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony— you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 2!), 1887.
“ Proputty : Propulty [?] Propulty !!!"
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —The civilized world rings with
the brutalities of Irish landlords and the wrongs of Irish
tenants and Scottish crofters. In reading of these we ar e
apt to forget or overlook the fact that similar doings are of
daily occurrence in the colonies. I can speak of New Zea-
land from experience, and I fearlessly assert that landlords
there arc every whit as flinty-hearted and cruel as they can
possibly be in Ireland or Scotland. The law of distraint for
rent gives them power to ruin their tenants at a moment’s
notice, and they are not slow to take advantage of it. Scarce
a day passes in Wellington at present but one or other of the
leading auctioneers advertises household effects which have
been seized for rent. On one occasion recently a bailiff
stripped a poor widow’s house of all it contained, and even
took a saucepan containing the children’s dinner off the
fire, emptied the food on the floor and annexed the utensil.
Compared with such N.Z. landlords, in my opinion, the
Irish and Scotch landlords show to great advantage. Their
agents turn the people out it is true, but they at least allow
them to take away their household effects ; while the mean,
greedy, grasping, pious-grovellers who own property in New
Zealand first seize and sell all a poor family’s belongings,
anil then turn the widow and orphan into the street
to die of cold and starvation fo all they care.
What fills me from my boots upwards with wonder
and astonisment is how any respectable auctioneer
will stoop so low as to earn a paltry commission by acting as
salesman for a bailiff and his heartless employers ; but there
it is, in almost every daily newspaper in the colony, the usual
notice that Mr. Going Gone will sell on such a date under
disfiaaint for rent the very last stick belonging to some
poverty-stricken wretch who will probably hang trims slf in
despair in his empty house after his wife and children are
turned into the street. Sir, I write strongly because I feel
strongly. The Bulletin is a great power for good in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Let it take up the subject and
show up this abominable and wicked law of distraint to the
acorn and indignation of the public, and I feel sure that -in a
short time the law will be abolished in these colonies, if not
in the British Empire. Sir George Grey, to his honour be it
said, has attempted time after time to get the law altered in
NevV Zealand, but the property-owners in Parliament have
always voted against him and defeated his benevolent inten-
tions. Hoping you will give this subject the benefit of your
powerful pen, I am, &c.,
N. Z. DEMOCRAT.
Landlord and Tenant.
It is a noteworthy thing that the bitterest
opponents of landlordism and landlords
themselves all the world over arc agreed on
a point about which numerous distinguished
Socialists have cast a great deal of doubt.
Property in land is declared by reformers of
the Henry Georoe school to be very differ-
ent to property in anything else, and this is
precisely what land-proprietors have been
arguing with all the force derivable from
Acts of Parliament (where ancient custom
proved insufficient) and executive function-
aries from time immemorial. There need be
no surprise that both the common law and
the statute law of England should support
this view, for these are the outcome of
efforts put forth only by men concerned to
produce this outcome, and no other. The
entire fabric of the law of England is the
work of landlords, for the modifications that
have been effected since the days of Parlia.
mentary reform are quite insignificant. Ac-
cordingly, we find that a broad distinction
is made between the rights of property in
the land and in what are called chattels ;
and the owner of a freehold is hedged in
with innumerable safeguards not considered
necessary for the owner of any othor pro-
perty whatsoever.. This peculiar state of the
law was forcibly illustrated in Sydney only
the week before last. A tenant had neglected
to pay certain rent for a house as agreed,
and had removed his chattels to another
house. Now the law allows the landlord to
follow the goods, and gives him a first claim
upon them over all other creditors. But
this was not enough. A statute was raked
up from some dust-bin by virtue of which
the tenant was fined double the value of the
articles removed, with the alternative of a
long term of imprisonment. The fine
amounted to £(io, and as the unfortunate
tenant was poor he had perforce to go to
gaol. The admirable piece of legislation
which permitted this treatment of a debtor
was manufactured in the reign of George 11.,
and since it has never been expressly re-
pealed by the Parliament of New South
Wales the Judges have held that it is still in
force in the colony !
* * *
lii Opposition to those who, like Henry
George, advocate that the State should
acquire and hold the fee-simple of all land,
on the ground that landed property is in-
trinsically different to all other property,
Herbert Spenuer has suggested that the
true reform is to place landed property on
precisely the same footing as property in
chattels. This seems to possess at all events
the merit of being within the range of prac-
tical politics. The existing state of things is
anomalous, absurd, and intolerable. If a
man borrows a sum of money from a bank
and makes default of payment of interest
and principal, the banker can Only recover
by the usual process of law. He has to issue
a writ calling on his debtor to enter an
appearance. If an appearance be entered,
the creditor has to state his claim, and to
this statement of claim the debtor can plead
so as to set up a defence, after which
nothing can be done until the issues raised
are tried and adjudicated. The butcher,
the baker, the grocer are on no better foot-
ing than the banker with respect to the re-
covery of debts. Even tho man-servant and
the maid-servant must proceed in such a
way for the recovery of wages earned as to
allow of their employer defending their
action as a condition precedent to the opera-
tion of distraint. But your landlord has a
short cut made ready for him. The first in-
timation you receive from him that he is
taking action is by the hands of a
bailiff, who at once seizes everything on
the premises, regardless of real owner-
ship, and very soon proceeds to sell if
you cannot contrive to settle the claim.
Other creditors may have bailiffs in your
house ; you may be a bankrupt, and the
official assignee may be in possession ; but
the landlord takes his whack in full, and
leaves the others to share up what is left.
The effect of allowing this summary method
of recovery, and this priority over other
creditors to landlords is wholly bad. In the
first place, the privileges thus accorded to
real property are obviously and demonstrably
a violation of the first principles of justice,
and this naturally leads to various complica-
tions and disturbances of the whole social
economy of the country. Suppose the State
conferred on bakers privileges of a like kind,
to the exclusion of all other classes of credi-
tors. It is easy to foresee that bakers would
quickly become an abnormally wealthy and
powerful class, and would exercise a sinister
influence over the community in two ways—
firstly, by extorting higher prices for bread ;
and secondly, by indirectly compelling other
suppliers to charge more for their com-
modities, by way of counterpoise to the com-
parative disabilities they suffered. Bakers
would then be able to give credit under a
quasi-Government guarantee, and, thus pro-
tected, would find it an easy task to estab-
lish a tariff of prices irrespective of marked
values ; and the butcher and grocer would
have also to raise their prices, because a
large share of their profits would be swal-
lowed up constantly by the unduly enfran-
chised bakers.
* * *
And it is easy to trace an enormous pro-
portion of the evils at present suffered by
the people of Sydney to the monstrous state
of the law referred to. The disastrous effect
on a rural population is to be plainly seen in
the case of the United Kingdom, especially
Ireland. But perhaps no urban or
suburban community in the world suf-
fers more under this system than
that situate on and near the shores of Port
Jackson. Here we find landlords enabled
to extort rents outrageously in excess of the
value, and this excess falls a 3 a tax upon the
community at large. George-street is rack-
rented from one end to the other. Trades-
people are forced to charge exorbitant prices
for their goods, and even then have the
haunting fear of the Insolvency Court per-
ennially before their minds. It is the same
in every business thoroughfare ; and is
scarcely any better in the case of localities
where dwelling-houses alone are hired. The
state of the relations between landlord and
tenant, is, indeed, most potent for mischief,
both directly and indirectly. The tenants
are practically the slaves of the proprietors
of street frontages —as much as the
proletarians of Rome, who fled to welcome
the Huns and Goths and Vandals, were
slaves to their patrician masters. The op-
pression is none the less galling because it
is insi jious in its operation—none the less
intolerable because it works in unseen
channels and rivets on invisible bond-
chains. And what is tho Parliament likely
to do towards abolishing this unwholesome
and unrighteous condition of things ? The
answer is—nothing. The Legislative Council
of New South Wales is composed almost
wholly of the very class that fattens on the
prevailing wretchedness. The Legislative
Assembly is nearly as bad as regards the in-
terest of its members to conserve the exis-
ing system. As for the political leaders,
they are too much occupied in struggling for
place and pay to concern themselves with a
question of this kind. Nor is there much
hope of the people themselves working
through the ballot-boxes to redress this
wrong. There is no Liberal party in the
country, no political organisation, nothing
but confusion of ideas, in the midst of which
designing men seize upon tho legislatorial
status with scarce an object in the world
beyond increasing their own affluence. 1
Religious Wranglingß—The Reredos
and Rosei.
St. Andrew’s Cathedral is the chiefest place of
worship which the Anglicans of New South Wales
possess; St. Saviour’s Cathedral, Goulburn, is
second in point of impoi tar.ee. In tho?e two
places it is right to look for the noblest triumphs
of the Churcli of England in New South Wales.
If good fruit grows anywhere on the Episcopalian
tree it should be found on these two branches.
If that creed be capable of promoting Christian
virtues there they should hs found. Yet in each
case the Bishop with his adherents has lately been
waging bitter war against the other moiety
of his fleck. In Sydney the wrangling was all about
a reredos, which—we may explain to the large
majority who have not yet learnt what this por-
tion of the material evangel resembles—is a
hoarding stuck up against the wall of a church
under the east window. The trouble in this in-
stance arises from the fact that the Crucifixion is
sculptured on one of the panels, and the fear is
that this may turn the people to idolatry. Mr.
W. J. Foster and his party demand that the thing
shall come down, while Bishop Barry and his
backers insist that it shall stand. As a wbrk of
art the thing is generally adjudged to be beneath
contempt: nothing more ludicrous and grotesque
than the pourtrayal of the AsconsioS has appeared
since “Quarle's Emblems” was published, but
still for months past wrangles that could only be
termed debates by a perversion of language, in-
trigues that would add disgrace to a municipal
contractor’s record, and a flood of correspondence
which shows how many opprobrious adjectives the
English language contains, have had for their
subject this reredos and its use 3. Mr. Chadwick
has assured the Chapter that many thousands of
pounds by way of subscriptions will bo lost to the
Church if the object is allowed to remain, but still
the Bishop, cleverly sheltering himself behind the
Chapter, refuses absolutely to give way.
* * *
At “ St. Saviour’s ” Cathedral, Goulburn, the
wrangle leading to, hut net terminating in Police
Court, Equity Court, and Supreme Court proceed-
ings, has for its basis the question as to
whether the Cathedral is a “parish church” or
not. This is the pretext: in reality it is a faction
fight of a personal character. Ever since “ St.
Saviour’s ” was built the wrangling lias gone on.
While Bishop Thomas held service in the
Cathedral, Archdeacon Puddicombe carried
on an opposition church next door. -From one
scandal to another the wrangle has progressed
during three years or' more, and recently Captain
Rossi, who may be remembered to have attracted
a good deal of public attention some years ago, has
been instrumental in capping the climax of shameful
absurdity. By strategy lie got into the Cathedral,
and having taken his bed in with him prepared to
stand a siege. Various very good people assisted
in the farce by climbing in through windows and
exhibiting other indications of harmless lunacy,
but ultimately the valiant captain was lugged
out by some of his fellow Christians. The
besieging Bishop—or we should say “Lord
Bishop,” to use the title to which His Meekness
aspires—is to be commended in that he did not get
an axe and hew his way in, as is tho practice at
Grafton under similar circumstances, but it is
difficult to say for what else he or Captain Rossi
or Archdeacon Pcddicombe is to he similarly
lauded. From beginning to end this Goulburn
row is a shame and a disgrace, without, as far as
we have ever been able to discover, a singlo inci-
dent to lighten the dismal record.
* *
These things would be worthy only of the trivial
comment due to trivial matters and foolish people
if there Was not a dark moral stamped upon every
inoidentof each dispute. This moral must be obvious.
In New South Wales it is seen that the two lead-
ing prelates arc heading faction-fights of intense
bitterness : is this the work of men profc sing the
Gospel of Peace? Are these the fruits of
Christ’s religion? And if the Bishops, these
“ chosen ministers of God,” arc right, how is it
that Mr. W. J. Foster and Archdeacon Puddi-
combe, renowned, educated, and zealous Chris-
tians, lead the opposite factions ? It has been
argued about the reredos that men will
by its means be led i. to idolatry,
but this contention asserts the Gospel to be
of less power than a crude work of men’s hands
stuck up against a church wall. To urge this
view is to argue that religion is so feeble an
emotion that men may be led from it and into
idolatry by the power of an upholstered hoarding.
As well mighta lover refuse to give his absent love
a photograph of himself lest she, looking upon it,
might be led to forget him in idolatry of his like-
ness.
* * *
And even holding this view, we are at
liberty to think that Mr. Foster may not he
entirely wrong. This reredos will not seduce any
person from piety to idolatry as we have argued,
hut it may lead some persons to gravitate from
the Anglican to the Roman creed. Therein
lies the whole explanation of the church pheno-
mena which have lately amused or grieved all
who have heard of this reredos and of Rossi: the
churches are not now, and have not been for cen-
turies, promoters of anything much save doc-
trinal worship. Elaborate creeds have super-
seded the simple, self-sacrificing religion of earlier
days: the green wood of the Evangel
has hardened into a uscles3 fossil: the
Evangelists have deposed Christ and called
upon Mammon to reign over them, and now there
is nothing capable of provoking enthusiasm save a
church row over some ecclesiastical millinery ; a
dead doctrine and its interpretation ; tho status
and salary of some parson, or the conduct of his
church. These wretched thistles of doctrinal re-
ligion—how can they be expected to bear rich and
nourishing figs? “The letter killeth, but the*
Spirit giveth life,” was said centuries ago. Every
day gives proof of the first half of the sentence,
but when shall the truth of the second portion be
again manifest 1
* * *
So lorg as religion consists in doctrine, s® l° n ®
will there be a Barry, a Thomas, a Rossi,and®
Puddicombe to lead hostile factions in the
Church ; so long as the letter is so followed to d' e
exclusion of the spirit will wrangling be the chic
item of Church woik. Until the nobler work 0
the Gospel is again taken up, sects, and. sects
within sects, will continue : but when that Gosp°
is followed in its simplicity the barr.ers betwee®
churches will melt away, and envy, hatred, 81
malice be banished from the tabernacles of relg loD '
The “ Red-Hot Brand of Shame.”
A great deal has been said and written abo u
the degradation of the New South Wales l’ ar * ia
ment, brought about by the proceedings of
Assembly which has just been dissolved,
acts on which this wholesale condemnation
based are numerous, bu t in the opinion of I®
Bulletin the wotsb act of ail was the election
Mr, Thomas Garßett to the position of Cb®
man of Committees. It seemed incredible t
any Legislative body would elect for one o
chief officers —the holder of which is elm l *
with the responsibility of upholding the b° n
and dignity of Parliament—a member about W"
political purity there was a doubt, and that tn
was a doubt about Mr. Garrett’s political P
is shown by the vote of a previous Parliament
38 to 40 on a motion declaring that he hadb*®
guilty “of conduct unworthy of a memti cr
this House, and aeriously reflecting upon
honour and dignity of Parliament.” H°' ve ’
with the act of the Assembly in electing '
Garrett chairman in view of this record
have nothing to do at present; the men who V
formed it have been sent about their business.
must answer to t heir masters for it.
have to deal with is the extraordinary fact
Parkes, the man who has been the loudest m
eomplaint about the degradation of Parli 1 ®
has included in a Government which he has J
formed the very gentleman respecting wh p>n
the t'kh November, 18S1, he proposed a moti orl
follows : I),
That in the opinion of this House the evidence
fore the Royal Commission proves that Thomas -p
Esq. . . . opened negotiations with Mr. WM. .
. . . and concluded an arrangement with the s»> e(
Russell, whereby he was to benefit himself in an a s
manner, while the question of an award of public i |loll
compensation for the said Milburn Creek Co. was
before the Government, and when it must have b"en
to the said Thomas Garrett, Esq , that any such 9
would have to be submitted to the Legislative
That in the opinion of this House the said THOMAS
RETT, Esq., in these transactions lias been guilty of c 0
unworthy of .a member of this House, and seiiously r
ing upon the honor and dignity of Parliament.” „j
At this poipf it will perhaps be well to m*^ 0 j,
extract from the exhaustive report of Mr, *
mons, the Commissioner who made the inqu*
indicate the nature of the allegod transact i° nS j )r
“If the facts are as they appear on (lie evidence Vjj
Russell the above-mentioned transaction in
from the affairs of the gold watch and chain—seei° s ft
mit of only one interpretation—that is, that Mr.
was to reco've either the value of the 2000 shares or SaV 0 !
represented by the pron*issory-npte as a corrupt reW
servicer, rendered by him to the company as a member
Legislature.”
In considering the following extracts R ora
speech of Sir Henry Parkics when ho P roll
the motion it must l>e borne in mind that uP
that time Mr. Qarrett had been a consistent
porter of the Parkes-Robertson Government.
“ I say that this motion embodies a trull which can 0
controverted ... If it (the evidence)
character at all it is that this transaction for these
was a pretended transaction and nothing more ; that •
was never intended to pass from Mr. Garrett in the in 9 jjj
that it was, in some way or o ht r, intended to b°
boiieftt, as my motion says, in an improper manner ft
I defy any hon. member who will bring his mind <l utl f
disfassionately, discarding all other considerations, 10
amination of the evidence in the case tn arrive at
conclusion. . . . I say once more that the House jt
expunge this passage from the report of its CommisM 01 ’ fl p
must remain as a stain upon the character of the 1 o ft
blot upon its usefulness, and I was going to say an 9 0 y
ledgment that we really are deserving the taunts. fly
prob ium, and the invectives which are so frequ* j|jS
dulged in against us by a portion of the Press
country.*
r l’he circumstances under which the question
dealt w ith must be fresh in the memory of e '
one who takes an inteiest in colonial politio®*
John Robertson resigoed hii seat in the Go' f
ment rather than become “ one of the accu se jy
two gentlemen with whom I have been for n
a quarter of a century connected in public >
Mr. Garrett enjoyed a considerable au |oU g ot
personal popularity, and he had the
offering his own explanation of the transf 10
yet notwithstanding all these advantage 9 , t \\j
escaped expulsion from Parliament Jbjyt 1110 (j of
of two —the votes on Sir Henry Paces’
being :aj oa 38, noes 40 Strong and unffi
as are the portions of Sir Henry’s speech v
which wo have already quoted, we
the 7th December— four weeks after his 111 m
was negatived —ho committed himself to 11 6
ment which was stronger and more direct
he uttered these remarkablp words : f/
11 1 sny that is a red-hot brand of shame on
liament of the country, and it never will - nJ y
away; and I say forth, r that r.o case of corrupt* (flf*
arise in this country whiqh can be brought hoW e , ft 11
offender in Parliament if that vote is to he accept j
guide and a precedent.” mfl 9
From that day to this Sir Henry has rcf rl ' j/
from referring to the subject; eortainly ftji'
never publicly withdrawn or qualified thi 9 0
ing statement ; yet now we find him aph o) 3'
Mr. Garrett to the second position in a
ment the mission of which we are told is t0 1 ’
thopurity of Parliament and to bless the col
honest administration. The facts speak i° $ f
for themselves that it is not necessary to gf fiO
thing further than that if Sir Henry has
convinced that he arrived at a wrong co»c
respecting Mr. Garrett's connection with th®
burn Creek case, in honour and in justice


u>divi(i Ua i he ia bound to mitke a public with-
, rawa, l of his former utterances. If on the other
n . he still maintains that the circumstances of
e case were such as to justify his characterising
, e °f the Assembly as a “ red hot brand of
anie he has a serious task before him to ex-
am away his action in appointing Mr. Garrett,
mister for Lands, in an “honest Government”
€ ? S .^ e ’ s Prepared at once to state that honest
ministration is possible only in the hands of men
om would class as pditical rogues. The
Ir y demands from Sir Henry an unequivocal
Ration ° n this unwholesome subject. Messrs.
tfcT EU -Abigail will also have to reconcile
VfU- 1 P° s rti°n in the Ministry with the votes
c they gave against Mr. Garrett in 1881.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
" Unmarried Mothers.”
y outu ,, moment half-a-dozen or more
and V 1 ? roines are figuring in New South Wales
Which ICtor * a 113 the victims of outrageous assaults
men Ul ?^ ero almost invariably committed by seven
abo ut in c ‘ rc umstances of peculiar atrocity, and
c °Unt of .? u P pos °fi criminals are in prison on ac-
ever 886 cll arges. In every such case, how-
to bo I ! thout exception, the sufferers have proved
laii es ' or cold-bloodedly designing young
Proven t B °.*kd reputation: in one instance the
l oBt hm. -• * 3 a £i f l °f 15, who admits that she
Bydfle '"‘rfne at the early age of 10 ; and the
females !?'*' * ota the 3 ® stained and often brutalised
°Uphein d ° Wn by classing them as —delicate
thU term 11 ? un married mothers." It invented
the Bn..ii lin tho caso °f Miss Grace Porters,
town “ ao d victim of that splendid lie—the New-
PubUc outra g°.” Miss Porters commenced her
as a sn^ ecr 11 week or two iigo, in all the p pers,
figures 1 1688 lamb lod to the slaughter ; now she
iugly ? Bau “ unmarried mother ” with an exceed-
devfig i°. rt memory and possessed by the seven
in D e 'mPurity and Action. At Cook’s River,
yarn f fi n • r last, 8ho > uocording 1o her own
of 11 into the hands of the customary horde
throu»i ans ’ an< l was cruolly assaulted, but either
,! rcum H 't CUroleBsneBB or preasuro °f business the
foi 'tni . ri? 0 passed from her mind, and for a
a ffairp , ( “ Q sooms to have lost the “ haDg” of
rent”’ then came that splendid “deter-
f°w’ Mount Reonie butchery, and a
festinjoni i-°'^ ed gull 8 began to talk about
trotta r la ‘ 9 * n £ a wanton little pavement-
the men WhoS ° oxtreme accessibility had bsen
b°y s v n 8 ot getting four more or less brutal
gested and these occurrences possibly sug-
migbt a lO Grace Porters that she also
time to 8 W drop in on the police when she had
coll ect „ Pai ’ e > and get her friends strangled and
ftr °Und testimonial that might be Aoating
Sho Baid Bhe had been deterred
With h»h a feeling of shame, but we note
e,n otio n 3factlo » that she got over this morbid
that slink ' V ° a^so n ote —l* llB time with surprise-
tola? T ° We< * almost entire a pathetic little
a letLnr i , y a °® r tain Mr. Burton Bradi.kv, in
iucliyj, , Sydney D.T. on 6th January. That
erodmtt a B * love fied into the public organ of
trav e]lin a ta * o a y° un S lady who was
Was <} r . ® al °ne in an omnibus at a late hour, and
aam tQd ! Von into a yard and there terribly as-
beroi no a humber of ruffians. Mr. Bradley’s
prevented by “ shame” from making
Voaled th F Wron f? 8 ’ though seemingly she had ro-
ar oa ln . , e whole narrative to somebody who knew
a Ud q p mto contact with Mr. Burton Bradley;
Porters a’so put on the garment of
do ,?.! n0 dosty, though it was a terrible misfit.
«tr. ]j l{ 0 • °f course mean to throw any doubt on
to admii >1 * KY 8 aatrativo —in fact we are prepared
h ° is fearfully and wonderfully
°» the °very rospoct. His name was the first
P Ai Unut °f tiiose who interviewed Governor
f 'vas ° N a Petition which, roundly speak-
f°°d f 0 Rothing less or more than a demand for
P>e petit' 10 Sallows, and the following clause in
Bp.. 10 ' 1 aforesaid proves conclusively that
0,1 New u' ,:v * 8 one of the best living authorities
c Thoiy ° Uth Waleß crimo :
Wo, ni,, afs uh' "L" v in Sydney and suburbs at least 100
ej0, 611 within , ve *>jen concerned in the violation of
.. T0(l convi!,? lew years. A large proportion of these have
Of v *ction.”
‘Juki*?* 0 d may bo urged that Mr. Bradley is
? . guilt °i effort to provide funerals for
fbis j 3 A hundred and get the corpses ready, but
itches °oably because 50 of them are poor
fading whom some “ unmarried
*be n , lovely phrase!— has told a Munchausen-
’dter the IVe a casual sort of way a fortnight
eBaed i e . vent - and the other 50 are perhaps
i° can 0 , ,rj adcloth and are too high up in l’fe
n ay b e lt or meddled with. But, however this
d ’„r aow call on Mr. Bradley to roeant
r/ 601 ! as th aiS ravening wolves to 94. Six of
OO e _wtown event proves, were legally
Paraded ° Vcn if immoral, men, against whom a
'yboae ii v Woinan brought a false accusation and
*'U(; E ~ 68 she thought to swear away. Miss
u °? iTKIiH now admits that she repeatedly
h c ° and or d y them, but others, at the same
ef °re at various hours of the night, both
f n, l that a after the date of tho alleged outrage,
,>d ar . sa ® gave consent. If she could have
B ' v evo r 01 * l,e,r perjured wretch to hack her,
b i r victims might have made a
n?° lack°!i oCauBt at Darlinghurst, but happily
l)a tho towering brain of—well, of
mop i U art ful abandonne.e who has got
I>gh, Z he Bcaff ° d in Australia. Strangely
}b° plo t [° hho talks of prosecuting this woman
bn 1 Probv to 80n d six innocent men to the gal-
bn ovv n Za to S l 'atify some paltry grudge of
iu k 1 ' a rtrf> nf yot > if such as she a T e permitted to
| lO living man is safe from the rope or
.Pato, j ' “Radlsy and his crowd will, we antl-
V? 10 a h i? 1 ? 3 Particular spotless lamb as if she
brick ; and ai for the really “ innocent
M, 6 ha Ve Z hom wo have all heard, but whom
jf, over seen, she still appears only in Mr.
\y' u - Sy(j ' c fi’usion to the D.T. The allegation
w a 'oj 0r or any oSier part of New South
th }„ is unsafe for the virtuous
it? ,? n impudent lio It is true that one ele-
lfPikin. h® 60 called “ outrages ” is the dirty
<h?‘tineas v *' tlle ether element is the still dirtier
tii 'the-h J ? rn i n filth, and trained in vice at
ty,. e a i’h°ur picnics— w t the decent woman.
f®hed b P* o Newtown “ outrage ” istliatfour
b ( ,P°Pm ar ( f lyB have .just been slaughtered in a fit
'he k° Protfif nzy> w °f to avenge female purity,
etthe merchantable commodity which
ha-lot sells at every street corner.
♦
j Figures.
*b but perplexity and dissatisfac-
ffw • W a i '° 9 a 3 rceontly dishod up for us in New
*'oh lls , Uo , . They are the fighting tools of rival
•° r th . V lO ihdices of actual financial condi-
Sa *On. -true evidences of progress or retro-
there aro two or three broad facta
lcar in the public mind: first of which is, the
colony is about £3,000,000 behind ; second, that
during the last four years New South Wales has
added about 75 per cent, to her annual expendi-
ture ; third, that something wants altering or ex-
plaining. or otherwise somebody wants killing.
What is the matter, however, and who is to blame
are, to the popular mind, mysteries. Parkes
says to Jennings: “I governed the country on
£5,000,000 a year ; yon are spending £8,000,000,”
but is any man in the colony foolish enough to
believe that the actual expense of the various
departments of the Civil Service has been increased
by that amount ? Such a charge would be almost
equivalent to an accusation of idiocy, yet it is
frequently and openly made, and not by politicians
with a purpose only, but by “independent” and
“intelligent” journa's who profess to guide and
to form public opinion. Now, is there no am-
bitious member of Parliament who will take them
reckless and misleading statements in hand,
dissect them fairly, arrange their various parts in
intelligible fashion, give the public the under-
standing they require, and build for himself, if not
exactly an everlasting name, at lea t a reputation
for common-sense and honesty ? Here are the
questions such a member would require to tackle
and answer:—
1. What was the cost of all the departments of the civil
service in total-and per head of the population under Sir
Henry Parkes’ ast administration, and what is their cost at
present ?
The difference per head of the population, if it tell
against the existing, or rather the late Ministry,
is the amount of the waste with which they may
honestly be charged.
2. What public works have been carried out under the
Jennings reylmcl By whom were they authorised ? What is
their value as an asse-, 1
The answers to these questions will tell in divers
ways, will fix responsibilities shirked by all parties,
and apportion credit variously claimed. They
would teach New South Wales men what they
have received for their money expended, and
foreign creditors what they have to depend on
for monies advanced ard goods supplied. They
may not go for much in the way of Parliamentary
slangwlianging, but is it not time we gave that
sort of thing a spell ?
Railways.
There is not much doubt that in the matter of
railway construction New South Wales has so
recklessly done the things she ought not to have
done, and so foolishly neglected those she ought
to have done, that there is very little health left
in her. Railways built specially to protect the
wool interest, or to compete against Adelaide and
Melbourne (both substantially backed by nature)
will never pay New South Wales. The Great
Western line beyond Dubbo will never pay, and
that branch to Wilcannia via Cobar will be
worked at a los3 till copp .r reaches £lOO a ton
again and £10,000,000 spent on irrigation makes
all the West permanently habitab’e for man and
beast. Wagga to Hay is bu'lt rather to satisfy
New South Wales Chauvinism than to pay in-
terest on New South Wales debts, though if a
connection were made between Hay and Denili-
quin and the who’e system worked on simple
business principles, three or four per cent, interest
might be made. Nor is the total amount of
interest to be paid on all the lines an amount to be
scared at. It is a big sum, it represents a great
capital, but the colony has got the railways and
has paid nothing for them but money, hard
cash, and if the land is worth the price
always placed upon . it, one pound sterling
per aero, New South Wa'e3 has got them
cheaply e nough. Her national debt is just about
£40,000,000, and she has completed and paid for
in round figures 15,000 miles of railway. Now
supposing tho whole of those millions to have
been expend- d in railway construction (an utterly
absurd supposition, of course), the amount per
mile would have been a trifle ove-£26 (150. If we
take acres of land as equivalents for pounds ster-
ling we should be able to say that 26,650 acres of
land have been given for every mile of railway.
An absurd quantity, it appears at a first glance,
but how when compared with the land-grants of
America —the country whose calculations are not
usually based on absurd estimates? When in 1864
the North Pacific, tho 45th parallel route,
was constructed, the company received through
all the territories 25,600 acies per mile, and
similar arrangements were made with the 35th
parallel, the Atlantic and Pacific, and ths 32nd,
the South Pacific route >. Lesser quantities were
allotted in the settled states, bat these were the
terms. For all lines beyond what we should call
population areas, 132,000,003 acres were ahso-
solutely alienated for these three lines. America
gave land ; N S W. hoi rowed money and kept the
land. Which was the better system is too large a
question to be entered on here ; it is enough to
point out and emphasise the fact, for in theee
limes when the m ssion of the majority of public
men seems to be to cry stinking fish, it is just as
well to make bo’d advertisement of the few New
South Wales posse ses which will really stand in-
spection. But though a little solace and rea-
sonable assurance may be desirable, it is by
no means advisable to leap straight into
boastful and illusory self-confidence, and to
check that propensity jt may he well to tabu-
late one more little set of facts. The co’opy has for
1,C00,000 people a debt of £40,000,000 sterling. It
is doubtful jf America would feel q iite so com-
fortable if for her 60,000,000 of people she had a
debt of two thousand foi.tr hundred millions ster-
ling, even though she had built all her railways at
her own cost, and still held the freehold of all the
lands adjoining.
About three months ago the Mini-ter of Works
in Sydney issued an order under clause 17 of the
Civil Service regulations forbidding employes in
the N.B, W. Railway Department from taking par,t
in municipal government. They w,ore authorita-
tively informed that they were not to become
either Aldormcn or Council .clerks, and those
already in such position i were requested to resign
them or retire from the department. A considerable
number of these men, who had in some cases lent
conspicuous ajd in municipal affairs, forthwith
did retire from the councils to which they had
been elected. Perhaps they all ,(save ope) obeyed
the injunction, one way or the other. It seems,
however, that Alderman Moseley, of Petersham,
who was also a clerk in the Commissioner of Rail-
ways’ Office, refused to accede to the Minister's
ipse d'xit , and ho has been dismissed. It is
argued that this is illegal, since the Civil
Service Regulations cannot be used to
override the statutory rights of citizens.
The Municipalities Act gives the capa-
bility of being elected to every male elector of a
diet iot who is not disqualified for certain specified
reasons, and this regulation adds wh<u has been
regarded as an additional disqualifleat » But
there does not seem to be much logic in this conten-
tion. The Government stands towards its em-
ployes just in the same relation as any other
employer stands to his, and nobody would argue
that a private employer might lawfully tell his
clerk that if he wished to retain his clerkship he
must give up the idea of being ;llso an aldernian.
That would scarcely he regarded as an
ment of the Municipalities Act. There seems to
be little doubt that the regulation is good enough
from a legalpointof view. But when it is examined
from the standpoint of public policy it appears
even morie senseless than the general outcome of
the Civil Service Act. Civil servants have
a variety of ways of disposing of their
time after office hours. Some indulge in cricket,
others in boating or billiard-playing ; others
again, conceive of no more exalted happiness than
that derivable from lounging on the block. Not
many of these gentlemea ‘go in for any very use-
ful employments in the evenings. Among the few
who do, it appears, must be ranked Alderman
Moseley. Now, if Mr. Moseley had been
selected by a committee of experts to play in a
cricket match, we should say the fact would prove
nothing as regards his fitness for a position in the
Railway Department. A man might be an excel-
lent cricketer, yet a downright numskull as a
business man. But since a body of ratepayers
have chosen Mr. Moseley to attend to the affairs
of their borough, a fair inference is that he pos-
sesses considerably greater business capacity than
the average railway official. Petersham did not
single him out, wo may be sure, because of
his being a bungler. The average railway
official (among the higher grades) is a bungler.
Therefore it would seem to be a clear
loss to the department—or rather to the public,
for departmental interests and public interests are
by no means ide fc ca‘—to be depriv d of Mr
Mo&elky’s services. Possibly herein is the ex-
planation of the dismissal. Mediocrities have an
innate hostility for superior minds, and mediocri-
ties are exceedingly cunning. Doubtless Mr.
Moseley has been run out of the department,
not because of his persisting in being an aider-
man, but because of his not bemg of the Tite-
Barnacle breed. And then there is another
view to be taken. For years and years there has
been a vast deal of flatulent talk among the poli-
ticians of New South Wales touching the desir-
ableness of improving municipal institutions.
Bills dealing with the subject have constantly
been in embryo, and the need of decentralisation
has been admitted on all hands Yet it is a plain
case that the first desideratum is men skilled in
local administration. The best Local Govern-
ment Act in tho world will avail nothing if the
working of it is left to incapahle3, and to place a
limitation on the choice of aldermen is clearly to
increase the risk of such being the outcome.
What ought to be considered is, not whether Mr.
Moseley is a Civil servant, or a grocer, or tinker,
l»ut whether he is an efficient alderman or no. If
he is, then to deprive Petersham of his services is
to attack a vital public interest.
The story of Mr 3. Weldon (who, after being con-
fined in an English lunatic asylum, brought actions
against everybody, and has proved herself to be
merely a brilliant deviator from the beaten social
track) is called to mind by tho curious Nesbitt
case. Mr. Edward Pariss Nesbitt, a South
Australian solicitor of good standing, was visiting
Melbourne in April of last year, and appeared
before the St Kilda Court charged with trespass-
ing upon private premises. The Court remanded
Mr. Nesbitt for a week for medical examination,
at the expiration of which time the charge was
withdrawn. Next day Nesbitt was again arrested
as a lunatic at large, two medical men signed the
necessary certificate, and ho was committed to
Kew Asylum. After a three months’ sojourn in
that cheerful institution, Nesbitt was sent back
to Adelaide, and on the voyage he exhibited a
supreme contempt for the conventionalities of
society by jumping overboaid. Nevertheless, on
being safely landed at his destination Mr. Nesbitt
resumed the practice of his profession and was
considered sane enough to be entrusted with the
conduct of an important case. Whatever may
have been the state of his mind while in Mel-
bourne, it is evident that South Australian
friends saw nothing wrong with him on his return,
but furthermore Nesbitt is ready with a lot of
medical and outside testimony to prove that he
was compos mentis during the period of his incar-
ceration at Kew. On the strength of all this the
indignant solicitor applied to his old acquaint-
ances, t he St. Kilda Bench, for summonses against
the doctors who put him away. The Bench pooh-
poohed the application, and Nesbitt intends to
shake the world until he carries his point and puts
his mental traducers to confusion. That is how
this very interesting case stands at present. Some
of the statements made in Nesbitt's behalf are
impressive, and some of them are not. David
Blair, for instance, says that he visited tho un-
lucky gentleman at Kew and found him translat-
ing part of “Goethe” and “ Schiller ” at sight.
This only proves that Dav.-d still clings to his old
egotistical belief in “ book laming. ” Dr. Madden,
tho barrister, bears far more valuable testimony
to Mr. Nesbitt’s sanity. As regards the unfor-
tunate “jumping overboard ’ incident, it h*»s to
be remembered that Nesbitt was in a state of
explainable excitement at the time. Anyway, he
intends to givp lectures wit),i a view to proving
that Kew treatment is a direct incentive to the
madness it professes to .cure. Mrs. Weldon, if
we remember rightly, brought similar charges
against her temporary place of reclusion, and it is
certain that the lady has got on uncommonly well
in the face of unparalleled difficulties since she
gained her freedom.
♦
To get down to the depths of petrified Toryism in
a British colony it is necessary to bore through t jie
stratified stupidity of legal procedure, and the
Silurian measures of church doctrine and practice,
till at last in tho “highest wisdom of a country,”
the Legislative Council, tho bedrock of senile
senselessness will be discovered. Forms whose
meaning has departed and whose use no one ,can
tell in six tries, are paraded with the same inex-
plicable pride Quit induces mature spinsters of 00
or more severe summers to uncover ugly elbows
and ghastly shoulder-blades when they appear in
“sassiety”; and words and phrases which refer
to the superstitious epochs when it was tliouglt
,that the earth wag square, fixed, and fiat, still
appear on the records under dates of this nine-
teenth century. There is, perhaps, a certain
appropriateness in all this, for human relics whose
political ideas are about synchronous with the
date of the lamented decease of Queen Anne, are
naturally tempted to resort to the practices prece-
dent to that era. Tho only pity is that these
senile obstructionists cannot be transported with
all their political belongings to the century and
the country whence their opinions are derived.
The very few capab'.es in the New South Wales
Council of the Mackellar and Creed stamp
could be spared if their absence was a necessary
condition to the translation of their doddering
companions. Yet even the vigorous Mackellar
cannot rise above the traditions of his set as he
sufficiently proved on tho fir3t day of the present
session by moving that when a sitting day hap-
pened to he “a holiday, thinkiaioinp, o: fast
day,” tho Council should stand a'journed. With
some people it is always “ thanksgiving day ” —a
Pharisaic kind of thanksgiving that they have
never been “ nominated to the Upper House, ’ or
what is in some respects almost as bad, sent to
gaol and if the Council would only pay respect
to the devoutness of such people and stand ad-
journed every day, the country would be ever so
much more pleasant than it is at present. What
a “fast day” is we know not, nor understand
what a museum of mummies can know about any-
thing that is not as slow as its component human
relics. If it be a fast such as the Church of Rome
used to grant exemption from to her rich disciples
at so much a day, it can be of no concern to these
amateur-whisky-samplers who would not renounce
their “little eight a day” for anything less than
a dukedom. The notion is as mysterious to
modern ideas as modern ideas must be to these
political curiosities themselves. We are totally
opposed to the use of capital punishment and
dynamite, but confess to feeling a homicidal and
treasonable regret that Guv Fawkes, Esq ,
C.M.G., lived nearly 300 years too soon and
carried on business in a far and a foreign land.
♦
That grimy, broken-nosed work of art, the S.M.
Herald, can be very mean when it tries—and it
tries pretty often. The other day Mudgec Taylor
attempted to relieve the drivel of the New South
Wales Parliament by a motion, of which the
Herald, in the majesty of its stupidity, did not
approve, so it left it out of its Parliamentary
record altogether, and merely alluded to it in that
streak of morphia which it terms its “local”
column as “ offensive.” Mudgee’s obnoxious effu-
sion was as follows :
“ 1 That in the opinion of this House the action of His
Excellency Baron Carington in refusing to reprieve or respite
the four criminals, about the justice of whose execution the
Executive Council was equally divided in opinion, was an
ignorant violation of the prerogative of mercy entrusted to
him by Her Majesty the Queen. 2. That this House further
lecords its opinion that His Excellency showed a want of
regard for the humanitarian principles of British law in
receiving and listening to a deputation of citizens engaged in
the unprecedented mission of praying him to rivet the rope
around the necks of men whom the Executive Council could
not decide to hang. 3. That the above resolutions be com-
municated by address to His Excellency the Governor for
transmission to the Secretary of State, with a request that
Her Majesty may be pleased to recall Baron Carington and
permit the colonists to themselves elect the Governor, to
provide whose luxurious salary and household extravagance
they are now unreasonably taxed.”
Somehow the S.M. Herald has come to be looked
upon as a semi-official record of Parliamentary
proceedings, but the public have evidently made a
mistake. It may be relied upon, we believe, in
divorce cases, and outrages, and hangings, but if
a man says boldly what it itself said in a feeble
and hesitating manner when it was too late to dp
any good, the S.M. Herald shuts down on that
man like a terrified rock-oyster closing its shell,
and does its best to prevent its readers getting a
chance to judge the matter for themselves. It
simply pronounces its inflated little dictum in the
one word “offensive,” and passes on its old
grandmotherly way to report a congenial tea
meeting.
»
Judge Docker, who has earned such fame
throughout Australia by giving ten-year sen-
tences for a steal of £2 or so, has a grievance
against Mudgce Taylor, M.P. ITc asserts that
that impulsive gentleman received payment some
years ago for securing the release of a prisoner
named James Mara. Murtgoc, on the other
hand, says he received no payment—that though
he promised to interfere on Mara’s behalf, the
criminal was released on the gaol surgeon’s re-
commendation before he had time to do so, ahd
that Docker, instead of making his charge openly
at the time, had kept his “ f#lse and foul accusa-
tions ” until he (the said Mudgoo Taylor) was
prostrate from illness, and then communicated
them secretly to tho Minister for Justice.
Although Sir Henry Parkes has promised that
Judge Docker shall bo called upon either to
prove the charge of corruption which he has made
or to apologise if he declines to formulate it, yet
The Bulletin thinks the more satisfactory way
of dealing with his Honor would be to appoint a
Royal Commission to consider his whole conduct,
as ever since the first few weeks of his appoint-
ment during which he is truly or untruly alleged
to have compared a juryman at Wilcannia with
Judas Iscariot to the advantage of the latter,
his course of procedure towards a large number
of those with whom he has officially come into
contact has been far from satisfactory.
Messrs. Waddell and Willis, the two gentle-
men who were and were not members of the New
South Wales Parliament, the House having been
dissolved before the writs on which they were
elected were returnable, are entitled to much
sympathy. They had a long, arduous, and no
doubt expensive struggle, as the other candidate
had unlimited capital stl his hack. The election
was a significant one. The return of two Protec-
tionists for a back block pastoral constituency
indicates plainly enough what tho prevailing
opinion on fiscal matters is in tho country dis-
tricts. Twice in succession that Government;
House habitue, scion of a noble family, Mr.
Alexander Wilson—who is a nephew of Sir
Salmon Wilsqn has been defeated in his own
district by pronounced Protectionists. The elec-
tors of the Murray and Bourke are to be compli-
mented on their action—they have shown that
they prefer brains with comparative poverty to
wealth and colonial blue-blood without brains.
♦
“ The Right Rev. Monsignor Biphop
of Hongkong, will preach in St. Mary’s Cathedral,
Sydney, on Sunday, the (ith February, when there
will bo a collection on behalf of tho new Cathe-
dral in Hongkong.” “The Catholic population
are engaged in the erection of a fine cathedral in
which the imposing ceremonios of Holy Church
will bo carrlod out with much pomp and splen-
dour." “ The erection of a cathedral would con-
tribute very much to the conversion of the
Chinese.” Good Heavens! who can write plate
enough English over this ultra-joss-house busi-
ness ? Opium, territory, Bible, and tho heroic
work of the old emissaries of Holy Church—it
seoms that all these are not enough to open tho
eyes of our almond-eyed brother. Ho must have
“pomp and gp’endour ” to prepare him for the
etarnity he never did, and never will, believe in.
The collector may call here for a subscription for
our Chinese brother. We shall not be in.
Hon. Pat. Buckley, Colonial Secretary of
New Zealand, is evidently not one of those officials
who set up thinking of their own dignity until
their back-teeth drop out. The other day he got into
the train at Wanganui, and a grovelling official
nearly broke his nock in his haste to (lx up aboard
marked “ reserved ” outside . lie carriage. He had
just got the job completed and was bowing and
grimacing, when, to his amazement, Buckley
called him a fool, and ordered him to take that
gory thing away, and inquired if he thought he
(Pat. Buckley) wanted to sit on end there in soli-
tary state, like a lost dog in tho wilderness. Mr.
Buckley is not at a'l “ veio 'vod ” - -cspaeii 1 y to
ladios.


The Referee
The action of the trustee of the N.S.W.
Association Cricket Ground in postponing the
1 itercolonial cricket-match, on his own responsi-
b.lity, from Saturday to Monday, is without
1 arallel in the annals of cricket. As a matter of
<• urtesy, only, the members of the team might
l ave heen asked their opinion on the matter. The
I cneral run of cricketers are under the impression
II at the umpires are the proper persons to decide
is to the fitness or otherwise of the wickets for
pay.
* * *
In consequence of the wickets playing so
h dly in the late English match, the trustees
superseded Ned Gregory and put another man on
t j prepare the wickets for the Intercolonial. The
new man covered the wickets with tarpaulin dur-
ing the rain, a course which is condemned by
Bpofforth, Jones, and others of our leading
cricketers.' Big sympathy is felt for the veteran
i aretaker, more especially as he could have pro-
vided the Englishman with a better wicket, which
1 e reserved for the Intercolonial match, consider-
ing it of the most importance.
* * *
Crips to England do not agree with all our
cricketers. It is an acknowledged fact that Charley
Bannerman was never the same man after his
tour, and now we find Giffen very seriously ill,
evhiie Palmer was so unwell as to be unable to
play in the Intercolonial. What is it ?
* * *
VYben Wood, the English crack bicyclist,
made his advent here, it was thought colonial
wheel circles would benefit thereby. But from
the first the Victorian Union discountenanced the
proposed “ mixed ” meeting ; and they have now
refused the proposal of the N.S W. Union that
ihe matter should be referred to the National
Cyclists Union (England), and the amateurs he
afiowed to start on their own responsibility, pend-
ing the decision of the N.C.U. Con Dwyer, the
Victorian crack, who has decided to start in the
face of the Victorian Union, has joined the N.S.W.
' Onion, and means, it is said, to permanently live
in Sydney. However, as the Victorians wifi no
longer recognise him, or anyone starting in the
race, as an amateur, it would appear very much
as if the many interesting Intercolonial meetings
which the cj clists have had in the past are at an
er,d, at all events for some time to come. The
N.S.W. people take as a precedent the meeting in
England between the crack professional and the
on. lon Keith Falconer, but the eases are not at
all analogous. The without doubt best amateur
and best professional were pitted against each
other in England with the object of testing which
should take supremacy, but no such reason can
be adduced for the “ mixed ” race out hero, as
men without any show of winning are nominated
rx> start, merely with the object of making the
meeting a big gate-money affair. That the
National Cyclists Union wifi refuse to sanction the
catchpenny there there can be little doubt.
* * *
F oley’s Hall was crammed from floor to
ceiling on Saturday night, when Slaven fulfilled
what he undertook, and knocked Tom Taylor to a
standstill in a round and a half. Taylor seemed
paralysed from the start, and merely stood as a
chopping-block for the Queenslander, who doub'ed
him up like a jacknife in the second round. Slaven
is now matched against “Professor” Jackson,
j„r.d when he faces the lightning fighter the public
will have their first chance of seeing what he is
i eally made of. No line can be taken from bis
p erformance on Saturday night, as Tom Lees or
Mick Dooley conld have knocked Taylor out in
perhaps less time than it teok Slaven, and they
both were as children before the “professor-.”
* * *
The style of training adopted by the black
runner Samuels reminds us of the old-time pugi-
list, Dutch Sam, who invariably trained on gin.
Sam, who was of the chosen people, in his tbi’d
right with Tom Belcher, gammoned sick and
dropped his head on his second’s shoulder as if
dead-beat, but in reality it was a signal to the
’ i idishers that he had his man well in hand. On
the call of time Sam jumped from his second’s
knee as if shot from a catapult and landed a
terrific blow in Belcher’s side, which morally
finished the battle. Sam threw to the winds all
ihe acknowledged rules of training, but he was
nevertheless one of the greatest stayers the ring
ever saw.
* * *
That sad dog, Ironsides, is organising
another series of ladies’ cricket matches.
# * *
Last Saturday the Waitangi, in a spank-
ing north caster, defeated the Janet (on time
allowance) and the Magic over the Manly or inside
course, and as she has now won two races out of
the rubber, the race fixed for next Saturday wifi
he of no interest to her owner, Mr. Milson. It
was not thought that the Magic e aid lead with
the other boats, hut the poor show ade by her in
a thrash to windward against a slid north-easter,
proved that she is in had trim or badly handled.
It will be remembered that the old Alec was in-
vincible until her owner made an alteration in the
set of her ballast, and after that she wasn’t fit to
sail for sour apples, For many years the Alec lay
a sheer hulk at her moorings, until a couple of
years ago her owner put engines into her and she
is now used about the harbour as a tug-boat. How
are the mighty failen !
* * *
Malone seems game. He is going to run
L. K, Myers a quarter of a mile on March 7 for
£5OO. £5O aside has heen planked.
* * *
It was the Knifton party who showed the
white feather in the proposed great (Smith-Knifton
fishL
Hutchens beat Malone in the 150 yards’
race on Saturday for the championship of, we
think, Botany—all other championships having
been appropriated. The course was rather sloppy,
yet the time was given as 14 3-lOseo. Malone led
slightly at 75 yards, hut Hutchens kept close
handy, ran in a style inconceivable in the colonies,
let all out a dozen yards from the tape, winning
by a solid two feet. Time. 14 3-10 sec., which
makes the race run yards under even time !
When certain sporting gentry knew the time of
Hutchens’ win they waxed wrath and spake
foolish things, even unto lynching the man who
ran 150 yards in seven ya ds under even time,
* ‘ Why did he not run thus with Samuels ? ”
quoth they. Perhaps they forgot, however, that
he had then just finished a five weeks’ steerage
voyage. Sale-horse is not generally regarded as a
good foundation for racing and the junk-fed
rhampion might not be at his best. As Hutchens
has since beaten Malone at 250 yards—said to
have been run in 25 l osec. !—Malone may be re-
garded as having been formally put down.
* * *
The Woronora River at present affords
good sport to the angler. Black-bream and whit-
ing are biting freely.
S 3 * *
At Adavalo (Q.) the annual races have
gone off with unwonted success. This was chiefly
owiDg to the fact that instead of relying on the
police the committee hired a huge aboriginal pugi-
list to guard the saddling paddock, and whenever
a bookmaker even tried to make a remark the
zealous nigger would sidle towards him, and then
there would be a crunching sound as if a millstone
had fallen on a hone-heap. The proceedings were
very orderly.
* * *
The Duke of Westminster heads the list of
prize winners on the English tucf for 1886, having
landed stakes amounting to £24,480. “Mr Man-
ton ” (ihe Duchess of Montrose) comes next with
£14,173, and Mr. Abington is credited with
£11,440. Archer heads the list of wiuning mounts
having scored 170 first out of 513 starts. C. Wood
is second with 167 wins out of 513 mounts, and G.
Barrett third with 121 out of 698. Wood’s chance
of heading the list next year has evaporated, the
doctors having peremptorily forbidden him to
wa3te below Bst,, which, of course, shuts him out
of a lot of the handicaps.
* * *
The projected mill between Jem Smith
and Knifton, which was to have taken place near
Paris, resulted in a fizzle. Only ten spectators
were to have bee i brought by either side, hut as
the Smith “push” exceeded this number very
largely, Knifton’s backer refused to let his man
MR. JOHN D. GIBSON,
Editor of May town (Q ) CHRONICLE.
show. Jim Mace was retained to look after
Knifton. According to latest advice 3 the meeting
was postponed indefinitely.
* *
What sort of a show must Malone have in
his approaching match with Samuels ? He has
agreed to concede lA yards in 50 to the “ Cham-
pion of the World ” —for that is the blaekfellow’s
title since he beat Hutchens. Advance Australia !
* * *
Slavin, the Queensland boxer, who just
now looks very much like the coming Australian
champion, is only 24 years of age. He is a native
of N.S.W. and of Irish decent. The Irish seem in-
creasingly fond of pugilism.
* * *
Archer was in the habit of using much
deliberation in mounting a horse. It rarely took
him less than five minutes to get settled in the
saddle. Once there, however, he was there to
stay.
* * *
Little Gorry, the very light-weight, bids
fair to head the list of winning jockeys for this
season. If his pastors and masters train up the
child in the way he should go, Gorry will likely
develop into an Australian Archer.
* * *
A gay old practical joker got to work when
a Sheffield (Eng.) Christmas pedestrian handicap
was filling, and entered about a score of the John
Lucases of his acquaintance. The joke matured
when the handicappers published their little list.
Hutchens was at scratch, so was J. Lucas, a 17st.
sexagenarian, who has gout in both feet. Two
yards ahead of this uneven pair were a book-
maker’s tout, who could roll the distance as fast
as he could run it, and another athlete who, like
the colonial Bibby, makes burgoo-surrounding his
speciality. The only one of these nominees who
had ever done any running was a man who re-
cently won a £lO bet, having backed himself to
run a mile in 15 minutes.
* *
Archer’s grave is just 300 yards from the
winning-post of the Cambridgeshire course, and is
exactly opposite where the horses pull up.
* * *
The Melbourne Sportsman is virtuously
indignant because a cheque lor £6O, which it
accepted as stake-money for a skating contest, has
been dishonoured. The journal has only itself to
blame for any difficulty that has arisen. Cash,
and cash only, is a legal tender in these cases, and
the mere fact of a cheque being put up as stake
money, at the last minute, stamps a match as
bogus. How a paper, calling itself sporting,
could be had for such a J. (J. spells Juggins)
passeth a’l understanding.
* * •
The wrestling world has been pretty quiet
since the Cannon-Miller fiasco. Miller’s ribs are
going on all right, and the worthy Professor may
be seen any morning basking in the Melbourne
sunshine at street corners. But he is not on the
wrestle at present. Signor Sali (who is credited
with being able—like Faith—ts remove moun-
tains) has done something or other which incapaci-
tates him from carrying out his engagement with
Cannon. Moreover, the Signor is somewhere up
Queensland way, performing feats of strength
with the “ Acromata ” Variety Company. Connor
can’t taunt Cannon into r’sking his flukil>won
championship, and the only real business on the
board is Dinnie v. Cannon, on February 5 th. This
is to be one of those “five-style” contests in
which the soul of Donald delights, and will pro-
bably result in “ twos all” and a draw for the
final bout.
* * *
Two boxers stand up in a Sydney hall be-
fore a crowd of spectators to box “ to a finish.”
Altogether 18 rounds are fought, the first 10 of
which bring no advantage to either side, but sub-
sequently Mr. Murphy sails in, outfights Mr.
Stewart, and knocks him silly. Mr. Stewart caves
in and when assisted to his legs stands up and
states that he and Mr. Murphy had arranged the
fight beforehand and had come to an understand-
ing that the latter was to lose at the end of the
fourth round ! Mr. Murphy, howeve-, has called
at The Bulletin office to say that Mr. Ste a art
does not always tell the truth.
* * *
We, with much satisfaction, notice that
the puhl’c don’t seem inclined to put any money
on the series of “champion” foot-races now in
progress at Sydney. It is also satisfactory to find
that the public feel so little excitement as to the
champions’ doings that they actually stay away
from the running-ground 3. The statements as to
“ even” time having been broken in almost every
one of these matches, so far as they have yet gone
is simply delicious. Let us say it once more—he
who bets on a professional foot-race deserves to
die in the Benevolent Asylum—and probably wifi.
Mr. J. D. G-ibson.
Mr. John D. Gibson, of Maytown (Q.V
whose presentment as he appears in the flesh is
published, in this issue, was the son of a clergyman
and was born in that home of pestilence, Jamaica
in 1842. He came to Sydney at the age of nine’
and thereby escaped being doubled up in a hard
knot by the ) ellow death, and during the next
few years he resided all ever N.S W.—at the
Clarence, Newcastle, Goulburn, Yass, and else-
where. He kept a store at Mackay (Q.) in i860,
but abandoned treacle and pickles and followed a
gold rash to the Palmer. In 1878 he purchased
the Chronicle, which he has owned ever sine?
and except that he once tried to get into Parliament
his character may be said to be unspotted. He also
edited the Oooktown Courier for 12 months
leaving his own journal in other hands, but grow-
ing tired of that branch second-hand perdition
he returned to May town, and nas personally bossed
the Chronicle ever since. Mr. Gibson is also a
J.i . and chairman of the Ilann Divisional Board
He is now 45 years of age, and, though there are
many short roads to Heaven from North Queens-
land, he promises to last a good many years yet.
The Wo ss of the N.S.W. Civil Service.
The following minute, said to have been
issued since the Parkes Ministry obtained office
is satisfactory evidence of the intention of its
author with regard to the offices under his con-
trol :
“ I sea by a noosapapur parygrawf how as some orficors
are m the abbit of sunn other paaple’s names in tie artend-
unse buk at the orfis. if this is dun enny more, fn have ter
move the agurnmunt of the ouse to ave a stop put to this
obnoebshus praktiss. orficers is only to put downs thare
write names in Futchure. orl orficers Has to be at work bv
nine ockloc. i am a feurporter of the ate our movemint, and
mene to inforoe it Throughout the Dipartmint. things is
gom to be Different while parx and Me is in o-fia to what
they was when a teranikal and unconstitootshunal ministree
was tamperm and destroin the great an gloiyus libuttees of
this protestud nation which libuttees was everlastinlee se-
koored by the batil of the Boyin. orl orficers is to keepe a
sharp lookout for abopses and riport them to me when
found, for ventilayshun in the ouse. This is all at present
from yosrs trooly,
P. H.
1.8.—0rl or Users is to pay grate erthenshun to there
spelin. a Dixshonry will be snppUde whare nessssury.
‘ N.B. —This is a minit.”
If that doesn’t serve to lead “ orflsers ” in the way
—the eight-hour way—they should go, there can
be no power in language. We are, however, in-
clined to think that the object of this “ minit ” is
more to draw hustings favour than the permanent
benefit of the Service.
It has been noticed in London that Mr.
T. Bosisto, M P., never wears his C.M.G. order in
public.
Norton will probably be wanted by the
Canadians to stop immigration. A Toronto woman
has given birth to healthy babie3 at intervals of
five months.
One of the last acts of Mr. Garvan at
N.S.W. Minister of Justice was to order that
Sweetman the cabman shall not be flogged at all.
Sweetman has slight symptoms of heart disease
and has suffered from pulmonary trouble.
One day last week it was cabled that, “for
financial reasons,” the Rev. J. H. Gooiwyn would
not accept thB bishopric of Bathurst, N.S.W.
Next day it was wired that Goodwyn aforesaid
was about to marry the daughter of the Arch-
bishop of York. “For financial reasons?” We
wonder.
George Bonnor, the leviathan cricketer,
has pitched his tent in Derbyshire, England. It
is rumoured that five duchesses and many dameJ
of lower degree are dying for love of the gentle
giant. If we ever have him hack in Australia it
will be in a very mutilated condition, so many of
’em will want little bits of dear George as keep-
sakes.
“We have been informed that his Wor-
ship the Mayor of Sydney (Mr. A. J. Riley) will
attend the annual general meeting at the Rand-
wick Asylum, this afternoon.” This inconsequen-
tial announcement is from the S.M. Herald, and
goes to prove that that journal thor juglfiy ba-
lieve3 that the public must have somebody to
grovel to.
According to the London correspondent of
the now giddy S.M. Herald “ nothing has of late
been heard of Parnell.” “It is known that he
has a snug little retreat in the cupid-haunted
groves of St. John’s Wood, where he frequently
retires, doubtless to ‘ toy with Amary.lis in the
shade,’ but whether he is there row or some where
else no one knows.”
David Henry, guide, philosopher, and
friend of ali who can give good shecurity, has
been summoned for deser.ing hi 3 illegitima‘o
child on January 4th. What compile xtes the case
is that the mother is a married woman, and Dav d
was off to America some months ajo. If the
child is really of the house of David he ought to
advance something on it.
Falconer Robert Fraser, of Sydney, seems
not to have been all that a fond mother could
desire. He was a Building Society ch rk, and had
a salary of exactly £7B a year, yet the rent of his
house was £2 a week, and he kept three buggies-
four horses, and various sundries which are not
commonly particularised in polite society but
which can’t be kept going, as a rule, on a screw
of ss. per working day. Falconer Robert Fraser
is now languishing in a dungeon.
1 1 Mr. Angus Cameron —now M.P. once
more-had run the teetotal, cold water, and
pump-ticket so successfully at Kiama, N.S.W.*
that it was really c v uel of the secretary of the
N.S.W. Licensed Victuallers’ Association to gi' r °
him away as he did in a recent letter to the
Sydney D.T. Four or five months ago, it seems,
Angus wanted the aid of th 9 Association that be
might contest Sir John Robertson’s seat on pure
whisky principles, and the change of front seem 51
ra her sudden.
According to the Southern Mail (Gem 1 '
burn) Mr. Mount Rennie Hill appears to have had
little doubts as to his destination in case he wa3
officially worked off. On his arrival at Berri® a
Gaol he is reported to have swaggered into the
office, and exclaimed, a la the “ Tambour Major”
dure, “lamhesh. ’ One of the officials having
remarked, “ Yes, you’ve come to us at last,” Hi* 1
philosophically replied, “ Yes, I might as well ID
here as in hefi.” Mr Hill, however, had not en-
joyed any experience of the Berrima retreat the’-
Those who know it best fail to see where it ha*
any advantage over Sheol.
Two more Australian “ outrage ” cases
have miserably broken down, making a solid
average of throe for the week, and about 20 <d
what the Noose terms “ atrocious ruffians ” have
heen released. The young lady at Tam worth hat
missed her mark ; and Gram Porters, of Ncwtowr,
and Helena Winterdsn, cf Melbo ru\ have m t
with similar ill-luck. The latter was a brazen
larrikiness of 17, who asserted that after being
outraged in a pubbe place she waited some di3'
tance to pay an evening visit to the brutal villain
who assailed her, and hi a few of his friends, and
in the course of this society call, she stated with
tears, she again came to grief. Tfie perjury, how-
ever, was too thin. Somehow Mary’ J. Hicks
disciples are having bad luck—wo se oven tb*P
befell the equally enterprising followers of that
fiend with the long leg and tho short one —Titu 3
Oates—some 200 ye .rs ago.
i hat trouble about the poor gt-iitleman
the s.s. ship Keilawarra who was drowned in on®
wife’s arms while another wife was safe ashore,
reminds U 3 of the Princess Alice affair. Among
the 700 ill fated creatures who sank with that
fragile pleasure-boat were many giddy husband®-
When the bodies were fished up in clusters and
laid out for identification at Wool wich, sorrowing
widows saw sights that froze their marrow. We
remember the awful indignation of a red-faced
woman when she found “Tom.” “Tom” had
left home early on the previous morning, pleading
urgent business-and there he lay, cold in death,
with his strong right arm round the neck of »
yellow-haired barmaid. Close beside “Tom’
was another paterfamilias holding on like grit* l
Death—-indeed !- to two pretty girls. H4s wi<l°"'
recognised all three. She didn’t throw herseli
upon his rigid form and burst into hysterical grie',
or press a kiss upon his marble brow. She merely
said—“ That’s him - the beast\" Just to the rigG
hut no more of these gruesome remembrances-
The Christian, the funny weokly orga ll
of Wesleyanism in South Australia, speaks, and
the refrain comes to U 3 like the wail of a ll
atoguished soul. 'Jhe prolonged depression in hob’
Adela'de “ has greatly affected church finances,
and, oh, patron saint of snuffle ! “ considerable
retrenchment in the churches is contemplated.’
What meaueth this ? Do they intend to pawn the
church-plate and collect the meagre contribution®
in a hat (a system regrrded with great disfavour
by parsons on account of the facilities it affords
the sexton for getting away with loose change W
smuggling it behind the lining) ? and wifi the?
extend the hours of labour of the expounder of
“ Trewth,” and force him to keep the shop ope»
all through tho week, from 1 to 5, and do
marrying.s, christenings, and baptisms at ivhole'
sale rates l Perhaps they intoncl to abolish te»'
and-cake socials? But no, that would forerun
the downfall of the Church. What won Id th e
average “ Cousin Jack,” the pillar of Wesleya* l '
ism, care for a chapel estranged from tarts aim
cream, fatty-cake, hard scones, and weak tea ?
Nothing whatever, his is a religion of gorge.
cuse us, we weep in silence and alone for AdelaG 6
the Fallen.


SVNDRY
SHOWTS
Sydney shows this week are of a rather
S , , . character, and criticism is something like
along bricks without straw. The bald hairs of
a 0 , a nui nber of them are going down at an
Ute slope in sorrow to tho grave, and, taking
Par? ad together, they are about as fresh as
r kes’ public-land-sale policy. We went round
c asua h however, and saw them out with our
heavenly expression, but when we got
bn f i lnd started for home our cherubic smile
f ei , rst . in<;o seventy little bits, and our aspect of
oci ty scared three dogs and a horse.
* * *
. r - Dampier has gone back to first prin-
tra • at ' Sydney Royal Standard, where that
kj lc washbill “ East Lynne ” is again in full
jg ®t—that is to say if a washbill does blast, which
he). • ktfuh Miss Dampier held up the limp
Wit h lne as well as an iDane and slippery angel
and a e( t straw for a backbone could be held,
U she means to keep her grip to tho end. Next
wi]] Urda y, we are glad to note, “East Lynne”
ba t re t° make way for a rather more poker-
ge^eddra,ma in the shape of “Lady Audley’s
rp * * * *
the Christmas pantomime at Sydney
a Ld is now nearly at an end. We had prepared
oihi 80 ’ boiling-hot, glandered anathema to heap
Nothing, but we will put it away for future
don't " Goose ” is just about dead, and we
the t Want to P° ur °ut language on the wreck of
bon UUerl * T broken-down old fowl, or to kick her
es into a premature tomb.
## # #
e the Federal Minstrels have “an
g 0 * re change of programme ”at Sydney Academy,
bar ° f tbe hems, however, look almost as fami-
-80li aS the pawnbroker’s back-tooth stopped with
c ~mnd we have seen it so often, when ho
Sc J) e( t his mouth to say he could give ihe present
tj( : no more than £2 153. on that chain and the
d 111 diamond ring, that we would know tho
®', r °°ted organ again if we met it stuck cn an
S’efl 8 B ® oar & t Khartoum. We note that the
Th - a l B are a l 9o doing their farewell programme.
dbrTf is obviously an epidemic of sudden death
the Sydney theatres.
### # #
1 Minnie Palmer is now almost on her last
iu s f*’ Sydney Opera House. We use this term
disr 6renco b° popular custom, but wo mean no
8t ® a Pect thereby. It pi east sus to be able to
S ® tlla t the audiences are still good when “My
big ot b ea rt,” who will shortly start on her wander-
iear ° nc ° more > trills her lay on the boards. We
hit) 11 ’ however, that she is likely to return at a
rof lr ° da t e > and we are glad °f it, for she is as
OUr° Blling as a gallon of cold water squirted into
just r ’ Bht ear in the silent watches of the night,
tjjj ) v hen such a salutation was the very last
ex Pect° n cart h that any human being could have
-V- AL -Y- At
■V. 'A' ‘7V* 'A' '7V
, Houcicauifg “great” racing drama, “Fly-
Jj’cud,” was produced at Sydney Gaiety on
s tan . y ni ght, under a combination of circum-
crai C6S ,J h al ' were calculated to make a lion put a
Dj b® baud round his tail and ashes on his head.
w as military villain opens the performance, as
° n by putting on his battle-clogs and hopping
Poor i ten dorest feelings of a young man born of
hen f ® u t honest parents, and the latter’s sweet-
tmrt Sees to interview the captain in a stable,
®hon h’f a single gleam of strong horse-sense
bav 6 trough the gable of her intellect she would
q lo ® kept 1000 miles away. This and a little
l ' a th° hh e samo sort fills the flrBt act, and a
tr a ® r a udible difference of opinion in the orches-
how , Ween the piano and the performer on the
bext 8 01 fbc cat whiled away the time till the
bear’ m °ke puts its head out of a window and
br u “y chaws up the scenery. This cat’s-meat
bite ®hort]y afterwards wins the Derby amid
bUm ? excitement—that is to say, six paper
of mala are dragged across the landscape by means
s bov, 6t, ring while the ’orrid ’owls of the audience
fhon tllat '■he dolirium is rising to fever-heat, and
big >, an °ld goblin with a capsized bird’s-nest on
c alj a< ' solemnly rides the live half of a horse and
to ,°b to the stage, whore two men hang on to it
boopf p it from lunching on a bookmaker. Tho
hlriiß i your, g ltlan makes a temporary beast of
tty®® ll through drink, but the resulting duel be-
llttl a y«ung lady and the captain was spoiled a
011 Monday nig*ht by the fact that both com-
were out of sight, and neither of the
fain’ 8 Would go off on any account. On the cap-
®oi)v i Bi - d ® wo heard a struggle like an elephant in
tb e UlBi °us, and we fancied a remark was wafted on
bfilit Sce uted breeze to the effect that the
SUn lry fraud wished tte thrice accursed Krupp
hov^ a 8 sunk in Guam—or Gehenna. At las’-,
a ) ® Ve r, he gave an explosive yell, and banged
W e ® rse 'Shoe against a gong, while the lady’s
b a v burat forth suddenly, and she came out
Lrpnii d state of blind staggers. They lived
lo ok j ev er afterwards, while the captain left,
Oq as if a seething volcano had kicked him
as 0 , a kull. Mr. Bateman made a tolerable hit
Ce S 3 . °uel Mulligan, and Mr. Hesford was a suc-
L he part of Nat Gosling, while Messrs.
n and Vivian might have been worse.
at s' tana ” is now running, its last nights
Set, j, dt: ® y Criterion. A Bulletin man tried to
Verqi th ® ° ber evening to see if Signor Billsmithi
brim Was as fresh and Miss Colbourne-Baber as
to t , atl t as ever, but his reception was depressing
d ®clb? j ast degree. The management effusively
Land , 1 to let him pay, and the doorkeeper re-
bo admit him in his journalistic capacity, so
it gradually dawned on his mind that there was a
coolness between him and the nobleman at the
door, and he retired.
-H- -it 'X- -ft-
A few weeks ago it was reported that the
boss of a certain Sydney theatre received Governor
Casing ton “ attired in a tweed suit and a hiccup”
—the latter, we presume, being worn round the
neck. On reading this we almost thought that
dramatic art must be degenerating in N.S.W., but
we are glad to learn that the little anecdote was
not strictly correct. The journalist who was re-
sponsible for it has now published the most com-
prehensive and graceful apology on record, and
the hiccup proves to have been meant in a
purely Pickwickian sense.
#* * #
Mr. Harry St. Maur’s company, with Mrs.
Digby Willoughby as chief feminine ornament,
opens at Brisbane on sth February with the
“Candidate,” to be followed by “Jim the Pen-
man.”
AL AL AL AL
•Tr tv* *7r
Mr. John Minnie Rogers Palmer sends to
the Sydney D.T. a long letter on scene-shifting
and high art. He concludes by denouncing the
assertion that the theatre neither refines nor ele-
vates as “ cruel and unnecessary,” and we guess
it is. But, John, a letter that fills a column is also
cruel and unnecessary.
AL AL AL AL
Tv ”7v' vt* 'TV'
When “Little Jack Sheppard ” has been
conducted from Melbourne Opera House to the
gallows-tree another story of gilded crime—“ The
F’orty Thieves” —will hi unfolded by Messrs.
Brough and Boucicault. Little Jack, however,
is doing nicely in this the sixth week of his at-
tack. Brough has thrown in a new song, and Mr.
Warde and Miss Emma Temple have put the
fin'shing touches to a pas de deux, which is a
mixture of wild agility, dreamy grace, and un-
conventional situations. Something to be seen
before yiu put your tombstone on your chest, and
gently murmur, “ This is rest.”
** * *
Owing to pressure of engagements —
humph ! —the triumvirate must withdraw ‘ ‘ Robin-
son Crusoe” from Melbourne Royal after Satur-
day week. Dress circle interest in the grand
annual shows symptoms of abatement, and bare
patches are making themselves visible in other
parts of the house, but business will keep lively
enough till the close of the season. It is well that
a change is promised. Too much of this panto-
mime would make the local Jack a very dull boy.
It’s effect on one boy (who shall be nameless) was
distinctly awful By the way, a big bit of trans-
formation scene came down with a thump last
Thursday without hurting ar ybody. It didn’t kill
so much as a fairy or a fiddler.
AL AL AL AL
vV* 'TV 'A' 'VV*
Dr. Lynn lias concocted anew “scientific
mystery,” called Ihdas, and set her up at Mel-
bourne Waxworks. Ihdas resembles Thauma
about the body and legs—inasmuch as she
doesn’t seem to have any—but so far as she goes,
the young woman is very lovely.
Let us endeavour to explain.
A brilliantly-lighted chamber
opens to visitors one minute
after the bell rings. At the far
end a raised platform, canopied
with crimson velvet and fringed
with curtains to mate'' l . Stand-
ing forth against a white back-
ground an iron rod, surmounted
by a table top whereon repose
the head and shoulders of a
ma'den. Near, a young man,
who affects to turn a tap hidden
from the curious gaze, while the
maiden partly revolves upon her
own axis and shows a classic
profile. She speaks, and her vbice
is like the murmur of low foun-
tains gushing forth in the midst
of roses. We are beginning to
like the picture when the young
man draws the curtain close and
tells us to clear out. This is tho
scientific mystery. An Argus
man called the young lady
“ Judas,” which is a blasphemous
way of insinuating 1 hat she fairly
sold him.
AL AL AL
*7V* 'A' •7V'
The Victorian Exhibition,
in Melbourne, is to be something
to make the world in general
sit up. Realism will abound.
Genuine aboriginals will hunt
live kangaroos down the centre
transept, while a toil-stained
digger from Ballarat washes bona
fide dirt beside a real rippling
stream in front of the organ.
Every night at eight a bush-fire
is to be laid on in the theatre
Rabbits will run around in their
native state, and Ihe cry of the
dingo will mingle with the
screech of the cockatoo in the
gallery. A little sheep-shearing
and an occasional flogging and
hanging will complete a gorgeous
picture of Australian life.
AL AL AL
■7V' '7V' 'Tv
Mr. Jules Joubert, whoso
hand always finds something to
do, is now busy with a scheme
for importing a French comic
opera company. A selection of
the very giddiest operas, bristling
with situations clear to the most
English understanding, might
prove attractive. Or if a cheap
book of words, with a neat Eng-
lish translation, were prepared,
the show might catch on. Then
our young men and maidens could complete their
education by attending these musical French
classes, thus combining pleasure with cultch iw
There is a greater difference between Australian
academical French and “the language as she is
spok ” than is dreamt of in their philosophy.
at sfc sfc
TV* TV* Tv* "TV*
Gilbert, Sullivan, and D’Oyley Carte have
divided between them £lOO,OOO as profits of “ The
Mikado ” performances in London and elsewhere.
## # #
Rockhampton is just now much exercised
in mind over a very curious theatrical wedding
which eventuated locally the other day.
"TV TV TV*
Poor Arthur Redwood, who lies stricken
with paralysis in Sydney, played the luckless
character of Deacon Skinner during the latest
revivals of “Struck Oil.”
*# # *
’Frisco papers notice the •Vum of Maggie
Moore to California on a visit to her mother, to
whom she has ever been devotedly attached. Of
“our Maggie” the Argonaut writes: “Mrs.
Williamson’s visit is not made in a professional
way, as owing to the steadily increasing bank
account she rarely steps upon the stage nowa-
days,” That’s so. Alas that we should have to
admit such a dismal truth.
*# # *
George Darrell has been—woe is us that
we should have to chronicle the bitter fact !
keerushed again. His season at Melbourne Bijou
teiminated with painful abruptness and a ben. on
Saturday last. The “New Rush” ran for three
weeks, and' deserved better support than it ob-
tained, but one little week of the “ Soggarth ”
was sufficient to satisfy George’s soaringambition.
Perhaps if he had restricted himself to the rdles of
author and manager this latest insult to Ould Ire-
land might have endured a while longer, but the
dauntless man piled the last straw when he played
the hero himself. Miss Maggie Knight was pert
and bright in the 1 opening scenes, and wept over
her brother’s tomb until we thought our heart
would break. A lot of applause, considering the
desolated condition of the benches, rewarded Miss
Maggie Oliver, who appears to have carefully
studied the voice and method of yet another and a
greater Maggie—Moore. Others struggled hard
not to be too trying, and occasionally succeeded.
Mr. Darrell writes plays as well as a lot of other
people. He is a master in stagecraft and acts
with a certain old-fashioned power. But the Mel-
bourne public won’t “ have ” him, and that’s all
about it. Next time he comes aloxg he must cut
off his moustache, and disguise himself in an
alias.
## # #
Henry Irving recently quoted from his old
friend, Martin Luther, in support of theatrical
performances—” Christians should not entirely
flee from comedies because now and then there
are coarse matters in them, as, for the same
reason, we might cease to read the Bible.” Just so.
And Irving might have added that there are thou-
sands of bald-headed old gentlemen who sit out
ballets without a blush and yet never read the
Bible —for fear of being shocked,
*# # *
The Misses Joran were appreciated in
Charters Tower 3, although the miners don’t care
abjut “ toff” music.
“ The Parkes Ministry won’t live two
months, and thank God for it.” —The Caulfield.
As a prophet the B.P. means well. But he
“ don’t know.”
Mr. Geo. Gilbert A. Murray, of Sydney,
last year carried off the Ireland and Hertford
Scholarships at Oxford, and this year he has been
awarded a Craven Scholarship for classical pro-
ficiency.
They didn’t make Abigail N.S.W. Post-
master-General. They were afraid he’d drop too
many letters. He is, however, nicely fitted as
Minister for Mines : he has always been a fierce
critic of underground engineering.
MISS FANNY ROBINA,
As Little Jack Sheppard, at Opera House, Melbourne.
Mr. John Osborne will run for the third
seat in Northumberland. Mr. Osborne is a man
of Liberal views, with a ready tongue, a tough
brain, and a stiff back. He is a good Protectionist,
and should be in the N.S.W. Assembly.
Jawbone Neild is on the fence in re Pro-
tection. He says that—
“He did not know that he was prepared to support the
entire abolition of Customs duties. He should require time
to consider on which side he should place himself on a ques-
tion of this kind.”
You bet l
Parkes, in his Freetrade oration, the
other night, made what some people have accepted
as a subtle joke. “On the one side in this con-
flict,” said he, “we have light; on the other,
darkness,” —tho pointof the statement having been
taken to lie in the fact that Sir Henry has a big
crop of s-ilver-hair, while Mr. Garvan, the leader
of the Protectionist Opposition, is swarthy as a
Moor. It is quite evident from this that Sirenree
is at his old game again—trying to terrify the
enemy by waving his mane. The Bulletin has
al ways considered that there was onlv one way
out of the political difficulties in N.S W. —to
shave Parkes.
BRIEF MENTION.
Mud G. Taylor ! Dan Yell O’Connof !
Pinnock, P. M., of Brisbane, has ordered
a “ push ” of larrikins to be packed in a railway-
train and taken to the Barcoo.
To exterminate rabbits. Sprinkle the very
bp3t rappee snuff over the rabbit-runs. The bun-
nies will break their necks sneezing.
“ Above all things a Chinaman loves his
native land,” says the Daily Northern Argusi
Quite so. He can’t bear to detach it from his face,
even.
Why shouldn’t Jack Thompson, the book-
maker, have been allowed to witness the execu-
tion ? Neck-and-neck finishes—of these hath Jack
seen many.
Times are dull—very dull indeed. There
hasn’t been a single case of high-class fraud, or a
sensational indecent assault reported for the past
eight hours.
The Albany Mail (W.A.) gives a vivid
description of a new baker’s cart. It devotes the
same amount of space to the death of a respected
local clergyman.
“ The schooner fully retrieves her reputa-
tion,” writes a North Queensland paper. The
schooner had brought double the usual quan ity
of niggers from the South Seas.
The big potato of the season ha 3 been
viewed by the editor of the Richmond River Ex-
press who describes it as “ somewhat resembling
the head and ears of an hippopotamus.”
Melbourne drunks excused themselves
during the recent hot weather by saying that
there was no water. The beaks, in a general way,
were merciful—for they had been there them-
selves.
Two Chinamen have died at Newport
(N.S.W.) from eating s’ewed toad-fish. Up to
this we had always thought “ toadies ” were a
useless kind of fish. It seems from this that when
stewed they may be very useful.
A new paper is about to be started at
Natimuk (Vie.) Now, there is nothing like a
good, smart name for a new paper. We suggest
that the spirited promoter should call his jour-
nalistic venture the Natimukrake.
A friend of Captain Rossi writes to the
Sydney Press, asserting that this Anglican Don
Quixote is a “sincere Christian.” We knew it.
When once he gets inside a cathedral it takes
horse-teams to persuade him to come out,
“June. To-night, at 8. Pub. on road
Must come.” This is the kind of device to which
Melbourne girls are reduced in order to get their
young men to meet them. The “pub. onroad”
is an artful stroke, and does the business.
The Dandenong Advertiser (Yic ) office
was struck by lightning last week. The reporter
was also struck by lightning, but he rose with a
smile and went on fixing up the snake-story he
was engaged on. He had never heard of Ananias.
A Melbourne man got “ one in the jaw
from a stranger because he didn’t answer to the
name of Henry the Eighth. Henceforth that man
will be prepared to admit his identity with Nero
or Bloody Mary for the sake of peace and quiet-
ness.
Armidale Courthouse. Prisoner, to prin-
cipal witness for the prosecution : “ Now, on yer
oath, hev you ever known enythink against my
personal car-ractur ?” Constable, med ta.ively :
“ Well, yes, I did hear you had joined the Salva-
tion Army.” Fire a volley !
“Colonel” Barker, of the Melbourne
Harmy, must be a bit of a wag in his holy halle-
lujah way. Last week he gave a man in charge
for kicking up a noise in the middle of (he night.
Only those who have assisted at an “All Night
With The Loard ” can understand the strength of
Barker’s joke.
With three attractive but ominously sug-
gestive balls dangling beneath their chamber
windows, and with Walter Coonan, Esq., M.L.A.,
as legal adviser, the N.S.W. Licensed Victuallers’
Association display the taste of colour, the blend-
ing of harmony, and an aptitude for the fitness of
things in general.
At Armidale (N.S.W.) Judge Murray
addressed the following observation to a plaintiff:
“It is a remarkable thing that your business rela-
tions seem usually to be cut short by the person
with whom you have dealings telling you—well,
not to put too fine a point upon it—telling you to
go to hell.” Not to put too fine a point upon it
there was a verdict for the defendant.
Certain persons who were lately elected
councillors of the shire of Preston (Vic.),having dis-
covered that their election was illegal, aro now
about to sue the council for damages “for their
expenses and anxiety of mind.” Fancy the
anxiety of mind of a would-be shire-councillor !
The mental disturbance of a goat ! The brain-
worry of a bandicoot! The intellectual confusion
of an oyster !
The Walgett (N.S.W.) people don’t know
whether they have got the better of the swap of
P.M.’s. Their old one fined a drunk 2s. Cd. and
10s. for obscene language (at Boat Harbour police
court), or imprisonment till the rising of the
court. At the same time a Dee-selector was fined
105. (in Walgett) or seven days if not paid on the
spot. He had not the coin on him, and went to
limbo for the time, although if allowed even to
send a message 100 yards be could have raised £5O.
A Viennese has invented a padding which
flattens bullets from a carbine as if they had
struck a stone wall. The pad can be compressed
to a thickness of less than an inch, and worn in-
stead of a porous plaster. If science goes on like
this, the soldier of the future will no longer drivel
about his breast expanding for the ball. When
the Russians come we must just pop on our little
plasters, present a bold front to the enemy, and
wait till all their bullets are flattened. Then
William Dailey. P.C., will serve out three rounds
of brickbats and cry, “Up, boys, and bat’em !
We’ll knock the beggars silly, you bet l
The Marchioness of Queensberry has
knocked her wicked husband out in one round.
She has got a divorce.
The Parkes Government aro going to
assert their professions in favour of Freetrade for
N.S.W. by proposing the repeal of the ad valorem
Duties Bill which was passed during the last ses
sion of Parliament. The three-million deficit is
to be wiped out by selling more of tho lands. A
progressive programme truly ! Freetrade versus
Protection is the definite is j te which the electors
will now have to decide. Parkes tells us that ho
does not mean to tax foreign corn : he only in-
tends selling the land of the people to foreign
banks, syndicate l , and pawnin'eke :'3.


PEPPER
Salt
We quote the following society item from
the Melbourne Age “ Ellen Mack was attended
to at the Melbourne Hospital, having had a piece
of her ear bitten off by her husband.” We would
have a word or two with Mr. Mack —in rhyme :
Mr. Nimmo, the Victorian Minister of
Public Works, was at a teetotal meeting at Saud-
rldge a short time ago. In referring to tho lat e
dearth of water in Melbourne, he said : “ I drink
plenty of water myself— when 1 can get it; but
the pipes just now are on the burst.” The guffaws
that followed this flash of wit shook the spiders
from the rafters.
The Melbourne water-famine was at its
worst on Sunday, the 9th, when hotels were
closed (?) in conformity with the Act: —
An esteemed correspondent writes from
Townsville (N.Q.) re that great institution the
missionary. In his younger days, he says, ho had
been filled up with the usual horse-loads of bo3h
about the suffer mgs of the holy men who grind
the sacred hand-organ and wheel the barrow of
holiness in tho Pacific Islands, and when he went
to New Guinea he was prepared to mingle his
tears with those of the torn and suffering martyr
who is spreading the gospel in that region. He
landed at Port Moresby and found the martyr, but
ho wasn’t torn or suffering, or wandering about
in sheepskins and goatskins as our friend im-
agined. On the contrary, he was acting as cor-
respondent for the S. M. Herald, and his house
was furnished with every luxury, and there was
a whole array of strictly female servants in at-
tendance, and in a circle of a furlong round the
premises there wore enough empty bottles to build
a monument. These, no doubt, had been dropped
by the cannibals who came to be Saved, but for
the sake of the corresponding apostle they really
ought to have been shovelled away. A missionary
now-a-days is a fixed object; he doesn’t go about
in search of the heathen as an ignorant apostle
might do, and owing to his sedentary habits
bottles have a tendency to gather round him in a
truly alarming fashion. After a time, indeed, it
becomes a matter for prayerful consideration
whether it is more economical to move the bottles
or the missionary, and then it too often happens
that the missionary is taken and the dead-marines
are loft.
* * #
Iti view of the fearful bungle made at the
Mount Rennie execution, the Government of
Ncoae South Wales have resolved upon issuing a
“Hangman’s Guide, and Complete Choker and
Murderer,” which will contain a vast mass of
useful information calculated to aid the hired
butcher in the exercise of his calling. The first
chapter of the volume (which, liko everything
else, is to be dedicated to Lord (Jarington) will be
devoted to broken necks of varying thickness,
and dislocated vertebra’ of a'l sorts, together with
a few interesting remarks regarding death, hell,
and the grave ; and following this comes a mass
of intricate calculations to slr.w how far a
“scient : st” and a bookmaker —who have at-
tended the execution with a view to learning a
great moral lesson— should stand from the gallows
if’they do not want the writhiDg victim to kick
them in Pm wind. The third section deals with
the great question of obliterating babe 3 and hang-
ing children, lunatics, idiots, and youths that have
been led into trouble by a distant re’ation of a
member of Parliament who has himself been re-
prieved, and it points out the absolute necessity
of firmness and self-possession on the part of the
hangman under these trying circumstances. The
writer further expresses an opinion that it is ad-
visable, whenever conven ent, to hang the right
man, but he adds that he is not bigoted on this
point. One startling innovation which he advo-
cates strongly is that the rope should be attached
to a revolving cylinder in place of a beam, in
order that the criminal may be hoisted up
and dropped over and over again till the
job is finished. He considers this would be an
agreeable surprise to the deceased, and would be
vastly better than hitting him on the head with a
club, as the latter proerss might reasonably give
offence to the assembled “ scientists.” A rather
discursive appendix supplies some valuable infor-
mation as to the ego at which it is most advisable
to hang criminals, the author being of opinion
that in the case of children nnder two years the
punishment should be commuted to imprisonment
for life, and the culprit brought up in irons by
means of the feeding-bottle. He also advises a
swooping reform of the jury system, to that
snakes, homicidal maniacs, mules, butcher-blocks,
and skunks, all of whom are now exempt, should
he rendered liable to serve if required ; an ex-
haustive catalogue of several thousand Australian
hanged corpses, accompanied by a memorandum
of where their former owners are now residing,
and a few carefully-selected facts to show how
they like the place, conclude a very interesting
and instructive volume.
* •
The days of that grand old undertaker’s
friend, the Melbourne Hospital, are doomed, all
the Chinese residents, from the unctuous city mer-
chant down to the humblest cabbage hawker,
having decided to withdraw thoir patronage un-
loss some of its rules are altered. The trouble
with the heathen arose from the fact of a post-
mortem examination being held on the bGdy of a
slant-eyed eon of the Sun, during which the said
body was hacked secundum artem by the saw-
bones present. Since then the disgusted country-
men of the corpse have requested the hospital
authorities to explain “ Wha’ for cuttee Chinaman
up allee same dam sleep”—or words to that
effect. Furthermore, they point out that all re-
spectable Chinamen have a strong dislike to being
compelled to hunt round in their hones at the
general judgment day Sor fiesh to fit on themselves
before they appear in court, and nothing makes
the average Mongolian more depressed than to
think he will ho forced to show up in the shape of
dry-hash, or the cold remains of a boarding-house
Sunday dinner. What worries the Mongolian mind
of Melbourne most, however, are the reports
touching the careless manner in which the com-
ponent parts of post-mortem- examination bodies
are slung and mixed about, fur he plainly sees
that unless more care is taken in this matter, it is
quite possible that what was once an entire China-
man, from the ground up, may, through the hos-
pital-mixing, rise at the last day with the head of
a red-haired Irishman, the bony heart of a Scotch-
man, tho shins and feet of a nigger, and the roast
’possum and “ gohanna ”-on-toast-distended
stomach of a Palmer River blackfellow. This
time tho Pao*an is right and his religious scruples
shou’d be respected.
* # *
A movement has been “ inisliyatid ” by
Dan O’Connor to raise a fund for the purpose of
removing from Bathurst to Sydney tbo remains of
the once brilliant little Daniel D. H. Deniehy.
Considering that 21 years have elapsed since the
ill-fated Kent-street genius was laid to rest, per-
haps he wouldn’t mind much if they let him sleep
where ho is. As tho live Daniel seems to have a
body-snatching mania on him just now, however,
suppose he goes a little farther back, and boots up
all that is left of the late lamented “ Oliver Crum-
mell,” or tne neglected Mr. Joolyis Saysur ? Now
that the Home Rule trouble is in full swing an
*• orashin ” on the man who generously gave the
Irish their choico of “ hell or Connaught” would
take well, but we fancy Dan would be more at
home in a gush over the dead “ Saysur,” because
he could drag in “ Vox populi,” and “In hoc
signo vinres,” and other chunks of Latin, and
when he slipped over the Latin he could gabble
Irish, and few of the great Roman’s friends would
be any wiser. On second thoughts it would be
more sa'isfaotory to us all if Dan. poked round
and resurrect'd our mutual father Adam, because
we all have a share in him, and he has now lain
quiet so long that a little shaking up would do the
old man good, and let him see that, even though
Lord Carington is in Australia, his memory is still
respected by those who knew him. It is a long
time now since Father Adam heard the “ Jaynil ”
Dan orate, and consequently he might relit h the
old pitch abouj, Willum Char-r-lis Wintwurth, and
the “ lummassity av the intellectuality av th’
grand Australian race.” Dan’s best plan, how-
ever, would be to buy a few of the burial-grounds
of the Pharoalis, and then ho could resurrect a
fresh mummy every morning and talk it m®®
by night-time.
* * *
VANITY - .
Elizabeth MMvinnon,
All gaily washing linen
In a Melbourne lane was seen ;
The clothes how she did hustle 1 —
She was a girl of muscle—
N.B.—She wore a bustle
Also a crinoline.
Elizabeth M’Kinnon
No longer washes linen,
In the hospital she’s seen ;
Her bustle took on fire and
The wind blow through the wire and
Poor Liz. became a pyre and
She’s now a skellinteen.
Oh, Mr. Mack, we are both grieved and shocked
To hear, to-day,
That you your wife’s ears should have gone and
docked
In this coarse way.
Did you not thiDk how once you poured in fear
As in a cup,
Your tale of love in that too credulous ear
You’ re now chawed up ?
Did it not strike you, ere you stuck your fell
Teeth into it,
How you that ear compared once to a shell,
Before you bit ?
Or was it love that made you go on so ?
Or did you mark
Her—ear-mark her, we mean —that you should
know
Her in tho dark ?
Whate’er the cause—in your shoes we’d not stand
For jugs of beer,
When through Jehoshaphat peals the command
“ Disgorge that ear 1”
IF.
Oh, what a world of drivel
This weary world would be 1
If all men swore off whisky,
And feasts were never frisky
Nor eyes upon the swivel,
Nor any driak but tea —
Oh, what a world of drivel
This weary world would be 1
If joyous champagne dinners
To dreary tea-fights turned,
And singers of gay suppers
To maudlin Martin Tuppers,
All laughter-loving sinners
VYould go—where they’d he burned,
If joyous champagne-dinners
To dreary tea-tights turned.
If we were Mr. Nimmo
We’d turn the whole tiring up
And leave teetotal asses
To groan at brimming glasses
While gloomy-eyed, and grim, O !
They drain the dismal cup ;
If we were Mr. Nimmo
We’d turn the whole thing up.
HEARD OUTSIDE THE OLD GREEN LION HOTEL.
Give us a drink 1 The tap is run dry,
The water’s cut off at the main,
There is never a cloud o’er the pitiless sky
To soothe us with promise of rain ;
A horrible taint is abroad on the air,
The drains are beginning to stink —
And the liquor, the liquor is everywhere,
But never a drop to drink.”
‘ Give us a drink 1” (Tho heart-melting wail
Is borne on the hot Sabbath breeze)
A soda and 8., or a hot le of ale —
The cravings of thirst to appease ;
At tho little side-door we are tearing our hair,
And breathing our prayers through the chink —
Eor the liquor, tho liquor is stowed away there,
But never a drop to drink.
Oh 1 for the touch of a shandygaff glass,
The creak of an engine that’s still;
’Tis hard to be brought to this desperate pass,
By a cold-water worshipper’s Bill;
In a town that holds pizon enough and to spare,
Here we faint on extremity’s brink —
For the liquor, the liquor is everywhere,
But never a drop to drink !
BEWARE
OF
Counterfeits.
or the
FATAL
MACINI FYING,
GLASS.
QOjqYq, of (Doffyfd)) cou nt<LYf<£if)
>. &><? ciidl'd tis<i.m<iipt reacf.
I Jr csfy(c jbhraje (rfiJpplNS-
It stucH> into hi b /?eac[
Ulithoul cUlay \)!l jalliecl joYtly
Jfyd \>ouq\)\u Qoizz'irjcf- (ffoy
(dhich for njagyijyirjcj
\Jo otjyeY coufcl burp aj<s.
Quufylye, If/rou.(f(? fiyu iym qfutfofrpitye
I'll (cacly ryot<z cditf/Ccire,
Hicryuc I'urtly of- -cdorllyfejj CoupTc Kj'eih)
n? lo j?*rcuate
Full scon came in a customer
To barter and to trade
And from tho stock of Grubbins
Some trifling purchase made.
When Grubbins took a crisp bank-note
In payment meet and just
He concentrated on it then
The focus of distrust,
The note was genuine enough,
But Grubbins said, says he,
“ This ’ere’s a bogus one, you know,
A nd won’t go down with me.
‘ The paper's bad, the printing’s bad,
Engraving’s crude and coarse ;
Looks like a poster ’neath the glass—
I never saw a worae 1”
The customer took back the note,
’Twas all the cash he had,
So ho and Grubbins couldn't trade
Because of Grubbins’ fad.
From that time forth tho tradesman he
Grew more and more suspicious ;
He quite left off his other vice
Of being avaricious.
Each legal tender seemed to him,
When highly magnified.
A coarse and clumsy counterfeit —
“ The linos were natch too wide.”
Not notes alone, but coins as well
When tendered by a buyer,
Turned out to be of brass or tin
Beneath the magnifier.
Full many a t rade old Grubbins made
Which always came to nil —
The fatal magnifying glass
Kept empty Grubbins’ till.
An empty till’s a bad complaint,
If chronic it should grow,
’Tis but a question then of time
When up the shutters go.
A crimson flag o’er Grubbins’ door
Is daunting in the gale ;
The legend on it reads, to wit :
; This Bankrupt Stock for Salk. ;
A» one by one the “ assets ” now
Beneath the hammer pass,
Behold 1 (the irony of fate !)
The magnifying glass 1
And if in friendship, trade, or love
You’d thrive, I beg you not
(Whatever else you purchase here)
Don’t hid upon this “ lot.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mayor Riley, of Sydney, is a free-trader.
Which is only another way of saying that he is® 0
importer.
The new Mayor of Sydney, in his opening
speech, said he hoped, “ under God’s ble3BiDg,’ w
get some credit. God’s blessing in Sydney Town
Hall!
The latest poetic Imperial Federation
gush begins :
“ English yet ! though strange your faces.”
Does Mrs. Craik think we’re blackfellows ?
Donald Cameron, editor of the Riverin®
Gazette (Hay, N.S.W.) writes :—“ We are with' 11
an inch of hell up here— the glass registers 118deg* ,
in the shade at this moment. But of course w
must train for the Inevitable.”
When Governor Sir William Jervois ar-
rived at Onehunga the other, day his guard o
honour consisted of three colonels, two capta l ® 9 *
nine privates, and a solitary bandsman. This 48
even more farcical than Sydney soldiering.
Wo hope Governor Carington doesn’t read
Tub Bat, a London publication. We particularly
hope, for his own peace of mind, that he hash
read The Bat dated 7th December— exactly °®
month prior to the day on which, in the interest
of morality, he hanged four miserable boys of 4410
average age of 18 years.
Ikey Hermann, “financier ”of Melbourn e
—M’Quade’s little £5OO friend—has gone bung >
liabilities, £3018; assets, £1372. We deeply legr® 4
to see this. Little Ikey made a most proinisU'e
start in tho ehent per i lient business. But a wee®
er two ago, according to a narrative of his usuri-
ous exploits published in the papers, he bade f® 4
to one day become rich enough to buy up 441
entire Australian railway-system.
Anent Dolly Tester, the London chorus-
girl who is now Marchioness of Ailesbury, there
was told at the time of her marriage the follow I®® 1 ®®
story : It appears that she had a sister who >°
some years had been chere amie of a wealthy
brewer in the north of England. When Lor®
Savernake married Lolly, the brewer, flusbe®
with joy at the possibility of becoming brothel’I®' 1 ®'
law to a future marquis, stiaightway married >® e
younger Miss Tester, and so Lady Sava* nako be-
came the social regeneratrice of anoihor menibe
of her family.
Alexander Stuart, ex-Premier of
South Wales, deceased, and R. H. Harnett, th®
younger, are advertised as applicants for
Property title to 146 acres of land situated®'
Burns’ Bay, Mossman's Bay, and Middle Harbor®*
Sydney. The area is made up of lands grants
long ago to various persons. This acquisition ®
valuable water-frontage estate may probably
account for the fact that Mr. Stuart, before be
came Premier, was terribly hampered for want ®
money, and yet at his death was able to leave P r ®‘
perty worth over £BO,OOO. It is a gladsome thi®»
to know that patriotism and penury do not alw®s
stand to one another as cause and effect.
Gladstone has been arrested for g oin£
about with only a sugar-bag round his waist. B 4?
other assets were an axe and half a ’possum. .
was not the Grand Old Man, however, but an &
dividual whose front name was Gladstone, ® n
who lived like a degraded chimpanzee in the bu s
near Rockhampton (Q.) He had an account *
tho Q.N. Bank, but he didn't carry a chequc-bo®.
about with him. Gladstone, as wo already re
marked, has been run in, but as lie wore about ®
much clothes as the grim old female wrecks w ®
appear at her Majesty’s receptions, we re® 4 *
don’tsec what the Far Northern beak can do to hi® 4
He can only be charged with wandering about 1
evening-dross, and surely that is no crime in t® 4
free and enlightened country.
Few men have the pleasure of reading
their own obituary, but a public man in Tasnia® 1
has just escaped this unusual treat “ by the 9 7*
of his teeth.” His death was announced vl , _
every appearance of truth, and a reporter i®,
structed to prepare the usual half-coluin® .
biography for subscribers to discuss with the 4
breakfasts, when the report was officially
and proceedings stopped. Some years ago 041 1
Geordie Marshall, an old resident of Sorcll (T® s ”
not only read, hut corrected his obituary, which ®P
pearod in a newspaper prior to his decease. B
lieving him dead, the newspaper-man had draW
considerably on his imagination to furnish a
ing account of his life, but the old man had su® 4
cient vitality left to object very forcibly to 44 b
mis-stafoments, and gave an authentic version 0
his experience in its stead.
Bishop Moor house lias repeated in
Chester his old Melbourne arguments in favor 0
moderate drinking. One again do we read
the Bishop was lured into signing a conditio®®
pledge, and “ wont on very well until the clo
of the second year, and then broke down utterly*
His doctor told him that ho would either have
give up half his work or take light stimuli®
with his principal work. It was ridiculous
think of giving up haif his work, therefore ® g
tried the stimulants, and never had the pympt o44 L
again. He supposed he was one of thethousa®
who could not engage in active mental lab®
without nervous excitement.” Quite so ; with ®
Krglish bishopric and an extra £3,600 a year sti°
ing oat, Moorhou9e was quite right to cure I®,
self of the cold-water symptoms. There ® 4
thousands who can’t carry on their brain-W®
without a bottle on the chimbley-piece, ®®.
putting their lips to it when so dispoged. Sp e ®
ing from experience we should say that eV«" g
class of literature requires its special nerv® j
excitement. Byron wrote his poetry on gin,
Disraeli evolved his novels from “ I )elbsck 9
champagne. The Sydney dailies are kept g o 4
by colonial beer and molasses. The Bui.i.e' 1 ’ 1 *' g
medical attendant recommends rum and cog 44 ® 1
mixed in equal quantities.


POLITICAL
POINTS
The two most notorious drunkards in the
N.S.W. Assembly—this is saying a very great
deal indeed—were in full blast last week, before
the House had been sitting two days.
It is certainly a remarkable historic inci-
dent that the greater part of the coercive action
the Government arm taking in Ireland should be
based on a statute of Edward 111., who died in
1377.
Why did Lord Disgustus recommend
that Colonial-Made-Grogship, and why did Parkes
“ the political veteran with a clean record” ( vide
Telegraph) confer that Plenty-More-GrogShip ?
Why, indeed?
“ The three great wars I have created,'’
said Prince Bismarck recently, “ I have made up
with my God. ’ This has probably made Bismarck
cheeky, and he is going to tamper with his im-
mortal soul for the fourth time.
It is reported that Larry Foley, the
Pugilist, will contest a seat ac the coming N.S.W.
general election. We hope he will get in. It will
be a sight worth seeing when the lion, gen'leman
spits on his hands and rises to a point of order.
Montenegrin war preparations are creating
some uneasiness and comment in Europe—at least
so the cable says. Montenegro, we might remark,
is certainly bigger than Woolloomooloo, and lias a
standing army of 100, of whom 1G are generals
and 54 colonels.
Sydney E. News might deal a little more
tenderly with Parkes, in that the News is built
°n tho wreck of Parkes’ fortune (the Empire).
But for Pai-kes the Bennett family might he earn-
ing an honest but moderate living at horse-
shoeing or something.
Mr. J. P. Garvan will assume the leader-
-Bhip o£ the N.S.W. Protectionist party. It will
not be for want of perseverance or energy and
able advocacy on his part that the cause will not
be successful in the near future, if not at the
forthcoming elections.
The -London Socialists how go to church
only to hips tho prayer for the Queen. This is
very wrong : they should moy.e an amendment if
they differ from' the sentiments expressed. But
We don’t see why they should object to this i rayer
for the Queen. Her Gracious wants praying for
very badly.
A better state of feeling- seems (o have
B Prung up between Rust in and Germany. r J his is
no doubt in some measure due to’the strong ap-
peal which the aged Emperor William addressed
to his nephew the Czar to allow him to spend the
few remaining - ears of his life undisturb;d by the
horrors of a European war.
Han. O’Connor emphatically denies that
he wanted, or was willing, to join the Parkes
Mibistry. Parkes, however, si ems to insinuate
that Dan. was only, mailing to be asked. One
ominous circumstance is, tint in the morning
opon which an invitation might havecome, Daniel
was observed to be dressed up within an inch of
bis life.
The N.S.W. Freetrade Association pur-
poseholding “a Freetrade banquet” on an e’arly
dale. The cause of Freetrade in N.S.W., as in
every other country, will want a lot of feeding.
Within four years from now, Jedediah Moses
Bulsford and the Calico Jimmies notwithstanding,
.* the cause ” will be so sick as to to living on in-
jections and artifice! respiration.
Rangoon papers are asking where all the
Plunder of Theebaw’s palace has gono. More
than ba’f the leot is unaccounted for, although
Victoria by the Grace of God has been a receiver
of stolen—vve mean surrendered —property to a
very considerable extent. Many hundreds of
golden vessels and an enormous amount of
Jewellery seems to have vanished utterly.
“ Pooh ! ” said Jawbone Nefld to ore of
bis constituents last week —“ Why the deuce that
fellow Inglis should have been taken in to the
Ministry by Parkes while I am left out I can’t for
the life of me imagine. Why, when I was hard
at work ” (jawiDg for nine hours ?) “in our party’s
interest, the tiger-slayer was rushing round the
country distributing confectionery to tho kids and
lecturing on tea ! ”
With the advent of the Stjiart party in
the N.S.W. Assembly, Mr. Barton was promoted
to the Speakership, and when the party had
crumbled to fragments which it would be impos-
sible to again combine he retired from the position.
It is an open secret that if he had been again pro-
posed for the position, he would have met with
bitter opposition from the “honest” Government
Party which sots so high a, value on “ liberty of
speech.”
Parkes’s latest blend ! A-big-ale; Ginger-
Pop-and-Orange-bittqrs-Clarke ; tea-pickles-ahd
chutney, bagman Inglis ; mineral water (very
muddy) from Milbtirn Creek ; the brains of an
antiquarian— quantity infinitesimal ; a Garrett '
in which tp prepare the mixture ; an empty
Water-jug to hold it ; a Oorne.-of-Georgc-and-
Market-street' waiter to serve it; registered
brand, “ a red-hot brand of shame,” guaranteed
to relieve the country !
J. E. Redmond, M.P., has just issued a-
Pnipphlot, “The Truth about 179'8,” in which he
Points out that, alike in origin and organisation,
the sodalleiLconspiracy of tho United Irishmen
essontrafly a Protestant ofio : —“Of the 162
leaders of the movement whoso names have been,
banded down to us, no fewer than 10G were Pro-
testants, and only 56 were Catholics. The
founders of the Society and the prominent leaders
°f the Rebellion were almost to a man Protestants.”
The “honest” N.S.W. Government,
Vfidch is to be worked on strictly, freetrade lines,
contains four freetraders —Sir Henry Parkes, Mr.
•kirns, Mr. IngMs, and Ht. Foster —and four pro
tectionists— IVJessrs. Abigail, Sutherland, Clark,
aQ d Garrett —that is if recent speeches of theirs
WCre honestly made. If tho actions of the Govern-
"lent generally are to be in keeping with the as-
sumption that it is a strictly freetrade combina-
tion, we shall have some remarkable displays of
Political honesty.
Land-nationaliscrs have discovered that
the Decalogue does not contemplate private pro
Perty i n land. The tenth commandment forbids
the coveting of a neighbour’s wife, or house, or
cattle, or ‘ anything” that is his, but as house is
nuntioned aud land oroit'ed, it is asser ed
that on the principle “ ex presvio uni us exclttsij
aUeriue," luid cani.ot be supposed to be include!
under the words “ anything ” Therefore wo in
tend to covet our neighbour’s lan 1 whei ever we
choose to in future.
It is just eleven months since the great
but ungramma‘ical Hi Ham of N. c .W., speaking
of Mr. Burns' appointment as Treasurer in Sir
John Robertson’s ministry, said : ‘ I would never
have joined a Government in which the Treasury
was to be placed under the hon. gentleimn ” Mr.
Burns now manages the finances of a Cabinet in
which Sir ’Eery is Premier, and that is called
p litical consistency. “Ham hi a deg that hi
should do this thing ? ” Yes, Sir ’Enery, we sre
inclined to think you ham.
It must be a sad reflection for the N.S.W.
Freetrade Press that all their efforts to kill a
Ministry which was jet so weak as to fall to
piece 3, wore unavailing. Jennings and Co. have
fallen, not because they were knocked down by
their opponents, but simply because they were too
much gone in the legs to stand up any longer.
But it will be different with Parkes’ “ Freetrade”
Ministry : they will be knocked flat as sooft as they
fully exhibit their policy. “ Parkes ” is not the
name to cpninre with, that it used to be in the
bigoted ancl oraßge-hued past.
| |There is in Sidney an “influential ’’
newspaper man who, when the Government does
anything of which he doesn’t approve, waits upon
them and asks for an alteration. If they object—
and they generally do —he says: “ 111 write you
out of office in a wrek.” Rumour says that this
individual, who never personally wrote two lines
of decent English in all his life, waited the other
morning upon Mr. Lyne, the N.S \V. Minister of
Works (who had just commenced to run the tia’ns
to suit the morning Press) aud made hi 3 dear old
familiar threat. “Write and be damned!” ic
plied Mr. Lyno.
Tho Army and Navy Gazette fun ishis
a few interesting facts about that gorgeous outfit
—the fleet on the Australian station. 'Jhero are
ANGUS CAMERON’S RETURN TO THE N.S.W. ASSEMBLY.
THE GIN INTEREST: “AND YHT THERE WAS A TIME. ANGUS, WHEN WE WERE
MOST EXCELLENT FRIENDS!”
ten vessels in aW, end not one could overtake an
armour-plated bullock-dray, thirteen knots an
hour being their bursting ultimatum. The dia-
mond andflOpai are ob?t lete corvettes, arnied in
some bo w and-arro w fashion of long ago. The
Raven and Swinger are obsolete gun boats, and as
they can neither sail nor steam they thust refy on
their oars if they ever go into action. The Harrier,
Undine, and Lark, are three slow-going schooners
without steam-power, and two of them wore con-
demned in the East Indies. a 3 utterly useless, and
the Dart figures in the N.vvY "List as a steam
yacht. Australia has been relying With child-
like confidence on this mass of wreckage, but for
aotual service we vote for a black-tracker armed
with nitro-glycerine, and the good, old-fashioned
canco,
There is something in an old civilisation
after all. We have a few things to learn from the
Chinese yet. Ore of them is how to deal with
gentlemen who grow too suddenly rich oft Govern-
ment contracts. Viceroy Chang (no relation you
may be sure of the simple miller in the school-
books) has Issued an order to the effect that “ all
those persons who have had anything to do with
the building of: forts and defence works generally
in this province (Hai nan) are to be compelled to
refund half the amount of money they drew for
building these forts —it being supposed that they
have pocke ed at least half the money.” There is
an old-fashioned widow-pattern simplicity about
this which )le tses us exceedingly. We only re-
gret that a puerile regird for constitutional
methods prevents the N S. W. Government from
acting this way. If it took a lessen from the
Chinese the three-million deficit would soon be
turned into a surplus—and no henest man in-
j tired. C -rtainly we are still in the dark ages of
civilisation.
Woodford, the cockpit of Ireland, where
the battle of landlord and tenant is now being
fought out with terrible earae?tce3S, is the pro-
perty of the de Burghs, who were very popular
with the tenantry until the beginning of the pre-
sent century; they lived on their estates, aud
were among the best landlords in Ireland, but the
last two owners have been absentees, and the
present lord, the Marquis of Clanricarde, has
never ones seen his tenantry or his estates. The
present difficu'ty is largely the result of the dis-
obedience of the tenants who, in 1872, were told
to elect W. le Poer French as their member ; tt is
they refused to do, and Captain Nolan, the Home
Rule candidate, by their assistance, was enabled
to beat Clanricarde s nominee by more that 1 to 1.
Thereupon the rents of the tenantry who were
known to have voted for Nolan were largely in-
creased, and maintained at the new rate up to the
present time. It is against these extortiorate
rentals that the protest is made.
Now that Iddesle : gh is dead and Randolph
Churchill has abandoned the horde of co rone ted
guys who call themselves the pillars of the Scale,
the Tory Government seems to be dying of intel-
lectual phthisis. There is plenty of voting power
in the party yet, but most of the prominent mem-
bers have nothing but an aching void between the
scalp and the upper jaw, and Salisbury, the one
remaining brainy man of the crowd, is beginning
to think of dropping down dead like poor Nor'h-
cote. Some of the3e days he will go solemnly
down the staircase of his office and stand in the
gutter and wave his hands until a crowd gathers
round him, and thou lie will say something to ihe
effect that he dies for his h eeding co int y. After
making tlrs remark he will spread his red silk
nose-rag on tho pavement and double himself up
in a hard knot <. n top qf it and perish. There is
no other resource left now for an old Tory who is
caked all over with prejudice .and bishop-Jike
selfishness and grovd; he can only die decently
aud get out of the way.
The erstwhile Charley “ Long ’arf-aud-
’af-for-you-Sir ?” but now the Honorable Charles
Janies Roberts, (AM.G., , M.P., J P., &c.,
&'c., &0,, entertained his colleagues in the neW
Government at the N. f?.W. Parliamentary re-
freshment-room on Saturday evenihg last. ’Twas
a feast of chicken a la financiere and a flow o"
champagne, lemonade, and compliment", the
latter ripplitg Off the tongues of the guzz’ers in a
sweet musical cadence suggestive of the Milburn
Creek, with its translucent waters bubbling glee-
fully over its golden pebbled bed. It is said that
under the influence of lemonade and other “ soft-
tack” the usually melancholy-visaged Water-jug
was hilarious, and disported him elf in a style
quite becoming a conscientious churchwarden ;
that in a sudden transport of joy Abigail
the Faithful jumped on to the treble
and danced a Highland Ming ; that to
Crown-and-Anchor all the host made a speech
which was so inexpressibly funny that it called
forth “ a cannibalistic guffaw from the tiger-slayer
|°f Punjaub” which awakened all the peaceful
i slumberers in the neighborhobd, and started a
' crowing contest in which all the clarion-throated
j chanticlers for three miles around took part. This
| was a signal for a general fumbling of pockets on
! the part of the feasters to ascertain whether or
f 110 'heir latchkeys were properly located, and
| shortly afterwards they—the feasters—went
home —slightly before the milk- to prepare for the
day’s devotions.
In an article on Quebec, the “ Vagabond ”
has his little say about the dangerous power of the
Roman Catholic Church in that picturesque city
of stagnation. English Canadians, however, are
well satisfied with things as they are. The paralys-
ing influence of Holy Church is chiefly account-
able for the commercial decay of French Quebec,
even as Yankee dash and irreligion (so-called)
have made Toronto the most thriving city in the
dominion. The “ power ”of which the Vag.
speaks is exercised to keep the French in a state
of ignorance and to prevent them, as far as pos-
sible, from learning the language of the ruling
people. Thus it comes about that in Montreal an
English minority bosses everything that’s worth
bossing, and a French majority hides itself away
in the hack Streets. The late lamented General
Wolfe got the “ monseers ” under in the first in-
stance, and their spiritual advisers have kept them
in that position ever since. So much for the
power of the Roman or any other church. It i
only to be di-eaded by its adherents.
There are in the present N.S. W. Parlia-
ment 120 members, of whom Go at least are pro-
nounced Protectionists, in that they will vote for
a tax on imported farm produce. Sydney has two
morning and two evening newspapers. Of the
former, theS. M. Herald (the direct profits where-
of are at lea3t £BO,OOO annually, chiefly derived
from the sfipport of the importers who are, of
course, Freetrade to a man) has always consist-
ently maintained a Freotrade policy. Tho Sydney
Daily Telegraph, which evidently aims at being
the organ of the bourgeoisie, originally loant to
Protection, but has of late years made the fatal
mistake of trying to out-herald the Herald in its
devotion to the Freetrade cause. The Sydney
Evening News, the second best newspaper pro-
perty in N.S.W., which is politically, and in some
other respects, one of the most unscrupulous
papers under Heaven or above the other place,
is also Freetrade. Now, Protection is comiDg all
the time, and the question of the day is : Which
will “rat” to Protection first —the E. News or
the D.T. ?
Here is a letter which should commend
itself to the attention of the Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W. :
“ Dear Bulletin, —(1.) How is it that barristers never
stamp their bills which are paid by ? I can assure
you not ono of these.bills are stamped with a duty. Thou-
sands of them pass between barrister and solicitor yearly.
The Government are thereby defrauded out of a large sum of
raorny. (2.) How is it that clerks in the employ of the
Government, who are made Commissioners for Affidavits,
are allowed to pocket the affidavit fees which in a good
many cases exceed the salary of the clerk himself, more es-
pecially those employed in District Court and Insolvency
Courts? Other Government officials are not allowed any
over time or perquisites. This is another matter which
would total up considerably. I complain of this because
when you require any work to be done in which the Govern-
ment reaps the benefit of the fees, tli« clerks will not rush
you when you go in, and they make you wad their time; but
when a fee is attached to it which I hey pocket you are
mobbed by about half a dozen commissioners ready to grasp
the shilling. (3.) Another question is: How is it that the
Commissioner for Stamps does not make a sub-purchaser
pay duty on money actually paid? Example:—A sells to B
for £6OO, but takes no legal transfer. B sells same property
to O for £650. One deed is drawn up ; A conveys to Oby
the direction of B, and duty is only paid on one amount,
whereas if two deeds w ere drawn up duty wouid lie payable
on two amounts. Transactions like this-daily occur, and the
Government, must be “had" for thousands annually. (1.)
How is it that the Commissioner for Stamps does not make a
vendor make a declaration of the actual amount paid to him
for the sale ? This should be done, because a consideration
of £5 requires a ss. stamp, and a nominal consideration of
os. inquires a£l stamp. 1 believe Mr. Kurts'deeds are all
stamped with a ss. and should have a £1 thereon, as they are
virtually deeds of gift, as a reference at the Registrar-
General’s office will show.”
In regard to our correspondcnt’s first question, the
great majority of the general public are possibly
unaware of the existence of a hoary legal fiction
to the effect that a barrister's services are purely
honorary— that no counsel at tho bar ever gets
pa hi for his services ; frem what our correspon-
dent says it would seem that this absurd fiction is
recognised by the N.S.W. revenue authorities.
When a barrister makes up his bill against the
solicitor by whom he has been employed, he (the
bar is ter) does not, if he is thoroughly versed in
the etiquette of his profession, add up the items.
To do so would be infra dig. Yet there is no
man who is keener on getting his own than this
same barrister.
We have received the following letter,
which, now that Parkes has stated that he moans
to get more revenue from the public lands of
N.S. W. (by(Selling more of them?) ought to be
chewed ovejr :
“ Dear Bulletin, —A recent specimen of the manner in
which the N.IS.W. land laws aie administered is worth
notice, four years ago a selector looking at a map in a I,and
Office saw * 200 acres or more’ marked ‘open.’ He paid tho
deposit on 200 acres with the right of taking up what more
might be open, shifted his family, and put up a house and
other improvements to a value of £2OO. More than 12
months elapsed before his selection was surveyed, and then
all he could get was 78 acres in the hilly part of what lie had
supposed was jiis block. The Government did not refund his
surplus deposit until about eight months ago. After much
agitation and coriospondi.nee the remainder of the block
was thrown open, but although he had selected and paid a
deposit on it, another man got it. The 78 acre man is now
completely shut in, and as his block is not sufficient to make
a l.ving from, he intends poor devil! to sell out and go to
Victoria. At a i ecent N.H.W. laud court, a selector sum-
moned to appear wrote that he would ho unable to attend,
but ‘his manager’ (a squatter) would appear for him. Tho
N.S.W. land administration is utterly corrupt j dummyism is
almost a recognised institution. If anyone is crossing a
squatter's holding and asks to I o directed it is not uncommon
to be told something like this: *Go down that fence and
you will see a dummy hut, turu olf so-and-so.’ I
oould name selections taken up iu the names of
peoplo who have never seen Australia, and others
where a man has tieen sent round nightly to light tires in the
dummy huts for the purpose of giving an appearance of resi-
dence. We see hundreds of caseß in the daily Dress of pro-
secutions for obtain! ig goods under false pretences, forgery,
&c., but dummies or their employers are never prosecuted.
One sat rob an individual of a few pounds or shillings, the
other steal the heritage of the people—the second are th
bigger rogues. It is very hard to secure a convictiOß agtiiust
one of these land-sharks as the law now stands ; no doubt
t o land-monopolists, of which the Dailiament is mainly
composed, made the law with that intention. The dummy
is liable to the same punishment as his employer—wise pro-
vision ! No fear of ins ‘ peaching’ while that law is in force
These things will not be altered while we send large laud-
proi.rietora to represent us in Parliament. All wi alth
springs from the land ; then fore the land laws must be the
most important of any to the country, and yet people are put
into the Hojise whoße sole interest is in land to make lav s in
favour of themselves and to t' e detriment of the (state, ’i h e
land belongs to the people, but they have no right to sell it,,
because it is also the property of future generations, there-
fore if it is sold their rights arc disposed of before they are
born, and it is pre ordained that they shall be tenants or
servants to the owners of the soil. Natives of Australia arc
not thoughtful and patriotic as a rule ; they are inclined to
let their glorious heritage lie Bold for a mo s of pottage
without trying to prevent it. This is through ignorance of
the consequences,jnot from lack of spirit. Those who come
from older countries have seen the evil of land-monopoly—
they see Australia drifting on the same old hoary rock, and
they would try to stop her (if they are true Australians) if
they could. It rests with the native-born to make N.S. W. a
great and glorious nation, or to let her remain a sickly para-
site on a worn-out Empire.—Alto US."


fen
95¢“
urn
gpcicy 13^5
|3^ c OFTHi -ll" 1^
l&M
yimj
7 ( /izJ
(~ \
i %/] e
nr |
»
. ' "jiMJ** ikt- JjGUvf. (TV
! ‘ (trinuplitr-
\ ~^\'7r > o^Ata*


vK»^Qr"
Ifli 4 * H? \
|fer\
jtyuj
- „
1 Ro-fftCTtotf.ST
/
\dgLdfi-Jfi%' |
y\a£;?/:/
Xeo our
rnIIAMW
|
stf7i/£KUifo
IK^-
“ That Motley Crew.” — Gar van’s Speech.


AN OLD HOBART TOWN RESIDENT.
THE STORY OF WAINEWRIGHT.
When Thomas Hall, the Timaru poisoner,
stood in the dock to receive his sentence, the
other day, the judge summed up his loathsome
character in a dozen words, and summed it up
more truly than could have been done in a whole
volume of biography—he told the jaunty, smiling
murderer that he had achieved the distinction of
being the vilest criminal ever tried in the courts
°f the colony. We do not propose to write Hall’s
story, though we quote the remark as applicable
to another wretch as vile as he —the infamous
Thomas Griffiths Wainewright. But, after all, it
is Hull’s story under another name ; the incidents
are the same, and when the two tales are placed
side by side it would seem as if Nature, for lack
of material, had borrowed the spirit of Waine-
wright from eternity and merely built a new
frame for the soul of that monster of the past.
* * *
Some GO years ago the London Magazine
made its first appearance, and among the signa-
tures appended to its articles were those of Ego-
met Bonmot, Janns Weathercock, and the hideous
Dutch cognomen of Vinkbooms. This literary trio
all wrote in the same flashy, sensual style ; their
articles reeked with wine and luxury and soulless
wit, and perhaps it was on this account that they
were perpetually on bad terms, and heaped con-
tempt and derision on each other at every oppor-
tunity. Bonmot had his fling against Janus
Weathercock, and Weathercock passed on the
attack to Vinkbooms. But this triangular duel
of mock anger and hypocrisy was carried on by
one man, and the three litterateurs, with their
cynical, sensuous, oily cleverness, were all rolled
into the person of Thomas Griffiths Wainewright,
whose writings are remembered for the sake of
his murders, and whose murders seem a little
more comprehensible when the writer is studied
first and the assassin afterwards.
* * *
Now and then, it may be, the supply of
souls run out. Wainewright was apparently built
without one, and to tho last he was never conscious
of the want. He had a large head —an attribute
of many men of his stamp, and his shallow, clever,
superficial, villainous brain was all on top ; he had
keen, sunken eyes, dark hair, a tall figure, and a
stoop—what a recent,writer has described as the
stoop not of thought but of onwardness. He
looked like a man who was always pushing on to
some goal ahead, though none of his friends of
shat period dreamt that hi_s haste was the haste of
a man who runs‘a life-long race with the hang-
man, and feels that fleet functionary ever at his
heels. But he was always gay and happy, and
his stupendous vanity kept his spirits in perpetual
effervescence. One of his contemporaries described
him —in prose—as “ a young man on the bright
side of 30 with a sort of undress military air, and
the conversation of a smart, lively, clever, heart-
less, voluptuous coxcomb.” He described himself
—in verse—as “ a poet worthy of the gentle girl
with the amaranthine locks,” and his articles
were full of mock sentiment, and exhaled every-
where a strange incongruous assumption of rever-
ence for the sublime and the beautiful. The fol-
lowing “ rientimentafities of the Fine Arts, by
Janus Weathercock, Esq. (to be continued when
he is in the humour),” give a good idea of what
Wainewright really was or what he wished others
to think him :
“ I (Janus) had made a tolerable dinner the other day at
George’s, and with my mind full of my last article, was hold-
ing up a petit, verve d ean dr vjr dr Dantzic to the waxen
candle, watching with sclent eye the number of aureate par-
ticles, some swimming, some sinking quiv» ringly, through the
oily and luscious liquer, as if informed with life, and gleam-
ing like golden fish in the Whang-ho or Yellow liiver (which,
by the way, is only yellow from its mud): so was I employed,
when suddenly I heard the day of the month (the 15th) ejacu-
lated in the next box This at once brought me back from
my delicious reverie to a seme of duty. 'Contributions
must be forwarded by the 18th, at thr very latest,’ were the
Editor’s last words to Janus, and he is incapable of forget-
ting them. I felt my vigorous personal identity instantly
annihilated, and resolved by some mystic process into a part
of that unimaginable plurality in unity wherewithal editors,
reviewers, and at present pretty commonly authors, clothe
themselves when, seated on the topmost tip of their top-
gallant masts, they pour forth their oracular dicta on the
groaning ocean of London, spread out huge at their feet.
Forthwith we (.Janus) sneaked home alone, poked in the top
of our hollo «v fire, which spouted out a myriad of flames,
roaring pleasantly as, chasing one another, they rapidly
escaped up the chimney ; exchanged our smart tight-waisted,
stiff-collared coat for an easy chintz gown with pink ribbons;
lighted our new elegantly-j,ilt French lamp, having a ground-
glass globe painted with gay flowers and gaudy butteillies;
hauled forth Portfolio No. and established ourselves cosily
on a Grecian couch ! Th.-n we (Janus) stroked our favourite
tortoise-shell cat into a full and sonorous purr, and after
that our nurse or maid-servant—a good-natured Venetian-
shaped girl (having first placed on the table a genuine
flask of as rich Mr ntepulciano as ever voyaged from fair
Italia) —had gently but firmly closed the door, carefully ren-
dered air-tight by a gilt-leather binding (it is quite right to be
particular), we indulged ourselves in a complacent considera-
tion t f the rather elegant figure we made, as seen in a large
glass placed opposite our chimney-miiror, without, however,
moving any limb except the left arm, which ii stinctively
filled out a full cut-glass of the liquor before us, while the
right rested inactively on the head of puss ! ‘lt was a sight
that turned ail our gall into blood!’ Fancy, comfortable
reader! Imprimis, a very good-sized room; item, a gay
Brussels carpet covered »ith garlands of flowers ; item, a fine
original east of the Venus deMedieis: item, some choice
volumes in still more choice old French moroqnin with water-
tabby silk linings; item, some more volumes coated by the
skill of lloger Payne and ‘ our Charles Lewis ;’ item, a piano
by Tomkinson; item, a Damascus sabre; item, one cat;
item, a large Newfoundland dog, friendly to the cat; item,
a few hot-house plants on a white marble-slab; item, a
delicious melting love-painting by Fuseli: and last, not
least, in our dear love, we, myself (Janus)! Kach and the
whole seen by the Correggio-kind of light breathed as it were
through the painted glass of the lamp !!! Soothed into that
amiable sort of self-satisfaction so necessary to the bodying
out those deliciously voluptuous ideas, perfumed with
languor, which occasionally swim and undulate like gauzy
clouds over the brain of the most cold-blooded men, we put
forth our hand to the folio which leant against a chair by the
sofa’s side, and at haphazard extracted thence Lancret's
charming ' liepas Ttalien,’ T. P. le Bas Sculp.
“ ‘ A summer party in the greenwood shade,
With lutes prepared and cloth on herbage laid,
And ladies’ laughter coming thro' the air.’
“ L. Hunt’s ‘Rimin.’
This completed the charm. We immersed a well-seasoned
prime pen ink) our silver inkstand three times, shaking off
the loose ink again lingeringly. While holding the print
fast in our left hand, we perused it with half-shut eyes, dally-
ing awhile with o’r delight."
Janus Weathercock had his own ideal of a gentle-
man, and he lived up to it. He lived to write of
“ the diamond rings on our fingers, the antique
cameos in our breast-pins, our cambric pocket-
handkerchief breathing forth attargui, our pale
lemon-coloured kid-gloves,” and a whole mass of
ladyish bosh of the same kind, and he never
touched the corpse of one of his victims without
these lemon-coloured gloves.
* * *
When this combination of three sensual
litterateurs and an incipient murderer reached
the age of 30 or thereabouts he took to himself a
wife. The lady was one of a family of four, and
as she had no fortune, while Wainewright had
little, save his extravagance and his debts, it
would appear as if that astute individual had for
once failed to keep his sunken eye on the main
chance. But his wife was a “ fine dashing crea-
ture,” and the pair made a gorgeous display on
nothing a year or thereabouts in their London
residence, where Wentworth Dilke and many
other fashionables were among their guests. It
was about this time that Wainewright wrote an
article on “ The Loftier Emotions,” but it was
built chiefly on other people’s emotions—rot his
own, for they were chiefly centred in matters of
finance, and he was beginning to wonder when a
certain wealthy uncle meant to die.
* * *
In the year 1828 Wainewright’s anxiety
regarding this uncle reached a climax, and he
effected an arrangement by which he and his wife
went to reside with the old man and cheer his
declining years. It gradually became an idiosyn-
cracy of his—this habit of ministering to those
whose time on earth was destined to be short,
hut on this occasion he was making his first ap-
pearance in a new character, and if he had owned
a soul or a conscience his hand might have shaken
a little. Yet, strangely enough, his first essay at
murder, regarded as one of the fine arts, was also
his best. He acted a good many roles in the
course of his life, but on this occasion he filled the
part of Janus Weathercock, that gay butterfly-
creature beiDg the lightest and happiest of his
extensive repertoire, and when the uncle passed
away he had a blessing to spare even amid his
agonies for the man who had artistically filled
him up with strychnine—then quite a new drug—
and passed him across the Jordan. That blessing,
however, seems to have crushed and blighted
and wrecked even Janus Weathercock, and
that individual’s signature never again appeared
at the foot of the well-known half-mocking, half-
villainous articles with which it had long been
associated.
* * *
The death of George Edward Griffiths was
hardly imposing enough to form an episode. The
old man slid quietly away and Wainewright shed
a crocodile tear or two, put him silently under
ground, planted the usual sculptured lie above his
grave, and took possession of the disappointing
white elephant his uncle had left him. He got a
lovely mansion as the reward of his genius but
very little in cash with which to keep up his state,
and the new property was speedily paved with a
whole hell of good intentions of a financial kind —
in other words Wainewright sat in his splendid
house like a bloated spider in a gilt web, and
formed abortive plans for paying off his pressing
creditors at somebody else’s expense. A son was
born to him about this time, and t lie grim humor-
ist who would have waltzed with a corpse in a
tomb named him after the relative whose remains 1
ANOTHER OUTRAGE.
“OH, YOU WON’T GIVE ME A PIPE OF TOBACCO : WHERE’S THE POLICE ? POLICE !
POLICE!”
NOTE. —The police have arreskd two hundred men on the above charge, and are in hopes of
arresting a few hundred more, all of whom have been identified by their unfortunate victim.
lay loaded with poison in the neighbouring church-
yard.
* * *
But whatever might be his difficulties,
Wainewright’s life at Linden House was a gay and
pleasant one. He lived in an atmosphere of luxury
and joviality, debt, drink, and opium ; he kept up
appearances bravely with a bailiff disguised as a
footman in possession of the premises, and a
greasy Hebrew haunting him at periodical inter-
vals, demanding settlement for amounts that
would have swamped half a dozen such fortunes
as his. He may have sometimes longed in these
days that he could raise money on his uncle’s
ghost, for everything except that spectral asset
was mortgaged three deep, but whatever his
troubles might be he was as lightsome as ever,
lie tried more than once to earn mo"cy by his
pen, but the hand of Janus Weathercock had lost
its cunning, and then, as a last resource, he in-
vited his two sisters-in-law, Helen and Madeleine
Abercromby, to share his homo, and began to
form new schemes, in which they figured pro-
minently. They were both beautiful girls aged
21 and 20 respectively, and though they were
absolutely destitute of fortune, Wainewright did
not despair of turning them into cash. He had
gained confidence by the successful essay which
had hurried old George Edward Griffiths to the
golden shore.
* * *
But unluckily the girls were burdened by
a mother —a tough and sturdy lady who had out-
lived two husbands and learned military tactics
while waging war with the butcher and the baker
at the area gate of a hungry, barren, subuiban
boardiDg-house. This was awkward in every
sense of the word, for the usuier who sat peren-
nially on the footpath outside Linden House, with
his ill-shod feet in the gutter and his mean brain
engaged on new schemes for wringing money
from the owner of the mansion, was getting more
and more troublesome, and the perennial bailiff
within grew daily more offensive. Wainewright
was meditating a soldierly retreat, and he loved
to go flying light in the matter of baggage. A
mother-in-law was a troublesome adjunct to a
flank movement with agile creditors on every
side, but as she was not a dog who could be
silenced for ever by one well-directed kick of a
heavy boot, it was necessary to treat the difficulty
in a scientific manner. At this crisis, Janus
Weathercock was himself again, and after an
evening of joyous gaietv the old lady was seized
with agonizing convulsions attended by vomiting,
and it was soon known that her life was in
danger. She fought against death, it is true,
with the same dogged energy that had marked
her contests with many a defaulting hoarder in
the earlier days of her widowhood, and she might
have won the battle, but Janus kept his eye uron
her and that sunken orb meant destruction. His
large head and hollow brain were pitted against
the medical skill of the day, and medical skill
came off second beat in the contest. Mrs. A ber-
cromby was sent to keep company with Griffiths
in.the church yard, and never till the day of re-
surrection is she likely to know who compassed
“ the deep damnation of her taking-off.” In her
case, too, there was scarcely enough incident to
build a tale upon, hut Wainewright’s smile was
not so gay as at the funeral of the old proprietor
of Linden House. The artist felt it was a grim
jest at his expense that he should have to expend
his skill on an uninteresting old woman merely
because she insisted on taking up her residence
along with her daughters, and thus encumbered
the premises of a gentleman who had urgent busi-
ness to perform.
* * *
Things were going at high pressure at this
period with that ex-apostle of luxury, who, in the
days when his brains were in better working
order, lived to sign himself Janus Weathercock.
Time was short if he would avert utter luin, and
he would have liked to carry the old lady to her
grave at a gallop and rush her down amid the
fossils by hydraulic force. He had hardly even
the funds to pay for a tombstone, and but that his
credit was still good in some quarters, Mrs.
Abercromby must have slept in God’s acre with
nothing grander than a wooden cross or a pine
splinter to mark her last resting-place. But the
trouble was over at last,and a masterly retreat
brought the Wainew rights and the two Misses
Abercromby to London about the end of 1830.
11.
In London, after much negotiation, the
gifted author found himself with nine days be-
tween him and utter destruction. IDs mansion
was mortgaged to the very roof, and an individual
named Sharpus, who dealt extensively in cuts
and saucers in a shop in Cockspur-street, had a
bill of sale upon the furniture, which he grudg-
ingly consented to hold over from the 12th to the
21st of December. Even as late as 1886 this
gentleman’s firm was still in existence, but though
it is impossible now to trace the end of his transac*
tions with Waioewiight, it may he presumed the
account has long since been ruled off- There
were also debts innumerable owing in every direc-
tion, and against these the only assets were the
two girls, Helen and Madeleine Abercromby,
whose fortune amounted to a precarious total of
four shillings each per week. But Wainewright’s
smile was now at its brightest, and when Waine-
v right was gay somebody generally died soon
afterwards.
* * *
On the 12th December the whole family
indulged in a visit to the theatre and wound up
ihe evening by a supper of oysters and bottled
porter. On the 13th the visit was repeated in a
pouring rain. Helen found herself wet through,
and before the performance was over she was
chilled and feverish. The supper this time was
oysters and ale, and that night Helen Abercromby
Was taken seriously ill. Wainewright had still
nine days to the good, and he improved the sbin-
irg hours by a little amateur doctoring. He
fooled around the unhappy girl’s bedside
with a bottle and a black draught,and bythe 16th cf
the month things had gone so far that he thought
it necessary to hunt up a doctor in order to save
appearances. He found one after his own heart —
he found a doctor very unlike Dr. M’Pherson of
Timaru.
* * *
The new-comer pitted senna against
strychnine, and Wainewright's scheme went on
gaiiy. Helen Abercromby was his favourite
sister ; he had written of her, he had idolised
and idealised her, he had woven her Dame in his
verse, and painted her lovely features in bis can-
vas, and in return she had adored him—“ the
gentle girl,” as he termed her, “ who had bent
over his shallow page the rich curls- of her
amaranthine hair.'” So when he haunted her pil-
low that he might load with poison every morsel
that passed her parched lips it was ascribed to
overmastering affection ; and when he left her
room after watching the writhings of her agonised
frame it was set down to overmastering sensi-
bility. In reality lie went to pour out his soul by
means of his pen and fill pages with loathsome
gloatings over the poor girl’s tortures, but it was
not till long afterwards that those pages saw the
light.
* * *
There was much wailing over the oysters
and bottled porter in these days, and while her
guardians talked about beer and fish Helen Aber-
cromby sank lower and lower. On the 17th the
doctor resorted to cupping, and she grew worse
under the torturing infliction, but the medical at-
tendant’s lore belonged to some old red sandstone
period of scientific progress, and he pronounced
her to be improving. On the 18th the symptoms
of poisoning became more and more apparent, and
Mrs. Wainewright never left her sister’s bedside.
1 his time, at all events, she was in the secret,
and it was probably owing to her woman’s wit
that the operations, on this occasion, were not
conducted in the same sledge-hammer style as
those which had so suddenly carried off two pre-
vious victims. Besides, there was much more
than Helen’s paltry 4s. a week at stake, and it
was needful to have an ally in-doors, for Waine-
wright found it needful to keep a constant eye on
the hungry vultures of Israel without. But the
last day of grace—the 21st of December—arrived,
and still the suffering girl lingered. Then Mrs.
Wainewright administered a jelly prepared by her
husband, and the two went out for a walk ; when
they returned three hours later there was nothing
in fhe upper chamber but a distorted corpse wi'h
agony stamped on every feature—a stamp which
even death could not erase.
The doctor was true to his character to the
very last. “Oh doctor, lam dying, I feel I am—
I am sure of it,” was the terrible cry of the girl in
her supreme agony; “ray mother died in the
same way, yes, my poor mother ! Oh, my poor
mother ! ” and fhe broken reed on which the
sufferer loaned looked on end listened, and stuck to
iis s( nna and camomile to ihe end. And in after
c’ays. when the last wreck of Thomas Waine-
wright’s re pec atiity was scattered to the winds,
and he was shai ing a felon’s cell with a bricklaj er
and a sweep, he also showed‘himself true to his
standard cf artistic villainy. Ho wars asked how
be could have had the cold-blocdcd barbarity to
destroy such a fair, innocent, and trusting creature
as Helen Aberciomby, and he replied with an
amused quizzical look in his dark eyes : “ Upon iny
fcoul I don’t know, unless it, way because she hull
such thick ancles.”
* * *
There was "joy among the tribes of usuiy
on the very day when the tragedy was completed.
By Miss Ahercromby’s will she bequeathed
£12,000 in four life-insurance policies to her
younger sister Madeleine, and Thomas Waine-
wright held two more amounting to £6OOO, which
his sister-in-law had assigned to him a few days
before her death. Moreover, asfjMadelein.e Aber-
cromby’s guardian, he would hold possession other
fortune at least for a time, and the olfactory organs
oftliemoney lenders told them that Janus was vir-
tually good for £lB,OOO. For the last time in his
life Janus Weathercock had justified his name,
for, like the Latin god W'hoso designation he had
borrowed, ho looked both befpre and after. He
deserved his good fortune, too, for at a
period when even a cab fare was hard to raise he
had provided £220 to pay the premiums on those
policies. The insurances had been effected by
Helen herself and Mrs. Wainewright, the former
telling a pit iable little lie which had been put in
her mouth, to the effect that she was heiress to
i ome valuable property in Chancery, and wished
to make provision for her sister in the event of
her death. She was too ignorant of the ways of
the world even to retail this miserable fiction ac-
curately, and when pre3sed by suspicious secre-
taries she vaguely explained that “ she Was act-
ing under the advice of friends who ]snew more
about these matters than she did, and Who could
not possibly have any improper views.” There
were a good many awkward questions to answer,
but the poor girl’s baby innocence carried the pro-
posals through to the extent of £lB,OOO ; an at-
tempt to raise £7OOO more, however, was ap abso
lute failure.
• * *
There was an inquest, of course. People
wanted to know how £22ohadbeen so opportunely
turned into £lB,OOO, and that, too, on the very day
that Thomas Wainewright would otherwise have
been a penniless bankrupt, and when it was found
i hat the policies had been pawned among the
usurers immediately after Hel-n’s death (be
trouble grow darker. But l)r. Locrck doddered
round at the inquest, and still pinned the (-hitting
fhith of his shifting brain to camomile and cam-
ihorand senna and talked of “pressure on tho
brain,” and discoursed learnedly about the origin
of the specks that covered the coats of the poor
girl’s stomach ; and Thomas Wainewright was
there with a veil of decent sorrow drawn over his


mocking countenance, and, as the final result, he
got off without even a single aspersion on his
character —but the insurance was not forthcoming
all the same, and Janus Weathercock commenced
a legal fight which was doomed to end disas-
trously.
111.
Wainewriglit parted from his wife about
this time. The two wolve3 had helped each other
admirably in the murder of Helen Abercromby,
but neither cared to run the risk of being de-
voured by the other, and Thomas Wainewriglit
amused himself by teaching the mysteries of life-
insurance to a new friend of his —a gentleman
from Norfolk, whose only assets were his debts
and his daughter. Wainewright at this time was
g r owiDg weary of financial worries and probably
wished to refresh himself with a little murder and
abduction—at all events he made love to the
daughter and cultivated the father assiduously.
The result of this was that when a posse of cor-
morant bailiffs came to affect his arrest for debt,
they dropped upon a scene of incarnate batho3 —a
Poetic murderer standing in the gutter at a late
hour of the night, strumming on a guitar, and
Pouring forth an impassioned melody with his
eyes fixed on his mistress’s bedroom window.
The sweet singer wa? cut short in the full flood of
his warbling and rushed off into a dark, damp,
dirty sponging-house, and for a moment it seemed
as if the sun of this great artist in strychnine had
set for ever.
* *
In a few r days, however, he was out again,
and Mr. Acheson, a solicitor of Basinghall-street,
Was poorer by the sum of £lOOO. He charged
Hebrew interest for the money, but so far as his
repayment were concerned he might as well have
debited the loan to the Israelites who went out
with Shalmane/.er. By way of security, Waine-
wright hypothecated his claims against the Peli-
can Insurance Company, and probably fearing
that the Pelican might in its turn hypothecate
him, he fled to Boulogne and turned Bohemian in
real earnest. His Norfolk friend and that gentle-
man’s daughter also found it desirable
travel in great haste about this time, and
af ter a hot chase by the hook-nosed race
the little party of three were settled
down in French territory. Wainc wright’s
gaiety and his guitar were both as good
as new, and in the muddy and fish-tmell-
lng Land of Go;hen he renewed his seren-
ades and his lessons in life insurance once
more. “It is the simplest thing con-
eeivable,” he would say to the solemn
Norfolk clod whom Providence had dc-
Jivered into his hands ; “you write to an
office, you propose to effect a loan, and
y°u insure your life —that is always part
of the treaty with those persons In-
quiries are made, refereneesarc given, a
medical agent to the company examines
you and reports you an average life, a
Policy and a deed are prepared, and you
receive the loan less the first, year's pre-
mium and interest. What could be easier
an d more agreeable ?”
* * *
It seemed to Wainewright a grim
at, d ghastly joke to set his new friend
0,1 to his old enemy the “ Pe’ican,” and
"'hen that of lice accepted the proposal
uiul paid over the money, the joke seemed
complete. Put somehow the Norfolk man
d\d not live many hours to share his
friendly joy. An unpleasant fatali y
?ceuied to follow everybody who possessed
Wainewright’s friedshio and a little
ready cash as well, and after dining with
uis ally one evening- he died. The repast
Was a jovial one ; Janus Weathorcock
"ms loaded to the very muzzle with
cynical glee, and filled the hours with
death’s-head jests and witticisms that
funded like a shaking amid the bones
? the skeleton at an Egyptian feast,
mt as he rattled on his friend’s eyes
parted out of his head and his mmoles
“pitched with convulsive anguish, and his
"'hole body was racked and shaken with
“range agonies, till almost in the midst
r Waineweight’s ghastly joy be fell
own with shrieks of pain, and died soon
, ter wards under the very eyes of his
companion and his daughter. There
~ere many inquiries as to the cause of
us sudden illness, and a good deal of
, ostigation in + o the quality of the
’otlee which had accompanied the repast,
ut nothing transpired. The exilo was
mp underground in a strange land, and
v ainewright expressed much delicate
ooling at his position as guardian to a
young unmarried lady without a single
cuiale relative to conserve the interests
/ Propriety. He felt his difficulty so
ceniy indeed, that ho soon hade the
a uy an affectionate farewell and she ap-
peared in the story no more. The £JOOO
mch had be on drawn from the “Peli-
an ’ Was, like the orphan girl, entirely
miscounted for.
* * *
g The accomplished Professor of
pchnine turned up next in the quiet
Province of Brittany, whore a new friend
01i a fancy to him on account of his
s Utlemanly asspcct and his ironic wit,
j. happily for himself the genial old
r Gl jchuian, who thus acted as his
had no do3ire to become a
ho - m ° r ol - 1,110 i:>cli can. Living at his
Wj’P’ 0 Wainewright fought out his battle
bitr , ' 1 ' 0 insurance companies to the
deh 1 Gn<l an<l lost- There were many
b and two well-contostcd trials, at
hi-fi* 1 'which much surprise was ex-
- ®Bed at the plaintiffs absence, and
Of •J jOC,)ck seized on this last opportunity
Self himself down an ass. He wrote him-
th if ° Wn 80 otteef ually tliat it was dually decidad
Ciu « Abercromby had died from natural
hit} ? ° 3 ’ but the pitiable lie which had been
iiie • e< * on the lulu 'dered girl regarding the
m ary property in Chancery was fatal to
° f case, and the one great speculation
ls Sordid, villainous life melted into thin air.
* * *
4 u^ eai iwhile some mysterious difficulties in-
a bd h the protean assassin to adopt a new name
blentn 1-0 "' a stranger’s skin in which to hide his
’tain * y ' nanies °t Bonmot, Yinkbooms, and
\v r j ( ® 8 Weat hercock had lost their old charm when
lasei 6 ' U at the foot of a magazine-load of semi-
bo i Vlous sarcasm, and that of Wainewright was
m °> nger ttood when attached to a bill at three
fop ; even on a passport it hardly looked nice,
_ trusive Dogberries of the acute Gallic
, ln Probably began to know that the owner
in c a maa whose friends had a bad habit of dying
Seqn G after being heavily insured. Con-
n tly o, now designation was adopted and
straightway the Argus-eyed police of Louis
Philippe—very different individuals from the
somnolent crowd who took so slight an interest in
the fate of Griffiths and Helen Abercromby—
swooped down on the owner and insisted on know-
ing the reason why. It was certain death to
answer such a question as this, and Warnwright
perforce resorted to picturesque lying and ex-
piated his taste for fiction by six months’ confine-
ment as a “suspect.” This good old title covered
a multitude of sics, and whatever objections
might be urged against such an arbitrary course
of procedure the system had its uses. Any person
who refused to acoomt for his existence ; any
traveller or stranger who could not explain why
he was born and why he had not died ; and any-
body and everybody who looked as if a little con-
finement would do him good, went up as a
“ suspect,” and after six months’ trial of the
discipline which attached to this condition of
things, Thomas Griffiths Wainewright started
back for his native land
* * *
It was now 1837, and he had been six
years an exile. Naturally, therefore, he longed
to see England once more, but, as the result
showed, it would have been better if he had re-
mained a French “ suspect ” all the rest of his
days. He was accompanied on his journey by a
lady who was never afterwards identified —but it
was not Mrs. Wainewright. That model wife had
already seen too much strychnine for he-r taste.
* * *
Wainewright wisely travelled incognito,
and for a few days he enjoyed life at a hotel in
Covent Garden—enjoyed it as he had never done
since the good old days of Linden House. But he
kept the blinds down in his sitting room, and in-
side he and his soi-disint wife kept care at bay
among the shadows by the aid of red wine and
artificial jollity, and were not haunted by Helen
Abercromby's dead face looking out at them from
among the tapestries A noise in the street, how-
ever, made the joyous murderer draw aside the
cur.aius and look out just as another man —For
THE POLITICAL SITUATION.
GI eat rejoicing in the AIt DepaHment of this journal, caused by tl o re-appearanco of Sir Entiy at
the helm of state. Such an easy face to draw !
TABLEAU .
The Art Staff standing hand in hand gazing with tearful eyes at —vacancy, while the Ait Editor in the
background busies himself with a corkscrew and a bottle of fizz.
rester, a Bow-street runner—chanced to be gazing
on thedarkened window,“ That’s Wainew right 1”
ho cried exultingly, “ That’s Waine wriglit, th wank
forger!” and in a few seconds more Janus Weather-
cock was trapped at last,
# * *
By the bitter irony of F’»te it was the pri-
soner's desire to grab his own money that had
brought him to this pass, »nd for all the money
he had taken from others, and all the crimes he
had committed in the process cf securing it, he
had every prospect of getting of! scot-free. He
had commenced life many years before with a
capital cf £5OOO, which was invested on his behalf
in the names of four trustees, and until his un-
lucky uncle gave him the entree of Linden House
the interest on this sum had been his chief source
of income. But the pressure of creditors led him
to forge the names of his trustees to a document
authorising him to withdraw the whole sum ; and
it was when the last wrecks of this little fortune
had sunk out of sight that he resorted to the ex-
pedient of qualifying Mr. Griffiths for a place
under the turf of a suburban cemetery. Life was
a very happy experience for Thomas Waine-
wright while this money lasted. He bought rare
prints, choice china, delicious wines, and a thou
sand o’her luxuries with the hungry avidity of a
rapacious sybarite ; he lived inexpensive apart-
ments, and invited distinguished characters to
share in his revels, and it was for the memory of
these twelve-year-gone enjoyments that he now
had to answer.
* * *
There vrere five indictments against him,
but only three of these were capital, and Thomas
Wainewright serenely pleaded guilty to the other
two. His plea was accepted, for the Bank of
England-soullecs as such corpoiations are said to
be—had no desire to shed blood, and the prisoner,
who is described in the Times report as “ a man,
aged 42, of gentlemanly appearance, and wearing
mustachios, was sentenced to transporta' ion for
life. He was haughty and mendacious even in
his fall, and when his life was safe he alleged that
he had been trepanned into acknowledging guilt
by the promise of a nominal sentence, and asserted
that his old enemy, the Pelican, and the other
officers who had so rashly backed Helen Aber-
cromby‘s slender chance of existence, had origi-
nated a vile conspiracy against him to which he
had fallen a victim.
IV.
The gay, ironical, laughing cynic, the man
who jibed at fortune and mocked at suffering, and
made a joyous holiday of death, vanished for ever
when Wainewright left the dock at the Old
Bailey. He began his new life in a cell at New-
gate, with a bricklajer and a sweep for his com-
panions, and squalid misery all around. Here he
was visited by a few friends, one of whom
gives a graphic account of his appearance in
these words :
“ We made together a circuit of nearly all the London pri-
soners, and in comi-ng to the prisoners under remand, while
going over Newgate, accompanied by Macready and Mr.
Hablot Browne, were stariled by a sudden tragic cry of ‘My
God ! there’s Wainewright.’ In the shabby-genteel creature
with sandy disordered hair and dirty moustache, who had
turned round with a defiant stare at our entrance, looking at
once mean and fierce and quite capable of the cowardly
murders he had committed, Macreudy bad been horrified to
recognise a man familiarly known to him in former years,
and at wliose table he had dined.”
* * *
' Bub the murderer’s lowering self-conceit
still remained with him, and sufficient was left of
hi« old courage to supply a sort of grovelling
pluck which served to replace the only good
quality he had ever possessed. Like most un-
bounded egotists, he had indulged in the luxury of
a diary, and with the egregious folly of a decay ing
intellect ho had confided to its pages the full
account of his crimes supplying with morbid self-
glorification every ingenious detail of the methods
by which he had filled in the many mansions of
Paradise whh his victims. But for tins fatal
hurst of confidence Wainewright’s memory might
have been tarnished by no worse accusation than
that of forge y, hut he bad completed his stupen-
dous insanity by leaving this book of fate in com-
pany with an unpaid score at a French hotel, and
that persevering sleuth-hound, the Pelican Life
Insurance Company, was already on the track.
This financial Nemesis was slow enough in all
conscience, but it was fearfully and wonderfully
sure, and at last, while Wainewright was still in
Newgate aw’aiting transportation, he was con-
fronted by an officer who placed before him the
record of his li’e attested in his own hand. He
was a moral man, too, this same insurance officer,
and be thought it his duty to improve the occasion
by a solemn and unctuous sermon on human de-
pravity, to all of which the convict listened with
a supercilious griu of unutterable scorn. When it
was his turn to speak, he made a reply which de-
served to be renembered. Twirling his dusty,
draggled moustache, and passing his hand through
his unkempt hair, he retorted: “Sir, you city
men enter on your speculations and take the
chance of them. Some of your speculations suc-
ceed, some fail. Mine happen to have failed ;
yours happen to have succeeded ; that i 3 the
difference sir, between my visitor and me. But
I will tell you one thing in which I have succeeded
to the last. I have been determined through life
to hold the position of a gentleman. I have
always clone so. Ido so still. It is the custom
of this place that each of the inmates of a cell
shall take his morning s turn at sweeping it out.
I occupy a cell with a bricklayer and a sweop.
But, by , they never offer me the broom.”
But even this ou .burst was a mild one for Thomas
Wainewright. He took to self-examination, and
as a result this murderer, forger, and adulterer
summed himself up thus: “ A soul whose nutii-
ment is love, and its offspring art, mude, divine
song, and still holier philosophy.” Even the
slaughter of the lovely and trusting Helen Aber-
cromby he set down to his desire as an aesthete to
remove an object from the earth wdiose confirmaj
tion offended his reiined tastes. “1 did it,” ho
said, with his old cynical smile, “ because her legs
were too thick.”
* * *
But even the revelations of his loathsome
diary made up no legal case against him, and as
the only pos : tivo evidence, apart from his own
confessions, was the fact that he was known to
w r ear a rug containing crystals of the Indian nux
vomica, no trial for muider was instituted. He
was shortly removed to the hulks at
Portsmouth, and thence shipped in
chains on board the ‘' Susan ” for Tas-
mania, one amongst three hundred con-
victs and desperadoes. But even from
the depths of his floating sepulchre the
ghost of Janus Weathercock protested
against being thus herded with the vilest
of the vile, —“Me! the companion of
poets, philosophers, artists and musi-
cians !” It was his last communication
with the friends of his former life ; when
it was written the curtain dropped on ilie
past.
* * *
Five years later ho was heard of
again at Hobart as an inmate of the Gene-
ral Hospital, and in 1841 he applied for a
ticket of-leave. His position was a strange
hash of brag, vanity, cynical grovel, and
second-hand aestheticisms, and ran
thus :
“‘To His Exce’lency, Sic John Eardley Wil
m.ot, Bat t., Lieut. -Governor of Van Diemen's Land
etc. etc
“ ‘ The humble petition of T. Grillitbs Waine-
wright, praying the indulgence of a tieket-of-leave.
“ ‘ To palliate the boldness cf this application he
offers the statement ensuing. That seven years
past he was arrested on a charge of f, rgii g and
acting on a power of attorney to sell stock thirteen
years previous Of which (though looking for little
credence) he avers his entire innocenee. He
admits a knowledge of the actual committer,
gained though some jeais after (he fact. Such,
however, were their relative positions, that to have
disclosed it would have made him infamous
where any human feeling is manifest. Neverthe-
less, tiy his counsel's direction, he entered the plea
Not Gni’.ty, to allow him to adduce the “ ci.rcon-
sianc • alien Haute," viz , ih. t the money (£5200) ap-
propriated w..s, without quibble, his mtiii, derived
from his parents. An hour before his appea ing
to plead he was trepanned (through the just but
deluded Governor of Newgate) iuto withdrawing h ; s
plea, by a promise, in such care, of a punishment
merely nominal. The same purporting to issue
from ye Hank Parlour, but in fact from the agents
of certain Insurance Companies interested to a
heavy amount (£16,000) in compassing his legal non
exis'ence. He pleaded guilty—and was forthwith
hurrieo, stunned with such ruthless perfidy, to the
hulks at Portsmc uth, and t hence in fire dat/xaboat d
the Susan, sentenced to Life in a land (to him)
a moral sepulchre. As a ground for your mercy
he submits with great deference his foregone con-
dition cf life during 43 years of freedom, A
descent, deduced, through family tradition and
Edmondson's Heraldry, from a stock not the least
honoured in Cambria. Nurtured with all ap-
pliances of ease and comfott—schooled by his
relative, the well-known pbilologer and biblio-
maniac, Chas. Burney, D.D., brother to Mdiuc.
4} Arblay, and the companion of Oooke. Last ly,
such a modest competence as afforded the mental
necessaries of Literature, Arcbioology, Music and
the Plastic Arts ; while his pen and brush intro-
duced him to the notice and friendship of men
whore fame it European. The Catalogues of
Somerset House Exhibitions, the Literary Pocket
Hook, indicate his earlier pursuits, and the MS.
left behind him in Paris, attest at least his in-
dustry. Their titles imply the objecls to which
ho has, to this date, direct) d all his energies : ‘ A
Philosophical Theory of Design, as concerned with
the Loftier Emotions, showing its detp action
on Society, drawn from the Phidean-Greek and
early Florentine Schools' (the result of seven-
teen ye.rs’ study), illustrated with numerous
plates, ex cuted wi h conscientious accuracy, in
one vol. atlas folio. ‘An .Esthetic and Psycho-
logical Treatise on the Beautiful; or the Analogies
of Imagination and Fancy, as exerted in Poesy,
whether Verse, Painting, Sculpture, Music, or
Architecture;’ to form fourvols., folio, with a
profusion of engravings by the first artists of I’aris,
Munich, Berlin, Dresden, and Wien" 'An Art-
Novel,’in three vols., and a collection of 1 Fau-
tasie, Critical Sketches, Sc , selected partly from
Blackwood, the Foreign Review, and the London
Manas'lie..' All these were nearly ready for, one
actually at press. Deign, your Excellency! to
ligure to yourself my actual condition during
seven years; without friends, flood, name (the
breath of life), or art (the fuel to it with me), tor-
mented at once by memory and ideas struggling
for outward form and realisation, barred up from
increase of knowledge, and deprived of the exer-
cise of profitable or even of decorous speech.
Take pity, your Excellency ! and grant me the
power to shelter my eyes from Vice in her most
revolting and sordid i hase, and my ears from a
jargon of filth and blasplnmy that would outrage the cynism
(sic) of Parity himself. IS rlraps this clinging to the lees of a
vapid life may seem as base, unmanly, arguing rather a ple-
beian, than a liberal and gentle descent. But., your Excel-
lency ! the wretched h.'.ei.le has a child !- and Vanity (sprung
from the praise of Flaxrnan, Charles Lamb, Btothard ltd.
Wcstall, Dclaroc.he, Cornelius, Lawrence, and the god of his
worship, Eu,sm.l) whispers that ihofollmrer of the Ideal might
even yet achieve anothf r reputation than that of a Fanssaire.
•Seven years of steady demeanour may in stone- degree pro]
mise that no indulgence shall ever be abused by your Excel
loncy’s miserable petitioner,
“ T. G. WAINE WRIGHT."
His prayer was peremptorily refused,
(hough he was allowed a certain amount of
liber'y and made a tolor«blo living as an art'st
in Hobart. But ho was an object of hatred and
dread in that little community ; his very counten-
ance was the embodiment of the poet’s idea: —
“ All men, each one beneath the sun
I (rate and shall hate until life be done,
But of all men one till my race is run
And all the rest for the sake of one."
Twice iiis old love of strychnine returned to his
brutalised and degraded mind, but his hand had
lost its cunning, and though his powors of hatred
were as great as over, ho filled no graves in Tas-
mania except his own. He is described at this


time as “ a man with a massive bead in which the
animal propensities were largely developed, and
holding an unusually largo volume of brain. His
eyes were deeply set in his head ; he had a square
solid jaw ; he wore his hair long, stooped some-
what, and had a snake-iike expression which was
at once repulsive and fascinating. He rarely
looked you in the face. As to moral character, he
was a man of ihe very lowest stamp. He
seemed to be possessed of an ingrained
malignity of disposition which kept him perpetu-
ally cn the very confines of murder and he took a
perverse pleasure in traducing persons who had
befriended him.” The glittering Wainewright
was now a wretched “morphia-fiend,” and his
one friend was a cat —the only friend to whom he
had ever been true.
* * *
His character shone forth at it 3 brightest
in a ghastly incident at the Hobart Hospital. A
convict whom he hated as only he could hate was
in the agonies of death ; his extremities were cold,
his eyes glazed —and Wainewright, whom the
authorities with blind imbecility allowed to assist
among the patients and handle the poisons in the
surgery, was his nurse. He crossed the room
with cat-like tread, bent over the half-insensible
man, and hissedout these words in his ear : “ You
are ade 1 1 man, you ! In four-and-twenty
h-u-s yo n- ->r u’ will be in hell, and my arms will
be up to that (couching his elbow) in your body
dissecting you.” Even Thomas Griffiths Waine-
wright seems to have believed in hel'.
* * *
His old gaiety degenerated into a species
of loathsome monkeyish mischief, and as the
debased morphia-fieni tottered to his grave this
trait became more and more prominent. It
was strikingly shown when Mayor Pevor, of
Hobarr, gave nim a commission to paint the por-
trait of a young laiy— a boautiful, kind-hearted
girl, we’l known in the little capital. The por-
tr lit was drawn as truly as WainewriglWs skilful
hand could do it, but when it was finished he put
in a few subtle touches which added his own ex-
pression of wickedness to the smiling face on the
cmvas. Not one feature was a’tered, not one
curve or outline injured ; the innocent look of the
trusti-.g girl was there still, and on the top of ic
was the artist’s own savage sneer and murde cus
glance. The fo- ce of the devil and the angel were
blende lin one. This was almost his iatt achieve-
ment, He died of apoplexy in the hospital at
Hobart—it i 3 believed in the year 1852, though the
exact date is unkLOwn.
* * *
His wife lived with her sister, Madeleine
Abercromby - sister also to the ill-fa’od Helen-
until 1832, after v»hich she drooped out of sight.
Her son ente ed the Navy, but afterwards quitted
i.toh’do the ba'ednameof Wainewrigttio anew
,an *. He went to America, and found his way to
San Franci o. where ho lived until 1872, in which
year he came to Australia, and, visiting Smd-
hurff, m-ide a small fo. tune on the Stock Exchange.
Not many months aftewardsi e committed suicide
by cutting his thro it at a Melbourne hotel, and
wvs identified through papers found in his posses-
sion by the police.
Society
This is the very latest Sydney jibe and is
strictly original “ I hear that Ms.J. is going
home shortly. She will stay away for four years.
I’m to’d, as she wishes to educate her children.”
“And isn’t Mr. J. go'ng home, too?” asked
somebody present. “ Oh, no ; ht’s going to stop
behind and educate his child-en.”
* * *
The founder of the Hon. Horatio Nelson’s
family, like that of his bride, the daughter of the
late George Petty, of Melbourne, were both for-
merly in the butchering trade—the only difference
being that while the bridegroom’s ancestor earned
an honest living by slaughtering men, the lady’s
relative earned his by killing sheep and bullocks.
The cold meat trade always wa3 a lucky business.
* * *
“ Envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharit-
ableness” reign in Hobart, stirred up by the im-
perfect arrangements for a ball given at Govern-
ment House, on the 12th inst. Through neglect
or carelessness, many persons formerly having
entree to vice-regal entertainments, were, this
time, among the uninvited —gentlemen were
hidden to the ball and their sisters left out in the
cold—some young ladies, daughters of prominent
residents, had dre-ses prepared intending to make
their debuts on this occasion but did not receive
the necessary intimation that the pleasure of their
company was requested; while seme specially
favoured individuals were actually the recipients
of two cards of invitation. The blunder is gener-
ally ascribed to the private secretary ; if guilty,
what an enviable time he will have with the irate
uninvited dames and demoiselles !
* * *
An eminent representative Australian—
we may as well ca'l him Jumbuck—is not coming
back to Australia quite as soon as was expected.
He and his friend Bigphool went off to celebrate
their last night in London by a festive meal, and
in the morning the lightsome Bigphool was pur-
suaded to see Jumbuck's family on board while he
himself went to say good-bye to some friends.
Accordingly, Mrs. Jumbuck, a lady who
has met with considerable success as a
female, was got on to the vessel, and then,
as her husband did not appear, the governess was
sent in search of him. During the search the
steamer sailed, carrying Bigphool with it, and he
is now travelling involuntarily on the ticket which
represents that Mrs. Jumbuck is bound to love,
honour, and obey him, and that he may spank the
little Jumbucks should their conduct render it
advisable. Jumbuck himself, meanwhile, is wip-
ing away the tears of the governess and arranging
to bring that interesting young lady out by the
next boat; Mrs. Bigphool is making remarks
about her husband that are more vicious than the
back-tooth of an adder ; and the little Bigphoola
are wailing for their “pa.” The signs are that
somebody will get hurt. ,
* * *
L Here is a little story which would have
done credit to the days of Sardanapalus :—ln
the old N.S.W, convict times a woman—the
! mistress of one of the managers of an estate run
i by convict labour—had a marble bath in which
she regularly every morning took a “bogie,”
using milk instead of water. After this daisy
had laved her snowy form, the servants came and
served out the milk for the convicts to drink !
with rum, we hope. We saw the bath the other
day. It is of pink marble, and on it is scratched,
evidently with a diamond-ring, in a feminine
hand, “ Peter ” (the name of her friend).
* * *
A woman was married the other day in a
snug little township of northern N.S.W. Now,
don’t laugh ! That isn't it. She was married
right enough, but was somewhat surprised to find
her hubby a woman, too ! Not fully seeing the
jest, she handed her “ husband ” over to the
authorities—the local senior-constable. The most
ticklish part of the show is that the bride had
“quite a considerable heap ” of money !
* * *
That country masher who was fooling
around with a wealthy “ grass widow ” the other
day, found, on the return of her husband, that the
latter weighed over 14 it, and had a fist like a
ham. He says that beefsteak, even if immediately
applied, can’t be relied on to altogether cure a
blaok eye.
* * *
In a Sydney tramcar, the other day, we
counted three heads of false hair And didn’t the
wearers look complacent, too ! That’s all!
* * *
Scene : the Brunswick, Sydney, Austral,
Southern Club. Committeeman: “Dear me!
another ten members gone ! This won’t do. We
must change its name. What shall it be ? — the
Reversible or the Harlequin ?” Cheerful Member :
“We've had so many change’, almost lightning
OUT IN THE COLD.
changes, that I think the Variety Mournful
Member: “Oh, no! Ihe Refuge .” (Is
clubbed and carried out-)
* * *
Melbourne Clubites are still talking of that
wonderful bachelors' dinner, where the piano, coal-
scuttle, spittoons, and chimney ornaments were as
full of champagne as the host and his guests.
* * *
Miss Virginia Smith (late Mrs. Crawford,
S r Charles Ihlke's friend) is going on the stage !
She will make her debtvt at a West-End theatre
“ in a new piece specially written for her.”
* * *
London sassiety is speculating as to the
name of the lady who used to visit the Luke of
Marlborough and was mistaken by a street porter
fdr Lady Colin Campbell. Marlborough wrote the
name on a slip of paper and gave it to counsel in
confidence.
* * *
In re that “ dreadful scandal ” which has
exercised the tongues of Melbourne sass'ety for the
last 18 months, it is stated that the inj ured husband
will shortly proceed to show in Court that he has
long been the nominal proprietor of a wife who,
while on the verge of the fifties, has been as
frisky as was the historical Catherine of Russia
It is understood that the venerable lady blames
her young man for their being fotrnd out; hut
then how was he to know that another member of
the old girl’s clan visittd the same quiet try sting-
place in that fashionable suburb ?
* * *
Sir Salmon Wilson —that is to say, Lady
Wilson, for, though Salmon is a gilded nobody,
his wife is a somewhat stately and very charming
woman—is getting along in London. For we read
in Vanity Fair, which, though not necessarily
an organ of the aristocracy, is a paper that never
gives respectful notice to anything which is not
really fashionable: —
“ Lady Wilson’s ‘ small and early ’ last night was a most
successful dance, and broueht together what is left of
London so< iety in town. The cotillon lasted most of the
evening, but there were no very startling figures, though the
air-ball game seemed to afford some amusement to the on-
lookers, and occasionally discomfited the participators. Men
were not numerous in Grosvenor Square last night, but then
when are they anywhere nowadays ?”
* * *
Scene : The Pallas-athene Club. Time :
After a beefsteak supper. Enter a belated re-
vellGr. Chorus of members (pressmen, uttering,
as usual, a self-evident fact) : “ You’re late ! ”
B.R. (mournfully) ; “ I had to go and hear
M’Mosely’s new comic opera.” Chorus : Whats
it all about ? The Government ? Parkes ?
What’s the plot? the motive?” B.R. : “ Re-
venge : lie expected the club and Mrs. Piscator
to he present.”
* * *
In reply to our correspondent “ Citizen
(Melbourne) we are favoured by Consul Griffin
with the following :
“ A foreigner, in order to become a citizen of the U.S.,
must reside there for a period of five years. He must also
declare his intention of becoming a citizen at least two
years before his admission. At the close of five years resi-
dence in the TJ.S. and of one year in the State or territory m
which the application is made, he may, upon taking the
oath of allegiance to the U.S., be admitted to the rights of
citizenship. 2nd. lam not aware of the existence of a law
in any of the States of the Union by which a divorce can be
obtained upon the ground of incompatibility. In Cal fomia,
Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois, and some other States a divorce
may be granted upon the ground of desertion or abandon-
ment (which must be fully prpved) for a period of one year.
In New York, South Carolina, and several other States
divorces are not granted except for ciime. It is not neces-
sary that either party should be a citizen. A bona fide resi-
dence, however, is required on the part of the person suing
for divorce. The parties can be represented in court by their
attorneys, but in some instances are required to appear in
person, 3rd. If collusion is shown a divorce would be denied
in any State of the Union.”
* * *
Some hot gambling is done in Queensland.
A much-bediamonded bagman during Christmas
week hired a room on the outskirts of a certain town
and invited three “ friends” to join him one night
in unlimited 100. They met at 8.30 p.m. and
parted at five o’clock a.m., the nosey one rising a
winner to the modest tune of £1,700. Two of his
friends, an insolvency official and an auctioneer
respectively, lost £5OO each,and the third, a trades-
man, £7OO. Next morning one of the victims
went to his kind host crying that his wife and
family would be ruined, and begged to he let off.
“ My dear fellow,” replied the bejewelled spieler,
“ debts of honour should always be settled at
once, hut, under the circumstances, I don't mind
taking long dated bills.” How is this for high in
a town where there is no money ?
* * *
Are the girls in the country as giddy as we
hear ? If so, Arcadia is no place for a mother to
let her daughter spend her holidays.
# * *
Messrs. Eyles Brothers, of Orange, have
been officially thanked by Private-Secretary Wal-
lington for their present of a box of cherries to our
well-beloved Carington. When this becomes fully
known, the prize pumpkin, water-melon 7ft. in
circumference, gooseberry-as-b’g-as-a-cannon-ball-
men, it hoc genus omne, will go howling mad
with loyalty, and Government House will look
like one eterr a 1 sale day at Paddy’s Markets. By
the way, N.S.W. once had an independent Gover-
nor who not only grew, but made a fair thing
by selling, his own fruit and vegetables.
* * *
Dr. Ned O’Doherly, of Queensland, will
next month marry the daughter of Col. French.
The ceremony will take place in the R.C. church,
Miss French having recently’verted Dr. Ned is
the son cf the well-known Home Ruler, Dr.
O’ Coherty, now of Sydney.
* * *
The Rev. J. Elkin is announced in the
L’.thgow (N, S. W.) M KRCURYas about to preach two
sermons on the subject of “ Popning the Question.”
What a sly old dog it must be ! Next he should
round up his congregation concerning the proper
method of “ kissing the baby.” There is a whole
heap of larks in some of the very glummest of
these parsons.
* * *
Mrs. Riley (Sydney's new Mayoress) will
hold her first reception at the Exhibition Building,
Prince Alfred Park, on 9th February.
* * *
The Hon. Rupert Carington arrived in
Sydney on 19th inst. Some of the London papers
do not appear to approve of this gentleman, and
“go ” for him in a very de sided fashion. How-
ever, nobody in Australia is likely to go for
Rupert except some of our girls. They all adore
the quality—of whatever quality.
* * *
The marriage between Miss Young (late
Mayoress of Sydney) and Mr. Reynolds, of Victoria,
is to take place at St. Andrew’s Cathedral on
February 10.
* * *
It is announced that that talented musi-
cian, Mr. Fred. M’Quade, will shortly be married
to Miss Emily Skarratt, of Summer Hilt; that
Miss Isabel Wallis, of Potts Point, is soon to be-
come the wife of Mr. Pring Roberts, of the Queens-
land bar ; and that Miss Kirk, of South Yarra, is
engaged to marry Mr. T. Hail, of Sydney.
* * *
Mr. Win. Martin, Mayor of Waverley,
gave a supper at the Waverley Council Chambers
on Monday night to the prominent residents of
j the municipality. His Worship in his speech inti-
I mated that ho was chokeful of ambition, and
I though he had risen to the altitude of presiding
j over that local feed he had no intention of be-
-1 coming fossilised even in his present exalted
niche of office. On the contrary he did not despair
of attaining the very highest position in the lard,
from which his hearers presumed his worship de-
sires to become a bishop.
* * ■ *
The marriage of Miss Jeanie ilson,
daughter of Mr. S. Wilson, of Merton, Bondi, to
Mr. E. Roberts, was celebrated amidst great
festivities on the 19 th inst., at the residence of
the bride’s parents. The petite bride made an
effective appearance in rich duchesse satin and real
lace veil.
* * *
At the instance of two old members of
St. Stanislaus’ College, Bathurst —Messrs. G. Cole-
man, of Wagga Wagga, and H. A. O’Donnell, of
Cootamundra, solicitors —steps are beirg taken by
the old boys to form a Union. It is expected that
a banquet, to be presided over by a distinguished
Q.C.,v ill also eventuate —about Easter. The Secre-
tary's address is 71 Castlereagh-street, was, at a
meetirg of the ex-students held in Sydney, a E'
pointed hon. secretary to the moveme’nt.
* * *
H. M. Stanley, who, though his bestgirl liv® s
in Victoria, has temporarily abandoned bis P r0 ‘
jeeted trip to Australia, loses £lO,OOO through
breaking his lecturing engagements in this coun-
try and America. However, the money will be
refunded by those under whose auspices he g°® s
to Africa.
* # #
The two “ leading lines ” in the Syd n6 3
sassiety news of the week are that H.M. S. Nelsoh
has departed for New Zealand, and that a corner
has been placed in the heavens to give warning
that the Beautiful Burdett, his pocket full of I®°*
clipped from the chevelurcs of incipient duchess® 3 ’
is now upon (he high seas on his way back ft' olll
Park lane to Macquarie-street.
* * *
At our bcarding-house. Mrs. Mugfom -
“Mr. Brown, will you have a little— ahem
stew?” Brown (aside) : “ Yes, please; I supP°‘
I’ll have to take some hash ” The brute.
* * *
Messrs. B. B. Wise, Cvftey, Harris, and
Gedde3, who during the Christmas holiday
started from Port Jackscn for Gippsland Lakes 1
a yacht, have returned. They had a very pleas®n
trip back and made the distance between Me
bourne and Sydney in the phenomenal time
about 14 hours. P.S. —9 hey made it in the train-
-* * *
A very awkward item has just come
light in an English paper. The beloved pastor
St. Balaam’s recently got a call to be a col°i i; ®
bithop, and as the new diocese planked down tfl
jduschandsomly be started off for the vineyaf
The ship, however, was wrecked, but no H v e
were lost, and a young and attractive lady f aS
senger wrote home that she was none the avor 3
for her perils ; “ indeed,” she added, “ with ta
dear bishop's arm round my waist all the time
felt quite end comfortable ” Her bland a (
guileless parents published the letter, and M 1 ’
Bishop, whose waist measures 34 inches roun >
has started to join her lord and shepherd.
* * *
A divorce case without a parson alwa)'®
lacks “go” and hurr our. One sad eyed, 3 ' lo
ceptible Expounder of Light will permeate tn
most ordinary application for dissolution of m& tr
monial partnerships wi'h pith and fire, hut wh e
two ministers of Tiuth get crowded in, the fa
grows too fast and furious to bear. In New Y° r ’
Timothy A. Brown, an ancient Methodist Bim
whacker, as black as the hobs of Hades, lateh
united himself in the holy bonds of wedlock t°
sweet young quadroon, and is row endeavouring
to get put asunder again according to law. Tb
co-respondent, the vile wrecker of his connuW
bliss, is also a line frenzy Methodist evangel
of the name of Pymm, William Pymm. ’ll'®',
two brothers in grace exchanged pulpits one el' ’
calm Sabbath eve, but tlre sable Brown return®
before he was expec ed and disturbed the sWf
serenity of the night. He was just in time to d
cover his follow-worker in the vineyard back'
out of Mrs. Brown’s boudoir, and in the heal
the moment the injured husband went for tn
Rev. Mr. Pymm with an eight-pound wood aX
but fired too low every shot, and Mr I’. escaf
in f o the gloom. Then the dusky Brown hunt
up his sweet young quadroon, and, judging *
her blushes and the trend of several letters fr°
her gallant, which ho took from her pocket, ,
concluded that a divorce was what his soul P a "j g
for most of anything. The tender missives Y'®
especially convincing, and they are so pep®
with clerical humour that we cannot refrain ' r
printing a stave or two. Hero goes :
“ I will be along Tuesday evening on the wheels of g j
whirlwind to see you when that riggling old black mgs®
yours is on his round perverting the Gospel, and tn e ' | or ,
Lord Byron says, you will ri ! e and cling to my embrace, „
as the Scripture says (see Ecclesiastes iv. and v.)’there
time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing, t j,e
we must try to obey the Scripture, and sweet itsve w , ijtjfp
old nigger is away. Oh, Octavia, why did you not
yourself alone for me ? Why did you covenant to marry
contemptible object of sc rn ?”
And, again
“Glory, hallelujah, Amen, Octavia, how I adroir e 'aojo-
worship, and adore you, and as the Scripture says (sec »
mon's Sorg i. and ii.), let me kiss thee with the kisses or u
mouth, for thy love is better than wine. Tell me, it
whom my soul lovest, where thou wiltest meet me ? Jtiold
be in the little cabin by the creek’s silent shore?
thou art fair, my love—tee Solomon’s Song—behold j,;
fair ; thou hast dove's eyes. Read Solomon's Song thr° ■
it means you and me.* g
From this it may be seen that the rev. hubbY
some slight reason to be aggrieved. He J ll
argues that the clergyman who uses Ecclesi' 1 '■
iv. and v. and Solomon’s Song to sueli an end 1 0
pit of iniquity, and not a fit and proper persoi
swap pulpits with.
* * *lO
Even if a lady does sing charmingly thfr
no reason why her husband should howl and
for an encore after the liberal applause 0 {
audienoe has subsided. This sort of thing
late, been too common and too obvious in 9y all
* * *
A little legend of the N.S.W. Civil
vice. Adolphus Augustus de Smythe had
officially informed that in consequence ° f u ld
limited length of the departmental purse it ' vV ® e <j,
be necessary for him to go where glory
and his prudent mamma-in-law, speaking 01
to a friend observed, “ Y’ see, my Mary Ana
allers ambishis, an’ nothink would do bat • e
must marry a gentleman in the Lands, or 3 - t ’g
other Guv’mint office, an’ she did too, bllC o pr
lucky now that I taught her the proper aC ® t /'
plcrslimints, coz she’ll find ’em useful tR ’
“What was it you taught her?” inquire® 1 <j
friend ? And then the good old lady, with a P
smile, replied: “I taught her ’ow to wa? L r jjn t
iron, an’ now I’m goin’ to get her a time-P ll f
mangle, and then she can take in washin,
Adolphus Augustus can help her to carry
basket home with the clothes.”
* * * oV ef
Many social items are weekly held
owing to the senders having failed to supply n
and address.


A DOUBLE BARBELL WARNING.
ONE FOR DRINKERS.
fjBERE were some pretty hard drinkers among
the ancient Romans if the truth has been
told about them, and the bigger the swells they
Wero the better was the Exhibition, As most of
them are dead there is no danger of libel con-
sequences in telliDg the truth about them. The
Emperor Zeno used to drink so very much harder
than a fish, and make himself so generally
Odjectionable while quenching his thirst, that his
w ife took the opportunity of his being what is
known as “dead drunk,” and had him buried by
the Government whip of that era. But it is now
universally believed to have been the fault of the
r mk. It was of an entirely opposite character
t° Clausen's Champagne Lager Beer, which is a
Wonderfully pure, wholesome, and beneficial
stimulant, for which Walker, Lemon, and Co., of
o6 i Margaret-street, are the Sydney agonts.
ANOTWER FOR SMOKERS.
man who looks the problem of humanity
ca,ln ly m the eye, either eye, can deny that one
6 Ui t source of misery and suffering, making life
® ikffdsn to the liver, is ch*ap smoking tobacco, If
6 does deDy it, he is another, and t! c truth is
a °t in him.
the profit atcl comfort in the best bran l of
poking tobacco is equally divided between the
ea lor and consumer, w ith the advantage on the
°f l ke consumer. The dealer gets the prolit
an( i the smoker takes the comfort, Nothing
c °nld be fairer. But in cheap brands there is no
comfort wht-teve , so the smoker gets nothing,
otevtn tobacco, because there is no tobacco in
e cheap brands. Nothing but sttms and profit.
W best smoking tobacco —our own aid only —
3 sold on a margin of pre fit so slight, that all
° er hrardi, to be sold at all, must be sold very
ea l>ly. How can this be done ? You can’t cut
own expenses in putting any brand of tobacco on
e mar ket. The Government tax on a package
Hems and dust is as much as upon a package
l he best smoking tobacco in the world. It costs
8,3 mu ch to pack and label the bag of shop sweep-
•tgS; it costs just as much or more to advertise
> Printer’s ink costs alike for bread or poison ;
an< i the showier the mote expensive the labels!
le height charges are as high on the trash as on
go °d; the salaries of salesmen, vt ages of work-
rents, taxe3, &c., the same ; the profits of
•era are greater cn the cheap tobacco—now,
ere °an the manufacturer curtail expense and
3 t. it a n comes out of the tobacco. The
acco all comes out of it at the same time, and
Mystery of stems, dust, refuse, scraps of the
Rarest leaf, sweepings, no man knows what, all
80 make cheap tobacco. The dealers push it
g u au6 ° their profits thereon are great. In an un-
bu rdo 4 moment the smoker weakly yields. He
of i? stu ff; he smokes i r . The deadly fumes
itrai 61118 one thing and another cloud his
n aa d warp his judgment. He bets on the
g o ( ( ng horse. He lends money to the man who is
s Ur / e fri “ p a y it back next Saturday. ”He buys a
ady J > U • an a ii ot ment and a poultry farm on their
d ec p!' Ueod merits in a newspaper ; and finally
ainI S Upon upholding the henor of his country
PnH- Bettill g a free railway pass by going into
“Jhament.
kisso 80es home end his breath scares the dog ; he
Ui K v s l he baby and it has two fits before mid-
ph 0n ‘ When he calls up “Central" the tele-
(jor 0 Bfrl switches him off on the Abattoirs or the
h'ho a er tlla minnte he speaks. The neighbors
y/° D ln tell him Ins house is badly drained,
Patio f b °y says it’s a rat in the partition. His
a (p 1"" gentle wffe gives him his choice between
tieigvV^ o3 . or sleeping in tte woodshed. His
hi 3 b , Q ° rs are made suspicious, his home unhappy,
t eil) ai ( fr e . n wretched, his wife is estranged, his
the p? r l ru med, and his dog goes mad; all because
hion* o^ 5 ’ hnhappy man thought he could eave
Q oo cy smoking a 2s. tobicbe with a Ills, label.
jj ut tobacco hoes n °t grow in the scrap-heap.
p er j the man, taught wisdom by bitter ex-
rcfonns. He hears of that wonderful
Who,. • n - k’orth Carolina, th 9 “ Golden Belt.”
lie j e eiu * 8 grown the best tobacco in the world.
Veilou FIIS fr° m this pure leaf is made a mar-
a.))() , 3 smoking tobacco, free from stems, dust,
ihjp. !. > and flavoured with the best and purest
evo ry a luat s ’ he is credibly informed that in
biapur° no hundred pounds of such tobacco the
Pr° c ac turer must loose 33 percent, by tlie rigid
tiglpi 3 Purification; ho k nows that it is so
an c ] g/’ Packed In the bag that it retains its flavor
I n laor stn °king qualltiej : he sees the de-
he Hurham Bull ”on the label ;he buys it ;
th e lm 1 ? 11 * 81103 and delights Ms system with
Ua,l o ; | ®moke man ever had since Walter
hi s > 1 learned to love a pipe. He changes
,, aa th and goes home. The “Dur-
Peace "r COm es into the house an incense of
v ig 0 * , keeps moths out of the curtains, in-
-B'ng i the house plants, and makes the canary
hever 1 c l°eks are always right, dinner is
l J aby ate > '"ho man always comes home early, the
to the p two new teeth, the boy goes right up
back in K- ld his class next day, the dog comes
to | e his right mind, and the minister drops in
The man is reclaimed and sign 3 the
Letr fr°t us all sign it with him.
j 8 lay °ur hands on our pocket-books and
Pledge ourselves henceforth forever to
Ptid er tro m the use of any smoking tobacco, sold
B av e onpf na me or put up in any form whatsoever,
‘ B LA.CKWELL’S genuine bull
Th e DUKHAM.”
3v bi c i 1 ai . of the Golden Belt of North Carolina, in
spates t l°hacco is grown, does not supply
n el lcioi, o to e and that is the secret of its
v mildness. The analysis of BLACK-
hr. HULL DURHAM TOBACCO, made by
tae Hov F.R.S , Consulting Chemist to
°P]y Agricultural Society of England, showed
>k > a "« °f nitrnte3in if. The most fastidious
]. r °vvn jJV? On B all nations agree that the tobacco
i 3 ~ he Golden Tobacco Belt of North Caro-
a3e d in 11 e most delicious and refined for pipes
. It is 3,? .world.
&°P> R, T a hi Sydney by Messrs. Buist, J. Thomp-
s.c°tt •' ® es > Noake, Simmons, and Levy and
v. lt ton n latn ay be had wholesale from A. W.
a Py, street, and Saywell’s Tobacco Com-
tairuted, Park-street.'
Mosquitos are so big at Wagett this season that they are killing the dogs.
Mr. George Robinson, -who is “ Kershaw ”
to the Stanley Testimonial Fund, dt n ; es that a
magnificent goli watch and b ! g purse of sove-
reigns has been presented to the Mount Rennie
hero. So wild a canard should have been re-
served for the 1st of April Sir Alfred Stephen
had a b ; g share in the promotion of this fizzle, so
it is no wonder that the affair seems to liarig fire.
TIT WILLOW.
On a rock at fair Manly a msilen once sat
Singirg willow, tit willow, tit willow,
And she sighed and she moaned at the sight of her
cat,
Singing wil’ow, lit willow, tit widow.
And, lo! »s she moaned, ajvirgin refrain
Seemed to add a more sorrowful tone to thestra'n,
And she sobbed and she wept like a spirit in pain,
Singing willow, tit willow, tit willow.
Then gazing below where her pussy-cat lay,
ShgiDg willow, tit willow, tit willow,
She uttered these words in tenderest way,
Singing willow, tit willow, tit willow,
I would I were Lee from this harrowing fear,
And had not this failing so funny and queer,
O, had I a glass of St. Louis Lager Beer ;
Singing willow, t’t willow, tit willow.
And as she sat there in her maidenly grief
Singing willow, tit willow, tit willow,
A festive young fellow to her great relief
Brought a pillow, a pil’ow a pillow,
And placing it under her cherub like head
He remarked, “ I have heard every word you
have said,
St. Louis you’d find a meat, drink, and bread,”
On a pillow, a pillow, a pillow.
Without further ado this festive yound lad
Singing willow, tit willow, tit willow,
Said sweetheart St. Louis will make your heart
glad,
Singing willow, tit willow, tit willow.
And straightway she took of St. Louis a draught,
And she drank, and she laughed, andshelauglied
And she said of St. Louis I have quaffed, I have
quaffed,
Singing willcw, tit willow, tit willow t
Then this lad and this maiden to church
away
Singing willow, tit willow, tit willow ;
Saying, while the sun’s shining is the time to
make hay,
Singing wullow, tit willow, tit •willow.
So the parson shall join us, for we have no fear
How wc have imbitbed St. Louis famed Beer ;
And the children we have shall be fleet as the
deer,
Singing wullow, tit willow, tit willow.*
OUR SAILOR BOYS.
We are sRpwing a very beautiful lot of Man-o’-
War Sailor Suits, iu long trousers and knickers,
that we can thoroughly recommend Fine
Estamene Serge, trimmed with gold, and blue
and gold, fancy Flannels, gold lanyards and
whistles, in all sizes from 0000 to 8; that is to fit
your little darling hope, aged 3 and the big
strapping boy of 13. Prices, 10s 6d. 15s. 6d. .and
18s. 6d. Value best ever submitted by Summer-
field and Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters,
235 and 237, Pitt-street Sydney.*
Premier ball-rom decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 111 King-street.
She : Why, Charles! how can you call Miss
James plain ? I wish I was half a« good looking
as she is. He : You arc, Hattie, and you know
it. At last advices Hattie was endeavouring to
decide whether she ought to be pleased or
offended at the complimi nt, but as Charles
looked so charming in his perfect fitting £3 3s.
Suit, cut at the high-clas3 tailoring establishment
of Summerfield and Company, Merchant Tailors,
235 and 237, Pitt-street Sydney, it is sa'e to
affirm that she will conclude not to be offended.*
NOTICE !- Beware of young Wine. Drink
only Ho k-ngs’ high-class selected old vintages,
for invalid’. 143 Fitt-street.*
0 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS AND BLADDER
Are vf rv prova'ent among men p<t> t middle age, and* hose
most difficult diseases to cure are on t.he increase Dr Btll's
(Kidney and Liver) Bitt. rs has long been known r,o be the
most fuccessful in the cure of these diseases. “Never known
to fail."*
Dope: tment; of Public Works.
Sydney, Janna y 25. 1887.
TENDERS tor PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS we invited for the fol owing PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full martinnlnra nee
Government Gazette, a. tile or which is kept at
every pest-0mm in the colony.
Tondcoors may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened. and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced. it possible. before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into ooxwidorolion unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with
The Government does not; bind itself to accept
the lowest. or any tender.
Dome in which
, Tenders
1“th 0‘ Work: and “milieu. can be received
at this oliioe
Erection of Court 1101151. Coroki
Erection of l‘olico Buildings,
Bylatone
Erection of Bridge (8 xciuaive ol'
mpply tl’ iron-work), Nowell Tue day.
River, uL \Vto Won 1’1 binary 8,
Dli’lio ditto. ditto c‘itt". ditto. at H o'clock.
Laudodowixc liivcr. til, Mu illcs
Genatmoticn of Foundations
and Rte for 'l'mvomem for
Shops. Nos. L- to 15. Eveleigh'
Erection of Ulllccs. 8:13., Hospi-
tlltl for Insane. Ulndesville
Additions, &c., Whmf at: Bul-
11110.. Richmond River
Supply of ironwork. Bridge,
linnadownc River. at Snvillna,
Namoi River, at. Wcu Wm. I
and Bungle (heel:
Construction of Wharf at
Raleigh. Bollir ger Riw-r
Erection of Bridge. Swan Creek.
mod Grafton Lo Ulniarm I
Erection of Bridge (exclusivo of
supply at ironwork) nvur
Bungle Creek, on road. li‘et'n-
mount to Grafton I
Alterations. 3m, Police Station. Tuesday.
Nerendem February 15,
Erection Custom-house, Moamn at it o'clock.
Eroclim 01' Engine Drivera'
Quarters. iinthmst.
Canetruction of Sewer tlu-Onin l
Bar.tiet's list-ate
Repairs. Signal Station. South,
Bend
Erection of tuition Buildinga.
Gosi'ord
Erection of Station Imildingu,
Blue Gum Flm,W'yong Creek,
Woe Woo (‘rcolnnnd (soul-urn~ I
hung. Goeford to W'nmtnh
Railway
Construction or Fridge, [‘udmlm
Week. at Rye l’nrk
Couaimotlon of Railway Line. I
Sac . Bymmn Lo Cober TliUJdoy,
Additions. Post, and Telegraph . li‘ebrum-y 22.
Oﬂloc. Liverpool at. 11 o‘clock,
Canola-notions ol‘ Hydraulic
Pump, mu. NewwtsiJc
Supply of Loconmtivc Engines Tuesday,
(passenger and 800(13). April 12.
at 11 o clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAVD.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
WHAT TO GIVE ! THERE S THE RUB.
THE VERY THING.
1 Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
wait zes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which s<uits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. £3T It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better jou like it, and as
new music is being published every week it'has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cat* ■
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
OR A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any of
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. Tt main-
tains its rate even better than a line box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochionism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“Peimit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every wa’ch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compentating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
M,T --. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively, i hese cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 line
ruby jewels, p.eit pinion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same V\ atch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
Ladies superb gold )e\er watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... ... £lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a nohlo
GrOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Odd. A legi-
I ti.no to use has boon found for this noble metal, by £
1 working it into Jewellery of tho moot osquieite de- E
signs. The Oriental Gold Co,, *
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS
CASTLEREAGH-ST., Sydney, has
largo consignments of these lovely goods, which they «
sell at a frasoion of the cost of Sterlirg Gold Jew Uerv,
11 0 cno can dotoot tho difference. Send f«;.i e.
I*rlcecl Catalogue, erfor one of t 1" fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Cold —
Brooch ©s,Ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant ) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Ge.nPs ,
Albert, is. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alberts j
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
c °. - 3j
jgggrtVe send these on approval. Iflliey don’t 1
please, return uninjured by tlie I'irst ‘i
Mail, and we repay 1 lie cash, less post age.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
' 12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
I’er Inch, Single Column, ordinary $1 O O
Paragraph or special matter at double rate 3.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
CAUTION.
SS" Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
supplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
The Bulletin.
CORRESPONDENCE
TnE Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSP.
“Windsor” : ui ea e e stick to colonial subjects...
<* J. Ohas. H.”: May use one day, though your non-sequitur
ending is not alarmingly humorous.. ..” P. Ihiton”: Thankr,
ever so much. We cannot too often hoar the story of the
wooden legged cow. An artificial cow-leg is ever so much
better to hear about than artificial milk ” John Hardy” :
You don't say where it all occurred “ X Y.Z.” : Who are
you?..W. Gilder" : Sentiment good, but metre as crooked
as a dog's hitd leg ‘'lbß.W.”: The reputation for mercy
of a man who under any circumstances would hang boys of
seventeen deserves to fall ten degrees below Nero—we mean
aero..“Gordon” : We don't w.-.nt to knowanything about the
P.M. and the chaffcutter's clerk “Reader”: Thanks. We
have already heard that Mr. R XX. D. White has laid an emu
egg before Her Gracious “W. J.” :No doubt some people
seeing the brass-plates marked “ Savings Bank” outside the
doors of money-lenders, imagine that the “ banks” in ques-
tion are Government institutions. But wo don’t see how the
matter is to be altered “A Wanderer ” : You are improv-
ing vastly. But you can’t be allowed to speak of
“ The gift of rest which the setting sun
With his last breath bestows when the day is done.”
You snap the thread of even poetic license with the “ pun's
breath.” “ J.8.H.” : Thanks. We don't say anything
about the small paragraph to which you refer. But the
arguments in the article on celi ate pru sts converting
married w. men without the consent of their husbands is
solid and must stand. We see no objec'ion to a priest or
parson trying to get a married man t> change his religion.
But if he fails with the husband he had better leave the
wife alone—for ten thousand reasons.... “ I)a Libra ” : Full
up of the subject. tleass call “ Lama Graham ”
HOharters Towers) : Thanks. Both matters already noticed.
“Winterbourne”: The Armida’.e Express, like all the
other papers, has seen tit to ignore the main question at
hsue—was the trial a fair and formal one, according to
British law? “ E.W.” (Charters Towers): Thj O'Kane
begs the que.tion. The Bulletin did not contend for a
reprieve because the parsons asked for one : on the contrary,
The Bulletin reproached the clergy as a body with calmly
•conniving at what, under the circumstances, was very like
murder. The Bulletin's main contentions were founded
on a hard, solid, legal and constitutional basis. Mr.
O’Kane may so hate ecclesiastics as to be unwilling to give
them credit when they exercise their power in the direction
cf mercy ; THE Bulletin, on the other hand, perceives
that when all the clergy shall become as merciless, worldly,
and unsentimental as, say, the lawyers, the Chris-
tianity cf the churches will be even less real than now
“ A. Ker” : What is it all about? ” J. Sunderland ” : Wdl
keep for general election “Tripod”: You must be more
■direct “J.D.G.” (up North): Please write again
■“ F.l>.” (Brunswick): The fact is hardly worth beating cut to
such a length “ Rough ”: Just as you say, before the holy
water is dry on the unhonoured graves of one set of larri-
kins, the laws of the country, social, legal, and religious, are
at work hatching just such another brood. Will print your
article hereafter...“ Senex ” : Elegant verse, which will keep..
«• Mater”: Your article is but a re-hash of opinions already
more forcibly expressed in these columns “Tom Ryan”:
Thanks. But please don’t curse so much when you write to
this office “M. Jensen”: You areas irreverent as King-
ston, of Melbourne, who calmly spread his ’possum-rug and
camped beneath a upas-tree “AB.”: Do you mean the
Primate's private property, or land held by th? Primate on
behalf of his church? “Veiitas": He had a father who
was silly—so said the late J. N. Green in an article in Lonu-
ma.n'B “ Falka” : If what you say is true —if the detective
really did get drunk and fire his revolver at his unresisting
prisoner and the other policeman, the matter should be re-
ported to the Inspector-General “W.W.”: Apply to
Noosey Bob—or the E. News ...” V. Braunbeck”: If you
have the pamphlet ready and really mean to publish it, you
had better consult a printer...." Truth Without Humbug
(Toorale): We are alwais open for something fresh on the
subject, but your little “ ad." contains nothing that is newer
than the extinct plesiosaurus, and he perished and became a
bone-heap some time ago “Common Cuss ’’(Sydney):
You are under an awful mist ike. When Lord Carington is
in church, and two Imperial horse-flunkeys are waiting until
his Excellency by the grace of God condescends to come out,
they have a perfect right to put their mokes on the pavement
outside St. Philip's, or outside the whole of the Saints, if
they please, and block the traffic. Common cusses must
either take the gutter or crawl under the s'esds’ lower
parts. Why, doncherknow, they have a right to take their
animals into the Church itself and tie them to the collection-
plate if they want t 0...." Germanicus” (Rockhampton) :
Thanks for letter. We get your local organ with praise-
worthy regularity...." Felix ’: A risky thing...." An Ad-
mirer ”: Our opinion is that the West Coast Times knows
about the subject...." Peanuckle ’’: Also here.
The Age announces that the R.M.S.
Sutlej “ will be despatched overland via Adelaide
with mails,” See.
“ You see,” explained the little nigger
boy, “ when my fadder died my mother married
again, and when my modder died my fadder
married again den he married again and den he
died, and don she died, and somehow I don’t seem
to have no fadder, no m odder, nor no nuffin.”
A German has invented a machine-safe
which, on the lcck being tampered with, throws
open its doors, seizes, drags, and locks m the bur-
glar, handcuffs him, and holds him in readiness to
be conducted to court in the morning. Then Par-
liament has invented another machine with a re-
volving wooden head in place of a fly wheel,
which- sends the burglar up for 10 years and lets
off the man who half-murders his wife with-a fine
of 10s. Both machines need to be greased now
and then to keep them working smoothly.
THIS
WICKED
WORLD
“ To say nothing of the perniciousness of
intoxication, it is not ple'.sant to a maiden to
waltz with a gentleman with a breath about 40
above proof!” remarks a N.S.W. back-blocks
editor Rev. Dowie, faith-healer, is having a
hot time of it in N.E. One of his congregation
called his remarks “ boutce,” whereupon the holy
one termed the doubter “a lying scoundrel.”
Sydney and Adelaide are now connected by rail...
Seventeen births in Sydney Benevolent Asylum
last month. Twelve of the mothers were un-
married, and in the great majority of cases the
fathers were not “ larrikins.”
* * #
More than 1500 men had to be temporarily
engaged for London post-office in order to ensure
due delivery of the Christmas and New Year
cards. Most of these “ supers ” were taken on
during the first week in December and received
3s. per day!...; Mr. Belt’s statue of Queen Anne,
which was modelled by him in gaol, has been set
up in front of St. Paul’s Cathedral. Anne is the
first queen who has been in gaol, but that is no
proof that none other ought to have been there
A Scotch farmer put up a barb'd- wire fence on
hi 3 own land. The law held that ii was a danger
to the public At Basle, Switzerland, very re-
cently, consternation was caused in a ball
room by a young lady fainting. She died one
minute afterwards. Cause: tight lacing
The King of Cambodia has SOO wives, chosen
from the handsomest women in the whole country.
A masked ball has been defined as “a good
charitable institution for ladies of plain features.”
At a Liverpool (Eng.) police court, a witness
refused to be sworn on any Bible but his own.
Upon inspecting the volume, and satisfying him-
self that it was the old version with “ hell ” in it,
the magistrate permitted the substitution. Up on
the Etheridge (Queensland) they were not so parti-
cular. For some months Isaac Walton’s Complete
Angler did duty instead of the “ authorised ver-
sion,” and there was not more perjury than usua l .
Rather less, in fact, for there were no lawyers
there then.
In the Campbell divorce suit it is stated
that Lady Colin Campbell and the Duke of Marl-
borough “ were interested in the same charitable
schemes,” and that it was for this reason that
they were so often and so much together. This is
always the way. It was with a large knowledge
of mission work and the seventh commandment
that the revisers of the New Testament altered
“charity” to “love;” enthusiastic musionors
of the Lady Colin Campbell and the Marlborough
stamp usually do the same. Another peculiar
feature of this case is the evidence of Lady Miles,
whose memory was assisted by “ memos, in her
prayer-book,” outlining the alleged circumstances
attendant upon each alleged amour of Lord Colin.
It is unfortunate for Lady Miles’ professions of
such alarming piety that her evidence is com-
pletely and entirely upset; not even the authority
of these memos, in the book of terewth can avail
against the medical testimony.
It appears that after all Mr. Stanlty, -who
was coming to Australia, is net merely seeking a
cheap “ad.,” but is really going to lead that
“ small peaceful expedition ” into Central Africa
on the off-chance of earning a mart r s crown.
He is, in the first place, going up the Congo. One
of the white Chiistians’ trading stations there has
been raided by the native home-rule statesmen,
and the garrison put to the club, and when a meek
pastoral party went forlh and presented his card
to the glandered heathen who lei the invaders,
and asked him not to do it again, that individual
ordered bis head to be stove in with a log and his
carpet-bag to be burst open and embezzled ; more-
over the dirt-crusted Afiicans are now said to be
pouring down the valley of the Congo, and vowing
that their continent sha’l be pervaded by the white
trash no longer. Mr. Stanley, however, experts
shortly to explain matters to the imposing hump-
backed nob who is making all this trouble, and
having done so he will go onto relieve Emim Bey,
alias Dr. Schmidtler, who is worried by the Arabs
somewhere south of Khartoum. That warlike
pill-grinder has been besieged off and on for three
years, but his troubles are now nearly over. Some
of these days when, as usual, he is pounding his
pestle and mortar and making bran poultices in
the desert, he will decry on the distant sands
something which, when it arrives, will prove to
be Mr. Stanley’s small peaceful expedition, three
strong, each carrying a clean shirt and a spare
bootlace in a wheelbarrow. At this point
Schmidtler will realise that ho is saved at la t, and
all will be holy joy.
What would Mr. Justice Windeyer say to
this, we wonder? “W.H.F.,” writing from
Mount-street, Pyrmont, Sydney, says
On New Year’s morning I was at a street corner await-
:ng a tram to convey me to Rand wick Heights, where I in-
tei-ded to drop in on a fxiend and spend a few hours. A
passing cabman called out, “ Going to Randwick, sir? Jump
ii, and 1 11 take you for three halfcrowns.’ No train being in
sight, I closed with the offer, but was afterwards much sur-
prised to find the cabman pulling up at the gates of the
Randwick racecourse. Not caring much where X spent the
day, and the cabman refusing to drive me a yard further, I
went on the course, and got a seat on the Leger Stand The
day being warm induced me to have sundry drinks, and whilst
doing so I made the acquaintance of two apparently ex-
tremely prlite and genial gentlemen who initiated me into
tbe way of backing the favourite (which seldom won) and also
joined me in playing some mystic games of chance, which
proved to be dead certainties for the persons who kept the
bank, lhese matters necessitated a few more liquors and
to make a long story short, I found myself, about 7 p.m!
lying against a fence minus a gold watch and chain, a dia-
mond pin, and £4 las. in cash. Being a stranger here, I
would ike to know what steps X had better take in this
matter '
Accepting the ruling of Judge Windeyer in the case
of the cabman Sweetman as a preceded we
should say that the cabby who drove our corre-
spondent to tbe Randwick course, instead of Rand-
wick proper, is deserving of 15 years’ imprison-
ment, inasmuch as he was the primary cause of
all W. H. F.’s losses and misfortunes—just as his
Honor, Judge Windeyer, ruled that Sweetman
was the cause of all the girl Hicks’ troubles. And
just as his Honor strongly suggested that it was
very probable that Sweetman was in league with
the Moil lit Rennie culprits, so also do we suggest,
with far liiore plausibility, (hat W. 11. F.’s bah-
rnan was an accomolice of the two “ extremely
polite and genial gentleman” who so carefully
“ran the rule” acrcss our correspondent. Mr.
Justice Windeyer was confident enough to tell
Swe-tman that if he had not driven the girl Hicks
to the Mount Rennie Bcrub the awful crime which
followed would not have been committed, and it
was this fact which impelled him to inflict a
terrible Draconian sentence In like manner we
assert that if VV. H. F.’s cabby had not in the first
place enticed him ir<to his cab by suppressing the
word “ racecourse,” and had not subsequently
driven him to that unlucky spot, no robbery would
haVb been committed, and, therefore, our advice
to W. H. F. is to secure the scheming Jehu and
hold him until Mr. Justice Windeyer returns, when
his Honor, if he has the slightest respect for con-
sistency, must sentence him to at least fifteen
years’ gaol.
In a pamphlet entitled “ The ‘ Castle
System.” written by Mr. J. J. Clancy, M. P. , of
the frijdi Nationalist party, and received by last
mail, occurs the following instructive passage :
“In 1882, several trials took place in Dublin at
which jury-packing of the most flagrant descrip-
tion was practised by means of the power of the
Crown prosecutors to order jurors to ‘ stsnd aside.’
The * panels ’ from which the j urors were to be
selected consisted of men usually summoned on
special juries—that is, they were possessed of high
property qualifications, or were highly lated to
the relief of the poor. Taken together, they in-
cluded the names of 112 Protestants, 80 Catholics,
and one Jew. In one trial 18 Catholics were set
aside, and 2 Protestants ; the result being an ex-
clusively Protestant jury. In another trial, 22
Catholics—all whose names wore called —were set
aside, and 4 Protestants ; the result being a jury
composed of 11 Protestants and one Jew. In a third
11 Catholics were ordered aside and 9 Protestants ;
the result being ayu’-j/ of 12 Protestants. Inafourth,
two Protestants were set aside and 15 Catholics;
the result again being a jury of 12 Protestants.
For details of these cases the reader is referred to
a Parliamentary ret urn ordered by the House of
Commons, on the 21st November, 1882. Because
attention was called to these and other matters in
the Freeman’s Journal at the time, Mr. E.
Dwyer Gray, M.P., the proprietor of the paper,
and then High Sheriff for the city of Dublin, was
brought up before the presiding judge on a charge
of contempt of court, and was sentenced to pay a
fine of £5OO, to undergo a term of three months’
imprisonment, and at the end of that term to give
security for his g. od behaviour, or to go to gaol
for a further period of three months.”
The New Ze a 1 and I n suranoe Company.
The forty eighth annual report of the operations of
the New Zealand Insurance Company once more
brings before the whole Australian public the
solid position and extensive business of this the
premier Insurance Company of the Southern
world. And there can he no doubt that a review of
the successful years of the Company's business would
form a valuable contribution to the question of
insurance. The New Zealand Company has pros-
pered with remarkable steadiness from its in-
auguration, and its management both with
regard to its head offices and widely spread
branches indicate very cartful and watch-
ful discharge of duties. Of the large sums
annually saved as profit, a large portion
has been invested in English, American,
and Australian governmental securities, and like-
wise real estate, from all which a regular return
is receivable, acting like governors on the steam
engine, to ensure an unvarying success in good or
bad 3 cars. The year just closed shows a period of
rema kakle success of the company during what
may be' described as an epoch of unusually heavy
losses. The wires from New Zealand have re-
ported heavy fires and correspondingly heavy in-
surance losses, yet we find this solid institution
coming out with the following satisfactory re
port:—The premiums, less returns and reinsur-
ances, amounted to £217,312 ; interests and rents,
£26,818, makiDg, with previous balance-sheet, a
grand total of £267,027. The losses had been
£133,393, and after payment of dividends absorb-
ing £30,000, and all claims, and making pro-
vision for all ascertained losses, carrying £lO,OOO
to investment fluctuation account, £lO,OOO to
reserve fund, there remained a balance of £18,931.
And from this a dividend of 3s. per share was
declared, leaving £3931 to be carried forward to
next year. The reserve fund now stands at
which, with the remarkably large business of
the company, gees to shbw its remarkable
statility. We are indebted for a copy of the re-
port of the Sydney branch, whose business, it is
satisfactory’to note, is to be counted among the
most satisfactory carried on in this city.*
ALHAMBRA MUSIC H Abb
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprieto and Manager Mr. Frank Smith
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin SHIFT'
COME AND SEE THE ATTENDANCE
EVERY EVENING.
THE ALHAMBRA HUNT CLUB PICNIC
is CROWDED with SPECTATORS eager to par-
take of the good things provided by the caterer to
this Variety Company.
M''ss LETITIA RILEY joins the Company for the
first time.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
Theatre roy a &
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
Messrs Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
GRAND XMAS COMIC PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Prices as usual.
!HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
'aid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymartet, Pyrmont, Redfcra, Gosford, Ny®
in, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St, Leonard's, Newcastle
ad Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street. .
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank o*
ngland .
WATCH
Tfffi KIDJMKYfS.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes di<-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow
Headache, Weakness, Pain in the Small of hack and
loins, flushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. Yau can thoroughly protect the Kidneys
by Hr. Bell’s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them by this best of all medicines for the Kidneys —
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among the many symptoms of Dyspepsia or Indi-
gestion the most prominent are Variable appetite ;
faint, gnawing feeling at pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food ; heartburn, feeling of
weight and wind in the stomaoh, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low- spirits, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none s 0
peculiar to the high-living and rapid-eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia 1
also bad air, rapid eating, &e. Dr. Bell’s Bitters will
cure the worst ease by regulating the bowels and 1
toning up the digestive organs. SWd everywhere.
Note.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, ©r Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
o
BUTCHER, FEHON & C 0„ SIDNEY
AGENTS FOB
New South Wales A Queensland.
ORGANS!
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH.”
BRUCE & MASSE??
PIANOS,
OKG A NS, MUSIC-
-197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
ijiysn
c|SJam^r^s)
' /Z /f? /
C v// 7 / c^S«^//7?/2y /
( t&> Qi, J^:'/^/im£y.
.y C
w
OVT
ILLUSTRATION <in reduced alee) ->f dBl Order to be found in the
‘LARGE BOTTLES" OP WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.


RAW VASELINE.
9*1%
1
<•
V
r ORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Cliprers,
AA Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Aarge assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies' and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
"idlers' Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
Wholesale saddlers, and saddlers
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY
m
w
iGi
c - H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
Hats and gaps,
302 GEORGE STREET,
, 3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
w
ţ
Wholesale manufacture
CONFECTIONER
4-206fvrge$h'
sSVD&KV
HVMQ3XS S3WVP
Steam work¥,Kent s t near Erbhine"ST
CoAu* OH' (W^HwAI
tuonoKß pm SMo/tresr ndtice .
gggjggggggggg
CouMTnY jt Stnrrytc Otoe*s famm? Mf*ok
\1
ji. , f
r‘
1 ‘3‘?“ 6%
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANKS,
883 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
g
E
pfeSSSjEn
Jf
ng>The
ASTHMA. BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
and all chest affections
PftEPAREB f ONLY
TfiOMAS
Ingham
OQ.KH.A_
P
l
L
E
R
A
n
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thr«fk Gold Mkpat.s—
. PARIS,IB7B, CXLCUTI'A, 1881,
tor pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
E ATT DE COLOGNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting m utc.
Of all Dealers , and of the J! lanufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
.Trade Mark—“ White Rose'* on“ Golden
fet Lyre.”
3?
CORNILLON & GO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
e on Sale—
Mackiea & Co. celebrated Whiskie
Renay Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, In
bulk and cases
~ Ve - Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
incola del norte de Bspana, Rioja Claretß,
t, &c.
- A.V.H. Gin, &c., &o.
THK NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
t Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Axed a toreat as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
and in??, 08 * 63 for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
for shorter periods; FIVE PER
‘ °n BUms from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
°h. Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st
J. V. WARHKAM, Manager
invite inspection of our LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK of all classes of
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, Ironmongery,
AND
GETTEBAL IF IT El HISIIIH <3- DHAAE'EmY.
BEDDING
of
every
DESCRIPTION
at
EXCEPTIONAL
PRICES.
QUALITY
the
BEST.
Q
8
j
GREAT
REDUCTIONS
in
BEST WOVE WIRE
MATTRESSES.
2ft. £0 18 0
3ft 10 0
3ft. Oin. ...120
4ft 110
Ift. Gin. ...15 0
DOUBLE FOUR-POST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
FOOTRA.IL, £2 ss.
ear Write or send for our revised 78-page Illustrated House Furnishing Guide.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
sr
(S 7.
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast” BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with;
milk, superb with wine, and incomparible'
with coffee or cheoso.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
74 Sussex Street, Sydney.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents I
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Robert butcher & co>
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
£2T Country Orders receive prompt attention. TS4
mi
•.HATTER
TREET
s
YD
N
Wl
HAFE3
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
PRIZE MEDALS.
Sola by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
Mm
i*oif
sU
I/ay&D
6.50N6
Bosmj/
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
BOSTON,
VIENNA.
PHIL.A-.
iQQ9 Is conceded to be
s|s|: “THE STANDARD."
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS,
281 & 233 Congress Street, Boston.
MASS, U.B.A.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requel
j. cEmmciiAM,
MABOAKKT-STHXKT, WYKWA*D «<iUAEI, Btdnhy
s
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
Dr. E. 0. West’s Nerve ant> Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wusefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid pn receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six BOXES to cure any case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment doos not effect a euro. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
Circular sent free on application.
«£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in Btamps.
W W w
West's World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
Nisv
TREATMENT
LLAS
£<TUDY
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Framoi re-
covered, and your
Paranoia re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match oos
tomes. Benairs neatly eveented
rjIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “ Lipp Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMKNT,
Hon. Sec.
JgRAD liRY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and f’CON NELL STREETS.
Wininfffljuzvglunfwﬂﬁglg| é '
3" . *“ 5.“ l
‘ fag-mmﬁmcza‘mr' .
1 WM“ [WWW
”1%th
)1!!! - rgmummwuv-
f Q r PIANOFORTE,
dtOO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Conj
nell-street.
”i? "*Xé-ﬁiﬁﬂﬁngﬂ‘-
1 I112; ‘ggT
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
Cmatch.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
W
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 103.
E3SE3
r-t
HB
Sideboards of modern
designs and various dimen
Bions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
O’Conne and Spring Streets.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o»
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, NewtoD,
and Lamb.
■VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, noveltioe
in Plash and Volvotß, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
LEGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
enamelled, in cdlours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
53
naL
HH
Cral
fcjfi
o
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehouskmhn
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
Drawing-room furniture.—Tho latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
7'.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bod -
rooms. New designs, covered to order in
any material.
'gbf‘.
i.‘
Wiii'
mm “7'9?“
..;!1 E;°:-""w"
.—__u‘ $ ‘
BKDSTKADS, all sizes
Nlckol-platod and Block
and Brass, Glreata variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and'
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
BIDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates!
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ť
SPRING MATTRABSHH
Woven Wire, bte
make; also, Spiral Spring •
Prloe, from 11a. each.
BRADLEY, NK -VTON ! and LAMP,


Will
dT'
Odd\ c/mJ'
/"i y /At z/ct/e >
/P6> d/tse /
/Afe/z /Ac i*yA/' -
/Vo y<7 /
'/jfcif dct-* <2 yZKG*" 4*- '
7° j4>>/3. 3&o 4*4*oa3 7U*‘&iyi{/‘
a* ZCc 6744C40^rt*35
o*3. s 4/& 'ee, -
6L UA.y
3i£ ,
faflaJlt- Cu<j£
iSi
« /
(f j
pi \
V&A
fffa
7«y
't 1 /.)
r o4‘
#£ r v ' -Skct£r3M*x*e
/7fi~uf 6***-'
'Zyrv-u^y,
4a Gucd-asat < j!a^ /L /
7/c
&tl/%ul frtUL
-
/ 'N A- <&f ---)
<s' &
J^hTi ,
vw mEPm*,
a 7ZF xc/y./
4 jo* '*/ ' •js,
V J f£ *-JJ-
***£/*■ 3H^
k_ /& -fuL*^
1 JU^/--^^
H_ /XL 7Kr^v-
\-f& '
i _ /?i /
■ (
■ __/*L &«£ [
B
&u>r ...
M _ /&
I flit-
■ /iuL
■ fflu haU^Tu,
Voices of the Night.


WENT 0)“;
[SALICYia
® exquisite {
Acidy \
BY THE PROPRIE TOR,
\TOOTH v PASTt
Uflrivalled 9of{ firs flt/r/seme
/A/O CLEAf/sif/6 PROPERTIES.
X.
si
55®
!£tei!BffiH@KsiVlSL :
-*;v %<tyisloA^
T.B.MELHiIISH, Pharmaceutical Cbmist
134 W'uuam S YD
OOTS
00 TS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.'
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S 3 OH
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVEHY HOUSE.
KRH‘SESSE
ANIMALS m
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS^
AIL NOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS. FU ES BEETLES MOSQU
COCKROACHES.SF'rRA 0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS,
FOWLS OR OTHER M
$0 *4
s
&
'O'^ 1 A s °
y **%' o^ N j v a >0 i
• a*? aV *» A.V2I
p CV «vx s /
r.. X
m <r 'S
«y «*v
P&AUCHEMIST?!
AND STOREKEEPERS;
yVHOkESALE
FELTON-CRIMWAD£,'M.C < ?!
-MELBOURNE—
WANTED IN EVEKY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware o 1
the numerous imitations.
IKII
MARKING INK
'i
JET BLACK
6d. and If- per Bottle,
ABSOLUTELY INDELIBLE.
I WILL NOT INJURE THE FINEST FABRICS.
' NO HEAT REQUIRED.
Sold Dy Drapers, Chemists, Stationers, Oilmen, Storekeepers, &c., &e#
DANIEL JUDSON & SdN (LIMITED), London and New York.
HENRY LANCASTER,
s //?OA/
WAT&Q CAR
b aa v Jm
not affected
BY WEATHER
L% TROUGH^
c ANNO,*i BE broken:
C/S TRRA/sF
/>*a/a/
o<a
■VA
V 4
Hut
YLINO
AN
• rong;c *o»fau
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
LEADING WOBKBHOPB
OF England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bbos,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wreught-iron pipes, s. a.
funnels, ventilators,
dec., &c.
Estimates cheorfiaHy giree. ’
REDUCED PRICK LISTS FURNISHED ON APPLICATION.
Works: 65 GEORGE STREET, WEST,'-near Railway Station.
ORGANS
BOLE AGENTS
FUli
THE
SMITH
BKUCE & MASSEY,
ORGANS, MUSIC.
197 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Floor,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
tord, always on hand. All made
v»ry best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
D" RIDGE’S
FOOD
re# INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England,
tod is now being introduced into thf
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will r.ertainly
use it.
DH, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
FEasrasTEJi-L-y’s
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GAELING
(PROPRIETOR),
Anctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and tfce Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held ef racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and oattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which ean be obtained on applica-
tion.
m ason brothers.
“a;
8m:-
"‘1\ '5".
v If“, 1' \
wit!
am
..3’171 .‘3 “V
gm! W}.-
vsr- lihlu" , "‘If'n ”"13;
$34594§142§ *é-i‘} 1i? ;'
u,‘”‘r’.‘1,"‘ :r.“ r;
\5’ Hit-€5.13 1 [ [[1:5'ﬁ
r .11 ‘I‘ 1 “" U-
::§;{a§* x it
man 5’3»
A i Y a "h",
{H " 11.931 15:“
r ' W? «1 ﬂ
:1 '1
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, lo>
SALE to che TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA
ANB
EARTHEN W a rr
WINES. BEERS, and SPIRITS*
and general
HULK MERCHANDISE
Agents foi
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whirls?
, and CO. 'S
Oognao.
T. GAYENS
sohnapps and Geneva
a. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY
Messrs, CHARLEMONT & eo.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prinoe Imperial, &c., Sec., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messae. C. and 00. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of aitttng should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSV'ENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing.
Gymnast!!ob, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. For
harms, &0., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
First class award
O R
HIGH LSI 0 LGREE OF MERIT
r -
T*.
ISTHE BEST INTJiE,WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT #
WAUG H S
R € CE*VEQTH£ 'NTERNA TI O'M At
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured b y Jam e sCrannon
Harbour. S t Sydnh
Sold by All Crocersand Storekeepers
E
VERYBODY
SHOULD USE
}
PE M ELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IF" Z_ © "-T E* I
it is made from ire best wheat
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Maghknbry,
The PRICE is NERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED very GOOD.
C'IOUB M ) L,
GENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
at
IW CASTLEREAGH STRESS
Near Marker-street.
PAPER HAN GIN G S
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
Hous* and
tenter,
GLASS SffLVERER, BEV ELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 GBORG E-STREET, SYDNEY.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTO-STOCK IMPORTERS,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
By tine sad sea waves she photos while they moan)
Of love she never raves, but plays her hand alone i
Her camera the friend to help her fancy’s flight;
Her life is one long blend of beauty with delight.
- ' ft
a arn
r
-a,
NX
'<S\!
m
V
■- ■« ■' ■ " »-• •'
Finger on the logger-line, keeping cool and steady,
No fussing round the camera, or firing till you’re
ready;
Train, or tram, or steamer, tricycle or bike,
There’s nothing now half fast enough, take which
one you like.
m
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS,
Including all requisites for the amateur or the professional, can be had at
prices to suit all requirements.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
119 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book an application, (Books sent by
mail to any part of Australia,


ALLAJN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Meta? Work, Copperamithing, Blacksraitking, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Azents for Verity Bros., Paten* Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prick on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T_ Pay Co., Cim.clri.n.a,ti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Maehinea.2
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Pricks.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
1887.
PEIINCE OH 1 WALES HOTEL. 1887.
IMPORTER OF WIYES & SPIRITS.
in order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his W holesale and Re
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases ef the best brands of WINES, SPIR ’
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to oope with the rapid growth of this branc
business. _
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure cases, by a too roughly efficient of
lackers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfera Station,
or any Wharf in the City. . .
The FAMOUS £3 CASES °« and SPIRITS, confea
[ JAMAICA RUM i SCHNAPPS 1 Bottle OLD TOM
[ IPOEI WLNB 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are' all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
,i V en perfect satisfaotioa to purchasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
iee by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
PO. Price Lists post free on application. Special redactions to purohasers of Cases of Wines and
3pirits and Bulk-Goods.
.pints ana . nr .
», it,, LAMIH, Wholesale and Mail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer
1 onrowtarra TTAVMAVWr «Vn\TWV
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURMTURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
and
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
SAUC
•jAMplsmijg
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORC TT I l.hs Ih it &.
LA C/CE which are calculated to deceive Tie Puvnc, Lea ana t ertfnie
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label om Ootlis
hears char EignaTnre teius -'-
wiinout which no Oottle of the original WQMCJEEf ERI-H'I&JU
EAUCE is'genuine.
Ask pot LEA and FERRIES' Sauce, and see Name on WraptMr, Land, Potts# and
Stopper, Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester, Crime, anal
Jilaekwell , London , (she. . Che., and by Growers and Oilmens throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents: Monteeiore, Joseph & Oo.; David Cohen & Co., riymaxp.
CALL AT
The Mercantile Tailoring Palace,
Where you can get
A Pair of West of England Tweed Trousers (made to yom measure) fof
or a Sao Suit for 60/-. Fit Guaranteed,
Or PATTERN|ANDjMEASUREMENT FORMS BY POST.
722 George-street, Haymarket, Next Alhambra Musio Hall.
PERDRIAU & OOT,
INDIA-RUBBER MERCHANTS,
18 ERSKINE STREET,
/tar GARDEN HOSE, ALL SIZES AND LENGTHS, fl •»
India-rubber Goods for Mechanical, Horticultural, Surgical, and general purpose**
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES.
\S*‘
*
•\H V
6
ŧ
} OOT
<Sc "3
\HOE Ba ZA*
r 252 a George S t
JPtxzle Jfdrxxyurl' SYj&
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
XT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE STREET-
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GJ-TEOIRG-IE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Bet wee a Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
[Estabjjsh. ao 1869. ]
The Place for Bargains in EARTHENWARE
TOWN FOLK
Walk there.
COUNTRY FOLK,
Write there.
GLASSWARE
CHINA
CUTLERY
FURNITURE
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
CARPETS
FLOORCLOTHS
The he»t stocked Emporium in Australasia is
LAWLER’S, wnere everything wanteo Sn a house
or about a house may be had at prices within the
reach of all. No puffing, or professing to supply
goods for next to nothing, but value simply un-
precedented. and if it is not so, then none need
buy. Manufacturer and wholesale importer,
turning over in the lines above-name d as much
as all the other houses put together. Value and
straightforwardness, aivility and promptness at
LAWLER’S 608 (tage-street, Sydney.
J. MURPHY’S
CENTRAL LOAN AND DISCOUNT
OFFICES,
CORNER ©E KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS,
Opposite George-street.
MONEY LENT AT THE LOWEST RATE OE INTEREST
IN THIS CITY.
Loans from Is. to £lOOO, at lOd. in the £
per month.
Loams on Gold and Silver Jewellery, Clothing,
and every description of Portable Property,
granted at Rates never before attempted in this
Colony.
American Gold and Silver and all Foreign Coins
Exchanged at J. Murphy’s Central Loan and Dis-
count Offices, corner of Kent and Liverpool
streets, opposite George-street.
X WE
T. JONES & 00.,
PHARMACEUTICAL chemists
[By Examination, London).
Medumnb, Pkhw’umkky, Toilet articles, and
Druggists’ Sundries of the best quality
supplied at the lowest prices.
53 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ;
CROWN STREET TRAM TERMINUS, SURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI.
Prescriptions Accurately Dispensed.
The fresh food and ice comp* l **
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
No. 23 ROYAL AROAD®.
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Cofltee, Cocoa, SCO.,
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for deH* B** 8 **
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency
“KOUMISS." so highly recommended in P^ 01
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., LIMIT® 5,
2l Harbour •Btr #et '
... Liverpool-sWoßt*
Mittagong.
Head Office
Stahles
Faotory
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
fsmm.
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AVO INOIAN MIUBITIC*'
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES ‘
W. BALGHIN, JOHNSTON & C°;
Commercial Cham Iters, lloml •street..
Try POGONOWSKI
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
The Largest Assortment in the Colonic
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List).
" ' 1 ask your grocer for
FRYS MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY COT CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT Off THE BEST ALB OR PORTER."— Lanouxb. ___3SS^
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS.
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters,, and Proprietor of Vigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
3 1 and 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awardod the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for Crated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, &o
