

The Bulletin
m. 364
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1887.
irrioe., G\
Once Again.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-strkkt, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance).
Per annum - - - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - O 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
f pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
I have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
I This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
IThe Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
f the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
. fere.
HIGH WATER MARK.
The Circulation of “The Bulletin”
Christmas Number is the largest ever
reached by an Australian Newspaper.
Eighty-two Thousand Five Hundred
and Sixty (82,560) copies having been
printed, and the entire edition sold.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1887.
The New South Wales Political
Situation.
To trace the origin of the unhealthy condi-
tion of public opinion which has prevailed in
New South Wales for many years and formed
the matrix of political evil, one would have
to make an excursion into history somewhat
remote ; but it is sufficient to start with the
period when Sir Henry Parkes contrived to
divide the people inro two bitterly hostile
The seeds of confusion and corrup-
tion quickly germinated in the soil thus pre-
pared. Designing men hastened to secure
their own wretched little ends, whilst the
masses were kept thinking only of religious
differences, and the general election which
gave Parkes and Robertson their quietus
gave the country an Assembly composed
mostly of knaves and incapables. The ad-
vent of Mr. Stuart afforded ground for high
hopes ; but unfortunately the health of that
gentleman failed, and the country was left to
the mercy of Mr. Dallky, whose sole idea
was to show that the Orange party
had not a monopoly of that “ loyalty to the
Sovereign ” of which so much absurd talk has
been heard. While Mr. Dalley was law-
lessly wasting his country’s substance over
military enterprises, all sorts and conditions
of thieves w'ere dipping into the Treasury
and bringing on the financial catachysm that
has now overwhelmed the community. The
rottenness of the regime of Dalley and
Dlbbs is now no longer a matter of contro-
versy. When asked out of what fund the
cost of the Soudan business was to be de-
frayed, thesepoliticiansanswered, “Outof the
surplus revenue!” It is to-day a proved fact
that when Parliament wa3 told this there
was not only no surplus, but an actual deficit
of formidable proportions, and a prospective
deficit calculated to alarm a capable Govern-
ment into taking precautionary measures.
If, instead of rushing into costly, senseless,
and unlawful enterprises, the Ministry of
that day had engaged at once in systematic
retrenchment of the expenditure, the country
would not now be driven to it 3 wits’ ends to
avert bankruptcy.
* * *
Undoubtedly the last Assembly was bad
in every point of view that takes in the
well-being of the country. It possessed no
legislative capacity, no financial acumen, no
critical insight into public affairs, no honesty
of purpose. It passed a Land Act which is
an egregious fiasco, and a Criminal Law Con-
solidation and Amendment Act which is a
disgrace and a horror, we will not say to
civilisation, but to absolute humanity. For
yhe rest it did nothing boyond registering
endorsing measures involving unparal-
; extravagance of expenditure and
corruption. How far the present
an improvement on its predecessor
determine. The delieit be-
witsDiie million. It is mov
Tie
ML
•:,T\ SL
Kv
ah
Em
necessary to write letters approaching in vitu-
peration those which recently passed between
Sir Patrick Jennings and Mr. Dikes, the
positions of the writers being analagous,
their publication has been reserved for a
fitting season, when the writers had ceased
to have the onus cast upon them of uphold-
ing the dignity of the country. Like a
couple of fishfags, however, the ex-Prime
Minister and his most important colleague
must needs rush into the market-place to
have out their slanging-match, and thus dis-
grace not only themselves—that is nothing—
but the colony as a whole. Th s truly is par
excellence the age of outrages.
* * *
The puer le and ludicrous m ans
adopted by the ex-Premier to rid himself of a
contumacious and unworkable colleague in-
dicate ignorance of the very alphabet of
politics. His duty was to demand the dis-
missal of Mr. Dibbs as an alternative to re-
signing office himself. Mr. Dibbs would not
have been the first Australian Minister
gazetted out of office under like circumstances
to those that have lately transpired. But
possibly Sir Patrick Jennings, after a pro-
cess of severe introspection, concluded the
country would derive some advantage from
the removal of himself as well as Mr. Dibbs.
And here we are disposed to inquire touch-
ing the manner in which the Ministerial
resignation was tendered. The conduct of
the Governor seemed to support the general
belief that he and Sir Patrick Jennings
were simply endeavouring to cut the Colonial
Secretary out of the Cabinet. Lord Caring-
ton evidently did not regard the matter as
one of serious importance, for he went oft' on
a jaunt to Sutton Forest, as though no-
thing particular had occurred, leaving the
colony practically without a Government
on the very eve of the assembling of Parlia-
ment. When Mr. Dibbs telegraphed that
he would resign in order to relieve his
Excellency of embarrassment, the Governor
returned what was evidently intended to be
a sarcastic reply. “ I thank you,” he said,
“for your generous offer.” All this went to
show that some arrangement had been made
whereby Sir Patrick Jennings was to be
again entrusted with the seals of office.
Yet at the eleventh hour Sir Henry Parkes
was called in ! If any understanding did
exist between Lord Carington and Sir
Patrick Jennings, it was the mo3t extraor-
dinary agreement to which a constitutional
Governor ever allowed himself to be made a
party ; and if no understanding existed, why
was the resignation not accepted without a
moment's delay? Macaulay has aftirmed
that the worst Government in the world is
preferable to none at all. Perhaps Lord
Carington was merely experimenting with
the view of disproving this theory.
But he should be informed that
New South Wales does not want
an experimenting Governor added to
her other ills. Nor does she want a
Governor who seeks advice from men not re-
sponsible to Parliament. At the time of the
last Ministerial crisis the statement was
overtly made, and has remained unchallenged,
that the late Chief Justice was called in for
advice by Lord Carington ; and now it is
as publicly declared that another man has
been performing the role of unconstitutional
and irresponsible adviser to his Excellency,
in connection with the Jennings-Dibbs im-
broglio. We may rest assured that the
gentleman who was used by Mr. Dibbs to
intoxicate the people with copious draughts
of rhetoric whenever they sought to compre-
hend the financial position of the Govern-
ment would not recommend the sending for
Sir Henry Parkes until the last moment ;
and hence perhaps the mischievous procrasti-
nation that has occurred.
* * *
Sir Henry Parkes has re-entered office
after a prolonged rustication. Yet he seems
to make a fresh start precisely at the pfint
where four years ago he left off. He ‘ has
learnt nothing and forgotten nothin". ” It
is difficult to transplant an oak at 50, and we
may be sure the man who has lived so long
as bir Henry Parkes in an atmosphere of
Freetrade will find it hard to get on with
comfort in an atmosphere impregnated
strongly with Protection. The present
House and Sir Henry are not in the least
likely to have confidence in each other j and
we make no doubt the new Prime Minister
has ananged in advance for a dissolution.
But the point is, what docs the country
think ? From every quarter The news
arrives that Protection is' the fast-
coming j lower, nor is that news mere
idle rumour. When the Jennings Minis-
try, which went into' office ostensibly as
Freetraders, broke up, it was found to con-
sist of five Protectionists and four adherents
to the fiscal faith which is ruining England.
No less than (15 members of the present
New South Wales Parliament are ready to
support the imposition of a tax on agricul-
tural produce, and the man who will tax
corn will tax anything. This state of affairs
is not likely to be changed by an appeal to
the country, from the loudly-expressed
opinionof which the time-servers and dodgers
of politics most of whom, ominously enough
for the failing cause of the “ calico Jimmie's”
of East Sydney, now sit in the temple of Pro-
tection—havo taken their cue. The journals
which support Parkes, and are credited witli
being his mouthpiece, aver that his Ministry
is to be FreeStrade to the backbone. Such a
resurrection of Parkes. It is not, as his
friends insist, ail apotheosis. He comes in
the flesh, not in the spirit. He is the same
Parkes who opposes payment of mem-
bers. He is the same tricky old
man who . gave New South Wale 3
“ Prosperity ” by selling her lands, and who
has been tried and found wanting in nume-
rous balances ; and looking to the immediate
future—-though hope with her flattering
tongue tempts us to look farther ahead—we
can only perceive that the colony lias got
out of the frying-pan into the fire.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Drowsiness and. Railway Disasters.
If instead of winning the dearly-bought favour of
the Sydney morniDg papers by arranging for the
starting of a morning train at a time that suits no
one except the proprietors of the morning papers
aforesaid, Mr. Lynis had endeavoured to make
railway travelling safer, he would have done
something to vindicate his administration of an
important Department. The trouble is this. As
soon as an officer is deemed to be qualified to take
charge of a railway station, and a vacancy occurs,
he is made nightofficer-in-charge— that is to
he is responsible for the conduct of traffic at a
station duiing the night just ss the station-master
i 3 during the day. For twelve hours every night
in the week, even Sunday night, from G p m. to 6
a.m., the night officer occupies apo ition where a
moment's carele.-sne3s may lead to a colossal
smash. In nine cases out of ten he is under 30
years old, and has not developed that steadiness
which comes with maturer age. He has not ac
quired strength of constitution capable of endur-
ing night-work with impunity ; and having still
a young man’s love of amusement, he, as often as
not, is up and about all day, and effier3 upon his
work at night in a drowsy, stupid sta f c. Of
course he ought not to do so, but as long as
youths hold such positions such things will be
done, lie has been tempted to enjoy himself
during the day, and to that temptation has
yielded at the risk of the lives of tho-e who will
bo carried past his station at night. In any case,
the sleep obtained during the heat of the day is
less re3tful than night sleep. At nearly all coun-
try stations the traffic at night is heavier than
during the day, and the liability to error and
consequent need of vigilance ten times as great;
yet the day traffic i 3 directed by a man in the
higher grade of the service, and the heavier re-
sponsibility of the night traffic is borne by a man
who receives less pay, ha 3 had less experience,
and is lcs3 capable of continued vigilance. Think
of these thing 3, you night travellers, as comfort-
ably bestowed in your bunks you are borne past
country stations; remember that your lives are
possibly dependent upon the clear-headedncs3 of a
youth who has not slept since the day before yes-
terday, and then reflect whether Mr. Lyne would
not have done better to reform the system which
makes these things possible, instead of wasting
his energio3 by dangling an impracticable scheme
of morning mails before the covetous eyes of the
proprietors of those influential journals.
~—♦
“ Mr. Dibbs-Guilty or Not Guilty?”
In the excitement consequent upon the political
changes in New South Wa’es it must not be for-
gotten that up to the time of writing Mr. Hums
has omitted to clear himself of the damning
charges made against him by Mr. Thomson.
The main facts of the correspondence must never
be allowed to pass out of memory so long as Mr.
Bibbs has a seat in the Assembly or aspires to a
position there. As far as Mr. Thomson is con-
cerned the matter may be allowed to rost: he
never was charged with having wilfully misled his
Ministerial superiors, and the <#iarge of blunder-
ing in his work, preferred against him, is fairly
and fully an iwered by his official reebrd, and by
the more convincing evidence submitted in tho
accusation. It is quite possible that Mr. Dibrs
may have a d ifence as strong and sufficient as that
of Mr. Thomson is generally admitted to be, but
so far it has not been disclosed. Possibly Mr.
Dibbs is armed so strong in honesty that such
charges “ pans by him as the id'e wind” : it may
be that pride in his past record prompts him
to suffer in silence these accusations which
actually affect his honour as a man, as much
as they do his integrity as a politician.
But this is a false pride, for he must be aware that
in political, no loss than in legal matters, judg-
ment goes by def ault if there is no appearance by
defendant. Every hour that these accusations
remain unanswered, add 3 to tho task of disprov-
ing them. The vital charge is that Mr. Dibbs,
when Treasurer, “cooked ’ the Estimates for 188 G
by “ docking ” the Expenditure, and by adding
various sums on to the “ Estimated ” Revenue, in
order to make the figures foreshadow a surplus
for that year in place of a deficit. The accusa-
tion, if it be false, is so gross and heinous a libel,
that no feeling of friendship, sympathy, or com-
passion that Mr. Dibbs may entertain for his
whilom subordinate should deter him from enter-
ing upon his prosecution for criminal libel. For,
true or false, so long as tho charge is unrefuted,
Mr. Dibbs is incapable of serving his country in
Parliament although he may sit and vote there ;
and any constituency nominating him as their
member would share in the disgrace attaching to
so grievous an imputation. The vile charge is a
reflection on Mr. Dibbs* present constituency so
long as it is undenied ; “ Disprove this accusation
or resign,” would be a fair demand for the Mur-
rumbidgee electors to make.
+
A Clean Sweep.
If the recommendations of the Board appointed lo
enquire into the working or idling of the New
South Wales Works Department becomes the
basis of action, there will shortly bo many lofty
apartments to let and a goqd many rolls of Turkey
carpet, with handsome suites of mahogany and
cedar furniture to sell; agood many dignilledindivi-
duals will also be open to engagement, and not a
few poor devils, with wives and children depend-
ing on their salaries for daily bread, will feel
tho wolf of want at their vitals and know
a keener anguish than is pleasant even from an
outside standpoint to contemplate. The sins of
bygone days will be visitGd on these men, the
crimes of the old land-revenue days, when, for
civil sorvico. buildings sandstone and marble
could not bo wrought in too costly style, or
carpets be too densely and softly spun,' or cedar be
too elaborately carved. It is nothing more or less
than the burst-up of the old “ lire-on-the princi-
H \
fl >' % c? h
?»}
|||
fl * * .. „
Societies,
• jfv> 'V. '?■:'
’'\ :' ' ** (
Who
ccas
fl
fl
fl
beyond
n
fl
old
fl
BB
fu<- - , I o >v ),< !i<■ v: t.- in i "C *7’<>
wonder must be that paeiflcinflssgs£
easier oir.-jtfl. The London
furnishe? the solution of this ,;
l hat journal < Ims m n ’l \ ho IhiruflHßfl
Lrom its issue of Xovembsr •_':: HBHH
lines :
•• Tin* _dis.ir!iiiiU' .>f the /»., /■■’.;'
■!:• ' ! i : Imr ir i..
-iv n ui'iiiHly. ! i■,\ - ,iv< si' :u .t ,i '^■g§||lggg§l
from wild bi\.sts.”
I!<*;•*•, plainly enorgh. is ; ha
I tan the daeoit.s include nil l h<*
is oire'ly what I’m: ih u m
(tie first. Lui t ) this inle 1
'ii ihe -a'lie ar ide T lie '! im i fIMHH
Tii- i.i.o nmlioiin t > which them
■ I'V.S fill ;i]i| ali is that i;l till' I I.'-. r '
iii'aii “"(id tu'ii.s with the ilr it ish i; iflji>.®|s,,
i ii;r;11:i wi'.t'lu tin'l l' i.ur V• 1 ’ I HuBB
I"'"'.: er ill- tnidi-r our rule, and where t
a> ' 1 , ’ll i,:a■ in i'll ..in t idly 1 iMtirti's.HHß
This is the old story : the priests uiflHH
prime traitors of any country. fIH
land, where prelates proud in thlMfl||
ape° humility are applauding Sir F. ifl
hLs band of military murderers,
the “glory” entailed on British arnfl|
marauding. They (the English
prostitution of their oflice, assist the paflf
protects them, just as tlie39
priests tyc said to have done. In oithjfl
ministers of God are doing the Devil’s fl
the conspiracy of two sets of prieEts afl
Cabinet, Burmah has helm “ pacified,’’fl
mines have beenseixed, the Crown jewels fl
burghd, and the work of-oppression fl
mat ic spoliation may now be carried on fl
to Indian precedent. And this
lently phrased in the Times in thic sentjfl
“ The instinct qf law and justice (!.) ie
smAiitiTrnvrinaaMßnMKi^tf^Ma^H
thya^MK-Tflishinent
fl
the
WE
compared
necessary ii§ upon ex-
to
H
more he noticed.^^^^^^^^^^^^fl
H
fl
fl ■ * v i N
fl
in the
fl
fl
fl
fl
■
witlienthusiasm.asa child
fact no to him, be cause of
fl
fl
upplaud, while those few
haunt community
Emasculation—yes, that
Doubtless. But what else
fl
"fl
fl
y imagine h 1
W'liV- would app ar, mi: in
I’aris, Berlin. Vicnu i, Mn-.liid ;
jecis, what gibes would he paf
i empl and disrepute, what loathing
how in a moment all the old
lie revealed, all the old fetters
wc should stand a peculiar
ami should scarcsly need to e’.o.ie fcho dfl|
immigration-otliejs or to fence
against New Caledonia ! Emaseulnrf
all our troubles, hut where will it
Tlvey know, these flippant advocates
punishment as was never yet enforce
people in any timfe of the world, that
same remedy has at Various times been
as a means of ending su,ch batterings
such ]iussibilities as we fliive never
or feared, the wisdom and experience otßfl
has put t lie thing aside with a calm
impossible. Our clerics jerk the thing dufl
were a light and e;isy matter. Possibly ill
an undisclosed reason. Sydnev Smith fl
the average clerical intellect to he cmasfl
and as an emasculated body would certain]
an emasculated mind, if the.practice shoo
be generally adopted, the aspirants for the
try might he largely increased. We luive
that in these practical days it is diflicult
emit suitable candidates for the clerical
sion.
♦
More Cat Wanted.
The Western Independent (Bathurst, N
according to a paragraph gleefully quoted
Sydney daily Press, considers that Newß
Wales cannot bo made respectable withenj
more flogging. As the lash is in the verjl
Bathurst, the poor local editor cannot nltj
Let the ancient chronicler (ItMgl
m an l-imigr mi M.-.-h mi.-, London,
■
♦ Bf


A
’ - 31?'
* * * AiH67
, 1 - f -Sp
to have taken the
f k . ) ISf
‘ I *■*■'•)
’L'v Hy
■gHHHHBHKep hole in the ground by
HP
fiU 'ii/' fgg
going on in the full blaze of it.
A' * Hr
.HL
• a '< |^L
*'• * “ lie*
HI
, *•" Hw
ml 4i ' |
i $ '/S A 4 Hr
M
■
to attempt escape,
Bivith a flaying, is a blasphemy
b r nl CD Ac",
j
■ Grattan Guinness by his son,
.
l I'om B: - i - bane :
Acts are in full force here. In
hE
HH^HHnHlra^^H 0 audience, but they all seem
and shows what a
ip r
Hr
liim.-’ulf hi, "-rk-ncr '1 1 ho
bcntd'h shaken To . 1
HHB|H"iid 1 he aL ilk nf and
• !. 1 -.1;. 1 leu lie. ail. 1 1 e<> ■ w! 1 1 w.*H.
lines. I ..is ( no re * fe' :i:i._c-
|ygf|n and lor 1 lie -i 11111 1 e sake of pmii-hinq
HH|Hu. ( !er- : hey von id e.indenn ,
>rn. The disea-*; re,0i1,,! oil by ilie
;i, ii would he well iVrallto know, .no
HHHwT.'oil’ii! pl'i;ii - l IrU ini onh m.ik. so
■■ll debauchee. Lu: of h - < hihlren ,1 d Ik
Bp
;. break out Again in the next. Surely
■Hation should be enacted with a view to the
of the nation's children, who are
inheritors of all the Stale’s possession*.
|Hmr youthful 1 liese to be coa-
icdto a of !H- U3 3 their parents
jjjgggg^Hiflparcnt 3 may nave committed only a
jfegmn against the laws of nuraliti ! ('1:1
lll (Tiie'.t y ler I U I,! 11 « :: r 1 ■! i e, : 1 1 ,. - ■
to follow One who took the le. <:.•■■■ b,
gmm and healed them? Very likely indeed
wore suffering from a -inula" soon -g
before parading insh ink
fei the faot that out here and in
HH^-
i ’V
?l l ll, ‘ if’laguo. Slinky Dr ( . i tl \\K--s
. H ■
lf he i:.
HHHH him .eg i:ii dui g of
HBHIIB ■ ' o’ 1 h h ' Jll. ;n; r
lie; result s of evil-doing.
■ life:
; I h
■ - 1 I • I I . • . . k I ' k .
undue powers—that it not only
careless or unscrupulous olficers to puh-
decenr women as ah.in lout g bin that
r.ite-Iy placing a i otfieial stigma o'
t he woman win . has fallen sod ro) S
little self-respee: she may h ive still ie
to preelude all hope of her •Jp.trma
is indeed a idee a •gum or ...
mouths of the hjgus relegitni-ts of
Melbourne, and Hrisba-ie, w.n>, when a
of 17 has for the first time : n his life
||HHed against morality and the law, ina-reli him
gallows, if it is good that sucicty should,
interests of the community at largo, take
of destroying the life of an innocent man
risk, for example, it distinctly undertook
K it hanged tho boy Read, the otlicr day—lt
also be good for it to take the unavoidable
■ of destroying the reputation of an innocent
Rnan now and then —especially when it is re-
■ißhered that tho destruction of a woman’s ropu-
Hion does not involve the destruction of her virtue
Piiei? life. The whole present question is simply
his: Shall the cletgy, who, as a body, have just
hi.wn that their gospel is not riic gospel of love
md mercy, but that of barbarous cruelty and
avage inhumanity—shall the posturing simple-
ons who show us every day that they can't c*re
ouls, be allowed to interfere w:th the physician
vhen he attempts to cure bod e« I Sh ill we pray
o Heaven that venereal d soase -w.tli the ten
housand fatal and hideous malad.es in its train —
juiy not bo further spread throughout the laud,
ir shall wo arise from our knees and help tho
uygeons l
♦
Aninjals of Prey.
Y t e are in receipt of a pamphlet from the “ Now
louth \Vule3 Commercial, Pastoral, and Agrieul-
ur.il Association,” in wliich are a few somewhat
txrtling items. The breohure is a wild miss of
lab, written to provo that the Association
fcould get everything they ask for and should
liy jhist what they like for it; but among the
levailing woodenness we find an occasional gem
He this :
Hln the meantiim the blacks have left the hunter like and
represented by a remnant sponging about stations
for old cloth" i, grihh, and tobacco: while th,
Hiim'.i i'i of ilo’ dinj<»i, hive turn vlntf' <t "Jj U;i
lie man who wrote this may perhaps be a ('hrist'an,
lit, it s 6, ho himself deserves to bo classed as a
Lst of pray. We may mention, in passing, that
were a few member j of this Association among
moll w i," 1 ' li^ol l"T d in i> rp. in ho:
miserably ignorant hoys of the average age of
eighteen years : and IDs Excellency hadn’t
the wit to give them an appropriate
reply. Apparently the blood of white boys
or black men is equally acceptable to some of
the members of this crowd. We altogether decline
to believe, however, that the average squatter is a
person with the morality of a Wolf-hound, and we
object to this murderous pronunciamento of the
“New South Wales Commercial, Pastoral, and.
Agricultural Union” being accepted as a fair
expression of the sentiments of any New South
Wales settler. But we hope that when next the
squatter reeds an advocate he will entrust his
case to somebody who is at least as benevo’ent as
a gorilla.
♦
Under the prodigiously appropriate heading of
“ Unconsidered Trifles ” the gentleman by whom
the Sunday Times is “conducted” dismisses
the importance of improving the prevailing method
of inflicting capital punishment. He reasoneth
well, to the effect that we must slaughter men
occasionally, in order to preserve the majesty of
the law But his tend r heart is touched at the
idea of infl eting physical pain, and he has been to
some trouble to discover a facile and humane
method of getting lid of persons whose
presence in this world he objects to. “Electri-
city,” he tells us, “ has been recommended as the
best means of painless extinction, and no doubt,”
ho adds, “it has it 3 advantages.” But he discards
electricity in favour of apian that has been suc-
• cessfully used, he say 3, for destroying dogs. Here
is his description of the viciniere : —“The dog
(that is to say,the convict re commended to mercy!)
passes into an a'mosphere which produces
immediate sleep, and in this condition into
a second chamber filled with a vapour
in which life is impossible. He dies with-
out a gasp and without the least sensa ion
of pain or uneasine s.” This is the Ellisian pro-
posal for producing the “trifling” condition of
death. The Sydney Morning Herald, on the
other hand, has a conservative appreciation of the
terrors of hanging. The reverend editor of that
journal clings on to the rope “ like grim death to
a lee-backstay, ’ a 3 the sailors say. There is al-
ways a risk of hanging being a torture, he declare?,
“ and it is no doubt to that well-known fact that
death by hanging owe 3 muen of the terror it in-
spires.” Now, if the mere chance, of torture is a
deterrent, why not make the chance grea’ er and
the deterrent of course stronger by adopting some
of the most approved Coinese and Ashanti
methods of execution ? When these destroying
angels have settled among theni3elves precisely
how to kill off the condemned who have been re-
commended to mercy, we shall take the oppor-
tunity to say a few words touching the covering
question as to the right of these persons to legis- 1
late for the destruction of human beings—w r ith
the rope, with electricity, with poisoned atmos-
phere, or with any other contrivance.
♦
The kaleidoscope of European politics is still
turning, and changing its aspoct at eveiy turn,
Bismarckjiow demand? a large increase in tho
German army, And with brutal candour declares
that the step is taken with a view to an early war
with Franco, lie wilT not attack the .Re pub lie
at least, so he declares—but the Republic is lying
in wait to Fa'herland, and woe betide
her w'hen she dHf. It In- com", < ir wor.-i in 1 In-
struggle, is confident she will, the
I’rince that she will be (rippled for
ages by thiHKtactions he will heap upon her, and
in levellingahis unspeakable insult at his western
rival, tlie flue old bully can have but one object
to provoke Frmce to hcr’own utter ruin A no Tier
war such as that of 1870’71 means that the debt
of the Republic will be swolle 1 to £2,0ff),000,01K)
or more, that she will lose the remainder of
Lorraino and perhaps all Burgundy, that she will
be compelled to reduce her army and leave her
eastern frontier unfortified and open to any future
attack, and that Italy, the ally of the Kaiser, wi 1
take half her Mediterranean coast. Toe boa.tful
and treacherous Romani of to day have long since
forgotten how France spent her best blo.d and
sacrificed her best friend to purchase Italian liberty
in the ghastly carnage of Solferino, and there
is hardly a doubt that they will be in
at the death to plunder their old ally in
the day of her fall. But even Bismarck’s
schemes may yet come to grle p , and it will b 9 well
for Europe if they do France under the It public
is very different from the Fi ance of the Second
Empire, aDd there is iust a chance that the open-
ing of a new campaign may se3 a French general
of a very different character from the lumbering
( M‘Mahon or the imb cile Da Failly raiding the
fertile plains of Westphalia and Hanov r, instead
of aw'aiting an attack on the long line from Bel-
fort to Sedan. And it is also p.ssible that Spain
may object when she finds the men of Piedmont
and Lombardy creeping towards the Pyrenees.
Even Austria the Unready may realise her
danger, and seed forth another Benedick, with-
out the millstone of a second Clam Gallas hung
round his neck to take a hand in the game, and a
hundred other contingencies may happen to send
the sauer kraut armies back on Berlin. Even Im-
perial Germany cannot last for ever, and the cry
of millions of her own oppressed subjects is that
she has already lasted about long enough.
♦
A flat-heuded numskull in one of Dickens
novels solemnly remarks that “ it’s bettor to hang
the wrong feller than no feller at ail,” and this
principle has been acted on most perseveriugly
in New South Walts. In -August, 1821, a new
gallowd was flx«d up in Sydney, and It) men were
tried for something or other-•qo one knows
exactly what—and hanged the next'dny lest they
should have time to repent. In October 1822, 34
men were swung off in batches of five daily and
between these two dato3 some two or thr*o vrent
off every week, but no one kept any record of
them. Sixmen were united in one common choke in
December, 1834 ; and eight more were suspended
together like ripening fruit in December 1838. In
1841 Justice again wagged its substitute for a
head over a wholesale slaughter, and six corpses
were fixed up in one ghittly row, and in 1857
another six also slept with* their fathers in mid-
air. Altogether, in the oourec of 60 years, a vast
a-ray of victims were teat to herd wi h the
bank thieves and saints of long ago, by the action
of whisky-sel ing juries and whisky-pimpled
judges ; bur though the official-hired murderer
was almost worn to a bone by the wear of constant
work, society imp ovedbut little after all. The com-
munity to-day contains as much meanness, injus-
tice, and rutliani mi as it did in the good old days
when they used to hang 31 men at a time ; per-
haps it wants more hanging to elevate it.
♦
The Secularists profess to he amongst the foremost
champions of freedom, but in fact many of them
are its sternest opponent*. Take a couple of illus-
trations. Mr. Gerald Massey suited N.S.W.
kHßiMnwdve month ago, and delivered a
mission. For a time Mr. Charles Bright ran an
independent show of the same kind. Tho atten-
tion of the Freethought Conference, held in Sydney
during last Christmas week, was called to these
matters by one of the delegates, and a resolution
was proposed to the effect that “ the Conference
d sappi'oves of the i roceedings of such lecturers,
and will use its influence to thwart any independ-
ent Freethought missionaries who may attemnt
to work the Australian soil ” Although the
resolution was withdrawn, a considerable number
of the members of the Conference expressed ap-
proval of its contents. At the same Conference
the president of the Sydney branch of the Secular
Association asked the meeting to condemn Mr.
Thomas Walker for charging £2 lo«. a week to
the branch for the privilege of using Sydney
Theatre Royal on Sunday evenings during Mr.
Walker’s absence in Queensland. Here is liberty
for you with a vengeance. Freedom implies
liberty for a man to do any lawful work without
let or hindrance. But a section of the Secularists
think otherwise ; and they would evidently re-
strict the meaning of the term so as to exclude
everything that threatened loss or inconvenience
to their own organisation. It is to be presumed
that there was a regu’ar agreement drawn up be-
tween Mr. Thomas Walkkr and the Association
of which Mr. Frederick Jones is president. If
the latter is discontented with the agreement that
is no reason why he should try to get the Free-
thought Conference to damn Mr. Walker. The
truth se?ni3 to be that the Sydney Secularists are
just about as intolerant as the Melbourne Presby-
terians.
«♦
By what scale or rule are the Melbourne city
magistrates guided in the infliction of punish-
ment? The other day Pet* r Newton, profes-
sional pugilist and cash bookmaker, was before
these potent, grave, and reverend seigniors
charged with a singularly aggravated and unpro
voked assault Newton had knocked down
another bookmaker, one Smith, in the street, and
when Smith— himself an ex-pugilist of some re-
nown—returned the compliment by hitting his
assailant under the .jaw, he joined with some
dozen "forties” and fighting men in kicking
Smith all the way from Clements’ caffi to the
Town Hall corner. For this little ebulli-
tion Mr. Newton was fined just £lO, and
left the court without any more st-dns
on his character than had bees there before
he entered it —on this particular occasion. One
day last week three d lapidatei-looking domain-
loafers faced the same rostrum to answer the
weighty accusation of having attempted to steal
soap from the lavatory c f the Free Public Library'.
The first said nothing and got off with three day's,
the second pleaded that he wanted to wash a
handkerenief, and was sent up for a w'eek, and
the third, who bad the temerity to hanker after a
clean shirt, had a sen ence of 14 days recorded
against him. Reasoning by analogy w'e are jus-
tified in assuming that a man brought before the
Me.bourne City Court charged with stealing a
pieoe of soap for the purpose of washin r a pair of
moleskins would get at least three months There
may be some obliquity in our moral perceptions,
but we should be disposed to be at least a<
lenient with the man who would steal a piece of
soap to keep himself clean as with the man who
remains honest and dirty.
Who, ch! who has Van Ruti seen,
Where can that foreigner be ?
Until he’s broughc back to his quaranfee/t
There’ll never be no rest for we.
Tho whole of the force is on Ruti’a track,
But they never can capture he,
Wirhhis haton his head and his ejat onhis back,
And his trousers of dungaree.
Can anyone give us some news of Van —
Is he lying beneath the sea ?
The poisonous gerni3 on that bad y r oung man—
Oh 1 where, oh ! where can they be ?
A few lines from Charles Dickens :
“ Oh, eminent Judge, wh0.33 duty to society is now to doom
the ragged criminal to punishment and death, hadst thou
never, man, a duty to discharge in barriog up the hundred
open gates that wooed him to the felon’s dock, and throwing
but ajar the porta's to a decent life ! Oh, prelate, prelate,
whoso duty to society it is to moiiru in melancholy phrase
the sid degeneracy of these bad times, in which thy lot of
honours lias been cast, did nothing go before this elevation
to the lofty ae it'from w.iioh thou dealest out thy hom ließ to
other turners for dead men’s shoes, whose duty to society has
not begun ! Oh ! magistrate, so rare a country gentleman
and brave a squire, had you no duty to society before the
ricks were blazing and the mob were mad, or did spring up,
armel and bootel from the earth, a corps of yeomanry full
grown ? ’
Unless somebody 13 vicing with Ananias
in looseness of detail it would seem that a certain
New Zealand journal is likely soon to find itself in
a very warm corner through libelling the drowned
ghost of a swamped and shattered brick-beap.
Several years ago a man with a whole dray-load
of brains conceived the idea of turning the town
of Oamaru into a seaport. Nature had meant it
for a one-horse desert of glaring white sand with
knobby little hills in the background—a place
where a blinded and dust-choked poet might stand
and gaze upon the mighty ocean, and wonder why
there was so much scenery in tin world and so
very little victuals, and all across tho vast Pacific
there was not one speck of land nearer than Pata
gonia to break the force of the b'llows, but the
town was situate on the sea coast, and that w;i3
regarded as a step in the right direction. A
breakwater, it wai reckoned, would do all the
rest, though many people were of opinion that
tho inspiration of bui ding a wall in front of
Oamaru in order to turn it into a harbour was
about as feasible as toe idea of building a fence
round a cow with a view to turning it into a shark.
A Harbour Board was formed, however with
power to borrow money from anybody who was fool
enough to lend it ; the work was pushed ahead
vigorously, aid toon something that looked
like a itiltctito gone off its chump was
sticking oul"int-o the seething v aters. If a pig
stepped on this thing it shook, but it didn’t shake
under the weight of the ghastly moitgage, and
that was regarded an sullie-igaL proof of its sta-
bility. But the Otago Daily not con-
tent to let it alone, and it, kept on the
doomed pile of wreckage was meant for. anyhow
—whether it was a sanatorium or a hen-roost, or
only a place for insured ships to bump against,
and why the people of Oamaiu didn’t go in for an
improved gaol instead of a breakwater, the gaol
. /. '1 his gfjfcof thing
1 1
aivd left only a bit of cable, a pile of di^^Hniscd
bricks, a scrap *>l hoop-iron, a dead
>d in, and a bill of sale to 13 W' when 1
tho great work had once irtoud. 'There is It gap in
the story just about here, for everybody was
stunned, but the Board presently revived ngain,
and rising to the topmost pinnacle of infuMatcd
woodenness resolved to sue the DjILY Tim eh for
libelling the ghost of the dead-and-gone halluci-
nation which is now giinding itself to pieces at
deep bl V little mis-
j
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
Shamming”: Please call on editor “G.
Mare”: A condemned prisoner has not the privilege of
choosing his last, or any ether meal “ A.H.” (Closford):
Haveyou, theD.not read The Bulletin Extraordinary?
“ E.B. ’ (Auckland): Your items are not sufiiciently con-
dersed—“P.P.”: Mosquitoes won't annoy you if before
you lie down at night you rub your face and arms with oi
of lavender or of eucalyptus “Humanity”: Quite
true, but you couldn’t expect them to print it
“W.J.B”: Too hot "A Disgusted Australian”: Please
call “Box G94You can't look to any lawyer for radical
reform. A Radical lawyer strong enough to fight the Con
servative prejudices of his caste is only born once in a cen-
tury.... Black Tracker" (Q.): You are a nice youth. You
«ay: “If you think my story too tropical to print, it wifi
come in handy as you sit around the festive board in the
back-room of a pub. and tell nice stories and drink beer.’’
Your story is too tropical, and we don’t sitin public-houses..,.
“R.Q.": Would like to read your essay “ \y. Clare”:
The arguments of Mr. “Charles Montmorencie Smith’
(whit glory!) are not worth noticing “Wyndham”
( W.A.): A lot too forcible...." R.F.T.” : Thanks. Colonel
Burnaby was an Englishman and never visited Australia.
“H. Roe”: You are barking up the wrong tree.
The bloodthirsty crew consisted of a gang of nonentities
willing to avail themselves of any opportunity of advertising
the fact that they existed “ P.W.”: Yes, on the principle
that a man should never speak to himself when anyone is
near. “He who talks to himself talks to the devil.”....
“Veritas Vincit”: Many thanks...." C. Quinn”: It's the
last part of a convict’s sentence which is his punishment, m t
the first ‘ P.L.”: A mere private quarrel of which wo
can t take notice....“ H. J. M’Cooey ”: Pitman’s is the best
of all, and we advise you to stick to it “W. P. Edwards”:
Seven pages of utter nonsense. Broadly speaking, no min
would prefer hanging to life-imprisonment, for, you see, if a
man is really tired of life he can always commit suicide. You
go wrong in taking the typied criminal to be a philosopher
like yourself. The men who fill the gaols don’t reason or
theorise. They are moved by impulse and act right away....
“ W.P.”: In 1886 there were about 1,320,000 cattle in N.S.W.
....“ P. Murray ” (Queenscliffe): Will take an early oppor-
tunity of dealing with the question “A Would-be
Citizen of the Australian Republic (rather a long name):
You object to our assertion that "It is not the Australian
hut the Englishman in Australia” who maintains the union
with and the traditions of Imperial England, but in object-
ing you use the two terms in a narrow sense whereas we used
them in a wide one. Taking Australia all over, an enormous
percentage of the population is still made up of emigrants
and if the.e are willing to identify themselves with their new
country as well as live upon it they become part of the Aus-
tralian nation in the truest s;nse of the term. But the
“ Englishman in Australia’’—and he is rather numerous—
regaids this country as merely the adjunct of the island from
which he came; he condescends to live here that he may
make money " donchorkuow ; ” and as his mind is ever in a
distant land, he has no more l ight to guide tho policy of this
country than ihe Englishman in France has to guide that of
the Republic. The Englishman who is willing to become an
Australian is welcome, but the English swell who carries
England always with him certainly is n0t....“ W.J.S.”:
We must decline to reprint the Auckland paper’s truthful'
libels on Judge Windeyer...." T.C.” : You say that your pen
is just as sharp as ours. That may be, but it does not spell
nearly so well. By the way, has it ever struck you that you
are a hollow-ground, copper-sheathed, bevel-edged idiot ?
‘ Apollo”: Your stuff would not lie up to our standard even
if you tied it to the tail of a kite “ Sutton Forest" : Lord
Oarington probably went to his couutry residence during tho
political crisis for the same reason that her Gracious goes to
Balmoral at a similar time. You seo, if people did not find
their.stlves swearing at the Sovereign or her representative
“Bob” occasionally, they would haston to the conclusion
that these costly regal luxuries might as well be always
absent...." Constitutionalist” : Why, certainly. If Mr.
Proctor holds on to an interest in a Government con-
tract, going through the ceremony of resignation and
re-election will not prevent another gay patriot from
landing him for anothtr £6OO and costs “Free-
trader": You quote with approval John Bright’s as-
sertion that the United States will sanction slavery before
England wi 1 again seek protection of her industries, but
fail to notice that the Manchester Chamber of Commerce
defeated a motion, condemning Freetiade in the straighteet
of terms, by one vote only— 22 to 21. John Bright has
preached Freetrade till it has become a mania with him :
th'so Manchester men don’t care a rap for either faith ex-
cept as a means of inducing prosperity. Therefore you will
see why we smile at John Bright's assertion...." J.H.” ■
You spoil the yarn altogether. Burdett Smith in a pompous
and windy speech, had preceeded Bruce Smith who spoke in
his wonted indefinite and enigmatical style; A. G. Taylor
remarked of the two orations that the first was “mythical’'
and the second was "Bruoesmithioal.”...."T,” (Fiji)-
Thanks for article, which is a good one, but it will have to he
ground exceedingly small before we can use it. Space is
precious in The Bulletin “Eccc Sign urn”: We are in
receipt of four pages of incoherent wooden-leggedness. Said
para bid seems to be drunk and standing on its head. We
have sent it to the hospital to get its brain scraped....“ J. 8.”
(Townsville): Magnets of auy shape have a tendency, if sus-
pended so that they can 1 evolve freely, to point North and
South. That is the only other property we know of, but if
you will sit up all night and watch the magnet in company
with a whisky-bottle you might find a dozen more...
‘ H S." Sydney): Your Irish friend is quite right. If they
had sent the four victims to Ireland they would have been
“hung easy.” “ Batrick M’Gurk ” ITarnbo): Your Keila-
warra verse reminds us of a small lion chained toa-fcrgcfl
hog. Some parts are as good as Byron—for instance, whei J
you say that “ the angel of death spread his wings o J
the blast "—and others are as bad ns Sladen. ” Still
it’s a moderately good average “H. Joseph"!
-Uhesnut!...." A.N. L. 8." (no address): You adventure i "
really nothing at all. We used to keep a dog for the express
purpose of growing mushrooms. He was always caked with
dirt, and when on a long journey we had only to water the
animal regularly and lie would be »>vei grown with mush-
rooms inside 21 hours. He always barked if a toadstool
sprang up oil his back, and as we invariably guanoed him
Indore starting, he was the most fertile dog in the country.
“ Windsor ”: Some too lively—others held over... .“C. 11.0.’’:
Many thanks “C. Abdy": You may save yourself the
trouble of entering politics if you aren't a protectionist. As
a free-trader you would assuredly be thrown out on your
oar..“ Isabel Turnbull": Will read for next week. ."F. W B.”
(Clennout, Q.): The Managing Director thanks you for your
letter...." F.X.": Yes, Bede seems to bo part of his name.
“Spriug M.” (Gooktown): Thanks...." I,over of Justice":
Thanks...." 11. Roper ”: Will consider.." A.T. B."(Toorak) :
d
1
in patticuiar, but you ai I
you.are previous you are prosy. Try your hand at a light!
essay 011 the Saxon Heptarchy or something of that kindl
and when you have finished it go on- |he Lilt sidel
W j


The Referee
w lion Mr. Cannon issued his challenge to
back Malone against any man in the world for
£lOOO over a quarter of a mile he had little idea
that the good ship Zealandia was pulling and pant-
ing to bring an answer to his challenge m the
person of L. E. Myers, the biggest glutton at that
distance in the world.
* * *
Myers i 3 a little man, weighs hut 1151 h.,
is a journalist by profession. 28 years of age, and
was a member of the Manhattan Amateur Club
until last spring, when he met and defeated \\ .
G. George, hence becoming a professional runner
and champion of the world.
* * *
All Myers’ records have been made whilst
an amateur. They include 130 yards in 13i secs. ;
200 in 350 in 36 4-ssecs.; quarter-mile m
48 2-ssecs.; half-mile in lmiru 55 3-ssecs. (four
times) ; and 1000 yards in 2min. 13secs.
* *
Hutdnns, on the contrary, is a profes-
sional, pur et simple, and has been the fastest
sprinter in the world. His official records com-
mence on June 8, 1885, when at Lillie Biidge he
ran 140 yards in and 220 in 21 4-ssecs , thus
beating “ the enemy.” His best performance was
at Wolverhampton, January 2, 1884, when he did
300 yards in 30secs,
* * *
A match between the two champions
would be a gi eat thing, though Hutchens’ speed
seems to end where Myers’ begins. A suggestion.
Let them divide the debateable ground and run
850 yards. Myers has accomplished this distance
in 36 l-6sec. and Hutchens in 38 3-ssec.
* * *
The day after Myers landed he, through
his fellow-citizen of the States, Jack Thompson,
covered Malone’s £lOO lying at the E. Mows
office bat it appears that only £25 remained, the
Clarke-Malone match having absorbed the othei
£75. Nevertheless, both their backs are strong,
and the £lOOO race may yet come off.
* *
The win of the Waitangi, on Saturday, of
the lirst of the series of Intercolonial yacht races
came rather as a surprise upon the knowing one
who looked upon the success of the Magic as a
foregone conclusion. The day was a changeful
one; lirst a fresh north-easter, followed b> nex'
thing to a dead calm, and finishing up with
heavy squall from the southward, but the
Waitangi fawly outsailed her opponents, in face
of the trouble with her throat-halliards, which
carried away several times. She was handled in
a masterly manner by her owner, Mr. Mi som.and
an amateur crew.
* * *
In one day Lord Walsingham killed 842
birds to his own gun on a Yorkshire m< or ’1 his
wholesale slaughter wa3 accomplished by means
of “ driving” on well-stocked preserves, but for
real sport we prefer hunting the wary spat row
with a shanghai and a pea-shooter. Big bags
like Lord Wa’sintham’s are easily obtained bv
shooting over a poultry farm with an Sl-ton gun
and a keg of dynamite.
* * *
Glebe Rowing Club regatta, sth March.
* * *
Fish of all descriptions are plentiful at
Port Hacking. This is the result of Sir J. Robert-
son's A'ct closing that port from net fishing.
* * *
We ran against old George Gilbert the
other day. His watchful eye was regulating the
traffic in George Street, Sydney, and after his
daily toil he is the nocturnal coadjutor of the
Mayor. George says he is one of a quartette of
those who played fn the first intercolonial cricket
match between New South Wales and Victoria.
The names of those fossilised heroes are George
Howell, G. Gilbert, Bradbridge and 11. Hilliard.
* * *
Among British sports and their noble
backers the great sensation is the coming fight
between Jem Smith and John Knifton, lor the
championship of England. Knifton, who is a
milkman, is Smith’s personal enemy. The light
promises to be the greatest that England has seen
for a long time. It is almost certain to
end in Smith’s victory, according to the knowing
ones. Large sums of money have boen wagerod
on the resist.
* * *
Sydney Driving Park Club hold thoir
twelfth meeting, and tiie first under Amurkan
rules on Saturday. About *OO people were there
to see. Lillie G., an Amurkan mare, driven by
an Amurkan man, won the 2.50 trot, and the
Free-for-all trot fell to our old friend Cyclone ;
but not before five heats had to be run, Snow-
drift, Lucilla, and the winner being credited With
one heat apiece.
* * *
Foley’s Hall was crammed on Saturday
night, the big event of the evening being looked
for in the attempt of Slaven to knock out a stout
gentleman from Newcastle who rejoices in the
sobriquet of “ Ivo Bligh.’’ The show was disap-
pointing, as Ivo, who boasts of a covering of some
four inches of fat round his ribs, was more winded
than hurt when he offered his hand to Slaven in
* * *
Haitian, we are told, will be here in time
to row Beach on the Nepean iu July. Wo hope to
see Our William win, but he will bo beaten, bar
accidents—that is The Bulletin idea.
* * *
On November 13 Sullivan and Ryan boxed
at ’Frisco, fn the first round Sullivan made little
effort, and gave way to Ryan’s impetuous riches,
but in the second he knocked his friend down four
round be fan by Ah'. i;\ai^^Gn^
the w '
armer. On the expiration of the allowed 10
! seconds, Sullivan picked hia opponent from the
floor, and lifting him up like a child carried him
to his oorner, and sponged down his bruised and
bleeding brow. The receipts at the gate were
stated to be over £2OOO. The 10-round fight be-
tween Dempsey and Burke ended in a draw.
* * *
The Semetic committee of the new Victorian
Club have made the discovery that Buckley and
Nunn have no patterns or quality of carpet in
their warehouse sulliciently good enough for the
members to walk upon, and have instructed the
firm to wire home for a special make. In their
more youthful days one member of the committee
hawked fish about the streets of Melbourne, and
another was assistant in a “skittle-alley.” How-
ever you never can tell what will happen to a
man in Victoria.
* * *
It may be remembered that some of the
“ books” struck in Tasmania last year, in conse-
quence of certain charges levied on their bulky
pockets. To show that it is not to be sat upon,
the T.R.C. has resolved to charge the Moseses
and the Aaronses an annual fee of 10 guineas, in
addition to usual charge for entrance to the
course. There, now ! The books must cave in,
or the shadow of the Totalisator will fall across
their gilded paths of pleasantness.
* * *
Walter G. George, the only rival of Myers
in the days when both were amateurs, at latest
was in America en route for Australia, and a
Yankee paper says “ rumour has it that his com-
panion voyager across the Pacific will be Myers.”
* * *
A welcher on the flat at Flemington race-
course on New Year’s I'ay was summarily dealt
with by his creditors, who, without even asking
the fellow whether he was agreeable or not,
seized him neck and crop and pitched him into the
Saltwater River. Ihe horrible discovery was
shortly afterwards made that the unfortunate
wretch could not swim, and was drowning in
faster time than Ilortense made in the Normanly
MR. ROBERT ROSS HAVER FIELD.
Editor of the Bendigo Advertiser.
Stakes. Two out of the score of his vie ims who
had offered him up in sacrlfiee plunged into the
river, and rescued him with great difficulty ; the
remaining 18 on alter witnessing him
safely landod brought the interesting ceremony
to a close by singing the first verse of Moody and
Sankey’s latest : “We dipped him in the golden
sea.”
« • +
An American paper says J. A. St. John,
Gaudaur’s backer, is not disposed to regard the
close raee between his protege and \\ illiam Beach
as conclusive in settling the relative merits ol the
men. He will make a liberal offer tot ry and in-
duce Beach to row for the championship on some
American lake, and if that is not accepted he in-
tends to bring Gaudaur to the Antipodes. As
Beaeh is not likely to visit America, we may look
with almost a certainty upon Gaudaur coming «,o
Austai’ia.
* * *
A pretty little row the scullers had at the
Lake Bathurst Regatta. Matterson and Kemp
fouled in tho final heat of the Outrigger Race,
when-Matterson damaged Kemp’s boat and Kemp
dj-ovo his fist through Matterson’s ditto. When
the men met on shore it is alleged Kemp told
Matterson to put up his hands and then struck
him heavily on the nose, bringing a copious flow
of the ruby. The row is likely to finish up in the
Law Courts.
A
the Queensland black fellow, who
'Kis on whisky and cigars, beat Hutchens the
«fgli-b flyer in their 150 yard ' match for •
■:r oh Monday afternoon, although 5 t<
Offered on the white man a< the start. The time
is given as 14 4-5 the clock-men present
agree in making it under 15 secs, but when they
hear this in England they'lt likely hand it over to
the marines. The race looked, genuine enough,
and the pace was undoubtedly terrific from the
jump.'
* *
“ Well. i'h.-Ldm/l
up smoking cigars and drinking whisky?” “No
fear, me train that way,” was the reply. On the
Saturday Samuels insisted on going to Tempe to
see Malone’s handicap run, with the obvious in-
tention of sneaking away to La Perouse and hav-
ing a high old time with the local blackfellows
and gins. It vas only by closely shepherding him
and assuring him that “ blackfellow all yan
away” that he was restrained.
* * *
It may be remarked, from the fuss made
over him when he shot himself, that freedom
shrieked when Frederick Archer fell.
* *
Wallace Ross says he doesn’t mind meet-
ing Beach again when he is a “ lot older and a
heap slower.”
* * *
It is reported that the Woolloomooloo
Rowing Club will shortly change its name to the
“ East Sydney.” A row by any other name than
Wolloomooloo would smell a lot sweeter, dontcher-
know.
* * *
Mr. Watson’s starting of last Melbourne
Cup was a phenomenal success, effected by stand-
ing in fr< nt of the line of horses, dropping the
flag, and rushing through an opening between two
horsos. But the phenomenon doesn’t always c'me
off. In the Bagot Handicap Mr. Watson pursued
the same tactics, and narrowly escaped being gal-
loped over by one of the competitors.
* * *
Says the starter to the Queensland Turf
Club, in a letter to the Courier.
11 Perhaps you will also permit me to state that, after hav-
ing been assaulted by one of the owners, and condemned by
a majority of them; after having been hooted by the njpb,
censured by the press, and aoandoned by my employers, I
have an idea that in this colony, the billet of a starter who
knows racing law, and would to the best of his ability abide
by it, is not by any means a rosy one.”
* * *
Since we shivered a lance against the
ridiculous gate-money institution of four-ball
overs, any number of cricket “ reform rs” are
tilting in the same direction. A number of the
V. C. Association is moving that the number of
balls per over be extended to six, and there is
little doubt that a return to the good old order of
things is imminent. During the recent England v.
Australia matches expression? of impatience at
the constant changing of the field were heard on
every side. Yet for years past the public have
accepted the “ four-ball ” fraud with childlike
submission.
* * *
Nearly all Sydney pedestrian contests are
under the control o f a “ syndicate” wf three.
* * *
Several small totalLsatoss are run on the
quiet in Sydney—principally at barbers’ shops —
and do a big business. Their custo x.ers are chiefly
shop-lade, clerks, and servant girls. Any " sum
can ba invested, from the modest “ kalf-a-caser ”
upwards.
# * *
In a recent Steeplechase at Derby (Eng.),
three of the h»rscs were named John Bright,
Ballot-box, and Coercion respectufly. Coercion
broke his b ck, and John Bri.ht fell badly, Ballot-
box winning in a walk. It is cruol to give horses
such names. In New Zealand there was once a
horse called Loftus, and in hi? very first race the
Jockey was disqualified for fowl riding.
* * *
A man who bets on professional footracing
is either a knave or a fool. If he is “in the
know ” lie is a thief ; if not, ho is an ass.
* * *
“ Bohemian ” in the Sydney Globe, in
the course of a jeremiad against betting and
racing, speaks of " the shouts of the. bucket's.
The writer coulda’t have been out at Randwiok
recently or he would have seen backers as mute
as fishes. Anyway, it's the bookmakers who
shout, not the backers. “ Boncmian’s" power of
describing sporting appeal’s to bo nearly as re-
markable as Ouida’s.
«Sj
B-
B
lIP >z* '
VI
Bi • ’
fßj ff-*^' 'xJ;t)i f
«L » ‘ H „
yaw' “ . .:
mt 5 ' r< L" -- •"
B
Tat *|»V* *
jj| •
jgj
38
* .
*9
out, were interrupted iiß
necessity of paying tribul^B
B
fl
B
B
B
B
tß*
B
B
B
Bj
JH
jfl
.; J'T ‘\Y tggjg
aal
B
fli
B
is about the best “ laß
for a representative i^B
W |
,;u I i I ••• 1 1'•B7vT ,s .Y\ •■‘if..
being ' mu ' ■•■ By:Y‘Y-\
B
* *
Oil till' St IVllgt !l ni' his O
_' I 1 :; W. .1. O il: I . I: :'
! Ill' 0: i J!. 11 ■ll.■il.ll j 11 ’! ‘ il^i-'O^.’,',’ -if. ";0
(11 11 i I r\ I '. A i I ;')'■'-! i
I'll' I'll ill ■ I.' :i - I ll.i hub
-lipr-mr -kill all liiiliiii ihi
liim ihi cuali. Tlic eh.im; im u
on l lie covet ril spot al n id- i w y--/’-’ t
and a ven if he talks I-) make any sens
will pla \ so fast a game a- to bnsi !e
from the start. Re.sn.es, past L ‘
i h < IBflk 11 * i '.
bn ill (k <-i 'l
thing to niomw. «MB ■■■ ’• ky.Ahh
down |i: i vr.s a splendid opi:ii
K\ c.'\ man Iko h urn, > m.r-r.
win! -^BY,’
♦
tin. K-.ia i> i Kn-> I i . . :. .„ O
«4fl
B
Bj
J^B
wB
I ■ ■ ■■. ■ M
B
’ 1 kinkrd doA :, -
B
•a ' : B'
• B
; I'la: VV
\h - - . ; n't I AI .BA", ", kY-
-1111!11:'. In;’ 1M . lla Vi n i
lion wild ().'C.as;ni.^Hß'V??W\;4*
until IS7O. wlien la; assumed . BPBB "k
which lie has ever since beJd. 'lißß
A ii\ hilt t i-KK >1 il i retains the tirst
trial , and its sileia-.-s may he .justly aBHB
un a ear.ed '"xa>', mu - oi' ilia Fa i her
Press.
-_*.
•• Wmilil tho gent lonian u
umbrella from meeting at Y.
sat unlay night please return same hBbB»B
and he will receive his own.” Let
Milo. Jeanne (!rattier, the l'Toißip||?
was reeen’ly sued by her
single year’s hill for washing her
lirst the judge thought the bill
when it was explained that Mile.
stockings cost •;."> a pair and so had to
with unusual care, he gave a decision
the laundress for the full amount.
Read this description of the
wc eay it is from the S\,lney Gi.oiik :
“ The larrikin is not a thing tiling from the
Pit, or from the Night that lies beyond the
strong r< He does n tcome tous assn tereli
pplash of molten bitumen from the koweli of the
made him. He is ugly. His eyes are red. The \v> ■■
tiehiml tht in. ilia brows are heavy, his gkull is
tirain is coarse. The grey-white matter over
thoughts pass Is heavy, sluggish, il "11, while In' sits
in a Clirncn of the family room But rouse him.
eyes to glare. The wolf looks. Th; teeth are
are f»ngs. Tire chin is drawn down. The
The feet are fixeyl. The grey-corpuscles are now
The movement is not placid. It is in patches.
one hemisphere. He is now in a state of active
swings the tongue. He bellows oa'hs. He y 11s
A woman is near him ’
The ideal of the man wlo writes this
evidently is Victor Hugo, who, by
was never in all his life capable of HB
eating the hanging of 17-year-old JB
But the Gloiik sciibo gets no nearer
Frenchman than Bret Harte's parody : ‘
Pot of beer ! Uod damn !"
The holy testament-smiters of
have at last got u good and pious job
they are shoving Her Majesty’s
up in a corner and demanding the
unfortunate Heath of Daly lliver.
old man with the battered wreck of
and only one .serviceable leg. but he
who is a beautiful and giddj young
In his abicnce she “went wrong."
Heath returned and heard of this he
olßmder, M Kinnon, to skip into the
and gave him notice that the tra .>
hind liiin. Then M‘lvinnon
a h"k


,1 straine;! <>ii : > l
i.. siaii'ly ~1
■’f ‘‘Hi a lew words t lie
I lieiv I lie
4'■ named Alexander
and I'nhbw:;:
4^g%fgss^Pr:f a seraglio. Ida'
. ' l had bee a in gaol
had. in fact, sul-
ir . But Air.
v^^v^H bc on the Bern a this
mglMgM prisoner, saying Beil
■His a boy." This was
the Bench was that
for one hour.”
imprisonment was
( who is a very pious
and singing a hymn
i'B oysters and bottled
\vc expect Ballarat
something like the
and short sentences,”
urotter's Friend, ( ut
■■■ickpockcts, do your duty
head of the Foil lie
BBHre boys.” We make Air.
rhymes to i asfc
:—
in crime,
IjggTyßß) destroy,
one tier e
HK was a boy t
sin was t his —
■BbH, but some alloy
s
ten s a boy!
broke all laws,
Bggßhe took his joy ;
gfjfrcHdin because
jjJ||H was a boy !
papa
me annoy—
but ah !
a boy !
A r: i’s
tears !
boy !
■s rather
aje,; - d -SK
fi
B
Mp
' v . v .MB'
-’"'W, fArd-r
tuade
SB
...
e
; v ßpt sort
• si ceching ”
1 for sport.
. . . orget,
BHk English yet.
|||||Bnot Scot fish,
desired ;
sottish —
admireil.
:WK heavy wet
Ks not English yet.
Bllies’ legs quite shocked him,
p, oh, shade of Brown :
[hadst surely knocked him
Lse assertion down);
lansmcn quite upset
fc-ho is not seasoned yet,
Bss so strong a maw
and porridge,
|Bth for the South ;
room to forage,
grow, no doubt.
he’ll forget,
English yet
dollar bet.
* *
|||l||Bd nf C< ':: I : I
day . lb- pi' '1 d an
" y
v;.
\ 1 ’
B
B
* \ % 1 '* IB
hbbbbht
w
Hv
:i<"!
■ '_^By..
'- 1 '* 1:
gpltH* *
■
B
K
j K
aS&
policeman. Never take up firearms, even in de-
fence of property, against a man who carries no-
thing more deadly than apillo w-case, and remember
that the gun presumed to be unleaded gce3 off
oftenest Lastly, dear friends, bear in mind that,
if we don’t forgive those who t espass against us,
we might as well stay away from church and go
birds'-nesting. The deacons will now take up a
collection.
* * *
It is a hard, hard matter to introduce any
new idea into a Christmas carol this time o’ day.
The great event which we celebrated at the fes-
tive season has been fairly sung to death, so to
speak. Birth, earth, worth, and mirili ; mild,
child, defiiod, and reconciled ; night, white,
bright, and light; son, won, done, and begun
have been turned and twisted until the words are
worn threadbare The subject, a 3 it originally
stood, was about used up. But a Melbourne
poetess has put into her carol a brand-new fact,
which comes as glad tidings to the exhausted
army of Christmas bards. Note this :
“ Come all ye ransomed tons cf earth
And view the place of Saviour’s birth :
Within a stall where wild beasts are fed
The Prince of Glory finds a bed Alleuia ! ”
Alleluia! it is. Take the word “ wild,” for in-
stance—how neatly that rhymes with mild, child,
&c. Then one can give his fancy a little rein in
the choice of beasts. Lion would go nicely with
THE SYDNEY POST OFFICE CARVINGS-ONCE MORE.
(A Fact.)
ARAB No. I to Arab No. 2 (unconscious of the presence of the Colon'll Architect): MY
WORD BILL, AIN’T THEM THINGS A DISGRACE TO OUR COLONY?”
Zion, camel euiis trammel down to the ground,
while leopard goes fairly well with shepherd. And
on a pinch, allowing for poetic license, we arc
decidedly of opinion that hyena might pair oft
with serener. Next year we shall look out for all
sorts of fresh beauties in the old familiar carols.
Jacob Folson, of Femlnll (N./.) seems to
be a man who was born to be a failure He is a
married individual with short pants, large ears, a
fishy stare, and t wo decayed teeth still visible, and
his hair looks as if it had been raked off by a scor-
pion. Also he is all legs and head, but unhappily
his wife still regards him a 3 a thing of beamy and
a joy for ever, and when he gets into his Sunday
suit and balances a big threepenny weed on his
weak under-jaw the lady’s heart i 3 torn with
jealousy. She is always drawing fancy pictures
in the broad page of her intellect, in which Jacob
is depicted us eloping with the daughter of a .look,
B
■
inform the local policeman that he was going to
commit felo-de-se. The officer, however, was
busy looking for half a y ‘ uth —he had found one
half on the railway that morning and he wanted
to get the remainder and glue the lot together—
so he only smiled superciliously and passed
on. Then Jacob solemnly proceshed cut
into the woods carrying a rope, and his
small boy trotted behind sucking at one of those
cheap*cigars which his pa would w mt no more in
this world. Jacob fixed the rope to a tree four
feet high and hung himself with his feet on the
ground and bis head at an angle of 45deg. to the
horizon, and the small bry sat on a stump and
smoked until be thought it was getting monoton-
ous, and then he cut the rope and laughed as his
parent came down with a bump. Jacob hung
I himself again, and again the philosophical small
| boy cut down his suspended progenitor, who
! mashed his nose this time in his descent and
barked bo*h his shins. Upon this the miserable
i object of scorn got up wailing, and spanked his
son and hung himself for the third and last time.
The infuriated youth waited until he was fixed
and then kicked him all over, while the old man,
under the influence of this healthy stimulus,
gurgled and clawed wildly at the rope with a
view to pounding the youth until he was stunned
if he could but get at him. But he only succeeded
in choking himself insensible, and when he seemed
pretty safe the small boy cut him down once more
and fled. Jacob did not hang himself any more.
He got drunk instead, and was run in by the
obtrusive local policeman.
* * *
A neif religous row is reported from'
India, a country which suffer.; from a pressure of
lUOlbs. of dogma to the square inch. The trouble
was between two prosperous sects, one of whom
hope to be saved by throwing their dead uncles
and mothers-in law to be chawed up by crocodiles,
while the other believes in the existence of seven
distinct perditions, and says that the crocodile-
men will be sent to the hottest of the lot. 'I hey
both happened to be pi oceshing on the same day,
and when the seven-Gthenna crow-d observed that
their rivals were carrying a few deceased relatives
as a free lunch for the reptiles they howled de-
risively, and called out ‘‘Passages ! ” Then the
others grew excited, and asked the Moslems why
they didn’t hire a nigg«r to lath and plaster their
broken down hell, and the followers of the Prophet
straightway started to rush the temples of the
heathen, and smash the furniture. Many old-
established firms in the ged-broking businorS made
a i ile that day, for the deities were seized by
the heels, and their heads were knocked against tho
wall, and their legs were sawn off, and their holy
spines were split with tomahawks, and dead dogs
were hove into t lie sanctuary, and these pious men
had a high old time. But when they returned to
pray in their mosques as a wind up to the picnic
they found to their horror that their enemies had
b9en tying up pigs there while they were away.
There were all sorts of them, too-large pigs,
small pigs, misy pigs, grunting, hot-headed,
frowsy p ! gs, dirty pigs, thin sportive pigs that
frisked on top of the ark of the covenant, great,
fat, laz •, apoplectic pigs that snored in the holy
of holies—the accurted suul-destroying swine was
everywhere. For a full hour the goal and holy
crowd took stock of tho hog market, and then
they went out and gave an order for a thousand
funerals, and started to get the corpses fc'Sily. At
this point, however, the British soldiers inter-
fered, and with their bayonets jabbed the inside
out of a dozen dosrmas in one act, and the service
concluded with the doxolcgy.
• *
An English bull ami dog doctor has risen
I a horse, so as to produce an animal that will haul
a cart and give milk at the same time; or hitching |
the front of a dog on to the hinder part of the!
fame animal so that the beast which draws the!
buggy by day can bark at night and frighten!
away burglars LatcF on the legs of some youth-
ful murderer may be adroitly attached to the
body of an ancient politician, so as to make one
half of him as good as new, and when the shanks
have taken root as it were his upper half can be
similarly refreshed, and then he would be new
altogether—in fact be might be rendered immortal
by some such process as this if properly carried
out. The present experiment would, of course,
have been more satisfactory if in addition to
attaching a new leg to the old cow a new cow had
been gummed on to the old leg. but still things
are evidently progressing, and it is useless to ex-
pect too much at once.
* * *
Mr. Rusk in requires the members of St.
George’s Guild to affirm their belief in the good-
ness of human nature, but Mr. Auberon Herbert
goes so far as to think that “a wise confidence
may be placed in the intelligence and public spirit
of all classes of the people to contribute accord'ng
to their ideas and convictions what is necessary
for public purposes,” and in pursuance of this
belief has prepared a petition asking Parliament
to “abolish all compulsory taxation.” We con-
fess to son) i doubts as to the absolute sincerity
and consistency of Mr. Herbert; if he trusts Man
so implicitly in the matter of taxes, we wonder—
in key-note A flat: —
Bear Bulletin, — Strange to sty, T wtcsa
present when that Ballarat man took the billiard-
ball into his mouth. Ic was 16 ycaa&ago. They
sent for two doctors, and were; goina to dra t wo
teeth or dislocate the jaw to get it out, and urn
doubtedly the man would have-gone, mad. had rust
Ned Brayton, Cobb and Co.’s, manages, iaavn/f
mended laying him flat on hi.o face and teUij>!£ h:'m
to open his mputh. The ball, then dropped out,
swindling the medicos out of an interesting esse.
Commor sense against science, —Abikf.
A true yarn from Kimberley. A digger
getting down into a guJly eighted a huge Irish
man sitting on a boulder with a stick raised above
his head. Two more arrivals also saw the Eair.o
apparition, and after a whole hour of this they
strolled up to take stock, but were angrily warned
off, the man with the club announcing that “Bo
jibers, he’d make soup of every mother’s son of
them.” He afterwards cooled down, however,
and explained that he had been sitting half a day
waiting for a rat to come out of its hole and that,
lie wasn’t going to let anybody jump his claiA
He got the rat. Sj
Is there no law for the book-agent ? OBj
of these confiding hihliomaniaos recently heft an]
Christ, hurch (X.Z.), and insist* d on payment,!
Unhappily the Irate husband came home just then I
and as the canvasser declined to take back the
voiumc he made a pot shot at his head with it
The result was that an album with its back
broken in throe places was lyiug in the road, and
the agent took out a summons. To his great
a • azeinent, however, he lost hi 3 case, and when
lie rose up excitedly and exclaimed, “ Where’s
ifiy book; I won’t wi without my book,” the
minion of the law lost his temper and answered,
“ your book. Go out 1 ”
Judging from the last bright idea which has
occurred to Mr. Abbott, S.M., of Sydney, a polioe-
nmn must be an unclean animal of about as much
value as mashed potatoes. According to tho
evidence, Mr. Curry, a free-l>orn citizen, was
engage! thrashing his wife and mother-in-law
with half-bricks ard other implements, whon a
constable came to tho dcor and expressed his re-
solve to “cop" the loud-mouthed brick-heaver
and run him in. Thereupon a piece of crockery
was dropped on his head from a great height and
lie was left insensible. Whon he recovered he
renewed the discussion, hut was mot by a writer*
jug that waa t*avelling at tho rate of a ihousand
mill" in a' In a '.an! , an: again lm
down, this time with his nose moved round to tl
C.....N SOLILOQUISES.
What a rumpus they make
Over four fellahs choking,
’Cause they happened to take
Some ten minutes in croaking—
And one hangtd by mistake—
Oh ! it’s doosid provoking.
But all fellahs must die,
Everyone must come to it
Vain regret’s all my eye,
They told me to do it—
Nosey Bob, and not I,
Put the pawh beggahs through it.
Though they’ve gone up above
To improve their condition,
Having left me their love,
And expressed their contrition.
These mistakes put the Gov.
In an awkward position.
Their blood on my head !
What treason to scattah —
By the nose I was led !
All mere Radical chattah,
The fellahs are dead—
That's an end of the mattah.
Whether faith so implicit and boundless
As he thus seems inclined to extend
To all men, with regard to tax-paying,
Would avail when mere trifles depend ;
Would he “confidence in the convictions ”
Of intelligent manhood display,
Say, by leaving a new silk umbrella,
Or a giogham about in Man’s way ?
Or would he a “ wise confidence” rest in
A book canvasser’s encomium ?
Or place trust in a publican’a “ spirit,” ' '—v
If that spirit wassajid to be “rum ” ? 1
Or would he so implicitly trust in
The remarks of a member if ho
(The member, we .mean) was
To have Jucgirjgs entitled J.P. ?
W ould he triyjt—we can hardly believe it—
To a Cabinet Minister’s w T ord,
" h° n the batter was pleasantly telling
How thfj misunderstanding occurred?
\\ ould luO credit fhe tale of a member
W ho was vaunting the deeds he bad
Or thinly much of a juror’s “ ideas ”
After' nineteen hours’ stewing in court? fifl
Would really, We wonder, be able
To tcflicvc the community’s weal
Was assisted by Evening Noose cable B
Of l vie muck which divorce-suits reveal? "
Or fhiaik that filth-wallowing journals
Are/sincere when they howl for the lives
Of sixlboys, and appeal for their slaughter
“ Fc|r the sake of our daughters and wives l '
Does h\s think’”'". U-fceding bishon
WhenVj D '“.” Jed 111 s°meopn„. >n f
Obeys --’einjuncti.m, “fed all that
rr-.au bast, and My follower be” ?
Does he really believe that each prelate
Counts this wor’d’s goodo and chattels a 3 drossi
When he puts on the garb of religion,
And professes the Faith of tho Cress?
No ! This credulous Auberon Herbert
Would reserve for the simple marine
Such romances as these ; ho may fancy/
That Man’s a tax-loving machine ;
Hut liis trust in Noose moralists, bishopsj.
And Cabinet wranglers must fail,
And he only would trust their “ convictions ’”
When recorded in Uarlinghurst Oaol.


COMPAR
In the production of
the Christmas N
BER OF “ The Bull
tin,” December, 188
63 tons of pap
WERE USED.
SUNDRY SHOWS
The Gallows is at last taking its proper
position in N.S. W. society. This great moral re-
generator has now reached the theatre, and soon
it may he in the drawing-room as well ; it may
even attain to the pulpit, and the meek-voiced
curate, when he reads that “ the-ungodly shall
not stand,” can twitch a short rope and hoist a
dangling, choking, wriggling scarecrow as a warn-
ing and an example to the rising generation.
Viewed in this light the pub’ic owes a vote of
thanks to the man who had the courage ’otake so
bold a step in the right direction as to introduce
the jovial beam and noose and gallows trap on a
Sydney stage for the first time. We have had
death, Gehenna, and the grave in plenty, and
has beenlots'drjfCTtuition over for the poor,
bulwe have never had it disheV up in this same
style before. Yet the llrama is supposed
the mirror up to Naturew.” and if Nature
and trying to climb a \caffold by her
Nature is being Hoggedthe triangles
Iragnt say so ? . If Mr. .Arthur Vivian intends
his mission, which seems to she that of
pourtrayjng N.S. W. society in its pre-
state, why should he not\ tie his
up at the footlights and adminisVter the
cheerful cat, and let the fiayeV and
actor howl tor the entertainment the
Noose South Wales ! Of course the wjj etch
HBB ae fitted with false meat back, so i that
. HRocess would not be so unpleasant is it
" and the Hanglanders would enjoy it d very
the breaker of spiiitual bread down to
gaol-bird and the gu*tor-snipe. The briight
Bel ga'lows and the joyous airy cat rule the kand
Haiety and the Gallows ! /
m * * I
out “Neck « ” t <J the
■bitter erd :n • only more ugly ir<?mAn the
■ii story cf a stormy and troubled caftvry.
Bpnee years ago, we helped to bury a Chinaman
Heath, from leprosy, and we would as soon dig up
Hie mouldering wretch and bury him over again
B sit out this drama any more. The piece smells
Hf the grave ; i! is gruesome in its stupidity, and
Kan who would drive a lunatic past the
Beat re in a cab while the play is in progress
Bon’d intellectually degrade that lunatic by so
Bitangledspirit i<> supposed to be washing itself in
Be Jasper Pea, it is struck byan idea, and unbends
Hs remains sufficiently to write a letter explaining
low it came to be a body. 'Then it suddenly re-
clame is thrown on the wrong man in the usual
Hreary old style—he is kneeling by the carcase and
H run in. These events take place at
Hjhicago -some of the actors call it Cmc-aggo,
■l3 well as of the wild turkey and other amusing
■leasts. This baionet, we presume, has been
Raught on the prairies when young, for he seems
moustache cccked t n one side makes the usual
Bread-eagle Jth of July oration, and then
Re is dropped, and is supposed to dengle v
Rut he doesn’t. A howling, dish-washing slavey
Be officials look on and say nothing. At Ameri-
Htn executions this is always the way they
manage things. The girl afterwards gives an ae-
■ount of the scene and says that there was a lot of
Brink and dirt—held down the sheriff—but Jim
Bd nothing of the kind, lie wasn’t there and the
had the fun all to herself.
* * »
BBe miserable half-hanged wretch has got
cut by the rope and goes mad. Through
act he waDders round, a jibbering maniac,
Binan wreckage. Round his neck a horrible red
adds realism to tha character, and when a
comes into the house where he is lying
B nic rtavey upends the shattered, raving,
cx corpse, and his ghastly head waggling on his
■half-broken neck scares the enemy away. The
scene is lightened a little by the presence of a fat
clown from the pumpkin districts, and this vulgar
wretch seizes his son —who is aged about 21, red-
headed, and more stupid than a worm—and turn-
ing him upside down flogs him on the subsequent
portion of his anatomy. This same youtti sings
an airy hospital song about emetics, and sca-aick-
ness, and the like, and salutes his father in a pecu-
liar way of his own.
He said no word
That niight express a doubt,
But put his thumb unto his nose
And spread his fingers out.
This may be comedy on the stage, but we have
seen a min kicked in the street for less. A silly-
looking girl, who porpetually sucks her finger,
L>f being cold, and two men strip them-
naked and put their clothes on her.
ave a fight. The slavey proves to be
’s daughter by his former wife, and the
ar as we can gather, is the baronet’s
slavey says: “ We’re a bad lot,” and
r and unreservedly agree with her.
ailway smash —that is to say, someone
second-hand coffee-stall by shovelfing
j ■' -1 o-U- ."Hi .: ri \ .
nobody tries to capture him. At last there is a
shaky wind up, when the real murderer is ar-
rested, and the half-hanged man puts a noose
the stage. No human beißg, however, could ac-
curately follow the plot of “ Neck for Neck,” and
we hardly thins any purely human being would
want to. About the actors we will say nothing
lest we should be betrayed into a just severity.
The case is hardly ore that calls for violence, but
we think anything short of violence would come
in handy if judiciously applied and promptly re-
gretted.
At At
T W W if
According to the bill, Sydney Criterion is
“ the most perfectly ventilated theatre in Austra-
lia, and, as we never knew a bill or an auction-
eer to tell a lie, we are willing 1 1 accept the state-
ment as fact. We wish to obstrve, however, that
the strain which was put on (he brea’hing-hole
on Saturday, when “Maritana” was produced,
taxed it to the uttermost. There were compara-
tively few ladies present, but the neat-handed
Phyllises of the establishment were kept busy
showing the superior animal to his seat, and he
filled every available space in the building. Then
the curtain upheaved itself and revealed some
magnificent three-storey freehold property, and
the chorus of Spanish peasants and citizens tooted
sweetly. Maritana followed in the person of
Miss Colbourne-Baber, who in the course of five
minutes established herself in the affections of the
public. Her voice was round and sweet and
clear, and in her gipsy costume she looked as
beautiful as a lithograph. She showed a little
nervousness in the first act, but that speedily
wore off, and her performance was an unmistake-
able triumph. Our old friend Signor Billgreeno
Verdi filled the part of Don Jose, and filled it
chokeful, and the ghost of t hat villainous Spaniard
owed him a vote of thanks. Don Jose, like a good
many other disreputable persons, was born a peer,
and if there had been any capacity for repentance
in the wreck of what he called his soul he would
have sat down on a log and wailed—
I am a lord of high degree
JBut Lord ! Oh, Lord ! What a lord I be.
He preferred, however, to wade along in crime
oblivious of his coming fate, and when a noble in-
digenous coon descended on him and smote him
in was a surprise to that deceased. Hut
he sang magnificently while he was alive
—better, in fact, than we have heard him
fra long time—and but for Don Caesar's conduct
in stabbing him behind a hedge he might have
been encored till he was hoarse.
* * *
The pretty and much-respected Mr.
Armes Beaumont has teen buried somewhere for
four years, but he capsized his tombstone and dug
himself up to take the character of Don Ciesar de
Bazan, a wild, rampageous individual attired in a
bed-tick and a hatful of kickshaws, and rather di-
lapidated about the right leg of the pants. His
singing was perhaps not quite so good as it was
25 j ears ago- at least so the stone-deaf man next
us declared—but Mr. Beaumont still possesses a
deal of his glorious
tenor, and he was fre-
quently encored. More-
over, he acted to per-
fection the part of the
rollicking hidalgo, who
was ually plaj ing
pirclPiTn<rjtoss wit Pro-
vidence. It was waste
of good matterial to turn
Mr. John/ Forde into ;i
king as aHlr tind of slush
■a ii| do toYmake a king
out of in Imesedays ; but
ho did l\is level best
with the part, and some-
thing similar may be said
of Miss Fanny Liddiard
as Lazarillo. Also we
may mention that the
ccnery was first-class,
th't the minor charac-
ter acquitted them-
selves tolerably well,and
that the orchestra re-
minded us of the song of
the turtle in the spring-
tide of joy.
* *= # #
Warner’s bent fit
drew a good crowd at
Sydhey Alhambra, and
if there wasn’t an abso-
lu'ely new programme
the old one was go in-
geniously boiled up that
it entirely charged its
colour, lobster-fashion.
We arc glad to hear that
Warner is in a fair way
to regain health. He is
perhaps the greatest and
most original native-
born stage-humorist that
Australia has yet pro-
duced, and this we say
while quite conscious of
the fact that he is by no
means too retired in hi<
methods andthat hts la’k
of a University educa-
tion and want of ex-
perience in the union
of Madame Edouard
Adam are at times pain-
fully apparent. Jlut he
ft clever enough to learn,
and it will be a pity if,
speitt by his succets so
far, he fails to do so.
The e are so few who can
make this melancholy
world laugh from i’s he* rt
that we want to see Warner educate himself into a
broader sphere. Some comedians would simply
kill themselves by knocking off their angles. But
the Warner diamond will shine more brightly if
judiciously cut.
## # #
The Federal Minstrels at Sydney Academy
have laid in a gcatload of new jokes since their
return from Melbourne, and the public are getting
the benefit of them. Several among them alllicted
us with surprise when we heard them-they were
so much better than usual ; and only one made us
long to put the inventor to the club. It was a
subtle joke, and bore infernal —we mean internal
—evidence of having been built by the man who
went to milk the hors? to get a fresh egg for
bieakfast. No one else could have constructed it.
Male. La Dare, “ the most accomplished wire-
wafiier in the world,” is a good feature in the
snow. The ‘ South Sea Island servant”is Handy
Andy again ; the Woodward Brothers are
.but not murderously original; the same
the “ champion
can throw a red-liot stove further than any other
champion, or do something of the kind —and the
sketch, “He Won’t Die,” was rather amusing on
the whole, and might have been a vast deal worse
aa. A/,
■7V* 'TV* 7V*
As we have frequently remarked, we
really can’t endure pantomime, however good it
may be, and if we were compelled to view it re-
gularly there would short 1 y be a vacancy on the
staff of this high-class paper, price 6d., and the
illustrations alone are worth three times the
money as a means of cultivating the understand-
ing and promoting the spread of knowledge, to
say nothing of the letterpress, which, to an intelli-
gent man, is absolutely invaluable. We must
stop to get our second wind after the above ut-
terance, but we would merely remark that “ Dick
Whittington and his Cat” are running with un-
abated. success at Sydney Royal Standard, and
seem likely to draw good houses for a long time
to come.
## # #
Wo cannot find much to say about Minnie
Palmer that we have not said already. We have
used up all the available adjectives in the English
language, and are beginning to comprehend for
the first time how bald and narrow and wretched
that language is. We then hunted for a few
terms of endearment in the dictionaries of the
Zulu and the Cherokee, but while we discovered
plenty of expressions suitable for throwing at a
vicious old bullock with a crumpled horn, we
found none that would adequately describe our
feelings on this occasion. We would, therefore,
simply explain to Minnie that we are going bald
with joy and that we choke with rapture when-
ever we hear her heavenly name mentioned, and
if that is not enough we will send her a Webster's
Unabridged and explain that rur feelings aie
there, but that we are utterly unable to sort them
ouc.
## # #
“ Mother Goose,” at Sydney Royal, seems
to have taken a new lease of life and the audi-
ences have improved. The perform! rs are all in
good order—the goose, the giants, the saints, the
drunkards, the statues, the zylophonists, the
hungry, badly-fed elephant, Mrs. Harris, and
Baron Bottlewascher among the rest-and little
Daisy’s song is received as enthusiastically as on
the opening night.
#* * #
The Strasburg clock is still at work in
Sydney, propelling the apostles and th > rooster
and the two angels and Satan in an unvarying
circle with constant success. This choice
menagerie hangs out at Market-street, Sydney—
at least it doesn’t hang exactly—there has been so
mueh gallows lately that wo have got mixed—but
it is there, it’s all there.
## # *
The permanent employes of Sydney Royal,
Opera House, Criterion, Academy, and Gaietv
had an amalgamated picnic the other day, and
lunched, drank toasts, made speeches, and other-
wise enjoyed themselves within an inch of their
THINGS WE SEE WHEN
WE COME OUR WITHOUT
[?]
NO
lives. The management of the . various theat res
and the general public subscribed liberally in sup-
port of the a flair, which was an unqualified suc-
cess.
** * *
The Bulletin doesn’t object to the tire-
works man’s proposed show in Sydney on the
ground upon which it is objected- to by the local
theatrical managers. But if any Government
breaks through a great principle by shutting the
people’s pleasure-ground, the Domain, handing it
over to Mr. Payne and empowering him to charge
admission, they aren’t fit to hold office. Mr.
Payne is a private speculator, and the closing of
the Domain for even five minutes can’t be atoned
for by a percentage of the showman’s profits being
handed over to charity.
*****
Lady Mandeville (a fair American, wife of
the eldest son of our old friend, that venerable
guinea-pig the Duke Of M am :heet, -mm
_ ■
-k-amiie Winst;
who, if may be r< :I,eM^y 5
f lie .Melbourne .-; ay.
representation of ••
in a Yankee ■ >pi -
Half imore, Warningi^B 1 v
Miss Winston is i he
Jb ■; I, fell in lo\'e w
pany, divorced !iiin
chorus-girl, and ret aiHHHHj
to his lirst w ife’s s 0
his change of men
absurd sense of dcliciHP||ii|||||
The new Lord
I )"lly Tester, a
ing t lie other day, but <Vig||||ra
deceased grandfather
dog-cart, 'the sable
ever, rest rain the
and in crossing a
panion. Lady
her on her head among
# #:
“ Pirates of Penzaw||^iS|
years since this opera—
Suthvan series—was
match of civilisation has
manners very
Brennir and Frank
monarch and his
creafines who wouldn't
: the world. By their 11 ups'
tri\e to retard the
and the first act moves at
Barnett, per contra, revels £g||||
while Miss Nellie Stewart
light over the proceedingsM||§|
gentlemen are good enough,
pirates didn’t lag so
would have been no
The triumvirate are
ments at the Princess’s,
business steadily
conies conveniently close
to see a man ” becomes a
much virtue in an a/ frcscq^M^Z
# # Mm
After a 2d weeks’ si/MBSm
the Japanese Village
walked lo Tasmania. J^Bp|||!p
- t'owd conducted a IM%-inoßj|j|&9§*
hu ; Kxldhif ion, eani^PJ'^^M
Old I I ! ' ; tin- C lllrcl'^^BiH
SometlJ
JBI
jB
turn
yd.
wicked
| fl
wanders a®
<> , 5 -
- d k-v-',?
j®„
.-Mg * ‘ , S A*' ’
‘
The Me 11 1. 11 rll e
■mmon a’ kalian -on WW i taw
tl>* if d.iysdo grow.
and " Fa us l ” have been pH®BB
despite the steady oppositioiJßßH®
and in hold defiance of “ brick®®
ing public seems to have
1 ln'i<- is nothing so cooling to t®§|i
soft Operatic air. s- or mnd i®||||
blown. All this is very
and vve would willingly go on
jeet—with an essay on “
and the “Influence of Flute-obl*
ordered Livers ”—if space allowed!
stuck many fresh feathers in the c 3
Cinti, who proves to be an actress of
tensity than was apparent when si
del/ fit in “ 1 rovatore.” There is somi
'great Tietjens about this lady, vocal
than physically, for Signora Cinti J
robust comeliness, whereas the
of the dead favourite discounted t 1,8
performances. “ Faust” brought®
V> i»>a donnu in Signora Tagliavia®
fairly favourable with ( inti and A
lias natural qualifications for
guerite as things go, and a p®f
with more of the nightingale
organ in its volume. In the lus®§§§
Tagliavia rises to a big heigJ®mt&
•'"'•lii nee up along w it), her.
I’ l ' *' until cd, that opera pat
ml' to them v irt nous
I licy u.a> aw 1, i I.Jg
_JB
d®
■
chorus now plied
“Faust" singing the
n
As Faust, Signor
j
®
®
, ®
® ’% Jw
■
went wrong, because the
mini IiBB „om * *£ *1 fc


" ' < llf
fir
■Jennings is a gentleman, but no politi-
V’ remarked a Sydneyite the other day. ’lhis
Buistinction with a difference.
■he snobs of Sydney say they “ are ready
■strengthen Lord Carington’s hands.” Why
■ t they strengthen his head ?
■ tolerably high Sydnpy official has gone
“for his health.” It is said there is a
■ness in the spinal column cf his ledger.
■ is said that when Wright, Heaton and
Khali he brought to tiial, they will expect to
In the complete sympathy of the jury on account
their extreme old age.
‘As soon as Sir John Robertson improves
'health he is to be picnicked by the Sydney
Iform Club.” Than which, we never read a
ire malignant announcement.
The N.S. W licensed victuallers have re-
pointed Mr. Walter Coonan, M.P., as their so-
L-or. They are evidently determined that their
Iyer shall be as pure as their grog.
I’he proprietor of a recently-started Sydney
llication which deal 3 in blood and-thunder only,
Bt to see the late execution and fainted at the
B. Poor devil! He’ll never make his pile in
Buclibg horrors.
Bucen Victoria, we read, ‘ ; looks wonder-
■ well,” and bids fair to see 90. Kaiser Wil-
li, who is 90 or thereabouts, has of late been
piped up, absolutely helpless, in his private
Irtment, gasping for breath.
bavid Henry, the Melbourne shent-per-
fcter, is being looked for by a small attorney
I) wants to serve a nasty little bit of paper on
L A young woman accuses David of having
Brted his wailing babe —that’s what’s the mat-
H st now.
He announcement that the “ Vagabond’s”
Hectare in Melbourne was to bo on “ Convicts
Biannibals ” created quite a flmter in hupper
B^ 1 , b'R the Victorian aristocrats were re-
-fißl when they heard that no names were to
g^Btiencd.
)ne l Bob Ingersoll has a tumour in liis
will shortly be operated upon. This,
Use, is regarded as a “judgment” by the
H party, who forget that “clergyman's sore-
new recognised as a disease by the
i»rofessiqn.
tlie medico who pluckily
§». the responsibility of laying an infor-
Hall, the Timaru poisoner, is to be
HBBlwit h a handsome testimonial byjjyc-ffiT'
HBHipnnics interested. he__,' ; -sf. p. c t)>
with iCOa^toaq
■tly interviewed the
work “ Under
■
BP
|BBMi— hl lor, is not neee isarily
■o s word.
the French
V
B
■
■
Bp
■
|hi ’ |g£ ! H BP
BBRp
ro":111 i li.o i: • ’' i-...
‘Ad
n bn' il 1,-i eai ■ ■
-( : --;ie .
deuco is Scarlett We li,
-• t ri\ a> j
of N.S. V.. who
■ ’
■
’ u n.
■
H --
-iV' tVijyil To ■ . ■;i
traps responded to the toast of
business—Mr. Dan O’Connor.
■■BB^ 1 ' 1 ' u ol 'bL
s, *,»: r. v.cr
Bb
Mao.iulay. h' 1.,-
Victokian I tio iov er, who or< e
whole c-say of Macaulay’s. The
» - nou ill S.\ (incy. hi, I c’-i-i
vents him from alluding to ; ho fc.-it.
ab.iitt ibo '-a-;.'lit lire of \ t.i-,-
.’Hues Ui:a’a l i ■ 1. I'on' oilb-ro;.’
BB' j'ly, and - > ■ n-) i
them.
that a man wlioso lengthy lit,-
h;'*xSH^V’ok e concord’s sweetest tones,
g’BVild at his death c.ur.ic discoid h.irsh
To gather round his tinner !
HBf Randolph Churchill is not great at
ln one of his recent speeches lie stild
voice of England which sounded so
Bat tho last general election should not- he
fmpht of.” The English clodhopper has a
■ that pigs can sea the wind, and tho man
Kvon’t lose sight of a voice must surely share
If wisdom.
the Archbishop of York says that a
ion can never become moral until ifc becomes
er. Similarly we think that an Archbishop
l never be meek so long as he pockets dross to
Itune of £25,000 a year. But people who are
Ir are not necessarily moral; even in Sydney
■e is a teetotal, anti-tobacco, pro full local
Bin member of Parliament who quite lately
B weather, this, isn’t it?
Hun a Melbourne paper re a London
which “Tummy” wa3 present: “The
Bwas in the highe-t spirits, and errried on a
Bn with a dozen pretty women just in the
way.” “ The old sweet way ! ’ We are
BBnc at hearing that the dear Dutch-built,
Prince with the spiked whisker and
B bald-head can find time to make love in
m sweet way.
B Walter Watson Hughe?, of South
' ,a d stacks of coin, so when he was
for Uanaan’s happy shore the Pool of
kßould not. lrvve con'ained all the oily slush
forthL^ui^mmyiim^Bß
praise of his virtues. Sir Walter made his pile
by ac’cident, a shepherd in his employ having di -
'ewered the famous Moonta copper mines. The
shepherd is also on Canaan’s happy shore. He
was allowed to die almost in starvation.
The well-known Sydney merchant, Al-
phonse Dechet, has been liberated from Goulburn
Gaol after serving five and a half years for
alleged arson. On the day of his trial in 1881 he
( counted so confidently on acquittal that he ordered
a good dinner to be ready for him at a fashionable
Sydney hotel. The feed is still waiting, but it is
rather cold now. However, Bechet has many
influential friends who still believe in his entire
innocence, and announce their intention of start-
ing him again in business.
A criminal prosecution of Mr. Burnand,
the editor of London Punch, for alleged libel, has
begun. Mr. Burnand’s offence is editing a comic
journal in which appeared a burlesque sketch of
Mrs. Gore Jenkins. Mr. Robert Gent Davis,
M.P., insists this was meant for his wife. Mr.
Burndnd offered to say it was cot intended for
her, and expressed his regret at the misapprehen-
sion, but as responsible editor he refused to name
the writer. Mr. Burnand’s chances of seeing the
inside of a prison are not supposed to be great.
One of Jubilee Young’s gorged guests,
writing to a Victorian journal, returns thanks for
his feed as follows :
“Alderman Young's name will be handed down to pos-
terity as the prince of municipal entertainers, having cast
into the shade all previous efforts of corporate dignitaries,
not only in his owd immediate municipality, but throughout
the whole length and breadth of the Australian colonies.”
The plain English of which is that the ex-Mayor
knew his Visitors had more stomach than brains,
and very wisely filled ’em up accordingly.
The latest development of the Keilawarra
trouble is that the Mrs. Wilson saved from the
wreck, and whose husband was drowned in her
arms, has had her right to the title of widow dis-
puted, and the Relief Fund Committee men are
rapidly growing bald-headed in their wild endea-
vours to untangle the matter. Another Mrs.
Wilson has turned up, claiming to be the rightful
widow, and declares no other brand is genuine.
Like his unlucky skipper, Mr. Wilson appears to
have saved himself from much unpleasantness by
being drowned.
The Marquis of Quecnsberry, the latest
blue-blooded candidate for Divorce-Court honours,
has hitherto been regarded as mere of a fool than
a libertine. He courted cheap notoriety by formu-
lating—or lending hii i ame set of rules for
amateur boxing, and figured as.president of a
. Free.thought society. In this latter capacity the
noble Marquis made an object of himself by rising
from his seat at a London theatre to make a ridi-
culous protect against the ridicu’ous sentiments
expressed in “ The Cupn” qne of Tennyson's ridi-
culous plays. We fmey he was politely
“ on that occasion. In his middle-age
tlm ,&W?fetic rowdy to have lapsed
■flro gid-iiness. After all, that u’ossn't require
much brain-power. \
The grateful Victorians placed\a portrait
in oils of politician Service in national
gallery. Service’s deadly enemy, DaviatJiuiC?pn,
was one day escorting through the gallery the
wife of a constituent. “And who is that, Mr.
Gaunson?” quered the lady, pointing her parasol
at the counterfeit presentment of Victoria’s !
whilom Premier. “ That, madame,” replied
Gaunson, with his bc3t air of pitilc3s scorn, “that
is Judas Iscariot.” “Dear, dear, is it really, |
now?” murmured the good dame, “and where j
did they get the likeness ? ’ “ Oh,” retorted Truth- I
ful Dave, “ the Artist got hold of the worst man
in Victoria and painted Aim.” “Ah, now ihat I
look again,” sad the constituent ess, scanning
closely the Gaunsoiran visage and then the paint- 1
ing, “ I do see a likeness.”
Mark Twain, while travel-
ling lately in the country, found
that he had fj.rgo-.Kn his tooth-
powder, and after a vigorous
hunt in the room of the lodging-
houss wherein l.e slept, he dis-
covered something n a small hr x
on the mantelpiece, which cer-
tainly resembled tooth-powder.
At any rate, he used it vigorously
on his teeth and found it satis-
G, R. D. (to Lord C.): “P’RAPS THIS LITTLE DOCU-
MENT OF MINE WILL TAKE A LOAD OFF YOUR
MIND AND PREVENT EMBARRASSM ENT. I WILL
ADI) THAT, IF DANCING ON MY STOMACH
WILL MAKE YOUR LORDSHIP’S STAY AMONG
US ANY HAPPIER, I BEG YOU WILL NOT
HESITATE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF MY NOW
PROSTRATE FORM!"
factory. When he got down stairs he apolo-
gised to his hostess for using her tooth-powder.
She appeared surprised. “ Whattooth-powder ? ”
she inquired, blandly. “It was on the
mantel,” Mark replied. “On the mantel?”
she repeated. “Yes, in a small brx ; it was ex-
cellent,” he declared. “ Good gracious ! ” she
ejaculated, that wasn’t tooth-powder.” “What
was it?” asked Mark, now slightly alarmed.
“Why, that was auntie,” said she. “ Auntie ”
had been cremated.
The death of the Earl of Iddesleigh is a
great loss to the English Tory party, and also in a
less degree to England. The late earl was a well-
meaning man who seldom managed to explain
coherently what he meant. He had a largo con-
science, “hut he had no place to put it; he had
also a large blind, but it had been crammed with
fact 3 till it burst, and even then the facts were
choked in so tightly that he couldn’t get them out.
He would have been a good poor law guardian,
and in that capacity would have made matters as
pleasant as he could for the rickety old paupers,
and would have patted the heads of the orphans,
but his bump of bsnevolence was somewhat
bashed in by the troubles of political life. Still
serves to be remembered
meant we 11.
Mr. John Nagle Ryan, M.L.C., of Galong,
Burrowa, died suddenly last week. The Hon.
John, who was facetiously termed “Torn Slat-
tery’s constituency” from the power exercised by
I him in the electorate represented by the N.S. W.
j Chairman of Committees, was a rough diamond
with a big heart. As a state:-man, he wasn’t
equal to Gladstone, but if you stayed at Galong
| his boy in buttons, armed with a big bottle of
champagne, awakened you punctually every
morning before half-past 5. It is related that Mr.
Dailey, while a guest at Galong, and rising at 5,
as is his habit, noticed one morning on the veran-
dah half-a-dozen buckets of milk and a big cask
with a spigot. Plain Bill demanded of the ser-
vant-man what they were going to do with the
milk. The menial’s reply was brief and to the
point: “What are we goin’ to do with it, yer
Honor ? M hy, we’re goin’ to dhrink it. Don’t ye
see the rum forninst it! ”
The miserable legal squabbles between
Charles Adams and the male membars of the
Coleridge family have robbed the Lord Chief
Justice of England of any odd remnants of dig-
nity. He stands exposed before the world as a
narrow-minded, sanctimonious, learned prig, and
will probably take an early opportunity of sending
in his resignation and dropping into obscurity.
Lord Coleridge is chiefly remarkable as the pos-
sessor of a phenomenally small head, and as
having conducted the longest cross-examination
on record. That was when, as 3olicitor-G6neral,
he roasted Arthur Orton in the first “ Tichborno ”
Trial. Before that cross-examination commenced
there were people willing to bet even money that
the Wagga butcher was the rightful heir. Bofore
it was concluded they were anxious to lay off at
20 to 1 against. The poor played-out Claimant
must be glad to And that his former torturer is not
much more respected than he is himself.
Te Kooti, tbe champion N.Z. cut-throat,
is again on the war-path—this time as a temper-
ance lecturer, if you please. As might be ex-
pected from his antecedents, his style is slashing
and up to the handle. There’s no beating about
the bush with E ooti. His arguments, like his
murders, are conclusive, and leave nothing more
to be said for a thousand years, anyhow.
“Maori brothers!” he yelled during a recent
oration addressed to his dusky compatriots,
“ Maori brothers, whatever ye do, do not lush up
on firewater, because it is a bad thing and makes
you drunk, and the Pakeha Bobby has you and
your money every time. I drink firewater, and I
get drunk, but that’s got nothing to do with you.
You must not do as I do, but as I tell you. Now,
pass that bottle to me. and any of you that wanfa
to may smell the cork.” The moral
Kooti's address was excellent. The v
tlii‘ blue and took tlie pledge I'reely^iß
-vM'vav’
ilonu ,:ml
wrinkled, but he is mighty tough,
and he may live to swing off 95
more, and then he can keep four
corpse jubilees all at once before
he dies. His last victim was a man
of 76, bent down with the weight of
extreme old age, almost blind and
totally deaf, who mumbled and mut-
tered idiotically on his way to the
gallows. Solomon had sent 104 men
to the other world that their fate
might be a warning to this miser-
able, decrepid wretch, but his crime
was committed in a moment of over-
mastering passion, so that the ex-
ample was thrown away, and then
he was slaughtered himself as a cau-
tion to the next man, who will
probably regard the warning with
equal indifference. So far, at all
events, hanging, as a means of striking terror,
seems rather a failure—at least, 104 hangings
have failed ignominiously to reform the small
community in Tasmania.
Most people who thought anything about
the matter must have been surprised to find that
Serjeant Ballantyne had reached such a venerable
age as 76 Fifteen years ago it was the fashion to
link the gay Serjeant’s name with that of every
fresh burlesque “star” who appeared on the
London stage. And nobody thought of regarding
him as an old man. Even after allowing a heavy
discount on the stories of this legal Lothario’s
amours, the fact remains that he possessed a mar-
vellous capacity for combining pleasure with busi-
ness. Waiters at the famous Star and Barter,
Richmond, spoke reverently of “ Serjeant Ballan-
tyne’s room ” and the superior orgies held therein,
liis bachelor dinners and after-theatre suppers
were favourite themes with young men who
aspired to “fashion.” Yet with it all Serjeant
Ballantyne 'almost the last bearer of that obsolete
legal title) kept up a splendid practice, and bore a
high reputation for professional.propi’iety. But
| for his giddy notoriety Ballantyne would cer-
tainly have been xaised to the Bench. As it was,
■ y.*
■
V
p c ct ed.
Tit a.’ Fa i'i 111; of Olam- ; ea
■
■
■ of de *' hwa : ary ait. yeißjßK
Ho is slit! remembered hy rHH
do ro t ||c.
Slaie ball. thus nearly causing
prosentativo to swallow his
ttige and agony. He inherited his.
his father, a gay old coon with a hcBBB
axn countenance, w ho ran away
a Mr. Hancock, and after that
helped her to get jiosscssion
daughters, ’there was money in
Hancock, who wars a lady of many
Hogged and starved the girls to deaMJl
she and the nobleman reached for
mil-red it, It seems to be one of t'lßfH
of the Glanricarde family that. theßUl
reaching after something. ’the |irfl|
however, is now a sa'low, bilious
gloomy face that looks a 3 if it
and two bally-glued legs, and the
be in a fair way for dying out. 0
Sheriff Cowper, front the
dignitied position as hanger and
colony of N.S.W., haughtily
of having admitted a promiscuous
to feast their eyes on the last
Rennie convicts. “ Scarcely one
be says, “ came from idle
we presume he means to say they
on business of some kind or anothcßJJ
maker possibly came to lay two to
to which of tho four should give
singer probably wanted to get
comic song and to ask Nosey Bob ■SB
word that would rhyme with ‘
eminent tailor who made anot
crowd, was probably taking notes
of each corpse’s pants ; and as
publican and the miscellaneous
num," Heaven alone ktow - what hflHB
such a place, but we have ;;
not idli’ eurio-it
,
Jg| ;
piP*"* jB
PB**"*" 1 B*'
PWr Koiglithyv. Into [mlifl '
A lbi i ry, N.S.W., who died at
M
nrst electorate for many '' e iKßßßfiwi
incautiously threatened to
the bushrangers if he ever came
Ben Hall and four or five cf his
down one .Sunday morn on
some Id miles from Bathurst, and MB
I'cpper it with bullets. Keightley
bis lira\ e wife
him, and the result was that one of
men was sown stretched a corpse. M-B|
this, Hall and the rest of his
bouse, secured Keightley, tied him toßi
prepared to put a bullet through
frantic appeals of bis wife seem to
Hall’s heart, however, and be
the captives life on condition that
rode into Bat burst, chew £5OO
and banded il to Hall on her
of the gang, was stationed on a hill |HB
her, and she was cautioned that.
was seen with her as she appreached,J
band’s doom was sealed. Mrs. Keiglfi
formed her task, and after putting in six!
the tree, with a bloodthirsty ruffian keep!
over him, Keightley was released, and!
satisfaction soon after of hearing of theß
of the band.
“Dar’smany a lady dat tells hulj
dog t’ings dat ’er husban’ dpan’^^J
Amekii-an Pin i mM;-
T ; i
H
wid>> . ' ’ W< 11 you !■t v, ■
grave and back has given me i^^HHBB
m
a tomahawk, but he couldn’t
Aj
thing else in the house fromH
meter, but the police found hiiH
, ■ H
little out of breath —that was a^B
There is an extniordinn^^Jva'
iwren London and S.\ dne\
t lie former ci > y Mr. .) list ice l)a|y visitHSfj
100.-t disre|iiu able parts of the,
local papers printed nice lit tie'pars.
But if The Bi i.i i:iax were to regiilß§||
the visits of certain N.S. W. judges I tHH
I arts of Sydney, a succession ndKA
I’ll 111 i- ecr o I )a rl
libel Would ' row (1 I hat in-d i t u t ion \BrS£:|
II 1 alow a.-, ha If our t ime lai ruin-- ,
bright ly and l rut hi ul!> de.-er i |
.1 J&ij-iffc'J
we know about the Wool 1 oomooß
aMfgßll
Why They Will Not M[?]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Leisurely after lie opens his eyc-'HHj
The haehelor chooses his time
Leisurely dressing, hr knows no
Breakfast is waiting for him (lowi^Bf
Thrust out of hod in the cold
With liis liair unkempt and beard
The husDand creeps to the kitchen tfl
Wish 1 was single again, by Jove^B
Deduction. H
r J his is the reason young men won’tH
Each sex is equally fond of bed, B
And he, of course, is a brute who’ll dfl
His wife to get up and go light the fiJ
HENIPERER[?]


'JSZ ~*’~
. /. ,
-
(PoMOkJ- <uU yf ?*/£"-.
A &m~*. M ~
v -^at^.
rJ-i
■■
t£: ; ' : ' IK ''^* a ***f" /y a
K. &//_ 4*mS7ti fauS/sirt/
B \ \
V/Tf r , z£r a^M
/M y I 1
h-jffy ?£,*£***’*
il^P'^rjhzfZz^
jU liaZU 2
oU_QjtipXjL 7o
fiufrud 4H>
-£X?£! : -d
| ofo rtiuu )p/
V ttruy Yy7&. /<**£ So fc
K.- a/ /Xh S*jLi/44Cl (?KSX+C*f J^k/Sj £/^/rUs-LtS a rft-LLA/, / *
tyjSgf
\
/o ht
Rossi.


Vmw vj
it
[?]: "HERE YOIU HOLD IT A BIT, TILL YOU CAN GET SOMEBODY TO TAKE CHARGE OF I'M
[?]R GIVE IT TO PARKES OR ANYBODY! GIVE IT TO BARTON! GIVE IT [?]


I IB unto him the other day with their syeo-
cries of Lo, we pity thee’’—and then
JHpff to the newspaper-oiliees to procure the
of their performance? “Charles,
you been this afternoon ? ” “ Oh, my
V been up to Government House to tell
I am ready to strengthen his hands.”
■; !
* * *
recent performance in the
line tire Queen becomes the grand-
32 children. This is very nice.
IB *
always prepared to bet on a widow,
lw and then we might, lcse our money. A few
I ago there was an exceedingly attractive
fcren of the tribe living in Melbourne. Her
rvas about 10, and she had a beautiful
bter aged 20, who was engaged to a soft-
|1 young man with a rich father. The widow,
lor, fell in love with the youth, and won
latself, and the girl then covered the old
parent with daughterly kisses and attentions
he married her. She made him a good wife,
nd when he died three years later he left all
operty to her and to her two infant children,
the young lady went for vengeance. She
|d the soft headed son’s supplies, and he had
le a bil’et at £2 a week, w'hile the ex-widow,
fed gone through her own property in the
I days of early married life, cooks two at-
|d chops for breakfast, brushes her own
Ipatches her husband’s pants, and regrets
|y when she cut her daughter out in the
Ins of a fifth rate masher worth 40s. a week.
I * * *
lan’t recall your face, but I am sure I
■ n your name very frequently Somewhere
Bwas the pleasant remark of de Juggins to
l>om lie met at a Potts Point dinner-party.
■» the evening was half through de J.
where he had so frequently seen his
Bame —it was in the column headed :
Hings in Insolvency.” It’s awful bad not
memory—donclicrknow.
IB*
Auckland (N\Z.) widders have just
local charity board silly. The old
have been in receipt of public
a quarter of a century, and alto-
£700 has been spent on them. After
HKthc board lias just discovered that
raMif the dead past arc each possessed 0 f
WHAT IT IS COMING TO.
[?]NING PAPER MAN: "OH, HAVE A LITTLE MERCY ON THESE UNHAPPY CRIMINALS,
[?]NCELLENCY!"
[?]CY: "WY WHAT DOES ALL THIS MEAN-HOW DOES IT COME TAHT YOU'VE SO
[?]D YOUR TUNE ONLY A FEW WEEKS AGO YOU YOU THIRSTED FOR HLOOD."-
[?]CELLENCY MISUNDERSTANDS ME. I DIDN'T ASK YOUR EXCELLENCY NOT
[?] WANT THEM HANGED-BUT I DIDN'T WANT THEM ALL HANGED AT
[?] OUR EXCELLENCY HANG ONE ON TUESDAY, ONE ON WEDNESDAY, ONE
[?]SD ONE IN TIME FOR MY THIRD EDITION ON FRIDAY."
[?]AN: "AND, YOUR EXCELLENCY, PLEAS, ONE FOR MY SECOND EDITION ON
No
l«|||^Bestas
' • - -iV. lagf
sec
■
iiliPSr
K
HBs head,
IP
■ glide.
11
*'* : "’ j •" Pffk.
mpiderablo lawful and visible means of support
heir own, one having a farm in the country,
(■6ther a terrace in town, and a third a house full
piano, Brussels carpet, and all the
other requisites of a genteel family mansion com-
plete. By last accounts the board was trying to
make tip its mind whether to prosecute them for
obtaining relief by false pretences or deputing
three of its single members to take them in hand
and marry them.
* * *
“ Do you realize, sir,” said the long-haired
passenger, that there is one win sees and hears
all we do, who can solve our inmost thoughts and
before whom we are but crushed and bruisrd
worms?” “Give ns your hand, sir,” re-
plied the other, “ I quite know how you feel. I'm
married myself.”
* * *
She: “I wonder who that good-looking
woman is over in that box ? ” He : “ Oh, that’s
my wife. I wonder who that good-looking fellow
is with her ? ” She : “ Oh, that’s my husband.’"
* *
A Wellington (N.X.) young woman has
yu.-mgnr.il ■.| .i ... A .1 i.i..
for worse, she did not faint, or swoon, or go into
hysterics over it; neither did she rush to her law-
yer with six-and-eighl pence in cash and 60(10
yellow love-letters in a gunny bag. All the coin
she spent over the case was twopence sterling
with which she invested in a job lot of ducks’
eggs of considerable antiquity. This particular
lot had been squatted upon for several consecu-
tive weeks by an aged and irascible fowl, which
after an unusually protracted sitting had dis-
gustedly thrown up the hatching contract. With
tt is choice selection of fruit in her hasket our
heroine tripped gently o’er the lea and entered a
tramcar in which were snugly seated in a war®
coiner, absorbed in each other’s charms, her
former lover and his bride. The happy pair were
dressed in the best New Zealand styleand were pro-
bably on their way to a railway station or steamer
for (heir honeymoon trip. When the car was
well started the young woman with the ripe eggs
suddenly arose and threw the eggs in rapid suc-
cession at the heads and faces of her false lover 1
and his tuneful and lovely spouse who were in the
next compartment but one. “Take that, you
villain, and that, and that, you old cat, and that
and that, you vipers!” she yelled, finishing up
hei remarks with the last of her odorous missiles,
while the other passengers fled from the car
holding their noses hard and fast as they jumped
off. When the car stopped she also tripped away
without paying her fare, leaving the unhappy pair
yolked together in the corner covered with orange-
blossoms of a fragrance too powerful to be de-
scribed and too adhesive to be easily blown off.
The honeymoon trip was thus prematurely nipped
in the bud, and the fainting form of the poetic
bride had to be carted home to her mother, where
restoratives were [at once successfully applied.
Her first eggsperience of married life was thus
truly unique—probably no daughter of Eve. sinee
the world began, ever had such an ovation before.
* * *
The social event of the week in Melbourne,
and one w’hich attracted considerable attention,
was the marriage at St. Mary’s, St. Kilda, of the
Hon. Charles Horatio Nelson, second son of the
Earl of Nelson, with Miss Petty. The bride
looked exceedingly pretty. She was attired in a
very rich costumo of ivory satin trimmed with
passementerie, pearl pendants, and sprays of
orange blossoms, and wore splendid diamonds.
Miss Ethel Petty, sister of the bride, wmre an
exquisite bridesmaid’s toilet of cream and helio-
trope, with hat and gloves to match, which w ag
very becoming to her pretty figure ancl fair
hair. 'I he other two bridesmaids were
little girls, Missss Vivian Smith and Fairy
Magee, and were attired ip charming Watteau
costumes with powdered hair and patches. The
bride was given away by her brother, Mr. William
Petty, and Mr. Campbell McKcllar of Strathkellar
acted as groomsman. After the ceremony the
wedding guests were entertained at a dejeuiftr at
the Esplanade Hotel by Mrs. Petty, mothor of
the bride. A large number of presents were
received, including very handsome Ones from the
Earl and Countess of Nelson, Lord and Lady
Trafalgar, and other members of the Nelson family.
The present Countess of Nelson wa9 the only child
of the late Earl of Normanton, and succeeded to a
considerable fortune. Two of her daughters are—
Lady Constance Bouverie, married to a son of the
Earl of Radnor, and Lady Edith Tudwav.
* *
Wife: “ You haven’t been iiside of a
church since we were married—there !” Husband :
“ No ; a burnt child dreads the lire.”
- .gM ■
f acquaintance might be by a closer scrutinyonß
features, the lady grasped the extended hand a«
shook it vigorously, at the same time going right
along settling her draperies toiler critical satisfac-
tion. When this was accomplished, she looked
up with a beaming smile to greet the owner of
me wed-shaken hand. To her astonishment and
horror she gazed into the face of a total stranger,
ihe hand was dropped with startling velocity.
(*T Ut ’ s ” ' S^9 exc -h'uied, crimson with anger
r never saw you before in all my life,” “ I ani
aware of the fact, madam,” was the cool reply ;
I only wished to accommodate you, by passing
up your fare.” * s
* * #
The neatest new thing in love-pooms is
entitled “ Wants to be Frozeji to Death,” and
starts thus
" heart ia athrob with a pulsing unrest,
And fever is over .my breast;
Oh ! bury my head in the snows Qf thy breast;
And let me be frozen to death 1”
* * *
A controversy is going on in one of the
Melbourne papers as to wliat sort of girl the
young man of to-day wants for a wife. The
answer might hare been given in one sentence—
the young man of to-day wants for a wife a girl
who will support him. There it is. Since women
have taken to be masculine the rising generation
af . malea have no choice but to be feminine. The
reign of female beauty is nearly over. Men (of
the higher classes) will in the not far distant
future take to wearing veils to preserve their com-
plexion, ar.d will occupy as long over their toilet
,as women do now. Some such conversation as
the following will be of common occurrence then.
™ De : r A Drawing-rotom in South Yarra.
Mr f- Fl tzbiffln (the lady of the house)
and her friend Mrs, Do Toohey (who has called
or her to go to the theatre) discovered waiting
impatiently. Mrs. Fitzbiffin'; loquitur: “Im so
sorry to keep jou waiting, Mrs. de Toohey, but
1 omkins has not finished dressing yet—you know
wlmt men are, dear. I promised the poor fellow
l would take him to the theatre the first night I
could spare, and of course you know it would be
improper to allow him to go by himself—without
protection.” Or this, in a lower grade of life,
bcene ; a backyard in Collingwood, Mrs. Mng-
glcsbj, armed with a wood-axe, chasing her hus-
band around the yard. Mrs. M. loquitur, “Take
that! ana that I you lazy, loafing, gcod-for-noth-
mg, slatternly wrotch. I come home from my
8
(nibbles—another precious article for a woman to
have to keep—instead of getting my dinner ready.
And smoking my pipe, too ! I shouldn’t wonder if
you d take to drinking beer next. Ugh! i’ll
knock such nonsense out of you, if I have to
kdl you. Do you hear that ? That’s your friend
Dribbles getting hi* lot. Mrs. GFibbles is not the
woman to stand such capers—nor am I. We'll
teach tli© pair of you.” More thrashing with the
axe-handle, and then in an agony of ternor Mug-
gleBby rails into the next yard and claims the pro-
tection of Mrs. GribbJes, just as Giibblcs is diving
into the Mugglesby yard to ask Mrs. Mug-
gleshy to 'sTfield him. The two ladies con-
front each other and a battle-royal ensues, lie
husbands looking on with frightened faocs. Thel
combatants then make it 'up and send their hus-
bands for beer to cement the treaty of peace.
They are left drinkmg it while the wretched hus-
bands, fearful of what their wives may do to them
when the bear gets into their heads, snoak away
to an empty shed and mingle their sorrows toge-
thei. Ihe papers in these days will bristle with
such headings as the following “ A Brutal Hus-
band-beater,” “Barbarity of a Wife,” “A Hus-
band by his Wife,” “ An Epidemic of
Husband-beating,” “ Six Months for Gouging out
her Husband's Eyos—a Warning to the Female
Kulhans. And so forth. It will be a merry time
—for single men.
Mr. .1 ustice \\ iliiams, of Melbourne, was
married in a quiet sort of way, on the -Ith inst., to
his cousin, Miss Jessie Bruce Lawford. His
Honor met liis bri'de-elect at Williamstown pier
immediately on her arrival from England, popped
her into a carriage, and away to the hymeneal
altar. There were no bridesmaids, but the lady’s
aunt wars present to see fair play. It is rumQured
that the happy pair are making a bridal tour on a
double tricycle.
* * *
A drop of bitterness has found its way
into the nectared nuptial cup of that verdant
v ictorian squatter who jilted a fair opera bouffcist&
and married a bouncing barmaid. He won’t be
responsible for his wife’s debts, and the lady an-
nounces to the world that she hasn’t any debts,
and considers hubby to be “ peculiar.” His chief
peculiarity is £2OOO a year and more to follow.
1 hat ought to keep Hymen’s torch burning if kind
friends and relatives don’t try to blow it out.
* * *
Like father, like son ’—as Angelina re-*
marked whoa she hugged her Edwin’s little boy
by a former wife.
* * *
Dion Boucicault is preparing for publica-
tion a collection of the plays he has written, in
collaboration with a number of un named drama-
tists. If he would only disclose the sources of tho
plays lie has written, all by hig own self, the world
would feel obliged. To this day nobody has been
able to discover whose brain was responsible for
“ London Assurance,” which Dion fathered more
than 40 years ago.
* * *
The Sydney summer has been too much
for Lady Carington. Her ladyship’s remains are
still at Moss Vale.
- ♦
We are glad to see that the Richmond (Vic.)
burghers have inaugurated a revival of the old zest
and merriment of oouneil meetings. At a recent,
commune of the city fathers, Clr. Jenkins good-
humouredly called the Town Clerk a “ liar,” and
the Mayor a “ thing,” whereupon the Mayor
promptly peeled off his official robe 3, h ired his
brawny arm, and pressed brother Jenkins to go
into the back-y irtfand bo basted out of recogni-
tion ; but Cr. Jenkins was afraid of the night-ail*
or something, anyhow lie remained in his seat,,
and soon had Cr. M‘Kae full of fife fit and prancinjJ
round. The latter g- ntlenmn earnestly offered t(j|
give £lO in aid of the surgical
M


POLITICAL
POINTS
lentlemen, if I don’t do you any harm,
you no good,” said a Queensland candidate
rliament. That man i 8 now aJa .
entenced to transporattion to Van
[emen’s Land as the penalty for believing in
bine Rule,” is the Pall Mall G^ ZE ' r £f 8 ?,
fent on the appointment of Sir Robert Hamilton
[Governor of Tasmania.
I‘ Cradle and child, Gd. ; one dog, Is- ,
I among the entries of goods seized by a sherilt-
Icer in the Isle of Skye for arrears of rent, ine
and howling Presbyterian, and is
H&BBIBble over a charge of kidnapping.
WfflPffW to bring up the child m the
■HBgo, and when it grew up to make it |
aßßHhad paid the rent in full.
BBBiß’by has an income of £1G3,000
£150,735 comes from his Liver-
Two-tnirds of this is due to the un-
brought about by the constiuc-
a-:iv through the estate—a rauvsaj
|the way, his father bitterly op-
is, the noble lord pockets
• which neither he nor his father diu a
‘ Mrsturn to earn.
JT POLITICIANS v. PUGS.
B When bruisers on the fistic stage
Are knocked down to the lloor
* They raise themselves, and standing up
Essay the fight once more.
But politicians when knocked down
In Truth’s remorseless mill,
The gauge of victory strive to win
I By tying harder still.
1 Pev H R. Hawcis, we read, avers that
Le Democratic leaders have no insight into the
Bn causes of distress. The poor, _ says this
fßnent parson, ruin themselves by bringing in o
more children than they are able to
How does this idea square with the
,'BL r s a i m “ Lo, children arc an heritage of
and the fruit of the womb is his reward.
iUßbws are in tin hand of a mighty man so
’‘'Bfa rC n of the youth. Happy is the man that
full of them ”
BBBB Father Hayes, <>f lowa, lets himself
Rule affairs 1 here’s no mistaking
Speaking recently at \ oughal, lie
observed :
HHRnierican landlords acted like Irish landlords, the
&B!e woifld if they could, pelt them not only with dyna-
Ssßp hnt a i 30 ’ w ith heaven’s lightning and hell s fare until
British bulldog, whelp, and cur was pulverised and
pade into top-dressing for the soil.
WPax vobsicurn and pass the hell-tire.
1 Perhaps some member of the N.o.
B’arliamcnt will make enquiries as to the annual
■•oit of providing horses for the telegraph-mes-
sengers. The treatment to which these unhappy
■mokes are subjected by the young rascals, their
Riders is absolii* ely scandalous. If at any time cl
Ihe dav or a horse’s feet clattering
pace adopted by Ichabod
B
■ :
B
ni,ll't. (>i\ <"i tba 1 , ' 11<■ amiiui-
l::; (1 WO 11 i : gi >' add. \ U-d 1 ” 111 i
vp t i;l la, a -urab'e distal cm I I"'
S KfM. Bp can feed and rim he bin..-elf <.n
Ta k about Chinese ehcap laboul
imme.lia’.c danger in Iter Maj.mC
in indi i oiw i lie Indian railwaj
bBSbTPB -ilete. 'l'be |"'ospeo! is b\ m. meain
BBBBHe for Australian i.gra uUuralists.
Bmßakuow. a I».ulon paper, p’lh-
suggestion jv an Aim;ralian na\ y.
hai there is agrea' want m promo -
oil Icc s wlm , or . eon boar il IL-M -
BHBHrT'vnmcn el ,var, and tba the foima
r>'Bbullet-proof licet in tb s>e colonies would
•V 5 ’Bugive a lift to about a bundled congested
gBPB-hds from Portsmouth ai.d elsewhere. Thai
Australia is to pvy lor a fleet, and A us- 1
mmm an . to dll all ilie common shillinga-day
HBHkvhileth«v arc boss-d by KrglL-h oiff-ms
out heir because .hey are not good
HHBfoi- service at home Atc mtiful i ea.
were si one strange coincidences
n Socialist demorstra' ion in London on
•>i That day is well-known m the
18188 church as “Stir up Sunday,” from its
Sg§Bt which begins, “ Stir up, we beseech thee,
BlKrd” and on that day a’si when Messrs.
MMi",..n, and Champion received the starving
■■sands of London poor, in every Anglican
fHUi-ch the text wai read from the lfS3on of the
Wm “When Jesus then lifted up his eyes and
I*’ a great company come unto him, he saith
HBTfn Philip, ‘Whence shall we buy bread that
Bhese may eat?”’ But it is not likely that any
Sleek vicar attempted to give a square answer to
question.
Chinese question is evidently being
HBvcd in America with considerable success. For
the following is said to have been the
report on a dead Mongol after the post
and inquest: . Ti ,
'PfeßLdv of Ah Sow. Found Monday morning in l>.*ad-
1 sin Francisco. 11l nourished, partly clad.
„ on h"id; hair tilh- 1 "rh d.tnt.H o
f.-n-.nainhre in i.Cm »t..l mus -bp mi Ud, si dr.
-m : - ■ ; 1; n ~ ir tclla. V sc. r i inT.m-fd, app .n-ntli
B ~t i lir ,l h,, thrmvh fr.i.V w d V",
'•.*.? ,'Bk t.miaoli, inns' ly lt-rtd Fi ,n< d' ' ' »>■>* Ull '
n 4 l-■ ir c:h: .iu>l ''• ' : ' 1 ( -
Tn" <» the ’W m 11.
Itß
[Jj’-fp C.V'brp’iV |R
v -Gt %. t \ v, B
~>f* B
Bworthy of a nobler object—
Ira. The other Freetrader, Mr. Cleghorn,
It hough a fairly capable man, was very low down
n the list.
The Cooktown Courier, about thebest-
nformed paper in Australia on the subject, speaks
rom personal knowledge of the evils inflicted on
Australian and British interests in New Guinea
,hrough the presence there of the trading mis-
sionary. He says: “The native mind cannot
r rasp the spiritualistic part of our faith. At 11 ri,
Moresby we have been asked a thousand times
whether Jesus Christlived aloigah Cooktown. ihe
Papuan Trinity consists of Tamale (Mr. Chalmers),
man-o’-war, and Jesu in that order of importance.
The men still stalk'about stark nude and go to
church in full dre3S, which consists of a narrow
strip of tape round their hips. Filth, disease, and
death are the only accompaniments of the pre-
sent kind of enterprise, and till these are banished
the island murders and massacres will continue.
“ I wonder,” said Sir Henry Parkes in the
highest notes of his piping treble, “ how it is that
Lord Carington did net administer a cru3hmg
snub tn those persons from the Union Club and
the Exchange who, the other day, waited on him
with the offer of their support in the hanging of
those four boys ? Had I been in his position
I should have said : “ Gentlemen, the re-
sponsibility in this matter rests with me alone.
Much as you may desire to have a share in the work
of the common hangman, I cannot see my way to
gratify your withes. Should any executions take
place I have no doubt that the Sheriff, even if
unable to accept your offers of assistance, will at
least enable you to witness the job as performed
by ethers possibly more expert though perhaps
not more wdlling than yourselves. I have now the
honour to wish you all a very good afternoon.
James, please show these— ah—gentlemen to the
door.”
An enthusiastic correspondent of the S.M.
Herald suggests that a “ handsome pile of build-
ings of great architectural beauty, containing all
modern improvements and conveniences to accom-
modate at least 1000 scholars,” should be forth
with built and named “Queen Victoria’s N.S.W .
Jubilee and Centenn'al Reconstructed Sydney
Grammar Schooland that the present Museum
be added to and called “ Queen Victorias N.S.W.
Jubilee and Centennial Museum.” A tatal defect
in these names is their extreme brevity ; a fe w
allusions to Carington and Nosey Bob, or at leas,
the inclusion of their pa'ronymics, is necessary to
make the titles appear more imposing. V e cotl °n
at once to this Museum idea. There really should
be some place whero- petrified patriarchs, who
think Australia cares a solitary dump for the
Queen’s Jubilee, can be safely stowed out of
luirm’s way.
Retrenchment is the watchword through-
out N.S.W. today. Two charwomen have been
dismissed from the Telegraph Department, an
order has been issued to reduce the amount cf
paste on postage-stamps, and the oilicer who fires
the 1 o’clock gun has been ordered to provide his
own matches. One of the best and truest tales
connected with the retrenching business, however,
is told of a married postmistress, who, having
looked over t .eplamof a now oliice which was
being built for her, conuhUMMS^'
BT
- L.
|gf|s£i_ v
I how she was to keep her children clean and
healthy without a bath-room being built, upon
which the bland official twiddled his thumbs and
replied : “ My deali Mrs. Quiverphull, the Govern-
ment does not recrgnise your children in any way
whatever. In point of fac\ you are not supposed
to have any children at all. neither jS it desi able
that you should do so.” And then the distracted
wife, breaking down, exclaimed—well we are
not going to repeat what she exclaimed.’
Now that the mosquito season has fairly
set in, the lineal descendants of the late Mr.
Ananias are trotting out their summer stock of
yarns. A few of our most esteemed and reliable
liars, chancing to meet a few nights ago, the bald-
headed man of the party observed Talkin’ o’
merskeeturs, I remember I was once breakin’ in
stock for ole Macpherson on the Paroo, an’ one
night we hears th’ devil’s own bellerin’ down,in
one o’ th’ swamps, an’ off we goes with our guns,
but we were jist in time to be too late. One o th
merskeeturs hed stuck in his beak clean through a
cow, and pinned her to a tres, a 3 slick as a black-
feller could spear her. Lucky for us th tree was
split in two by th’ blow or we’d never a got th’
carcase.” There was a solemn pause after this,
and then a man with a swivel eye and a remark-
ably aggressive front tooth asked the first man if
he ever had heard of Swinger and Cloutitt s boiler-
factory up near Rockhampton, ’the first man said
he hadn’t, and the other truth-upender continued :
“ j thought not, or you wouldn’t think so much
of the Bourko insects. Why they hcv one ole man
muskeeto up the^e —Gen’r’l Richardson they call
im—an’ they keep him for business purposes.
Fact, I assure yer. He sticks his beak through
the copper-plates, find, then they rivet cm least-
ways they uster do it when I was there, but
they’ve lost ’im now. Seems that he got huffed
an somethin’ or nuther, an’ one day he driv his
beak inter a big bilcr, an’ when they riveted it in,
bust me if he didn’t fly away with th biler
and’ th’ two men inside. ’ This time the
silence was sepulchral, and one or two of
the gentler sort of liars were beginning to
slink off, when a venerable looking old file re
marked in a soliloquis ng sort of way : I re-
member once w'hen I were a travellin noun t
Hungerford country a secin a muskeeter that
were ov considerable size .too. Sum surveyors
an' Guvermint coves hed him stuck on a platform
325 feet high, an’ hed trained lnm t’ use his beak
a borin these yere harteshiai wells, as they' calls
j ’em. Scotty Johnsin were mate with me then,
i an’ he measured th’ platform’s height, an it weie
! 365 feet ez I’m a livin' man ” “ Jsut w'hat on
I ea-th did they want t’ perch him up there fur 1
i a3ked the man with the swivel eye. “ Coz his
I beak w r ere too long t’ he used on th ground, ie-
plied the truthful traveller ; “ thet’s whyy they
held to build th’ platform 175 feet high, an d'ye
know what,” shouted the old reprobate, suddenly
starting up excitedly; “one day he got visheous,
an’ y’ can call me a goat ef he diin t put on steam,
! an’ drive his bill way through the earth till it
I came stick in’ out in frunt ov a Town Hall in
j China.” “Oh! look here, old ’un,” chorussed th
! rest “ that’s a cornin’ ov it jest a trifle too
'strong.” “Too strong!” ye’led the insulted but
i veracious chronicler, “why it’s nothin to what,
i he did arter tha% fur it seems th’ t'hineymen
clinched his beak at th’ other aide, an’ then I wish
i I may never die if he didn’t fly away with th
Lwtjole niufld ' One wild shriek o! horror
THIS WICK
WORLD
Tin; Vigilance Committee
noses its \ oi<■ <■ like c-ne snufl'mg J
]u::-S. ! • ha- four:(l out Ilia: a '"HBhHR
mg in mulch" m<l ncwspap.i r-
■
iic >ll ■! s \<• 1 1 ■ i• k; adverl i - " m C n ■_..... yiV'^V-
" I’m .! d A; eg 1 1 ’t:>l •
t;-_\ and . for the great c-si .hjg)
word- made cut of ‘ Edueat io: al, * •..
name.-. Seed list, with I-', (al i:i s!
January to Scrutator, la>x till. I'■■ -■■■■
liournc. Kcsult-i, Aon, Ith
(■aiidca, (N.S.W.I show, a s-pecial !‘Fa* ‘
district newspaper will he given. *.'
ri im> \ t; t) suggests that a contemp*
outer under tin- poultry or donkey
The t hennometer is kin in the si ad" * •..
I Vic. I Wo have not yet heard how
is in the shade At t’coktown (Q.» B|i^^
those juit ients who carry buckets of
haths are allowed to wash themseh* 1
\iiii Woodward has been orderci
IN',/, i Bench to contribute Us. a w
port of her husband. He was
jtaralysi-, and bis amiable better
£OOO, his savings ..New Zeal^E^sf*s
general. The Press thinks the go
New Zealand for his additiona^*^-.-;'^"
Piano hanging will soon be unfa dii*H*B
Now Kngland cockatoo has been hiitHMU
that sweetly maddening imdrumeiiL ..*gy||g|
was seen at Dunedin (N.Z 1 lately.”
was ohservt d by a newspaper nian...A^^
militant -at Goulburn T lie geld
ingep. (leorgc Ueisier. a letu
mini r, deelares it cost him one hUit^HHBBnHj
pounds to gel one ounce ef geld at J , *
I’li.'. \ uiee is near me in my
Pnndalierg uy ) poet. T was ' !i
I'eip'e-t ed him nc: ,e-k i.c: io .
i he s 1 a e my more P i~ !•""
a bridge from Dover to Ca’ais. t
An Auckland .J.P. h.a -leon - d 't'HHßHjjj
landci’ing a poor wid evh meat
letters T !ns blanks at M
i’'■ • 1 :illil ! "il a it g. < jfl
in a 1 to 1 ;. ; V, v'ykjf-*"
e.,i ne ; long he fit.-l.ei C«1
a few of them bad y 1
* *
A wmnan’s age may tell
rever retaliates by telling on her age.
nature is one of the choicest gems in the^Bg||
womanhood A few weeks ago a snufil^MJß
mimed Hooker preached a sermon at
(Eng.) from the text: “Flee Pom .
come ” lie tied himself next day,»g|K
Tio, 000 of the people's moneywith him. MmE
culture in Kngland seems likely to
cess. It was a profitable industry in I r(
until prohibited by the English GovernHH|
revenue ica-ons Thomsen : u £Jßß^iilN
should call you a liar, what
Jones (hesitatingly) '. “ Vi hat si/.er
late Robert Brough defined the Bible and *
shaw’s Railway Guide as beirg the bes*
books in the world, because, as he explß
“the Bible tells you the way to heaven*
Bradshaw’s Guide tells you what time the*
starts.” “My brethren, looking back
the boundless vista of the future, we see
prints of an Almighty hard," remarkt*
young curate An English lady by her v^B
left £lO,OOO to the Dr gs’ Home at liatterse*
£lOO to the parson who is to act as her ex*
From these bequests it is evident that parsoß
rising in public estimation -Vn -B
can gi;l has gone through Niagara rapids in*
She bet five dollars that she would
ard won it, but she was bruised all over
sick Hyndman, the London Socialist, *B
broke. 1!e had £.’50,000 a few years ag*
spent it all on his mission and on the
East End.
Things are looking very queer W
Sanctimonious Settlement, and the inlu*
are wondering where it is all going to
have even given up looking to the churclß
a i<i —it is quite impossible to avoid looking aj
churches altogether, as they average one to
ten houses—and the midday prayer meeti
the Y.M.C. A. are no longer crowded. T
three years ago wailing was heard on every
but matters look co black now that poop
afraid to make a row about them, and stan
waiting for the next blow of fortune. Thd
bankruptcies and assignments, even whei
“deficit” stands at £<50,000 or £BO,OOO, attrfa
attention, but fires are increasing in freqW
The real rub is that the e is no exporting indi
which is being eariied on at a profit, with tfl
ception of a little squatt ng on freehold larJ
chased in the early days and within aictuß
distance of the coast. Last year the wheß
was reckoned at three bushels per acre (t*
Government- has had to give up the ex*
collecting statistics !), which left tlie
tor about 7s. profit per acre of
year he may get five bushels where thercH|
some rain. Poor selectors 1 And yet
backbone of the colony,. Their farms y*B
no wages, scarcely tucker; many*
through last winter on pollard and bo*|
bu h with a bit of wallaby somet*B
a treat. They have little time for chape*|
Sunday-school (attended by “ children ■■
1!)), which is so deleterious to youth ful*B
is still almost unknown among them. Tl*B
Government honestly wants to
they see the abyss and feel the gro*B|
under their steps, but what can hic*|
years past between £lOO,OOO and
month has been spent on public
which 1 1." C.lnny is now uur erowdci*
expenditure were suddenly
much deer ased, what <>l tl.o
“They might even sack the
shuddering Wesleyans ot the
would our trade go to l let
Hord f In the
iiiucs.
*|*


“BRIGHT'S DISEASE"
Is regarded by many as incurable, and it is well nigh so,
except when opposed with Dr. Bell’s (Kidney and Liver)
Bitters. This old and reliable medicine has special power in
this and all other diseases of the kidneys and bladder. It is
purely vegetable, and is highly endorsed by physicians.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
r ® mier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
Wlth flag and floral decorations, 60$ Hunter-street
Wine (-Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
KcSSjSsptttStSsA“ d oonnoißBeurB - ° nly Bold b *
Cockroaches Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d Is
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to
THE VERY TIIIN
An Autophone costs but 30s. and
V *
/MM JB&
:
"^vVtC 1
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrum^p
&c.
which, while it weighs less than three pounds
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfec
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three 1
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult musie. C
it a child can correctly play, without instruction
any of its music, which at present consists of eve
3f>o selections from hymns, oratorios, operas
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs
is best adapted to the kind of music wl?
organ best, but also has wonderful poV
cuting very lively pieces. KW It is pi
voice, and has a little card holder for '
in singing. It is entirely well adapted
churches, Sunday schools, the family
also for dancing. The music is compt
cheaper than that which is made for an
The Autophone is like every other goo.,
longer you have it the better you like _
new music is being published every week
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLING
Three tunes given in with each instrumen
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cats?
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
OR A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
‘Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen,—lt gives me pleasure to stat
that the performance of the Watch manufactuie
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201
which I have carried in my pocket for a period
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. Tt ms
tains its rate even better than a fine box chro
meter by Negus, belonging to this observa
I have intended, when I shall have leis
make a complete test of the isochronism
balance for poise and temperature. So
can judge by the performance of the wat
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you
successful manufacture of watches wIJ
equal in performance to the pocket chron„.
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other cele
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a <* movement,
The Elgin Company does not
Notk. The Elgin Watch
silver is a new white metal
controlled by ourselves exclu
are to all appearance and in
equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co. ’sKe. ,
Patent Lever, in solid silver
dust-band case, with comped
balance, patent pinion, 7 flneje
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. \
Co.’s compensating-balance, pate
lever, open crystal face, in soli
silver dust-band case, with 11 fi
ruby jewels, p->lent pinion, &c.
Same Watch, in hunting-case ...
Ladies superb gold lever watch m
nificently engraved hunting case
quisite jewelled movement. No bettt?
in the world
We have not space here for further
quotations. We can, however, offer silvt.
watches at ascending prices up to the finest]
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLER 1
ORIENTAL
is the latest triump
Science. It is a no'
1
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre
and endurance of sterling Sold.
, beau
A le
[l2
timato use has been found for this noble metal,
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite d
signs. Tlie Oriental Gold Co.*
POMEROY CHAMBERS
CASTLEREAGM-ST., Sydney, h
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for s\
I*riced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,3s.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant: ) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 7s. 6d.; Pair Earring;
Plain 55., Jewelled,7s.6d.; Lock
ss..Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alb
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental
Co.
(ggp“We send tlieseon approval. Iff
please, return uninjured by
Hail, and we repay the cash,
12 POMEROY
[?]
I’aithful likeness of the man
heumatism is an invention of
and a scholar, speaks several
rot the biggest foot in Aus-
;hy and good-looking; has
his clothes doesn’t fit him.
used up every profane word
-her languages, still he is not
Jugh thoroughbred agony and
foot to kill every sinner in
her of Parliament, a Minister
in Alderman, but does not
ne anything to deserve his
i devout | and at One period
3nt contractor.
doctors and nearly every-
but the villain still pursues
that trying to cure rheu-
to shovel wind off the roof.
inbcure in the Civil Service
i House, or marrying into a
atism cannot be cured. His
i so. And he thinks that
1. It is a fact that a remedy
h relieves and cures rheu-
as the sun shines in the
(eternally. It conquers pain.
)Ot. It cures when every-
It penetrates to the seat of
pie. It is safe. It is cer.
w, merchant tailor, 11,
lelbourne, was under medi-
umatism for months at a
verely both in health and
sorts of remedies without
le got St. Jacobs Oil, when
jave me instant relief, and
lat I have not experienced
of pain ever since.”
erly with Davey and Moore,
incurable at three hospitals.
r from rheumatism. The
lie. St. Jacobs Oil cured ,
saved my life.” William j
aan of the world, writes : '
Jacobs Oil. It conquers j
I
1, Esq, importer and whole-
of Brisbane, Queensland,
mbts at first of St. Jacobs
natism ; but as I have
ficacy, I can honestly state
leumatic healing qualities.”
tbury, Gloucestershire, was
at Bath Hospital. His
It. Jacobs Oil cured him.
invalids in hospitals and
Dil was awarded six gold
stralia, and India. It has
men crippled from pain for
liam Gitsohink, a stoker, belonging to
.S. Albatross, was compelled to remain in
and when the Albatross sailed for Samoa,
cunt of his dreadful sufferings from rheu-
n. He says : “ I have perfectly recovered,
is entirely owing to the free application of
Wonderful remedy—St. Jacobs Oil.”
Lll be paid by the
ANY, of BALTI-
ED STATES of
Jacobs Oil, or by
itlvd3, to any per-
ct that the testi-
gard to St. Jacobs
srekeepers every-
3WN,
,th Wales
CO , Limited,
The friends of the unemployed—Rabbits.
Parkes has come and Parkes must go. He
is not only a Freetrader, but is opposed to Payment
of Members.
The N.S.W. Chief Justice, with Mrs. and
the three Misses Darley are now on a visit to
Tasmania.
A marriage will shortly take place between
pretty Miss Nina Boucicault and Mr. Everard of
Melbourne.
A man in Western Queensland rejoicing in
the sobriquet of “ Snakes ” has inherited
£lO,OOO. This is snakes in a rich man’s boots
“The Marchioness of Dunderry had the
honour of contracting pneumonia while driving
with the Queen on Wednesday.”—Murkan paper.
A South Australian paper asks : “ Whose
duty is ii to destroy the thistles on the Bay-road
where they are flourishing by hundreds ?” Why'
the donkey’s, of course.
PROCTOR’S RE-ELECTION.
ARMIDALE (loq): “HERE, TAKE BACK MY OLD DEAD CAT.”
J.. P. Abbelht says he will quit the N.S.W.
Assembly. In any case, he won’t take office—he
“would rather do fencing No doubt.
J.P. has fenced for quite a.long time.
At a meeting in St. Mary’s Cathedral,
Sydney, on a recent Surdajy might, when the
Kyardinal told the faithful that the money he
gave to the bogus N. S. W. “ Patriotic ” Fund was to
be devoted to the Church, the geniallDr. O’Doherty
referred to England’s little wars and hoped Australia
would keep out of them. His Imminence closed
his eyes and looked holy as he thought of the
mighty mistake he had made in askicg the Doctor
to forward the true and holy cause by r ddressiog
the parishioners on the demerits of foreign and
unjust wars and those who supported them. It
was worth going to church to see.
“Ha, Mister Chones, dis vas a colt day,
aind it ? Come to take dot ofergoat owd, eh ? ”
“Not to-day, Levi, not to-day; I ve been getting
some straight tips on the races. What’ll you gimme
on a vest ? ”
“ Five youths were arrested in Melbourne
last night charged with a criminal assault on a
girl named Helen Winterden.” Only five ! Where
are the other two ? Miss Winterden has evidently
made a mistake.
A marriage has been arranged between
Mr. Archibald Johnson, second son of Mrs. Nicho-
las, of Toorak House and Tahara, and Miss
Kammenreich, daughter of General Kammenreich
of the Imperial German army.
Brown : “ You are looking well, Robin-
son.” Robinson: “Yes, and feeling well; but
nevertheless I lost a hundred and twenty pounds
of flesh last month.” Brown : “ That’s not pos-
sible ! ” Robinson : “ Yes it is. My wife ran off
with a Sunday-school sainti”
“ Who is to be the new N.S.W. Speaker ? ”
If members wish order maintained they should on
the similia similibus principle, elect Wisdom
Speaker and make Stephen Chairman of Com-
mittees.
Sydney Editor—“ Blinks has just brought
in a lovely outrage, full of the most revolting de-
tails.” Managing Editor— “ Good! Run it leaded,
and head it, ‘ Too Sickening for Publication,’ and
tell em in the press-room to run off twenty thou-
sand extra copies.”
Mr. John Noake, of George-s£reet,
Sydney, tobacconist, has struck a new reerin the
building trade in the shape of an obelisk of
cigarettes, which is displayed in his window. A
doubt has arisen regarding his loyalty in conse-
quence, the article being generally supposed to be
a tombstone for “ Wales, ” It only wants an ap-
propriate hicjacet to fill the bill.


THOUSAND
COPIES)
rinted. Christmas Week
WILLIAM BEACH!
THE CHAMPION SCULLER
WORLD
READ WHAT
COMPETITORS LI&Tl
Sydney, December,
I)
Dear Sirs, —I have the greates
forming you that when In tc
championship of the world du«
England, where I met Lee, Teonj
I drank your famour AnheuserJ
Lager Beer.
It is a wonderful health and
beer, and I feel it my duty to acqt|
high opinion of its merits.
Y ours
(Signed) WILLIAMS
Cham])
To Messrs. BUTCHER, F|
Agents fc
ANHEUSER-BUSCH S'li
BEER r
111 Pitt-streeL
“I’m afraid that son
gray hairs in sorrow, to ij
long, “said a lady to soi^
“ Don’t be afraid, ma,'
poking his head in at
have that happen I’ll til
drawer some night ancij
was only broken by the
it descended on little '\'i
the strength of his we
night for 8s. lid.
Merchant Tailors and
235 and 237 Pilt-streil
spectacle.*
“THE B
ADVERTISI
Per Inch, Single Pol
Paragraph or special
A series of insertior
ALL ADVERTISED
[?]MENTION.
■
B
Bt's Jubilee jubilators. —
■
B
B
B
■
B
itl *1- - a ] e , Sir
'• 9T
sy • .11 bats, but awfully hard
. • - ‘ Aielbourne bank-clerk to a friend
**ih “That’s because you think with
repfjecl the friend
llllflßr Jettons believes that newspapers
aid to preachers. A preacher, of
only to contradict all the truth told in
and then call it a sermon.
Haftfpam.'iTespoinlent of one of the evening
that any man can make las. a day
Hilling tish. W hat a magnificent opportunity
of the Sydney junior Bar !
turtle Daily Telegraph suggests
alia should supply the English market
Why not ! Do we not now supply
which return to us branded C.M.G.I
■HKhs and Bathing ” is the title of an
the Melbourne Daily Telegraph. It
PgRB.-.-asary to state that the article is merely
Mfepßcal. This journal always had a weakness
foreign matters.
ipll|lßmdreii starving to death,” says an
“on account of their inability to
food, will find a marvellous remedy in
Something of Whalyoumaycallit.’’
HBH ought to set the babies crowing when they
|B|B<;ippsUnd blacks are making arrange-
jr’.Mi a grand corroboree in honour of Sir
Xo dusky ladies are to lake part in
k; ■ BLurc. which will lie a strictly proper
■in t.-a, thin bread ami htiticr,
%ik,
• -
if-?
fg
■ > PB^^^
mlmmfflm llU mbrr lie a liumn till' S .
emploje l at " h iir '«• ising
a ido a w'■ t id had pn
<'' • at the business.
l,lO , ’ lUrl sa y s based his
■BBB Mount Rennie Hill on .1 irlge
opinion. This being the ca-e hi s
BHBt'i’k a c nmidoi'alil : time to form hi-
m
long to make it up.
rd-H' ' 0L1) t'Hl END FORGOTTEN.
you spend your Christmas, eh l In
basking
at liome, or in a wild, free revel ? ”
heard this often, but heard no one asking
What sort of Christmas had the poor old
devil!”
|BMaster Webster, aged 5 years, is evidently
keen observer of things in general. Being
Kken to see his mother, who lies ill at the Mel-
Bourne Hospital, the other day; he gazed wonder-
Bgiy around for a time, and then exclaimed :
Well, this is the funniest hotel I ever saw.
RFomething seems to ail everybody what’s here.”
r The Temora Fire Brigade started the other
■tiight for a long race to nowhere in particular and
■topped short before they got half-way. Someone
Rnistook the rising moon for a bu3h-lire, and called
to come and squirt water on it, but after
gallop they concluded to give it up as it
|K obviously out of their district.
sßLman was brought up at the Melbourne
118. Court the other day on a charge of insult
BflHclnviour. The magistrate asked the constable
giV arrested him what the insulting behaviour
HPne. “Faix, yer worchip, he thried to dhrownd
Biirnself,” replied the intelligent constable. And
Pthis is supposed to be a free country !
I A lad was fined £5 the other day for being
Bin a right-of-way at the back of the Age office —
where his presence was deemed suspicious.”
Iprobably he was only bringing beer to the re
korters’ room. The Age is very strict about this.
Bb l( . Argus has a canteen for the use of its staff.
perhaps, accounts for the higher tone of that
IB- Birdie, where art thou V’ This naive
appears in the form of an advertisement
“Missing Friends” column of tlie Mel
Age. The advertiser should apply at the
Station. Probably “ Birdie ”is in the lock
ilo should remember that, the holidays are
over and that “it's a poor heart that
||Rl|B rejoices.”
whose feet point backwards, is
t^S-e^B owin k himself in England. If that man
• line to Australia what a lark ablack-
■SpPiM might, have with him! The black man
igggm,, . a trail if he can help it, but who,
,f‘ *** 1:1 1 nigger 1-igli' h.e k to his mol lie:
ll;ive to -1 ■);i or else begin to follow uj
instead,
licensed viet nailers’ orgat,
I.gr~ ;> -Ve ' I’iq\ mu
you will not have the money more than once out
of every five times you want a drink. That’s
what Almighty Providence does.
More Krishmish ! Says the Ravenswood
(N.Q.) Mining Journal :
“ Christmas Day.—As the anniversary of the crucifixion of
our Saviour will fall on Saturday next, we purpose publish-
ing the Mining Journal on Friday afternoon instead of
Saturday morning."
Concerning this we have but one remark to make.
Hie l
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph is
slowly but surely getting i r s remaining foot into
the grave. We glanced over it—in a moment of
depression—the other day and observed that for
one notice of birth or marriage there are published
in it, on an average, about five of deaths and invi-
tations to funerals. The office should be removed
to the cemetery ‘' for the convenience of cus-
tomers.”
The two young bravoes who attempted to
stick up the National Bank at Melbourne, but
were routed by one gallant bank clerk and a gas-
man armed with a pump, have at last been iden-
tified. They were both from Sydney, and both
had been brought up in the smell of holiness, hav-
ing been—hold us up, please—acolytes at St.
Mary’s Cathedral. There is nothing like training
up a child in the way he should go, and then
when he is old he will break stones and pick oakum
in gaol.
“ Wanted, lessons on the harp.” This
advertisement appeared in the Melbourne Age
lately. It is the first sensible thing of the kind we
have seen. Most people imagine that when they
die they will go to Heaven and play on a harp for
all eternity, though they may not know the differ-
ence between a harp and a harpoon. The person
who put this in did not want to make himself a
butt for cherubic jokes that were old before
Lucifer fell, when he made his first appearance in
the celestial orchestra.
At East Melbourne, the Melbourne home
of hash-houses. Boarder (in affected agitation,
staring at his egg-cup) : “ What, Mrs. ! No !
This must be only a fantastic dream ! ” Landlady
(with suspicion) : “ What do you mean, Mr. ?”
Boarder (with solemnity and looking around at
the others): “Madam, this egg is absolutely
fresh ! ” Landlady (in a tone of icy sarcasm) :
“ Well, Mr. you must remember the holidays
are over, and you cau’t expect a chicken in your
egg every day—for what you're paying.”
In answer to a gentleman’s letter the
gallant editor of the Moruya (N.S W.) Examiner
says :—“ We have to remind him that our journal
never has, or never will, malign or wound the
feelings ot woman. The fellow who dies so is
always a cowardly crawler and generally a curse
to his own mother. He should be whipped at the
cart-tail and hounded from civilisation ” Just so.
The man who would lift his hand to a woman
(except in self-defence) is unworthy of the name
of a Ber-ritish citizen. It’s always a much better
plan to stand well away and pelt the furniture at
her.
Woman (to office-boy)—“I want to see
the editor what wears the eye-glasses.” Office-
boy—“Several of tbe editors wear eye g’asses,
madam.” Woman “ Tbe one I want has a green
forehead.” Office-boy—“ Oh, yes, that’s the night
editor.”
One Wise— not the Sydney barrister who
is now also in Gippsland—was recent’y picked
from the gutter and lodged in the “jug” at Sa'c
JVic. ) As he had £l5 on him the Bench invited
Ikyn to exhibit his gratitude by putting 10s in the
He declined, and the beak fined him
seven days.
It is rumoured in Melbourne society,
though not formally announced, that the pretty
daughter of a late Collins-street medico, who is at
present in England with her mother and sisters, is
engaged to the brother of a titled gentleman who
hot long ago was married to one of the leading
Melbourne beauties, and who is also the brother
of the wealthiest English duchess.
Now we know the real cause of the Cor-
angamite’s catastrophe. A consignment of Bibles
recently seized by the Victorian authorities for an
Infringement of the Imperial Copyright Act, in-
stead of being burned as the law provides, were,
in consequence of the religious scruples of the
Commissioner of Trades and Customs, generously
sent to Sydney in the Corangamite, and went to
the bottom in her. What a dear kind hearted old
man that Commissioner must be ! We don’t re-
member having heard of anything to equal his
generosity since the Spanish magistrate ordered
that all food unfit for use should be seized and
distributed amongst the poor.
Another little bank swindle has leaked
out, although the outraged manager has vainly
endeavoured to hold down his financiau b'.le and
repress all outward manifestations of anguish. A
cheque for £9 was drawn by a sharebroker and
handed to a friend, who altered it to £9O, while
they both grinned to see how neatly it was done.
Then the holder of the document went to get it
cashed, while the drawer hid himself in the coal-
hole, and thus it came to pass that when a suspi-
cious clerk came to make about the
genuineness of the document he could find no one
to satisfy him. But the other man sat in the
bank with such a calm and guileless smile while
the enquiries were being made that it was felt it
must be all right. The cheque was paid, and a
few days after, when the drawer’s bank-book was
made up, and a raging, tearing, blizzard came
down to ask what this hoary swindle was meant
for anyhow, it was too late to do anything. The
other man had left.
Dear Bulletin, — Don’t pray that your
youth may be renewed, like the eagle’s age. It is
less than two years since an old hand slipped
back thirty years in a way that has left him a
drivelling idiot. He had been indulging in a
curious potable, of which the chemical equiva-
lents are, so far as I recollect, C.lO H.lO 0.12 x
Cu 0.803 x HEL2. For the uninitiated I trans-
late “alcohol, blue-stone, and tophet.” This oc-
curred in Bathm st. Squeezing bluey and collaring
his billy he made for a station, and got a billet as
cook. Now, this station was once a depot for
prisoners, and the kitchen was the old lockup.
Strange but true it is that the solitary confine-
ment cell is the cook’s room, and the leg-irons,
hand-cuffs, bolts, &c., are all, to this very day,
piled up in the corner. After the beverage I have
named it takes very little to saperinduce D.T.,
commonly called “ the ho r rors.” So the poor old
lag thought he was back again on the road-gang,
waiting for the triangles in the morning, and he
made for the woods. He has never recovered,
and shiveringly awaits that morning when justice
and n ercy instead of law and lash will be meted
out by the Supreme Court Judge of Heaven. I
care not to name the station, but the facts are as
stated, or very nearly so. However, I can men-
tion another station at which I was employed two
years ago, and whose owners a r e above suspicion
of the taint. I found in the blacksmith’s snop
there several pairs of bracelets and hobbles, and a
bunging mill in the chaff-house. When I re-
marked the strength of the store and ofticc the
men laughed at me, and said it was intended not
to keep people out but in. I then twigged it all.
It is an old lock up, and by a singular coincidence
it contains the butcher’s shop.— Scotty the
Wrinkler.
The Sydney M[?]
Last week reference was
the improved meat supply of
stone Meat Works, and
pointed out how and by what H§1|
beef reaches the Sydney
among the first-class purvc\HSB
mentioned Mr. G. Stoning, ■■ ■
who has really been a
Mr. Stoning commenced bueHBn
years ago, first commencing
establishment in Sydney,
street, where, with a partner,
various changes and t rips
St cuing ~! a fled his present
street, and struck out fonflgI||&
Succeeding well, he
land, corner of William
tied here cd 1 he splendiM\
- 1 1 ]' i et |, and which arc diOwHH
engraving. They were spceHHH
orderh' M r. Maekhouse, t he
w !.i' has here as elsewhere iiHH
t borough jiraei bail and si
ledge. The business part
t asselat cd and furnished
t ha 1 when t he supply each
is one of the best of its kind
In fact, a well-known
stilted the other day that
laid seen no superior place,Mgjjji
Koine, and then it was
Mr. Staniiig's premise- on
tip-top. I'lie ha-ement
in large
holding number-; of beef
whole place being !.\
There arc i i
salting, smoking, curing,/
the tloors being so casHl
of slucing operations
There is good stabling, good
accommodation for the workmeW
carts, &c., the proprietor devotJ
party near by to the further
The curing-rooms show large
being prepared for shipping ordfl|
of the premises on top of
promenade in mid-air, where yiflH
and general domestic work
cipal edifice is grandly
.and ventilation, and rises
upper pttrts a person is, so to Bm
city, yet in it, the place
cool. Mr. Stoning is of the s
ness men, and is t borough BHB
something for it to he writtcHBB
one of the best butchering
tTilia. and one of i he very
gets the very best
in the best style, so no ono
huge success he has undoubtedly^!
Sale of a Sydney Marine Township
On the 26th inst. (Anniversary Day) there will be
an important sale of township lots in one of the
prettiest and healthiest of all our marine suburbs.
The locality is Sans Souci township, mar
Kogarab, George’s River, and Lady Robinson’s
Beach, and the area to he sold comp ises about
150 large-sized allotment < fronting streets and
roadways of the great width of 100 feet, suitable
Local Sketch
in every way for first-class suburban residences.
The Rocky Point-road fronts the estate, and along
the centre of this highway is the line of trams
connecting the suburban railway with this
beautiful new marine suburb with the city.
Botany Bay, Kogarah Bay, and George’s
River give every facility for all acquatic
jmstimes, for bathing, boating, fishing, &c., and
Bfelf the running of trams to Kogarah
;c,t
it, D so screened from tbe city and has such di Jer-
ent surroundings that a trip thence really means
a complete change. The land is good for every
sort of cultivation, the gardens here about
being a treat to see. The t- rms are made to ex-
actly suit the times, and are quite as attractive to
country people as to Sydney people. Ten per cent,
deposit, aud six monthly instilments, ensures the
payment of no interest. Twelve mohthly
payments carries only 4 per cent, interest; 24
monthly payment?, 5 per cent. ; 36, 6 per cent;
60, 7 per cent; while for cash 2$ per cent, dis-
count is allowed. The owners of the Sans Souci
Township Estate are the Reform Land Investment
and Building Company, who have done much
benefit by their style of - business —as their title
denotes, they aim at reform in the sale and sub-
division of suburban and other lands. The solici-
tor to the estate is Mr. J. H. Curruthers, 130
Pitt-street, Sydney. The auctioneers are Messrs.
Richardson and Wrench, from whom free tickets,
plans, &c , are now obtainable.*


Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprieto and Manager Mr. Frank Smith
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp,
COME AND SEE THE ATTENDANCE
EVERY EVENING.
THE ALHAMBRA HUNT CLUB PICNIC
is CROWDED with SPECTATORS eager to par-
take of the good things provided by the caterer to
this Variety Company.
Miss LETITIA RILEY joins the Company for the
first time.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
Is; Balcony, Gd.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
Messrs Wiliiamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
GRAND XMAS COMIC PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Prices as usual.
rjIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Largo and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “ Lipp Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
DR. BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
B I T T E R S.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY,
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE, NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced by hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi-
cines fail.
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’s Bitters, so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach, prevent heartburn, rouse "the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell's Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the cause
of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Noth.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
Butcher, Fehcu & Co., Sydney,
AGKNTS FOR
New South Wales & Queenslat
nslaM
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C,
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard's, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers : The National Provincial Bank of
England.
rjtHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
w
J o
• COOPER, I
LICENSE
II PHILLIP STREI
STREET]
Wine Casks, Beef
Casks, new and secondl
Spirit Kegs, at lowest pos
GAlieiKd IN ALL]
T
0
WINEGROWEI
G. STEPHENSOI
WINE CASKS,
alsj
Rum, Sherry and
Hogsheads, Quarter-cast
gallons and
COOPI
97 KENT STREET, ar
Between Kins :
MANUFACTUft'eRS
importers of
f———'..rAc:
HATS CAPS it
438CEORcf Sf
fp
0/>/>oute Mas fetters
[A
SUPPORT Colonial Industry ! Buyl
at S. ROSENTHAL, 1 Little'
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank,
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum a]
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
A SOVEREIGN RE]
To all Afflicted with Rheumaj
Doloreux, Aching Pains
Face, or
Why suffer those excr
DR. SOUTHAMi
will give instaj;
The AustraJ,
necessari
30 who hat
seen. Admil
5e the safest and bel
Prepared by the Sole Prl
fl, A, ROSE, Pharmaceul
531 George-streetl
R
M. R I
• (late of the Detective Fd
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends^
Business Agency Office, *
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEI
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and a]
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence
divorce- libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the'
feseion and others. Copies of wills, certificates!
■carriage, or death, obtained in any part of th\
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long exl
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victol
New Zealand, and established agencies in all partsl
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with cl
exp suit! „n and , strictest secresy, and to faithful) 1
nrcmpt v attend to all business entrusted to h care.
ESTY
r>
&
*
£
>fi
E H
’ -to
?&\n cE
OF
o</e«
By Special Appoint*** 1
?A/ AMD HIS ROYAL H'
G-EOEGE GOULET CHAMPAGNE]
TRAPP & ELLES, 54 Margaret-street, Agents for Now South Wales.
smDOLFHO^OLFES
m
SON
(3,
A
td
a?ze/
17CREW)N
0
xzA #f/?
fry?
tceo
/z
c<y
Ad
L/J <
3V
ILLUSTRATION (In reduoed
‘LARGE BOT
- ✓
[?]CHRISTMAS,
[?]CE OF THE SEASON.
[?]HE BULLETIN.]
°f 1 •
Bp
hearty,
distant land
a nderstand)
•^^W~ ai Worthy.
'gmc, k • d II:
HHH.o say,
Apyrn^B;not ion,
those brothers twain
■
■■. : Bli’'i mtod Nink,
t 0 he s ; ek
IslltilH' 1 as ° n
tin deuce he came
name)
the basin.
Yijl'; '^ s >llrr *
A"ith. tender care,
him nicies
upon his plate
not nan cate
|||||§|S >and ices).
i|fjßp|§Hfger3 agreed
were indeed
|»cra brothers ;
work, or play
every day—
the other’s.
rode the ro’ling seas,
vessel caught a breeze
it gaily :
J''^H r ery lark
that gallant hark!)
Australy.
uHa^B l J asou came on deck
other's neck
te i' n a 1),
solemn oath,
by both,
eternal.
weal or woe,
here below,
sharing :
BHBH' hat alien shore,
gy»r shall part us more ”
k swearing.
be first to die ”
I|§S Jason heaved a sigh)
g§||H Death’s portal,
belli agree,
shall call and see
mortal.
wea l ol> woe,
\kkpi alive below,
dissever
in life and death,
£W-'^P* S draweth breath
never!”
|||HT oath those brothers swore
Jane, in ’5l
September ;
very solemn oath
each by both
please remember).
stood in every eye
Jason said “Good-bye !”
journey ended —
cheers, and blessings, too,
and crew,
they wended.
.- hc happy days of old,
to search for gold
and bucket ;
like the rest,
the golden quest,
“struck it.”
deep in sandy ground,
Jason found
Humstrous nugget;
■aloud to brother Nick
assistance with his pick,
nd out they dug it.
lump of shining ore !
of which had ne’er before
sen seen of any!
nds and pounds that nugget weighed !
looked dismayed,
so many.
I was still, that very night,
Bed it to their' tent all right,
Bd safely hid it;
I brothers felt afraid
Ho any stranger’s aid —
Bbne they did it.
in a tone subdued,
compact they renewed
fraternal ;
Hung hands with loving grip,
Had done aboard the ship,
Hire love eternal.
Hd or evil, weal or woe,
together here below,
sharing ;
imßp * n golden store,
shall part us more ”
swearing.
he first to die ”
HH Jason heaved a sigh),
Death’s portal
i both a g rt ‘o,
shall call and sen
§|||l||H ’ » mortal,
oi 1 woo,
■ below,
BS
* • *
- H 1 ; 1 r
■
-> Ja.-iin
W, I' •H I I lie lii
ha- cur-'
(lisgra.
' B dl i 1 ill! "Hi
H
-nug,
- ' Won car!
H
jjgiaßlai
K
And want to feel it —
Tormented by the notion base
That from iffi secret hiding place,
Young Nick would steal it.
The honest you*h despised the thought
Of doing as he didn’t ought,
And so they wrangled ;
The tide of feeling daily rose,
Sneers led to words, words led to blows,
Till Nick was strangled.
They laid him where the wattles bloom
In yellow splendour o’er his tomb
(That line's poetic)
And Jason’s bearing at the wake,
Observers said, was “ No mistake,
Sublime —pathetic,”
Then, in another week or two,
What did the wicked Jason do ?
Why, dash our gaiters !
He parted with his nugget great
To an influential syndicate
, Of speculaters.
The story spread for miles around,
And ne’er a man was so renowned
As J. McCarthy ;
He cut the diggings, once for all,
And bought a big, baronial hall—
This lucky party.
The weeks and months they passed away
Till duly dawn-ed Christmas Day—
A morning murky ;
And (careless of the oath he swore)
Our Jason sat him down before
A thumping turkey.
Arrayed upon the festive board
Was all that money could atFord—
Beef, puddings, mutton ;
A noble pile of English fare
Stood smoking on the table ttere
To tempt the glutton.
“ Well, Christmas ccmeth once a year,
And bringeth with it memories dear ”
Thus hiccupped Jason ;
“ To absent friends, hip, hip, hooray !
Let's all be happy while wa may,
And put the pace on.”
Then blew a sudden, chifly blast,
And down the room there slowly passed
An awful vision—
A ghastly thing in garments white,
Which took a chair on Jason’s right,
With calm precision.
The Vision slowly turned its head,
And looking hard at Jason, said—
“ Do you remember ?
“ Henceforth i’ll take my dinner with
My brother on the twenty-fifth
Of each December.”
But Jason never spake a word,
He sat as one who hadn’t heard—
So cold and frigid ;
The mocking spectre, watching him,
Saw every feature, every limb,
Grow slowly rigid.
One shiver, and J.’s spirit fled ;
The spectre cried—“ My brother’s dead,
Alas, poor sinner !”
And straightway vanished from the room,
Returning to the silent tomb
Without his dinner.
On Boxing Day in ’5l
They carried Jason from his door
In coffin oaken,
Yet, why the dickens he had died
Toe neighbours couldn’t then decide
He left no token.
But this is how it came about
That someone found the murder out,
So gruesome, gory :
The shadows of the brother twain
Next Christmas Day returned again
And told the story.
Ay, to that haunted hall they came
To tefl the tale of Jason’s shame
In terms explicit;
We (berng tenants at the time)
Took shorthand notes in doggerel rhyme,
And —well, this is it.
Our world it is a world of woe,
Old comrades die (and go below,
In many cases) —
And now each Christmas brings us ghosts
Of former friends, they come in hosts —
Familiar faces.
We entertain them every year
(In spirit* wirh the Season’s cheer,
At Fancy’s parties ;
But three decades have rolled away
Since came to U 3 on Christmas Day
Those two M’Carthys.
♦
A Dane named Jorgen Jansen Saunte died
in a lunatic asylum in Dunedin. Th.c old miser
had been found living in squalor in a floorless
hut. It is found he was worth £15,000. lie pre-
tended to be a rag and bone-bicker, but he actu-
ally made his money in speculations in shares,
property, and mortgages :
No more for Jorgen rags and bone 3,
Farewell to mortgages and loans ;
No more for thee avail thy shares,
Gone past all hope and past all prayers.
You heard in life the mournful plaint
Of orphans, widows starving, faint;
No help from you their way to cheer,
To all you turned your deafest ear ;
Till, worshipping your gold, a day
Came, when your poor old head gave way.
Where are you now ? Ah, who can tell ?
Are you in Heaven ? More likely—well,
You’re dead, and t'.at’s enough for us,
And served you right, you mean old cus3.


ASELENE,
m
4
a
J,
u :
ORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
i assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
mien’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
B's’ Ironmongery, &o.
ACKBURN & CO.,
lale saddlers, and saddle
f IRONMONGERS,
YORK ST., SYDNEY
m+"
**<
H. SMITH & SON, 1
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
ATS and OAFS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors SoutJi of Hunter-street.
ft H OLE SHE" M AN U FACT UR ft
:ONFtCHO»ER
JAMES
I Sl.EAll Wpilfi.JUlfT S*
OH- OM*> w&M
tvogfi om snomesr mat ice .
o#o£*i fbrfrtiTmftißk
SINGER
and Oo.’s
jicycles
es
i(-
ASTH
.BRQNCmTIS, CI3U<IHS-j :
. PREPARED*ONLY BY ’«<•. 1 i
hqmas InghaMyT !
AJ?> Rtir. kTHAmiDTnN bI ;
X
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others ft* its lasting and patun.l
fragrance.
Tnnrx Soto M»nyts«-
rAKys,IS7B, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for preeminent excellence of quality.
GOID MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET I WOOD VIt)LET
TREVOL 1 CHYPRE „
and other well-ktiown Perfumes ard nn-
piallcd tor tl.ejr delightful afld lasting odour
ATKINSON’S SAU DE TOILETTE DE LOMDRES.
UnsTirpasse.d for refreshing and softenlngthe
skin, dnd an exceedingly Choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. .Tn entirely new article
prepared exclusively hy the Inventors
Of all I>ealers, and of the Manufacturers —
j. & E. atklhson,
SH, Ot.D BojiD Sl-RtET, L&ndon.
Trade Marls—""White Hose” on “ (Jslden
iyre.”
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
K. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vin cola del norte de Kspana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
| The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, fco,, fcc.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIYTe PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
eon demand. Offices, i Park-st,
Vi WARHEAM, Manager
FURNITURE, CARPJH7& RUGS,
BEDSTEADS .A. IST ID BEDDIN Q--
THE HEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
CU
(F)
■a
©
r a
3
3
■)'J
£
&
- V * >-: ' 'O’/ fti?*;*' '
6 V? - 1 ',r v* >A
' ■’ O y-.
A'-*\ <S -
1/ ,
'-SG
s>r
i>&
£
*.l ic
& A
l* / ~l
m;-; ,■'
(*-t)
@2
&
y
X/l
VV
#3*
CX
5*
i#
&
£>■>
m
r-
vr?
rd,
- n-
Of
n?
vm
Wi
(6
vs:
in
t*
v:.
c\o
hi
52s
EP^
J-£
I&
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR
HUNTER
STREET.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Robert butcher & co-
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
531 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
i2T Country Orders receive prompt attention. Til
iteOROE I
FEWEST SHAf.ES. \
m,-
And at QVEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
PKSZE tfEDAES.
Soli by SHOE DEALERS, GRD&CRS and DRUGGISTS.
Bar)
K’
:l kfMVSfinRSR i
<3«j
?W8 Bi2Sui'.s-Msiw< a
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD REUAB4.E
Pewless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks anti
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Siioes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
6© ST CUV,
FtfibA.,
186&.
1.8^3,
1670.
Is concedra tabs
"T(IE STARPMB.”
C. L. HAyTHAWAY&SqreS*
" Street, ltostoft*
MASS, tJ.B.A,
M
0 N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requci
J. CUMINfiBADI,
Mabqabxt-btrket, Wynward square, Sydney
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
TREATMENT';
Dr. E. O. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused bj
the use of alcohol or tobaceo, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading tc
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
265., sent by mail prepaid on reoeipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
<£loo Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all dniggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
W W W
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Prick Is, and 2s. per Bottl*.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match oos
tomes Repairs neatly executed
JP»R A D j
FURN
CABINET
BEDDIN
SHOW ROO
SPRING and
toiull
Jj BOARD,
OVERMANTEL, \
CARVING CHi
Cmatch.
<m
r. - j
CHj
rz
Drawing-room
bolstered, at all
and Lamb.
sol
cj
IMI OUTERS of PI
CELEBRATED
TABI
variety of desigi
in Embridery, Plush,
and LAMB, Furnitr
Spring Streets.
Racks. Cutsil
ments by movj
ing or diminish!
automatically, f
dious, and per
or Office yet
necessities of
Bradley, Ne^
Streets.
HIFFONIER WHAI
Large choice. Brs
O’Connell-street.
an 'it
o
ir- r
Q
Chip
Fur
O’
Drawing-roo
A GREAT V
Prices, from 12s. 6d.
E J
lASY CHAIRS
rooms. New
any"materia.\
fl|
Br
Self-adjusting
INVALIDS and
Rocking easy
ful, a specials
Lamb, O’Connell-stxee
Bedding.—
BRADLK


L * r o0?~\. ■
m i3v a
r^> s
rM' u W
u£^ov
& smeT* |
i c:
A<>
Dici(
Sa f _
ar Ry yy) iv iv c> , fOO '\
I THERt *s s^Nit
f v'etW CaTchv
fry M ft PWfl
iP &
n PRII*Ce%
M'&s
'A AS i
l W« J
W/9 <
i
%
*t,Z^
v* JULIUS
\ CiKffiP
►A
JT TiJp^m
\ ' A PKiWtRs c ftW, o ur/fl* p/y^fo
“Dick Whittington and His Cat.”
AT SYDNEY ROYAL STANDARD.
Mr. R. C. Bagot, ’
son of the late sec-
retary of the V.R.C.,
will shortly be mar-
ried to Miss Robert-
son, of Toorak.
jUCHESS of Edinburgh is scarcely a
' very bright woman. Sitting one day in the House
of Commons, and seeing Mr. Healy at his desk,
she sent him word that she “would like him im-
mediately to get up and make a speech.” Mr
Healy sent back a polite reply that he had nothing
to say on the subject before the House. The
Duchess returned word that “ that made no dif-
ference—she heard he spoke well, and had come
to hear him.” Mr. Healy presently left the build-
ing in extreme annoyance.
About seventy members of the present
N.S.W. Assembly must, if true to their public
utterances, vote for the proposed grain-duties.
There are in the House over 50 avowed protec-
tionists.
A marriage has been arranged between
Mr. Thomas Knox, of lona, Woollahra, Sydney,
and Miss Amy Ritchie, daughter of the late Mr.
John Ritchie, of Aringa and Boodcarra, near Bel-
fast. Miss Amy Ritchie is noted for her beauty,
and is one of the most popular young ladies in
the Western District of Victoria, so the event has
created much interest. One of her sisters is Mrs.
Thomas Rutledge of Farnham Park, and another
married a son of the Hon. Phillip Russell of
Caringham.
■ling in the air. The
1H the Burmese ruby-mines
least they have been
maim everybody who
miserable, cowardU
a syndicate has been
claim. We have not yet
Vis to be a local board of
■ them will be. It would be
yellow chairman In
Si Br shareholders, and by
E. up half the capital of the
Ipentance would pass ovf r the
nation which yelped so loudly
f Burmah would wish that a
klacoits ” bad been tied round
■s’ neck and he had been
■Whenever in future we see
■nk of the blood of the
Bn ” party, as Tommy
■ the members of the N.S. W.
■vour of a tax on imported
Bight fittingly be called the
Sun, as the agitation which
the first direct step
Tin■ little acorn
past but it has been
will soon dcve'ope
of defying the on
B
’f?*sSß" • a' b. we
f r ; -.Vol authority tliai i lie
Ol the Cl ~:
</-
n
IBBniht. he will advise
8k
r\ -.aiL
The marriage of
Miss Bessie Cobcroft,
of Wonona, Wool-
lahra,toMr. Moriarty,
barrister-at-law, is
arranged to take place
at St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral, Sydney, towards
the end of the month.
The Hon. E. Barton intends resigning the
N.S.W. Speakership, and will probably quit the
Assembly altogether, as he means to attend more
closely to his practice at the bar. “Toby” no
doubt has his eye on a judgeship : the only thing
that suits him thoroughly is a billet in which he
can sit down all the time.
St. Saviour’s is the name of a chapel re-
cently “ riz ” on the rise of a Redfern (Sydney)
hill. To a stranger St. Saviour’s appears to
chiefly consist of four red walls, a skillion roof,
and an overgrown cow bell ; but those who have
the misfortune of living in the neighbourhood are
prepared to make a statutory declaration that it
consists entirely of the cow-bell. According to
their curse-decorated statements this bell rings
all day long for six days in the week, and puts in
double time on Sundays. It rings to warn the
faithful that service is about to be held ;
and then it expectorates on its hands,
takes a fresh pull at the rope, and rings
all the time between the finish of one prayer-
meeting and the moment to start the next. Its
brain-bursting bangs fall alike on the ears of the
godly and the ungodly, and its eternal clatter is
generally admitted to be the nearest approach to
perpetual motion yet invented. No sick person
within earshot of its everlasting ding-doDg re-
covers, and the popular belief is that it was pre-
sented to the chapel by an undertaker who has an
interest in the decimation of the district. The
unanimous verdict is that St. Saviour’s cow-bell
must go, as it is a criminal libel on the whole of
the people of Redfern. Kveryone out there
knows exactly when the pubs, open without a bell to
warn them ; and to say a bell is required to re-
mind them to troop to church is to insinuate that
they take more interest in their pub. than in their
church. Therefore, St. Saviour’s cow bell must go.
Mr. Minister Lyne, having altered the
time-table of the N.S.W. southern train, endea-
vours to silence the universal howl now raised by
pointing out that the Southerners will have the
advantage (?) of receiving their morning papers
12 hours earlier than before. The Works Depart-
ment having shown so much consideration for the
welfare of the morning papers, the Minister for
Justice might follow suit and order all future
hanging entertainments to take place at9p,m.,
instead of 9 a.m., and thereby burst up a mono-
poly of the first water which has hitherto
been a perfect godsend to the Sydney evening
journals.
Mr. Nimmo, nominal guardian-angel over
the Victorian water supply, got his principles into
a tangle during the Melbourne drought. Nimmo
has been preaching the gospel of cold water for
years, but when the thermometer was at 103 in
the shade he gave orders for domestic supplies to
be cut off. Telegrams kept pouring in, telling the
horrible tale of how in certain suburbs plates and
dishes were being washed up in beer, and frantic
children were calling aloud for rum or death. In
his extremity Nimmo began to go back on himself.
It positively astounded him to hear that people
wanted so much water in hot weather. It was
inconceivable that more bathing went on now than
in the middle of winter. All of which reminds us
that Nimmo hails from the land o’ posts and has
been taught to bless the Duke of Argyle.
It appears that a lot of things which have
been happening in the N.S. W. Civil Service are ex-
plainable to some extent by the system of high-
pressure money-lending which goes on in the
Government offices. When the amateur Hebrew
is the boss it doesn’t matter though the borrower
may not even have a scar to show where his brain
used to be—he can’t be sacked until the bill and
the interest are paid, and meanwhile he has to
make himself useful in helping any little swindles
which the head nigger-driver has on hand. On
the other hand, if the junior holds the upper
dude’s paper he needn’t work at all, and if his
superior attempts to make him degrade himself
by labour he threatens to stop the renewals —a
hint which always brings the chief swell to his
senses. It is a good rule which works both ways. I
fl
■
■
wt
it seeks to saddle RandolM
■
w
JH
affair. What the St. Jam®
The commission a|>noi>- red
the condition of the N’.S \\\
part men t allege the olli-e to be in a tdH|fl
rotten condition. One o ncer has 5(i o ■§1
do the work of a dozen men. It is r
that that veteran civ 1 servant, Mr.
(who has now readied the age’ of / hB|f§§
vv hliain Fordo, the chief clerk (who has
ill) an:' other n-oininent ollict rs, shall roH«|
total direct proposed reductions ammiHB
£70,000 a year ; and Mr. Lyne is
it is possible to save £'250,000 annually.
The sad story of the modern
th £ Beast. Tho L ve.ioys had been
months end a day when Mr- I.nve.ioy B§||||
husband’s shoulder, as he sal ligtujB M
deficiency in the housekeeping
opening her rose ripe lip. , sweet
“ Deah Charles ! ” “. Well." k r ">'flH|
“what the Satan do you want nSHH
idea that dropifing t Pa! piwdrr nflfwMff
lids book will bring thing- s might,
deah diaries.’' pm r, d the gentle BHKH
want in know do jou love me as n.ii.^B-nagS
did when we first, married !" “ \flHH|
roared (’harie-. a he bumped mid
.-slung his Angelina Maude in a line., •
“ darn ii all, haven't 1 told you so
times a day already } By the
if you come round here asking me that^Rfi|j
. Yes, yes, ves ? Will that satisfy yorH®
And then the fond little wife, gathering hi
up, and picking the dust out ©f her gold«hl
retired, whispering to herself: “And do«H
rium utter such sweet words in a
ear ?
Mr. Henry Matthews, who recently figured in
scandal as the counsel for Mr. Crawford, and whose scHf
comments on Sir Charles’s immorali y earmedM'or him tlHf
of the “Defender of the British Fireside” and the appointing!
Home Secretary, is an exceedingly wealthy bachelor, whjoß
very fine house on Carlton House Terrace and a fortun
about £BOO,OOO. He is rather elderly, and has a clean-shf
face. He figured somewhat prominently as aco res ponden
the famous Chetwynd divorce case, which some 25 years
caused almost as much scandal as the Dilke-Crawford case,
was shown on that occasion that, having made the asqua’nta
of Mr. and Mrs. Chetwynd, of Longdon House, Staffordshire
used his position as a frietid of the family, in the first place
convert Mrs. Chetwynd to the R C. faith without her husba
consent, and then to deprave her morals by a course of quest
ab’e French literature. Among the least improper looks fo
in her bedroom with bis name written th rson we e “ Ma
Lescaut “Le Petit Jehan de Sambb,” a-d George Sand’s “ <.ei
Mr. Matthews is like a lot of the other “ defenders otd
daughters and our wives ’
When the people of Ipswich (O.) want to ' : -h
eipal Council of lhe si roots being m-Hoo e.l.
jSk ,
