

The Bulletin
OF £25 A YEAE!
t
Premises.
Marshall
Brothers
HAVE
»»Lags Central Ety Dn; Egpn ii
i
aj£R E PRESCRIPTIONS ARE DISPENSED AT REFORM PRICES.
4 Htiitim, Toilet Requiiilts, k, are Soli ii Small Quantities at Wholesale Fnces
e them to do this, they have adopted the popular Cash System' whereby a uniform
low rate can be charged for everything of the highest quality.
THE ADDRESS IS:
HALL BROTHERS,
I p| »aceutical Chemists and Drug Importers,
"MET, two Doors from King Street Arcade
E
AND AT 106 MARKET STREET
I
Dentistry Establishment, 133 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Popular speciality, MARSHALL’S “ TONIC NERVINE,” is prepared from the
choicest drugs procurable on the London market.


MoLEAJf BB08„ BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
51* GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.
. v *
W
o-*v
SJ
■* r --
T /*
tj:. *
s
IRONMONGERS
rygrfg
512
X/
ey
-o 5
<s
SPECIALITIES i
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES j—LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., fco.
r- ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES gcPRICES'POSTFREE*
%
«
,W.H.PALINO&<s^
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
FiaiJo, Organ # Music Importers
largest stock and |reatest Variety fn Australia - giving the
babiitthe choice.- PIANOS from fAo, ORGANS from £l2-
* PAYMENT BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO CUSTOMERS
* (s» PALING LG PALING St &
OPFORD *
LIGHTEST, BE&T, and <JHBIftBST < £
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEOR~
BENTO
sthf
” exquisite
Vk nt£ prop it re top.
ST, -
SJUVMOtfJ 9fflSf/vjl3 Ofl/
oujTstnn/sjj boj omfrvf/n .
JISVd HlOOl
T B.MelhuisH , Pharmaceutical Chemist!
' 134 William ST, S YD JV£Y,
PLATE, SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
(WINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, Varnishes, &c.
Paperhangings, Dadoes, Friezes, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glasses
•Term an tele, Silvering and Bevelling.
AUSTRALIA! GLASS GOHPAHY, Llffl.,
281 GEORGE STREET.
WTECttAL NOTICE. —The A. G. Co. are selling
jc-.-uds at a large discount from usual
prtoes, being tne stock taken over from Mr. A,
Borthwick.
nquirte will have prompt attention.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTBEFft
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons |
also,
Rum Sherry and Whisky PUNCHED? 8.
Hogsheads, Quarter casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gal'ona and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
AST L£ $ Soils
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
. NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages l
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip
tions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, comer Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Tic.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
. o aii Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doioreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
58j Jk»or m-streoT on v.
SEN OR BERN ADO.
The Celebrated Eclectopathist,
lOfYears’ Experience in Hospital Practice, Paris
has established
THE N.S.W. MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
for the speedy, effective, and permanent cure of
Nervous debility, Mental and Physical Depression, Loss of
Energy, Kidney and Bladder Affections, Liver Com-
plaints, Rheumatism, Skin Diseases, Ailments peculiar
to Ladies, and all morbid conditions of the Blood and
general System, no matter from what cause arising.
Fits of 10 to 20 years’ standing, even after they have been pro-
nounced incurable, successfully treated.
Guarantee of Cure given in every case undertaken.
Consultation (personally or by letter) free.
CONSULTATION ROOMS, 207, ELIZABETH-STREET,
Comer of Bathurst-street,
or 0.P.0., Box 799.
Hours from 19 a.na. to 9’p.m. daily.
Hi
gTUDY
ECONOMY
and!
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Paraeol* re-llned and made eqna
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
_ -. , Street*
Paraeol* made to matob ooi
tome* Repair* neatly executed
roßAcca
Dll XSON« SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
»ijrso«
CONQUER 1 *
YANKEE DOO»H
“ M slRB00il!»
"■“Tauro 11
“c'HANF!' ;
%M%Q* •
iuSmm^
OBAMmSWE
High-class Dentistry
at Reform Prices
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COMP‘-" T CiFT
-y , t
<r 0
. _O . —i
MARSHALL BRO?
DE.NT iSTS
133 ELIZABEtH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrons oxide
gas, daily at 11.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Centra! Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
PAT,ACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockampton).
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne toffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows 6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
I HIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Lontiemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Pluhge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook’sl. First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland.
G S CURTIS,
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN.
rthtgj
TYPE-WRITER
wfm. qcj
fJIHE REMINGTON
Save* labour, atationery, and time, faster
fc “” °'*>ert pen-men, and oondenaing matter to leaa than
the apace occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
. may be taken in the uaual manner in the letter-preaa
1 wholesale and retail by the aole agenta,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kenb-Bbreeb.
Z Cabinets
taAervfp^
swsg
m
TlN c
m
atiM
w
I»T
■ Uferrons *»* „d » tr
geeicing A „0^
DR. RICHABD&
To Weak,
geektng
ad may in future *gj 0 F gjjj J
complaints can only be<*>
an experienced spec j cu* 6 ' r0
dertaken. When I J A
stop them for a 0 ure- 1 „f c fl
again, I mean a radical 0 ° /
ailments, which are the fl9 feirJ #
life-long study, and 2
oases has brougnt 8y6 tem “ tr***
has reduced the gen r <ji00
luce almost every e V er
oause of this scarely «
lave been doctored fof i(i
me.
ihat medical science 0 i th g jflJf j
Ms class of patients, r 0> pflT jtfr ia
»f treatment effect a c “ tice
lospital and private
liscovered new an< *^ 8 iv0
vith the use of my e * -jgnte® K. potffi /
«. i» a gff*g <r >
SB^BIOHABna
T V
a 0 Vile -ji 1
WV» -<!o'
Designs
*«nn*T-8*»**' r '
>
Y '
Charlotte aW*
1 D °o fS^J
IBS,
(DELIVERED
lage free by R* 1 !® list of 'CdJS
ju please from w 0 yal .
irtson-s, Walker '
file's Shamrock a _
a Boru Whisky ..
jessy's
a a »yor B^' A 8P;, w
£3 CASE
„,tm accom iftsSflliAv
P
€440
hytg
CHI^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
[I
i
fsesf
m
Byd»ef *
111, PITT STRE £T
jr


The Bulletin
*ol. B~Ko. £9O
SATURDAY, JULY 23, 1887.
Price., On,
The Recess.
The Poet and statesman has gone home to his mountains, and N. S. Wales is hating a “much-needed holiday,”


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OKCS A BlBB*
At 24 Pi rr-STHKiT, Sarostss, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per annum - - - - JBi Os, Od.
Half-yearly - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - = - - O 6s, 6d
All money orders, ahcQuas, and registered letters
Payable to the proprietors,
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Lim,
to whom orders for the paper, adveroisemonts,
and remittances are to be addressed.
NOTICE.
By pending dlreot to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling,
sterling—which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you oan
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week fcr
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
Tfli Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter
fere.
THE JBULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JULY 23, 1887.
Payment of Members.
By a majority of thirty votes against nine
the Legislative Council of New Sjuth Wales
has relegated the Bill providing for the pay-
ment of Parliamentary representatives to
the region of outer darkness, and next
session the wearisome task of teaching the
leopard to change his spots must be begun
afresh. The simile is not a good one, but it
is the best that presents itself. The Uppsr
House is still, as it has always been, the re-
presentative of the combined forces of capital
and extreme old age. Its voice is the voice
of “ Proputty ” crying in the wilderness,
and compared to the unchanging nature of
its senile policy even the spots of the leopard
are shifting and transitory. The New South
Wales Council is a museum of mental and
physical curiosities an assemblage of men
weighted down with the prejudices of the
last generation, and anchored fast by the
burden of their own gold ; and the - one
order of things which seems right in their
eyes is that which prevailed in the long-
forgotten days when they were members of
the busy working community and were
forced by circumstances to keep abreast
of the age. Most of them dropped out
of the ranks at least 20 years ago, and
since then they apparently imagine the world
has ceased to move ; the fly dropped off the
chariot-wheel, and therefore of necessity
the chariot stood still. The present genera-
tion was in its cradle when many of the
councillors retired from active life, and eat
down to make laws and watch over their
“ proputty,” and simply because they have
beeu employed at this so ong they seem-
ingly tail to realise that the wuriu has any
thing to do but sit down and watch its
“proputty’ too. The fact jshat the men around
thern still want something when they them-
seives are t< o Id to yearn tor anything except
peace ana tjuie tiess and Bath chairs is beyond
their comprehension, and they stead asrJy
resist c anges as a matter of principle, ac-
cordingly.
* * *
Payment of members, too, involves a
change of system which strikes at the very
root of the Council’s traditions. In this
matter more than in any other that has been
presented to the House for many years, the
interests of “proputty” are endangered,
and here the Upper House is adamant.
Houses and lands, bank stock, mortgages,
and, in short, money in any and eveiy
form has been the governing power in New-
South Wales ever since representative go-
vernment began. Despite manhood suffrage
and the absence of property qualification,
so long as the highest function of an Austia
lian citizen is the only one which carries no
remuneration, none but comparatively rich
men, or men who can live without visible
means of support, are eligible for seats in the
Legislature. Talent, honesty, eloquence,
and legislative ability count fur nothing
unless allied with sufficient wealth to enable
the candidate to devote his time to a pursuit
which yields nothing for his support ; the
philosopher, who has spent his years in
study, and neglected the pursuit of riches
for that of knowledge, is compelled to stand
aside to make room for the whisky-seller,
the land-grabber, or the illiterate wretch
who jumped a rich claim in some early rush ;
and the Legislature has thus become a cor-
poration which contains little talent except
the talent for money-grubbing. The Upper
House especially is the representative of
hoarded wealth" and to the gilded' fossils of
the Council the idea of an elective Chamber,
which would represent poverty rather than
“proputty” is abhorrent in the extreme.
The strabismussed mental vision of most
of the Upper House tribe views the earner of
weekly wages as an anarchist, a social leper,
and an outcast, and a measure which would
enable this pariah to try his hand at law-
making on equalterms with-the man of for,
tune is a thing repulsive, unclean, and doubly
trebly accursed.
* '* #
Payment of members, according to the
theories of the Upper House, will call into
existence a new and dangerous class of pro-
fessional politicians, and with the advent of
the professional politician honesty and
patriotism will utterly pass away. Hitherto,
notwithstanding the fact that the people’s
representative in Parliament holds the most
responsible post with which any citizen can
be entrusted, it has been an axiom in New
South Wales that he must be a mere
amateur, and the system of unpaid repre
sentation has made statesmanship the
amusement of the retired publican’s old
age or the means of advertising the rising
lawyer rather than the fixed pursuit of men
whose life is still at its meridian. The phy-
sician who tinkers with the human frame is
expected to undergo special training to
qualify him for his work ; so, too, is the
obscure advocate who appears on behalf of
any “drunk” whose worldly assets admit
of the employment of a legal adviser, and
the clergyman who drones out feeble plati-
tudes Sunday after Sunday about mys-
teries which are beyond all human compre-
hension, but which he, nevertheless,
pretends to understand ; yet the Constitution
of New South Wales affects to regard the
statesman as inferior to all these, and the
whole political system of the colony is built
on the theory that anyone who is not good
enough to be worth paying is good enough
to make laws. The officer who commands
the military forces of the colony receives a
liberal annual allowance simply because it is
recognised that ability cannot be procured
for nothing, but while the instrument is paid
the men who wield it are not. Each single
politician is a part of the great machine
which works out the destinies of the nation,
and some day the ruin or the salvation of
the state may hang upon the votes of two
or three among the crowd of ignorant
amateurs who now leave their offices or their
farms or their grog-shops to pose as the
heaven-born rulers of New South Wales,
and yet even in the face of this tremendous
responsibility it is held that the one absolute
essential of the politician is that he must be
rich enough to loaf in the Assembly without
a salary.
* * *
But under the present voluntary system
the professional politician of another class
unhappily contrives to exist and flourish.
The New South Wales Assembly is a gather-
ing of capitalists diversified only by the
presence here and there of an adventurer
without visible means of support, and year
after year these political vagrants eke out an
existence somehow—by the use or misuse of
the privileges of their position. Without a
salary, and without private means of any
kind, men live openly and obviously by
politics, and so well is this known that the
epithets of “swindler” and “thief” which
are launched forth in the daily quarrels
which disgrace the Legislature arouse but
little attention. Constituencies now and then
will return poor men as their representa-
tives, and these members live exactly as other
men would who were witnout means, and
were yet placed in a position which afforded
unlimited opportunities for malversation.
The professional politician exists, and the
effect of the present sys em is simply to
make it imp"ssibie that He can exist honestly.
According to the theory which the dotards
of the Upper House advance whenever Pay
ment of Members comes under discussion,
men should be found in abundance who
are prepared to serve their country from
motives of the purest patriotism, but after
50 years of this fallacy the patriots are still
wanting. The golden age of purity is as far off
as ever, and the colony finds itself blessed
with a mongrel House made up of three
classes—first, the men who have secured
their positions for the sake of \ ulgar
notoriety ; second, those who serve for
wages which, thanks to a system that de-
clares the labourer to be unworthy of his
hire, they procure by means that are better
left undescribed ; and, third, an almost in-
visible few who, being apparently actuated
by neither of the above motives, may be set
down, until further orders, as men who live
and work amid repulsive surroundings from
purely philanthropic motives. The first-
class preponderates ; the last is hardly
worthy of notice. This is all that 50 years of
theory has given to New South Wales, and
yet the politicians of the Legislative Council
have either not learned or are determined
to ignore the lesson that there are not
enough true patriots in a nation to fill a
Parliament.
* * *
In every walk of life, politics only ex-
cepted, it is an admitted fact that honesty
and ability must be paid for. The civil ser-
vant who offered to fill a responsible position
without salary would be instantly set down
as a man in search of an opportunity for
embezzlement ; the workman under similar
circumstances would be regarded as a dan-
gerous lunatic, and the doctor who gave his
services entirely gratis would probably gain
an unenviable reputation among the public
as a Thug ; and yet even in the nineteenth
century, in an era of scepticism and incre-
dulity, men profess to believe that politicians
can be found m hundreds who will,’from
motives of the purest patriotism, set them-
selves up as targets for the abuse and insult
of the lowest of colonial demagogues. Even
shifting .g&pasties-and the-open
abandonment of the principles of a lifetime,
even the sight of four avowed Protectionists
grasping eagerly for portfolios in a Freetrade
cabinet where Parkes takes again to his
arms the “red-hot, burning brand of shame,”
has not utterly done away with this ancient
fallacy or forced men to admit openly as
they do in secret that hypocrisy and fraud
are the only things on earth that are sold for
nothing.
* * *
To the cheap dotards of the Council, how-
ever, even the present state of things is
vastly preferable to any reform which would
tend to reduce the preponderating force of
capital in the Lower House. The aristocracy
of wealth is the most conservative of all
oligarchies, and the British House of Lords
itself, which, on a close division, can call up
one peer from his roost underneath a dry
arch and another from the sawdust of a fifth-
rate circus, would fail to comprehend its
horror of so democratic an institution as
poverty. The Council has evidently re-
solved to fight to the last rather than permit
anything so vulgar as a paid politician to
come between the wind and its nobility.
With a hollow semblance of economy, it was
urged that the nation should be directly con-
sulted before the Treasury was committed to
fresh outlay, but the pretence was a poor
one when put forward by the very men who
had effusively voted a vast sum for the erec-
tion of a dead-house and lumber room in
w hich to stack away the corpses of great men
yet unborn. The vote which followed, how-
ever, left the question just where it was, and,
in spite of this defeat, payment of members
must ere long become part of the political
system of New South Wales. The race of
amateur politicians have had a long trial and
have been found wanting. The patriots who
—in theory—Berve their country for their
country’s sake have proved to be in the
main a gang of log-rolling blasphemers, and
the policy which has restricted the nation’s
choice to the capitalists and adventurers of
the colony has produced few results to be
proud of. The Upper House may possibly
retard the progress of reform a little longer,
but its obstinacy will only hasten the time
when the Upper House itself shall be re-
formed off the face of the earth. Almost the
only wisdom it has ever shown was that
which PiddlngTon culled from the famous
Egyptian stomach, and something more re-
cent is wanted for the succesful guidance
of affairs in New South "Wales. For many
years the Council has traded on the respect
due to extreme old age, but its age has long
since ceased to be respectable, and govern-
ment by grey-headed or bald-headed stu-
pidity is a thing which even a slow-going
community cannot endure for ever.
Sir Henry Parkes—Imperialist and
Republican.
Within the past few weeks Sir Henry Parkes
has appeared in the two characters, so antipcdally
opposed to each other, of Saint Jingo and Centen-
ary. Last month, with well-approved fervour, he
took a leading part in celebrating the continuance
of foreign domination ; this month he indulges in
vague and vaporous dithjrambics over the hun-
dredth birthday of a nation. At heart he would
no doubt prefer to wear the buskin of the Austra-
lian patriot to the sock of the agent of Imperial-
ism ; but his official grovel must be taken as some-
thing in the way of gluten with which, bke the
hoa-constrictor, he spreads an ample area simply
with a view of enabling him to swallow what
would be otherwise ineigestible. Sir Henry
Parkes is no doubt a lepublican in his secret
soul, though far from a democrat. He aspires to
play the part of an Oliver Cromwell, or a
George Washington, the father of a southern
world. Many things lend a complexion to this
idea: his rumoured connection with Chartism —
which, by the way, he denies—his mi-ty rhetoric
concerning a sentiment of Australian nationality,
his conception of a State Hal), and some few of his
absurd poems. Amongst the art-treasuies of
Faulconbridge, it will be remembered, was a
highly-prized and elaborately gilt-framed auto-
graph document purporting to be the production
of that other republican autocrat — Oliver Crom
well. But Sir Henry Parkes is pledged to up-
hold a system which receives support from the
party to whom he owes his political existence. He
can never declare his real sentiments without
breaking with his only master, the Orange lodge,
hence he veils them in clumsy metaphor.
. * *
The Sydney Daily Telegraph has in its own
opinion settled the case by giving the Premier’s
latest craze a label. It is duly docketed and
slipped into its proper pigeon-hole to be known
henceforth and forever as “an unsuspected side of
the character of our leading statesman.” This
may be convenient, but it is not correct. No one
who has given the slightest study to the character
of Parkes suspects foi a moment that he is
capable of any development mentally on any
other lines than those he has exhibited to the
public gaze for the past fifty years. He has been
engaged all his life in a chase after power j to him
power is more than alcohol to the dipsomaniac.
He is utterly devoid of sentiment. That he has
written poems proves nothing. Robert Lowe
wrote poems, and the second Pitt wrote a tragedy.
Parkes wrote verses because he was intellectu-
ally ambitious ; not because he felt sentimental.
A Rojalist he was compelled to be in order to
get his foot upon the first rung of the ladder
that led to power. Now he has arrived at
the summit, he would like to play the part of a
Republican autocrat in order to have a monopoly
of the thing he so ardently loves. When he em-
•ploys'sehtinient to further his object the result is
mirth-stirring in the extreme. He is then an
acrobatic elephant exhibiting his clumsiness on a
mental tight rope—half-an-ineh and overboard.
In the realm of fancy he is the blundering pea-
sant in the lady’s boudoir. His romantic ideals
savour of the purple monkey climbing on the
yellow stick —they grovel on the plane of the
cheap and the commonplace. In those composi-
tions, fearfully and wonderfully made, which he
is pleased to term poetry, he soars like a fly with
its wings in the glue-pot. The little ability Sir
Heny possesses is of an eminently unmanageable,
awkward, Saxon type of practicalness. Of ima-
gination he has nothing. He figures admirably
as the IcaeuS of the bourgeois Who attempts
flight with waxen Wings, which, if they do not
melt, carry their wearer into the leaden atmos-
phere of back-parlour romance. His very fancies
smell of the butter-tub or suggest laborious churn-
ing of other men’s minds. His rhetoric teems
with the imagery of the coalheaver, and his legisla-
tion is plethoric with the awkward plagiarisms of
the “ popular” preacher and the pettifogging con-
cepts of the shire-councillor who has made his for-
tune in “a pub.”
* * *
In his notion of a State House he shows his
strength and his weakness. His strength, be-
cause he has had occasionally the good sense to
take a hint in regard to the fathering of a legisla-
tive measure originated by a foreign State. His
weakness, because, being an arch-plagiarist he
prigs without discrimination. Ideas perfectly
good in their own places and amid their natural
environment, are lugged out of their setting and
ludicrously discredited in a fore’gn locale by the
contrast of incongruity. A State House in the
Lachlan Swamps is a statue of Jupiter in a
Chinese joss-house. Sir Henry Parkes, in that
jourr ey through the United States of which he
is for ever talking, once caught sight of the dome
of the Capitol at Washington. Since then he ha ß
had no rest. For years has he cherished this germ
of a State Hall in his copyist’s brain. For years
has he watched for an opportunity for its delivery.
A suppositious Centennial gives him the long-
hoped-for chance, and the old Parliamentarian
make 3 ready cnce again to play the part of a
sentimental Boxloto, and proceeds to woo the
TlTaniA of chiValric ideals in the garish glitter of
legislative publicity, assured, in his own mind,
that this display of Australian sentiment Will do
much to reinstate him in the good opinion of a
large section of that young native element so
grossly outraged by his Imperialistic buffooneries
in connection with the Jubilee celebration.
* «► •
But if SL Henry Parkes is a sentimental
failure as a Republican, no less so is he a senti-
mental failure as an Imperialist. In his demo-
cratic delirium he is light-headed and skips like a
young lamb to the tabor’s sound ; in his Im-
perialistic frenzy he is heavy as lead and cum-
brous as Dr. Johnson, without any of the
Doctor’s sonorousness of expression or lucidity of
meaning. Those who remembered an article
contributed by Sir Henry Parkes to the Nine-
teenth Century of May, 1884 must have been
considerably surprised at his public utterances
concerning the Imperial Conference at the time
that august body of delegated incompetence was
tendering sycophantic flap doodle to the seraphim
that sit on the thrones of glory in Downing-street.
Turning to the article in question one cannot but
be ttruck with the resemblance in construction
and aims of the late Council to that ideally
sketched—with his usual success as an idealist—
by the present Premier of New South Wales, a
little over thi ee years ago. In this precious lucu-
braiion, referring to the functions of the colonial
Governor, whom he styles the “only link” be-
tween England and the colonies, he remarks:—
“ Let it be recollected that I look to the future of the colo-
nies in all I say; and, looking to the future, I maintain the
‘ only link' is not strong enough to last. I assume that it
will be admitted on all hands that parliamentary govern-
ment in the Colonies ought to be fashioned on the grand
example of the Imperial Parliaments.”
Further on he predicts that the colonies cannot
exist as they are at present constituted for any
lengthened period of time. “ As the colonies,” he
says, “year by year increase in numbers, in
enterprise, in prosperity, and in sense of power, a
want of a more congenial bond of union will be
more and more strongly felt.” How the develop-
ment of a national sentiment and a “ sense ef
power ” nurtured within the walls of a State
House, will impel the colonies to federate with
England for military protection (especially when
we consider in regard to one of the uses to which
the State Hall will be put that we shall have
armies of our own), Sir Henry does not explain.
Federation alone, he tells us, will not meet the
want of this closer union, and —
“ Australian federation, if left to itself, will engender a
feeling which some of its advocates in England do not now
take into account.
* * •
“Australian Federation” is the bete noire of
the Imperialist, and the concluding quotation of
the preceding paragraph is a plain, unvarnished
declaration of hostility to the principle of colonial
amalgamation which Sir Henry Parkes would
sometimes like us to believe he favours, and which
he may rest assured is the only description of f edera.
tion that would ever be tolerated by the common-
sense of the Australian colonies. Colonial Feder-
ation, he goes on to say—
“ Would be the federation of the limbs almost severed
from the body of the Empire. What is wanted is a bond, or
a network of bonds, woven of the same material as that of
the central constitution ... to bind the body and the
limbs together in one great self-sustaining, consanguineous
political organism.”
As Parkes warms up to his political fad he
beats the air with even more vim and waste of
oratorical energy. He proceeds to explain the
mechanism by which he would propose to bring
about this “network of bonds”:—
“ Concurrently with federation .... a Council of
Australia should be created, to sit in London, whose func
tiers should embrace the transaction of oil political business


between the English Administration on the other side of the
globe and the Imperial Government in England. This
Council would be of the nature of the British Cabinet itself.
.... It would be consultative, deliberative, receptive,
communicative, with the freest possible scope for offering
and receiving information and counsel, explaining the ob-
jects and interpreting the wishes of the distant governments,
and assisting to reconcile conflicting interests in furtherance
of the general good of the Empire."
* * *
He next proceeds to deal with the constitution
of such a council. It should be clothed with such
forms of dignity as would, “ together with the
importance of its duties, make the honour of
being a member of it an object of ambition to the
best men in Australasia.” The number of mem-
bers should be limited, not exceeding one for each
colony, irrespective of the difference in popula-
tion, and the electoral bodies should consist of the
members of the respective Parliaments without
distinction. He further considers that Western
Australia, although a Crown colony of but few
inhabitants, should labour under no difficulty on
that account, for before many years it would have
a constitution of its own, and burst into the
charmed Jingoistic circle as a full-fledged “limb.”
Sir Henry Parkes thus defines the qualifications
of membership :
11 A fixed peried of service in the Legislature, or service as
a Cabinet Minister, or in the high offices of the State.”
Although he would not attach much value
"Toany qualifications, believing that the constituency
which is proposed would iu every case send a good man to
London.” # #
But it is in the objects of such a council as that
l#oposed by Sir Henry Parkes and those aimed
at by the Imperial Conference which recently sat
in London, with a few trifling divergences as to
detail, that almost perfect unanimity is to be
found. Quoting Parkes article :
“ Being national in its very conception and structure.it
would soon engender, by its own working, broad sympathies
with the progress of Australasia aB a noble part of the
Empire.”
In shoH, this ancient hope of the Federationist
Tories climbs to the very apex of Imperialistic
sentiment, and becomes apotheosised as the
champion Jingo of crazed Anglo maniacism.
Thumping at his temporary tom-tom, he momen-
tarily forgets that he ever was suspected of hav-
ing been a Chartist: —
“In the near future—questions will arise much more
knotty than the annexation of New Guinea —the harmonis-
ing of conflicting tariffs, the influx of alien races, which is
so far from being settled, the hard impingement on Aus-
tralian interests of treaties with foreign nations, the ocean
trade of the colonies, and, above all, the attitude of the
colonies if, unhappily, Great Britain should be involved in a
great war. In the latter case the -question ought not to bej
'What protection can be extended from the mother country ?
but ‘ What aid can be rendered by Australia ?' These and
many more questions of the first magnitude, some undreamt
of in our day, will come up for solution. How can they be
solved without a rupture by the old-fashioned machinery
which now exists ? It is because I love Old Eogland, because
I see according to my lights the grand future possible to the
English people, that I try to point out the breakers which I
think I clearly see not far ahead of our present course.”
Here is plainly announced by Sir Henry
Parkes his belief that Australia should assist the
mother country in such miserable wars as have in
the past been a disgrace to civilisation and a re-
proach to England. According to an article pub-
lished by him a little over three years ago, and
ostentatiously signed with his full name, he is
heart and soul an Imperialist of the first water,
and, according to the same article, the recent
Imperial Conference is exactly what he desired it
to be, notwithstanding his efforts to discredit its
work, possibly from motives of political jealousy.
But Sir Henry Parkes is quite as dangerous a
man to be at the bead of the affairs of a
young nation, even when indulging his senti-
ments of Australian nationality. Like all men-
tally half-emancipated men, his thoughts are ever
running upon war and the glories of victory. One
of the purposes to which he would put his great
State graveyard is the thanking of troops upon their
return from a foray—in the Soudan 1 Butreturning
to his Nineteenth Century article, the policy
which he has sketched out is never likely to be
realised in history. Sir Henry’s hope that Eng-
land’s bellicose intermeddlings with the affairs of
her neighbours will be paid for by the federated
colonies, which latter would make also a flue re-
cruiting ground for that “ thin red line ” of which
Jingo statesmen are so proud, is likely to remain
nothing more than a hope. Of course, we can
quite understand that the one thing of especial
benefit to the “mother country,” and which
would he oil and gladness to the souls of her
manufacturers, namely, “ the harmonising of
existing tariffs,” will be strenuously attempted.
Protective tariffs now prevent the importation-
in the instance of several colonies and the Cana-
dian Dominion- of England’s shoddy goods. But
“ the harmonising of existing tariffs ” is not likely
to be settled by any conference whatsoever, as it
would mean interference on the part of England
with the incidence of taxation, an interference
not likely to be tolerated without co-ordinate
Political representation,
* * *
According to the article from which we have
made copious extracts, this proposed Imperial
Conference, this ally of war and Jingoism, is a
thing after Sir Henry Parkes’ own heart, and its
recent prototype pursued the objects he thinks so
Peculiarly desirable ; it was constituted mainly on
the basis he had suggested. Whatever he may say
n °w, he has recorded in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury, of three years since, that he endeavoured
by the weight of his name and the power of hi a
Pen to bring about this federal nightmare—more
terrible than the rule of even Parkes himself.
Morally he is committed. This Frankenstein
Mogo must utter no gibe, must hurl no threat at
tbe monster he has assisted to mould. Consist-
ently he cannot take a hand in besmirching its
memory, though doubtless he will do so. He
must be content henceforth to go down to pos
terity as “ Parkes, the Australian Democrat and
imperial Agent.” His State Hall cannot save
him, for it is awakening in the minds and recol-
lections of men a fact that the people of these colonies
cannot too deeply enshroud in oblivion the
“ origin ” which Parses now would have
them celebrate. The landing of a sickly
captain with a few expatriated criminals is
not an historical event of which any country can
be proud. The first century of Australian history,
if we date from its discovery by Cook, has already
passed ; if we date from the granting of a Consti-
tution to the parent colony, it has yet to be
achieved. And these are commemorative finger
posts worthy to be rejoiced over. Sir Henry
Parkes should weigh well the result of celebrat-
ing a centennial, fictitious in itself, and conducive
of honour to no one. An ex-Mayor of Sydney
covered himself with ridicule by a municipal
junketing in commemoration of a Queen’s Jubilee
a year before it had been consummated. This
is the inevitable aftermath of sham senti-
ment. Sir Henry Parkes may be gather-
ing up for his memory future curses from
those whose country he is doing his best to
connect with an ignoble past. Apart from the
question of its truth, what a satire is it to cele-
brate the birthday of a colony by founding a
national graveyard, in which the central sarco-
phagns, and the one most beautifully embellished,
shall be that of a politician whose blunders have
been legion, and whose acts of administrative
folly—are they not chronicled in the Books of the
Statutes of New South Wales ? But Sir Henry
has gone now too far to retreat. He has entered
the region of sentiment and flopped into the
slough of bathos. As an Imperialist he is false as
turgid, as the mouthpiece of Australian nation-
ality he is ineffective as absurd. The bells which
shall toll forth to the world on the morning of Sir
Henry’s Centennial day, will be but the echo of the
clinking of leg-irons on the rocks of Dawes Point,
one hundred years ago, and with the laying of the
last tile on the dome of Sir Henry’s State House
the colony of New South Wales will hold within
its boundaries the photosphere of its first gaol.
* * •
If we must have sentiment, let us have clean
sentiment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Honest” Parkes Government.
The session of the New South Wales Parliament
which ended last week cannot be credited with a
single progressive enactment—retrogression is the
result. At the election which immediately pre-
ceded the meeting of Parliament, the people were
deluded into the belief that under the regime of
the “ Honest ” Parkes Government the depression
which existed would disappear like a cloud, confi-
dence would be restored, capital would be in-
vested, the unemployed artisans and labourers
would no longer have to humble themselves to the
Government for relief, and above all things job-
bery and corruption, which it was alleged had
been rampant in political circles, would be un-
known. The Government have had their oppor-
tunity, they have been slavishly followed by their
jackals, the season has been a most bountiful one,
everything has been propitious for prosperity, ye;
New South Wales .after six months’ rule of the
Parkes Government, is in a worse plight politi-
cally, financially, industrially, and in all other re-
spects, than it was on the termination of the turbu-
lent misrule of the Jellyfish Government. The Go-
vernment have passed three measures only: the
Customs Duties Act, the Centennial Celebrat on
Act, and a so-called Land Act Amendment Act.
The first supersedes a systematic tariff—one under
which articles were taxed according to value—by
a mongrel tariff which is sufficiently freetrade
in its character to satisfy the Calico Jemmies and
rag merchants in general, and protective enough
to mollify those of the Goverment supporters who
assume that they were elected as ultra-Free-
traders but who had to protect their sdats by in-
sisting that little industries in their electorates
which had had the advantage of a slight amount
of Protection should not be ruthlessly destroyed
by the removal of the duties. The Bulletin has
consistently maintained that the much talked of
property-tax is merely a PARKES-ian promise,
value nil, and events prove that this contention is
perfectly sound. At any rate, if the Government
have any serious intention of proposing a property-
tax they have studiously proceeded to work to
ensure that it shall not become law. The measure
to abolish the ad valorem duties was passed by
the Council with much jubilation, not because
members objected to such duties, but because, to
quote the words of Dr. Garr an, which embody
the burden of the song of all the other members :
“If it is true that the Treasurer can afford to dispense with
an emergency-tax, what have we to do hut to accept the
measure most thankfully?”
The Government must have recognised that, in
deliberately throwing away £400,000 of revenue—
derived in such a way that it affected no one
except the importer of shoddy and the prison-
made goods of other countries—they were offering
the representatives of property in the Council the
best possible pretext for reiecting any proposal
for direct taxation of property. The Charnel-
house Bill is one which will bring ignominy
on the author of it, and the parlia-
ment which assented to it. The gorgeous
State House will be a huge piece of monumental
mockery, particularly if no better use be found
for it than making it the resting-place of defunct
politicians whose patriotism is to be measured by
the length of their hair, or of dead tricksters
whose death-beds were impenitent. The Land
Bill was simply intended as a sop to the squatters
to secure their support, as its only provision is
that they shall have the use of Government money
for three years at 5 per cent. They have never
asked for such a concession. What they have
asked for has been not that they should be allowed
time to pay their overdue rent, but that, practi-
cally, they should have the use of the land rent
free. The Bill is a consummate piece of folly.
With the bare record of these three measures the
Government may fairly be called the “Govern-
ment of follies.” The purity of the Government
seems to be just on a par with their folly in legis-
lation. Fortunately for them, and unfortunately
for the public, the boat in which Parkes was so
anxious that his “respected friend,” Foster,
should remain has been “ steered into the harbour
of refuge—the recess.” The revelations which
were made during the last two or three sittings
of the Assembly, and which were nearing a
climax when the Upper House flunkey tapped at
the door with his black rod and the faithful com-
moners had to attend the Governor to be told to
go about their business, would, if Parliament were
composed of men capable of independent thought
and action, be sufficient to damn any Government.
The Cremorne water frontage affair, which
from the first had an ugly, suspclious look
about it, turned out to be a downright iob. The
hasty retreat which the Government beat on the
facts being made known in itself affords conclu-
sive evidence of —to put it mildly—the extreme
folly, from a public point of view, of the proposed
transaction. It appears that all the smart land-
agentsof the city—including H. H. Brown, Martin
(Parnell’s celebrated son-in-law), and even Gar-
rett himself—have at various times been employed
to try to get the land for the syndicate, and it seems
strange, to say the least of it, that after several
successive Ministries had refused the application,
Garrett, acting on the recommendation of the
good Abigail, should approve of it. Bad as
was this business, worse remains behind. Ihe
purchase by the Government of a narrow strip of
land adjoiaing the A.S.N. wharf is a still shadier
transaction. The land has never been put to any
use simply because it could not be utilised for
wharfage purposes owing to its narrow frontage
and the steep incline to the street at the back of
it. It is stated on the authority of Mr. T.
Dalton, M. P., that the land was offered to the
firm of Dalton Bros, three years ago—when city
property of every description had reached the
highest value ever known—for £7OOO, and they
declined to purchase it. Mr. Dibbs, M.P., also
states that seven or eight years ago the land was
offered to the A.S.N, Co. —who might have made
some use of it —for £7500. Why the Government
should pay £29,000 or £33,000 for the property—
when the question was raised in Parliament no
Minister seemed to know the exact amount
although the transaction was completed—is at
present a mystery. Wholesale charges of corrup-
tion have been made, but pending the meeting of
Parliament, these can neither be proved nor dis-
proved. Parkes vehemently denied the accusa-
tions which were made, but he did not offer to
defer the prorogation of Parliament for a week to
admit of an inquiry by a select committee. The
purity of public life seemed a secondary considera-
tion to the convenience of the Governor who had
arranged to go to a country race meeting, and
thence to Adelaide ! What is the Governor paid
for if it is not to be in attendance to perform his
nominal duties when it is wise and expedient that
he should be called upon to do so 1 The truth of
the matter might have been elicited had an im-
mediate investigation taken place, but if the sus-
picions to which the surrounding circumstances
give rise are well founded, it stands to reason that
dirring the prolonged recess most strenuous en-
deavours will be made in the direction of “ putting
things square.”
♦—
Home Rule in North Queensland.
The North Queensland Separation Council is
bitterly disappointed at the decision of Sir Henry
Holland against the partition scheme, “ without
an affirmative resolution of the Queensland Par-
liament.” But neither the Council nor the local
leagues nor the public of North Queensland can
be described as despondent. “ We receive the in-
telligence,” says Head-centre Willmett, “ with
indignant protestand in the course of a long
circular letter on the subject, he shows plainly
that he at least hasn’t yet lost heart. The failure
of the Separationists to secure the support of
Secretary of State Holland is attributed by
Willmett to the influence of Griffith, and no
doubt Willmett is right. Griffith is the head
and front of the Queen-street party ; and it is be-
cause of the selfish localism of this organisation,
which aims at hardly anything beyond promoting
the welfare of Brisbane, that the Northerners
demand separation, so that to admit the present
demand is virtually to proclaim the guilt of him-
self and his following. In all probability Grif-
fith's visit to London (though ostensibly made in
obedience to “ the command of her Most Gracious
Majesty,” as he himself declared) was simply or-
casioned by a desire to checkmate the Separa-
tionists. However, to his presence there at the
time when their petition was under con-
sideration is assuredly due the rejection of
their prayer. But Holland must be rather a
gull to have listened to the “arguments” of
Griffith. The contention that the Queensland
Parliament should pass a resolution in favour of
Separation as a condition precedent to the grant-
ing of the Imperial sanction of such measures is
not a little absurd. It is because the Queensland
Parliament is opposed to every measure cherished
by the North that the North wants a Parliament
of its own ; and to expect a Parliament which has
been systematically unfair to the people now seek-
ing autonomy to concede the point here at issue is
ridiculous. The Imperial Act of Parliament
under which Queensland was erected into a
separate colony distinctly recognised the proba-
bility that a further separation would be desirable
in the near future; thus the Downing-street
authorities are clothed with ample power, and the
undoubted right to accede to the well-nigh unani-
mous wish of the Northeners to govern themselves
irrespective of the opinion of the Parliament at
Brisbane. It is to be hoped, therefore, that
Willmett will hammer away, and that he will be
supported with funds, in which case he must
succeed in the long run.
♦
Aristocratic Charities.
The blue-blooded aristocracy of England are being
taught a most useful lesson by the descendant of
the De Bressi. This frugal-minded addition to
the peerage throws open his yacht to the inspec-
tion of the public at an admission fee of two
and sixpence per head the proceeds going
towards starting an Ambulance Society and other
charitable objects. De Bressi has evidently got
as good a business head as his father, who con-
trived to put together three or four millions ster-
ling out of the profits of navvies' labour. The
Duke of Devonshire, Lord Derby, the Duke of
Sutherland, and numerous other English aristo-
crats allow on certain days the public to visit and
view their ancestral halls ; but they have never
hit upon the happy idea of charging for admission.
What these noble persons give to charities they
give out of their own incomes—not out of gate-
money collected from the public. De Bressi
has instructed his fellow peers how to discharge
their duty in the way of supporting public chari-
ties without incurring any outlay whatsoever;
and this shows the great advantage gained by the
peerage by the occasional infusion of new blood of
the middle-class-successful-business-man charac-
ter into that splendid entity. Dickens, in one of
his letters from Italy, mentions with disgust
how the princely owner of an old palace
in that country collected door money from visi-
tors to the house of historic and artis-
tic interest. But the Italian noble was
poor—too impecunious to be able to keep his
palace decently clean without running the place on
show principles. What would Dickens have said
if the august showman had been in receipt of
£200,000 a year ? No doubt he would have in-
dulged in some slashing denunciation. Yet De
Bressei’s plan is choice and works admirably. If
enables him to give with a free hand without
opening his own purse at all. The Duke o*’
Edinburgh was not so smart. His genius did not
enable him to devise any better scheme than to
charge what he gave to Australian charities to
the British Exchequer. If he had thought of De
Bressei’s brilliant notion he might have changed
half-a-crown ahead to the thousands who boarded
the Galatea when in Australia, and thus bagged
enough not only to give a tidy sum to every desir-
ing charity, but also to liquidate certain personal
expenses which, lacking this source of income,
had perforce to go unpaid. The only fault in He
Bressey’s modus opcrandi is that it does not
touch the local upper ten. These gentry gain ad-
mission to the Sunbeam as deadheads. It is only
the vulgar people who are called upon to pay the
two-and sixpences.
♦
Pulsford’s War-cry.
Mr. Pulsford, of the New South Wales Free-
trade Association, once more raises his voice on
behalf of the Calico Jemmies of York-screet. As
a specimen of calm, collected misrepresentation
his letter is worth re-printing :
The return of imports into Sydney from January 1 to
January 9,1886 and 1887, constitute a rock on which Protec-
tion goes utterly to smash. The cry has been ‘ imports are
destroying our industries.' With the peculiar ignorance of
1 rotectionißts, the colony has been earnestly prayed to stop
these big imports, and w.th a faith that would put the pro-
phets of old to shame, we have been told that the adoption
of this course would bring work and profit alike for labour
periods named •° 0k ’ U ° W ’ at the import retut ™ for the
S £9,407,579
6,957,970
£2,449,609
This is one of the most enormous fallings off ever recorded
m tbe history of commerce, Has there been any corres-
ponding growth m our manufactures? These eloquent
figures teach us that the way to prosperity is not to be found
by destroying our external trade and in injuring other
people. The Protectionist prophecies being thus utterly
discredited, let me venture on the risk of a prophecy It is
that we are nearing a time of greater prosperity, and that it
will be accompanied by a large increase in our imports.”
“ Wifch peculiar ignorance of Protectionists"
the country has been informed that if it learns to
manufacture goods for itself it will not require to
pay other people for them, but even Mr. Puls-
eord knows well that the Protectionist has not
yet been born who asserts or believes that a fall-
ing off in the imports necessarily means increased
prosperity. Such a theory could only lead to the
conclusion that a corpse is more prosperous than a
living man, as the dead neither buy nor sell
nor import. A falling off in imports, when a
nation has learned to depend upon its own
workmen, and not on those of foreign lands,
means that internal production is increasing’
but a similar decline in a country where the tariff
is carefully framed to crush out every semblance
of local enterprise simply proves that a long
course of Freetrade has brought the people down
to a depth of poverty that they no longer
have the means to make purchases. The value of
New South Wales imports is determined chiefly
by two things—the value of her exports and the
amount of money she can conveniently borrow
and consequently we And that during four years
of exuberant borrowing (1880-1885) her total im-
ports rose from 14 to over 23 millions, while her
total exports only advanced from 15± to 16 h
millions. Tne wine has been drunk and now only
the bottle remains. The imports of New South
Wales, according to Mr. Pulseord’s own sho
ing, are decreasing, and as the manufactures are
not advancing the result simply proves that Free-
trade destroys one branch of national prosperity
without materially aiding the other. The asser-
tion that ‘' the Protectionist prophecies ” have
been utterly discredited ” might be true if any
Protectionist had ever prophecied that the gospel
of Freetrade according to Parkis was the
panacea for poverty and depression. As it
chanced, however, it was Mr. Pulsford’s own
followers who declared that Parkes and Free-
trade meant prosperity, and that increased im-
ports would be the first visible sign of the coming
change. And now six months of Parkes’ policy
has apparently knocked the import trade to
shivers and of Freetrade logic hardly a vestige
remains.
+
A N S.W. Presbyterian Clergyman on
the Jubilee.
According to a local paper, Rev. George Hay,
at the close of a recent sermon at Cooma Presby-
terian Church on the early life of Jesus Christ,
said :
“ Probably you may expect me to say something to you
before I close with reference to the Jubilee of Queen Vic-
toria. Well, let me say that the pulpit should be no place
for the praise of humanity, be it either in the person of
king or subject. Flattery of men forms no part of the train-
ing of the ministers of our church: and if it did, kings or
queens would be the last persons likely on which to use the
vile art. The last Sunday on which I spoke to you I referred
to the merciless and murderous attack of King Herod on
the life of King Jesus, and as I was pointing out to my
people in Adaminaby to-day that the first miracle of Jesus
was the key-note to all the other miracles of his benign life *
so this deed of cruelty and enmity against the king of kings
is typical of the conduct of the kings of the earth
against that kingdom which is righteous and which
proclaims peace on earth and goodwill towards men
The darkest page in the world’s history is that which
records the deeds of kings. War, continents dyed in
blood, famine, pestilence, the cry of the widows and the
fatherless, follow in the wake of the ills of this world, and
if less of these have fallen the sceptre of Queen Victoria
it is because policy more than virtue made peace expedient
I ques ion if more misery and poverty does not now exist in
the British Empire than existed under the worst of its
rulers. The griping hand of poverty is at the threats of
millions of her subjects. Ireland is in a state of rebellion
poverty, oppression, and crime, while the poor farmers of
Scotland are ground to the very dust by oppression and ob-
noxious land laws The reign of Queen Vic
TORIA has seen quite its share of religious strife and sec-
tarian bigotry. The Church of Scotland in consequence of
the tyrannical law of patronage was rent asunder and
the rent still remains. The most marked divisions
exist in England between what are termed church-
men and dissenters, while the.e is not the slightest
evidence that the an mosity between Roman Catholics a->d
Protestants in Ireland is on the wane. In the Scanes-bcok
in the House of Commons at home and in the Houees of
Parliament in the colonies, representative government has
received a lude shock and points to a black cloud well up in
the horizon of British lioerty. The one grand mistake of
Queen Victoria's reign is her jubilee on the throne Ten
years ago sshe ought have handed over the crown to her son
the Prin&e of Wales. For years she has oee , both mentally
and physically incapacitated to occupy the throne of the
British Empire, and a greater lustre would have reflected on
her name had she many years ago retired into private life
Not as a queen but as a widowed mother will the mem o,y of
Victoria be che-iihed. Her life has bean blamtlesi in this
respect, and „s a young wife, bereft of a true and good hus-
Dand, leaving to her care a numerous family to bring up to
m inhood. We accord our tribute of gratitude to the father
of the widow and the faiherless, and yet why should
we do this to her more than to ten thousand "widows who
have lived as pure and blameless lives as hers, amid difficul-
ties which she never knew; and cannot know, and not the
less pure, because, like the flowers of the desert, they bloom
and fade unseen by the busy, bustling world ? At the Bar of
the great White Throne of Eternity, Queen Victoria will
occupy no more distinguished position than they. Philan-
thropy has next to nothing to record of the Quten's
generosity. Donations from £5 to £5O to such calamities as
the Bulli explosion and the late Indian famine while a Gia£*
gow merchant gives his £lOO,OOO. She builds a private chapel
at Balmoral into which only a select few dare enter, and
occupies the free sittings in the parish church of Or at hie,
while an Iron-master in Scotland hands over £500,000 for *
supplying the religious wants of th» poor miners of the iron
districts around the second city of the Empire. After all,
what has the pulpit to do else than to re-echo concerning the
kings of this earth the words of Scripture: • Kings be wise,
be taught, kiss the Son lest he be angry, and ye perish from
the way.’ ” The National Anthem was sung at the close.


The Republican Union-
Dear Bulletin,—A new organisation has arisen
in Sydney, which, if it he fairly well conducted, will
march. Dormant in the hearts of thousands and ac-
tively working in the minds of hundreds is the senti-
ment of Australian Nationality. In the one case
the sparks must be fanned into life ; in the other,
the scattered lights most form connection till a
mighty flame has arisen to throw a noonday light
on the path that leads to Australian Unity and
Independence. The new organisation is formed
to achieve these tasks. The newly-baptised
“Republican Union” is to fan the faint sparks into
a living flame and to fuse those now burning into
a single blaze. It is even now the harbinger of
the coming Dawn. Men need no longer eat their
hearts out in vain longings for an ideal. The
ideal has passed from the intangible into the tan-
gible. It has come from dreamland into the region
of the possible, the probable —aye, of the almost
certain. At last we can see with our waking
eyes on the distant hills the fair blue banner of
the Southern Cross beaconing the glorious pros-
pect beyond of a nationality all our own, of a
country all our own, and of a future all our own.
The might of opponents has miserably failed to
keep the prospect forever hidden; but now, when
hope begins to smile, it may be dimmed by other
agencies. Would-be but dangerous and unwise
fiiends may inter vene. Our plans must not be
blighted by the meddling of those who live by the
propagation or destruction of Christianity. Ours
is wholly a political cause which can welcome and
receive the active support of men of any and eveiy
view from Romanism to Atheism. But, in order
that no offence may be given—that no misunder-
standing may exist, it is very desirable that men
who have been peculiarly active propagandists
of any particular religious creed shall not take &
prominent part in the new organisation. This is
specially desirable in the case of men who, whether
deservedly or not, whilst notoriously carrying on a
merciless crusade against the theological opinions
of the bulk of the people, have by various reasons
rendered their sincerity—and that is where the
rub comes in—open to question. The active ad-
herence of men cf this stamp is calculated to in-
jure the cause, and to indefinitely postpone its
success. Republicanism asks not whether a man
is Jew or Gentile, Christian or anti-Christian. It
ask’s but that men shall be honest and true, recog-
nizing what powers they choose in the region of
the Supernatural so that they but subscribe to the
dcctrine of Liberty, Equality, and Fratefnity,
in the land of the Natural. It may seem hard to
ask, say Mr. Thomas Walker, to quietly take a
back seat; but in the great game we are plajing
men count only as they are useful or the reverse.
If the interests offone be opposed to that of all,
he must be firmly asked to give way. The
cause must not be burdened on its onward march
by the weight of any Jonahs. Some men, whilst
honestly desiring to support a movement, mistake
t he best means for arriving at their object. Thus if
a man is a good Republican, but is very unpopular,
suspected of political insincerity, or of being in-
clined to humbug, the best means he can adopt to
forward the Republican idea is by becoming a
prominent opponent of it. Hence, in the present
case, it might reasonably be expected that as Mr.
Republican Walker is in the position of being
very much thus suspected, he should join the gang
of stampers-out, with the object thereby of serving
the Republican cause. No doubt the stampers-
out would receive him with open arms as an erring
sheep returned to the fold. Perhaps, too, it would
be an * advantage to him in the long run, for he
might, like Haynes, he taken in and done for by
the Orangemen. This would indeed be a happy
termination of the difficulty, for we would be glad
to see Mr. Walker’s career a safe and sure one,
blessed with peace and prosperity. But, putting
that aside, Republicanism has got to be considered.
It must go forward alone. Australia asks no man
his creed. Her cause demands only that men
shall be loyal to it. It demands the adhesion of
every true man on her broad surface, but it asks it
not from them as Christians or Freethinkers, but
as Australians. So it is with the new organisa-
tion formed to forward the cause. The Aus-
tralian Republican Union knows no mim by his
theological creed. Where that crops up it will
retard the machine ; but when all shall unite only
and solely in the one noble cause of Australia for
the Australians the Union will go forward surely
and resistlessly.—Native.
The Case of Dr. Wright.
Dr. H. G. A. Wright, of Sidney, and old and
much-respected practitioner, is a fortunate
man. He was charged by a pack of reprobates
with indecently assaulting a woman, and
not alone was he honourably (and no doubt justly)
acquitted of the false charge, but the woman and
her two male friends were convicted of conspiracy
and heavily sentenced. Now, Dr. Wright has
received an illuminated address and a purse of
gold from his professional brethren, in honour of
his successful issue out of a decidedly unpleasant
situation ; and this is how the worthy medico de-
scribes the means whereby he turned the tables on
his wretched accusers :
“ When the first shock of the vile plot was over, I at once
determined to resist the attempt I clearly saw these scoun-
drels were making upon me, and I resolved tbe first thing 1
would do was to ask the advice of Mr. Fosbery, the lo-
snector-aener tl of Police. X sought for him at his house and
at his - ffice, and at length found him, and on the advu e he
fch6n g ive m© X acted. I wus blamed at tbe trial by the
prisoners' counsel for not taking immediate action and at
once giving these people in charge of the police; but Mr.
Fosbery told me positively I was to do nothing but wait,
and anything that happened, however trivial, to at once
inform him of it. and hence the reason why such apparent
delay occurred When I was summoned at the Water Police
Office I at once informed Mr. Fosbery. I saw it was a
painful surprise to him, but he kindly reassured me, and said,
* lshall help you all I can,' and he did so, and the help he
gave to me—for which I can never be too grateful—l know,
gentlemen, he would as willingly and as cheerfully g>ve to
any of my professional brethren we’e they so unfortunate as
to need it To him I attribute the success that attended the
prosecution, as the witnesses would not have come forward
voluntarily, and the evidence that was conclusive of the con-
spiracy was only obtained at 7 o clock in the evening of the
day previous to that on which the prisoners were arrested. ‘
No doubt Mr. Fosbery would as willingly
and as cheerfully give to any reputable profes-
sional man help similar to that afforded Dr.
Wright. But if Dr. Wright had been not a
doctor but a mere nobody in moleskins, there is
strong possibility that he would not have had the
sense to go and gain the ear of the Inspector-
General ; he would, on the other hand,
have probably suffered brutal treatment at
the hands of the police, the courts, the
gaol-oflicia,ls, and even the public iuflictor
of corporal punishment. For the general
tendency is to believe always the accusers when
charges of this sort are preferred, and to have no
meicy whatever on the accused. Chief Justice
Lillby, of Queensland, in sentencing a negro at
Toowoomba the other day for indecent assault,
declared he would always award the lash in such
cases, ia addition toother harsh puuitions ; and
Lilley’s Draconian and ferocious utterances
truthfully reflect the current judicial view in
Australia as to the corrective measures that
should be taken against a class of convicts respect-
ing whose guilt there is almost always grave
doubt— us is abundantly illustrated by a hundred
instances within the popular recollection. So long
as the administrators of the law show such a
strong bias in favour of “ victims,’’ so loDg will
“victims” be forthcoming with their tales of
woe. Mr. Fosbery deserves every credit for
the part he has taken in the case of Dr. Wright,
and it is to be devoutly hoped that when a
similar case transpires he will, so far as is con-
sistent with his belief as to the merits of the case,
endeavour to regard his late action as a precedent.
MR. GODFREY MORGAN,
Editor of the DONALD (Vic.) TIMES.
(See page 14.)
The following remarks made in the New South
Wales Upper House by Mr. Watt, a leading
mercantile man and an inveterate foe of “ the
creature Protection,” will show the working men
what the real aim of the Freetraders is :
“ I know that as wages lower every 3d. or 6d. will develope
further resources, therefore we stand on a solid foundation.
If we create a false standard, as we have done in regard to
wages, and they do not (jive way to the great markets of the
world, we shall be in the position that we are in now ! We
have all the elements of wealth, hut this false basis has been
established that it is demoralising to work for less than Bs.
a day, and, therefore, the State has to employ men who
could find ample employment if they would accept lower
wages."
It will he noted that, according to this apostle of
greed, there is no false standard with regard to
interest on capital invested ; the doctrine
“ boiled down ” means that the earth shall be
made to yield up its wealth, and that simul-
taneously those who are already rich shall be
made richer, and those who are poor poorer.
Let the Australian workman ponder over the
statement that he is expected to “ give way to
the great market of the world ” for the benefit of
comparatively few people who have been favoured
by fortune.
+
Phil. Robinson, the English journalist and lec-
turer a la Forbes, made some sensible remarks at
the Australian Natives’ banquet to Alfred Deakin.
Said Mr. Phil : “ He was not quite sure where
the necessity arose for an Australian Natives' As-
sociation. There must have been a reason, but it
seemed to him that if this were justified the general
public of » ngland might as well associate.” This
was a well-merited rebuke to a self-advertising
clique that has no public raison d'etre. An at-
tempt to form an Association of the natives of a
continent which will soon carry its ten, twenty,
forty, millions of souls is a preposterous sham. It
has no purpose except to promote petty “blow,”
and keep alive a foolish old prejudice against
“ new chums.” Nofhing is more to be deprecated
than the latter. When an Englishman comes
12,000 miles to take up his residence in this
country, it is fair to suppose that he is above all
things anxious to be enrolled as an Australian, If
he is treated as one of ourselves his old world
superciliousness soon leaves him, and he becomes
a warm champion of the people he has deliber-
ately chosen to abide with. By the establishment
of a Natives' Associaton it is sought to impress
upon the new chum that he is an alien, denied ad-
mission to the [fold in which his children, bom
in the colonies, will be welcomed. What special
interests have Australian natives apart from the
English settlers —men who have adopted the
country from choice, and come into it as respon-
sible adults and not as irresponsible babies l None.
But, after fall, this high-sounding Association is
not worth serious criticism. It is hossed by a hand-
ful of chatterers who breathe not the true
national spirit, but make us laughing stocks for
globe-trotters, who, perchance, {never understand
what an unreal thing is exciting their contempt.
At Goulburn (New South Wales) recently Judge
M'Farland said he did not approve of “ cruel
sentences,” and consequently he would only con-
demn William Campbell, convicted of stealing
a sheep valued at something under 10a., to four
years imprisonment with hard labour in Goulburn
gaol. He was specially lenient in this case, he ex-
plained, because the prisoner had a wife and six
young children dependent on him ! Yet it is
proven every day that William Campbell or any
one else may beat and kick his wife into insen-
sibility and probably inflict on her injuries from
which she will never entirely recover, without
getting anything worse than three months’ im-
prisonment at the outside. From this it appears
that among a “ civilised” nation alive woman is
worth exactly one-sixteenth as much as a dead
sheep. The price of a human being has gone
down a good deal since the days when slavery was
paramount in the Southern States.
+
Dr. Creed’s proposal to remit the question of
Payment of Members periodically to the New
South Wales constituencies would, if ever con-
creted in practice, prove most deleterious to the
Parliamentary life of the country. On the eve of
a general election instances of the most flagitious
subornment and corruption, bribes, bids, touts,
log-rollings, and perjuries innumerable would be
committed by unscrupulous members desirous of
a vote for the continuance of their daily wage.
And how uDjust it weuld be ! Once hire a man
at a monthly wage to perform certain work, you
cannot pay him one month and debate at the end
of the next whether you will do so or not. And
Dr. Creed’s proposal refers to taking a poll on
the question of continuance of payment of mem •
bers on the same day that the members them-
selves were elected. For the unfortunate man
who could not afford to serve the colony for
nothing this would bs absolutely buying a pig in
a poke. Dr. Creed should for the present con-
fine his legislative attention to torpedo depart-
ments and questions affecting defence—and to
that Parliamentary Medical and Surgical Com-
mission -which he himself promoted, and which,
when once its report shall have been published,
will be the means of conferring infinite benefits
upon the sick of all classes.
-4.
It is said that a drowning man will grasp a straw,
but it is certain that a Freetrade lecturer or
writer will grasp arguments to which straws ap-
pear like the Miltonic Satan’s spear. A letter
has lately been printed in some of the papers de-
signed to show that if, in a Protectionist country,
A bought £5 of goods from B and paid him, and B
bought others from C and paid with the
same £5, and so on through the alphabet, notwith-
standing the number of hands the money passed
through it was only the same old £5 after all, and
that that country was only £5 richer than if A had
in the first place invested his coin in the prison
labour of America or the pauper labour of England.
A fallacy shallow yet plausible (on the surface) —an
argument showing either the ignorance of tbe
Freetrader or his opinion of his audience. If
money were wealth even the argument would be
false, but as it is only a medium of exchange the
thing is absurd. We will suppose that the Free-
trader in question were working for an employer
who was also his landlord, and who, in addi-
tion, kept a general store. Freetrader earns say
£3 per week, and not being a frugal man spends
exactly the same amount with (for convenience)
his employer ; his employer then, by drawing him
a cheque for the first week’s salary, could receive
and return that £3 weekly for the whole time they
were together. Would Freetrader then consider
that he earned only one £3 or 52 per annum ? Be-
sides. in the Protectionist case even Freetrade al-
lows the whole alphabet, say 23individuals, to bry
£5 of labour or goods with one £5, and forgets in
his Freetrade elysium that each one would have
to send £5 or £l3O out of the country—a vast
difference. Further, in the Freetrade country, B
and C and Co , notgetting their £5 from their neigh-
bour, might be unable to get it anywhere else,
and surely it is better to obtain it from a neigh-
bour, even to pay it to another, than to see it sent
to some foreign market whence our misspent
money, like our misspent moments, will never,
never, come back again.
+
A proposal has been made that the name of
New South Wales shall be changed to “Austra-
lia.” If the proposition had emanated from a
private individual it would have been beneath
notice, but as it came from the leading journal
of the colony, it is a more serious matter. It
should be noticed, and with a view of pointing out
that it is but another instance of the systematic
anti-Australian policy of the paper in question.
If the unblusbingly-advccated robbery should by
any means receive even a considerable measure of
support, it would set the whole continent by the
ears, and would causa such a strong feeling
against the older colony on the part of the others
that the march towards Australian unity would
be for years retarded. This the S. M. Herald
sees as plainly as the noon-day sun, and that is
wherefore the audacious proposition was advo
cated in its columns. It is the cloven-hoof of
anti-Australianism once again; but, once more,
it is too thin.
Every other day we can point to soma sonorously-
phrased political maxim or counsel in the Sydney
D. T. which every lover of freedom ought to dine
off on an emoty stomach, and every day between
every other day we can point to an equally blasti-
ferous, narrow, revolting, tyrannical, despot-
apologising, grovelling of hide-bound
Toryism that should secure for the writer
an eternity spent in Tophet with his tongue on a
monarch’s toe. This is from a recent D.T., in one
of its liberal spasms ;
“ If ever the time comes when these colonies have to con-
sider the reform or the reconstruction of their constitutions,
or the adoption of new ones adapted to altered circum-
stances, there is good reason to believe that it may be wiser
for them to give careful consideration to the American
method than to allow themselves to be bound too closely and
too blindly by the precedents of England.”
We do not know what the D.T. said on the day
following, but ths odds are 500 to 1 that it ap-
peared with a flaming leader on the beauty and
holiness of Imperial Federation, with 25 compli-
pliments to the square inch to Lord De Bressi
thrown in.
MR. JOHN WEATHERALL,
Editor of the MOUNT BENGOR MAIL.
(See page 14.)
The Case of William Roy.
We have received a number of subscrip-
tions on behalf of William Roy, whose case was
dealt with in a recent issue of The Bulletin,
and the same will be duly acknowledged in the
next issue of this journal Meanwhile, we will
be glad to receive any further amounts, large
or small, on behalf of the unfortunate soldier.
Mr. Parkinson, attorney’s clerk, last week
got a warrant for his wife’s arrest on a charge of
lunacy. Mrs. Parkinson, when brought up, pro*
duced several medical certificates of sanity, and
expfained that she had expected arrest, having
taken alimony proceedings against her husband,
from whom she was separated.
CORRESPONDENCE
Ihe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
(hose sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of suoh
MSS.
“C. J.” : Quite true. The old man kangaroo
has no pouch. We meant his tobacco-pouch...." IX P."
(Cudal): First invent something. Then apply to Mr. A. 6.
Taylor, Examiner of Patents "L.J.S.”: One great
hindrance to Northern Separation haß been the local
jealousy of Townsville being the capital....“ One who was
Had”: No more word-competitions for u 5...." Bushman”:
Shall be glad to see y0u...." Rev. J. S.”: Please send us a
copy of a sermon that was not "published by desire"....
"H.W.L.C.”: Many thanks. Blisters are intended to bite....
“ W 8.B.”: Bulli Relief Fund now amounts to about £38,000
...." M.M.E.”: (1) Will read and let you know. (2) Yes.
crisp paragraphs “ D.F.” (Hokitika): Very neat. Is it a
satire? “J. Sullivan”: Thanks. Sent round by a
Y.M.C. A. syndicate " H.A.L.": Will publish your " Sons
of the South." You have in you good grit...." Constant
Reader” (Hokitika): Your decrepit groveller, aged 80, is not
fit to be hit...." Democrat ” (Tambo, Q.): We note with
interest that the Presbyterians up your way call for dona-
tions of “ horses, cattle, sheep, harness, paintings, drawings,
curios, and clothing ” to help build a church. We can’t
subscribe ourselves, unhappily, for the only clothing we
have is on us just n0w....“ J. Fleury ” (Victoria): Many
thanks...." A Subscriber” (Emmaville): Mr. Dailey is an
Australian—by birth. His religion and politics are that
Queen Victoria is the besl human being made by God, and
that she is pre-eminent in grief. He owns a donkey and a
goat, and speaks about as eloquently before dinner as after
...." W.C.” (Lumore): Are contemplating your idea. Some-
times we contemplate things for quite a long time, don't you
know....“E. Sams”: If future Sydney political public
meetings are to be domineered over by the forces paid to
defend the colony, and coerced by puppets and pugilists, the
sooner the organisation of St. Johns Ambulance Associa-
tion is locally established the better. And its inauguration
under the auspices of an Imperialistic lord and an equally
Jingoistic set of “ stamping-out ’’ gentry is a fit and natural
corollary to the " salted ” meeting at the Exhibition Build-
ing...." L. 8.5.”: Thanks. The Pope's "money-making
machine” has no doubt plenty of curses on hand for
M'Glynn. But when anybody arises to show up any aspect
of the institution which has b.en financed for centuries
on the tae-nails of dead saints and the ashes of burnt
apostles, it is just possible that the whole fabric of supersti-
tion and delusion will begin to tumble down " A.H.8.”:
Please call "C. Chrishmas" : Why not re-christen
N.S.W. “ Jorcadia ? ” or “ Sobland ”?....““ Alex, Gray":
Moral, no doubt. Balmoral, in fact. Next case !
“ Australian”: No, Sir Henry Parkas is narrow-minded and
autocratic, and in regard to his recent interpretation of the
law touching Sunday entertainments he simply parallels
Bishop Porteous and his Act (passed in the reign of George
III.) for ‘ stamping out’ debating societies which met and
argued on Sunday nights...." Jeames” (Rockhampton),
“ P. W. Nicholson,” “ D.T.” (Christchurch, N.Z.), “Donald
Blaine,” “Ex-bagman” (St. Arnaud), “King Billy,”
“Nona,” “John Hall," “ J.F.,” "Elo-nerth,” “ Ger. C.,”
“W. B. Wilson,” “Bushman,” “Geo. Collingridge”: Re-
ceived...." 0. Soarsby”: You fail to see that there is an
effective tu quoque to be given Salomons in re his ‘ stamping-
out’ speech. Is Salomons not a Jew, and does he not there-
fore practically 1 disseminate doctrines ooious to the people
of this country,’ a quasi Christian one ? What would have
been his position ere the passing of the Jewish Disabilities
Relief Act by reason of his very creed?...." T.W.” (G.P.0.,
Melb.): You must tell us what it is all about...." Pouch”:
1 Chestnuts ’ are so numerous that even the experienced are
‘had’ occasionally. We ‘nod’ to you. Go ahead,...
“Protectionist” (Cooma): Arnott, the big biscuit-manufac-
turer of Newcastle, is reported to have joined the Protec-
tionist party, although he took an important part in securing
the return of Freetraders at the last general election. A
very short trial of any Government of which Parkes was the
head would be sufficient for any intelligent man...." Frank
Kelly”: Noted in last weeks issue...." Guelph” (Swan
Vale): The names Guelf and Ghibelline, or as applied to par
ties in Italy, Guelfo and Ghibellino, are Italianised forms of
names which at an earlier period designated parties in Ger-
many. Guelfo is the Italian form of Welf, and Ghibellino
the Italian form of Waiblingen, a castle of the Emperor
Conrad. In Germany these names, which are said to have
been first used as battle-cries at the battle of Weinsberg in
1140, designated the struggle between the Welfa of Altdorf
and the Imperial line of the Hohenstaufen. If you want to
know more about it you must borrow somebody else’s Ency-
clopedia, for the baby has put a dab of jam right here and
ensepultured the deaequent information. .."Bill Spoke-
shave”: Will read....“R.8.” (Melbourne): The other day
that rcchauffd of delirious drivel, the Melbourne D.T., sug
gested in a double-leaded editorial that the Victorian Post-
master-General] should notallow “scurrilous, disloyal, and
anti-social" journals to pass through the Post-office. This
would be a press test-act with a vengeance, and the immu-
nity of any paper from the charge of being “ scurrilous, dis-
loyal, and anti-social ” would be decided by the expansion
or the want of it of the mind of the P.M.G. for the time
being...." Siberia”: Thanks...." 8.C.” (Brisbane): Thanks.
....“P.8.H.” (Campbelltown): Your item is about the
mouldiest and dullest thing we ever came across. We use
this mild language to disguise our thoughts.
Twenty-two thousand two hundred and
ninety-four persona were convicted of drunken-
ness in N.S. W. last year.
Lady O’Shanassy, widow of Sir John, died
at the family residence, Hawthorn (Melb.), last
week. The deceased lady in her early married days
materially helped on her husband to wealth and
position. They commenced colonial life with a
small draper’s shop in Elizabeth-street, Mrs. O’S.
attending to the business while her husband
dabbled in public affairs. O’Shanassy was first
“ brought out" by the Rev. P. B. Geoghegan, the
first R.C. priest who ministered in Port Phillip.
The O’Shanassy mansion is called “ Tara ” after
the palace of the Irish kings. The late Pat.
O’Brien, not to be outdone in patriotism, begorra,
named his neighbouring seat “Kincora,” after the
residence of Brian Boru.
Unlike the rest of his episcopal brethren,
the Bishop of Newcastle (Bng.) travels third-class,
and picks up thereby a larger and more varied
stock of knowledge of men and things than if he
took occasional first-saloon trips to the other side
of the earth. He was recently travelling in a
third- class carriage, shorn of as much of his eccle-
siastical dignity as was consistent with clerical
appearance, when a gruff, black-country collier
entered the compartment, and, having filled his
pipe, and made himself generally comfortable,
remarked to his lordship, “ I reckon thou’rt a
country parson?” “I was once,” said the Bishop.
“Ahl” commented the black-diamond as he sor-
rowfully shook his head, “ Drink, I suppose


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" A Run of Luck ” n 15
Criterion Theatre.—" Kindred Souls”
Opera House—" The Octoroon ”
Gaiety Theatre—" Les C.oches de Corneville ”" „
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy „
Exhibition Building.—Roller Skating Rink „
The story of the “ Octoroon ” —a reminis-
cence of the golden age when every man walloped
hi 9 own nigger—ought to have drawn well at Sydney
Opera House, hut the audiences were agonisingly
thin. The drama was well played and well staged,
but what the Sydney public want is evidently
Blood, and the manager who can scare up a five-
corpse melodrama is the one most likely to make
money. Elevating the public taste does not pay
and the man who tries it generally gets his ga9
cut off and ends his days in the miserable, rheu-
matic degradation of selling the Even Noose at a
windy corner. The “ Octoroon,” however,
did its level best against adverse circumstances.
Mr. H. C. Sidney, as Salem Scudder. carried off
three-fourths of the honours, and his Yankee was a
thing of beauty and a joy forever, though perhaps
he was hardly so withered and yellow as the author
meant him to be. Mr. B. N. Jones’s Indian was
also good, but it followed some distance behind the
athletic Scudder; and Mr. Yernon, as Jacob
M Closky, was ten different kinds of a tearing
ruffian in heavy boots. For the rest, Miss Alice
Norton made a charming Octoroon, and played
with deep pathos in the closing scenes of the
drama, and Miss Bessie Collier was agreeably
commonplace in the character of Dora Sunnyside.
The “ Octoroon ” looked all along as if it would
die shortly, and it has now been replaced by ‘’Sen-
tenced to Death.”
## # #
We have just left the Sydney Gaiety, and
we sit down painfully to utter some more nice
things about the nice girls at that institution.
The theatre is now about the only place left where
our “ Constant Reader” ceases from troubling and
“ Pro Bono Publico ” is at rest, and even “ Girofle-
Girofla ” affords a welcome relief from these two
melancholy bores. The opera itself is not much,
but Yerdi was at his best as Mourzouk, in a short
garment, and a pair of loDg brown legs. His act-
ing was far above his usual average, and his
voice, when he let it out, not only filled the build-
ing but drifted out into the street. Miss Ivanova
played well as the twin sisters, and her singing
brought down the house; and Mr. Edward Allan,
if he were only four inches taller, would be an
excellent Marasquin. Mr. Arthur Farley, too, is
well suited to the character of Don Bolero ; there is
not much singing in it, and plenty of scope for
burlesque. “Girofle-Girofla” is drawing excel-
lent houses, and the encores are numerous enough
to satisfy anybody.
## # #
“Rags and Bones” (at Sydney Royal
Standard) was originally perpetrated, we lelieve,
by one Scudamore. Regarded as a drama it is
uglier than a trodden-on sprat, and as a picture of
real life it is a failure—we could draw a better
picture ourselves on the top of cur bashed Sunday
hat in the midst of an earthquake accompanied
with rats. The hero is a fast youhg man who
comes home on a barrow every morning punctu-
ally at four o’clock, and the well-dressed villain
naturally wants to marry this young man’s girl.
If we were the villain we would do exactly the
same. A lot of his uncle’s money is found in the
young man’s pocket, and he strikes a pathetic
position with his head thrown back and one foot
planted in his shirt-front, or something of the
kind, and says that the other man must have put
it there. When he comes out of gaol he can’t get
any work, and he inquires down in the docks if
people breathe in his face. A sickening object in
rags steals a bone from a travelling marine store,
and remarks that he will keep it because there is
some meat on it, from which we gather that he is
not very fastidious about his diet. A well-fed
parent goes round from the first act to the last
declaring he will do something, and never doing
it. A tattered boy is interrogated for ten minutes
on the subject of grammar by the young man who
wants to know if people breathe in his face, for
the express purpose that he may fire off that pre-
Adamite gag about the plural of “ baby ” being
“ twins.” The drama contains the best fire-scene
we have witnessed for years, but its excellence is
owing entirely to Mr. Dampier’s able manage-
ment ; the cat-chorus man who perpetrated this
museum of cow-headed bosh has nothing to do
with it. Also the scenery was very fine, and the
acting—especially that of Miss Dampier as Vinnie
Foster—was worth seeing. The piece is garnished
with a donkey which has evidently studied its
part in an intelligent manner. There are five acts
of “Rags and Bones,” and the tatters and skele-
ton keep moving all the time. We saw it to the
end, and it would have been safer to prod a tiger
than to rouse us up as we got out and fled round
the corner at the rate of 10,000 miles an hour.
## # *
“ Kindred Souls ” will end its career at
Sydney Criterion on Friday next, and on Saturday
Brough and Boucicault’s Comedy Company will
appear in “ The Pickpocket,” a comedy which
enjoyed a run of 300 nights at the Globe Theatre,
London.
#* * #
A “ Run of Luck ” is still running to
good houses at Sydney Royal. Which is ODly
one more proof of the luck—it surely must be
luck—of dear old Bland Holt, and of the utter un-
fathomableness of the human race.
#* * #
A good mixed programme pervades
Sydney Alhambra, and the money is coming in
freely. Among the songs Miss Florence Schuler’s
Bitter Sweet,” Mis 3 Annetta Scasi’s “ Kerry
Dance,” and “ Nelly’s Blue Eyes,” as sung by
Miss Beatrice James, are gems, and Sam Keenan
has anew comic row which he terms the
Troubles of Noah,” and which refers to the poor
old man who took Ham into the Ark. The only
thing that is wrong about Messrs. Shipp and
James, in the “French Dancing Girls,” is that
they both deserve to die, and that the piece is aw-
fully vulgar, and Perry Ryan’s “ Adonis,” which
winds up the performance, is an amusing farce
which never fails to bring down the house.
## # #
Mr. Dampier produces his old success “The
Merchant of Venice ” at Sydney Royal Standard on
Friday night. As on Shabbas eve the three-ball fra-
ternity stay away from the theatre, the tender sus-
ceptibilities of the modern Shylock will, on this
occasion, suffer no rude jar, Alfred always was
a kind and thoughtful man.
## * #
W. J. Holloway is preparing for the
Sydney Shakespearian season, when he will be
once more to the fore as a “ handsome and gallant
Romeo.”
** # *
“ The Miner’s Daughter ” continues to
strike it ra f her rich at Melbourne Alexandra.
Scenery is good, supers stand around in lavish
profusion, and fiddlers have been laid on with no
niggard hand. There is nothing cheap about the
show except the prices of admission. For three
shillings, twelve little threepennies, or thirty-six
bronze pennies, you can sit in the dress circle
and die of hopeless love for Carrie Swain. Victims
to the tender passion are borne reverently out be-
tween acts and buried at the management's ex-
pense. They do say that Mis 3 Carrie goes forth
in the early morning and strews flowers on their
graves, but this statement requires corroboration.
At the Bijou Gracie Plaisted is doing a limited
amount of bewitching as “La Perichole,” but biz.
is not much better than it might be. To put a
plain truth In our pretty way, the house looks
perry cold. Saturday nights excepted. The new
opera, “ Bablole,” announced for last Tuesday,
may fetch ’em. Our old friend, Professor Ander-
son, opened out a “Galaxy of Incomprehensible
Marvels,” at St. George’s Hall on Saturday, and
Mr. Phil Robinson makes his debut at a Bijou
matinee on the 23rd. Ladies are expected to trip
up freely to hear Mr. Phil’s lecture—“ On the
War Path,” and to gaze at the godlike “ special ’
who scribbled copy for the Telegraph, even at
the cannon’s mouth.
*# * #
Talking about the malapropisms of colonial
theatrical managers we forgot to trot out a grand
old yarn. One of the fraternity opened a bottle
of his best port for a certain friend. The friend
was the man of culchaw, and as he smacked his
lips and surveyed the liquor with one eye, he
said, “ That’s a nectar for the gods!” To these
words did the theatrical manager seriously in-
cline. There was a pleasant stagey ring about
them. He wrote them down on the tablets of his
mind, to be quoted at some future time. The
time arrived. Somebody opened a bottle of fine
old crusted for the manager. He smacked his
lips, held his glass up to the light, closed one eye,
and murmured, “ ’Tis a necktie for the Lord !”
## # *
Portable property to an awful extent
poured in on Minnie Palmer when she went on
board the Zealandia bound for Sin Franchcx A 1
W- we See
. WE £ON|E Ol/f,
‘
FROM THE ZOO!
lovely dressing bag, a diamond pin, a silver card
case, a big cake with pink and yellow sugar
butterflies over its snowy surface, a claret jug,
scent fl aeons, cut bottles of perfume ry, and plu3h
hand bags were a few among the hosts of presents,
and even the aged party who sold newspapers
outside Sydney Opera House was present. Tears
as big as horsebeans trickled down his furrowed
cheeks, and he carried a huge bouquet.
## # *
The first performance of “ Princess Ida ”
at Melbourne Princess’s, hardly went off with the
anticipated bang. When sundry performers have
been tickled with a feather, and ths chorus spread
themselves out, the new opera will be just a little
less successful than its predecessors. In “ Princess
Ida ” all the old Gilbertian conceits have lost
something of their flavour through being warmed
up again, while Sullivan has been compelled to
work away at an exhausted vein. The story of a
Princess who shuts herself up in a castle with a
crowd of maidens sworn to celibacy until a lot of
young men come along and teach them what it is
to love would be funny enough if we hadn’t seen
a similar’joke better carried out in “ lolanthe ?” and
“ Patience.” For the rest, the opera suggests the
“ Palace of Truth ” and an incident in “ Pygma-
lion and Galatea.” There is enough superior
double entendre in the dialogue to mark its
authorship, but the humour, which is mostly
forced, doesn’t seem to have entered into the soul
of many among the present company. Miss Alice
Barnett, in her old familiar character of a cast-
iron amazon, made every speech tell, but had a
poor show as a warbler. Miss Aggie Kelton,
whose style and smile are fresher than a spring
morning, triumphed in a minor part, but Miss
Colbourne-Baber’s Princess fell flat, vocally and
otherwise. Among the sterner sex Mr.
Howard Vernon was dull under depressing
conditions, Mr. Woodfleld moderately happy,
and a triumvirate of armoured scarecrows j ast
funny enough. Interest chiefly centred in the
new arrivals. Mr. Leumane, the tenor, appeared
to possess a sympathetic, cultured voice, tempered
by a slight cold. He sang one ballad in splendid
Btyle, and then subsided into a pensive state, act-
ing mechanically when not communing with his
thoughts. Mr. Federici (an Italian of the Bill-
greeno clan) boasts an effective baritone voice and
an animated furrin method. But there were
moments when Mr. F. might have muffled his
gesticulations in a little British repose without
impairing the harmony of the scene. “ Princess
Ida” has been gorgeously mounted, and will be
extensively patronised by rank and fashion on
account of her operatic family connections. Sir
Henry Loch and our Baron assisted at the opening
ceremony.
## # *
On the same evening Miss Fanny Robiria
and the rest of Mr. Brough’s party started more
“ Little Jack Sheppard ”at the Opera House. A
ton of money was turned away from all parts, and
the show went like a whirlwind on wires. At the
Royal another perspiring push cheered, tear-ed,
and cackled over “Shadows of a Great City,”
played by a company strong enough to pull any-
thing through. The Williamsons, clever Miss
Morris, Messrs. Titheradge, Anson, and Phil.
Beck were fetched before the curtain after every
act.
## # *
Bland Holt purchased by cablegram last
Saturday the Australian rights of the next Drury
Lane production, as yet untitled.
** # *
In one of the colonies a little while ago,
during the performance of “ The Bohemian Girl,’
the individual who played the Count was tolerably
unsober. His behaviour, in fact, was so out-
rageous that at last the conductor yelled out:
“ You're drunk!” The Count staggered down to
the footlights and, addressing his accuser, said,
“ Why the Sheol do you give it away to the
audience ?”
AS. JL.
W W TT
General Booth will be arriving in Aus-
tralia about the same time as Mary Anderson.
An unfortunate clashing of two big stars. Either
Booth should engage Mary for his first Hallelujah
lassie, or Mary should secure the Gin’ral for lead-
ing man.
Miss Leonora Bra-
ham, the Triumvirate’s
new prima donna, will
not possess any special
interest for the mashers
She is bringing out her
second husband a»d a
brand-new baby. Miss
Braham, by the way, is
a relative of Braham,
the composer, whose
daughter became
“Frances, Countess
Waldegrave,” and mar-
ried Mr. Chichester
Fortescue, afterwards
Lord Carlingford. Her
Ladyship was very punc-
tilious about having
herself referred toin the
newspapers as above.
She and Mr. Fortescue
used to give magnificent
dinner-parties at Straw-
berry Hill.
-A/, A/-
*7V* W •7V*
Writes our corres-
pondent : At Adelaide
Royal, Wybe r t Reeve is
on his last week of the
season, the closing pro-
duction being “Dark
Days.” The houses have
been larger than at the
start, but the venture,
financially, has not
ended in a too success-
ful manner. Simonson’s
Opera Company fellow,
the initiatory opera be-
ing the evergreen “11
Trovatore.” The last
nights of the Japanese
Village and the Fisk
Jubilee Singers are an-
nounced, so that the
Royal will be the only
place of amusement
open in Adelaide, but
of course the Exhibition
is a great attraction in
the evenings.
*# # #
The estate of Mr.
Jules Joubert has been
compulsorily sequestrat-
ed on the petition of Clau-
sen and Goldy, who
furnished the Alexandra
Theatre, Melb. Poor Joubert, who is even better
known in Sydney than in Melbourne, lost the
little savings of a long life over the Alexandra,
which up to the p-eseDt has proved a white ele-
phant, and is now for sale.
** # #
An American j upon having his attention
drawn to the drop-scene of the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne, the subject of which is “ Thespians
leaving desolated Greece,” remarked, “Yes, I
guess it looks a blanked bad show-town."
## * #
The much-travelled Smythe admitted to
a friend that he has been a broken-hearted man
since the death of General Gordon. It seeni3 that
Smythe fondly dreamed of “ showing ” the hero of
Khartoum round Australia. Now the distin-
guished agent sadly shakes his imposing head
over an old specimen poster—“Smythe and
General Gordon are coming 1 Seats may be
booked in advanca.”
** # #
Amy Sherwin, the Tasmanian warbler,
was welcomed to her native land by the Mayor
and Corporation of Hobart, and the garrison
brass band. Alas! Alas 1 They’ll do all this, and
more, in honour of that prosaic person the De
Bressi. Geniu3 and mere dross eat out of the same
plate now-a-dajts.
## # *
Luscombe Searelle writes us from the
Cape that he means to come back to Sydney in
ten months and raise a large and healthy crop of
libel actions against the papers which stated that
a warrant was issued against him on a charge of
fraudulent insolvency ere he left Australia.
The callow youth who represents the aris-
tocratic Tories of the Primrose League in N.S.W.,
arranged himself in hi i best bib and tucker and
visited the classic hal's of fcydney University last
week to try and enrol the rowdy youths there
among his blue-blooded crew. Young Australia,
however, was proof against his blandishments,
and the alphabetical secretary was told that his
organization was utterly unacceptable to the
erudite larrikin.
BRIEF MENTION.
The Primnose League !
Allstealia is The Bulletin’s humble sug-
gestion for the new name of N.S.W.
The Queen’s title will not be altered. No
doubt Her Gracious desires some charge. She
always does.
Alfred Bennett wants a new name for
New South Wales. Why not call it Evening
News South Wales ?
One steamer landed 1000 cases of grog
lately at Thursday Island, the population of which
is 400. Thirsty Island !
It is said that no fat man has ever been
hanged in Australia. But we know several fat
men who are awfully in want of it.
So many total abstainers have suicided
lately that it is plain the devil has become a tee*
totaller and left the whisky for the water.
Manly, whose residents declared not long
since that they were loyal to the Empire, is with-
out a decent lockup. No wonder they’re loyal.
Inscribed upon the window of a certain
Sydney hotel is the legend, “Private Bar.” Be-
neath it appears the motto, “ Honi soi qui mat y
pense /”
“ Soot Bags ” is the heading of an article
in the Wairarapa (N.Z ) Standard, the subiect
being (of course) the opposition paper, the Ob-
server.
AWhitton, who murdered Spellacy in the
Northern Territory, has had his death sentence
commuted “ on the ground of his health.” Doctors
said he wasn’t well enough to be hanged.
A clergyman at Dulwich Hill (N.S.W.)
has been lecturing on “an Evening Ramble
through Haunted Houses.” An anticipatory de-
cription, no doubt, of Parkes’s Charnel House.
O’er the land are members roving,
And the gallery scribes are gone ;
Snakes and sharks in sight are hoving,
For the Nooze’s yarns are on.
From S.M. Herald :
“ L OST . three keys on triangular ring. Reward. J. C.
T—-, solicitor, C street."
Bedad, will Mr. T kindly forward us a sketch
of his triangular ring ?
A Sydney Primnose Leaguer named Gam-
gee has declared that he is ready to die for truth
and justice. As both are rather scarce quantities in
a Tory clique, he will probably have to wait until
he turns Democrat.
The cable has been at it again. It fore-
casted that a revolution or something dreadful
would happen in Paris on July 14, There wasn’t
even a dogfight. What Australia wants is a re-
volution —in the cable department.
The E. News says : “ Going to bed with
an empty stomach is a good way to invite sleep-
lessness.” The T. and C. Jernel avers that
“ eating shortly before retiring prevents sleep ”
The only alternative, if a man wishes to secure a
night’s sleep, is to go to bed without his stomach.
Casperson, a Sydney telegraph-clerk,
who disappeared a week or two ago, leaving his
clothes on the shore of the Beautiful Harbour, is
believed to have gone to China, the land where
they fly kites. He had flown some kites in Syd-
ney, and lefc behind him a wife with nine child-
ren—six of them by a former husband.
Mr. James O’Byrne, of Pyrmont, suggests
“ Aurilania ” as the new name of N.S.W. on the
grounds of its euphoniousness, and of its being
indicative of the two chief sources of the colony’s
wealth — aurum (gold) and lana (wool). The idea
is an excellent one, and had it proceeded from
Governor Carington, or the De Bressi, it might
stand a chance cf adoption. It is horrible to
think, however, of what might happen if ths
wicked compositor made it read “ Aurilavia.”
The London correspondent of the S.M.
1 Herald sends the annexed war news from Ire-
land:—“On Friday, two companies of Welsh
Fusiliers and 200 Irish constabulary assisted in
the eviction of John O'Halloran. The inmates
made a desperate resistance.” By thunder 1 Fancy
Jack O’Halloran, armed with a pitchfork (and
supported by Bridget, his wife, at the end of a jet
of porridge, and flanked by young Patsy O’Hallo-
ran, aged 10, begorra, and a ferocious pig) desper-
ately resisting several hundreds of well-disciplined
and fully-armed infantry backed up, probably,
by Gatlings and ten squadrons of dragoons ! Why
has the cableman told us nothing about the
sappers and the siege-train ?
We have received the first number of
Australian Public Opinion (published at Syd-
ney, price threepence), and have studied ic with
interest. It is nicely printed and full of matter,
which latter peculiarity, by the way, is also
characteristic of the average carbuncle. Viewed
from a purely literary standpoint, it may be
summed up as a feeble and amateurishly-edited
sheet. The first issue contains, among other
things, a few remarks on the world-absorbing
topic of the price of meals at Mittagong, an item
about asparagus in Central Asia, “ Courts—Regal
and Vice regal” (police courts are left out), and
some figures which tend to show that there are
517,000,000 sheep in the world.
On Saturday last, the Sydney Evening
News favoured its readers with the following ac-
count of what it was pleased to call:
“ A Terrible Novelty. —Last evening a man named
Cornelius Johnson was taken to Sydney Hospital by con-
stables Stapleton and Proctor suffering from the effects of
alleged attempted strangulation. It was stated that the un-
happy man was found, suspended by the neck, and with his
legs fastened together, and a lire immediately beneath him
He had evidently attempted his life in the most determined
manner, and his tortures would have commenced but for the
timely arrival of a friend, who rescued him from the situa
tion and informed the police.”
“ Novelty 1” Pooh! If Cornelius Johnson had
been found suspended by the legs, with his neck
fastened together, and a fire immediately beneath
him. Or if he had been found suspended by the
neck, with his legs fastened together, and the fire
immediately above him. Or if he had been found
suspended by the fire, with his legs immediately
beneath his neck. Or if he had been found sus-
pended by the neck, with his legs fastened to-
gether immediately beneath the fire. Or if he had
been found suspended by the beneath, with his
legs fastened together by his neck. Or if he had
been found suspended, with his legs fastened to-
gether by the fire, and his neck immediately
beneath him ; his tortures might have commenced,
and there might have been some novelty in
Cornelius Johnson’s attempt to terminate his life
in the most determined manner. But as the
matter stands, we fail to see any novelty in the
affair, except as far as concerns the wording of
the report in the News.


PEPPER
SALT
That fashionable institution, the surprise
party, has been voted a failure at Chump’s Gully
(N.S.W.), and the girls down there conclude that
there isn’t any fun in it. Chump’s Gully is not a
large place, but the upper classes there are emi-
nently genteel, and the district has burst all its
buttons in the effort to keep pace with the moral,
spiritual, and intellectual development of the age;
so when thB inhabitants heard that surprise par-
ties were all the go they resolved to have one at
once. But they made a mistake in selecting Mr.
EbenezerH. Short as the party to experiment on. It
was 8 p.m., and Short, in dishabille, was engaged
soaking his pet corn, and Mrs. Short was sitting by
the fire in a bursted dressing gown with a red
flannel chest-protector showing through it, and
the baby was being undressed on the table, when
ten young gentlemen and as many ladies, all titter-
ing and all carrying refreshments, knocked loudly
at the door. Short uttered an execration, and
hastily withdrawing his corn from the tub he
stumped to the keyhole and spoke : “ Now then,
you larrikins, run away and play !”
There was loud laughter at this, and little girlish
shrieks, and Short, getting excited, yelled : “If
yer don’t go away I’ll throw the water over yer.”
“ P’r’aps Short’s a ’avin a bath in the kitchen,” said
a familiar voice outside, and Ebenezer, recogniz-
ing it, rushed back into the room and issued a
dozen orders all at once : “ M’ria, gimme my
boots, and get that undressed infant out of the way,
and chuck this bucket out, and for heaven’ sake get
out of sight yourself for you’re all busting through
that yellow gown of yours, and it won’t keep phut
down the back, and tell these children up-stairs if
they start making a row as they did last night I’ll
murder them.” Then he opened the door and the
visitors trooped in and covered the table, from
which the infant had been shifted, with cloaks and
hats and bread-and-butter, and paper hags filled
with tarts, and goloshes, and bottles of lemonade,
and told Short they had come to make a night of
it. ' Short replied that, in that case, he would go
and split some more wood and keep the Are going,
and presently he was heard in the back yard
saying excitedly : “ M’ria, them folks say they’ve
come to stay, and we haven’t any candles,” to
which the lady responded almost in tears, “ I came
out here thinking they wouldn’t stay a minute,
and now you’ll have to go up-stairs and throw my
dress out of the window or else I’ll have to wait
liere all night. Drat them vulgar surprise parties,
anyhow!” Then the hank-clerk who had got up
the entertainment said in an audible aside : “I
think we’d better give it up. Seems to me Mrs.
Short’s out in the yard, and can’t come in for
want of something to pub on,” and the lady ex-
claimed in an hysterical scream : “ D’ye hear that
young wretch ? He’s talking about my clothes ! ’
The party broke up in confusion at this point, and
Short’s baby was sick all next day through eating
the tarts they left behind in their retreat. Ac-
cording to present signs there will never be
another surprise party at Chump's Gully.
* » »
In a recent address in London, Dr. Barry,
Bishop of Sydney, lamented the absence of an
Established Church in N.S.W., and asserted that
the colonial unemployed could procure work at
7s. 6d. per day if they went into the country.—
S.M. Herald.
Dunedin (N.Z.) is effusive in its loyalty.
On Jubilee day a resident who was out
drinking her Majesty’s health was struck all of a
heap, as it were, by the sight of the British flag
hoisted half-mast and upside down on a temporary
flag-staff in front of a cottage, and he promptly
resolved that the man who had done this thing
should be stamped out. Accordingly he rushed
round the town until he collected 20 volunteers in
various stages of intoxication, from slightly tipsy
to weeping drunk, and this whole gang marched
to attack the enemy, singing the National Anthem
as they went and squelched the offender’s flower-
beds with their boots. Then they thundered
fiercely at the door and demanded that the gallows
wretch and heathen villain who had dared to in-
sult a beloved monarch and outrage a whole
nation out on the spree, should be thrown out to
them that they might tear him limb from limb. A
quavering voice from inside asked what was
wrong, and the infuriated troops replied that
everything was wrong and that they wanted to
get hold of the sickening monster who had perpe-
trated this crime in order to then and there pound
him into hash and rags, and spill his blood upon
the road and wipe up all Dunedin with his de-
praved old head. Upon this the quavering voice
inside rose once more in shrill, feeble accents
and inquired what was the matter with the
boys, and he would tell their ma if they
didn’t go away, and a moment later a blind and
partially deaf old man of seventy or thereabouts
tottered out by the aid of a stick, and wanted to
know if there was anything wrong about the flag,
and hadn’t he put it up right, and would the
children please keep off the flowers. There was a
long pan e. and not even the most inebriated
volunteer knew what to say next. At last the
patriarch seemed to conclude he had made a mis-
take, and he called out huskily “ Puss, puss!” and
then finding that no cat responded he said
“ Whish!” in the hope of scaring off aoy int-uding
kitten, and remarked that he didn’t want any
vegetables—this on the off chance that it might be
a Chinaman—and finally he groped his way in 'gain
and shut the door. When he was gone twenty
volunteers took their hang-dog way back into
town, and when the loyalist who had originated
the row attempted to go ■frith them they warned
him off under pain of bsing kicked.
* * *
Can such things as the following really be ?
The item is extracted from the bill of a Melbourne
lawyer:—
‘‘To 15 days’ study of the works of Charles Dickens, W. M.
Thackeray, and Mark Twain, hunting for paragraphs reflect-
ing on unnamed individuals, in view of the probability that
libel actions might have been brought against the authors, 50
guineas."
Only fancy. Who wouldn’t be a lawyer now and
sit for 15 days with one’s feet on the mantelpiece
amid an ocean of beer and a bristling forest of
cigars, hunting up offensive paragraphs in the
“ Innocents Abroad,” and speculating why the un-
dressed Arab who lived in the caves of Endor
and who sold Mark a red clay pipe streaked
with 50 years' accumulation of 50 different
kinds of dirt, didn’t sue the author for libel be-
cause he commented on his smell. When the
journalist goes home to do this kind of thing he
has not Only to do it gratis, but he has to hire a
man to throw out the “constant reader” in his
stead, and when he comes back he generally finds
his locum tenens lying drunk in the waste-paper
basket amid the ruins of 15 days’ pork-pies, but
when the lawyer wants to study comic literature
he charges the job to his client at about £3 10s. a I
day. And if the client declines to pay for another j
B»y( w Ho 15 ijA/iWq M is SPRAiK£O PA^HEO
vVnis<ey.(fHe i/evt- oil) Pa
HIS PfjEr/ fje WAS A Buy f ,f
SURGICAL INSTINCTS.
man sitting down and reading Mark Twain, the
chances are that he’ll read through Bret Harte
also out of pure malevolence, and then sell up his
victim for extra expenses incurred in wadiDg
through two humorists instead of one. .
* * *
N.S.W. seems to want a new name worse
every day, and as the starchy old blue-bottles of
the Council have rejected Sir Alfred Stephen’s
well-meant endeavour, the work has all to be
done over again. “ Cookland,” “ Pacifica,”
“Abigailia,” and a lot more, are too common, and
“ Parkesia ” would be an insult. “ Bullockland ”
would about express the position, and then the
inhabitants could speak Bullockese, but the name
sounds ugly, and a colony of Sheeplanders who
would discourse in Sheepese would hardly inspire
respect. There is no Washington to tame the
colony after—and not even a decent Tomkinson,
and the names of the public men of the present
day—they sound as a rule too much like the clank
of the pawnbroker's sign when a driving gale
knocks the three balls together above our uncle’s
door. “ Dibbsylvania,” “Salamonsadelphia,”
“ D illeyusia ” —all are failures, and unless we fall
back on “ Beer-asia,” it is hard to tell what is to
become of a distracted colony that can’t find a
name. Or perhaps “Rumelia” might do, or
“ Gin-evra,” or “ Schnapps-alonia; ” something
with drink in it is what N.S.W. chiefly wants ;
or “ Bungaria ” might suit a land that is fast
going bung, and then Sydney could be re-chris-
tened “Chinaman’s Hollow ’ or “ Quong’s
Gully; ” or considering how many mortgages the
Chosen People have on the land, the whole place
might simply be designated “ Moses,” and then
the vexed question might be permitted to per-
spire “ Moses” ought to be good enoughfo- any
country, and those who don’t lUe it could secede
and call their place “ Samuel.”
We know, dear Bishop, we are bad —
Our virtues are too few ;
We know that our condition’s sad —
We pay your Church no screw!
What comfort in your words there is
(To Colin Campbell’s crew)
That colonists go in for fizz
And pay no church a screw.
You’re certain that our uppah class
In Sheol mean to stew,
Because they like a jovial glass,
And ante-up no screw.
Our unemployed—an idle “ push ”
You say, no work will do ;
They will not swag it in the bush
To pay the parson’s screw.
If things are sad, so very sad,
Return across the blue,
And help to make our people glad,
And earn an honest screw.
With joy would Government receive]
The kind advice from you
As to the way you would relieve—
Pray cable us the cue.
As to our sinful upper-crust—
The larger field for you
To earn reward that cannot rust
Like any earthly screw.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dr. Singleton, the Melbourne philanthro-
pist, is at present in Sydrey,
The Macs and M‘s take up 36| columns
of the Melbourne Directory.
There are 252 attorneys and 85 barristers
practising—or trying to practise—in Melbourne.
A Parliamentary candidate for Parnell,
N Z., is named George. He should indeed be a
reformer.
Governor Loch went to Sir Jimmy
M‘Bain’s Jubilee dinner preceded by two High-
land pipers.
A certain well-known sporting man has
three wives buried in the same grave in Melbourne
general cemetery.
An advertisement in the S. M. Herald
asks “ John Smith ” to show up at once, as money
has been left to him.
General Boulanger’s name Anglicised
is Baker. Let us hope that when weighed he
won’t be found wanting.
George Coulston, formerly leader of the
Melbourne Age reporting staff, is cattle-breeding
in his beloved Gippsland.
There are three Joneses in democratic
movements in Sydney. All the Smiths have ap-
parently been made aristocrats.
Mr. E. T. Smith, M.P.. of Adelaide, is
shortly to receive some mark of the Queen’s
favour.” A Cashmere shawl, no doubt.
Mrs. Gordon Baillie’s Crofter Settlement at
Wilson’s Promontory (Vie ), is to be called Port
Gordon, after her cousin, the late General Gordon.
Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, disapproves
of the revised version of the Bible. The men who
wrote the unrevised. Bible would considerably dis-
approve of Bishop Goe.
O’Brien, of United Ireland, while ad-
mitting that Parnell is in delicate health, denies
that there is any foundation for the rumour that
he is suffering from cancer.
The Daily Times ha 3 been started at
Charters Towers (N.Q ), as a rival to Thadeus
O'Kane. Thadeus has slanged it till he is tired,
and never a word will it reply.
Sir Robert Stout thinks it would appear
like snobbery to have refused bi 3 title. The Good
Templars should look after Sir Wobert. He may
think it snobbery to refuse stout.
The Auckland Star states in a leading
article that the Prince of Wales is “not quite 22
years older than his mother.” A terribly realistic
way, this, of stating the position
J. W. Hackett, the young Melbourne
barrister, is now squatting in Western Australia.
So is J. S. Horne, formerly associate to the late
Mr. Justice Williams, of Victoria.
Although any man found in Great Britain
with a trout under five inches long in his posses-
sion is liable to a fine, the favourite dish of “ Her
Grashus” i 3 fried trout about two inches in
length.
Among the participants in Mr. M. H.
Davies’ Jubilee donation of £IO,OOO, is the Mel-
bourne Law Clerks’ Society. Mr. Davies (who is
an attorney) evidently believes that charity begins
at home.
Rev. Mr. Reaney, an English clergyman,
says he wants no Y. M.C.A. in connection with his
church, because such associations ‘ ‘ tear a kind of
pimply-pious young man—a young man wanting
in backbone.”
Directlylt became known in America that
a prince intended paying them a visit, the directors
of the various railway companies caused to be re-
newed the notices “ People are warned not to lend
money to strangers.”
Mr. Newton, the barrister, well know i as
a county court practitioner in Melbourne a qu ic-
ter of a century ago, made his first appearancs
after an absenee of 20 years, in the Victorian
Equity Court, last week.
The proprietor of the Jewish He'uid
(Melb ) is a Scotchman, one M‘Kinley. Wasn’t
there someone who endeavoured to prove that
“ Caledonia stern and wild ” had origina ly torn
colonised by the ten lost tribes of Israel ?
Ex-Chief Justice Stawell, of Victoria,
used to pass heavy sentences on crimina's who
committed impudent, barefaced robbeii :s. and
also upon subtle “ snavellers.” His Honor i bought
that the golden mean deserved leniency.
The genial Judge Cope, of Melbourne-
better known to his fam'liars as “ Tommy ” Cope
—the life and soul of the Yorick Club, is on a
visit to Sydney. We have got Damon, but where
on earth is Pythias—Martin Evans, the Melbourne
Revenue Inspector ?
Mr. Thomas Vagabond says that “ bad
cooking has killed as many in the colonies as had
whisky.” Yes, Julian still flourishes in tl e flesh
because he has lived so much at the houses of the
R C. priests. There the cooking is always pei feet
and the whisky unexceptionable.
A Mel bourne daily reported that old
Chirnside committed suicide whilst under the in-
fluence of melancholia, and that the Princess of
Wales is developing symptoms of the same c m-
plaint. There is a libel in this association c ut of
which the Princess of Wales might make quite a
lot of money.
How theae lawyers love one another!
Scene: Melbourne Court. Lawyer, for plaintiff,
examining witness : “ What are you ?” Witness :
“ Gentleman.” L. for P. : “ Ah, is it very n ee to
be a gentleman?” Lawyer for defendant, <hip-
Ding in: “ Why, would you like to be one ? ’ Case
still proceeding.
A London stock-jobber, named Bartels,
farted operations with £300, and failed Dr
£11,000 when the first fortnightly settlement fell
due. During his brief business career Bar’els
bought £843,000 and sold £600,000 worth of stock.
What a lot a man may do in 14 days—the ordinary
price of a “ drunk and disorderly I ”
Hon. Simon Fraser, M.L.C., Grand-
master of the Orange Lodge of Victoria, is known
as the rich Australian whose portrait was pain ed
by Millais. His face seems as if it were carved
out of the Murray red-gum out of which he carvei
his fortune. As a public man he is chiefly dis-
tinguished for his splendid mediocrity.
It seems that when the Mayor and C >r-
poration of Holy Adelaide sit in council they hre
like so many Solomons in all their glory. Tt e
regal magnificence of these great men has deet ly
affected their puffy visitors from distant couits,
so municipal reforms of a decidedly jammy na‘u r e
may be looked for in Sydney forthwith.
The Empress of Germany, at 76 years of
age, makes herself into a hideous caricature of a
maiden in her teens. She wears rose-tin'td
cheeks and a wig of raven blackness. This ft s-
ive old girl is a fitting mate for the Emperor,
vhose “ serious attacks” are generally the reuilt
>f nonagenarian attempts to kiss ballet-girls.
Judge Clarke, formerly of Victoria—unde
of the late Marcus Clarke, the author—who died
x the European Mentone last year, is buried there
with an English inscription on his tomb, but no
reference is made to his former connection with
Australia. Mr. Clarke for many years before his
leath drew a pension of £750 a year from Victoria.
It is related that when Councillor Garton,
>f Melbourne, shaved his chin and upper lip of
hat silky black heard he went straight home and
asked to see Mr. Garton. The servant said1 e
was out. James replied he didn’t believe a word
if it, and kicked up a row, whereupon Mrs. Garton
appeared on the scene and threatened to send for
the police.
The Church of Scotland has opened its
arms to Parson Dods, who was condemned as a
beretic (and metaphorically burnt at the stake) by
the Melbourne Presbytery. A history of the Mel-
bourne proceedings excited “ loud laughter ”
among the members of the Scotch Assembly.
Even they can understand a j oke —if it’s connected
with “ releegion.”
Rev. James Barclay, D.D., of Montreal
Canada, has been called to the Scots’ Church
Melbourne. Dr. Barclay is 40 years of age, and
stands 5ft. llin. in his stockings. He was a
champion athlete in his University days. The
Melbourne Presbytery has never tackled a man
of Dr. Barclay's inches since the death of the Rev.
Irvirrg Hetherington.
Bunny, a venerable N.Z. politician, once
more rabbit to enter Parliament, says he has 12
children, 48 grand-children, and a very numerous
progeny in several other generations. If this
patriarchal.Tom rabbit gets returned there will
be great rejoicings in Bunnydom. He will pro-
bably bring in a Bill making it a capital offence to
lay down poisoned oats.
Spurgeon, junr., of Auckland, discoursing
on belief, said believing something and believing
in it were two different thiDgs. For instance,
they all believed there was such a person as Sir
Julius Vogel, but it did not by any means follow
that they all believed in him. Spurgeon, junr.,
who possibly thinks himself smart, borrowed this
ancient joke from the Koran.
A well-known Queensland warden, who
used to be a little skittish, one day some years ago
asked a miner on his goldfield to come and see
fair play her.ween his worship and a gentleman in
the back yard of a hotel. The row came off, but
went against law and order, who said with the
greatest good humour, “ Never mind, I made him
do his best, anyway.” Fact.
There is a sergeant of police in Melbourne
who got his stripes because he was once the object
of excessively *' insulting behaviour ” on the part
of two vice-regal Court swells who had been out
“ dining ” and came across him on the St. Kilda-
road as they were endeavouring to navigate their
way along that dark and dubious thoroughfare in
the small hours of the morning.
Mr. J. A. Blake, M.P., who visited these
colonies a few years ago, recently died in London.
He had travelled ali over the world and wrote »


series of articles in the Dublin Freeman’s
Journal on the Irish abroad. One was entitled
“ The Irish in Japan ! ” A Frenchman once told
us that he got a glas3 of whisky from an Irishman
at an artesian well in Central Africa.
In Melbourne lives a literary man who
owns a pair of fierce moustaches which measure
18 inches from tip to tip. They are very useful
on the block, but when dinner-time comes they
have, if left to themselves, an awkward
habit of exploring the depths of the gravy. So
their proud proprietor tucks the ends behind his
ears and dines in peace at the Maison Doree.
The same dear old lie, so beloved of the
Yellow Pup, was trotted out at Sydney Twelfth of
July celebration : “ The grand old Book which
our Queen has declared was the '■ause of England’s
greatness,” &c, &c. Only 12 months ago General Pon-
sonby, the Queen’s private secretary, wrote to an
enquirer stating on Her Majesty’s authority that
the Queen had never said anything of the kind.
Holy Adelaide possesses religious papers.
One pious editor calls his clerical rival “an inor-
dinately vain and self-assertive person, a disgust-
ing libeller, a gross insinuator, a promulgator of
vile slanders, a man of many subterfuges, a dicta-
torial fellow, an individual who considers himself
anew Messiah, a silly and ignorant bigor, a
THE PORCUPINE MEMBER,
“BRISTLING WITH POINTS—NOTHING IN ’EM.”
calumniator, an abettor of notorious characters,
and—a jackal!” How is that for a meek and
lowly Christian 1
The Prince of Wales’ neck “ refused to do
its office” at a recent levee. After 2000 idiots in
swords and silk stockings had been presented to
him he couldn’t bend his head-stalk any more, so
the last 1000 had to be contented with a weary
royal wink. After a little gentle chafing with
hartshorn and oil, Wales’ neck came round and
“ did its office ” all right—at refreshment time.
There is an Australian butcher who shows
upon his window the words “By appointment to
His Excellency the Governor,” with the Royal
Arms. The other day a little boy asked his father
what the words “ Honi soit qui mal y pittse”
meant. “ Oh, ah, that means,” replied the father,
“ only for the honour o’ th’ thing I might as well
be butcher to Barney Kavanagh, the ‘ fastin’
man.’”
Purves, Q.C., of Melbourne, says that at
the Governor’s last levee his (Purves’) barber and
himself made their bows together. Well, suppose
they did! Mr. Purves is no discredit to his
barber. His hair is always well-oiled and curls
beautiful'y. And we’d guarantee that the barber
made a mu ?h more courtly bow than did Purves,
Q C„ whom may Heaven forgive for his many
transgressions.
Dr. S’aunton, the Anglican Bishop of the
North, is the most unorthodox Bishop in Her
Majesty’s dominions. He threw uo a grand English
home to come out here and it is said that he
hasn’t had a red cent of screw yet, and has been
living on his private re ources. A prominent
Townsville Catholic merchant one day from his
window pointed to the Bishop, who was toiliDg
up the dusty street on foot, as the best Christian
he had ever met.
The Rev. W. Burridge, Wesleyan Min-
ister of Hawthorn, preached the sermon at the
;loyal Orange celebration of the 12th July, in Mel-
bourne. Fancy a reporter coming to this ! Bur-
iridge was once a member of the reporting staff of
► the Age. So was the late Rev. HigginsoD, the
ipredecessor of Mrs. Webster, in the pastorate of
'the Unitarian Church. Eastern Hill. The Mel-
bourne protectionist paper has therefore given
two “priests” to the church, and a Deakin to
politics.
Waters, a Wellington (N.Z.) bankrupt,
excused his non-attendance on the date set down
for his examination in bankruptcy by informing
Judge Richmond that he had been very ill “I
can assure your Honor,” he said, “ I was then
much nearer my Eternal Judge than I am to your
Honor to-day.” His Honor, however, expressed
himself as not wholly satisfied ; he evident ly con-
sidered no other Judge so eminently qualified to
unravel the bankrupt’s financial perplexities as
himself.
James Gordon Wylie fell face downwards
in a Melbourne puddle and was miserably
drowned a few days ago. Wylie was a queer old
file, of considerable mental attainments. As a
Doctor of Philosophy, itis to be hoped that the poor
Bcholar accepted his fate like a philosopher should.
Nevertheless, it is sad to think that a man of
brains, not muddled with drink at the time, can
be asphyxiated in six inches of muddy water.
Many a more ignoble creature dies with three
physicians round his bed.
Sydney Echo says that “ owing to the
hesitating attitude or the Lord Chancellor, tbe
Colonial Conference did not succeed in enabling
the investment of trust funds in colonial inscribed
stock.” But Lord Halsbury would have no hesi-
tation in furthering investment in colonial live
stock. He has extensive estates in New Zealand,
and recently sent out a young aristocratic English
barrister named Woodfall to see how things were
going on Woodfall stayed in Melbourne for some
ime. and tried tj ge; practice, but was seized
with illness and went home again. Lord Halsbury
is better known as Sir Hardinge Giffard.
Thomas Bracken, the New Zealand poet
and popular M H.R., has been compelled by ad-
verse circumstances to file his schedule. A little
rhymekin :
Genial Thomas now you're down
Every morepork in the town
At your muse will smile.
Let them smile, and let them grin,
Want of cash is not a sin—
If it’s true they laugh who win,
So can they who file !
Mr. J. L. Purves, Q.C., obstinately re-
fuses to relinguish the lucrative practice of draw-
ing pleadings although he has “taken silk.” This
gross breach of professional etiquette has driven
the Victorian bar committee to the extreme verge
of desperation ; but J. L. P. smiles serenely and
simply remarks that he will do as he darned well
pleases. Mr. M’Dermott, fcir Bryan OLoghlen,
Dr. Madden, Mr. Hoot, and Mr. Hodges all refuse
the Q C. -ship so long as Mr. P. continues thus to
violate the fundamental principles of legal
“ honor.” Ha, ha !
The mercurial Mr. Dow sprung a very
ancient wheeze on his brother senators of Vic-
toria, and ne’er a member cried “chestnut!”
Gaunson was saying
that he would scorn
to row in the same
boat with Duncan
Gillies. This was
Dow’s opening. With
a well-simulated air
of hatching an origin-
al bon mot he shouted:
“You could not do it
with the same scull.”
His colleagues roared
again. They didn’t
know that Douglas
Jerrold had made the
joke historic. When
it was said that Dick-
ens and Albert Smith
rowed in the same
boat Jerrold added—
“ but with very differ-
ent sculls.”
Joe Sullivan, in-
ventor and owner of
the famous “disin-
fectant,” who died not
long since in Mel-
bourne,had hislabora-
tory in a back yard
in Fitzroy when he
was staiting his busi-
ness. Information
having been given to
the police by a face-
tious friend of
Joseph’s that a
private still was being
worked on the pre-
mises, early one morn-
ing Joe was startled by the advent of half-a-dozen
plain-clothes constables who made a minute in
spection of the place, but found no distillery plant
andonlyapint of whisky, which latter had been duly
bought at a local hotel, and was now consumed by
the officers of the law.
A purse of sovereigns was being presented
in Melbourne to a young man about to remove to
Sjdney, and the Rev. D. F. Barry (late rector of
St. John’s College, Sydney University) was in the
chair. A barrister who made a speech dilated on
the learning and culture of the rev. chairman and
said that after Judge Cope had met Father Barry
the former remarked that the latter “ would make
a splendid lawyer.” The barrister thought he
would have “ brought down” the company by this
remark, but there was a solemn silence, b oken
only by the mellifluous brogue of Dan. White, the
great coachbuilder, who interjected from a dark
corner of the room, “ Begorra, he’s at somethin’
betther.”
Parkes’ speeches are rather troublesome
things to report, but they used to be a good deal
worse. Many years ago, when the dead and gone
Empire was still in existence, the old man spread
himself out in a great oration, and the Empire
compositors set it up verbatim till the “ l’s ’ gave
out, and then they went to the office of the 8 M.
Herald to borrow some more. But there they
found a perspiring workman busily engaged in
splitting “H’s in two, and the worried manager
explained. “Yt s,” he said, “we also are setting
up your boss’s speech, and our 4 1’s ’ gave out an
hour ago, so now were using ‘HV cut in two.
He never uses an 4 H ’ except at 4 hawful,' so we
can spare ’em.”
The Pope has excommunicated the now
celebrated Dr. M'Glynn, of New York, for
saying that the Papacy was a mere money-making
machine, and Dr. M Glynn, far from being cast
down, seems rather to enjoy the fun. Mac must
be a rather level-headed man, for he has not made
the mistake —so usual under such circumstances
of discovering, after a difference of opinion with
the Pope on one point, that he had all along been
making a mistake and that Orangeism was the one
true faith. The M‘Glynn will, in other words be a
far stronger and more insidious enemy of the
Vatican in his present attitude than he would be
had he, after quarrelling with the Pope about the
Knights of Labour and the Irish question, turned
round and said that transubstantiaiion was all
flam. The Pope may formally turn him out of
the R.C. Church, but as M‘Glynn says that he
still believes in the R.C. religion, he will command
the sympathies of hundreds of thousands of mem-
bers of his faith—especially as the Knights of
Labour organisation seems to be just as virile and
compact a body as that headed by the Papacy.
Compute changes of faith are almost always to be
regarded with suspicion, though reversion to for-
mer beliefs is one of the commonest of occurrences.
For example, the late Captain Standish, formerly
Chief Commissioner of Police, at the end renounced
Freemasonry (in which powerful order he was while
in his prime a most influential man), and re-
embraced the R.C. religion from which he had
been excommunicated ipso facto on his becoming a
member of the craft. He was being attended by
Mr. T. N. Fitzgerald, the well-known surgeon,
with whom he was associated in the V. RC. One
day the Captain said to Fitzgerald, “ Tell me can-
didly, Fitz., am I going to recover or to die ?’
44 You won’t recover,” replied the doctor, plainly.
“Then,” said Standish, 44 send a priest to me ”
And so Father Kennedy, of Richmond, a Jesuit
priest, who was a doctor ere he became a cleric,
was sent for, and the cool captain of the twinkling
eye died in the faith of his fathers —the Stmdishe3
of Standish Hall.
A sinking fund—the Queen’s.
The Yermin Board is the nice name of a
bffiy in Victoria. They have paid £lOOO for the
scalps of 1000 wild degs.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The situation in Bulgaria is still adver-
tised.
Bulgaria has got a new ministry. All its
ministries are new.
The Irish have prepared another plan of
campaign to meet the Coercion Act.
Sir T. F. Grove M.P., says that the Times
bought “ the Forged Letter ” for £l6O.
Last year the N.S.W. Chinese poll-tax
yielded £11,990. This year the amountis £20,510.
The Salisbury-Chamberlain combination is
now known as the Primrose- Orchid party. Joseph
wears expensive orchids.
“ The Queen has given £lOOO to the Im-
perial Institute This is a sample of the things
they cable to Australia now-a-days.
Sir Frederick Napier Broome, Governor
of W.A., is opposed to Home Rule for that colony.
He knows that he is likely to be swept out.
The Chief Secretary of Ireland draws a
salary of £lOOO, with an extra allowance of £125 a
year for coals. Must be a nice warm billet!
David Gaunson says, “Better separate
from England than allow the Chinese to come into
Australia.” He has moved for a £5O poll-tax.
The Parkes Ministry intend te stretch the
recess to its utmost limit. Some awkward things
will confront them when Parliament again meets.
A syndicate of Chinkies say they have
been promised a monopoly of the N.S.W. opium-
trade for an annual lump sum down to the
revenue.
Her Gracious has been hobnobbing with
Salisbury, snd probably congratulated him on the
passage of the Coercion Bill. The Irish don’t
grovel, you know.
Mud J. Haynes took part in the Orange
celebration at Mudgee last week. The joke is
that the Orangemen believe that in Haynes they
have a genuine champion.
As the New Zealand volunteers have not
voluntarily subscribed to the Imperial Institute
the subscriptions are to be returned. Who says
New Zealand is not loyal ?
The Payment of Members’ Bill has been
thrown out by the N.S.W. Upper House. This is
only another proof of the glaring necessity for
throwing out the Upper House.
Sydney Primrose Leaguers have set up
Lord Beaconsfleld as their'idol. Beaconsfield
was a Jew. The Primrosera are dudes. The
former possesses brains, the latter own none.
Salomons, Q.C., got £2152 10s. 6d. for
prosecuting the defendants in the alleged N.S W.
railway wool-frauds cases. Mr. Wise got £790;
and other barristers, &c., £BlO between them.
The London Times advises temporising
with France. The man who would offer a fac-
simile letter compromising General Boulanger to
the editor would scarcely be welcome iust now.
Lord Brassey, Sir Henry Parkes, and the
Chinese Commissioners visited the Blue Moun-
tains last week. What unanimity on the coloured
labour question must have prevailed, to be sure !
Starving children are supplied with far-
thing dinners in Birmingham. The official
inspector says that “ the result of these meals on
the physique of the children has b s en most
striking.”
The London Times has doubled its circu-
lation since the publication of the bogus Parnell
let er. We wonder if the forger of that epistle
sold the copyrigat, or arranged for a royalty on
all extra copies ?
The Melbourne Argus opens a leader by
remarking that “Chief Justice Higinbotham re-
tains many of his old peculiarities.” They have
A F4iq E)dj[NCl IS fb
foi ?Aj'f fs 4o ’some peop/e are eery a/7_z/oiss to ch&nyo /he rijme of (for /Sl/f/V0
Why n&f the abore ? c
been comparing his recent speeches
with his Argus leaders of 30 years ago.
Hayter, the Government Statist of Vic-
toria, says that in the year 1951 the population of
that colony will be 35,000,000. Melville, M.L.C.,
says he has made a note of it with a view to
checking Hayter’s calculation by actual fact.
At the Australian Natives’ Association
chavoo to young Chief-Secretary Deakinlast week,
Mr. Speaker Lalor stabbed the Imperial Federa-
tion phantom by warning the young Australians
to baware of two representative bodies with co-
equal powers.
M". Z'-al, of the Victorian Legislative
Couucii, had the pluck to protest against the Bill
for legalising municipal Jubilee expenditure.
Zeal is the man who once moved that the Minis-
terial chicken-and-champagne bill be laid on the
table of the House.
(< I n the Victorian Assembly. Gaunson :
‘‘Mr. Speight isn’t fit for his position.” Munro :
I have frequently had occasion to call on Mr.
Speighn and found him to be most civil and
obliging " (Cheers.) Like ail official utterance?,
that was unanswerable.
Sir John Pope Hennessy is restored to
the Governorship of Mauritius. ClifFord-Lloyd,
who, as Lieutenant-Governor, was at the bottom
of the trouble, has been cashiered. He will pro-
bably be sent to dragoon Ireland again now that
the Crimes Bill has passed.
Brrwn, of the Victorian Assembly, now
wants the Parliamentary draughtsman to be in
the House su that he’d catch the spirit of the
Assembly when it tries to legislate If the
draughtsman catches the spirit of the Assembly
the whisky-trade will look up.
Bishop Suter, of Nelson, N.Z., has dis-
covered that Ireland's troubles are due to the in
tervention of a third party, whether at New York
or Rome. The Irish foolishly enough don t be-
lieve this.. They were always under the? impres-
sion that it was the intervention of a second party
—John Bull.
We don’t often go upon our sharpened
marrow bones to the leading lights of New South
Wales. But we do now. We fall down, with hot
tears bedewing our cheeks, to implore them not to
entertain for one moment the evil suggestion of
the malignant devil who wants the colony re-
christened Jubilia.
The foundation-stone of the Imperial In-
stitute, laid by Her Gracious on July 1, was-from
New Zealand Now, if it ever comes to pass, as
Macaulay prophesied, that a New Zealander sits
on London Bridge and surveys the ruins of St.
Paul’s, the Maori can exclaim as he sees the Insti-
tute go bung, “By the shade of Te Whiti, that’s
our stone 1”
The North Queensland squatters, who pay
from £6OO to £lBOO a year each to the Govern-
ment, to the Divisional Board, and other sources,
complain that not a farthing is ever paid back to
them in any shape, and that in the dreary times
of the past four years there was no mercy shown
in collecting the dues. The money is all spent
down Sotith.
Lord Salisbury says that obstruction has
turned the British Parliament into a mere sense-
less machine, and he looks forward to the time
when there will be “ a steam Irish party, an elec-
tric Ministry, and a clockwork Speaker.” We
don’t see why this arrangement shouldn’t work our-
selves, considering how well a wooden teetotum
passes for a Premier.
Parke,s is having a gay time of it with 827
gentlemen—more or less gentlemen—who have
put in applications to be made J.’sP. of N.S.
Wales. He is devoting the recess to going through
them alphabetically, and has got as far aa “ B.”
There are 76 B.’s on the list. Also there are 55
Mac’s, and the mac-nitude of the task is likely to
keep him hard at it for several weeks.
At the banquet given Mr. Deakin by the
Australian Natives’ Association in Melbourne, G
D. Meudell, the secretary, told Phil. Rohinson,
the war correspondent of the London D.T., that
though the great British Lion may, and occa-
sionally has, put his noble tail between his royal
legs, for the stately Australian kangaroo this was
a physical as well as a moral impossibility. Phil,
sat up. ’ i
In climates having a difference of tempera-
ture of 75 between the hot and cold seasons a
railway track of 100 miles is 338 yards longer in
summer than in winter ; that is, expansion forces
the metal closer together, closing up the space
between the rails of nearly a yard in each mile.
When the Biurke (N S.W.) district people hear
this they’ll roll in their “refund” claims at the
rate of a van-load a day.
Breeding ferrets for the State is the
latest rosy game in N.Z. The ferrets are sold
to the Government, which distributes them among
the farms and stations, where they kill the poul-
try, eat out babies’ eyes, and intermarry with the
rabbits. The farmers who don’t want ferrets
catch them and sell them to the breeders. The
latter sell them again to the Government at a big
profit, and so the business gees on.
The Chinese at present have the Russell
River (Q.) goldfield all to themselves, and as the
track to the diggings is very rough, arid they are
anxious to avoid any disappointments, these
thoughtful Chinkies have sent word that there
isn’t enough gold to make it worth while for white
men to go there. Of course, when the finds in-
crease sufficiently to give a white man a show the
Chinese will be sure to let them know.
It seems to be a mystery that the Northern
digger who howls so loudly about the kanaka he
has never seen should calmly swallow the China-
men who are around him on every side. But the
diggers’ wives don’t care a clothes-peg for the
political side of the matter. So they get cheir
vegetables from the only people who supply them,
and the miner, when his account gets big with the
white merchant, pays cash to the yellow one.
Human nature is weak. The digger’s wife must,
by anti-Ch’nese legislation, be protected against,
herself.


A SLANDERED COUNCIL.
1 here were some good pnd able men in the
majority, no doubt. Nobody will be found to
sneer at the capacity and reputation of such
men as Dr. Gabran, Mr Suttor, and Mr.
Simp.- on ; but if the list of the 30 be read down
nobody will be found stupid enough to maintain
that the average is equal to that of the minority.
Among the nine ayes we find Sir Alfred
Stephen, Mr. Dalley, Mr. Barton, Mr. Salo-
mons and Mr. Watt. Back of the votes we
see convictions, and back of the convictions we
see more than ordinary brains. A mong the SO
there were some appalling countenances —appall-
ing, that is to say, when it is remembeied that
the owners of these countenances have been en-
trusted with the responsibility and power of
making laws for a young nation. The uncon-
cealed joy with which these gentlemen ranged
themselves agairnt a measure which was in-
tendtd to secure a fuller representation of the
people really announced the coming and inevit-
able extinction of a House so constituted. —
Sydney Daily Telegraph.
The Bulletin, however much its opinior s may differ from
those of the majority or the members of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council, feels bound at the present juncture to show that even
from among the rank and file of councillors there may be
promiscuously picked a number of faces whereupon are indelibly
stamp e l evide ces of the highest intellect—to say nothing of the
mo3t convincing signs of culture and good humour. The sweep-
ing and malicious aspersions of the Sydney D.T. to the contrary
notwithstanding.


The Political Revival of Religion.—Another Soul Saved. Hooray!
HARDENED POLITICAL SINNER BIBBS (who has “found grace”) “HOORAY!-I MEAN HALLELUJAH! I’M SAVED. I’VE FOUND POLITICAL SALVATION, AND
MADE MY CALLING AND RE-ELECTION SURE! PROTECTION IS COMING, AND I BELIEVE IN IT. SELAH!”


Society
Woman, we believe, has her good points,
but telling the truth about her age is not one of
them, and it is a recognised fact that any mean,
horrid male .thing who seeks to pry into this ques-
tion is no gentleman. The N.S.W. Education De-
partment sent round circulars recently to all the
lady teachers asking them in respectful not to say
diplomatic terms, to mention how old they _ were,
and several hundred raging females on their last
legs respond that they were exactly 25, They had
an idea, you see, that the Government wanted the
information so that it might come round when it
had nothing to do and wink at them, and
call them “ old girl,” or ask “ Who's
yer hatter?” or that the documents would be
read out in Parliament, and then the House would
adjourn singing “Oh, my, here’s a gorgeous girl|!”
or else they thought that wicked old creature
Parkes, when he had to rise early and dress by
candle-light so as to go down and look after his
bleeding country on a cold morning, would take a
pocketful of their letters to read as he
swore himself along to his work, and
would show them round to all his pals. But
unfortunately, it was nothing of the kind. The
Government simply wanted to pension off all the
ladies when they got old, and now the giddy
thing of 45, who put herself down as 25, finds
that she will have to labour at spanking girls
twice as large as herself till she is 80 before the
department will recognise her asbeing even GO. Con-
sequently, the feelings of these unhappy middle-
aged ladies are now a mixture of agony and
wrath, hunger, tears, and Paris-green, and it is
rumoured that they are getting up a return cir-
cular which runs thus :—“ Sir, —Owing to a
clerical error I stated my age a 3 25, whereas, not
to put too flue a point upon it, it should have
been, as I might almost say, 45. I enclose my
photo, from which you will see that I look very
young for my age.” This ought to set the matter
right, unless the confidence of the department is
so much shaken that it will be necessary to send
an inspector round to judge the age of the ladies by
their teeth.
* * *
There is one prisoner in particular in the
Maitland (N.S.W.) Gaol who rises up and uses lan-
guage when anybody says ‘ * Jubilee ” in his hearing.
In that festive establishment the prisoners were
permitted to spend (if they had it, of course) the
important sum of Jive shillings in honour of the
Jub. One sick law-breaker purchased some
apple 3 to make a pie (poor devil !) and invited his
fellow-sufferers to share it. They were all sitting
awaiting the serving of the bonne bouche, when a
Jubilee warder (that’s the worst adjective we can
think of for him) appeared, espied the pie, and,
seeing insubordination, mutiny, and, Heaven
knows what else in its pastry cover, he, “ with
breathless speed-like a soul in chase, just took it
up and ran.” The next thing was that the owner
of the pie and his erstwhile guests were marched
off to the solitary cells to await the charge of
having an apple in their possession. After pars-
ing two days in unmerited- darkness they were
hauled before the visiting justice, who instantly
dismissed the case without even calling on the
Jubilee warder. The pie, however, was not re-
stored to its rightful owner, but was given to a
prison official. The warder received no punish-
ment at all, though he unlawfully and treasonably
deprived that poor convict of his Jubilee pie.
That is the reason why one prisoner in Maitland
“ jug ” smiles when they say “ Jubilee.”
* * *
The S.M. Herald, which is now probably
sub edited by a gentleman named Terence O’Hooli-
gan, says:—“The short midday service at St.
James’s Church will to day consist of an organ
recital, to be given by Mr. H. K. Maclean.” The
man who stood up and said that the next song
would be a dance, must now take a back seat,
* * *
He had spent most of his life in dull soli-
tude at Burrumbeet (Vic.), and so when he bade
his family farewell and started to pay his rich
Melbourne brother a visit, the sights of
the metropolis were to him like Paradise.
The shops dazzled him, the theatres ele-
vated him far ab we sordid thoughts of beef
and slaughtering, and the end of it was that he
outstayed his welcome. One day his brother said,
“Don’t you think, Tom, that your wife and
children must miss you ?’’ But he did not see the
hint. Taking it as a kind suggestion, the town-
Btruck arcadian grasped his relative’s paw and
stammered, “ Thanks, Bill, thanks; I'll send for
'em!" „
* * *
All this happened in a swagger Sydney
oyster restaurant. A lavish patron of the luscious
bivalve had been consuming them on the half-
shell to the ext mt of one or two dozens and when
he took his departure found that he had left a good
silk umbrella behind him. Not wishing to lose
his cherished Nagasaki he went back and cate-
chised the waiters, who, to a man, vowed that he
had lo3t :he article elsewhere. Being quite sure
that he bad lost it in the saloon he spoke to the
proprietor, “ How much do you value the article
a t, Mr. ?” said that dignitary. Theloser named
the sum. “ Very well. Then I shall stop it out
of those rascals’ wages.” The next day the gamp
was returned to the owner. One of the waiters
had found it. Yes.
* * *
Truth is stranger than a lot of things. In
Sydney recently lived a father, mother, and
daughter, and to board with them came a dude
from Merrie England, with pale-blue eyes and a
straw-coloured moustache. The dude, being im-
pressionable, began to lay siege to the affections
of the daughter, the amour being kept under the
rose. The mother, alas ! entertained a (let us say)
weakness also for the boarder, and found many
occasions to hint that, as “ her No 2, he would
not only be welcome, but too utterly utter. Just
now the insignificant male motive of the establish-
ment, being bald-headed with care and time, be-
came moribund, and the straw-coloured dude per-
ceived a crisis. The poor old man had scarcely
got to the'Golden Shore when the widow, who aped
juvenility and wore a bang, informed the wretched
dude, as she backed him up against the piano and
fell into his unwilling embrace, that now indeed
she would be his ownest duck, and nothing short
of the gentleman with the scythe would separate
them. Seeing that discretion is (for a dude) the
better part of valour, the dude assented to all this,
and even did a modified rapture on his own hook.
That night, however, the straw-coloured masher,
who really had concealed somewhere about his
person a kind of toffeeish feeling for the daughter,
informed her that her mamma had “ spoke a pre-
ference ’ for himself, and he really couldn't see
how they could become one under the circum-
stances unless they eloped. The daughter was
“game,” and so one night when the widow lay
awake speculating as to whether she would wear
a pink or a cream silk at the ceremony, the groom
of her dreams, together with her minx of a
daughter, were romantically meandering down
the back-lane each with a carpet-bag full of the
most unnecessary articles they could pack into it.
In the morning they were missed. A wire later
on in the day confirmed the widow’s worst fears
—they were married. Not to exaggerate matters,
the relic exhibited some emotion over the matter.
Indeed, so much did she feel for the loss of this
straw-coloured son of Albion that, six or eight
months after the wedding she threw up the sponge
and (to be vulgar) went—this in the elegant lingo
of the South Sea slavers—“right off her kadoova. ’
THE REASON WHY.
FRIEND (to party in undignified position): “HULLO, MR. At WHY DON’T YOU GET
UP ?”
MR. A. : “WHAT’S USHE GETTING UP TO TUMBLE DOWN AGAINSH?”
Mary Ann Blazzard, of Sydney, had a
bailiff-a whole one—put into her house on July
4, and on July 5 she seems to have fired out half a
bailiff with a black eye, that being all that was
left of him. The story of this half bailiff, as told
by Mary Ann herself, is short and pathetic. He
stood some beer for her at the commencement of
his wild career in the Blazzard mansion, and re-
quested the lady to “ make a fire and be sociable.”
She asked him if he was married, and he said he
was not. Then the two sat down together and
“ talked about noble personages, particularly the
Prince of Wales,” and as talking about Wales is
enough to demoralise anybody, it is not surprising
to hear it’ alleged, whether truly or untruly,
that the bailiff presently began to lark with Mary
Ann. The next thing he heard was a noise like
somebody being put out, accompanied by a yelp
of surprise and a concussion as if a door had
struck the patient in the eye, and when he had
time to collect his thoughts he "found it was his
eye, and Ann had emptied him iato the back
yard like a she bear emptying a pint -of goose-
berries. Which all tends to show that the Prince
of Wales is not a safe or respectable subject to
talk about.
• * *
There is nothing that upsets some people
more than formality. They can be as familiar as
you please, but directly it comes to ceremony they
lose their heads and go to sea generally. This is
mixed metaphor, bat it serves to introduce an in-
cident that occurred in a high-toned Sydney
drawing-room the other day. A mother and
daughter were attending for the first time the
“at home” of a starchy hostess, and so upset
were these simple folk at the “ prunes and
prism” of the select company assembled that upon
taking leave they actually shook hands with each
other, under the impression that they were total
strangers ! This serves to sho w the fathomless
state of mental whirlpool now reached in the
salons of the city of the Beautiful Harbour.
The latest fashionable paints and powders
rejoice in the names of fruits, such as apricot
face-powder, apple paste for the arms, and so on
Perfumes, too, are decidedly “ fruity,” andnow-a-
days a collection of fashionables smells exactly
like the markets. We don t mean the fish markets.
.lust before a certain well-known book-
maker departed from Melbourne for Yurrup, he
gave a farewell dinner at his private residence.
Proceedings terminated with a free fight in the
drawing room, and fifteen pounds’ worth of
damage to the furniture and effects. And talking
of bookmakers reminds us that sassiety has lost
the run of Beerthirst entirely. It is rumoured
that his lordship has gone to Coventry.
* * *
This is what a Melbourne “ greaser ” says
| about Lady Loch, dressed up as Queen Elizabeth :
—“As one looked at her regal figure, attired in
ruff and farthingale (a farthing ale was the
mediaeval equivalent of the modern threepenny
beer) visions of the golden age of English history
floated before the mental vision.” Am. ng all his
visions this butter-slinger was most impressed
with the vision of Mary Stuart on the scaffold.
The whole gory tragedy was enacted in . his
mind’s eye as he looked at Lady Loch. He piped
off “the headsman leaning upon his axe, which is
presently to sever the fair, frail head from the
body of the Queen of Scotland and of France. The
blow falls, the head, with its &c., &c. falls on the
bare boards, and the rich blood of the Stuarts is
lapped by a little dog.” After filling in an inci-
dental verse, the visionist enquires “are these
musings too sad ?” Sad isn’t the word. They re
just sickening. The idea of mixing up dear lady
Loch with the rich blood of the Stuarts, a little
dawg, and the Elizabethian “ Nosey Bob !” Ugh !
* * *
The Wellington (N.Z.) papers are jubilant
over another “ smart capture ” by one of the
local detectives. In this case a young “ spieler,”
having forged a letter of introduction from a
Gisborne lawyer, passed himself off on a confiding
hotelkeeper as “ LordTelfer,” heir to vast estates in
England. The landlord boarded him for a month
at the rate of a thousand a year without seeing
the colour of his coin, and then discovered that
his credentials were bogus. Having informed a
detective of this fact, and shown him the room in
which to find him, the “ astute officer ” arrested
him at once, and, having searched his luggage,
discovered that his “ lordship ” was the person he
had been hunting after for several weeks for com-
mitting numerous burglaries all over the town.
And the local Press is beside itself with admira-
tion over this wonderfully smart capture.
* * *
According to the Helena Independent
a good time has dawned for the oppressed hus-
bands of Montana. The legislature of that U topia
has drawn up an “ act for the better protection of
married men,” which runs like this: —
“ Section 1. That hereafter it shall be a misdemeanour
for any married woman to purchase a new bonnet, a silk
dress, or a sealskin sacque unless ehe shall first obtain a
written order from her husband, and shall furfct er have
given him an indemnifying bond for the payment of the
“ Section 2. That, in consideration of extra rights, privi-
leges, and immunities heretofore mentioned, it shall here-
after be lawful for any husband to stay out at least three
times a week until 12 o’clock at midnight, and if any married
woman shall utter any complaints she shall be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanour, and shall be punished by being
prohibited from making any comment upon the bonnet of
the lady who occupies the front pew in church.
“ Section 3. In addition to the three nights above provided,
married men may be permitted to attend lodge on Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday nights, respectively, of each week,
and said lodges are hereby permitted to keep open until
2 a.m., aud any married woman who shall lock the front
door or leave the baby-carriage in the hall, or put out the
lights prior to 2 a m , shall be denied the privelege of gossip-
ing with any other lady for the period of six months.
“ Section 4. Hereafter it shall be unlawful for any marr led
woman to do any of the following acts more than twice in
one day, to wit— . ..
“ 1. To pull out more than one handful of hair at a time.
“ 2. To strike him with a rolling-pin more than 17 times in
succession.
“ 3. To throw hot water on him.
“4. To throw m ire than one flat-iron at a time.’
Why! it must be absolutely pleasant to b 9
married in Montana!
* * *
A big nugget recently found in the Midas
mine, Ballarat, was named the “ Lady Brassey,’’
and two smaller lumps are “ Muriel” and “Marie,”
after the Misses Brassey Her ladyship has
written to say that she would like the next find to
be named after her black poodle. Which reminds
us that we christened our bull-pup “ Bulletin,
and the beggar bit our leg.
* *
*
A phrase never by any chance read in a
newspaper report of a presentation —“ a few well-
chosen words.”
* * *
During the last few weeks Lord Tom De
Bres«i has unburdened his gilded soul of sugges-
tions touching Colonial Defences, Imperial Federa-
tion, and other subjects too numerous to mention.
But when the secretary of the N.S.W. Trades and
Labour Council invited Lord Thomas to cackle
about the “ hunemployed,” his lordship “ could
not presume to give advice as to the best means
of improving the condition of affairs.” This was
unkind. He should have driven down to the
meeting in Carington’s carriage and have said,
“Haw ! speaking as one who has the —haw ! —in-
terests of working men at heart -ha-v ! —1 con-
sider that a large—haw!—reducti n in wages
might meet the present difficulty, and—haw! —
advance the welfare of that great Empire on
which the sun—haw !—never sets,”
* * *
Meeting of the Unemployed—a Govern-
ment House dinner party,
* * *
Dr. Tom Bride, the accomplished Public
Librarian, of Melbourne, was married at Elstern-
wick (Melb.), last week to a N.S W. lady, and they
are now spending the honeymoon in Sydney. This is
one of the rare instances on record of a Bride
being a bridegroom. Dr. B. and W, H. Archer,
formerly Registrar-General of Victoria, were a
few years ago candidates for the Public Librarian-
ship, and the Doctor was successful. He had pre-
viously been librarian of Melbourne University.
* * »
The pupils at the German Jesuit College,
-Seven Hills (S.A.), are taught to smoke clay pipes.
Fact.
* * *
An amateur dramatic performance in aid
of the Goodenough Royal Naval Home is to be
held at the New Masonic Hall on Thursday,
August i. The show is under the patronage of
Lord Carington.
* * *
A large number of visitors were present at
Lady Carington’s “At Home” on the 12th inst.
Among them were Lord and Lady B'assay, the
Misses Brassey, and Mr. Brassey, Lady and the
Misses Darley, Lady and the Misses Manning,
Mr. and Mrs. Locke Richardson, Lieut Krskine,
and many others.
* * *
On Monday, 11th inst., Lord and Lady
Brassey entertained a number of guests at lun-
cheon. Among them were Lord and Lady Caring-
ton, Mr E, W. Wallington, Lieut. Erskine,
Captain Hamill, Commodore Heusner, Captain
Von Holtzendorff, and a few others. On the
ensuing day they entertained Sir Henry Parkes,
Miss Parkes, Mr. and Mrs. Wise, Mr, Salomons,
Consul Griffin, and Lord Bertie a,t a similar
spread, and a large number of other guests
dropped in in a casual kind of way later on.
* * ft
August 10 is the date fixed for the return
ball to the Mayor of Sydney.
* * *
The ladies of the Band wick Assembly in-
tend giving a second dance at Nithsdale on the
28 oh inst.
* * •
Mr. and Mrs. Minnie Palmer were pas-
sengers for San Francisco by the Zjalandia.
* * *
A very successful private skating party
was given on the 11th inst., at Sydney Exhibition
Building, by Lady lnnes, Mrs. A. G. Cox, Mrs.
Henry Mort, Mrs. G. B. Simpson, and several
other ladies. Among the guests were Lady and
the Misses Brassey, Lord Bertie, Major Gascoigne,
Mr. Wallington, Mrs. Fairfax, Lieut. Erskine,
Lady and the Misses Manning, the officers of the
Nelson, Opal, Diamond, and Swinger, and many
more.
* * *
The Queen came down handsomely with
the usual Indian shawl as a wedding gift to Lady
Castlerosse.
* * *
The co-respondent in a Melbourne divorce
suit is in gaol for non-payment of costs ; and now
the petitioner, who gained his verdict, is
threatened with imprisonment unless he dis-
charges his lawyer’s little bill, Lawyers must be
paid somehow.
* * *
The other day a man fell asleep in the
Banco Court, Melbourne, and snored so loudly
that he filled the whole building in the pauses of
argument by Dr. Madden. A crier, with a severe
look, went to wake up the snorist, but C.J.
Higinbotham, with his usual good nature, re-
strained the official. His Honor no doubt thought
that, considering the entertainment provided, one
of the audience falling asleep was excusable. The
sleeper had a large bouquet beside him, and per-
haps was sweetly dreaming of his adored one.
* * *
And so it turns out that the lady whose
affairs have lately given so much trouble to the
Melbourne courts Isn't married at all! However,
there is mucn illustrious precedent for this kind
of thing in Southern mercantile and political
circles.
* * *
A fashionable wedding took place at the
Scots Church, Collins-street, Melbourne, on July
13, when Miss Isabel Wilkie, daughter of Dr.
D. E Wilkie, was married to Mr. Alexander
Baillie, who lives in the earn? high-toned
suburb.
ft * #
The Earl of Shaftesbury was a passenger
to Australia by the Guthrie, from Singapore.
This is not the benevolent earl, who died some
time ago, nor his successor, who blew out his
brains in a hansom-cab and terribly scared the
horse, but a mild youth considerably under age.
* * *
Mr. and Mr 3. R. Tooth, of Darling Point,
gave a very successful ball oa Friday last.
• * *
The very latest :
“Beautiful Figures.—Ladies should use the‘Bayard
Lotion for giving plumpness and fulness to the bust. The
flattest figure quickly yields to this safe, successful, and in-
expensive preparation. O dy 4s. the bottle, three bottles 10s.,
six bottles 18s., free with toilet list —Mdme. , Toilet
Depot, street, ——, London."
* * *
A story all the way from Spain. A young
Madrid doctor became engaged to a lovely girl,
but be kept on postponing the marriage till she
got mad and b?gan flirting with the other fellow.
Just when the latter had got absolutely maudlin
in his affection the doctor came to the scratch and
they were joined, while the discarded lover swore
fearful oaths in the church and vo wed r-r-revenge
Then there was bliss ia the sawbone’s household,
and after a time there was a little Spanish baby,
and on the second anniversary of the wedding
there was a party and no end of presents, and the
rejected lover came and made it up, and brought
something pretty in a box. But wten the doctor
opened ic it exploded and blew his head off, also
his wife’s head, and the baby's little topknot, and
drove the remains of the Doctor's mother-in-law
into th 9 stove, and flve guests were carried to the
hospital on shutters. Bat the rejected lover lay
down flat on the carpet when fie saw the fond
It is a mistake to think that the beautiful is always more
costly than the ugly o>- old faehimed, f'riton be proved that
then w souls in Gars ar'd Chin-, eo rtamly a nviug to
bKA.v b roS , ar<s prettier and cot lusher in p toethan u»a<>y
ethcta. 1
When vou want a thing it is well to know where to get it,
h“nce in ig worth remem that the well known places of
BRAY Bro« . in (Je •r.e-atreet, is « here h° 1 i-gest v < f
Cnina -nd (i i"8 is kept. Tne Dinner, Xui eand other sets
are numberless.*
Ladie3 would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris O ltfitting Establ'shraent.
Mrs. McCathie, 86 and 90 King-street.*
The c Dination of ingredients used in making Rowley's
Oough Emulsion is such as to render it the best-known
remedy in the world for Coughs, Colds Asthma, or Bron-
chitis. ItcanbeobtaineddirecttromW. M.. Ko w Ljc
Bourke-street, East Melbourne Brice Si. 4. per bottle, an«|
boot all chemists.*


husband begin fooling with the infernal machine,
and his laugh was the last thing the family heard
before they went to pieces.
* » #
At the evictions on the estate of Colonel
O’Callaghan in county Clare, Ireland, the officers
of the law were repelled with showers of porridge
and hot water, and had to put up their umbrellas.
Thi3 event reminds us, though in a remote sort of
way, of the adventure of a Queensland colonist
who was assailed, not with porridge but with
treacle, but the cases were hardly parallel, for he
had no umbrella Also he had no clothes on and
was as naked as a skinned eel. He came down
from the far North to marry a little Brisbane
widow, and when her dozen or so of admirers dis-
covered what was going on they felt hurt and
vengeful, which circumstance accounted to some
extent for the presence of a South Sea wooden
god attired in a night-dress and with a cap tied
neatly under its chin in the bridegroom’s couch
the night before the ceremony. This apparition
gave him a shock, but when he recovered he
banged the god’s head against the wall and turned
in. Next morning he awoke, feeling as if he were
going to be hanged. He had been drinking the
widow’s health a good deal, and his head felt like
the head of a total stranger, and his ears seemed
to be breaking right off. So he rose sadly, and
with a parting kick at the wooden god, he
scrambled into a primitive contrivance which
answered for a shower-bath at the hotel, and
which some thoughtful friends had filled with
treacle and water, especially treacle. Then there
arose a perfect hurricane of blasphemy, and a red-
spotted man got out and tried to wipe himself on
the wall, and the floor, and the ceiling, while he
called down anathemas, and vitriol, and blue
paint on the wretch who had played this trick,
and finally he flew to the bell, and hung on it
with such energy that his legs stuck straight out
from the wall as if they had been blown out by a
heavy gale. But the bell had been muffled with
a stocking, and the Chinese waiter, who ordinarily
worked the pump (by which the shower-bath was
filled) when he heard the bell ring, had been kid-
napped ; so after yelling through the keyhole
that he would keel-haul that yellow catamaran,
the sticky man swore himself into his clothes and
went out to look for gore. When at last the at-
tendant Chinkie was found the matter was laid
before him in a way that nearly burst a blood-
vessel, but even to this day that heathen doesn’t
know exactly what the white gentleman was so
angry about.
* * *
Some time ago—its a good while ago now,
but that’s all the better—there were private
theatricals at Government House, Yarrangaboola,
in aid of some fund or other. One amateur mem
ber (male) paid great attention to some of the pro-
fessional actresses in the affair—so much so that
one of them inserted an advertisement in one of
the papers. The advertisement purported to be
signed by the gay Lothario, and ran as follows :
“Wanted, immediately, for an unmarried gentle-
man, a housekeeper, must be young and good
looking.” And applicants were told to apply at
11 a m , at the offices of a certain large city firm
where this gentleman carried on his business.
Words fail for what followed. The purlieus of
the Southern Babylon rose en masse, and Blank-
street came down like one female. They came on
foot, they came in cabs ; singly, and in couples ;
drunk and sober ; plain and pretty. The victim
of the joke fled after ten minutes of it and left
two of his friends to receive the somewhat im-
pressive ladies. When these latter found it was a
sell they “took on awful,” and quarrelled, and
used nasty language, and said they had come
from Adelaide, they had, and meant to be en-
gaged. However, they were finally persuaded to
retire, and peace once more reigned.
• •
A breach of promise case in brief —Plain
tiff, we ; plaintiff, me; plaintive, he.
* » *
There is a good deal of indignation ex-
pressed among the officers of the Victorian
Defence Force at the action of the Government
in wiring home for a successor to the late Major
Ind, R.A. It is said that Captain Otter is fully
qualified to take the command of the Permanent
Artillery, and that local officers have no en-
couragement to keep themselves an courant with
military science when they see Imperial subalterns
promoted over their heads, Mayor Ind’s salary
was £985 a year.
* * *
It is said that a certain lady high up in
(Darling) Point society lately invited a bourgeois
old dame, whose mansion is somewhere near
Elizabeth Bay. When she was leaving, the old
lady brought her a number of packets of flower-
seeds. “These,” said Mrs. -, “are all im-
ported seeds. '1 hose in the little packets are my
choicest darnations. ”
* * *
Such names as “ Carington-street,”
Smith-street,” “ Jones-lane,” &c., are common
enough about Sydney and suburbs ; but such a
name as “ Fa’s-road ” is somewhat scarce. A
thoroughfare of thi3 name, however, appears to
exist not far from the metropolis, for in a tram
lately a young lady, whose father represents a
constituency in the county of Cumberland, was
beard to say, “ Guard, guard ! be good enough to
stop the tram for me at Pa’s-road.” Pa’s-road!
• * *
The Melbourne medical students gave a
fancy dress ball recently and candidates for
t'ckets had to go before a committee of ladies.
The patient would be looked at carefully, and
then one charming dear would whisper to
another, “Oh, we shan’t have that nasty old
toing,” to which the other would respond, “I
assure you, my love, ‘Mr. Ikown is so nice.”
Sometimes the miserable applicant would hear
these remarks, and then the happy look in his
face was worth making a note of. The ball, how-
ever, was a success. One aesthetic reporter states
that the refreshments were exceedingly “ chic ”
we presume this means in English that there were
pigs’ feet—and the costumes were very pretty. A
skeleton and a devil were among the most pro-
minent characters.
* * *
Mayor S. Churchill (any relation of Ran-
dolph’s, we wonder ?) has just published a book
entitled “ Forbidden Fruit for Young Men,” and
in his preface notifies “ This book is not intended
for the general reader, and still less for any young
lady who may take it up by accident.” Well, the
Mayor is good at an “ad..” anyway. There
ought to be a second edition out by this t'me.
* # *
Lady Brassey is the proud possessor of
the Mahdi’s banner which was captured by the
British forces in Egypt. She has lent it to the
War Trophies Court at the Liverpool Exhibition,
which is now being held. We wonder how much
it cost to make ?
* * *
Let us give a little railway incident to
show how servants of the public who “can’t stand
their oats ” can be taught civility. As the fellow
got the licking, we conceal the name of the station.
Passenger: “Return one to .” Railway
Clerk: “First?” Passenger: “Yes.” Railway
overfed one: “Then why can’t yer say so!”
Passenger: “I will expiain why” and he d<d.
There wa3 a row on the other side of the wooden
partition, during which other people had to wait
for their tickets. But it did not matter, for they
were afterwards give a out by a rather-koocked-
about but now civil clerk, who asked them to
say nothing about it. The passenger at this time
was lighting his cigar on the platform calmly
waiting for the approaching train.
* * *
A number of loyal Queenslanders had a
picnic, accompanied with athletic sports, at Green
Swamp, (Q.) is honour of Her Majesty’s Jub , and
even the “ladies” in some cases got “on the
swivel ” through drinking Victoria’s health. Con-
sequently, they were rather noisy, and sang
rather too many hymns on the return journey,
and got out at too many intermediate stations to
whoop for our Gracious Queen, and it was chiefly
owing to this that the wife of one stationmaster
turned the tap on the ringlets of the whole excur-
sion, and utterly ruined a good many pounds’
worth of finery. As this irate lady was up on a
balcony and fought with a hose, she prevailed
“GLAD” WAS THE WORD.
LITTLE BILLY'. “ WOT’S IT ALL ABOUT, FATHER?”
HIS FATHER: “IT'S A POLICEMAN’S FUNERAL, MY SON.”
BILLY : “OH, FATHER, AIN’T YOU GLAD? JAM.”
against heavy odds, and the seething crowd, who
called on her to come down and be killed, were
fairly flooded out.
* * *
It has been observed in Melbourne that
nobody frequents the Block so much as the lady of
the retired bu.cher.
* * *
Two real nice girls turned up at Williams-
town (Melb.) Police Court last week, all along of
the inevitable ‘‘young man” and the simple ex-
pression “ thing.” Miss Dewer was out walking
with John Davidson, when up comes Miss Blan, a
rejected admirer of the fascinating Johnnie. Miss
D. calls Miss B “ thing,” whereupon Miss B. lets
fly. Both girls belong to the “ respectable ” class,
and yet they carry on like this. Why is it that
“ thing ” has such feminine significance in love
quarrels? If you call a girl a “ wicked thug,” a
naughty thing,” or a “dreadful thing,” she
smacks you with nothing harder than her pouting
lips. If you drop the uncomplimentary adjective,
she gouges out your eye with a parasol. Women
are strange things —we must say it if it costs us
our life.
* * *
A girl with a long ulster, hard hat, and
ptand-up collar, was warming herself in the most
pproved style before the stove in a waiting-room
at; Christchurch (N.Z.) railway-station not long
since, when a short-sighted but respectable lady
said to her : “I don’t know if you are aware of
it, p’r hut th’s is a ladies’ waiting-room.’
Tableaux.
There is much excitement in Sandhurst
about the young lady of 23 who has eloped with a
married man, and the young lady’s brother who
has armed himself with his father’s sword, grand-
pa’s blunderbuss, and his own revolver, and
started in pursuit It is stated that the brother
is a “ very determined young man,” as exciting
as a sixpenny novel and quite as ridiculous ! At
a period when Women’s leg its are being pushed
down our throats by every body, from Sir ’Enry
Parkes upwards, an angry brother asserts that
his over-age sister musn’t place her ardent affec-
tions just where she chooses. The girls are
generally the prime movers in elopements, and,
speaking as a married man, we should decidedly
object to be murdered because a sweet young
thing looked into our eyes and said: “ O fly with
me.” Let us warn the angry brother. In the
good old days when giddy elopers were run to
earth in postchaiees, the guilty male almost in-
variably “ potted his girl’s pursuer.
The old Supreme Courthouse of Mel
bourne, which has resounded in days of yore with
the wit, eloquence, and learning of Michie, Ire-
land, Aspinall, Dawson, and Biginbotham, and
heard the cheers on the acquittal of the Eureka
rioters, is to be made part and parcel of the
adjoining Working Men’s College
“J. Thomson ’’(Normanton) asks: “Would
it be right to appoint a man to the responsible
position of arbitrator between a subject and the
Crown (in a claim for land-resumption involving
perhaps a hundred thousand pounds) who had
been criminally prosecuted for corruption and ac-
quitted only on a technical point ? ’ No, of course
it would not. But who on earth has, in Queens-
land, made an appointment of this sort ?
N.S.W. Parliamentary dialogue (from the
official report):—“ Mr. M Elhone : ‘The hon.
member will go to hell some day.’ Mr. Allen :
‘ Mr. Chairman, I ask if it is in order to say that
an hon. member is going to hell ?’ An hon. mem-
ber : ‘ Where is hell ?' The chairman: ‘I really
cannot tell ’ Mr. M‘Elhone : "I can only hope
that the hon. member will not go there .’ Mr.
Allen : ‘ My regret would be that I should meet
the hon. member there ! ’ ”
The Chief Justice of Victoria stated at the
banquet given to Mr. Deakin by the Australian
Natives’ Association, that his heart “ yearned for
a closer alliance with the mother country.” There
are plenty of people alive who remember a fiery
young Democratic barrister called George Higin-
botham, who boldly advocated “cutting the
painter ” which held Australia to England in un-
willing bondage. “Knowledge comes, but wisdom
lingers ” —aye, sometimes retrogrades.
Laurens, M.L.A. for Hotham in the Vic-
torian Assembly, is a Channel Islands man. That’s
why he gives the French pronunciation to “ Pre-
mier.” Laurens is adored by the gallery reporters.
He talks long and dismally, but says little to re-
port. If the member for North Melbourne
gets on his legs when a reporter goes into the box
it’s a “throwdn” for the latter, who always
emerges with a “ half-slip turn.” He is the most
popular man in the Press gallery. Vive Laurens 1
Max O’Rell says that the French fought
r glory ; the Germans for a living ; the Russians
divert attention from home affairs ; but John
Bull, who was a reasonable, moral, and reflective
character, fought to promote trade, to maintain
peace and order on the face of the earth, for the
good of mankind in general; and if he conquered
anyone, it was to improve his condition in this
world, and to secure his welfare in the next,
Curioasly enough this statement was made in
Exeter Hall.
From the Melbourne Argus :
“ After being submerged for three hours, Mr. Sleep, who
was fast succumbing, rescued from his perilous position,
apparently Jiotle 'he worse for 1 1 in severe wetting.”
Evidently the Argus is about the only paper
going that never loses its head in the presence of
a great natural phenomenon. Even though Mr.
Sleep stays under water for three hours and then
comes out alive, he is dismissed with a casual
mention as if he were drunk and had been fined os.
Sydney B. News says that the sketch of
. the “ Local Government Bill to be introduced by
I Sir H. Parkes, given in the columns of a contem-
porary is purely imaginary,” and that “the matter
has not been before the Cabinet.” We can quite
believe this. Parkes is in no hurry for a Local
Government Act. Such a measure, with payment
of members, would be the death-knell of his pre-
sent road-and-bridge system of keeping in power.
Even Parkes himself lives politically on the North
Shore Bridge.
Thus a London paper:-— “The debts of
the colonies may not he amiss. We have spent
the sum represented in our huge and almost un-
manageable debt in gunpowder and glory; but the
colonials, wiser than the citizens of the mother
country, have invested these loans in railways and
other productive works, and herein is a difference
which is immeasurable ” Thanks. But right
here we would remind Premier Barbs that no
money out of the loan-votes should be spent on
buildiDg gaols.
I Tom Slattery, M.L. A, and lawyer, who
is a “ perfect terror ” at rooting up prickly points
of Statute law, declares that the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment has, under the Constitution Act, no power
whatsoever to pass an excis 9 law. The N.S.W-.
Parliament, declares this splitter of straws, can
make a law to hang a man. but it can’t make a
law to tax his beer. Eminent counsel concur in
this view, and the brewers m?an to submit the
matter to the Supreme Court, whence it will no
doubt go to the Privy Council.
George Rtnken read a paper to the Pas-
toral and Agricultural Association) in Sydney the
other day. It was a clear case of Balaam. He
came to bless and remained to curse in his rough
Scotch accent in a most alarming manner. The
fact is the paper was a full statement of the evils
of absentee proprietorship of pastoral properties,
and the audience to whom it was read were
almost entirely r unholders who never saw their
runs from one year's end to the other. They won t
ask him to read any more papers.
Mrs. Gordon Baillie has succeeded in
obtaining a lease of 15,000 acres at Wilson’s Pro-
montory from the Yictorian Government for the
purpose of forming a settlement of Skye crofters,
Mrs. Baillie is not at all like the popular ideal of a
female reformer. She is a singularly hsndso me
woman,_ with jet black eyes and hair, before the
fascination of whose bewitchirg smile the stony
indifference of Mr. Duncan Gillies melted like mist
before the rising sun. As for Dow, he would have
transferred the fee simple of the whole colony of
Victoria to Mrs. Batilie if she had only asked
for it.
Bishop Goe says that he is certain from
what he has seen in Australia that a State church
is a necessity here. This is very curious. In the
first place, State churches are just about upon the
eve of making their wills even in England and
Scotland; and secondly, for any stne person,
csren a bishop, t) say tha% from wnat he has
observed in Australia, a State church is a re-
quired article, smacks so much of Bloomsbury and
within sound of Bow Bells that no wonder every-
one is surprised at his reverence having learnt
nothing better from his residence in Australia than
that.
The Payment of Members Bill was igno-
mioiously rejected by the N S.W. Upper House,
owing in a great measure to the half-hearted way
n which it was dealt with by Salomons whose
showed that he was opposed to the prin-
ciple, and who, it is said, had no compunction in
telling members privately that he did cot believe
in it. Dailey and Barton were the only two mem-
bers who spoke with any fervour in favour of the
bill. Ths vote against the second reading was 30
to 9 -the largest vote ever recorded. The next
occasion when the gouty old gentlemen will be
car/ied bodiiy into the chamber will be when it
becomes necessary to save the country by rejecting
Parkes’ property tax.
The Argus (Melb.) has been obliged to
chaw up its own words in a most humiliating
manner. The Rev. Ewing, of Toorak, said that
Queen Victoria sent the Bibles to the Victorian
State school youngsters because she had heard
that the Book was banned by the Government
Education Department. The Argus said this
was a lie, and that Ewing was an hallucinator.
the Toorak parson responded that he had read the
hirg in the Argus, and sure enough that paper
h\d published a letter from the promoters of the
idea in England saying that the Queen refused to
send the Testaments until Lord Harrowby told
her that the poor little State school children of
Victoria were Bibleless.
A curious story is going round in London
about Ashmead-Bartlett, who married the ancient
Baroness Burdett-Coutts, and seems to have been
sorry for it ever since. There was a close division
looming in the Commons, and towards midnight
the Whip drove to Asbmead s residence and hung
on to the bell, and yelled to the member to come
down and vote. The young man’s gray-haired
wife put her head out of the window and told him
to go away. “But I want Mr. Bartlett to come
down to the House at once ; I can’t get him a
pair,” said the official, “Well, he’s in my house
and has paired for the night,” snapped out the
grand old woman up above, and the window
closed with a bang just as the member was heard
plaintively observing from the background that he
must go just this once, please, my dear.
l tiv_- aO the Sydney Mint and in the
Sydney banks amounts to £8,000,000. Couple this
with the fact that there are at least 5000 working
men out of employment and you can have no
stro ear proof of the fallacy of the fiscal policy of
N.S.W. Mr. Pulsford made the startling dis-
covery that the imports of N.S.W. last year were
less in value by £2,419,000 than they were the
year before, and from this he draws the deduction
that there has been corresponding industrial de-
velopment. But a “Common Carpenter” hits
Pulsford fairly on the head when he points out, in
a letter to the D.T., that the decrease of imports
is attributable to the decrease of the purchasing
power of the community, as the great body of pro-
ducers have not been able to get remunerative
employment. The mo”e Pulsford plungps info
the stronger wil become the faster wing
causo of Protection.
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, brings with him all that
la ne iv in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
mar »o onaulteit at K-dman’a Bulldliigi, corner Q.oifce and
Marks! * recti lake Lift.*


Keferee
It would appear that the executive of the
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union have at length decided not
to to be led by the nose by the qwasi-professional
and agent element. Mr. “ Amateur ” Bennett
has been disqualified for 18 months for his alleged
action in allowing Dwyer to win the three-mile
test race.
# # *
The Sydney “ Lanceahs,” bless them,
have altered the date of their meeting from 27th
August to 3rd September, the date fixed by the
Sydney Bicycle Club for their annual meeting.
Last year also the Lancers and the Sydney Bicycle
Club clashed, but this year it comes with greater
force on the wheelmen, as they have already had
trouble with the Suburban Bicycle Club.
* * *
Mr Mick Dooley offers to box anything
in Australia, bar the champion Jackson, for £5O.
Dooley has thickened out a good deal, and should
take a lot of beating from any but the the very
first flight.
* *
Connor and Cannon are matched to wrestle
Grseco-Roman within five weeks’ time. It remains
to be seen whether the Victorian authorities will
sanction any more of these human dog-fights.
* * *
The Canterbury Times is responsible for
the statement that D. O’Brien has refused £l2OO
for Sextant.
# * *
P. Slavin and “Professor” Miller had
four rounds last week at St. George’s Hall. Mel-
bourne. If Miller is in anything like his old form,
the big Queentlander would not b 9 in it with him.
* * *
Mr. A. G. Milson, who, last season,
carried off the yachting championship with the
erstwhile slow-coach the aitangi, has given
George Bllis, the crack builder and boat sailer, an
order for a 10-tonner. Mr. “ Jack ” Want is also
on the list for a 10-tonner, so the sport so long
languid in Port Jackson appears to be looking up
The Magic is still high and dry at the A.S.N.
Co’s, works, and the workmen appear to be busy
about her. It is the intention, we understand, to
pad her out where required, as was done with the
Waitangi. To see the Magic at her best requires
Dick Hellings at the tiller.
* * ♦
”J. M. Christie, the vemtile Victorian
athlete, is now a Customs officer in Melbourne.
He left the Victorian detective office in disgust
at its constitution and management. It will
be remembered that Christie had a little fight
with Jack Thompson some years ago.
* * *
We believe “the goadly ” in N.S.W.
would “ bar” sauce, pickles, and lamp 3 for ever
did they know (hat much of the “siller’' therein
expended directly supports the “ ungoadly
practice of coursieg.” ihe leading lights in the
English coursing world are Lea (Lea and Perrins
sauce), Crosse (Crosse and Blackwell’s pickles),
and Hinks (the Birmingham lampmaker.)
* * *
It will astonish those not “in the know
to learn that in the professional footraces now-a-
days more money can be won in wager 3, and can
be got on at a better price, than in many of the
big horse-races. £5OOO at a hundred to two can
be obtained about almost any competitor when
the handicap leaves things fairly open. Not
above half-a-dozen out of the scores that compete
are “on the job.” But the secret of the popu-
larity of these handicaps is that the general public
can easily get to know something about the com-
petitors, and get “ straight tips,” then they roll
up and back their fancies, because if there is one
thing more attractive to the sporting ’Arry than
another it is the idea that there is a swindle on,
and that he is going to be “in it.” In horse
racing they stand in mortal dread of the owner,
but here the competitors come from among them-
selves, and they are not—or think they are not
so much in the dark. What the noble Australian
public like is not a fair and square foot-race, but a
good old swindle where some man who cm do
“ even time ’ is on the limit and they (the public)
have backed him.
* * *
The Bulletin is about the only paper in
Australia which has consistently insisted upon the
marked superiority of English professional cricket
over the so-called amateur article, pointing out
that the visits of Australian teams had stirred up
the former to assert its ancient supremacy We
now learn by cable that the Players have defeated
the Gentlemen by an innings and 122 tubs.
Shrewsbury’s individual score of 111 equalled the
Gentleman’s total in their fii st innings. In the
face of this, the action of the Melbourne Club in
offering £BOO and £l5OO “bonuses” to Messrs.
Read and Grace is simply ridiculous. Evidently
Shrewsbury and his following laid themselves out
to demonstrate that they are entitled to rank as
the best exponents of English cricket, and deter-
mined to knock the stuffing out of the show which
the Melbourne people are trying to bolster up by
preliminary puffs.
* * *
Harry Dunn, who was so mauled by
Cannon at the Grseco-Roman game, is to get a
complimentary benefit in Melbourne. . As a
scientific wrestler, pure and simple, Dunn is better
worth watching than all the stranglers. By the
way, it is understood that no more Grseco-Roman
atrocities will be permitted in Melbourne, except
under police supervision.
* * *
Everyone, and his wife also, has heard of
the man who threw 54 with three dice in three
throws for a horse and buggy at a church bazaar,
and was subsequently told that Father O’Flaherty
had thrown 57. but this is completely laid over by
the tale of a bazaar in the Riverina district at
which a visitor went into a raffle for a blood colt
and won. On calling round for his prize, the lady
boss of the stall politely informed him that the
colt was “ ’way out on the plains,” and all he
had to do was to skip out and catch him. A
wiser but a sadder man left that show imme-
diately.
* * *
“ Mr. Abington ” (Baird) owner of the
English Derby winner, before he dropped into his
father’s coin, eked out his income by leather-
flapping at tradesmen’s race meetings, and many
a cross is on record against him. He was
“warned off” once for “coming the captain,”
and directly dad died turned the lawns and parks
into a tan-track so that his horses could practise
in front of the drawing-room window. £BO,OOO a
year covers a multitude of sins, however, and
“Abby” has the credit of being the only man
confederating with the celebrated “ Bob Peck ”
who has not lost money thereby. He rides as a
professional jock., is called “Archer 2nd,” and
has often out-jockeyed the late prince of jockeys.
* * *
Two flagrantly unjust decisions were given
by the learned judges at minor Melbourne race
meetings last week. If a system of awarding a
race to other than the leading nag were generally
adopted it would make the glorious uncertainty
of the turf a bit more glorious than ever. Just as
horses are passing the po3t we may hear the
cheery “books” warbling, “I’ll take odds and
back the that’s beaten off.”
* * •
The acting Chief Commissioner of Police
in Victoria wants the Crown Solicitor to inform
him if his men can step in and separate a pair of
wrestlers when there’s likely to be murder on
either side.
* * *
Yet another Studd —E.J.C. —is playing
good cricket at home this season. Which reminds
AN ANCIENT WHEEZE RE-HASHED.
TAILOR (to fat customer): “WILL YOU HOLD ONE END OF THE TAPE WHILE I GO
ROUND?”
us that Australia can’t boast any great families of
cricketers like the Graces, Studds, Lyttletons,
Walkers, Webbs, Hearnes, Christophersons, &c.
X Families don’t run so large out here.
*
f late it has been good business to back
greyhound “form.” Th 9 last four left in the
Victorian Waterloo Cup included Last Request
and Brummy, -winner and runner-up in a 128-dog
stake, only a fortnight previous. Last Request
might have landed his second Waterloo but for
sundry unlucky troubles. As it was, Livingston
had all the luck at the finish.
* * *
Bookie : “111 lay you 15 to 8 against
Undertaker.” Fly Backer : “ Not good enough.”
Bookie: “Well, then, 6 to 1.” Fly Backer:
“ That’s better. Put it down.”
* * *
The Queensland horse Friction, after being
carefully saved for a Melbourne coup, got neatly
“pipped” in the Grand National Hurdle Race.
The Yeoman, who did the trick, accomplished
something out of the common It is not often
that a three-year-old wins a three mile race over
sticks, at his first attempt. A while back The
Yeoman beat Ringmaster on the flat, and ought,
with luck, to develope into a real clinker.
* * *
At a country race meeting. Roar of
crowd : “ They’re off !” Gentle echo by Welsher :
“ And so am I.”
* * *
In summing up the merits of certain
Lacrosse players, an Adelaide (S.A.) journal
enumerates: “H. M. Knight (captain) Plays on
the defence ; runs and dodges well.” Knight
must surely have been in Parliament.
Mr. Godfrey Morgan.
The attached portrait shows Mr. Godfrey Morgan
of the Donald (Vic.) Times, aged about 50, and as
good as new. He passed his early years in the
English city of Bath, where he was employed in a
library, and made the acquaintance of Charles
Dickens, Walter Savage Landor, Martin Tupper,
and many other celebrities. In 1852 he left Eng-
land for Australia, and served for two years on
the staff of that solid old journal, the Melbourne
Argus. He afterwards went up country, and
acted as canvasser, reporter, and pressman on the
Maryborough advertiser, Dunolly Adver-
tiser, Chinaman Flat Advertiser, Ararat
Advertiser, Pleasant Creek Advertiser, and
Lamplough Advertiser— Victorian papers were
pretty nearly all Advertisers in those days. In
1860 he started the Moonambel Pioneer, in 1865
the Landsborough Times, and in 1875 the
Donald Times, which he still owns Mr. Mor-
gan is also the founder ef the Donald Progress
Association, secretary of the Jockey Club, mem-
ber of the Board of Advice in educational matters,
and ether things too numerous to mention.
Mr. John Weatherall.
The accompanying features are meant for those of
Mr. John Weatherall, proprietor and editor of the
Mount Bengor Mail, published at Roxburgh,
N.Z. Mr. Weatherall was born at Bendigo (Vic.)
in 1858, when the glory still hung over Kangaroo
Flat and life was worth living, but he migrated
to New Zealand at an early age and started his
journalistic career at the office of the Tuapeka
Times, published at Lawrence, a bleak spot in
Central Otago, where a lot of people still keep on
looking for gold and seldom finding it. At the
age of 22 he founded the Mount Bengor Mail
with which he has bean connected ever since.
held an interest in the Otago Central
-Leader and Tuapeka Press, both of which
burst through over-competition. Mr. Weatherall
is now 28 year 3 of age, and in spite of an
eminently rheumatic climate, both he and his
paper ara prospering.
Who made “Parkes’s Gal” a censor of
men ? Lloyd may sneer at Melville, but the politi-
cal worth of the litter as compared with his own
is as that of gold as against brass.
Poor old Dan Cassin, of Mudgee, the
political sponsor of Mud J. Haynes, says “he
feels proud that it has fallen to his lot to intro-
duce such a man to political life.” Some men are
easily pleased.
Mr. Phil. Robinson, the London Daily
Telegraph war correspondent, is staying at the
Melbourne Club. His manager, Mr. R. S. Smythe,
says that he could have secured quarters for his
protege at Government House if he had liked.
The Sydney Primrose League, which con-
sists mainly of parsons, dudes, Tory lawyers, and
other old women, has proclaimed in favour of the
Irish Coercion bill. It might j ust as well proclaim
in favour of wife-besting, or the re-building of
Babylon.
Mr. John Farrell, late of Queanbeyan, the
now celebrated author of “How He Died,” has
settled down at Lithgow as editor and proprietor
of the local Enterprise. The Bulletin, for
which Mr. Farrell’s intensely Australian spirit has
done not less than his enviable mastery of the arts
of versification, cordially wishes him every
success.
Jubilee sovereigns have reached Mel-
bourne. The local impression is that they were
designed by the Sydney Post Office carvings man.
The annual dinner of the Yorick Club
(Melb.), held on last Saturday night, was a splen-
did success. Mr. Phil ltob’nson, the London
Daily Telegraph war correspondent, responded
to Beveral toasts. Absent pressmen were not for-
gotten.
The Bulletin learns from private letters
that the reason why Her Gracious on Jubilee Day
only made a semi-State progress to Westminster
Abbey was on account of the absence of Plain
Bill, P.C. “ Ma,” said Wales, “ we’ve got all
those colonial delegates from Heaven knows where
to look at the show—isn’t that enough for you ? ”
“ No,” said his ma, “if Plain Bill doesn’t turn
up, I don’t put on my crown.” And she didn’t.
Dear old “Hell Fire'Jack ” (Capt. John
M'Lean), a bold and fearless spirit, is dead at last.
He was chief-officer of the Champion, which
traded between England and Sydney, 45 years
ago, and in 1853 he was picked up in an open boat
after a week’s fearful suffering in the tropics conse-
quent on having had to abandon hissbip the Saxon,
which had taken Are. In 1851 he navigated the
steamer Victoria from England to Melbourne;
subsequently he commanded the Melbourne, Dun-
can Hoyle, and Citizen paddle-steamers, andthes.s.
Ladybird. Thereafter he rose to be commodore of
M’Meckan Blackwood's fleet, and for years was
in the Omeo. Then he went successively to the
Aldinga, the Alhambra, Albion, Otago, Tararua,
Gothenburg, Ringaroooma and Victorian. When
he died he was captain of the Ozone. On lcoking
down this long list one eannot help reflecting on
the terrible fates which overtook several of the
vessels named —the Tararua and Gothenburg
for instance—after old Jack had given up his
command to others. Capt. M‘Lean was a man
with a big heart, grand energy, and unsurpassed
decision of character. His nickname will never
keep him out of Heaven.
rjpo THE SPORTING PUBLIC.
HOW TO MAKE A FORTUNE.
CONSULT
GREATEST OE ALL SPORTI 'iG WRITERS,
“PREMIER,”
who is patronised by all the leading Backers and
Horaeowners in Australia, and who gives
GOOD LEGITIMATE ADVICE
on all sporting events.
Send stamps for terms. Box 116 G G.P.O , Sydney.
JMPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
it®” FPst-c ass Family and Commercial Hote 1 .
sfesdgv
“ They fit perfectly, and are-
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have triea."
Signed MARIE ROSE.
™ v*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not sDlit ia the Seams nor
te»r the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Com-
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Ev.ry Ken>ij c „ e Y& N
Corset stamped Y& N l atent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,
in oval.
Three Gold Medals!!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
TRADE MARK.
iVS-A
KING TAWHIAO
MONK'S
PILK HIXXDKE.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Abk for it and take no substitute
It is an invaluable cute. See tes imonials.
MONK’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhtee Mixture,
Apo itive c re. Sold by all Chenvst'.
2s 01. re.- bottle.
iMionsriKZ’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATH&Y, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
41 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
PARTNERSHIP NOTICE.
WHITLEY and CO., Tailors, in thanking
their constituents for past favours, have
also the pleasure of advising they have admitted
their Cutter and late Mauager, Mr. R. G, Terrett,
a member of the Arm, and will in future trade
under the name and style of
R. G. TERRETT and CO., Tailors,
12 Bond-street, near Hunter-street.
THOS. BUCKLAND,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT,
Charters Towers.
Aeent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln;
„ Langland's Foundry Co , Melbourne, Vic.


Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
IMMEDIATE and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Drury Lane Sporting Drama,
A RUN OF LUCK.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
UNABATED SUCCESS
of this
FOUNTAIN OF FUN,
of this
3rd YEAR. ENDLESS WELL OF NOVELTIES.
EVERY EVENING.
BRITANNIA’S BOWER,
or
CONGRESS OF NATIONS.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s : Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
3his Thursday Evening,
BY PARTICULAR REQUEST.
PAID IN HIS OWN COIN*
or
SENTENCED TO DEATH,
for
FOR TWO NIGHTS ONLY.
GAIETY THEATRE.
Lessee ... .„ ... Mr. John Solomon;
Director and Proprietor... Signbr G. Verdi.
Manager for Sig. Verdi ... Mr. J. S. Siiiith.
Stage Manager ... ... Mr. George Dean.
POPULAR PRICES.
35., 25.; Is.
GRAND SEASON OF OPERA by VERDI’S
ENGLISH and COMIC OPERA COMPANY
60 NUMBERING 60.
Conductor LEON CARON.
Leader ... Mons Dlfi WILLIMOFF.
UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS.
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, JULY 21,
tho bright, sparkling, and picturesque opera,
GIROFLE GIROFLA.
Miss ANNETTE IVANOVA
as
GIROFLE GIROFL A.
Box Office at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
QRITKRION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
LAST TWO NIGHTS of JOHN GOURLA.Y,
In his impersonation of FRANK FEATHERLY.
Drees Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is,; Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Robert Gourlay—Representative for Mr. John
Gourlay.
W. J WILSON, Manager.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
DOUBLE ATTRACTION.
FRIDAY EVENING, JU .Y 22nd
LAST NIGHT of JOHN GOURLAY,
In his petit Scottish Comedy,
THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN,
or
THE ROSE, THISTLE, AND SHAMROCK.
Also, for the LAST TIME, KINDRED SOUrS.
£IYDNEY EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of thia
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
THEATKE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, Rockhampton,
Queensland.— The above Hall is duly
licensed under the Queensland Theatres’ Act.
Every Company travelling through Rockhampton
for the past 18 months has (with one exception)
occupied this Hall, including Messrs. MacMahon
and Leitch, Thornton and Harrison, Harry St
JMaur, and Grattan Riggs, with Mr. Chas.
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company, who have just
concluded a brilliant and successful season. This
Company played in the Theatre Royal two years
ago, and Mr. MacMahon expresses himself as
highly pleased with the arrangements in this Hall,
Managers are requested to book at least 14 day
before opening to secure uninterrupted dates.
Terms on application to the Secretary.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, July 19, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PLBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whioh is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whio v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Purchase of Scrap Iron New-
castle (Railway Department)
Bridge over Jump Up Creek, at
Belford
Painting, &c., Post and Tele*
graph Office, Redfern
Alterations, &c., for Gaol Pur-
poses, Biloela
Passenger Station, St, Mary’s,
Great Western Line
Tuesday,
July 26,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf, &c.,
Tatham, Richmond River
Erection of Rost and Telegraph
Office, Pilliga
Fencing, Sc c., Codrthoiise, Bur-
rowa
Supply of 1000 Cubic Yards
Sandstone Ballast at Mblong
Station
Supply of 1000 Cubic Yards
Sandstone Ballast at Cargo
Road or Berenore Station
Ejection of Bridge, Fell Timber
Creek, Road Mandurama to
Gully Swamp
Erection of Bridge, Wyong
Creek, Road Bumble's Hill to
Murray’s Run
Erection of Bridge, Cedar Brush
Creek, Road Bumble’s Hill to
Murray’s Run
Erection of Bridge, Tenterfleld
Creek, Molesworth-street,
Tenterfleld (exclusive of sup-
ply of Ironwork)
Erection of Bridge, Mullet
Creek, South Coast Road (ex-
clusive of supply of Ironwork)
Supply of Ironwork for Timber
Bridges, Tenterfleld Creek,
Mullet Creek, and Glendon
Brook
Tuesday,
August 2,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Engine and
Boiler Hou?e, &c., Contract
1, Lismore Water Supply
Construction of Covered Reser-
voir, Contract 2, Lismore
Water Supply
Supply of Ironwork and Erec-
tion of Iron Bridge over Mur-
ray River at Mulwala
Additions Lockup, Camperdown
Erect’on of Footbridge, Plum-
bago Creek, Fairfieid
Erection of Bridge, Little Billa-
bong Creek. Road Little Billa-
bong to Tumberumba
Alterations to Post and Tele-
graph Office, Richmond
Tuesday,
August 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Quarters for Tele-
graph Operator, Gabo Island
Tuesday,
Augus l '- 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction, &c., Engine,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, &c, of Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract i, Lis- j
more Water Supply
Tuesday,
September 6,
at 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
CHAS. B BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock-
HAMPTON.-T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings 'The “ Western Cham-
pion” says: “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends.”
HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWER 3, QUEENSLAND.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Macicay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next.
J. WILKES,
297 George-street. Hon. Seo
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietor—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westport.)
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
FOR
m rams
472 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Central Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haymarket.
Fiolins,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 20/-, with Bow.
Violins, in bases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins; in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tiitor, ftesin, Strings, &c
Speciality :
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7; £2O, £25, £3O.
Concertinas ,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes,
best make, £4 10s.
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- ea< h.
Special Line—Steel note, wihwood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
Cornets,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 155., £lO 10s., to £l6 16s.
Flutes,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/- each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c., in great variety,
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Metals
PAP IS, lb 78; CALC UTI A. 1381,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGR.ffiA & CYMBIDITTJVT
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed lor promoting the fjiowth and
improving the appearance ol the hair,
guaranteed perfectlv harn less
ATKINSON S. FLORIDA A I A TER
an exceptionally fine pcrlumc- fot the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choice 1 exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“WhiteHose" on“ Golden
Lyre.”
IMPERIAL. HOTEL,
BKISEANE.
THE above has been known for some years aa
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and flre-nroof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
mom. Sample? oom.
O. H. D .‘.SHELLS. curin'd?
OO tr IN PRIZES OOK
X/60 IN PRIZES Xj 60
“NATIVE S’ PLUC K.”
GRAND A.N.A. WORD COMPETITION.
First Prize, £l5; Second, £5 ; Third,
£2 10s; Fourth, 30s; Fifth, 20s.
The above prizes will be given by the BUILD-
ING COMMITTEE of the ST. ARNAUD AUS-
TRALIAN NATIVES, to the competitor who can
form the greatest number of irodern English
words out of the letters comprised in “Natives’
Pluck.” No obsolete words, or historical, geo-
graphical, or proper names will be allowed. No
letter to be used twice in one word. Competitors
must enclose list of words, with Dame and address,
and state number of words on each list in a sealed
envelope, together with a postal note, money
order, or stamps, of the value of two shillings,
addressed to the undersigned. Such lists will be
received up to 6 o’clock p.m., on WEDNESDAY,
AUGUST 3rd, 1887, and opened the following day
in the presence of the Committee of the St.
Arnaud Branch of the A.N.A. The names of the
winners will be published in the Australasian,
Sydney Bulletin, and local papers.
WILLIAM O’DONNELL,
Hon. Sec.
Listen to Your Wife.
The Manchester Guardian, June Bth, 1883, says
At one of the
“ Windows
Looking on the Woodland ways ! With clumps
of rhododendrons and great masses of May
blossoms!!! There was an interesting group.
It included one who had been a “Cotton
spinner,” but was now so
Paralyzed! ! !
That he could only bear to lie in a reclining
position,
This refers to my case,
I was first Attacked twelve years ago til
‘ Locomotor Ataxy ”
(A paralytic disease of nerve fibre rarely ever cured)
and was for several years barely able to get about
And for the last Five years not able to attend to
my business, al hough
Many things have been done for me.
The last experiment being nerve stretching,
Two years ago I was voted into the
Home for Incurables! Near Manchester, in May
1882, §
lam no “Advocate”! “For anything in the
sha'ae of patent” Medicines?
And made many objections to my dear wife
constant urging to try Hop Bitters, but finally
pacify her—
Consented!!
I had ntit quite finished the first bottle tVhen
felt a change come oVer me. This was Saturday
November 3rd. On Sunday riiorning I felt so
strong I said to my room companions, “ I was sii
I could
Walk!
So started across the floor and back.
I hardly knew how to contain myself. I was all over
house. lam guning strength each day. and can walk
safe without any
" Stick ! ”
Or Support
I am now at my own house, and hope soon to be abb
earn my own living again, I have been a member of
Manchester
“ Riyal Exchange”
For nearly thirty years, and was most heartily
on going in the room on Thursday last. Very
yours. John Blackeurn
Manchester, (Eng.) Dec. 24, 1883.
Two years later am perfectly well.
Prosecute the Swindlers ! I
If when you call for American Hop Bitters {see green twig
of Hops on the white label and Hr. Soule s name blown in the
bottle), the venclor hands out anything but American Hop
Bittms, refuse t and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
a ’ ° if be has taken yrur money for anything else indict him
for »he fraud and sue him for damages for the swindle, and
we will pay you liberally f a the conviction.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
* i EMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET.
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-sellirg Subscription Books, &c., &e.
Full particulars free on application. Address :
R. B. JONES, 6 B ridge-st, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
SXHI#
id
y:&»
LIMITED,
208 to 26© Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SIRIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
». T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKA.Y.
T| TNSURPASSED accommodation for cominer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CREF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. Y, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
FJ.T3ROIT HOTSL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
*2T FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
DR. O’CONNES L has Removed frem his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation, to 10 am till 2.30 pm. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
adverti&mg, as ail of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Casti.ereaGtH Street,
Sydney.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILEE HANDICAP, run May 21st
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £lOOO-
- £300; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters’
£3OO, divided amongst them. Cash Awards—
-5 at £5O, 10 at £25, 20 at £lO, 20 at £5, 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, and
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “ BARB,” care of T. G. Green
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney. ’
Melborne Cup, 1887, now open, 2O,OOoBubscrihera
each 20s. First horse £lO,OOO,


When the taxing of costs in the case of
Mayor Bell, of Geelong, v. Editor Hoare, of the
local Times, came on, the attorney for the de
fendant (who was successful at the trial) made a
claim for haviDg read the works of Dickens,
Thackeray, and Mark Twain in getting up hi 3
client’s case. The Taxing-master struck out the
item, but the attorney has appealed to the Court,
It’s the correct thing now to attribute all
good jokes to Gilbert. Dean Swift and Sydney
Smith are played out, and in Victoria even
Aspinall is never credited with a stale witticism
now.
'ARRY: “WHAT A FUNNY WAY TO SPELL F-I-S-H !”
How ignorant a globe-trotter may be after
all, and how far away he may go to learn things
that are common enough at home ! James Hing-
ston, who is telliDg more about his travels to the
Melbourne Argus, had to go to Mentone to find
out that in some R. C. churches the priest’s names
are labelled on the confessionals, and visitors are
requested “ not to spit in the church.” And yet,
writes a correspondent, who seems to be a good
R C., James could have unearthed these customs
even at Melbourne and Sydney before he started
for foreign parts.
The second daughter of the Prince of
Wales is engaged to be married to the Grand
Duke Michaelovich of Russia.
The Rev. George Sutherland, a Presby-
terian clergyman, wants the Glebe (Sydney)
Council to stop boys from disturbing the holy
palm Of the Calvinistic Sawbath by hawking
papers in that municipality. Which do you think
you’d rather hear on Sunday—the passing yawp
of the newsboy, or the eternal din of the parson s
cow-bell ?
Large parcels of Mount Morgan shares
have been sold in Rockhampton for £5 12s. 6d.. to
£6. Which makes the total worth of the mine
about £6,000,000,
Ashburton (N.Z.), like Sydney, has a
Benevolent Asylum. An old blind man used to
be among the inmates, but he ran amuck with a
hoe or something of the kind and was taken out
of the Asylum and put into gaol instead. He did
six months there, and when he was released some
kindly soul gave him 2s. which he straightway
invested in a cab-ride to the police court, and
asked for six months more. It was any amount
better than the other place, he said, and by dint
of “cheeking the beak" he succeeded in getting
run in for another half year.
King George of Tonga held a Jubilee
banquet. King Micky of North Queensland is
now looking for a Chinaman to celebrate the
event.
OT A L UNATIC.
Among the crowd of miseries wedged together
in the deck of a suburban police court on a recent
wet and cold morning, was a tall, midd!e-aged )
and somewhat military looking man presented on
the old familiar charge of “drums and disorderly.”
“ Anything to say ?” said the magistrate.
“ No, your Honour, only that I took a drop too
much on account of having the rheumatics so bad,
and I don’t seem to remember the rest.”
“ But the constable says you wanted to fight
him for who should have the best grave in the new
‘State House?’ ”
“ Maybe I did your Honor, but the drink wasn’t
as good as they get it in the Parliamentary refresh-
ment rooms.”
“ Ten shillings, or forty-eight hours, and don’t
come here again.”
“ Could your Honor make it five shillings, and I
never will. I’ve only seven-and-six in the world,
and I want to buy a bottle of St. Jacobs oil to get
rid of the rheumatics.”
“Are you the man that writes ‘Eternity,’ and
‘ Repent,’ and those advertising texts about St.
Jacobs oil all over the city ? ”
“No sir, lam not. I was a non-commissioned
officer in a Queen’s regiment once, and now I’m
not much of anything to speak of, but I m not a
lunatic if I do take a little drop more than is good
for me at odd times.”
QUT THIS OUT AND TAKE CARE OF IT
The invaluable Waterbury would not be the
cheapest watch in the world if it could not be re
paired at a low cost. But if anything goes wrong
with it the owner has only to take or send it to
the offices of the Waterbury Watch Company at
56, Margaret-street, where it can be repaire
at a cost according to its requirements, but in no
case exceeding 2s. 6d. unle S 3 by mutual consent.
The cost of transmission by post or parcel delivery
on watches sent from the country must be pre-
paid, and a sufficient amount to cover return
charges and cost of repairs forwarded at the same
time. If sent in the box in which the Waterbury
is sold, the postage fee is 3d. eaoh way.
The principal hotelkeepers in the colonies have
voluntarily expressed their opinions on the subject
of Clausen’s New York Champagne Lager Beer,
and all speak of it in the highest possible terms.
It has given the most perfect satisfaction every-
where, as well to the trade as to tlm public.
Clausen’s New York Champagne Lager Beer is
without a rival. It maintains its bright color and
effervescence, and is free from sediment for an un-
limited length of time. It is the best beer ever
placed on the market.
Experience has taught most men who value
their health, that the safest reply to the oft-
repeated query “ what’s yours ? ” is Clausen’s
New York Champagne Lager Beer. It is univer-
sally recognised as a light, pure, invigorating
stimulant.
For the information of ladies
ONLY.
Dr. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET is a gentle
and pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the vitalising
properties of e'ectricity the functions of the
nervous organisation. Worn by the ladies of the
principal Royal Families of Europe, by the elite
of American and Continental Society, they are
daily endorsed by tens of thousands, and as they
do not exceed in cost the ordinary goods of other
makeis, without the electricity or therapeutic
value of any kind, who will refuse to give them a
trial ?
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all the old-
time health and good-feeling come back. They
are constructed on scientific principles, imparting
an exhilarating, health-giving current to the
whole system. Professional men assert that there
is hardly a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily practise
the same, as your own physician will inform you.
The Corsets do not differ in appearance from
those usually worn, as we substitute our flat steel
magnitods in place of the ordinary corset steels.
They are all equally charged, differing only in
quality and design. They are elegant in shape
and finish, made after the best French pattern,
and warranted satisfactory in every respect
Those who have tried them say they will wear no
others.
The persistent use of these Corse cs will banish
the most distressing cases of Hysteria, Cutaneous
Disease, Nervousness. Back-ache, Indigestion,
Palpitation, &c.
They are sent out in a handsome box,
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamps to cover full
postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of Corset
usually worn ; or where the size is not known,
take a measurement of the waist over the linen.
'J his can be done with a piece of common string,
which send with your order.
NEW STOCK JUST RECEIVED.
PRICES.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, 56,
MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hookings
high class selected old vintages, for invalids. U titt-
street.*
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney i
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
Why be sick and ailing when Hop Bitters will surelv cure
you? None genuine but made by American Co. Bead and
know*
Tattersall.s Monster Consultation, Bank Handicap, run
August 1, at Canterbury; and the Spring Handicap, run
Randwick, August 27; eat h 2000 subs , 20s. now open and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams. Pitt-street.
Tip tub Sufferers from Consumption, Scrofula,
Rn onchit, s and General Dsb lity will try Scott's
f Sos wii Hypophosphites they will find imme
ni te rehef and a pe. manent benefit- The Medical Profes-
sion in various countries of the world, universally decide it
a remedy of the greatest value ; and as it is very palatable,
ft can be readily taken by the most sensitive stomach and
will never fail to give the sufferer relief and comfort.
Large and small bottles at all ehemists.
balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
fnfthe Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rigney, late Mitchell,
King-street.
THE PREMIER AND HIS FRIEND.
The Premier can drink the best of wine,
So can I!
And has enough when he would dine,
So have I!
And give his orders rain or shine,
So can I!
Then where’s the difference —let me see—
Betwix the Premier, his mate, and me.
Do knaves around him lie in wait
To deceive!
Or fawn and flatter when they hate
And would grieve!
Or cruel pomp oppress his mate
By his leave!
No, heaven he thanked and here you see
There’s the difference twixt him and me,
Come trusty friends surround me here
Night and day,
And drink with me St. Louis Beer,
Yes you may,
My love for you is very clear
Blessed are they!
And that’s the difference which you see
Betwix the Premier, his mate, and me.*
Lazy and dull feelings always precede sickness, which noth-
ing hut Hop Bitters will banish. Get the genuine Ameri-
can. Read*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prloei.
rjIHK GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAY.
The great question of the day "with the public is
what are the banks going to do with the money
now in their vaults, amounting in coin and bullion
to no less a sum than sixteen millions. seventy-
three thousand one hundred and ninety-two
pounds sterling (16.073,192).
The ingenuity of the different bank managers
and directors will now be taxed how to keep divi-
dends from going down.
Well, for the information of the public and the
safe guidance of all bank managers and directors
we will explain. But the information must be
kept strictly private, as it is of a confidential
nature. It is best imparted in its naked truth,
and as it came under our notice.
DRAMATIS PERSONAS.
All the Sydney Bank Managers
AND ,3
All Bank Directors.
Scene : A bank in George-street, near the Post
Office.
Present: The aforesaid Dramatis Personae.
He Yclept “Tom”—the North Shore “King,” in
the chair.
Emperor William, of Pitt-street (a chiel weel kent),
in the vice chair.
The chairman, having called the meeting to
order, said, —“ Well, Gentlemen, the public are
anxious to know, doncherknow, what WE are go-
ing to do to ASSIST the country and the
COUNTRY'S TRADE with the sixteen millions
now in our vaults.
Of course you are all aware that the increase in
deposits for the year just passed amounted to no
less a sum than £7,046,380 sterling.
“ Yes, I repeat gentlemen, no less a sum than
£7,046,380.”
Chorus of Voices:
“And every POUND bearing INTEREST.”
The excitement was intense —chairs shitted, feet
shuffled, and heads sagely shook being the chief
manifestations.
But the tableau had yet to come, for a voice
broke in frjm the far end of the board-room say-
ing, I knew how it would be. I have repeated to
myself tirte after time that these contamination
circumferenced HU ID DING SOCIETIES and
thrice-doubly-blanked LAND BANKS would bring
trouble to OUR DOORS and REDUCED dividends
to our poor and unfortunate shareholders. And —
But at this juncture one of the “ princes,” whose
bank was known to have made rather heavy
advances to one of the aforesaid societies for the
express purpose of purchasing 500 acres of utterly
worthless mud-slush swamp, at once turned ill.
Instantly King “ Tom,” that truest of Falstarfs,
ordered a brandy and soda, which the sick one
drank, much to the annoyance and disgust of that
man o’ temperance and guid works —the Pitt street
Emperor W illiam himself, man.
The meeting was then adjourned until that day
week at 12 o’clock to enable the managers to go
and buy LAWYER'S
BLACK SILK HATS at 10s. 6d.
MASHER BOOTS at 12s. 6d.
WHITE SHIRTS at 4s 9d.
SILK UMBRELLAS a’. 9a.
FROCK SUITS at 655.
SOCKS and COLLARS and CUFFS.
With the view to their appearing in the same at
their next meeting, as it was more than probable
several of their Melbourne orethren would be
present, and it was necessary for them to look
“ 0.K.”
LAWLER’S (608, GEORGE-STREET),
LAWLER’S, SYDNEY.
BEDROOM FURNITURE.
LAWLER’S BROWN FURNITURE.
The largest stock of
HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE
in the Australian Colonies
SHIPMENTS ARRIVING
BY
Every incoming mail steamer
OF THE
BEST AND LATEST LONDON DESIGNS.
608, GEORGE-STREET.
THE BRIGHTON SUITE,
Japanned or Decorated Suite, col sis ting of Ward-
robe, with glass door, Chest of 4 drawers,
with glass and jewel drawers attached, Wash)
stand with marble top, Towel Horse, and 2
Cane Chairs, £9 10s.
THE LONSDALE SUITE,
Japanned Oak, Maple, or Satin wood, consisting of
viz., Wardrobe, with bevelled glass door,
Chest of 5 drawers, Toilet Table, with bevelled
glass, Washstand, with marble top and tile
back, Pedestal Cupboard, Towel Horse, and 2
Cane Chairs, £l2 10s.
THE JUBILEE SUITE.
Suite in solid American Ash, consisting of viz.,
4-drawer Wardrobe with glass door, Toilet
Table, with glass and jewel drawers, Wash-
stand with marble top and tile back, Towel
Horse and 2 Cane Chairs, £lB 10s. —EXCEP
TIONAL VALUE.
THE OSBORNE SUITE.
Suites in American Walnut or Ash, consisting of,
viz., 4 drawer Wardrobe witn glass door,
Chest of 4 drawers, with glass and jewel
drawers attached, Washstand, marble top and
tile back, Towel Horse, and 2 Cane Chairs,
£22 10s.
THE BEACONSFIELD SUITE.
Suites in Ash or Walnut, consisting, viz., 4-drawer
Wardrobe, with bevelled plate doors, Toilet
Table, with bevelled glass, Washstand,
with marble top and tile back, Pedestal Cup
board, Towel Horse, and 3 Cane Chairs, £25
to £37 10s.
THE MONACO SUITE.
Handsome Suite in Pitch Pine, viz., 6 drawer
Wardrobe, bevelled glass door, Toilet Table,
with glass attached, Washstand, marble top,
Pedestal Towel Horse, and 3 Cane Chairs,
£45.
THE WINCHESTER SUITE.
Elegant Suite in Ash or Walnut, viz., 6-drawer
Wardrobe, bevelled glass door, 4-drawer
Pedestal Table and Washstand, Pedestal Cup.
board, Towel Horse, 3 Cane Seat Chairs,
£7O.
THE FORTLAND SUITE.
Massive Suite in Ash or Walnut, viz., 6 drawer
Wardrobe, glass door, 4-drawer 4-leg Table
and Washstand, Pedestal Cupboard, Towel
Horse, and 3 Cane Chairs, £42 10s.
WE INVITE INSPECTION
TO OUR
IMMENSE SHOW ROOMS,
WHERE WILL BE FOUND
THB. MOST COMPLETE STOCK
•>< OF
EVERY DESCRIPTION
OF
HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE.
J. LAWLER,
608, GEORGE-STREET.


674
GEORGE ST, BRISKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
is the Only Address of the
T
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION.
IMPORTING RIRKOT, 7
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
in fact it is the Cheapest place for buyirig all kinds
of Musical Instruraeats and every pescription of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Eignor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
RIM VIOLIN STMS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6,1/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
ACCORDEONS; at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6,21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality i Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
~ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
»* Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
~ v; French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/.
Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
£>/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banio
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality 1 8 -keyed Coooa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
nigger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN.
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
HEAD OFFICE =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £100,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 Is. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4J per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
oi tneir deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
sesgs
* c.
MANUFACTURERS
Ir IMPORTERS OF
t—- rrfa*. f
HATS CAPS At
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY
A
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERG.
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
I* M . RILEY
'* (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
.12 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Abioonderi and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
onßdential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
llforce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
BMlon and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
a image, or death, obtained in any part of the world
slants and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
“ She Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
;® * Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
;! see, he it in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
spsidtiAJ and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
- - «ttnnd tn all hnsiriega entrusted to h oare
hgfh
Eczema on Sca'p.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
"N /
Scrofula on I^eclu
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
£caly,Uimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Lose of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticttba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and .Cuticuba and Cutic-üba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar l
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin andi
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skiu,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the beat phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and bloodl
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVER , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticnra Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin".
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of tkB State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
~ l sts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
1 '2' • :d ; Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
1 vuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
i l ---. •'- vp > 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
Lee? : e.
Prepared by the
! Vof te- 1 7 rag & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
undean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A PINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution.—As there are in this market numerous inferior so-called tl le
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
OAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS,
AD i&I, NE W TON, & LAM B ,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUS EMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNBLL STREETS
gfnjgm
£35
PIANQFORTK,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves tor
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, o’Con»
nell-street.
gmgbm
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 I Os.
fgb
AUS IRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sts.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
'VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
JJi SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
[ in
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English &ad
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
EUKNITUKM WABKHCm&XMBtf,
Importers of High-ari
Furniture,
O'Connell and Bpring Streets,
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets. ’
m
*• x>
m
m
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. —Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed<
rooms. New designs covered to order In
anyjmaterlal.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty, Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
gfbn
Bedsteads, an sizes i
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and!
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Oonaell and Spring Street*,
bgƒ
SPRING MATTRASSEB
Woven Wire, bet t
make ( also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14a. each,
BRADLEY) NEWTON anti LAMB,


“Australia for the Australians. ”—The Present Version.


■WIXiX-X-A-Zb^S’S
kIULUI lEASI FOVDEB
IS TH E ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
Sre Ad, tea-cake?, pastry, &c ,
T ARE
i-IGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
Ihl! WHEN MADE WITH
lans’ Australian Toast Powder.
FOR the town, the bush, and the sea.
beware of WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
B °ll Ivr m
IN TINS AT
6d. THE HALF POUND. 1
bf
mvmTfm
lijiUiiiuiniMimi'iiluniitiiiHiMiimiuiiiiii
A
»
/ Goid£* Strop
+MO
TRCACU
RFfWffiS
esra
/ess <
fb
’ C Lfr ACT OffY NEWTOWM
BRANCH. C£ORC£ ST. SYOA/£Y
Any Book You Want. “ BOOKS.”
S .
S«
8 <& ROBERTSON.
;ofb 111 MARKET STREET, HVDMV.
6W Rna second-hand Books. Price of any book on application,
mail to any part of Ana 11a
Books sent bj
2*ts
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alio Manufacturer! of
Thb Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
MOC.S
woes
what is your hobby?
y°u V^o n ?f® 0!
SS L°H or tf hap
StJ It as y °nr 0l , poor sat,
tSh^W^ oll as ay ’ get
1 gVt £, P ° B Bible,
SS ; 4>C* keep *
Sk 6 hob? » a taBt(
,V' bl) y a ream,
Pho t°
V -^^ !
by It, 1 ; every'
A
•M
'"ost of even/frequislte
>Ww-
beginner'is so low, it'will
surprise yoH..|
( OL,„j£L . j. r . .>5
Satisfy; yourself,v<by"a visit
XT'**,. W ' ; ” “
to ourT
WHOLESALER
photographic;,
WAREHOUSE.I ‘‘
Ij °HTNER
AND CO.,
L 24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
gE for Photographic Supplies
Southern Hemisphere?
o
14 OUR NEW O
ATALOGUE,
have
oU F, new Enlarging Department in work, and shaU be pleased to
a price lists upon application to the trade only ,
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT-STREET. and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... ... ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
ana CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which win be ascertained on
application.
, [N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
TIE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNET
ESTABLISHED 1869)
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hen. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Calrd, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
Ginzral Manaozr;
F. A. A. Wilson.
Bsokbtabt
Hector Allen.
Bbaxokjm: Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern. Goaford, Nyn
gan, Manly, Parramatta, Bt. Leonard'!, Newcastle an
Bril bane.
London Branch : 58 Jjeadenhall-itreet.
London (Bankkrs The National Proyinoial Sank of
■ngland.
A.A.DEBNEY & CS
— - ■ -p-
-13 HUNTER STREET, SYONEY.
&
SHIRT MAKERS?
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM'S PILLS
4}
PATENT
PILLS.
I
-
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerrous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
eensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired dige'n.._n and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Piles a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Everybody \
SHOULD USEJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
F LOU K!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
881 Oaoiei-fimn. Brnm.
* E O RICIN A
bAK INC
P
V)^
WAUGHS
Q>°
OBTAINED A
Fi|ST CLASS A WARS
o. r.
HIGHEST Vl( iiEF OF MFRIT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH - 5 f
REC E IV EDT H £ iNTfRNAT i 0 N A W
v P R I X E MED A l
Manufactured by James Channon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Crocers and Storekwpers
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH " THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon's Roller System or Flou* Milling,
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
6« KENT STREET, STDNBY.
cfngb
rdf
1
!
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sal* »n England.
Snd being introduced into tn#
Colonics.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
wise mother-will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS*
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland.
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the oolonjr. Prices
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
£<EMENT, “ LIGHTHOUSE BRAND, j
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY.
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOSTLING and Co., and GOSTLING and Co..
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 61 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
WJ O H- N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGJR,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET. SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, TaJow
Casks, new and second-hand ; also, Wins nfifl
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prioea.
GAUGING IN ALL ITS BRANCUSI,,
1 UTIOUL Finn B ill U7ESTH£VT HR.
350 PITT STREET.
** Deposits received at best Current Bates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
X
0 this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders reoeive 14 per cent, per annum dividend,
JAMES A. TODD* Maitagwb


fuiA nil?/?}:
ROYAL. ttCWII
&
I !«*'
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids fill decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists, j
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
P. R. LARKIN,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE*
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &c., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PR MCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.’
3STBJW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLU3TRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
CHEAP and]
GENERATE YOUR oWN 6A3
K SELBY & CO.S
Spreader GUs Oh 5
[8
Lreianu.
PULL INS CTIONSWU®
See stock a
D. KBBLB y &
pkicTTist.
: Branch Brass Bracket „ ••
With Globe or Shade .
! Branch Brass Hanging / •• '
With Globes or Shade* .. ,
Branch Brass Vtra „ '
With Globes or Shanes ,
Branch Brass Hanging . ojtr* 0 jtr* «• „
With Globes or bnau c .. e
Branch Brass Table jjjg .. __ I
With Globes or Shad LafflP .. *
Branch Bra ?? I T^, !f r shade extra Cj e with , j
With Globe or Shaae flr gtaM 'j i
lutside Lamp for Hotel, S .. •• .. 0 j
lal&d Glass ;
rdinary Street Lamp, « ce - „ 'I
Mines, vv ''"‘""““"fciraet, ew*— ■<. id W ill 1
or Chimneys, one borne ** „ I'
Candies ¥i n Japanned, o^ m , -
tha Lamp, Tin J apa „
U Sperm Candles #
’
asisss..^^'*
carrying out in st ™“* cao b lf®ettex g r 'dii^ 1
*2f{S»&s»r
ance Co.»
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
FRYS MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY OUF CONTAINS MORS AOTIVH
THAN A PINT OP THH BEST ALB OR
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS^
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <s»c.
Brass and Ball Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithlng, Blacksmlthing, Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Gtirder Building, Klee trio and Pneumatio Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE,” and “PAN" CLOSETS. “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &C.
Me Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Hxhanst Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TAND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Pbiob bn Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Sqnatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
Kf Privates Suites for Families. uejt
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
o. h.Tmi^V
Manufiwtur®^
HATS an g
302 GBOBO®.
BIXWMSou^J>^J
CONSULT Dr.
safest treat f 0 “
Skin Diseases. The 0 ® 1
at the Royal College 0 ®
CoUege of Surgeon » flfc
Rooms, 203 Kli^ 01 '
E. ROWLANDS,!
jERATED WATER and CORDIAL MANUFACTURER, J
Has REMOVED to NEW V*
COWER OF
BURNS & LITTLE HAY 8
DAREIKTO HAEBO^
A LOVELY SKIN,
beautiful compi -xion soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and anus can best he obtained
by discarding Menden and creasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, nut being allowed to
“• i it, and by using
regain on the skin cannot possibly have any good client. <
Ralgdor
exnosld'fn a , ud rofr 4 shin P preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
SP°fSv i anc * dustsummer or (lie cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
wa6>r U i^iSJlsi!rfK?.fiS^S! 8 * an ai TO,I ? hn ff s ,>f ca| dd by cold winds or the iise of hard
hnn s’ !s- I ?n^ e O! mi ’ > t S ’ s i lutR ' discolorations. chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves Inflammation.
renders a Chatined and rough skin delightfully smooth and
ft 1 ??'t LW*" after sl,a 1 v '“K W'H find it allays all irritation and teriderness of the skin ;
Skin of' dUldl*™’ ingredientB ’ ““ be used wlth impunity on the
size at 2s -lil fs. (id. and Bs. 6d. per bottlebottles of half the usual
. ROWLANDS, MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
is also sold in u golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton
Darden. Long n-,d avoid chean. worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
m TUB NEW SOUTH WALKS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
it Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 monthsj FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for Bhorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices. 1 Park-st.
THOS. HOLDERNESS, Acting Manager,
rm
PRE3Q RIPTION3 are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
UFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
hook will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
. 76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
hg
fbhf
„ jf 7*
•j wriiio* 4
7
""pay
PAG OHO SKI,
70S '&KORkMsT.,
Sydney.
' concertinas '
ACCORD EONS
VIOLINS, Ac.
Strings sent by Post
705 GEORGE STREET,.
m
Wholesale wAHUfAcroimg
jkju
CONFECTIONER
'Tam
JAMES SIEOMAN
«>tEA»» WORKS,KtNT ST in tA* CftflJliflY
'Wa2X+*s &4 *4 & fa*#, guAmaA
rv oKotttom *»oht*st matte* .
‘
first
vV.,'
pA
B.voa *
sor.K hU*!‘
By Spef I *^
AGENTS in • jgD - y
ralch^
J£ir«
JB
and i,pa« E jfA'
?*^o
’ “Technical College Laboratory, Sydney, 30th
October, 1886.—The Syphon Water Com-
pany.—Gentlemen,—Having seen the process of
Crated Water manufacture carried on by you,
and having examined analytically your product,
I can bear witness ti its purity, and thorough
saturation with carbonic acid g*s. Chemical
analysis shows that your systeip of water purifl
cation is as near perfection as can be.—l remain
.yours truly Win. A. Dixon F.1.C., F.C.S."
STM MED WASH DO.,
15 CHUBCH HILL, SYOH£Y.
preserve
Otlf
The Water
families at each me ne r 0
md should adoP^
,nd refreshing be'" 6
