

The Bulletin
greater than that op any weekly in the southern hemisphere.
1
TH
THE MARVELS OF THE AGE.
• chu s Agent, Haymarket, Sydney, receives his consignments of Watches from the Manufacturers, Waltham, Massa-
? os eeon ] 1 conse q uen % reach Idle Australian public at only a trifle over manufacturers’ wholesale prices There
ac We Ss jj. *7 handling. Three years’ printed guarantee given with each watch. A Waltham can now be sent per parcels post to any
ustralasia, and T. M. Alcock, the Waltham Agent, accepts all risk till the watch is safely delivered.
W SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET OF WATCHES, SPORTING TROPHIES, &e.
T. M. iLCOCIv, JEWELLER, WALTHAM WATCH AGENT, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
£5
CIE^-^- r OOXD IRRIGATED
SACRE
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96 PITT STREET, S"2“TDiTB"2"-
PAMPHLET, PLAN, AND. PARTICULARS FORWARDED FREE.
PUNTER’S BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
th e jj. "^ le Largest, Cheapest, and Best-seleeted StoGk of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
fa m ?] hest Quality Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
es > will here find the Stock of Boots larger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ cheaper.
INSPECTION of the quality and comparison op the prices is specially invited.
HUITTES’S ZB © O T PALACE,
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Tp
ue public are requested to note that John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
BROTHERS’ 22 nd GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE OF DRAPERY AND CLOTHING •/
How commenced at the New Premises, GEORGE and BATHURST STREETS, and at OXFORD STREET,
C^gof eat AL SALES at RILEY BROTHERS are a fact. They are the regular half-yearly result of the
y Heg system which has built up the phenomenal business of this firm. Every half year Riley Brothers re-stock their various
tj what is disposed of at the half-yearly sales are not old goods but the residuum of the previous stock, and the whole
of C .red at manufacturers’ prices. The Half-yearly Sale now commenced will give every householder in Sydney a rare oppor-
a SyLqy money The stock for sale includes Calicoes Sheetings. Dress Materials, Mantles, Millinery, Underdo!Umr, Laces,
° Ves > Hosiery, Damasks, Prints, Men’s and Boys’ Clothing. RILEY BROTHERS have never before , !ered such
11 each department.
RILEY BROTHERS.
-Australian Investment, Finance and Land Company, Limited.
Capital
- 50500,000
OFFICE: 163 PITT* STREET, SYDNEY.
Suoscribed Capital
%
D
- 50250.000 | Reserve Fund - 5040,000,
BANKERS : UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
OBJECTS OF TITS COMPANY.
To Receive Money on Deposit; To Make Advances on Freehold and Leasehoi. ] Securities : To Invest in Freehold and Leasehold Property.
RATES OF INTEREST.
e Posits at Cajjl, without notice, 5 per cent. ; Deposits at 3 months, 6 per cent. ; Deposits at 6 months, 7 per cent. ; Deposits at 12 months, per cent.
° r Drawing- a CURRENT ACCOUNTS BEARING INTEREST.
ccounts are also opened with trading flrins and private persons, according to the usual practice of Bankers, but with the important exception that interest is allowed on the daily
balance at the rate c. .vE >-/ENY. per annum. These accounts are operatecLon by cheque-books, obtainable at the ORFce of the Company,
WILLIAM CLARKE, Manager,


Wire
PROOF
ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
m
m.
PROOF
©
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT. Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BROS., BIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
c
6
IRONMONGERS
5
2
VI
V
c>
3
REG?
NT
S>
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Alba Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &c.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE!
BUGGIES
FIRST GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
wad
FINISH.
UVD by Alii'the
unaiiii citiMiu.
mat MOW CHEAP,
HUT HOW COOITi
%
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Cali, and Inspect
dfg
: 2
jimjif m »n i rr« n 111 uft~» mm»»Vt
ANUFACTURERS
/ Go ID fiv SYDDP.
{ 4NO A
iRCAtie fA
Rff/HfRS IP[
fSKD
/ass (
iUCU
HCad Office & Factory. Newtown
Branch, Ceorge si Brower.
luftblng you jeanire from Sydney
FORWARDED AT
COST PRICE.
MO COMMISSION CHARGED FOR BUYING.
oOOds of any description, forwarded free of all
BtHUFgM*
SEND to an established city firm.
JOHN T. MIMES & CO.,
W PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PA*PERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
■BCORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Pam ter,
Gffi&SS SILVERER, BEYELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
OH, @o!our, and Hass Merchant,
261 G-e©rgs-street, Sydney.
P
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
E 33
Sates labour, Stationery, and time, writing maeh faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
Co Pj#e may be t%ken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Bold and retail by Hie sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
440 Kents-street,
ZCoUtuveJs,
df
d
fg
h
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO,
<J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMBRS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHAf
Importers of
STBAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD- WORKING
RAJ&AVAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIAL-
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
plain
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD ; OILS,
BRUSHWARE; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES,
MONGERY, ROLLED H GJRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMIFIXED ENGINES,
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING,(MjSSjpP
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS F UL/
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT P
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO*
Head Warehouse
Iron and Implement
Bulk Stores- ■ E
London Office 5
51 YORK STREET.
• • HAY and ENGINE STREETS. „
• • HARBOUR STREET, DARLING BAR
B-sriDisrzEj-sr,
85 GRACECHURCH STREET.
won «cs#
MSA
CO
DMEY.
isXSO* A SON $
CONQUEROR ,
YANKEE DOODI-*
e,, ’ O sfßßoG^
©ixsonasons fMIC '
NAILROD
©aSOH ft SONS m
CHAMPION*
QJXSOm a sons nH *
CUT. In TJoi
R.C RU BY. ORI ENTAL MIXTOJJ
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAFA***
ORGANS !
SOLE AGIKNTS FOK THE
“SMITH.”
BRUCE & MASS#*'
PIANOS, -j
ORGANS, MUS 1 "'
197" Pitt-st., Sydney.^
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Khkumaticj ®out Tic-
IDoeoreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
or Head.
| Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
|bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE r'OR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
Ibis Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only eures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
i<a agensy can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fi, A. Ml, Flarmacatitical Chemist,
031 George-street only.
CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME BRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
. - jj
The New Furniture and
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, &
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITtJ^
AT ,(•**
LESS THAN ENGLISH PR 1
HIGHT-FEjET EXTENSION
wifih three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHO0 aN
lor
DINING ROOMS, jJJ
At the Exceedingly low Price of
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER
At Correspondingly Lew Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM, .
THE DRAWIN®
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEAD**'
in great variety,
Jones, Lawson Bros., smi G 0
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 368
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1887.
rrioe., 6d.
q.op <£(i^
(£). r u
r.Ti.
wi'mj ;
like £ye>j
H£A
ias r rsEfoiA
CD PRO* A
tußOpej' lo
oA
Hast
"Crimps-
Thieves
AND /ClmWcS/:
Oh I you CRAVEN
Poodle he-\#Covci?eepirfVc»offSs*
@
/ )Wt\KES(-ri> Luscom 6t )
j yo\i wifij s PR£ AD C lt
WHISX.ERS AND MC£
'jou uooK ui<e a P Mw
' w.rriEßcu 1 r—■-X4-
MR’NNruLA-. 4 '
The Fish-Fag in Office.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OSCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-JTKEET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - £,l Os. Od.
Half-yearly - ... o 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - 0 6s. Qd.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1887.
The Political Outlaws Recalled.
New South Wales learns political lessons
slowly and forgets them soon. The lessons
taught during 1879-82 had a strong bearing
on the faults and follies of Sir Henry
Parses as a Premier, and when that long
and expensive course of study concluded, the
voters of the whole colony proved at the
ballot-boxes that their education had not
been in vain. Parkes in that memorable
December week went down before his hust-
ings opponents, of whom M'Elhone was one,
amid the opprobrium and reproaches of East
Sydney ; he came forward to speak after the
declaration of the poll and a tempest of
execration emphasised the verdict of the
ballot. And nearly all who supported him
met a similar fate. Dr. Hen wick was scorn-
fully rejected at East Sydney, and again
defeated at Tumut ; John Davies was
expelled from South Sydney, and still
more ignominiously beaten at Kiama ;
Water-Jug Foster met the reward of
his dreary mediocrity and slavish Parkes-
worship at Newtown ; James Watson was
defeated in his own pocket-borough, and
went to Ulawarra, only to get a second and
still more pronounced licking ; G. A. Lloyd,
Henson, Koseby, Kidd, and others of the
“ Kiama Ghost” party were kicked out of
their several electorates by the enthusiasti-
cally vengeful voters, and the Parkes party,
headed by thGir leader, who crept in through
Tenterfield as “ the honourable member for
Whereat,” entered the Parliament of
1883 as a contemptible and hopelessly
beaten minority. The extravagance of the
Parkes party in office, the shadow of Gar-
bett’s North Shore bridge, the tyranny and
insolence of their leader, were all reasons
sufficient to make the electors arise in
wrath and overthrow the cabal that
had wrought such evil in the land.
But there was another reason more
important than all these. New South
Wales had learnt that sectarian strife was
the very breath of life to Sir Henry
Parkes ; to promote that strife he had bor-
rowed a phrase from “ cut-throat Castle-
reagh,” he had published his desire to es-
tablish and maintain a “ Protestant ascend-
ancy ” in the land ; it was this continuous
parade of the Kiama Ghost which kept him
in pow'er, and it was for that same parading
that the East Sydney electors made hire
rank beneath John M'Elhone at the poll.
Throughout that Parliament and the next,
Parkes could rarely count more than one-
third of the House on the Opposition
benches, and even then this meagre follow-
ing included each men as Holborow, Hen-
son, Abigail, and other conspicuous incom-
petents of the “Protestant Ascendancy”
gang. Despite the sins of the successive
weak and occasionally corrupt ministries
which have since 1882 pretended to reign,
Parkes could never get anything approach-
a majority. Cabinets fell to pieces from
sheer weakness, yet Parkes was never able
to strike a blow to hasten their dissolution ;
and when at last, for sheer want of anyone else
Lord Carington sent for Sir Henry, a
promise of dissolution of Parliament was a
necessary corollary of the Premier’s commis-
sion. The existing House spurned his
leadership, the only chance of power lay in
an appeal to the constituencies. But to go
to the country without a cry would be simply
to make a series of £4O donations to the
Treasury ;and the old cries of “Protestant As-
cendancy ” and “ Popish Plottings” had been
proved useless as a means of regaining power.
A new cry had to be manufactured, and with
this new cry, “ Freetrade,” the Parkes party
faced the electors. The very audacity of
the ruse brought success by diverting the
reason of tho people. Few of them were
able to remember, in those days of excite-
ment preceding recent elections, that
Parkes would not follow a Freetrade policy
in any event ; that duties, and increased
duties, would have to be imposed in any
*ase; that the only question was as to
whether the duties should enoourage or
jure the local producer. “ Commercial fre
dom ” was what the Reids and MacMillan
advocated, even while promising to suppor
their chief in further hampering the impo
tation of goods, such as tea, not capable o
production within the colony. The “ Free
trade ” of Parkes is merely the negation <>
P/otection, and all the pathetically-expresset
objections to avoid “ taking money out o
the pockets of the consumer ” are simply
much clap-trap of the hollowest kind. Yo
such clap-trap has succeeded admirably
effecting the desired purprse. The “ Prote
tant Ascendancy” party have worked,as the
always will work, for the man who is the bes
patron, and most useful and least scrupulou
tool they ever had; the importers have throw
their money and forces into the conflict t
preserve their present monopoly of profit o
numerous kinds of goods ; the censors o
Messrs. Dibbs, Jennings, Wright, Want
and Co. have done their utmost to pu
Parkes in simply as a means of keepin
these, or any of them, out; and by the strenu
ous exertions of these parties the election
have been won.
I Besides enlisting new allies by this pre
tended advocacy of Froetrade, Sir Henry
has managed to disarm some of his enemies
and divert the attention of others. Whil
opposing parties in the community wer
hammering away at one another cone* ruin:
the fiscal policy of the country, the vital qees
tion as to whether Sir Henry Parkes anc
his colleagues were under the present or an;
circumstances fit to be trusted in oflico wa
utterly neg’ec'ed. The battle under ordinar;
conditions would have been as to the qualifi
cations of tho Ministry, and their ability to
deal with the present difficulties of public
affairs; instead of that the election was
fought on tho abstract merits of a fisca
theory, that of Freetrade, which admittedly
cannot be put in practice in N.S.W. atthepre-
sent juncture. It was well for Sir Henry
Parkes that this was so. His past career,
his present attitude, alike escaped observa-
tion : voters did not recognise in him the
man who had been loaded with deserved
shame four years since, tor diil they con-
template his insolent bearing in the last days
of Parliament, nor his vulgar and disgraceful
treatment of electors and opponents during
the present campaign. And forgetting his
own record and character, it was natural
enough that the electors should omit to in-
quire severely into the composition of the
Cabinet. Takon as a whole, the Cabinet is
perhaps the greatest insult ever passed upon
a credulous country. Avowedly formed
on a strict anti-Protection basis it contains
five members who have at one time or
another advocated Protection. Sutherland
has throughout his past career been classed
on the evidence of his own aiowals as
an advocate of Protection. Roberts,
C.M.G., used to declare himself a Protec-
tionist,andsodid Garrett; Abigail professed
the same faith until there setmed to be a
remote chance of Sir Henry’s again carrying
the yellow banner to victory, and W. Clarke
time after time tabled his motion in favour
of a tax on cereals. And on the score
of personnel the electors might well have
refused to sustain Parkes in power.
Garrett, who wrecked the Robertson
Ministry five years ago, has already, by his
presence, his conduct, and his speech done
all in his power to bring down ruin on the
present Cabinet. For some days substquent
to his elevation he remained in—perhaps
useful—obscurity. Then he began his can-
vas posing as a supporter of “sober, solid
legislation,” and held meetings, remarkable
for tfie wretched figure he made under per-
sistent questioning, and the strangely varied
policies he in turn supported. And, besides
the sins of the immediate past, Garrett
carried with him the “ red-hot brand of Mil-
burn Creek shame”—we mean,of course, the
vote which was carried in his favour by a
majority of two, when the House was urged
by Sir H enry Parkes to expel the present
Minister for Lands. It may have been that
the motion for expulsion should have met
with unanimous denial, but it was not so
met, and therefore must ever reflect shame
on Mr. Garrett. Parkes has condescended
to explain that he has foi given Garrett, but
that is beside the question altogether. Sir
Henry’s temper is only that of a single
individual; he may decide to resume friendly
relations with Garrett, and if so no one
objects to their intimate association as indi-
viduals, especially as a perusal of the records
of the two would seem to show that they are
admirably fitted for close companionship ;
but the point is : “ Has the community par
doned Mr. Garrett ? ” Unhesitatingly we
affirm that it has not—neither his recent
excesses, nor his former shame, are capable
of palliation or pardon so long as he holds an
official position.
Mr. Garrett may fairly soothe himself, in
his present infliction as a Minister upon an
unoffending country, with the reflection that
thei'e are others of his colleagues not more
capable tl an he of winning the public con-
fidence. It would be difficult to find any
justification whatever for rewarding Mr.
Abigail’s narrow-minded ignorance, Mr.
Roberts’ gilded thick-headedness, or Mr.
Clarke’s shameless inconsistencies in public
life—we say nothing against his or
any other man’s reputation in pri-
vate life—with the guerdon of a port-
folio. Why these men were included in the
team we know not. It may have been that
Sir Henry wished to secure glory to him-
self, and put all the rankest “duffers’'he
cou'd collect into the Ministry that it might
contain no one to rival him in ability. Or it
may have been that he put Garrett on the
list first, and then was so shocked at the
appointment that be added those we have
named so that Garrett might seem to have
companionship in incapacity.
These are matters that the voice of New
South Wales should havehadsomething to say
about. “Is the Ministry capable of dealing
with the present difficulties ? ” was the all-
important but altogether neglected question
of the General Election, and the answer
should have been a firm negative. And
though that answer was evaded by the
ballot-box, if must era long be given by Sir
llekky himself. Neither the importing nor
the “Protestant Ascendancy ’’interest will be
able to keep such a staggering team on their
feet for long.
Resumption without Compensation.
Readers of Henry George will remember that
he advocates the above principle ; and they will
know that it isbetacec he does so that his works
fail to secure a fair consideration, not merely from
members of the “ bloated ohgarehy," but from
persons otherwise unprejudiced and disinterested.
“ Henry George! ” raid ono of the latter ono
dav, “he is the man who advocates taking the
liuKl from the owners without paying them and
giving it to the unemployed !” Ar.d this is about
a sample of the effect lit- arguments produce on
the minds of persons who do not go into the matter
closely. Put on full consideration of the question
it will be found that the “premier pas,” at any
rate towards this terrible Socialistic revolution,
has already been taken, and taken, too, without
even being noticed ; furthermore, we will sec that
what is aimed at by the Socialists is not a radical
change at all but a return to tho previously-
existing order of things.
* * *
Without going tediously into the mutter let us
first see how lands are iield. “ The incidents of
fee-simple tenure are fealty and rent" say the
law-books. The law recognises no eort of notion
of absolute ownership. The theory on which all
real property law is based is that the Sla'e is the
universal landlord. This is, and has been, English
law since William the Conqueror divided the
fair lands of England out among his followers, to
be by them held in fee simple yielding
and paying service fealty and rent. The most
superficial student of history can easily trace
how this order of things was gradually
varied. Some grants, of course, even in
the first instance, were made without
any conditions being attached ; but these
were certainly the exceptions. TheD, as the power
of the land holders grew, the burdens were one by
one gradually removed from rhe land. The fealty
grew to be a mere nominal service ; and the rent
was either never mentioned in the grant or was
specified as being ihe familiar “one peppercorn if
demanded.”
* * #
Many a man has read that c'ansc in his grant of
land, that grant by which he imagines himself to
become absolute owner of his land, and wondered
what on earth was meant by i cfcrence tonpeppor-
co n. That peppercorn restrva ion, could he but
know is ii the “ outward and visiblo sign” of a
state of things gradually passing away : and the
great question of the day now is whether that
state of tilings should not be brought back. That
is the question now, my masters ! Not a question
of wild radical change and overthrowing of social
order, but a return to the state of allahs from
which w r e have almost insensibly departed. How-
ever, to return to the thread of the argument.
Lands, then, are held in all cases, even where
the “ owner ” deems himself the absolute “Lord
of the Soil,” subject to payment of a nominal rout
and of the lendering of fealty or homage to the
Crown. Further, these burdens have been practi-
cally shifted offland. What must be done, there-
fore, to re-establish affairs on their old footirg is
to re-impose on the landlord tho rent which by
years of patient manoeuvring has so far as the
Crown is concerned been gradually lifted from all
lands held in fee simple. We have already seen
that the idea of absolute ownership is quito
foreign to English law : the lands are all held of
the Crown ; and the question is then narrowed
down to this. How are you going to re impose on
lauds burdens long taken off them, to the
deriment of the people who fondly consider
themselves the absolute owners without creating
something akin to a social revolution ? W r e say
that this has already been done in a groat many
places, and w ill surely scon be done in Australia
also—and how ? Not by violently depriviog
persons of their property without compensation;
not by holding inquisitorial enquiries as to the
annual return from land, and re-imposing a
pecuniary rent; not by any disturbance of exist-
ing social arrangements—but simply by the im-
position of a land-tax.
Once you put the land-tax on, you carry into
effect and practice the theory of law which we
have stated to be existent, namely, that no man
is absolute owner of land. You break down
vested interests just as surely ashy any violent
resumption of the land. The thing may soem a
paltry affair ; so does the thin stream trickling
over the wall of the flooded dam appear paltry.
But watch it cut the bank away faster and faster,
and then see how the whole concern goes with one
vast rush ! So with the taxation —it is just the
thin stream over the wall. “We are the absolute
owners,” say the landlords. “ Very well,” say
the publio—the very same public who consider
Henry George a crackbrained outcast —“ very
well; bujt as, owing to your locking up your lands
things are in a very bail way—we mutt put a tax
on your lands We admit praclically your abso-
lute ownership, and we would never think of suoh
a fanatical thing as resumption, but we will put
a small tax on. So they put it on; and
by and bye they find that th)is same
tax prevents speculators running up lBnd
to absurd figures ; prevents locking up of
valuable productive lands fer mere plea-
sure ; prevents peoplo buyirg land and holding
for a ihe and making large fortunes out of the
“ unearned increment,”— that increment which is
created by tjje enterprise and labour of others
and then, in the instances where landlords stil
bold out, the tax is clapped on mote heavily than
ever. The water is over the dam in real earnest
now ; and so things go on ti'l at length the old result
is arrived at. The land is held cf the Crown and
a tangible burden is borne by it ; the old theory of
absolute ownership is quite exploded because
landowners find that they cannot keep their lands
t o look at—they must make some use of them or
the tax will eat them up ; the tenure of land be-
comes practically leasehold, as a tax on land can-
not, except nominally, bo distinguished from tent.;
so that in fact the people have resumed all the
land and let it out Ofjain on leasehold tenures .
This, too, without any compensation !
* * »
And what more does Henry George ask ?
What more copld the most rabid Socialist desire ?
Nothing, this frightful revolution, resump-
tion, spoliation, is now everywhere slowly and
quietly, but certainly, goiDg on all around and no
oco notices It. The fact is, Henry George lays
rather too much stress on hie reaeon for his re-
sumption theories. He frightens people. He
points, as it were, to the top of a high mountain
and fays, “You must go up there.” “ No,” say
the people, “the ascent is too steep. It will be a
terrible climb—let us go up 1 this gentle elope.”
And they follow the easily-ascending range until
lo ! they find themselves, by imperceptible stages,
at the top of the very mountain which they bad
deemed so terrible. They won’t have resumption,
but they are in favour of a land-tax. Weil,
Jfcssieurs the Public, it is oneand the fame thing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Political Beggar on Horseback-
Again.
The best if not the only good thing Parkes has
done of late years was to stand out almost alono
against that unlawful and flatu’ont act of Dalley-
ism for which his present friends then condemned
him in unmeasured terms. Whon Parkes ques-
tioned the legality of sending a military expedi-
tion to the Soudan without Parliamentary authori-
sation, and questioned the pQltey thereof per se,
the journals that now applaud his every utter-
ance and every act sneerod at him as “a disap-
pointed politician,” “a political failure,” “a
dealer in Constitutional quibbles,” “a politician
so unfortunate a 3 to be disabled by some intellec-
tual depravity from perceiving the genius of the
times." Pakkes then had not a single journal on
his side save Tiie Bulletin. Dalley, Dirbs,
Wright, and the whole crow of tuft-hunters and
toadies who were at that time in high favour with
the Pre33, are to-day howled at as it they
only wero responsible for thoir misdeeds
as if the Press itself were not pavticcps criminis
—as if the very papers that just now aro de-
nouncing them, and extolling Parkes to the skies,
were not then aiding and abetting the defaulters
in their wretched transactions ! The Daily Telk-
(irai'ii is singularly criminal. The ways of that
journal are indeed so outrageously had as to call
for pity on the ground of irresponsibility rather
than punishment. Justas'it was wont to deify
Dalley and his colleagues, it is now content with
nothing short of the complete apotheosis of
Parkes. The whole editorial staff seems to bo
told off for the service of glorifying the new idol
in heated superlatives, and slang-whanging all
who daro to oppose him. Already this has btgun
to produce mischief, and depend upon it the re-
cipient of this blind adulation will he spoilt as the
others before him were spoilt. He has already
been highhanded, overbearing, dictatorial, and
autocratic in his manner and actions. The D. T.
declares him to be the personification of constitu-
tionalism ; yet what could be more opposed
to the spirit of our constitution than
his recent interferences with the elections!
Heretofore unscrupulous Ministers have sur-
reptitiously pullad the wires at elections ;
but this Prime Minister of £f.S. W. has the unblush-
ing effrontery to lush from electorate to elector-
ate and openly employ meaDS for the defeat of his,
opponents unworthy of an electioneering lout.
And we are not suro that all his performances are
even within the letter of the law. Free trains
have been run to carry voters knovtjn to be favour-
able to Frectpade from place to place—to hear the
oracle speak and to vote for his jackals. Yet this
man talks of freeing ths railways from the sinister
influence of politics, as though it was the politics
of the other side that was at fault. To use the
railways as Parkes has recently done is plainly
to use them for corrupt purposes ; and it is to be
hoped that one of the first thiiigs the now Assmhbly
does is to call upon the great exponent of consti-
tutionalism to explain his conduct in this matter.
But we may be quite sure his friends of the
Press will be mad with indignant wrath if
anything of the. sort is done. They are
under the hallucination that he can do no
wrong. They have made themselves believe,
and, what is worse, have made Parkes himself
believe, that he is quite too utterly righteous and
sagacious. How can this grand old statesman, who
by some process of magio is about to give N.S.W.
the millennium, be criticised in respect of mere
details of conduct ? No, his friends won’t hnvo
it. But by and bye they will be rudely awakened
to find that, mainly through their own lickspit-
ding and lavish praise, their guide, philosopher,
and friend has proceeded along the devious path
of trickery and culpability till lie has reached a
point too remote from prosperity to please the
master of us all—the public. Then will follow a
repetition of the melancholy spectacle of these
ournais whipping the fetich of their own creation,
md sotting up a new idol before whom to pros-
,rate themselves and perform a variety of amusing
genuflexions. JWhe resentment of Hie eleefora of


Northumberland at Parkes audacious inter-
■erence with their franchise is evidently the be-
ginning of a general feeling. Put the beggar on
lorseback and we all know where he will go.
Mount Rennie Garminals.
The epidemic of outrage, the zymotic disease,
according to some of the Sydney dai y papers,
peculiar to the prurient and depraved New South
Wales larrikiu, bids fair to be totally ecliraed by
the epidemic of abduction, the favourite fiastime
of individuals who gyrate through life under the
guise of gentlemen, and consequently, of course,
are incapable of anything infinitesimally prurient
or depraved. Society manufactures the unfor-
tunates of the Mary Jane Hicks type; she is
simply the product of a wayward and wilful dis-
position developed into vice under the gentle-
manly tuition of a plausibly-spoken apd well-
dressed scoundrel, who takes advantage of hii
position and his influence over his victim to seduce
her. His purpose served, he turns her adrift on
the pave, whence she is probably conveyed to the
sand hills of Waterloo in order to take part in a
tragedy on an extended Scale, the finale of which
shall b? represented by four dark bodies dangling
from a gibbet in the morning glcry of the sun-
four boys plunging and struggling from a ripe's
end, and kioking out their young lives at the
law’s bidding, simply because their cradles were
not racked in the mansions of Darling Point,
or their passions fed on the dainty' fare and
strong drink of (say) the Union Club, This
is not an over statement of the case. The
squalid home, the untutored mind, the blank,
brutal, unfurnished life of the larrikin makes him
a ravisher of tho professional wanton, just as the
opposite environment' produces the gentlemanly
abductor or seducer of pure and inexperienced
girls, ranging from flfteen-and-a half to eigh
teen years of age. The crime of abductioh and
seduction is a ghastly feature of modern civi-
lisation. Of course the plea of consent and
froa-will is always put forward. The consent of a
child to the cunningly-phrased entreaties of a
man—a man, perhaps, skilled in the adroit manipu
lation of the female heart, learned in every trick
calculated to appeal to her sense of gratitude or to
touch her vanity. The child, of a necessity, falta;
she is deserted after a few brief days of a fool’s
paradise, and surrendered to the street —Mount
Rennie’s victims are prepared thus, the male vic-
tims are already in waiting, they furnish the in-
strument wherewith the exculpation of society is
effected, and all social responsibility shifted
on the shoulders - of the ga’lows. Judge
Windkyer, in sentencing the cabman Sweet-
man, argued that as he was the primal
cause of the crime, he hardly knew how
to inflict a punishment heavy enough, and plainly
intimated that if the Jaw had made any remote
provision of a jugular description to fit his
(Sweetman’s) case it ought oertainly to be put in
operation. To accept the Judge's ruling in
Sweetman’s case as a precedent, would be to
pass sentence of death, by hanging, upon the soft
mannered gentleman of plausible address who is
so apt a manipulator of the roving affect ions of
giddy children —who is by Judge Windeyer's
argument solely responsible for the ultimate out-
rage by making it initially possible. Hanging
half-a dozen boys for rape will not restore virtue
to a fallen woman —and it is on fallen women hnly
that outrages of the Mount Rennie type have been
committed —but if the punishment were meted out
to the well-dre»sed child-destroyer, there would at
least be an endeavour after justice. Our recent
strangulations at Darlimghurst protected only the
commercial interests of Molly Seaorim, but
there is an evident dislike on the part of soe'ety
to interfere with the traffic of those who keep the
market supplied. The law of New South Wa’es
is a law that avenges the prostitute—and assists
in her manufacture.
—*■
The Sydney Brokers
Mr. Daniel O’Connor has discovered an opening
Into which it is possible to wedge a new law. He
has found out that the stock, mercantile, and fur-
niture-brokers of Sydney are at the present time
unprovidod with any special leaf in the statute-
book, and, consequently, aro neither better nor
worse off than the ruck of the people. This seems
to the koenly-perceptive Danisl a condition of
things demandiog immediate alteration. Accord-
ingly, he proposes to bring his legislative genius
into play, and manufacture a law to fit the situa-
tion. A risunU of his scheme has been pub-
lished, and very pretty it looks on paper. It pro-
vides for the moral welfare of brokers in a
remarkably skilful manner. In t ho first place,
under the projected enactment, all brokers aro to
be lioensed. They are to lay a fee of £lO for the
privilege of brokering. A oommittee of tho
Sydney Chamber of Commerce is to act as a
licensing board, with power to search into ti e
moral character of applicants and regulate their
conduct when they are admitted into the
charmed circle of brokerdom. A broker guilty of
misconduct may be summarily expelled the guild
thus formed ; but he has the right of appeal to a
body oomposed of a District Court Judge and two
assessors. Any judge may also order a broker's
namo to be expunged from the roll for proved
fraud coming under his notice. On the whole it
would seem that brokers will have to be possessed
of good influence, and at leqst £lO, in order to be-
come brokers at all, and be on their Ps and Q 3 in
order to retain their positions afterwards. We
make no apology for anticipating Mr. O'Connor’s
explanation of the rationale of this proposed inter-
ference with a very useful class of intermediaries.
Tho object of the B<ll is to further increase the
number of social corks that buoy up ‘ 1 respecta-
bility.” There are about a score of brokers of
various sorts in Sydney in a large way of business,
to whom a law like this would be a
godsend. They are men of money, posi-
tion, influence, and, of course, are
never giiilty of misconduct. It, must be very dis-
tressing to these gentry to have to endure the
ompetitlon of threadbare, hand-to mouth men,
whose lank vis Ages bespeak an innate tendency to
cheat and defraud. The £lO license-fee would
drive certain of the brokers out of the field, and
then the run-iiuder would enjoy a good time of it,
and this is the aim and object of the Bill. Tho
introduction of the phrases about misconduct and
fraud is only for a blind. A broker guilty of mis-
conduct brings punishment on his own head very
quickly, especially if ho is poor. A broker guilty
of fraud is in no better case than a butcher guilty
of fraud. He is amenable to the laws of the
country like any other person—at least We den*
think brokers are specially exempt from the
operation of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act.
The idea of establishing a special punitive
system to keep these people in order is
worthy of tlje gigantic intellect of (he O'Con-
nor, but somehow we are not hopeful
of the measure. Some of its provisions are too
novel for our taste, much as we like freshness.
For instance, a judge of the Supreme Court, or Dis-
trict Court, or Insolvency Court may, on his
own motion, ordsr a broker's namo to be removed
from the list of licensed brokers where a case of
“ proved ” misconduct comes within such judge’s
cognisance. Under this beautiful law a broker
would be in constant jeopardy of losing his means
of subsistence at the caprice of a judge. It is
true he wouljd enjoy the right of appeal; but ap-
peals cost money, and, with the exception of the
few brokers who are promoting this Bill, brokers
iave abundant uses for their money in the support
of their wives and families. Wo ere afraid
Daniel has been sadly got a 1", and would recom-
mend him to drop his projet de loi without further
ado.
The Old Bread Lie.
[f it were possible for an essentially imitative
mind to be cultivated by any Kindergarten pro-
cess known to mankind into some faint semblance
of originality, we are inclined to think the course
of instruction should be commenced by setting the
patient to invent a new lie. When he had suc-
eeded in this, after years of painful study,
there might be some hope that he would one day
rise a step higher and either invent a new truth
or borrow one from somebody else and pas 3 it off
as strictly original. Unfortunately, however, Sir
Henuy PARKESis too old to learn, and his educa-
tion is so much neglected that—so far from being
capable of inventing a new departure from
veracity—he i 3 forced to content himself with the
constant repetition of the oldest, dreariest cram in
the whole Freetrade repertoire, and he has ap-
parently not the faintest idea that he is arguing
against accomplished facts. In the Sydney D'T.’s
report of the Premier’s meeting at Bathurst the
following passage occurs :
“ A douple of loaves were placed upon the table on the
platform to illustrate the question at issue. One was a large,
ruddy-looking loaf —a triunnpli of the baker’s art. This was
labelled ‘ Freetrade, sd.’ The other was a small, dyspeptic-
looking specimen and was marked ‘Protection, lid.’”
The unblushing fiction thu3 countenanced by
Parkes is as old as the Freetrade party itself, and
the parable by which he p’aced the dusty old lie
before the public is adapted from the “ ougangas,”
“ gree-gree men,” and fetich-hunters who flourish
in Central Africa. When these individuals let
loose their spiritual weapons on an enemy they
always begin by constructing a libellous scare-
crow which is supposed to represent him,
and Parkes uses up the same device?.
But unless Sir Henry has struck the
very top-note of disgraceful stupidity—unless he
is afflicted by an ignorance which is akin to lunacy
—unless his brain is withering away and he has
got his head instead of his legs in the grave, he
must know that in Protectionist Melbourne bread
is tO-day cheaper by a penny a loaf than it is in
Sydney; that protected Victoria, with a much
smaller area and a by no means greater area of
good soil, can grow produce and send it to New
South Wa’es at prices with which the local farmer
cannot compete ; thafc protected California, though
handicapped by enormous distances, is fast driv-
ing New South Wales grain out of the New South
Wales market; and, in short, it is the scanty
Freetrade loaf which, in Australia, anyhow,
means high prices and hunger, and the Protec-
tionist specimen which is the symbol of cheapness
and plenty. If Parkes knows anything of the
state of the grain-trade in the colony he must be
aware that he is distorting facts to such a degree
as to make it questionable if he has any mortal
use for the ninth commandmentand if he does
not know how grossly incorrect are his figures, his
ignorance muse be boundless, fathomless, abyss-
mal, and sublime. Parkes’ arithmetic has evi-
dently gone to that bourne from which his “ ITs ”
have never returned, when his efforts to calculate
the prices of the free and the protected leaf result
in subtracting a penny from fivepence and bring
ing out elevenpence a 3 the remainder.
Sir Henry Parkes, whom the Sydney D.T.
dignifies with the title of “ Prime Minister ” of
New South Wales, has been howled down by a
mob, eaid to have been organised by an Opposi-
tion candidate, at Wallsend. Undoubtedly the
howling and hu3tliDg was cowardly and brutal,
but concerning the detaiH of the scrimmage we
meditatively recall the fact that the descriptions
arc supplied by a Freetrade Press which once or
twice recently has shown some little uncertainty
as to the exact appearance of the eternal truth,
when Freetraders had to be extolled, or Protec-
tionists condemned. But, accepting all that is
said in dispraise of the howlers, it will be ad-
mitted that Sir Henry Parkes on that shameful
Saturday only received the quidp~o quo of his
recent conduct. He began the election campaign by
making mean perconal allusions to the appearance
of Mr. Luscombe, and asking an elector, “Does
your mother know s ©u’re out?’’ and followed up
these oratorical achievements by abusing all and
sundry of the Protectionist candidates from
Garvan to Doyle, and from Suttor to Melville
Vulgar, sometimes coarse, and always cowardly
invective, was the sum of hi 3 oratory when his
opponents were under review ; not by argument
but by abuse did he vanquish his opponents, and
the Wallsend crowds used similar weapons against
him. Politicians should nei'her love nor hate;
Parkes broke that rule at Bathurst and Balmain,
the miners did but follow his lead at Wallsend.
“The veriest charlatan that ever lived”; “the
person whom no decent man could touch
with a pair of tongs ’’—this was the way
that he spoke of Mr. Melville at Plattsburg,
and as he thus despised all considerations of
djgnity, so the crowd competed with him in dis-
graceful disregard of public decency. *He sowed
the wind and he reaped the whirlwind. And
further it will be admitted that neither at Bal-
main, Bathurst, or Newca3tle did he go to sup-
port his cause by reason or logical arguments ; he
went rather to make a demonstration of himself
and to caricature his opponents. Similarly, the
Wallsend howlers made a demonstration. They
insolently vaunted their numbers just as he had
flaunted his victorio 3 , and, although the conduct
of the mob is without palliation or excuse, the
howlers may justly point to Sir Henry Parkes
as their model of political morality in the matter
of electioneering tactics.
A few weeks ago it was reported that the Kimber-
ley (West Australia) diggers had performed an act of
4 ‘ btern j ustlce”—that was the name one paper gave it
—by slaughtering a tribe of blacks who had “ mur-
dered ” one of their number. The tale was ugly
and gruesome enough at the outset when only the
half had been told ; now that full particulars are
to hand it is ten times more awful. The “ mur-
dered” digger came across a wandering young
gin and—well, he aoted as the white savage gener-
ally does when a helpless creature falls into his
hands. The woman’s husband, however, came
along just then, and settled the account with his
spear, and then the diggers arose in their virtuous
wrath and surprised the pative camp. When
within easy range they opened fire on their help-
less victims, who, not knowing the use of firearms
and utterly stupefied, made hardly an attempt to
retreat. As their brothers and comrades fell by
their side they tried in vain to stand them on
their feet again, and out of 40 men, women, and
children only one ultimately escaped. The mas-
sacre of Cawnpore, or the doings of the Spaniards
in the West Indies, were hardly more brutal or
cowardly than this, but we presume nobody will
be harged for the sake of a few blacks—a whole
slaughtered tribe is not considered in Australia to
be worth so much as the “virtue ” of M ss Mary
Jane Hicks.
Our esteemed friend, Mrs Garland, the beauti-
ful and accomplished editress of the Carcoar
(N S.W.) Chronicle, runs her paper in purely
feminine principles at election time. Mr. Fiiee-
iiill, the protectionist candidate, made a good
speech, and the lady polished him off with 13
line 3 Mr. Garland, who is a Freetrader, and also
the husband of the paper, likewise made a speech,
and he got 31 columos- This was cruel kindness
if the lady had only known it, for Mr. Garland
in one sentence said that Protection would create
over-supply, and “over-supply would reduce
prices, and the farmer would be worse off than
ever,” and then, just ten lines further on, he
wailed over the poor miner whose food would be
taxed. Ye gods—what bathos, after just proving
that through the beneficent aid of that same taxa-
tion the miner would get his grub cheaper than
ever, and that it would be the farmer who would
be wrecked 1
We have it on the very best authority that there
is no truth whatever in the rumor that Stanley,
the hero of the Mount Rennie outrage, has married
a Tahitian Princess and purchased a large station
on the Mucki River with part of the proceeds of
the splendid testimonial raised for him through tho
agency of theever-popular Sir Alfred Stephen ;
neither is it correct that the hon. secretary to the
said testimonial is to be voted a trifliDg thousand
pounds, or so, out of the balance of the funds.
The solid fact is that the proposed “bravery re-
cognition ” has proved to be a most ignominious
fizzle, and no stronger proofs of the uriversal dis-
satisfaction with which the intelligent portion of
the community viewed the butchering finale to
the Mount Rennie affair could be produced than
the apathy and sneers which greeted Sir Alfred’s
proposal, If there is one thing that Sydney citi-
zens are ever ready to do it is to promptly and
generously reward true bravery in any form, but
whatever friendly feelings they may have held
for Stanley were crushed down by the measure
of indignation felt at the clamours of the “ death
party,” of whom the now frustrated te3timonial-
isers formed a most important body. That
Stanley deserved some credit for the part he
played is admitted, but he can thank his kind,
though close-fisted, gallows-advocating friends
for the fact that the total of that credit up to last
week was represented by the beggarly sum of
thirteen p .unds ten shillings.
The man who gets into legal trouble now a days
hav a bad time of it, anyway. If a charitably dis-
posed jury exonerates him of the sins debited to
him by the opposition counsel, it is as likely as
not that a judge will damn the poor beggar with a
privileged opinion. Recently Judge Molesworth
committed for trial to Melbourne Criminal Court,
an insolvent named Morrison. This Morrison
made out that £BOO was stolen from him in a
bagnio, and as giving some measure of proba-
bility to this story we may mention that the man
was a grazier from the Western district. The
Ciiminal Court jury acquitted Morrison, whether
or no, buton hearing of the verdict, Judge Moles-
worth said (vide daily paper) : “He may think
himself a lucky man that he got 12 of his country-
men to believe he lo3t the money in the way he
states.” That just judge is paid to administer the
law 3 of his country, aceordiog to which a jury’s
opinion is legally infallible. And when 12 inde-
pendent men differ from one Molesworth, that
is grand legal proof of the one Molesworth being
all wrong in the matter. Unfortunately there is
no legal way of compelling a judge to accept a
legal fact and judicially “ dry up.”
Freetrade v. Protection.
We print tin subjoined well-written letter at
the request of a Sydney workingman, who dates
f om Miller's Point. Whils grantiog that the
prosperity or distress of a coun'ry is not always a
matter of Freetrade or Protection, and that either
policy may be advocated by the capitalist for sheer
motives of Eelf-intere t, we do not by any means
thick that our correspondent hai succeeded in
pro sing that it i-. utterly immaterial to the N S.W.
wage earner which of tne systems is adopted by
tae Government of the country :
“ The many are ground down to feed thefew,
'! he few in splendour lead the life cf ease
1 he marly toil from morn till evening dew,
To cram the lazy drones with luxuries.”
—Kenealy.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—The whole question of
Freetrade or Protection, as far as the workers are
concerned, can be put into a nutshell. It is simply
asking them whether they will be roasted or boiled
—whether they will be fleeced by the Freetrade
capitalist or the Protectionist capitalist. The
birds of prey are contending for the power which
will enable them, the victorious portion, to gorge
and grow fat upon the energies and vitals of
the people. “Workmen of New South Wales—
Workmen of Australia 1” shrieks the Freetrade
carrion-bird, “ let me retain the power to feed
upon your labour, and I promise you prosperity."
The counter-cry of the Protectionist vulture is
heard in the cities, in the towns and backblocks of
the country, saying : “ Workers ! Workers 1 Only
through me lies your salvation. Give me the right
to drain your sweat, to drink your blood—thus I
will strengthen myself, and of this land
create for you a heaven.” And the carrion,
birds biend their crie3, and the winds of
tho East carry the words to the wilds of the West,
to the slums of our cities, to the ears of the
degraded and destitute : “ Trust in us. In us :
the spirit of love, of duty, of self-sacrifice, animates
us ; in our breasts self-interest finds no abiding-
place.” Yes, sir ; there is a split in the ranks of
the Plutocracy, each side contending that it has
the best right to gorge upon the unresisting form
of Labour, and, strangest anomaly of all, both
sides wish to do it “in tho interests of Labour.”
They have clothed their suckers with a coat of
sugar, and each side has most earnestly avowed
its disinterestedness. But it is remarkable, when
the interests of the capitalist arc at stake, with
what avidity they enter the field on behalf of the
“ working classes.” “Workmen,” yells the Free-
trader, tho typical Mac Million, “which will you
have : Freetrade and prosperity—(don’t look at
the starving in England)—or Protection and
Starvation?” “If you want to ameliorate
the condition of the workers,” says the oppo-
sitionist—“ if you want to give work to
our unemployed we must have Protection (keep
your eye's off the staving in the States). “Can
we compete against the pauper labour of Europe ?’’
asks the Protectionist. Yes, Sir, we can, but not
while GO and 70 per cent, of the wealth we, the
workers, create, goesinto the pockets of the fleecers—
not while our farmers have to pay from £3 to £5
per acre to land-grabbers. Not while, from the
results of our toil, the manufacturers, the whole-
sale merchants, the merchant-tailors, the
Mac Millions, the calico Jemmies, are reaping
their 20, 30, and 40 per cent, profit ; not while we
put the affairs of the country into the hands of
men who, like Parkes’ following of land-jobbers,
believe in wholesale alienation of the soil—the
robbery of generations yet unborn—in Chinese
labour, Colonial Peerages, and Blood and Glory ;
not while there sits upon the legislative benche.s in
Macquarie-street, Sydney, even one solitary land-
lord whose income is augmented with rents earned
from the workman’s drunkenness or the woman’s
shame. When the means of production are in the
hands of the toilers, when the land with its
mineral resources, and our labour-saving machines,
are owned and used, not by a section as a means
of extortion and self-advantage, but by the State
for the benefit of all, then you can compete against
the pauper labour of Europe i Is this an impossi-
bility, is it a dream, a chimera of the brain ?
Could not the State at the present time, while our
industries are yet in their infancy—many yet un-
born —take them into her own hands and give
work to her people ? Is there a single Industry
worked by capitalists which the people, organised,
could not undertake and carry on as well! Has
not Invention, under our present social system,
become to the workers a curse ins'ead of a bless-
ing ? And is that not because the inventions are
the property of the few, the cormorants of society,
instead of belonging to the community? Who
amongst us can say where the march of inven-
tion will cease ? In the face of the recent ad-
vances of electricity, can we assert that it will
never take the place of steam—that heating and
lighting, smelting-furnaces, mills, ships, works of
every kind, will not yet be worked by
this wonderful noiseless power ? May we net
yet see our ships steered automatically—
kept upon their course by the movement
of the magnet acting and reacting upon electric
steering-gear —and the “Starboard! ” “Steady!”
“ Port! ” orders of the captain accomplished in a
more rapid, efficient and satisfactory manner by
the action of his hand or little finger than is the
case at present by our latest of steam-steering
machines? And if it were possible, sir, for in-
ventions to reach that perfection in which nearly
all manual labour could be dispensed with, what
should the so-called “lower classes” do? Should
they seize upon the means of production and de-
mand their right to share in the benefits arising
from these inventions, or lie down and quietly
die, and let the stench-arising from their putrefied
bodies affect the nostrils of “respectable 1
society ? In this at least there is no imagination.
It is an assertion which cannot be gainsaid. The
march of inventions under our present socia
system is rapidly leading to the hopeless degrada-
tion and pauperisation of the toiling masses. And,
what is more, the maiority of those who have
reaped large fortunes from inventions are not the
inventors themselves. They, the former, were pot-
sessed of the foresight and cunning of thieves, but
not of the genius of great men—nearly all the men
who possessed the brains, the endurance and per-
severance that gave these great discoveries to the
human race perished miserably, forgotten by the
world whose benefactors they had been. The Free-
trade and Protection fads are delusions and snares
baits which draw the workers from the true
questions of the day. Freetrade or Protection—
wherein can the settlement of this vexed question
benefit the workers as a whole ? A change in the
fiscal policy of New South Wales would be bene-
ficial to some and to the detriment of others. It
is a contest in which only the Monopolists, po i'.i-
cians, lawyers—how they now flock to Parlia-
ment !—usurers, and other spongers on society are
directly interested. If I were asked for my defini-
tion of Freetrade and Protec'.ion my answer would
be, “The growling and snarling, the biting end
snapping of hy renas and jackals, as to the manner
in which their prey should be devoured.”—
F. G. A.
An amusing instance of how little colonial
statesmen like the chilling drop from celebrity in
Australia to nonentity in England is brought back
by one of the happy colonists who has survived
the late round of festivities The scene is tte
London office of a trio of colonial dailici, where
the hero of the Victorian “ Revoke ion ” is laying
bare his woes to the smiling boss of the
little estab’ishment. Sir Graham : “Do you
know, Mr. , it is simply scandalous the way
in which my be3t English speeches are reported—
so different from the way I was treated in the
colonies! Are you aware that when I landed in
Adelaide on my v ay here, and spoke for about
half-an-hour at the banquet they gave us, every)
word I said was carefully reported and duly ap-
peared in next morning’s papers ? -And now, look
here. At last night’s banquet I delivered a most
carefully-prepared address, in which I dealt,
among other thing', with the New Hebrides
question, and practically declared war against
France on behalf of outraged Australia. What
is the tangible result of that speech, which occu
pled, I may say, ijully three-quarters of an hour
in its delivery ? This morning I open the Mark-
ing Chronicle, which I am told gives the best
reports on all matters relating to the colonies, and
what do I see ?—‘Sir Graham Berry responded to
the toast on bqhalf of Victoria.’ ” We would add
several points of exclamation, but they would bo
hopelessly insufficient to give an idea of the dis-
gust and indignation which were pictured on the
countenance of Victoria’s great representative at
that moment. When he learned that his oration
could not even be sent home to the Age and pub-
lished in Melbourne, he just ground his teeth, and
said • “ That, as far as he could see, English re-
porters just went to banquets to guzzle, for he
never saw them do anything when he was speak-
ing. Why didn’t they work ’em as they do in
Australia, Hey ? ”


The Referee
The concluding day of the “ mixed’’ bicycle
races on Sydney Association Ground proved a big
success to the promoters, inasmuch as some 12,000
people braved a doubtful day and put in an ap-
pearance. As we prophesied last week, the
“ Mugs and Jugginses ’’ who put their coin on
Dwyer found themselves in the gutter, as Fred.
Wood won the three miles almost without an
effbrt, and had his machine not oome to grief in
the ten miles there is little doubt that he would
have done ditto with that race also. The loss
of the ten miles, howeve', did not make
any diiFerence in the result aB with 17 points English-
man Wood secured first prizeof £5O. Now that the
exaitement has cooled down, Con Dwyer will have
time to study out the status he in future intends
to take up in bicycle oircles ; rnd the N.S.W,
Union the best method to make it up with their
Cabbage Garden brethren.
* * *
The ten-mile race deserves a par all to it-
self. Fred Wood’s pedal beoame loose and he had
to dismount and repair damages, a loss of time
which gave his opponents a big lead. But he soon
overtook his men, only to fall away again and
finish in an (apparently) very distressed state. The
finish between the three amateurs—save the
mark—was nothing if not amusing. Coming to
the winning post Charles Wood was leading, with
Dwyer next, and Bennett bringing up the rear of
the trio. Wood then bored out and spoilt any
chance Dwyer might have had of passing him
but he rather overdid it, as Bennett went inside
and according to the judge’s decision finished first
And then occurred a most original scene. Ben
nett, in no measured terms, rated the judge for
placing him first, and said Wood had won for
oertain'y, whilst Wood entered a protest against
Bennett for passing him on the inside. Wooc
wanted afterwards to withdraw the protest, but
this the committee would not allow, and at
meeting held on Monday it was decided Ist.
That as Bennett had broken the rule in passing
W6od on the inside ho should be disqualified.
2nd. That as the fact of Bennett passing on the
inside, so close to the winning poet, dearly showee
that Wood was boring Dwyer out, Wood shoulc
be disqualified; and Brd. That the prize be
awarded to Dwyer. Dwyer however, states he
would rather ride the race over again, and at the
time of writing so the matter stands.
Nelson, Mitrailleuse, and Maxim have ar-
rived at Flemington from N.Z. With the hand-
some Lochiel as an additional string to their bow
tbo Maorilanders should play a big hand during
the V.R.C. autumn campaign. The Musket
maTe, Mitrailleuse, now located at Paddy Pigott’s
stables, has been steadily baoked during the past
week, and will see a short price before the flag
falls for the big six-furlong spin. Nelson, too,
wears a healthy appearance in the market since
his arrival ; but there was great oonsternation in
the backers’ camp last week when a rumour was
spread about that he would not leave N.Z. at all.
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob got a vire from a
friend to “give him pepper,” which they did to
some tune. Subsequently it transpired that their
friend had (mother friend in Melbourne takiDg
all the money he could get, and at ridiculous
prioes, too. Which reminds us that “ they don’t
know everything down in Judee." One point to
New Zealand.
Two of the most extraordinary gallops
ever performed on the tan and sand tracks at
FlemiDgton were witnessed last week. On the
former rink, Hogmanay, with Hales in the saddle,
covered a mile in lmin. 46 9-10 sec. ; and on the
sand-track, Hortense defeated the flying Lara by
three-parts of a furlong in a three-quarter mile
run. The time occupied to complete the journey
was lmin. 21s«c., which is a good register any
time, but in the present case particularly brilliant
as the filly only cantered the last furlong. Gorry
rode Lara.
The withdrawal of Trenton from the Aus-
tralian Cup and Champion Race has not been a
very severe blow to the public, for the pure and
simple reason that the majority of bookmakers
who have books open on the double-event con-
ceived the insane idea that Trenton was a cer-
tainty for the “Kup,” and refused to lay him.
But now that he is a corpse, there is weeping, and
wailing, and cursing of luok amongst the yid-
dlBhers. “Oh! if I was only know he was a
stiffkun," exclaimed a hard-faced Shylock, “I
could have made 2000 quid out of him ; but we
never gets a shanoe of a shkinner nowadays.”
Those five wise men, Joe Thompson, Bill
Sayers, Morris Jacobs, Nat Abrahams, and Jack
Giles, who were appointed by the Victorian Club
committee to perform the laborious functions of
house-ccmmittee in the new club-room, have already
demonstrated their fit Hess for the position by in-
troducing a rule that says, “Cigars only shall be
smoked in the club room.” This will probably be
followed by an order to all members to wash
themselves at least onoe a year, under pain of
expulsion. Fortunately, the Club oommittre have
the final dealing with all such idiotic legislation ;
and it is not likely to pass. But it goes to again
prove the old adage—that if you put a fool on
horseback he will ride to a place ten degrees
hotter than Hawkesbury or Wagga Wagga on a
raoe day.
The son of a wealthy Victorian squatter
reoently lost £6OO at one of the usual weekly meet-
ings of the Melbourne Gun Club. When he backed
the gun, the bird escaped ; and when he backed
the bird, it did not escape. The competitors were
all friends, dontoherknow, and above suspicior.
There is no moral to be derived from this par.
* * »
Despite counter-attractions, Foley’s Hall
was crowded on Saturday night, the best set-to
being the four rounds between Bill Slaven and
Nolan. Nolan must have been doing a lot of work
lately, 'and at the finish thers was nothing to
choose between the pair. Slaven showed much
better form than he did on the previous Saturday
with Snow, whose right-hand-in-front and
awkward style appeared to completely demoralise
him. Clever Jack Molloy put in three scientific
rounds with Fogarty ; and Murphy did not make
an attempt to carry out his contract to “ knock
out” young Aitken. Nolan then offered to box
Fogarty for £5O aside, but Fogarty stating his in-
ability to raise that amount, Foley offered the
winner £lO, and for that amount they are to fight
“to a finish ” next Saturday night. Fogarty has
once or twioe shown himself possessed of a ter-
rible right-handed blow on the point of the jaw,
but in the event of his failing to get this on in the
first three or four rounds, the writer will expect
to see the winner turn up in Nolan.
There were four bookmakers present at
the Hobart race meeting, and according to their
own statement this number will be reduced 100
per oent. next year.
* » *
Sydney Tattersalls have about £lO,OOO in
band. They should soon be able to afford new
premises of their own.
Mr. W. A. Long had a day out at Liver-
pool on Saturday, when he carried off the Auction
Race, the Selling Race, and the Welter Handicap,
with Ellington, La Valliere, and Abner respec-
tively. Lady Marion appropriated the Pace Han-
dicap, and the Liverpool Handicap fell to Gold-
lake.
The arrival of the Yankee boxers, Mitchell
and Costello, should give a further boom to the
noble art in Sydney. Costello, who is a fine block
of a man, may have some difficulty in gettiog a
match at his weight, but Mitchell, who scales
under lost, may be suited. Jack Hall is about
the be3t man of the weight in the colonies, but, in
his absence, George Mulholland would make no
mean subs'itute. Murphy would no doubt meet
the American if he got a chance, but he could
have no show if Mitchell boxes up to his repu-
tation.
...
As a contemporary cautiously remarks,
“ if there be anything in public form to rely upon,
Samuels and Clarke are now the two fastest run-
ners in the colonies and a match between the pair
would be surrounded with no end of interest.”
Jack Dempsey, the “Nonpariel,” as he is
yclept in American boxing circles, and who it is
stated intends to pay Australia a visit, at la test d ate s
was anxious to show John L. Sullivan that he was
not to be knocked out in six rounds.
...
Cannon anil Dinnie wrestle again seven
styles March 5. The scene will be laid in the
Alexandra Theatre (Melbourne) this time. The
Scot should beat the Yank.
First Game has done the Newmarket
Handicap distance in a shade over 14 with the
weight up.
* * •
Abner, who won the Welter Handicap at
Liverpool on Saturday with list. 111 b. up, is
engaged in the Newmarket Handicap, with 6st.
101 b. He has been quietly supported for the big
race.
L. E. Myers, “Champion middle-distance
runner of the world,” is unable in Australia to
get on any match from a quarter to three quarters
A VICTORIAN VIEW.
GILLIES: YES, OLD MAN, JUST YOU KNOCK DOWN THE REST OF THIS WALL
AND THEN WON’T WE CABBAGE GARDENERS HAVE A GORGEOUS TIME!”
of a mile. Perhaps W. G. George will accommo
date him. By the way, it is not the Charlie
Mitchell who accompanied George. Costello, a
Yankee pugilist, and the prettiest man in the
world, is one of the passengers by the same vessel
It is really a pity to see Mr. Jewett waste
his money and energy npen his imported centre-
hoarder. Until marine donkey-races are intro-
duced—last boat to win—we are afraid Mr. J. will ;
not appropriate a prize.
* * *
Hutchens has been taken under \ he segis of a j
well-known sporting publican of Kmg-street, !
Sydney.
* . *
Matterson has forgiven Kemp for breaking
h-'s ncse. Kemp should have been sent to gaol. °
In last Bulletin, five winners of the heats
of the opening night of the Carington Handicap
were correctly tipped out of a possible nine, some
of whom ran so “barefaced ” that it wa3 apparent
to any Juggins that they didn't try worth a cent.
Mr. J. Duffett, "the winner of Alexandria
by art-union (for the benefit of the widow and
child of the defunct trainer, F. Long), has gener-
ously returned his prize to Mrs. Leng.
Our tip for the Hobart Cup, Harvester,
was beaten for first place by the light-weighted
outsider, Maori Chief. By the way, the Melbourne
Sfoktsman man wired from the seat of war the
night before the race in this wise :
“ I shall simply be anticipating my wire announcing the
result of the race when I cable now that the Hobart Cup of
1887 will be won by Harvester.”
E. Cavill, of Sydney, won the South Aus-
tralian swimming championship by only 150 yards
in the 1000. 15m. 7£sec.
The news that poor old Commotion has
“stopped short, never to run again,” doesn’t dis-
i tress us quite as much as it might have done if
our heart hadn’t been hardened by a disappoint-
ment in love. At the riak of being pulled for
blasphemy, we must record our honest opinion
that the old horse had outlived his reputation and
was never quite the marvel the public chose to
consider him. Commotion’s gjod looks and ster-
ling staying powers were beyond question, yet,
rega r d r d critically, his performances fell short of
Malua’s. But, anyway, it will be a great pity if
the retired favourite should be unable to settle
down to domestic happiness. He always looked
the beau ideal of a stud horse.
* * *
There died in Florence, a few weeks ago,
a simple-minded old soul named Lady Orford, who
had been formerly “chucked” from that evil-
smelling city because she turned her home into a
Benevolent Asylum for diseased dogs. But of all
the rum dogs that her ladyship ever had to do
with Lord Orford was the rummest. That
nobleman’s particular hobby was racing, and
in the long, long ago he kept a stud. Many old
English turfites have an affectionate remem-
bra ncs of Lord Orford and his gee-gees. They
never won a race by any chance, yet the owner’s
faith in their abi ities was something sublime.
Whenever one of his miserable screws was run-
ring, Lord Orford took up a position against the
rails and for his own colours. His
hopes were continually being crushed, but the
amiable crank never lost heart. As the field came
rattling down the straight he would invariably
yell: “Lord Orford wins! Lord Orford wins!
Lord Orford wi D Lord Orford ! he’s last
again! ”
* * *
Mr. C. Snewing, who won an English
Derby in the most rough and ready fashion on re-
cord, lately departed for that land where
bookies ” cease from troubling and the backer
is at rest. Snewing pulled off the big event in
1862 with the outsider, Caractacus. One or two
facts in connection with that remarkable item of
turf history will bear telling again. On form
Caractacus seemed to have a chance for the
Derby, but the public couldn’t stand Mr. Snew-
ing’s trainer and icckey. The former was an in-
experienced yokel and the latter a stable boy,
sporting silk for the flr3t time. So green was
tLis boy, Parsons, that when he found Caractacus
had won h* wanted to dismount at once, without
troublii gto ride back to scale. The trainer
danced about like a lunatic, and Mr. Snewing got
so drunk that on the following morning he sent
out for a paper to see whether his Derby was all a
dream or glorious realir.y. Neither Parsons nor
the trainer ever did any good afterwards. Success
turned their feeb’e braiDS, and they degenerated
into loafing pot-house heroes of the village where
Caractacus was trained. As an apology for this
yarn w? may mention that it was often our
juvenile privilege to sit astride of Caractacus—
when he was in his stable.
* * #
Many claim that pugilists—we, of course,
do not refer to tho present-day pillow-fighters—do
not live to an old age, but this is a mistake.
Amo: gst the English champions, John Broughton
John Gully, Jem Ward, topped the eighties ; Men-
! doza, Jackson, and Tom Belcher, the seventies-
! whilst Tom Cribb, “Bendigo,” Perry, and the
| Tipton Slasher ” lived to over 60 years of age
Jem Mace and Tom King are still living aged 55
and 50 respectively ; and, to come nearer home
the brothers Sparkes, one of whom fought such a
gallant battle with Nat Langham, are still very
[ much alive in New South Wales. Yankee heroes
have not such a good record, but pistols and high
life are more answerable for their early deaths
than the effects of pugilism.
* #
Two young ladies settled a libel action the
other day at Lithgow (N.S.W.). One of tbe fair
creachaws got her claret-bottle tapped and her
left peeper bunged. The ether got two teeth
broken, her left listener badly cut, her jaw
smashed in, her bread-basket dinged, her smeller
flattened, and her wool pulled. This is not a
fashionable item, and readers will therefore excuse
the sporting phraseology.
Some recent denunciations of pugilism
have revived in print the speech John L. Sullivan
made when the authorities of N.Y. city interfered
with his joint debate with Paddy Ryan: “The
dudes lay each other up playing football, and the
women go out and watch ’em pound each other •
they killed two jockeys in one week at the
Brighton Beach races ; but the man X licked the
worst in Madison-square Garden was around
drinking rum the same evening as chipper as a
bull-terrier. It ain’t a square deal.”
BRIEF MENTION.
Uarkesites—Parasites.
Parkes’ deficit—A policy.
Untrue to the last —Habigle.
Battenberg’s baby expects to bo made
brigadier-general in the British army next month.
The E veh ing N ews says that ‘ ‘ Munchausen
i-i not dead.” Cert'nly not. He writes leaders in
the Noose.
A man was recently drowned in the Wool-
-1 lomooloo Baths. Cleanliness is next to godli-
ness. He had a rinse and then climbed the golden
stair.
In a Gippsland police-court log-book vi'here
the short and simple annals of the poor drunks
are recorded, a J.P. made this entry: “Fined £l,
006 ts one ginny—J.P.”
Of a recent suicide, Sydney Even Noose
remarks: “He was supposed to have been mar-
ried, and no reason is ns yet known which would
account for the act.” He was married—h’m !
how many more reasons does the Noose want ?
From the Sydney Echo
”A number of Union men, including some women
assembled."
The Ecno, knowing that many of its own men,
are old women, has lost the power of differen-
tiating.
A Maori named Thompson went the other
day to a cemetery on purpose to spit on an old
enemy’s grave and brag about it afterwards. He
went and retailed his exploit in a public-house,
and then he was tied up to a fence and 42 people
expectorated on him at close range.
A candidate for aldermanic honours a*-
Normanton (Q.), advertises himself thus :
“ O'Shaughnewy will borrow like a brick, and keep the pot
boiling and the ball rolling."
This beats Dibbs, Parkes, and all the N.S.W. finan-
ciers hollow. If a deficit occurs in Queensland wel
remember O’Shaughnessy.
The Sydney Evening News reports that
“ Locomotives now run in Jerusalem, and the
shrill steam-whistle is heard in the streets once
trod by King David.” The Nooze shouldn’t put
on its horse-reporter to write holy paragraphs ;
the streets once trodden by King David are now’
about 30 feet underground.
A lay reader of the Church of England at
Wanganui (N.Z.), sued a debtor for £72. In camo
out in evidence that the rather reverend one had
been doing the money-lending business at 120 pm-
cent. ; and a feature of the rather reverend gentle-
man’s mode of doing business was that he gener-
ally held his confabs with his clients on Sundays.
A little item from Southern Queensland.
Magistrate : “ And about what time was it when
the defendant used this insulting language to
you?” Plaintiff: “AH night, your worship”
Magistrate ; “ Explain yourself. What do you
mean by ‘aU night’?'’ Plaintiff: “ WeU, your
worship, he commenced cursing outside my tent
about 11 o’clock, and shortly after that I went to
bed, and when I woke in the morning he was
cursing still.” Fined £2.
A Dunedin clergyman of wide sympathies
prayed in the pulpit for the Bank of N.Z. and-the
insurance companies who were shaken up by the
late fire in that city. When that parson gets a
little further advanced he’ll offer up a peti-
tion for “ our dear brother ” who went Nap. on
four trumps and an ace, and was frozen out by a
carnal sinner with five measly trumps.
Ballarat Courier approves the idea for
sending to_ England 1000 nice little boys apparelled
in all the pomp and circumstance of war includ
ing uniforms seven sizes too large for them and it
says* “the great motherly heart of the’ Queen
would yearn over them.” The Age, on the con-
trary, thinks that a band of charmiDg Australian
girls woulu be surer of a sympathetic reception
In the latter emergency, we suppose the great
brotherly heart of Tummy would do the yearning.’
At a certain Australian municipal election
the other day, there were nine candidates One
of them was some time ago convicted at the police
court of defrauding the Government of a paltrv
railway fare, heavUy fined, and severely casti-
gated for his untruthfulness by the presiding
magistrate. Another candidate was convicted
and fined for using short-weights ; yet another of
the nine was an individual who tried to bite a
man s finger off beoause remonstrated with in an
election squabble. However, it’s all right. Muni-
cipal Councils are the training-grounds of Parlia-
ment.
«• S L r Kenry Parkes denies that he called
Sir Patrick Jennings “ a jelly-fish without a back-
bone and wants the ex-Premier to overlook the
reported insult, take tho billet offered him and go
away to England to represent N.S.w’ at the
Imperial Conference. Of course, it may be that
Sir Henry is oorrect'in his denial, and that the
whole of the newspaper reporters were wrong but
™ tb « 1 our admiration for the conspicuous vera-
city of the Premier we are inclined to be certain
that he is wrong. But Sir Patrick will go to Eng
land anyhow. He won’t get such a good chance
of grabbing a title every day. It would be a very
touchy man who would let a little libel of that
£" d ~ i a ? d ’ after all > lt “ay he the eternal truth 1
for we have never seen that the Knight of St
Gregory has any baokbone-shut out the remotest
chance of a dukedom.
Many a wild-eyed poet, whose budding
genius has been nipped up by the icy stare of I
soulless editor, will approve the sentiment
breathed in the followirg li DeB . Th were
thrown off-m an apparently lucid moment-by
an inmate of Kew (Melb ) Asylum : J
“ ® ome newspaper wag invited to dinner
An equally abstract sort of sinner
Tel A e ir^ SPa i Cr e ? itor d 0^ t like th is
lell him the ihyme s as good as his.
For snakeß are told on their bellies to go
And newspaper editors are meant, you know."
The poor Kew bard is stiU smarting under the re-
membrance of past indignity. In his lnnelv
padded cell he sits and thinks of the pomes “ dco
h . tbank8 ’ or ruthlessly over “to
the office cat. And he finds a melancholy satis-
which o”*bel 0 ”* bel T lng that the Sreen-headed serpents,
Qiio°t h “ eander a cr °ss his counterpane in the
edftev 1 ! 1 ® 8 ° f the night * are dead newspaper
editors working out their doom. Well, it may be


SUNDRY SHOWS
We proceed,
as usual, to drag
at the tail of our
dry mental cow
with a view to extracting sweet
things for the henefit of the
shows. We regard these from
a Christian point of view as
valuable aids to the spread of
Terewth ; they refine the mind
and open tbe door by which
civilisation and refinement find
admittance into a benighted community. But we
notice of late that the door has been opened in the
mildest way, and it hasn't been opened veiy wide.
*# # *
Messrs. Tyrrell and Dalziel’s company are
still at large and hare broken out in a fi esh place
by producing that bloated 1 orror “Ten Nights
in a Bar-room ’ at. Sydney Gaiety. We had
iamgined this “ drama ” to be dead and buried and
embalmed long ago, and when we saw the ghost
of its rouged and plastered face sticking out of the
playbill we experienced a shock. Still, it is by no
means a bad piece, if you like it, and we only dis-
like it because it is old, stupid, worn-out, beery-
comic, uninteresting, and bears internal evidence
of having been written by a perambulating jaun-
dice. It is eminently calculated in every respect
to heap up that concluding hollow vegetable
which is so unhealthy for the spine of the camel;
even if it were buttered it would not be a fit obji ct
to give to a dandruffed dog, while to offer it in a
dry state to a human being is an insult. It is
humorous after a fashion, and when the moral
drunkard of the story threatens to break the
gambler in two across the waist and plant his
upper half in a spittoon it always raises a laugh.
The only brains in the piece are those which
Frank Slade knocks out of his father’s head with
a bottle ; and half of them are left sticking to the
bottle and the other half are spread as a brain-
dado on the wall. The bashed publican’s funeral
is attended by two cats and a dog.
The only real fun in the drama was an
unrehearsed effort. When the curtain rose on the
Fifth Chapter of Agonies, two big flies took the pub-
lican's bald head and wa'king fresco of “property ”
carbuncles to be something good to eat, ana made
a race for it. The pace was tremendous, but the
youruer and more vigorous of the pair came in
first by a head. lie carefully dug cut a sample of
the publican's scalp with his hind legs, passed it
along to his nose, and gave a doubtful snort ;
then 8n expression of wild surprise and virtuous
indignation passed over his face as he buzzed
away, swearing hard. After this the rest of the
drama fell very flat. It was run by the combined
efforts of 12 brutally • rushed genuises, and was
perpetrated amid small difficulties ir. the way of
so»nery and fixings Mr. Arrowsmith as Switched
bore up better than the rest of the company under
his affliction, but in spite of his efforts we would
gladly exchange the drama for the neuralgia or
any olher kind of torture which we could hang a
liniment on to. It is impossible to blister “ Ten
Nights in a Bar-room,” and yet it badly wants to
have something done to it,
#* * *
“ The Green Lanes of England ” has been
resurrected with marked success at Sydney Royal
Standard. The piece has lets of go m it, and —
judging by results —it seems to appeal eloquently
to the higher feelings not only of the most cul-
tured and lovely of the fair sex, but also to thof e
of that kind of citizen who is distinguished by hie
blotchy complexion and the baleful glare of his
crimson beak.
*# * *
So far as originality is concerned, the
bounding Buffalo at Sydney Academy is in a state
of acute decay. The items which make up the
present programme are about as stale as Balaam’s
curse, and at the same time the airy persiflage
which distinguished the false prophets ass is
utterly wanting. Unless something fresher is put
on, visitors to this place of amusement should go
armed with a blunt meat-axe and a Chinese
lantern.
** * *
• “Nell Gwynne ” is going on at Sydney
Criterion with the steady regularity of a munici-
pal dog-tax. The opera improv. s a good deal on
closer acquaintance, and the scenery, as is usual
at this house, is magnificent. The audience, too,
have not yet recovtred from the overwhelming
surprise of seeing a public-house run on gratis
principles, and they roll up nightly to view a
scene where everybody can drinktohis heart’s con-
tent without the necessity of fishing ia his vest-
ments for change. Old Weasel also rolls up, that
ancient gray miser being always on the crunch
when cheap victuals are obtainable, and the wolf-
ish way in which he shovels the provender into
the gaping portmanteau of his jaws is a spectacle
for the gods. His mouth is full all the time, so
are his pockets ; and if he could eat wi h his ears
as well he would certainly do so.
** * *
Carrie Swain and the “Tomboy” are
prospering at Sydney Royal, though we don’t
know why. We promised last week to distort
the facts of the case by giving a word of praise all
round, but on second thoughts we recoil from
committing such sin. We may mention, as a
means of deepening the gloom, that Carrie is
under a 10 years’ engagement, of which six years
have- still to run, and is not allowed to marry
until the end of this period. She is 23 years of.
age now ; she will probably be 18 them
=* # * *
George Darrell has taken off the “New
Rush ”to make way for the “ Sunny South.” If
we had boen George and George had been we, we
would have run the “New Rush” for all it was
worth, and when the specie of the city gave out
we would have instructed the ticket object at the
door to accept payment in frying-pans, hogs,
pants, pups, chickens, salt-fish, water-melons and
dictionaries ; we might, perhaps, have drawn the
line 8t hens that dated back to the Crimean days,
but nothing short of that would have stopped us.
## * #
Mr. Pain, of firework celebrity, gives his
next exhibition in the domain on Thursday night.
We are not quite certain how the matter .stands,
but we are oredibly informed that he gets the
use of the people’s park for nothing, and gives a
portion of what he would otherwise have to pay as
rent to public charities. The theatrical managers
of Sydney, whose business has been completely
“ bust ” by Pain, have, we hear, applied to the
Colonial Secretary for a lease of the Domain for
show purposes on terms similar to those granted
to this blue-ftre-man, and should their request be
refused there will be trouble.
*# # #
We read that “ in Wilson Barrett’s 1 Clito,’
Miss Eastlake plays Helle.” She is not the first
woman who has done so with distinguished
success.
** * *
At Melbourne Theatre Royal, admirers of
gallant manhood and virtuous womanhood are
rolling up to see George Rignold and Miss Kate
Bishop, in a new five-act agony entitled “Siberia.”
Either because 96 in the shade is unseasonable
weather for “ Siberia,” or because virtue is out of
favour with a proud colonial aristocracy, business
has been best in the pit and gallery. The play is
understood to deal with “incidents which actually
occurred during the persecution and massacre of
the Jews in Russia in 1879,’, and is composed of
blood, snow, and “ situa-
tions.” Scenery is sub-
stantial and pretty, and
supers, are liberally laid
on. The dialogue is goed
of its kind and w ell sea-
soned with nasty jars fer
the Czar. But, taking
things altogether, “Si-
beria” is tco political, his-
torical, and philosophical.
Chief amongtheperformeis
is the horse of the Czar’s
Courier. The fiery quad-
ruped gallops on at full
tear, stops short at the
footlights, waits till the
Courier has got his second
wind, and then gallops off
again at Derby speed.
This invaluable stage nag
appears to be brown, but
from the way in which he
winked at the gods we
fancy he must be old
white “Crispin,” varnished
over. Mr. Rignold plays
the devoted Nihilist stu-
dent in bis familiar, florid,
“handsome” style. It
might well be said that no
man was ever as noble as
G.R. looks with or without
the limelight. When the
action of the drama drags,
one can put tbe glasses on
him and feel refreshed. A
thing of beauty is a joy
for eve-. Miss Kate
Bishop is not an artist’s
not on of a Jewess, perse-
cuted or otherwise, but she
acts with grace and force
whenever a chance press nts
itself. A ter,deniy to mono-
tone mar 3 Miss Bishop’s
delivery. There aie 27
other names on the play-
bill. but they only aversee
about 10 lines apiece. In
two or three instances
that average wants re-
cueing. The comic ele-
ment in “Siberia” is
weak, and Bartley Camp-
bell, the author, is in a
lunatic asylum.
* # 4k
“ Little Jack Shep-
pard” is still humming at
Melbourne Opera House
Fascinating Fanny Rob'na
bears the heat and burden
of these hot nights with
sprightline. s that never
flags. Rollicking Royce
(not Boyce this lime, Mr.
Compositor), as Blueskln,
THINKS WE SEE WHEN WE A
COME OUT WITHOUT A GUN
ha got several shades more “rorty ’ than
ever. Brough has improved hia part, and the
wonderful William Warde whisks and whirls
around as though he wants to keep warm and
can’t. Other shows at other theatres have
budded, blossomed, and withered since “ Little
Jack ” was first put up. “ Mixed ” at the Bijou
finishes on Saturday. The difficulty between
Messrs. Craven and Majeroni terminated in a
compromise, and public inti rest in “Mixed "fell
off when this fact was injudiciously announced
The comic opera sea-on at !he new Princess's is
going out like a lamb. “ Billie Taylor” hobbl- d
along for a week handicapped with two new Jasy
stars —Miss Julia Sidney and Miss Mary Hume.
If these two amateurs were rolled into one and
then multiplied by 10 they would be worth Neliie
Stewart’s little finger. Until February 25th, more
Gilbert and Sullivan revivals, and for that date
an “ important event” is promised. This reads
sarcastic.
#* * #
Mr. Simonsen has the proud satisfaction
of announcing that the Italian opera “subscrip-
tion ” season terminates on February 28th. Sub-
scribers put down their pieces with secret mis-
givings, but the Impressario (we believe that’s
the word) has pulled them through. “I Pr messi
Spoti ” (promised spouses—the Betrothed —don-
cherknow) a latter-day opera, quite new to Mel-
bourne, is now being given with capital complete-
ness. The conductor works like a nigger, the
chcrus feel their fiet at lait, and the principals—
we have already sung our sweetest about them.
There must be many lowly lovers of music in
Melbourne, for, blow the North wind never so
warmly, the Alexandra shilling pit is filled every
night.
## # *
There is a paragraph in circulation stating
that a ballet-girl may he compared to a musiin
umbrella with two pink handles In this connec-
tion, it may be remarked that the bald-heads’
favourite composer is Handel.
** * *
James M‘Mahon and George Leitch (the
only M‘Mahon and Leitch —all others spurious
imitations) are still in Fiji. Mr. Leitch is engaged
on a South Sea cannibal opera to be produced with
the aid of lots of real Fijians, Samoans, and
Karakas armed with spears, cocoa-nuts, pigs, and
onions, and his only trouble is that the natives
take him for a cross between a missionary and a
circus.
** * *
Our old friend Eleanor Carey, whom we
adored years ago, has been married in New York
to Mr. Findlater Blood, an Irish actor who “is
related to the unwholesome Lady Colin Campbell
assemblage.” Anything for an advertisement.
## * #
Four ladies belonging to Minnie Palmer's
company were travelling in the train to Adelaide,
a few days ago, when a gin-soaked monster in
human shape attempted to kiss one of them.
Failing in this he began to breathe bad language
into their eight pink, shell-like ears, and the train
had to he stopped in order to permit of him and
some strong measures being carried out together.
This incident makes a good advertisement, and
nothing to pay.
-*'**'*
It is not generally known, but it is just as
true as if it were, that in some theatrical com-
panies each one of the principals engaged is hound
in his or her agreement to take a benefit towards
the end of the season. One of these make-believe
events came off not long ago, and a friend meeting
the lucky recipient next day asked how he fared.
“Splendidly,” exclaimed the fortunate ThespiaD,
“the best ben. I’ve had, ole man, for years. 1
only lost 57 boh when all was squared up.”
** # *
Lord Lonsdale paid down £5OOO cash
when he entered into business partnership with
Violet Cameron, hut when that was all gone with-
out the remotest chance of its ever coming back
again he got tired and went home to look aicor Ins
church livings and other properties. Lonsdale
isn’t a success in theatrical matters—nor in any
other matters that we have ever heard of either.
## # #
“ Adam and Eve ” is the last operatic
sensation in Paris. The two original parents ex-
plain in melody their feelings at being so unex-
pectedly born grown up. and then they start out
in search of that unlucky apple. They hunt for
it all over Europe, and Adam, through difficulties
with the police, travels under several aliases,
among others that of Adamus, a Roman patrician;
Adamos, a Spanish brigand, and M. St. Adam, a
Parisian dandy ; while Eve developes from a cos-
tume of rabbit-skins to short skirts and twelve-
buiton boots. In Paris they meet the serpent,
and Eve steps on it and crushes it flat with her
high heels. The writer doesn’t pretend to have
adhered strictly to facts.
#* # #
Amateur tenor (who has been abroad):
“ Ah, sir, you are an eye-doctor, I understand.”
Oculist: “I am an oculist, sir.” “Yes; well,
what I want to know is whether there is any way
to prevent the eyes filling with water while sing-
ing?” “None that I know of, except to steel
your heart against the sufferings of the audience.”
The Escaped Nun business is played out
Adith now lectures in Melbourne to seats occu-
pied by none—or hardly any.... Mrs. Henry Wood,
the novelist (author of East Lynn©) has just di«d,
aged 65. Her books mostly smell of the grave,
and she was never so happy as when she could
wind up with six pious heroines dying in a row
and expressing their forgiveness of all who had
injured them. In real life these heroines would
have died takirg a last shot with the flat-iron.
The gentle Love, candidate for Northum-
berland (N.S.W.), may not be much of a politician
but he is a born humourist. Perorating at the
hustings, he was generously forgetful of the
tumult in which the election up there has been
swathed, and expressed the firm conviction that
“Love would pervade the contest and Love
would prevail at the poll.” But Love don’t count
for much in electioneering. Electioneering is
War.
The Sydney D.T. has at length propounded
its belief in the fact that the misconduct of the
Dibbs-Jennings crowd is alone responsible for the
fact that Sir Henry Parkes now wears the halo of
victory. Hitherto that occasionally veracious
organ has been trying to prove that Freetrade and
the genius of Parkes were the two main agencies
in the achievement of the soft-goods and soft-
heads triumph at the polls. The strength of
Parkes is simply the disastrous weakness of his
predecessors in office. Just as New South Wales
Freetrade is merely the negation of Protection, so
Parkesomania is Dibbsophobia. Which is what
the Buixbiin has urged throughout this present
eontest.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) Sir Henry Parkes
described a political rival as “ the veriest char-
latan the world has ever seen.” Sir Henry forgot
himself that time.
The Sydney D.T. says that “if one grey
hair of the old statesman’s (Sir H. Parkes’) head
had been injured at Newcastle the country would
have risen as one man and demanded retribution.’
Heaven help the man who cuts Parkes’ Hair (with
a big H) then !
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —With reference
to a note in last week’s Bulletin, asking the fol-
lowing question:—“lf two rabbits are turned
out on a run, and they breed 11 times a year, and
have 10 at a litter, how many would there be in
12 months 2 ” —I beg to state that the nulliber
would be 16,912 rabbits. —Subscriber.
Henry of Battenberg is in hot water with
[he Queen, who insists on his wearing kilts. Her
Majesty has a perfect mania for rigging up all her
parasites in this absurd Celtic garb, and, as a con-
sequence, she is perpetually surrounded by a
number of Cockney Highlanders. As her Maiesty
can’t get Germans to wear kilts she had better
fall back on Chinamen. We have never yet seen
a Chinaman in kilts.
The Northern Australian spreads itself
out over one of the most awful deaths ever re-
ported in Australia. A teamster at Rum Jungle
swallowed a lot of carbolic acid, and for 11 hours
the poison slowly burnt him up. “ Those stand-
ing beside him could now and then hear a hissing
as the burniDg acid ate into some internal organ,
and after death he presented the appearance of
having been slowly baked by inward fire ’’—says
our truthful contemporary.
The Sydney D. T. proves that it prophesied
Parkes’ present victory five months ago. Which
gees to show that just as the wise are occasionally
mistaken, so likewise it is possible for the foolish
to be sometimes wise. But, after all, we don’t set
much store on this prophecy. As far as we can
remember, the Daily Telegraph has prophesied
everything in the way of futures possible in this
world for Sir Henry Parkes, from vice-royalty to
outlawry, and from victorious Premiership to igno-
minious abiding on the Vernon.
That well-known American writer, “ Olara
Belle,” says “ For the benefit of the entire mas-
culine sex who have puzzled over the problem of
the bustle and wondered why women will wear the
thing, ever since bustles were first thought of, I
want to say right here that the philosophy of the
bußtle, the reason why women will stick to
hump with more loyalty than they show theJp
church, their country, or their lovers, is that M
makes the waist look smaller. The bigger anSS
more sudden the swell, the smaller the waist will
look, and that’s the whole business.”
Here is an extract from the jubilee address
to Her Most Gracious adopted by the New Zealand
»Y esleyan Conference :
“ We desire to approach your Majesty for the purpose of
presenting to your M»jesty our moßt cordial congratulations
on the occasion of the jubilee of your Majesty’s illustrious
and memorable reign.”
There is nothing but “ Majesty ” in every line of
■he drivel. We incline to think that the majesty
of the Wesleyans would be better served by
dropping the thing into the dnst-bin.
It is now pretty plain that the main cause
of the terrific election row'at Wallsend was the
ineffable folly of Parkes’ action in irritating the
already hostile miners by bringing on to the spot
about 30 policemen. An reste, Osborne had just ”
as much right—and no more—to call Parkes a
gorilla as Parkes had to call his opponent, Lus-
oombe, a “withered tarantula,” or Hyam “a
shaved poodle,” or Melville “ a charlatan not fit
to he -touched by any decent person, even with
the tongs.”
Mr. Willmett, President of the North
Queensland £ epa atlon League, has come to the
fore with a new brass grovel of imposing propor-
tions. He wants to have the new colony named
“ Albert Land ” in honour of a dull dead German,
whom he describes as “Albert the Good.” Neither
Mr. Willmett nor his tribe, however, seem
to take Into account that A lbert was paid many
thousands a year to be “ good,” and, after all, It
might be advisable to name the country after
someone who was good gratis.
Perhaps it was excusable for Sir Henry
Parkes to throw oratorical mud at Mr. F. B.
Suttor during that Bathurst tour, but It was
rather a mean and unmanly thing for the slanged
one’s brother, W. H Suttor, to back up Parkes by
remaining on the platform while the muck-slinging
lasted. Two brothers opposed one another at
PaddiDgton election, but they did not make such
a holy show of the family as did this partisan
Suttor at Bathurst. We don’t think much of the
man who stands calmly by while a political fish-
fag slangs his elan and—talks of his “ mole-eyed”
brother.
The following choice message is wired to
the Sydney D.T. :
“Melbourne, Monday.—A report iB current in high mili-
tary circles to-night that the Russian fleet which this morning’s
Reuter's cabla announced had assembled in Japan waters
had sailed thence under sealed orders for a destination un-
known. The Premier on being interrogated to-night on the
subject professed ignoranoe.
“High military circles!" “High Military
Circles ! ” Let us mouth It again : The “ HIGH
MILITARY CIRCLES ! ” of —Melbourne I The
peaceful country of Australia has indeed become
a nation of colonels.
Blonde Lady : “I really don’t know what
to give my hußband for his birthday." Brunette
Lady : “ Why don’t you give him a rest?”
Two : He : “ Does ’oo love ’oo ducky ? ’
She : “ Kpps.” He : “ Tiss I, den.” Both : “ Oh,
how tweet.” Yah !
Our lady writer has made the startling
discovery that bigamists are nearly all men. True,
true ; but then, on the other hand, it should he
remembered that nearly all polyandrists are
women. So it is as broad as it is long.
“ Young man,” said the stern parent to
the applicant for his daughter’s hand, “ are you
sure you can support a family?” “ I-I wasn’t
m-making any calculations on that," stammered
the youth ; “ I only want the girl, you know.”
Polite Passenger (in tram-car) : “ Where
are you going, my pretty maid 2 ” Pretty Maid :
“I’m going a-shopping, sir” (she said). Pas-
senger : “ Won’t you have this seat, my pretty
maid 2 ” Pretty Maid : “ Oh, yes; thank you,
sir ” (she said).


Peper
and
Salt
From tho Melbourne Age :—“ In fond re-
membrance of Baron , who died on 22nd
January, 1886, aged 1 year and five months ;
deeply lamented..” Let us embalm this fact in
poesy:—
In “ Locksley Hall, Sixty Years After,”
that cringing ghost of what was once the living,
breathing Alfred Tennyson, has feebly endea-
voured to cancel some of the grandest lines he
ever wrote. This last poem of the poor Laureate’s
would seem to be a defence of his fatal mistake
in accepting a peerage. “Locksley Hall” was
out of harmony with the Tory drivellings of his
old age, and Tennyson probably received a Royal
hint that the Gracious Lady, whose livery he
wears, would like a public recantation. Hence
this sort of stuff:—
“ Gone the cry of ‘ Forward, forward,’ lost within
a growing gloom ;
Lost, or only heard in silence, from the silence
of the tomb.
“ Half the marvel of my morning triumphs over
time and space,
Staled by frequence, shrunk by usage, into
commonest commonplace.
“ ‘Forward,’ rang the voices then, and of the
many mine was one ;
Let us hush that cry of ‘ Forward ’ till ten thou-
sand years have gone.
“ You that woo the voices, tell them ‘ old experi-
ence is a fool ’;
Teach your flattered kings that only those who
cannot read can rule.”
Who can read it without dropping a tear over this
once Grand Young Man gone so irretrievably
wrong ? Pop us into sackcloth, drop ashes over
our bowed head, fasten a crape streamer to the
office banjo, and we will sob a litile dirge:—
Dead the soul of the reformer, dead the ardent
tire of you h ;
“Metamorphosised” the bard who thundered forth
the words of truth.
Only row remains the courtier with a handle to
his name,
And his withered bays replaced by a coronet of
shame.
All the marvel of his morning vanished into time
and space,
Staled by ‘ honours,’ shrunk by grovel, into com-
monest commonplace.
He that wooes the Tories, tells them only such as
they should rule;
If himself is Old Experience, Old Experience is a
fool.
Respect for Alfred stays our hand, and we will
parody no more. After all, the poet’s greatest
enemy is himself—the splendid constitution which
has enabled him to live so long. Sydney Carton,
in Dickens’ “Tale of Two Cities,” begged the
woman he loved to think of him “as one who
died young.” Let us bury our face in the goblet,
and think of Alfred Tennyson as a dead ’un.
At a Church of England congress held at
Wakefield, England, the children of light assem-
bled and met together one morning to consider
“ whether or no an African convert, who was a
polygamist, should be baptised until he renounced
all wives but one.” The Bishop of Exeter said
“ Yes,” but nearly everybody else said “ No,”
with a large N. And so it came to pass that the
warm-hearted convert was left with a choice be-
tween two evils —sacking the surplus missuses, or
dying unbaptised. Let us—as many as are here
present—protest
The old bottle-scarred holy ink-slingers of !
Adelaide are at it, hammer and tongs, a. week
or two ago there came a smothered wail in the
correspondence column of the Christian Colon- 1
ist; it .was signed “A Probationer,” and tte 1
author’s object was to point out that the proba-
tioners or journeyman shepherds of the Wesleyan 1
flock, not being allowed to marry until they came
to full bloom, were wont to fix their admiration
on ballet-girls with short skirts, and to walk out
after dark with and make unctuous love to bar,
maids, good-looking slaveys, and mixed ladies of
all kinds. It also hinted at various other high
parsonical jinks, which, in N.S.W., are apt to end
in men being hanged early on a cold morning. The
Christian Weekly, another organ of peace, re-
sponded, and speaking of the letter in question
said : “Its scurrility and foulness disgusted us
beyond measure, for it is, without exception, the
vilest letter we ever saw in a religious paper. ’
And then it added, “in making these comments
we have abstained from using harsh or unfriendly
words.” Evidently, therefore, this glorified saint
is cursing with his soft pedal down, and when he
comes out in full blast and the apprentice parson
! responds there will probably be an extensive
washing of white chokers in public.
There is a certain thoroughness about the
grovel of Joseph Bosisto, Erq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
which compels admiration. He slobber 3 and
sports the prayer bone with no uncertain sound,
and lays on the butter with a bold and resolute
hand. Some mortals merely bow the knee before
royalty ; others crouch and cringe ; but Bosisto
flops down upon his stomach and licks the dust
right away. In recognition ®f his distinguished
services at that blessed Exhibition, the old familia’ -
clique of Melbourne feeders fed Bosisto with the
old familiar banquet last week. He is the type
of man such men delight to honour, and verily
they had their reward. For one long nauseating
hour did this Joseph dose his brethren with
oleaginous oratory, whHe they—bless ’em—licked
up the oil as it trickled from his mouth, and found
it very good. Cheers, tears, and yells encouraged
the “ distinguished guest" as he brought up such
choice stuff as the following : “He felt that it
was his bounden duty, at the peril of his life, to
show forth dignity and power and energy for the
colony he had the honour to represent
Great as were some of the other colonies,' there
was none that showed forth such united intelli-
gence (thanks be to the life-risking Bosisto 1) as
the colony of Victoria. . . . Their exhibits
were greatly admired, not only by the nobility,
but also by the peasantry and artisans. .
He wouid never forget the magnificent spectacle
which he witnessed on the opening day. They
not only saw the Queen in all her Royal Majesty
butheardhersilvery voice. (Generaldelirium). They
not only heard her voice, but they saw around her
the nobility of England and the representatives of
the different colonies." At this point we feel that
a heavy responsibility is laid upon us. Milton is
dead, Shakespeare has gone before, and Alfred
Tennyson is fairly done up. But somebody must
sing, so with bated breath we ask the editor for
the loan of his harp and ran our trembling fingers
over its strings :
Your billet, on that day, we’d choose,
Our life we'd give, our soul wo’d low,
For one brief moment in your shoes
Near Vicky and them lords —
To mingle with the like of theso :
Queen, nobles, knigh's, and C.M.G.'s !
Pray svy no more, Bosisto, please—
For envy HI s our heart.
As loyal subjects of the Crown
We cannot keep the pasuon down
Oft have we longed to clutch renown
By playing such a part.
Brs'sto, chief among the blest,
Ghre mundane ca e s and troubles best:
Your game is now eternal rest,
So die, dear Joseph, qw'ck ;
For you have looked on holy thing]
And.sucked the sacred breath of kings—
Go! Get a halo and tome wings,
And [the poet’s taken sick. —Eb. B. ]'
A meditative Chinaman is talking to him-
self as he irons a shirt. Picks up a shirt showing
evidence of having been well oared for, and says :
“ Bachelor; him landlady fix him." Picks up
another, buttonlcss and all frayed at the wrists
and neck, and says : “Mallied man.”
He was a pure and holy light among the-
Good Templars of Wellington, N.Z., with half the
letters of the alphabet dragged in captivity after
his hind name. He was twice married. His first
wife had been prolific, and his second, made a fair
start with twins. The family circle was numerous,
and boots became a heavy item. He saw with
alarm his balance at the bank disappearing with
the numerous calls required to carry on the
iuvenile joint-stock company. Finally ho disap-
peared front the scene, and his brethren of the
lodge dragged the harbour for his remains. They
didn't find any. About the same ! ime a charming
barmaid also became non est. Certain ill-natured
people put this and that together. The deserted
wife with the twins went home to her mother.
The children by the first wife were sent to the
Government Industrial School. And now it turns
out that the ex-Good Templar and the frisky bar-
maid arc running a hotel together in a large Aus-
tralian city.
The other day a certain prominent Rock-
hampton citizen turned up at the Yeppoon coach-
office with a handkerchief-full of bananas. “ Can’t
go down to-day, sir,” said the driver—“road’s too
bad, and creeks up. May try it on Mondny, if
fine.” “ Not going to-day! ” returned the towns-
man in evident consternation. “ Why, man alive,
I must—l’ve paid my fare and my family are at
Yeppoon.” “No matter, sir,” replied the driver,
“ your fare is all right for Monday.” “ But—but
Fve bought a dozen bananas and they’ll go bad.”
“ That’s a bad job,” said the driver with a twinkle
in his eye,” “ but why not get them to take them
back, and giye you fresh ones on Monday ? ” “A
very good Hea of yours, driver, that’s what I’ll
do ; but I won’t have any more on Monday, it’s
too great a risk, they might go bad on the way
down.” And he took them back, got Us money,
and went away rejoicing. That man is rich, and
doesn’t he deserve to be so ! And he is a Scotch-
man, which goc3 without telling.
The best suicide on record was perpetrated
some time ago in St. Louis, U.S. The individual
who wanted to perish filled a bath with water and
attached to it -a heating apparatus. Then he
fixed above the bath an amateur gallows with
three ropes, from one Of which hung a pistol, and
from another a razor, and rigged up a candle in
such a position that after about ten minutes it
would burn through the third rope, at the end of
which was a noose. Having got everything right
he stoked up the stove and set the water in the--
bath boiling, lit the candle, got on a little plat-
form, and put the noose round his neck, poured!
kerosene over his clothes, and set himself on fire,
cut his throat with the razor, and shot himself
with the pistol, and then hung blazing until the
rope was burned through, when his overdone re
mains fell into the bath and were boiled to rags.
When found all that was left of him had to bo
fished out with a fork and put on a soup-plate,
and when the crack of doom arrives he’ll require
to get somebody to carry him up in a jug.
Under the gum-trees. January 23, 1887..
Editor Bulletin. — Sir, — You remember my
comments on the murder of the lunatic Tester
in Deniliquin Gaol? I may toll you now
that the executioner tried then a patent
of his own—a thinner loop tied to the ond
of the rope proper, and the bight passed between
the eidos, thus making a double thin rope round the
neck. It failed. Tester took 25 minutes to die.
Now, the letter in your issue of loth ult. describes,
another scene, depicted by a man and a Christian-
lam sure. You must be surfeited with opinions;
on Mou-t Rennie, but there are two points that,
have not yet been dealt with according to my notion-
of right and wrong. I believe that I—or you—will,
be imprisoned and flogged for what I am about to>
write -not in favour of, but palliating the part ot
Sweetman. From Lord Carlngton’s answers (con-
taining the words “partiality, favour, or affeo-
tion”), I am sure he has sat on many Courts-
Martial—the words are in the oath. Now
supposing “an officer and gentleman” had
been court-martiallpd for the seduction of
a girl, the result of what is called (or was)
dollymoppinp, i.a, walking in woods and at night
with girls inferior to the officer in social posi-
tion—m such a case, what would have been
the punishfnent ? At the most a reprimand, I
have been in the army, and in one of the foremost
branches, and on ray oath I declare that nine
out of ten officers (the exceptions being blue-light®
and married men) spent all the time not devoted
to sport End gambling in dollymopping; that waa
the Woelwich term. The drill for it was
taught (not by the officials, but by example) at the
Royal Military Academy and at Sandhurst. Now
was Sweetman's crime (the one for which he gets
H years and two lashings) any other than the same
aetperpetrated by a lower breedofthe genus homo t
Again, can Carington gauge the crime of the ]ft>o*
devils who were shunted, by the standard of his
or my morality ? We were taught, by example
and piecept, End oven I, once a Guards-
man, now a bush cook, was comparatively
virtuous until Pero Gomez stumbled at Tatton-
ham Corner. Failure in the main and nick induce
crime. Now the second item. Judge Windeyer
has been sufficiently vilipended. Why did not
one of the iurors (say the sickest of them) put in
an eegcr l If any one had refused to rise, owing
to sickr-css, nothing «ould have continued the trial
until rest and mental capacity had been gained ;
not all the threats of contempt of court could have
made me acknowledge myself fit when I was
dra Wh too fine. I blame the jury for not bucking
These are the items I wishetUo send you, and if
1 hear any attehspt at denim of the statements
concerning Army grisettes, I’ll let tho writers
have some facts concerning some Army swells
who are or have been in Sydney. Yours as usual,
Hirim Abief.
Why did’st thou take him—
Death, tell us why !
While common infants
Were left to die ?
Gods I is a Baron,
Although but small,
Of no account in
Thine eyes at all ?
Didst thou not notice,
As thy dart drew
Bis dear blood, Death, that
That blood was blue ?
He had a reason
For living. He
A Toorak idol
Was born to be.
If thou hadst left him
To grow up—then
Ho would be worshipped
By many men.
He would have “knocked” the
Plutocracy,
Land-shark and squatter,
And C.M.G.
And many a maiden
As yet unborn,
Full many a lover
For him would scorn.
And many a mother
Her girl would cheer
With, “ Love, expand now—
The Baron’s here!”
And many a sire would
On him gold press.
To make his daughter
A Baroness.
And many a sister
Would smile serene,
And help the plot—though
With envy green.
And many a brother
Would drop thereto,
And skin bim gaily
At, Nap. and 100.
And then he’d marry,
Of course, and be
A brilliant star of
“ Sassiety.”
His wife would bring him
No common brats,
But a noble brood of
Aristocrats.
Who, when they'd grow up, would
Lorv people awe,
By calling at them,
“ Haw ! Fellow ! Haw ! ”
Then, when respected
By low and high,
And tired of living,
Then he might die.
Now, Death, stand forth, and
Give answer here:
Why' didst thou cut short
His bright career ?
Then he made answer,
That sceptre grim
(Or —what’s the same thing—
We do for him) :
“ I took him early
In Heaven to dwell ;
If he had lived he’d
Have gone—Farewell!”
The wild, untutored savage has some notions of
his own,
He doesn’t think it pleasant for to languish all
alone,
And when he comes to man’s estate our du< ky
friend contrives
To settle down at housekeeping with half-a-dozen
wives.
AUSTRALIAN ANOTOMICAL THEOLOGY
PASTOR (to Farmer's 10-year old son): “WHO ATE THE FORBIDDEN FRUIT
BOV: “AVE ATE IT, ANYWAY.”
PASTOR: “DIDN’T ADAM EAT IT, TOO?”
BOY: “HE TRIED TO ATE IT BUT IT SHTUCK IN HIS NECK.”
Undoubtedly the darkie knows what habits suit
him best—
How many ladies are required to soothe the
savage breast;
The pale-face, on the other hand, we oftentimes
remark,
Says “ one’s enough for any man ’’—and keeps the
others dark.
He goes to church on Sunday, and he passes
round the plate,
Wears broad-cloth and trousers which are shiny
as his pate;
He’s a loving, t ender husband to the wife who
bears his name—
But he’s ditto to some half-a-dozen others, all the
same.
If the savage, then, turns Christian, and is anxious
to be washed
In the fountain with his brothers, shall his pious
hopes be quashed ?
Shall we shut him out from Heaven, and from
everlasting life,
Because he loves six ladies and makes everyone \
his wife ?
No, by Solomon 1 All honour to the savage who is
wont
To do the thing that whiter Christians ought to
do, but don’t;
We’ll wash him in the fountain, and we'll wash i
him white a 3 snow—
Yea, a precious sight more snowy than the others,
doncherknow.
Bosisto, chief among the blest,
You have for us strange interest
Since (in your flunkey splendour drest)
You first beheld the Queen
Robed in her royal majesty,
With haughty noo’es standing by ;
■Ah I Joe Bosisto, till you die
You’ll ne'er lorget that scene—
Sublime! Transcendent! Grand! Unique!
(The strongest adjectives seem weak)
And when you heard Victoria speak—
. O Jove ! it was too much.
Those dulcet, silvery, godlike tones
Thrilled all the marrow in your bones—
So different from the voice of Jones,
And Smith, and Brown and such.
“In Royal Majesty!” Ah! might
It be our lot to see the sight
(The Queen is oft. 2in. in height,
And broad as she b long ;
She’s dickey on her royal feet,
Her face-as fair as boildd beet—
Can smile a royal smile as sweet
As vinegar gone wrong).
And so, you heard the royal voice
Let valleys leap and hills rejoice!
If fairies offered us a choice
Of all that earth affords,


POLITICAL
POINTS
C. M. G. Consideiation M' ney to a
Governor.
Speaker Tar ton resigned “on account of
his eyes.” His successor, perhaps, will get the bidet
<n account of his rose This time, gentlemen, (he
nce9 clearly have it.
Parkes wants to leave a name which will
bo gr en in the memory of hundreds of thousands
when he is in bis grave.” At it is only
the names of hundreds of thousands that are green
in his memory.
Everyone of the late Sydney elections
could be upset on the ground that the successful
candidates have been guilty of supplying voters
with tie use of cabs —which is corruption accord-
ing to the N.S.W. Electoral Act.
Between the missionaries, the
Gormans, the Chinamen, and that
passionate bag of rheumatics, King
Malietoa, the little state of Samoa
seems in a fair way to go hung.
Everybody is draining money out
of tho count ry, aDd nobody seorm
to be putting any in. A lot of
biapk and yellow females in low
circumstance! have turned nuns,
and scores of piou3 he-niggers have
become priests, and these two
classes now think only of their souls
and spend their time In pious com-
munion and live on subscriptions,
while their unsaved brethren and
sisters are hoeing sugar-cane. The
country, too, is chokeful of bibles,
(ha Word being imported by Pro-
testant missionaries at tenpenee a
volume and retailed to the heathen
in his blindness at exactly ten shil-
lings, so that every bib'e sold means
tho withdrawal of about nine shil-
lings from the currency of tho coun-
try. On'y a little mote Scripture
and Samoa will ho buret.
Several of the rich Australian
daily newspapers hwe cowed over
the rejection of Henry George for
tho Mayoialty of New York. Now
that detai's ere 1 1 hand it is plain
that the gildrd Press has much
cause for exudation. Geoige was
nominated in “ town - meeting
cabled by 33 000 chirms, Ihe signa-
tures having been obtained in 10
days. “It was the revolt of
decent people against the machine.”
He had the s'gnaturcs of Pt3c’ergy-
men, 486 lawyers, over SOO physi-
cians, a majority of the members
of the Brokers’ Exchange, of the
publishers of the city, of over three
thousand shopkeepers (not one gin-
miil-keepe’), nine - tenths of the
newspaper men —in short, his 33,000
names were the sffid professional
class—neither the rich nor the poor.
It was a middle-class fight against
Rum. Romanism, and the Rich.
Roosevelt and Hewitt, his op-
ponent s, were supported exclusively
by the rich and the working-men.
There was not a rum-shop for
George. ’Jhat tells the story and
the truth. The labour vote went
to Hewitt and Roosevelt in bulk,
and only a fraction to George. All
the newspapers were against George,
and lied, of course, daily, as fa,t as
a horse could trot.
Dear Bulletin, — The Bourke
election has developed ore good
thing for sundowners. We have
been electioneering since the middle
of December, and it’s not over yet.
The working - man s candidate,
Wil'is, beat Wilson, the squattots’
agent, last time, hut the wcol-
klngs are on their tails, this time
and are busy making votes. This
is how they do it. ADy swagman
coming alor g and asking for a job
is asked his name ; if the name he
gives, or one like it, is on the
electoral rob, he is put on burr-
cutting until the polling-day, when
he will be expected to vote straight,
and as tome of the returning-
officcrs are squatters, or their
supers , the thing works pretty
well. Bourke to Cobar intend to
put Willis in and leave Wilson out.
—Bakcioo Billy.
How elections are managed
in N,S.W. ! A Sydney pressman
has been personated at three suc-
cessive elections. The reason of this is obvious.
The fact of his being a Sydney daily newsman
would naturally lkad the electioneering experts to
suppose that he was asleep.
Parkes’ strength, like Samson’s, lies in his
hair. Like Samson, too, he has slain his enemies
with the jawbone of the senior member for Pad-
dington. (We apologise for the length of this
roundabout equivalent of a word of three letters.)
Hudson Bros., of Sydney, are reducing
wages 74 per centU Freetrade, as jve have re-
marked once o» twice already, is a grand institu-
tion for the working man.
Yet another “ nobleman ” sent to gaol !
There is no greater curse to England than her
titled blackguards, who trace their descent back
to the jnisti esses of kings and are sustained by
inherited lands, which, unhappily, they cannot
alienate.
With one or two exceptions the polling at
the N.S.W. elections tew in progress has not been
nearly as heavy as it was 18 months ago, when
there wa3 no “burnipg question” before the
electors. EUve the cemeteries refused to give up
their dead ?
With that beautiful modesty so peculiarly
his own, Sir Henry Parkes once likened himself to
the great Napoleon. This reminds us that when
the crash came, and the crushed Corsican
his way to St. Helena, he sorrowfully said: I
have sinned against the liberal ideas of the age,
and I have fallen.” There’s a moral In the above
which the “ Great Hi-Bam” should sort out at
his leisure.
Parkes’ winning trick ! A fierce denuncia-
tion of his opponent on the night before the day
of election, all the elections being so artfully ar-
ranged as to give him the opportunity to do so.
The radying cry is “ vote for him and you vote
against me ! ”
The Sydney freetrade Press viil persist in
stating that there is a solid sectarian vote on the
protectionist side, despite the fact that for South
Sydney the senior member is a freetrader and the
junior member is a protectionist, and both are
membero of the same sect.
Alfred Allen (M.P., if you please) is
Parkes’ successor—in minia.ure. He is a red-
headed caiicature of that great (haired) states-
man. However, already there are silver threads
bmoDg Alfred's gold. Parkes is a poet. So is
Allen. Alfred is Parkes’ hairappaent.
Parkes said at Bathurst the other night
that for t?n years he really oelieved that Mr.
Frank Suttor was a gen f leman. Mr. Suttor, it is
understood, retorts that never for even ten
minutes in his life did he entertain such an
opinion with respect to Sir Henry Parkes.
The Sydney D.T. has made a wonderful
discovery ! The reason why the Riverina people
are protectionists and anti-Sydneyites is that their
minds are fed by "Victorian newspapers! The
remedy for this deplorable state ef things is for
the N.S.W. Government to run a morning mail-
train so that,the benighted people may have the
advantage of reading the D. T. and the S. M. H. !
Patriotic disinterested D. T. !
Dear Bulletin, —Another instance of the
faithfulness of the members of the N.S.W. As-
sembly to the’r deserving relative* is on record in
the free list in the schedule of customs duties'ob-
taining in that (Freetrade!) colony: “Live
Animals,” and “Specimens of Natural History”
are exempt from duty.—C.H.E.
The Irish question, to the mind of Sir
William J. Clarke can be settled by shipping 2000
rl undesirable persons ” from t hat country and stop-
I ing the “sinews of war ” supplied from America,
This Victorian Croesus, who spent a day on a
rabbit farm in the North of Ireland, could give
Salisbury odds as a coercionist.
Mr. Rose, secretary of the N.S.W. Pro-
tection Union, was only defeated for Argyle by
the Orange vote, which went solidly for those
abject political nonentities, General (if he isn’t a
General we presume he will shortly be one) Hol-
borow and Ball, who polled respectively 974 and
970 votes, as against Mr. Rose’s 788.
Yooey Taylor and Billy Teece have been
returned unopposed for Parramatta and Goulburn
respectively. No one would risk £4O on an attack
on the political strongholds of these two indivi-
duals, who, as politicians, are beneath the con-
tempt of even John Davies. Constituencies which
will persist in excluding average intelligence from
Parliament ought to be disfranchised.
A number of Germans who have settled in
the Hume district of N.S.W., bringing with them
letters of naturalisation from Sooth Aus ralla, are
told by the local police that they can’t \ole in
N.S.W. un il they have again been naturalised in
the latttr cilonv. The constable naturally sus-
pects all comers from the Holy Land.
The Pall Mall Gazette cynically ob-
serves: “In Ireland, society is so organised that
nearly all the people vho in England would be
usefully employed in carrying on the government
of !hu country spend their time in qualifying for
the county gaol. In England they would run the
machine. In Ireland (hey are run into prison.”
“ Vote for freetraders and c onstitutional-
ists ” was placarded in Sydney. Constitutionalists
is rather a lengthy name f<r Orangemen. Au
contraire , protectionist at the late election didn’t
by any means spell Holy RomaD. At East Sydney,
for instance, every freetrade candidate was either
proposed or seconded by one of the Pope's brigade.
Parkes says : —“ From the time when I
first hentered public life until now my principles
have not changed.” What a staggerer ! There
is not a single question on which, according to his
varying political foitunes, he has not expressed
himself with equal ability on both sides. He was
once a Protectionist and an advocate of the Deno-
minational system of eduoation. Now he is a
Freetrader and a supporter of the State school
system. He has been consistently inconsistent —
“everything by turns and nothing long”—ex-
cept his hair.
The Inverell (N.S.W.) Argus points out
in a friendly way that Parkes himself was a Pro-
tec lionist once —when he was young and vigorous,
and his intellect was comparatively fresh. He only
became a Freetrader in his old age when his brain
was becoming cob-webbed and he was growing
weak in mind and body. The country badly
wants thait intelligent young Parkes (the one
without the hair) back again.
A certain official attached to the British
Court, who enjoys a salary of £4OOO a year paid
out of the public revenue, has only one duty—to
walk backwards like a crab in Queen Victoria’s
presence on given State occasions. Meanwhile,
the dead bodies of the East End poor rot in single
rooms occupied, day and night, by eight or ten
starving persons ; and smug preachers alike in
England and Australia invoke God’s wrath upon
“ the unprincipled Socialists.”
The Eurasian (half-caste) compositor,
whom Sir Henry Parkes introduced into Australia
on freetrade principles, in older to beat down the
white type-setter to the nigger’s level, has never
been entirely extirpated since. One of these
smooth-looking mongrels applied recently for a
billet as a reporter in the city of snuflie, and in his
letter he said : “My knowledge of Adelaide and
if s people is thorough, and I am able to magnify
neutrality cr to neutralise a fact.” No wonder
Parkes liked this race. A cheap nigger who
could “ reutralise a fact” would be just in his
line.
Mr. W. G. Cameron, the Canterbury
Freetrader, declared that “ protective tariffs had
caused tome of the worst wars which had ever
afflicted Europe.” Mr. Cameron, however, doesn’t
particularise these wars, for tne very simple rea-
son that no such affairs were ever heard of by
anyone except himself. Mr. Cameroh is evidently
unaware that the vilest blot upon British histoiy
Hie Chinese opium-war—was undertaken in the
interests of Freetrade.
The Holy Trinity Churoh (Sydney)
Magazine, a moaning little rag whose clerical
editor has to pass the hat round to defray the
cost of publishing, contains the following ’ —
“ Let trade be absolutely free and unfettered !- Free as
the air we breathe, free as the sunshine. Let the great voice
, . , e - p ? op^e *bis country go through the laud like a
whirlwind demanding that trede be free ! , Let all the world
strike off the fetters of commerce, and to release trade from
slavery, dare to abolish the Custom-houses for ever !”
The paper’s creed apparently consists in backing
Farkes, the gallows,_;Freetrade, the slaughter in
Eastern Africa, the wheel of fortune swindle
at the church bazaar, the Tories and
the Queen, The rest of. their doctrines
consist of the hat and the shekels, the five
loaves and the two fishes, and, in short, every
thing that is “for the Loard”and against the
people.
The patience of the Tongan
niggers. has at last been worn out,
and they have commenced to bom
bard the Rev. Shirley Baker, who
is Premier and autocrat of that
crushed spot called Tonga. Shirley
is ore of the few missionaries who
have got the chance to become ab
solute boss of a poor dog-eared
community; he belongs to a horde
of glum old more or less saints
termed the Free Church of Tonga
and when he is not worrying the
Psalms or sticking his teeth into
Isaiah he devotes himself to perse-
cuting the Wesleyans and sending
their pastors to work out 12-year
sentences in chains on the roads.
The king of the islands is a scraggy
sorrowful looking thing with a
bloated eye ; he is bigoted, igno-
rant, s upid, childi.di, and a fluent
old drunkard to boot, and his
“advisers” run him on the same
principles as a baby-farm. Owing
to the utter helplessness of the
aged brown imbecile, however, his
subjects don’t care to shoot him
hue four true patriots went out
t w e o L J or evening with their guns
and swore to dado the fence over
with Shirley Baker’s remains. Yet
somehow or other they didn’t suc-
ceed. They got the pious Premier
at three yards range, and he ap-
parently got off by hiding behind
his son and daughter who were
split open instead. Some men can’t
be trusted with a gun.
All the Australian represen-
tatives of the forthcoming Imperial
Conference in London will be na-
tives of Australia with the excep-
tion o f the two gentlemen who are
to represent N.S.W. The whole
affair will result in a contemptible
haycDy but the prospective cer-
tainty of that is no reason why the
mother colony should occupy such
an invidious position. Why is it
that Australia’s only Privy Council-
lor was not selected ? Our two
“worthy” representatives are—a
political larrikin who was expelled
from the last Parliament for his
misconduct, and a bungler w T hose
political incapacity has been so
marked that it is doubtful whether
at the present time any constitu-
ency in the colony would feel
honoured in having him as its re-
presentative.
Sydney Evening News denies
that any one of its proprietors
threatenei to “ write Mr. Lyne out
of political existence,” but for all
ti'at the contents of the rag recently
would seem to indicate that, the
denial being true, the determina-
tion to accomplish the alleged threat
has since 'been adopted. A recent
clumsily-executed attack occupj ing
three parts of a column attempted
to prove that the veriest dullard
in Christendom even we may
imagine a party of the name of Ben-
nett— could have wiped the floor of
the ballot-box with Mr. Lyre, and
would have done so if the proposed
candidate had been able to get the
tail-board of his pyjamas fixed up
in time. No wonder the News hates
Mr. Lyne. He can spell pretty
fairly, doncherknow.
Dick Inch, brewer, who at-
tacked the Hartley (N.S.W.) elec-
torate, is posed as afree and inde-
pendent candidate, a protectionist, a freetrader, a
follower of Gar van, and a supporter of Parkes.
His political creed was that the publicans of Lith-
gow are as good as those of Mount Victoria. Ac-
cording to the local paper, he “ means to sit in the
House in a guernsey.” But the electors have de-
cided that his sedentary exercises must be strictly
limited to regions outside the N.S.W. Assembly.
Farnell, it would now appear, is to be
Parkes’ candidate for the N.S.W, Speakership.
There are but two memorable episodes in the
recent history of Honest James Squire Farnell :
one, the Gosford salmon-and*soda occurrence ;
the other, Parnell’s shameful and unmanly aban-
donment, at the very last moment, of the late Sir
Wigram Allen, to whom he had passed his word
that he would act as his nominator for the
Speaker’s chair. Are the Parkes party, then,
ready to forgive even that.?
One Irish landlord, the Earl of Ken mare,
now costs his country £BO per week. That is to
say, he has so thoroughly irritated everybody who
knows him that the whole county which is blessed
with liis august presence is following him round,
and it takes 38 policemen to guard his able-
bodied carcase. The nation has to pay for these,
and though an indignant member of Parliament
asked Lord Salisbury why useless peers should be
(Continued on page 13.)
ABIGAIL NOW DENIES THAT HE EVER WAS A PROTECTIONIST!
“ I certainly shall use every effort to frustrate the removal of duties already in
existence. If we must have more taxation I think that the fairest way to get it is
to impose a 5 per cent, ad valorem duty such as was in existence eight years ago,
which was a hardship to no one. . . . We do not expect merchants to favour ad
valorem duties. They have always opposed duties of that kind which, however, it
appears to me, although not levied for the purpose of Protection, will afford some
encouragement to new industries. This was plainly shown in the case of my own
trade when ad valorem duties existed, for there were'sumething like four time's as many
men employed in the trade as there have been sinee the duties were repealed.
The competition between local manufacturers will always tend to keep the price down
to a reasonable extent. During the eight years when we hail ad valorem duties there
was not a single advance in the price of goods.”
Abigail’s £25.
The other day, Hone A bagail offered £25 to “anyone who could prove that he had ever uttered a single word which could be
construed as a argil neat in favour of Protection.” Last week Tun Bulletin, in response to that challenge, disinterred from the
dry dust of the N.S. W. official Parliamentary reports a convincing quotation has above) from a speech deliver ed by Honest
Frawncis some four year 3 prior to the date on which he renounced, for the sake of office, any political principles he might formerly
have possessed THE BULLETIN, which, so far, was had no reply from Mr. Abigail, again demands its moneysh, which it under-
takes to hand to Mayor Riley for the bonilt of the Sydney Night Refuge and Soup-kitchen, an institution many of the clients
whereof may be fairly classed among the victims of Freetrade. However, as there is no desire to be hard on Francis, a three-
months’ bill, [?] endured say by the proprietor of Roberts’ loan-office—and carrying square interest, would be accepted as
cash.


Another Freetra de Triumph.
MANAGER FOR MESSRS HUDSON BROTHERS (Limited): “I AM SORRY TO SAY THAT WE MUST DOCK YOUR PAY. 7½ PER CENT ALL ROUND THA, HOWEVER, IS A MERE TRIFLE, REMEMBER, WE STILL LEAVE TO YOU THE J OY OF KNOWING THAT YOU
HAVE JUST SUCCEEDED IN WINNING A GLORIOUS ELECTION VICTORY FOR FREETRADER


Queensland cir
CUMIOCUTION OF-
FICE
5 tovst
/CEE P OFF THE CW SS
firm, Messrs. Carry »nd Maokd,
the lowest tenderers. In round figures,
the competition stood thus :—-
O'Rourke end Ahern ... £450,000
Overend and Co. ... ... 374,000
John Robb ... 321,000
Carary acd Maund ... ... 298 000
So that the New South firm wcro i
the lowest tenderers by £28,000.j
London, Thursday. Mr. John
Bright, in a letter in answer to a com-
munication from. Mr. John Norton, of
Sydney, expresses the hope that the
recent Soudan Expedition will prove
the last movement of the kind in which
Australia will join unless her interests
p£e affected.
<4rc£?~ \
A Cj-dJ!- goC
tf?nMLs o< j£'
1 cannot but think that every year’s expert- i
ence us more the urgent necessity I
of bringing the influence of religions truth to f
bear upon the education of the children with (I
whom the futuie of the colopy will rest, and |
makes it fciore evident that whatever we may f
do in ocr own day-schools and Sunday-schools ;
we cannot well exaggerate the importance of
laying hold for this purpose, ac far as the law /
allows, of the gTeat system of the public school I
organisation.*—Yonrs,<fcc, 1/
ALFRED SYDNEY. >
t&U-cLfih.
*V fa hm ■ z«~ A:^;
AW4/4, 7tx M- - Cfc t.
7 a~Ji \ \
X. 2X X W-* «/' /b 7^
X. Ta^y-
*jL.
\ fuJt-Tfc-
J
w^^*y
\~'7& ‘Zcotu*- 7l*&yT
U/HaJL J" <* ■ '
y Jh
if'
<y
* '(iv'
REUTER'S MESSAGE.)
Berlin. I« riday.—The Pope |ias issued
i fresh dispatch reiterating his former
injunction to Roman Catholic eleotors
throughout Germany to vote only for
such candidates for the Reichstag as
pledge themselves to support the bill for
'he increase of the army
’ 'pECR.UtTS roK i#?
siftwy rtf
CE/SSU /SERE-
/to /-
/'/£J)Z>L£~<SOME 'REI./C/o/V
e&i >y ■&- {s'
Pictorial Paragraphs.


Social
In the Marquis of Huntley (our very
latest “ distinguished visitor”) dear Lord Caring-
ton meets a choice conginial spirit. Both enjoyed
the distinction of sowing wild oats in the company
of royal Bertie, and both have settled down to a
condition of somewhat debilitated respectability.
The Gov. and Ins guest will refresh themselves
these hot summer evenings with yarns about the
good old times. They could a tale unfold that
would make your each particular hair stand on
end, you bet your bottom dollar. We fancy
Carington assisted at the Marquis of Huntley’s
farewell bachelor supper, given on the eve of his
marriage. “ Wales ’ was there, anyway, and in
immense form. That historic supper terminated
In a remarkably humorous manner. After the
noble company had wearied of dancing on the
furniture they opened the window and hurled
everything moveable into the street below. But
before they get on to those tender reminiscences
it will be the Marquis’s pleasing duty to post up
friend Bob in the Colin Campbell case and other
items of foreign intelligence, while Lady C. is
entertaining the Marchioness with descriptions of
“ the dreadful creatures one has to be civil to out
her', my dear."
Poor dear Bishop Barry is going “ home ”
for five months. The poor dear bishop also an-
nounces with deep regret that he will have to at-
tend the Lambeth Conference —what ever that may
be I— in 1888, so that he will probably either camp
in Kngland altogether, or take another spell of ten
months next year. The dear bishop will draw his
screw all the time he is away.
Admiral Fairfax is on his way to Australia
to relieve Admiral Tryon, who, being privately
some what opulent, only came to these waters for
the purpose of doing the two years’ active fore : gn
service necessary to qualify him for promotion.
Admiral Tryon is a most popular officer —ashore.
Having b cn for a long while attached to the Ad-
miralty secretariat, he knows all the tricks of the
trade, and has fallen into a groove of stern, inexor-
able, unpit.yiDg officialism. His one crank seems
to have been to make the Australian station
‘ smart,” the consequence being that more than
one ship has been sent out for say nine months at
a stretch among the tropical islands ; the officers
and men have returned to port in a broken-down
condition, tome of them on the verge of scurvy
Admiral Tryon has no doubt done much that is
calculated to maintain the efficiency of the fleet,
but as it is universally considered that the chief
and only uses of British officers in this part of the
world are to slay niggers, bombard cocoa-nut
plantations, and mash girls of all colours, it is
sincerely hoped that Rear-Admiral Fairfax, C. 8.,
w ill not be such a martinet as the gentle Tryon.
* * *
A circular, as follows, has been received
by a poor devil of a teacher (presiding over a
N S.W. provincial school) whote salary is £75 to
£BO per annum without lodging allowance :
” Training School, Fort-street, 27th January, 1887. Dear
, In view of the approaching departure for Europe of
Mr. Johnston, the Under-Secretary of the Department of
Public Instruction, on leave of absence for 12 months, his
numerous friends have considered the present a fitting occa-
sion on wh'Ch to mark, in apublic manner, their appreciation
of his valuable services in the cause of education for the last
32 years, by presenting him with an address and testimonial.
The Minister has given his sanction, and a Committee has
been formed to carry out the proposal. Subscriptions from
those des rous of assisting the movement may he forwarded
o the Hon. Treasurers, Messrs. J. Wright and J. Conway,
at the above address. We remain, dear , Yours faith-
fully, W. Beavis, J. Dettmann, Joint Hon. Secs. Note.—
itubecriptions Bhould be forwarded not later than 19th
February. You will oblige by distributing the enclosed cir-
culars among the other teachers in your s hool.”
No doubt the circular ha 3 beon extensively distri-
buted by those enterprising children of this world,
the “joint honorary secretaries.” Many and
many a teacher cannot possibly afford to contri-
bute, and yet naturally enough he will fear
(though no doubt his fear will be ill-founded) that
should he not do so ho may, when he attempts to
better his position by seeking removal to a school
of higher grade, find his application set aside in
favour of some fawning contributor to this fund.
“ The Minister has given his sanction //” When
an Inspector leaves a district, the teachers are,
very properly, not allowed to give him a testi-
monial, yet, when the well-paid Mr. Johnson,
secretary of the department, gets a year's leave
for the purpose of a continental tour, the Minister
“gives his sanction 1”—to the levying of what
some teachers may consider to be very like black
mail. The whole business is simply monstrous.
Paris has a new club, open only to divorced
ladies and gentlemen. There are now whole
hosts of newly-put-asunder individuals in the
French capital, for on the passing of the recent
divorce law all the accumulated troubles of a
generation came up for 1 settlement. As a rule the
business of being dismarried goes on without any
trouble on either Side; the evidence is not allowed
to appear in the press, and if there are any Colin-
Campbell scandals they are kept quiet. In one
cose lately, after the business had been settled by
mutual consent and the one had hern split into
two again, the lady went up to her ex-husband
and said :
“ Now that everything is straight, I hope you will put away
hatred, as lam sure I have done lam always St home on
Wednesdays to all friends who caj|l, and would be enchanted
to receive a visit f«jm you on a perfectly friendly footing.”
The new club is chiefly made up of ex-partners for
life, who burst asunder on the same charitable
basis, and they are quite friendly, while louts like
Lord Colin, on the ether hand, meet their late
wives with a wall eyed glare of ferocity.
The esteem in which some people hold the
geebung aristocracy of Sydney is indeed pleasant
to contemplate. One publican has even gone so
far as to put an engraving of the mansion of one
of tho uppqgften amtocrats of N. 3 .W. in his bar-
parlour. * The picture graphically pourtrays the
chief features of the palatial abode, including a
golden key used on an historic occasion. Such
reverence for “our betters” is indeed touching.
And nothing could be more appropriate than the
placing of a picture of this mansion in the parlour
of another pub.—at least we mean in a public-
house. #
A very “ well-connected ” Sydney youth
recently possessed himself of some bank moneys
and “cleared” to a town in a neighbouring
colony. Whilst there, be, on the strength of his
connections, “made up” to the governor of the
local gaol, and went riding and driving with that
august personage. Guess the sensation, then,
when a Sj dney detective arrived on the scene, and
arrested our hero in the very company he should
most carefully have avoided !
They want an inspector for the London
divorce courts badly. It would only be the square
thing if the one Mr. Justice Butt presides over
were to lose its license over this Colin Campbell
affair. A judge who allows people of that kind to
hang around his court isn’t fit to be trusted with
a license for divorce.
* * «
“ There are more things in heaven and
earth,” &c. In northern N. S. W,, during the late
water-famine, a squatter gave it out that he would
stand a champagne dinner if six inches of rain
had fallen by such and such a date. The promise
was booked, the rain fell, and the dinner was
given at (say) the “ The Footballer’s LegE.” There
were present some local licensing magnates, the
C.P.S., and others. After the Clicquot and Jules
Mumm had circulated and the viands had been
A BIT OF NATURAL HISTORY.
SHE (artlessly): “MY KITTY HAS GOT SMELLERS, TOO.”
negotiated, the company found themselves pretty
jolly, and a dance was proposed. Cut there came
a hitch. The hotel where the spree was in course
of erection did not possess a dancing license !
What did they do ? They sent a messenger round
the town to beat up “youDg ladios,” whilst the
“ diners-out” induced the magnates present to
grant a dancing licenso there and then 1 The
magnates, being very festive themselves, and not
wishing to spoil sport, winked at one another, and
declared the thing done, while the C.P.S. fled up
the street and recorded the license in the books.
That’s how they manage matters “ up North.”
The latest from an exiled daughter of
Home Rule : —A slavey, being bidden by her mis-
tress to make her a cup of the beverage that
cheers and not, &c., replied: “Well, marm, if
the kittle boils I’ll make yer tay, and if it doesn’t
I’ll make yer cocoa.” Fact !
It isn’t such over-proof rapture as the
plebs imagine to be deputed to dance a “ kwad-
rille ” with “ our own Queen of Beauty.” One
gentlemen, to whom the committee assigned that
honour lately, says that he would not go through
it again for a hundred pounds, as the figures of
the quadrille are eternally beyond his power of
comprehension. His wife reports that in the dead
of the night—the eve before he was to offer him-
self up—a demented offering—on the shrine of
Vice-regal Terpsichore, he leapt up crying, “ Oh !
What's the fifth figure ? Oh tell me what is the
fifth figure ? ”
* * #
THE SONG.
(To Sara, os Parting.)
' Well, the song is sung,
Who would listen longer ?
New life is begun,
New things sweet and stronger.
Sometimes, we confess,
While the song was singing,
Gray old tunes would press,
Weary day-dreams bringing.
Now we go our ways,
Sweet, without heart-burning—
This much of it stays ,
Echoes back returning.
F. W. L. A.
Nellie Stewart has gone to England In
most “improving” company. By the same boat
sailed Ivo Bligh and wife and the Rev. George
Dods. Dods is the frisky young parson who for-
merly acted as lieutenant to Charles Strong, and
was ultimately condemned for “ heresy ” by the
Melbourne Presbytery. We hope Mr. George Mus-
grove will see that Dads doesn't convert Miss Nellie
on the voyage. We shouldn’t like her to take up
Edith O’Gorman’s line of business, and return to
u® an “ Escaped Prima Ponna.”
There were bush fires last week at Mount
Macedon (Vic.) in the neighbourhood of Sir Henry
Loch’s summer residence. Melbourne satiety
was so pleased, you can’t think. One warm-
hearted young gusher expressed the sentiments
of the whole cultchawed community when she
“ hoped that dear Lady Loch enjoyed the spec-
tacle.” By the way, some ruffian started a rumour
that Sir ’Enry and his good lady had been reduced
to ashes, and they do say that a certain C.M.G.
bought an urn and took train to Macedon with
the idea of securing a sad souvenir.
She was having a wordy argument with her
mistress when she clinohed it thus :—“ Though
I’m but a servant I’m as good as you, anyhow.
Isn’t my uncle a real gentleman—a shop-walker
in Finney Isles’s 1 ”
In a country town, up North, there is a
widowed squatterass. Her staff of servants con-
sists of one whaler who works for his tucker, as
the lady is poor. Poverty does not prevent pride,
however, so O'Doherty was ordered to call the
young hopefuls Master Tom and Master Jack.
This is how he addresses them : “ Hi, you, Master
Tom, with no shoes, and Master Jack, with the
patched trousers, come to tea 1 ”
Her Gracious has just issued an edict that
all the Henry Battenberg babies are to be entitled
“ Highness.” The acute observer will notice that
although there is only one Battenberg baby at
present, the proclamation seems to contemplate at
least more th«n one. Saves trouble to issue one
proclamation and do the needful for all eternity in
one act: ever so much better than having to ru
out a fresh proclamation occasionally or eve
more often.
On Thursday last Mrs. A. J. Riley, th
new Mayoress of Sydney, held a reception at th
Exhibition Building. The structure was decoratec
with greenery, flowers, wreaths, calico, Chines
lanterns, a~d sundries, and, in the eloquent word
of the D.T., Mrs. Riley stood in a felicitou
“bower-like entrance,” “half boudoir-llke, bal
conservatory-like, and wholly sweet.” Mrs. Riley
whose initial effort in the reception line must be
pronounced a huge success, was dressed in anew
frock with fixings by Somebody and Cos,, and th
whole affair is described by the newspaper Women
as being of a tender shade of heliotrope.” There
was a great crowd ; half of everybody who was
anybody was there, and a good many of the rest
and nearly two-thirds of the husbands will never be
able to faoe the milliner’s bill. The Mayor stood in
a fixed attitude and the guests were run up to
hjm by the Inspector of Nuisances ; he shook eaxA
one- fervently by the hand and then the job-10l
passed on to the next counter. Ihe refreshments
were on an unprecedentedly liberal scale, and Sir
Henry Parkes was present, but Lord Carington
who, it is rumoured, has never recovered from
that lecture on “ Pleurisy,” attempted to sta>
away, and succeeded. The Premier was attirec
in a Freetrade policy cut bias and trimmed with
bad language and slang, and the rest of the cos-
tumes w r ere quite too lovely. The happy crowd
lingered among the victuals till near the setting of
the sun.
At St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, on
the 10th inst., the marriage ceremony was per-
formed in the preeence of ‘a vast array of
people, between Miss Annie Young, daughter of
the ex-Mayor of Sydney, and Mr. Reynolds, of
Melbourne. Mr. Yeung—who looks much brighter
now that ho is again married and is badgered no
longer about the bill for the Jubilee forks —gave
away the bride. Miss Young was attired in white
patin, there w'eco six bridesmaids, and almost
enough wedding-prqseuts to stock the Parisian Bon
MarchC.
• * *
Mid-day festivities are to take the place of
dances at Sydney TownhaM this season. The an-
nouncement appeared just about the time when
several hundred people had put on their hest
things and gone boa reception in the hope of get-
ting tiekets for the next ball.
Lord Carington is going tr> give “ Wales ”
a “ Picturesque Atlas.” It will amooze the poor
dear Prince.
* * *
An engagement Is announced in Brisbane
between Miss Nina Itoberts and Mr. Lasfcolles. of
H.M.B. Swinger.
# * „
We may remark, for tho Information of
tho distinguished-looking foreigner in the abbre-
viated pants and antique headgear, who seems
anxious to break the half-mile pedestrian record,
that however laudable his desire may be, the
Sydney Block at its busiest time is hardly the
place to select for a training-ground. Let us add
that such little ebullitions of spirit as shying tho
aforesaid headgear about the gutter and dancing
the Pawnee war-dance at the jrnrner of busy
thoroughfares, are not much appreciated—just at
present.
•' * •
The marriage of Lord Castlerosse, late
A.D.C. to Sir Henry Loch, and the Hon. Miss
Baring, is to take place in England this month.
* *
Parramatta No. 1 Fire Brigade held a
successful re-union—ln ordinary language, a dance
—in the local Town Hall on the 25th ult. There
were about 60 couples present, and some of the
ladies’ clothes were vory pretty.
Mr. and Mrs. John Liddle, of Warntah
(N.S.W.), celebrated their silver wodding last
week.
Mr. C. A. A. Schwaebsch, a well-known
Victorian bicyclist, is to be married on the 22nd
Inst, to the eldest daughter of Mr. P. H. Cadby,
Aston House, St. Ivilda, Melbourne.
A volatile old friend of the Prince of
Wales was, at latent dates, lying on her death-
bed. We refer to the Dowager Lady Molosworth,
long celebrated as an entertainor of giddy aobllity.’
Until quite recontly Lady M. took an oatmeal
bath every day, and thereby kept herself uncom-
monly white and fresh. This is a wrinkle for
Sydney dames.
* * *
The blmhtng clergy of the Fincko River
Mission (South Australia) have resolved to
appeal to the Government to prohibit the saved
black females from wearing moleskin trousers.
They reckon that the bifurcated male garment
sets the lady converts back a dpzen years in their
piety, and they want policemen sent up to nip the
trousers in the bud. This is rather hard on the
coloured Christians, especially when We bead that
high-born dames in London and elsewhere are now
taking to the divided skirt. Only a few weeks
ago one of them delivered a semi-publieleobure on
the subjfect of this new departure in drees, and
solemnly laid her leg on the table in order to show
how much she gamed in ease and comfort by
wearing the cbntemned and hated article ; but,
alas, these old blue-moulded missionaries are a
century behind the times, and except in the direc-
tion of drinking a little wine for their stomach's
sake they don’t seem to make any advance.
He was a sprig of British nobility and had
come out for “colonial experience.” After a
while he got a bit low down in the world, and had
great difficulty in mastering the terms used in the
management of working-bullocks. One day he
was driving his oxen, when a brother jackaroo
who was passing heard him say, “ Haw, there
haw ! Beg pardon—l meant gee 1 ’
“ When you see a couple on the street, if
the man carries the bundles they are engaged. If
the woman carries the bundles, they are married.”
Exactly. And if you tee a larrikin taking his
girl’s arm you may he sure that they are not
married. If, however, you see that she has taken
his arm rely on it that she is his wife. Before
marriage she i» his. Afterwards, hffis hers.
HIS VALENTINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My dear St. Valentine,
I charge thee by thine office to declare
This message mine,
To one who hovers near to Loveland fair.
Tell her how sweet
The prospect, as it opens to the view,
What visions greet
Th’ imagination, like existence new.
Tho spirit freed
Feels immortality alone can fill
Its love’s great need—
Since Love enthron’d, admits no other will.
Tell her how hot is Love !
What pleasant tumults, swoet imaginings,
The senses move!
Tell of the passion-flood that surging flings
Love’s gather’d wealth
Into tho bosom, where swift feeling springs
To life, with amorous stealth.
Tell what unrest
Succeeds the wild delirium of Love
In th’ longing breast,
When once the kiss its living fountains prove.
Then tell how sad
Is left the heart when love too soon it gives.
As tho’ it had
Lost all that Hope for which it only lives.
R. D. A.
Rookwood.


preserved at a cost of £4160 each per annum,
when they could be kept quite Safo in the work-
house for Bs. a week, the expenditure seems likely
t>o go on indefinitely.
Mr. Michael Burke has retired from pub-
lic life for the present. He broke the shock to the
people of Tam worth, N.S.W., however, as gently
as possibly. “I am not going to leave you at
once,” he said ; “I will stay here for a week so
that any person can see me and speak to me.”
Somehow we have never, in the course of many
years’ pilgrimage, come across anyone who yearned
to see or speak to Mr. Michael Burke, and if any-
one should turn up within a week that gentleman
may consider himself in demand.
Dan. O’Connor, is “ a Freetrader
to the backbone and spinal marrow,” and cites
Tyre and Carthage as examples of commercial
greatness based on Freetrade. The illustration is
about the worst on record. Both these pjaces
fpund their coasts blockaded one bright summer
morning, and as they depended on commerce and
didn't manufacture for themselves, they were
bowled out in one act, and now all that is left of
both these Freetrade cities wouldn’t throw a
shadow large enough to cover even Dan Yell’s
brain.
Polojuchtow, the greatest of Russian
pastry-cooks, has been offered the Bulgarian
throne. He is as ambitious as an Australian
Mayor, and —another point of resemblance —is 700
different aspects of an ass, and when three men
called and offered him the Bulgarian crown he
went out to consult his friends about it, leaving
the Slav patriots waiting. They cleaned out a
whole barrow-load of loose cash in his absence and
skipped. There would be a glorious chance of
doing the same thing here, if a deputation of
loafers would offer a crown to Habigle.
Manchester manufacturers are becoming
painfully aware that the Eastern market for their
goods is passing from their control. The Bombay
factories have not only got a very strong hold on
their native markets but are competing against
the Englishmen in Madagascar and the eastern
coast of Africa. It will be but a very short time
before the Bombay goods find their way to Austra-
lia and in these markets also English makers will
find themselves undersold. Against the cheap
labour of Asia it is useless to compete, when once
industry has become established.
The children attending the Blayney public
■ school presented Parkes with a gushing address,
which we are told was read by a pretty little girl.
Beauty paying homage to —Parkes. In the ad-
dress Parkes (who travels o* the dead Green-
wood’s brains, and who, a year or two before he
introduced the N.S.W. Education Act delivered
3trong speeches in opposition to the main principles
•of that measure) was referred to as the “bene-
factor of the school children.” Had the address
been presented to the Hon. W. Clarke we could
have understood the reason of this fulsome
•eulogium.
Speaking of the shameless “ratting” to
the N.S.W. Freetrade party of the Protectionists
Abigail, Clarke, Sutherland, Roberts, and Garrett,
the Sydney D.T. observes :
“ No doubt the financial difficulties of the colony weighed
with these members, who, perhaps, considered them of su-h
grave importance a« would justify them in suspending their
fiscal convictions until the equilibrium of revenue and ex-
penditure has been restored.”
We cannot help thinking that if the profound
politician who wrote the above would rely less
upon the abyssmal ignorance of his readers and
more upon his own ho would have a far larger and
firmer spot whereon to rest his feet.
Parkes speaks :
“ No man is worth his salt who doe 3 not go on from the
very cradle to the grave educating himself and reaping the
gre vtest harvest from his opportunities and trying to make
the world a little more pleasant and a little moie agreeable
to all men around him.”
That remark sounded well when it came from the
inner recesses of Parkes’ silvern beard, but we are
prepared to bet that if it had been uttered by a
little thin-legged man with short red hair and a
bare loosely-hung jaw it would have met with
nothing but derision. Sir ’Enry’s sentiment is
hashed up from old copy-books, but his look of
wisdom makes it pass as something entirely new.
That old professional cut-throat, Yon
Moltke, declared recently that “War is necessary
for the purpose of weeding out the surplus popu-
lation of Europe.” It did not occur to him evi
•dently, that the most reasonable way of doing this
weeding-out would be by knocking on the head all
those old hulks who, like himself, have outlived
their usefulness, or that the job would be done
more cheaply by strychnine than by Krupp guns.
Yet Von Moltke will go down to his grave
honoured and respected, while that poor dear man,
Herod, who only “weeded out” a few infants,
seems likely to be cursed to the end of time.
Moltke and Monarchy are synonymous terms.
It is probable that there will be 30 avowed
Protectionists in the next N.S.W. Assembly, in
addition to whom there will be several members
who, although Protectionists at heart, have
thought it expedient (for the present) to adopt
the Parkes’ personal ticket. Two years ago David
Buchanan proposed a motion in favour of Protec-
tion, which was not seconded. The Freetrade
journals talk about the Protectionist movement
having had the vitality knocked out of it. The
facts indicate quite the opposite Protection is
now a factor in N.S.W. politics, whiph cannot be
ignored or ridiculed as it has been in the past.
When Parkes’s transient popularity has waned,
Protection will have to be dealt with on its
merits.
The Dartnese ehief priest having “ turned
flog” on his countrymen —British gold did the
trick —the flag that braved, &c , is about to float
in peace o’er the White Elephant pagoda. It will
be an everlasting pity if the Burmese go dow T n
before Jingo rule, as all other semi-civilised
nations have done, for they are an intelligent race
,asnd such a thing as fear is to them unknown,
Thoreau tells hew the Jesuits ‘ ‘ were quite baulked
by those Indians who, being burned at the stake,
suggested new modes of torture to their tormen-
tors.” Another author tells of 12 captured
dacoits, whose chfef crime appeared to be that
they were brave fellows who loved their country
better than their lives, and who were ordered to
be shot one by one, “for the encouragement of
others.” The ball that struck the first man shot-
off his scalp in such an unexpected and ludicrous
manner that the 11 who were awaiting their turn
“ screamed with laughter,” and kept on laughing
until they fairly laughed themselves out of the
world. Touching the Burman elephant-worship,
there have been but four white elephants captured
since the foundation of the Burmah dynasty by
Alompraa. The third of these was caught very
young, and his mother having been killed, an
edict was issued ordering that 21 of the most
healthy young married women in the kingdom
should be dedicated to his wants, and if they fell
off in powers of nourishment, they were to he re-
placed by others. This was considered an honour,
for were they not nursing a god ? Major Canning
being permitted to view the proceedings, wrote :
The animal was not above three feet and a few inches
high, its colour was a dirty grey, rather than white : it was
very healthy, playful, and in good spirits. When I went into
the room, which was very spacious, and built of teak-wood,
the 24 nurses were sitting or lying on mats about the room,
some playing at draughts or other games, others working.
The elephant walking about, looking at them, and what they
were doing, as if he understood all about it. After a short
time, the little deity felt hungry, and, with his trunk he
pushed some of the women, but to annoy him they would
not yield to his solicitations. When he became angry, and
was too rough for them, they submitted, and he put his trunk
round their waists in the most affectionate manner, while he
was supplying himself.”
About the biggest reform organisation the
•world haa ever known is the American “ Knights
of Labour” Association. Its membership is enor-
mous, and it daily increases in political power and
social influence. A common idea is that the
Knights of Labour are concerned only with
trades-union matters and direct their energies
only against the capitalists and monopolists of the
States, but this conception is entirely erroneous.
Their aims involve reforms of revolutionary cha-
racter, and thebible of their faith, the Declaration
of Principles, is the most complete and compre-
hensive manifesto ever issued. In its forefront
of course appears a list of the concessions j ustly
due to the manual labourers of the community ;
of these the eight-hour system, liability of em-
ployers for accidents men may meet with through
the masters’ neglect or fault, the abolition of laws
unjust to workmen, the establishment of labour
bureaux, the enforcing of arbitration, the prohibi-
tion of the employment of children in factories,
the stoppage of immigration of foreign labourers
under contract, and a lien to workmen on an em-
ployer's assets for wages due, are among the most
important. But there are other aims of wider
scope. Of these may be cited the demand that
the State shall put an end to railway, tele-
graph, and telephone monopoly by buying
out the present proprietors of such services,
and in the light of Sir Henry Parkes’ pro-
posal to sell the railways of N S.W., this de-
mand is of importance in the colonies, as tending to
show what is thought of railway monopolies in
the Stater. Another important reform is the
establishment of the co-operative system whereby
the present friction of Capital and Labour would
be overcome. In the matter of land these knights
advocate many reforms. They demand a tax, to
be levied upon land at the same rate whether the
areas be cultivated or not, the valuation appar-
ently to be based upon the calculation of the most
profitable use to which the soil can be applied,
and declare that all estates the property of non-
resident aliens should be resumed by the State,
.and that in future all transfers of land to such
'persons shall be considered void, the land revert-
ing to the Government. Many other items are of
TRAM TROUBLES.
CONDUCTOR (to oray-handed son of toil): “HERE, YOU CAN’T SMOKE IN THIS CAR;
DON’T YOU SEE THERE ARE LADIES IN IT?"
SON OF TOIL: “AV COORSE OI DO, AN BE TH' SAME TOKEN THAT’S TH’ VERY
RAISON OI WANT T’ TAKE A WHIFF. OI WANT T’ DEADEN TH’ SHMELL
AV TH’ CHAPE MUSHK AROUND HERE.”
purely local concern, but the advance of an asso-
ciation founded on so broad a basis is only what
might naturally be expected. The knights have
got hold of the butt-end of some of the worst social
abuses of modern civilisation, and are certain to
secure ultimately a majority of the reforms they
are trying to obtain. South Australia, which,
strangely enough, seems —with all its gushing
“loyalty” and snuffling, till-looting, and bank-
bursting piety—to have a stronger democratic and
progressive party than any of the other colosiies,
is the first of the Australias to follow the lead of
these knights. As the other colonies are certain,
sooner or later, to form similar associations, the
principles of the organisation deserve a lot of con-
sideration.
One of the earliest settlers in New Zealand
was a Dr. Knox, who lived near Wellington, and
died in the hospital there about 20 years ago.
Dr. Knox was a younger brother of that other Dr.
Knox who acquired great notoriety in connection
with the Burke and Hare murders. At the time
of these events he was a student in the medical
school where his brother was principal. In New
Zealand he lived a very quiet and lonely life,
practising his profession in a small way. It was
known that he was fond of dissecting any human
remains he could get hold of, and on that account
and the associations connected with his name he
was not at all a popular man among the early
settlers. One day he was accosted by two young
men who told him their aged father had just died
and they wished to sell his body. A bargain was
immediately struck and the doctor paid £4 for the
remains, the young men agreeing to allow him to
dissect the body in the hut where it lay. They
then gave him the key of their door, and departed
with the money in their pockets. When night
came the doctor visited the hut and saw the body,
but he didn’t dissect it. He was so shocked with
the conduct of the two young men that he sat
down on the corpse and cursed them for three-
quarters of an hour for their awful depravity.
They had, in fact, sold the d'ceased and the
doctor at the same time. The remains were not
of the genu? homo , but of the porker variety.
They had pawned on him for his four notes the
corpse of an ancient wild boar, probably one of the
identical pigs landed in New Zealand by Captain
Cook. It was a bitter pill, but he swallowed it.
Out West, in N.S.W., on a recent Wed-
nesday night, a policeman arrested a man for
drunkenness, riotous behaviour, &c. He was
tried on the following Saturday morning, when
the constable stated that the man had been locked
up for two days in the hope of getting him dis-
charged on one charge, but the slightly intoxi-
cated J.P., turning to the other, said, “ The poor
has been locked up since Wednesday ; I
suppose he wants a drink. We discharge you, ’
The constable, of course, objected, but was over-
ruled, Trianglian bcakdom doesn’t live on soda-
water.
Britannia may rule the waves until all is
blue, but she can’t rule her own mother-in-law
worth a cent, and the old song wants to be revised
and corrected a bit. In London, six weeks ago, a
man requested a magistrate to inform him whether
his mother-in-law could prohibit him and his wife
from going out; the old lady had prevented him
obtaining a situation, and had latterly kept him
shut up in the house, and he wanted to have her
suppressed by Act of Parliament. To his dismay,
however, he found he could obtain no protection,
and he wandered back, probably wondering what
would happen when his mother-in-law found he
was out.
A. very sultry one-horse swell has come to
grief in a little town in far Northern Queensland.
He had an awful dad, who supported the Govern-
ment strongly, and through tbe old gentleman’s
influence he got an appointment as mail con-
tractor. But though he was paid for carrying the
mails, the Postal Department kindly allowed him
to entrust the work to the trooper who acted as
gold-warden’s orderly, and that unhappy wretch
had to perspire through swollen creeks and over
dusty hills with the letter-bags, and ride his
Government moke to death without any advance
of pay, while the eminent contractor went inno*
cently clucking round town and played billiards
aitd acted as chief dude of the district. The
orderly presently got “full up” of this fun and re-
signed, whereupon the contractor applied for and
got his billet —salary, £4 per week —and carried
the bags himself. He also got weary of it, how-
ever, and appointed a deputy at £3 a week to do
the work, while he appropriated the other
£1 and his salary as contractor as well, and
got a third billet to take charge of a neighbour
iDg station. Things were now' going on
as pleasantly as the flowers that bloom in the
spring, but unhappily a new gold warden came
up who knew not Joseph and his first inquiry was
for his orderly Hearing that gentleman was on
a station some miles away he poured forth a dusty
stofcin of curse 3 and sent a message that brought
the great civil servant in at a gallop to report
himself. He did so, and was just settling down
for a pleasant chat when the warden rose up like
a shark in hi 3 wrath and ordered him to go and
shovel that there muck out of the back yard. The
man with the three billets was so flabbergasted
that he obeyed without question, and when he
had finished the job he meekly started splitting
wood at the order of his tyrant, and toiled at that
till he was ordered to leave off and rub down the
warden’s horse. He has been kept hard at work
ever since, and he says the civil service is goftig to
the dawgs, and that it isn’t any place for a gentle-
man, dontcherknow.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
iddress is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ G. W. Sherman ” : You aren’t the only man
who wonders whi Parkes' opponents allow him to coarsely
■*buse them without retaliating. But a man may presume
even too much on his grey hair ; this unscrupulous politi-
cian apparently forgets that his career of treachery and in-
i’ratitude is a standing incitement to the most brutal of in-
vectives — “C. W. Marston ” : You needn’t give the undi-
vided blame of Ihe Soudan expedition to the Dallej-Dibbs
combination. Parkes is entitled to the credit of having
vigorously opposed that buccaneering expedition, but all the
leaders of the Freetrade party, who are now supporting
Parkes, were in the fore-front of the Soudan movement,
and would be there again if they only dared. “ E.M.” (B.)
Write again..Subscriber” : (1) Yes. Such a person can
regally act as returning officer. (2) He is not thereby de
barred from becoming suretv. .F.M. (West Maitland):
We have received your sketch of seven barrels of beer in
hysterics “ F.G.A.”: Please call “ H.N.”: Thanks for
< xt.ract. As, however, the quotation would be susceptible of
a double entendre , we don’t mean to give ourselves away to
our enemies—“ T. Campbell”: Don’t lose your temper.
More than half of Parkes’ Ministry are, as we all know on
their own authority, protectionists at heart, and so are a stiff
peicentage of the rank and file of this so-called “ free-trade”
members. But, like yourself, they just now are over-awed
by the imposing personality of the Man With The Hair, whom
we have seen thrice booted to the remotest parts of Beersheba.
“ E.L.8.”: You write as if the real English “ aristocracy of
birth” adored the Royal family. Why, the Marquis of
Salisbury, as head of the Cecil family, must look down with
unutterable disdain on that horde of German paupers
people of but yesterday, the Royal family, and there is in
England many and many a country gentleman coming from
an old and clean-living race who wouldn’t swap his lineage
for that of the Prince of Wales, even if the whole British
Empire were thrown in “ Honeysuckle” (near Hay) : We
see nothing remarkable about that idiotic “ Parent” except
his spelling. Show him up in the local paper “N.P.C.”:
Received “W.K.” (Rockhampton): Your Hiawathan
screed to hand. By the way, what does this mean? —
“ Lives a monarch very horty,
Very horty, bold, and cocky,
And although he is not stately—
No, not anything like stately—
He is rather squat and podgy ;
But although he is so podgy
He is very bold and cocky.”
We admire that. You lay down your central fact witb
directness and simplicity and then you hammer it in. But if
we published the whole 23 pages the Board of Health would
be after us “ Australian Anthologies”: Queer metre
“Georgite ” : No. Thu: office you named is, so as we
know, quite sound “ Stephen, W. L.” : What are y>u
driving at? “C.H.E.”: Thaaka. Suggestion submitted to
artu ts . .“W. B.” : Mr. Holloway is now, we believe, at
Hobart. He has not yet got ‘ 1 Int; igue ” “A Life on the
Ocean Wave”: Have we ever injured you or your baby or
your grandmother that you should send us four foolscap
pages about the damp, teiqpestuous sea “ Young Aus-
tralian” (Wagga Wagga): Your letter is clear and forcible,
but too long for our space. You have struck oil when you
say that Parkes could and would argue as well for Protection
as for Freetrade if it suited him. In fact he used to argue a
good deal better. He was a small manufacturer in those
days and made wooden horses and jumping-jacks, and he
wanted to be protected against foreign jumping-jacks. Now
he has no take in the country and nothing but his hair to lose
so he goes for “ commercial free-lorn and good government.”
..“ F. J. J. Kennedy ” ; JohnL. Sullivan’s fighting-weight is
we read, 13st. 101 b “J. Hynes” (Mackay): When a local
Irishman shoots a Bulletin joke at your loud-mouthed
grovelling orator, it is hardly fair to send the thing to us as
original “The Wanderer” (in Gaol): We’ve known many
a man to write, while in gaol, far worse verses than yours.
When you come oilt of gaol, however, you might call and
explain this: —
“No dream that the gallows with gibbet, strong,
Bearing strand-marks of ropes laid aside,
Would ever loom over the heads of the throng,
Pressing eager for jntals ’neath its portals wide.”
Do you dine on the gallows ?.. .“George Cuckney ” (Tinonee) :
Excuse us if we have got your name wrong, but your desig-
nation looks like a gridiron. We can’t print your blood-
curdling “ rime.” Just listen to one verse and blush for
jour nine times worse than awful screed :
“ & should they; get the grog
Which is true for me to say
They will fall over ; a stick t r log
& there for hours lay.”
Constant Reader ’’: Thanks “Elector of West Sydney ” :
Your scheme is one among a thousand for making Parlia-
ment pure, but has an element of novelty about it which r< -
quires some consideration “ Canterbury ” : Still,you must
remember that Mr. Henson’s high private reputation and
unsullied social record had already given him a front place
in the esteem of the electors. And, moreover, he was on the
Local Option and Orange ticket...“ J M.G.” : Will consider.
“ See here, landlord,” said an angry
tenant, after he had signed the contract for a
yean, “ this house is full of sewer-gas.” “ Yes ;
that’s what I told you.” “Told mel" “Yes;
you asked me if there was gas in every room, and
I said there was.”
The Church of England diocese of New-
-castle (N.S.W.) owns a station up North. Tnat
station, which only carries about 30,000 sheep and
no cattle, is managed by a manager appointed by
a board of clergymen and paid at the rate of £BOO
a year, besides s everal privileges and perquisites.
He has four supers, under him, the least paid
receiving £lOO a year. The laymen of the diocese
protested against such preposterous management,
and tried to get the screws reduced, but the par-
sons would not have it—cos why—some of these
well-paid officials are particular friends of theirs.
We would like to know very much whether
a certain late titles' official was in the habit
of investigating titles to land in the course of his
duties, and buyirig up any outstanding claim
which hq discovered to exist, thus using for his
own benefit information acquired in a position of
public trust. It is a nice thing if any person, de-
siring to bring his land under the Real Property
Act, is to have his title overhauled by a gentle-
man who will, if he sees that any money <shn be
made by buying up any person’s claim, certainly
do so. We asK this because it is a matter of pub-
lic notoriety that a certain solicitor's title
to land, estimated as worth £30,000, is
now being litigated by a man alleged
to have been set in motion by this ex-official
who discovered the flaw in the title through his
official capacity, and who is now, perhaps wrongly,
said to be the party really interested in the claim.


THIS WICKED
WORLD
“ Atticus,” in the Leader, suggests that
an experimental farm should be established for
rearing politicians, in view of the great success
achieved in horse-breeding under the same
system The people of Rockhampton (Q.) are
having a gay time owing to the floods. Owners
of two-storey villas have now to hire a ChiDaman
to shovel the frogs off the balcony “ Ma coon-
science 1 ” said the bailee, “but th’ ways o’ th’
Almighty are malst deevlish in their workin’s."
Last year a Penrith farmer lost £4O worth of hay
because “ it ” didn’t rain in a proper manner. This
year he lost £6O worth because “ it” did rain in a
proper manner. And now he’s in trouble with
the church authorities because he didn’t at-
tend a special service, and offer up thanks
for the late abundant rains ...The directors
of the A. M.P. Society have started a system of
office-assisted policies for clerks and other em-
ployes, and the shareholders are kicking up a row
about it. They might do well to recollect the
Scripture Command; “ Thou shalt not muzzle the
ox that treadeth out the corn.” Henry Myall,
of the N.S.W. artillery, cut his throat last week.
He left behind him an essay on Beer and its conse-
quenoes, in which he said he had been mad for 14
years and he hoped Heaven would help “ all his
poor unfortunate women and children."...Another
murder has been committed among the hungry
and demoralised crowd at Kimberley. The as-
sassin burned his victim but left one leg sticking
out, and that leg gave him away Baffle Group
•(grand name) is a projection outside a North
Queensland seaport where debtors wait for the
outward bound mail-boat by which to levant.
Bismarck calls Randolph Churchill “ a
twopenny Calibre.” Randolph responds by
‘calling the Man of Iron a Saur Kraut
■Caesar Several months ago a bulloca-
dray loaded with dynamite started from Port
{Elizabeth (South Africa) for the Kimberley
diamond fields. It hasn’t been seen or heard of
since, hut at one place op the road a huge chasm
has been opened, and there is hardly a tree stand-
ing for a mile round Lady Colin Campbe l’s j
father is a lineal descendant of that Colonel Biood l
who had a weakness for Crown diamonds in the
itime Of James 11.......“ And what was the disposi- '
tion of the remains f " was asked of a man ri'ho
recently lost his mother-in-law. “ The dispo3i- 1
tion of the remains," he replied, with real feeding,!
“ was quiet and peaceful." “ I do dove a liar, ’ ]
•observed Mrs. Graprp, after her husband had heen
telling her why he was detained at tlm office
Mr. Grapp simply answered, “ Egotist!” and
mow they eat their meals in silence
Wife (reading the paper) : '‘Here is an account
•Of a man who has sold his wife for £2O.
Isn't it dreadful ?” Husband (thoughtfully):
Well, I dunno ; £2O is a good deal of money.”
....At our hoarding-house. Mrs. Brown : “Can
I send you some more soup, Mr Dumley j ” Mr.
Dumley : “ No, thanks.” Mrs. B. (engagingly) :
“ Don’t refuse, Mr. Dumley, because it isn’t con-
sidered good forpi to be helped twice to soup.”
Mr. D. : “Ob, etiquette has nothing to do with
it, madam; it’s the soup.” A Krupp gun
weighing 121 tons has been shipped at Antwerp,
for Spezzla—the largest cannon that has ever been
made The Duke of Argyle pays the costs of
the Colin Campbell suit, which total £40,000
In Moravia eligible men and women cast lots to
decide whom they shall marry. Customs differ,
don’t they? In Australia men don’t cast lots
before the wedding, but after it they do cast lots
—of flat-irons, and cups, and things A choice
English maniac has hacked himself to walk 1000
miles in 48 days on the high road, and blow a
bugle before each house he passes. He will pro-
bably be slain At an evening party ; “ You
like the piano, Mr. Brown?” “Yes, I prefer it
to the gallows. ” Churchill responds to Bis-
marcks “ Twopenny Catibne ” with “ Sauer Kraut
Ciesar.”
That super-pious young Victorian landing-
waiter who seized a consignment of Zola’s novels,
nil for the glory of himself and the dear Loard,
turns out to be a parson’s son. If he had been
the unregenerate offspring of a rum-retailer he
possibly wouldn’t have fossicked after filth half so
diligently. Too much study of the Bible affects
Very young Christians in this way. It sharpens
their sense of moral smell. We are credibly in-
formed that the landing-waiter detected “ Nana ”
from afar off, and opened the book at its very
spiciest illustration with unerring precision.
Editor Bulletin.—Sir,—l saw a yam in
the Christmas number of your paper about Scotty
the Wrinkler’s dog, and he must have been a very
good dog, only it is a strange thing that another
dog did the very same thing once before, and a
man named Grant put it in a book called “ Bush
Life in Queensland,” and Scotty can read all about
it there, but I expect he has already. I expect
Scotty must have bought Grant’s dog off him, or
else got a pup out of the same litter. But I want
to tell you about a dog we had called Abraham.
One time he was lying in the farm-yard and
a strange oock came into the yard, and
he was a fighting-cock, and he went for
our rooster and killed him. So Abraham, he
evidently felt put out at this, and after a while he
went down to Brown’s, the fowl fancier’s, where
there was a collie dog, a great friend of Abra-
ham’s. And in a little while the two of them
•came up the road driving Brown’s champion game
rooster, worth 20 guineas, in front of them.
Great work they had to get him along, too, so
they worked him into our yard and shepherded
him there for about two hours until the strange
cock came back. Then they let them at it, and
after a short combat Brown's rooster killed the
Btranger, and Abraham wa3 that delighted he
Just fairly smiled and went into the kitchen and
stole some bread and gave it to Brown’s cock and
made him a speech saying how he had upheld
yours truly, [what! —Ed. B 1
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ They are neither man nor woman, they
are neither brute nor human, they're Argyles.”—
N.Y. paper.
The Richmond (Vic.) Council has decided
to buy a new cocked hat for the mayor as a mark
of esteem towards her Majesty on her jubilee an-
niversary.
Shakespeare is petitioning for a divorce
from his wife in the Melbourne Court. And, by
the way, Milton runs a tailoring establishment in
the same city.
The Marquis of Lome was not present
during the Colin Campbell case. On the con-
trary, he gave his brother a pretty wide berth
during the whole trial.
That enthusiastic C.M G., Bosisto, says
that on the Colonial Exhibition opening day he
“ not only saw the Queen in all her Royal majesty,
but heard her silvery voice.” There, now 1
It is now rumoured in England that the
Duke of Marlborough Intends proposing re-mar-
riage to the wife whom he kicked and bruised in
times past until she was fain to seek refuge in the
divorce court.
Labouchere bluntly affirms in Truth that
“ the morganatic marriage ” of Princess Beatrice
with Henry of Battenberg has destroyed all the
prestige of English royal people at the courts with
which they would naturally desire a connection.
It is rumoured that the Duchess of Edin-
burgh has given the bulk of her private fortune
to her brother, the Czar of Russia—or else that
the Czar has jumped it. Either way, it is satis-
factory to think that Edinburgh doesn’t finger the
cash.
The individual who started the late Big Bay
(N.Z.) rush has found it advisable to skip for fear
of being nailed up by the ears to a tree-trunk. He
travelled very fast, and went a long way with-
out stopping, arid he says he will never pioneer
another goldfield.
Public opinion in London freely ascribes
Judge Windeyer’s hostility towards Mr. Salomons
to a narrow-minded hatred of the latter’s Jewish
origin. The Hebrew papers of the British ra; i tal
published foil biographical sketches of the new
Chief Justice of a day.
Among the books lent by the Duke of
Marlborough to Lady Colin Campbell were Draper s
MEW TILL LATE.
MEW-TIL-LATED.
“Intellectual History of Europe’’ and B icons
“ Essays.” It is the constant study of such b >oks
as these that has enabled England's nobility to
rise to their present high intellectual level.
Bob Ross, of Tarangaba (Queensland),
has been throwing hunks of gold at his pigi for
the last ten or fifteen years, and the pigs, knowing
that their styes were built on golden f mndations,
have swaggered no end. Bob has now sold a
lease of tne place for £20,000 and a royalty
amounting to a third of the proceeds,
Milner Stephen, the eminent apostle and
breather through red flannel, who collected from the
people of Brisbane to the tune of £9OO in one ortnighc
and almost broke the bank in N.S.W , is getting
“fits” from the London Press. Tne Pall Mall
was the first to drop on the great rag-and oint-
ment monger, and the other papers have since
followed suit. •
A tolerably well-gilded personage who is
now running for a certain N.S.W. constituency,
when in London a few years ago, war understood
to be a “ wealthy Australian squatter ” —although,
as a matter of fact, he made his money by shearing
the human carcase. In other words, he was a
barber. May be one day he will be eleoted at the
top of the pole—the barber’s pole.
It is very hard for a man who lives in
Australia to get a proper standard whereby to
measure the vastness of the greatest minds of
Europe. But at last we have partially got Bis-
marck’s measure. “He drank nine glasses of
brandy-and- water during his soeech on the Ger-
man Army Bill.” Nine brandies! Let us wor-
ship Bismarck.
Captain Bendereff, who commanded the
right wing of the Bulgarian army at Slivnitza,
accuses Prinoe Alexander of Battenberg of the
rankest cowardice throughout the campaign, and
asserts that he was the chief intriguer for his
own deposition. According to Bendereff, the de-
position was simply what the classic ‘' black-reds
of Haymarket, Sydney, would ca 1 “a put-up
job."
Baron Tennyson is busy hammering out a
node on the Jubilee. He has now been working
at it for three months. The delay is variously ex-
plained. Some loyal persons say it will take
double that time to duly extol all the noble deeds
of Her Gracious. Other disloyal spirits say that
Baron Tennyson has been trying all that time to
find any noble needs to write about. He’s right
on the job anyhow.
The champion mean man lives in Queens-
, land. He is a pretty rish Wide Bay squatter and
has a brother (a miserable bank-clerk in N.S.W.)
who some time ago wrote asking him whether he
would give him something towards buying a
bicycle—the applicant mentioning that all the rest
of the family were helping, and he required some-
thing under £1 still. By return post he received
half-a-crown ! s worth of Queensland stamps.
It is rumoured that the Pope will, in case
of war, move his clerical camp to Monaco, a
gambling-hell on the Mediterranean, with a terri-
tory about the size of a decently large freehold
sheep run. If he does, King Humbert of Italy
will secularise the palace of the Vatican and St.
Peter’s, and turn them into a national university,
with art galleries and museum attached, and hi 3
Holine33 will be called the Pope of Monaco.
The Shepparton Advertiser, a solemn
little fly-paper published in one of the rockiest
and most bunyipy parts of Victoria, obituarises a
local deceased thus :
“ Mr. Langford, with Alexander the Great, could have
boasted that he came, he saw, and be conquered.”
This carries our thoughts back to the time when
Hannibal chased Napoleon Bonaparte over the
plains of Gibraltar.
We read that “ Queen Victoria is breaking
very rapidly, and she is conscious that her life
cannot be spared many years longer. The only
i hadow over the jubilee year is the general appre-
hension amoDg the people of England that the
Queen may not live till the year is complete i.
The appearance of old age is most clearly marked,
even in her jubilee portrait, which has just been
completed and placed in the gallery leading to her
private apartments at Windsor.”
That lucky youth, Prince George of
Wales, for whom many and many a maiden at
Potts Point still is sighing, came out strong at the
christening of Baby Battenberg. He religiously
stayed away from the ceremony, and only sent the
sucking pauper a present of a pewter beer-pot
calculated to hold a quart. The note attached
expressed a hope that when it came to the new
infant's turn to give presents he might not be so
dtad-broVe as the writer then found himself.
HaU, the condemned Timaru (N.Z.)
poisoner, i 1 si confident of escaping the gallows
1 hit he is getting two of his teeth stopped. But
condemned persons are proverbially anxious about !
their health. Not so very long ago, in Sydney, a
»■ an under fccntencc of death sent for Dr. O’Con-
nor, the prism physician, two days before the day
of execution. “ What’s the matter ?” asked the
d c or. “ I have a dreadful pain in my elbow,”
replied the condemn jd man—who wag duly hanged
within 48 hours.
It is the good for turn of Mr. Labouchere
to turn everything h 5 couches into gold. Truth
paid from the second nurrner, and it now brings
him io the princely iuc rno of £12,000. He was
for ten years a theatrical manager, and yet lo3t
no money. The other day Heary Irving was re-
calling those days when he was one of Mr. Labou-
chere’s stock c inoany at the Queen’s Theatre, in
Long Acre, and, with half a sigh, related the fact
that he was only receiving £7 a week. “Three
pounds my friend,” iuterposed the heartless
Libby.
Including the record of the tenth day, the
quantity of space given by the London Chronicle
to the Colin Campbell Divorce case was 90 ]
oo' imns. The Standard was satisfied with 59,
aid The Daily News with 53 columns of evi-
dence Newspapers are what their readers make
them. Which is a g,’OS3 reflection on the Sydney
Evening News’ clients. The Chronicle mat.er
published in thid case exceeds in number of words
the whole o: the New Testament. But it must
remembered that Joieph and Mrs. Potiphar have
no show worth talking about in the New Testa-
ment.
110 viand Maurice, of Auckland, N.Z ,
has suicided, and has gone to a land where
there is no “ Rough on Rats.” The chief pecu-
liarity of his case is that he took his own death-
notice round to the papers two days before his end
and paid for the insertion in advance —an honour-
able action which reflects infinite credit on the
corpse. In his pocket were found several letters,
one commencing, “My dear husband that was,”
and another, “ My dear husband that might have
been.” The police are now trying to sort out the
tangled biography of this man who used to have
one wife and who m J ght have had two.
The late Earl of Shaftesbury, in his
“ Memoirs,” pays an unintended compliment to
bis old friend, Lord Palmerston. “He does not
know,” moaned tho wo thy pietist, “ in theology,
Moses from Sydney Smith The Vicar of Romsey,
where he goes to church, is the only clergyman he
ever spoke to.” We can quite believe this. Pam.
preferred writing despatches on subjects he did
understand to grinding out treatises on ghostly
enigmas. And all he knew about Sydney Smith
and Moses was that the former was the undoubted
author of the good things he is credited with say-
ing, while the latter probably wasn't —and possi-
i bly never lived at all. As for only speaking to
i one clergyman —well, Palmerston has a distinct
! pull over us in that matter.
' King Otto, of Bavaria, is coming out in a
new character. Before his lunatic brother Louis
terminated a glorious and beneficent reign by
drowning himself and his physician, Otto always
adopted the habits and customs of a lion. He
went about on all fours, preferred his meat raw,
and roared with royal regularity at feeding times.
But since the Lord anointed Otto, that useful
monarch shakes the dew-drops from his mane no
more. After carefully studying the national
postage-stamp, he has established himself to his
own satisfaction as a double-headed eagle. Ac-
cording to latest Bavarian “ Court Intelligence,”
His Gracious Majesty divides bis time between
flapping his wings at the Lord Chamberlain and
building a nest. Eggs have been procured for
him, and Otto is eager to hatch an heir to the
throne before he dies. At present he is patiently
sitting on some hens’ eggs, so the next King of
Bulgaria will probably be a rooster.
At latest dates Lady Colin Campbell was
ladUng out hot pea-soup for poor children and
singing two hymns ” —O, Snuffle ! —in public.
Who was it that said “ piety ” and pruriency were
only different phases of the same emotion ? When
this charming pietist was in the witness-box the
other day she admitted that she. a married
woman, saw no reason to be any the less friendly
with the Marquis of Blandford because of the fact
that he had seduced Lady Aylesford, And this is
from the examination of Mrs. B’ood, Lady Colin
Campbell’s mother :
" Did your daughter’s association with Lo-d Blandford
meet with your api-rov&i ? —Yee, so far as ordinary acquain-
tance went. I did not see anything to prevent it I wa*
uuit aware < f lord Bian^ford's previous appearance in the
Divo' ce Court.
Aud you considered him a proper associate for a beauti-
ful youug married woman ?—I did.
Are you expressing your view, or that of society in that
matter ? I think that of society generally.”
In other words, Mrs. Blood quite endorsed the
view of English Society, which she knew to be in
favour of a young married woman consorting with
a profligate of between 40 and 50 who seduces the
wife of his friend under his own roof whilst absent
abroad ; who beats his own wife while in the
most delicate of conditions , who lives in open
adultery with his mistress. We read that Lady
Colin Campbell “ teaches the young at factories,
workshops, and Sunday-gchools.” We wonder
what she teaches ’em ?
In the sequel to “ Locksley Hall,” just
published, Tennyson tells his grandson that he
never could have loved a worldling like Judith,
who has played such sad havoc with the suscep-
tible youth’s feelings, but this is precisely what he
did. When Alfred Tennyson was a promising
young poet crowned with Oxford's academic
laurels, he wooed hi* first cousin, the story of
which wooing he afterwards wove into beautiful
verse and gave to the world. Another suitor, the
wealthy heir to the earldom of Boyne, however,
appeared on the scene, and the fair Amy, after-
ward so liberally adjectived a 3 “ false and servile,’
became a peeress. Lord Boyne, who is the owner
of large estates and valuable coal-mines in the
county of Durham, the heart of the northern coal-
fields of England, freely extended his ho3oitality
to his bride’s cousin at Brancepeth Castle, a
modern but imposing mansion. ' The poet repaid
the k'ndness by sa'irizing the good-natured peer,
his brand-new title, and his recently-acquired
wealth most mercilessly in ‘‘Maud” and “ Locks,-
ley Hall.” Independent of his wife’s very natural
indignation, Lord Boyne was not gratified to find
his beautiful home described by a recent guest as
a “ gewgaw ” castle, or at having the world in-
formed in verse, however harmonious, that his
wealth had come from the sweat of miners; neither
did he enjoy the thought that the tongues of the
world were wagging over the story of his money
having brought him a wife who preferred another
lover. It is possible, too, he failed to see the
beauty of those Rembravdt-like touches wherein
he is described as a clown and drunken. It might
be beautiful poetry, the outraged host urged, but
it was not true. His lordship is certainly one of the
most commonplace and uninteresting of peers or
of commoners, but he is neither coarse nor drunken,
and Brancepeth Castle with its shivering larches
knew Tennyson no more.
This, about the Prince of Wales and
Society, from an English paper :
"But of the mindless mob thus represented as looking to
him for an ‘ideal’ of life, how many are there who have not
chuckled or tittered over every story told to his shame? With
these unclean records, in detail, I have here nothing to do,
whe her by way of founding on them or examining them. The
point is that again am again since his early manhood England
has resounded with a scandal in which he figures disgrace-
fully ; that the great majority of his couatrymen affect to
believe each infamy in turn; and that he yet retains hi 9
precious ‘social’ prestige unimpaired. If he is in the main
innocent—as may well be—no man is better deserving of
sympathy; and if he were guilty, followed as he has been
from his youth up by a herd of sycophants mean enough to
• laud him for any vileness, he would *t least be no worse a
personality than the people who make him their * ideal,’ to
say nothing of his actual corrupters. But, whatever his life
may have been, there can he neither mistake nor doubt
about the moral spectacle presented by the ‘Society’ wnich
makes him its lawgiver. Purposeless as that of the Restora-
tion, and tastele«s as that of the first Georges, frivolous as
ever was th *.t of France, and undignified as ever was that
of a German principality, it i 3 the most unwholesome limb
of the Englisn race ; a danger to civilization and a confusion
1 to all hign hopes of human things.”


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
(T4T Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
supplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
The Bulletin..
“How he Died,” and. Other Poems.*
BY
MR. JOHN FARRELL.
As a’l bat one of the poems now published by Mr.
Farrell have been already printed in The Bulle-
tin during the last four years, we do not think it
neces-ary to give them a detailed notice, or even
to catalogue more than a few o' their many
excellences. To praise them would be to confer
reflected commendation on the jour-
nal in which they acquired their first
fame, and a modesty wh ; ch h*s ever
risen superior to the adulations of
our devout worshippers forb'ds us ti
assert our rightful claim to glory- of
this somewhat mitigated description.
'But yet the most ardent admirer of
Mr. Farrell’s genius will enlarge his
approval of the autbo * after reading
this volume, for the opportunities af-
forded for contemplation of the varie i
powers of the writer, and h : s wide
range of emotion, lead to a highei
and a better appreciat on of hU>
genius. The tragic strength of the
infelicitously named “ Virginius ”
contrasts with the gay grotesquerie
of “ Stand By,” the pathetic heroism
of “Nabbage” finds its antipedes in
the merited misfortune of the mis
guided “Mucker,” and each senti-
ment, as each character, gains pro-
minence from its opposite. Mr
Farrell has inaugurated a new eia
in Australian poetry. He has proved
that there are vast sources of inspira-
tion on this Continent open to him
who with patriotic ardour searches
for them. Most of the poems are
distinctively Australian yet every
verse and every scene is cf
politan interest. In many icspects
he has departed from the models of
his predecessors. He is economical
for instance in his use of the wattle, —
not too mu r h wattle you know but
just wattle enough,—and none of his
heroes knock out a colossal fortune
with one “ downstroke of the gleam-
ing pick.” Force and freshness,
breadth of thought, and lightness of
style,—these are the distinguishing
virtues of Mr. Farrell’s book, which
is certain to secure an enduring
popularity wherever it is read.
IK 5
MR. JOHN FARRELL
Dedication is by permission to the Bight Hon. W.
B. Dailey, and the prefatory lines addressed to his
patron are by no means the least original and
characteristic of Mr. Farrell’s ifforts.
* Turner and ITenderson, Hunter St. Sydney, Tubliahers
Subscribers’ Edition ; price, 10/6.
The Parkes Ministry is certain shoitly to
gain the remorseless enmity of the Evenin’
Ncose, for Honest John Sutherland is arranging
to start the Victorian express in the morning, in-
stead of at 5 p.m. as heretofore. Jpso facto the
morning papers will suddenly discover new virtues
in the Minister for Works and his colleagues.
Politics are very pure in New South Wales, jou
bet.
The last “ Escaped Nun ” jacket proves to
be an awful sham. The lady who bolted, as was
supposed, from the Good Samaritan Convent in
Pitt-street, Sydney, last week, and appealed to
the public outside for protection, was not a fair
young recluse making a burst for liberty with her
beautiful golden hair hanging down about her
ears and streaming over her shirt-collar ; nor had
she been confined for 13 months in a cell ; on the
contrary, she was a fallen woman of a drunken
description—a grim old half-century fem tie from
the Magdalene Refuge adjoining the Convent
and not even the man who wrote “ The Toilers of
the Sea ” could make a romance out of her. She
enters the Refuge and partakes of the hospitality
of the kindly nuns periodically, and periodically
she bolts for another spree, and as she is not fit
for the lecturing business, the O’Gorman party had
better let her s’ide. Thus is the column and a
half of slang about conventual immorality pub-
lished in last Protestant Standard remorse-
lessly busted up.
There will shortly be more food for the
old grey gallows at Auckland. Caffrey and Penn,
the Great Barrier murderers, were ugly in their
lives and in death they will not be divided. The
two buccaneers stuck well to each other while
they could, but their lawyers managed to sunder
them very effectually by their line of defence.
Caffrey’s advocate poured forth the geysers of his
wrath on Penn, whom he denounced as a smooth-
faced b.oyish fiend who had led his client to des-
truction, while Penn’s defender heaped mountains
of scorn on the ill-starred captain of the Sovereign
of the Seas, for dragging his subordinate into his
scheme of burlesque piracy which was to be
carried out with a bloodstained whaleboat and a
crew of two men and a shrieking girl. Grace
Graham testified first against one and then against
the other, and at last made an effort to clear both.
Her character had been morally whitewashed for
the occasion, but her outer shell of subdued piety
cracked and burst up under cross-examination,
and then she flaunted and cackled and bragged
through the rest of the tragedy, and amused her-
self at intervals by readjusting the stuffed mons-
trosity in her hat. Even when the trial ended
and the jury went out to consid r their verdict
her meaningless titter continued at intervals to
break the solemn stillness, while Penn glared at
her with a savage look in his eyes that anywhere
else would have meant mischief. Both the
prisoners stood up as the 12 “ good men and
true ” re-entered; as it speedily proved they
had struck the usual compromise, and amid
quarrels and brick-headed obstruction had resorted
to the old expedient of a recommendation to
mercy. As the word “Guilty” was pronounced
a dull gleam of sunshine suddenly fell in Caffrey’s
large, pallid, dreary face, at once long and broad
and vacant in its expression, and his dull, pale-
blue eyes, with their habitual woe-begone expres-
sion, looked awful in that flash of light. His true
character shone out for a moment only, and every-
body who saw him then will remember him as a
half-cranky visionary, with a diseased and childish
brain. When his turn came to speak he muttered
a few words in a hollow, gloomy tone, and gave
place to Penn, who fell back on his old p'ea—he
had been “led away.” His taunts roused the
torpid sea-lion for the first time that day ; the
leaden, chloroformed look passed from Caffrey’s
eyes ; the shadow of the gallows lifted for a mo*
ment from CafFrey’s face, and his lips parted in
sneering sm ; le of unspeakab'e bitterness, an
awful, grim, voiceless jibe that seemed to express
the contempt and loathing of a hurdred fiends in
torment. The grey shade passed over his fea-
tures again, and he shifted uneasily in his seat as
the sentence was pronounced ; when the cere-
mony was ended the prisoners smiled and turned
av r ay, and then the two burlesQue pirates, whose
speculation had declared a dividend of one corpse
and ended in utter insolvency, drifted away from
the public gaze for ever.
No greater delusion was ever hugged to
the human breast than that the Fritish press (on
whose minions the Australian public depend for
their cabled, and much of the other news) is an
institution conduced on principles of fair play.
Bradlaugh states in the National Reformer
that, although reporters were preseht, no notice
whatever was taken by the London press of a tre*
mendous meeting of Radicals addressed by him
the other day, and that the greatest force brought
tobearagaih&t the masses is that same policy of sup
pression with which the democratic readers of the
Australian daily papers are so famil'ar. The
English people are enfranchised ; but, with the ex-
cept ion of Reynolds’ Newspaper and one or
two Socialist prints, they have rea’ly no organs
that represent their views, unbiassed by con-
siderations which are the death of honest jour*
nalism. In France it is otherwise. There is a
flourishing workmen s press, and the people sup"
port it liberally, making it a duty to purchase the
paper which represents the'r views, and in every
way to study its interests. But in England news-
paper speculation involves so heavy an expendi-
ture that almost the whole press of the country is
in the hands, not of individuals but of companies
syndicates or partners. In London, alone, we
have the Times, which has quite a number of
owners, Mr. Waiter being only a chief shareholder.
The Daily News has for its proprietors the repre-
sentatives of the late Mr. Samuel Morley, a con-
scientious but somewhat hard Nonconfoi mist,
who recently died a millionaire ; Mr. La-
bouchere, who i 3 a man of mean*, and
several other capitalists. The Mo ning
Advertiser is subsidised by the Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Association. The Daily Telegraph
belongs to a firm of Jews. The Standard is in
the hands of trustees. The Morning Post is
writt> n by Sir A. Borthwick and Sir W. Hard-
man, the chairman of the Surry Sessions, in the
interests of the aristocracy. It is needless to
specify more instances. But the workers will see
how likely it is that their views will be repre-
sented in these quarters. Look, again, at the
invisible inspirers of the metropolitan journals —
and Irishmen will feel specially interested in this
point. Mr. Wilson, an Irishman, writes the acrid
anti-Irish articles in the Times; Mr. Baker-
Greene, an Irishman, writes anti-Irish articles in
the Morning Post ; Mr. Boyle, an Irishman,
directs the* anti-Irish policy of the Chronicle ;
Mr. Guinee, an Irishman, -writes the anti-Irish
articles in the Advertiser aEd the Globe ; the
Irish Loyal and Patriotic Union are the inspirers
of the anti-Irish diatribes in the St. James’s
Gazette ; Mr. Passmore Edwards, a disappointed
Liberal parliamentary candidate does as much
for the Echo. It is abiolutely necessary to under-
stand these facts, in order to unravel the puzzling
attitude of the London press towards the advanced
politics of the day. The facts are more eloquent
and persuasive than words. And if what has
been written has no influence in the direction re-
quired, it may become necessary to give, in a
detailed manner, an account of the inner life and
multifarious influences which go to make up what
is called “the policy ” of each of the chief metro-
politan journals.
INTERNAL FIRE.
A few years ago one of the molt important coal
mines in N.S.W. caught fire. It started slowly,
but soon obtained such headway that it spread
through the greater portion of the entire mine.
To flood it with water would extinguish the fire,
but well nigh ruin the mine ; and still the flame 3
continued to increase. At that juncture a young
man stepped forward and suggested that all the
entrances and vent-holes of the mine be covered
and secured, thus shutting off the supply of air.
His advice was followed, and the flames were
finally subdued.
To compare the condition of this mine with
many phases of the human system, is most natural
and appropriate. “Fire in the blood” is not a
mere expression, it is a most serious fact. How it
originates, it may be impossible to say; but that
t burns and rages with an increasing fury, the
one who is its victim only too painfully knows.
The blood is the life It is designed by nature to
purify, strengthen, and sustain the system. It is
:oo often made the channel through w'hich poison
and death are transported. Poisonous acids com-
ing through the veins and arteries inflame and
cause a fire just as re°l as the one which existed
in the mine. They burn and irritate, causing the
brain to become weak and the Dcrves unstrung ;
they carry pains to the musc'es, and leave
agonies in the joints ; they bring destruction in-
stead of strength ; they devastate the \ery por-
tions of the body that most require help, and they
hasten ;he approach cf death in its most horrible
form. These things have been felt by innumer-
able people who have been the victims of rheu-
matic disorders, and the agonies they have en-
dured confiim this description
There is but one way by which this fire ia the
blood can be extinguished, end that is by shutting
off the supply of these poisonous acids. The lac-
tic, lithic, and uric acids come into the blood
through the liver and kidneys, and they remain
in solution in the blood, producing inflammatory
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuralgia, gout,
and all rheumatic fevers and afFections. When
they are deposited as gritty crystals in and near
the joints, they cause articular rheumatism ; when
in the muscles, muscular rheumatism and lum-
bago ; when in the tiss&e covering the nerves,
sciatica ; when in the face, head, and nerves
generally, neuralgia. Tn every case they are
painful; in mest instances dangerous. Inflam-
matory rheumatism is likely to locate in some
joint, and become chronic cr suddenly attack the
brain or heart, causing ar oplexy or heart disease,
the fire in the blood must be extinguished—the
supply must be shut off. This can only be done
by guarding the portals to the blood —the kidneys
and liver ; and no means has ever b en found for
accomplishing this which c>n equal Warner’s safe
rheumatic cure, combined with Warner’s safe
cure. They act directly upon the seat of the dis-
order, and extinguish the fire by controlling the
supply and removing the cause
The well-known standing of 11. H. Warner &
Co., of Rochester, London. Melbourne, Toronto,
Frankfort, and Bombay, the remarkable success
w r hich Warner’s safe Cure has achieved being in-
dorsed by medical m n, the clergy, barristers, and
leading n en in all walks of life, and the fidelity
with which they have carried out all their
promises to the public, should be a sufficient
warrant that the above statements are true. They,
however, guarantee to cure ninety-five per cent,
of all rheumatic troubles, especially acute, if diiec-
tions are followed, knowing full w T ell that the de-
monstra’ed power of their remedies iustify them
in so doing. Nothing can be fairer than this, and
those who suffer in the future from rheumatism
with such an offer before them, do so on their own
responsibility, and can blame no OLe if living pain
and untimely death are the results.*
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 14. 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
dera are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whio v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Construction of Railway Line,
&c , Nyngan to Cobar
Additions, Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Constructions of Hydraulic
Pump, &c , Newcastle
Erection of Band Stand, Botanic
Gardens
Construction of Bridge over
Jones Creek, Road Gundagai
to BoDgongolong
Construction of Bridge over
Wallis Creek, Road Maitland
to Dagworth
Erection of Station Buildings—
Murrumburrah and Blayney
Railway
Supply and delivery at Tenter- I
field Railway Station of 20,000
bricks
Construction of Four Silt Punts |
Tuesday,
February 22,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Bridge over
Bogolong Creek, Nag’s Head,
road Grenfell to Forbes
Erection of Railway Station Gos-
ford
Erection of Station Buildings,
Blue Gum Flat, Wyong Creek,
Uee Uee f reek, and Coorum-
bong section 4, Gosford-
Waratah Railway
Erection cf Waiting Shed,
Ccckie Creek, and Station
Building, lambton, contract
4, Southern and Northern
Junction Railway
Plasterers’ Work, Colonial
Architects’ Department, dur-
ing 1887
Tuesday,
March 1,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Turret Clock, Post I
Office, Cootamundra
Erection of Bridge over Wool- |
goolga Creek, road Moonee I Tuesd-y,
Creek, via Woolgoolga, to March 8,
Corindi I at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Bridge over Corindi
Creek, road Moonee t reek, via |
Woolgoolga to Corindi
Erection of Pridge over Hunt’s
Gully, road Inverell to Goon-
diwinii
Additions, &c.,to Post and Tele- Tuesday,
graph Office, Balraraid March 15,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply of Locomotive Engines
(passenger and goods).
Tuesday,
April 12,
at 11 o clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS.
BEDSTEADS -A.3ST ID BEDDING.
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
'.'SUrS " f.p.'l’&fe'/Q.-v? ■'Ofcg-: ■
/ -=4'?, ••
LLiJLliOjJ_iiJ
I7J
$
Q>
a
M
X£^s3
ISI5&
-'
02
CO
;^C
m stt
USB*
r^SS3
J&»
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE
39 CASTLEREAGrH STREET,
NEAR
HUNTER
STREET.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.


Colonial Reminiscences Brought up in
the Crescent City.
LOST INDIAN TRIBES.
[From the New Orleans Daily Picayune.]
Georgia is one of the original State 3 of the
Union, and visitors therefrom to the World’s
Industrial Exposition are aware that the south-
eastern part of that country which borders the
Atlantic was organised during the memorable
year 1793 by the Macintosh fam ly. Indeed, it is
known that a county has been named in honor of
these early Georgian sdttlere. Some members of
the family migrated to the State of Alabama, and
there also we find a locality known as Macintosh
Bluff. Among the visitors from that country is
Mr G. G. Skinner, who is a keen observer. This
gentleman paused before the picturesque pagoda
of The Charles A. Vogeler Company, Baltimore,
Md., and requested the volume in which to
register his appreciation of the merits of St.
Jacobs Oil. To the lady attendent he said : “I
have used St. Jacobs Oil frequently, particularly
when attacked with headache, and it having
invariably cured me, it would be ungra'eful on
my part if I did not certify to and proclaim its
efficacy. ”
PAINESVILLE, ALABAMA.
It is not generally known that in four States of
the Union—Ohio, Indiana, Vermont and Virginia
—there is a location named Painesvide Each of
these neatly arranged townships was represented
at the World’s Exposition, and all were unani-
mous in vouching for the pain-curing qualities of
the Great German Remedy. This is a most
strange coincidence. He from Painesville, Ala,,
Mr. John Brennan, does not hesitate to affirm his
personal experience in connection with this world-
renowned medicine. Mr. Brennan said : “ I have
used St. Jacobs Oil, and can testify to its being of
great service in wholly curing me of sciatica and
rheumatism.” Other visitors from Painesville ore
also emphathic in their praise of this wonderful
medicine, and all of them are prepared to give
certificates for publication.
AN ESTIMABLE LADY TALKS.
Mrs. Bradshaw, who resides at 830 Race-street,
Philadelphia, Pa., visited the Exposition. This
lady stated to our reporter that having been
seriously attacked with rheumatism, and having
had a prejudice against proprietary medicines, she
yielded to the solicitation of friends, and applied
St. Jacobs Oil. The effect, to use her own
language, was marve’lous. In a written certificate
which is laconic and significant, Mrs. Bradshaw
says: “After an application of St. Jacobs Oil J
was relioved of rheumatism in my ankle imme-
diately.” None but those who have suffered the
painful pangs of rheumatism can appreciate the
cures of the Great German Remedy.
SIX TIMES GOVERNOR.
Clinton is a name deservedly popular in the
biographical literature of the United States.
There may bo those in the Crescent City who re-
collect from memory of George Clinton having
been six times in succession elected Governor of
New York, and that he afterwards became Vice
President of the United States. De Witt Clinton
was also a Governor of New York, and it is a well-
established fact that this gentleman was most
energetic in promoting the interior improvement
of his own dear State of Pennsylvania, where
there is a county named in his honor. In fact,
there are seventy-nine places in the Union called
Clinton, in honor of the family. All these
Clintons furnished visitors—ladies and gentlemen
—to the Crescent City to see the wonders of the
Exposition. Mr. J. T. lluk, of Clinton, Henry
County, Mo., took genuine delight in examining
the fanciful pagoda of the enterprising proprietors
of St. Jacobs Oil. Mrs. Huk regarded the struct-
ure with pardonable familiarity and looked upon
it as the property of a valued friend. Speaking
to our representative, this lady expressed language
as follows : “ I have been a great sufferer from
rheumatism, and were it not for the use of St.
Jacobs Oil I am sure that this day I would be con-
fined to my home —if not suffering the most pain-
ful agonies,—a poor invalid. St. Jacobs Oil is
beyond a doubt the best pain curing remedy for
rheumatism that has come under my observation,
either at home or among my neighbors.”
THE HURONS AND OTHER INDIAN TRIBES.
When those Indian tribes, the Hurons, the
Ottawas and the Pottowattomies had their en-
campment and villages near Detroit, the chief
city of Michigan, before it was occupied by the
French as a military post in 1670, there was no idea
of a World’s Industrial Exposition being held in
New Orleans. However, there have been many
changes since then. The little French military
station has been transformed into one of the
elegant cities of the United States. The enter-
prising inhabitants of Detroit and of the State of
Michigan generally have contributed by their
presence and purse most liberally towards the
success of the Exposition. Mr. Isaac Hart, a well-
known citizen of Detroit, paid his respects to the
representative of The Charles A. Vogeler Com-
pany. Mr. Hart cheerfully asserts that he used
St. Jacobs Oil for rheumatism, and was instantly
relieved. He, like all other sensible heads of
households, says: “I always kept a supply of St.
Jacobs Oil in my house. Accidents will happen
in the best regulated family, and it is always safe
to have a remedy In the house which can readily
heal cuts, sprains and burns, and cure sciatica,
lumbago or rheumatism,”
CRESCENT CITY CERTIFICATES.
Among the thousands of the citizens of the
Crescent City who have paid homage at the
pagoda of St. Jacob, may be mentioaed Mr. J. E.
D. Meza, of No. 58 Camp-street. He said to Our
representative: “I had been suffering for fome
time past with rheumatism and found instant
relief by the use of St. Jacobs Oil.” Mr. Meza,
like thousands of others, is always prepared to
vouch for the healing and pain-curing qualities of
the Great German Remedy. He informed our re-
porter that, notwithstanding he paid for the medi-
cine, he considers himself under obligation to the
proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil because they sell a
tenuine remedy.
VOLUNTARY STATUTORY DECLARATION.
Another citizen of the Crescent City, Mr. John
White, 79 Customhouse-street, went voluntarily
before a Notary Public of New Orleans, Peter J.
Ivramar, Esq., and declared solemnly under oath,
as "follows: “ Some time since I was a great
sufferer from rheumatism caused by using mer-
cury. I tried several remedies without effect
until I was induced to try St. Jacobs Oil, which,
after I had used half a bottle, completely cured
me, and the pain has never returned. I cheer-
fully recommend it to any one troubled with this
disease as the best medicine that can be I rocured,
and shall cheerfully recommend it to otheis
similarly afflicted. I make this announcement
voluntarily, having observed the splendid display
which the proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, The
Charles A. Vogeler Company, offer to the citizens
of New Orleans at the Cotton Centennial Exhibi-
The Duchess of Edinburgh, that fighting
Tartar-female who makes poor Alfred’s life a
misery to him, is the last addition to the list of
Royal heroines. She sailed recently for the Medi-
terranean amid as much fuss as if she were a
man-of-war with a bullet-proof skin nine inches
thick, and, according to the Cockney scribes who
detail the appearance of a back-tooth in the arcade
of a royal babe, and look after similar slush, “ she
was the only individual on board who was not
prostrated from sea sickness." This is rather a
strong order, but the London papers say it, so it
must be true, The nursemaids, we presume,
would be the first to collapse, so the Imperial
Russian screamer dressed and und'eased her own
squalling imperial brats and spanked her own
eldest son, the head of the spanking staff being
laid up. Then the man at the wheel gave in and
hung pallid over the side, and the captain sat
A CONVINCING REASON.
MR. MEL[?]HISEDECH: “WASN'T YOUR FATHER A JEW, MY BOY?”
“NO."
“SURE?”
“QUITE SURE.”
“HOW DY’E KNOW?”
“OH, BECAUSE HE WORKED.”
down beside a bucket, and the Duchess steered
the ship and paced the bridge calling out: “ Stab-
bord!” or “Port yer helium f’ as the occasion
required. The cook gave up the cook-ghost and
wobbled in a corner of the galley praying tor
death, and her Royal Highness boiled her own
salt-horse and served out the soup, and when at
last the sailors themselves gave in and begged her
to take them up in her own fair hands and throw
them overboard, she reefed the mainsail, let go
the painter, holystoned the deck, spliced the
mainbrace, heaved the lead, and yelled, “ Yeo
ho! ”as she piped all hands, the aleo stoked up
the farnaces and greased the engine, and read
prayers on Sunday, and took the sun, and did
other things too numerous to mention—at least
she must have done so if everybody was prostrate
from sickness, and the grovelling London scribes
declare that was the c se. Surely they can’t all
be telling lies.
Two gilded youths, irreproachably dressed,
the other day entered a cafd and ordered dinner.
They had evidently been to two or three “ teas,”
and been drinking something stronger than “tea.”
One of them imbibed much champagne, and rap-
idly got paralysed; both were, however, perfectly
quiet. Dinner progressed, and at its termination
the waiter placed cigars on the table upon a
ralver. The vinous youth watched them with in-
terest, and then slowly lifted his fork, transfixed
a cigar, placed it on his plate, and solemnly cut it
up. He then took a piece, and placed it in his
mouth, and, after tasting it, ejected it, and was
heard to murmur, “ Waiter— hie —the sausages
are d—d bad ! ”
A Melbourne man endeavoured to throw
a train off the line with his brawny chest the
other day, and in consequence of the iron-headed
obstinacy of the locomotive an inquest had to be held
on the deceased’s dismantled remains. All his birth-
marks and his most important features were car-
ried away on the engine-buffers, but the coroner
and the 12 good men and true were convinced
that William Spillacy had met nis death, so the
remains were marked “ William Spillacy,” and
laid by to await the last dread summons, and
William s family set about compiling a touching
obituary-poem. They had planted him serenely
on the golden shore, all so gay, and were setting
his numerous virtues to rhyme when that same
W. Spillacy, sound in limb and wind, strolled in,
and asked sternly what in thunder all the snivel-
ling was about. The awe-stricken family stood
afar off, and told him he was dead, and explained
the circumstances; but the man was sceptical,
and sailed out to prosecute his claim to be still
considered alive. He had great difficulty in con-
vincing the authorities that he was not a ghastly
corpse, but they were compelled at last to saddle
the identity of those tattered mortal remains on
to a m’ssing German, who will, no doubt, turn up
in a day or two and make a fine old row about it.
AN OPEN ENEMY
Is not to be feared, but the secret foe should be carefully
guarded against. The only effective guardian >-gainst all
forms 'f kidney and liver difficulties is Dr. Bell's(Kidney and
Liver) Bitters. “Never known to fail’' is the motto inscribed
on its banner.*
Diarrhoea, Dysentery, and Colic —lt ought
to be more generally known throughout N. B.W.
that Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne
is a specific for these prevalent Colonial Maladies.
Many years ago Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired
a very high reputation for arresting and curing
these diseases. It is easy to understand, there-
fore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now regarded
by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most
inexperienced men can administer it with perfect
confidence. Freeman’s Chlorodyie, if given when
the earliest symptoms of these maladies manifest
themselves, at once arrests their further progress.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.*
SCENES ON ELECTION DAY.
A long, lean half-starved Protectionist was seen
to enter Stephens Hotel, at Paddington, on
election day. JI i s face was full—and so was his
body. “Out electioneering, I presume?” said
dear little Nellie, who was attending the private
bar and whose face was loaded with smiles to
receive the disappointed Protectionist. “Yes;
tried hard to run my friend into Parliament, but
it was no go. The people too farsighted, too
much education; they know more than their
teachers.” “ Yes,” said Nellie, “you betcan’t
make them swallow anything that is not just right
these days. I have tried it often myself since I
have been in the bar. They won’t stand it. If
they ask for the FAMOUS ST. LOUS LAGER
BEER, and I give them something else and say its
just as good, they always reply “I’m the best
judge.” The Protectionist, philosophising, said:
“ Nellie, I think you are right. Give me a glass
of the
FAMOUS
ST. LOUIS LAGER BEER,
Protection or no Protection.”*
Premier ball-roem decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 604 Hunter-street
Sydney.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
STOP RIGHT HERR I
■JfOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An -Autoiihoiw. 'costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
'' •••.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wnlcn at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. US’ It is pitched for the
voice , and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new mueic is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.'s Watohes are
the best in the world. Read this :—
“Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochroniSm of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... £200
Elgin National Watch Co.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3 q 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 o
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, piteut pinion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... £10 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £40 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
la the latest triumph of
Science. It is a. nohlo
GOLD
alloy, possessing: the exact lustre, beauty
and enduranco of sterilng Gold. A legi- '
tlmato oss has been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods.fwhlch they
tell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Oold Jewelled.
No one can detect the difference. Send for
PricecTCatalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Bs.s Jewelled (Parisian
Brilllantc) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent's
Albert, Vs. 6d.r Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Looket ■>
ss. .Jewelled, lOs.j Ladies’Alberts
P.0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.'
(Jgp-WesendtheseonapprOYAl. If they don't
please, return nninjnred by the First
Mail, an d we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post*


At Barcaldino (Q.) the bank has been
sbuok up—by an escaped babqoa. He carried the
offloe by storm, b/oke two tumblers and a soap-
dish, threw the accountant’s toilet-requisites
across the street, poured a ss. bottle of eau-de-
cologne over the premises, tore up half the letter-
book, emptied the ink on the countermand played
oid gooseberry with the ledger. Then he smelt at
a bottle of ammonia, after which he fled into the
street, and, mounting a girl's shoulders, tore out
most of her hair. Subsequently he put h's best
foot foremost and struck out into the country.
Mr. Thomas Harley, brewer, of Nelson
(N.Z.), has Initiated a novelty in the way of
action’s at law. Some time ago a friend of his, the
secretary of a public company, went bung in his
finances, and Mr. Hailey generously squared the
little deficit for him which amounted in all to £3OO.
The company subsequently prosecuted the secre-
tary for embezzlement, but a merciful judge and
let him off on the ground that the company
had treated the matter as a civil liability and had
given a discharge for the debt. And now Mr.
Harley wants to know why in thunder he should
not get hi 3 money back seeing that the company
have violated the agreement conditions on
which the sum was paid, by instituting the
criminal proceedings. The diss will be an
interesting one and probably the first of its kind
ia the colonies.
PAIN’S FIREWORKS and ILLUMINATIONS,
IN THE DOMAIN,
In aid of the LOCAL CHARITIES
TO NIGHT. TO NIGHT.
HEALTHIEST
and
GRANDEST AMUSEMENT
in
SYDNEY.
ET BUTCHER & CO
(Late William Long!,
AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
934 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town I lai.i-, Sydney,
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
J^OBE
"wine
WHA
WILL convince you of the wonder
ful curative properties combined in
Dr. Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
cures that have been effected by its use fail to impress
upon your mind this repeatedly proven fact Thou.
r :*■ n mi a declare thal
ands are using it,
it is a medicine
even more than
and all declare that
possessing all and
we claim for it. Mj
w
friend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
cannot oatt yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and r*\lu>e yourself how
this piedicine hits the
fight spot, and put* all
*he machinery of your
GONVINC
body into working ortjjir.
UU sn<i ‘ot our* proirtb.ent business men said to us the
other day : “ In the spring my wife got ail run down
and could not oat anything ; passing a store I saw a
lot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the windsw, and I got a
bottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her a world of ooon
Sihe tooff three bottles, and it was the best Investment
ever made!”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifler and Spring Medi
dne is Dr. Bell’s Bitters. _ .
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia
Headache, and Kidnsy and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine lor Restoring ana
c g ur h esKfa e ; Salt Rheum. Boils, Pimples,
or other Diseases of the Blood.
Ti you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once. , .
Dr. Bell’s Bitters as a Blopd Purifier has no equal.
H tones the system, strengthens and invigorates,
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
only known Specific lor Kidney, Liver and Urinaiy
Diseases; that it has no equal as a BLOOD PURUIER,
th-at it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chronic, keeping the KID-
NEYS and LlVEN—the great organs of the body-
in healthy condition, disease then being impossible.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, AsyUam, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
bell’s^TTtters
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & 00., Sydney,
iUBSIB KOtt
New South Wales & Queensland
ONUM K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings,
Designs and Estimates forwarded on rooties
J. CUNWHANi
llAB«ABBT-8TBIJCT. WYNWARD-SQUABB. ByPNBT
M
d
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANKS,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,008.
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, 'M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Hayjnarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Qosfocd, Nyn
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane. .....
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank of
■ogland.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs, Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS
of
QARRIE SWAIN in THE TOMBOY.
Prices as usual.
LHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipf.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR,
Charm and Bewitch the Audience
EVERY EVENING.
Messrs. COWAN, WARNER, and Mr. EDWIN
ROGERS, the Comic Acrobat and Champion
Dancer of the World, his First Week in this Hall.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVEJIY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
rpHURSUAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “Lipp” Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
fgd
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasols made to match oo*
fcnmaa Re naira neatly execute/
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System ok Flour Milling.
Sole Agents I
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
ARAIK i
v
TREATMENT
Dr. E. O. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobaeoo, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any oase. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effeot a cur®. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN 0. WEST and CO.,
66 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward 1
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegktable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
aU druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN 0. WEST & 00.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, -Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Bums, Scalds, Braises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Prics Is, and 3s. pbr Bottj k.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO
(ir
f
■aCS*'
f:
MANUFACTURERS
& IJHP.ORT.ERS OF
HATS'CAPfe
438 CEDRC E ST
SYDNEY %
Cfipositi JLssitUira
1%
iff
'£g&“
gd
0
5 Y
01°
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auo
tloneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthub
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
f
0
f
k
> U E££g3F N UBE raR m? \(-
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND AIL CHEST AFFECTIONS
jTHOMAS I
'WROC KHA
J-12LUlLkUr7
>4Ly BY (ft
F
f
A
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchant*, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Bare on Sale —
Mackies & Co. oelebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’* Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vlnoola del norte de Espana, Rioja Claretß,
Port, &o.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &0., fee.
AST L£ j SOf^S
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
S Doors Soutt of Hunter-street.
tT THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Parable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st
J. V. WARHKAM. Manager
IK!!
fuD 0 L P H 0 VVO LF t
&C
ON
QO/?ie/
faZd/tty /w?/avfc x?S
ILLUSTRATION (to reduced Bine) if £1 Order to be found to the
“LARGE BOTTLES™ OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
JgRADjRY, NEWTON, $ LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
telga:!
Mtl~y
PIANOFORTE,
• guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb,
IMIORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con
nell-street.
fgd
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New>
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, aU
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet, t
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
Lr
ICE
CHESTS,
all slze3,
From »7s.
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
fg
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
~VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
_l3l SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
TTTALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
df
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. —Hard some,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; a’so, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furnitu*re Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
gd
Bedsteads, ail sizes
Nickel-plated and Flack
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.— All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
fgd
SPRING MATTRASBEB
Woven Wire, bes
make; also, Spiral Spring*
Price, from Us. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON' and LAMB,


0
_Jv- M ,T *> 3 -VQf 'V '•'** • v • ' *’ . *r "'M>
H**
°V^
%ots|
l» /
/ / / rrV fiv\
A<\OK L\SS P»)
fclc,Hf3Ol/RHDOQ *
The Great Salvation Boom!


©EM TO)
® *dtoextntmke\
the PR op hie tor.
■V&
GSZ
TOOTH PASTL
UfjßftyLLEO Ft>f{ ITS /Mil SEPTIC
/Mo CLEAf/sife /ROPERT/tS.
B,MELHUISH , pHMMACEirrm Chemist
134 W/LLIAM S yON £ Y
sioo
SI GO
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S 3 O H
S 3 OH
£5O
WARNING!
An utterly worthless imitation of that well-known preparation,
. FUSE’S INSECTICIDE, is now being offered for sale, and
order to deceive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
Krusse’s” on the outside wrapper. The public sere hereby cau-
* orie( t against this imposture, and are advised that FIFTY
UNDS REWARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
dence
this
as will lead to the conviction ot the makers and vendors of
spurious article. The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
be easily distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE’S
&ECTIGIDF has a blue wrapper and large white directions
e b with red band bearing the words “ Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
pr °Prietors, FELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne.”
Kruse's Insecticide may be bad of all wholesale and retail
®usts, and vendors of proprietary and patent medicines.
r
Qo e
By t 0 a iY*« PR '^ GE
OF
*<
AND His royal H' GVAtk
GOULET CHAMPAGNE,
t ßapp & ELLES, 54 Margaret-street, Agents for New South Wales.
Henry Lancaster,
cow
'Ron
N BY, ft^e ' CTrr ' W
LEATHER iffl
imiillll
HO“ WATfc[
itn i!) I.nimiiira
ICYLINDERI
m*
\m N
h,E TROUCH
c Ah n
OULH
°T Be
BROKEN
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the '
Leading Workshops
of Bnglano,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool*
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, 8. s,
funnels, ventilators,
Estimated Cheerfully given.
REDUCED PRICE LISTS APPLICATION.
orkg; Q 5 q-eORGB STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
Rourl Flour! Flour!
% FLOUR MILLS,
ST., SYDNEY.
Whites, Fine Seconds Floor,
n iZ? e& U Cones, Buan and Pol*
t j 1 '’ ayB on hand. All made
a *Kl at best wheat procurable,
c Slowest prices.
B
Missing Friends, and General
48 Rrw/ 1 eas Asen °y Offlc0 »
JgSSSgdfc* an<J AL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
iihll V d^l rt ® r ? traced, and all kinds of
Wfc? and ' *r*ud, anrl lr ]f b tuted. Evidence obtained in
S?Ufcs* e > ov°^r B . cases, for the legal pro-
oU^eB^ e8 tfwiUs, certificatse of birth,
'Wbu—.* ootamfiS part of the world
i any part of the world
•™ R- M. R.’s long experience
jT 1 and estahlio'a Sont b Wales, Ajjiotoria, and
»Aboaition t„ hed , agencies in all parts of the
* atU^?. °r duot aU tuuuiriea with caution
to au bnL^ oreSy ' and t 0 faithfully and
business entrusted to h care.
0 R RIDGE’S
FOOD
re. INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormaue sale in England;
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply.
as every wise mother will certairiiy
use it.
KRIDGE'S ROYAL FOO©MILLS, ;
LONDON. ENGLASJI**
fg
The only place where
pipea are satisfactorily
SUPPORT Colonial Industry f Buy you® - Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL, 1 Ljtthh Osixjks
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank,
Manwfaotnrer of real Meersc'hanan and Bviar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
E-BIT ISFEIL.'LjTP’S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
200 PITT STSREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auetion&er & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness oonneetions with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHER
d
LIMITED,
283 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND >
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agenfes for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
«*ORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
T. G A YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIQ-H-OLiASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHaWmONT & Co.
880 to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknewledged to be beautiful and
artlstio. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &0., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfjilly ask that ladies
desirous of sitting Bhould make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
FOLEY'S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &c. !For
terms, &0., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
MFvST CL\?iS AWARD
•'; ■ O -V '
H CMLSI DuCft t OF MERIT.
* *r
*
>X
n
■ f-
* .
ISTHEB ESTINTHE WORLD!!
NOME OTHER but *•'
■r WA \J-0 H'S , •
t SVE.DTHE tNT£RNAT ION'AI.
PR'ili'M ED A L
, B Y JAMES IHAHNQN
Hamoufi S^Sydiut
5*14 by All Crocars and Storakwpert
Everybody
should USE
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
TLOUB!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
Thfe PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
881 Gborsk-strexx. Btdnit.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for-its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIP ANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YIANGr YLANG
OPAPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled iorthoir delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson ’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful'
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Sealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J, & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“ Golden .
fev Lyre ” M
V
yMm
%
y
iW
#:
6^
In the good eld days of wet-plate photography, no detective was required to recognise 'a dabbler
in the practice of the ait. If his clothes did not betray him, his fingers would; silver stains were
everywhere, often on his face, although it was always a mystery how they get there.
How all this is changed !
DRY PLATES hare effected such a revolution that photography is as much a pastime' foe
the Ladies as it is for the Gentlemen.
No Dirty Fingers, no Stained Clothing, no silver bath to go wrong; no troubles to
enoounter except such as can be got over with the exercise of a little ©are and patience,
Plates of all sizes by all the makers at home and abread oan be had from
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 COLLIN'S STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
Catalogues on application.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS & ROBERTSON.
119 MARKET STREET, STOSEf.
Largo stook ofnuew and second-hand Books. Price of any bo.ok on application, (Books sent'by
mail to any part of Australia,


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and. House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass Mid Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmitbing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &C.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air PropeHers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, ©as Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. ITsL-y dz Co., Clr3.clz2.xa.ati
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines. 2
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues aind Prices.
Offices and Stores : 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
1837. PBINCE OB’ WALES HOTEL. 1887.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail
Wine anri Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS,' carefully packed in strong secure oases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
packers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfern Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINKS and SPIRITS, containing the tallo-wtag !-
i Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHIS.KY f Bottles LOWNDES RUM
l Bottle JAMAIOA RUM 1 Battle WOLBE'S SUBOfAPFS, I Bottle OLD TOM
l Bottle PORT WINE - 1 Bottle SHBRRYWINE
Tb« articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted oases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
riven perfect satisfaction to purehasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
kee by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
,0. Price Lists post free on application. Special reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
3pirits and Bulk-Goods.
P. R, LARKIN, Wholesale an! Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WAT,ES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, V 8 and TB ° George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.
3STE3W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
fgd
§Aiio
■- --i"
In consequence of Imitations of THE WOR CESTHRSHIRE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every botth
bears their Signature thus — .
without which m bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine .
Ask for LEA and PERRIS'S 1 Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Botch and
Stopfer.. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, &*€., <srv.; and by Grocers and. Oilmen throughout the World,
————■■■■■ mrn TT--I miri ■■— i »rn fi ~“ r
Wholesale Agents: Montefiork, Joseph & Co.; Dav*d Cohen & Co., Sydney.
* H V^
fgdf
} OOT
<Sc
■P \HOE BA l
26:i A George S f
JP&ate tyru3r Earoourt'.
'S t J
OPFORB & OCX'S HATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and JCHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE’ STR E ® '
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEOEGJE STREET, •
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
FREETRADERS AND PROTECTIONISTS,
Voters, wherever ye be, bear one principle in
mind, and that is that wherever ye find one who
may safely claim to he a public benefactor stasnd
by'him.
608 GEORGE STREET is the address,
LAWLER’S THE FIRM.
Value the power and the secret spell.
Furniture, Bedsteads, Glasses, Chairs, and
Bedding, at extraordinary low rates.
Ironmongery, Glassware, and China. Kitchen
and Household Utensils, at prices that compel ye
to buy.
And several lines of White Shirts at from 3/11
to 9/- each, which simply astounds those who
view.
Noth.—There is ONLY ONE LAWLER S,
and that at
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
rj)
522
>
m
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 finches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMON GEP c
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
{.ESAtE THANUfACTUR
•Y.
YD
T
Ml
2223
wrr*r.4j
s* h\u hm**e ST.
(rx t»ifTh!£ST rtffTiCe.
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Bee! Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAITKING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
fTIO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALK
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons |
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
97 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
Sell t? SUB BUKBS, CBOCEBS ami DRUGGfm.
FRKE MEDALS
v
<l\V
OQ
m
t &S
NS',
apsio^i
HAUTHAWAY’S
OLD AEtIABtE
Faerie
A necessity
family. It blacks m
poljshjes Ladies’P
Children’s 8
Shoes, Rubbers m
Satchels,
brushing. A
gives satisfaction*
&O.STON, is 69. Is conceded
)|7B. .. THE STMOPr
C,i..HAUTHAWAY&SOj{&
231 #233 Congress Street, Kostoin
MAS
T
HE FRESH FOOD AND ICE 001
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
No. 23 ROYAL AROAD®’
Where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, ®***
light refreshments.
10
WAt this Branch, orders may be left fO*
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Age**
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended In
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00., tnnejjj
Head Office ... 21 Harbour®^
Stables Liverpool-0^
Factory Mittagong.
Guinness’ Extra Stout*
FIRST QUALITY*
BASS' PALE ALB-
SOLE I%RVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN BXHlBlt*®'
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALE® -
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON &
Commercial Chambers, Bond-stre#^*^^
Try POGONOWS^ 1
MUSICAL INSTRUM®^,
The Largest Assertment In the’ Colon 10
705 GEORGE STREET.
Send for Price List.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY CUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALI THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.”— Lancet.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
CRATED WATERS,
CORDIALS, and BITTERS.
E. ROWLANDS,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
ONLY
GOLD MED>^
CALCUTTA
Exhibition.
