

Jubilee Bulletin
Vol. B—-No. 385
SATURDAY, JUYE 18, 1887.
Price., Od.
Miss Frances Rodgers,
IN HER NEW CHARACTER—CHAIRWOMAN OF THE SYDNEY PRIMROSE-LEAGUE.
“O strike me with a feathah!”


THE BULLETIN.
I’IBUSIIED OHCB A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-BTBMT, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per annum - £\ Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - 0 os. 0d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tux Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
Recent political events, and the tenor of letters
published in the N.S.W. country press, render
the announcement necessary that Mr. John
Haynes, M.L.A. for Mudgee, has no longer any
connection whatsoever, either commercial or
literary, with The Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JUNK 18, 1887.
Jubilee [?]ingers.
The importance of an event cannot always
be judged by the character of the verse
written to celebrate it. Indeed it is the rule
rather than the exception that a great
national occurrence receives little justice
in song. Separated from all other.epics
by a still unbridged gulf stands in
lonely grandeur the tale of Troy Divine.
Yet it cannot be said that the blind old bard
and beggar had a loftier or bloodier theme
than that afforded modern poets by the
series of transactions from the taking of the
Bastille to the knock-down blow of Waterloo.
Compared with Marengo, Austerlitz, Jena,
Wagram, Borodino, and a dozen others up
to the final slaughter round Hougodmont, the
fiercest struggles of Homer’s heroes were
mere tavern brawls. Still, so far from in-
spiring immortal verse, they only succeeded
in inflicting on the nations a collection of
odes matchless in their infinite dullness. As
an example we may take Scott's “ Water-
loo ” of which it has been said with as much
justice as truth :
“ Of all w ho fell by shell or shot
None fell so flat as Walter Scott.”
But even the author of “ Waverley ” has to
stand with uncovered head in presence of a
preceding bard, who, warmed into poetic
fervour by the success of Marlborough and
Eugene at Blenheim, seized the lyre and
worked off:—
I think of two thousand gentlemen at least,-, -,
And each man mounted on his capering beasts
Into the Danube they were shoved by shoals.
It is doubtful whether it would not be better
to lose a battle than to have your victory
hymned like this. We are not told whether
the writer of the foregoing powerful lines
kept out of Marlborough's way until the
great victor’s temper cooled. Certainly it
is the course that prudence would have dic-
tated.
But it is not with numbers commemora-
tive of war and wrack that we have at
present to deal. Our task is a much
pleasanter one. A national event of pro-
found interest is at hand, and on the table
before us lies Lord Tennyson’s ode written
to celebrate it. The occasion is the fiftieth
anniversary of our Sovereign's fruitful reign.
She is the fourth British monarch since the
Norman conquest whose people’s hearts have
been gladdened by their ruler’s protracted
lives and guidance. In the earlier and ruder
Saxon times such a term of sovereignty
might be sought for in vain. The English-
men of that-distant epoch, like the Turks
and Russians of to-day, occasionally
got tirod of a potentate long before his
J übileo year, and adopted efficient means to
prevent his reaching it. Strangely enough,
the monarchs who sat for 50 years or over on
the throne were all the third of their re-
spective names. Henry 111. (1216-1272),
Edward 111. (1327-1377), and George lII.’
(1760-1820) guided the destinies of England
for the long aggregate period of 166 years,
and even the veriest democrats of the present
cannot contemplate the national affairs under
those illustrious persons without acknow-
ledging that, if earthly rulers chasten those
they love, the monarchs named loved their
people with an affection surpassing that of
woman. Henry’s men-at-arms lived at free
quarters on the fortunate subjects who hap-
pened to reside in the vicinity of the court.
From this it may be fairly assumed that the
King’s movements w’ere watched with real
interest by provident persons who had suc-
ceeded in acquiring small properties. No-
thing gives so much zest to life as the
knowledge that your ruler’s followers are
not above eating you out of house and home
while admiring your wife and daughters.
Edward began well by imprisoning his
mother, and continued in the path of duty
by ravaging Scotland and France. Of
George it is only necessary to say that his
affection for his country was so great that he
found her owing £14(3,000,000 and left her
with a debt of £000,000,000, besides enter-
taining her with 30 years of war.
* # *
And now for Lord Tennyson’s ode. Be-
fore dealing with it, it is necessary to
say something of the office he holds, and of
some of those who filled it. The post of
Laureate is an important one. He has to
sing of great national events, of victories
and of domestic incidents in the life of hi
Sovereign. At one time he was expected t
appear at court with an annual song of joy
on the occasion of the potentate’s birthday
This custom, however, fell into desuetud
towards the end of George lll.’s reign, a
circumstance not to be surprised at consider
ing the length of his Majesty's rule and th
difficulty of finding anything fresh to say
about him. Indeed, as subjects for poetry
it must be confessed that the Georges wer
not an entire success. This fact was pro
bably running in the mind of the disloya
scribbler who penned :
“ George the First was reckoned vile—viler Georg
the f econd ;
And what mortal ever heard any good ot Georg
the Third ?
When from earth the Fourth descended, Heaven
be praised, the Georges ended.”
We have always held that in these lines the
word “descended” was ungenerous. 1
served, no doubt, to locate his Majesty, bu
who can measure the saving power of grace
Even admitting the truth of Byron’s state
ment that—
“ Though Ireland starve Great George weigh
twenty stone,”
and that such ballast was ill-adapted for
soaring, still, with the Primate of all Englanc
within call and the highest church digni
taries in attendance, it is charitable to believe
that the Prince of Darkness was kept suffi
ciently far from the chamber of death to
ensure the fourth Guelph at least a gooc
start.
* ■» »
Colley Cieber was laureate in Pope’s
time. The “ Little Papist ” made him the
second hero in the Dunciad. Yet we are
told that Swift sat up all one night to read
Cibber’s “ Apology f6r My Life.” It should
be remembered, however, that the great
Dean was fast breaking up mentally—just
entering, in fact, On that .long and terrible
affliction that brought the author of Gulliver
down almost to the level of one of his own
Yahoos. There is, of course, no connection
between Swift’s perusal of the “ Apology ”
and his madness, but it is at least singular
how close they were in point of time. Wil-
liam Whitehead and Thomas Warton fol-
lowed Cibber in the laureateship. Of these
it is only necessary to say that all their
works are forgotten. Whitehead’s best
sparkles were the comedy of the “School
for Lovers,” and a farce “ A Trip to Scot-
land ” ; but, compared with Isheridan’s
“ School for Scandal,” the former is about
as entertaining as a charity sermon, while the
latter is dull beside “ Box and Cox,” or even
a negro-minstrel drama, which we take to
tjrbmbune solo. Then came Pye, who was
A militia-officer and police magistrate. Con-
cerning him it was said that “ he was a man
eminently respectable in everything but his
poetry.” He turned into English verse
Frederick the Great’s French poem “The
Art of War.” Frederick, it will be remem-
bered, could make war far better than he
could sing it. Voltaire had to give up cor-
recting the King’s knock-kneed verses, and
one cause of the rupture between him and
the monarch was M. Arouet’s snap, “ Some
more of his Majesty’s dirty linen to wash, I
suppose,” when a courtier gave him
Frederick’s last jeu d'esprit -to set "straight.
Southey was the next laureate. At eight he
read Shakespeare and Beaumont and
Fletcher ; at nine he commenced a classic
drama with Scipio for hero, and in mature
years he wrote “An elegy on a dead ass.”
It was of this poem and its author that
Byron said “A fellow feeling makes us
wondrous kind.” In youth he was fiercely
revolutionary : staunchly Conservative in
old age. He was succeeded by Words-
worth, after whom came Tennyson, the
present holder of the office.
Mr.—now Baron— Tennyson made a good
beginning. At twenty he gained the Cam-
bridge Chancellor’s medal for a blank verse
poem called “ Timbuctoo. ” A priori it was
to be expected that the youth who
could successfully struggle with such a sub-
ject had a future. For full fifty years he
sang, by times sweetly, by times nobly,, ob-
scurely. even feebly occasionally, yet almost
always manfully. But the blight of Court
favour fell upon him in his middle age and
has gradually warped not alone his own
spirit but the spirit of his verse until the
high thought and choice diction have become
impotent snarls at human progress, or
clumsy panegyrics on commonplace people
and events. There is nothing like a Court
for sapping the virility of either a nation or
a man. On the appearance of “Hands All
Round ” it was clear that the Laureate had
fallen almost low enough for the peerage.
Nothing was wanting but a title to complete
jhe wreck. It came, and, as one of the re-
suits, we g*t “ A Jubilee Ode.” Be it re-
membered that the writer of this remark-
able poem is he who gave us “ In Memoriam ’
and “ Locksley Hall ” with their wealth of
imagery and language; who transfixed
Bulwer with that fine thrust contemning
the “merits of a spotless shirt, when half
the little soul is dirt; ” who sang that :
“ A simple maiden in her flower
Is worth a hundred coats-of-arms.
From yon blue heavens above us bent.
The gardener Adam and his wife
Smile at the claims of long descent”
And the depth of the old man’s fall can be
gauged.
# * *
Until we read the “Jubilee Ode” we
never knew the meaning of blank verse.
Here are a few —
“ You that wanton in affluence.
Spare not now to be bountiful . . .
Give your gold to the hospital,
Let the weary be comforted,
Let the needy be banqueted . . .
You, the Patriot Architect,
Shape a stately memorial—
Make it regally gorgeous.”
“ Make it regally gorgeous !” Immortal
Jove ! If this is poetry, what is :
“ And the sheen of their spears was like stars on
the sea,
W hen the blue wave rolls nightly on deep Galilee.”
Or
“ There was an end of Isbmael. hapless town !
Far flashed her burning towers on Danube's
stream,
And redly ran his rushing waters down.”
Farther on we get :
“ You the mighty, the fortunate,
You, the Lord-territorial,
You, the Lord-manufacturer,
You, the hardy, laborious,
Patient children of Albion,” &c., &c.
It is singular how even a courtly poet will
sometimes half unconsciously burrow under
a great truth. For instance, that “ Patient
Children of Albion ” is the koy to the situa-
tion. If they had not been so stupidly
patient there would hat e been no need for a
Jubilee. That the Lord-territorial and his
brother the manufacturer should be content
with a form of government that allows the
one to hunt the poor from the country into
tho town and the other to engage them at
starvation wages when he gets them help-
lessly huddled together there, is readily
understood. But why the hunted should
brighten up is not quite clear. When the
Laureate advises that the “ needy be ban-
queted,” it is well to remember that in the
vast majority of cases li. y could banquet
themselves if they and thei I'bers had not
been robbed by the Very over whose
representative’s long tenure of power they
are now expected to rejoice. In conclusion,
it may be confidently asserted that the Royal
Jubilee is one of those rare cases where the
event and the poetry written to celebrate it
are worthily mated.
QUEEN VICTORIA.
(1837-1887.)
AN ADDRESS ON HER JUBILEE YEAR.
iFor The Bulletin.]
Madam, you have done well. Let others
with praise unholy,
Speech addressed to a woman who never
breathed upon earth,
Daub you over with lies or deafen your ears
with folly,
We will praise you alone for your actual
imminent worth.
Madam, you have done well. Fifty years
unforgotten
Pass since we saw you first, a maiden
simple and pure ;
Now when every robber landlord, capitalist
rotten,
Hated oppressors, praise you—Madam, we
are less sure !
Simple, ! Ah, to be simple, to have stood by
your people’s side and
Made its life your life, “ just as high as its
heart,”
That were one thing, indeed, so to have lived
and died, and
Its Child as well its Queen ! You have
chosen the other part.
Pure ! “To the pure all things are pure,”
says the ancient saying,
And this is the measure you’d have us
mete out to yourself ?
Yes, but to us it comes, this matter, another
way in :
Your lips are clean of men’s kisses, your
hands are they clean of men’s pelf ?
Never once as a foe, open foe, to the popular
power,
As nobler kings and queens, have you faced
us, fearless and bold.
No, but in backstairs fashion in the stealthy
twilight hour,
You have struggled and struck and stabbed,
you have bartered and bought and
sold !
Melbourne, the listless liar, the gentleman
blood-beslavered,
Disraeli, the faithless priest of a cynical
faith out-worn,
These were dear to your heart, these were
the men you favoured.
Those whom the people loved were fooled
and flouted and torn !
Never in one true cause for your people’s.
sake and the light’s sake
Did you strike one honest blow, did you
speak one noble word ;
No, but you took your place for the sake of
wrong and the night’s sake,
Ever with blear-eyed wealth, with the
greasy respectable herd.
Not as some robber king, with a resolute
minister slave to you,*
Did you swagger with force against us to
satisfy your greed ;
No, but you hoarded and hid what your
loyal people gave to you,
Golden sweat of their toil, to keep you a
Queen indeed.
Pure at least was your bed. Pure was your
Court ? —we know not.
Were the white sepulchres pure ? Gather
men thorns of grapes !
Your sons and your blameless spouse’s, certes,
as Galahads show not.
Round you gather a crowd of bloated
hypocrite shapes !
Never, sure, did one woman produce Yn such
sixes and dozens
Such intellectual canaille as this that
springs from you.
Sons and daughters, uncles, aunts, nephews,
nieces, cousins,
Not a man or a woman among them—a
wretched crew !
Madam, you have done well. You have fed
all these to repletion—
You have put up a gilded calf beside a
gilded cow
And bidden men and women behold the
forms of human completion—
Albert the Good, Victoria the Virtuous,
for ever—and now !
But what to you were our bravest and best,
man of science, and poet,
Struggling for Light and Truth, the women
who would be free ?
Carlyle, Darwin, Huxley, Spencer, Arnold ?
We know it—
Tennyson slavers your hand ; Salisbury
fawns at your knee.
Madam, you have done well. Let others
with praise unholy,
Speech addressod to a woman who never
breathed upon earth,
Daub you over with lies, or deafen your ears
with folly,
We will praise you alone for your actual
imminent worth.
What, then, rests us to say, who would say
the truth and none other ?
What report must we give of these fifty
years and of you ?
Sister looking on sister, and brother looking
on brother,
All over the English earth, answer in
phrases few :
“ Good, you were good, we say. You had no
wit to be evil.
Your purity shines serene over Floras
mangled and dead.
You wasted not our substance in splendour,
in riot or revel—
Y ou quietly sat in the shade and grew fat on
our v ealth instead.
Madam, you have done well. To you, we
say, has been given
A wit past the wit of women, a superconi,
putable worth.
Of you we can say, if not “Of such are the
Kingdom of Heaven,”
< *f such (alas for us !), of such are the
Kingdom of Earth !
Frank Hawkesburt. ».
* Charles I. and Strafford, e.g.
The Coming Jubilee.
[FOR "THE BULLETIN."]
Had I but the muse of Alfred, had I but his
golden pen,
I would chant the dirge of tyrants, voice the com.
ing rights of men ;
I w ould cheer the weary worker, raise the over]
burdened slave,
Front and fight the blood-gold scoundrel, dare and
damn the titled knave ;
I would sing that brighter Future when the Wrong
shall be accurst,
And the Best receive the homage that men now
award the Worst,
And the day of Retribution, long deferred, but
nearing fast,
With its bitter cup o'er-brimming with the Justic*
of the Past,


When the road has grown [most darksome there
will sooner be the light,
When the Royal rule is strongest, nearer, too,
the rale of Right;
E’en when bards shall bleat and babble dn support
of ermined Wrong,
Turning to account for Mammon, Heaven’s sacred
gift of song,
Tendering holy fire to Plutus, gilding treasures
that shall rust,
With the empyreal glory sanctifying things of
dust ;
With God's glorious trust of genius bolstering up
the frauds that be.
Voicing paeans to base Usage, fortifying Tyranny;
Even then the march of Progress heard adown
the vista’d years
Echoes from the onward Future and the glittering
sheen appears
Of the vanguard’s foremost splendour's bright
reflection in the sky,
Just enough to give an earnest of the Right that’s
drawing nigh ;
Just enough to shed a mellow beam upon the page
of Fate,
Prophesying that the Fraction shall not always
rule the State.
Those who Have, each day grow fewer, those who
Have Not, daily more,
While the Rank and Wealth are bastioned by the
purchased pleader’s lore,
ADd the laurelled, hireling poet, subsidised by
Power and Place,
Wields the lash of Caste and Custom, puts his
heel upon the face
Of the starving, struggling peasant, sneers the
humble plough aside,
Scorns the noble theme of Labour with his new
patrician pride.
Justifies the dreaisome adage of the darksome
periods dead,
“ Might is right,” the murderer’s motto, writ with
blood that men have shed.
With a wolfish cry for carnage advocates the iron
hail,
With its answering rain of crimson, and the reign
of bane aud bale,
Irritates the cursed earth-lust, urges right to
foreign fields,
Sows the seed of that grim harvest which the
red-stained campaign yields
To the glittering sweep of sickles, reaping in the
human live 3
Dragged from plough, so scorned and slighted, from
their children and their wives,
To “ protect our Indian frontier,” to withstand
our Russian foe,
In the sacred name of Glory striking fratricidal
blow.
Rending air with sounds of slaughter, staining
broad earth’s tender green
With the blood of brother vassal, ne’er before
his slaughter seen
(Making widows of our sisters in some far-off un-
known land),
At the bidding’of a puppet, at a sceptred thing's
command.
E’en such bards presage the Future, free from
Murder and from Hate —
Whole than Half shall then be greater—and
the People be the State,
Then the Lawa shall be for many, and the Good
shall be the True.
Now 'tis Falsehood's Good that reigneth, and the
Laws are for the few.
Now obtains the hoary fiction that the world was
made for those
Who absorb the fat of living, Man’d and Freedom’s
cruellest foes
Queens and Czars who, by the virtue of the lie of
Right Divine,
Suck the sap and strength of Empire in a long
dynastic line ;
What the Parent leaves the Offspring, by Iheir
royal right of prey,
liy the regal claim of Leo, seize and rend in sunless
day ;
By the agelor-g rule of Custom, wait they never
for the night,
But, with open, bold brigandage, maw their booty
in men’s sight,
While the toothless jaws of starvelings yearn and
gape with hunger’s pang
For the luscious, juicy morsels, crushed beneath
the Kingly fang ;
Even this draws near its ending ; in the endless
day of Right
Flies the century-lingering Darkness ; fails the
go dies 3 rule of Might;
The fatal hour, the Dies I re long deferred, is
nearing fast
With its bitter cup o'erbrimming with the Justice
of the Past.
Quails the fearful, flattered tyraut, dreadsome of
the coming storm
Which shall hurl through midnight’s blackness,
but a crownless, thronele33 form
Then no more will kneeling hirelings press to
kiss his rodle33 hand
And a realmless wretch shall wander, marked and
hunted, through the land
Which in former years, king-ridden, owned his
proud imperial sway,
And the erstwhile regal raider is the present royal
prey ;
With a challenged claim to liviog, with a guerdon
of men’s hate—
The only plot to him that’s sacred is a grave, in
all hi 3 stale.
Bat the Now, with all its horrors, struggles
through a twilight gloom,
And the Tiien, with all its glories, must be en-
tered through the tomb.
Many a day of dole 'and dolour, many a year of
ban and blight,
We must face ere come 3 the sunrise ; we must
front ere dawn 3 the light.
Many a life in old-world Europe must be wrecked
and rent and torn
Ere it cornea, but in Australia, Freedom is already
born !
Aye, and thrives with nascent vigour, notwith-
standing traitor-knaves
Who belaud a sceptred stranger, plot and pan-
der with her slaves —
Pant to wear the badge of thraldom, drawl and
drivel round a throne,
Glad they have no right to manhood, proud their
souls are not their own ;
Purchased with a knot of ribbon, sold—and for a
yard of lace—
Flaunting high the decoration, vauntlog loud
their own disgrace,
Even these, these cheaply-bought ones—these
placated title-thieves
Strive in vain to sell their country—each his own
reward receives.
And the delitescent motives of the captured,
crawling crew
Ne'er can triumph o’er our land if to themselves
cur sons are true.
For a tinsel-gilt distinction they but barter what
they lack—
Put on sale their high di‘honour, and they get no
honour back ;
Though they labour hard to harm us, we fear not
their flaccid arms,
For they cannot sell a nation for an Order's bauble-
charms.
All their gaudy strumpet brav'ry, all their brazen
trumpets' din,
All their gewgaws and their spangles go as gar-
nishment for sin.
Like the fleshly, florid features of a woman of ill-
fame,
With her garish dj es and pigments and her eyes
that shed no shame.
Pranked and painted, clad in lineiy she has pur-
chased with disgrace,
Picturing health wi h rouge and hare's-foot in her
brazen, blushless face.
Even so these title-suppliants crowding round a
monarch's door.
Are the greater still dishonoured as they are
‘ ‘ Distinguished ” more ;
But they cannot pledge our country to the Con-
queror’s creed of crime—
Little aid brings “noble” laureate with his
sycophantic rhyms ;
Nor can words of pompous prelate, in his robes of
silk and lawn.
Dim the g'ory of oursumise, dull the splendour
of our dawn.
E’en the colour of our coinage shows no copper's
blood-red glow, ,
Gold mates wiih that noble metal gloaming pale
as purest snow,
And the sovereign of Australia, with it s brighter,
colder glint,*
Buys no lives, no swords, no murder—pet, it lacks
the crimson tint.
We dare scorn the eringiog grovellers ; we dare
flout the fawning knaves ;
Dash their hofC3 to bar our freedom ; daunt their
power to make us slaves.
Neither fear wo “shirt-sleeved Cnesar" po3ingasthe
Celtic Mars,
Voicing vast voluptuous vapour, singing of
triumphal cars,
Posturing as a god of battles, hymning sweets of
bullet-holes;
Querying the Arabs’ title to their own sun-ger-
mened souls,
Prating of the “ Mother Country ” : Let him pass, he
does no harm
Golden, glorious phrase-contriver, with the subtle,
vocal charm
Framed to please the passing moment, gild the
creature of the hour,
Lacking in the grand essentials of the great
speech-wielder’s power.
Not from such fear,we aught evil; not from these
accept our fate ;
These are not the men that unmake, or the men
that make the State.
Only to ourselves be faithful, only to our fame be
true,
And no cloud shall mar the glory of our Future's
southern blue,
Keep our trust through all the ages—it may be
Australia’s part
To uplift her fallen sister ; bear balm to a broken
heart.
Even now the eyes of Europe strain across the
rolling wave
Dimmed with tears, and all unconscious near her
feet a gaping grave
Yawns to clutch her down-bent figure. Her no
human aid can save !
But her children, in that future glorious Jubilee
of Right,
In our arms may find a refuge through the dark-
ness of the night,
Near our heart may be held closely till the days of
death be run,
Till ths suff’ring earth be gladdened in one
never-setting sun.
Welcome I Jubilee of Ages! free from Murder
and from Hate,
When the Part no longer governs, and the People
are idle State.
F. J. Broomfield.
Sydney, Bth June, 1887.
* The gold coinage of Australia is alloyed with silver,
not with copper as in England.
AUSTRALIA TO ENGLAND.
JUNE 21, 1887.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thank God the seas arc wide ! Thank God your
gladness
Of sound and flame touch not our eye or ear;
Not yet Hypocrisy has grown to Madness
In the great nation we are building here.
Thank God we are too far to hear this thunder
This hireling thankfulness of shine and blare,
Or all the sobs that you would drown thereunder
From them that toil and hunger and despair!
Some here, enamoured of the hand that lacquers
With idiot titles, men of idiot brows,
Will each one shed some wealth in penny crackers,
And, smirking from the bonfire of his house,
Cry, “ This is Loyalty 1 ” Thank God, some others,
And these in thousands, men of manlier heart,
But loyal to their wronged and suffering brothers
Will turn them from it all, and stand apart.
Some here who, clinging to the strong and olden,
See nothing more, will bend a reverent knee,
And send real benisons and tributes golden
To deck the grace and greed of Royalty ;
Some here, true men perhaps, but weak of vision,
Will lift true tones among the thin false cries
Of adulation, which is half-derision,
That madden this loud day of ringing lies.
But we, the most, who see Hell’s hall-marks
branded
On all the rich old crowns of Kings and Queens,
And know full well what brows these circlets
banded
In wild, blind, bygone days; what blackest
means
Bought these, some Gloster forehead to embellish,
In years when blood ran as to-day runs wine—
What Judas-plots, and artifices hellish,
Have helped to bolster up the Right Divine—
By God, we will not cheer I In bitterest ages
Your fathers filled the air with just such cheers
When some whose earthly crowns bore heritages
Of crowns in Hell, through equal length of years
Made England groan. With equal sound of
trumpet,
And equal lavishnes3 of lies and gold,
Some regal lecher or Imperial strumpet
Your fathers lauded in the years of old.
Look back with us awhile. Forego your whooping
For one brief moment; stand with us, and see
Across the stage the evil ghosts come trooping
Of those who once evoked your loyalty :
The coward Norman, ringed with iron dastards,
Who fell upon the fair land as a curse,
Glides past with all his harlots and their bastards,
Each clutching from the spoiled a fatted purse.
The monster Rufus, whom they cheered, while
Heaven
Was blind, and men lost faith in the dear Lord ;
The traitor Henry, and the braggart Stephen,
Each bearing in his hand a guilty sword ;
And flitting after these, a foul procession
Of carrion-kites, disguised in Royal Wings,
W hom Falsehood and red Murder gave possession
Of Thrones—by grace of Crime, anointed
Kings !
And later still your fleshlier foreign Georges—
An abject line of alien beasts of prey—
Appear before us, flushed from all such orgies
As bade Gomorrah’s smoke shut out the day ;
And last, that William whom your candid
Greville
Has written down “ half-blackguard, half-
buffoon,”
These your forefathers, yelling like the devil,
Have thrown their hats on high for, late and
soon !
These they have bowed before—a 3 now reioices
Your loudest, have your sires rejoiced in these,
Not one a man or woman whom wise voices
Would choose to guide a nation’s destinies ;
These they have trembled under, bled for, died
for,
Long since. Thank God the time is overpast,
The clearer day that higher souls have sighed for
Is reddening up the whole world’3 East at la3t!
The voice of disenthralment, growiDg sweeter,
And clearer, sounds to day in all men’s ears,
Her step is near ; the footfall cometh fleeter,
And fair in all men’s sight her form appears.
The reign of kings and queens has well-nigh
ended,
The hour of tyrant drones is well-nigh o’er ;
A Jubilate clearer and more splendid
Will reach from every sea to every shore !
To-day your Queen has swayed the realm through
fifty
Fair years, the fairest that the realm has seen ;
What of it 2 She was good, we grant you, thrifty,
Exceeding frugal, as we judge a Queen.
What else 2 ‘‘As widowed wife and sorrowing
mother,
A true kind woman with a woman’s heart.”
What of it, then 2 Should Queens be any other
Than true and kind 2 What should have been
her part 2
Compared with others who have gone before her,
A somewhat worthier woman, we admit;
But you who, crawling in the dust, adore her
Again we ask you calmly—What of it 2
What tale of service was it hers to render
For the great meed of wages that ye paid 2
The yearly mine of gold—the sovereign splendour,
The greedy brood upspringing in the shade 2
Whose mouths your toilers, spent with toil and
foodless
Themselves, have filled with rich and dainty
fare—
The vagrant brood of German fungi bloodless
Who fasten on your land and fatten there
The pigmy Princes and derided Graces
Of jeering villages, whom ye support—
A band of fragile fools with vacuous faces
To help the power and glory of your Court 2
For annual wealth on worthless pageant wasted,
For sacrifice of tears and blood, and groans
To such as these, what sweetness have ye tasted 2
O brothers, have ye given bread for stones!
What have ye in return, that cannon ihunder
From every citadel, and bonfires blaze
On every hill, to consecrate this wonder.
This fifty years of reign—this day of days 2
You answer, “ A wise Queen —a loving woman ! ’
Quote one wise Queenlike utterance of hers !
Tell us what time in ruth for sorrows human
She cried to them that hungered, “ Share my
purse,
You gave me of your gold—your millions gather
In my wide coffers till each ovorflows,
Let hunger-fainting child and maddening father
Grow glad—their Queen has pity for their
woes I”
What wisdom has she given 1 Some sorry
twaddle
We have, gold-bound, and from a Royal pen—
Fit work for queens to pamper fat, and coddle
With words, one Cmsar among serving-men !
What pity shown! Some trivial doles—some
letters.
Post-paid perhaps, expressing sympathy
With those who moaned or cursed beneath the
fetters
Of dire mishap or age-long tyranny.
By God we will not cheer ! Let Laureates sloboo
In jargon verses at so much per line
Your Queen, and every semi-royal robber
W r ho sucks existence from the Right Divine ;
Let noise be loud, and many a flariDg comet
Inflame the sky from streets and forts and ships;
Let Halloran out-puke the latest vomit
Of him your new-made Peer of new-made lips.
We cannot be as these. Your mighty nation
We honour most, and owe allegiance to,
But will not stoop to lend our approbation
To every weak, unmanly thing ye do ;
Y'our Queen is a mere Queen—the automatic
Gilt figurehead that decks your ship of State
What—more than gilt ? We are not so emphatic
As you, and so we will not jubilate !
Gilt figureheads to us seem rather costly
And scarce essential to the ship at all;
The pride of Thrones is like all other—mostly
The harbinger that bids us maik its fall.
While Royalty holds o’er us power regnant
We bow to what is law - no more than this,
For gain or fame we crook not “ hinges pregnant,"
Nor cheer with tongue that, having heart, would
hiss.
JUBILEE GIFTS.
A PHANTASMAGORIA.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Scene : The Throne Room in St. James’s
Palace (perhaps.)
The Royal Idol on her Throne.
Her progeny and its Progenies, to a number
beyond calculation, grouped behind and around
the Throne.
The “Nobility" oftheLand and High Priests of
the Idol, gathered in a glittering crowd below.
Military Chiefs and Eminent Blood-Spillers.
The Rich of the Land.
Representatives of India and the Colonies of
the Empire.
Female Figures, personifying England, Ireland,
Scotland, and the Colonies,
j Shadows of these, unseen by all but two Un-
i believers, who have contrived to surreptitiously
obtain admittince.
Two Unbelievers (in an obscure corner.)
The Phantom of the Future.
Other Shadows.
First Unbeliever.
See, the flashing of the jewels !
See, the tossing of the plume 3!
Like a sparkling summer-ocean,
Like a sea of apple-blooms.
Second Unbeliever.
Yes, I see the flashing jewels
And I see each sparkling crest—
And I’d like to sell at auction
Royal Idol and the rest.
First Unbeliever (sarcastically) :
Why destroy this splendid circle, •
This imperial parure ?
Second Unbeliever (sternly) :
For the starving Sovereign People,
For the wretched and the poor.
Herald.
Kneel, ye salts of earth !
Unbelievers (soito voce. And senna !)
Kneel and pay, ye chiefs and peers,
Homage to the Royal Idol,
Who has reigned for fifty years !
All kneel and grovel, with the exception of the
two Unbelievers, who retreat into the shadow of
a pillar, j ust in time to escape being cloven to the
chine by a Beefeater. Five minutes of prostra-
tion, during which lime the Royal Idol scratches
her left ear, and flicks a fly off the end of her im-
perial no3e with her own illustrious hand.
Herald.
Rise, ye noble lords and chieftains,
And, in order due and meet,
Draw anear her throne and humbly
Lay your gifts before her feet.
All rise. The Peers advance, and genuflect, and
speak :
Royal Lady I Royal Idol!
We have wrought for your renown,
We have stood against the Commons
(Unbelievers : And have trod the people down).
And have still upheld the Crown.
We have brought no band of vassals,
Such as peers did in the past,
But we bring the. strength of Riches,
And we bring the pride of Caste —
And we lay them at your feet. ,
The High Priests advance, make reverencs/
and speak f
We have taught our flocks with patience
In the good old paths to plod, /
And to stilt remember o’er them /
Reigns your Majesty—and Goo.
We have won some dozen Heathens
To the one faith that is t r ue,
And we bring their simpW worship
And our loving prayers to you.
Royal Idol (inaudibly ) : Humph !
The Gran# Old Girl looks blue !)
And we lay then/ at your feet.
The Military Chiefs 7 advance, genuflect, and
speak
We have made half earth your Empire,
And in thunder, and in flame
We have sown its fields with slaughter
For the glory of your name.
Wo have brought you trophies, conquered
By your arms in lands remote,


We have brought you captured banner*,
In your palace-hall to float
(Unbelievers : And a Donkey and a Goat I)
And we lay them at your feet.
Shadows of Egypt, Soudan, Burmah, the Zulu
nation, and a host of others appear behind the
Throne, and speak :
Itoral Ituler of a nation
Blind and greedy as the grave,
You have brought us desolation,
And we briDg you what you gave.
Gifts of tears—the tears of widows ;
Gifts of blood—blood of our dead,
Slain in lighting for their freedom,
And we lay them on your head.
The Rich advance, grovel, and are about to
speak, when a slight disturbance arises, caused
by a Distinguished Colonist trying to squeeze in
amongst them. He is promptly buffeted back to
h s place by a Beefeater, swearing that, when he
gets ba k to Australia, he will turn Radical and
spill blood. After order is restored, the Rich rise
and speak:—
From the busy halls of Commerce,
Whence we rule the world with ease —
For our flags fly on all waters,
And our ships aro on all seas—
We have come, O Royal Idol
Of the Rich —our very own—
And have brought the gift your heart loves
To the footsteps of your throne.
Ranh lays down a bag of gold and retires. A
Isiam of joy breaks over the large face of the Idol
as she orders the Ford Chamberlain and a few
slout earls to carry the bags away and lock them
up in the Treasury. After they have done this
and brought her back the key, which she care-
fully places in her female figure, clothed
in purple and gold, personifying England, ad-
vances and, making a deep obeisance, speaks :
.Mighty Queen and noble Mother,
Rest the world has ever seen,
From where stately halls and castles
Rook o'er woodlands wide and green,
I have brought you from your subjects,
Rich and prosperous and free,
Their devotion and their homage
To your Gracious Majesty,
And 1 lay them at your feet.
The Shadow of England, unseen by all but the
two Unbelievers, appears clad in rags behind the
Throne and speaks .-
From the dens of want and fever,
Where disease draws foetid breath,
And my gaunt and starving children
Rive a dismal life-in-death —
From the depth of city squalor,
W here the young to crime are bred,
I’have brought you groans and curses,
’ And I lay them on your head.
Female Figure personifying Ireland, clad in
green and gold, advances and, after prostrating
herself, speaks:—
I have come, O Queen most gracious,
From your loyal Em’rald Isle,
That is happy in your favours,
And rejoices in your smile,
Riinging thanks for your Coercion,
F or the rebel rabble meet,
And a prayer for some more bayonets,
And 1 lay them at your feet.
Shadow of Ireland, in tatters and with fetters
on her hands, appears behind the Throne and
speaks :
From a land of cold and hunger,
Where still sounds the mourner's cry ;
From the roadsides where my children
Are cast out to starve and die,
I have brought you dying curses—
Would that swords they were instead 1 —
And the tears of famished orphans.
And I lay them on your head.
Female Figure personifying Scotland advances,
prostrates, and speaks:—
Gracious Queen, from bonnie Scotland,
From that land of old renown,
Which your Majesty so favours
Brown !)
1 have brought from six old women
(Royal Idol (sinking) : Tisthe land of dead John
Praye: s and praise in quav’r.ng note
(Royal Idol, sotto voce: With my own hands I
have made them
Each a flannel petticoat.)
And I lay them at your feet,
f hadow of Scotland appears behind the Throne
and speaks :
From the glen 3 and from the mountains
Desolate of hut or house,
Where the homesteads of my clansmen
Have made way for deer and grouse ;
From the ruined homes of crofters
Over broad seas banishbd,
I have brought you maledictions
And I lay them on your head.
Female Figure personifying Australia advances,
grovels three times, and speaks :
Gracious, glorious, saintly Lady,
Let me lie upon the floor,
At thy most illustrious footstool
Lie and grovel and adore.
At this point a Beefeater prods her in the ribs
with the butt of his halberd and she rises and
continues :
I have brought from fair Australia,
From the land of gold and wool,
Howls of homage, whoops of worship,
And—oh, Queen, my heart is full.
Shadow of Australia appears and speaks :
I admire your perseverance
On your Throne so long to stick,
And I don't deny that you have
Drawn your wages like a brick ;
And l'U freely grant that, madam,
You are good and you are old,
But I can't see those are reasons
\A hy from me you should get gold—
\ You have not gone out of your way
' Any wish of mine to please.
- Pauses and continues :
But i’ll think about it if you’ll
Send,me no more C.M Gees.
I have cc>me here just to tell you
What Australians really think ;
Is about to go ojV, but stops and says affably :
But to Bhow thbtre’s no ill-feeling,
P’raps you'll coYne and take a drink.
Phantom of the Fut\ure appears behind the
Throne and speaks : \
Queen, whose sway is frcom the sunset
To the sunrise, round tma earth 1
Ruler of the mightiest empire,
To which ever Time gave bn-th I
Thou wert God's trustee and steward,
Thou hast reigned for fifty years.
Hast thou fed the hungry orphan 1
Hast thou dried the widow’s tears?
Hast thou given of the riches
That to thee in trust God gave ?
Nay, thou claspest them still closer,
On the threshold of the grave.
Queen, a day will come when thou wilt
Wish thy fifty years of reign
Had been passed in humble toiling,
Or beside the bed of pain.
And I see the day approaching
When the Poor will have their own,
And will rear the shrine of Freedom
On the ruinß of your Throne.
The lights go out, and a great darkness falls
during which the Two Unbelievers escape into
the open street.
First Unbeliever :
Well, what of the performance ?
Second Unbeliever :
'Twas a pretty show, all told.
First Unbeliever :
Yes, it didn’t go so badly.
But, say—how much do you hold ?
Second Unbeliever :
Sixpence.
First Unbeliever :
Bravo 1 We are in it.
We must have a drink
Second Unbeliever :
This very minute 1
The Rights of Public Meetings.
On Jure 3, a public meeting assembled at Sydney
Town Hall in response to an invitation from
Mayor Kiley, with the object of considering the
deßirableness of feastiDg the school children of the
metropolitan district in honour of Queen Vic-
toria's Jubilee. At that meeting an amendment
was unanimously carried against any such display
of “loyalty.” There was no objection to the
school children being junketed, but there was a
decidedly hostile sentiment towards the project of
impressing upon the immature minds of the rising
generation the utterly false idea that loyalty and
a full stomach necessarily stand together in the
relation of cause and effect. That meeting,
judged by its result, was one of the most import-
ant ever held in Sydney. The room was crowded
with respectable citizens—for the most part
fathers of families, filled with a senee of re3ponsi-
A REMEDY FOR FREE SPEECH—OR ANOTHER CASE OF RINGNO
(Parson sings): “Hang up the Fiddle and the Bow.”
bility on behalf of their offspring. The emphatic
negative given by that meeting to the scheme of
the licbspittling crew who disgrace the name of
“ loyalists ” gave rise to no public feeling other
than approval. The prevailing opinion was that
the decision should be regarded as final. The
Town Hall had been thrown open to the people,
and those who assembled therein had decisively
vetoed the proposal submitted to them. To argue,
as the morning papers did, that the meeting re-
presented only a narrow section of the people,
was to confess that at all events it represented a
live section ; whilst the absence of those holding
contrary views, who, on the theory of the loyalist
monomaniacs, exist in countless numbers, indi-
cated plainly that at most the general feeling
among such was one of comparative indifference.
But Mayor Riley and a coterie of plan-
holders and place-hunters conceived the bril-
liant idea of convening a second gathering
of the citizens to rescind the verdict of
June 3. Such a proceeding on the part of a
Mayor is, so far as we can discover, without pre-
cedent. He had specially invited the Jubilists
to attend, and none but anti-Jubilists responded.
It was his clear duty, therefore, to inform the ad-
vocates of a second meeting that since they had
slept on their opportunity they had forfeited their
right to be heard on the question. The non-
voters at the late South Sydney election might as
justly ask for a second election on the ground that
they had failed to exercise the suffrage on that
occasion, as the absentees from the meeting of
June 3 claim a second convention to review the
decision that had been come to. If Riley had
been in the least fitted for his position he would
have perceived the justice of refusing to eonvene
another meeting. But he seems a mere puppet in
the hands of the hangers-on of Government House
and the Union Club, and accordingly he jumped
precisely the way these gentry wanted.
• > •
Having determined on having a second meeting,
the Jubilists, it is fair to say, set themselves to
work in real earnest to make the affair a gigantio
success. They laid their plans with consummate
care and admirable dextority. Tho demonstra-
tion was to afford to the nations of the world an
unmistakable proof of the vast depth and breadth
of Australian loyalty to tho Throne and Person,
and so forth ; and everything was cut and dried
down to the drafting of the cablegram—this is a
solid truth—that wasto announce the triumphant
fact to the eager millions of London on the follow-
ing day. The chief feature of the arrangements,
and the one that boded most in the direction of
success, so far the Jubilists were capable of
discerning, consisted in packing the hall with
enthusiastic loyalists before the doors were thrown
open to the vulgar public. Tickets were issued
by the thousand to “ safe" individuals, by means
of which admission could be privately gained to
the Town Hall, and the holders were enjoined to
be there before half-past 7 o’clock, at which
hour the public gates were to be opened and
the common people admitted—only to find
the apartment in which the meeting was to be
held already fully thronged with sturdy friends of
the Cause. This somewhat novel, yet most pro-
mising method of securing a “publio" meeting,
failed ignominiously for the reason that it was not
properly understood. The ticket-holders, for
their part, did not appreciate the necessity of
being early at the police-guarded private-gate;
and ths public failed to comprehend the rationale
of the principal entrance being closed when a
citizens’ meeting was on the tapis. The result
was a bitter disappointment for the wretched
tufthunters who had exhausted their ingenuity in
devising the programme. The anxiously-expected
JubiliBts didn t come, but the public did. And
finding the gates locked against them, the people
forthwith broke open the barriers and inundated
the vestibule, before the scheme for packing the
meeting could be successfully worked out.
Then followed a scene hard to describe in
language we permit ourselves to use. The plat-
form was crowded with all the Sir Williams. Sir
borgbs, Sir Alfreds, Sir Henrys, ’ Sir
Thomases, and Sir Albans (in ease and in posse)
capable of being raked together in Sydney, and
tor the rest with men held in universal derision as
the mere parasites of the bigger fish who had evi-
dently come out for a 3wim. There was a small
space on the main floor surrounding the platform
in which were Beated all the Jubilists the pro-
moters of the meeting had succeed!d in laying
hands on. In a few minutes after the public
gained an entrance the room was tightly filled
with men, in whoee faces the occupants of the
platform could plainly read the elements of failure
for their little game of snivel. Ore would suppose
that with such men as Chief-Justice 1 • r y
Lieutenant-Governor Stephen, Premier Parkes ’
Justice Manning, and otheis of like station, in
the minority, the undoubted rights of the majority
would have boen readily recognised and rest ected.
The meeting was a public one, and in such assem-
blies the majority, according to all precedent, to
reason, and to common-sense, must of necessity be
allowed to rule. The conveners of a meeting may
have a cut-and-dried programme, but the meeting
itself enjoys a perfect right to reject any part or
the whole of the plans arranged for its procedure.
When parties are nearly equally balanced, and on
all ordinary occa-ions, the majority adverse to the
objects suggested for the meeting is usually con-
tent to amend the proposals of the minority, hut
last Friday the parties were not by any means
equally balanced, and the occasion was assuredly
a moat extraordinary one. There were fully five
to one against the boasted object of the promoters,
and that object was no less than to over-ride the
decision of a previous public meeting presided
over by the Mayor. The assembled citizens,
therefore, had an incontrovertible right to take
the proceedings into their own hands, and this
they essayed to do. They called loudly on Mr.
John Norton and Mr. Frederic Jones to pro-
pose a resolution in opposition to the scheme that
had already been considered and negatived, and
if these gentlemen had been permitted to obey the
calls of the meeting, the business would have
been over in a few minutes. But the soi-disant
“loyalists," the friends par excellence of what
they are pleased to term law and order, who held
possession of the platform, violently assaulted the
speakers selected by the people, and roughly
ejected them from the chamber I
Having performed this and other feats of law-
lessness, and dispersed the meeting by means of
the police, the Mayor and a few of the leading
Jubilists got up a little private confab in a
back room touching the urgent need for limiting
the liberties of the people—by repressive Acts of
Parliament, by a strained administration of the
law as it stands, and by the “ whiff of grape "
method as a dernier rcssort. Darley, Stephen,
Parkes, Manning, and Salomons argued in this
strain. The first-named of these had the un-
blushing effrontery to describe the vast crowds
assembled in and near the Town Hall—almost
every man among them being antagonistic to the
beslavering projects of the Mayor and his friends
—as an “insignificant minority,” whose very
existence as a free people required to be imme-
diately stamped out This high and mighty per-
sonage attributed the “ misconduct ” of the people
to the “ improper use and desecration of our
theatres”; an opinion which was evidently shared
by Parkes, for on the following day the latter
arbitrarily ordered the closing of all theatres on
Sundays under pain of the absolute withdrawal of
their licenses. This little hole-and-corner assem-
blage in Mayor Huey’s room indulged to their
hearts’ content in reactionary talk that has not
been heard in the Knglish language for over a
century. Parkes declared the people to be “the
enemies of society,” and the Semitic Salomons,
member of a newly-enfranchised race, capped
this by calling them “ the enemies of man-
kind.” The ferocity with which these phra es
were belched forth indicated a desire and a firm
resolve to crush, by brute force, people who had
merely exercised their unquestionable British
liberties. It is notew'orthy that one of these so-
called “loyalists” exclaimed after the close of
the formal proceedings : “ Thank Clod, there is an
English Jleet in the harbour /”
The teaching of the whole business is that the
people of New South Wales are confronted by a
real danger. A law against the use of titles in
the. colony' is clearly demanded as a safeguard
against the manufacture of sycophants, whose
eduoation in lip-loyalty has developed in them a
mental condition at once contemptible and dan-
gerous. The loyalty of these wretched heings is
not to law and liberty, but to “ the fountain
of honour" as a person, and is due to their hope
and belief that some of that “ divinity ” which
“ doth hodge a king" descends to them on their
receiving marks of royal favour. This unwhole-
some state of things must be ameliorated without
delay, else the British connection will be thrown
off regardless of season. The free citizens of Aus-
tralia will not tolerate even the threats of the
stamping-out ” gentry ; yet we are already on
the threshold of acts in terms with the menaces
of despotism. Other Democratic reforms are also
demanded in the circumstances. The Chief Jus-
tice of New South Wales is a public servant, and
he needs to be taught that his first duty is to the
public, not to the Throne and Person of our
So' ereign Lady the Queen over the big water, as
he avers it to be. These judicial functionaries
must be appointed in a radically different way, in
order to ensure safety for the rights of the public.
And the Chief Magistrate of Sydney must also be
elected by the populace, not appointed by a coterie
of aldermen who are themselves elected by' an in-
finitesimal section of the ratepayers. If reforms
of the nature suggested are not soon introduced
the people will take it upon themselves one of these
fair days to settle the issues after a fashion
peculiarly their own.
According to the Sydney D.T,, the New South
Wales Minister of Public Instruction, Mr. Ingljs,
is being flooded out with letters from people who
are filled with admiration at his conduct in
stopping the public schools’ fuel-allowances as a
measure of economy, and leaving the children to
shiver in chilly, flreless rooms. Parents and
teachers in all parts of the colony cry, “ Let us see
this great man and then wc will be content to
die,” and aged, bedridden women say that it is hard
to pass away and leave a world which contains such
a disgraceful skinflint as Tiger Inglis. Strangely
enough, however, only one of the boasted mass of
letters has been published, and it proves to be,
not from a teacher or a parent, or even a con*
sumptive pupil, but from a backblocks journalist,
who was once a schoolmaster ! Yet the Parses
Government, which stops the children’s fires in
winter, sees no harm in paying £3OOO for a bronze
statue of the Queen. Never mind. We can one
day melt it down and turn it into Australian Ro*
publican pennies, with the head of the Goddess of
Liberty on one side and an old man kangaroo very
rampant on tho other.


Something Like A Jubilee!
MAYOR RILEY (dodging cats, road-metal &c.) “THIS IS INDEED UNLOOKED-FOR ENTHUSIASM.”


PEPPER
Salt
A Jubilee suggestion, calculated to awaken
painful emotions in the breasts of many “ Repre-
sentative Australians,” has appeared in the A rgus.
The writer points cut that this is a favourable
opportunity for the Queen to extend a gr«cious
pardon to all who mustn’t leave our c (untry
under existing arrangements. And now the re-
presentative one 3 who ’’wouldn't return to Erg
land on account of its beastly climate,” are in a
mortal funk lest their free pardon should be
gazetted. Better that they bo left to die beloved
by all who didn’t know ’em
A STRAIGHT ANSWER
QUEEN (to Tennyson): “THAT ODE ISN'T UP TO YOUR OLD MARK, ALFRED'
ALFRED: “NO, MUM, PERHAPS NOT. BUT GIMME A DECENT SUBJECT TO WRITE
ABOUT AND I IL LET YER SEE.”
The new El Dorado at Taranganba, North
Queensland, was di wove red by pigs. I\ is said
then rooted up the gold. We c\n quite believe it.
Ear] Cairns left Australia by the Bengal.
Said Mr. Ellery at the Public Service
Association Jubilee banquet (how well that reads!)
in Melbourne :—“ In these 50 years of our good
Queen's reign the British Empire has made such
progress in civilisation, in commerce, in social
progress, in art, and in science as is almost if not
unparalleled in history. I don’t mean altogether
to «ay that our good Queen has been the cause of
thi*.” Not betn the cause ! Oh ! this is treason.
Not been the cause ! Bring forth our Jubilee
minstrel, and ord°r him, under pain of death, to
sing
Queen Victoria, by the grace of, -&c.,
‘ pre eminent in grief,” is fast degenerating into
a, laughingstock. She has beco ne so canny t*at
it would not be a graceful act to give her away
with a pound of tea. A few weeks ago she enter-
tained the Knights and Companions of St. Drinkall
and St Gorge, at St James’ Palace—and charged
them £2 23. apiece for the refreshment She didn’t
meet her guests, or delegate anybody else in parti-
cular to meet them on her behalf as any other lad/
would have done—she simply turned them and poor
Wale 3 loose in the huge empty building and let
them rush for the victuals and. the smallest
K.C. MG. might be trodden down by his hungry
companions aDd be compelled ultimately to go
away without a bite for all she cared. On top of
this outrage, however, her Gracious piled another
Caledonian freak which was more exaspera-
ting still. She charged her guests ss. each for
repairs to the kitchen-range. The old iron 6tove
was out of order, and the two guinea dinner
couldn’t be cooked till it was put right, and her
Gracious would see her guests blazing before
she would put it right for them. There
were 180 in all, and among them they put
up £45 to pay for patching the hind legs
of an aged box with Are ia its stomach which
never cost more than £2O. when it was new. Even
after this the food was c.old, the waiters cut off
the supply of champagne when the proceedings
were only half through, being apparently in
doubt as to whether the Order were not eating
all the profits, and the guests ultimately escaped
with a vague idea that they had only got away in
time to avoid being levied upon for repairs to hnr
Gracious's best cruet-stand, or fresh boots f
HatteataK, .or aouiti similar charitable
It is faintly rumoured that two dukes and a
Queen had a ghastly row for possession of the
scraps after the company had slid, and that fho
dukes got the worst of it, but this point i.
shrouded in mystery. It is also asserted that a
breathless messenger arrived at Windsor late at
night withgi bundle of food tied up in a red cotton
pocket-hdifflkerchief, and that a lady who was
pre-eminent in grief had been sitting up f or him
th >B also is uncertain. At all events the
Queen's restaurant has received a blow which it
will nqt soon recover Even Australians do not
care to dine at a high figure in a royal cola-ham-
shop where the oven is out of repair, and whore
they have to listen to twaddling speeches while
driving a pewter spoon into a gluey “blank
mange,” and when the wine runs short and the
provisions give out, and two knights fasten Bimul-
taneouely on to the last potato, it becomes evident
that an eighteenpenny restaurant is a better bar-
gain than royal “hospitality.”
The Archbishop of Canterbury says he is
“distressed and overwhelmed” to And that
Mahommedanism shows better and more moral
results in many places than his own special
and particular brand of Christianity. What’s
wrong with old Canterbury (£15,000 a year paid
quarterly 11 Why doesn't he guffaw with joy to
find that somebody or something is producing
moral results even if he is not? If a fakir Of*
;iin. high, with bare feet, is saving souls by means
of a foghorn in Central Africa, the Archbishop as
the forequarters, head, and horns of the English
Church, has all the more reason to put his pink
limbs on a hassock and take another glas3 of
sherry, and say, “ Thank God,” and go to sleep
Bat probably he thinks it better that pagans
should go to Sheol, as he is not ready to save them,
than that they should learn to abjure rum and
immorality and the rest of the white min's sins
and keep clear of a church which raises the wind
by getting pretty girls to bamboozle young men
into buying tickets in a rattle for a pap-bottle.
Archbishops are a curious lot, and civilisation has
either to walk round or fall over them.
* * .
The University of Cambridge has conferred
the degree of Doctor of Laws upon Mr. Justice
Windeyer. Quite an appropriate honour. Win-
deyer has bsen administering stiff doses of legal
physic for years.—
Our friends in South Australia sluno out
the Freetrade Downer Ministry while the Premier
was away a', the Imperial Conference getting his
K.C. vi.G. and explaining the errors of a policy of
Protection : - '
The famous Ei Ca lao mine, in Venezuela,
which had jie.'dtd nJUio&s cf geld, has just
“died up.” Of oou'te ic had jut t been floated
en the London marker.
Justice is eternal. Twenty years ago one
Cramp was out oa bail in Sydne/ on a charge of
shifting sheep, and h j girded up his loins and fled
from the scene An unfeeling policeman, how*
er, grabbed him again last and though
most of the witnesses have gone to a happier land
the deposi.ionsare still there, and the case will go
on as fresh as evi r.
“ Homeward Throjgh America,’’ the ob-
servations of a passenger by the Burlington
Route, is the title of a 32-page brochure forwarded
'o liie Bulletin by Mr. Wilii im Flemming,
Sydney agea* for the route. The little book, from
the artistic press of Bros., Chicag), is one
of the most elegant things we have ever seen and
makes us shed a tear for the Australian printer.
A correspondent sends the following notes
in reference to that now notorious tram action—the
construction of the lllawarra (N.S.W.) railway
‘lore the; first section—the original contract was for 26
miles, but in consequence of the Government of the time
°j route » lll e contractors were
stopped at the 18th mile, and received about £2O 000 as com-
pensation ! Thri next section for which tenders were called
3, a distance of about 24 miles, from near Clifton to
the River Macquarie, to be completed in three years. Section
iNo. I was shortly afterwards tendered for, with 3J years for
completion of contract; and section No. 4 was let in Feb-
ruary, 1886, to be completed in 12 months. Now, not one of
th me sections will be finished in the time laid down in the
09s tract deed. The time for the completion of No. 3 ex-
Pyed, I believe, last June, and yet there is little probability
of the line being finished by next June. Still the public
has received no intimation of an extension of time having
been granted: or, if granted, up on what grouuds No. 2
secti n cannot be finished in less than 18 months, and I am
certain that that is considerably over the time specified in
the deed of contract. Yet sections 3 and 4 will be useless
until sec. ion 2is ready! No. 4 section should have been com-
pletvd last February, and yet the contractors wore recently
adverting in evening papers for a few. good tunnel miners,
which certainly does not look like hurrying forward the
\ir* why B k° u ld these extensions of time be per
mitted ? We never hear of any reason for them neither do
we hear of penalties ever being enforced for non-ob3ervance
of contract conditions, relating t > time or anything else,
ihese extensions of time are a huge loss to the country, and
an injustice to the navvies. Tike, for instance, No. 4 section,
tVir'fo SJti? 1 u tbe contract for which was
taken at £97.ooo—about £lO.OOO per mile—the time allowed
being one year. If a contractor is not bound to the sreoitied
« e .T e 7 en ,f labour remains all the while the same—he can
attord to taxe the contract for less, because if 18 months
his. eau of one year had been allowed for completion, the
lowest tender would probably have been £90,000: yet the
contractor doe 3 in t ffect get the 18 months, hence he is calmly
allowed to pocket an additional profit of £7OOO And by such a
state or affairs, contractors can pay what they choose for
I 'JP° u . r » because, as they are not pushed for time, they can
artord to wait until labour is cheap enough to suit them. A
jear ago wages in open cuttings in N.S.W. railways stood at
° B *.P®f day; at Present the rate is 7s. per day No one could
ll this fall took pi ice during the time allowed for the
completion of a contract. If the contractors were pushed, or
the penalties enforced, wages would immediately become
. Better. At present 1 here are hundreds of men out of work
m A.S.W., and many of them leaving for Victoria, New
Zealand, and Queensland. Yet if the contractors w.-re
pushed they could employ three where they now employ one.
it is useless for contractors to urge the plea of extra work as
an excuse, for there is none worthy of mention.’
JUBILEE.
For fifty long years has she wielded the sceptre.
Posed as a monarch for fools to applaud,
While musty tradition and courtiers have kept
her
K’en as one sacred—the anoinied of God ;
Briton< send missions to save our black brother
That bows to a fetish of wood or of stone.
Yet worship an idol more vain than the other —
A Queen on a throne.
For fifty long years flattered, feasted, and feted,
The favoured of Fortune who scarcely has
frowned.
Her tide of prosperity ne’er has abated —
Never once ebbed since the day she was
crowned.
What has she done—tell us, .lubilee raver—
This ease-loving lady of seventeen stone,
That children should call upon heaven to save her?
“ By our works are we known 1”
Over one selfish grief has she moodily pondered.
While other widows were eryiag for to cl :
Morbidly mourning, her days she has squandered.
Doing no evil and workiog no good.
Is it enough that her morals ara blameless
Is there no virtue apart from her own I
Are all the rest of their Majesties shameless
Save this one alone !
Think of the chances, glib .lubilee raver !
Chances potential for serving her kind.
What has she done with the talents God gave her ?
How faint are tin footprints the Queen leaves
behind I
Where is the harvest, this Jubilee season,
Born of good seed which the Sovereign has
sown i
Ere we reioice find us one honest reason
To shout for the Throne.
What shall we sing of—the grand Crnstitution
Built up by monsters, supported by knaves !
Already the signs of a sure revolution
Are read in the eyes of the suffering sla\-es.
Shall we exult o’er a rule that is hateful
To thousands whose Jubilee song is a groan,
And howl with the bloodsuckirg few who are
grateful
For a Monarch and Throne ?
Light up your gas-jets, sond skywards your
rockets—
Celebrate Jubilee Day if you will;
But keep your fat hands from Itepubliean pockets
When moccy is needed to settle the bil l .
Though you may speak in the name of the Nation,
Truth pricks the bladder by ljing breath
blown—
To a self-seeking cliqu? is confine 1 jubila'ion
O’er Vic. and the Throne.
Jubilee Pay 1 It wid b'iog no contrition,
No haunting spect es will waken her fear 3 :
Her pomp-dazzled eyes mise the .sios cf omission
Placed to her debit t' rough fif.y long years.
She can sec much in the past to rejoice for,
Nothing to blush for, Daught to atOLe—
Her heart will speak loud when she raises h*-r voice
for
The Queen and the Throne.
COVER IT UP.
If good Queen V.
Should set ’em free—
Those parties so respected—
Alas ! there’d be
Much mieeree
In circles “ well-connected” ;
The world would see
How C.M.G.
To make our laws elected,
Came o’er the sea
From his own countree—
Because he was ejected.
’Twould be a strame
To spoil the game
Of swells in ltfty places,
Who now lay claim
To birth and fame
By raking up'their “ cases.”
That story lame
(All swear the same)
They’d tell with blushing faces—
\ “ Went shooting game,"
\ And so they came
To get in sad disgraces.
Wc must protest
’TiaTude to jest
At'partres so respected,
lhe “ honoured guest ”
With ribboned chest,
If carelessly ins pected,
Will stand the C-^st.
Then why suggest
A taint thac’s not suspected ?. .
They’il go to rest
Among the blest,
Not mourned—but undetected.
“ It has been decided, in connection with
the te'gn of her Majesty the Queen, to* issue from
the Rojal Mint Jubilre coinage in the form of
gold pieces of the value of ii and £2 respec-
tively.”—(Age cablegran ).
MAKE PIECE ON EARTH.
Of the thousands who starve amidst plenty,
And shiver on noisome straw beds ;
Who are aged in sorrow ere twenty
Dark years have passed over 1 heii[he ads ;
Who wait but for Death, as time flies on,
To bring them the longed-for release —
How many will ever set eyes on
A £5 gold piece i
The lean little waifs of the gutter.
Who shamble along on bare feet
Begging bread, without dreaming of butter,
Or knowing the flavour of meat ;
Whose “ copper" is seldom a penny,
But often, alas I the “perleece ”
Of those wretched urchins how many
W ill see the gold piece ?
What to him who is “ loyal ” and grovels,
If, within a stone-throw of the Throne,
The poor die like dogs in their hovels
l neared for, unprayed for, alone !
Are such things ever thought on, or hinted
By the alderman’s “ lady ” obese,
I''or whose Jubilee brcoch will be minted
A £5 gold piece !
The smug parson purrs as he preaches
Of the gifts which kind Providtnce sends :
But the cry of the Outcast ne’er reaches
The souls of his “ Christian feriends "
Who prosper on scantlj-paid labour—
Will they give of their unoarned increase.
As a Jubilee gift to their neighbour,
A £.i gold piece ?
’Tis a choice, fitting Jubilee token ' »
Of this joyful event, Heaven knows !
It will gladden the hearts that are broken,
And be as a salve for their woes;
To the workhouse poor creatures are flocking
As their Queen murmurs—“ Goodwill and
Peace,” .
And their mis’ry, Oh God ! we arc mccking
With another gold piece.
Rooted up by pig 3!
The lesson’s plain.
An honest digger digs
Too oft in vain,
And while on barren toil
He groweth old
Swine wallow in the spoil
Pigs root up gold.
Since the world began
Its daily round
Seldom has a man
Much treasure found :
Fearful of a smirch
He, cleaner souled,
Would never care to search
Where swine find gold.
Root away, Sir Pig,
In blackest ooze
Let the o'hers dig,
If they so choose,
In cleaner, firmer soil.
Their hearts consoled
By thinking, as they toil—
“ Pigs root up gold !”
A PARTING SHOT.
Farewell! moaLnable. K axJ
(The “ Gumboil” of Miss Fortesoue)
We hope you left no girl
In Sydney with her heart askew —
That you did not propose
To any maid and run away ;
You may have done, who knows !
Such is life, alackaday !
Most noble Earl, farewell I
Your rhip is sailing gaily—ah,
Just tell them at Pell Meil
That over in Australi-a,
Though his lordship did attract,
The girls were guarded from his wiles
By that infernal Act,
Permitting breach of promise trials.
Good Ellery, you make us laugh.
You really arc so green :
Why, whoyave us the telegraph I
Of course it was the Queen.
Who first invented power-looms—
Laid cables submarine,
Fired ’lectric bells in eittirg rooms !
Now, wasn’t it the Queen 1
Who gave the vulgar musses votes ?
And where should we have been
But for those new torredo- -oats
Constructed by the Queen !
Through whose exertions is it, please.
That irade’s increased between
Great Britain and h»r colonies !
All owing to the Queen.
Who brought the mighty ironclad
At first upon the sceno l
As if you dido t know, begad,
Thxt much about the Queen !
So scienceful 1 and as for art,
No lady has, we ween,
Turned out more w'orks than, bless her heart!
Her Majesty the Queen.
Oh ! Ellery, by these rema-ks,
We can't think what you mean ;
You funny dog, you're playing la-ks
God save our Gracious Queen !
TO THAT WINDEYER MAN FROM SYDNEY.
The thought makes us pause—
Is this “ Doctor of Laws”
A title conferred to cajole us
From saying it’s wrong
When you dose ’em too strong,
And put ’em to sleep with a Dolus ?
Boys lie in the grave
Torough the physic you gave,
On the word of a fable-concootor ;
And we’re wood-ring if
You’ll come it more stiff.
Being now a full qualified Doctor.
A Downer for Downer.
John Downer was but plain “Jack,”
When he fluttered away from the South,
W hen a knight he came baek
He was handed the sick.
And Sir Johnny was Downer-n the mouth.
A knight heed's not much to gain
At suih a res-pectab e Co3t;
Was the game worth the c indie
A name for a ‘ ' hanele ” 1
N. ! W T e reckon S,r Johnny has lost.


PERSONAL ITEMS
'Chief Justice Darley doesn’t like alfresco
"prayer. It isn’t loyal, you know.
Walter, chief proprietor of the Times, is
known as “ the man behind the times.”
Lord Salisbury has coined a smart phrase,
“ the dreary drip of dilatory ’detUrngitgn.”
According to a ’Frisco paper Mrs. Langtry
lias postponed her trip to Australia,until neiL
season.
“ What’s in a name ?” Jonathan Wiide
has just been committed for burgling a church at
Newcastle, N.S. W.
There seems to be some reason for be-
lieving that the supposed Parnell letter was
written in Australia.
The Hay people want Governor Carington
to visit them. Tneir wish will probably be met.
Any donkey will go to hay.
Pastor Chiniquy denies he is dead. So
says Sydney Protestant Standard. This looks
as if the Standard knows where he is.
Mr. Rusden, P.M., of Merriwa, N.S.W.,
who died last week at a ripe old age, was a mem-
ber of the first Australian Parliament.
Mr. H B. Farnie, opera boioffe writer,
landed on these shores last week. He did the
libretto for Mr. Sum-
mers’ Jubilee cantata
on their journey out.
Judge Windeyer,
■of Sydney, haft been
made a doctor of civil
law by .Cambridge Uni-
versity. and an LL.D.
by Oxford ditto. Such
are the aots which
enable irreverent
Young Australia to ac-
curately measure uo
the much-vaunted old-
world institutions.
Mrs. Gordon Bail-
lie has come to Austra-
lia to look for a place
whereon the evicted
crofters may sit down.
She says she wants
room for fully 1000 of
the clan Gordon. Where
is the man who would
not like to welcome
to Australia even
twenty shiploads of the
“gallant Gordons?”
Mrs. Baillie, who is a
handsome woman, and
nice enough to whistle
a bird off a tree, ought
to be able to induce
Duncan Gillies to cede
half of Victoria to her
clan.
The Chinese Commissioners left the Mel
bourne Town Hall under the impression that the
great organ was a gigantic washing machine.
“ If I only knew how to disguise myself!”
said Parke 3 last week to the deputation of politi-
cians. If Parkes wants to disguise himself he had
better go aa a Freetrader.
De vnortuis nil nisi bonum. Be careful
bow you talk of the little failings of Messrs.
Nero, Caligula, Harry the Eighth, O Cromwell, T.
Oates and sundry more.
Part of the Adelaide poople’s idea of
Jubilating is to take a year off the sentences of
the holy swindler ('rooks and the godly fraud
Walker, of the Y.M.C. A.
“Mr. Heaton,” remarks Mr. Charles
Lett, in the E. News, ‘‘is not a man to be de-
terred by difficulties. ’ Quite right, Charles.
Henniker never stops at a “ corker.
The Prince of Wales, according to his
friend, Mr. C‘harle3 Lett, the Sydney E. News'
London correspondent, ‘ feels his position as re-
gards the Imperial Institute very much.
The Prince of Wales, it is cabled, will act
as honorary president of the London Commission
for Melbourne Exhibition. From this we presume
that Tummy has never heard of Kershaw.
Mr Nicholas Weeke3, Mayor of Manly,
hon. sec. to the N.S.W. Grand Lodgo of Free-
masons, died suddenly last week of paralysis cf
a heart than which none kinder ever beat.
The late (R.C.) Archbishop Goold, of
Melbourne, when once calledupon to respond to a
toast at a banquet, said that “ when he entered the
hall he had no intention whatever of opening his
mouth.”
The Queenslander says : -“ Really and
truly our washerwoman sent in an account the
other week for doing ‘ 1 shurt, 2 flenels, 2 bunk-
pichs, and 1 sokes.’ ” Good heavens ! One shirt
every week !
The Times articles on Parnellism and
•Crime were written by one J. Wolfe Flanagan.
You can always And one Irishman to chew up
another. The bane and the antidote are riz in
the same country.
“Tiger" Inglis, the N.S.W. Minister of
Education, has another book, “ Our New Zealand
Cousins,” in the press. So that there is in Aus-
tralia at least one man whom even the Saturday
Review can’t kill.
George Collins Levey doesn’t like people
to thinkhe’s a Jew. One day, when G.C L was
editor of the Age, a man oalled and asked to see
Mr. Leevey. “ There’s no such parson in this
office,” snarled George.
The ascetic Dr. Corbett, of St. Kilda,
Melb., has been appointed R.C., Bishop of Sale,
Victoria. There is very subdued rejoicing o\er
the event outlie part of the cljrgy who in due
'Course will be under h's lordship.
Mr. Russell, the N.S.W. Government
Astronomer, has arrived in London. He will con-
fer with Sir Saul Samuel and the other Australian
Agents-General on tne proposal to the
Southern Cross the “ Victoria Cross
There is nothing like being frank. Thus
the B. P.’s paper :—“ This issue of the Lithgow
Mercury is not as good as usual because our
editor has been down in Sydney on the booze in-
stead of attending to his literary work.
What curious names newspaper pro-
nrietors have in Newcastle, N.S.W.—-Love and
Sweet, for instance. Neither of them has been a
very brilliant success. Mr. Gall and Mr. W orm-
wood would have had twice as good a chance.
The “ladies” of -N.S.W. object to be
called “women and girls.” Yet the Praliran
(Melb.) Council, in i Jnb. address, allude to
Queen Victoria's “ virtue as a woman” N.S.W.
is evidently much more refined than Victoria.
Captain Mackay, the Cooktown harbour-
master, has found the spot where, on 11th June,
1770, Captain Cook threw the guns of the ship
Endeavour overboard on to the Endeavour Reef.
He hopes yet to recover these interesting relics.
“ Many people hope the Queen will make
a bip money pift to some deserving charity in
commemoraion of Jubilee Day,” says the London
correspondent of the S. M Herald. Th s most
b) what Artemus Ward Would call “sarkazum.”
Madame Widermann, ; prima donna of
the German Opera at Melbourne,' is wife of the
Austrian Consul in the Victorian capital. She
was a professional opera-singer when she married
the Consul, but retired from the stage upon her
marriage.
Alfred Bennett is our authority for the
assertion that the Prince of Wales never wears
the same pair of trousers more, than five times.
It would probably astonish the Prince of Wales to
hoar how many shirts some colonial magnates
wear in a week.
The will of the late Patrick O’Brien, of
Hawthorn (Vic.), has been sworn at £lB3 000;
and that of the late Herbert Rocke, of Rocke,
Tompsitt and Co., who was found dead on a re-
cent morning at Petty's Hotel, Sydney, has been
proved at £10,342.
Messre splers and Pond. of London who are to do the catering at the Adelaide Exhibition, are going, it is said, to send out a contingent of their very
choices thing in Darmalds to serve the Vissitors. The girls will have their passage paid and their beard and lodging [?]-and their expe[?] back
again will also be [?] by S. and P. Thone gentleman however, don't expect mang of the Licbes back again as London bar augels are provebially
good-looking, and the s will be selected ones ."-Adelaide Correspondence.
An insolvent who was before a Sydney
Court last week owned that he had already been
insolvent five times-in E-gland, then in Bris-
bane, and three times in N.S.W. He had been
thrice burnt out, and on neither occasion did he
get his insurance-money.
Some humorist or private clown has struck
the idea of appointing Battenborg Chairman of
the Society of Friends of Foreigners in Uisiress.
Bat hasbsen a foreigner in distress and knows
what it is like, and he took the billet in his own
serene way without a smile.
Captain Von Reichenbach, of the German
man-of-war Olga, dropped dead on the bridge of
his ship last week while entering Sydney Head'.
“ See Naples and die,” the proverb used to run.
The remains of the dead seaman received a naval
funeral on Saturday afternoon.
“ The effusively loyal head master of a
Brisbane State School has broken a small
bloodvessel while practising Jubilee songs with
his pupils. His medical adviser has ordered him to
discontinue all practice. ’ As a rule, Nemesis is
patient; but the Jubilee rot seems to start her on
the war-path.
G. A. Sala, through ill health, has gone
to Itoms instead of coming to Australia. He will
want all his strength it he intends giving us
another turn at misrepresentation. U. A. r.
thinks Rome is as cool in winter as N.S.W. He
would, however, find our climate ever so much
warmer than when he was here before.
A woman is “ evidently insane,” according
to the Argos, because she considers that the re-
presentative of Royalty in Victoria promised to
get her £lOOO. On mature consideration we are
inclined to agree with the Argus for this once.
Anyone who could believe in such a promise from
such a quarter must be hopelessly insane.
From the S. M. Herald “ One pound
reward.—host, at North Shore, a black-and-tan
setter dog ; answers Dan. Apply,” &c. What
is the use of a puplet that will only answer Han 1
Han might be drunk, or hanged, or absconded,
and that doglet would have to remain dumb to
the advances of those guiltless of a Biblical cogno-
men.
Labouchere says in Truth that the Mount
Britton mine <Q. > recently sold by the brothers
Fiuch-Hatton (sons of the Earl of Winchilsea,
who, by the way, has just died) for
£1)5,000, ia London, was previously sold for
£IROOO, but the working of it proved so unprofit-
able that the buyers, unable to complete the pur-
chase, allowed the mine to revert to the enterpris-
ing sprigs of “nobility.”
Archduke Ferdinand, nephew to the Em-
peror of Austria, has struck out a new line in the
way of royal pastimes. He and some more
millingtary stopped a peasant’s funeral, pulled the
corpse out. of its coffin, and then leaped their
chargers over the u•.protesting clay. They say
that the Emperor has “ disgr iced ” the dear Arch-
duke for this little affair. You see, no Arch-
duke could ever disgrace himself.
Because Dr. Brownless, Chancellor of the
Melbourne University, is a It C. ; some people
jumped at the conclusion that Judge Hamilton,
his nephew by marriage, was an RC. also. This
delusion, however, was rudely dispelled when
E.B. H. wis foremost in the van to welcome the
“Escaped Nun" to Melbourne. The fact is that
Mr. Hamilton is son of a Protestant church dig-
nitary in the North of Ireland. Hr. Brownless
was also a disciple of Martin Luther at one time
of his life.
Another international complication in
Alsace. At Strasburg a young Frenchman was
conscripted to serve the Fatherland, and, being run
in before the surgeons in the usual course it was
discovered that almost his whole body was tattooed
over with the w iris “Vive la Francs 1” Ali tie
variety was found on his stomach, on which was
branded a remark about the Emperor-William
going to Sheol, but this was the only break in the
irritating monotony. The conscript is now doing
six months in gaol.
Will. Madden, who blew his brains
out on June 1, was one of the most esteemed
young solicitors in Melbourne. His best-known
brothers are Dr. Madden, who will be the next
judge of the Wictoriau'-Su-preme Court,-—Walter
Madden, M.P . and Frank Madden, who was a
candidate for Mornington at a late election, and
is married to a daughter of the late Hon. J. G.
Francis. Madden was a fine tall fellow, but
and excitable upon occasion. With all
his-abilitie.*,. success, and the esteem in which he
was held,-it was extraordinary that he should
take his own life. His brain must have “given
way.”
Mr. John J, Tee.ce, barrister-at-law, who
died at Sydney last week ere he had attained
middle age, was regarded by the members of his
profession as a rising man. His health had long
been far from robust, and some years ago he was
pronounced-by a number of leading doctors to be
suffering from organic heart-disease. It was dis-
covered, however, by the late Dr. Fortescue —who
also died all too soon—that Mr. Teece’s chief
malady was not heart-disea'e, as supposed, but an
accumulation of matter on the lung, which was so
extensive as to actually force the heart out of
place. The matter having been removed, Mr.
Teeee rapidly recovered and had since then been
n tolerable health until, getting a severe cold, he
suddenly succumbed.
A Jubilee yarn : —One of the first things
Queen Victoria did on hearing that William IV.
was dead and that she had succeeded to the
throne, was to call one of her mother's ladies-in-
waiting. “ Am I really queen ?" asked the excited
princess, “ You are, indeed, madam," replied
the lady-in-waiting.' “And I- can do what I
choose, by right*’ continued Victoria. “Cer-
tainly, your majesty.” “Then get me a cup of
green tea. Mamma never would let me have it;
now I mean to know what harm it can do me.’
And the young queen drank three cups, had a
violent fit of the shivers, and has never liked tea
since.
T. Fogarty, Esq., J.P., was one of those
who went from Melbourne to Adelaide the other
day to welcome Dr. Carr, the new R.C. Arch-
bishop, on his arrival. Thomas is chiefly remark-
able as being the man who—though at one time
he rarely lo3t an opportunity of spouting at Irish
Home Rule meetings'—has never been on a Nation-
alist platform since tjie ungrateful Redmond
seme what cold-shouldered his eloquence at a cer-
tain memorable -Sydney wedding. Mr. Fogarty
then withdrew his active support from Parnell,
and to that ever-to-be-regretted event the down-
fall of the Gladstone Government was no doubt
largely due.
Last week something was heard of the
Brisbane woman who, on being told she was to be
hanged, received the news “with disfavour” so
said Sydney D.T. Now, a Brisbane scribe—prob-
ably the “disfavour” man—tells us that when
•lacob Stevenson, a darkey under sentence of
death, got a free pardon," he was evidently glad
to escape the ignominious death which had ap-
peared imminent.” It really does need comment
when a pressman sees a man actually glad grin-
ning, perhaps—to escape doing a final pas seul on
nothing at the end of a hangman's rope 1 Chronicle
the ninth wonder 1 I
Raymond John Leigh, journalist, of the
Charleville (Q ) Times, poisoned himself with
chlorodyne last week, after writing a letter saying
“ drink has put me to the devil. ... To my
nephew I should like my watch given, my ring
sent home to my sister, my carved stick given to
Mr. Robinson. It is my wish that my corpse
should be interred as that of a pauper. I have no
right to request otherwise. For a few years I
have traded on the credit of being a gentleman,
and my fearful end may be a warning worth post-
ing up. The only gentleman is he who pays his
wa} . 1 cannot face men. Cowardice
or pluck—who knows ■
Mr. F. A. Whitaker, solicitor, eldest son
of an ex-N Z Premier, has, while suffering from
depression of spirits, shot himself through the
brain at the Auckland Club, but at the time of
writing is still alive. Apropos, there are many
curious recent cases of long survival after brain-
iniury. Some little time ago, a man who had shot
himself right through the head in the Domain
walked into the surgery of a Sydney medico. He
died several days afterwards. Then there was the
case of Mr Norton, P.M., of Dubbo, N.S.W., who,
after being shot clean through the brain, lived,
and talked quite rationally, for many weeks.
Ultimately he died suddenly.
Lord Tennyson’s lot is not altogether
happy. Notwithstanding that his sight has long
been failing, and that he has advertised in the
Times that he will not receive or reply to com-
munications from strangers, the amateurs of
poetry are merciless, and continue to fire little
things of their own at him. In the course of a
kindly and appreciative letter to Mr. John Farrell,
of Queanbeyan, N S.W., congratulating that gen-
tleman on the success of his volume, “ How He
Died,” the Laureate says : —“ It is not much that
I can read now, for I have entirely lost the use of
my right eye, as far as reading goes, and the left
one is slowly darkening. And every morning of
my life come by post from all parts of the world
poems—reams of them —with requests that I
should pronounce upon their merits, and hardly
ever a book of prose ; and I cannot live, like
John the Baptist, on wild honey.” Which, we
claim, is a more neatly-turned phrase, embodying
a happier thought than any in the “ Jubilee
Ode.”
Dr. Cameron Less, preaching at Scots
Church, Melbourne, said that “ Christianity made
the great missionary, and one ot the great mis-
takes of missionary work had been the espousing
of ths calling by men who lacked the true
spiritual vocation.” Precisely. In Fitzroy (Melb.),
there is one KinsmaD, who sells things by auction
all the week in Moor-street, and twice on Sunday
preaches to the bsnighte i heathen of Collingwood
Flat lie calls his conventicle in Park-street the
“ Free Church of England,” and tne “ lievcrend ”
Nathaniel is Vicar-General, Archdeacon, Dean and
priest of the Free Church—in fact a clerical and
auctioneering Pooh-Bah. “ The Free Church,
that’s me.” Kinsman makes as much coin by per" l
forming marriages a 3 by the auctioneer’s hammer.
The other day he described himself to Chief
Justice Higinbotham as "an auctioneer and a
minister of religion.”
John Daley, the
mammoth Melbourne
undertaker, was asked
by some friends the
other day to have a
drink. John, in his
usual professionally
solemn manner, volun-
teered Ihe melancholy
intel igence that he
had just been burying
poor Mick O'Hooligan.
“Whatdid he die of,
Mr. Daley?” asked one
of the party “P. 8.,
P. 8.,” said J.D , shak-
ing his head pityingly.
“ What’s yours, Mr.
Daley ? ’ inquired the
shoutist. “P. 8.,” said
John, blandly, “P. 8.”
The clergy are at it
again urging that di-
vorce shall be made
next to impossible.
They have got hold of
the wrong end of the
matter. It is marriage
that should be made
difficult. They do all
they can to make it easy
and will marry almost
anybody es
a fee, but they bitterly
oppose divorce even
when home is made a
hell by misconduct. If
adultery is to ba the only ground of divorce, then
chastity should be made the sole ground ot
marriage. Brutal treatment, desertion and failure
to support are certainly reasonable excuses for
full and free divorce. Divorces should not be
granted recklessly, but they should be granted
for cause, and there are more causes than one.
Society will not be restored to its proper purity
until marriage is made as difficult as divorce is
made easy. ,
It rarely happens that the holy folks at
home do not know all about things, but they un-
mistakeably put themeelves in a hole last mo.'.th.
Dr. Carey, chairman of the committee formed by
the parishioners of Dr. McGlynn, who has lately
been suspended for his Henry George predilec-
tions, telegraphed to Pope Pecci congratulations
upon his birthday. The following telegram was
received in reply :
“ Your telegram was most acceptable to the Sovereign
Pontiff, who, returning thanks, imparts most lovingly his
Apostolic Benediction to the Eev. McGlynn, to you. ar.d to
the faithful of the parish. M. Mocf.ndi. ’
Of course Mr. Mccendi had forgotten about the
little episode of Dr. McGlynn. Tableau !
Arthur Kyngdon Gordon, a rea’ly pro-
mising criminal, has been nipped in the bud at
Rockhampton (Q). He is related to several
British , peers, and started life as a good youDg
man who pottered aimlessly about in the bes,
society with ipecacuanha and pills, but something
went wrong with him, and the dukes gave up
speaking to him when they met. He then
entered the navy ard followed the profession of
black draughts and blisters upon the moaning seat
but he got drunk and larked with the astonished
captain, contrary to the articles of war, till he
was lifted ashore in disgrac’. He then practised
as a doctor in Hongkong, but after a brief period
of success he again began to look on the bser when
it frothed, and after some short but thrilling jinks
among the lepers he started as a temperance
lecturer in the Straits Settlements with himself as
the “ awful example.” His audiences, however,
smelt his breath and retired, and the speculation
was a failure. After this, he disappeared for some
years, but about 1807 ho turned up as a bush-
ranger in Queensland, where, as Captain Star-
light, he pretty nearly cleaned out the western
part of the colony. The police, who were born
tired, never once came up to him, and he finally
crossed the border and proceeded to amass port-
able property in N.S.W. At Bourke, in Novem-
ber, 1868, he laid violent hands on the force,
killing one policeman and wounding two
ethers, and shortly afterwards he was ,belted
with a paling, captured, and sentenced to
death. Ho did not go aloft as expected, however,
but put in 16 years in Darlinghurst Gaol, where
he ultimately became assistant to the Roman
Catholic with the clean shave who looked after
the morals of the institution. The most of his
time was spent in eating Government morphia
which Bertrand, the murderer fund ex dentist,
kindly supplied free, and in this peaceful seclusion
the bushranger raised the hymn on Sundays and
rendered himself generally useful through the
week until some friends got' him out in 1884. He
was next employed in decorating a church at
Orange, but he suddenly vanished leaving a
beautifully-coloured saint only half finished, and
another man had xo be hired to put on the legs.
He turned up aga-'in as a houndary-rider at Roma,
and again disappeared until the end of 1886, when
personal effects began to go missing at Thargo-
mipdah (Q.. 1, and a few weeks ago, after a long
chase through a number of damp spots, a sinewy
policeman succeeded in running down a rather
anciexit British swell in reduced circumstances
who proved to be all that was left of the Hong-
kong doctor. None of his relations in the peerage
volunteered to bail him out, and the active,
elderly burglar was locked up once morel


A F.
The Queen last week visited the ‘Olympia ' Circus, and, towards the conclusion of the performs
BRITISH LION (log); “THAT’S RIGHT, OLD LADY. I’VE NURSED YOUR CUBS LONG ENOUGH


MIR DEAL.
fondled the lion-cubs, which at Her Magesty's request were brought to her by the director."-London Paper.
[?]OW. YOU NURSE M INE BIT. SOME OF THEM ABE VERY HUNGRY AND DISCONTENTED. I ASSURE YOU.


Dinner and Evening Parties are getting very numerous,
and the lovely Fairy Lamps, Candelabra, and dressings are
greatly used. Bray Bros., of Oeorge-street, have a nice
variety of these.*
Our Premier, Our Governor, and Our c,
exhibited over the shops of Bray Bros., the u
Glass Importers, opposite the Joint Btzck Bink.
windows glisten with prettinees. ’
The most Artistic Costumes at the recent Balls were de-
signed at Mrs. McCathie’s, King-street.*
The best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sidney
a reasonable price, less than London or Paris is
SvA US I 8 ® oot Emporium, 408 George-street, corner ’of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes foi fashion, low heels for com-
fort ; to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody. 3. n
and see for yourself.* *
Society
“ Miss Smith looked nice, as usual.” This
brief statement of fact is culled from the social
oolumn in 320 bick numbers of the Sydney D.T.,
and is interesting owiDg to its antiquity. There
is nothing very startling about it except the fact
that Miss Smith must be rather old by this time,
and when you are reading the newspaper to a sick
friend you may safely unchain this item and let
it loose on him without any fear of dangerous re-
sults arising from shock to the system. Miss
Smith is a baker’s daughter just hovering on the
verge of “gentility,’ and she and her young man
have the entree to a few balls, where she behaves
very nicely in an clephant’s-breath costume. The
“young man,” in point of social status, is about
half-way between a girl’s “chap” and an aide-
de-camp ; in earlier days, he inclined to the lower
scale, and when he proposed he said briefly,
“ Annie, let’s get spliced,'’ but Mi°s Smith has
laboured hard to put a polish on him since then.
He doesn’t breathe so stertorously as he used to do
for one thing : his hands are not quite so red, and
when he dance 3 his legs look less like two left
limbs and no right one. The ladiej whose busi-
ness it is to write up reports of “society”
events, as a rule, take no notice of Mis 3
Smith, but when she does get access to a
ball and has the luck to secure a few
dances, the poor little mortal’s name is
generally to be found somewhere at the dejected
tail-end of the report. We used to meet her our-
selves in our earlier days, and her methods are
very simple. We were poor then —miserably poor
We sat on a gin-case in Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
and wrote our eloquent tirades on an eleven-shil-
ling deal table in a little top-storey room, but even
there we would often listen to the timid patter of
a pair of lightly-shod feet on the ricketty stairs,
and then we would stop writing to speculate as
to our visitor. But we soon got to know her.
The steps got worn with the footprints of the
poor little woman who would toil up to our
sanctum, rather weary and out of breath, but
with a fluttering smile on her lips and a wistful
look of hope in her eye, and when she asked if we
were the editor, and we said we were, she would
put into our hands a little pink envelope and ask
us appealingly to “just give her a mention.” We
hardly needed to open the letter then—we knew
it« contents so well. The same little scrap of gilt-
edged paper every time, and across it would
appear the neatly-written sentence, “ Mis 3 Smith
looked nice, as usual ” We had not the heart to
refuse, and so the item would appear at the foot
of a long account of wealth and beauty, and the
half-frightened little creature would go away re-
joicing. Poor Miss Smith was a noun of multi-
tude ; there were hundreds of her, and her dainty
little footsteps and her elephant’s breath costume
are still hovering on the brink of “genteel ’ society,
as of old. She doesn’t come to sea us so often now
as she did in earlier days—the gorgeous menial
downsta ; rs is too much for her, but we have still
a regret in our heart as we think of our bygone
friend, and we remember her with a sigh when we
see in print the well-remembered words, “Miss
Smith looked nice, as usual ’
So Hon. Thomas Holt, M. L.C., of Sydney,
has just “entertained 500 poor widows in Lon-
don.” What a gay old dog he must be, to be
sure ! Ah, we too, remember to have enter-
tained 500 London widows or so in our time. But
only one widow at a time. We and the widow and
her little brother, or cousin, used generally to make
an afternoon of it at the Star and Garter, or walk
under the chestnuts of Bushy Park to the Grey-
hound—and now it is the turn of the Honorable
Tommy Holt. Well, well! Every dog has its
day. We are glad that we had our turn before
we were quite so ancient as Tommy, who
Her Gracious being a poor widow —ought now to
be safe for a little Jubilee title. But, good luck
to you, Thomas i You are in London, aad rich :
we are in Sydney, and poor, writiDg ourselves
baldheaded. Never more —save in our dreams—
shall we hear the champagne-glasses clink at
Hampton Court. It does make us heave a
sigh to think that you, who are so greedy as
to entertain 500 widows at one pop, are the man
who, at the first, meeting of the first Australian
Parliament, moved that the Speaker, on taking
the chair, should always read the 07th Psalm.
The following outburst of grovel should
be read in a low key, but the voice should be
raised to a shrill yelp every time the reader falls
over “her Majesty.” A very striking effect can
obtained in this way :
*! Tc Her Mo3t Excellent Majesty Victoria, of Great
Britain u-nj Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith, Empress
of India. u a y it please your Majesty.— We, the inhabi-
tants of the county of Devon, in your Majesty s distant
colony of I beg permission to offer to your Majesty,
on the completion of the 50th year of your Majesty s reign,
our most loyal ano grateful congratulations. We beg
humbly to assure you- majesty that the boon of self-
government which, under your Majesty s rule, has been
granted to this colony, has by no means lessened the affec-
ti .nate loyalty of us your Majesty's distant subjects.
While w<3 cl ng to the glorious n.«mories associated with the
past history of our motherland, at* - ! would leave them as au
inheritance to our children, we priza and value with feelings
of deepest gratitude the freedom, tL° equal justice, the
powerful protection, the enlightened administration which we
enjoy under your Majesty's rule. In no part of your Ma-
jesty's worldwide dominions will the celebration of the com-
pletion of the 50th year of your M ajesty's reign be attended
by feelings and expression of more true and hearty loyalty
than in your Majesty’s island colony of Tasmania,. We
humbly ask your Majesty’s gracious permission to name a
hospital, shortly to be erected by public contribution at
Latrobe in this county, “ The Devon Jubilee Hospital,” as a
memorial of our grateful and loyal rejoicing on the occasion
of the Jubilee year of your Majesty s reign. That it may
please Almighty God to crown many leiuainiDg years of
your Majesty’s »eign with all personal blessings upon your
Majesty and the Royal Family of the realm, and with
peace, prosperity, progress and grateful and loyal content-
ment among your Majesty’s subjects of all races, we beg
to subscribe ourselves your Majesty's loyal, devoted, and
loving subjects.’’
It will be observed that there are eighteen
“Majesty's” altogether. Of course the address
was written by a clergyman.
* * *
There is in one of the Sydney Liedertafels
a young fellow who is notorious for his colourless
and expressionless singing. On being requested
to put more pathos into his rendering of a very
fervent love-ditty, the singer replied : “ I cannot,
on account of my business. If I sing with feeling
and pathos, and all that, my hand, next day,
shakes so that lam utterly incapacitated.” He is
an engraver !
• * *
The S M. Herald, in its Conservative
exclusiveness, does not deign to correct the syntax
of the humble individuals who haste along to it
with their ill-spelt little “ ads.and so, the other
day, this gem sparkletLforth :—“ Wanted, a dress-
maker for to work in the house. Apply,” &c.
* * »
There is a dreadful Doom in store for
some suburban terrace; there is a black-browed
demon grinning eardonically over their graceful
roofs. The S.M. Herald has brought forth the
Doom and the Demon by publishing this grue-
some “ ad.’’:—“ Wanted, to play violin duets with
another. ’
Says a London paper: “On Saturday
morning, a young man. named Frederick Gill,
committed suicide at Cardiff by cutting his throat
He was to have been married that morning ”
N.B. —An inquest was deemed not only unneces-
sary but altogether superfluous.
* * A
There was snow at Ballaiat last week, and
as a matter of course soms boys were arrested for
snowballing. Thejustices discharged the offenders,
but cautioned them not to appear again upon the
same charge. When the next fall of snow takes
place at Ballarat, these festive youths may be
beaks themselves
When the colonial delegates waited on
Queen Victoria with their addresses, Sir T.
THOSE JUBILEE MUGS
“30,000 Jubilee mugs are to be distributed among the poor children of London on
June 21.”— Cablegram.
LITTLE LILLEE: “I’VE GOT A MUG ALREADY, BUT I’VE NOT GOT NUTHINK TO
BUT IN IT, AND THAT’S JUST WHAT’S THE MATTER.”
I'pington, of Cape Colony, bore off the palm with
a gorgeously-illuminated scroll enclosed in a
diamond-spangled box of native woods. “The
Australians,” confesses the S.M. Herald corres-
pondent, “ had not so much to claim attention.”
Heard at Bathurst. Little New Chum
Child : ‘ Yah ! you go to a public school, don t ye !
I g 063 to a private school." Little Australian
Child: “Ah! that s cos you're Irish.”
* * *
The other day, when a Melbourne over-
land train stopped, during the “ still waoches of
the night,” at one of the stations en route , a young
countryman strolling along peering into the win-
dows of the sleeping-cai-3, got a view of an ultra-
fashionable (when visible) Sydney lady, whose
head was now adorned with the historical curl-
paper from forehead to nape. Tne guileless
countryman, after staring at the snowy sight for
a minute, turned to a mate with a deep, deep
d—n, and said, “Blowedif I didn't think it was
a cauliflower.”
Lord Bra.ssey did not visit the Silverton
mines during Ms stay in South Australia, as it
was fondly hoped .he would, and consequently a
great industry suiters for want of his smile.
“Mrs Brassey” was particularly anxious to go,
but Sampson Brass—we .mean Brassey—said he
“ wera’t” going to go tramping up in the bush to
see all the silver-mines as etter was, and ulti-
mately the ladies went up yyith the young
Brasseys and the secretary. The chaplain, the
Creek interpreter, the bar keeper, and the rest of
the suite stayed with hie lordship.
* * *
The other day a Melbourne girl, who
knows few people outside of her beloved Cabbage
plantation, was doing the Sydney "block,” and
longing to meet somebody from the City of the
Open Drains upon whom ahc could let loose the
fount ans of her conversational deep. At last she
saw a nice-looking young fellow whom she felt
sure was.A Victorian friend of hers but whose
Fame she could not recollect. Quite del'ghted at
the rencontre, she bowed He recognised her
salute dispassionately, and passed on looking a
little surprised. The next day, when on the block
with her sister, they met the same young fellow.
"Quick! who is that?’ eaid our friend. "1
know his face but can’t remember his name!”
The sis'er looked, saw, and was nearly overcome.
The knight was a lace-and-ribbon server at a
fashionable Melbourne draper’s! Tho tableau
comes now.
Edmund Yates, of the World, told
Deakin that he was now so impressed with
the importance of obtaining Australian news
that he had given instructions at his office
that all the southern intelligence obtainable
should be-prccured. This accounts for the “ re-
presentative of a London journal ” calling on the
Mayor of Sydney the other day and asking if he
would accept a, knighthood or peerage if it were
offered to him.
• • *
The Rome correspondent of the S.M.
Herald says that on Easter Sunday " an Austra-
lian family” walked through the Vatican gardens.’
Who can it be ? Martin Loughlin has returned
long since. We saw him smoking under lVtty's
verandah a few days ago. It most be either Hen-
niker Heaton or Braios Cunningham of the Mel-
bourne Argus.
The S.M. Herald’s present habit of call-
ing every bigwig’s wife “ Sir .So-anri-sn’s lady ”
recalls an anciciu: s’ory. Draper's Assistant:
" We can't send home these thing*, ma'am, till
they’re paid for.” Customer: “But I’m Mr.
M’Swagger's lady.” Assistant: “I don’t care,
ma’am, if you were his wife!”
We gather from the announcement that
Lady Carington will be “at home” on such and
such a day that her Ladyship is out a good deal
of the time.
Lady Bras3ey is already “impressed with
the richness of N.S.W.” In retaliation, N.S.W.
is impressed with the richness—and that’s all—of
Lady Brassey.
* * *
It is remarkable that Her Gracious’ war-
ships on the Australian station are al ways re-
quired in Hobson's Bay during Melbourne Cup
time, and at Hobart during the summer heat.
The plundering Russians me sure to have their
eyes on the place where the yellowboys are most
abundant, and doubtless they are now tailing
gaily towards Holdfast Bay with a view to pounce
down on the moneyed visitors to the Adelaide
Jubilee Exhibition. But the Nelson and other
British ships will be there before them. Will the
officers be on board to give the necessary direc
tions for a friendly salute ’ Most likely they wil
be saluting something more attractive on othe
boards 1
The public works contractors of Sydney
intend picnicing Lord Brassey.
•
An unmarried medico who lately arrived
at a town near Murrumbunah, N.S.W., has been
obliged, owiDg to the numerous invitations to tea-
parties received by him from the local girls, to
post i u his front door this notice" Positively
no invitations accepted except on business.”
Sir “Salmon” Wilson has only one way
of getting along in the great world of Grosvenor
Square, i cndon. He feasts the mighty, and keeps
a chef of European reputation—
“ The shortest way to men’s hearts, I find,
Lies through their bellies, or I mistake mankind.”
Theo'her day he gave a “ducal dinner party,"
i.e., he invited a lot of dukes to meet the Aus-
tralian de'egates. Only two dukes, those vener-
able guinea-pigs, Manchester and Cambridge,
turned up, but there was a Marquis or two, and
any nutnbfr of lords. The “tucker” was eaten
off real yold plate ! Heaven help us !
* * *
The other week we stated that certain of
our distinguished une3 were panting to take the
creases out of their Court suits. Mr. Francis
Ormond wore the livery at Governor Loch’s last
levee. It was a mark of respect to Her Majesty
which didn't altogether agree with either Francis’
figure or the Governor.
The Rev. F. W. Goodwyn, who accepted
the bishopric of Bathurst, N.S.W., and then cried
off, married the eldest daughter of the Archbishop
of York a few weeks age. (ioodwyn is a well-
favoured masher of thirty-seven, so that the Bath-
urst maidens have escaped a lot of trouble,
A leading Episcopalian light lately ap-
peared in a London police court to complain that
Miss Sarah Flopd was too devoted to him. The
lady, he said, would follow him up the main
street of his parish, making use of three-ply en-
dearments and occasionally throwing her fair
arms about his neck to the ruin of his newly-laun-
dressed choker. She was pronounced by a
thoughtful magistrate to be insane, and the rev.
gentleman left the court without a s*ain on his
character.
* • •
“ I am really quite out of dresses,” apolo-
getically remarked Mdlle. Decolletfie, as she sat
down to supper in a costume with a three-square-
ineb body. “ Out of that one, anyhow, if you
don’t watch it,” murmured Captain Evergreen,
wondering how long the shoulder-straps would
last.
Sarah Bernhardt’s toes, it has just been
discovered, are “gnarled, knotted, and twisted
into hideous shapes. Civilisation has pretty nearly
obliterated the pristine beauty of the naked female
foot. Bare feet, as a general thing, are unsightly,
and society recognises the fact inasmuch as for
some years past it has been the custom at all well-
regulated seaside resorts for women to wear
stockings when they dip in the sea. Perhaps the
waves declined to kiss the feet of the fair bathers
under the former condition.”
* * *
Women go to the theatres to see the
dresies that the actresses wear ; the men to Bee
the dresses that the actresses do not wear.
* * »
Lady Loch's boots are down at the heel
again.
Sir Henry Loch convened a mysterious
meeting of “ leading public men” at Government
House “for the purpose of considering certain
ma'ters in connection wiih the Imperial Insti-
tute.” One certain matter, the most certain
matter, must have been “money" forthefrost-
bittenlittleswindle. but Sir Henry slatest dodge for
raising the wind is still a secret locked in the
breasts of himself and the other conspirators.
The Press was rigorously excluded from this Guy
I awkes gathering, and his Excellency’s invitation
circulars were marked “ private." Smells fishy !
Gounod—blessed be his name for ever !
has expressed an opinion in writing that young
ladies—let ns have it in italics- shall devote as
little time as possible to the piano, unless they in-
tend to follow music as a profession.
In Sydney, the other day, a young man
of 21, with a fast repu'ation and a likiDg for the
‘ roses and rapture” sort of thing, became des-
perately enamoured of a widow of 50 summers
possessed of agooi “ figure.” He was a gay and
festive cuss, wi'h a waxed moustache, a “ knock-
about hat, and a latchkey as necessaries to
existence. He man ied bis widow. This sounds
like a paradox, and requires thinking over The
honeymoon was two sighs and a minor chord
When the happy twain came home, the bride-
groom found six well-grown sons—some older
than himself, who grinned like Cheshire oats
when they called him father. His wife now re
vealed strong religious tendene'es. banished the
hail wax, the latchkey, and the “ knockabout”
and forced the Benedict to weir a silk hat and
attend the Congregational Church every Sunday
Doubtless you expect a sensation. There is none!
He is at this moment safe in the bosom of his
widow, with a background of six ready made sons
(the very smallest of whom could knock him out
in one round, and longs to have the chance) a
Congregational Chapel, a silk nailkeg, and
various respectable accessories
* * *
Mrs. Malaprop, of Sydney, eycused her-
husband from attending a certain dinner “My
dear,” she said to the hostess, “ I am very sorry
to say that the poor fellow is very decomposed:
this evening.”
A certain Queensland Bishop has evi-
dently been and gone and done it. According to
the Ipswich Advocate he wrote a letter to Mr
James Tyson intimating that a donation for the
proposed Anglican cathedral would be welcome
A cheque for £5OO was forwarded by the squatting
millionaire to his lordship. Instead of a letter of
thanks, Mr. Tyson received a note in reply, hint-
ing that £2OOO would have been more acceptable.
At this Mr. Tyson asked his lordship to return the
£ooo, which his lord9hip cheerfully did thinking
no doubt that the cheque for £2OOO would be forth-


, in see that some cf the leading Tobacco
We “ re tl'kenup JB. Pace’s Tobacco., so that all lovers
of “the weed have a treat in store, as it is the finest tobacco
smoked in America.*
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Oough Emulsion is such as to render t the best-known
remedy in the world for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, or Bren*
ohitis. Itcan be obtained direct fromW. M. Row-ley,'Chemist,
Bourke-street, East Melbourne. Price 2a. 6d. per bottle, and
from aU chemists.*
Dr Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, Dringa with him all tbat
is new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
may be consulted at Kidman's Buildings, corner George and
Market streets. Take Lift.*
coming instead. When he got his cheque back
the squatter-king penned a note thanking the
Bishop for his promptness in returning it, and
stating that he intended to fully consider the hint.
He hasn’t finished considering yet.
* * *
What becomes of the Jubilee addresses
and sich l Why, quite recently a dealer was ad-
vertising that certain addresses of condolence pre
sented to the Crown on the death of Princess
Charlotte were for sale at the extremely moderate
rate of 7s 6d. apiecs.
The versatile Rev. Alexander Macully, of
Victoria, has now set up as a teacher of elocution
in Melbourne, and advertises that he has started
a class for clergymen ! But why does not Alic.
A JUBILEE MEDAL.
prepare ladies and gentlemen for the dramatic
profession t He started in life as an actor and
made his debut on the Melbourne boards Then
he exchanged the conspirator's cloak and top-boots
•for the parson's surplice and trencher cap. Has
the quondam stage villain repented of h<s mis-
deeds 1
They are going to have in Sydney on
Jub. night an outline illumination of Her Gracious
occupying an area of 1000 ft. H.G., however, is
hardly the kind of lady we want to see lighted up
by goodness knows how many lamps on a 10-foot
pedestal. Let us give up the idea of showing off
the “ straight curves ” of H.G.M , and fix Carrie
Swain or Fanny Robina up instead. Either of
the pair would be ever so much nicer to look at.
• • *
Robert Brough, as “Jonathan Wild,” at
the Sydney Royal, neatly tells about a “wife (in
parenthesis.)’’
• # *
A few days ago a Sydney man fell from
his buggy in a N.S.W. country town, and when
he revived he found to his dismay that the vehicle
had vanished. Next day however, he was greatly
relieved by the receipt of the following minit
** your Horse and Bugy his in Hotel yard Hask for
itt. (Signed) Constable ."
On the back of the letter was a second communi-
cation which ran thus :
“ Sir,—you Horse k Buguey is in the ——— Hotel yard you
can get itt by Hacking for it, yours Truly. (Signed) Con-
stable .’
The injured man “ Basked” accordingly, and his
admiration for an inte ligent foorce has gone up
20 per cent. By the way, who examines the
foorce in English composition?
« * *
It was published as an interesting item of
news in all the English papers, quite recently, that
841 b. of cast off linen had been sent from W indsor
Castle to the London Hospital This is the kind
of generosity which secures for Her Gracious a
home in the hearts, &c., See.
When Miss Crocker, a daughter of the
’Frisco railway millionaire, was married ihe other
dav to Mr. Alexander, a N.Y. barrister, the
wedding pro ents totalled a million dollars value.
Leland Stanford and wife gave the bride a
diamond parure which cost £lO,OOO. ’ ‘ Auld
Lang Syne ’ was played faintly while the couple
were at the altar.’
The opening of the Victorian Parliament
on the 7th was a damp and melancholy failure
The dresses of the few ladies present were sombre
and dingy, the vice regal staff were limp and
spineless, and the members of both Houses exht
bited audible signs of suffering from an epidemic
of catarrh. It was a melancholy spectacle alto
eether and the concluding words of the address
had scarcely been uttered by the pallid lips o
Vice-royalty when there was a general stampede
for the refreshment !oom.
Dear Bulletin, -My approaching birth-
day causes me to shed a tear-flrstly, because I
shall not have as much whisky os I had on her
Pre-eminent in Grief's last birthday; and, secondly,
inmemory of my sainted grandmother, whoalways
...p me saxpence. But it is of the latter old lady
fw£”te write. I once told her of the Jockey
Club bouquet, when she said : Ay .an they
mak it to smell like ne w-mown hay ! It s a peety
they coudna invent a scene to smell ike
clean class.' Please give this item to-
f Your social editor (who I presume,
writes Woman Items, &c.) 2. Your dramatic
cr?t£ who could moot it to theatrical managers,
fv’ur clergyman. [Pastor Jeffens will please
11 -Ed B ] 4. The Central Police Ma-
‘ 5 The Tramway Commissioners. (1.
The Major Domo at Government House. Some
of them will fill the long-felt want, and I stipulate
that the essence be not called Canngton nor
Jubilee.-Yours, Scotty the Wrinklkr.
A Svdnev girl was contemplating an illus-
trated advertisement representing a decollate
woman, in a London paper the other day After
scrutiny she turned to a friend and said
“ Oh ’She"sno r t undressed! It’s a ball dress!”
Neat satire, wasn’t it? * #
When some of the Imperial Conference
rteleuates appeared in society in London, some of
Jhe fwells and swellesses of the period asked :
?," nia, how interesting ? How many wives
have they got ? ” What did it mean? Can any
Victorian statesman explain this enigma ?
From the Down and Gumtree Jernel :
“ A German resident of Albury named Julius Herring was
found burned to death in his hut. Io is supposed that he
fell into the tire during the temporary absence of his wife.”
In the “ Revised Edition ” (of Burns) we have:
“ In hell they'll roast you like J. Hariing.”
And here we may state that it is generally during
the presence of our wife that trc fall into the fire.
* * *
Baldheaded men seem to be just about as
giddy in New Zealand as they are anywhere e’se
Climatic changes make no difference to elderly
legislators where their affections are concerned,
acoording to Mr. Wi Pere. Speaking on the
I Women’s Suffrage Hill, this Maori philosopher
observed that “if any beautiful ladies were sent
to the House they would lead astray the hearts of
some honourable gentlemen, particularly the elder
members of the House ” Wi Pere, in his native
innocence, has laid hold of the great truth so
cleverly expressed in Tennyson’s line 3—
When he’s bald an old man’s fancy
Lightly turns to thoughts of love.
It is so. Who is the first to oblige a lady in the
overcrowded railway carriage ? When a blushing
fourteen-year*old can find no seat in a tram car,
doesn’t some shiny-pated fossil pipe out: “My
dear, you won’t mind an old man s knee” ? In-
variably. The reason youDg fellows don’t get
married nowadays is because their grandfathers
play up so in the family circle. Bald-headed men
must be suppressed.
At a Victorian railway-station lately a
porter concussed his truck against a lady who was
not expecting such a convulsion and seriously in-
jured her. She was awarded £l5O damages, but
the Supreme Court has since decided that, as she
was travelling on a free pass, she could not obtain
compensation no matter what injury she might
have received. We would like to treat this sub-
ject at greater length if it were not that, on the
strength of this decision, we are off to the railway
station to fire a brick at a member of Parliament.
He may not be able to get damages, but we will
bet the baby and the cook-stove that if our eye is
as straight as usual he will get damaged.
...
Mr. Ah Yung and Miss Sam Way annexed
each other in Newcastle, N.S.W., the other day.
There were groat pomp, ceremonial, and jubilee
crackers on the occasion. Why the lady is called
Sam is not clear. Miss Tram Way would be more
like a fit name.
...
“ They quarrelled on Tuesday morning
about a glove which she had found in his pocket,”
and early on Wednesday Eliza Borsboom,
wife of a Sydney restaurateur, was found
shot dead in bed, and it is not yet known
whether her end was murder or suicide It is the
old story over again. Tne woman is not yet
born who can saw a button on her husband's
coat without overhauling the pockets and finding
out thiDgs that make her miserable, and the man
has not been created who has the sense to clean
out his pockets beforehand. Ah, indeed 1 Where
is the married man who has not been there him-
; self ?
• » *
The congregation of Christ Church, South
Yarra (Vic.), were recently invited from the
pulpit to sign a congratulatory address to her
Gracious “in commemoration of her haviDg
completed her 50th year.” From this we gather
that a man can’t even grovel properly unless he
has got at least one Bolid fact driven into his head
And, by the way, the fashionable congregations
of Sydney last Sunday worshipped the Queen and
sadly neglected the Almighty.
*»«
A Dunedin pawnbroker has been blessed
with triplets. The three bawls are now indeed
appropriate emblem of his trade.
When Sir Alban Riley, the eminent
Jubilee-underclothing man and jam-tart fancier
for the young, dismissed h’s first loyal meeting
more in sorrow than in auger, he expressed his
regret thnt it had not been attended by that class
who, “ generally speaking, sing themselves
hoarse over a bun and a cup of tea.” At his next
meeting he issued tickets to this class, but they
didn't roll up, aad instead the had was packed
with the masses who have been dragged down to
such poverty that they have neither the bun nor
the tea to sing over. And still Sir Alban is not
satisfied.
A Liverpool (Eng.) parson laid a few
violets on his altar the other Sunday. His gentle
flock, riled at the ungodly innovation, left the
church in a body, and alarmed the neighbour-
hood. After service, thousands of people hissed
and hooted the vic«r, and it ultimately took over
100 constables, who vigorously used their wad-
dies, to cover his retreat to a place of safety—in
the lock-up. Of such are the Kingdom of Heaven
and the Sydney reredos controversy. Such are
the people against whose brutal Conservatism the
great Gladstone struggles.
That statue of Her Gracious is giving a lot
of loyal opportunities to the gentleman who holds
a Jubilee commission from the Argus. He says
Iw:— “We want the statue, and we want it to
not a local but a national property, so that no
itter who the colonist is who gazes upon it, he
ry be able to say, ‘My district assisted in thus
ncuring the Queen.’” What joy for the colo-
st ! But he needn’t express his feelings in those
act words. He might gaze upon it and murmur,
There it is. Not a bit like her. A derned
irb.e lie, paid for by an illegal levy on the rates
l over Victoria. Pagh!” Then he cross the
re it and walk by on the other side.
Queen Victoria lias issued her royal com-
and that the ladies who attend the Jubilee
nanksgiving Service at Westminster Abbey on
st insc., “ must appear in full-dress.” Imagine
le spectacle cf a thousand or two of painted and
iwdered women, with their shoulders slipping
it of their b'dices, with their busts and arms
tposed, and with feathers nodding on their heads,
trading with mock humility before the Al-
ighty ! If there were any judgments now-a-
i)s one would expect to see such a hideous
urlesque briDg down the roof of the Abbey,
his piece of sacrilegious tomfoolery will cost the
ation £lO,OOO.
Overheard at a Sydney fancy-dress ball.
Surely, Mrs. X., jour two charming daughters
ave not be m cruel enough to stay away J” “Oh,
o, Mr. Jones: there they are, over there —those
no pheaxnnts."
The young Englishman with the £(i00,000
ortune, who made such a flutter in Melbourne
ome 15 months ago, his evidently followed Adilh
) Gorman’s example and “escaped” from the
’onvent. in the Sooth of t rance, where he was
onfined by order of tlie Lord Chancellor, for he
aade Ills appearance at the last meeting at San-
lown (Eng.), and lost £2BOO oo the Hungarian.
The Melbourne usurers and Sydney bookmakers
vho between them hold £20,000 of the young
nan’s long-dated pro.-notes, will no doubt be glad
o hear of his escape So also will the highly-
espeetable old Melbourns resident who holds his
>ill for £25.000 - the result of one night’s play at
:uchre.
Ballarat city councillors are going to cut
t fat for the future in aldermanic coats with frills
end cuff's. If we could be b?rn again we would
ike to be a Ballarat boy when the Mayor is liold-
ng a reception. Put us outside the Town Hall
and give us a handful of mud—wouldn’t we enjoy
our little eelves!
A certain wealthy Victorian lady—whose
fa'her—well, he was a butcher—now professor her
total inability to carve, and even says she doesn't
know whether a joint is carved well or not. Th’s
is the “ cut direct" to the old nun's business.
A reporter on the Melbourne Press was
doing a suburban mayoral spread and dance the
other day, and various men came round him to
get names of the caterer, the flag-supplie”, and
the conductor of the band mentioned. At last a
timid little individual came up. “Well, what
do you want !” asked the pencil-wiclder. ‘ Please,
sir,” said the pocket edition of humanity, “ would
you be so good as to mention that that I waxed
the floorl”
A young man called William Innocent
Dash fell in love and got married the otiur day.
After all what is in a name !
The Sydney D.T, mentions, that a copy
of thememorialtobepresentedto (Jaeen Victor iaby
the women and girls of N.S W. is “ lying for signa-
ture” at the Parramatta Council Chamber.
“ Lying ” is good.
Mayor Riley, of Sydney, has gone bodily
into the Jubilee —horns, hoofs, tail and all In
his anxiety that everybody should rejoice, he even
offered a treat and an entertainment to the
patients in Sydney Hospital. What a dull person
the Mayor must be! The idea of flli gup a
typhoid patient with Jubilee buns ! Why doesn't
AN ILLUSTRATED CRIME REPORT.
“At Sydney Quarter Sessions, Samuel Rose was indie L ed for stealing 10 ladies
campauions.’
he give a treat to the dead, in Chinese fashion?
There is’in the Necropolis many and many a re-
cumbent tombstone upon which a plate of stewed
fowl would look lovely.
There is a legend to the effect that the
other day a Vice regal order was sent from a cer-
tain Government House in Australasia to the
principal city fishmonger’s for ten oysters. Now
there were at that time only ten adults in H.E.’s
household. The story goes on to say that there
are only two difhes for which their Excellencies
care (' o pay)—viz., sheep-heads and rabbits (which
are 3d. each if you take eight at a time), and that
the chief local butcher has refused to kill sheep in
order that Her Gracious' representative dine
off the heads alone. What a Jubilee that colony
will have !
An angel in a low-cut white satin dress
and with nothing at all on her arms came home
from a ball lately in New York and just as she
was going to bed she discovered a negro burglar
hidden underneath. She dragged him out and
threw him downstairs, and then following him
wrenched away his pistol and shot him out of the
front door into the gutter. Then she fainted.
Australian ladies, please copy all except the faint.
At a lecture given in Sydney last week by
a much-pomaded personage in goggles, the chair-
man explained that the reason why the audience
found the lecturer discoursing a second time on
the same subject was that the lecture had been a
great success in the first instance, and those “ who
had not heard it before were anxious to hear it
again.’
The “ ladm and 1 t'otneii” of Hay, N.S.W.,
have starteed a Jubilee address to the Queen. The
Hay “ woman ” who would sign under the circum-
stances must be made of very poor stuff.
Scene: Wellington (N.Z.) Club. Three
members of the House are seated at a side table,
the fourtli place at which is occupied by an unob-
trusive, quiet-looking gentleman. The three
legislators are discussing the Karl of Aberdeen ?
“Wonder where he picked up his wife?" says
No 1. “ Wonder what sort of a fellow he really
is? ’ says No. 2. “ I wouldn’t go near that blanked
Fenian, if I were you,’’ rejoins No. 3. Waiter
approaches quiet-lookiDg man. “ Lord Aberdeen
there’s a gentleman waiting to see you I" Three
legislators ate now wishing that their great grand-
mothers had died of measles in their earliest
infancy.
Dear Bulletin, — You say you have
given the solution of Frank Stockton’s puzzle,
‘ The Lady and the Tiger.” Your idea is that
the lover get the signal from the princess to open
the door of the chamber which contained the
tiger, but there I think you are wrong. - The true
solution is that her love proving stronger than
her jealousy, she nodded to her sweetheart to
open the door which concealed the lady, whom he
at tnce married. After a week, however, the
gentleman went to the king, and, with tears in
his eyes, stated he had made a mistake, and asked
to be allowed to take the tiger instead. I have
been there myself.—The Stranger.
Miss Rachel Gray will give a farewell
concert on Friday, the 17th June. Lady Caring-
ton is expected to lend the vice regal smile to the
entertainment.
* *
On Saturday, 4th June, Governor Caring-
ton entertained about 16 gentlemen at the annua
Eton (and drinkin’) dinner.
* . *
Governor Carington, Admiral Fairfax, and
Msjor Gascoigne left Sydney for Penrith by special
train on the 6th to shoot with the Hon. G. H. Cox.
• • *
The millinery officers of N.S.W. propose
commemorating Waterloo day by a dinner.
(Waterloo is getting rather old now and we have
really too much public dinner.) Governor Caring-
ton is expected to be present, if he hasn’t (-hot the
Hon. G. H. Cox in the interval. The Governor
will take the cha ! r, supported on one side by the
Soudan donkey, and on the other by Plain Bill.
The popular juvenile mode of illumination
in Melbourne when the fluke of Edinburgh came
the first time was an old kerosene-tin with “ God
Bless our Prince” punched on it, and a tallow-
candle inside.
A fashionable ball was held recently in a
township on the Southern line. The hostess
walked through her gilded halls with her baby,
and that interesting little cuss imbibed nourish-
ment from nature’s fount until a late hour.
On Thursday night last an amateur con-
cert, followed by a dance, was held at Captain
Broomfield’s residence, Balmain, in aid of the
poor of St. Mary’s parish.


One of the most attractive adjuncts to the “Criterion”
s the Japanese Cafe. Handsomely decorated with the arts
of Japan, it is a perfect Fairy Bower, presided over by a bevy
of bewitching beauties.
Rrddygore—Jubilee meetings.
The Jubilee weather has greatly damaged
the Australian toady orop.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Parkes and the Treason-Felony Act.
Parkes once had the impudence to write to The
Bulletin stating that he was in nowise
responsible for the Treason-Felony Act which
w r as passed by the Parliament of New South Wales
on the 18th of March, 1868. For present purposes
we have referred to the proceedings of that date,
and we find that not only was Parkes “ asso-
ciated” with the Bill by reason of his being
Colonial Secretary in the Government which in-
troduced it, but also by his vote in favour of it,
and further by a resolution which he moved that
the House go into committee to consider the Bill
in detail. The ODly member who seems to have
offered any solid direct opposition to the Bill was
the late William Forster. The Act contains
the following infamous provisions :
“ If any person ah*ll us« any language disrespectful to
Her Majesty or shall fncnously avow a determination to
refuse to join in any loyal toast or demonstration in honour of
Her Majrsty. . . such jerson shall be • eemed guilty f a
misdeme m*ur . . and on conviction shall be imprisoned
with or without hard labour for any period not exceeding
two years. If aDy person shall write or publish any words
disrespectful to Her Majesty . . three years’ imprison-
ment.
Salomons, Q.C., a member of the present Parkes
Government, having stated that within a few
days a law will be pasted to suppress disloyalty,
we challenge Parkes to introduce the Treason-
Felony Bill again. We even invite him to go to
the extreme, as was done with the repealed act,
of having it rushed through both Houses find
assented to by the Governor on the same day.
Some Curious Thing's in Sydney.
It is a curious thing that the Government wharves
skirting Sydney Cove have been for many months
past almost entirely devoid of shipping. It is a
curious thirg that private wharf owners in Dar-
ling HarbDur have been
for a long time—and are
still —sending up piteous
complaints about the
slackness of trade. It is
a curious thing, in view
of these circumstances,
that a subordinate of the
New South Wales Trea-
surer should make report
to the Government that
additional wharr-acccm-
modation is urgently re-
quired. It is a curious
thing that the Treasurer
aforenaid should be a
director of a Company
that has a harbour front-
age for sale for which no
sufflciently-liberal private
purchaser can apparently
be found. It is a curious
thing that, contempora-
neously with the won-
derful discovery of the
urgent need for more
wharfage accommoda-
tion, the shares of the
Company i n ques ion
should become suddenly
scarce. It is a curious
thing that the genius who
made this discovery, and
the personage to whom
he reported it, do not
perceive that the mere
transfer of property in
wharf frontages does not
increase wharf accommo-
dation in the least. It is
a curious thing, too, that
the officials concerned
do not seem to see
that the Circular Quay is
capable of being conver-
ted into a dock as capa-
cious as docks in London
in vhich more ships lie
simultaneously than en-
ter Sydney Heads in a
decade. It is a curious
thing that the whilom
long-visaged shareholders
in the company afore-
said have their faces
now wreathed in smiles.
We do not, however, say
that under the circum-
stances it is at all curious
that Treasurer Burns
decided not to hold his
shares in the Company
and his seat at the board
after the scheme was in
training for winding up
the concern—which is
now seemingly to be
done at the public ex-
pense : but it is decidedly
unfortunate for so re-
putable a man of com-
merce as Mr. Burns
that he should be placed
in so delicate a position.
These very curious
things are doubtless ca-
pable of easy and satis-
factory explanation by
Parkes and Burns, and
that is all the more rea-
son for suggesting them
as matter on which light
should be thrown. The
Assembly might well seek
information on the sub-
jects mentioned. The ap-
pointment of a Select
Committee to investigate
the whole subject might
bc an advantage in the point of view of the publicin-
t crests ; and a searching inquiry might lead to the
disclosure of some other curious things. Apropos,
who is to be the Government valuator t
“ Loyalty ” wrote thus in the Sydney D.T. re the
meeting to be held in the Exhibition Building last
Wednesday:—
“ All loyal citizens to be present wearing a bit of blue on
coat, hat or shirt, and to meet in the Domain, from thence
to march down to the Exhibition ten or more abreast, and
after tilling the building to mass round the exterior on each
side until the close of the proceedings, when after an en-
thusiastic outburst of feeling the assemblage would disperse.
This course of action would have a truly national character
and thoroughly vindicate our loyalty to the Queen and our
constitution.”
Has “ loyalty" sunk so low that an outburst of
feeling has to be arranged for beforehand ? If it
is necessary to inform her Majesty's loving sub-
jects that at 5 o’clock precisely on a muggy after-
noon they are to be overcome with spontaneous
emotion and are to cheer, it somehow takes the
gilt off the celebration. People will next begin
to wonder if it is also decided in advance that
Plain Bill is to give way to virtuous indigna-
tion at 4.15, sink into pathos at 4.22, and close at
4.30 with tears in his voice, and whether Darley
and Salomons toss up to see which is to speak in
tones of ringing enthusiasm, and which is to strike
the more sorrowful key about Albert the Good
a d the “ pre-iminence in grief,” and the five
shillings for repairing the stove. Does Parkes
rehearse agitated expressions before a pier-glass
and practise a blush of indignation at the insult
offered to his beloved Q”een, and does he throw
Wise off a table for half an hour before the meet-
ing, so that he may be prepared to strike an
effective attitude when casting somebody who
wai ts to move an amendment eff the platform?
19 the»e anythir g spontaneous at all, in fact, about
the whole ghastly sh w, or is it all wooden
pantomime and all pre-arranged ?
Sir Henry Lo h and his minion Government of
Victoria are celebrating the Jubilee with a nice
little job. Something like £4OOO of public money
has been voted, hole-and-corner fashion, to provide
additional accommodation at Government House
“for Jubilee guests.” and now Duncan Gillies
and C >. are arranging a £5OOO Jubilee bonus for
His expensive Excellency. Nobody knows exactly
what the money is wanted for. The Governor
has not announced any intention to go forth into
the highways and hedges to collect the maimed,
the halt, and the blind for Jubilee rejoicings. He
will not be prepared to furnish particulars of
extra beds fixed up, or special “vittles” disposed of.
According to all accounts, £9OOO ought to stretch
a precious long way in “accommodation” at
Government House, Melbourne, unless the estab- |
lishment is going on a phenomenal “ burst.” How
Jyk
w
II
jj,
yf f
.fy
. r<> S V
‘ sutfiy-
>fer‘ << t ' > y )
Wf'M
J f OS°0 S °
"A/os) ef
~ fj? Je/,<sA//oo of ParsooyJ rffe /o
Ope of /£esc (Sunday Co/jcertZ ?/ 7Coufct oyfy c/iSgU/S »c
Parkes and Sunday Concerts.
long is the Jubilee—for which this money will be
granted—supposed to last? What will be the
cost of Jubilee per day over and above His
Excellency’s diurnal wages of £2B ? Is the bonus
wanted for some ostentatious display of “charity’
with a peerage sticking to it ? Finally, who first’
planned the jobbery ? Did dear Lady Loch men-
tion to a lady friend that she thought the Govern-
ment “ought to &c., &c. —but on no account let
the matter go any further, my dear ” ? Or is the
Government doing Lho Unjust Steward trick by
begging Sir Henry to make out his bill for
another £9OOO ? The Opposition professes to be
much disturbed over this matter, but past experi-
ence proves that a Victorian Opposition is re-
markably like the young lady who, “saying she
would ne'er consent, consented.”
At a meeting of the Adelaide branch of the
“ Royal ” Geographical Society recently, the
Hon. R. A. Tarlton, M.L.C.,
“ Joined with Sir Samuel Davenport in cordially
welcoming Lord Bbassey, became he worthily represented
the old sea kings who came from the North. We in these
outhern colonies were indebted to such men for the dis-
covery of this portion of th« world. They by their large
viewa and broad spirit of commerce threw this country open
to us, and he hoped that the time icould come when we in the
same spirit would welcome the Chinese when then took up their
residence amongst us, for the earth was the Loras and the ful-
ness thereof !",
The time we trust wi never arrive when the
Chinaman will get as good a welcome here as
Australian flunkeydom gives to a Lord Money-
bags like Brassey ; but the date is beyond doubt
very close when vagrant lords will get exactly the
same sort of welcome as the white workman is now
prepared to accord the Chinaman. The earth will
indeed very soon be the lord’s if the Brasseys of
the world are allowed to dump down cargoes of
Hongkong leprosy amongst the Australian whites.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
Chinamen are crossing into North Queens-
land from the Northern Territory without paying
the poll-tax Melbourne Argus alludes to
Sydney unemployed as “loafers sponging on
local alms.” The contributions of the Victorian
Government employes, consisting of departmental
officers, teachers, and rail way-men, to the Bulli
Fund are expected to exceed £2OOO There are
publicans in Melbourne with names like “ Barrel,”
“Lusher,” “Beer,” “Porter,” and “Waters.”
The extinct crater near the leper settlement
at Molokai, Sandwich Islands, has been sounded.
A line 3500 ft. long failed to reach the bottom
Melbourne trams are returning an income of
nearly £300,000 yearly, though only three lines are
yet at work The citizens of Moonta, S.A., have
resolved that “the Mayor’s scheme without the
tea” shall constitute their Jubilee celebration
A Mittagong, N.S. W., man cut an apple in two the
other day. A centipede dropped out and he lost
his appetite. He always cuts an apple now before
biting it There are £1,000,000 worth of boots
manufactured in Victoria, and only £400,000
worth in N.S.W. The difference accounts for
a whole lot of the Sydney unemployed
Belfast (Vic.) has reverted to its original name of
“ Port Fairy.” The Victorian branch of the
Royal Geographical Society advertises for a leader
for a party about to try and reach the high table-
lands of New Guinea Times are so bad that
burglars can’t even afford to buy tools. At Mel-
bourne a man was found cracking a crib with a
spade. ...A New Guinea explorer has discovered
a new river and named it the “ Jubilee." How
the river could have injured him we don’t know.
Allan Wilson writes to a Melbourne daily,
urging the authorities to erect “ a Jubilee morgue
or dead-house.” Sydney tram-guards will prob-
ably get their winter uniforms before summer sets
in “At Launceston, Tas,” according to aS. M.
Heral» telegram, “ the governor of the gaol told
23 they were to be released, but could stop till
next month if they chose.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
1 G. R. Dibbs is now a Protectionist/ So
is “ Toby " Barton.
It is moved that the N.S.W. miner be
allowed a vote on the strength o(his miner’s right
alone.
Parkes has closed the Sydney theatres on
Sundays, He himself will shortly shuffle off the
stage.
The Mayor of Newcastle, N.S.W., de-
serves to be knighted. He gave his casting-vote
in favour of a Jubilee address to the Queen.
Dan. O’Connor, M.L.A., was once more
‘ behind the scenes ” at the Town Hall Jubilee
fiasco, But he sinned in “ swagger ” company.
“The human ear is becoming longer,”
says a scientist. Thus docs Nature donkeyfy a
race which has so long drawn the apple-cart for
“monarchs.”
A recent .Age leader summarised :
Freetrade N.S.W. has a huge deficit and 5000 un-
employed on State rations. Poor Protected Vic-
toria has a surplus of half-a-million, and nearly
everybody at work.
“ Shut up ! ” yelled
Premier Parkes from the
the N. S. W. Treasury-
benches not long ago.
“ Shut-up ’’—that is his
motto. His policy con-
sists of the gag. First
he gagged Suttor. Then
he tried the cloture gag
in Parliament. Now he
gags those who differ
from him in re Jubilee,
and those who would
speak at the theatres on
Sundays. When next the
people meet Parkes at
the polling-booth they
will shut him up. They
will again “closethe door
of his political life ”
this time for ever and
ever.
The Parkes Ministiy
will have to be closely
watched in re their pro-
posal to review, by means
of another enquiry, the
startling evidence ob-
tained as to the manage-
ment of the N.S.W. chari-
table asylums by the
Board of Enquiry under
the presidentship of Mr.
Abbott, S.M There is a
strongdisposition to make
light of the whole matter,
and, if possible, to abso-
lutely hush it up. Ap-
ropos, it may be men-
tioned that there is a
family connection be-
tween Parkes' good friend
Garrett, Minister of
Lands, and the family of
one of the lady officials
whose conduct was re-
flected on by the report.
Speaking of the
South Sydney election,
the Evening Noose de-
clares that “it is stated
by Freetraders” that “ it
is rumoured” that the
Protectionist party had
a house in Albion-street
where they rigged up
batches of sham voters
in different disguises, and
“it is said” that six or
seven personatora were
turned out every half-
hour. “It is” again
“ said ’’that if they had
not been checked their
party might have rec-
koned 400 more votes,
and, further, “it is”
once more “said” the
matter will be looked in-
to. A lie that is bolstered
up by three “it is said’s
and two more saving
clauses is hardly worth
looking at, and the Noose
evidently has used up
the whole multiplication
table in calculating its
circulation and has none
left for politics. Other-
wise it might have daw-
ned even on a journal
with a name like a hang-
man’s rope that it would
take a very long day to
make up 400 more votes
at the rate of seven every
half hour.
Air. Wise said that the cause of democracy
once more triumphed at South Sydney. Next
time it will triumph a little bit more, and the
occasion will be Mr. Wise’s political funeral.
An admirer of Sir ’Enry Parkes suggests
that a beautiful arbour be erected on the shores
of “ Our Beautiful Harbour.” The Bulletin
challenges Parkes to make a speech on this ques-
tion.
A Protectionist morning paper, with a
capital of £BO,OOO, is very muoh on the tapis in
Sydney just now. The Democratic party is
thoroughly sick of the unblushing lies and
cowardly suppressions of the existing money-
ridden journals.
The Argus says that from 7000 to 10,000
persons attended the anti-Coercion meeting at
Melbourne. The local D.T. says there were only
1000 to 5000. When Postmaster General Camp-
bell, of the Salvation Army, held a meeting to
sympathise with Pall Mall Stead, the Rev.
Hkiitor Fitchetfc actually shamed his magnifying-
glasses in counting the crowd.


A NEW DISCOVERY
Hoffman's Eucalyptol (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints and discharges,
inflammation, grave*, lumbago (pains in the back), &c.
Purely vegetable, contains n<» balsam (p*i a) or sandal wood
All principal druggists and storekeepers. Price 2s. 6d. and
3s. 6d. Take no substitute.
rHHATRK ROYAL.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o’clock.
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
Prices, 55., 35., and Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastwavi^Hdcei.
Sole Proprietor
TER I o N
THEATRE.
Mr. John Solomon.
THIS EVENING, and Until Further Notice,
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
will repeat her unexcelled impersonation of
CARRIE { tle TOMBuY, } SWAIN
received last night by her admirers with unfeigned
DELIGHT.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCE
of the
BRIGHTEST STAR in the THEATRICAL
FIRMAMENT.
Admission—ss., 3s , 25., Is.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWNE,
Business Manager.
\ LHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
George-street, Haymarkeb.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
OUR THIRD YEAR. OUR THIRD YEAR.
EVERY EVENING.
A Boundless Continent of
MASSIVE MINSTREL MIRTH,
Composed of the
GREAT*ST COMEDIANS,
BEST VOCALISTS,
SELECTED MUSICIANS,
SUPERIOR DANCERS.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
EW OPERA HOUSE
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
Brief Farewell Season of the World Famed
MINNIE PALMER.
MINNIE PALMER.
PERT and Her Stepmother PERT
PERT and Her Stepmother PERT.
By Arrangement with Mr. JAS. M’MAHON.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ip you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILEE HANDICAP, run May 21st,
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000;
2nd, £300; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£300,. divided amongst them. Cash Awards —
5 at £5O, 10 at £25. 20 at £lO, 20 at £5. 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, a. d
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “ BARB,” care of T. G. Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melborno Cup, 1887, now opon, 20,000subsoribor8
each 20s. First horoa £lO,OOO
gYDNKY exhibition building
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
HOLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are i igidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
jyJ' ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
Patron—His Excellency Baron CARINGTON,
G.C.M.G., P.C.
President—The Hon. J. B. WATT, M.L.C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that their
TWELFTH ANNUAL BALL,
Under the patronage of the Worshipful the
MAYOR (Alban J. Riley, Esq.), who, with the
Lady Mayoress, has promised to be present,
will be held in the
TOWN HALL on WEDNESDAY, JULY 13.
and that the number of guests will positively be
limited to 300.
Tickets for same are obtainable from members of
the Committee and the undersigned only.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Sec.
Telegraph Department.
WONDERS! WONDERS! WONDERS
WONDERS OF THE WORLD !
MARVELLOUS Wenders of the whole World
is a vast Museum of all that is marvellous
and wonderful in the earth, sea, air, and skies.
Unparalleled opportunity for making money
Free on Application, circulars and
ticulars,
R. B. JONES, 614 George-st,
T
HE CLIMAX OF P RJJ
md skies.
} money
full
' MONTSERRAT
LIMB FRUIT JUIOE SAUOE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, June 14, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which Is kept at
every post-offlee in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu I
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not hind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
CORRESPONDENCE
a table MSS. when the
closed. But we desire
Rtand that we are not
xansmlssion of mob
....“Lux” (Rich*
forbids “ Squint'
f general interest ..
i jewel* have been re-
ifou may feel very bad
...“ J L 8.W.” : The
io make money and
3 please iw—to give us
say what we choose
ETIN, as we have said
[se, when it gets too
rill travel throughout
inging joy to the bush-
time. Subscription
er. If you don't get
n’t paid your subscrip-
: Better write to M-.
le iigures " J.W.”
: Will compare with
r o—“Pioneer” (Bal-
take care not to send
t you are.P. Pry ” :
anybody money ?...
" Anti - Coercion,*•
d,” “ Crow Eater,”
We may adopt your
over—“ Pooncarie ” :
ou remind us of the
i because his opponent
orekeeper”: You have
given yourself clean away. Read our short article —which
at last moment we have to hold over—“ Shotty L.” :
Thanks...." A. Mairland You might as well long for the
return of the days when all passengers by the P. and O. got
as much champagne as they liked to drink without extra
charge....“ Gowdah Good
“ A page of the Times the devil read,
And he cast it aside. Ahem !
‘ I'm the father of lies,’ the devil said,
' But I'm d d if I’ll father them'"
...."RB,” (Wyong): We must decline the “privilege,” as
you call it, of publishing your screed “Art Gallery”:
Perhaps! by and bye....“lmperialist”: The Canadian
Dominion is more than half as large again as the U.S., but
the larger portion of the Dominion is composed of iceberg
and hoar-frost...." L.M.” (Miller’s Point): Ellen Thompson
was the first woman who was hanged in Queensland....
“ A.S.” (Maldon, Vic ): If people want to be charitable there
is always opportunity for their being so without waiting for
a monarch to sit 50 years on a throne for a fit occasion to
exercise their benevolence...." A Woman”: Ihe law relating
to divorce on the grounds of adultery on the part of the
woman was enacted to conserve the rights of Property. We
do not justify it, but we were not consulted at the time; it is
the logical outcome of a recognition of the baneful principle
of primogeniture...." To Return”: No special interest....
“ Youth ”: The opening lines are the best—
“ Rejoice! Rejoice 1 rise high the ringing cheers !
Rejoice ! because another fifty years
Our weary backs have born with scarce a groan
The cumb’rous, useless burden of a throne!”
...“ W. Arthur” : Better by far expressed in prose, and your
copy isn’t prose—or even spring verse...." J. W. Cotton ”
(Forbes): Thanks !....“ Adam Phoole”: Should think so,
indeed...." Ex-Miner ” : Mr. Evans’ charge of cowardice
against Bulli miners is rather hypothetical. He had plenty
of oppo 7 '-unity long ere this to contradict the accounts
(when jy appeared in the different papers) of the bravery
disp’ ed by the volunteer search-parties. One miner, in
giving evidence at the recent inquiiy, said “he would not
like to be in the manager s place" ; perhaps this has inflected
Mr. Evans’ subsequent behaviour " Patrick Lyons :
Neither do we care what a man's creed may long as
he has “coin” and pays his quarter’s subscription in ad-
vance ; do not agree with you that " we are all the human
race.” Your sentiments do yon credit, and we wish your
verses did ..“Tomtit”: No vocabulary left equal to the
task ; will answer you when Murray's new dictionary ap-
pears. ...*'Armen ” : H'm : very likely... .“Snake Charmer :
Had the snake bitten you just before inditing your Dome
we should advne you to put yourself under medical treat-
ment for a species of versified hydrophobia.... J. Mitchell
(Sydnev) : Your sentiments are good, but—
Tain’t every man can be a poet
No more n a sheep can be a go-et.
For instance, the following verse seems to lack fire a little :
“ That train was stopped, the men could not come,
By the order of Government trickery ;
And by forty only Freetrade wou,
And they call it a glorious victoiy.
I You want to wind up that last line with an allusion to these
two great novelists, Daekens and Thickeray, if you mean to
get rhyme....'* No Name” (Sydney): The Chinese Com-
missioners may, as you suggest, not be genuine, but
it doesn’t matter a very great deal; two Chinkies in a car'
riage can’t turn the tide of Australian public opinion
“A. J. 8." (Parramatta): Your sentiments are good—awfluly
good—but the " Death of Mr. Johnson ” will never rank
with that other poem, which says
“ Johnson’s weakness, to be candid, was a wild desire to
treat
Every able male white citizen he met upon the street.”
Wo don't mean any disrespect, but though the two are botn
about an gu'f between them—
“ G00d...." Pica ” Q.): Will
consider. Po ""ViLI keep on considering You
can’t altogethei 'olame tne Queen for her abnormal thrift
She perhaps sees what’s looming «head.. " D.T.": Derned
Trash “Argus”: Right you are—“J.D.W.”: It would
cost £50,000, and where is the money ?...." J. W.” (Broughton
Creek): Nothing wonderful “Constant Reader” (P.):
Thanks “Purnamoota” (Barrier): It would make a big
row....“ John Wheeler": Alfred Bennett is probably the
only persi n in Sydney who would dream of publishing such
verses “Hay Echo”: Good “Jim Pierce”: You
haven’t gripped Bret Harte’s measure “Tirk":Your
Pegasus is a bit lame in the off hind-1eg...." W S.L." : Ask
Mudjack Haynes “ H.J.8.” (Hobart): Sorry too late
“ Social ” Read Wallace’s “ Land Nationalisation," Henry
George’s “ Progress and Poverty ” and “ Social Problems,'*
“ The Radical Programme,” with an introduction by Joseph
Chamberlain and the various Royal Commissions on the con-
dition of the poor in England for the last 10 or 1.3 years
" G.S." (Bowral) : Buckles “History of Civilisation," in
three volumes, dealing with the subject as it affects Eng-
land, Scotland, Spain, and Germany is an admirable work,
but if you are limited to a cheap book, obtain J. R.
Green’s “Short History of the English People” which
will cost only Bs. 6d “ H. Fowler": Will consider
“S. M'C." : Good, Next week ...“Subscriber”: They're
still in gaol. They weren’t well-connected, we believe....
“W. E. Harcourt" : Thanks. Will publish.
What sort of reception will Bishop Barry
get from the fair sex of Sydney on his return ?
The Hon. James Norton gave a large
dance on Tuesday, 7th, at Ecclesbourne.
Miss Randall, of Mudgee, has (says the
Mudgee Independent) “skipped 3400 times with
a skipping-rope without stopping,”
Captain Lake gave a farewell dinner on
the Bth June, at the Union Club, to several pro-
minent members of the cocked-hat profession
prior to his departure by the Bengal.
A successful amateur performance of
“ Pinafore ” was given at the Burwood School of
Arts on Bth June in aid of the Bulli Relief Fund.
Captain Hoskyn and Lieutenants Keary,
Heyman, and Bowden Smith, of H.M.S.
Myrmidon gave a pleasant dance at Niths-
dale, on the Bth inst. The salt-horse and
“ military ” professions were well represented.
Among the guests were Mrs. Fairfax, Miss
Dundas, Lady and the Misses Darley, Lady and
the Mieses Manning, Sir George and Lady Innes,
Mrs. and Miss Stephen, and many others.
The Chinese of N.S.W. are presenting to
Queen Victoria a Jubilee address. Let’s see.
Queen Victoria is the monarch under whose
auspices thousands of Chinamen were slaughtered
in order that opium-smoke might arise from Hades
to paralyse the brain of the yellow man. Queen
Victoria is the monarch under whose auspices the
yellow man is poll-taxed on the ground that he is
a beast. The Chinese-address promoters must be
terribly mean dogs.
“ The Tomboy,” at Sydney Royal, and
Minnie Palmer’s “ Stepmother,” at the Opera
House, are still drawing well. So are ‘' Jack
Sheppard,” and Cogill’s Minstrels, and Pastor
Jefferis, and a few other Sydney and Melbourne
and Adelaide and Brisbane shows, but the notices
we intended giving them are crowded out by choice
Jubilee grovel of the most abject description.
George Darrell is to have a matinee benefit at the
Royal on Saturday next.
On Monday, 6th inst., a number of ladies
hired the Columbia SkatiDg Rink and had an en-
joyable morning with their friends. Lady Car-
iDgton, Lady Darley, Lady Manning, Lady Innes l
and Mrs. M. H. Stephen were among the fair
sliding multitude. Thursday evening is to bo in
future the fashionable night at this place of
amusement, and all Potts Point is expected to do
a few yards and then come down with a thump
and a refined and stifled groan.
Prior to Wednesday night’s Jubilee meet-
ing at Sydney Exhibition Building over 500
tickets were given out in one lot to the Royalist
footballers of Sydney, and these strong-limbed
persons were requested to roll up early and help
to preservo order. Did this mean that they
were to hustle the breath out of anyone who
attempted to move an amendment or who didn’t |
seem as if he sympathised with the grovel of the I
meeting. Three cheers for spontaneous loyalty !
The Sydney dailies have just found out
that illicit spirit-distilling operations are carried
on upon a large scale in N S W., ar d that just about
half ihe alleged grog drunk pays no duty, even in
the form of whi e spirit. A year or two ago, a
certain member of Parliament bounced into The
Bulletin office snorting, “ I’ll serve you with a
libel writ for £lO.OOO and recover every penny of
it.” To which the poor scribe rejoined : “ Look
here, old man, be sure you go out of that big
George-street-cellar private distillery business
before you go into the libel trade.” There was
no libel-writ.
Cobar (N.S. W.) has a quadrille society.
Rule 8 says: “That no gentleman be allowed to
dance twice in succession with any lady, and not
more than three times during the evening” ; and
Rule 11 crushes the stranger thusly : “That any
gentleman be permitted to engage a lady before-
hand for one dance only.” Catherine the Great
of Russia had a rule in her Imperial ball room
that no one should get drunk before 9 o’clock, and
that any gentleman who should beat a lady in the
room should be required to leave, but then she
had never been in Cobar The rule which pro-
hibited an angry Russian from publicly caning his
partner if she displeased him, was an innovation,
but then Catherine had been there herself and
knew what it was like.
Jawbone Neild, M.P., is likely to sustain
a nasty fall while his “ honors are thick upon him.”
The keen-witted M'Klhone has discovered that
when Mr. Combes went to Paris Exhibition as
Executive Commissioner, his expenses only being
allowed him, the Elections and Qualifications
Committee determined that he held an office of
profit in contravention of the provisions of the
Constitution Act. Mr. Neild’s case is an exact
parallel, and with the distinct precedent in Mr.
Combes’ case there is no possibility, unless Parlia-
ment chooses to stultify itself, of his retaining his
seat. Mr. E. Barton, the late Speaker, who has
become covinced of the expediency of moderate
Protection, is likely to have an opportunity to
sooner than he expected.


THERE IS NO CURE
FOR
RHEUMATISM,
SPRAINS,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
Or, in fact, for most of the Ills to which Suffering
Mortals are Subject, like
ST. JACOBS OIL,
It is the One Patent Medicine which has met with
the Cordial Approbation of the Medic 1 profession.
It has taken
THE HIGHEST HONORS
In all parts of the world,
And has called forth more
SPONTANEOUS GRATITUDE,
Than Any Preparation Ever Offered to the Public,
It is of Priceless Value in the
sudden climatic changes
Peculiar to the Australian Climate, and is the
Most Absolutely
CERTAIN CURE FOR RHEUMATISM
Known to Modern Science.
Tens of Thousands of Testimonials establish
its Claim to Public Confidence,
And the Proprietors offer a REWARD of
£lOO
For Proof that Anyone of These is Not Genuine.
It is sold by all
Chemists, Druggists, and Storekeepers
throughout the colonies.
ENRRAL RUFUS INGALLS, Quartermaster-
V3T General of the United States Army, says :
“ St. Jacobs oil is the best pain cure we ever used.”
MR. G. COIJSMAN, of Auckland, N. Z., had
his foot badly crushed. St. Jacobs oil removed
all the pain and soreness in a few hours, and he
now strongly recommends the use of the oil.
“I’ll make assurance doubly sure and take a
bond of fate.” And I will do this by using St.
Jacobs oil the next time my rheumatism troubles
me. It is one of the very few patent medicines
approved and used by the faculty, and it is the
only certain cure for all rheumatic and kindred
complaints.
MR. SCALES, of the well-known firm of
Wrigley and Scales, of Melbourne, used St. Jacobs
oil for a severe strain to his back, and was quite
cured by a few applications.
The dogs who delight to bark and bite often get
hurt. If they are mongrels so much the better :
if not you will find St. Jacobs oil a sure remedy
for all their troubles.
JDx. SCOTT’S
'ectric Hiir Brush.
ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.
f
r(
We will send by mail on receipt of the price
named, with one shilling added, either size of this
beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of N.S.W.
or Queensland ; or request your nearest druggist
or fancy store to obtain one for you, and be sure
Dr. Scott’s name is on the box. Money returned
if not as represented.
The Price of the Electric Belt is 15s: or post
free to any part of the Colony 18s.
Remittances should be made payable to PALL
MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, 56 Margaret
street, Sydney ; P. 0., Box., 221
WATERBURY REPAIRS.
The invaluable Waterbury would not be the
cheapest watch in the world if it could not be
repaired at a low cost. But if anything goes
wrong with it the owner has only to take or send
it to the offices ef the Waterbury Watch Company,
at 51, Margaret-street, where it can be repaired
at a cost acoording to its requirements, but in no
case exceeding 2s. 6d. unless by mutual consent.
The cost of transmission by post or parcel delivery
on watches sent from the old country must be pre-
paid, and a sufficient amount to cover return
charges and cost of repair forwarded at the same
time. If sent in the box in which the Waterbury
is sold, the postage fee (including registration) is
2s. each way.
Children starving to death on account of their
inability to digest foo-i, will find a most marvellous food and
remedy in Scoits Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil
WITH lIyPOPHOBPHITEB. Very palatable and eati'y di-
gested Read the following testimonial: “ I have prescribe l
‘Scott's emulsion' in cases of children suffering from
wasting and mal-nutrition, and can report most favorably of
its good effect. It has been in e: ch case taken most readily.
W. Perkins, M R C.S.,
Medical Supt., Burleigh Hospital, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists. *
Tattersall's Monster Consultation, Win Ger Stakes, run
June 4, and the Jubilee Handicap, run June 21; each
2000 subs., 20s. now open and filling rapidly. Apply
Tattcrsall. care G. Adams, Pitt-street.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
ACCIDENT IN THE TRAM.
“Oh dear I If you will believe it,” said a
blushing and pretty bai maid who was iuat return-
ing from the Coogee baths. The tram stopped
suddenly, and threw the blushiog girl into the lap
of a commercial traveller who had the presence of
mind to hold on to her a few minutes. His face
lit up like an electric light. But the girl’s didnt;
the dear little creature excused herself, and said
she was sorry for landing so suddenly. The
traveller drew himself up to a smiling point, and
expressed his willingness that the could do it
again. You should have see the elastic smile on
Nellie’s face, and the bloom of youth stealing
through those bright eyes, which were as full of
mis chief as her little bar is of the famous St.
Louis Lager Beer.*
Balsam or Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, ABtbma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rigney, late Mitchell,
King-street.'
NOTICK !—Beware of young Wine. Drink onlyDockings
high class selected old vintages, for invalids 43 Pitt-
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS*
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prloes
UUL TAM
it ( Before You.
WBEEfcE to go ao that time may be saved and
n Honey also—the same sure guarantee
I still a good article being supplied—
| is a qtKestion concerning every buyer in the colony.
To new arrivals and parties furnishing—the
furnishingHhi-nughout of a house, or the furnish
ing of one or tvt ..•v’ooms only, or the supply of a
Carpet, Bedsteads Sand Beddiig, or of Kitchen
Utensils, Delf, &c. —\we point to the
CENTR AC-wEMPORI UM.
Bear the name well \in mind, the CENTRAL
EMPORIUM, 608 Georgfc-street, Sydney, or, as
many so favourably knowV>| and prefer to call it,
LAWLER’S BIG WAREHOUSE.
Full-sized head and
foot ends, Palliasse?, Matt»ess, Bolster, and
Pillows —The lot from 48s. _
Two pair of Sheets. 1 pair of Blankets, 1 Quilt,
and 2 Pillow cases—The lot front' 2, i8. Od,
If a “ Half-tester” Set of Cretonne liakd-hangings
be wanted—from 295.
A Chest of Drawers, T. ilet Table
Washstand and Toiletware —Complete,!
Dining Table, 6 Cane-seat Chairs, 1 Rocker^ 1
Coloured Tab’e-cuver—The lot from 425.
Drawing-room Table, 4 Austrian Chairs, Fa 1
Cretonne Couch, Gilt Glass—The lot
100 s.
Carpets, Passage Cloths, Satir Carpets, j
Rods, Door Mats, &c., &c
RANGING PRICKS. GREAT VA
FIRST-CLASS VALUE.
Often enough when one first commenced ho
lee,ing, and wisely preferred striking out |
making a start for themselves, MONEY
BEING TOO PLENTIFUL, the Kitchen por
of the furnishitig suffered most, hence a few 1
may be quo ed with advantage :
Six Knives and Forks of approved qu
bone (black) handle?, pair if Carvers, SJj
l cuing Steel, 6 Dessert Spoons (best), 6^
Spoons, and ma:sive rtv.lving Cii
parcel from 395,
Dinner Services from 245. Fans
Tea Services, 18s. 6d., 19s^
A Bellows, a Knife-board
Shoe Bruthes, a Clot
Carpet Broom, a _
Iron —The lot fr, ~
A large Brown-wafe Tel
Tea Canister, a SugarJ
a Lined Knife Basket
and Glass, a House
an A xe, and a Door Sd
Flower Dredge, Pepper !
of 3 Hand-jugs, Markl
Market Bags, Bull’s-ej
Bticks—The lot fron
At all times of J
its best, or thg
ter Pluvius.J
of man,
are parcels that can be made
the Furnishing and Drapery Stock at LAWLER’S.
THE HOUSEHOLD DOZEN PARCEL.
One dozen yards Scarlet Fiannel, all wool, 1
dozen all wool White Flannel, 1 dozen Fancy
Flannel shirting, 1 dozen good White Sheet-
ing 2 yards wide, 1 dozen Unbleached Calico
for sheeting, 1 dozen good and useful Towels—
The parcel for 455.
Flannels, Scarlet, 84d., 10id., Is , Is. 2d. ; White,
BW., 10jd., Is., I?. 2d., Is. 4d.
Flannels, superfine Saxony—B4d., Is., Is. Id.,
Is. 9d., 2s.
Flannels, extra stout, for Men’s wear—ls.
Horrock’s Calicoes, unbleached— 24d. to 4d. ;
White, 3id., 4d., 4id., to 6fd.
Special line Crewdson's White Shirting Calicoes,
33in. and 36in.—4i|d., aid., 6fd., 7id., 9d.
Ditto Scotch Sheetings •* i’inolay's,” 72in. to 108
—From Is. 3d. to 2s. 6d. Special line, and
20 per cent, under value.
Best Irith Linen Sheetings, 90in. to 108in.—3s.
to 12s. 6d. per yard.
Pure Irish Linen Table Cloths, grass bleached—
From 3s. 9d. to 21s. Sizes 2to 6 yards long.
A HEAVY, WELL ASSORTED, REALLY
BEST BTOCK OF LACK CURTAINS, TAPES-
TRY CURTAINS, TAPESTRY TABLE COVERS,
PLUSH TABLE COVERS, PERSIAN CHEN-
ILLE COVERS—Very Handsome.
A capital Assortment Drapers and Irish Linen
Fronting*.
EVERY STEAMER ARRIVING ADDS TO THE
STOCK HELD AT LAWLER’S.
BLANKETS—SingIe Sizes, 6s 6d., Bs. 6d., lOs.
6d., 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. ; Medium Sizes,
10s., 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d., 255.; Full Doubles,
12s. 6d„ 13s. 6d., 15*. 6d., 20s„ 305., 40s.
There are few young fellows in diggings who
have not upon a Sunday, after sorting up their
wardrobe, declared that upon the TO-MOKROW
they would go to LAWLERS, or write to
LAWLERS, for a Mixed Parcel of Mercery and
Boots suited to their wants. NOTE.—AII that is
required is the number of the boot, and whether
narrow or broad toes prefeired, the size of collar,
and the size of bar.
NOW HERE IS A PARCEL WELL WORTH
ATTENTION :
Three White Dress Shirts, Linen Military
Fronts, ElyseeCuffs, Half-dozen Linen Collars,
either Stand-up, “ Pall Mall,” or Polo, or Re-
form Dux, 6 Gent's White Cambric Handker-
chiefs, 2 Society Ties, 1 Suite Mother-of-pearl
Studs, 1 Silk Umbrella, 1 Fashionable Hat
Black, Hard-felt, 1 pair Walking Boots, lace-
up or elastic-side, very dressy, best machine-
finished, and first-class soles —The lot, packed
complete, for 40s.
One Sack-suit of Clothes, any size, ready made,
Fashionable Tweed, light or d ,rk patterns, i
pa r of Braces, 1 Genuine Tweed Waterproof
Coat, fancy or plain colours and lined, 1 Solid
Basil Leather Portmanteau—Complete, from
625.
The Country Department is attended to by a
staff who forward Patterns immediately on appli-
cation with
LAWLER’S LOWEST PRICES.
Communicate Freely.
Replies no trouble to the Central Emporium
People.
LAWLER'S.
608 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
CALI, OR W
A few days ago there were four condemned
prisoners awaiting death in Brisbane gaol, but
they are gradually being killed off. Christopher
Pickford used to spend mo3t of his time in whist-
ling operatic airs, but he has already been
quenched, and the stone jug no longer re-echoes
with the chorus, “My Object all Sublime,” which
he generally sang half through, and then suddenly
he would re verse the barrel-organ aDd switch on
to the “ Fair Land of Poland.” He was a great
nuisance, and is not much regretted. Jacob
? tevenson, on the other hand, sat up at nights to
bellow hymns and pray, and as he had a cold in
his nose his chorus of “Hold de fort, for lab
kobiDg ” was awful. He was pardoned, by the
bye, while the opera man was hanged- “ The one
shall be taken and the other left ” (Scripture), and
when a man wants to be left hymns and prayer
are the dodge. In another cell, Ellen Thompson, j
a nagging old woman who killed her his and, i
A GOOD OLD LOYALIST.
“GOOD GRACIOUS! WHAT! WHAT SHOCKING PEOPLE THOSE ANARCHISTS ARE!
ENOUGH TO MAKE YOUR HAIR STAND ON END."
lived on bread and water, and cursed at large.
When Pickford was going out to be hanged she
asked him through the key hole how he thought
he would enioy his supper. Ellen and her
collaborateur, Mr. Harrison, were hanged on Mon-
day morning. The latter spent all his time after-
conviction in walking up and down with a pipe in
his mouth andtcokvery little interest in the scheme
for getting him out of the world. He gave himself
away in order t o become the sole possessor of the
rarnpagious female next door, and he now seems
to fancy the game was hardly worth the trouble.
Thus a Queensland journalist in re the
hanging of Pickford, the murderer :
"After hanging-for about 25 minutes, Dr. Hobbs pro-
nounced life t xtinct, and the body was lowered into its
coffin, and the hangman removed his rope, subsequently
coiling it to be ready for use on a future day."
That man evidently doesn’t believe his fellow
creatures will improve, and there’s a ring about
the remark whieh>eems as if he would be rather
sorry if the rope remained permanently coiled,
anyway. Ugh,!
I Ihe bones of one Clarke, an aged scissors-
J grinder, have been found standing up in a bar at
I Kyneton (Vic.) racecourse. He had apparently
I been locked in and had fought against a cohort of
rats until he collapsed and was eaten. This dry
I fact is almost as ghastly in its way as the tale of
| Ihe French officer who was shut up in the cata-
| combs. The Frenchman made the better fight of
( the two, but. his adventure
fashion, and whtn the ecene of visited
l here remained only a skull, a
few bones, a sword from the handle of which the
leather had been eaten etvay. and the dead bodies
of hundreds of slaughtered rats.
It cost £230 in juries’ and witnesses’ ex-
penses to try two blackfellows for manslaughter
at Rockhampton (Q ). The beauty of the thing
was that the blackfellow lay down in the dock and
went to sleep the whole lime.
Sydney Evening News says
" A Bathurst man, ‘ appropriately named Caffery,’ was
pullmg down a chimney from the bottom when, * naturally
enough,’ the top part came down upon and injured him.”
Why the appropriateness ? If the man’s name
had been Alfred Bennett the chimney would pro-
bably have come down just the s&me. It is pro-
bably “ natural enough ” that the top came down
a 9 he was working at the bottom. Had Alfred
been on top and the whole structure turned a
somersault and buried him, it would not have
been natural, perhaps, but it might have been a
good thing for the consistency of N.S.W.
journalism.
The editor of Wit and Wisdom the other
day offered a two guinea prize for the best list of
greatest women. In the collected replies, of
course, Her Gracious is first; then come in their
order Adelina Patti, Ellen Terry, and Baroness
Burdett Coutts !!! Ouida is sixteenth in the list
and Mrs. Beecher Stowe last.


Please say that you saw this in
The Bulletin.
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT WE WILL ECLIPSE ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
ou
PATENT
PILLS.
4$
Are admitted by thou*
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
Vlonb it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
tenmestly invited to try one box of these rills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If tnken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham s
Cough Pills a trial. . .
The most violent Cough will m a short time be
removed. _ A .. ...
Caution.— The public are requested to notice tnnr
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery. ....
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lsd. and 2s. 9d.
each—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
E V } PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLO TF 13 I
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and moat approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE la VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
la GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
RSI Gkobre-atbeet. avTistr.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others foidU lasting ai
Thr
P Alt IS, U»"8, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET I WOOD VIOLET
I TREVOL ' CHYPRE
other well-known Perfumes are un-
I equalled lor their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON'S EAU DE TOILETTE OE 10N0RES.
1 l n surpassed for refreshing and
skin, and an exceedingly choice I ei luine tor
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
I prepared exclusively by the Inventors
Of all Dealers, and o> the Manufacturers
1 J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, Lon do
. Trade Mark— “ White Rose” on“ Golden
Lyre.”
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
jxclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions- lift and flre-oroof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. 1? irst-clasra
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold batns every floor. Large banqueting
room. Sample room.
fi, H. DANIELLS, Proprietor
A SOVEREIGN RI MERY
o a l A Tided with Rhei matic Gout Tic-
Ecloheux, Aching Pains in thi Limbs
Face, cr Head.
by suler those excruciating I a ins when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTH AM’B RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No chrnge in diet
n ctseary I In Pottles, Is., 2s. 6d., os., and 10s.
CURE t'O’i .BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB3RATED EYE LO'i lON.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy fei Bad
Eyes. It aju only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerout tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Ijs agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared ny the So’e Proprtetr I,
fl. A, Ml Phamoe-atical Obi mist,
63 Georarc-street on'v
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room,
fcuperior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. \V. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
“ LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,”
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOoTLING and Co , and GOSTLING and Co.,
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABBRG.
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef , I am enable!
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
c
id
HANUFACTURERS
IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS At
cA?
438 CEORCE ST
/SYDNEY
Cp/>osift LatstCCers
m
Vi -
mi
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for sverv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
S 3
•t vl
V/
Scrofula on Iveck*.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Disfiguring humors. Humiliating Erup
tiona, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsou Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimpiy, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
ltoss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured_ by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Puriher,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barkers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cdticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly Bworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticdra Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puii-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the I2s&, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or (greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale- by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Boap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Dni®: A Chemical Co-. Boston, r.**. a
T. SILBEBBEKO- cSS Cl.,
32 MARKET STREET, Corner of Clarence Street, Sydney,
IMPORTERS OF THE FAMOUS SILBERBERG SEWING MACHINES, and the DURKOPP
WHITE MACHINES, the best and cheapest in the market.
Agents wanted throughout the colonies.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Shin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution —As there are in this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
B
BAD i&T, NEWTON, 8B LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CON NELL STREETB
Full suites for dining room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
i ELF- /ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, lrom
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. £3" We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only),
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d, extra
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up,
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
II
Mil
WALNUT FALL
FKONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varij
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw*
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided iato compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets,
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FcnNiTunn Warehouse*!!*,
Importers o( High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
tn
: SE&P
ftOS! PIANOFORTE,
dbOO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, fall Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, in handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves for
oash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sts.
EAST CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed.
rooms. New designs covered to order In
any material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
Bedsteads, ail sices i
Niokel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and;
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
SPRING MATTRABSHB
Woven Wire, be*
make; also, Spiral Sprint'
Price, from lie. eaoh.
BRADLEY, MKWTOV »n<l LAMB
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pino Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 64.)
Chests of Diawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side*
boards, from 433 10s.| Clothes Horses, from 10s. Bd,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


BRIEF MENTION.
N. B. Dowling—N. B. Howling.
A swift but awful liar—The cablegram.
Sir Alban J. Riley—Sir All-bun Jubilee
Riley.
Why don’t they get the Sydney theatres
consecrated as well as licensed ?
Haynes, M.L. A., waves again the “ Bloody
Shirt.” Well. John always had a lot of sanguinary
front.
All attempts to float the Balmain Docks
(Sydney), cost £27,000, have failed. The name
~Jlje fJelpOUKrf MjJ
Jrji fo /arrifiyi
cd/ycfou)i not M-
IUTj/r/Ct fed Op 7u6i/?“
fi/qfif- s/,ouM6e irefty
road’ /rredn/’ "
b/iff, & rrJipi}a&
Jeep /natfe if C ‘
J+r fat.
“The Bulletin” Jubilee Calendar.
utterly damned it. Victoria Jubilee Dock ? Vic-
toria J übilee Hog wash 1
The German Emperor has the colly-
wobbles. The polite cable man calls it “ab-
dominal cramp.
The Penny Nation, published in Sydney,
is an Irish paper. A nice thing, isn’t it, to call
Ireland a psnny nation ?
G A. Sala writes of the “vermil cheek”
of the Roman sunset. We always thought G.A.S.
had a monopoly of that article.
London Lancet reports a case of a girl
getting delirium tremens by chewing tea-leaves.
A whole vista of delight here opens up to man-
kind
There is a woman in Maine (U.S.) whose
hair is Bft.' lin. long. We wish our hair were
Bft. lin. long. We’d start in business as a colonial
Premier.
Last week the Chinese Commissioners
visited Victorian Parliament Houses and Aitken's
Brewery. The fact is, of course, that one sug-
gested the other.
Anyone (except our noble selves) mention-
ing the word “ Jubilee ” after this date will be
fined 10s. For a second offence the penalty is 48
hours, “ without the option.”
A Victorian publican is angry because the
local coroner, instead of bringing the body of a
dead Chinaman to his hotel took it to the opposi-
tion whisky-mill. Some people do hunt hard for a
grievance.
The S.M. Herald, in a leading article,
asks, “ What is beer ? ” and “ What are we drink-
ing that goes by the name of beer 1 ” Why doesn’t
Editor Curnow enquire in his composing-room ?
In some outlying districts in Queensland
tha Government offices are not supplied with
copying-presses, and it is painful to watch the
efforts of the officials to sit down hard enough on
the correspondence.
Alfred writes about “ the fraudulent law-
yer’s clerks in Goulburn.” Bless him! Little
does he know that there is any difference between
the fraudulent lawyer’s clerks and the fraudulent
clerks of the lawyer.
In the course of a buggy-accident par. the
Young (N.S.W.) paper says : —“ While visiting his
patients yesterday, Dr. had occasion to
descend from his buggy at the cemetery——&c.
We shouldn’t wonder.
According to a local paper, if a woman is
arrested at Lithgow, N.S.W., the police make her
work at scrubbing-before her conviction. It is
better that 99 guilty should escape than that one
innocent woman should be compelled to scrub.
The N. S. W. Government spend thousands
of public money on Jubilee illuminations, and yet
the Minister of Education deprives the State school
children of fires in winter ” for economical rea-
sons.” Tiger Inglis, the school fire-places need
illuminating.
It is complained that prisoners taken to
the George-street (Sydney) watch-house are still,
as in ancient days, publicly marched th rough the
streets under escort to the Water Police Court in
the morning. Moral: If the policeman won’t let
you off altogether, compromise matters by paying
him to take you to the Central,
Two Sydney papers, the S.M. Herald
and the Evening News, are hard at work re-
modelling the English language. The Herald
recently alluded in a dramatic criticism (?) to the
“ artisticness ” of the scenery, and the News the
other night spoke of an assault being made upon a
“ fruitereress and confectioneress.”
Another injustice to the O’Briens ! In a
Sydney court last week a female relative took out
a prohibition-order against suppling one Michael
O'Brien with grog. As there are at least a few
score of Mick O’Briens in Sydney the publicans
will have a difficult job in identifying this parti-
cular Mick. By the way, what will happen when
a prohibition is issued against John Smith ?
“ The whole of the pewter-pot party then
left,” says Sjdrey D.T. in a Parliamentary report.
From this we presume that the D.T. is already
tired of the Parkes Ministry and wishes to throw
contempt on Mr. Corner-of-Market-and-George-
street Woberts.
A special platform, thoughtfully constructed
so as in no degree to resemble a gallows,
will be erected near Westminster Abbey to enable
the “ Representative Australians ” to witness the
Jubilee pageant “It is intended to make a
special charge to defray expenses.” The kitchen-
range again.
The commissioners under the N.S.W.
Real Property Act held four meetings in May and
sat for periods of an hour and a half and two
hours. They received £64 10s. each for their
work, or about £9 per hour. Think of that, ye
men who are employed on Government relief
works at 3 3. 9d. per day !
A surprise party, 00 strong, and carrying
their shoes in their hands, dropped on Mr. and
Mrs. Isaacs, of St. Elmo, Elizabeth Bay, on Satur-
day, 4th June. The victims received them with a
faint smile, and they danced till midnight, after
which they had refreshments, and wound up
with cheers for everybody concerned.
