

The Bulletin
b. 363
SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1887.
•trice., 6d.
The “Coming" man.
J. P . ABBOTT (log): “I NeVER DID LIKE FIGHT-I THINK I'LL CLEAR."


THE BULLETIN.
FUBLXSHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance).
Per annum - - - -£1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - Q 12s. Od.
Quarterly - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
Sterling—which yon may pay by Post # Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1887.
HIGH WATER MARKl.
The Circulation of “The Bulletin”
Christmas Number is the largest ever
reached by an Australian Newspaper.
Eighty-two Thousand Five Hundred
and Sixty (82,560) copies having been
printed, and the entire edition sold.
Some Fallacies of Freetrade.
In all arguments upon the abstract question,
Freetrade or Protection, the inability of
either disputant to assail the position of the
other is the most noteworthy outcome of
debate. Books are written and lectures de-
livered in support of the opposed doctrines ;
each argument on either side is extended
and elaborated ad infinitum , yet the party
champions neither conquer nor convert their
opponents. If issue is joined upon a pure
question of fact, a decision is readily ob-
tained but nothing is gained thereby. The
defeated contestant retires beyond the walls
of his theory, and from thence hurls an im-
potent defiance. On its own ground each
party is supreme, but when there intrenched
is incapable of making efficient attack upon
its opponent. The l contest is as a fight be-
tween a dog and a ; on its own element
each i 3 triumphant. ' Freetraders standing
in an atmosphere bf theory assert: “You
must buy in the cheapest market if you
would become wealthy.” Protectionists,
breathing an atmosphere compounded of
specific instances, say : “To grow wealthy
our own labour mpst be kept fully em-
ployed,” and neither can convince the other
for the simple reason that the contentions do
not actually conflict. To come to a right
decision on the question, it is necessary to
examine the premises from whicli conclu-
sions are drawn rather than the conclusions
themselves. Only in this w r ay, and hy
bringing to bear upon the assumptions of
Freetrade can the real weakness of that
policy be proved.
* * *
Among the fallacies of Freetrade the most
mischievous is that which assumes the un-
hampered operation of natural laws. It is,
for instance, a natural law that distance
should impede and finally prohibit the trans-
portation of goods. But man lias broken
this natural law : railways and canals inter-
sect every civilised country reducing the
labour required for carriage of commodities
to perhaps one-thousandth part of the pri-
mitive cost. It is another natural law' that
substances floating upon the ocean should be
carried hither and thither by wind and tide.
Here again man has abrogated the natural
laws governing matter : he builds a steamer,
fills it with perhaps 4,000 tons of goods and
transports them across 12,000 miles of ocean
for less than, cartage for 40 miles or railroad
carriage for 150 miles would co3t By this
triumph of mind over matter London is
brought nearer to Sydney as far as cost of
carriage is concerned than are Bathurst or
Goulburn, although these latter cities are
connected with Sydney by rail. It is idle
then to assume as Freetraders do that Pro-
tection is a defiance of natural laws. These
laws have already by man’s ingenuity been
entirely abrogated. Protection merely seeks
to prevent injury incident upon human in-
terference with their working. If the arti-
ficial advantages, and they are great advan-
tages, arising from the use of steam, were
given up, and carriage from London eost £'4o
per ton instead of as many shillings as at
present, the demand for protection of
colonial industries would cease utterly.
Labour at the antipodes then having tho
natural protection of distance would not re-
quire the artificial Protection by Customs
duties now necessary as a means of coun-
teracting evils resulting from an entirely
artificial state of affairs. Freetrade does
not take into consideration human amend-
ments of Divine laws. Henry George, for
instance, condemns the Protective theory
qecuuse it is “ inconsistent with the sim-
plicity and harmony which we everywhere
discover in natural law,” forgetting that this
“simplicity and harmony” has been re-
strained and complicated in every section,
except, perhaps, Avith regard to natural laws
producing earthquakes which have not yet
been altered by human skill. Mdn has an-
nihilated distance, has in many operations
abolished time and governs the lightning ;
what a farce, then, to condemn Protection
as inconsistent with the “simplicity and
harmony of natural law ! ” It is not Divine
laws but human perversions thereof that
Protection is efficacious in restraining.
* * *
It is important to notice a further abroga-
tion of natural law in the production of com-
modities by the varying conditions of the
position of labourers in various countries.
No one will contend that less expenditure of
labour is required to produce cloth from
wool in England than in New South Wales :
nor will anyone venture to assert that if
similar methods are employed wood can be
converted into a table with less labour by
Chinese in Hong Kong than if made by Aus-
tralians in Sydney; the fact is notorious that
English cloth and Chinese furniture can be
imported and exchanged for a lower price
than a colonic-1 producer would require as the
equivalent of his labour. In these cases
natural law provides that a certain amount
of skill and extertion applied in a particular
way shall always produce a certain result.
Hunian agency restrains this universal law
by the introduction of machinery and perfec-
tion of methods, but presuming that both
cloth and tables are each produced under
identical conditions, the lower price of the
foreign goods shows that the universal law
has been practically counteracted by lesser
remuneration of labour abroad. The same
result is in each case obtained, but the lower
remuneration accepted by the English
weaver or Chinese carpenter perverts the
ultimate effect of this natural law. If labour;
all the world over, were equally remunerated
Freetrade would he an intelligible creed, but
•so long as labour in Australia is worth twice
as much as in England, and tw'enty times as
much as in China, so long will the import of
foreign goods curtail the industry of the Home
labourer, and impede the prosperity of the
community
* * *
Not less false is the Freetraders’ assump-
tion that the profit of tho individual is al-
ways a gain to the community. Henry
George exhibits his complete subjection to
this error throughout his recent work and
especially in one special chapter. Therein he
alludes to Robinson Crusoe on his desert
island, and shows that restriction of imports
would not benefit him, and assorts that his
reductio ad absurdum of the protective theory
is not a whit more absurd in the case of one
man living on an island than when addressed
to a community living on a continent.”
But in truth the assumed analogy is entirely
wanting. Suppose in the ease of Robinson
Crusoe he had been accustomed to pay hio
man Friday for making his goat-skin
clothes and then w henopportunityoffered had
imported these, leaving Friday without any
market for his labour ! In such a case,
though Crusoe might benefit, Friday would
certainly be poorer, and the aggregate wealth
of the pair ivould be less, for Friday, in-
stead of being a productive worker, would
have degenerated into an unproductive con-
sumer. Crusoe’s foreign trade would have
destroyed his man’s industry. In large com-
munities, in very many instances, the profit
of one man who, employs his capital and
energy in importing foreign goods may
entail a far greater loss on others fhaji he
himself gains. Suppose that in a com-
munity A is an importer ; then, let B repre-
sent a number of bootm,akers, a,nd O the
mass of other producers who are neither im-
porters nor bootmakers. Vp to a certain
period these bootmakers may have been
fully and profitably employed, earning money
which enabled thorn to buy the produce of
all other producers ; but A, seeing that by
importing German boots he can undersell
the boots made by B, gets out a shipment
which he sells to C, and B workmen are
thrown out of employment, How, then,
does the case stand ? A has made money as
profit on the shipment ; C have saved money
oeeause they have paid less to A than they
would have paid to B. But B workers have
lost their employment, and are therefore
able to buy less from C than they would have
done if the market for their labour had been
maintained. In this case the community
can hardly be said to have gained by the
profit A has made. His profit has been
made at the cost of the whole community
who have loßt far more than lie has acquired.
* * *
In opposition to the above illustration it
will be argued by Freetraders that the coun-
try has gained because so much wealth of
boots has been introduced into the country.
This brings 113 to a third Freetrade fallacy—
viz., that “Exports pay Imports.” In sup-
port of this fallacy Mr. George writes ;
“ Exports and imports, so far as they are in-
duced by trade, are correlative. Each is the
cause aud complement of the other, and to impose
any restriction on the one is necessarily to lessen
the other."
Therefore it follows, we may presume, that
if all the bootmakers of a colony were thrown
out of employment and say £1,000,000 worth
of boots were imported there would be an
increased export of £‘1,000,000 worth of some
produce to stand as correlative to the in-
creased import. That would not necessarily
or even probably be the case, yet the imports
would have to be paid for in some way. In
the instance we have given A would have to
transfer to Germany value in some form to
pay for the boots sent out to his order, but
it is by no means necessary that this should
have been by export of goods or that goods
should haVe been so sent by other parties :
and however payment were made the amount
would be a debit to the sum of exchanges of
the colony as against the world. It is clear
when this consideration is regarded, that
Exports do pay for Imports only when they
are equal to them in the ratio of exchange :
if greater then the balance of exchange is
in favour of the colony, but if less it is
against it. This subject has been so recently
dealt with in these columns and at such
length that further notice here is superflu-
ous : but two things here may be particularly
regarded : first that it is necessary to the
Freetrade argument that Exports should
balance Imports : and second that they do
not do so. Upon the three fallacies above
quoted the Freetraders’ faith has been
founded. The usefulness of the structure
may be easily calculated by this review of its
foundations.
Philip Drunk and Philip Sober.
Impelled by the wild intoxication of revenge, the
Sydney daily papers shrieked and yelled for the
blood of tho Mount Rennie convicts. Nothing
but special pleading for the lives of the condemned
appeared in their leading columns ; not a line or
a thought was urged, unless, inj the fevered ima-
gination of these passionate writers, it contained a
reason against the exercise of mercy. In vain
The Bulletin appealed from “ Philip drunk
to Philip sober ” —the editorial, clerical, Execu"
live, aye, and even the vice-regal Philip was too
far gone in his mental inebriation to be able to
persuade himself that he was not perfectly sober.
Ordinary drunkenness is productive of little harm
so long as its victim is aware of insobriety ; it is
when that stage is passed and the drunkard is so
far overcome by the potion as to fancy himself
perfectly sober that acts disastrous to himself
and his fellows ensue. So it was in this Mount
Rennie mania. Newspaper-conductors had seen
the details of the outrage so spicily related in
their own columns, and had found the whole case
so useful a help to their circulation that the
oft-repeated denunciations of its supposed perpe-
trators acted as a stimulant in the first place, and
the do3e being repeated led to the ultimate
dethronement of reason ; to the substitution of
wild emotion in place of calm thought, while tho
boozer at the fount of outrage still believed him-
self to be guided by his reflective powers, at least
to the usual extent. Philip was drunk when he
killed those boys ; had Philip been aware of his
drunkenness he would'have stayed his hand.
Now Philip awakes with a headache and gazes
on his ghastly work, and, like most drunkards suf-
fering a recovery, swears that he will drink no
more. But Philip took the same pledge when
O' Farrell, the lunatic, was hanged ; ho took it
again when he saw the foolishness of his Soudan
spree ; he swore tho same oath after Johns was
dead, and he will take it again as often as he gets
blind-drunk with excitement or passion in the
future.
* * *
It is the Herald which shows the first symp.
toms of “suffering a recovery.” Search its load-
ing columns for weeks before the execution aad
there will not be found a single sentence that
might be taken even to excuse, much less justify
a reprieve ; yet on Friday morning, the very day
of the execution, there appearod a leader admit-
ting two of the main points which The Bulletin
alone has argued, and the Herald ab initia op-,
posed,. In this leader, the first indication of the
Heraid, Philip’s return to sobriety occurs in this
sentence :
“ That the prisoners were aU very young and very ignorant
could not be questioned, and on stjich grounds the prerogative
of mercy might be justifiably exercised— just as it might be in
the case of women or lunatics condemned to death."
Save for the use of the potential mood in the
italicised portions, this sentence' is worthy of a
place among Bulletin matter printed while the
Herald Philip was still drunk. And as if this
avowal were not clear enough, the article pro-
ceeds in the same strain thus
“ Taking this view of the case, the logical result would
have been the reprieve of all the prisoners. That the prero-
gative might be justly exercised in all cases of the kind ill which
nature herself seems to have set up a plea for ntfrey can hardly
be questioned."
Here again The Bulletin argument is pon-
derously confirmed, but not, and this point is im-
portant, until the fact was deprive! of all ofllcacy
t o stay the disgrace which the colony has suffered.
In other words, the S.M. Herald, though con-
scious of the claims of mercy, deliberately re-
frained from putting those claims forward until
the morning on which the wretched youths were
doomed to die. The sober and repentant Philip
continues :
The humanity of the age revolts at the idea of sending
women to the gallows, even where they have been convicted
of deliberate murder. It is not very long ago, for instance,
since two women, mother and daughter, known as the Mait-
land poisoners, were lying in gaol under sentence of death
for the murder of the daughter's husband; but although
their case was absolutely destitute of merits in any shape,
they were reprieved simply because they were women !"
Kn passant wo would venture to remind this
Herald scribe that one of these two women has
been j/rima facie cleared of all complicity in the
crime by the confession of the other ; and would
also pause to remind him that no consideration of
the “ humanity of the age ’’ prevented the Herald
for urging up to tho very date of tho execution
that all six of these boys should be hanged. But
let him proceed :
<• The only reason for commutation of the sentence lay in
that fact. If the execution of women is considered repugnant
to human nature, even where their criminality has placed
hem beyond the pale of human sympathy, it might with not
le.-s reason he utyed that ths -
B
II (Wl'Vrr, the
to ad >pt this view of the ease.”
But “ this view of Ihe case,'flßH
'i'li is Bulletin, has been spurnHHß
parson-rid den journals of Sydnlß|i
“ ifs ” —the unfailing indications olßf
ne3s, or journalistic cowardice—the!
would, save for want of vigour, have!
able by The Bulletin in its conic]
prieve. Yet in that contention, up]
date of the execution, The BulletjJ
lutely alone. ]
But it is not simply on the gro|
youth that the Herald, on the Bb|
thr 1 1 in/ of execution, asked for
Mount Bennie criminals t
1 1 i-:kai.i> leader came under '.heflfs
readers at Ihe b!-eakf;i-1 -t nhr.K
the air); the circumstances <BB|
lent ly urged by Tin: Bi r.i K
to in these words :
" It is the very essence of our erinlHHfl
every prisoner should not only I.e
C 'll,Sri ill in, defence, lint that. t'H[l
should 1 ,r- allorded him hy 1 1 ,<■ I 'o ut
II has rarely ham,ened Hint any cn.sßH
respect has arisen of lute years: but
proof that even this merciful rule is
tiens. Whatever the facilities afforded
trial may be, they can be of little avail
the Court are protracted from day to day
as to exhaust the physical and mental
and jurymen alike. The ceItVBBBB
' ' '
9B
Wfl
i. -
( /;
dH
m
the night in spite of r epeated protest M I
mint.” jßßfflßHali
M’liy, i' ni:i\ be won,ha, ,1. :B _
tho | mb! ic; 11 ion of this LvißH
• 1 mlgc \\ INftl VKK, who ”
coun.icl " in i his rase to -it
111 i. \ I.!* assert -Mill i
of repeated protests and
nun! is now well on his way^B'
statement should have
still in New South Wales. BE
Beyond this latter considerat^B
publication, as it concerns
is the larger question: “ Why wa^Bf
of thi3 loader, so far a 3 it
and the colony whom their
after so monstrous a trial) diggraH
ferred?” And this is a (juestitß
not be answered, although it
possible solutions. Either Pniurß
became sober on the 7th Januaß
drunken excesses had completed tl
and ghastly work ; or else Philip fl
the time and feigned drunkenness sol
outwiththe “Respectable” ones of tJ
If the first answer be the true oneß
ductors of the Herald must, in B
covery. look upon themselves as infl
murder, none the less shocking hcß
with a legal sanctity ; for if those*
of the Mount Rennie crime had b»jeE
the Herald a week ago, we fm.flQ
txclieving llwit the execuri(»n wo]H
place. The Herald is the rertMJ
t m 111 lt>, >ll.-s and bouryeoi. s n.-sj ,-ctabilH
a case as this its pleading for ■i
qualified by a thousand “ifs,”woß
vailed against tire unanimous cry ■
loss and brutal tvvengo hy the otluß
if, mi tho other band, Philip was H
out, bis crime in cry ing for t he
n;\ls far oxcooded in point of
w loch I lie-e boy - ever did <s
of com mi It ing. .1/ tinier nor/ be
insl rti incuts than the knife or ffl||
it map he the work of the ./
beiny in damper, is too cturardliM H
PLAIN ENGLISH
Sir Charles Dilke
Whf.x theCuAwi'ohd divorce
the iillhinongci ing journals of
loud in denunciation of Sir i 'iiakiH
( 'k.wv i-1)KI> had accused hint
immorality, and thoiiKh Sir
gorirally denied on oath Mrs. (
dons ho was disbelieved, and
lor the double crime of seducinMHj
and barefaced pen-jury. it
your gut ter rap~ to Ito robbed ofHH
able tilth. Yet there wore
trat (linpf Sir Ciiu;u:< l>,i :,i M|
uoii as Mr-. t’i; wvi.okd'- are HHj
in themselves. A won.an
1 In- -hill yin : herroa wiflfi
In band ma\ of-on bo.-ah-ly
M : a
m
rn.li.;
will adhere to her -!
lat rely im lyinat \ . Then
ti l \ i: 1 l Dll.Ki: l ever beliflHH|
li' l.iber tl r.ra-u-
-hi .nd ■ -1 . 1
-in
jB
■ I
mination to retire from pubjicH
refused to yield up their frien^B
1 I
MS
M
B
strain ts imposed by the
him the most distinguishe^HHH
B
caterers to the fllLh-IovingHHHHH
persisted in building up a iHHHH
B
of this man against whom
B
B
B


'i v'V p ' HF
• ||| - | *'v || •; |
><■ , s ',s, ;\\ *, | v - .. gpr
a V" L *
v S 'n ' > * J Ip
&c£’^ 4 . fV' A ‘ve-*/ t V ‘ *\ ', 5 «v»F
r- i *■ 4-• »¥ Hgf
SF
.., - ~, Hr
w
i''£-''*S : %(' Ef
np*HHHSgHHif
HhA Wm
Br
•-.'.i s “'i ‘ .BE
V
wg
HP
I M
;' * W
"ir ('i!
pr
Of 111- <>l ' I"!' -'\.
un i< 1 begins in ii • 1 1 »i; •• 1 1 •:. ■■-
sort in QUf-t ion, sli • Hi -p!a\ -t ,
>kii! in i.i'ii-iri.j ;-; „- t h h:.■;i: >• 1 d<-
in lining those t ogel lor, >v. (1 in
ggSgjtiKr tho whole an as of rrais-.m-
den ive t he nm'N ma-a uiii.e mind--
H im- a woman to deceive her own sen.
HHHHand for this reason an American writer
g|||§Mago advocated that when a worn i ■
HMM. of criminal conversation, with or
jHfg|M . onsent, a jury of women should try
Many a man’s life has been blasted,
man's life has been choked cm of him
through stories em mating from the
MHM; imaginativeness of the female mind.
s£>;H£b that if Sir Ciia u.ks 1 )11 k i be i-.nc
jjjytgglPferings arc i:i a f:rr way toward > a
Testimonial to Mr. Dabbs.
a testimonial is made up of voluntary
the friends of tho henejlrlare, and is in-
contemplation of his alleged virtues.
limns testimenial “ain’t built that way.”
of the donations of a huge incomo-
youth Wales Civil yervants’ salaries,
by Minis erial blnCerers who
HH dismissal up and demand “ your money or
The Ministry has recklessly squan-
BHKvast revenues; for ihis squandering Mr.
HfiHk blamed, probably for the reason that Sir
HfM.IhNM.Mm is supposed to be too feeble
even to waste public money ; and for
HHHdh-jt the ('ivil St r rants have to subscribe.
Me to testimonialize In mm not because he
M well, but because he has lndped to make
HHHreck of the public finances. Thi <is not
nt in the expenditure; it is
tax on a helpless class who have
<i to be m. dm- t he l hum bo; a c nvardly
|||||||;Htagant Cabinet If there were any
for the suppose ; (lM ;t hbi re-
would result in the weeding out of the
igmirant, and ii:c ipable rcia'i' e-.
HNHMI coachmen of present and past Min's.
would have a plea-ant sound ; bn:
would seem to be ready purposed
the I lepartment of Lands. There is
of diflerences be ween this retrench cut
|Mc recent extension of hours. Prolonging
day was a reasonable reform, plainly
by the pract ice coutroliirg clerical work
§Hvai; odices, and useful as enabling a reduc-
M the staff, but this proposed reduction of
comes within quite ano her category.
with such retrenchment comes the in-
of railway rates, a step which, however
by circumstance-', nevertheless indicates
determination to get in all the
can without the onsent of I’ar'i i
§H Jennings and Co. may not. be courageous
to insist upon the imposition of taxes to
Parliamentary consent must lirst be oh-
Hi, but they are very heroej when taxes on
Hyerivants” .Salaries, and taxes upon railway
Hler/s are undor review. They are not strong
Hit Ko wring fair dues from influential im-
but they are at present just strong
to make helpless and subordinate persons
Hji- Ministerial feebleness and extravagance.
H The Tiger and the Ape.
Hkwxiebk in the depths of bloodthirsty degra-
Hon a jooint must be reached beyond which the
Han mind cannot sink. It may be true that
His a compound of the tiger anil the ape—¥oi.-
He defined the Frenchwoman as a hybrid wh j
m her origin to this unpleasant pair, and
Hacity is much the same all the world over—
Hwhen man has declared himself more brutal
tiger,|-md more monkeyish than the ape,
Mt surely have reached the nadir of stupid
Hy, and done all possible honour to his paren-
HHiThe demand for the introduction of Lynch
I in N.S. Wales made by “ Crito” in the carx*es-
Renee column of the Sydney Lf.T. is, we trus ,
Kast outpouring of homicidal mania that will
Hace the Australian press apropos of the
Hit Rennie outrage, and unless some ether
Bretical assassin goes one better by urging the
ortation of Chekket and his Ba ihi-
ouks to keep order, it may safely be de seribed
te worst specimen of it* kind. 11 Crito ”
trates his argument by describing a case of
that took place in an American town (not
ifled), and then says of the criminal :
he police had him first, and a magistrate remanded him
iree da's, and he was lodged in the gaol, but the ciii
would not allow him to escape through any ‘Jtliw' in
iw, or for icant vf rriilnice. A large v g,lance com-
e overpowered the jailers, and swung the wretch that
, in front of the house iu which he committed the
.. The fear of Judge Lynch is the reason why females
1 unprotected in the U.S of Amerifa.. If that just and
3 Judge resided in N ti Wales, the whole of the Mount
lie scoundrels, including the cabman, would not have
bled any other Judge or jury.”
t so. If that “ ju3t and active judge ” resided
v.S.W. everybody who was arrested, whether
ocent or guilty, would have gone up
ether without t ial or inquiry amid
acclamations of a brutal mob If
[ge Lynch lived in this country any hag who
l conceived a dislike to “Crito ” himself, or
puneat-minded baby who could invent a sul
■ntjly circumstantial tala, could put a rope
nd his neck and laugh at his last kicks. Under
boasted system which this sapient writer
lires so much it is often the criminal himself,
i who hauls on the rope that send - an inn cent
i up into eternity, for Lynch law must have
ictim and have him at once, and the cunning
dcrer who can divert suspicion on to another
i tew days or even hours can make himself
rably safe. Somebody is luingod, and that is
hat is wanted, and dead men are silent and
te no unpleasant, bother afterwards. The
,'*rt who making gratifying
viliMt ion have rcengni/ed lliefll
''' 1 1 ■ ..' 1 1 ■il>t■■ ■ - - 11 ■ > ii ill ed lor
Hk
to anybodyjust a little less bloodthirsty than “Crito”
and his tribe. When suspifcion is strong but the
evidehce hardly conclusive the prisoner is Hogged
and tied up by the hair and his anklos are broken
as an inducement to confession, while the wit-
nesses arc bambooed into insensibility ; but if the
suspect is innocent, and lie and his supporters all
hold out, an acquittal generally follows. This
process lias the great recommendation that it gives
a wrongfully accused man a fair chance for his
life, whereas the lauded American system gives
him no opportunity whatever to defend
himself. The despised Mongol is therefore vastly
ahead of the civilised man from the S ate 3 where
Lynch law predominates, inasmuch as a flogged
witness is ten times better than no witness at all.
Fortunately for the Australian people, however,
“ Crito’s ” blood •stained code is not in force in
this country—if it were, a corpse would be sus-
pended from almost every tree. Since the Mount
Rennie tale was published at least half-a dozen
similar stories of outrages perpetrated by bands
of ruflian3 have boon circulated in various dis-
tricts, but in every case either the prosecutrix
failed to appear or she broke down miserably in
her attempt to emulate the stirring of Miss
Mary Jane Hicks. No doubt this was a serious
blow to the police, but then it is not every day
that these individuals can hare a carnival which
cods in six cotiins being carried out on a summer
morning. Had Judge Lynch been at hand there
would probably have been a noble holocaust
before it was discovered that no injured woman
was in existence, but a love for form and cere-
mony has hitherto prevented the people of New
South Wales from absolutely dispensing with
trials, and the Mount Rennie legal farce was still
a little better than Lynch law—though, perhaps,
not much, just as a jury of sleeping men is better
than arnummy, andamuinmyis better than a skele-
ton. “ Crito” stands almost alone in dctnandirg
the abolition of this last slender safeguard against
iudicial mmder, and he is likely to continue
alone ; his fellow-colonists are not so anxious as
he imagines to prove their descent from the tiger
and the ape.
Washing Day in the Jennings Cabinet
“ Go forth, my son, and see with how little
truth New South Wales is governed 1” and the
son went forth, and haying read the Tiiomson-
Diiji33-Jennings correspondence, obtained a pretty
fair estimate. Thenceforth his immeasurable de-
testation of Ananias and Sappiiira, till then
deemed the worst of their class, underwent sub-
stantial modergti n, and he awaits future de-
velopments bofore deciding as to Ihe identity of
champion liar and arch-traitor of Jubilee year.
Like him we postpone decision as to the merits of
this political controversy pntil the Supreme Court
has been interviewed concerning the points in
debate, but some considerations as to the manner
of the controversy may well be taken at the pre-
sent time. Tne first of these is the contemptible
childishness which tlpe Ministerial disputants
have displayed. Their correspondence contains
nothing whatever Qf dignity, and with regard to
literary mer.t is even below an Evening News
account of an execution. The clumsy and
apparently passionate sentences of the Premier
can only tye equalled by the blundering
abuse of the Colonial Secretary, and the thought-
ful reader of these crude epistles will wonder no
longer why the deficit is adjacent to £3,000,000, —
the puzzle to him will be why it is not ten times
as great. When such petulant, puerile persons
as Sir Patrick Jennings and Mr. Dmus have
proved themselves by this correspondence to be,
are allowed to run the national finances, it is a
matter for glad surprise that chore is anything at
all—even a three million deficit—lefc remaiuiDg
to the colony. It is difficult to wii e of such
atrocious bungling in the Cabinet as these letters
reveal with anything approaching seriousness :
the alleged circumstances are so broadly farcical,
so hideously grotesque, as to appeal to the humor-
ist rather than to the politician, but in the account
of the proceeding} in dispute said to have been
written by Mr. Dibbs himself there is one sentence
which is iraught wiih much sign finance. We
<juote : “ Mr. Dibbs then with Mr. Thomson s
as flstance cut down the expenditure for the fol-
lowing year, and thereby ieduced the estimated
deficiency (Lom £1,250 000) to the amount as given
at 12.30 a.m., viz., £1,030,000.” Comment is
needless except for the puipo:e of showing that if
expend,ture can be properly cut down even “with
Mr. Thomson’s assistance ’ in this manner, there
is"no reason for a considerable amount of expen-
diture and consequent deficit.
♦
We owe the Primate an explanation. We
accused him last week of passing by the sick men
in Darlioghurst; we hear now that at the last
moment.' his Lordship turned and made a futile
appeal for their reprieve. His Lordship was in- i
formed that men so distinguished in the commu-
nity as Sir Henry Parkes, the Cardinal and Mr.
Dalley had resflved to appeal, and it po sibly
appeared to him a proper thing to associate him-
self with them. It was not a proper thing to
join heartbroken patents, poor, anguish-stricken
pastors, gnd men of no recognised position in
“ society," pleading passionately, fervently, logi-
cally for that commutation which a preperiy-
informed tribunal would certainly h ive granted,
but \vhen distinguished people appeared on the
scene everything was changed. His Lordship
made a deathbed repentance. We believe it is
the teaching of theology that the appeal even in
arliculo mortis is accepted at the throne of
divipe mercy, but it seems (to our blindness, per-
haps) that there i 3 a slight difference whon the
turn is made at the deathbed of another man. '
Lord the broken man of pleasure,
the exhausted London fashionab.e, salad day
companion of the most consummate master of
fribble and frivolity in the British Empire— its
prospective future ruler—has had his first serious
experience in the role of Governor of an Austra-
lian colony, and tins miserably failed. Misconduct
whin the deputitiun consistiiig of Sir Henry
Parkes, Mr. Dalley, Cardinal Moran, and
Bishop Barry approached him to ask for a com-
mutation of tho death sentences of the Mount
Rennie crimina’s, was most extraordinary. Not a
single member of the deputation based his appeal
on the abstract question of the justice or other-
wise of the death-penalty for rape. E.cbhada
separate appeal to make founded on the mitiga-
t ng circumstances of the cme, and these appeals
were made with whatever prestige of position and
force of intellect the distinguished tpeakers pos-
sessed. It must have been a delicious surprise
when they found themselves assured by the
Governor that their arguments v ere levelled at
tho death-penalty for rape, and not based upen
the particular circumstances of the Mounl Rennie
case. Indeed, his Excellency' went so far as to
assure the deputation that he was willing to re-
open the question if any special facts of a
mitigating nature were brought forth in
the case of any of the pi Lsoncrs—this
being in fact the object which the deputation had
in waiting upon his Excellency. In reality, Lord
Carington’s reply intimated that the influential
gentlemen who addressed him did not know what
they were talking about, and was, consequently,
an insult to their intelligence, or not a compliment
to his own. We are told that when the deputa-
tion of members of Parliament approached him he
promised to send them an answer, and hurriedly
withdrew. We assure him that, in view of his
conduct in the Mount Rennie case, a similar
hurried course of action with regard to the colony
would not be without its elements of gratification.
As far back as the good old days of King Edward
VI., the Land Question was well to the fore. The
mediaeval lords of the so 1, in iron gauntlets and
velvet jumpers, were required to give and do a
good deal more in return for their bread acres
than are their modern kid-gloved representatives,
Nevertheless it was thought necessary to manu-
facture —for Church and private consumption—a
“ Prayer for Landlords.” Somebody has supplied
the London Ecno with a cop/ of this very prac-
tical prayer. Here is an extract :
“ We heartily pray Thee to send Thy Holy Spirit into the
hearts of them that possess the grounds, pastures, and
dwelling-places of the earth, tiat they, remembering them-
selves to be Thy tenants, may not rack and stretch out the
rents of their houses and lands, nor yet take unreasonable
hneg and incomes after the manner of covetous worldlings,
but so let them out to others that the inhabitants thereof
may be able both to pay the rents, and also honestly to live,
to nourish their family and to relieve the poor,"
What a beautiful satire On our boasted advance in
civilisation ! 1 hree hundred and thirty years ago
the King and Protestant clergy cf England put in
their little prayers for tenant farmers who couldn’t
pay the rent. Nowadays the Queen’s troops are
sent to superintend evictions and the United
Kingdom doesn’t contain one person with the
pluck to lift uo his voice against the “squire”
who appoints him to his living. The Revd.
Aminadab Sleek alters the rosition of the apos-
trophe in saying that the earth is the Lords’. He
refers to Marlborough, Lqnsdale and Co , and
possibly the oily snufiieris light. Such mencoub
scarcely be accepted as tenaq’s of the Almighty.
♦
A gibbering wreck who signs himseli ;
“An Australian” propounds the following de-
structive conundrum in the correspondence column
of the Evening News :
“ Why ahould we not ssnd some troops there and take pos
session of half the New Hebrides? The French could not
object, and I have no doubt that they would clear out sooner
than risk a collision with our troops.”
We have often heard of a faith that can remove
mountains, but this is a newer and rarer variety.
Of course we might send some troops to the New
Hebrides if we had them And of course the
French might clear out to avoid a collision—they
might. Also, we would remark, an elephant
might run fifty miles in frantic terror because he
w r as being chased by an infuriated sardine, but
vve don’t think he would. He would be more
likely to throw his flattened enemy into the middle
of next week, which is exactly what the French
would do with our “troops.” Then they woulc
probably think about sacking Melbourne anc
Sydney and hanging “An Australian” on a gal-
lows 10 cubits high. That gentleman, by-the-bye,
has quite forgotten to mention what we want with
the New Hebrides, wh'ch are 1500 miles away—
further even than New Caledonia—and would not
be wortli a cent, to ub if we had them. A hope-
lessly-mortgaged selection in the middle of the
Sahara would be just as valuable to Australia as
these rocks in the Pacific, but a man whose skull
was meant by nature to serve as a hen-coop for a
bal!-dog cannot be expected to bother about such
trifling details.
«•
The old discussion as to whether the prie t or the
husband is most entitled to a wife's confidence has
again cropped ijip in Ergland. The trouble this
time arose from ihe fact that, in completing the
conversion of a Protestant lady, a Roman Catholic
priest found it necessary to obtain three private
interviews with the convert at his own house. On
hearing of these visits the husband became wrath-
ful and wrote to Cardinal Manning, who t ied to
justify the priest’s conduct. The whole question
is capable of an easy solution. Either the husband
a,nd wife, being joined together in mutual con-
fidence, can be sundered in such confidence by no
man, or else the marriage contract contains a
special reservation in favour of celibate priests.
If the latter view, as supported by Cardinal Man-
ning, be correct, Roman Catholic wives are not
likely to be much in demand when the reservation
is thoroughly understood, unless, indeed, the hus-
band be also permitted a reservation in favour of
'a feminine confessor of the faith. But if conjugal
confidence is thus impaired by a twofold extension,
there ically does not seem to be any reason what-
ever for introducing religious ceremonies into the
celebration of marriage at all. If the priest i 3 to
be superior in authority to the husband it is a
mere farce havirg a bridegroom at R.C. weddings ;
he might just as well stay away and the priest be
married to the woman in the first instance.
♦
The Jubilee Hallelujah Institute.
By the “ Old Sundowner.”
London, October 29th, 188 G.
Hear Bulletin, —The obese citizens who are
always trying to squeeze their corporations into
Carington’s d r awing-room would like to be hang-
ing round Pall Mall just now. They would see
sights that would agree with them better than an
entire celestial oratorio. Almost at any hour
Burdett Smith, if ho had been around, could, by
getting behind the sentry box at the top of St.
James's-street, lave caught a glimpse of the adi-
pose Prince and Cunliffe Owen in earnes". talk
about what the papers call “ The Proposed Im-j
perial Institute.” Premier Jennings has got his
own little way of celebrating your centennial, but
it is nothing to Cunly-Fowen's dodge for com-
memorating the Jubilee of Her Gracious. The
plan is simple, like all great scientific discoveries.
Ic consists primarily in getting a number of
grovelling Premiers of so-called self governing
colonies t o dip their hands into the public purse ana
hand ever the proceeds to H.R.H., or, in other
words, to Cunly-Fowon. The ostensible object of all
this dipping is to found an Imperial Institute, or as
the Pall Mall Gazette calls it, a “ Colonial Cie-
ruorne in London.” But once get the money on
this side of the Equator, and Beelzebub himself
could not say what will be done with it. Already
your Premiers and Co. are seeing who can get
their hands deepest into the public money-bag—
they will perhaps become Bqrts. by tho precis?.
Sir Filthy Lucre Clarke, L.S.D., has just s.*nt
Wales a thousand for this Jubilee Institute, and
-ome of the Canadian money-bags have doubled
that sum in their hope of a peerage. Cne way
and another Wales will have a considerable sum
m hand t> establish his Imperial Institute.
single man, woman, or child iu Australia?
Whether they put up a big Jerrybuilt edifice at
South Remington, or on the Thames Embank-
ment, and stiff it with maps, dead kangaroos,
regenerate sundowners, or colonial play-actors,
what goodwill such a show do to the people of
Parramatta or Warrnainbool? Will an lm-
perial Institute in London soften the manner
of the Sydney larrikin or enliven the dreary
homestead of the Gippsland bushwhacker ? No!
but if Wales and Cunly-Fowen—or Wales with-
out Cunly-Fowen—can lay his hands on enough
colonial gold he will be a le to do the Jubilee
trick by providing snug billets and nide warm
9® ces for Quite a number of needy pushers.
W hatever promises are made mod of i hese snug
billets will be given to impecunious English swells
but if Jennings, Gillies and Co. kick up a row a
few minor clerkships will go to a few' colonial
lickspittles. This is English, quite Engli h, don-
cherknow. Already Henniker Heaton h s got his
pockets full of applications from place hunters,
who have found out where Australia is on the
map and who prefer the shady side of Pall Mall
to canvassing for the Nooze. Suppose, for the
sake of argument, that one or two really repre-
sentative colonial young men are pitchforked into
£uoo a year billets in the Jubilee Institute, what
good w r ill this do to the denizens of Sydney
or Me'bourne ? In fact, the whole business
is a fraud and a mockery from the beginning,
lhe staff of the .Jubilee Institute will consist of
three or four aristocratic dead-beats who will
draw from £lOOO to £OOO per annum. A Colonial
C.M.G. and a Colonial Champion Brandy Guzzler
w ith £3OO a year each. A couple of ambitious
young gentlemen who have passed University
examinations in Melbourne or Sydney—and w ho,
being virtuous and unfriended will get £5O a year
with the chance of rising to £75 after 10
years’ service, and a boy in buttons whose name
will be Gregory. W hen this magnificent staff is
fully organized and the maps, kangaroos, bandi-
coots, and lumps of quartz are all shoved into
their proper places, there will bo a grand opening
when the basin-chested prince will grrgle through
a speech written by somebody else, and all the
Agents General, Sir Salmon Mil-on, and Henniker
will appear in clean shirts and new suits of splash.
After this the great Jubilee Institute will be
visited by two apple-women, a drunken grenadier
and a bilious theological student.
COREERSPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when th
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of ouch
MSS.
Merryweather ” (London) : The Bulletin fcas
no space for free advtß....“ J. M. Hill”: To what letttr do
you refer?...." R F.”: Many thanks,... “Citizen”: We have
referred your letter to the American C0n5u1...." E.K.”
V'our lengthy and very Irish historical essay world inter,-st
nobody who did not claim descent from an ancient Milesian
king. However, if yoy could write a ei>lu.-.;n as funny ali
through as this extr; ct, it would be printed For some
centuries after the reign of Henry 11. the Irish were killed
like game by persons qualified or unqualified. Whether
dogs were used does not appear quite certain, though it is
probable they wete, spaniels as well ns poii ti rs, and that
after a regular point bj Basto, well backed by Ponto and
Omsar, Mr. O’Donnell or Mr. O'Leary bolted from the
thicket and were bagged by the English sportsman.”
“C. T. Fiiend” : If you! have a wager as to Miss Minnie
Palmer's age, you had bttter write to Miss Palmir. fche
will give you an answer, wc promise ... 1 P. 8.” iMackay, Q):
When you are in Rum do as Hum does “ G. Sted-
man” (Balmain): Please go slow. Your friend, G. E. L.
Trevor, gots on the plea that a woman’s virtue is dearer to
her than her life, and that the man who takes either should
be hanged. But suppose the woman’s virtue is non-existent
how then ?...." R.P.” (Red fern): Thanks for decayed
tooih item. As for the omnibuses, however, we love them
We enjoy getting our humble breakfast shaken up as we
come along iu the morning. It makes us feel ready to threw
the poets downstairs ' A.D.K.”: Wry do you send as
original matter extracts from articles written by Mr. Ernest
Blackwell..... Poker : We, of course, admire the tas.e of>
the Castlemaine Leader, which prints our matter as
original. But we don't admire its honesty...." You are a
Liar ': We are glad to see you read The Bulletin. If you
are a liar and not too far gone it will do you good "A
Victorian Native Come along—and bring your cotiin with
you.. Alex. B. Wehave much pleasure in stating,
according toyour desire, that you do uot follow the honourable
and lucrative profession of barber. As to your "preference
for the occupation of corporation scavenger to that of
literary scavenger," ,wedo not venture to dispute your choice.
Let every man follow the occupation for which he deems
himself best suited " Young Australian ” : Glad to he ar
from y0u...." 80x694, G.P.0.”: Please call on editor, who
will respect your anonymity "R.R.”: It eloesn’t follow
that because a man has a strong spinal column he has a
strong brain "Freethinker ’’(Burwood): The priest aid
the woman again. See our at tide of to-day “Bill": We
can’t make out either your location or your gritvauce... i'
"Shepparton”: Your idea about surgery is not particularly
original. Suggest your scheme to King John of Abyssinia,
who cuts off the feet of habitual thieves, and thinks the plan
a good one. By the way, in the case of a confirmed perjurer
would you blast his jaw off with dynamite on a similar prin-
ciple? — “Layman”: To Dr. Barry’s contention that a
priest or pat son is " invested with a-Divine spirit on h : s re-
ceiving the Divine commission, ’ we have nothing to reply.
The truth of the assertion may be left for decision to those
whom it concerns. Our business is with clergymen us citi-
zens, and we cannot interfere in a question of theology. Jf a
parson lends h s influence to work public wrong, we occa-
g'ona'ly make a few remarks on the subject, but the quest ion
of a man’s status in his church is of interest to churchmt n
alone. But we do wish that the Primate would avoid using the
word “ commission." It has an irrcsis ible tendency to divert
men’s thoughts "to the collection-plate and stipend fund
“ N S.W.” (Orange): The law must be altered. A barbarous
enactment standing at the service of persons who are unfit
in any caee to be the- urbiters of life or death must ever be
fraught with as much danger to innocent persons who may be
accused as to the really guilty “No Sympathiser,” &c.:
The Bulletin stood alone in the matter among the press.
Hut it is proud of the fact- the more 'so that it now finds
itself supported by foremost minds at the opposite poles of
politics and of religion,—and that it also cow finds iu main
contentions entirely admitted by the S. M. Herald, a pow -
erful and unpatriotic newspai»er which, though conscious all
along of the disgraceful character of the trial, was too cow-
ardly to protest until too late—until after Mr. Dailey and Sir
Henry Parkes had spoken. Unco upon a time, in old Greece,
all those who had couie to hear a philosopher’s discourse left
the hall, stive one. But the speaker proceeded, for it was
Plato who had remained. Tit k Bulletin is content under
some circumstances to have a small audience. It may often
be on the losing side, but it tries to be in the right...." Fran k
Cox” (Tas): Never ugaiu...." Patrick " (Tambo, Q.)
V\ ill read and consider (Many replies held ove-.)


The Keferee
It would appear that the Y ictorian cricketers
took their recent licking very badly, as but three
of them put in an appearance at the fruit and cake
feed given to the Hanglanders by the Melbourne
Association.
* * *
In the last match between the Australian
Eleven and the Englishmen hard knocks were
more plentiful than runs. Barnes’ bowling was
simply unplayable in the state of the ground, and
never since the ground has been opened have
batsmen had to contend against such a wretched
wicket, which Barnes rendered positively dan-
gerous to bat upon.
* * *
A Harmy “captain/’ serving the Loard
away at Oldham, Lancashire, declared that Fred.
Archer had ridden to the Devil. “ Then I want
to back his mount,” said a sinner on one of the
back benches.
* * *
Turner has been presented with a silver
bat in recognition of his performance in Mel-
bourne in taking three wickets with three consecu-
tive balls. Turner is now called by those who
love him “ the Cardinal.”
* * *
The treatment Evans received at the hands
of Garrett in the late International Match was on
a par with that meted out to him during the whole
of the tour. How any Captain could prefer the
bowling of Jones and Trumble to that of the
“ Fakir,” as Garrett did,in the first innings of the
Englishmen, is a mystery to all outsiders.
* * *
A good attendance witnessed Foley’s
weekly show last Saturday night. The best bout
was between Slaven, the Bananalander, and Jack
Molloy. Few men can engage in a friendly set-to
without making a farce of the game. Molloy and
Slaven are amongst the few, and their scientific
show was first-class. Murphy and Jack Fuller s
four rounds were more bloodthirsty : Murphy had
the best of it all through. Fogarty had the better
of It. McKenna in their four rounds, and several
of th 6 usual character filled up the evening.
* * *
Sherwin ie certainly a demon behind the
sticks. His work in the International was as good
as anything ever seen on the ground Briggs was
getting very glum over his want of success this
trip, b"t his really good performance in the Inter-
national has put him Straight again.
* * *
It is fortunate that a hitch has arisen in
the proposed boxing-match between Peter Jackson
and Jem Stuart. If appearances go for anything,
Stewart is in the sere and yellow, and would
prove but a chopping-block for the lusty Jackson,
in the pink of his youth and strength. In Slaven,
the burly Queenslander, however, Jackson will
have something on a par with himself in years
and size.
* * *
The English cyclists will be amused should
they read the papers which credit Wood with
having covered the last quarter of the five miles’
race at Sydney Highland Gathering in 33 4-ssec.,
beating all records, both cinder and grass. Wood
himself laughs at his alleged performance.
•* * *
The next Carington Athletic Handicap
will be run at night in grounds illuminated with
the electric light.
* * *
Having won the 150 yards Carington
Handicap, with 22 yards’ start, Merchant re-
solved to fly at higher game, and at Parramatta
on Saturday ran Hutchens an even 50 yards. The
Englishman had Merchant in trouble at 30 yards,
and, slackening up, breasted the tape 2ft. in
advance of his friend.
* * *
Since Hutchins has been out'here, people
have wondered why Malone, the champion of
Australia, has made no sign. Ho has now
emerged from his shell with a vengeance. On
Saturday Mr. John Cannon, Malone’s principal,
put up £lOO towards backing him to run any man
in Australia, bar Hutchens, for £2OO aside, con-
ceding half-a-yard start in every 50. Mr. Cannon
is also prepared to back Malone to run Hutchens
140 yards for £lOOO, and if they cannot agree
about the ground he will run on a turnpike road.
There’s no “ gate-money” sound about this.
* * *
Four or five at least of the Australian
Eleven should take a back seat in the Combined
Team. The Eleven have now played their last
match, and it is to be hoped for the sake of Aus-
tralian cricket that such another quarrelsome
combination will never again be sent “ home.”
* * *
C. Clifford, an 18-year-old branch of tho
rowing family of that ilk, pulled four winning
races at Dapto regatta.
* * *
An argosy of some 80 bookmakers is said
to have teft England in.search of the golden fleece
on these Southern shores !
* * *
The race for the pedestrian championship
between black Samuels from the Bar coo and
Hutchens from England will be decided next
Monday 17th inst., on the Carington Ground,
Sydney. The stake is £200; Mr. Markham find-
ing the needful for Hutchens, while two Sydney
bookmakers support Samuels. So far as can be
learnt, there is little doubt that the match is
* ' .
“To him that hath be given.” An
instance of this occurred in connection with the
bogus sweeps. We will not specify the consulta-
tion but we vouch for the accuracy of what a
squatter told us lately. frHe is one of five brothers,
and being either beguiled or put up to buying five
tickets, wrote to the promoters saying that it
Ivould afford some encouragement to bushmen if
t were known that a prize or two came to the
listrict. His syndicate wa3 rewarded with a £2O
nize, and every man-jack (what is a man-jack .)
>n the station and on,some of his neighbours took
ickets. It is superfluous to add that no more
livvies came to that district —nor, for that part,
:o any other dist ict. Still the squatter refuses
uo certify to the squareness of the Timbuctoo
Jockey Turf Racing Club Co. A curious coinci-
dence, however, occurred. The bank-managei
from Mr. Squatter’s nearest township had shortly
before been transferred to the head office of the
bank advertised as treasurer of the sweep (no
pun) mentioned.
* * *
Another addition to the long list of those
who have perished to make sport for the people !
Jame 3 Skehan, cetat 15, whose ridiDg-weight was
sst. 121 b , died in Sydney Hospital on Thursday
from having his head and chest crushed while
riding Bexley in Tattersall’s two-year-old Selling
Race. _ ,
* *
Ben Bolt returned to Victoria on Thurs-
day. If the Caulfield Cup winner does not do
better than he has of late, it looks as if he will
hardly pay the £5 a week he is leased for, let
alone his training expenses.
I Barlow’s ribs testify that
mnubial bliss has taken noth-
ig out of the tire of the De-
ton’s bowling.
* *
After all a yearling sale is
lottery. Moorhouse cost 55
uineas and Huntingtower 1000
uineas at auction. Yet the
heap colt easily put down the
housand pounder in the Caring-
on Plate.
* *
Mr. Andrew Town’s
iual sale of thoroughbreds takes
dace on 20th icst. at Hobart-
dlle, R'chmond, when Mr. T.
3. Clibborn will be the “ George
Robins.” 112 lots will be offered,
ncluding the progeny of such
liresas Maribyrnong, Vespasian,
Bomnus, Grandmaster, Chester,
Epigram. Darebin, Grand
Flaneur, and other heroes of the
post and paddock.
* *
A good story is going the
rounds touching an incident
which occurred during the Aus-
tralian-Yorkshire match at
Sheffield. The colonials were
evidently set at the wickets for
the day, and the disgusted Shef-
fielders sent forth a terrific rear
to “ Poot onWiiad!’ Hon. H.
B. Hawke, the Yorkshire skip-
per, in compliance with the yells,
did put on Wade, the result be-
ing that Scott skied his first ball
tor six, his second for six, and
his third for four. Just then ttie
field, thinking it was “over,”
began to change positions, but
were sent back to wait for an-
other ball from the Sheffield
crack. Wade accordingly sent
one along which Scott unmerci-
fully pasted for another six,
I taking 22 off the four ball?. That squelched
is popularity at once, and a tremendous roar from
is “townies” told the captain to “ Taiik off
k r aad ! Dom it, mon, taiik off Waiid !" Such is
le value of the crowd s applause all the world
ver.
* * *
Old Commotion, as he is called, though his
ge is but eight years, the successor to The Barb
s a public equine idol, was so badly injured in
he Bagot Handicap that he had t o be literally
arried into the saddling paddock. The odds are
hat he will never again sport silk.
* * *
In the final heat of Malone’s Gladstone
landicap there remained in Carmondy, Acker-
nan, G. and S. Smith. Carmondy, notwithstand-
ing that he ran under protest, was made the
lottest of favourites, 5 to 2 and even 4 to 1 being
died on him, and so confident were the small
ection of pigeons present, that they eagerly acc-
epted 2to 1 about placing the four. Carmondy
ippeared on the track with a jaunty smile, and
vas as bounding as an indiarubber ball, but, after
jetting himself put back two yards for leaving his
nark, was he easily beaten by Ackerman, about
vhom 8 to 1 was going a begging.
* *
Professor D’Arcy Hyland gave an exhibi-
tion of bullock-riding at Parramatta on £atur-
lay. Two wild untamed animals, with marks on
heir necks suggestive of the yoke, were lassoed
rom the adioining pampas and driven into a
imall enclosure. One of them, the tamer, quietly
valked out, causing a stampede in the crowd,
ind the professor had to be content to saddle up
die other after roping him as if he was going to
ae milked. The heroine steed was roused]to buck
i bit when, just as we were beginning to like
him, he escaped from the enclosure. The Hyland
threw himself out of the saddle and made for the
nearest fence. So did we.
* * *
Mr. Charles Samuel, or Samuels (he ap-
peared undecided as to whether his name was
spelt with a final “ s") informs us that his younger
brother Combo, an aboriginal gentleman who
new acts as a boundary-rider at Jimbour (Q.)
station, has given him two yards in 100, and
“ run rings otf him.” Apart from the Samuel’s
station style of expression, there can be little
doubt that Combo, though “nerangi” and hard
to train, is a very slippery customer indeed.
* * *
Since poor Fred Archer shot himself
somebody has discovered that his fate was pre-
dicted by a gipsy woman in 1879. He crossed her
hand with silver, and then the old hag, gazing in-
tently at his palm, &c., &c., said, “A sudden
death, young gentleman, and by your own hand.”
Knowing something of Archer, wo decline to
believe that he ever squandered sixpence on a
spurious gipsy, or, if an obliging friend stood the
necessary coin, we don’t believe Sibyl talked like
that. Most likely she said, “God bless your honor
but merry is your eye and bright your smile, many
a maiden’s heart will you set achiDg and many a
cherry lip will your lip press, long will be your
life and fair your fortunes ; riches and honours
are in store, and if your honor can spare another
little sixpence for old Gipsy Jane may your honor
never miss it, God bless you”—all in ene long
beery breath.
The Mount Bennie Execution.
We have been favoured with the following
extract from a remarkably unconventional
private letter received by a Wagga man from
a Sydney official: —
“ With, say, a couple of hundred others, I wit-
nessed the hideous scene of last Friday—the
hanging of four youths for a so-ca’lcd rape on a
morally off-coloured girl, who in any other coun-
try would have been held to have been guilty of
such contributory negligence as to debar her from
the protection which law awards even to the
vicious woman who happens to be acting vir-
tuously at the time of assault. How so filthy a
slaughter could have been deliberately sanctioned
I know not ; I can only account for it by ihe fact
that the populace had been worked up to a red
heat by the industrious circulation in the Press
and otherwise of a number of baseless sen sational
tales concerning unmentionable cruelties which,
in addition to the capital offence itself, were said
to have been committed on the prosecutrix. I
have the very highest official authority for stat-
ing that these stories, which may perhaps have
reached you, mere inventions. I don’t pro-
pose to lapse into poetry and tell you how
the wind ‘ rustled the leaves ’ and how
the ‘ sun shone out in the gaol garden for all
that sort of thing vide evening papers. I went
THINGS WE SEE
WHEN WE COME OUT
WITHOUT A GUN.
NO!
solely to see for myself the kind of victims upon
whom so terrible a vengeance was to he wreaked.
As you know, I’ve seen a number of executions in
various parts of the world, though in almost every
case the ch’ef role has been enacted by those
of an alien race. I believe I’ve had a good deal of
what sentiment I started with knocked out of my
nature, but I tell you, my friend, when I saw
those four miserable boys walk firmly on to the
scaffold with their respective spiritual advisers.
I’d willingly have given a limb or a few years of
my life to have them reprieved. They marched
on just as though they had been drilled and they
looked such children—upon my soul, old man, two
of them were not a bit older in appearance than
those little boys in buttons at the club. 1 here
they stood, pinioned, calmly waiting, without a
flinch of any kind, for the drop to fall—such was
the power of religion over them in their last mo-
ments. The hangman was a horror—nose-
less, dressed in black, six feet high,
with huge hands and feet, he looked
like an exaggerated gorilla in broadcloth. A
young medico who stood beside me exclaimed,
4 Great God ! Why, they don’t look more than 14
or 15 years of age ! Carington surely never could
have known this ! ’ As I have said, there were
about 200 present, and as the time of execution
drew near strong men (whom I personally have
known to commit crimes ten times more morally
heinous than the one expiated on Friday) strained
their eyes and looked quietly excited and expect-
ant for what was about to happen. It was a
brutal show—and it was evidently regarded as a
mere show by most of those present, who had
gone there just as they would have gone to see a
dog-fight or a prize-light; the animal was com
pletely predominant in that well-dressed mob-
None of the Government House swells turned up
on this occasion, Carington having issued a ukase
against any more of the Tomnoddian business on
the part of his elaborate flunkeys, whose pre-
sence on a former occasion of the kind had in-
vested the gallows with an aroma of fashion,
and thus caused a demand for tickets of
admission in the present instance. The
hangman’s assistant, who pulled the bolt,
was a conspicuous figure on the scaffold. He is a
man who has just resigned from the police, and
while attached to that body he occupied the posi
tion of dog-catcher. What a lltting descent!
Ugh ! the ensemble was so fearfully complete that
I have not yet ceased to regret belonging to a
nation who could legalise such horrible boy-
butchery. For information re ‘ dull thud ’ and so
on, see every paper. But I may tell you that not
one account that I have yet read has been charac-
terised by any degree of accuracy; there was
suffering, no doubt, yet strangulation, as you at
least theoretically know, is not a very painful
death, especially when preceded by a nerve-jerk
which deadens the senses. The accounts in the
papers were mere ‘ catchpenny horribles. In the
case of Read, who to my mind was un-
doubtedly innocent of actual participation in the
crime, the lungs had not ceased working seven
minutes after his fall. This was, of course, a con-
clusive proof that he still lived, but with the others
the action was more of a reflex nature. Duffy
died instantaneously, Boyce lived a considerable
time—three or lour minutes perhaps The hang-
man’s laches have been considerably exaggerated,
but with light bodies a drop of Bft. 6in. would
have been quite sufficient had the rope not been
so murderously thick. The knot was larger than
the bottom of a big champagne • bottle.
The demeanour of the hangman’s assistant was,
- liglg |ll \ •- ;
'm
-yp ! *"«.,/*'V* { -* v* \
•• ? y„ r , *> > '
"*W ■> t v.
:S =pi l ■ ■v:t \y';■;*■-■ v: ' : -l : ''rvMS^i
s 3g
W *
T ! \ ' s ”' -
iH
ißj
uB
w
W
wj
n
hail Ch-li (ii!l:.‘ was
*|
m
e\ i<lent 1 \ had no! ;he lumim
il by invent. ing anything » ;_jj.
on the instant, did not s
Iterjection, which, I take it, t
in deputation went away, 1
cased with Carington - -dmllovK^j
I y ; our leading men now know ?\ <3 x£-;
ng been more t hair suspect r(
is a weak head. Two ol her
•ofouiul disgust : I he net ion
id the inaction of Bi-hop liar BK||H
hicli till along contended in a
ay t hat the boys should be ,u HHf|||§
Hinged its tune on 1 he
id roundly asserted that
id a fair trial. As
ipear until the final dccd®H •...•.a
ie II h kali), which had
s hands all along has earned unH|gß|
i re l)r. Barry. Ho was
go to sign a petition for
le was asked again, and once nyH||ra|
hat was when hardly a soul of
leni itied with the reprieve moven HH|
lvited to meet those
)alley, on the subject, my lord
hell instantly. What a trimmer-MHj
able time-server he has made
Ho wonder he didn't got an
condor, is it, that neither the < -
could put him into a See ! If his
mi with the hare and hunt
ndeed do eireumstances
.ppcaranees must he sadly
hat when the swell
’arington one of its
ie not keep a stiff
if opinion being that the GoveriuiHHH
—' Haw ! you think you can
(Veil, you can’t. I'll let youjflHH
lave none of t hat firmness
he li( (1-rock of solid !n ,
n the Eiigli.-h art of keepiiMOs|'J&
Even i! I haven't your brains,MjsJHSg|
ihle of arguing with I°"'
messieurs, that I can be as
And he did let 'em see it with
sequence: Big breach bet ween
Another thing. A crowd of
nonentities nearly all of them — V
I’nion Club and Exchange with a HH
that they would
hands if he decided to
action was in any case
I never before in my life heard of
the Queen to hang a
L'nion Club and Exchange have H
their own. At the end of their
had a clause threatening that if
hang t hey would start Lynch
are to have Lynch law, all right,
but let Judge Lynch ring his own
own hanging. This affair was
through— from the time that the iHj
victed by an exhausted jury whoß
and day for .‘5B hours (with only jfouH
to the hour at which a number off
same set who blackballed Aspi'nn®|
came to Sydney to defend O’Earrd®!
Governor to ask that the
Everybody who has thought about®
astonished at Caringt oil’s failure tB
shocking-callousness of
the more especially as that Judge H
court and stuck his feet under Goveiß
mahogany on the night before the 88 hfl
Summing up the matter, the Governß
found a dozen most excellent rcasonfl
— the merciful recommendation of thß
sized in a memorial subsequently senß
eight of their number) ; the extrenß
ignorance of the boys ; the shocking*
their trial—a trial of a kind to which*
Court [has never subjected any J®
fact, that no Me had been taken
prosecutrix and the Crown wBB
tainted persons ; the unparalleTH
of the colonial rape law ; I
division of opinion in the Executifl
fact that the leading Ministers weß
drawn and unlit to calmly and dB
discuss any subject whatsoever— thß
of the grounds which should have oi
decision to hang. But the hideous
been done, and Carington has app
not only a miserably weak man but
of perception, and utterly unfit to
dian of British justice. He has c
error which he will regret to his dyii
♦
Mr. Samuel Hordern leaves
England early in February to carry
he is empowered the great work in \\
inaugurated by his brother, the late
Hordern. The trip to England and t
nected with it will detain Mr. Hord
eight months.
The past month has been du
departments of trade, but the nobl
youngster appears to have gone for
Messrs. Dillon. Burrows and Co.’s c
works have been running Diglit and
managing partner, Mr. M’Phillamy
prospect of a rest.
As the stiff-necked Colonial
Dihbs could not in any other wav
Pramier Jennings has resigned, tak
Ministry with him. The Jenning
bination may be said to have died u
gallows. They have left to the b
of N.S.W. nought but a £8,000,0
choice collection of vile epithets, t
large, brand-new gallows, an army
brothers and cousins end
billets, a lot of „•
prospective, leading from jußbffiggi
to a public-house at
bosh in H uiid^®^y£-r’4^;
is about all.


[?] HOWS
ir” .. .. p. 16
.. .. n
iplift the hog,
nule, and it is
omething fresh
hows that have
hat great beer-
stmas of 1886.
H the show busi- |
tony, and the
to the theatres
sr distance than
than is usual
inces. Parsons
hat only 2t; per
to church, had
ry dramas now
roblem at once.
7 spend most of
id waiting with
> call them to a
or hangings, or
ire not engaged
s at the theatre.
rLLETiN pretty
*
rejoices in a
“ Queen’s Evi-
ta vivid colours
ise-jawed young
railway-tickets,
nose is a great
se pants are like
is absence this
ottering baronet
fant. There is
a, and while the
f-crownthisman
le moral law out
s choke on the
vusive person is
red man enters
slows two slates
e he is blowing,
erwards we find
ice of creation
•e the jug nosed
'oof off and the
t shapeless mass
8 about with a
uiguage he uses
ff is something
sed by a blind
anragertfr©-
ike that is stick-
it it until some-
foman falls into
had been carry-
>ut at this crisis
plitsup thebot-
id lets the water
*
te into a sort
a enters with a
on to the spike
,o snatch it, and
lie. The young
irooes across the
» at it- bat misses,
it nose chuckles
getables in the
in change. the
ying leap out of
,ter puts it in the
lenjamite follows
takes it out just
3 dances a horn-
te with a poker,
.ns an elopement,
scattered harem
dq -te as much
and the horrified
y-looking jug on
s tears the shaky
mtleman spreads
ad dies in peace
•e. and when we
lying about. It
nents before had
Lcked so gaily against me jug We afterwards
Pertained that he had laid a trap for somebody,
n d been flain by mistake.
*
ir Sheridan is unfortunately absent from
Gaiety. He suffers greatly at times from a
re wound received many years ago in the
-rican Civil War and is again disabled. Mr.
lor plays the burly Hebrew, and plays it
er loudly, hut still with marked success. Mr.
fes represents the villain who becomes a dead
l \n the last act, and Mr. Nunn does the loose-
-4« ,“. ii> difficulties, and neither leave
'h room for complaint. The shakf baroneti»
disgustingly weak and wretched to be worth
ce g but Mr. Balfe makes the best of an insig-
Tflcant magistrate with flying hair Miss
)avenport is exceedingly good, except when she
rows tragic, and then she is exceedingly tragic,
he brings down the house, however, when she
minds the Hebrew’s dirty paws with a hot fiat-
non and as the audience are liberal with their
ipplause every night, and obligingly whoop them-
elves hoarse, we imagine the company are gomg
£ be public favourites for some little time to
## # *
Either “ Falka,” or the red-plush curtain,
is responsible for the nightly rush at
wanted to. We
problems of this opera, but we are coming on
fairly. Falka, we are now convinced, married
Arthur in the hope of reforming him, and —though
this is not in the play—she afterwards sub-let the
contract to a lunatic asylum Boleslas, that
raging [terror of the forest, we fancy must have
come to grief in after life. He is just the sort of
wretch who would have choked an orphan idiot in
one of his acts of highway robbery, and then died
penitent singing a pretty little hymn in the midst
of hig final choke. Tancred’s table manners are
still of a bear-like character, but in a dream we
saw him taking lessons in deportment so as to
avoid spilling the slops over the old commander at
dinner any longer, and as for Falka—pourtrayed
by Miss Emilie Melville —well, there is hardly any
room for improvement in her case. She is as
pretty and cheerful as a white kitten with a black
tail and a blue ribbon round its neck, and if any-
one wishes to deny this statement we would like
to see the animal and saw him in two with a
boomerang.
•AA. AA. A/* -AL
■’/V' TV *7V' ‘TV*
Minnie Palmer continues to “ grow upon ”
the Sydney public, and half the nine-to-five dudes
of the Civil Service are already in love with the
quaint little Yankee maid. Her smile alone is
worth paying anything to see, and her eyes are as
bright as two half-sovereigns in a Baptist collec-
tion-plate. We are glad to note that her husband
does not make himself too conspicuous ; if he did
he would certainly be killed by some envious
baldhead in the stalls. Minnie’s rival, Louisa
Fleeter, however, does not grow on us to any
alarming extent. She looks as haughty as a bank
clerk and she expresses her haughtiness by fixing
up her mouth in an exasperating manner. We
knew a lady once who wore (• xactly the same ex-
pression, and she died because some one mistook
her for a pillar-box and posted a letter down her
throat. Mr. Roberts, as Tony, how-
ever, is becoming an overwhelm-
ing favourite; and Mr. Hawkins,
who rigs himself up as a streak of
drunken wreckage and wriggles like
an old nigger in a prayer meeting,
seems to get more amusing every
night. There is no falling off in
the audiences, either, and “My
Sweetheart” can fetch as good a
crowd as a hanging any day.
#* # *
The principal feature of, the
Royal pantomine this week is the
state of the elephant which now
looks as if it were caked with dirt
and w r ere badly in want of a sham-
poo. Of late there has been a fear-
ful and wonderful yawning among
the audience at this show, and, on a
rough calculation the average ex-
panse of open mouth is equal to lg
acres. This exhibits generally about 2729 teeth,
of which 703 are stopped with gold. There is also
a vacant expression upon the faces of the crowd,
which increases as the evening goes on, until it is
equal to three lunatic asylums, and a blank-look-
ing N.S.W. Governor— barring only the gallows
expression which shines in that functionary s
weather-eye. Pantomime, we believe, was first
invented by Judas Hiscarrots, and when lie had
finished inventing it he went and hanged himsel .
#* * *
“Dick Whittington and his Cat” at
Sydney Roval Standard is having better luck than
usually fall's to such exhibitions, and the nightly
rush looks like the charge of a gang of mis-
sionaries chasing Mr. Dampier to save Ins im-
mortal soul. The cat is an especial favourite, and
it certainly looks an alFectionate. fluffy animal
and a good mouscr. We beg to drink pussy s
health, and i>ass on.
* * *' #
The clerk of the weather has been strain-
ing after effect a good deal of late, and among the
hot plaoes last Saturday night, the Sydney Academy
of Music was conspicuous. It was as warm as a mad
dog stuffed with cayenne, and when Sam Keenan
opened his arcade and sang the “ Gospel I ree it
did not get any cooler Mr. Bent’s comic song,
“The ship went down,” too, seemed inappropriate.
It sounded too much like trying to get humour
out of a corpse reposing among the shams
and whales. Alf. Moynham expressed in verse
his desire to have fishy eyes and a bullet-
proof tail with a spike at the end of it,
and to be covered with scales and cat bathing
niggers-in short, he would “Like to be an Alli-
gator.” The best part of the entertainment, how-
ever, was the “Trip to the Moon, where, among
Other chegfcul devil with a trident
space.
demoniac chucker-out is no end of
indeed, an old blood-thirsty party who had evi-
dently been gathering an onion to his inner man,
yelled out, “Hang Koar,” and wanted the whole
job done over again, but his perverted taste for
pitchforks and brimstone was not gratified.
## * #
D’Arcy Read’s ghost is running under
new management at Sydney Princess, and looks
as cheerful as if it had never lain in a damp grave
with the dew-drops trickling down its spine.
Professor Liston ventriloquises a little to help out
the entertainment.
=* # # #
“ The Vagabond ” is announced to speak
a piece “ for the first and only time in Melbourne ”
on Friday, his location being the Athenaeum Hall,
and his subject “ Cannibals and Convicts.” The
English press, by-the-bye, seems to be absolutely
bursting with admiration at “ The Vagabond’s ”
published adventures.
■7V" ‘7V* '7V' “TV
Melbourne Opera House is doing good biz.
with “ Little Jack Sheppard.” This is the best
thing of its kind that Messrs. Brough and Bouci-
cault have imported, and brings out the strength
of their burlesque company. There is something
to lay hold of in “ Little Jack Sheppard ” besides
legs. Sometimes it is an extravaganza, some-
times a comic opera, and the whole is divided into
three acts. Mi3S Fanny Robina, who is a nugget
of the first water, contrives to throw a glamour
around crime by her impersonation of the giddy
little cracksman. Mr. Royce revels in the bur-
glaries of Blueskin, and worthily fills the chair at
a rather frisky “free-and-easy while Mr, Robert
Brough upsets all preconceived notion of Jonathan
A MIDNIGHT MISTAKE
SMITH (who ’sees the public-house lamp, but not the police-station, legend) : "I SHAy,
OLE F’LER, LESH GO IN AND ’AVE DRINK!”
I Wild. A lot of minor talent obtrudes itself. Miss
Florence Ha’-court, another dainty importation,
makes old eyes glisten and young mouths waDr
at Thames Darrell. Miss Emma Temple is 'he
neatest and nicest Winifred Wood that ever laid
waste a masher’s heart; and Mr. W arde s dam mg
is something that custom cannot until age
withers it. Now and again, however, the show
drags somewhat. The last act opens with a long
scene and a long song between Jack and Jonathan,
neither of which is as funny as the rest of the
entertainment. A fair amount of beauty embel-
lishes the chorus. It includes 60 voices and 1-0
legs. „ „ - -
If
Fryer’s Circus has been touring with
tolerable success in South-Eastern Asia. The
company performed before the Iving of Siam at
Bangkok, and that haughty potentate presented
them with a baby elephant as a sign of his royal
approval. * * * *
The following passage of arms occurred
between the ma ager of a certain large theatre
and a member of his company. Manager : Lute
again to rehearsal!” Actress: “Yes, I ''as
having my hair curled ! ” Manager :“" em V ou
had no need to be present! ”
if* ‘K*
Some 1G or 17 years ago all giddy London
flocked to the Alhambra to see Mdlle. Sara dunce
a tropical “ can-can." Such was the agility dis-
played by the Colonna t roupe, of which wiry Sara
was premiere danseuse, that the Alhambra lost
its dancing license, and the too enterprising
manager came to grief. We are reminded l of all
this by reading that the once fair famous
high-kicker was recently ’ fined live for being
drunk and disorderly in a London thoroughfare.
THE CHRTSW^MBMi
ber of “ The Bulle-
tin,” December, 1885,
6J TONS OF PAPER
WERE USED.
INTHIC rUBLICATO^
of the Christmas
Number of “ Th'e
Bulletin,” Decem*
ber 25th, 1886.
The Triumvirate enjoy a pantomime mono-
poly in Melbourne, and the local hungerers a' d
thirsters after this sort of stuff are bound to take
it at the Royal, or keep empty away. Having
this particular game in their own hands, the firm
seem to play it in slovenly fashion. ‘ Robinson
Crusoe,” the present “ Grand Annual, is an
insult to the memory of Defoe. If the dead
Daniel had foieseen that his romance would give
birth to such a dreary monstrosity he would have
stayed his hand and spared posterity. There are
some clever bits of landscape painting, an effective
storm at sea, and a dreamy, high-class ballet in
“ Robinson,” but for fun, bustle, and “ go, our
aunt’s funeral beat it in a canter. Perhaps the
responsibility of much of this thusness may te
laid upon the leading lady’s fair young shoulders.
Miss Alice Johns, who represents the castaway
hero, is but a slim, angular peg in a big round
hole. Possessed of a well-trained fragile soprano
Miss J. would be a decided acquisition to a church
choir, or a small glee party, but her talents don t
spread out in the direction of pantomime. W hen
she ought to be most en evidence , this very un-
assuming lady has an unfortunate trick of sub-
siding into nothingness. In this respect Miss
Alice Johns is unique among burlesque actresses,
and her peculiarity is fatal. The brothers Coghill
do some snmrt nigger song and dance business as
Man Friday and his “ Paps,” but their range of
humour is limited. Mr. Elton masquerades with
success in “drag," and a Mr. Charles Mat thews
cleverly asserts the dignity of man in the char-
acter of a performing donkey. Nobody else does
anything but what is depressing, and most of
them appear to feel their position keenly. Miss
Docy Stewart, who can sing a good song, has to
stand aside and let her sweetness run to seed. W e
will conclude our raptures by stating that the
transformation scene is both beautiful and holy.
The first part shows us the outside of the Galilean
Lake bearing on its blue bosom that .historic
“Little Ship” mentioned in Dr. Watts’ hymn.
Next we see the interior of the Lake, with gold
fish and schrapper darting hither and thither, and
finally we get to the bottom of the Lake and ex-
press our satisfaction in the usual way. Then the
clown appears and the audience slowly trickles
away to cab, ’bus, or railway station, wondering
who invented pantomimes and what he oughi to
get on Judgment Day,
The story is going the rounds of a baldhead
who was so delighted with the gifts of a little girl
in a play that he sent her a fine large doll to
“ amuse her” off the stage. The reply he re-
ceived ran as follows : —“ We have just received
your note and package containing the doll ; thanks
very much. I showed it to my husband, and he
thinks he will be very much amused with it. I
think it will be a great amusement for me.”
## * #
The latest definition of a ballet-dancer is
an open muslin umbrella with two pink handles.
♦
Fibbs, alias Dibbs.
Sir Robert Stout says that the Scotch are
the freest people on the earth. So they are
the landlord’s earth.
The Right Hon. George Joachim
who has ratted from the Knglish
taken up with Sali-bury's disorgalli-
■ imp.'. * * " 11 1 ■ 1 ■ 1 i 1 ■
u; - per ' lies ap| ear
Prince WaMemtir pr-t^®
iiig. They are the si-a ve ! igc 'fb-'pi : V;b
grand-children of a Dorman t
lector. • ’• -
Daring the half-year ending
New Year’s Eve, there were 707 failures inNl®
South Wales, with liabilities amounting close on
Trade Association Secretary :
“ Break, break, break,
At the foot of thy crags, O Sea;
Broke, broke, broke.
That's 'vhat’s the matter with me "
Some of the downiest of the Newcastle
birds who came down to Sydney to break the ring
at Tattersall’s meeting got plucked bare before
they even reached the course. They put up al an
accommodation house, and next morning dis-
covered they had been “gone through ” and that
their united capital amounted to eighteenpence.
After the Mount Rennie affair a number
of tuft-hunters called at Government
Sydney, and wrote their names in the
book, adding “ with sympathy.” They didn’t*
what the sympathy was for, but it is genera®
understood to have been for pri ®
the verdict of a sleeping jury, or for the soft nß|
of Lord (’arington’s head. Only two callcd®g
write “ With Disgust.
A rumour published by one of the
ful Sydney evening papers made it appear ®v
one of the reprieved Mount Rennie offenders®*
a relative of a well-known Sydney man
name who had interested himsell in
to obtain a reprieve for the boys. There is
lationship whatever, or, as the gentleman
observed, “I’m no more to him i han Hilly 1 1- ®
Tin Lyre, with colour in its face, corrected®!
mis-statement. It often surprises us how ■
evening papers tumble on the truth at all.
The Commission appointed some time X
to inquire into the condition and manage
certain of the N.S.W. public charities has q®
pleted its work. The report, which will bc|®
lished soon after the re-assembling of lfl®|
ment, will make some sensational disclosures®
will show that the worst features of the
work-house system, as it existed 50 years ®§
for the infirm. Many of the aged women ®|
have been thrown upon the charity of the S®|
average kindness treat ®
is, however, one set off: religiomMnsl met nj
regularly given to them in
quantities.


PEPPER
And
Salf
Would you have a true story of the beauti-
ful effect of saving grace upon our sable brother,
the Australian aboriginal? Well, go slow and
grapple with this. Many years ago when the
or'ginal nigger was plentiful, a man of God
wrestled with a section of the Burrumbeet tribe
near Ballarat, strivirg to guide them into the
narrow way that leadeth to the calm forever
more. One dunder-headed old chief he was very
hopeful of, and drilled gospel into him from early
morn till dewy eve, and at last the fossil savage
repented of his sins and became sweetly saved
(B-army expression). So proud was the holy man
of his convert that one day he invited some friends
connected with mission work to come out and
repo t prog! ess. They went, and the regenerated
blackfellow-nobleman, Bible in hand, was trotted
forth for inspection. One among the visitors, to
1 ’■y his faith, saul, “ Look a here, Sam, I give you
bottle of rum for your bible.” Sam clutched his
bible closer, but murmured, “ Rum ! rum !! long-
ingly. The good old nigger clung to the book and
shook his head. Two bottles were offered, and
Sam's mouth dripped like a crushed water-melon.
At last a bright idea struck him. Starting for-
ward he dragged a skinny, moonstruck, hoary
lubra out of the “push” of natives and said
eagerly, “ Here ! look! fetch um rum! 1 give my
gin—budgery wife, fine feller—here, here !’’ But
they wouldn’t deal, and it wasn’t long ere Sam
was roaming the nearest town trying to trade off
that same bible for a sixpenny drink.
# * *
“ A number of Canadian loyalists intend
to celebrate the Queen’s Jubilee by erecting a
statue of such immense proportions as to put the
Bartholdi statue of Liberty entirely in the shade.”
—English paper. Our comment: —
Appropriate the project seems —
For always Monarchy
Has aimed at overshadowing
The people’s Liberty.
* * *
“ A wealthy merchant of London has re-
loently celebrated a novel kind of golden weddirg.
Having been a faithful reader of two or three
London newspapers for a period of 50 years, he in-
vited the proprietors to a magnificent banquet.
The host stated that the perusal of newspapers
for 50 years had been the most agreeable distrac-
tions of his long life.’ — Argus Extract.
E)f Adelaide have just dis-
is of dynamite have been howl-
> explode within seven miles of
nsiderable time past, and they
little by the news. A large
nicious stuil'had gone bad and
string to blow itself up, and it
f it had carried out its purpose
e remained of the South Aus-
d have been spread on a porous
a the back of a very small local
Id have been a mild fizzle at
in, and a shake, and then the
and whales would have been
cean, and the oysters and dog-
’ushod through the streets of
us Baptists would have been
ul by eels and slimy things
ative ditches, and bullocks and
ve burst through tho windows
h* churches would have been
fragments of ships, bull-pups,
rocks, and groceries, and all
onfusion and horror. Wicked
gs blown off and the ; r upper
maiden
ladies, in company with crabs, shattered goats,
and thieves blown out of gaol; pigs would have
been thrown into synagogues, and the temperance
lecturer, the Chinaman, and the Jubilee drunk
would have found themselves all jammed together
head downwards in the same horse trough outside
the same public-house. The domestic cat blown
up the chimney with its tail on fire, would have
been smashed up by a collision with’ half a gram-
pus, tliree-fourths of a parson, and a set of false
teeth coming down, and in a dozen seconds all
Adelaide would have been a ruin. Then a huge
tidal wave surmounted by dead horses and other
ardeles of vertu would have washed away the
wreck, and the great and holy City of Snuffle
would have been no more. However, this is only
a dream after all, and as a man has been hired
for £250 to take the damaged explosives out to
sea and risk his life in flinging them overboard,
there is some hope that Adelaide may stand a
little longer.
* * *
Says the lady contributor of the Sydney
D.T. while describing a concert at Manly Aqua-
rium :
“ Then the waving, eel-like movements of t' e young
sharks, those ceaseless, restless motions, so suggestive of the
panther, tiger, lion, and the other cruel creatures that p.-.nt
for the life of man, are so suggestive of bloodthirsty instincts
that cne cannot view them without horror.”
“ Humming Bee’s” allusion to “ the other cruel
creatures,” &c., is obviously intended as a neat
stab at certain friends of hers on the Sydney morn
ing papers. How artful women are ! The morning
journalists in question certainly bloodthirsty,
and ceaseless and restless and eel-like in their mo-
tions. You never find them remain long on one
side.
* *
The fasting business is still going on gaily
in Europe. A wild-eyed Itaban, who ha 3 figured
several times as a screeching maniac in an asylum,
opened the campaign by abandoning earthly vic-
tuals for a month. Another Italian went one
better by doing 50 days of hunger and grunt
misery, and now his rival is going to fast against
a phenomenally stupid Irishman till one of the
pair caves in or is interred. This branch of
athletics, however, seems really to he getting
overdone Every second individual we meet is now
engaged trying to do something in so many hours,
MR DIBBS THINKS
THAT SIR TAT IS
NOT A SQUARE
MAN.
and though there is still room for new develop-
ments even in this well-worn line, our athletes
are too fond of sticking to the old groove. Even
jet there is a fortune to be realised by the man
who will undertake to make 800 fools of himself
! n 800 hours, or who will have 1000 fits of epilepsy
in a week, but no one apparently wants to enter
upon these untrodden paths, or else he can’t find
a backer to put up the money. Or if some of
those gentlemen who have vainly tried to make a
livrng by aquatics would start to eat 000 geese in
1)00 weeks and throw the bones 600 miles, the
profits of the show would be incalculable’ ye*
nobody seems to be on. No doubt some amuse-
ment might be extracted even out of the fasting
mania if the business were properly conducted.
II Mr. Dibbs, for instance, would back himeelf to
last for 50 days, and then to be stiuck by light-
ning ; or if Sir Alfred Stephen would make ail his
relatives in the (Hvil Service fast for a month, it
would be really instructive and interesting, but as
it is carried on at present the craze is the baldest,
dreariest, and most stupid afi’air on record the
Salvation Army and the Even Noosf. alone ex-
cepted.
* * *
It was in a butcher's shop in ColHngwood,
Melbourne. A woman weighing about 16 stone
and with an arm as thick as a baby was buying
meat and talking to the butcher. He asked her
how her husband and son were. ’‘There they
mg to the open door of a hotel across the way;
lliere they arc, swillin’ beer like hogs—an* they
expect n. i, wi ,f,
with two bred legs i The butcher said that he
considered they were unreasonable. At the same
time a pretty hot battle might be fought with two
bad legs—if they were tough enough.
* * *
“ It is good for their country that they
should die ; good for themselves that they should
be brought to be able to see that they ought to
die.”—Can-n Selwyn on the Mount Rennieites.
Someone, who is morally inferior to the
beasts that perish, has played a vile trick on the
Irish Protest*nt Church. A few months ago the
chief scribe of thatTophet suppressing corporation
received a letter from a wicked wretch named
Keegan, who hung out-at Denver, Co orado, the
epistle stating that Moore, of Southern Mexico,
had passed away and had left £OO,OOO to buy sul-
I hur to dust the caterpillars out of the vineyard.
This document was passed on in due course to the
chief Pharisee, and there was much rejoicing In
due course Cancn Bagot started for America to
bring back the legacy in a carpet bag or a hen-
coop, and he prayed for Moore all the way. But
when he reached Denver his language of devotio n
was changed to 10-horse power picfamty, fori
the whole vast territory of Colorado there was rot
one single cent to be found for the Irish Protestant
Church. Keegan was there right enough, but
that vessel of wrath only cackled with'fiendish
glee when the parson asked him for the £60,000,
and he wan’ed the infuriated canon to shout. The
spiritual piece of artil’ery, however, did not see
the joke at all, and at latest advices the Church is
preaching forgiveness, as usual, and paying detec
tives to cha-e a man whom they, at all events,
don’t feel inclined to forgive.
* « *
The cry of the London stockbroker is still
heard throughout the land. Even in the Northern
Territory people have now wakened up. and
whenever they can find a dried-up cow sitting on
a bump on the ground they kick the eow off and
(leat the bump into a company with a capital of
£lOO,OOO. while anything, down to a Chinaman’s
head sticking cut of a drain, is set down as an
“ outcrop.” Wo don’t grudge these people their
good luck, but the writer of this would merely
submit tbut he holds a very large interest in a
cracked precipice in Central Otago (X.Z.). and
woe Id boglad f o place the same in t he hands of any-
one who would undertake to float it on t he London
market at a good figure The property gives pro-
mise of beirg a very valuable one and there are
everywhere indications flat if a goat triecTto
climb up the reef he would get his neck broken
before he was half way to the top. Gold also
shows freely, for when the last proprietor fell off
the pmi*«rtj and knocked his brains out. his watch
<■ *
■
Jj
clouds for two hours, he stiS
■
H
' ’ V ‘ [ «;^BHHSSnXE|
■
: H
■
'"i.c-T.-c ' . ~ II in
i' Will h > i the da co is '.HmffiH
w '•!'•* I M ''.-'i ole to i'\ nhe rpMuiHSpifipi
"onid is- • ily worked, li"!" BHHn
* oMsl ire: lip; ! l^HMgflll
' lor limii ’o iir.ii.-,
! ect either 0!' a .ii- |.,|lc rew B|nßS|
- i vfl s';
W
1 1 ’ l l u : 1 ' I ii.it IMs . B
wool all speak at once.
* *
• Queensland leasts of at
win) iM'ues'nu, and endeavours
s<iuare accord irg to the best of
w-rtliy hap) ens m he a Hcotc
hirpe whole ale -ton-. Ora: day a MhESH
u rest ler was brought teforo
asked what lie had to say about
round the town exploring
heads wit h a waddy on the 1
I was not so intteh decently
as 1 was poisoned with your had w ■BK
weei, ina mon,” said Die worthy tM&ljfei
yer ain faut. Ye wall hue th’ si vinflow
tipp’e, wliin I've often tell’t ye that
guid under half-a-su verin' th’ to-
-1 11 no he hard on an auld coost
maun tine ye a poond. tint I'll pay t h’SRH
Since then the lOs. “tack” lias
and peace waves her olive-twig once nH[
* *
Beecliwuitk (Vic.) must be a I||||
place if the pcetical captan of the “ 1
tioned there is to be believed. \Yc (VElf
following slices from a lyric of his puM
the War Cry:— JHH
' In Beeclwvorth sin does so abound.
I know not how to write.
The people all seem rocked to sleep
In the devil's cradle of the deep
The day will come when thev will weep
And wish they had the light." V
This is pretty rough, but it is not half so rol
the next slice : 1
“ The days of Sodom—dreadful thought— 1
Cannot compare with these;
Here people know the way of light,
But still they mock and scr ff each night
Preferring wroDg to that what's right
They’re going as they please.”
“As they d—n please ! ” would
H
■' be. hi- 1\ | . viIiyBBH
gcidrs like >|.j- • :| ,
ai.d i" I' -in-h hi i i i mi
"•\<i : 1 .nigh mm h - , .
!’ h. * In iii 11,mm. ■' .
!' ■ ' 1! -'1 many - ah' id
Ihe - mi awful I
■
T O THEAT MERCHANT.
■Oh, you wealthy London merchant, what a dear
H old boy ydu be !
B\nd how calmly you betray your dull belief in
■ L.S.D.,
B,Vhen out of admiration for the journals that you
read,
HS courses’ “ feed.”
■i alas
Wew recognise a power, save t lie potent power of
“ brass ; "
literary heroes arc the men who find the
vs
. . t imi'iris of the matter you sn greedih
K
have
h glee
•.h^^UJsscc.
up in type,
the man who plays so cunning y upon his
piper pays
arc eager in expressing, sir, your gratitude
you marshall now before you all the literary
band
|H otter tin m your har d ?
poor iu’i-siinging fingers would you eonde
■Mvrnil to touch ?
doubt i’. wealth' m r.-h up , (1.m!,: i:
very mm ln
!4jy&vBhe game.
we a wealthy merchant we would do t hr
■me
■
* *
GOOD NOOSE.
Four men they walked to the gallows-tree ;
It was a cheerful sight,
For their chastened hearts beat high with glee
And they trembled with delight—
Trembled and shook' in their boots and shoes,
Read, Martin, Duffy, and Boyce,
The sight of the beam and the gladsome noose
Made all their souls rejoice.
Four men they swung from the gallows-tree,
And never once heaved a sigh,
For all of the lot had been brought to see
’Twas good that they should die ;
Good for their country and good for them,
And good for good Canon S. ;
But for Nosey Bob, who performed the job,
It was goodest of all—O yes !
So here’s to the beam and the deadly drop !
Here’s to the dangling rope !
The Canon’s delight and the country’s prop—
The prisoner’s only hope ;
And if ever four canons should e’er forget
What’s due to the softer sex,
’Twill be good for them and for us—you bet!
To stretch their sanctified necks.
A Lay of New South
APOTHEOSIS OF THE D[?]
I' wa : I. i o: liarringlam. HhHHHH
A governor bald \\m he.
And ho so UjaMmnJowa d
In Sydney by the Sea.
A pleasant place is Sydney town, fiH
Duck of a harbor—some renown
In Austral history ; WM
But Sydney’s pride, all else beside,
Was its high sassiety.
And whene'er the Lord of Barringbun, B
Sprig of a peer and a very big gun, 1
Would hold a big levee, m
rwould gather, awhile to bask in the smile B
Of my lord’s nobilitee.
There was Jones, who made his money in heel
And Brown, whose dad did something queer,
In the good old days gone by, S|
Both C.M.G.’s and It.Q. P.’s,
A score such as the3e—their titles pleaso *
'Excuse, I’m getting dry.
And Snobbery loved its idol well
For many a day, till, sad to tell
A rumour got abroad —
A day was at hand, when another land
Would claim the noble lord.
Then Jones who made his money in beer
And Brown, who;e dad did something queer,
Both interviewed the noble peer, ’
And found, alas ! twas true— 1
At ,iu early day, 1 sail awa.\ ,” J
Said the Guv., *• Im sorry for you. - ’ J
“ Alas ! ” cried Jones, “ and w ilt thou go,
And shall I never kiss that toe,
Nor bend my w illing knee
To thee again 1” “Oh dear ! the paiD,’’
Said Brown, “is a bustin’ me.”
“ At least," said Jones, “some slight rdique
Of the noble Barr, may Sydney seek
Bethink you, noble Sir,
A shirt perchance or a pair of pants
No matter if worse for wear.” i
A generous soul was Barringbun, ,
He gave the duds and soon was gone ; j
And daily the dlite, ]
Boggses and Bloggses, worshipped the tegses ■
Which huDg, as ’twas but meet,
In the halls of departed Barringbun,
A 8 the after-glow of the sunken sun
May illumine the wxst when his course is done,-
Unti’, as some had feared,
They went away,—where ?—society ne’er
Could even guess, but they disappeared.
And Jones, who made his money in beer,
And Brown, whose dad did something queer,
Began to pine away ;
And the C’.M.G.’s and the 11.Q.P. s,
A settled sadness appeared to seize!
They were never known to smile or sneeze
Or even Indulge in tin- usual A


The Bull-Goats of Politics.


[?]MS.
celebrity, has
MBMBBHfflBHHlK- 1 ' gnk in a public-
Bf
■
Sf
of Wateif-rd and
from the flood.
Eg
S| • r"q.,.l®K
mi-.
4 ' s S|
Bk
jp^
■A A ...AA :■■'-. -' :
H
■
■
«p
is contained
with that
the peison
HR
K^HB^BB^HBSmBH^B ute3 afterward.
Christmas
/ify'Zs? **?* *&’’ ' A gj!?
.*j%r £ ’ * A? W?"
Af Ag A"A' : A; A A' ''"A'* A W0
CT AfAfAAE^
’ *' -A ■ • ■.Be
*
■
Mr
.»ysA whim clean
A’A^Br
o b;inVru]it< y in London. I h
B* iiig \vi! li -mm' i r:i■:.(Is : ii s .11 m.• ,r ,
■
themselves as a Mini-t ry ln-fo: i
niggers knew what va-’ going on.
warrior was ( haneellor oi' the K\-
:i I irit ish gunboat .--I (low n : !.■• who 1 .
ce rs, itiid slu-lied the bottom cut of
in one act.
|jj|H I did when 1 was Mayor," would
vA'Mn- title for the “ Review of Sydney Muni-
recently publishel by Mr. John
liiagni j ir.g i lie achievement - ( ,i
■Hvoung and abusing Mr. John Voting's
it is ditlicnlt to see w hat this literary
to achieve. Hut in doii g tlm-e t wo
probably ee« tire all l.ho o' j.-et s vim h
contemplated while oecui led in
BH^Bation.
pious s mt Item.t whose nan to has
■SB in a'U lie “ Cod only ” advertisements
“ come and to Saved” has run
1H race. Incessant quiet gambling, < instant
g^Branc3 with the blue-ribbon still adorning
and a long course of fervent
public and semi-public meetings have
j|Vto the usual climax—embezzlement. For
of the “good cause” eflbrt was made to
little back-slidings from the public car,
Hie ungodly heard, rejoiced, and spread the
■r dear old clerical friends the “ faith-
s’” and “my dear partner,” to wit, his wife,
Bat last scored one in New Zealand—at any
Key allege as much, and that is the same
m An old lady who had been on crutches for
fM\s presented herself before them for cure.
|Sd stated that the lady’s leg was not so
Bt as he would like to see it,” so runs the
Bmn Evening Herald’s report. The apostle
Bd and laid his hands on her and she forth-
■cantered round the hall like a two-year-old.
■ veil!
Be Australasian, in a recent review on
Bnibals and Convicts” refers to the curious
Bdencethat Marcus Clarke, Br unton Stepher s,
■Julian Thomas should each have selected
Bets as the subject of their most ambitious
Bry effort —Marcus Clarke in “ His Natural
B Bruntcn Stephens in “ Convict Once ’ and
■ Vagabond ” in the book under review. The
■ver omits to mention that Mr. Thomas's
I; presents no other point of similarity to the
Ir two. Marcus Clarke, Biunton Stephens and
Ian Thomas! Shakespeare, Milton, and Douglas
len 1 Ceasar, Nanoleon, and the Colonel of the
hey Lancers ! Gibbon, Hume, and David Blair!
?ro, Demosthenes, and Jawbone Neild 1 ”
ipparently there arc more points about
Moorhouse than anybody in Australia ever
Bft of. According to a Melbourne paper his
Bp now keeps a bull dog in his palace, and
■he wants to unbend his mind, and also to
Kd his dog, he leads the ugly headed beast
Rhe back yard and introduces him to~another
lial of the same species. Then the two ani-
| jaw each other, and tear chunks out of each
■[a rib’. Manchester dances round and cheers
B own pup If the other dog gets the bast of
Bwever, the bishop makes one long stride
Bhis episcopal legs, and taking him by tlie
Bops him over the garden wal 1 . The Mel
fe paper.quite omits to state its authority for
B"le story, but we presume it is true —we
■ reason why the bishop’s doz shou’dn t have
as well as .my other dog
Mary .Jane Hicks was evidently
an actress. When she v.as consigned
g^Kspital after the Mount Bennie atl'air she
|Shave a little fan at night by sticking her
■ mi end and then sitting up and yelling,
! there’s a dozen men in the room !
IB: Murder!” This evoked sympathy at
■l t he acute mat run present ly diseo\ cm I t ha<
■rr sympathy was accorded t lie louder and
victim yelled, and when she had
the hair oil' three other patients it
IgBo grow monotonous. At last the long-
boss of the poultice and broken leg
struck, and walking quietly over to
lb’)' Jado sin- touched her on
■ " l...uk 1 t- g< '
’hat imi -•• v ■ jj I -
t ..r-
POLITICAL
POINTS
Mr. Garvan, the N.S.W.'Minister of Jus-
tice, has declared for Protection.
Look on this picture, and on this : —“ The
Duke of Cumberland’s gold and silver plate weighs
twelve tons”; and, “John Earlebrooko, a
Staffordshire pauper, has been sent up for a
month for being illegally on the premises of one
Matthew Simons, where he was caught eating
the swill out of a pig-trough! ”
The Conservatives in England undoubtedly
owed their success, to a very great extent, to the
dames of the Primrose League. And the dames
are aware of he circumstance, therefore they have
A BATTING SCAPE-GOAT.
threatened to revolt unless they ara put on a level
with the bifurcated ono 3 in the matter of the
franchise. A bill for that purpose passed its
second reading last session, and will probab’y be
re-introduced and passed in 1887
The Distinguished Service Order, a gor-
geous gold cross displaying the Imperial Crown
within a laurel wreath enamelled green, and the
letters V.R.1., has been proclaimed, and is now
“on tan” awaiting application. Unfortunately
the “distinguished service’’ must be of a naval
or military description, otherwise Burdett Smith
might be induced by Albert Victor to accept it in
recognition of that affair with the cab in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney.
“Two million Martini-Henri rifles route
to Victoria !” So says the Sydney Evening Noose,
but then the Noosk can't distinguish between a
rifie and a rifle cartridge —two quite different
things. We would take the liberty of informing
our somewhat unclean contemporary that Mr
Henry, the half inventor of the celebrated weapon,
doesn’t spell his name with a final “i” after the
French fashion, he being a decent Scotch gun-
maker located in Edinburgh.
Mr. J. P. Abbott resigns from the N.S.W.
Parliament because he is distrusted with tho con-
stant misconduct during last session After this
we need despair of no erring politician. Mr.
Abbott’s misconduct in running with the Protec-
tionists while hunting with the Freetraders has
been for some time past a grave political scanda',
but it is satisfactory to hear that the recess lias
brought repentance, and that Mr. Abbott will
remove himself from the way of temptation.
Mr. Richard Hodactt, ono of the candi-
dates for Bourke, is in many qualifications both
of ability and political faith a few leagues ahead
of the present N.S.W. members. He goe3 straight
for a Hind-tax and is a strong Protectionist. He
has travelled over the greater part of Australia,
America, and England, and can give solid reason
for his adherence to the creed he professes. Being/
a homestead lessee he is also an advocate of com-
pensation for pastoral improvements, hut, as i, is
not likely that any candidate who denounced this
claim would get in for Bourke, he cannot he ac-
counted less desirable on that score than any of
those who may oppose him.
Dr. Farr estimates the annual value of an
English agricultural labourer to the common-
wealth at, tho age of 20 to be £234 ; at 30 years,
£2ll ; at 40, £212 ; at 50 years, £lOB ; at 00 years,
£97 ; at 70 years, f*; at 75 years, he is a loss of
£25. The p old human horse, however, has
generally been worked to death before he reaches
the age of 75, and when he does survive, his
master, if he is an Englishman, generally manages
to get some work oat of him - Dr. Farr’s figures
noth withstanding. We have known old patri-
archs who might perhaps have a loss of £25
to the country but who were a gain of £5O to
their employers, and who died in harness at the
rate of 7s. a week. But the stupendous joke is
this. Accord'ng to the same authority, the wages
of the English agricultural labourer are £4O per
annum, so his proprietor or slave-driver, or what-
ever he should be called, makes an average profit
out of him of £lB9 a year. If ad the daughters of
the hor e-leech had inter-married with the tribes
of Judah they could hardly bring up a family of
usurers who would ask more than this.
Reynold’s Newspaper, like every other
journal, ha* got its own idea on the subject of the
Queen’s Jubilee, and expresses it »s follow :
“ Aged philosophers, end hairless dules, women fro a
Pimlico ard women from Belg avia, waiters in taverns and
waiti,s in Court, >-tate O lurch <l-rgy and Mr. George
Howell—they are all busy grimacing, and smirking, and
pointing the finger of w inder at the oaws, and the fe lers,
and the hani s, ihe activities if the hermit-ira'<. f
Wiadeor Cas'ie. MeauwAitJ ihe ro al idol gives no sign.
She eit->, fit and squat, in her easy-chair, stiring with Jish-
like, melancholy eyes, and gorging with an uncommon appe-
tite. To thh obe;e divinity is attnbu od all the good done
by the nation duriog the la*t 5 )ye irs, when, as a matter of
fact, there was s iarcfiy a movemeat for th 3 polit'eal and
social emancipation and elevation of the people wlrch
sejretly it did not opyisp. Yet now the aristocratic and
classes, wiih ,t c r aft which ia this country h- h
peculiarly di tingui-htd thEin, intend to claim for thfir
g iddess all th j credit A the work and suffering of good and
g-eat men. Mr. George H jwall has sa : d that ihe Queen's
junitee should be made th? occasion of »n organized iffort
t > alleviate the misery o I the people. Well, I will make a
suggestion to Mr. Howel l . Let him invite the Queen to have
a pavili-m erected ia Hide-park, from whichsue may review_
as ut volunteer d splays, ‘ Her Majesty's Armies of Misery.’
Fifty thousand prostitutes, collected from the streets of
London. Some are mere children, of 13 or 14 years. Hun-
dreds are drunk, thousands are diseased ; the majority have
scarcely enough clothing to cover their poor enfeebled
bodie*. One hundred thousand beggars, three-fourths of
whom are children, many being in arms. The lads and girls
are singing merrily to the accompaniment of the clatter of
marrow-bones and platters, ‘ Recruits for the Army of Crime
are We.’ Five hundred thousand English agiicultural
labourers with bowed backs and peaked faces. They limp
along slowly and heavily, their heads bent towards the
ground. A million paupers of all ages and conditions.
Three hundred thousand criminals, including murderers,
seducers, forgers, burglars, thieves, chauoting * We've got no
Work to Do.' One million unemployed—stern men, with
rigid faces and menacing looks. Three hundred thou-
sand Irish peasants. 30,000 Scotch crofters, 10,000 Welsh
farmers. Fifty thousand men and women, the sweaters’
victims of the East-end of London and other large towns.
Following these come a nondescript army of lunatics, pub-
licans, slaveys, suitors in the Divorce Court and others, and,
in chuius, Indians, Burmes*, and Egyptians. Th" rear is
brought up by the Archbishop of Canterbury, reading the
Sermon on the Mount.'*
The country wants something unique. Well, it
is here, and the display would bo worthy of a
sovereign who has cost (he country almost as
much as would feed, clothe, and educate the whole
army of misery and start its members on a new
career. From the prostitutes in front down to
the Archbishop and the Sermon on the Mount in
tho rear not a single item is lacking—they ure all
here.
In his new work, Major-General A. W.
Drayson tells some capital stoiicsabout the doiogs
of the red-tape department. Here is one anec-
dote :— ‘ In orde* 1 to draw our pay it was neces-
sary to forward on the last day of each month a
certificate stating that the individual was then
alive. During the month of Juno and July I was
travelling in the Himalayas, in wild dia’ricts
where no Englishman was within miles. On my
return to Simla 1 forward} 3 a certificate on the
.'list August, stating that I was alivo.aud request-
ing that my pay for June, July, and August
should be paid to my bankers. In reply I re*
eelved a communication stilting that my pay for
August would bo credited to tno, but that there
was no certificate to prove that I was alive in
June and July."
BRIEF MENTION.
Hangland -N use South Wales. W
To sleep well.—-Go to church. H
The milky way. —To the pump, ■
ETiomas Glcane got three day 3 in Mcl
bour.ie L 01 ior stealing a scrap of soap, althoogH
Gleanejiiess is next to Godliness. I
A hearse was run down and wrecked bw
the tram-car 3 in Melbourne, the other day,
He irse3 are safer in Sydney where a tram con's
never catch one.
From Melbourne Herald “ James
M'Guinness, a middle-aged man, was charged wiH
committing suicide.” And yet they tell us there
is rest “ over Jordan.”
“We congratulate our esteemed
townsman on the deat'i of his uncle,”
say-3 a N.Z. paper. That esteemed fdll>w-towns
man foil in for £lO,OOO. t
“ Land was sold for £BOO per foot in
Melbourne the other day.” And yet there aro
people who, if they got a portion of it in their
soup, would strongly object,
“Boy Politician” Caulfield is issuing a
writ for £2OOO against the Evening Noose. This
hasits origin in ono o: the “spicy” paragraphs in
which the soul of Alfred ddlighteth.
At Fitzroy (Vic.) Margaret Folleti han
been fined for having more that one infant in ho-
possession. They won’t brook twins, triplets, or
any oth«r tomfoolery in Victoria, mind you. That’s
the country for a poor man.
A hard-featured girl at Horsham (Vic) is
in trouble through knocking the back of her
mother’s head off with an axe, The old woman
is still alive, but it is necessary to write off about
10 per cent, for depreciation.
Ah Wong summoned Yong Key at Charle-
ville (Q.) for assaulting him The witnesses wore
Ah Mo3k, Mong Siag, Jung Q le, Sn Gee, alias
Ah Gow, and Douah. The C.P.S. had a beautiful
time of it. He has not yet recovered.
An Auckland paper believes that larrikin-
ism is due to “ the absence of occasional wallop-
ing at school.” Perhaps, in that case, it would bo
a good line to wallop tho Minister for Education
in order to make him look after the busineis.
It is found that Australian girls have such
a decided objection to taking the veil, that nine-
tenths of the nuns have to be imported from
Europo. There i 3 only one remedy for th ; s—Car l
dinal Moran must import a few nice-looking
priests.
If the Agents-General want a good adver-
tisement of the prosperity of Australia let them
copy this —“A shearer’s cook on the Castlcreagh
ordered twelve pairs of co’ton soeks from oo-
namble to make wicks of for the slush-lamps.”
This is as true as gospel.
There were in N.Z. *330 accidental deaths
during the year ’B5, according to a somewhat
tardy return just published, in only seven cases
did the jury ascribe death to tho “ visitation of
God.” That leaves 323 deaths to be attributed tu
the visitation of somebody else.
Mr. Edward Jamieson, who lives some-
where near Eden (N.S.W ) has kindly offered a
prize of £2 for the best conducted newspaper in
that district. The compethir iis to come off
among tho pigs and goats a rhs next Caido’.o
cattle sho V. N.B. - Tun ID" ..’-.tin offers a piizi
or £5 to the fa'test bishop in Australia.
The “ Reasonable Christians ” is the navno
cf a new sect in London. They took this ni • e r,n
distinguish themselves from the “ Hanging Chris-
tians” who are always looking around for so mo-
h.dy to string up uu gallows—some body that is
too poor to snbtc. ibe to their church, and " in>,
therefore, ought to be sent to Kingdom Come.
To show the spirit in which ihe Bydncy
Press reported the Mount Rennie trial, need
only be mentioned that the strong uro'es made
by Mr. O Mara, who, in the small hours of tho
morning, arose to perform the hopeless task of
addressing the sleeping jury, wat not; in any way
noticed by the daily newspapers.
This is the style of war-articles written itx
North Queensland “No one knows when the
lightning-heralded typhoon of war will burst;
forth, and what course it will take in its destruc-
tive career. Even as we write the air seems
charged with sulphurous fumes of angry pas ions,
svhich are ascending and mocking high Heavon."
The S.M. Herald announces a statement
by n French scientist to !he effect that if a person
leans his head against a wall and looks at a star
he will notice a distinct oscillation, tho star mov-
ing in swift curves. There’is nothing now in
this. The same phenomenon has been constantly
noticed ever since men first began to come homo
late from ledge-meetings.
Sir Sawmill Griffith created a little plea-
sant excitement in tho Queensland Assembly tbo
other day by stating that elementary' agriculture
was to be dealt with in the schools of that colony.
Beans, wc understand, will be taught thoroughly,
and the rudiments of the pumpkin will also be in-
cluded in I Ire curriculum. “ First c’ass in artifi-
cial manure, stand up and say your turnips.”
A few days ago a genuine myall king was
standing at the window of the Cairns (Q,) tele-
groph-offlee stariog like a stuck p'g ql the instru-
ment inside, and see'mg the op rator, asked,
“ Mass’r, what for that pfeller go tick, tick, hey I”
“That’s the Brisbane man talking to Townsville,''
replied the lightning-grinder. “Ah,” said tho
nigger; “my word, him hlcnty yubber yabber,
jus’ like 'ini ole gin.”
A Melbourne paper, speaking of the escapo
of the engineer of the Preussen, who is now small-
pox ing somewhere in these colonies, ssys that “)t
is surmised he absconded from the Quarantine
station, taking Ids clothes with li m.” Wo reckon
that is just where all tin; trouble com -s in.
If be had left his t >ga beh A
A
sort, but u hen
ordinary-looking ijnin with duih"s he get-
the crowd,
— -


The “ Popular” Governor.
THE GOD OF JUSTICE (who is partially blind): “I ’OPE, GENTLEMEN, THIS LITTLE COMPROMISE WILL GIVE EVERY SATISE


Society
I'elles of Australia have but a
of flowers at their service, and
erchief is looked upon by them
same contemptuous way that a
tall white hat, the language of
landkerchief is almost unknown
To make up for this, however,
,t their service the language of
which runs in this wise :—To
ans, we are told, “ follow me.”
ear out —I don’t want you.” To
“ Come along, you are not dis-
To lean to the left, “ I will not
To tap the stirrup with point of
you so backward ?” With the
“ Be cautious, weare watched.”
* *
is’ schools in Paris,” says the
,re not strictly what they should
r not the schools —it’s the young
* *
of England has a fashion
f elevating the masses. On last
arols were perform® d at St.
il, Sydney, the music and word-
l scarcely have satisfbd “ the
jive a few specimens of choice
istraiuedin a stable to lie
asses they used for to tie,
ict morning our Saviour was born.”
longer in s rrow to stay,
iviour was born on that day.”
thence haughty pride for to shun.”
r oid a show of haughty pride
lus kindly “ writes obvious ” to
ve would suggest that with this
>le music at the Cathedral and
ndel correctly interpreted at a
fch, it is small wonder if the
lox faith hear of more perverts
* *
’ Zealand has just separated
U 36 he found that she had five
ing. Some men are too particu-
* *
*h(Q.) a fortnight ago, the
roke away from its moorings,
dully down the Mary River,
were screaming for help inside,
ng and beautiful, they were all
back hair down and they were
ired, so that when a stolid
and offered to take them ashore
it there was no other resource,
in batches, and, worse still, in
:e the best of it. Luckily the
nuch married.
* *
is of the Prince of Wales
ti in their travels through the
erican Consul invited them, to-
the cream of the English and American
dine at his house. It was a very swell
Toward the end of the meal the host
s chair, took a glass of champagne in
nd, addressing the Princes, spoke as
Irinking to the health of your grandmother;
lady, just as good as they make them. When
Oarfieli died, she was just as good as she could
i telegrams saying as how she was sorry, and
would try to bear it, and she did everything
ove what a dear motherly old soul she is. I
know Victoria, and if I ever go to 1 ondon 1
)r, sure pop. You can tell her that w hen you
s a Cue old Indy, here's to her.”
* *
ue blood ! Among the passengers
ntlej ” are Lord Sandhurst and his
b * *
Igagement is announced in Sydney
daughter of Mr. U. Norton Russell, of
ill, Woolahra, and Mr. Bullock, a recent
m England.
* •* •*
whose husbands have a penchant
■them round by the hair of their heads,
K sand-jigs on their prostrate forms,
■ell to copy the common-sense conduct
pve woman who recently declared that
Flier lord and master kicks her down
[corrects her with a pot-stick, she con-
[lf by reading over his old love-letters
Ig, “My dearest, darling, little angel,
Lven only knows the depth of my love
Wg * *
■Lady declares that “ Black silk
Mi low shoes are now worn for ladies’
Hew York.” We don’t quite under-
■m, but suppose that the stockings
Hh-neckcd. Otherwise the costume
|H to be somewhat insufficient.
Clarke did a lot of things in
-inking down lOn guineas for tin
IpMktho opening or the “ Colonies ”
of the baronet’s hard earned
The " Itenuneiat ion of
a l"l :l ■"j 1 .111: -!i
be leading fiM'naa
e i .
■
Ithe family assisting
- Bb
■bv
A-''A' Ti’L” ’
genius,
l -
original)
allusions
o j. * - v
H
considerably more than was anticipated by the
gifted and sanguine, not to say sanguinary,
authors, and His Excellency, who has handed
over his cheque for, say a third of the total cost,
deems such a contribution on his part amply suf-
ficient—thus leaving the rest of the burden to fall
upon the shoulders of the loyal sons of song by
whom Sydney sassiety has been introduced to the
mysteries of slaughter-house opera.
* * *
A registry-office record. Lady (engaging
female cook) : “ You must excuse me, but I don’t
allow any fringed or curled fronts to be worn.”
Mary Ann (familiarly): “Oh! certingly not,
ma’am ; it ain’t quite th’ proper thing, I knows,
but, y’ seq, some on us is a keepin’ on wearin’ of
it till Lady Carington changes. And she do hev
some old fashin’ notions, don’t she ?”
* * *
There is a solid Sydney churchwarden who
from henceforth and for ever will put no more
faith in domestic servants. He once was as trust-
ful of the “poor working girl” as a jury
formerly was of the recommendation to mercy,
but his trust has been stood on its eternal head,
just as the faith of jurymen has been similarly
obverted. This churchwarden had a house at, i
say Coogee, and when he decided to live with his
family elsewhere for three months, he left a
comely and demure servant in charge of the de-
serted mansion. But the demure one subsequently
objected to remaining there by herself, so he
hired another very comely and marvellously sedate
maiden to keep her company. Then everything
seemed to go on satisfactorily, for at his periodical
afternoon visits the demure ones professed abso-
lute contentment, and harmony pervaded the
house. But a few nights before the family
were to return he went out somewhat late in
the evening and what he saw then fully explained
why the incumbent of his church had shunned
him as an opponent of capital pumshment would
avoid a hanging judge, and why he had fallen
in the estimation of his fellow churchmen lower
than Nymagee shares on the Sydney market.
He had expected to see two modest women
there, but although the number of women
was far in excess of the estimate, the amount of
modesty was much farther below expectation. He
has pretty well paid up all the bills for goods
supplied to the establishment, and the police
threat of prosecution for keeping a disorderly
house is not likely to come before the courts,
but as he reflects on the irretrievable damage his
reputation has suffered, he invariably concludes
by expressing a firm conviction that it would have
been better to have put a tirestick under the house,
or to have put a millstone about it and cast it
into the sea than to have left it in charge of
that demure and modest maiden of hitherto
irreproachable moral character.
* * *
At Wyndham, Northern Territory there
is a sergeant of police who seem 3 to be as dis-
agreeable as senna and more raspy than an old
bull porcupine. He was particularly fond of
another man s baby, which he carried about at all
hours of the day, until the residents grew dis-
gusted at the dry-musing policeman, and louts of
18 or so began to inquire of him if he would like
to adopt an orphan. But things went pretty
quietly until the local publican took to walking
round also nursing an oM hat wrapped in a dish-
clout, and imploring the squashed bell-topper and
the rag to be a good child and go to sleep. Then
the sergeant rose in his wrath, like an old shirt
rising on the point of a spear, and ran the publi-
can in for conduct calculated to cause a breach of
the peace. His Washup, however, did not see it.
On the contrary, he grew excited and asked the
policeman if he fancied himself to be a feeding-
bottle or if he proposed to run a baby-farm, and
now 1000 lost and shirtless babes might roam the
streets of Palmerston before that policeman would
start to boil pap for a single one of the crowd.
* * *
Professor Chainey and Mrs. Chainey a7e
running a class for ladies in Melbourne Athenaeum
for the “ dissemination of physical culture.” It is
all very interesting, we have heard. The sweet
girl graduates are taught lithe movements and
lady-like deportment, the idea being to so train
tbem that they may make a world-weary man
bald headed with the fire shovel and still preserve
a poetic, pensive expression, and a graceful atti-
tude. We wish the Professor every success. If
the coming husband has to be combed down once
in a while like his poor predecessor it may as well
be done in style.
* * #
Australia may shake hands with itself and
dance (on something) at the thought that as yet
only two baronetcies have been shot at it. Here
is Lever’s (a gentleman’s) opinion on the Irish
knighthoods of 80 yea's ago. He puts tho follow-
ing into a great lawyer's mouth (not “mug," he
also is a typical gentleman) :
“ You don't want anything from these people, Martin.
You don’t covet a peerage—you wouldn’t accept a baronetcy.
You remember what L ingtnn said, when told that the King
was going to give him ‘ the Red Hand,’ *lf I have been uu-
fortunute enough to incur his Majesty’s disuleasure, I must
deplore it deeply, but nurely my inilWient .-em should not be
included in the penalty of my offence. Therefore, in all
humility, 1 beseecnand entreat the royal favour to commute
the sentence into Knighthood, so that the disgrace may die
with me.'”
CRUSHED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As he hold in his owm her soft, lily-white hands,
In the accents of fervour he spoke—
Ho was Percy Fitzbyron, a clerk in the Lands,
And Augusta de Vero’s chosen “ bloke ” ;
Secret swain of the beauteous Augusta de Vere,
Whose sire wmuld “ cut up ” for five thousand a
year! (
As he stood by the clothes-line (to us it seems j
hard
That tyrannical fathers have power
To compel their fair daughters to dodge down ;
the yard
In the twilight’s concealing dim hour
To receive those they love) he spoke these
burning thoughts
To his darling, who dwelt at the Point known
as Potts:
Dearest one, we are safe, though you know how
it hurts
All my feelings to stoop to disguise,
We are perfectly hidden by—pax-don me—
shirts,
I rom the sight of your father’s stern eyes ;
Curtained here by strange garments, and blest
counterpanes,
Let me use every moment that to me remains
“ To discourse of the passion that burns in my
breast
For my angel. O, darling of mine,
Of all women on earth you are dearest and best,
To my eyes you are simply divine !
Other damsels I know' of are gentle and fair,
But not one of them all can a moment compare
“ With her Percy’s Augusta ! Some others are
sweet,
I admit, but I pass them all by,
Not to win all the hearts of all maidens I meet
Would I forfeit one glance of your eye;
They are pale imitations —inanimate things,
As if w'ound into life by a series of springs !
“Let me picture the future, the beau*
tiful life
That lies waiting before us ! O,
love,
When the blissful day comes that
will make you my wife,
Earth will be e’en as Hoaven
above,
Nothing sordid will vex us - -
No fatherly wrath
Will force me to seek you by this
secret path.
“ I will shield you from every harsh
buffet of Fate,
I will guard you from everything ill,
Asa slave I will be to you early and late
Your minutest desire to fulfil;
Fighting back from your way all life’s trials and
pains,
And the happiest slave ever bound in Love’s
chains!
“ In a beautiful home by our beautiful bay
We w'ill dwell, and our dwelling w r ill be
A pure Temple of Love, and each long sunlit
day
Be an hour to you, darling, and me,
And our lives will go over on gossamer wings,
And the years will be only a series of springs !
“It is true lam poor—it is true that for moro
Than six hours every day I indite
Wretched minutes and entries, and many a
score
Of replies I illegibly write
To benighted selectors on matters of land,
And as yet dare not ask your proud sire for
your hand.
“ It is true I am in the Department set dow r n
As a ‘ chump ’ —sw r eet one,
pardon the slang—
But as soon as I’ve conquered
your angry sire’s frov'n
I will let the Department go
hang !
And, although I’m not wealthy
my lineage is high.
For my people came over
with —Governor Bligh !
“ I may not have much brain, but
I’ve what’s just as good
Maj'be better—a high - toned
descent,
When your Governor knows it
and 11 mis out whose blood
is in me, he will quickly
relent,
And cry, ‘ Take her—God bless
you both this alters
things.
You’ve blue blood in your
veins from a series of
springs !’
“ Yes, my darling, my peerless ! on blood I
rely”—
And the bald sire crouched listening near,
In a terrible undertone growled ‘ so do I ! ’
And kept grinning from ear unto ear
To the kennel where Cain, the dread wolf-dog.
stood chained
With his eyeballs aglare and his collar-strap
strained ?
I will satisfy him, your hard pitiless sire,
That I ve blood in abundance to show ”
Here another voice cried out in tones wild and
dire,
“ I believe you will— at him, boy ? Go ! ”
And the wolf seized the rear of his tailor-made
things,
And he went from the place—in a scries of
springs !
THIS WICK [?]
borough (Q.) had knuck^|
our coloured brethren
in Maryborough (Q.) on on^|
’lB
25 At Turaut (N.S.W.).^B
J|
now) cleared out with auoß
child The editor of the
fl
(N.T.) they want Chinan^B
there if they can’t tell a
gold-bearing reef has been ■
fl
m
wj
Sydney unemployed will shorM
W
w|
pic in Miidgcc, N.S. W. On
held Up :i' i" lie-'! .g !
were nn tl.cir woy 10 heaven ' ,n
four cases in bankruptcy dealt wit
Ward on a single day at Auckland-, ,:-3;
the Tiniaru prisoner, has been cummitt
on a charge of murdering (’apt. Cain. ThoM3 ! '>*
of Cain in this case also is antimony,
* * *
A contest is taking place in Madison
county, U.S., between Prickett and his brother-
in-law Hadley for the Senate The former’s busi-
ness partner supports the latter candidate, while
Hadley’s wife canvasses for Prickett. Prickett’s.
son swears he’ll vote against his father. Hailey
distributed ten gross of teething-rings, while his.
opponent kissed all the babies in the electorate.
The interest is at bursting-point Abraham
Lincoln’s advice to a friend Dear C , Da
not worry. Eat three square meals a day. Say
your prayers. Think of your wife. He courteous
to your creditors. Keep your digestion good.
Steer clear of biliousness. Exerciee Go slow
and go easy” “A Manitoba settler sold his
wife and five children for 70dol.” He then went
and sold the 70dol. for grog “The Bulgarians
only bathe twice—when they are born and when
they die.” The latter bath is usually taken in
blood English papors are chuckling over a»
ghastly story of a drunken man who, taking the
wroDg bed-room at an hotel, went to sleep in coni
pany with a dead body. It is absurd to say that
an Englishman has no sense of humour The
the Lord Mayor’s banquet in London
on November 9th cost £413 “A rsnt in the
cloud ” is the only one the Irish landlord sees now.
Glory bit o’ God “ Oh, no,” he said, “ I’m not
seasick, but I’m disgusted with the motion of this
vessel.” “ Is this the right train ? ” she asked,
picking up her thirteenth parcel with her left toe.
“ Where are you going ma’am ?’ J “ None of your
business, young man, tell me at once or I’ll report
your imperence to the stationmaster.”
The bandy-legged man’s seldom struck with
affright,
To terror he’s never a prey ;
His legs never smite together with fear,
Because he ain’t built that way.
Murder as one of the fine arts. A Frenchman
found that his temporary wife had another tem-
porary husband, so he went out and shot the ob-
trusive wretch. Then he made the girl take off
her dress and lie down, while he tattooed on her
naked shoulders and arms the name of the mur-
dered man and a few interesting facts regarding
the corpse, together with some theories as to the
present whereabouts of his soul.
+
Skating is becoming fashionable in Mel-
bourne, we read. So, by the way, is court-plaster.
It is worn all along the nose.
Grant Allen, in tho Fortnightly Review,
asserts that the instincts which prompt men and
women to select their partners for life is not un-
erring There would seem to be some genuine
evidence in support of his view.
A gentleman with heavily-insured pre-
mises recently realised his policies thusly : He
placed a kero»ene-lamp on the tible inside a wire-
hoop, to which he tied a dozen bits of meat. Then
he turned a dozen hungry cats into the room.
The cats did the rest.
What the daily papers term a “ peculiar
affair” has just come off at Goulburn (N.S. W.)
According to the report of three unclean and
degraded almond-eyed wretches from Shanghai
or thereabouts, they—the unclean wretches afore-
said —were surprised at 10.30 p.m. to see a rather
gentlemanly woman taking a horse from their
stable. One of them yelled out, “ You stealee
my horse 1” and after a chase, in the course of
which the masculine-looking she pelted them
with stones, they made a capture. Then they
found that their prisoner was a well-known resi-
dent, whose income of £3OO a year or thereabouts
should have made it quite unnecessary for him to
go about in a hustle stealing horses for a liveli-
hood. He wore a lady’s dress and hat, and he
had on a lady's pair over his own ordinary pair
which made his aspect rather piebald when the
dress was taken otf. The prisoner, however, ex-
plained in court that he had simply put on the
lady's pair in order to go bathing, which he was
apparently in the habit of doing without taking
his own pair otf, and he had gone into the water
presumably wearing the hat and the other fixing*,
wnen he was assaulted by the Chinamen and
forced to run. He had witnesses, too, to swfhr to
his good character, and as none of ihem had ever
een him in female attiro before, ho got off, but
e didn’t wear the lady’s pair outside as he went
orn e, _


[?]ESS-BARREL."
we
Mker
-l f* y
W
in T .ho brc■.very mi tf-b read
■HBHKt. ’ “ That reminds me,” said Ihe
you know tli e brewer?
H9BBH.!niT. Id 1 Weil, be
HHH: hi- ii-o’.very lax n ?»t —1 h ,! 1
HMKMv bn-moss \vi> h Ida hi tabu'd to
\ ? ~v HRo wanted made in the build my and
■He one of the funnest things -well. I
.dry Hjjhcd so much io my life. We were
'fSpßm'MLvn the ee.hv between two rows of
* in -t Olio of his ‘ hands ’ and asked
laid turned up yet.’ Droll fallow,
' repliel the man, w ho ur.d irstocd his
‘but we expat! Vni every
gSragH /. then took me down two or three
' a sm ili room under the stairs Th-re
•v- ; cw birrel here—cn top of winch was
tin-a id under i' was a t üb.
as the Pro33-barrel,’ he said, and
away and you’ll see a game.’ About
later—some considerable time after
otols had closed—three youngish-looking men
oivn into the cellar, and at ones dived into
room and turned on the tap of the press-
■rel, as Z. called it. We were standing in the
Bdow where we could see all they did. ‘ See
■ > one? said Z, pointing to the tallest of the
Hee who was then somewhat slowly, and, as it
reluctantly drawing a very red no3e out of
jam- tin while tho others were patiently
Mting their turn. ‘ Yes,’ I answered,
about him ? ’ ‘ He’s one of the
Ist customers at that barrel. If all
K- clients wore like him I should never want for
except a free funeral. He’s most likely
loading up all day—and now 111 back him to
nrnre than a camel before he leaves. ‘ But,
HjiAncm't that come rather expensive on you
quecrly. ‘Not so expensive as you’d
HJKe replied, ‘ wait ti 1 they're gone, and I II
gJjljHu ’ 1 noticed by this time that the tall
h the red had re’eas d the .jam-tin,
new in the possession of a man with
H|H moustache, who lojked like a convened
who was pi; ing for blood aid found but
BgH substitute for it in beer. To do him jus'ice
the beer a fair show to do its best for
Hi The third turn at the tin was taken by a
nallish man with alarga Napoleonic head, and a
ountenanco of intellectual beauty such as is sel-
om seen except in Phidian statues, making one
link of what Apollo’s might have boen if Apollo
ad had the advantage of a State-school education,
his young man only took a mou hful out of the
in, and then, with a slight shudder, threw the re-
■emainder of its contents into the tub under the
[barrel * Great Jerusalem, a mirade ! ’ said Z.
jfeu backwards.
Bhis is the fl: st time in
■y experience such a
Kng ever hap-
pened.’ ‘ What thing ?’
I enquired in some sur-
prise. ‘ Why, f cram n
who has once tasted that
boer to throw half a tin-
ful of it into the tub. I
could have sworn that
one mouthful of it would
corrupt the Bench and
mnost truculent teetotal-
ler into atown drunkard
but there seem to be
exception*.’ ‘ Ah,’ I
said, ‘look at the
(breadth of brow of t hat
"young man ! Look at
the lustrous eyes ginn-
ing with spiritual energy!
Is that the man to go
and confuse his fine
.senses with beer ? No,
pir. Now either of the
(other two I could under-
stand.’ ‘ Oh, yes,’ said
Z, ‘ they are
real old hardpans—
sponge-stomached, hob-
nail-livered, rifie-
throated.’ Wc watched
these two drink about
eight or nine jamtinsful
each—their handsome
companion (I wonder to
this day what could
have brought him into
such company),although
he pressed over and over
again, refusing to touch
another drop—and then
they all came out of the
room and got to the bot-
tom of the ladder that
led out of the cellar.
Here the tall one paused
for a moment, and then
in a hoarse whisper said
to the one that looked
like a converted pirate,
• Say, hadn’t we better
gobackand haveanother
tinful or two? We’ve
got to wait a long time
yet before the pubs.
©pen. u The same thought
must have been running
through the mind of the
converted pirate, judging by the alacrity with
which he followed the tall one back to the barrel.
The third young man stood watching them with
an expression of lofty difdain upcn his classic
features. ‘ Bca3ts 1’ wa heard him murmur to
himself, ‘ I ‘suppose I’ll have to bail th?m out to-
morrow.* A'ter about half-a dozen tinsful more,
the tall man —whose nose would now have mad-
dened the mildest bull-and the converted pirate
stalked out of the room steadily enough, consider-
ing the amount of beer they had put a wa>, and
vanished hiccupiog into the night. ‘ Now come
down,’ said Z., ‘and I’ll show you how I can
atford to entertain the Press in the fashion you ve
seen.’ I followed him down into the little room.
‘ Now, you see this tub,’ he said, well, we 11 call
this the Slush Tub. These pressmen, I found, got
so fastidious when they had a barrel? u t f beer to
draw from that they wouldn’t drain their tins but
would diink about half find throw the rest into
the tub and then fill up another tinful, to be
served in the same manner. I said nothing, but 1
voved to myself that I would fix them. So what
do you think I did?’ ‘Can't imagine?’ I re-
plied. ‘ Well, look here,’ he said, chuck-
ling grimly, ‘ mark this.’ He bared his arm
and dipped it into the slush-tub, draw-
ing out a ping- ‘Now what do yen notice?
he asked. ‘ Why that the contents are being
drained out at about the rate of an inch a second,’
I answered. ‘ And where do you think they aie
going?’said he, with the air of one who gives
a conundrum he knows you can't solve. Without
waiting for a reply he pointed to a pipe at tlie end
of the barrel next the wall. Then he showed rue
a little gutter under the barrel in which the pips
was fixed, and laughed. ‘ What do you see now ?
he said, with another and grimmer chuckle.
Well what I saw was this—the pipe that ran into
the barrel communicated with the tub ! ‘Do you
understand now why I can allow the Archimedean
Lever to have its fling at this barrel ? ’ he said.
The solution began to dawn upon me dimly, but
before I could put it into words he whispered into
my ear, ‘ Because, xny boy, the contents of this
Slush Tub are pumped back into the barrel every
morning.’— ‘ And so’ — I gasped, as the ghastly
truth burst full upon me ‘ And so, he said,
‘ this one barrel has lasted about three years.
You see this tub is used for the general slush of
the brewery.’ Oh !heis a droll dog that Z But
depend upon it the pressmen who frequent his
Brewery—they are all on the staffs of the Evangeli-
cal papers—will be hung one of these days. Human
nature (and I suppose even pressmen are human)
can’t hold out against the diabolical stuff in that
barrel. You mark me, there will be a crop of
tragedies anon. I get off here. Good morning.
A SYDNEY OPERATIC SENSATION.
Through the kindness of the gifted composer we
have witnessed a private performance of Beach’s
Operatic Satire on Brains, entitled “Unpopulaire,”
which is understood to be a rep’y to Messrs.
Maclean and Moser’s satire an Muscle. This
truly great work, which will be found worthy of
its author, will, we understand, shortly be pro-
duced by the kind permission of Lord and Lady
Carington, at Government House, Sydney. The
opening scene discovers William Beach, Champion
Oarsman of the Wbrld, seated at a public-house
bar sighing for more worlds to conquer. He opens
with a song to the accompaniment of his own
trumpet :
“ The champion oarsman I,
A man of might and muscle,
Through many a hard-fought tussle
I never did say die ;
My list of wins is long,
Through many countries roaming
A»d o'er the waters foaming
I send my boat along—
{HereWilliam takes up the allegro theme and the
song continues at 1 strokes per minute ) :
“ But if you're on for the making of a match,
Why plank your money down,
And away go and a race we’ll row.
And the best man wins when he s put to the scratch,
So the loser ne’er need frown.
To race and sweat in a wager boat
Might suit a landsman's taste,
But the happiest hour for William Beach
Is at the head of a first-class spread
A making of a speech Yo-ho ! tl
With his pants loose round his waist.
Then enters a troupe of civil servants and some
HOW ALLIGATORS ARE CAUGHT IN QUEENSLAND.
The entire family are taken in to bathe, while the head of the family armed with a gun, pick, off such alligators as, beguiled by
curiosity or appetite, come to look on.
brilliant and witty dialogue between Beaeh and
these people ensues. The jokes are mainly playful
allusions to usually unmentionable portions of
human "internal economy’’and are guaranteed not
to bring a blush to the cheek of the wife of a pork-
butcher. For instance, Beach speaking of Hanlan,
says : "He has no more entrails than a curlew.
Civil servants : " Look out he doesn’t curl you up,
ho has plenty of pluck.” Beach : “He has pluck
enough according to his lights, but pluck alone
won’t get a man to the end of a hard race He
lacks gizzard.” The Civil Servants explain that,
owing to the extension of their hours of work,
they have been unable to get properly ‘fit” for their
usual athletic pursuits, and have consequently
missed appropriating numerous and valuable
prizes in the way of jugs and trophies. They
sing a spirited chorus :
" Oh Cop<*l»nd and Jennings and Co.
Just think how us fellows you rob,
You don't give an athlete a show
When he takes up a Government job.”
Beach advises them that, as brains have long since
gone to the wall in Noose South Wales and muscle
has taken their place, their proper course is to
represent the matter to Lord Carington to obtain
a shortening of their time of work. He furthor
says that some of them might just as well leave
forthwith, observing that their absence would not
I i noticed. This solo to the air of “ The Nasty
ir ” is very fine :
There's plenty loafing fellows at the Civil Service game,
Who never would be missed, they never would be missed;
The ousiness in their offices would go on just the same,
If the loafers were dismissed, if the loafers were dismissed.
There’s Mr. Blowhard of the Lands, who always wants a tip,
A little grease, you understand, to make the matteij slip;
And Swipes who’s always going out to “wet his little
whist" , . ~,
They’d none of’em be missed, they d none of em be missed.
fhile they are debating the question, a po3se of
amsels enter dressed as young ladio3 from the
Hook. Their leader, Miss Angelina Bustle wag,
as the mo3t difficult soprano part throughout the
ieco. The ladie3 open with a recitative :
“ In a melancholy train
Round the block we walk all day,
But no Civil Service swain
Ever seems to come that way.
At work from nine till five,
We wonder they're alive ;
At our sutferiugs people mock,
But we’re lonely on the Block.”
'hen follows some brilliant dialogue :
Angelina Bustlewag : “ Oh, it’s quite too
iwful! None of the chaps can get away now ;
md it’s such ’ot weather, and I haven’t had an
ce-cream for a week. ”
All : “I scream to think of it!"
Angelina : “ Not even a watermelon.”
All : “ Watermelancholy fact!”
While they ars talking over the situation, enters
Lord Carington drossod as the Colonel of the
Sydney Light Horse, carrying his lance. His
Excellency's song is a chef d’oeuvre of the com-
poser's art:—
“ I’m the dandy C jlonel of the Sydney Horse—
A thing I’d blush to be,
But since I came my little game
IS to gain popularity.
“ My lance is made of a big bamboo,
As tall as any tree,
But do.i’t be afraid I’ll run you through,
It wouldn’t go through, do you see.
“ My uniform is bright and new,
I can’t ride worth a d——,
But we’re all alike so I think I’ll do
For the honorary colonelcy."
The deputation then address his Excellency on
the subject of their hours of labour. His Excel-
lency, Beach, Angelina Bustlewag, and the leader
of the Civil servants here give a magnificent
quartette, with a refrain taken” up by the chorus
of young ladies and Civil servants :
Quartette:
“ Oh, muscle is very much better than brains,
For muscle is hard as a rock,
And though brains may be all very well in their way
They won't buy the baby a frock.
Refrain :
They won’t buy the baby a frock.
“ The athletes turn out to a gate-money ‘fake,’
And thither the multitudes flock,
Though it’s not od the square, they know it will take—
It will still buy the baby a frock.
“ 8s all you young cornstalks just learn how to row,
And at learning and brains you may mock,
For brains are not wanted and learning is slow,
They wont buy the baby a frock.”
And the scene concludes with a grand dance and
posturing of characters.
The next scene discloses a running-ground \vith
thousands of people occupying the grandstand, and
the runners dressed in trunks and tights preparing
for the encounter. The bookmakers dodge about
among the crowd every now and then, entering
into earnest confabulation wtith some of the run-
ners A young man gat up as an Englishman,
addresses one bookmaker —
Englishman : “ What odds will you lay ? There
are 24 s artert-? ’
Bookmaker : “Odds! Strike me toothless!
Odds! Where was you sackloi that you don’t
know that Sydney bookmakers never gives odds?
they always takes ’em ”
Chorus ok Bookmakers in several sharps and
a flat :
“ At Rand wick races betting,
When twenty horses run,
You’ll hear us say, in accents gay,
Well take two to one !
“ The odds we never lay, sir,
That game is almost done;
At match or race for first or place
We'U take turn to one !
“ We bribe the jocks and runners,
We spoil the public fun ;
If you want to bet the price you get
Ig— We'll take two to one."
The competitors for the running race single out,
and the leading competitor sings a very touohiDg
solo, of which we quote one verse : •
“ Hi! Ho ! Hi I Listen till you hear my little name,
I’nj a demon Sheffield warrior, and sprinting is my game.
II never, never, never ran a bye;
I never yet arranged a race, for that would be a shame,
And if I start I’m always sure to try. H
You had better let it rip, and not offer nte a tip— H
The public I could never bear to rob— ■
I can run so very quick, I am known as Nimble Dick, B
I'm a runner that is always on the job.” I
At the conclusion of this song an earnest confer- j|
ence takes place between Nimble Dick and one of ■
the bookmakers, accompanied by considerable X
pantomimic action. Then the runners draw up I
for the start, and the bookmakers sing in chorus V
again : 1
“ We've bribed the runners all, sir, I
And they to orders run ;
Ere pistol-crack, your fancy back —
We’ll take two to one !”
The pistol tires, and the race commences. One
competitor falls down ; the others race till within
20 yards of the finish, when another stops wii ha
pain in his side. The remaining two stop dead
and engage in a wordy warfare as to which is to
win. The grand chorus of the public introduced
here is worthy of Gounod :
“ Our man could have won it with ease if he’d tried 1
But he’s gone and made other arrangements.” '
(Some dialogue then ensues between Lord Caring-
ton and the deputation.)
Lord C. : “But is this the kind of thing you
want to go in for ? I call it a most disgraceful
proceeding : not one of tho3e men had any inten-
tion of winning that race.”
Deputation : “ Oh, but your Lordship, it paid
them better to lose. Your Lordship must take no
notice of the fact that no one tried to win. That
was purely the fault of the arrangements. There
should always be one man in the heat on the job.
It won’t happen again.”
Lord C. : “Then it is all a matter of bribery ?”
Deputation : “ No, your Lord-hip, not bribery
—we call it arrangement."
IDs Lordship and the deputation then leave the
stage, and Beach, advancing to the centre of the
stage, siDgs a song in which he deplores the evil
courses into which athletes have fallen, and the
curtain falls on the last verse i— I
“ Only one caper everywhere :
Never do anything on the square.
They'll hocus, swindle, sell, or sham.
They're all the same—don't care a dam.
I row to win, but I think I am
The only one.”
The next scene shows Angelina Bustlewag in
conference with William Beach on the subject of
how to get rid of the taint of evil dealing which
is spreading through all classes of sport. After
some dialogue Angelina remarks, —
“ They’re too clever by far.”
William (excitedly): “Clever! that’s it!
That’s the reason —I always said brain 3 was no
good, and now I know it. If they weren’t so
I clever they couldn’t arrange these swindles.”
A very fine duet follows, showing how it is all
the fault of brains that athletics are in such bad
odour. We quote one verse :
" All this thinking brings us shame,
Sovereigns clinking spoil the game,
Races are lost to win a pound,
Tis muscle makes the world go round.”
On the entrance of Lord*
Carirgton, followed hyP
the deputation and the
ladles, Beach lays this
theory before him, and
after come solos, urging
the argument, of whlrh
perhaps the best is
Angelina’s, “I know’, .
for I’ve been there my- i
self,” II is Excellency*
grants the reduction i*
the hours of labour o®
the distinct
cheerfully given, th®|
none of them arc ever I
to tt ink, but solely to I
cultivate muscle. A j
rousing chorus
up :
“ Cheer up, lads, we’ve done
with thought for ever,
Run on the aqua re our motto
now will be;
Brains are no good, they
make the men too clever
Muscle is the thing at the
top of the tree.”
King Otho,the new
Bavarian monarch, hes
been furl her inspected
by the doctors who now
pronounce him to be sttf*
tiering from “par nola.”
The medical inspection]
was only a cursory affair,!
however, for the Anoint-J
ed One spat on his hand*
and cleared out the whelcl
consultation with a mea J
i xe and the learned n <-■
fell downstairs in thß
shortest time on record.!
Since then they have'
done their medical visit
through a telescope, but
when, as sometimes hap*
pens his Majesty catches
sight of a sawbones
focussing him, his lan-
guage is said to be aw*
ful. In his calmer mo*
ments the King now
dodders about with A
frying-pan and coo®
ham and other victua®
hut he dees not
great success of
wo: k. and he g< nrifl®
-I ills an omelet te
the grate at least HH
imes before he is done with it. lie nearly di
00, a few weeks ago. Ho was preparing «
bacon, and just as he was jabbering idiotil
over the pig and oil, the whole thing tori
ap and set him on fire There was a fearful s<i
mage at this point, and when the blazing moil
had been fairly extinguished he sat down wP
fully on the bacon and crushedit flat. |
The Shanghai Courier has been publ
ing tome remarkably cheerful articles on thel
ject of “ The Chinese Hell." The par \\l
takes our fancy most says : I
“We will now view the sixth court. This court is sitfl
at the bottom of the great ocean north of the Wiß
Rock. It is a vast noisy Gehenna, many leagues in
and around it are sixteen wards. In the first ward thH
are made to kneel for long periods on iron shot. ■
second, they are made to kneel up to their necks in tiM
the third they are pounded till the blood tuns Out. IB
fourth their mouths are opened with iron pincers and ■
full of needh s. J n the fifth they are bitten by rats, ifl
sixth they are enclosed in a net of thorns and nip)B
locusts In the seventh they are crushed to a jelly, ifl
eighth their skin is lacerated, and they are lieaten >B
raw In the ninth their mouths aio tilled with tire. A
tenth they are licked by flame*. In the eleventh
subjected to evil smells. In the twelfth they are
oxen and trampled on by horses. In the thiteentlH
hearts are scratched. In the fourteenth ttcir
rub ted till their skulls come off. In the fifteenth
chopped in two at the waist.’, fUI
Then the fun begins again tic novo. No®
know why the Chinese live such moral®
reputable livos. S


Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60J Hunter-street
Sydney. *
THE SF. RET ART OF BEAUTY.
Lies not in cosmetics, but it is only in pure blood and a
healthy performance of the vital functions, to be obtained
b/ using Dr. Bell s Bitters.
Wine ! —Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected vintages,
for invalids, families, and connoisseurs. Only Sold by
Hookings, 143 Pitt-street.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hahney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all otter insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
CHRIS';
WHAT TO GIVE ! THERI
THE VERY THII
An Autophone costs but 30s. and’
"“’'trie.
pried
The Autophone is a wonderful little instru*
which, while it weighs less than three poum
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and ex<
its music with absolute precision am
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays
keys, and all the parts of most difficult musiS _
it a child can correctly play, without instructio;
any of its music, which at present consists of
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. Il
is best adapted to the kind of music which suit
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe'
cuting very lively pieces. it2T It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle,
also for dancing. The music is compact, and fai
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrume:
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealam
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POME
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNE 1
OR A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state'
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any of
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It maiip.
tains its rale even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balancu. No-horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Notk. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by oui-selves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 line
ruby jewels, patent pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-case
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... ... £lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
1
£3 0
£3 10
£3 5
3 15
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
is tho latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, heaut?
and endurance of sterling Sold. A legi-
timate use has been found for this nohle metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. 'l'lie Oriental Gold Co.,
112 POMEROY CHAMBERS
CASTLEREAGH-ST., Sydney, has
large consignments of those lovely goods, which 'they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for ca© of tbo fol-
lowing: samples, all of Oriental Bold—
Brooches.Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant:) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Cent’s
Albert, 73. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plainss., Jewelled,7s.6d.; Locket
ss. .Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
send these on Approval. If they don’t
please, retHrn uninjured by the First
If ail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
'sent anywhere by post.
R.I.P.—Rot in Peace.
Water bores—Chaffey Brothers.
Strangled—Capital punishment in N.S.W.
A fire at Carcoar (N.S. W.) burnt the house
of one Hades. It must have been hot.
It is now stated that Mrs. Battenberg’s
baby will open the Adelaide Exhibition.
“The Mount Rennie outrage ! ” shrieked
the ever-truthful newsboy on the execution morn-
ing.
“Two hundred Australian sheep have
been presented to Italy.” Titles are plentiful in
Italy.
“The Empress of Germany is about to
visit Queen Victoria.” How these Germans love
one another !
“Wales,” an American lady, a cheque)
and a diamond necklace are being mixed up by
the London press.
Love has been elected captain of the Par-
ramatta fire-brigade. This is a mistake. He
should have been captain of that Footscray com-
pany.
Scene : London Hotel.—Fair American
remarking the diminutiveness of her egg ; “ Well,
I HE above is a faithful likeness of the man
who says that rheumatism is an invention of
devil.
3 is a gentleman and a scholar, speaks several
wages, and has got the biggest foot in Aus-
3is very wealthy and good-looking; has
ty of friends, but his clothes doesn’t fife him.
! has completely used up every profane word
te colonial and other languages, still he is not
i says there is enough thoroughbred agony and
3h torture in his foot to kill every sinner in
s has been a Member of Parliament, a Minister
Le Crown, and an Alderman, but does not
imber having done anything to deserve his
rings.
i has always been devout; and at one period
s life a Government contractor.
: has tried all the doctors and nearly every-
t under the sun, but the villain still pursues
tells everybody that trying to cure rheu-
sm is like trying to shovel wind off the roof.
trying to get a sinecure in the Civil Service
jut friends in the House, or marrying into a
toned family.
says that rheumatism cannot be cured. His
ifather told him so. And he thinks that
!3 it.
is sadly mistaken. It is a fact that a remedy
men found which relieves and cures rheu-
>m, just as sure as the sun shine 3 in the
3ns. It is used externally. It conquers pain.
It goes right to the spot. It cures when every-
thing else has failed. It penetrates to the seat of
the disease. It is simple. It is safe. It is cer.
I Mr. James Marlow, merchant tailor, 11,
Binders-street East, Melbourne, was under medi-
al treatment for rheumatism for months at a
and suffered severely both in health and
He tried all sorts of remedies without
relief, until he got St. Jacobs Oil, when
■the first application gave me instant relief, and
Kant thankful to say that I have not experienced
Ee slightest symptom of pain ever since.”
Edward Evans, formerly with Davey and Moore,
London, was declared incurable at three hospitals.
He was nearly craay from rheumatism. The
doctors said he must die. St . Jacobs Oil cured
him. He says: “It saved my life.” William
Beach, champion oarsman of the world, writes :
“I gladly endorse St. Jacobs Oil. It conquers
pain.”
I Maurice D. Benjamin, Esq, importer and whole-
le merchant, late of Brisbane, Queensland,
:ites “ I had my doubts at first of St. Jacobs
1 eradicating rheumatism ; but as I have
actically tested its efficacy, I can honestly state
at it has wonderful rheumatic healing qualities.”
Henry Ricketts, Westbury, Gloucestershire, was
onounced incurable at Bath Hospital. His
.ins were terrible. St. Jacobs Oil cured him.
'ter practical tests on invalids in hospitals and
elsewhere, St. Jacobs Oil was awarded six gold
medals in America, Australia, and India. It has
cured people who had been crippled from pain for
over 20 years.
William Gitschink, a stoker, belonging to
H.I.M.S. Albatross, was compelled to remain in
Ikland when the Albatross sailed for Samoa,
ccount of his dreadful sufferings from rheu-
ism. He says : “I have perfectly recovered
lit is entirely owing to the free application of
[wonderful remedy—St. Jacobs Oil.”
EaSII reward of £lOO will be paid by the
ItLES A. VOGLER COMPANY, of BALTI-
I;. MARYLAND, UNITED STATES of
BIICA, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
■.ccredited local representatives, to any per-
Boducing proof to the effect that the testi-
ng published by them in regard to St. Jacobs
le not st rictly genuine.
Bby all Chemists and Storekeepers every-
I Price, HALF-A-CROWN.
Blesale Depot for New South Wales
BiIOTT BROTHERS and CO., Limited,
| SYDNEY.
A CRUSHER.
LITTLE BILLEE: “WHAT DID YOU HAVE FOR DINNER ON CHRISTMAS DAY?”
HIS MA TE JEMMY (who, being of poorer parents, is somewhat afraid of being bested): “OH,
WE HAD ROAST BEEF, WE DID.”
BILLEE: “SO HAD WE. BUT YOU DIDN’T HAVE PLUM PUDDING DID YOU?”
JEMMY: “OH YES, RATHER.”
(Victory No. 1 for Jemmy.)
BILLEE (renewing the attack): “BUT YOU DIDN’T HAVE ANY WHITE STUFF OYER
IT, I’M SURE, DID YOU NOW.”
JEMMY (vigorously): YES, WE DID, INDEED.” (Scores again).
BILLEE (somewhat disconcerted): “ HOW MANY FRIENDS DID YOU HAVE TO
DINNER?”
JEMMY (hesitatingly): “OH, ONE YOUNG LADY.
BILLEE. (victoriously): “WE HAD TWO.”
JEMMY (not to be outdone): “AH, BUT YOU DIDN’T HAVE A BAILIFF HAVING HIS
DINNER ALL BY HIMSELF IN THE FRONT PARLOUR.”
(Little Billee confesses that he didn't, throws up the sponge, and retires crushed.)
I guess the hen that laid that egg had a pretty
easy time of it.”
Retiring from the ‘‘ring.”—The Mar-
chioness of Queensberry, who has commenced a
divorce-suit against her husband and means to
fight to a finish.
Lord Cairns, of amorous celebrity, better
known as our “ Gumboil,” intends improving his
mind by a visit to New Guinea. He is now on his
way to Australia.
A squatter came all the way from Queens-
land to witness the Mount Rennie execution.
This is the sort of man who would—ah, disperse
a blackfellow before breakfast.
At this late hour of his life the Emperor
of Germany is following in the footsteps of his
father by going “silly.” It is seldom that crowned
heads put the little affair off for so long.
Circumstances alter cases. Head of the
house (to young man at front door): “ Haven’t I
told you, sir, never to call here again l ” Young
man: “ Yes, sir ; but I haven’t called to see Mies
Clara this time. I have called for the gas bill.”
Head of the house (in a milder tone) : “ Please
call again.”
In a back township in South Australia the
local policeman has been appointed public vacci-
nator. His idea is to do the job with a bread-
knife and ram in the lymph with his official
waddy.
“A Queanbeyan witness said he could
drink ten nobblers and still be sober.” We don’t
see much to brag about in that. A Mudgee
alderman once swore that he never felt even
moderately comfortable until he had surrounded
30 drinks of whisky.
An English paper hears of a fair champion
of the billiard-tab’e, the wife of a peer, who made
a break of 230 in an after-dinner match in a
country house the other night. And there are
several society ladies hardly less skilful than the
high-born player whose feat is chronicled ?
An Italian named Benetti, resident in
New York, wants to back himself for 4000 dollars
to live on hay and oats for a month. There is no
end to these experiments of late. We shall soon
hear of some reckless crank trying to support life
for a fortnight on boarding-house hash.
“ Pendragon,” of the Referee, takes
credit to himself for having invariably paid his
way in Australia and the States. “ Pen.” speaks
scornfully of the “ deadheading exploits and ex-
pedients which have made the names of some
travelling journalists unpleasantly odoriferous
throughout the colonies.” That’s a nasty jar for
somebody.
Speaking of the Keilawarra bungle, the
Argus says: “ Captain Buttrey has partly atoned
for any error of judgment that he committed by
the calm courage with which he met death.”
With one stroke of his quill, you see, this just
Argus judge decides that the gallant captain
must work out the rest of his atonement in the
Hereafter.
The Citizen, a London journal, wishes to
import black trackers from Queensland to hunt
up Fenians and Moonlighters. This is a bright
idea, but it is not half so bright as it looks. What
Ireland wants is a good stock of old, tough blood-
hounds, with false teeth made out of barbed wire,
and not a milk-and-water, Dorcas-meeting crowd
like the Queensland trackers.
The new and commodious gallows erected
by Messrs. Hudson and Co., of Sydney, is pro-
nounced by a local evening paper to be “a credit
to the firm.” Rumour says that it, like every-
thing else, is to be called “ The Carington,” and
that the fortunate firm will now be entitled to
print on their business-cards, “ Gallows builders
by Royal Appointment to his Excellency the
Governor.”


[?]Y THOUSAND
[?] COPIES)
[?]etin' Printed Christmas Week
linishment is indeed a great
crime. Another outrage of the ]
kind—committed -While the youths
ere lying under sentence of death !
e were seven men concerned in the
is usual, the girl assaulted was a
rant of absolutely unimpeachable
ip is to be used in place of brown
e N.Z. Government offices. This is
sure of economy, but it would be
Dint if washing were prohibited alto-
i time and yellow soap would both
after all an unwashed Civil servant
i clean one any day, and not half so
tie airs that a washed Treasury dude
are unbearable.
serious and regrettable error
the S.M. Herald office last week,
irhich appeared on Friday morning
lie reprieve of the Mount Rennie
o by that time were dangling in nooses)
voidably crowded out of the issues
svious days by a rush of advertise-
iotne highly moral essays on “ The
, of the Fijian Christian.”
lance Committee of the Union
ie Sydney Exchange somewhat am-
vited “ all who had daughters and
a in their deputation to the Governor,
how many from among the stern
o performed the unprecedentedly bru-
iting the holder of the prerogative of
hhold mercy, were possessed of wives
ay of more than one wife apiece ?
Neild’s late demonstration at
lean-looking affair. He was met at
sy a chirpy little parson, a strictly
and a shrill boy from the Orange
it ter supplying a trap for the convey-
man with the jaw. Apparently the
d been out goose-hawking, for half-a-
-!ul fowls were lying in the bottom of
and these all cackled as the great
ippeared. All the way into town the
d at the parson’s thin little shanks
im ejaculate, “Oh! Lord! at inter-
bone wondering all the while
what the row was about, but unable
to turn round on account of his collar.
At Hay itself considerable excitement was
manifested by a hobbledehoy and a larrikin
both of whom are still alive, and the meeting held
the same evening was well attended, but when ic
was found that Neild could not promise a Govern-
ment billet all round, the enthusiasm waved, and
when he declined to bring in a Bill for Giving
Everything to Everybody, his popularity became
as flat as a tombstone, and in consequence there
were no fireworks or coloured lights at his
departure.
THE SYDNEY MEAT SUPPLY.
THE RIVERSTONE WORKS-(MESSRS. B.
RICHARDS AND SONS.)
One of the strongest and probably one of the
most unfortunate characteristics of Sydney is its
strong disinclination to get out of an old groove-
even though to remain means wide and serious
loss financially and physically to the people. This
is palpably evident with regard to our meat
supply—one of the most important branches of
trade, and one more directly affecting the com-
munity than any other th*t can at the moment
be thought of. Some years ago there was a great
outcry in the papers as to the w r ay in which the
abattoirs at Glebe Island were conducted, and it
became evident that no really good or wholesale
supplies for the great city meat market could be
obtained from this source. Every description of
live stock were found to be badly and shamefully
handled before slaughtering, and it could not be
otherwise—and naturally enough the want of
accommodation at the Island and the worse de-
fects of Homebusli were held to be the explana
tion of the whole thing. Then the powers of
Sydney, with mighty forethought, projected a
mammoth blunder. At a heavy expenditure of
money they erected ihe costly cattle yard 3 at
Fletnington, neither in nor out of town, and just
at suitable distance to ensure that all stock in-
tended for slaughter should have to travel over
just the distance of road, and in and out between
thousands of vehicles, punished by men and
worried by dogs, just over sufficient dusty road
and through so many annoyances as to ensure
their arriving at the abattoirs in a cond tion of
fever—the blood at double the natural heat and
the flesh quivering, to immediately turn purple
on the work of slaughtering being completed.
Who directed the Government to put up these
yjirds no one ever can tell, but it was a huge
blunder, and most assuredly the whole network
will have to be pulled down and carted away.
Here we may see the most unhappy end of the un-
happy life of a bullock intended for the Sydney
meat-trade. He is beaten or hallooed into a truck
at Byrock or Bourke and is detained cramped and
thirsty for hours—and after hours of jolting,
shunting, and delay, he is landed at Flemington
either dead or suffering from the staggers. The
only sight of green that he catches is the green
tops of the trees or the distant outline of tie
deserted Homebush racecourse. Into the yards
he goes, and is sold, and after perhaps a night in a
paddock accustomed to carrying 500 head of cattle
to the acre, is sent on his hapless journey to the
abattoirs. This trip, though only about nine
miles, is said by competent judges to lessen a
bullock’s weight as much as if he travelled 300
miles gently and naturally through the bush.
Certainly he arrives at the Island with his eye-
balls sunken in, showing want of water, want of
food, and general distress. He is slaughtered and
his flesh presents a dark appearance, and it may
ba noticed that it remains good only for a short
while. In this purple condition the flesh is wholly
unfit for human food ; it is dark, tough, insipid,
and gives precious little strength. The effect on
the general health of the people is undoubtedly
pernicious. Meat of this kind would make a na-
tion irritable, and would destroy, as it has un-
doubtedly destroyed here, the teeth of the strong-
est-jawed people in the world. These facts may
be new to many people, but they are simply the
A B C of a known cause and effect, and have been
and still are telling very much on the general
health of the people. What has been said here of
iml' 1“ ‘lP TlliftS course t 0 H hoep. We do not and
Tever can get good food from the abattoirs, and,
competition resulting from the right quarter, we
svill most assuredly find private enterprise com-
pletely wiping out both Flemington and Glebe
island —a work which the Government, had they
the courage and the knowledge, should long since
have performed. This is the picture—a picture
as black as the meat itself which has to be drawn
off the great abattoirs of Sydney, and the meat
supply of our metropolis. But now we come to
speak of
A GREAT CHANGE,
and tell the people of Sydney and the stock-
breeders of this country how it came about. The
word Riverstone will soon be found graven inches
deep on the tombstone of Glebe Island and Flem-
[ngton, where only the ghost of a departed trade
will be found. For this great Riverstone enter-
prise the people of Sydney and New South Wales
generally —for we are widely interested in this
work—are indebted to Mr. Benjamin Richards,
one of our pastoral pioneers, and his sons. The
I welfare of the citizens of the metropolis
nd of stockmen as well .is wound up
a the Riverstone enterprise, and it must be wide
aterest to know that the undertaking is a huge
uccess. How the reform or change came about
an be briefly told. For years Mr. Richards, who
vith a few other well-known men, owned grand
attening country on our big Northern rivers,
lsed to entrust his stock for sale at Fullagar s old
rards on the Western Bathurst-road, and being
latisfied with the work done declined to distribute
lis stock to other auctioneers. Eventually an
irrangement was successfully made here in Syd-
ney to dislodge the auction business of stock from
Fullagar’s and bring it on to Homebush yards
ust then started. The trade coming to Home-
sush gave the Sydney men the pull, and an arbi-
;rary arrangement was made, the yards ha\ ing
been secured, to demand higher percentage from
the stockowners. The price had been 2h per cent,
and the demand was per cent. Mr. Ben.
Richards resolutely resisted this ; and the Sydney
men said they’d force him to come to terms or
they wouldn’t sell his stock. ‘‘Very well” was
the cool reply ; “ then I’ll not sell at all, but 111
kill the cattle in the country and send the beef
killed to market by rail direct.” All sorts of big
failures were predicted, and one or two instances,
where, however, there was bad management,
were quoted to deter the old pioneer. It would
be useless to deny that rings of carcase-butchers
and the trade generally were formed in the city to
crush the new enterprise ; but the man who had
taken the work in hand w T as not to be deterred by
any opposition, active or great as it might be, and
having his sons to assist him, the work went
along. Riverstone, on the Windsor (Sydney)
railway line was fixed on as tin locale of
operations. Mr. Benjamin Richards is an
old Windsor native, of a type now unfortu-
nately but rarely met with. He is now just on 70
PORTION OF THE RIVERSTONE MEAT WORKS.
years of age, and formed stations as far back as
1840, crossed the Bulga Mountains with stock
nearly 40 years ago. To-day he is far and away
more active than most men only half his years,
often doing a journey of 50 or CO miles on horse-
back at a stretch, while with regard to his mental
powers there is not a better judge or shrewder
buyer of stock in all Australia. Not only in this
case, but he has at one time or other in his life of
70 odd years travelled over the entire pastoral
area of this country ; and he tells, without insp c
tion, the class of stock he is likely to get from this
or that quarter. This is a fact well-known to all en-
MR. BENJAMIN RICHARDS,
Founder of the Riverstone Works.
gaged in the trade. The tirm have three large
stations, one beiDg in Queensland; and, in addi-
tion to killing their own cattle, purchase for the
market director for replenishing their own stock.
But it is rarely, if ever, that any cattle are bought
in the Sydney markets. Having this experience
Mr. Richards looked round for the best paddocks
in the country for the great enterprise upon which
he and sons were entering and embarking heavy
capital, and he selected Riverstone paddocks.
Now the writer of this article has travelled this
country somewhat, and it can be safely stated
that the Riverstone paddocks have no equal
on our coast. It must be remembered that
they were not secured all at once. No ; piece by
piece they had to be secured, till now a glorious
, stretch of 6000 acres, subdivided into severed pad-
I docks, are found secured—and here and here only
is the source of genuine good healthy meat supply
of the great metropolis of Sydney. These paddocks
and the stock in them are the greatest treat an
Australian can see, and a run through thesn is
worth a trip of 500 miles. We have heard much
about the richness of the Delta of the Nile. Well,
these Riverstone paddocks are 20 Deltas in suc-
cession, being made ground to the depth of 20 or
30 feet and having some miles of frontage to Back
Creek and other water courses—each tributaries
of the playful Hawkesbury, whose waters at
times carry punts and boats into the streets and
drive hundreds of people to the house-tops. When
in flood, the river backs up these waters, and the
GLIMPSE OF THE RIVERSTONE PADDOCKS.
whole country is enriched with an alluvial coating
from which the grass soon springs more luxuri-
antly than ever. Such are the Riverstone Pad-
docks, and certainly it is almost impossible to
find their counterpart anywhere in this country.
The slaughter works, simple in construction yet
well designed and suitable for quick and big
work, are situated on the railway line at the
township, to which the enterprise impart much if
not all its life, and adjoining these worts are the
famous paddocks. The old pioneer drives a visitor
over these rich, green, carpeted wastes with
genuine pride, and points to each successive herd
of cattle as being fit for show in any market in
the world. These Riverstone Paddocks have
solved a knotty question. People said the
works were too far away from the city
to pay—the railway freight would eat up
all the profits. But Messrs. Richards and
Sons found that what they paid in railway
freight for the killed meat they more than saved in
the weight and quality of the bullock. Tn fact
these gentlemen say that they have found to
lose more In weight and quality from the Fleming-
ton yards to the abattoirs than is lost by a journey
of 200 miles from the Hunter district to Riverstone.
The whole process is this. The cattle and sheep
brought from the firm’s stations, or purchased
from a known good breeder are first travelled to the
Bulga paddocks, 10,000 acres in extent, thence by
the firm’s own drovers gently towards Windsor, the
lots being timed with the regularity of clockwork.
There are three sets of paddocks at Riverstone,
something like 2000 acres in extent; one is heavily
grassed, another less and the third least grassed.
Not a single bullock is ever slaughtered that has
not spelled at least a fortnight in the paddocks,
and it is surprising what an animal will pick up
in a few days of rest and quiet, with rich sweetgrass,
cool shade, and good plentiful water. First
arriving the stock are put into the rich paddocks,
being dratted into the least grassed as they are
required for slaughtering. This system has a
wonderful effect on the stock. Just before
slaughtering they are on short sweet grass, neither
dog nor man worries them, and they are to be
found in the cool, shady bend of the creeks the
picture of good health and ease. The herds we
saw were splendid specimens—the finest ever seen,
and notone in a thousand would expect to find such
animals within hundreds of miles of Sydney. At
evening, as they are required for slaughtering, the
stock are quietly driven into the pens, and put
through without being worried, beaten or anno j ed.
The slaughtering work at the Riverstone Meat
Works is all done by night, operations being carried
on with the assistance of magnificent electric-lights,
far more brilliant than those which do duty at our
Circular Quay. The great advantage of this is at
once apparent, and shows how well the firm un-
derstand what they are about. They slaughter
by night in the cool of the night air, the cattle are
cool and quiet, and the beef being placed into
specially-built trucks is rushed on to Sydney
through the cool night and morning air, the whole
of it being in the Sydney depot at Darling
Harbour even before the sun is up. It is a grand
sight this slaughtering work at Riverstone. No
one would suppose there was such a large amount
of work being performed in this quiet little town-
ship night by night all the year round. The class
of men employed are far better than those usually
found engaged in the work, and the result is that
here upwards of 100 men and youths are to be
found vigorously at work hard as evor they can
go—no noise, scaroely even a word, and certainly
nothing of the language which is usually heard in
similar places. The electric light, produced by
I great power, lights up the place as if by the noon-
day sun ; yet every nook and comer of the works
are swept all through the night by breezes from
across vast stretohes of forest or richly cultivated
areas of fettled land. The workmen a fl|§
smartest yet seen here : the whole work
quickly, and completely done, the beef ands^K^J
being landed in the truck a perfect
health and richness. No such beef or
ever seen in any Australian city as now
of these Riverstone works every night, ®|j|
ever a firm deserved to succeed for
reform while making a private success
the Messrs. Richards, father and sons,
succeed as they have. Every facility
and good work is everywhere obseivabl ■j||
every particle of refuse finds its proper
The offal runs away on falling truck
wards to be carted away for manure ;
and washing flow into a huge vat a hundrtHHß
away, and thence at day-time is
specially-made iron tank-carts and
the paddocks to produce most luxuriant
the sources of tallow and oil, bones, & c., areM|J|
to cauldrons and huge steam-digestors;
are put aside and cured in the highest
able condition; the hoofs and horns and®
are saved after boiling, and, like the hidHH
the wool, lindan ever growing market in
being sent thither direct by the firm, an dHß|
perfect bone-mill factory is kept in constant?**
Over 300 head of cattle are put through
week,and over 500 sheep daily,
removal of the mutton and beef to
cient work remains next day for a fresh
men in the way of curing and packing thKH
drying and packing pelts, and baling
ing w’ool, easking the tallow and the
packing the bones, hoofs, &c., every
article beirg saved, and a vast
independent of the main things.
THE MEAT SUPPLY OF THE METR(®H
Messrs. Richards have a depot at
hour where the beef and mutton are
from the trucks each morning, and hereMHj
sight is every morning to be seen.
be seen, as it all should be, sent for
sumption, and here at early morning rO ]HB
first-class butchers of our suburbs and
take their pick, and whatever remains
the trade at auction each day at 12
entire supply being always promptly
A few years ago only 130 carcases or
through,but now up to 300 beef carcases aflH
mutton are got through each week, andthMSJl
is fast increasing—at such a rate,
almost to overtax the people who do theHH
ing work at both ends. In addition to
carcase trade, Messrs. Richards and SonsJBSJI
and increasing shippers of frozen
land, the firm having a large annua®|||
with the Orient Company for that
Sydney depot being convenient to
freezing works, every facility for the ®B|
to hand. For this frozen mutton trade
are capable of putting through over
night, the mutton slaughtering house,
in the sketch, being very expensive
The firm are now intending to take fuHH
age of their unapproachable facilities
stone of carrying on the entire trade
with their great enterprise, and at no
we may expect to find in full swing at
stone works the whole work of
washing and baling of wool, the tannin
and pelts, &c., the product of the W( *®l
shipped to Europe direct by the firm.
manager at Riverstone is Mr. George Cr®|
gentleman who has had years’
cn his father’s station Northward,
collection of the smartest workers we
and these men well-deserve to be
ally-built, grandly-situated cottages
built by Mr. Richards for the married mefl
special building has been put up for
men, with every accommodation for dininMi
ing, reading, &c.
Mr. B. Richards, the senior member of BH
of whom we give a sketch, still takes
part in the great enterprise now so
the credit of his name. He buys for
controls the supplies, travelling away HH
west with the speed and facility that
the country full 50 years ago.
described as a remarkable man, and
one in all the Hawkesbury and
Queensland border, who, knowing him, dtE
hold him in the highest esteem for his probit
goodwill and his rare spirit of enterprise.
Sydney business is managed by Mr. Robt. Riel
whose style of business has done much to
complete the success of the work at River
Thus we have a brief history of the origin
description of the present successful condit
the great Riveratone Meat Works. Anyon
inspects the whole w r ork will not hesitate
tha this is the true source of the great supply
metropolis, and the extinction of both thf
Island abattoirs and the Flemington jar
certainty. This is not what the Riverstone
desire by any mean a as thej - must contii
hugely profit by the existing contrast. St
final result is a matter of great concern
people, and to Messrs. Richards and So®;
the credit of this much-desired but loflSp
reform.* JBB
The Ci.imate ok Victoria. —
graphical position Victoria enjoys a
more genial to Europeans than any
within the Continent of Australia,
Consumption and many other chest
not prevail there to the same extent
parts. The popularity which Freeman®!
Clilorodyne has obtained by the
treatment of Consumption, Bronchitis,
a tFection3, Croup, and Whooping
the sincerest desire on their part to H®
great boon that Nature has granted
ing these diseases the moment the HH
evidence themselves. Insist upon
man’s” only. Trade mark, an
sale Agents For Victoria, Rocke, T<H|
Co., and obtainable from all chemists.
If that giddy old gentleman with
moustache, luddy cheeks, gold headed fljj
above-proof breath, who
street every afternoon, believes
especial object of admiration of
frequents that thoroughfare, he is mflH
track. No, old man, thou art too n <®®|
hold of the grave to win the smile
be blessed with a kiss from the rubjTJ®
light-heeled promenaders. At which
gold old gentleman smiles a confident
remarking that modern
regular afternoon, speckspan beauty, has!
appetite for a chicken liver, and a yearninj
bottle of sweet wine, partially iced, ws
with the belle of the throng, and leavos th
sucking, rosy cheeked Adonis to admire tl
of those wonderful cigarette makers, picM
the dead walls, and lament that the real a
blood article is so fleshy and sordidly inclifl
getting the old man’s sagacity in always!
so charming in his perfect fitting suit te_B
from Summerfield and Co., merchant tafl
and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney.* ■


rHKA TRK ROYAL.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, und Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
h\ ERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
Messrs Williamson, Garner, and Musjrrove’s
GRAND XMAS COMIC PANTOMIME
THE SLEEPING HEAUTY
1 THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
[Prices as usual.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarkeb.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
COME AND SEE THE ATTENDANCE
EVERY EVENING.
THE ALHAMBRA HUNT CLUB PICNIC
is CROWDED with SPECTATORS eager to par-
take of the good things provided by the caterer to
this Variety Company.
Miss LETITIA RILEY joins the Company for the
first time.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Sta!
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30
rjIHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; als
Handsome “ Lipp Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec,
rjIHE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY.
Mr Hsrry Rickards, Australia’s Universal Fa-
vorite, supported by his powerful Company of 12
London Specialty Artists will open Launceston
Academy of Music, Monday, Dec. 27; Melbourne,
Ballarat, Sandhurst, to follow. Academy of
Music, Launceston, TO LET, from Jan. 10. Ad-
vance Agent, Mr. Sydney Hall ; General Manager,
Mr. Philip Stuart.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.G.
Esq., C.M.C,
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Boiirkc, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
rjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C
DIVISION,
T Cairns and Herberton Railway—Section t.
ENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
ton Railway— in length fifteen miles twenty chains
—m accordance with Plans, ?ections, Drawings,
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offioes of the Chief Engineer
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbane, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can be obtained.
Tenders, endorred “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
way, must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the 14 day of January, 1887.
Ihe lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
_ „ „ Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
O N
WJ O H N S
• COOPER, SURYEYOR, ■ ■
and
LICENSED GAUGER
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
CAIJ«IX« IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Splrlc Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
»T KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX BTIJEET
Between Kins and Market street*. ’
* IMPORTERS orp
HATS CAPS
CEORCE ST
&YDXZY
fyoosife jL 'eusettet
f/
Pi
#6
WHA'
WILL convince you of the wonder-
ful curative properties combined in
Dr. Bell’s Bitters, if the remarkable
cures that have been effected by its use fail to impress
upon your nund this repeatedly proven fact. Thous-
ands are using it,
it is a medicine
even more than
w
and all declare that
possessing all and
we claim for it. My
friend, if you are sick, or in that condition that you
cannot call yourseff either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and realise yourself how
this medicine hits the
right spot, and puts all
‘he machinery of your
body into working order.
CONVINCE
One of our prominent business men said to us the
other day : “ In the spring my wife got all run down
and could not eat anything ; passing a store I saw a
lot of Dr. Bell’s Bitters in the win ’sw, and I got a
bottle. After she had been taking it a week she had
a rousing appetite, and it did her a world of good.
She took three bottles, and it was the best investment
ever made.”
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring Medi-
cine is Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Headache, and Kidney and Liver Complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for Restoring and
sharpening the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples,
or other Diseases of the Blood.
IV you suffer from any of these affections, try Dr.
Bell’s Bitters at once.
Dr. Fell’s Bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal.
It tones the system, strengthens and invigorates
giving new life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the
only known Specific for Kidney, Liver and Urinary
Diseases; that it has no equal as a BLOOD PURIFIER,
that it is the best safeguard against Contagious
Diseases, both acute and chronic, keeping the KID-
NEYS and LlVER—the great organs of the body-
in healthy condition, disease then being impessible.
Noth. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA,
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
NEW
•o
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15a.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
C O.
KOBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
O'" Country Orders receive prompt attention.
Lawler’s
GEOEGI
S'!
Between Liverpool
[Establish, d
Ths Place for Bargains in
The be?.t i ticked Emporiur.
LAWLER’S, where everythin,
or about a house may be hid as
reach of all. No puffing, or pil
goods for next to nothing, but 1
precedented, and if it is not s|
buy.. Manufacturer and whL
turning over in the lines above*
as all the other houses put togetf
straightforwardness, civility and '
LAWLER’S 608 George-sti
Colonial Industry’
H at S. ROSENTHAL. 1 LiL
Street, East (opposite Colonial Btl
Manufacturer of real Meerschaij
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
A SOVEREIGN R
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the
Pace, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pain
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATI
will give instant Relief and Cure in
The Australian Remedy. No cha
necessary ! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., ss.
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTIO
1 his Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy f
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numei
timonials from those who have recovered
agency can be seen. Admitted by the
Paculty to be the safest and best manufactu
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Che
531 Georsre-sfcreat only.
rjIHE BANK OF NEW
SYDNEY BRANCHES: _
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STkI
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve fund
£1,000,000
675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal citf
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AM ERIC,
and CANADA and can offer special facilities fg
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commerci]
and Travellers' Letters of Credit. f
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favoj
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained
application.
• N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.]
E
O* M. R I L
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
Damage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
glole. he \e in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
Mreoiti.n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
DiCtnpi' y attend to all business entrusted to h < oare.
a
KSB
if. 7
•r :A'
TO
By Special Appointme* 1
xi*
y^ eBTY
L
AND
HIS ROYAL
H\G vA
TV>* "“ NCE ° F “V
GEORGE GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
TRAPP & ELLES, 54 Margaret-street, Agents for New South Wales.
w
C 3
n
LO
1
o
X
O
X
CL.
O
Q
M
o^r ?tc/ /(?^
izcimv s y /?? /
'foMOU ( ??{//
/ et£
< &°'
eso (zsWeUvtmte'.
071
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced else) of £,\ Order to be
LARGE BOTTLES” WOLFE’S
found In the
m
How I beat Gaudaur.
(By W. BEACH, ESQ )
knew ’twould be stiff, his condition was prime,
.nd. altho’ I had beaten good men in my time,
iate tidings reached London from far o’er the sea
)f his pulling so well ’twould be made hot for me.
lever mind. I was fit. and I’d make the pace fast,
Lnd if licked —well, no oarsman for ever can last.
!o we rowed to the post and tossed for the sides,
Vnd we judged as we could of the wind and the
! tides ;
Lnd thousands and thousands for miles round the
I banks
I women and children, all ages, all ranks,
»oked on. We nodded and neither man spoke,
lnd Ready!” we’re at it, and off stroke and
r stroke.
tow the roar of their voices comes off from both
| shores
P the light spray drips off from our quivering
oars !
low handkerchiefs wave, as we catch cheers for
each
r Go for him, Gaudaur ”or “ You’ve got him,
Reach; ”
it soon we both saw as we fetched each quick
breath
hether Gaudaur or Beach ’twas a pull to the
death.
>w and bow, oar and oar, stern and stern, stood
the race ;
it no living man could keep up that fierce pace.
iough I bent and I strained till my heart almost
burst
could gain but a foot, and then Gaudaur'd be
I first.
kas caving. A moment my oars had to drop.
b wa3 gaining. I thought that the game was
i all up.
it he wavered. I saw it, and sprang up, and
, then
[leard a friend’s voice, “ Now, Beach, at him
I again !”
liought of the thousands of boys far away
lold Sydney all waiting for tidiDgs that day ;
f breath came again, and the thought made me
feel
the heart of a lion and muscles of steel.
>m that out ’twas all over ; I felt all my strength
ming back as I passed him and gained length
by length.
ould ease a bit now, for the post was in sight,
d he never could collar me, row a 3 he might.’
las my toughest raco won, with no fouls and
■no tricks,
f n I’d rowed my last race in the year Eighty-
|six.
Through the Telephone.
(A BALLAD.)
! Smith was a tea-broker’s clorkling,
ilwart, well-favoured, and brave,
>yes, they were hazel and sparkling,
s hair took a classical wave ;
Tom was no masher or dudeling,
spoke about love as a “ myth
:-walking and barmaid “ kanoodling,”
d little attraction for Smith,
eetcd was Tom at the office,
sober and steady and straight;
?ures he wasn’t a novice—
furthermore never came late ;
a neat little black and white choker,-
d a gingham religiously rolled,
oked just the clerk for a broker,
d worth his own Troy-weight in' gold,
deaf to the whispers of beauty,
vitched by no damselic spell,
* part of our Thomas’ duty
ring up the telephone belle
y, “Are you there?” to that fairy,
1 mention the number lie sought,
ondole with her in her quandary
en things didn’t work as they ought..
oft as the zephyr breeze sighing
ummer through foliaged glade,
the sun is reluctantly dying,
\\ as the voice of the Telephone maid
As she said : “ They’re engaged for a minute ”
There was something so musical in it
That Thomas was overcome quite.
How queer are the tricks of young Cupid J
How terribly keen is his dart !
Tom Smith had called love allairs “stupid.”
And now lie was losing his heart
To the nameless, invisible stranger
Who answered him from the Exchange
,0b ! a man cannot keep out of danger,
Such snares does young Cupid arrange.
I passion grew warmer and warmer,
as more than his bosom could bear,’
rang up the Telephone charmer
morning, and said : “Are you there?”
lswered him gently, “ What is it?"
instant he paused to take breath,
told her in language explicit
t he v,as her own until death.
ioy ! As he held the “ receiver”
estasy close to his ear
these words (he could hardly believe her),
i am I yours, ducky dear.”
’allowed a long conversation,
—the finishing touch to his bliss—
pointment for “ six,” at the station,
®d bye,” and—a telephone kiss.
six o’clock struck Thomas parted
hair with particular care,
ie took his umbrella and started—
king out of the office on air.
station he jauntily hied him,
■e accosting each damsel he saw—
-3 “ bobby” on duty espied him
i the terrible eye of the law.
homas to each pretty creature,
last then, my darling, at last !:
ed is a pleasiu-e to meet yer.’”
maidens looked rather aghast ;
urned on their heels and forsook him,
eemed so uncommonly odd—
at “ bobby” came forward and took him—
’ ’noying the ladies”—to quod,
irs, also ten dozen lashes,
I homas, poor beggar ! receive,
empting that number of mashes—
tory they wouldn’t believe,
lephone maid when applied to
dumb (for that message got mixed
mother young man she’d replied to.
And they say that the marriage is fixed).


ELINE.
26
A
»RSK RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
\Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
|3Bortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
lien’s Saddles, Spurs, Bind all kinds of
u’ Ironmongery, &c.
ILACKBURN & CO.,
ISALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
YORK ST., SYDNEY.
f
i at
■ H. SMITH & SON;
9f Manufacturers and Importers
h
;ATB and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors Soutlk oft Hunter-street.
HO,l ESALE MANU FACT.URI!
ONFECTK)HER
JANES STEDMAN
SteaV WorkV.Kent s t near Ermine ST'
fff ogn om sno Ftr£ ft "JrtiCß.
Coufrmr .
SINGM
and Go.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES.
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
K
U S REf £
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
PKL pareld only by
lngham.
R O C K H A M PTON
s
JL
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Merits—
PARIS.Ib7B; CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
EAGRJEA & CYMBIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON'S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the ryowth and
improving the appearance oi the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harn less
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VIA TER
gn exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
jftsrchief, distilled from the choice t exotics.
(if till JJealert, anti of the Manufacturer!—
i, Sl E. ATKINSON,
21, Oed Rond Street, London
. Trade Mark—“ White Uo»o" on “ Golden
Lyre."
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchant*, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Hare on Bate — . . .
Mackles Sc Co. celebrated Whiskle
B. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
V>a. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Kspana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, fee.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, fee., fee.
**- THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows! SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Ifcranoh Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
■kT J, V, WARHEAM, Manager
invite inspection of our LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK of all classes of
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, Ironmongery,
AND
GENERAL DETJEiLTISLLITSTCG DEAPEEIT.
BEDDING
of
every
DESCRIPTION
at
EXCEPTIONAL
PRICES.
QUALITY
the
BEST.
3
r a
-
m
i
GREAT
REDUCTIONS
in
BEST WOVE WIRE
MATTRESSES.
DOUBLE FOUR-POST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
FOOTR AIL, £2 ss.
&2T Write or send for our revised 78-page Illustrated House Furnishing Guide.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
,/A
V s
v'Wk
fib w
&L
J'-
v .<
\i i m
) *
v
■*C±
IJ
>
V - &
'
*\
m
Mi
&■
v
I 7
«r,
:■/
'A,
fcS?
-T
imxsi
X/
MANUFACTURING
HATTER
GEORGE STREET
S
YD
N
ELY
ro
NEWEST SHAPES.
id!
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDAeb.
">iA\U
BWGB§
<^vl
B k
MAUI
Lon
BOStof.
BOSTON, 1860.
II.ENNA, 1873.
RHILA., 1676.
lIAUTHaWAY’S
OLD RELIABLE
Peerless
Gloss.
A necessity in every
family. It blacks and
polishes Ladies’ and
Children’s Boots,
Shoes, Rubbers and
Satchels, without
brushing. Always
gives satisfaction.
Is conceded to be
“THE STAHDARD.”
C.L. H AUTH AWAY & SONS,
23 i & 233 Congress Street, boston.
MASS . U B.A
LLAS
gTUDY
ECONOMY
and
Ha?e your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasol* re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasol* made to match oo*
tome* Repair* neatly recuU/*
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Veil, it’s too pad;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insurance Co,
of Australasia, Limited.
Capital --- - £25,000.
Head Office : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
S3T Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors. &c, of all
descriptions, covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
M
O N U M E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requel
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Maroaret-street, Wynward square, Sydney
s
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
[ H«avi_r
-#|3
a RAIIA
TREATMENT'-:
Dr. E. C. West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month's treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes TO cure any case. With each order le-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
iBIOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver oom
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware (if counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. p r - r box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cute, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sols Proprietors,
SYDNEY. CHICAGO and
TORONTO,
B
RAD LEY, NEWTON, & LAM
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CON NELL STREET!
X* Q K PIANOFORTE,!
dfeOO guaranteed!
sound, strong, and durable M
Trichord, full Compass I
Celeste Pedal, brilliant*
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves.
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, j
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the j
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable,
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, |
nell-street.
Austrian chai
in Great VARIET
BRADLEY, NEWT
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connel
streets.
Bentwood furniture.—a verycompij
Assortment, just opened, many quite
designs.
0~ FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING T l
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradlef
ton, and Lamb.
D
W
Full suites for dining-roomi
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY Cl
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING Cl
Cmatch.
kINING TABLES, with patent exte?
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TAI
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 id
r
L- -•
Sideboards of
designs and various <
siona, in OAK, MAHOG
WALNUT, ASH, and C
A large selection, at
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTO
LAMB,
O’Conne and Spring
WALL CABINETS for Choice China
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Ne
and Lamb.
■'VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WI
J3I SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and
O’Conncll-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novel
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woo
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richij
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newtor
and Lamb.
m*
OQ
OP
t-t
ll
LI
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English am
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets
Drawing-room furniture.—The iat<
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD ai
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid'ln
coloured woods. Exquisito examples are now .
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAM
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Be<
rooms. New designs, covered to order i
any material.
Bedsteads, ail sit
Nickel-plat«d and BL
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring
BEDDING. —All descriptions at
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and
lowest r;
LA.\IB.
SPRING MATTi
Woven W
make; also, Spir
Price, from 14s.
BRADLEY. NEWTON and LAJ


PROPOSED AXTARCTIC
•EXPEDITION.
The Melbourne papers report that the Pre 1
ktter (Ur. QLillet) has received from the
Agent-General another dispatch concerning the
proposed Antarctic expedition. Sir Graham
Berry state* that there is considerable interest
manifested in the proposal ia England, and he
believe* the movement commencing in Mel-
bourne will be warmly supported in the old
country! Tie has recently had an interview with
Sir Allen Yonng.of Arctic fame, and that gentle-
man has, intimated his earnest desire to for-
ward tbe erperiment of testing the Antarctic
Ocean f<yr whiles.
The expedition is furnished with a steamship that can
be taken to pieces and transported overland when neGes-
sary
An artist of the rigidly realistic school accompanies
the expedition.
1 hey taVe also a fow larrikins®
°ait bear traps with ®
Means for lighting & fire in High latitudes is an
essential precaution
Unless you prefer frozen' wvHisky;
In that case you merely chop the
bottle in two, and eat the solidified i
contents.
Meantime a sharp look out is kept for-
“ right. " whales.
I l/r The expedition
\T is here seen ap*
] preaching tne South Pole—the
artist very properly having clrawn t}
it upside down as it really is.
When whalers catch a wrong whale they always let it go*
again with many apologies.
Hf
The expedition finds a whale at last, but as it was frozen
fast in the ice they deemed it prudent to leave it “ to bo
called for ’ when the summer solstice should have thawed it>
out
The Great Australian Antarctic Expedition.
