

The Bulletin
hc Oxf ord Ho tel
®NRY THORPE, Proprietor
LATE OB’ TELE B-AJDEUST B.AJDE3ST BtOTESXi, COOGEE.
m
JU
2>*
iJOs
OXFORD
Mlasa
Will!
V
HOTELj
THE
OXF
ORD
i
M
’t-
m
C? and central position in Sydney, AT TOP OF KING STREET, adjacent to
-‘Uty ,iCUU ‘“ JJUOH.IUU 111 OJUUCJ, ili J.KSJ. vy 1 lII I ' '> ol.i»UUi,
'“°urts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
? %ATE SUITES, LADIES’ DRAMNG-ROOM, AND GOOD AIRY BEDROOMS.
is
|u i e^e with every convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic communication. Telegraphic
” L office in Hotel.
V
c
the


%
m
ILLUSTRATE!* CAT ALOGU ES k PRICES PvjST t KEE
I W.H.PALING&(s I “"
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY. }
# MUSIC IMPORTERS.
largest stockand greatest Variety in Australia - givin
bublicthe Widest possible choice.-PIANOS from l\o, ORGANS
• PAYMENT BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SUIT ALL CUSTOMERS
g the
from £l2-
?mu6&&
PALING kO
PALING ic 0>
df
irmlmvhrk
i
GoLfff/xSrxttr
+MO
IRCACI£
RffW/fPS
' rsro
/ess (
\ssTvL
mcju) Office i factory. Newtown
BRANCH. CCORCI SI SYDHCY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMIT ED.
HEAD OFFICE:
CORNER Of MARKET and YCRK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated June, 1886,
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
* RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, ¥sq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
,^^k^»^3^*M, S2SSK!SK
‘"wsitisr _ MBB ,.
Increase of transaoiioiu n r Duaocitu year •• * ,I J" ■ '' .
Ditto received in dt posits .. •• * |
Ditto dep> Bits repaid .. .. •• •• ’' ■
Ditto if investments snd advances, bills
current and pas* due.. .. ••
Ditto 10 credit of depositors and share- 2gggo ? g
holders «. • • •* ** q«) 046 14 4
Ditto teceipts for financial year • • •* ctt oj« ain
Ditto disbu.sementsior the financial year.. 89,846 810
Dit o valuation of securities and bills held 0 6
by the Baak • • •• *’ 4 * * ** 16 3
Ditto of advances and investment .. •* Ab
I The dividend declared ano paid to tfc e vi*
last Anrual General Meeting, held on the 48th July lust,
W Dividero°paidT to Shareho’ders at the rate of 12J per cent.
Bonus* paiOto Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent)
»• '» "
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened. Bills Discounted, and
make Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
1 OVERDRAFTS GE^pKEDS aAINBT DEPOBITS
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowed :
At Call, 4 per cent.
3 Months, 5 per cent.
0 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS. OF
WTTH TWELVE MONTHS. IjfciLs
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
Or portion of their deposits without notice, and
will he allowed current interest for the period of
Register is still open, and intending
Shareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printtd copies of
report, minutes, forms of application foi shares,
ffcc., &c.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M‘NAMARA,
HWfiRTCTARY.
CAUTION.
XHB UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the Uuited Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Globe” nails, and which are exported from
Qfinuftuyt
The nails in question are made of inferior metal,
end are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
AU boxes of The United Company are branded
(7.R-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. S. HAEEON, Secretary.
115 Cannon-etreet, London, E.C., ,».? 1M
June, 1887.
w
ILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and [Families will find the old well-
Ecown reputation maintained.
mpKRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
a SONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
A HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
“ Western Cham-
m" wys j “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Kjonin to my western friends.
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,*
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress — Mrs. J.
(Late of Westwood.
i Family and Commercial_HoteL
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilattd
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
•piXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated corner of Oill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
& SOVEREIGN lEMEDY
o a 1 Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dclorbux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
W by suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOK BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared b? the Bole Proprietor.
fl. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Georfire-Btraet only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY,
BAK
INC
P
%
WAUGH'S
OBTAINED A
CLASS AWARO .
OF.
* •->:
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD !!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUCH’S
RECEIVED THE INTERNATIONAL
(PRIZE MED Al
Manufactured byJaniesChanhon
Harbour S t Sydnet
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
i r
&
tii
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
S Y D N t Y.
NKW ZEAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital.
gd
MONK'S
pile mixture.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask (or it and take no substitute,
is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
DVrOISTIKI’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcee Mixture,
A positive cl re. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per botte.
iveotstiki’s
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,]
Sole Agents:
MATHFY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
ii Little Collins trebt East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged In mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirlta of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Hoad Offices Townsville, N. Queensland,
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry ani
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numeront
friends of the Firm and the travelling public thal
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge ol
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will hencefortl
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit'
Ing the celebrated Mountain will And every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda
tlon of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCE
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coachee
DAILY YROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry tc Bolton).
SHU N B U R 8 T HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN.
HE
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
l *\ onlr ' *tatlonerp, and lime, writing much tarter
*?/*?* pen-men, and oendenalng matter to leu than
one-ball the <paoe occupied bp pen writins Beautiful
°°£«• «•*. be taken in the uinal manner to Ue lettr preu
Bold wholeiale and retaU bp the eole agenta,
IMRAY ft CO,
<lO Kent-abreeo.
awn
SSSBIMBM
i; 0 ** »Tio«xi«
hohu.M
j iTP 5 * ITOS-XIO
nfsoaM
°„n33W
giflOOa
osmo
VA
Jiras f fios*W
ioaafl&S?.2
NC?XW
fg
c
kiaWactuacrs
* IMPORTERS o f^
HATS CAPSk
438 cIoHCE ST
SYDNEY
//
it
cotf
““5-*
Under N bw _
FINEST SAMPL®
PLUNGB
Good Stabling, and Loos^
Having enK » 0 B " » «S-' W ’" t ’ 1
to oatnr tor tJie P n
alf. P. Ty
itston pboctob^
TBAOTW’UaS«*'n/
••TRIUMPH"
q v aTSX ° r
IKON'S ROIXSB »* •- a
E. O. ELLIJ ,*£
t KENT
Fhb GREAT
r y§Jos
L# x
OF AB Tl^
Eg, ffMft
DELIVERED Aste»o>*fi "V M
DELIVERED A^ fto1 er pr | (! e«^ ) £ jjj
SSWSSS^;
K.’oSS, :; ;
Oio •* •• • fifi ,
I Bam •• .. 18 Of* '
A l eß andBtoi D Beurg4 B Pf'Jf, JS
pill receive £ f 9 »1*
'll* 1 “ >'
a**
df
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
boilers
PUMPS.
gdf
I
J
r,
>
/
7
m
tU gS
11l
Sydney-
111, PITT STREET
A


The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 400
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1887.
Price., od.
(No) Surrender-y Parkes: His Latest Caper.


“THE BULLETIN"
Proprietors: BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co.
Limited.)
PtJBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales
PERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Anniim ... ... ••• &1 0 s -
Half-yedrly ... ... ... 012 s. Od,
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 ■ 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, Ac., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to Willlam Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you, may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1887.
The Great Wort an Question.
The dependence of a woman upon her hus-
band is, after all, the chief incentive to mar-
riage. It insures harmony in the relations
existing between man and wife, and where
tho woman is of an imperious character it
somewhat modifies the concretion of frenzied
threat in illicit practice. I nder existing
conditions there is no room for the recogni-
tion of any more competitors in the labour
markets of the world, and competition from
the feminine camp against the labour of men
is only not quite so bad as competition from
Chinese and Caffres. Instead of the leprous
yellow-skin or the rancid blackamoor, man’s
dearest foe would then be his mother or his
eiater—not his wife, for when female labour
is actually let rush with all its flood-force
few men not born capitalists will be able to
afford the luxury of a wife. Therefore,
though it sounds anti-progressive, we con-
sider woman’s present sphere of usefulness
is of a domestic and maternal rather than of a
commercial or professional character. Of
course, there will always be some women in-
capacitated by education, temperament, cir-
cumstance or environment, from fulfilling
the truly sacred offices of wife and mother.
Of these we have nothing to say. The
question is to be considered in its broad
aspect. Woman’s enfranchisement just now
means man’s enslavement. To throw open
every presentavenue of labour to woman is to
increase the number of competitors without
increasing the opportunities for their labour.
The organs or the individuals which pise as
the champions of woman in this matter are,
he it noted by the democracy, absolutely
silent in regard to a resumption of the
world’s landed estate ; there is no bold pro-
posal to confiscate rents, to realise the
theories of Wallace or Henry George ;
no sincere appreciation of the fierce need of
a redistribution of the world’s wealth.
Break down the barriers ! Let loose this
surging crowd of modern Menads on the
stronghold of Labour, and Capital can
entrench itself belrnd the sophistries of
competition, and, beneath the sanctified
mgis of priest-bestowed and parson-blessed
authority, sit and smilingly watch the rend-
ing and wrestling, the awful contention and
frenzied scrambling which shall attend this
new distribution of poverty.
* * *
Therefore, the dependence of woman upon
the labours of man is not an altogether un-
desirable thing. The enfranchisement of
woman is an affair for the future. At pre-
sent it would only serve to complicate the
social problem which confronts us. Its con-
summation would delay instead of accelera-
ting the grand and ultimate reform. Half
measures represent the enemy’s retreating
lines. At each concession moss-grown Tory-
ism makes a fresh stand and shows fight
anew. The world’s history is eloquent with
examples which Bhow that the measure of
reform has always been proportional with
the magnitude of the abuse. The countries
which accepted the alleged blessings of the
Reformation have been parson-ridden and
State-church-cursed years—aye, centuries —
after those more theologically afflicted nations
which permitted Rome to fill up and over-
brim the measure of its tyranny, and which,
now that they are freed of the incubus, are
freed for all time. Protestantism was but a
half-measure, and the tendency of all half-
measures is in turn to become a source of
danger to progress. The greater the despot-
ism, the more drastic the remedy. Russia’s
autocracy is tempered by nihilism ; Ger-
many's milder rule, by a less purging medi
cine—socialism ; the evil of bad Government
in France is punished by che aperient of
communism ; while England’s rule of molly-
coddle by the grace of Goo is spasmodically
ameliorated by a bourgeois brand oi Chartism
and alleged middle-class Liberalism. And
the latter nation will struggle longest
in the throes of thraldom. The half-
Measure of liberty is a species of partial
political paralysis, and the proposal to
enfranchise women is a Tory endeavour to
bolster up a falling cause. Its only effect
would be to increase the demand for employ-
ment without enlarging the opportunities for
employment.
* * *
Of course, the Sydney D.T. appears as the
champion of the weaker sex. This paper,
with its democratic pretensions, is only the
organ of the bourgeoisie, the middle-class
Conservatives. In a recent article on the
“ Decay of Chivalry,” it seemed to glory in
the fact that the romance and the poetry
which bad hitherto environed woman as
with a hallowed atmosphere had been blown
away by the rude breath o modern icono-
clastic materialism, and that woman hence-
forth was free to act a 3 man, to c urt the
world’s buffrts and to reap the rewards of
fortune and the slights thereof, without let
or hindrance. Says this Solon of chetse-
and-bacon prosperity :
“ For ourselves we would put no limits to this
equalityof the sexes —“and would not check
the innovations of reform till they had succeeded
in placing women on an equal footing with men in
every respect affecting their place in the social
and political sjstem . . . That all this in-
volves great sacrifices to what was once called the
superior sex is clear. It involves sacrifices of
social relation and political and legal superiority,
and it involves very material sacrifices in the
business competition of daily life. Whatever
they are they must be made, and made as cheer-
fully as we may. We have long recognised that
no man has a right to be doing any work if there
was a man who, everything considered, was
capable of doing it better.”—* Better’ also implies
* more cheaply ’ to the class the Sydney D.T. repre-
sents, and the justice of this we deny. * We must
now extend the proposition and say that he has no
right to it if it can be done by any woman. If the
male sex cannot face this competition and accept
the sacrifices it may impose, it must once for all
relinquish its claims to be considered the stronger
sex and must take a second place in the world.”
By the last sentence the D.T. plainly
welcomes with indecent glee the pros-
pect of surveying from its Sydney watch-
tower the fierce competition, the heartless
striving for the first place, between men and
women. Henceforth, fare well all pleasures
of domestic kind, adieu the home with all
its thousand associations praised and com-
memorated in song and history, For the
benefit of the soulless wretch who pays out
sordid dimes for grinding drudgery the spirit
of emulation must be encouraged between
the sexes—“ competition” must be “un-
fettered.” “Competition” is the sacred
shibboleth of the money bags. It enables
them to live in riot, luxury and laziness
without stirring a limb or soiling a hand.
The trades’-umon is the sworn foe to the
evils of unchecked competition. The D.T.
sometimes pretends to be a democratic paper
—the organ of the working-man—and it here
hoarsely demands the abolition of ail checks
to competition. Why does it not openly ad-
vocate the emp'oyment of Chinese lab mr ?
As well employ Chinese as goad on our
women to compete agaiust us. The cry of
democracy is not for a removal of the barriers
that fence around competition. The liberal
rallyiog-shout of the luture will be, “ Re-
distribution of the world’s wealth, and a re-
moval of those barriers which prevent the
labourer receiving the just reward of his
labour ! ”
* * *
To admit woman to every branch of
labour, to recognise her as politically and
socially the equal of man, is to put her in a
position to negative the work of her hus-
band, and to close the avenue of success to
her sons and her brothers. In the article
from w hich we have already quoted the D.T.
says :
“ Women in the future will possess equal powers,
equalrights, equal opportunities, with those owned
by men.”
That may be, but the powers, right?, and
opportunities now enjoyed by man will be,
by woman’s competition, depreciated 75 per
cent. You can employ three women, or four
women for that matter, for the same sum
which one man will consider an underpay-
ment for his services. In a recent number
of the Fortnightly Review, F. Mabel
Robinson, in a paper entitled “ English
Working Women and their Earnings,”
throws a lurid light on this aspect of female
competition. To a large class of workmen’s
wives a few shillings per week in addition to
their husbands’ earnings make all the differ-
ence between penary and comfort. And
these housewives, unconscious of the misery
their competition inflicts upon those who are
slaving for the barest of bare livings, take
work at starvation prices. These women
are the profit-makers for the cheap exporter
and shoddy-goods compiler. Soldiers’ slop
great-coats are built for 10d. each, and
white canvas jackets, very stiff and hard to
sew, for Is. Export trousers cost 4M. per
pair, and fur-lined cloaks are sewm together
for Is. ; while Is. Id. per dozen has been
paid by a West End shop for machine-made
Oxford-shirts; l|d. each, buttonholes in-
cluded, is at present a regulation wage. In
a lady’s night-dress there are from three to
five days’ work, yet 6s. is a high price to pay
for the making. The highest earnings of a
skilled “ white ” worker when employed by
a high-class firm on such garments, average
2s. per day. Cheaper houses pay only 3s. Gd.
to 3s 9i. each for these robes, which take,
however, the same time to make. The
writer states that in many trades in England
a woman must underbid the men to obtain
employment, and by so doing she becomes
the enemy of the male worker, who,
wherever and whenever he can, justly
refuses to work with those who ctepre-
ciate the value of his labour. Imagine what
the state of things would be were all women
put upon a footing of absolute equality with
men in regard to the obtaining of employ-
ment ! What a Paradise of plenty to the
employer, the capitalistic parasite, would
then be furnished ! The married woman,
whose labours eked out her husband’s pit-
tance, would underbid the single woman
dependent on her own labour only ; or
if a single woman found that marriage
would incapacitate her for the labour
market, she would be careful not to
contract any Open alliance, or, if married,
she would suppress by artificial means the
natural functions of maternity, and a condi-
tion of universal free-love—at least, among
the working-classes—would ensue, with out-
ward respect for existing social institutions,
and clandestine, and immoral because
clandestine, indulgence, induced by needs of
a thoroughly physiological and natural de-
scription. Whatever tends to discourage or
discredit marriage undue facility of divorce,
the increased difficulty of the procuration of
the material comforts of life, the ferocity of
competition, the application of women to
the harder forms of labour—as society is at
present constituted, has an immoral and
therefore a disintegrating influence. The
competition of women against man, before
the granting of more urgent social reforms,
would hasten the advent of complete
anarchy.
* « #
The safety of society as it is at present
constituted—and society as it is at present
constituted we attempt in no way to defend
rests, to an almost incalculable degree,
upon the dependence of woman on her
husband—upon the necessity to woman of
the existence of man. Women are far from
that stage of progressive rationalism when
they can take their stand on the same plat-
form with men. The equality argument is
an absurd one. Mind, after all, in a broad
sense, depends upon matter. The great
work of the world, and we are prepared to
admit many exceptions to the rale, is per-
formed by the healthful, physically strong
men of the world. Woman is man’s inferior
physically. In some few instances which do
not effect the main issue, some women may
have outshone some men. This proves
nothing. Women, as a totality, are far inferior
to men, as a totality. Helen Taylors are
not types of great classes, and though the
advocates of female enfranchisement ad-
vance as a reason for the differences between
the sexes that the conditions for female cul-
ture have been until of late years of a decidedly
antagonistic character, still the very fact that
women are incapable of great iutsllectual
development, unless the complete surround-
ing environment; is altogether favourable, is
a prima facie proof of at least present in-
feriority. We do not deny that woman has
the power to work out her mental salvation.
We simply say that she has not yet
achieved it. Now, at all events, she
lacks that essential vigour which is in man
the guarantee of success. Where woman
poisesses this particularly masculine charac-
teristic she is wanting in these distinctive
traits which we invariably associate with all
we consider feminine. The roll of fame
contai ts the names of many men who have
had absolutely to cut their way to success,
when circumstances have been of not even a
neutral but of a determinedly adverse des-
cription But where the feminine mind has
hid full scope amid a genial environment
has it frondesced in a feminine Homer, a
Shakespeare, a Milton, a Newton, or a
Bacon? From the past experience of
humanity it would appear that there are
highways and byeways of intellectual de-
velopment which will be sealed to woman,
even to the remotest crack of doom, and
those women who but superficially penetrate
them seem so distinctively masculine that
their Eex appears but one of Nature’s errors.
* * *
Woman’s enfranchisement is a Tory pro-
pisal. The Imperial Parkes and the
Sydney Imperial ev/m-F reetrade D.T., which,
by its recent utterances in re the case of
Miss Holden, shows that abnormally strong
feminine influence is not unknown as a fac-
tor in its production, is its mouthpiece and
advocate. It will be remembered that most
of the gentlemen who so gallantly exerted
ihemselves but recently to establish a Ladies’
College in connection with the Sydney
University were also of that class known as
blue-blooded Conservatives—though we
should like it understood that we are not
amongst those who proclaim woman has no
need of education. Far from it. Woman
suffrage is a pet stock movement with the
Conservatives. Amongst it 3 supporters may
be read such high-sounding names as
Bussell Gurney, Lord Beaconsfield
the cynic apostate from a faith which
denies woman a soul Lord Iddes-
leigh, Mr. Forsyth (M.P. for Maryle-
bone, and a number of others of that
ilk. And Tories champion the alleged cause
of woman because the women of to-day are,
as a rule, Tories ; almost every woman is a
queen-worshipper, a prince-worshipper, a
parson-worshipper, a lord-worshipper. Every
play-wright recognises the ruling feminine
instinct: Maritana is bought with a neck-
lace and a kingly (not a manly) smile. A
flare of gaslight, a gilded bauble, a blaze of
trumpets, a gaily-caparisoned horse—and a
woman has sold her soul and bartered the
birthright of a nation. Such things, as we
who went to the Soudan know, are potent
eten with man—but with woman ! Alas 1
Woman’s habitual line of sight is toward the
past, the vanishing point in her perspective,
a coronet. The Tories recognise that their
position would be but more embastioned
rather than in any way weakened by throwing
open the political arena to the women of to-day.
The parson is the lieutenant of the Tory politi-
cian. Woman suffrage would mean so many
more votes in the pockets of the parson. The
powers that be are ever making bids for
popularity with the wieldera of the distaff,
In New South Wales the death penalty by
hanging is practically abolished asfaras woman
isconcerned. Murder by the fair hand of one’s
wife is not visited with capital punish-
ment in that colony as it is in the case
of a man who may murder a woman. The
case of the Maitland poisoners is a precedent,
lc was a cruel remorseless murder for the sake
of gain. There was not connected with it) one
single palliating circumstauce—not one. The
Sydney Echo said that modern civilisation
revoked at the execution of a woman. So
Mrs. Keep and Mrs. Millar escaped the
gallows. In Victoria the sentence of death
passed upon Mrs. Mephan for the muroerof
her sister—cold-blooded, and instigated by
merely mercenary motives—has just been
commuted to penal servitude for life.
Hence for all practical purposes capital
punishment as far as women are concerned,
has been abolished in Victoria and New
South Wales. In the latter colony four
boys were hanged only the other day for an
alleged crime, intrinsically less than murder ;
for in England, from which we profess to
obtain our wondrous examples of legislative
wisdom, rape is not a capital offence, while
murder is. The Tories are anxious to ex-
tend the franchise to woman, to put her on
a footing equal in every respect to man, yet
they hang seventeen year-old boys for alleged
rape, while they pardon women forthe commis-
sion of calculating, cruel and Wainewright-
ish murders. Truly the future aspect of the
woman question is not a reassuring one. Let
her engage with Toryism to stifle reform and
there is nothing she may not ask, there is no
offence she may not commit with impunity—
all will be condoned in haste by men who
will ultimately give her a Divorce Bill four
hundredfold more generous than Sir Alfred
Stephen’s.
A Horse-Racing Question.
That little contretemps in connection with the
Epsom Handicap at last Rand wick race-
meeting serves to draw attention to one or two
considerations touching horse racing, in the point
of view of the public advantage. Mr. James
White is a popular and honorable horse-owner ;
yet a decidedly adverse demonstration was raised
against him over the winning of the race named
oy his horse Lava. Both Mr. White and his
jockey, Hales, were hissed and hooted as though
they had been guilty of a breach of some rule of
conduct laid down for the guidance of persons in
their position, and having a protective effect as
regards the wagering public. That the
nostile display was unjustified was speedily
shown, but the fact that it was made
points to the existence of a fault some
where in the administration of A.J.C. affairs.
Formerly, the owner of more than one horse in a
race was permitted and expected to declare with
which animal he proposed to win. If Mr. White
had been allowed to “declare” in respect of the
Epsom Handicap, undoubtedly he would have
announced his intention of winning, if possible,
with Lava, and his other horse, Perfume, would
practically have been out of the betting. In the
forced absence of an open declaration, however,
the public had to fall back upon circumstantial
evidence as to which of Mr. White’s cattle was
intended to pull off the race. It was well-known
that Hales always carried White's winning
colours, and accordingly the public watched
eagerly for the notification as to which
was to be Hales’ mount. In due course
the semaphore announced that the jockey
ia question was to ride Perfume, and
straightway the public backed that horse with
such persistency that the odds of two to one on
had soon to be given. But the semaphore
nounoement was erroneous. The official charged
with the duty of publishing the list of starters
with their respective riders made the unfortunate
and extraordinary mistake of connecting Hales’
name with a horse he was never intended to ride.
The horse he did ride won the race, and conse-
quently the backers of Perfume lost heavily, and
waxed indignant at what appeared to them a
planned deception.
* • «
Whether the deception was a “ put-up
thing," or, as would seem to be the case,
the result of mere negligence, Mr. White
clearly was free from culpability, and the
hooting bestowed on him by the public wa3
therefore unfair. Yet it is only by such exhibi-
tions of disapprobation that an assemblage of
people can express their belief that a fault exists,
and that a remedy is required. The hooting was
not, as we take it, levelled at Mr. White per-
sonally—for ha is a sportsman in whom the public
repose the greatest confidence —but at the circum-
stance of the false announcement, which induced
the backing public to put their money on a horse
never intended to land the prize. In the excite-
ment attending the conclusion of a race, the
crowd naturally forget nice points of abstract jus-
tice, and jump with alacrity to the conclusion
that a mistake involving the transference of their
moneys to the bookmaking fraternity can hardly
be the outcome of unadulterated innoc3ncs. P° s
sibly the inference drawn last week was not alto-
gether without warrant. The people, anyhow
seemed to feel that they had a real grievance
originating in misconduct somewhere. Even on
the last day of the meeting the defeat of one of


White's horses was received, with an outbreak of
applause, though in this case the public were
largely interested in his winning.
* * *
Evidently the mischief lies in disallowance of
declarations. A dub rule insists upon every horse
going for the money, and denies to aa ownco*
more than one the power to say at the outset
with which he will endeavour to win. The rule
s absurd, since it pre-supposes that a possible
winner can never suffer defeat without being
obviously pulled, or being otherwise ridden in a
way to show plainly that he was intended not to
win—a postulate capable of being knocked sky-
high by the veriest tyro in horse-racing. There
are horses, doubtless, that cannot be made to lo?e
without visible efforts on the part of their riders ;
but such animals are so rare that they need
hardly be taken info account. The average horse
requires to bo ridden with care, and with a desire
to have him first at the finish, to enable him to de-
feat even an inferior field. A jockey who is a
clever winning rider is also, as a rule, a clever
losing rider. It follows, therefore, that the idea
of compelling every horse to go straight for victory
is pure nonsense. If an owner has two or
more horse? in a race he settles beforehand
with which he intends to land the money if lie
can do it at all. I hen why should he not be
allowed to declare his intention ? That his dis-
ability to do this may be made the means for the
t agrag and bobtail to illicitly make money out of
the public, the incident last week seems to prove
The public look for a declaration, and simply per-
ceive a false signal—put up, perhaps, purely by
mistake, but which might ea-ily be put up of
malice aforethought. A return to the old method
wonld certainly be preferable.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Unholy Alliance.
The latest tactics of the Parkes Government are
worth a lot of watching. Conscious of the fact
that Freetrade in New South Wales is on its last
legs, the Calico Jimmy contingent have searched
for and found an appropriate ally in the pastoral
land grabbing parly. The monopolists of com-
merce arc unitir g with the land monopolists of
the West. The attitude of the Government can-
not be mistaken. The Honorable Thomas Gar-
rett, in the lavishness of his generosity to the
pastoralists, has sufficiently shown his unwilling-
ness to let anything estrange the sympathies
of the squatters from his party. His gift of
promises to them is strongly reminiscent of
the conduct of an historic personage generally
known as the Unjust Steward. “How much
owest thou to my Lord,” asked the latter gentle-
man, “an hundred measures of oil* Take thy
bill and sit down quickly and write foursome.”
Similarly the Honourable One interrogates the
land grabbers. “ How much do you owe my
master, the public ? Fourpence an acre and im-
provements. Give me thy lease and I will add a
clause giving compensation for improvements. '
This union of parties is the only thing that can
prop ui) that hoary lie “Freetrade for another
session. The people will not support that thrice-
condemned policy, as the Freetraders and squat-
ters must unite against the people. There is
nothing new in the unholy alliance. New
South Wales from time immemorial has been
run in the interests of the importers and the
land sharks. The present alliance is only new in
the circumstance that both parties hope to “rook”
a long suffering public to an enormously greater
extent than 1 hey have ever done before. That’s
all. And. it is quite possible that the conspiracy
may, for a time at least, meet with very much
success. The false issue upon which last election
was decided— Parkes versus Dibbs, for that really
was the only important question of February has
resulted in the endowment of a herd of crawlers
and trucklers with the legislative function. Men
who were in the only possible vile sense o/the
people,” but most emphatically not “for the
people,” uttered the shibboleth of party and thus
gained seats. They were elected because they
crawled to Parkes, and they will yet teach elec-
tors a bitter lesson by continuing to crawl after
him wherever he may lead. This is one of the
most conspicuous and necessary incidents of
Government by Parkes, Garrett, Salomons,
and their covetous, cowering “Co.”
The Burden of Railway Losses.
As might have been expected the Parkes pro-
gramme for the ensuing session of tho New
South Wales Parliament gives railway exten-
sion a very prominent position. There is a hazy
indefinitencas, too, as to the destinations of theEe
projected railways which will he eminently ser-
viceable to the Government. We know of nothing
more likely to fix right principles of Government
more firmly in a member’s mind than the prospect
of getting a railway vote for the district which he
represents. Hold out to a man a hope of railway ;
■stations opposite the houses of his best supporteis
ano he will believe with an unfaltering faith in
the alleged eternal superiority of any political
'doctrines which the dominant faction may from
time to time favour and support. Parkesian
gen iua has ever been quick to recognise
this attribute of political human nature.
Therefore the Ministerial programme is such
as to give at least half of the members an
enduring hope that a railway in their several
electorates will reward their Freetrade devotion
during the session. Hut before the country con-
sents to any more railway jobs being perpetrated
it would be as well to see how far its lines have
’been financially successful in the past. At the
end of 1886 the capital it vested in railways to-
talled £2l 000 000 ; the return of net earnings was
only £667.000 equal to less than 3 percent, on tne
'capital. That is to say, the railways in 1886 cost
'the country a little over £300,000. Nor are
Matters in this respect likely to improv , if we
may judge from the records of statistics. Ine net
earnings were less than they have been in any
year since 1880. when the capital invested was
only £12,000,000, and the interest cn capital
represented by net earnings was less than
it has been in any year since 1871. The
percentage of working expenses to gross earn-
ings in 1886 was 69 per cent.—higher tnan
in any year since 1861. and the working ex-
penses per train greater than an any time since the
year last named. These are solid facts which
Parkes in his recent oral ion on railways entirely
omitted to notice. And the loss is certain to in-
crease mightily as soon as lines now in course of
completion are opened for traffic. For none of
the branch lines cover their co3t: main trank
lines alone are worked at a profit. There can be
no possible justification for these profitless exten-
sions while the accepted policy of the country is
Freetrade ; for unless home trade is encouraged
it will never, in this land of high wages, be able to
sustain railways in the interior. Freetrade stimu-
lates ocean traffic, but it is death on the home
trade. It makes decentralisation an utter im-
possibility by giving the importers a monopoly of
business. A madder cry than “ Freetrade and De-
centralisation ” was never uttered by aDy lunatic
out of Taiban Creek. If you insist upon the bas-
tard policy caded Freetrade you can’t have de-
centralisation, and if you don’t decentralise you
can’t make inland railways pay their annual cost.
JBut as Parkesian Freetrade cannot be sustained
without the help of railway extension it is certain
that the continuance of the present faction in
office will lay a still heavier burden of railway
loss on the backs of unfortunate taxpayers.
£300,0(i0 they had to pay on this account last year.
This year the burden will go very close to half-a-
million. Parkes as a national institution is a
heap more costly than wharf-resumptions and
Soudan expeditions. The blunder of the Febru-
ary elections wiil be certified by increasing railway
loss until Protection is permitted to stimulate the
home trade and bring in Decentralisation of pro-
duction of enterprise and of profit.
4.
The boundless realm of the unflxable is filled
with things that are past finding out, and the
Church of England is among the most unaccount-
able of them all. At his ordination the modern
prelate, like his remote predecessor, takes an oath
not to be “ covetous, nor greedy of filthy lucre,”
also “ to be faithful in ordaining,” &c., but times
are changed sinca the ancient Roman policeman—
the one who was roasted alive in Pompeii—used
to give the ancient unshod bishop two hours to
shin out of Judah with his baggage tied up in a
red pocket handkerchief, and the bishop has
changed with them. In those old days
the stranger who -married a bishop’s daughter
always supposing the prelate could re-
main long enough in one place ever to have
a daughter—had hunks of hard mud thrown at
him by the populace, hut when an obscure vessel
named Percy married the daughter of the late
Archbishop Sutton his experience was different:
he was made Vicar of eight different places
wi!h an aggregate screw of £lO,OOO per annum,
and as he couldn’t preach in eight churches at
once the work was done lor him by curates with
salaries ranging from 15s. to £2 a week. He was
afterwards made a Bishop, and in defiance of law
he held in addition to his bishopric outside billets
worth about £4OOO a year Seven of Arch-
bishop Sutton's sons entered the Anglican
church, and he gave them right off sixteen of the
best-salaried billets at his command and about a
dozen more afterwards, and to the rest of his
sons-in-law he gave about five parishes apiece.
The recent Bishop Tomline had three sons who
held fifteen churches, and, consequently, fifteen
salaries among them, which might be described
as a tardy effort by the goddess of justice to
square the case of the shoeless Bishop who had
to shin out of Judah. The recent Sparke, Bishop
of Ely, distributed billets to the value- of
£39,942 per annum among his children,
whereby the Scripture was fulfilled where it
spates that man is born to trouble as the Sparkes
fly upward. In fact a good many curates with
salaries of 14s. per week and permission to keep a
pig were horn to trouble in order that the Sparkes
might rise, as that family swallowed enough to
keen 400 of them at twice the average curate’s
salary. At the present time in England £9,000,000
per annum is appropriated by 26 bishops and some
4JOO absentee parsons who never preach and
hardly ever come within gunshot of their
parishes. Some of these apostles enjoy existence
amid the balmy breezes of Italy; some are col-
lectors of curiosities, or naturalists who spend
their time in hunting after' butterflies; some
are individuals who look very elegant in nice
bathing costumes, and the rest are tennis-
players or yum-yummy individuals who shine
in mildly fashionable circles and make
themselves agreeable to the ladies. Many of them
draw five, six, or even eleven different salaries,
and their pastoral work is done by curates who
dine off cold cabbage, and try to make the same
seedy black coat endure five years. The Church
of England is a great institution —for the bishops
and their sons—but it is a darned bad shot at
sinners. Now and then it goes out to bunt f or
one, but when it fires it generally blows the head
off its own spiritual dog, and so far as records go
it hasn’t converted any thing—.except other peoples’
money to its own private uses-for the last 40
years.
There are very few moves on the mundane
board tnat the sky-pilot isn’t up to. The whiiom
lecturer, .C. E. Jones, has stated in the Victorian
Assembly that a Christian weekly printed at Mel-
bourne was sent to be posted in New South Wales
(where no postage is charged on newspapers) so that
it might be delivered free in Australia Felix and
elsewhere. The idea (though not exactly original)
is a good one, as it enables the godly to safely
cozen several colonies for the benefit of the holy
proprietor and the pious subscriber. The half-
penny swindle is only a small one —but little fish
are proverbially sweet.
We have made up our mind regarding a quantity
of grease in a tin, which has been left at The
Bulletin office, accompanied by a handbill, say-
ing, “ Try Buiterine on Toast,” We have tried
it on toast, and we emphatically declare that we
are not going to try it on toast any more. The
request to “ Try Butterine on Toast” fills us with
suspicion, for we remember that in the gloomy
days when we lived at a hash-foundry the advent
of hot buttered toast generally signified that Mrs,
Tomkin’scow greasa being below parwas oniyswal-
lowable when partially disinfected with charcoal.
We do not for a moment say that butterine needs
disinfection —on the contrary, it is sweet enough
to the palate and is no doubt made of sufficiently
honest materials ; we only wish to point but that
the legend above quoted is an unfortunate one.
considering the experiences of the man who writes
this. Never again shall our little plate, if we
know it, he used as a receptacle for manufactured
grease. W« regret to hear that a buiterine factory
has been started near Sydney, it having been
found that 311,000 square miles of Freetrade
country can’t keep a million people in decent
butter. The butterine submitted to us is un-
objectionable as regaros appearance, taste, and
smell, and as more than half the people in the
land seem unable to distinguish napntha from
whisky, we have no doubt they will like but-
terine just as well as the butter that tastes of
clover—and a good deal better for the matter
of that, inasmucn as butterine is ever so much
the cheaper article. Tae people who make butterine
are no doubt honest enough, but as their grease is
a sufficiently close pvima facie imitation of the
genuine article to be often saleable as real butter,
Its int roduction is in our opinion calculated to
lead to the rankest description of fraud and im-
posture on the part of retailers. In view of the
present depressed condition of the New South
Wales farming indusiry we are of opinion that
the making or selling of bu terine should, in the
public interest, be made a penal offence punish-
able by flogging. We presume, however, that
Pulsford, the Free'rade prophet, will for many a
year be able to point with pride < o the gigantic
premises of the Sydney butterine fakirs. Any-
thing-is good enough for the boarders.
Mr. Hamlet, the N.S.W. Government analyst,
having examined ten samples of colonial ale from
as many different brewers, says that the liquor in
question while otherwise pure is almost es heavily
loaded with that most terribly destructive poison
fasel-oil as are the cheap spirits sold in the public-
houses of Sydney. This startling state of mat-
ters is attributed to the comparative highness of
the temperatures at which colonial beer is
brewed Mr, Hamlet’s opinion, which may pos-
sibly be contested by the brewers, seems to go in
vindication of the opinions so long held and so
emphatically expressed by Dr. Youl, the Mel-
bourne City Coroner, as to the deleteriousness of
the cheap and thirst-provokirg beverage affec-
tionately known to the Australian populace as
“Shiock” and “ Tanglefoot.” Dr. Youl avers
that the organs of those who die after a course of
colonial beer can at once be distinguished from
the organs of those who have been accustomed to
alcoholic stimulation through other mediums. The
writer has attended more than one post-mortem
at which the doctor, pointing his finger at the
liver and kidneys of the deceased has proudly re-
marked : “See, gentlemen, same old story.
Colonial stagger-juice.”
In many households conducted on alleged Ker-
ristian principles they eat hot mutton all the
week and cold mutton on Sunday, they play milk-
and-water melodies of no particular meaning on
the Waterbury time-payment piano on the days
set apart for profane labour, but when the reful-
gent sun of a sacred Sawbath glints through the
hallowed interstices of the consecrated Venetians
anthems of holiness ascend from the stomach of
the Yankee-imported cabinet organ and the dog
outside growls the responses in a minor key.
These religiously prudish folk live two lives with
moderate success, and they give the cue to the
Sydney newspaper proprietaries, who copy the
example as well as they know how. The sedate-
ness and chrism-anointed somnolence of the
S. M.H. is somewhat discounted by the low comedy
of that dra wing-room farceur, the Echo, whose
lemonadey wit exhausts itself in rehashing
the stale plunder of American back-block
journals, and whose jokes never get above
the intellectual appreciation of a curate,
The moral tone of the Sydney DT. is
assuaged and hot-poulticed by the giddy bucc-
licism of its weakly echo, the Tribune, which
ministers to the agricultural mind a mixture of
watered humour, palsied puns, quasi-protection
to the farmer, and vague notes by a rustic lunatic
on the subject of hatching turnips, or grafting
cows in the early Spring. The S.M. H. is the
clerical father of stern and solemn aspect, the
Echo his prim son, who occasioaally gets on the
spree and indulges in too much ginger-pop. The
D.T. is the snortingly moral Freetrade uncle, and
the Tribune the lamely funny?hay-and-corn-
Protectionist nephew. The other day the D.T,
“ went for ” the private bar in a bald style and no
quarter, and the weekly paper owned by the same
proprietary—in the same week—carried joy to the
bosom of the farmer’s virtuous wife by represent-
ing a festive young thing in tights serving drinks
in a private bar —“ Ugh ! No wonder Joi,in goes
so often to Sydney 1”
* __—
The Queen has it in her regal eye to institute an
Order of Literary Merit. Past experience enables
us to give a pretty shrewd guess at the men who will
be made happy with the first batch of decorations.
Poor old Tennyson is safe for a Knight Comman-
dership of the noble Order, in consideration of his
Birthday Odes and Imperial driveliings. Sir
Algernon Borthwick, of the Morning Post,
will have the “literary merit” of his sassiety
pars, graciously recognised. The Cqjjrt Circular
editor can reckon upon being enrolled in the
slushy brotherhood. Historian Froude, the
whitewasher of Henry VIII, is likely to write
Q.L.M. after his name before he dies. Probably
Mr. William Black, who generally lays the
scene of his novels in Scotland, will not be for-
gotten. But nobody expects the ‘ ‘ distinction ’to
be conferred upon men who have committed one
honest, democratic thought to paper. There was
no talk of an .Order of Literary Merit while Car-
lyle, Thackeray, and Dickens were lashing
humbug and raisin g their great voices in the cause
of Democracy. While they were at the top of the
tree, Our Gracious Queen didn’t see her way clear
to express her royal regard for literature. Now
is a convenient time to let England understand
what class of writing its Sovereign really dotes
upon. Ruskin’s unfortunate mental affliction
provides an excuse for overlooking him and in-
augurating an Order which shall be confined to
the slobbering C.M.G.s of literature.
The Mystery of Laura Swain— how she came to
be in the Yarra, and why she wasn’t pulled out
again—has not been elucidated by a protracted
coronial enquiry. As to the first point no evidence
was forthcoming save that of Captain Moore,
which was so meagre and “unsensational” that
the local press persistently discredited it in the
interests of trade. As to the second point—why
Laura was permitted to drown—there were two
witnesses, Captain Moore and a man named
Flynn, each interested in throwing blame upon
the other. But while the newspapers passed
lightly over Flvnn's various excuses for not
saving the heroine from a watery grave, they
again discredited the Captain's prosaic explana-
tion. He said he was injured in jumping or
tumbling down the steep embankment, and fell
repeatedly as he ran along the river side. Backed
up as this story was by a doctor’s certificate, he
certainly showed some sort of cause for not saving
bis girl. Yet the admitted fact that Moore
lagged behind Flynn in the chase after poor Miss
Swain was commented upon to the former’s disad-
vantage, instead of the other way round. Now
that excitement has cooled down the public have
began to perceive that Captain Moore -unheroio
as he proved himself -has been considerably sacri-
ficed to sensational journalism. He was the natural
target at which to launch shafts of suspicion from
the editorial bow. To put his story in a fair light
had emailed a falling-off in the demand for
“further developments” and “more strange
revelations.” But, apart from having to bear the
brunt of one-sided newspaper comment, Captain
Moore was virtually prosecuted for murder by
the legal representative of the Crown. The
Crown took its instructions from “ our special re-
porters ” right away through. The police, who
are not generally backward in working up a case
against the first man that comes handy, made no
move hostile to Moore. They had nothing to
gain, but something to lose, by suppressing this
and en ouraging that. Captain M6ore has to
thank the poiice for a negative support against
positive attack from other quarters. All things
considered, he got well through the coroner s en
quiry before a jury who felt they were expected
to find somebody guilty of something. They
called him a coward, solely on the smfty evidence
of one other man, also “named” in the verdict.
But it is only fair to mention that Captain
Moore’s employers, and most interested critics,
believe him to be good enougn to take commahc
of his o.d ship once again. There now 1
♦
The South Australian Press declares itself sick
even unto death of the great Parkbs. Soutl
Australia, it points out, has enjoy ea 50 years of
Free trace, and as the result it found itself the
only colony on this continent where population was
actually diminishing ; one-half of Ade.aide was
ticketed “to let,” and the other half was for
sale; grass was commencing to grow in the
streets, and the time seemed within measurable
distance when the site of the godly city would be
sown with salt. Consequently, South Australia
has gone at last for Protection, and when Parkes
honoured Adelaide with a visit he was banqueted
by a Protectionist Ministry and by the Governor
of a Protectionist colony. This afforded the white-
headed bore of New South Wales such a chance
of exhibiting his ignorance and bad taste as he
seldom gets, and having refreshed his inner Hi-
Ham he rose to the level of the occasion. For 60
weary minutes he drifted along in a gently flaw-
ing tide of boastful drivel ; he related his early
history from the days when he was a baby politi-
cian brought up on the bottle right up to the mo-
ment when he came to inflict his calmly offensive
egotism on an Adelaide audience, and when he
had exhausted this subject he went on to tell his
audience of Protectionists in a colony that had
been ruined on strict Freetrade principles, what a
miserable, idiotic, blind, deaf, and dumb policy
Protection was, and to dilate on the utter im-
becility and watery-headedness of its advocates.
To quote the S.A. Advertiser
“ Sir Henry Parkes' address was long, it was tedious, it,
was personal, it was egotistic. It contained a full catalogue
of his own merits. Some men are born to greatness, while
others have it thrust upon them, but we have Sir Henry's
assurance that his greatness is due to his own efforts He
admits that he is nor, a born politician. He says that he has
studied politics, and it is this which has enabled him to see
so far ahead of oth- r men. He recognises Freetrade as one
of. the eternal verities of nature, and he would doubtles, add
it to the Athanasian creed, ‘ which, except a man believe
faithfully, he cannot be saved.’ His egotism has developed
to such an extraordinary degree that New South Wales has
ceased to furnish suitable society when his mind is in its
highest moods. He is a lonely man, and only Shakespeare
and Milton, and others of the immortal dead, aie fit com-
pany for Sir Henry Parkes."
The New South Wales Parliament having met,
each Freetrade Minister has put on his undershut
of brass and is preparing for the fray ; and the
voice of A bigail is heard in the spring-time of
joy. This is what the voice has to say >
“ ,ln January last the Ministry vent hack pledged to re-
turn as nearly as possible to a Freetrade policy. They were
bound to do this, because the country had spoken, If by
and bye the country spoke the other way he would not op
pose it in a factious spirit.’
No, Habigle, you wouldn’t. When deep points re-
quire to be deducted on the dark subject of poli-
tical economy i n order to prove that the country
is right in going for Protection, and that the
charitable grinder of Brickfield Hilj is right in go-
ing along with the country and keeping his billet, and
that DipßS is right and Parkes is right, and all is
as right as right cqn be, Frawncis won’t oppose
in a factious spirit. Not much. He will simply
retir,e to his office and fix up a “ minit ’’ some
thing like this :
“ This is a Proteckahunist kuutry, and pot the busted
Freetrade place it used to was. There oughter be a dooty on
hevery think. I ear as ow heggs isn’t taxed, hut they will
he soon. If Mr. M’Mdlan Calls Ira huut. (Signed) F.
Abigail. ‘ Pea Es. The sekretary will proceed to make a
clean hoppey of this dokyment.”
If the above, or something to the same effect, does
not see the light within the next three years we
will eat Habibie’s stock of grindery and chase
his assistant tiown the street with a pair qf tongs,
The other day a splay-mouthed ruffian was
brought before the Richmond (Vic.) Police Court,
caarged with ill-treating a horse. It fe;l down in
the street and as it did not rite—simply because
it couldn’t—for all bis kicks and curses, he put a
chain round its neck and harnessed this toanother
horse, intending to drag the poor animal along in
this way. If he had not beea stopped m time he
would, probably, have pulled its head off. Yet
such a Caliban as this is allowed to vote and have
a hand in making laws! It is high time the
Franchise was extended to horses. Most horses
could vote more intelligently than such men as
this. Indeed we see no reason why horses should
not be returned to Parliament and made Justices
of ihe Peace. They will never obtain their rights
until they are. Letting this aside, however, as in
advance of the age, we think it is a criminal dis-
grace to what calls itself a civilised community
that dumb animals that haul and drag and wear
their lives out in working for us should be treated
in the shameful manner in which they too often
are. The only consolation we have when we see
brutality of this sort is that the men who are
A Song of the Republic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sons of the South, awake.! arise !
Sons of the South, and do.
Banish from under your bonny skies
Those old-world errors and wrongs and lies,
Making a hell in a Paradise
That belongs to your sons and you.
Sons of the South, make choice between
(Sons of the South, choose true),
The Land of Morn and the Land of*E'en,
The Old Dead Tree and the Young Tree Green,
The Land that belongs to the lord and Queen,
And the Land that belongs to you.
Sons of the South, your time will come—
Sons of the South, ’tis near—
The “Signs of the Times,” in their language
dumb,
Foretell it, and ominous whispers hum,
Like sullen sounds of a distant drum,
In the ominous atmosphere.
Sons of the South, aroused at last!
Sons of the South are few !
But your ranks grow longer and deeper fast,
And ye shall swell to an army vast,
And free from the wrongs of the North and Past
The land that belongs to you.
HENRY LAWSON.


guilty of it may possibly bo right in claiming to
have souls—which it will be a calm and holy joy
to us to see damned.
♦
That notorious “ Cass case ” has been the means
of bringing to light other damaging stories about
Mr. Newton, the London magistrate. It appears
that a poor boy, accused of stealing, was sentenced
by Mr. Newton to three months’. The evidence
was so doubtful that a disinterested solicitor men-
tioned the case to a Mr. Burr as a scandalous in-
stance of injustice This Mr. Burr planked down
£5 and instructed the solicitor to appeal, promis-
ing to pay all incidental costs. When the appeal
was put in, Mr. New Ton reconsidered his verdict
and decided to discharge the hoy. Here is an
example of how the mighty engine of the law can
be affected by £5 sterling. Penniless, the boy
must have gone to gaol for three months. With
a “fiver” at his back he was enabled to leave
the C ourt without a stain, &c. What happens in
England happens in Australia. Charitably dis-
posed persons might well form a fund for appeal-
ing against some of the decisions of seme of our
beaks. It was by an appeal that Bob Sutton
escaped the dungeon cell for smiting Lord Beer-
hurst’s nose. Think of that!
♦
The reply of the erudite Wise to the O’Sulli-
van's query concerning the new and tyrant
cal “ rules for the exclusion of barristers” may be
correctly described as “clever.” He managed to
impress his auditors with the idea that he had
done nothing but promulgate the rules aforesaid,
omitting to state that his consent, as evidenced
by his signature, was a necessary condition pre-
cedent to their authority. Fence the questions
adroitly as he may, Mr, Wise cannot deny that if
he had chosen to oppose the rules they could
never have passed. Either he supported their
introduction or else he failed to protestagainst and
oppose them. In view of this fact, his evasive
explanation signally fails to accord with his
Ministerial title. He may be “ the honorable
B.R W.,” but he was not working at ib much
when he endeavoured to —or at least succeeded in
—misleading the public in this disgraceful matter.
English gentlemen always are supposed to be able
to teach the uncultured colonials how honourably
office may be held—cunning, police court-lawyer
tricks are never practised by cultured gentlemen.
Never ? Well, hardly ever.
The actual producing power of the average
British noble is about equal to that of a one-
legged deaf and dumb man without arms. Poor
Lord Drummond was an impecunious scion of a
titled race who offended his friends by marrying a
“ nobody,” and found himself barred from Govern-
ment billets and other perquisites common to his
class. Though endowed with the special advan-
tage of a handle, the noble Drummond hadn’t
enough native wit to earn a crust at home, so he
took the missus to America in the vain hope of
being able to hold his own with live Republicans.
Naturally, Drummond did no better than most
lords would under similar circumstances. His
hereditary brains were not equal to the task of
gaining a competence by legitimate means. He
became porter to a commission agent, and got the
“run.” Then the poor limp ex-masher obtained
(by influence, probably) a billet as night gateman
on the Elevated Railway. This involved such a
strain upon his understanding that Lord Drum-
mond finally collapsed last month. A Lor don
Tory paper calls this “ a very romantic and beau-
tiful history.” To our mind there is nothing very
beautiful about the inability of a lord—expen-
sively nurtured and educated—to make his way
in the world. If nineteen out of twenty porters
and gate-keepers had started on level terms with
Drummond they would now be writing comfort-
able cheques and trying—melancholy fact I—to
get into the sassiety of addle-pated aristocrats
who are “ properly provided for.”
Parkes told a deputation the other day that it
would be an interference with the liberty of the
subject and an act of tyranny to prevent Chinese
gardeners spreading garbage over the ground and
distributing liquid stinks over vegetables on Sun-
days. It must be an act of polite condescension,
then, to tell civilised, patriotic Australians that
they must not assemble in theatres on Sunday
evenings to listen to lectures which accord with
their beliefs ! Parkes is consistent. Freetrade
and support-alien-barbarians are synonymous
terms.
«,
The champion mining spec, (in America) is to buy
shares in a company and then get an unsuspecting
newspaper to send a cow-headed reporter, who
doesn’t know blende from blue-metal, and couldn’t
tell pyrites from porphyry to save his life, to go
up and report on the thing. The report sends the
shares up a few or more shillings, the speculator
clears out, and* the newspaper rejoices in having
cast a “ luminosity of light ” upon one of the great
resources of the States. Such things never could
happen in Sydney, simply because a glowing
report of a reef published in one of the daily
papers would send the price of that scrip down
lower than wrapping-paper. The only way to
work the oracle in Sydney would b 8 to engineer
the beauteous report after selling for a fall.
The Case of William Roy.
Some further donations to the fund in aid of
William Roy, the disabled soldier of Rorke’s Drift,
are now thankfully acknowledged
Amount acknowledged, £94 lls. Employes of Johnson
and Shaw, Watts River Aquaduct, £2 Is. 6d. Collected by
T. Green, Georgetown, Queensland, £1 lOi. ; J. R., 103. ;
ex-83rd, 10s. ; C. Coleman, 2s ; Robert Wright, 53.
The question of how fast rabbits will in-
crease has been practically solved by a Riverina
squatter. The offspring from one pair of bunnies
in one year totalled 68. Even a loan-office or an
allotment syndic ite couldn't well ask for more
interest than that.
There are bounds to the patience of the
N.Z. electors. Recently near Timaru the free and
independent had been tongue-thrashed by six
parliamentary candidates in succession. The fifth
and sixth had exhausted the last of the available
supply of antediluvian eggs and leprous oranges,
and when the seventh came along he was enthusi-
astically received with a tornado of curses and
old boots judiciously interspersed with cheers,
broken bottles, road metal, and other demonstra-
tions of confidence and esteem. After being
chased from the town to the local cemetery, and
his new bell-topper containing his undelivered ad-
dress kicked after him alorg the road, the would-
be M,P. took refuge from the storm behind a
tombstone, and coni inued in hiding t ill the electors
had dispersed to their several places of abode.
Then he crept out and went home to tell his wife
what a splendid reception he had had.
CORRESPONDENCE
‘E.B.S.’: A lot of good would, no doubt, be
done by the abolition of the traffic in alcohol, but a*ill not
quite so much as you think. Lots of people, if they didn’t
swallow alcohol, would take to other drugs. There are some
nations which consume little or no alcohol, but there is no
nation which does not use extensively some stimulant, or
narcotic. You couldn't settle the drink question by “ shut-
ting out grog from the land." Any Government which
really meaps to face the grog problem will, recog-
many people must have stimulants,
look' to the purity of the liquor sold ‘Sham-
rock’: Yes. Just as the Queensland marriage would be
legal in N.S.W,, so the N S.W. divorce would be legal in
Queensland....‘E Morrissey The N S.W. Press doesn’t
demand greater privileges in regard to libel than private in-
dividuals. The complaint cf the N.S.W. Press is that in
court it is regarded as having less rights than private indivi-
duals. ... ‘ Castor ’: It has been recently pointed out that the
words, “ The poor ye have always with you,” wire not spoken
in a protected country ‘L. Boys On the contrary, it is
now certain that the liability of the Bulli Compaiiy in con*
nection with the late disastrous explosion will be tested in
the courts under the Employers' Liability Act ‘A.J.J.’:
As it is a purely personal matter, you can hardly expect us
to interfere.... 1 Jim Jams’ (Winton): That joke and we
were boys together, but we ll try to dish up the wheeze again.
‘ S.S.’: Charity may cover a multitude of sins, but that is
not its regular business ‘Station Marager’ (Q.): Excellent.
‘One of Them’: You labour under a delusion. The
Bulletin is not a Sydney but an Australian paper
‘Musicus’ (footamundra): Thanks....‘Geo. Eamgy (or
whatever the name may be); We feel that sarcasm would be
wasted on you. A man who writes a whole column in order
to state that the middle pier of a low, common, one-horse
bridge in a rowdy and unintellectual back-blocks district has
been recently straightened up, and yet can't fix his own
seditious signature plain enough to let us know the name
of the individual whom we want to slay, is not
likely to understand metaphor. But a time will come
‘ Bushman’ (Vic ): We like you rather with your crumbly,
moth-eaten jske about the cable. Come and lean up against
us any time you are parsing ‘ Nemo’ (Townsville): Your
“ ode ” being short we will try to hurry through it and then
flee from the wrath to come. We now proceed to sing :
Townsville ! thou land of stinks and smells,
Where are thy Corporation wells ?
Thou gem in Separation’s crown,
At least for odours, thou canst gaia renown.”
As you absolutely ask for our opinion, it is at your service. It
is too ugly to print, but if you call, it will be delivered to
you in person by the ifficehysena ‘Owl’ (Whackaringia):
Received ‘Justice’: Will write to you ‘ J.D.S W.
(Peat’s Perry): To send Her Gracious a Jubilee Bulletin
is one thing, the probability of her ever getting it is another.
We would much sooner take oUr chance in the “Leviathan”
than accept a thousand to one upon the other event ‘ G iff-
ney ’: The paper's cartoon was not original. In the second
place, nobody expects consistency from a paper produced
under the same roof as the daily referred to. Many thanks
for letters, to which we shall attend....‘Edward Brown
[Daylesford): Whenever young Australia speaks, the tone of
its voice is democratic, and with the process of the suns
the young Australian party is steadily adding to its number.
....'Young Man with the Book’: The poet who sings “I
eger stood to see,” is a poor dictionaryless cripple hardly
worth throwing a boot at ‘ Yahdof ’: Pondering over your
“screed.” ‘F. A y’ (Sale, Yic.): See Bulletin of 23rd
July last, “ Sir Henry Parkes—lmperialist and Republican.”
Ypur letter is as long as a rabbi’s curse, but we will endea-
vour to struggle through it ere next Jubilee ‘D. G. Gay’
(Taree): Fish on Sunday ! Of course ; why not ? When
the Apostles were made fishers of men, do you
imagine they didn’t fish on Sunday ?.... J.M.’ (Fcrbfs):
What do you mean; kindly forward translation
‘D.H.E.' (Brisbane): Mere hunks of erotic bunkum
‘ Henry C. Hall ’ (Hermitage Plains): Right you are. We
take it all back....‘ J J.’ (Williamstown): Certainly, joke is
otherwise; thanks for clippings...' W. E. Harcourt’ (Moonee
Ponds): We’ve sworn off Jubilee odes for good..' Senex’: The
metre of Burns fitted the national bard of Scotland like a tailor-
made mantle, but it hangs on your halti' g sentiment like a
straight-waistcoat ‘Subscriber’ (Devenish): Thanks for
item ‘Pioreer’ (Lismore): By and by ‘Amen’
(Tenterfield) : Too hot ‘ H.E.F.’: Thank you, but we
don’t blame anybody for going to church if they want to do
so. It is the variance between the Sunday precept and the
week-day observance thereof that causes our private chap-
lain to get up and snort ‘ Lilliput' (Howard, Q.): No ;i;
won't do. We can’t be tempted by Jubilee ode 3. Try the
Prodesthant Sthandard ~.. ‘ Vag. Poeti3er ': The
parody is too far gone. Even the office dog refused to read it.
....‘Clarice’: Much obliged ‘Cockney': You would have
to pass a Bill through Parliament. Wherever a proposed
private railroad threatens to conflict with Sbate-interest3,
Government would oppose its construction ‘ Cricket '■
You cannot be prevented from playing cricket in your pri-
vate ground on Sunday...,' Stranger : Yes, it is recoverable,
if the Bench believe the evidence of yourself and wife as
against that of defendant ' J.G.' (Aramac): We don’t
like authors who “ dash off things.” “ Easy writing is hard
reading ”,... ‘ Croydon ’: We can’t read your signature ‘E-
Martley ’ : Fusel-oil is not “ distilled” ; it is, on the contrary
the product of vinous fermentation. Distillation is resorted
to, among other reasons, to get rid of fusel-oil.. ‘G. Beech':
Please ca 11... .‘H.H.C.’, ‘H.V. Jackson,’ ‘H.V.W.’(Cooma)’
and ‘John Lyon,’ received.
[Numerous Contributions held over. J
It is said of a car tain N.S.W. politician
that he never pays anything but a compliment.
“A most enjoyable evening was brought
to a close by a solo from the Misses Williams.”—
E. News.
Ninian Melville, M.P., has received a
letter threatening him that his days are num-
bered. The man who threatens an undertaker
must have an awful nerve.
A witness at the Victoria Bridge inquest
incurred the v rath of the Melbourne Herald for
having said he did not come forward to give his
evidence before, “because he didn’t want a lot of
Herald reporters after him.” It says : “We are
not aware that the members of out staff have
anything so very dreadful about them.” No?
Well, we are surprised. We have a high opinion
of the Herald reporters, but we think nobody
who knows them will deny that, taken all round,
they have a dreadful thirst.
The stoiy goes that a N.S.W. Minister,
whose two leading trairs are his fiscal apostacy
and his orthographic originality, in writing to a
certain Commission on the noxious weed and mar-
supial trouble, wanted to know why the funds for
the eradication of the weeds were kept distinct)
from those for the suppression of the marsupials.
On being delicately informed by the secretary
that marsupials were not noxious weeds, be joired
issue with that official, and submitted the matter
in a minute for the opinion of the Attorney-
General I
BRIEF MENTION.
Ayoub Khan go hang.
A private bar —The N.S.W. Bar.
Her Majesty’s Customs—Eating, drink-
ing, and sleeping.
Felo de sc by drowning in the beautiful
Yarra isn’t suicide. It is sewericide.
If Commissioner Chomley wants to put
down the Melbourne burglaries let him try
Warner’s safe cure.
Rev. Chalmers says that New Guinea is
no place for a white man. True. But it’s a very
good place for missionaries.
John Thomas Bulgey, of Sydney, is in
gaol for stealing handcuffs. It is supposed he
wanted them for himself.
“ Poeta nurse-itur non fit. ’’ Free trans-
lation : Poets are not fit for nurses. You can’t
trust Pegasus in a perambulator.
la Melbourne, the Rev. Moses, “ the
Australian orator,” is lecturing on “ A Great
Mystery.” Why not frankly call it “Beer”?
Christian Paradise, lucky miner of Charters
Towers, is dead. If he goes to heaven, good and
well ; if not, they’ll have Paradise in—Sheol.
A correspondent of the Australasian
wants to know how to milk kicking cows. With
a ecrewjack fixed at the end of a clothes-prop, of
course.
The B.P. says there are two pubs, in Lith-
gow into which he never goes for a drink.
Another proof of the advance of temperance
principles.
A bullock that fell down a shaft at Oberon
(N.S.W.) lived for seven weeks without food. We
have recognised several bits of that bullock at our
boarding-house.
The Queen graciously says she has been
deeply touched by the Jubiiee contributions. The
public have been deeply touched, too. Only we
don’t mean what you mean.
A Melbourne spiritualist claims to have
received some correspondence from the planet
Jupiter. It would appear therefrom that the
Jovians write terribly bad English.
The Australian Shearers’ Union have sent
a square yard of a printed report to all the papers
in the country for review, in which the members
are warned to pay no attention to newspaper
report i!
A silver dinner-fork has been found im-
bedded in the liver of a deceased patient at the
Kew Lunatic Asylum (Vie ). Another instance
of the disastrous results of inviting aldermen to
public banquets.
A certain Congregationalist minister
credits Adelaide with being more sober than
Melbourne. This is consoling. Next time we
hear that an Adelaide youth has embezzled we
shan’t put it down to drink.
The authorities of Melbourne Zoo have
obtained two dromedaries, which, they advertise,
“ charge their coats every year.” That being so,
they will have an excellent show for the next
vacant editorship on the morning papers.
The Melbourne Presbyterian Assembly is
promoting a mission amongst the Kanakas on the
su*ar plantations Just think of the ineffable
joy of meeting a Calvinistic Kanaka after he had
got back to his native island and sharpened his
teeth !
Bailey’s Sunday News says the Sydney
police “ want to find the owner of a ‘ god’ watch ”
“ Gold ” is probably meant, but it is all the same,
for they leave the “u ” out of guilt nowaday*.
God and good are both spelt “ gold,” even by the
clergy.
According to the cable, the London Spec-
tator (in an article written probably by one of
the Sydney clergy) pronounces Sir Alfred
Stephen's Divorce Bill to be utterly bad, and ad-
vises the Queen to veto it.
A gentleman named Mahony has proved
to the satisfaction of the Braid wood (N.S.W)
Dispatch that he saw a gorilla seven feet high
and covered with hair from he ad to f o ot. Hitherto
the O’Briens have had a monopoly of the gorilla-
vision business, while the Murphys and the
O'Fiahertys have been privileged to see the
biggest pink snakes.
The Full Court at Brisbane has “ severely
censured ” a solicitor “for writing a letter
threatening criminal proceedings against a debtor
in the event of non-payment of an amount due.”
Now, if the solicitor in question were a small
butcher or grocer instead of a privileged lawyer
he might for such an offence have been placed
under lock and key for a few months.
Ayoub Khan has escaped some more.
Miss Holden has been sat on by a ballot of the
subscribers to Sydney Children’s Hospital, and
some lady who doesn’t write poetry will probably
get the billet. Two German officials, hidden in a
ditch, have shot two Frenchmen, and France
threatens to rise up William Riley and see about
it. While we were writing the above we took our
eye off Ayoub Khan for a moment and he escaped
again.
Mr. A. J. Webbe, the English cricketer
explains that in the recent “ class ” matches “ the
Players won because they had much the stronger
eleven.” In the opinion of Mr. Webbe “ their
batting now is quite equal to that of the Gentle-
men, while their bowling is immensely superior.”
This coming from one ot the defeated team should
be enough to satisfy the Argus that it is useless
to attempt to justify the action of the Melbourne
Club in boycotting Shrewsbury and Co. in the
“ true interests of cricket” That high-toned in-
stitution was prepared to pay £2BOO to Grace and
W. W. Read, both members of the E 'even recently
thrashed. Grace cannot come, but Read is to get
his cool £BOO. Why the dickens didn’t they engage
Shrewsbury, a better player, on the same terms,
and so spare him the trouble of bringing out his
rival team as a doubtful speculation ? As the
esse stands now we have the Melbourne Club re-
fusing the use of their ground to the best men,
and actually subsidising members of the opposi-
tion for no earthly reason except petty spite !
The total annual income of England is
£1.300.009,000. Two hundred and twenty thousand
families possess property of the fabulous value of
£6,000 000,000. Eight thousand landlords receive
in rents, £35,000,000. The rents of five hundred
“peers” amount to £12,000,000. Thirty-five
thorn and persons practically hold the whole soil
as against a population of 35,000.000. And while
this is so the producers perish miserably in their
thousands from day to day. They starve in the
midst of plenty.— J. Morrison Davidson.
A S.A. politician alleges that hell is the
only free port on the face of the earth, and yet
people are not happy there.
Queen Dotti, of Bowra (N'.S.W.), has
pegged out. Dotti was a real live queen, although
black as the ace of spades. Yet she never sent a
collect cablegram, or was pre-eminent in grief.
“ So you were caught in the act, madam ?”
remarked the Judge ; “you deceived your hus-
band.” “On the contrary, your honor, he deceived
me. He said he was going out of town, and he
didn’t go.”
The Melbourne Herald sassiety writer
thus winds up a marriage paragraph :
“The ceremony was watched with much interest by the
spectators. maDy of who v had known the bride for a very
long time. ’
Australian vine-growers can, with very
little labour and expense, turn their grapes Into
raisins and get sd. a lb. for them. When this
becomes generally known colonial wine-making
will be a matter of chemicals, drugs, and rain-
water'’
Though Brisbane hasn’t got any river to
boast of, it has about as much hotel as any city of
its size. The Imperial Hotel especially,
run by Mr. D. C. Daniels, is a place
where life is a pleasant dream, and anyone
who wishes to drown his sorrows in the flowing
bowl can here get his bowl made to measure, and
eDjoy it among sgreeable surroundings.
In a N.Q. police-court the other day a
charge was entered in the lock-up book of “Ille-
gally branding a bailiff” (against a very pious
man). Another case was brought before the
Bench some time previously by this pious party,
who laid information against a brother townsman
for “ illegally branding a foal." The police officer
this time entered Into the charge-hookas “ille-
gally assaulting a foal.” It is evident that things
were a bit mixed at that lock-up.
Mr. John Farrell has changed the name
of his paper. It is now called the Lithgow
Enterprise and Australian Land Nationali-
sed, which appellation, notwithstanding its longi-
tudinal attenuation, notes a mighty stride in
Liberalism. Henry George will have a good Aus-
tralian lieutenant in the author of “ How He
Died,” and there is no reason why an eternal
truth should not echo from the crags and bluffs
of Lithgow, as well as from the Calico-Jemmy
warehouse-flanked streets of Sydney, or the syndi-
cate-grabbed Broadways of New York.
Gunnedah, September 12. Dear Bulle
tin,— Mr. N. B, Downing, perambulating Free-
trader, has been paying us a visit, and a branch
of the Freetrade Association has been established
at Gunnedah. Our local 'Tiser describes the
matter thus: —“A branch of the Freetrade
League was then formed, seventeen persons enrollj
ing as members.” As the ’Tiser is on the spot, it
was of course useless to attempt passing on It the
old, lying, Freetrade fairy-tale telegram about the
wild enthusiasm of the Parkes horse-marines, but
the customary electric perjury was forwarded to
the Maitland Mercury, and ran thus:—“Mr.,
N. B. Downing, representative of the N.S.W.
Freetrade Association, addressed a large meeting
last evening on Freetrade, and met with a very
cordial reception. Great enthusiasm prevailed,
and a strong branch of the Association was
formed, about 50 members being enrolled." Fifty
members, observe, though 50 grandmothers would,
be quite as near the mark. The facts were these.
There were over 100 persons present, and half of
them had come under the impression that
Preacher Downing was a conjurer or a sword-
swallower. When he had finished, 17 people
joined the League, but as 11 neglected to pay up
their fees, the branch now only consists of six
members. As this faithful few form the sum total
of one of the biggest of the Freetrade triumphs i
of which so much has been heard recently, you
can understand what a mass of atrocious bunkum'
and lies the whole crusade is. Ia addition tc
Downing, Gunnedah has been visited of late by
another wilted political flower—John Haynes. He'
was a complete failure. He played only to the
“gods,” and apparently he has all the impudence
Bnd none of the tact of a book-fiend. Prior to his
arrival here he wired to the editor of the Namoi
Independent, who is a staunch Protectionist,
and who never met him before, asking him to
engage a hall, bellman, &c. He did so, and the
roaring John repaid his courtesy by calling him a
miserable little wombat " cn the platform. “I'll
■ ave ’is skelp,” yelped the Mudgee failure, when
his opponent rose to move an amendment. The
itinerant inud-slinger palled through by presenting
a double-barrelled motion in favour of decentrali-
sation and Freetrade, and those who voted for
decentralisation were thereupon set down as
staunch Freetraders. He was asked to put his
motions separately, but the artful little
man knew perfectly well that hia miser-
able Freetrade screw could never get up
the hill alone, so he refused. When he had
finished his parrot-like lesson Haynes came to the
front of the platform and delivered a small whine
to the effect that he had to pay his own expenses,
and therefore he hoped the ladies and gentlemen
present would bring their friends next evening
and plank down their little sixpences to hear his
“Pres 3 Recollections.” John Haynes never
argues, by the way ; his ore resource is belching
forth abuse and vile epithets. Apparently his
Freetrade buffoonery is only run to prop up his
own little entertainment, which is a thoroughly
original and by no means unpleasant shillings-
worth. Haynes is obviously not in earnest as a
statesman. His political speeches taken all round
are a great lark, for it is plain the festive John re-
gards this world merely as a fleeting show, E v< ' n
his abuse, though couched in stagey anathema
and bullock-punchers’ lingo, is transparently
farcical. The fun will come along on the arrival
of th it not far distant day when John will round
on the Parkes gang. —Hermit 11.
At Eve.
In pomp of purple
The sun goes down,
He hangs red over
The tall-spired town,
Like a great ruby
On a king's crown.
Bend down and kiss me
Green boughs above 1
I am riding sunward,
Onward and onward
To love! To love !
Yet does it seem,
In some strange, sad wise,
That with open eyes—
Eyes open and wide—
I ride, and ride,
To the end of a dream.
V.J.D.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—' " Silver King" 14
Criterion Theatre.—" Twelfth Night «
Exhibition Building.— Roller Skating Rink ..... ■■
Her Majesty's Theatre.— “ Henry V."..
The revival of that old favourite, the
“ Silver King,” at Sydney Royal, brought tears to
the eyes of many hundred elderly girls, and
caused them to snort behind their pockethandker-
chiefs till they blew those little bits of cambric
and filmy lace into rags. Some of them even
started to climb out of their clothes and sit on
top of them in their excitement, and the girls
who were decollete at the beginning of the per-
formance burst their shoulder-straps and grew
more decollete still as it progressed, till towards
the end they had very little on. The average
low-cut dress is not built to stand an internal
heave, and when the strain of emotion comes,
aomeching must fly. Even the inside fixings
began to go when Wilfred Denver abandoned his
weeping wife and went off to Nevada to drag out
his existence on beans amid scenes of woe,
where the tired mosquito’s anthem maddens
the turkey-buzzard, and aggravates the
wretched flea, and where the restless digger
barks melodies which remind him of
the past to the music of an old tin-pan ; and when
he returned to his long-loßt partner and found her
camping in a cow-liouse, and, falling on her neck,
exclaimed, “Is it ya-hoo?” the excitement was
tremendous. It was her, but all the same he
needn’t have remained hanging on to her neck for
quite so long as a quarter of an hour ; a square
hug 15 minutes in duration grows monotonous.
But previous to this the anguish had been worked
up to such an extent by the report that he had
gone up in the ruins of a kerosene train that we
suppose the hero had to do something to keep the
roof of his head from flying off. Mr. Titheradge,
as usual, took the part of Wilfred Denver,
and it was the genuine pathos of his acting
that made the girls in the circle start to
ciimb out of their clothes. He did his level
best throughout; still, it was when he returned
loaded down with wealth from that wild western
land, where men collar the boodle and heave the
corpse out of the window, and where the noble
red man is fast vanishing into the setting sun,
that his success began in real earnest. But it
was on Nellie Denver, as played by Miss Isabel
Morris, that all the bald-headed men fixed their
opera-glasses in ecstasy. As for the impossible old
Jaikeshe was overshadowed on either side, and con-
sequently Mr. Anson hardly received the attention
he deserved, but, to make up for this, Mr. Beck
received a lot of attention, and the gallery wanted
to reward his obtrusive villainy with a brick.
There are about 36 more characters in the bill,
but we are going to work them off by instalments.
We have polisned off four this week, and in next
issue we will prospect with our uncustomed
energy for some more, when Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner shall have the first show. She deserves it.
## # #
“ Twelfth Night” is crowding up Sydney
Criterion, and the gilded citizens keep up a rush
for seats at an estimated rate of a greater distance
than is usual in less time than has ever been
known before. This is our own calculation, but
some authorities declare that it is even more so
frequently. “ Twelfth Night ”is one of those
little things that Shakespeare used to dash off
without much regard to geography or anything
else—the “ coast of Bohemia” would suit him as
well as any other place, though Bohemia hasn’t
got any coast at present, and as his stock of foreign
names was apparently limited, he would plant a
Smith in Illyria, or describe a Tartar as Jenkins,
with a’l the complacency of genius. Miss Essie
Jenyns spreads her golden wings in the part of
Viola, alias Cesario, and as the latter she looks
her prettiest. Even in ordinary feminine attire
we have always regarded Miss Jenyns as
a national blessing and a beneficent dispen-
sation of Providence, but in the garb of
Cesario she becomes an ornament to the human
race at large, and we are of opinion that some
one ought to get up a testimonial. Mr. Billiam
Holloway is more at home in Malvolio than he
ever was in the part of Romeo, but his voice gets
grittier every day, and he suffers from a frog in
the throat, and there is a pig’s whisper in his
tones when he tries to utter little tender trifles,
and his hair is cut short. Miss Constance Deor-
wyn made her first appearance this season as the
Countess Olivia, and caused a certain amount of
exuberance; and Mr. Inman perpetrated that lofty
cavalier, the Duke of Orsino, though he would
have perpetrated him better if he could have
added an inch or two to his figure. Sir Andrew
Agueoheek looked more of an ass than we ever
saw him before, and his long dreary face wore an
aggravated cold-pork tint, but to make up for this
Sir Toby Belch was bulgier, mote pimpled, and
more uproarious than usual, and as a breezy, ex-
hilarating muff he deserves credit. The scenery
was gorgeous, especially the scene on the coast of
Illyria, where the rugged cliffs were painted so
realistically that one might easily fall over them
and break his neck under the impression that they
were genuine.
## # #
At the theatre named after the lady who is
pre-eminent in grief, “ Henry V.” still waves the
kuee-pan of a deceased cat in the front of the
battle, but he won’t do so any longer after this
week. We are glad to mention this fact. Henry,
no doubt, was as brave a man as ever refused to
jell when he got his corn stamped upon, but
owing to ill-health we are prepared to sell him
very cheap or exchange him for anything that
won’t tear about quite so much. Also our sym-
pathies are all with the poor French potentate who
went cranky, and we think it is positively in-
decent for Henry to go on the way he does when
he ought to be repenting of his sins. “ Alone,”
and “Black-Eyed Susan” form Mr. Rignold's
hill of lading for next Saturday.
X X Jl. 41
1P W W “K*
Mr. Dampier opens next Saturday at
Sydney Gaiety with “ Shamus O’ Brien,” which
has never before been produced in Australia. The
Gaiety has been all blown to pieces inside, and
re constructed on new and enlarged principles;
the stage has also been expanded, and everything
is as bright as paint, varnish, gilding, and uphol-
stery can make it. The agile Gunther will
officiate as manager, and if any larrikin puts his
feet on the new cushions he will probably hear of
something from that gentleman that will make
him weep.
*# # #
The honoured Smith of the Alhambra
opens Sydney Royal Standard on Saturday with a
mgger show, and Mr. J. Grant, manager, will
officiate as the animated outrage in charge. A
strong company has been engaged, and if it is
Possible for the hearse-coloured brother with the
oig collar to teach a great moral lesson he will
oave every facility for doing so. The Standard
has been considerably improved internally, and its
architecture will not aggravate the human com-
prehension as it used to do.
## * #
Herr Schoot, “the Great Drum Per-
former of the Universe,” continues to perform his
“Battle of Tel-el-Kebir ” at Sydney Alhambra.
We don’t bear him any ill-will for this, but if he
will come out shooting with us we will acciden-
tally hit him in the back of the head. The rest of
the performance is as bright as usual, and in that
calm hour of darkness, when all is hushed except
the surprised scream of the cat as it breaks the
record three howls ahead of tha fljing brickbat,
and the anthem of the effete goat as it makes a
light supper upon our pretty flowers, the music
that issues from Smith’s temple of joy can be
heard some distance, or even further. Certain
people assert that it is audible a longer distance
than that even, but we regard this statement in
the light of an exaggeration.
## # *
Miss Carrie Swain starred all the week be-
fore last at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, where
crowded houses and ecstatic applause greeted the
flaxen haired artiste. (It took us an hour to
round off that sentence.)
Melbourne Prin-
cess, the trysting place
of local Ba9Biety, pre-
sented a dazzling expanse
of florid splendour last
Saturday night. Far as
the eye of the traveller
could reach were broad
acri s of smiling shirt-
front and glistening buz-
zum, for with a kind
consideration which can-
not be too highly com-
mended the management
“ reserved a few rows of
stalls at dress-circle
prices.” In the face of
this array of facts it
would be wicked to in
sinuate aught against
“The Mikado.” The hand
of The Bulletin was
never raised against a
sassiety idol —never. A
change from the original
cast of “ Mikado ” is
somewhat for the better.
Mr. Frederic! and Mr.
Leumane show just
cause for their bringout
from England, and Mr.
Braham is Yum- Yum in
every particular.
AL AL Af.
•TF TT
Brough and Bouci-
c lull ’s lease of Melbourne
Opera House arrives at
its latter end on October
7th, and a cheaper and
hasty production of “ Our
Boys” is playing the
season out. The wealthy
butterman’s mansion ap-
pears to have been fur-
nished on time-payment.
The baronets drawing-
room is also bleak and
desolate. Nevertheless,
a section of the company
contrives to pull things
through. The original
Talbot Champneys of Mr.
Tom Thorne is carefully
copied, and, perhaps, im-
proved upon, by Bouci-
cault fils. Mr. Royce runs
Perkyn Middlewick on
rorty lines of his own, and
Fred. Laye, more earnest
Yf i i6is "IM ,
<\oK A
THE KYARDINAL’S CHAPLAIN.
and careful than usual, ~ ,
comes out strong as Gharry- Both the Melrose
girls look nice enough to fight and die for, but
these remarks don’t apply to old Champneys or his
sister. There are no marked features about Miss
Robina’s assumption of Belinda, except soot and
i curl-papers. According to present appearances,
the Opera House will be “To Let” after next
week, unless B. and B. see their way to continue
a business which has been remunerative enough
during their twelve months’ term. Fate con-
tinues kind to them at the Bijou, where “ Held by
the Enemy” is good for another three weeks,
anyhow. There was an uncanny fascination about
the muffled figure on a stretcher from the first.
But now he is brought nearer to the footlights,
the surgeon fingers the plac’d brow in professional
style, and the whole house is hushed in the pre-
sence of death. ’Tis a big situation, this. It re-
minds us that we are but strangers and sojourners
in the land, and it inspires undertakers to leave
their business-cards at the stage-door.
#* * *
Some of Mr. Simonsen’s singers are feeling
a little tender about the throat. Signor Lazzarini
went on sick list last week, and “ Don Giovanni
had to keep mashiog for several nights without
any break. According to latest arrangements,
“Les Huguenots” should be filling Melbourne
Royal just now.
#
Mr. Henry Harwood takes a benefit at
Melbourne Opera House on October 6, when he
purposes bidding his friends a brief adieu until
they meet next time, A crowded attendance
may be taken as read.
JI, -AA, -At-
T ’A* TV *
The Fisk Jubilee Singers still keep their
old ark a-movering, glory hallelujah. They are
billed for Melbourne Town Hall next week, under
special protection of the Al—Sir Henry Loch.
## # *
It is cabled that Jenny Lind Goldschmidt
is seriously ill. She is 66 years of age.
** * *
The Fisk Jubilee Singers lately com-
plained of a Newcastle (N.S.W.) hotelkeeper for
not providing them with accommodation, alleging
that his refusal was the result of prejudice against
their colour. He retorts that he didn’t know
whether they were naturally sunburnt or if they
corked themselves up.
*# # #
Minnie Palmer took a formidable pile of
trunks on her return to America, which, remarks
a Honolulu paper, were filled with rare and costly
presents, showered upon her by governors and
statesmen and a host of less distinguished Aus-
tralian admirers. At latest, Minnie was playing
at Bush-street theatre, ’Frisco, and was getting
this sort of thing ladled out to her by the truth-
ful Pixley “ Her diamonds appear to be of the
first water. One goes to the theatre to see Miss
Minnie Palmer because she has been so thoroughly,
so systematically, oven so aggressively advertised.
One comes away as soon as possible, because Miss
Minnie Palmer does not for a moment suggest
that she can possibly be the person who inspired
these advertisements. She is not arch, sprightly,
merry, kittenish, or any of the stock things which
it Is so easy and so natural for little women to be.
She is a starched, stiff, prim, serious little person,
without one redeeming ounce of dramatic talent.
. . . The English are easily amused, as the
past summer has shown, and it can only have
been pure conservatism. They liked Minnie
Palmer best because they liked her first, and the
Englishman never stultifies himself.”
** # *
Langtry vows he will not give his wife a
divorce.
*# # #
Mr. George Leitch wound up a brilliant
season at Brisbane Royal with “The Madman,"
an exceptional kind of lunatic, which is generally
pronounced one of tbe most remarkable idiots on
record. It proved a very successful imbecile, and
the papers ail declare that the maniac took well
and gave pleasure to alb Mr. Leitch’s company,
which includes Messrs. H. C. Sidney and Melville,
and Misses Alice Norton, Flora Anstead, and
Emily Bevan, is now booming at Newcastle ; and
the Royal is filled by Carrie Swain and “ The
Miner's Daughter.” Also Mr. Macm a bon and his
“ Mikado ” company s f art to yum-j um at Bris-
bane Gaiety on Monday next.
#* # *
“Alone in London” is swamping what
little coin is left in the godly city of Adelaide,
and Locke Richardson and Tommy Hudson are
taking the rest. The little shillings are so ”ew
down there now that the A delaide citizen has to
turn himself upside down in order to shake them
out of his clothes, but such as they are they are
going in leg-shows and other sinful indulgences of
the flesh.
## # *
The Australian rights of “The Bells of
Haslemere a drama now running with immense
success at the Adelphi—have been purchased by
somebody, and its production here is likely to
eventuate shortly. The “ Bells ” are said to be a
hash of almost every other drama on record, with
a mixture of Moody and Sankey, Confucius, Job,
and a few pirates.
Prevailing influence of the ri-tooral
chorus exemplified. Salvation Army pitch in
Woolloomooloo. Captain gives out hymn, and
the local “ kids” strike up “ Ri-tooral,” &c.
A recent issue of The Bulletin unjustly
asserted that the Sydney Freetrade Associaticn
would have to hold their next annual meeting,
now long overdue, in some dim and solitary coal-
hole where angered unemployed penetrate not
much. But ihe valorous promoters of that
august but not wealthy body decided to make a
public exhibition of their chivalrous temerity by
hu-ing the new Masonic Ha l as the scene of their
show. Their valour was not without prudence.
Stealthily and by circular they strove throughout
the previous week to rally up their own supporters,
but—fearful lest irate Protectionists should accu-
mulate eggs and cabbage-stalks, emblems of the
dead and bygone past—let no rews of the in-
tended demonstration reach the vulgar crowd until
the Saturday afternoon prior to the ceremony. It
was not thought possible that many eggs could be
hoarded in 48 hours. And the president of the
Association showed marvellous prudence also. He
was absent. As he had to prosecute at Hay he
could not orate at Sydney. And in his apology
we see the dawn of a brighter era, when At-
torneys-General shall be found willing to forego
their own important engagements in order to at-
tend the unrequited duties of their office. It may
be that South Sydney electors will say that the
A. G. was afraid to show at a meeting held in
his own constituency, and will assert that his
present steadfastness in determining to prosecute
at Hay is not matched by many other incidents in
his official career ; but to such scoffers he can re-
ply that, like Frr derick, he is the slave of duty,
and values more highly a clear conscience—and a
whole skin -than all the guerdons an electorate
can give.
Few have been robbed by highwaymen,
many by lawyers, and all by landlords.
The Referee
Amateur Brett trains Hanlan for his race
with Beach on the Nepean. Brett has been row-
ing continuously since about 1876, and has pro-
bably won more trophies than any rowing amateur
in the world. Hanlan is not a bad-looking fellow,
and he is slightly aware of the fact. W hen stay-
ing at the M.R.C. Branch, his chair was placed
opposite a full-length portrait of himself, rigged
up in *' long-tailed banger,” stove pipe hat, &c.
Ned used to sit and gaze spellbound upon this
picture, and the M.R.C. funny man says they had
to have it re-glazed after Hanlan’s departure, his
piercing ogles having worn a hole in the glass.
* * *
Slavin offers to box the champion, Peter
Jackson, to a finish for £250, the venue to be any-
where Jackson likes, so long as it is 200 miles out
of Sydney, Jackson to receive £5O for expenses so
soon as he puts up a substantial deposit to bind
the match. Ib does not muoh matter if they
fight at Timbuctoo, Jackson must win- Slavin
says Dooley must make a reputation before he
meets him. This is rich. Slavin has made his
reputation on the defeat of Yankee Costello, who
could not knock M‘Car thy out in three hours,
whilst M‘Carthy the other night was unable to
give Gorman, a fourth or fifth-rate man. his
quietus. When Dooley last met Slavin he had the
Queenslander beaten at one part of the fight,,
when he threw his chance away by bad general-
ship. Slavin must not talk of reputation.
* * *
That gallant band of mustachioed bandits,
the Sydney Lancers, this Saturday hold their
second annual meeting, which will doubtless be
attended by all the “blood, bone, and beauty” of
the country-side,
* * *
Australian Peer and his jockey Gorry de-
serve more praise than they have yet got for their
win in the Randwick Plate. Trident may have
been “a bit off,” but he was on the occasion
scarcely the cripple they try to make him out,
Gorry showed great judgment in challenging
Hales where the weight told most —at the bid.
The time for the last mile and a quarter, 2 min.
lO.jsec., showed that even had Trident been at his
best it was no certainty for him. Hales’ desperate
efforts were without avail, and the Peer won
comfortably by a couple of lengths in smin
Some of the bookmakers won large sums over the
Peer’s victory. The second Hurdle Race fell to
Speculation, and the Charmer and Enigma ran a
dead heat for the Members’ Handicap, the owners
agreeing to divide. Dunlop, at 7 to 1, appropriated
the Waverley Handicap from Algerian ; and Ruby,
at 6 to 4, won the Steeplechase from The Hatter.
Twenty three sported silk for the Free Handicap,
which was appropriated by the 20 to 1 chance
Teddy. Yuille.
* * *
The Nooze seems greatly depressed over
the absence of a smashed-up jockey in the Steeple-
chase at Randwick, and says the croakers who
foretold a list of accidents over the raised fences
must have felt small when every horse finished
in the race. As the first croaker, we may inform
the Nooze man that on Friday last the fences
were lowered and canted over, bringing them
down to about 3ft. lOin , a slight difference to the
4ft. 2Ain. they were on the previous Wednesday,
as measured by a couple of prominent steeplechase
owners. Had they remained at 4ft. 2|in. it would
have been a great day out for the “ books "—if
not for the jockeys ; the favourite and winner,
Ruby struck heavily as it was, and would have
come down for a certainty at the increased
height.
* * *
“ What shall we do with our boys ? ” Why,
make light-weight jockeys of them. Little Fielder,
who won the Metropolitan on Cardigan, is now 13
years of age. He began to ride when he was six,
and now he earns about £lOOO a year.
* * *
A small-fry bookmaker was brought up in
the Melbourne City Court the other day charged
with being on certain premises with intent to com-
mit a felony. He described himself as a “ metal*
lician.” He is now a blue-metallician.
• * *
The Evening Nooze says that two men
and a dog constituted the Hanlan reception com-
mittee. The dog, we suppose, represented the
Nooze.
* * #
The last five-style wrestle between Can-
non and Dunn has just about settled the game in
Melbourne for the present. A few infatuated
creatures paid their money in the expectation of
seeing Cannon strangle his opponent at Giaeco-
Roman. In default of this blessed consummation
Dunn secured an “unexpected” fall, and Cannon
retired from the contest in seeming anger. Then
the limited attendance began to curie and to swear
that the whole thing was bogus.
* * *
Pedestrianism is getting worse instead of
getting better. The class of gentry who turned
up at Lillie-brldge grounds to see Hutchens and
Gent perform can be judged from recent cable-
grams. For years this branch of “sport" has
been bossed by the rag tag crew which broke up
the Prize Ring and made an English professional
rowing match something to be avoided like the
plague. Running has now sunk to the level of
“trotting,” which is in the very last stage of
decline. In the one case vehicles are usually
smashed up and burned—at Lillie-bridge the
roughs appear to have bonflred the grand stand.
We almost wonder that they didn’t cremate
Hutchens and Gent.
* * *
The Victorian football premiership goes to
Carlton Club this season, Geelong second, and
South Melbourne a moderate third. Which re-
minds us that the Melbourne Herald has taken
to publishing wood-cut portraits of prominent
footballers. A footballer, as he appears in wood-
cut, is a guileless creature who wouldn’t hurt a
lly.


Pepper
Salt
That burglar scare under which the Vic-
torian capital suffered for some weeks troubles
nobody any more. It was hot enough till “A. B.”
took up bis little pen and wrote to the Herald,
when public confidence was restored, and sassiety
ate, drank, and waxed merrier than ever. An
extract from “A.B.’s” communication will ex-
plain matters; —
“ Kindly allow me through your va'uable paper to state
that I have invented a trap for catching hurglare. Of coursn
Ido not mean poPcemen. I can construct it so that it will
kill the person caught, if desired. It will also ring an alarm
bell at the same time. The cost would be very trifling, and
it can be placed at the entrance of a doorway or anywhere on
the premises without attracting attention.”
A labour-saving apparatus like this commended
itself for obvious reasons. One trial sufficed to
prove the usefulness of the invention, and now no
well regulated family retires to rest without
hitchinga ‘ bnrgular ’-trap to the frontdoor. Pater-
familias doesn’t dig his wife in the ribs and tell
her to get up and make enquiries when he is
awakened by aery of anguish from the hall. He just
telephones to the University dissecting-room “Come
for corpse at earliest convenience," and goes on
dreaming as before. In the interests of justice,
no accounts of these tragedies are supplied to the
daily papers, but we happen to know that a
Collins-street jeweller “bagged” nine burglars
last week. Ere our lines appear in print the race
will be extinct;
Two men were brought up at the Mel-
bourne City Court the other day charged with
disturbing the peace by fighting in a hotel. They
had bean arguing about religion, and, disagreeing
on cer ain points of doctrine, promptly plugged
each other in the eyes. They were fined. This
shows that it is a mistake to suppose a successful
religious discussion can he opened with a cork-
screw. , *
“Edward Hanlan arrived to-day from
America. There was only a very slight demon-
stration, and the welcome accorded was a very
mild one.”—(Daily paper )
Wooden-headed alderman, spare that tree,
l or in the suburban boroughs of Sydney the masses
of foliage that used once to afford people shelter
in the sweltering summer, and absorb the malari-
ous gases and purify the atmosphere which man
had polluted are becoming woefully scarce.
Tnerc are cess-pits in plenty, also jam-tins, kero-
sqne-tins, wrecked crinolines, battered dregs-
improvers, and other relics to show where some
unhappy female has foundered on the highway ;
rags, bone 3, boots, bottles, oyster shells, stove-in
hats with kitchen grease inside, hoops, old pans
containing the late lamented feline, and other
things galore, and to these the outside municipal
hippopotamus raises no objection, but whenever
he catches sight of a tree on the edge of the high-
way, or anywhere else within his jurisdiction,
he cuts it down and wheels the timber home to
his wife He shunts it along peacefully in his
barrow, and the wheel rolls over the hats and the
bottles and the oyster-shells, and over the cat of
by-gone days, and over the symptoms of the lost
female until he reaches the back gate of his resi-
dence on the middle of a bare, bald, clean-shaved
allotment with a sham Grecian vase on top of
each ga e-post, and there he shoots it down with a
smile, saying, “Sairey, I’ve brought you some
wood! ” And there is a stump and a vacuum where
the tree once stood, and Nature abhors a vacuum, so
when the wood is gone she builds another
wooden-headed Goth instead and makes him an
alderman. And then he takes his axe, and, ac-
companied by another municipal Vandal and the
Han who serves as Town Clerk, he goas out and
cuts down more trees, and wheels the foliage
home to his particular Sairey at his own back
gate till the whole district is bare and covered
with bottles and the remains of dress-improvers.
But it seems to bo nobody’s business to split the
aldermen and put hi* tun bar head in the stove; he
is protected by tho Dog Act or the local Hyaena
Act or something, and he goes on his way re-
joicing,
* * *
Two great misfortunes have descended
simultaneously on this sin-cursed land-the meet-
ing of the N.B.W. Parliament, and the arrival of
SOME FELL AMONG THISTLES.
TEMPERANCE WORKER (to chance small boy) : “DO YOU KNOW, MY LITTLE MAN
THAT FOR EVERY MAN, WOMAN, AND CHILD, IN NEW SOUTH WALES,
THERE HAS BEEN £4 14s. (id. WORTH OF LIQUOR DRUNK IN A YEAR?”
SMALL BOY: “YOU DON’T SAY SO! WELL, I SHOULD JUST LIKE TO KNOW WHO’S
BEEN AND DRUNK MY SHARE? I HAINT HAD NOTHIN’ BUT GINGER
BEER.”
Hanlan. The aquatic Edward came ashore unob-
trusively and shook hands with two friends who
had come d wn to feast their eyes on his propor-
tions. He explained that the remainder of the
gang were not there because he had omitted to
write to them —otherwise they would have turned
up and made a great chavoo. Somehow we have
our doubts. We have grown weary to the point
of utter loathing at the very names of the fat
Beach and the thin Hanlan, and we care very
little for the delusions of any retail bargee with
hardly any clothes on ; but we don’t want Ned of
Toronto to labour under any mistake. Among
the Americans of Sydney are several well-
known persons who yell for Victoria on the
Queen’s Birthday, and “holler” for the Stars and
btripes on the 4th July, and in addition to
this they scream for Wales, and bow down to the
Kaiser of Germany. They used to allude to
Hanlan as “the great American sculler,” and
when he began to lose races they described him as
“a Canadian rower, named Hanlan.” Ned has
this time struck them when they were in the
“ Canadian rower” stage.
* * *
There is a sound of weeping at Thomson’s
Crossing on the Darling’s moral shore where one
more bank clerk has gone wrong. In a back-
blocks township the nice-looKiog bank clerk is a
sort of ministering angel lent for a space by Provi-
dence that he may impar can aroma of ;e3theticism
to the social atmosphere, and when his mis-
sion is accomplished he spreads his gossamer
wings and silently flies away, and the region of
the saffron cow and the early bird knows him no
more. He is a thing too delicate and beautiful for
these rude surroundings, but he brings with him a
halo of sweetness and light, and with him it de-
parts, The clerk of whom we write was a pen-
sive-lookicg youth of 21, and his alabaster brow is
still remembered with adoration by all the
marri igeable girls of the neighbourhood. He was
a new chum, and his early life had been spent in
writing out insurance policies in a Scotch fire
office, whereby the chattels of Dugald M‘ lavish
were protected from loss bv conflagration, and he
had also eDj oyed considerable experience at lick-
ing stamps and in other branches in the lower walks
of commerce. Also he was a mild and Y.M.C.A
youth, and when he entered the bank one murn-
ing with his collar burst and a swivelling expres-
sion in his eye the boss thought he was gazing oa
a vision. Ha watched him anxiously, and when
Grocer Smith came in to cash a cheque, he ob-
served him take out a scoopfull or sovereigns
from the drawer and tender them with a
leaden gaze to the customer, saying feebly :
“He yelp yourself, old fler.” Then he
addressed him more in sorrow than in anger.
“ Mr. Jones, Do you know what you are domg
this morning ? ” “ No, sir.” “ What were you
attempting just now*” “Hie dursno, sir.
Can’s shay m’sure. Hie “Do you know
anything at all, sir?” demanded the superior
officer, sternly, and then a glimmer of old recollec-
tions came over the misguided clerk of Thomson’s
Crossing, and he started off as fast as he c m d
gabble : “ Course I do. Know lots o’ zhings you
never dreamt of—hie. D’ y’ ever hear this-
warranted that no paraffin, petroleum or other
mineral oil or liquid pr >duct thereof be ’posited
or kept f’r sale on premisosh deshcribed in zhish
polishy. You couldn't shay that ole rooster,” he
added, affectionately putting his arms round the
manager’s neck. “ Awf’ly iggorant indidvidual.
Know lotsh more zhings s'pose never heard zhish
eisher—in event of gunpowder or other ex-
ploshives being kept in premisesh zhish
inshrance shall be null and void—hie—
shubject to annexed conditions of aver-
age—hie—in case of insurances exhishtmg
in uzzer office3h amountsh to be declared in event
of losh. Ole fler, bet tou month's shcrew you
couldn’t shay zat right off, ’ he added in a burst of
confidence, and then he fell asleep standing, his
head gently sinking into the manager’s shirt front,
and began to dream of old times in the insurance
office. He was put away under the counter, and
when he awoke towards sunset he was igno-
minously sacked. And that is why the maidens
weep at Thomson's Crossing, for the new bank
clerk is married and bas a face that looks as if he
had been involved in the fall of a four-story house
in the happy days of childhood, and the alabaster
brow of the former youth is now only the memory
of a joy that has for ever flown.
* * *
J.c wa3 midnight, and a solitary pilgrim
was wearily towing himself along the intermin-
able road which winds by the banks of the solemn
silent, ever-flowing JeDkins River. He was a
tall, reddish figure, with long, wobbly legs, and
he had been born of rich but honest parents. He
was also drunk, and as he trudged along he kept
himself awake with judicious conundrums as to
how his wife would receive him, or—as he put it,
in his vulgar slangy way—how the old hen booj um
would cut up. When he reached his humble
home, however, this point was speedily settled
he was locked out. He sat and sang in the yard
for an hour in the hope of harrowing the old
woman’s feeling?, but she made no sign, and then he
zig-z agged down the street and tntervie wed the local
policeman. That officer looked at the matter in all
its bearmgs and advised him to enter by the
window, and then he started off again When he
had gone 10 yards into the darkness there cime a
hail from the building he had just left. “Here,
come back," “ Ay“Come bach and shut the
gate.” “Wot T' “Comeback, dash you.” “O'a!
shut the gory gate yourself,” said the bounced
citizen, wearily, and then the aggravated con-
stable gave chase. Next day an astonished, red,
wobbly man got four months for being drunk and
disorderly aad assaulting the police ; also obicene
language, wilful destruction of property, and
being illegally on tne premise?. A charge of
poisoning a valuable dog fell through, but. all the
same he has resolved that he will never tell a
rural policeman to shut a gate any more.
* * •
There are some points about the latU r
end of Colonel Soudiekin, formerly of the Rus i*n
Secret Police and now of the Beautiful Snore In
a rash moment he went and arrested a man named
D-gaielf, a Nihilist who went out by the day, and
offered, him the alternative of being hanged or
serving the police as a spy on his bomb-Dhro wing
brethren. Degaieff, who didn't like the idea of
being hanged, accepted the Government billet
offered him, and then went and interviewed his
own chief, and asked him what on earth he was
to do now. The boss Nihilist made him stay to
to?, and thoy talked it over, and swilled ilie re-
freshing beverage out of their saucers, ard blew
into tne tea to cool it, till at last, just as the chief
was taking his tenth piece of bread and buffer an
idea occurred to him. As the result Degaieff
worked for several months as a Government spy
during which time he informed against more than
20 warm adherents of the Czar and tittered when
he saw them hanged. Then somehow his party
grew suspicious of him, nnd resolved that he
should either kill the colonel or be killed hi nself,
so the poor Nihilist found things were gettirg
hot. But he was calm to the last. He stuck his fork
into the last dinner be ever hoped to oat on
earth : then he wrote out an elaborate account of
the Colonel’s death, and had it set up and p iaied
in the Nihilist Paralyser, or whatever the
tame of the conspirators' private print might be,
and finally he wandered down to the po ice de
partment and laid the paper before Soudiekin.
While that gentleman was reading the notice of
his own latter end his brains were blown over the
paper, and then the larky Nihilist batterei in the
head of the dead man’s nephew with an iron bar
a tic silently glode away. He was hanged shortly
afterwards.
When it dawned recently on the lurid
intelligence of an incendiary Government that
about tiOO more tram-loads of meddlesome astcs.
ghouls, body-snatchers, dustmen, Brigands, and
book-peddlers were wanted on the Commisu m of
the Peace, In order to bring about that glor'oas
millennium when every man shall be his own bi ak,
the N.S. W. Cabinet went at the work wi' li com-
mendable alacrity. In Sydney and its fubrrbs
alone 105 new .justices were appointed, made up
as follows : —1 tea importer, 7 esta e, commission,
and insurance agents, 3 retail grocers, 1 rt tired
tailor, 1 retired publican, 1 retired brewer, 1 re-
tired butcher, 2 publicans ia active practic-, 22
men without any occupation, 2 tanners, 2 paper-
hangers, 1 news-agent, 5 builders, 4 doctors, 1
sailmaker, 1 undertaker,.3 auctioneers, 1 surveyor,
1 cement merchant, 5 bank officials, 1 upholsterer,
3 men who reside with their pa, 5 solicitors, 3
drapers, 2 managers of works, 1 Civil servant
out of a billet, 1 wool merchant, I clothier, tie
curator of the Botanical Gardens, 4 merchants,
1 conveyancer, 2 clerks, 1 butcher, 1 council
clerk, 1 Mayor of Sydney, 1 storekeeper, 1 land
company manager, 1 timber merchant, 1 farmer,
1 bootmaker, l wheelwright, 1 men whom nobedy
ever heard of, I individual who ia as deal as a
post, and 1 corpse. The corpse was put in as a,
compliment to the large number of dead and
buried and temporarily resurrected citizens who
voted the Parkes ticket at last elections, a d the
deaf man got his appointment because the paraly-
tic for whom the place was originally intended
backed out. He said lie would really like the job,
you know, but after due consideration ho had
come to the conclusion that he wasn’t paralysed
enough for a .T.P, The other justices are 1 aving
a high old time of it, and one of them who lives
with his pa has already sentenced his mother to
48 hours’ in the coal-cellar for contempt of court,
and has fined the old man £5 and costs.
The S.M. Herald says that when Sir
Henry Parkes was in Melbourne, an invitation to
Government House “was received by him in o,
very pressiny manner.” How does a man receive
an invitation pressingly ?
The Radical, a penny weekly paper pab-
lishpd at Newcastle, N.S.W., is the work of three
enthusiastic democrats. It is printed by the
editor's father-in-law, whose daughter, the editor’s
wife, officiates as compositor. This laoy never
handled a stick of type until a few days befoW
the paper was flr@t issued,
THE MELBOURNE HOUSE HOLDER'S DITTY.
Gaily I sing of the latest thing
For putting down marauders ;
This scheme sublime, explained in rhyme,
Will fright the lower orders ;
An ingenious chap with a burglar trap
His fortune now is making—
By this simple device, at a moderate price,
You entirely cheek house-breaking.
’Tis well to bait with silver plate,
Or diamond rings and watches—
At the -lightest touch (it don’t want much)
That trap the rascal eotches ;
Before he can steal there’s a fearful squeal,
A splutter and a gurgling ;
Then everything’s stilled, for the villain is killed—
He never again goes burgling.
The trap is set once more, you bet,
And the tragedy’s repeated
Till, one by one, are the burglars done—
The cruse of crime depleted ;
Each ring of ue bell means another in—well,
Not before the ladies ;
All those burglars go to a region below,
Which poets describe as Hades.
Little I care for the recent scare,
I feel no apprehension ;
My golden hoard is thank the Loard !
Secured by this invention.
A snip and a snap of the burglar trap !
A silvery ring of warn ng 1
Another one caught —what remarkable sport!
Bury him in the morniDg.
A MANUFACTURED MYSTERY.
There was a young lady named Laurer
Who shabbily served her adorer,
She jumped in the river—
May Heaven forgive her !
At a moment when nobody saw her.
Then she screamed, and some gentlemen heard her,
But their evidence didn’t go furder,
Wild stories were printed
By papers which hinted,
In “ special editions,” at murder.
Though the captain was not over-plucky
(Or why on the river bank stuck he ?)
To trade on his troubles
By blowing false bubbles
. Was rough. So we call him unlucky
Be warned. If your girl takes a header
Because you’re not willing to wed her,
Let someone be present,
That things may go pleasant—
You can’t get the truth from a “ deader.”
You were feasted, Ned, and feted,
(Gracious! how we jubilated)
You were everywhere ovated —
All the papers made a row—
In tho days that are departed,
Ere your down career was started,
You must really be sad hearted
When you think of then and now.
Quite as ehangeful are the masses
As the tides or weather-glasses,
And all worldly glory passes—
“ Sic transit,’ as you know ;
No more banquets, Ned, or speeches,
Loud huzzas and urchins’ screeches—
All the honours now are Beach’s
That a people can bestow.
With Fizz again we’ll fill you,
With kindness try to kill you—
But not, 0 ! not until you
Can beat William—there’s the rub ;
If your sculling days are ended,
Then the matter can’t be mended ;
You must do as you intended
Start a cosy little pub.
WHAT THEY WANTED,
A MELBOURNE BALLAD.
“ And now,” said the fond father,
As he stroked each golden curl
Of his merry youngest daughter,
‘ ’Tis your birthday, little girl.
“Tell me where you’d like to go
Shall I take you to the Zoo,
Where you’ll see the Agile Gibbon
And the bounding kangaroo ? ”
“ Not there, not there, papa.”
Said the lover to hi 3 sweetheart—
“ Darling, 'tis a lovely day ;
There is beauty on the waters
Shall I take you do wn the Bay 1 ”
“ Not there, not there, my love”
Said the husband to his wife, “ Dear,
Bow this day shall we employ ?
This day ten years we were married ;
It shall be a day of j oy.
Shall we, dearest, in remembrance
Of the good old times that were,
Take a double-seated buggy,
And drive out to Doncaster ? ”
“ Not there, not there, dear Georye ,”
Said the son unto his mother—
“ Mother, you are growing old,
And your hair is getting thinner,
There is grey among the gold ;
“ You must have some little pleasure
In this world before you go,
Shall I take you to the Waxworks—
’ Tis a most entrar c ng show ? ”
“ Not there, not there, my chi'd.”
Then the (little gold-haired maiden,
And the virgin in her prime,
And the good wife, and old mother
In the evening of her time,
As with one voice cried together—
“ In these things thnre is no fun ?
Oh, take me to an inquest,
If you love me,” sobbed each one.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Champion Beach is 37 years old.
Bishop Moorhouse’s bulldog is dead.
Mr. Dailey is still very ill, and thinks of
going to Europe shortly.
Probate was granted to the will of the late
Edwin Amery in Melbourne last week. Amery
left £773.
“ Miss Braddon,” says a fashion journal,
“ wri'ei on her knee.” We always thought she
wrote pretty low.
Ferry, whom Boulanger challenged to a
duel, Is an old man who knows nothing of handling
a pistol or a rapier.
A man died in one of the Australian cities
ately who went by the name of Pepper, but
whose real name was Salt.
Samuel Cox, of Carrick (Tasmania), who
alleges he is 114 years old never was a teeto-
taller. They didn t put fusel oil in the beer in his
time.
Lady Broome, wife of the (Governor of
W A., leaves for Eaglaud on October 10, accom-
panied by her private secretary, the Hon. J. G.
Amherst.
Jos. Syme3 apologises to a Liberator
contributor for the appearance of his article in a
mutilated form and pleads that the rats ate
his MS.
Judge D twliug believes that alcohol was
sent by the Almighty to use in reason. We here
join issue with His Honor. We believe it was
sent; to use in so da water.
John M‘Darlick was brought before Mel-
bourne City Court last week for “ insulting be-
haviour.” He was fined 103. We should think
ro. His very name is an insult.
An Adelaide man who has been looking
for the editorship of a paper, and advertising that
he was an “ able and brilliant writ' r,” has taken
a wood and coal yard instead. Fact.
An individual signing himself “ C.M.” lias
sent a cheque for £1 Is. to the Melbourne Age on
behalf of the “ Vag’s ” exs. in his late libel action,
and suggests the opening of a subscription list.
Judge M‘Farland, of N.S.W., addressiog
a Southern jury, the other day, in re a slogging
assault case, remarked that they were “ reason-
able men acquainted with such sort of things.”
Maskell, the engine-driver who was killed
at his post in Winds r Railway collision, is to
have his courage and devotion recognised. Toe
Victorian Government will grant his widow £2OOO.
Colonel Saunderson, the «’ory Hercules,
who lately challenged the Parnellite members to
give him a chance of thrashing them, has been in-
vited by Sexton to fight with pistols at Boulogne.
We see by the Melbourne papers that the
Rev E. W. Nye is now preaching in Toorak
Wesleyan Church. All lovers of fun should
se « this opportunity of hearing the great Ameri-
can humourist.
Dr. Ko3e, M.P., has not shown up in the
Victorian Assembly since he left the Divorce
Court. Perhaps his practice has nowgrowntoo large
to allow him time to attend. In the meantime he
draws his salary all the same
The will of Perrin, the sauce man, has
been proved at £700,000. Colman. the mustard-
man, also left £700,000, and, like Perrin, made his
fortune ’’ not out of what was consumed, but out
of what thej left on the plate.”
When, during the Swain inquest, it was
proposed to drop a lay figure over the Victorian
bridge for the guidance of the coroner’s jury, Dr.
Youl remarked that it wouldn t be a bad idea to
experiment with some c'erical figures.
Dr. Iffla, who arrived in Victoria in 1852,
has just died at South Melbourne. He was the
founder of the Royal Society of Victoria, and one
of the most active promotes of the Burse and
Wills Expedition. The doctor was a Hebrew.
That was not at all bad when the editor of
the ARGtJSi oa being asked in the witness-box
what he would do if the Age alluded to his paper
as a whitewashed sepulchre, and all the rest of it,
replied that “ he would take no notice of it.”
Alfred Bennett is, after all, only a mere
circumstance beside S. V. Winter, of the Mel-
bourne Herald, who ha 3 knocked up an 80,000
circulation over the Swain tragedv. Mind you,
we have never said that circumstances can t lie?
Mr. James Munro, dictator of the Federal
Bank, and Director-General of Victorian coffee-
palaces, recently bought a block of land in
Ramell-stree", Melbourne, for £220 000. _ Three
hotels are erected upon the lot, all of which will
be closed as soon as their leases fall in.
Peter Lalor is a civil engineer by profes-
sion. Years ago he was a wine merchant in Mel-
bourne. Peter's father was a member of the
Commons. O Connell used to say he to ik Lalor,
sent., “from the plough” and put him into the
political ranks.
Speaking of Dr. Murray, the lexicographer,
who is at work on the great English dictionary, a
religious paper says “ A rippltng humour belongs
to the man ” We are not surprised at this. Ail
lexicographers are humourists. They have to t e
or they could not produce the dlot’onariea they do
William O Brien, M P., editor of United
Ireland,, who is now sufl’e'ung in the cause of
liberty of fpeech, has his own little romance.
Some years ago he married an actress. The union
Was not a happy one, and the pair separated. But,
being a Roman Catholic, there is no divorce for
him.
The late Billy Miles, of Queensland, was so
officially strict that he ooce refused a free railway
pass to au invalid constituent, the support of an
aged father and mother, who wished to proceed
to Sydney for treatment. Billy would make no
exception. He sent aloDg his cheque for the
man’s expenses.
Mr. Stuart Menteath, a Wellington (N.Z.)
lawyer, andJTreetrade candidate for Parliament,
says he does not approve of free education, as it
encourages ther- working-classes to indulge in
“long” families. As Menteath himself is con-
siderably over six feet and thin as a phthisical
clothes-prop, no one wonders at his being keenly
sensitive on the question of length.
It isn't always safe to reverse the application
of a compliment. The Argus lately called Phil
Robinson “the Mark Twain of war correspon
dents.” Suppose someone callei Mark Twain
‘ the Phil Robinson of American humourists 1”
Parke 3 was recently designated by a dyspeptic
sauerkrauter of Walla Walla the “Hairy Bis-
marck.” How would Bismarck like to ho called
the " Hairless Parkes 1
Salomons, G.C., in moving the adjourn-
ment of the N.S W. Legislative Council out of re-
spect to the late Mr. Terry’s memory, remsrked
that he had not had the honour of knowing that
gentleman. Happy is the man who knows no
Q.C’s. Mr. Terry might not have died quite so
rich had he cultivated the professional acquain-
tance of the boss lawyers.
Judge Windeyeris doing Switzerland, and
until he comes back the inquiry into the cases of
those of the Mount Rennie youths who were nod
hanged is to remain in abeyance. When his
Honor comes back he will probably led us all
know whedher in the Swiss Republic judges are
in the habit of adjourning murder-trias to enable
themselves to dine with vagrant ex-Mayors.
Mr. Buckle, editor of the Times, is about
six-and-thirty years of age. and “ the beau ideal
of what an E oglish public school and university
would make of an atfl’etic young Englishman. To
say that he is ta'l and strong is a very mild, way
o' putting it ; he would be tall annngs a t-php of
Guards ; and wi'h ms roeust and atnleac frame,
his Img fair beard and whiskers, he is more like
an old Norse Beserkar than a modern editor.”
The latest Victorian libel aodon has been
brought by the Mayor ot Footscray against Clark,
the local editor, who is also M L.A. for the
A SMALL BOY IN TROUBLE.
“Paris, Tuesday.—The young son of M. Schnsebale, the late French Commissary"”
at Pagny-sur-Moselle, has been arrested by the German officials for affixing a seditious
placard to the frontier post at Lorraine."
borough. The Council having excluded reporters
from a meeting, Clark got even with them: —
“ Gathered in the Mayor’s den, like a lot of. rats,
the paltry plotters took the coward's course, and,
like moonlighters and cat Je marauders, fired off
their contemplated resolve from behind the hedge,
& 0., &c.
“ Coffee’' Jones, an old-time Minister of
Railways for Victoria, has gone the way of all
flesh. As a politician, M-. Jones was a century
or two behind the times —an inde f atigable ac-
quirer of superannuate! wisdnn. The poor old
boy laboured under the delusion that he was bom
to manage other people s affairs, a pretty general
characteristic of men who cannot manage their
own. A fortnight ago Mr. Jones was voted €5O
for his “ valuable services ’ to a certain ermpaay
wnich has lost thousands under his presidency.
In private life he made no enemies, and wa3 re-
spected as a gentleman and a scholar.
Dr. Richard Youl, the Melbourne coroner,
who is one of the official visitors of Kew Lunatic
Asylum, was once interested in a Supreme Court
case where the question of a man’s sanity or mad-
ness was at st*k°. The late Dick Ireland, Q.C ,
had the alleged lunatic in the box and used all his
ingenuity to get him to show his madness, but the
witness was provoktrgly sane—in f ict a deal too
wide-awake for the Q.C. Dick Youl. who was
sitting at the barristers table, threw a bit of paper
across the table to Ireland with the words “ Ask
him if he knows the Duke of Buckingham?”
pencilled on it. “Do you know His Grace the
Duke of Buckingham at all?” asked Ireland of
■the witness. “Oh, that's me," wai the oagor
reply.
A clause full of unhappy signilicknco was
put into the bill to grant Mr. Peter Lalor £lOOO,
on the occasion of bis permanent retirement from
the Victorian Speakership. This clause p-ovides
that ! 1 neither the said sum of £lOOO nor the in-
terest or annuity ari-ing from the investment
thereof shall be applied to or be available for any
other purpose (than Peter’s) wha'soever, and
shall not be subject to be seized or taken in execu-
tion under the prree sof any court ’ Mr. La’or
has been in difficulties from which his sa'ary i f
£2500 a year has been insufficient to extricate
him, and now the crateful councry, for vvhom the
ve'eraa fought and bled at Eureka, is protecting
hun against the creditors who would bring his
grey hairs in sorrow to the grave.
A crushing of 54 tons of quartz from the
Croydon K ng. No. 2 North (Croydon, Q.) claim
has yielded 758 ounces of smelted gold.
Great Scott ! why doesn’t the S. M.
Herat.d get a visiting master to teach its staff
English? “Donated" appeared in that journal
last week. This is one of ths words put on the
Index Expur. of W. C. Bryant.
Sydney Echo is shocked because two girls
in men-o’-war suits were brought before a Sydney
court the other day. Man-o’-war clothes are
much more decent than tights. Yet we never
find the clergy attached to the Sydney Echo
publicly objecting to lights.
PLITICAL
POINTS
Gladstone refuses to bury the axe.
The Germans have schnaebelled Schnae-
bale’s son.
Michael Davitt is working a prospecting
area at Croyd m (Q.).
“Patriotism, that low. unreasoning ex-
tension of selflstmpsj.”— Henry George.
Governor Loch s cook holds a railway pass
at the expense of the Victorian people.
The Czar and Holy William will again
shortly meet and slobber on each other’s necks.
Without a blush, Dibb3 last week asked in
j the V S.W. Assembly when the financial state-
: ment would be made.
F. H. O’Donnell wants only £50,000 from
the Times for lfbeldng him. Plaintiff s sincerit/
in the mat'er is doubted.
The Meloo'irne morning pipers are anx : ous
j that certain provisions of the Crimes’ Act t h >ll
I be extended to Australia.
There is much speculation in Sydney legal
circles as ro Water Jag-Foster's prospects in re
the vacant Equity Judgeship.
Wallace, M.L.A., who represents Cler-
mont <Q) in the Queensland Assembly, hasn’t
been seea by hit constituents since his election
four years ago.
The Parkas Government should have no
d'fficulty with th«ir Insolvency Bill in the Uppjr
House. They have a friend there who is a most
experience! insolvent.
Dan. 0 Connor and J. P. Abbott, M.’sP.,
want to abolish the N.S.W. Upper House. How
foolish some men are ! They never make any pro-
vision for their old age.
Tne N.S.W. Government have up a notice
on the roofs of the Sydney tram-cars, “It is dan-
gerous to sit on the rail.” Why not stick up one
of these in the Assembly ?
In 1885 Victoria and S.A. consumed
double the quantity of wine swallowed by N.h, W.
and Queensland The Queenslanders drink nto.-fc
spirits and the Victirians most beer.
Johu Haynes politically is stained,
A detract or thus maintains—
Though the senior seat Mud J. he gained,
He still is ’mudgy Haynes.
It is understood that Parkea threatens, in
the event of a certain by no means improbabe
private contingency, to resign offlci, and thus let
into power Dibbs and the Protectionists,
The Chinese viceroys and other officials
are opposed tooth and nail to Jay Gould’s financial
enterprise, which they consider would leave the
Chows at his mercy. If we were Gould we should
engage Quong Tart to sofcen the way.
Any doubts we might have had as to the
iniquity of the Bpooiutmenfcof Louis of Battenberg
to the commandership of H.M 8. Dreadnougnt are
fet at rest by the argus - which writes a leading
article in defence of this monstrous job.
The Southern E. Argus, remarking upon
the rapid advance of Projection in N S. W., says
that the hysterical Freetrade parcy have all along
insisted that the Lord created Australia from
Freetrade plans and specifications supplied by
Parkes.
An advertisement cut from the West
Australian (Perth, W.A.)“Chinese, Malays,
and Maniiamen, forwarded on application for any
required calling. Wages from twenty-eight shil-
lings pbr month. Apply to M'Alister and Co., of
Singapore." I
Sir William Wobinaon says that if' S.A.
wishes to elect its own governor he will be a can-
did ate for re election. Since he made the unfor-
tunate mistake of importing a carriage that cost
him his popularity he has decided to encourage
native industry.
Is it true, as alleged, that £50,000 has
been subscribed by certain people who have in-
vestments in N.S.W. for the purpose of so lubri-
cating the machinery of Parliament as to aid in
the passing of a promised Bill in which they are
very much interested ?
The Murrumburrah (N.S.W.) paper spells
plough in the American style—plow. This is a)l
very well as a minor reform, but we would point
out thatit wouldbe be t9r toflrstimitate America’s
protective policy. 'there is little necessity for
ploughs in N.S. W. just now.
The favourite teetotal argument of a
N.S.W. temperance M.L.A. is that wine cinnot
be good when “ beautiful grapes ” are spoiled to
produce it. Similarly, this particular legislator
can’t ba any good because an accomplished hod-
carrier was spoiled to evolve him.
Thomas Chirnside and J. A. Finlay, the
Intelr-deceased Victorian sqnatters, left £1,30,000
and £119,000 respectively. They still make big
purses in the protectionist colony. Puls'ord
would have you believe that manufacturers only
are enr iched by protection, and squatters ruined.
Touching that cooking-stove, over which
Sydney D.T. jubilated in half a column headed
“ Another Freetrade ladu3try,” it now transpires
that this kitchen phenomenon is able to cook for
1000 persons, and is destined for tbe Bathurst
Gaol. It will be badly needed there if Freetrado
rules the colony much longer.
The Queanbeyan (N S.W.) Age says that,
owing to the bad market, the local farmers are
this year only growing enough g'-ainfor their own
requirements, last year’s stocks being in most
cases still on hand. And yet last year between
£2,000,000 and £3,000,000 worth of agricultural
produce was imported into the colony !
In the N.S.W. Assembly, Mr. Garvan re-
peated a few of tbe many rumours current a (Toot-
ing the Minister of Justice, and demanded ex-
planations. Parkes’s reply was as desperate as it
was despicable. The substance of it was, “ You’re
not an HiDglisbman.” Apropos, through what
mysterious agency has M’Klhone been muzzled "1
The U.S. Chief Justice receives £2lOO per
annum for dispensing the law to some (50,000,000
of people. The C.J. of N.S.W. draws £3500 per
annum for similar duties in connection with a
community of a million souls, .again, the puisne
justices in N S.W. draw £2600 each per annum as
against £2OOO each paid io similar otflc.als in
America.
Cocky Burns told the members of the
Maitland Agricultural Society that it was “stern
necessity that compelled tfce Government to re-
duce the subsidies graued to Agricultural
Societies.” And yet these paltry suos dies are
about tbe only assistance the good Government
has ever given towards the promotion of N.S.W,
agriculture !
Native prisoners are sb-ll chained by the
neck in West Australia. A writer in the Vic
turian Express recommends an immediate
flovging as a more merciful substitute for long
journeys in chains and protracted trials which tho
aborigines do not understand They have some
curious ideas of mercy in the Crown colony. Its
history is that of old Botany Bay over gain.
Major Chisholm, of Scottish Rifles and
Highland Society celebrity who has just been
appointed S.M at Yass, NS. W., is a brother-in-
law of Mr. E. P. Gray, editor and principal pro-
prietor of the (rub in Freeman's Journal. Mr.
Gray married the M jors sister. Gray is son of
the late Sir John Gray, the O Conocllite, whose
statue stands in Sackville street, Dublin, close
to that of “ Tne Liberator.”
That ponderous parcel of political padding
—the legislative programme submitted by tho
Parkes -overnment—contains this item : “A bill
to provide for the preservation and extension of
our fores’s will be submitted.” What nonsense !
How many millions of acres of the best land in
N.S.W have been secured by squatters, at a
nominal p ice. in virtue of the destruction of
trees as an improvement ?
Jimmy Munro was openly twitted, in tho
Victorian Assembly, with being personally in-
terested in the money grant to Speaker Ldor.
Jimmy dropped into virtuous indignation, and
pleaded innocence. By the way, when, some
time ago, a sum was given by the Legis'ature of
a certain colony to a oertain alleged statesman,
several of the members who voted for the grant
were pretty deeply interested in the bill getting
through.
A correspondent requests The Bulletin
to a°k Parkes whether Mr. Duncan M’Alister,
who has just been appointed to a J.P.-ship by the
Parkes Government, is identical with the Mr.
M’Alister who was tried and acquitted for alleged
fraud on the N.S W. Railway Department. And
if so, whether the Mr Abigail, who unjustly ac-
cused Mr. M’Alisrer of fraud is the same person
who is now iviini-ter of Mines in that same Parkes
Governmentby which Mr. M’Alister has been ca'led
to the bench l
Parkes’s promissory political programme
endorsed by Baron Bob with a prayer to tho
Almighty that it may be met in due course, >s
likely to share the fa f e of some prominent politi
c ! aus’ pro no’es. Twenty different reforms are
promised. If a tenth <>f these be effected the
li >lders of the p-omi°so r y programme—the public
—will get a la-g.r return than the holdera of cer-
tain pro no'es for 20a. in tbe £’’ value received”
have h d to content themselves with of late.
Dear Bulletin, —Tne importation of coke
to N S.W. by the Broken Hill Silver Miuiag Co.
is not as you seem to think due to the want of
ente pr se nn the part of N.S. W. colliery owners,
as coke of qoa'ity fully equal to the imported
art’e’e is a’ready m ide in sufficient quantities to
supply ail demands ; but some managers believe
tha", no bong good can c >me from any other place
than old England An import duty of £1 a ton
would lead them to appreciate the colonial article.
—Yours, Coke Burner,
The opposition to the proposel grant to
Mr. Peter Lalor, the retiring Victorian Speaker,
comes from certain Orangemen, Mr Lalor being a
Roman Catholic. We do not say that any pro-
posal to make a grant should not be argued—on
its merits—but we do say that this display of
sectarian opposition to the recognition of the
splendid servioes of the manly and lib=ral Peter
Lalor, who lost his arm in the light for liberty at
Eureka Sockade, is a disgrace to the alleged
Christianity of the Pious and Immortal faction.
“To Hell w'th the Pone !" Why, certainly, so
long as you pack him off in the same balloon with
King Billy,


%
f|W
vl ovllo fjof Qe
Stab
oO£f^
H. 3
,K 1(0 ti°°* '
V s
luc (iub
f loor>
f()' IS- 0 A jA I !* ■
w,rrf> fu
SH€ff» fso o ( t>
I ll YrA\-(' kT corn d
0/7 />/S
&lta*!qel yV
In Ihe m*AA,
I Jhinl( JC( l\(vy
To q, Y e tff
W-
The Man Who Would Not Be Sketched.


/ bi . /
f-O . uf f
1 0 "
=^=-77 71-'* T*
U ‘ 1 ; .. UJ- f_
&&***
c* ' , ~©*•“ /V/y
V * /<# !_
' r 1 ——
-/?* (UUy rO'tfc Sy^aTfyy.
J ; £.",*./#*»'••*■***?-
cj. f *■ 3 J
rih.K r ** j>‘*
dos ' "
V of *9 *' f 7-r?,* 'r- f
* fywfry ft /i Of (Jr,f 7J
ft yy JyA n*y y* r ' ~~'~- :
jet/'/'ft''/ ) . /
y<Li (x.c^v-yTf /
7s~«-
.. .
tfy ci ay J
y<Li ,y oil 'V'3 b h eti-o/b
'lt* p<L A/dfJ_
" $*
y* 6 ' , i. /...v /., *• * »»w
I ft7? * ° ,t .
//7
t/o-uj t*-
'. __
~ b ?«- <^<//4j>c«,
• . Z' _ • '«,U-C7 t *'
/'j C»7 • \/
A< ‘- c "**
V> * ***•**-
" /<sv e/ e /-e. *} » d/*>. corf’srr> r/£ - s4 »/6
/<»,/ 7T j*. S' °y “J 4r.4/ L ~/t. &•>•*?d tc*£7Uf-,s/-~
709. fe//,0 / /
“Here We Are Again!"


Society
DELBECK
[?]LIMS
It has been remarked that Mayor Ililey, at
a recent quarterly civic luncheon, spoke- of the
Mayoress as “ a true 10 cglish woman.” Now, why
didn’t the Mayor try to make out that his popular
wife was “a true Australian ?" We are some-
what afraid that it is the proper cap »r in civic
circles to keep your eye on the Throne ail the
time. From a Town Hall point of view, Hinger-
land is the source from which all blessings flow.
* * *
It is nob generally known that Mr. Dorn,
the successful petitioner in Dorn v. NicholsoD,
used, during his lengthy incarceration in the
debtors’ ward of Darlinghurst prison, to solace his
riven soul hy writing postry, in which his friend the
lawyer co-re-pondent used to get an occasional
“ turn.” Apropos, reveDge is still just as sweet to
humans as itu-ed to be. Mr. Dorn, after sojourning
for a couple of years in durance vile, must feel
pretty happy now that he has “ taken it out ” of
the amorous Nicholson. Dorn’s incarceration
was one of the iniquities of law. Wo now for-
mally pardon him for the poetry.
* * *
There is in Sydney an undertaker called
Churchall. This is pretty good, though Church-
yardall would be still batter. In Melbourne there
is an undertaker called Raven. He advertises as
follows: “W, G. Raven, undertaker, manufac
tu-er of contagion-prevenrative coffins.” That is
the man we would like to bury us. No measles,
or whooping-cough, or diphtheria for us after we
are dead, thank you.
The Tasmanian Government proposes to
put a poll-tax of £25 on all commercial travellers
coming into the colony. As book-agents and sew-
ing-machine fiends come under this heading,
Tasmania will, when the scheme becomes law, be
the only place in Australasia for quiet people to
live in- If the Government would only go a little
further and put a prohibition-tax upon debt-col-
lectors, people would not want to leave Tasmania
even to go to Heaven.
* * *
There are now in N S,W. GOO articled
lawyers’ clerks ? Wanted, a poem on the future
charges of the gallant (500.
** 1 *
Here is another subject for verses
which some colonial Austin Dobson might write.
A well-known gentleman jock told us the o r her
day that whenever he gallops round the home-
t urn at Randwick towards the finish of a race he
pee 3 the race-club ambulance, drawn by two
hordes, dashing at full speed across the course, its
destination being the dangerous corner where
horses and riders so often come to grief. A grim
thought, said our friend—to be ever fol'owed in
the race of life by what, if we make a fatal slip,
will be our hearse.
Here is a glittering bait. The Royal
Geographical Society of Australasia is about to
fit out an exoedition to explore the still unknown
portion of Central Australia, and has sent out a
circular asking contributions, and winding up in
this way —“ Any leading support will be lastingly
rewarded by records on the geographical map of
.he forthcoming expedition.” THis will be great
news to the Jugginses, Bugginses, Snookses,
M'Griffins, and other aristocrats. By theexpendi-
tire of a paltry fifty pounds or po they will have
their fearful names indissolubly associated with
this'contioent till the eu-th is rolled up like a
scroll. No doubt they will also stipulate for their
tit'es to be added. Fancy the coming generation
having to ge* by heart such names as
—Mount Sir Alexander B'.oggs, Mount Augus-
tus Jobson, C.M G., Mount Mudge ! Lake Jug-
gins, J.P., M'Ciattherduffy Lagoon, Snooks River!
When they grow up, the children who have to
commit to memory such geographical infamies
will make a pilgrimage to tlie graves of the parties
who proposed this villainy and dig up their re-
mains and hang and burn them as a warning to
others that posterity is not to be insulted with
impunity. The quack-doctors and patent-medi-
cine advertisers will, no doubt, he first in the field
with their coin and get the first show in the
scramble. Then we may expect to see that part
of the map scored over with ttich atrocities as
“ Bilkum’s Pills Billabong,’' Mugg’s Cure-Every-
thing Flat, Do-you-feel-ill-young-man Creek,
and so forth. Thank heaven we shall (probably)
be dead then and studying the geography of—
well, another place.
* * *
There is a journal published in Melbourne
called ■he Speculum. It is the organ of the
medical students. We clip the following cheerful
remarks from a late number Vacations are a
mistake. They come upon you in the midst of
your resignation to work, and they leave you un-
willing to buckle to agaiD. Mayhap you have a
taking ulcer among your cases in the O.P. Depart-
ment. and vacation time comes and you leave it
to find, on return, that the interesting process of
healing has progressed rapidly, and you have
missed it. And very probably the pneumonia that
you had cherished has gone and died—and you
haven’t been to the post-mortem " This is printed
in the part of the journal devoted to light reading,
and, no doubt, is considered by the readers almost
too ’ effervescently gay. Judging by it we can
imagine that when female medical students be-
come more numerous such conversations as the
following will be quite common : —First Female
Medical Student (gushiogly) : “Oh, dear, I have
such a charming cancer given me to treat—you
would die of envy if you were to see it.” Second
Ditto: “Oh yes, and I have such a duck of a
corpse to dissect —and Dr. says I can have
it ah to myself ! Isn’t he a lo 7 e 1 By the way, I
am almo3tsure that the corpse is that of De Boozy,
who jilted your cousin Fanny two years ago,” &c.,
&c. There are verses published in the Spkcu lu m , but
they are poor stuff compared to the foregoing. The
Speculum poets should study the works of Charles
Baudelaire. If we remember rightly one of his
poems is dedicated to “ A. Red headed Girl with a
Cancer.” It i a sweet thing. One of the students
who knows enough of French should translate it.
* * *
Melbourne newspaper English as she is
wrote : “ Tne Federal Coffee Palace is one of the
largest and highest, if not the tallest, in the
metropolis.” After this, the announcement in a
recent fashion journal that “ With this bonnet
the mouth is worn slightly open,’ may taken
back seat.
* * *
A Melbourne private-enquiry man was at
the Swain enquiry last week with a troop of
witnesses to prove that the unfortunate girl was
not too good for the world which she left so sud-
denly. Captain Moore’s counsel, Mr. Coldham,
however, said that their evidence was not neces-
sary. Consequently, a lot of very nauseous details
ware left where they should be —in oblivion. The
Herald has been in a state of suppressed fury
with Mr. Coldham ever since.
* * *
Notice copied from a placard in a store-
keeper’s window: —"Eggs, selected, Is. .'id. ;
eggs, new-laid, Is. 2d.; eggs, fresh, Is. ; eggs for
restaurants, lOd. ; eggs ” (for hash-hou3es, pro-
bably), 9d.”
• * *
Whiteley, the great universal provider of
London, has for several years not been able to get
his premises insured. His latest tire has cost him
half-a-million; by the one before, the New Baby-
lonian Hordern lost £350 000. He is a most inde-
pendent, not to say brusque person, is Mr.
Whiteley. He advertises that he doesn’t wish his
visitors to bring their children to his shops, and ho
heads hir bi)l3 “ Black Book Account ” if ho con-
siders them overdue.
* * *
Anyone with a fancy for speculation might
do worse than bet level money that Sir F. Napier
Broome will shortly be summoned home from
Western Australia, on urgent business. He has
already been mildly roasted in the House of Com-
mons, in connection with the affaire Heusman,
and now the podgy little autocrat suspends Chief
Justice Onslow. He mast go. The long-suffering
West Australians are full up, and if " urgent busi-
ness ”, doesn’t soon intervene we shall hear tf
them sweeping the road with their own Broome.
A terrioly tangled-up matrimonial case is
on just now in Queensland, and it is aggravated
by the fact that the male party concerned has
another wife living, and that the parson who
married him to his second wife before the first one
was dead is said to have also written the love-
letters which enabled him to capture an unfor-
tunate female and lay her waste. This sort of
thing strikes us as being wrong—if not even im-
moral ; it is almost equal to a doctor running in
partnersnip witn an undertaker. vv e speak tiius
from experience, for we once wrote love-letters for
another man, andtheresuit was unwholesome—we
might almost say malarious. His front name was
Bill, and he was our partner in days when we
dug for gold and very seldom found it. He
couldn’t write himself for sour apples, but he was
madly in love with a barmaid in the next town-
snip—a dainty, high-heeled creature in white
muslin with pink spots, and at night we used to
go over to the warden’s office and crib the Govern-
ment foolscap, and spread ourselves out for seven
pages of poetic fervour adorned with bursts of
verse and scraps of unfixable soulfulnes3 about
stars and other things. Then we would read
these effusions to Bill, and when we came to a
sentence that covered half a page he would bang
the table, and say, “By cripes, that’ll fetch
her !” Bub one unhappy day he went over to
conduct his wooing in person, and instead of
the overflow of high-toned rapture which
she had expected he only made two re-
marks in the course of half-an hour. The first
had reference to her health, and in the course of
the second, which ensued after he had sat still
and breathed hard for 15 minutes, he set forth
that his dog Jce, somehow or other, wouldn’t eat
beef when it was boiled. He came away sadly,
and we wrote no more letters to that girl on the
Palmer River. Perhaps, afeer all, Bdl s unobtru-
sive silence saved him a lot of after trouble.
Love-making by letter is, no . doubt, perfectly
legitimate, but when it leads a woman to marry a
man whom she imagines to have a poetic and fer-
vent soul, bub whose thoughts in reality never
soar above beef and taturs, she has good cause to
demand a separation. If Bill, when delivered
over to his bride, proves to be not equal to the
sample of Bill which was previously forwarded by
the post, then the contract should be void owing
to fraudulent misrepresentation, and we com-
mend this view of the case to Sir Alfred Stephen
and Dawvid Buchanan when next the subject of
divorce come 3 to the fore. Many a trusting un-
literary woman has been taken in for belter or
worse by a lout who whispers soraps of Byron or
Shakespeare in her ear, and then, after marriage,
he takes her to nigger shows in preference to
opera, and fires the witticisms of the corner-man
at her head for a week after wards, and goes about
the house making day hideous with an inane
chorus of ti-loorai-looral-lay, and it is high lime
that women who are thus afflicted should be fur-
nished with some means of escape from their
misery.
* * *
“ Humming Bee ” chatters in the D.T, :
“The supper was one of those arrangements one
only secs at Government House. Everyone was
high in praise of everything.” Now we know why
a lot of people go to Government House.
.
The playing of Madame Madeline Schiller,
to whom a complimentary concert was given last
week in Sydney, was a veritable treat even to the
non-technicalist. The lady herself is so graceful
that we hope she wilt be permanently retained in
Sydney as a les«on in deportment to the nobility of
the ancient regime at the Point.
* * *
It was in Ring-street, outside a clever
florist’s, who, in honour seemingly of the racing
carnival, had de.-igned a horse-shoe formed of
white azaleas with the words *' Metrop., Dunlop ”
above and below it. When our melting orb rested
on it we said “Metropolitan Stakes.” The mean-
ing of Dunlop was clear. But to two gushing girl
thicg3—the one in electric blue with a seven-
storied hat, the other in j übilee with a sailor hat
curled up with seven yards of red ribbon—the
meaning of the whole thing was hashed up to the
last degree. “O, did you ever ! ” squealed elec-
tric blue. ' ‘ Meet me, Dunlop. Oh I Who’s he 1 ”
“ Don t know. How awfully nico, though, to
write ‘ Meet me ’in azaleas, isn’t it ? ” Then they
rustled up King-street to do the block, and we
lifted our hat to let Heaven’s free air play on our
heated brow.
Messrs. Kerry and Jones, of George-stret t,
Sydney, have broken out into an eruption of pho-
tographic views of N. S.W. scenery frr use a 9
Christmas cards. People who are as tired as we
are of the usual angel-swinging by his tail in the
corner of a cardfull of inane poetry are recom-
mended to give the new idea a trial.
* * •
There was a debate at the St. Patrick's
College, Melbourne, the other night, on the ques-
tion, “ Should the franchise b 8 extended to
women ? ” It was decided in the negative by a
large majority—
We gross they know what they were at —
An Irishman’s no fo. 1
For if there’s one thing dear to Pat
That one thing is—Home Rule.
Peter Heinrich Fchrcmder, of Charters
Towers (Q.), has two wives, and one of the wives
has another husband, consequently it becomes
rather a difficult matter to tell ihe exact relation-
ship existing between the second husband of
Feiniich’s first wife and tie sonc f the second
wife’s father by his first marriage, always provid-
ing there was such an individual, whi 'h is uncer-
tain, and doesn’t matter a haDg anyhow. Hein-
r'ch first entered the holy bonds of matrimony at
Gympie in 1877, but apparently he did not make a
good impression on the lady with a ctaai -leg, and
during his absence in Germany she married again
Heinrich returned and settle! in Charters Towers,
and feeling lonely after awhile he (it is allegeo)
asked the Rev. Mr. King if he thought it would be
a good idea to advertise for a wife. Mr King is
reported to have considered it just possib’e that a
blessed union might he consummated in ihe
manner described, and the “ ad.” being duly in-
serted brought Mis 3 Helen Fountain on the scene.
She thought she might learn to love Heinrich,
and that gay German tailor did not think it need-
ful to explain that the photo, on which she based
th's hallucination had been taken before he ac-
quired a large black patch on his face and got the
brand of Time set on him generally. When Helen
sighted him she found that he wasn’t exactly the
noble-lookmg youth she had expected, but fter
staggering two or three times she resolved to go
through with it, and though Schtceder wasn’t up
to sample she took him for better or worse. Tre
very next day the row began. Helen demanded
that her husband should remove the pa f ch which
he wore on his cheek, and when he dragged it off
she found that it covered a huge breathing-hole on
his face through which she could see down his
throat. He seemed rather proud of this orifice,
and staged that he was the only man in Australia
who could feed through the side of his head, but
Helen did not aitoge‘her share his exuberance.
In fact she regarded Peter Heinrich for a second
or two with a stony glare of dissatisfaction, and
then, after taking a lunar observation through
the tunnel in her husband’s countenance, atd
gaining a comprehensive insight into his larynx,
she went upstairs to put on her bonnet and go
back to her childhood’s happy home. Her heart
was too full for utterance, and she felt, as.ste
afterwards explained, that an old foreign tailor
with a gully in his head was not ihe tailor she
had bargained for. But whffe she was upstairs
her husband was quietly soaking a towel in water,
and when she came to bid him good-bye he held
her down by t h e neck and laid the weapon about
the body of the woman whom he had promised to
love and cherish, till she cursed the unlucky
day when she had seen that advertisement.
After this she changed her mind about going
home, and she also abstained from further
comment on Peter Heinrich's appearance until
sho learned, three weeks later, that he had
another wife living, and that she was being flipped
with a towel by a second hand husband with a
moth-eaten top, and then she fled in dismay and
took to dressmaking for a livelihood. Two years
of steady industry furnished her with enough
money to take proceedings against Peter Heinrich
and bring the head of the deceiver low and his
nose to the grindstone, and when last we heard of
him ho was out on hail, and his prospects seemed
about as unpromising as those of an old postage-
stamp that had boen licked before. The way of
th e transgressor appears to he pretty hard up ia
the land of the alligator and the gay and reckless
banana, #
An enviably lucky man is Mr. M'Greo, who
landed on the Melbourne wharf one day last week
in a penguin cap and sealskin hoots. He was on
a voyage of pleasure round the world, and started
in the ship Derry Castle on 12th March last. She
went to pieces on the Auckland Islands, and only
he and seven others out of a crew of 23 were
saved. There was a piece of luck to start with,
but the real luck was in being cast ashore on a
desert Bland. Why, one might go round the
world for pleasure 50 times and never meet with
anything half so exciting. The eight Robinson
Crusoes lived on raw seal for ten days ; then
more luck—found a revolver cartridge in
his pocket with which he struck a light, in a
manner we have vainly tried for hours in the
days when we had serious intentions of taking up
buccaneering as a profession. What a thrilling
tale Mr. M’Gee will have to tell his friends when
he gets home ! How be will spread himself, to be
sure ! The stories he will tell about how he and
his mates drew lots which was to be killed for
food, and how the fatal lot came to him, and how
he closed his eyes and bent his neck to the toma-
hawk when -hurrah! A ship! And soon. If
we had such a chanc3 to draw ghastly pictures of
those lonely islands in the Antarctic seas, and the
weird and awful time we had there, we would
never do a stroke of work for the rest of our life,
* * *
The Consul at Melbourne for a certain
Republic in Central America is the orly man in
the city who can wear a catskin collar on his coat
with impunity. The reason of this is that the
Vic’orian Government, bellicose as it may be when
such power as France are concerned, would think
twice before provoking a war with Costa Rica.
♦ * *
Two swells—oko a J.P., and the other
own brother to a well-known Victorian M.P.—
got run in one night recently by the Hamilton
(Vic.) police on a charge of “righteous” be-
haviour. They had been to a fancy-dress ball at
the Town Hall, when, overcome by the heat, they
struggled into utter darkness and tumbled agin a
constable who appears to have been planted out-
side to see that no one ran away with the para
chutes. Explanations followed, but 20,021, was
not to be mollified He collared the near-side
swell with an iron grip to the imminent damage
of his last century cost ume, and scruffed him tin-
gently to quod, followed by the other swell, who
offered, as a rcspectab’e J.P., to bail out his
friend. Did they take his bail! Not much. They
ran him in, too. Next morning all the local Potts
Pointer! attended court to gloat over the sensa-
tion of witnessing the two ornaments of local
ssssiety face the music in their festive attire. The
bench looked them over carefully, and then told
the Roman Soldier that be might retire with his
spear, and, as for his companion, who had mixed
his clothes somehow and was “ George Washing-
ton and his Hatchet” at cne end, and the “ Last
Rose of Summer ” at the other, he was warned
not to get drunk and disorderly within measure-
able distance of a nolice station again or it would
be worse for him. As top’cs of social conversa-
tion among local aristocrats, the inquest on Miss
Laura Swain and the Dorn divorce case have
faded into nothingness beside this local bit of son
sationalism. We, however, don’t wonder at any-
thing a J.P. does.
» *
Councillor Britten, of Fifzroy (Melb.), is
violently opposed to wards being named after
saints. So are we. In doesn’t sound well to hear
“ the sanguinary member for Sn. Paul” asked to
come outside by “ tie ignorant scoundrel who re-
presents St. Peter.”
* ■* *
Tiger Infill, the N.S. W. Minister of
Education, asked the children at Auburn Public
School last week which they would rather have—-
a long soeech from him or a hi f-holiday. Taey
unanimously declared iu favour of the half-holi-
day and got it. These children weren’t half so
knowing as little Marcus (Lame, who, being asked
by his silver-haired maiden aunt which he would
rather do -sing a hytna or eat an orange, promptly
and hypocriticdly sv.d, “Sing a hymn, aunt.”
—whereupon t-he gave him two oranges. Had the
Auburn yomg-iters told Tiger that they yearned
for a long speech he would probably have given
them two holidays.
* *
A man fishing in the Murray at Echuca
(Vic.) last week caught a dead woman. He might
have done worse. He might have caught a live
woman.
| The man who would persist in deafening
the ears of the Victorian God dees of Justice with
the rap, rap, rap of his ii't’e hammer has been
wiped out nf notoriety by a fiend who actually
started b’owing a bagpipe in front of the Rock
bampton (Q ) Cour house while Lukin, P.M., was
ladlirg out the law. Natwa’ly enough, Mr.
Lukin kicked against the disturbance, for which
he vas mercile-sly abused by the local Press,
which spoke of him as a man who had no music
in his sou', and who was therefore fit for every
crime, from heads a bob” to manslaughter.
Poor Lukin merely replied that he doubted if any
man could listen to the brgpires for over half-an-
hour without going raving road, upon which an
indignant Scot published the bill of fare of a most
successful Northern banquet at which a pibroch
solo was performed after each course :
Minu:
Vins.
Whisky, 1878. T>otatofs and Herrings.
Whisky, 1879.—S i t Herring am; Pomme de Terre.
Whisky, 1880.—P tatoes and Rp<t H, mu. s.
Whisky, 1881 —Pot at .eg mi Naturel,
Whisky, 1882.—Mashed Potatoes and Herrings au Sel.
WDisky, 1883 —Bake ! Potatoes and Locli Fyne Herrings.
Whisky, 1884.—80il 'd Potatoes and Darn Kyne Herrings.
Whisky, 1885 Haddies a la P.nnon and Baked Cheese.
Whisky, 1888 —More Herrinws—More Potatoes More
Whisky. Add Ling Syne by the whole s'rength of the
Company and Bagpipes
That b’ll cf fare was carried out to the letter, and
the banqueters s’ ill live to tell the tale.
* * *
The Jewish community in Melbourne is
“realmad” with the Mayor of that ancient city. By
a singular coincidence the Mayor’s annual ball is
fixed for the particu'ar date wh'n the Chosen
People make atonem mt for their a r cumulated in-
discretions. No Jew worth tuppence —and most
of them are worJi more than that—would dream
of breaking the Fast of Kipur, even in the calm
seclusion of his strong room. Therefore Mayoress
Cain is able to confine her invitation list strictly
to Gentiles. Bho wouldn’t insult Abrahams, or
Isaacs, or Jacobs with a pasteboard reminder that
chicken and champagne gratis will be gladdening
Christian interiors at a time when they, the strict
fasters, are pluckily endeavouring to satisfy the
first pangs of hunger with prayer and humiliation.
But seriously the big municipal, corroboree ought
to be open to afl comers, doncherknow. If that
ball came off (as arranged) on the 28th, the Mel-
bourne Jews were compelled to make a social
sacrifice unforeseen by Mo3es And this reminds
us that there 's another conspiracy against the
election of A’derman Benjamin to the b’essed
chair. No ques'ion of a possible Jubilee knight-
hood (delusive rope !) stands in the way this year,
so in common decency the common councilmen
should make little Bepjam'n their ruler.
• * •
A young nan up North, suddenly seiz< d
with a desire to get married, telfg'apbed to his
girl in Adelaide (S. Alto hurry up. Of course
she hurried. They always do. She packed her
shoe-trunks and logged along half a-ton of br xes
containing nick-racks for her marital shandy in
perspective. On arriving North she failed to spot
the desired abt d j , and turned up her pretty little
nose when her lover proro ed temporary residence
at a dyspepsia depot. No, sir 1 Her mother hav
ing oiu.’.g hash, she had “ been there" before, so
she flounced hack to Adelaide.
We like a man with a hobby, and although it may appear
to us ludicrous, it is to him perhaps the only thing worth
living fcr. We accimpmied such a man into G sorge-street.
opposite the Joint Stock Bank, and to see •he real pleasure
he derived in critically admiring the hand-painted plates,
made us wish for a keener sense in the appreciation of the
beautiful. It is unnecessary to mention more than to say
the cackery defies description, and Bray Bros' genera,
display is unequalled in Sydney.*
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs, MoOathUi 86 and 90 Klug-strset,"
J. B. Pace's end Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is
he most del ciour smoke ia the world, acknowledged l 'V all
ttmoisseura to he the most delicate in flavour. Prepared so
that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to the last
particle with a pure white ash. Try it.
HOW THE ENGAGEMENT CLOSED.
Robinson : Hallo, old boy ! how are you? Glad to see you.
Jones: Fiist rate You well?
Robinson : Thanks; quite! By the way, I heard you
were en?ag d toMiss Bondclipper.
Jones : No, Robirson; I was eng-ged to her, but that is
past
Robinson: Well, Jones, between you and me, now, you
are a lucky boy She’s rich, of cours j , but that is all she has
to recommend her.
Jones : Yes.
Robinson: And then her money is really only prospec-
tive, you Her fath> r might loee it all in an unwise
speculation, before the daughter got to handle it.
Jones : That is true.
Robinson : Well, that’s the way I look at it. I could
have married her myself.
Jones: You could?
Robinson: I.'s»fact; but I counted the cost, and drew
out just in time. Fortunate, wasn't it?
Jonj s: Veiy.
Robinson : But tell me how you managed to break the
engagement. Mine hasn’t quite gone that far.
Jon es : 1 didn t break it
Robinson : Oh, she did it herself, did she ? But perhaps
I ought not to say anything about it. I supposed, of course,
you troke it yourself, as she was so anxious to marry, and
everybody knows tt at.
Jones: Oh, you needn’t apologise. I’m not worrying at
all about it.
Robinson : That’s go-d. 1 like to see a man keep up his
courage. Might lir quire what made her break it ?
Jones : Oh, she didn’t break it, either.
Robinson : Well, that’s strange. Then it must have been
her father.
Jones: No; he had no objection.
Robinson : Then how did you manage to get out clothe
engagement?
Jones: I married her last week.
Robinson (with a gasp): Afc-h-h! Well, I'must really be
going now. Good-bye!
Jones : Good-bye.
. • *


A POPULAR POISON.
A ROMANCE A LA MODE.
Algernon Hicks loved Jerusha MacMurtha
with all the ardour of youth and a bilious
temperament, and she referred him to Papa
His Honor Mr. Jus-
tice Williams has, we
are glad to hear, taken
to sitting in Melbourne
Criminal Court without
his full-bottomed wig.
This is quite a startling
innovation, as it is not so
very many years ago
that Supreme Court
judges positively ref' s°d
to hear barristers vhi
were not properly wigged
and gowned. Perhaps
the Bar, which is, of
course, deeply inter *sted
in maintaining old (and
cold) world mummeries
in this land of torr d
summers, will now de-
cline to listen to ary
judge who doesn’t thafeh
his sknll wiih horsehair.
We cordially thank M-.
Justice Williams for his
attempt to adapt the
judicial costume to bis
arduous work and the
Melbourne hot-wind
days. When we become
a judge we will not
draw the line at discard-
ing our full - bottomed
wig. We will go further.
We will have our head
shaved.
• * *
Se mi Lancers attend
ed to escort Governor
Carington to the opening of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment last week. Wanted, a new poem—“ We
are Seven,”
* * *
Cries a Melbourne poet in the hospitable
columns of the Evening Herald :
“ Oh ! that I once more could mingle
In the charms of that sweet belle,
Mem'ry of them soft can tingle,
Fondly breathes my soul ‘ Farewell.’ ”
After giving those lines calm, Christian considera-
tion, we have come to the conclusion that the
young lady ought to “break off” with a fellar
who tells secrets in such barefaced style. She
owes it as a du’y to her family not to let the poet
do any more mingling.
If the cove wot wrote that jingle
Met the father of his belle,
Guess some part of him would tingle
As the old 'un gave him Sheol.
• * *
A New Zealand paper says
"it is the parsimony of L rd Augustus Loftus ihat t'e
public h vve to thank for the transfer of the undoubted talents
of Mr. H. Labouchere from diplomacy to journalism Being
then attached to the embassy at Munich, over ivhieh Lord
? Augustus presided, in order to mark hi* disapprob .ton of the
nover y of the emiasiy table Ijabou-here refused to honour
the table of his chief by the customary evening dress. W hen
his superior at last openly taxed him with his negligence of
attire even offer.ng to supply the necessary funds fir the
purchase of the requir. d garments if the deficiency were due
to that cau-e, the editor of Truth r*plied, No, Lord
Augustus, I dopoßsess an evening coat, but the fact is that
since I have frequented your lordship's table I have grown
so lean that it hangs about me like a sack. Jt is needless to
add that Mr Labouchf re' connection with the Munich Em-
bassy ceased abruptly."
* * *
A certain prominent Australian went bung
the other d;iy, and among his creditors was an
important three-ball Hebrew from Jerusalem. He
wanted £llOO, and lie was going to have his
moneysh. The principal Calico Jemmy among
the creditors went up to his premises to remon-
strate, and, crowding himself into the box where
the snuffy old women were wont to go to nego-
tiate an advance of eightpence on an ancient
shawl he commenced persuasively, “Look
here, Abraham Isaac Moses Yacob, you’ll
come in with the other creditors, won’t you ?”
“ S’help me Galilee, I can’t. I lose all my moneysh
if I do—every blesshed shent." “Well, but then,
you’ll be in the same boat with the rest of us. We
lose our money too, don’t we?” said the Calico
Jimmy, blandly, and then the Hebrew rose up and
made this memorable reply: “ No, my tear. Jam
the only man that losesh any moneysh. You’ve
all got value for yours somehow or other, but me
—I lose every shent. My tear, you musht pay
me out.” And he was paid out accordingly. His
knowledge of politics carried him through. It
was the same mild Jebusite who recently declined
to prove on the estate of a young insolvent who
has a wealthy uncle. “My poy,” he said, with
an aspect of sincerity in every crinkle of his coun-
tenance, “you vas a man of honour, and you vill
perhaps be able to pay me shome day. Anyhow,
L also am an honourable man, and I will not press
you." But unluckily he intimated to a friend in
strict confidence that when the insolvent s wealthy
uncle was dead he meant to collect his little bil
!Yith interest up to the datg of the porps©) and the
gilded youth heard of this and came down in a
tearing fury. “ Look here, you d—d old Shiloh !”
he thundered, “if I hear any more of you going
about telling people that I’m waiting f r m?
uncle’s dea<h to pay my debts, I’ll batter your old
head in with your own Talmud ’’ “ Well, but,
my poy,” responded the creditor, “ what is the
trouble about? Perhaps I did shay it, but then
what else could, I shay? Of course, ev:rybody's
waiting for his uncle to be dead ! ’
* * *
Any young man who has a natural taste
for wind instruments or a turn for the concertina
will find comfort and joy in this obituary verse
from the Age :
" His soul now expands with th i music of Heaven,
And returns God praise for the powers thus given.
Tne talent of music received at his birth,
Now doth he realise cf infinite worth.”
From this we infer that you don’t stand much
show as an angel if you haven’t enjoyed a m isical
training down below. St. Peter, we suppose, ar
ranges all the fellows who can play something
into one great Celestial orchestra, while the others
sit aroand on the tail ends of their wings and
listen to an everlasting overture. Perhaps it’s all
for the best. A golden harp, in the hands of one
who never learEed a note of music, would be
merely an instrument of torture to us better
educated angels.
* * *
A man treated in Hobart hospital claims
£2OOO for carrying away a portion of an instru-
ment inside of him. Which recalls the case of
the female patient on' whom they operated for
ovarian tumour a few years ago at the Alfred
Hospital, Melbourne. She died, and at, the post
mortem they found the peritonitis was caused by
a couple of sponges and a pair of bulldcg forceps
that the surgeon had inadvertently sewn up in-
side her.
Now old MacMurtha was a sordid old wretch, who loved his daughter too. much to “give” her
away to an impecunious young man, so he “sooled” the dog upon Algernon Hicks.
The Hungarian
Nightingale, lima Di
Murßka, is about to p* y
another visit to iui
tralia, after an abstnoe
of 11 years. The fi’
lima, during her short
stay in Melbourne, ma--
ried two husbands Th i
first was Anderson, a
Hebrew pianist, vh i
died shortly after » r ► :
the second was the y nng
and good-looking John
Hill, the violinist Hill
is now known in the
Northern hemisple e ai
“ Mr. John Hiller.''
* * *
Some humouri-t h--s
been imposing on the
unsophisticated N. °. W.
Drink Commissioners by
telling them that it is tt e
habit of the “shouters”
of champagne in private
bars merely to take a sip
and “ sling the rest of
the contents into a
bucket.” How innocent
the magnates of the land
all are I
The eldest son of Anthony Trollope has
written a novel entitled “My Own Love Story.”
We know what it is. Just the same as every
other fellow's.
• * •
Lord Alfred(the Right Honourable Charles
Robert, Baron Carington, will know whom
we mean) is now a harmless old bachelor
of seventy, but it pleases him still to hang round
stage-doors, and to take to supper any little ballet-
girl who will accept bis hospitality. The other
night he fancied himself more than usually in love,
and, as he put his arm about the waist of a pretty
nymph from the Alhambra, he whispered yearn-
ingly through his false teeth, “ Ah, my dear, if
only T had met you twenty years ago 1 ” “ Well,
that wouldn’t have been any better than it is
now,” she replied, as she pulled the bell for her
mother to come down and let her in. “ Why
wouldn’t it pet ? ” he asked, essaying to take a
good night kiss. “ Because I was only six months’
old then.”
* * •
For fear of losing her cV us *o American
citizenship, Mrs, Langtry cannot come to Aus-
tralia for live years. The real reason is that she
fears she might be made a C.M.G.
• * *
Dr. You), the Melbourne city coroner,
nearly met a watery grave the other night. The
doctor slipped off a stepping-stone while crossing
a flooded creek, and became mixed up with the
angry torrent. His escape was a poetical in-
justice to the hundreds of “ found drowned.” who
might, otherwise, have turned up at the inquest
to warble in spirit chorus, “ Then Vonl remember
me,” The Doctor is a nice man, but lie lost us
many a good joke by wading out of that creek in
:he way he did. Great Joe Miller ! how we could
lave played upon his respected name. Dozens of
ittle jokes come to mock our baffled hopes. How
we might have Youlogised his memory 1
• * *
The town of Monmouth ha 3 been cele-
brating-with bonfires, squibs, and other rejoic-
ings—the 500th birthday of King Henry the Fifth.
Yes and the Qaeen sent a message to the Mayor,
expressing the “ deep interest she took in the
event.” Why doesn’t George Rignold wire home
to the old lady and get an ad. ! “ Her Majesty
congratulates Handsome George on his successful
revival of Henry Vee at the theatre named after
her royal self,” would look uncommonly well on
big posters. On further consideration we think
that George ought to get at his paTon saint for a
few dress-circle tickets,
* * *
Since the unveiling of Burns’ statue at
Ballarat (Vic.), four additional surgeons and half-
a-dozen chemists’ shop 3 have started, and there
seems to be plenty of business for all. Every
horse that faces the ghastly effigy turns tail and
bolts in the direction of the North Pole, and the
average Chinaman would sooner cut off his head
or his tail than pass the place after nightfall.
* • *
London Echo coolly informs i's Liberal-
Unionist readers that the Primrose-League is all
the rage in N.S W. This is going from home for
news with a vengeance.
• • *
Miss Tessie Chapman, a second edition of
the Escaped Nun, has taken to the thankless task
of verbally slogging 0 Kane, of the Northern
Miner, for denying that she was pretty. She
concludes that Thadeus is descended from Cain be
cause the Lord once said, “ Oh, Cain, where is
thy brother 1 ”
Governor Broome
has at least temporarily
swept the Chief Justice
of Western Australia off
the Supreme Court
Bench. A somewhat
similar squabble (about
the remission of senten-
ces) raged violently in
Tasmania some ten years
ago between Sir Francis
Smith (then C.J.) and
the Governor of the Tight
Little Island. After hav-
ing slanged his Excel-
lency to his heart's con-
tent in the columns of
the Mercury, Sir Fran-
cis quite unexpectedly
caved in and made a
public apology which
was most graciously re-
ceived by a very badly
treated Governor. Sir
Francis' contention was
that there was a clear
limit to the Governor’s
exercise of the Royal pre-
rogative of mercy. As a
matter of fact, there is
no limit whatsoever.
The Imperial instructions
to the Governor provide
that H E., after hearing
what the Executive has
to say, is to decide such
matters on his own re-
sponsibility alone.
But Algernon met Jerusha clandestinely, and asked her to share his fate —a tin of Rough on
Rats, They had enough also for the dog.
At Fitzroy (Melbourne), the other day, a
gay young masher who put his arm around a
young lady’s waist and squeezed her was only
fined 20 shillings. Dirt cheap. The Bench has
evidently been there itself.
* * *
It is complained (on orthodox grounds) that
the Chinese cabbage-growers of Botany water their
gardens on Sunday. What if they do? If n't it
better than praying for rain and then waitirg two
years for it ?
• • *
Some of the lady singers in the choir of a
certain Northern church have been transferred by
the minister to the body of the church. Oi« of
these ladies, who wasn’t reckoned “swagger”
enough for the companionship of the choir, was
asked by the parson to continue singing the hymns
in tne body of the church. She replied than she
might as well sing at home. And she doe 3.
* * *
Beauty una Domed is oft adorned the
most.
• * *
Mr. Walter Coldham, during the Swain
inquest at Melbourne, cynically remarked : “ The
season for screaming on the banks of the river is
now approaching.” We predict great things of
Mr. Coldham, who is young and only just married.
* * *
The Sydney D.T.’s calf, the Tribune,
gives under the head of “fashions for the week,” j
the portrait of a young woman in the airiest of
attire, yclept “The Fern Leaf.” Next week,
probably, we shall be pres anted with another
Potts Pointer as the Fig Loaf, ■
The Sydney Board of Technical Education
invite applications from gentlemen competent to
deliver lectures on “ Roadmaking.” A floe show
is here presented to th 9 old nobility of Pott’s
Point.
* * *
Baronet Clarke, the Cabbage Garden
Croesus, who has been nearly twelve years in tie
Victorian Legislative Council, has never made a
speech all the time. Silence is golden, dontcher-
know.
* * *
Nothing like frankness. Speaking of a
local ball, a Cooma (N.S.W.) editor sadly remarks:
“No flat footed people will be present. That
seals our doom.”
* * *
Father Haggard, who refused to allow a
Bourke (N.S.W.) young lady to go homo with her
pa, imends to bring his abduction case before the
Privy Council.
* * *
Mr. Knapp, sec. to the N.S.W. Local
Option League, testified to the Drink Commisucn
that some six years ago he went into a bar and
saw small rooms partitioned off where young m n
had their arms around women’s \vais:s. What a
miraculous change six years make in a man!
• • *
Lieutenant-Colonel Blaxland, of Croydc n
(Q.), when aotiDg C,P.S. "at Townsville (Q.), was
visited by a charming young widow who wanted
a copy of a certificate that her late husband was
really under the sod. The gallant Colonel got so
conversationally interested that at last he had to
remind her of the fee— half a-crown—for fear ho
might forget it. / The widow, quite equal to the
occasion, planked down “ three bob, ’ as she re-
marked, “Keep the change for yourself, young
man ”
* * *
Mrs. Langtry declares that walk'ng is good
for women, We believe it. We ve asked oir
mother-in-law to walk.
* * *
At the opening of the N S.W. Parliament
Lady Carington sported a very elegant gown of
cream satin. The dressing of the ladies was cn
tout kaleidoscopic—that of some in the back seats
particularly so.
* * *
Here is an awful lesson to people who
won’t mind their own business. At Cooktown
(Q ) a white woman, who had grown tired of
civilisation and wearing a bustle, went out and
joined the blacks, and for a year or two they all
went round together and said, “ What a day we re
having!" But at last an interfering old fcol
heard of it, and felt it incumbent on him to
reclaim the woman and make her wear a bustle
once more. Accordingly the police were sent out
in pu> suit and dropped on the innocent lamb of
50, and proceeded to bring her back on horseback.
But the blacks resisted, and scrimmaged wiih the
officers, and the next moment they and the horse
and the lamb all went down together in a heap,
and when they were disentangled it was found
that she had been sat on and was dying. Too-
much-interfering old philanthropist had brought
her to an untimely end.
* * *
It was a daring woman who put this
advertisement in the Aoe : Lost, at Albert
Park, gold mouth-piece with teeth.” Perhaps,
however, it is not bigger than a collar. By
the way, we have never yet seen an advertisement
from a woman concerning a lost tongue. They
never lose that. And yet their tongues are often
as false as their teeth.
Governor and Lady
Caringlon give a ball at
Government House on
Friday, 80th September.
* •
The Dunoliy (Vic.)
railway navvy who
struck a nugget worth
£lOl4, the other day,
intends to start railway
contracting, get a peer-
age, buy 8 yachr, and
charge his old-time
ma es half-a crown for
admission. His ancestor,
we believe, came over
with William the Con-
queror.
« * *
An Amo dean paptr
asks, “ Who'ever saw a
stuttering woman?'’
Come to think of it,
we never did. We e
seen a mumbling woman,
and a woman with a
wooden leg, aEd a ci e-
eyed woman, and a
woman who washed her
own dog and yet hired
another woman to lock
after her baby, but we
never saw a stutteriog
woman. Why is it?
Old MacMurtha had them all bu[?]d in on
grave—not so much perhaps from romantic
notions as to keep down expenses. “He
might at least have spared my dog!” old
Mac would frequently moan in the bitter-
ness of his grief.


Govern or Carington’s fluakeys were the
most gorgeous part of the show at the opening of
the N.S.W. Parliament. There were two of them
—Jeames and Tummas. Jeames was tall and
solemn-looking, and his hair was covered with
grease and flour, and combed back so hard that
he couldn’t shut his mouth, and his left ear was
strained out of the perpendicular. He had on apair
of imposing calves, which were calculated to hold
up a falling house ; he was attired in numerous
colours, and his aspect said, “Gaze on me.”
Tummas was evidently of a more airy disposition,
and, though his hair nearly lifted him off his feet
he wore an engaging smile and a cold. His legs,
viewed in their remote relation to his head, had a
subdued fervour which contrasted distinctly with
the coldly practical and aristocratic shanks of
Jeames, and the heave of his stomach showed
him to be of an imaginative disposition. He
would not roll down hill so easily as his com
panion, nor would he be likely to fall so softly when
he got to the bottom, but he had more points
about him. Jeames and Tummas were un-
doubtedly the two great features of the display
and compared to them, the Lancers, the police
and even the Governor himself passed almost un-
noticed. If Lord Carington wishes to attract any
attention at his next public appearance he will
have to put Jeames and Tummas in the carriage
and stand at the hack himself.
* * *
The eastern side of Wynyard-square,
Sydney, is to be known in future as Montague-
street, which is Secretary Garrett’s way of paying
his respects to Mr. Montague Levey, a deceased
capitalist who once lived in that locality. We
mention this circumstance to prevent an idea get
ting about that the street is christened after
Montague Tigg, the friend and companion of
“TAKEN IN HAND.”
“The crew and passengers of the cutter, Two Friends, went on shore at Karaeja,
Bowen Straits, and were killed and eaten. The Collector of Customs has recommended
that the authorities at Port Darwin should take the matter in hand.”
The authorities aforesaid are here depicted in the act of taking in hand all that is
left of the matter.
Chevy Slyme, or William Drogo Montagu, Duke
of Manchester. The street in which Mr. Montague
Levey livedis to be named Montague-street because
Levey-street would be almost as indefinite as
Cohen-street or Abraham-square, and it is not to
be named Benjamin-street, because Mr. Levey’s
name never was Benjamin. The Sydney D.T.
states that Mr. Levey always took a deep interest
in the patch of grass in the middle of the square,
and while he lived anyone who shied old jam-tins
across the railings was sure to get it hot.
* * *
A Burwood (N.S.W.) jury recommends
that “ Rough on Rats ” shall be included under
the Poisons Act. After this it would be interest-
ing to know what they would recommend with
regard to Sydney whisky.
* * *
Bishop Goe has been called in to mediate
between Canon Sergeant, of Williamstown (Vie.),
and his flock. The Canon wants his congregation
to stand during a certain portion of the service,
and the congregation objects. Even old church-
goers cannot sleep with any degree of comfort
standing.
* *
The ball at Government House, Sydney, on
the 16th inst. proved a decided success, although,
owing to the humorous tendencies of the secretary,
or some other cause, the invitations were, from a
Darling Point of view, somewhat mixed. Lady
Caring ton appeared in a becoming toilet of dark-
green velvet and tulle, with soft pink geraniums
on the skirt and magnificent diamond ornaments.
* * *
Mr, James Kelly, fined £lOOO for sys-
tematic frauds on the Victorian Customs, has
received a gratifying tribute of respect from his
sympathising employes. They celebrated the
joyful event by presenting him with the usual
“ magnificent writing-desk,” in addition to a
“ beautiful illuminated address on silk, hand-
somely framed.” This is playing down the testi-
monial game about as low as it will go:—
The revenue did Jimmy “ bilk,"
And never felt ashamed—
So they wrote his virtues down on silk,
And got ’em nicely framed.
» * *
The Sydney Lanceahs are at present per-
petrating a series of weird gyrations in order to
take the stiffness out of their joints prior to the
cavalry tournament to be held at Moore Park on
this Saturday.
* * *
From Rockhampton (Q.) Bulletin, 11th
August:—
“ On the 6th instant, at the Court House, Barney,
second son of Barney Hill, Esq., of Bungle Gully, to
Jenny Mary, of Balcoinba."
The principals in the above interesting perform-
ance are members of the noble Queensland
aboriginal race. The happy pair having been
united, they duly attended the wedding feast
before starting on their honeymoon trip to the
Mackenzie scrubs. The breakfast, elaborately
served on a highly-scented ’possum-rug, consisted
of the near hind-leg of an old-man kangaroo, a la
venison, ’possums and bandicoots roasted with
the original stuffing in them, iguanas, carpet-
snake, pieces of bread from the backyards of
greedy fellow whitefellow, sugar-bag, See., the
whole being washed down with pure snake-
juice from a rum-cask. Several speeches
were made, and the healths of the blushing
bride and her adopted husband were drunk most
enthusiastically. The dress of the bride consisted
of a brown winsey skirt hanging from one
shoulder, stockings of pipeclay, and the orna-
ments—a necklace and earrings of glass beads.
The bridegroom wore a well-fitting suit of red and
white raddle, while round his waist hung a red
handkerchief suspended from the waistband of a
pair of moleskin trousera. In his hair he had
numerous cockatoo feathers to denote his clan.
The wedding presents were numerous and costly,
consisting of one tomahawk, one knife, half a fig
of tobacco, red handkerchief, looking glass, comb,
several dilly hags, a belltopper hat (the gift of
his employei;), opossum skin, some shells, boo-
merangs, nulla nullas, spears, a razor (cost price,
one bob), and a black clay pipe.
* * *
The accident which led to the drowning
of Major Robilliard in Jervis Bay is, we are
bold, to be followed by a court-martial upon
the seaman who was on watch at the
time on hoard the Nelson. Although the mis-
hap occurred on a fine, clear day, and the
Nelson lay within three miles of the spot, the cap-
sized party were left clinging to their boat for an
hour and a half, and ultimately Major Robilliard’s
strength was exhausted, and his companions
being too weak to render him any further assist-
ance, he sank. He had suffered 'me time pre-
viously from rheumatic fever, and i ~'is probable
also from heart-disease, and was thus fitted
than the others to struggle for his life.
* * *
The case of William Roy, late corporal of
H.M. 21th Regiment of Foot, who fought at
Rorke’s Drift, has been taken in hand by a num-
ber of the volunteer force at headquarters in
Sydney, who have formed themselves into a com-
mittee for the purpose of holding a military con-
cert for Roy’s benefit as soon as arrangements can
be made. The hon. secretary, Sergeant Brignell,
has informed us that matters are progressing very
satisfactorily, and that many vocalists have sig-
nified their willingness to assist.
» * *
A bachelors’ ball was held at East Mait-
land on the Ist of September, and was a general
success. A correspondent spreads her rather
pretty little paw over a large quantity of foolscap
regarding this piece of antiquity, but, owing to
the remoteness of the event, the only item of any
interest is the fact that one lady who had red
stockings on fell down.
* * *
The Albury Private Assembly held their
last “ light fantastic toe ” on the 19th inst. About
80 couples were present, the majority being in
fancy costume.
* * *
What is this shady story we hear about
a certain little card-party at one of the Australian
Government Houses ?
# * *
“ Private and confidential.” —A printed cir-
cular, signed with the name of one politician, has
just been issued on behalf of a very dear friend of
his —a certain other politician who happens to be
just now in a financial hole. Perhaps, however,
no one had authority to use the name of the man
who is acting as a mediator between the troubled
one and his creditors.
* • *
Albert Edward is trying to abolish dress-
suits in favour of knee-breeches, &c., &o. Lady
Rosebery is helping him.
* * *
We hear that an actress who is pretty and
popular, and who would be an even greater pro-
fessional success if she refrained from rolling her
eyes so much on the stage, is about to marry a
wealthy young limb of the law in Sydney.
* * *
The ordinarily amiable Mrs. Blank said a
hitter thing to her domestic the other day. She
expressed the awful wish that Bridget might one
day be well enough off to hire a servant herself.
The poor girl was quite broken down, and cried
like a baby. —Murkan Print.
* * *
The Earl of Aberdeen wears his coronet
somewhat insecurely. His right is liable at any
time to be questioned by alleged or real male issue
of his elder brother, who mysteriously disappeared
years ago in America.
* * *
A collector at Bombay has among his
curiosities a Chinese god marked “ Confucian
man idol,” and next to it a gold piece marked
“ Christian man idol."
* * *
The authorities of one of the Sydney
yacht clubs insist that at all future meetings on the
harbour members shall wear the club uniform—
which happens to be identical with that of the
petty officers of the Imperial navy. The boss
yachtsman will, however, it is rumoured, be un-
distinguishable from a full-blown British Admiral
in full fig.
What Warner’s Safe Cure Cures
and Why.
Congestion of the Kidneys, Back Ache, Inflamma-
tion of the Kidneys, Bladder, or Urinary
Organs ; Catarrah of the Bladder, Gravel,
Stone, Dropsy, General Debility,
Bright’s Disease.
Why? Because it is the “only remedy known
that has power to expel the nric acid and urea,”
of which there are some 500 grains secreted each
day as the result of muscular action, and sufficient,
if retained in the blood, “to kill six men.” It is
the direct cause of all the above diseaees, as well
as of Heart Disease, Rheumatism. Apoplexy,
Paralysis, Insanity and Death.
This great specific relieves the kidneys of too
much blood, frees them from a'l irritants, restores
them to healthy action by its certain and soothing
power.
It cures also Jaundice, Enlargement of the Liver,
Abscess and Catarrah of the Bile Ducts, Bilious-
ness, Headache, Furred tongae, Sleeplessness,
Langour, Debility, Constipation Gall Stones, and
every unpleasant sjmptom which results from
liver complaint.
Why ? Because it has a specific and positive
action on the liver as well as on the kidneys,
increasing the secretion and flow of bile, removes
unhealthful formations, and in a word, restores
it to natural activity, without which health is an
impossibility.
It cures also the many disorders from which the
gentler sex silently suffer.
Why? All these troubles, as is well known by
every physician of education,” arise from con-
gestion," and impaired kidiey actiion, causing
stagnation of the blood vessels and breaking down,
and this is the beginning and the direct cause of
all the ailments from which women suffer.
Why Warner’s Safe Cure is acknowledged by
thousands of our best medical men to be “the only
true blood purifier,” is because it acts upon
scientific principles, striking at the very root of
the disorder by its action on the kidneys and
liver. “For if these organs were kept in health
all the morbid waste matter, so deadly poisonous
if retained in the body, is passed out.” On the
contrary, if they are deranged, the acids are taken
up by the blood, decomposing it and carrying
death to the most remote part of the body.
Ninety-three per cent, of all diseases which
afflict humanity, arise from impaired kidneys, as
shown by medical authorities. Warner’s Safe Cure,
by its direct action, positively restores them to
healthy and full working capacity, “nature curing
all the above diseases herself” when the cause is
removed. As you value health take it to avoid
sickness, as it will at all times and under all
circumstances keep all the vital functions up to
par.
We also “Guarantee a Cure” and beneficial
effect for each of the foregoing diseases; also that
every case of Liver and Kidney trouble can he
cured where degeneration has not taken place,
and even then benefit will surely be derived.. In
every instance it has established its claim. As a
Blood Purifier, particulary, it is unequalled, for
you cannot have pure blood when the kidneys or
liver are out of order.
“ Look to your condition at once. ’’ The Spring
of the year is the time when your system needs
a general toning up, to'successfully cope'with the
hot weather soon to be upon us. Do not postpone
treatment for a day nor an hour. “The doctors
cannot compare records with us ” Give youreelf
thorough constitutional treatment with Warner’s
Safe Cure, and there are yet many years of life
and health assured you l
Australia is threatened with a further in-
flux of English alleged noblemen. However, we
have the antidote —Sydney whisky.
Judge Deffell has large influence in favor
of his appointment to the N.S.W. Equity bench.
He is so well known to members of Parliament.
His position in the Insolvent Court gave him
large opportunities of making their acquaintance.
The handsome hospital nurse who married
the old wealthy squatter out North was very
happy in her reply to a friend who asked why she
wedded such a fossil. “I thought I might
as well be engaged in nursing one old man as a
dozen. I —l
This is the season when the blithesome
crank goes out and executes his mother in the
back-yard, and seeks his father with a crowbar.
Summer is approaching, and the lunatic makes
notes in his diary thusly : “ October 1, weather
fine and hot. Killed a girl.” The long-haired
crank is getting his hair cut, and the short-haired
crank is offering up his relatives on the sacrificial
altar. August Wells, of Liverpool. N.S.W., is
the secon dof the new season’s crop of lunatic?. On
Thursday last he tipped his ma backwards into a
well, and, as Sydney D.T, ably puts it. this throws
an “ additional glamour of terrible interest” over
the case. This is the first time we have heard of
a “ glamour ” being thrown round an old lady in
a well, but let us go on. The Telegraph further
observes:—
“ We have no horror-stricken eye-witnesses to the crime-
no one even to testify to having heard the screams of the
poor old hard-working woman as she quailed, with the dews
of deathly terror on her face, under the frenzied eyes and
murderous grip of the son to whom she had given birth.
Imagination fails when one tries to speculate But
not far did she fly. With the cunning of a madmau he
divined her purpose, with the fury of a madman at the pos-
sible loss of his victim he bounded after her ’’ (bounded is
good) “ and with the strength of a madman overpowered
her, dragged her back and flung her, half-dead with terror,
into the deep well, where, could he have kept his secret, she
might have lain undiscovered for months. Then, no doubt,
with an exulting chuckle as he heard the horrid splash which
told him he had done his foul work only too well, he pulled
himself together ’’
This being the season for cranks we demand that
the man who wrote this paragraph shall be put
under restraint at once. A desire to write half-a-
column of gush about a murder is one of the first
symptoms of homicidal mania. When the disease
advances to the next stage the patient will pro-
bably tear off Mr. Fred. Ward’s ears and serve up
the office-boy with carrot-trimmings. Let him be
chained up in the cellar ere it is too late or the
“horrid splash” he writes about will not be a
circumstance compared to the splash that will be
made by the D.T. when it has a chance of writing
four columns about the ruthless assassination of
its bearded editor.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman’s Eucalyptal (mixture and injeotioo) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaintß, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable.
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2b. 6d. and 3s. 6d. Take
no substitute.*
▲ L.
THEATRE ROT
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
THE PLAY OF A CENTURY,
GRAND REVIVAL
SILVBR'I
SILVER
silver;
The
f KING
KING
Iking,
by Henry A, Jones and Henry Herman,
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway's Hotel.
ORITKRION THEATR
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Great and Glorious Success of
W. J. HOLLOWAY’S PRODUCTION OF
TWELFTH NIGHT.
Pronounced by the press and public to be the
most perfect representation of
SHAKESPEARIAN COMEDY
ever given in this city
Miss ESSIE JENYNS as Viola “Viola is quite
as captivating as her Rosalind,”—Telegraph.
W, J. HOLLOWAY, as Malvolio, “ isjgrave as be-
comes the master of a princess's household, and
the absence of all exaggeration in the
letter scene immensely adds to its
humour. "—Telegraph.
Theßox Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
HER" MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 7.45 ; Carriages 11.
THIRD WEEK and
LAST 2 NIGHTS of
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
as
HENRY V.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager,
COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RINK,
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD C ARRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RIDGELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening
and morniDgs for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
i RAND INTERCOLONIAL CAVALRY
X TOURNAMENT,
Under the Uuspices of the
SYDNEY LANCERS,
at
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS,
Moore Park, Sydney,
on
S ATURDAY, October Ist.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excellency
LORD CARRINGTON, G.C.M.G., P.C.
Twenty-one Events—including Cavalry, Artil-
lery, Infantry, and Naval Competitions, Mounted
Combats, Jumping Competitions, with and with-
out Sword and Lance, over Fences and Water;
Tent Pegging, Lemon Cutting, &c.
ENTRIES CLOSE 19th inst.
Further Particulars on application to
“ SECRETARY,”?
Cavalry Office,
Phillip-street).


Centrally
situated
. AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
r
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
BRISBAN E
PT U
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
£2
01
t/m
miltin'
LL_
W.
I I
pp*
!fi!!!!!Mi**iiiiiift
DAN
c.H
LL
BsP 1
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TATmN
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, fST COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen’* Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Boom. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C, 11. DAMTELL.
AC H A R I T Y BALL,
In aid of the Womens’ Refuge at Tempo (a
Branch of the Good Samaritan Institute), under
distinguished patronage, will be held at the NEW
MASONIC HALL, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, on
TUESDAY EVENING, the Ilth October next.
Gentlemens’ Tickets, £L Is. ; Ladies’, 10s. 03.
Procurable only from the Ladies’ Committee,
and from the undersigned—Frances Faucett, Lily
Rittenberg, Elizabeth M. Brennan, Hon. Secs.
CRITERION HOTEL,N ARR ANDERA, N. S. W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train.
J. E. PATTERSON,
Good Sample Rooms. Proprietor.
The most welcome discovery of
MODERN TIMES.
A CURE for PULMONARY CONSUMPTION.
( To the consumptive, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affeetions of the lungs, this no:ice is of
vital importance, for this remedy will effect a
perfeot cure of the most stubborn cases.
It has renewed the life of many whose condition
had been pronounced beyond remedy by members
of the medical profession.
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the Rings
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers.
On application for reference we will send the
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
it has cured, whose names and position in society
at once places the veracity of their statements
above question, and who are now living in Sydney,
Newcastle, Maitland, and especially in the district
of Tamworth, where this remedy has been known
and used for the last thirty years, and where there
are hundreds of living monuments of its wonderful
curative qualities.
THE CONSUMPTIVE CURE
can be obtained from the office of
WILLIAM FORD and COMPANY.
No. 4, Australia-street, opposite Courthouse,
Newtown, Sydney.
Sent to any part of the Colonies.
Price—SEVEN SHILLINGS PER BOTTLE.
And where may be also obtained
THE CURE OF ST. VITUS’ DANCE,
by external application, which disease it will cure
within eighty-four hours.
- AMALGAMATED SHEARERS’ UNION
OF AUSTRALASIA.
IN consequence of there being many false re-
ports in circulation, we beg to inform all con-
cerned that no alteration whatever has been made
in the rules of the Union. The clause providing
penalty on members discharged is not compulsory’!
and need not be added unless members agree to
compromise with sheepowner to that extent. No
permanent change in either rules or agreements
will be made until after members’ views have
been obtained and a conference held with sheep-
owners. The report that we have adopted clause
fining members £2 in certain cases is not correct,
and no concession whatever has been made by us,
except the suggestion of fine for bad shearing,
which we leave in members’ own hands
for adoption or otherwise. Members Bre
informed that the Press contains many
reports quite incorrect, and as we cannot possibly
contradict all of them, we hope they will take no
notice of what they read or hear except from
authorised agents or the Union officers. Strong
attempts are being made to sow dissention amongst
members by circulating incorrect statements such
as that we have adopted second price, &c. The
object is to split the Union. The latter is a great
success so far, and if members will remain true to
it everything will work well next year, as all
opposition will be overcome.
W. G. SPENCE, President.
D. TEMPLE. Secretary.
Creswick, Vic., 12th September, 1887,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, 60ULBURN, N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Privat 3 sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.. 11
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 26, 1SS7.
mKNDKRS for PUBLIC WORKS and
1_ SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For fall particulars see
Government Garotte, a die of which la kept at
every poet-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of tho successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the termB of the notioo are striotly complied with.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
gd
ofjSydnet/.
- JENOLAN CAVES fBLUE MOUNTAINS,t*.
’3I6IC,EORCE s?< between Hunters: AC.P.Oi
A Good Night's Sport
Can always be had ab
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC' HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ir you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
USE M n ONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Posted to all parts of the colonies free on receipt
of stamps.
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra, N.S.W.
COLEM \NE and SONS, Cootamundra, N.S.W.,
are manufacturers of the ONLY GENUINE
EUCALYPTI OIL in the colonies. All those
suffering from Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption,
Pleuresy, Colds. Gravel and Kidney Complaints,
Rheumatism, Toothache, and Neuralgia and
Fevers of all kinds, also for lowness of spirits and
over indulgence in spirituous liquors it has no
equal. Posted by us to any part of the colonies
on receipt of stamps. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per
Bottle; Ointment 2s. and 3s. 6d. per pot. Whole-
sale from Elliott Bros., Drug Company; and
Hoffnung and Co.
ro WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE OASES, 250 to 400 gallons |
also,
Rum She ay and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter casks, Spirit Kegs, t'OHJ
ga Hons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
17 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
fgd
■STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame! re-
covered and your
Paraiola re-llned and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
611 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool ani Batburat Street!
Paraiola made to match eoa
>■■>l (tnuln Mill) nsamiat
High-class Dentistry
at Reform Prices.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
■COMPLETE SFT
I
MARSHALL BRO:
! DENTISTS
133 ELI ZABEfH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily at 11,
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COL ONY
003 0 u
t NEWEST INVENTION-GREATEST NOVELTY.
&
[THE
PATEKT DIAGONAL SEAM DORSET,
Patented in England and on the Cqntinent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Chiaranteed Wear.
The Queen Bays“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the cross,
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat »ud strong, and the workmanship all that could
be desired.”
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882
Gold Medal, Highest Award
foe Corsets, London International Exhi
BiiiON, 1884.
Latest Award!!! Gold Medal Interna*
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
CAU ' lON.—Beware of worthless imi
tationp. Every genuine Y & N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
m
m
* HOLD BY ALL DRAPERS AND LADIES’ OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES,


A
SEVERE
K I C K.
Mr. W. Martin Forster, the well-known chemist
Of M«ckay, Queensland, sends the following letter
to tbe Charles A, Vogeler Company, the proprietors
of Sr. Jacobs oil:
“Gentlemen.—
“Although I am aware it is contrary to the
cnftom of the trade to publicly endorse a patent
medicine of foreign origin, yet I think I maybe
pardoned for saying a few words in favor of St.
Jacobs oil. Ab; ut a year ago I reee ved a severe
kick on ihe leg fi om a horse; so severe, indeed,
that I fully expected to be incapacitated, from
attending to my tiusu ess for at least a forti ight.
I received the injury ai night, and before morning
the leg had swollen to an enormous size. The
pain was very acute, and I wa-t unable to do any*
thing for myself, my assistant being absent. In
this emergency, by my wife’s aio, I procured
from the shop a buttle of St Jacobs oil, with which
I soaked a pad of lint and kept it applied to the
injured part for a few hours, when, to my surprise
and oelight, the pain left, and before night I was
able to attend to my business. I may say I
suffered no further inconvenience from the kick
although an enlargement cf the bone, which
remained for several months afterward, attested
pretty substantially the severity of the blow dealt
me 1»y the horse. I am, gentlemen, yours faitbfully,
“W. M. FORSTER.
“Maekay, September 8, 1887.”
THE FAVORITE AUSTRALIAN DRINK.
A PURE MALT AND HOPS BEER
AN INVIGORATING TONIC
OF CRISP AND SPARKLING BEAUTY.
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
The most refreshing and at the same time the
most harmless of all drinks. As grateful to the
invalid as to the strong and healthy, and leaves
no unpleasant taste or objectionable memory
behind. Clausen’s Lager may be had from all
wholesale and retail dealers, and is kept on ice at
all the leading hotels. Test its claim to superiority
if you have not already done so.
1°
MORE HEADACHE.
NO MORE NEURALGIA.
NO MORE LOSS OF HAIR.
Dr. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH is an
honest remedy for all these troubles. It will pre-
vent Baldness, Dandruff, and Diseases of the
Scalp, make the hair grow long and glojsy, arrest
premature greyness, and soothe the weary brain.
They are sold in five size? No. 1, fs, Bd.;No. 2,6 s.
6d.; No. 3, Bs. 6d.; No. i, 10s. 6d.; No. 5,12 s. 6d.
And if you cannot obtain them anywhere near
you wo will send by post to any part of New
South Wales on receipt of price named, with 6d.
added for postage.
n
'i@)
7
m
Also Dr. Scott’s widely and favourably known
Electric Belt, one of the most effi ctive remedies
in existence for Spinal Complaints, Debility,
Nervousness. &c., &c. Price 15s , postage to any
part of New Souih Wales, 6d. extra.
Orders should be addressed, and remittancas
made payable, to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
dC>, Margaret-sfcreet,
P.O. Box 221,
AtOberon, N.S.W., the otherday, thepeople
forgot to cheer for her Gracious, until Lord Caring-
ton reminded them. No doubt her Gracious for-
gets Oberon.
Unadulterated flattery from aN.Q. paper :
—“ While not holding with the views expressed
by the lecturer, we must give him credit for his
skill in manipulating texts of Scripture to suit his
own views.!’
Moorhouse, of Manchester, says that
“ when he left Victoria a small but noisy party,
consisting primirally of young men born in the
colony, was advocating separation from the
mother country/’
"THE ENGLISH-SPEAKING PEOPLES.”
Sir John Robertson recently shook hands with an American. The English-
speaking peoples are not now going “hand in hand" quite as much as
formerly.
A Melbourne barrister from the North of
Ireland, who has a peculiar accent and pronuncia-
tion, while addressing a jury last week, spoke of
one of the witnesses as “ a sneak in the grass.”
About 11,000 execrable puns have been
forwarded to us regarding the amputation of one
of the legs of the Ameer. “ A mere trifle,” “ a
meer acle if he recovers,” and so on. When
written on good paper jokes of this kind fetch
about three-halfpence a pound for wrapping up
matters of inconsiderable value.
Madame Hazard, late of Melbourne,
whose present address is somewhere in the next
world, is said to have made a will last year in
favour of Prior Butler, but his reverence reproved
her for her naughty habit of preferring champagne
to tea, and so the will was altered in favour of the
grocer's boy.
Summer ! Hookings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, d0z.—143 Pitt-street/
One of the best managed and largest hotels in Sydney is
he Great Northern, comer Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
New South Wales at the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition w-s thoroughly representative and, Gold Ores
and Qu otz attracted great attention, especially when it was
known that the average ter ton was far in excess of that in
the other colonies. Later news has shown that New South
Wales is likely to become the “Gold Pield of the future.”
Mr Freeman, the inventor of the Original and only Genuine
Chlorodyne, has lately sent out many cases with those gentle
men who are interested in the auriferous enterprise. Mr.
Freeman has received numerous flattering letters and visits
from New South Wales colonists who, one and all, speak
of the incalculable value of his Colorodyne in the treatment
of all the commoner diseases of life, and especially in Cramp,
Colic, Diarrhoea, Dysentery and Fevers so frequently met
with in the Gold and Diamond Fields of Australia.—Sold
everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having
“Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes, as they are worth-
less. Trade mark an Elephant.*
£lO,OOO MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s. each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2.000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided amongst them.
Address—‘'Tattersall.”
Care i f G. Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
According to statistics in Germany the
consumption of beer amounts to 20 gallons per
head ;in England to 30 gallons per head. The
grand old mother land can still aflbrd to guffaw.
She can produce bigger heads than any of them.
This little jett de biere will go around lonesome
till one of the boys gets hold of it.
A demented, half-starved, half-naked,
black gin, who has just been released from Casino
(N.S.W.) gaol where she was sent for protection,
has been turned loose to die in the bush. If some
of those charitable traffickers of the so-called
Queen’s Fund would waste a little sympathy and
cash, there is a P.M. up that way who will see
to it.
A small black boy was brought into Bris-
bane from the very far back-counti y. After a
stay of a week or two he went back to his native
land with his master. Then he started to teU the
blacks what he had seen. And what do you think
was the most surprising thing he had to tell them?
He skipped the railways, he passed over the sea,
he didn’t mention the ships, he said nothing about
the big city. He started his narrative by saying,
“ Down there that fella horse live in a house,’
moaning that the horses were kept in a stable.
This statement was received with derision. “If
that fella horse live in house does he sleep in bed
and eat off table, all same white man?' 1 They
wouldn't have it at any price, and afterwards
when Punch (the blackboy’s name) went on to tell
them about the other things he had seen they
turned the cold ear of disbelief to his statements.’
They confided to the boss that “Ever since that fella
Punch go to Brisbane he all time jabber b
lie. A prophet is not without honour, &c.
INTERESTING DISCOVERY.
On the banks of the river Merimac, 20 miles
from ths Isle of St. Louis, a numbar of barrels
have been found buried in stone tombsand arranged
in systematical order. It is computed that they
have lain there for centuries, An inscription in
the Latin tongue was upon each barrel, viz.,
“ Bonum beerum St. Louis non facit inebriensis ”
When the barrels were opened they were found
to contain St. Louis Lager Beer in a complete state
of preservation. Athenseus mentions the existence
of this beer in his “Deipaosopbists, or Banquet
of the Learned,” and Bavius and Maoevius also
testify to its beneficial properties. Travellers
on the banks of the Upper Nile have found that
the Greeks had introduced the be verage in those
parts. With such ancient evidence it is not to be
wondered at that; modern opinion endorses the
verdict. This famous St. Louis Larger Beer, I
want every reader to understand, can be had at
any Hotel in Australia
Lung Troubles and Wasting Diseases can be cured
if properly treated in time, as shown by the following state-
ment from D. C Freeman Sydney. “Having een a great
sufferer from pulmonary attacks, and gradually wastin i
away for »he past two years, it affords me pleasure to testify
that ' ‘ Scott s Kmulsion of Cod Liver oil with Lime
AND Soda has given me great relief and X cheerfully recom
mend it to all suffering in a similar way to myself. In
addition, I would say that it is very pleasant to take. Large
and small sizes at all Chemists. *
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-atreet, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel is now under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by careful atten-
tion to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.
FIFTY LINES
AT
SPECIAL PRICES,
AT
LAWLER’S.
Drawing-room Suite of Circular-settee,
I occasional Chairs, and 2 Easy-
chairs, upholstered in best manner,
and covered in tapestry and plush £l2 10 0
Drawing-room Suite of Settee-couch, 2
easy and 4 ordinary Chairs, all well
upholstered and covered in best
cretonne, gimpedand corded. Com-
plete
£8 10 0
Drawing-room Suite o f Couch, 2 Kasy-
ohairs, and 6 small Chairs, uphol-
stered in best manner, and covered
in stamped sage-coloured terry,
panel-backed chairs
£lO 10 0
Solid Walnut Drawing-room Suites,
including immense double-end Sofa,
2 Easy-ohairs and 6 regular Chairs,
upholstered In best manner, and
covered in best all-wool rep, gimped
and corded, &c. Complete £l3 10 0
Note.— For all the colours—Blue, olive, sage
green, marone, crimson.
Solid Walnut Drawing-room Suite, 9
Pieces, upholstered hair and covered
tapestry, silk and wool and plush.
Oak Sideboards, £l7 10s. to £35.
Walnut Sideboards, £l7 10s. to £35.
Mahogany Sideboards, £l7 10s. to £35.
Dinner Waggons, 455.
Dinner Waggons, 655.
Extending Dining Tables, very massive, £6 10s.
Bedsteads, single, strong stumps, Bs. 6d.
Bedsteads, half-testers, 3ft. wide, &c., 165.,
17s. 6d., 20s.
Bedsteads, “four-post,” 3ft., 225. 6d., 245. 6d., 25s
Bedding in Flock. Bedding in Kapok,
Bedding in Fibre. Bedding in Hair.
Woven Wire Matresses, and in all the 7 qualities.
Prices, 15s. to 18s. 6d., and 255. to 40s.
BOOTS and SHOES,
CLOTHING,
BOOTS and SHOES.
LAWLER’S,
608 George Street,
SYDNEY.


Xasooportsm/t l
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
TEE ZED OISEZCY
MUSICAL USTINin
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
hat, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
o
AOOORDEONS, at 7/8, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
» Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
4/8, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Sachenal Anglo German 35/-
~ ~ steel notes 50/-
7/8, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
oeialty: Old copy Violin, with easo, Bow,
Strirgs, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality! Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60a.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
ROMAN VIOLIN Oil,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/■ and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
fg
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
Scrofula on I\eck.
TO
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
.Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and bipod]
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
ft. Towu* & Co., New South Waist.
CUTICURA RESOLVE!, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cere (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itehing and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
•1i unfits throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
/ScA'/nd. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1. yj Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Siiav-
iiic- ioAp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per’jostle,
Prepared by the
J’altrv ft nieTnlml fin , U S A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
la the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is Infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say In all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are In this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Publio who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s
ham HK OBTAINBD FROM ALL nHKMISTR Awn RTORKKKKPKKB
MASON BROTHERS,
m
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARD™ aKR.
GLASS, CHINA
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.B
Cognao.
T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its P'estige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of o'her brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
Th° undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231, OLARENCE-STREET.
GBD. GBD.
We have La-ge Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
0 N U M B N T
la Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing!.
Deilgni and Estimate* forwarded on reqnei
J. CCNNUKiHAH,
B*AK>T-sntKIT. WTWWHUWWWM. BtXHTRV
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address :
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
17* VKRYBODY \
Fj should use/
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTJE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
la GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
981 GtaaBBB'BTKXW iTKir
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
*OSSL Y *
i
And »t QURHN BTRRRT. BRIBBANR.
CLAREMONT, Darlinghursfc Road, Sydney,—
A Private Medical and Surgical Home,
established by Dr. Tarrant, for the reception and
systematic treatment of patients of both sexes.
The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, desire the great advantages of a con-
stant medical supervision with the care and atten-
tion of a trained nursing staff. For particulars
apply to the Lady Superintend ant.
B
KAD^KT,
NIWION, SB LAMB
VURNITURB and PIANOFORTE
W AREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS. UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
df
£* QpT PIANOFOR7 B,
d&OCP guarantees
Bound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case,
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS,
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
WH® e
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb,
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
0~ FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
UMIIIII
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, a l
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.|
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
L
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell str,
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
'WjTTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
_LI SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
n ::
ES
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUBNIIUBB W ABBB9T7S3SSBK,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection ia
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
IpASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed
Li roomß. New designs covered to order n
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty, Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-Btreet.
gd
Bedsteads. »n «i ßgr ,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and!
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
fg
SPRING MATTRaSSKS
Woren wire, bait
make | also, Spiral Spring.
Price, fircm l(s. each.
■KADLIIJ WIWTON and limb,


L^\p ? AV J»
fV/U 1 j'J T"fi£
High Art and Low Churchism.
WATER-JUG FOSTER : “NOW MY LORD THAT IS MY IDEA OF WHAT A CATHEDRAL REREDOS OUGHT TO BE. THE SUBJECT (A BIRD IN THE HAND IS WORTH TWO
IN THE BUSH) IS AS YOUR LORDSHIP WILL SEE, AN ALLEGORICAL ONE, SAVOURING IN NO WAY OF POPERY. FURTHER, INSTEAD OF DEALING WITH THE
MYTHS OF THE PAST, IT IS FOUNDED ON A WELL-KNOWN INCIDENT OF CONTEMPORANEOUS HISTORY, NOT UNCONNECTED WITH THE APPOINTMENT OF
PERSONS TO ADMINISTER JUSTICE IN THE LAND.


II McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
I IRONMONGERS,
I MACHINERY MJCKCHAISTTS,
51* OEORGB STREET. PVONKY.
IRONMONGERS
512
p
o
*
$
REG 9
dfg
SPJ£CI AL.IT IKS |
Dirts’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Alho Carbon Light
ELECTRO- PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
BAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIB FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES. *O.. fcC.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WJLKTED IK EVERY HOUSE.
EFFECTUALLY DE5TF
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES AND IS
ATTHESAMETIMEQUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER
animals
df
,
cl
gdf
PirAUCHEMISTf
AND STOREKEEPERS
WW»tfcSAj;K.,.. J
FELTON-CRIMWADEWC?
- MELBOURNE
STffnOTT **PiTAST NT (TNJ
A ' ak for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
JUST OPENED
..t u.lit.tl .1.1.. ■!! iIL-L. . "IT I' Ul i '! I - 11 11 1 - 1 I ' 1 I! I ..
!
•' M
•in
If
ill
• osy,
mm
; f it
-1.111
- ■. a,;, f j
: ■; <rfj
' ' ‘ ■' - ' r . " ( J f ' llill
ENLARGING CAMERA.
p UCHTNER AND CO.,
Ho 'TOGRAPHIC stock dealers,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SIDNEY,
'■WE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
JL Sydney Bpaychks j
64 PITT-STREET, and 1 33 GEORGE-STRIET.
Paid-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cit'es
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMKR CA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Comn er
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favi nr*
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for oommrrdal
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
S
«7
-
*
4$
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
Chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
.wehty minutes, This is no fiction, for they have
lone it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
"WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digeswn and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to werk wonders upon tb®
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. -These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society j and ont of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
Ar a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
giblic for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
oarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Bxichah’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland.
THE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIQNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for ik$ lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mei alb—
PARI S, 1878, CA1.0 L TTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkin-on s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CY-MBIDITHYr
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, anu being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents
ATKINSON'S
CELEBRATED FATJ DE COLOGNE
is unequalled for its sTreneth and delightful
odour It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S. FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine periume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers , and of the Manufacturers —
J. A E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Rond Street, London.
Trade Mark—-“White Rose” on “ Golden A
Lyre." -*
0
si
V
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
mu ram,
472 GFOPGE STEEET,
Opposite the Central Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haymarket.
VIOLIN 3,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, In cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, &o.
f Speciality:
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O.
CONCBBTHSTAS,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d.»,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 10s.
ACCORD 03OTSTS,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line —Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
CORNETS,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6
FLUTES,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/■ each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c„ in peat variety.
*r PIANOS and ORGANS.
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
gdf
jr
Thi
BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
AMR ALL
ti&a&i i-aft*
S
Mii'WtEr ONf. _ -
IMA* IN6HAM,''
JllHAMritfL
r
i
a
i
i
BRIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
fcod la now being introduced Into the
Colonics.
f£ Wry Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use It. .
DILRIDCE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
, A) ' «*
B. JONES, Importer and General Agent.
• lEMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET.
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle onr new lines
of_ fast-selling Subscription Books, &0., &o. .4
Full particulars free on application! Address'
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridpre-st,. SydneyT”
TIE mil raw Ml LAID ME HWSTMMT SOCIETT,
£5O PITT STREET.
Fixed Deposits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
8 business oi this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A.. TODD. !£«««


ROYALIBCWJJ
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
‘Wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney,
N.S.W.
JP. R. XjikRXUN,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PCNIO and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Hkavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY 111 THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT Is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &c., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SXDKTET.
WALLACH BROS.’
3STETW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AMD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
IJLLUOTRATBD CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
Plea.se Do Not Head This
T
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
HERE is no excuse (or any P 0r00 .“
sex suffering from those nnslg Caused
menns of the Face, Neok, or Skin. flt
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, to»
kind of skin disease, if they will on J a (, once
few words of timely advice, and sit wman tjof
and write a full, clear, and explicit wh®
their case, enclosing twopenny s v°’ j (
they will receive a candid reply as ourfll
of time that will be required to nJ l i ofciy
fee , &c. Superfluous Hair remov oalottf.
painlessly. Red noses restored to con -
All communications held strictly s Tjpgßßtl*
fldential. Address Eow iRD *• jf.&W.
Dermatologist. Box 852, Q.P-Q-. ' .*•
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALO,
Queensland.—The above Act
icensed under the Queensland
Every Company travelling through OXC0 ptl<w
for the past 18 months has (w*t“ MacMa&Jr
occupied this Hall, including Mess • 8
and Leitch, Thornton and Harwoou-
Maur, and Grattan Rig*®. bar*
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company. se&a an. *»*
concluded a brilliant and successful cffo ysW
Company played in the Theatre 1W biia&M **
ago, and Mr. MacMahon ex P re „ f a
highly pleased with the arrangemen H M
Managers are requested to book ?.—noted
before opening to secure uninte
Terms on application to the Secretary*
THEATRE ROYAL
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only oj
Rockhampton for holding *
other Entertainments, and can
any term upon application^#
THOS.
MINING. MACHINERY. AND obNB
Ohabtem Towkbs.
Agent for Robey and Co., En«ineer». lboaJfß », '
„ Langlanda Foundry uo .
E. D. MILES, .
MINING AND COMMISSION
Mining Exchange-
CHARTERS TOWERS, y ußK^____ s=3s sS!^^
’U
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY OUP OONTAINB MOB* AOTIV* PBOPBBTIBB O*
! ALB OB POBiBJ* -LaJ>o»>
THAN A PINT OP THB
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, dko.
Bran and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppertmi thing, Blaokamlthlng, numbing,
Gaafltting, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrlo and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fee. c
•ete Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propeller*. Fan Cowls, Oat Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY,
Full Pabtioulabs and Pbiob oh Application:.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com
merclal Travellers, and others.
jar Private Suites fob Families, te*
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTELTGympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
tinted
Belle Vue Ho
BEISBAl 713 . Qgf
Opposite Parliament Houses, ®°
and Queensland Club,
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY 00^
ACCOMMODATION 90
A Walter Meets Every St®* 01
addi*^
Letters and telegrams P leaB -d,
8 .«.
prietor.
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
A LOVELY SKIN,
beautiful complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, face hands and arms ran i>est tw.
by discanlow all leaden and srrcjwy cosmetics and ch£p s<TpT whkd™o?beSgtt 1 5*
remain on the skin cannot possibly have any good effect on it, and by using 6 ““ “
burns, scalds, Inflammation.
burnsscolds7nSa n«i iv*. !£?X rations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
- “ ’ scalds, ,n .«a»iedeyeBandrendersachapjied and rough skin delightfully smooth and
ilia* 11 fil'd -it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin;
’ll* ft’fl.y leaf! or ini Ilfiral InPTAIi IMII f c nan Ko imnrl n.liv. ; -.. „11 ii, .
It ir^a^aS t f™ e f n rom te W “‘i n,,a f 114 3 irritatioli »»d tenderness of the skin;
skin of the most delicate l'ldy oV chii'd!* 6 ™ 1 meredlents - ““ be UBed with impunity on the
size at 2s 3d and Bs. 6d. per bottle; bottles of half the usual
, JiSfiftfflK ■.*£»MSi'L - „a. iaa....
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney,
GENUINE SODA WATEJLI.
TEE 33
Syihoa Mi Wattr Hi.,
16 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
UJ
UJ
m
ft*.
PRESO RIPTION*t are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Bpeedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &a A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address —
8. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockamptcn)
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows:—6s. per diem, All meals Ib. 6d,
M.RI L * I
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
112 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
oafidsntial inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
Hvoroe. libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
sssion and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth
»&*rlagffi, or death, obtained in any part of the world
%ants and debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
a the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
few Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
iuba, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with oaution
apßidtLn and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
ro«ar v attend to all basinets entrusted to b care.
The sci e n c„e of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for yonng and old men. 200 fpages l
bound in doth, and contains over 100 prescrip
tions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets. Melbourne, Vic.
Guinness' Extra
FIRST °
■SW
r *AD£
m
1
BASS’ PAbIC At®
. tAO
SOUS PUF.VBTi^*^
CWIOSUK AMD IMDIA"
LONDON. *
By Special fi P‘"
WHOLESALE^-jp)( P^,
N. BALCHIN
mmerelm; fl
IO BE R T B V T Walesa 10
Have Removed their
rit Business to ffl-STB® «l S^V 6
592 a 0
(Between Bathurst ana B g i
NES, SPIRITS AND^,p A T^
ivi j Bond, at
TS
OCXS
T. WILLIAMS & 00.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alio Manufacturer* oI
The Finest Quality op Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
»0U
Cigra-x IDt-sra-aa.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R, CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
FITZROY
rtnin T
TZROY
EAST STREET. B° $
ter first-c&ass yA
A qhoW^ r *** ,^ A 0^ P
Plunge and S“° m?
Private Sitting Room,
Good Stabling. Bvey rgo > f .
JAS.
