

The Bulletin
large additional premises.
Marshall Brothers
9
BEG TO ANNOUNCE THAT THEY HAVE
M»Urn Central tit; Dm Emperiun in Dim Stmt,
PRESCRIPTIONS ARE DISPENSED AT REFORM PRICES.
. to., AEE SOLD II SMALL piTITIES AT WHOLESALE PIES,
x
e them to do this, they have adopted the popular Cash System, whereby a uniform
, low rate can be charged for everything of the highest quality.
PLEASE NOTE THE ADDRESS:
BROTHERS
Q| rnaceutical Chemists and Importers,
f
two Doors from King Street Arcade,
AND 106 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
and popular speciality, MARSHALL’S “ TONIC NERVINE,” is still
U T prepared from the choicest drugs procurable on the London market.


MoLEAK BMC 6., JKICO A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCI 3 A NTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNET,
m
%
SPECIALITIES l
Darts’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Alho Carbon Light
ELECTRO- PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
QAS COOKING 3TOVES t—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS 8c WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &0
WILLIAM
FLEMING’S
KMiIAHJJS
JBUGGIEb
ffIBBX »BAUK
anus,
a b a h i t *,
aafli
ruiSß)
•mui toy Au cbo
a&Mßtas iliUnu.
PKft SOW CHEAP
rainr bow aooßt
FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
a
-
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs,
WAGGON
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect
—rtIUSTR ATEITCATftLOGU ES gc PRICES'POST FREE -
W.H.PALINGscG
LIM TB
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
. 'l ajlo,Organ # Music Importers,
largest stock and greatest Variety in Australia - 3ivm& the
“ the Widest possible choice - PIANOS fromjrAo.ORGANSJrom IN-
PAYMENT BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SWT'ALL CUSTOMERS
PALING PALING St C 9
OFPORD & CO.’S HATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 662 GEORGE tTKHIT
%
7/
SINGER
and Co.’a
Bicycles
AJXD
Tricycles
Sailing off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
868 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
P A
TE, SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
IWINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, Varnishes, &c.
Faperhangings, Dadoes, Friezes, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and,Toilet Glasses
Overmantels, Silvering.&ad Bevelling.
AUSTEALIAN BUSS COMPANY, Lim„
281 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The A. G. Co. are selling
the above goods at a large discount from usual
prices, being the stock taken over from Mr. A.
Borthwiok.
nquirie will have prompt attention.
N
ERVOUS DEBILIT Y k CURED
An English Physician, M.R.C.S,, England,
L.S.A., London, now retired from active practice,
as a Specialist will devote his Mornings, each day,
in treating a limited number only of sufferers from
Nervous Bebility who have failed to obtain relief
Send list of Symptoms. ( n r
~ Address-
Melbourne,
1.D., 124 i Nicholson-street, Fitzroy,
mra
REMINGTON
X
TYPE-WRITER
Save* labour, stationery, and time, writing much tatter
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken In the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale ahd retail by. the sole agents,
fMRAY & CO.,
410 Kentt-street.
ZCaJtuiets
Jz
q\o
SVOtW/Lt!Atl~S'
BARBS’ GRAND CONSULTATION on the
«nnn JBIL ? ]S HANDICAP , run May 2lst,
jloov. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000.;:
; 3rd, £-200. Starters, £200; Non-starters
£BOO, divided amongst them. Cash Awards—
at £25, 20 at £lO, 20 at £5. 80 at
*■ 10s - ea fh. Early application is requested, and
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
SH&fS " BARB,” care of T. G. Grken,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melbome Cup, 1887, now open, 20,000 subscribers
each 30s. First horse £lO.OBO
CUT THIS O U T
'and keep it for reference,' andj
REMEMBER
that the Only Address of the
I
m
n
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION
is
674 George StreetT”674"
HILL, SYDNEY,E
K;.. BfEight doors from Goulburm street,
hi- * Mll *Where[you can see.thej
Largest, Finest, and most Superb Assortment of
all kinds of Musical Instruments and Fittings ”
fjever seen in the Southern Hemisphere,
From a JEW’S HARP to a CHURCH jORGAN,
"Direct _ om the European manufacturers
the Australian consumer.
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
Signor Zampanaoi’s
CELEBRATED
mi 11 ms,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6 5
5/- and 5/6 per set.
Also, every description of Strings for the Viola,
Cello, Double Bass, Banjo Guitar, Harp Zither,
Mandoline, ASolian Harp, &c., &e.
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
„ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
~ French Violin- with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 2«/«,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key ... 35/-
, Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in boy with key... ... ... 21/-
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-,
. 25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to 136.
Speciality : Miniature Acoordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
»» Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
~ The “Jubilee ” Accordeon, patent
broad reeds, in wood box, complete
35/.
BANJOS—S/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 15/, up to £l2 12s.
FLUTES—I/6, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/, up to £lO
CORNETS—4O/, 45/, 50/, up to £l2 12s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
i! . '
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED JUT.
:—■-
All kindsjof Instruments skilfully repaired
|at_moderate charges. , iOT&
■ : 'TSpr~f
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
Orders promptly attended to.
P*o. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE /STREET,
SYDNEY,
po
Sti
tslii
CjiAE-BS
i r~,
To Weak, Nervous
seeking Healtk »» d «
DR. RICHARDS, {&&%
and may in future be con f
7 Spring Street, FKEK 0 , oTB irbof
increasingly large class of 8U t iy de» lt: ./
complaints can only be comv r rure even! fj
an experienced specialist, i [do D ° /
dertaken. When I saf 1 «“ ri *' x6 the®/
stop them for a time and th haV e 1 1, ®% i
again, I mean a radical cure ‘ ~ 0 f r>egM f
ailments, which are the re J
,ife-long study, and can 8 pJ e ies»» e f P
after personal consultation. 7
cases has brought about a s a(1 ffl uch
cases has brougnt awu “ “ g 0 ©ut“ ~ r
has reduced the general sys.. a»®, rff
duce almost every other misP eC $
BUSP e< f
cause of this scareiy
have been doctored for
one. Notwithstanding the n» for
that medical science has pr
this class of patients, none iß g utf e j IP;
ft# froo fmotl f Si CU.rB' iTn&lflP
of treatment effect a cur ®'. -7 n
hospital and private practi reC
discovered new and conce
with the use of my extensive $0 J
am in a position to nO^jT
undertaken. Consultation c^ 0 ,
will teU you at once whether y np
DeT RICHARDS,
7 SPRING sTRBBTJeff^-^s)!^
High-olabs Dentistry
’mining exchange V
OYMI’IE, tS gtf/
2 **
lendezvous for all P al
>”»»• a&w® r
'HE GBEAT N OBT o?SS’V"
CHARPOTTE-rnACE AJte -T Ij, >
I HA
OF
s&e£
JES, SPIRIT
2sszqsgs&fcsp
iu please from the v '"
rtson’s, Walker wJCJke’s ■■
rille'B Shamrock and
i Boru Whisky
teasy’s * Cognac
e Gin
ioa Rum
leart do.
!!«■
Brandy and Whi bra»4 s >•
will receivw every 9lw rf6 ,
Spirits, and Beer /
kept on file- • —'
i4>dC
W
MAOK^lLgi
f
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES
BOHERS
< s
ire
PUMPS
t‘
tugs
LQCOM P&
/
Sydney ■ __
lII* PITT STREE T


The Bulletin
! ' B 'V a B7
SATURDAY, JULY 2, 1887.
Price., 6 L
Gimme My Bunk.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, SydnbyJN.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per annum - - - -£1 Os. Od,
Half-yearly - O I2s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O os. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By lending direct to The Bulletin Offioe twenty ihilH) g i
sterling—whioh you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
bare Tn» Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that olty
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
tbe hands of onr oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JULY 2, 1887.
“Australia for the Australians!”
This is the policy which these southern
colonies should persistently strive to realise.
Already are the people of Australia awaken-
ing to the fact, albeit slowly, that their conti-
nent is becoming a mere appanage of a vast
and unwieldy Empire—a recruiting ground
set apart for the benefit of the hangers-on
of Imperialism. Already are the people of
these colonies becoming alive to the fatal
truth that their interests are utterly subor-
dinated to those of a power separated
from them by thousands of leagues
of ocean. Let there be no mistaking the
issue ! The recent Sydney troubles have been
between the people of Australia and Imperial
Officialdom ; between the Native Australian
of Republican instincts and tendencies and
the imported Royalist. It is the old question
of Freetrade verstis Protection— Home Rule
versus foreign domination, and the traitors
to the cause of the colonies have been paid,
if not with Imperial gold, with at least Im-
perial titles. A little while since a young
Alsatian was conscripted at Strasburg to
serve in the German army. His face gave
no token of his Gallic heart—thousands of
Teuton mercenaries have French faces. He
was stripped to undergo the usual medical
examination. All over his body was found
tattooed the legend, “ Vive la France /”
Like that young Frenchman are the men who
to day control our political fate. Their lips
phrase Australian sentiment, and their faces
are bronzed by an Australian sun. But
their votes have been purchased by a foreign
power. Strip from their alleged Australian
figures the tinsel trappings filched from the
Royal old-clothes shop of England ! Tear
from their forms the meretricious finery they
have purchased with lip-loyalty and royal
toe-beslobberment ! What do you see ?
These men are no Australians ! They are
the hired Imperial slave-gangers of Down-
ing-street ! Their bodies are covered with
the tattoo-marks, V. R., flanking a coronet.
* * *
We are constantly being asked to note the
process of amalgamation the wide world
over. Great states are absorbing little
states. Prussia and Bavaria disappear in
the realisation of a German Empire. It is
claimed that this is an amalgamation of
races, of peoples akin in blood and tradi-
tion. We deny it ! We are conjured to
follow the universal example. We refuse !
This wholesale absorption of the small power
by the great is the ogre gulping the pig-
mies. It is the great railroad-syndicate
breaking the small lines. It is Mr.
Whitely, of Westbourne Grove, London,
swallowing up the little retail shops. What
common interests have the Germans with
the Slavs and the Franks, the Austrians and
Magyars with the Italians, the Russians
with the Poles and the Turks ? What
similarity of race or aspirations exists be-
tween Australians, Burmese, Hindoos,
Chinese, Maltese, and the hundred or so
distinct peoples which combine to make up
that heterogeneous Empire known as the
British ? If England cannot convince Ire-
land that the two countries have an identity
of interests, how much less can she convince
us that the centre of political gravity is Lon-
don ? The fact is, and it is a fact accentuated
by all history, that amalgamation of nations
into empires always precedes immediate and
fatal dismemberment. Once the known
world was Phoenician, Assyrian, Scythian,
Grecian, Roman, Tartar, Ottoman, Gothic,
Frankish, Austrian, French, German. Each
in turn and nothing long. It is the mode
and not the principle that differs. The
teachings of history are as pertinent to the
problems of to-day, as they were when
the Turk sat down before the gates of
Byzantium. Great Empires are founded in
war. They are the product of great
battles and of great lies. They are
conceived in diplomacy and begotten in
blood. Their aim is the consolidation of
vast military power beneath an individual
head. They are erected to conserve vested
interests and to embastion a dynasty. The
great military empire is a foe to human
progress. The rights of the small state are
lost sight of in the interests of the over-
grown dominion. The policy of freedom is
a policy which gives to a people —say, for
instance, the brave and happy people of the
Swiss Republic —the direct government of
its own land. Poland for the Poles, Egypt
for the Egyptians, Ireland for the Irish, and
Australia for the Australians !
* * *
By the term Australian we mean not those
who have been merely born in Australia,
i All white men who come to these shores —
with a clean record —and who leave behind
them the memory of the class-distinctions
and the religious differences of the old world ;
all men who place the happiness, the pros-
perity, the advancement of their adopted
country before the interests of Imperialism,
are Australian In this regard all men who
leave the tyrant-ridden lands of Europe for
freedom of speech and right of personal
liberty are Australians before they set foot
on the ship which brings them hither. Those
who fly from an odious military conscription ;
those who leave their fatherland because
they cannot swallow the worm-eaten lie of
the divine right of kings to murder peasants,
are Australians by instinct—Australian and
Republican are synonymous. No nigger, no
Chinaman, no lascar, no kanaka, no pur
veyor of cheap coloured labour, is an Austra-
lian. True to his grovelling and lickspittle
nature, the Chinaman in Australia is a toady
and a “loyalist,” and at least a pretended
worshipper of his friend Missa Parkes, who
poll-taxes him, and of the regime under which
thousands of his countrymen have been
slaughtered in order that Imperial opium
might be stuffed down their brothers’
throats.
* * *
The Imperialists are striving sans demordre
to efface the Australian sentiment. Once
the name Australian was a “ red-
hot burning brand of shame,” the
scarlet letter flaming on the breast of every
colonist. In those days it was a title written
with a lash, and the “ i ” was dotted and the
“ t” was crossed with the gyves and the gal
lows. England did not want our company—
then. Returned colonists were prima facie
more likely to be accommodated with a shake-
down in Bow street or Newgate than to be fed
with champagne and pate defoie gras in Royal
quarters—without the option of a five-
shilling fine for the repair of the Imperial
cooking-stove. But all that is changed now !
England has discovered that the colonies
are likely to be useful, or some of England’s
earth-hungering statesmen have cast a lust-
ful eye on our broad acres, so we are to be
propitiated. Australians, or the better types
of English colonists which are termed Aus
tralians, no longer snap eagerly at the paltry
distinctions of Michael and George, so a
nobler bait is in preparation. Already, ac-
cording to the London correspondence
of several of the daily papers, there
are signs of the coming estab'ishment of
Wentworth’s “ hereditary” colonial aristo-
cracy ! Returned colonists are beginning
to find out that a “ jook ” is, after all, a
more important thing than a C.M.G., hence
there is a movement afoot to procure a
baronetcy for that phenomenally backbone-
less squirmer, Sir Patrick Jenkins. Lord
Rosebery is working very hard towards
this apotheosis of gristle. Lord Rose-
bery, remember, who is trying to foist
an hereditary aristocracy on to the shoulders
of this country is the man who wired “Well
done, Australia ! ” on the consummation
of the Soudan crime. In England, no
matter what he might be here, Rosebery
is a Liberal of the Liberals. Yet he is en-
deavouring to procure for Jenkins— to whom
Parkes, the whilom Chartist, gave £lOOO to
represent New South Wales—a baronetcy.
Is this not enough ? If the Liberal Rosebery
would give Jenkins a lift into a titular seat,
what would not a Tory do ? Let Australians
set their faces resolutely against this title
farce ! No more distinctions, no more
ribbons, no more C.M.G’s. ! The man who
can stoop so low as to accept a C.M.G -ship
or anything of the kind should be sent to
Coventry, Let no honest man hold political
converse or do political business with him.
From an Australian standpoint he is in the
scale of creation beneath a formless, oigan-
less, boneless, stomachless, brainless polype.
* * *
When England, or~the dear Prince, or a
limited section of England’s Tory statesmen—
whoever it may have been- awakened to an
idea of the importance of colonial co-operation
to the successful accomplishment of their
little schemes, Governors were sent out as
Imperialistic scouts. Their business was to
foster grovel and give balls ; encourage sport
and the firing of blank cartridges ; sympa-
thise with poverty and suffering in a truly
patrician manner; open church-bazaars and
grocery stores ; flatter wealthy decrepitude,
and erect a gorgeous popularity in the hearts
of pugilistic loyalty generally. These were
selected with private means, with a view of
their attaining the above desirable popu-
larity by a liberal expenditure of the coin
drawn from the colonial treasury. So the
Imperialistic Governor speedily becomes a
patron of rum-begotten wealth and a sort of
grand panjandrum and lord high admiral of
every species of vested interests in the
colony over which he is sent to govern.
He has even been known to enter
into brotherhood with the gilded whisky-
-retailer and the pious usurer who has
constructed his massive pile. The Imperialis-
tic Governor does his work pretty thoroughly.
He has been sent out to Australia to per-
petuate a system which, in some colonies at
least, had its foundation in convict rum and
convict chains. And he does his work—not
always wisely, or with any considerable
amount of tact —but as well as he knows
how. It is a beautiful system, this which he
attempts to hand down to the ages. It is
the system of brute force, and it is supported
in N.S. W. by Orangemen with clubs and with
yellow livers ; by footballers with hob-nailed
kicking boots ; and by University undergradp.
with walking-sticks and the intellects of
capons.
* * *
Lord Loftus was worth ten Imperialistic
Governors of the sort we are to have hence-
forth, and The Bulletin is ashamed
though not afraid to confess that it never
made a greater mistake than when it helped
to hold up to ridicule this straight-going,
honest old man, characterised alike by his
simplicity and his humanity. We can well
imagine how differently the gubernatorial
prerogative would have been exercised in
the matter of the Mount Rennie youths
had Lord Loftus held the veto of life or
death—for he at any rate wa3 not a man who,
when approached by a deputation of repre-
sentative intellect insulted it by reading out
a cut-and-dried reply prepared hours before-
hand, and having as much bearing upon the
arguments advanced by his interviewers as
has the appetite of the Chinese Emperor
upon the Australian rabbit-question.
It is true he made many ludicrous
blunders, but, taking him all through, Lord
Loftus was a man beneath whose adminis-
tration or by whose manipulation Imperialism
would thrive little in a colony such as New
South Wales. He vas a worn-out aristocrat,
a true blue-blood, who flattered no whisky-
mill snobocracy. A good-hearted, cultured
man, whohad seenthebestyearsof apastvigor-
ous life long before he came to the colony, he
was little calculated to please or to pander
to a set of social parasites whose paradise is
the lawn in front of Government House and
whose hell is a peep through the barred
gates of Macquarie-street into the vice-
regal heaven they are not permitted to
enter. The present Governor, Lord Caring-
ton, is affable to everyone. Probably on
the principle that if he does not know Mr.
Smith he administers a cut to himself he
hob-nobs with Mr. Smith on every possible
occasion. But his lordship charges for his
condescension. The price of the vice-regal
nod or the gubernatorial hand-shake is in the
long run a genuine Imperial grovel that would
dislocate every single vertebra in a Republi-
can back-bone. No ! We do not yearn for a
Downing-street Governor ; but if we are to
continue to take our ! Governors from England
let us have representatives of the Loftus type
—so long as they are not quite so near their
intellectual end.
* » *
Yet the Governor is only one move in
the scheme of Imperialism. An English
admiral directs the movements of the Aus-
tralian fleet, and an English general is put
forward to command an Australian army.
Every important office is filled by a repre-
sentative of St. Jingo or by a man nomin-
ally Australian who looks across the water
for advancement and for kudos. The sons of
the old country—the noisy, truculent scions
of pretentious rascaldom—flock hither and
wed their poverty to our prosperity and then
strike an attitude of surprise because we
object to British Toryism. The Australian
native looks upon England not as a mother
—we have too much experience of her
bumptious children. We are wooed and
wedded by her hectoring offspring, and even
if we do tolerate them as husbands we object to
the introduction of our mother-in-law into our
homes—we cannot live peaceably in the same
political house with England. The Governor
England sends us retains his Imperialistic
ascendancy by two methods—he stars in
‘ ‘ society ’ ’ and he patronises sport. 1 he latter
because he is too often good for little else
than to smile approvingly as beasts are being
urged past a winning-post. The rule
of England is made popular in Aus-
tralia through the vanity of the women
and the “ horsey-ness ” of the men. If the
colony’s “boss” social light were to
discontinue his receptions and balls at
Government House, or his attendance at
race-meetings, he would be contemptuously
hustled out of the colony. He flatters the
weakness of noodles who are fonder of show
than of freedom. We had this admirably
exemplefied on the 24th May last, when
Lord Carington first ministered to the toy-
soldier vanity of the millinery officers who
took part in the red-ochre display in Moore
Park, and afterwards proceeded to the
Randwick Racecourse to lend the melli-
fluousness of the vice-regal smile to a
gathering largely composed of that vulgar
brutality and brainless vanity which seem
ever inseparable from the turf.
* * *
These are some of the forces and some of
the means by which it is endeavoured to
foster a sentiment inimical to the growth of
Australian Democracy. But the cause of
Australia is anything but hopeless. The re-
cent Jubilee meeting in the Exhibition
building was a moral throw-up of the sponge
on the part of the so-called “ loyal ” section
of the people of Sydney. The succetsive
failures of the laboured illuminatory and fire-
works displays are added gall to an overbrim-
ming cup. At the famed Jubilee gagged meet-
ing the chicken-hearted knights and “ loyal ”
braggadocios ; the gibbering and chattering
old women who fill the official positions took
pusillanimous refuge behind the palladium
of a woman’s petticoats. They skulked in
the shadow of Lady Carington’s name.
They called upon a contingent of boys to
rally to their rescue—the brainless foot-
ballers and brain-crammed University in-
fants—callow- faced youngsters at whose
physique a “ loyal ” paper indulged in sneer-
ing comment. They endeavoured to revive
the days of the dragonnades and to match
Louis XIV. and his enforced observances
with Sir Henry Bigot and closed lecture-
halls. And the result has been a delirious
and mirth-stirring failure. The cause of
Democracy in Australia is gaining daily
strength, and every fresh act of repression
serves simply to call to the surface the
hidden forces that have been hitherto un-
suspected. Republicanism in the colonies
is as sure, though possibly slower in its con-
summation, as are intercolonial Freetrade and
Protection against the world.
* * *
But after all who is responsible for the
attitude of the people ? Who is the invader
of the rights and privileges sacred to the
individual as to the community ? When
alien organisations are foisted upon our
country ; when a Primrose League, 700
strong, officered by newly-imported English
Tories paid from English Tory funds,
marches to a colonial public meeting and
attempts to coerce Australian citizens to the
rule of its Tory employers, we ask—Who are
the aggressors ? When our chief public
men are daily being bought by English starß
and ribbons, and when the tawdry bait of a
Primrose “ Dame ’’-ship League is en-
ticingly dangled under the nose of every
silly woman who has helped to make her
husband’s fortune by smiling as she pulled
the beer-engine ; when admittance to a
meeting held in a public hall, presided over
by a public official, and advertised as “ pub-
lic,” is only to be obtained by a secret pass-
word ; when foreign man-o’-war’s men crowd
into a hall in the guise of citizens ; when
Colonial Lancers conceal their gimcrack
finery with the cloak of the stage bravo ;
and when these various and dissimilar agents
of a Foreign Power are stationed at dif-
ferent points to assist in the work of
coercion, we ask—Who are the aggros,
sors ? When we learn that ball-
cartridges had been Berved out on
that eventful night to our artillery, a
force commanded by British officers who
look chiefly to England for their distinction ;
when we listen to the veiled threatß of Tory
lawyers and Semitic place-hunters—threats
which are reported with Buch grovelling
gusto, and with such sweet approval, in the
columns of money-ridden organs written by
personages who, with their wives, are patron-
ised by dear Lord Carington, and who wither
and die if the gubernatorial smile be with-
held from them, we ask—Who are the
aggressors ? When we read in the daily
press, the purchased type-toadies of Austra-
lia, the garbled and lying reports of meetings
that never took place, of speeches made by
men miles distant, of bogus dynamite and
specially-invented Belgian anarchists, we
ask—Who are the aggressors ? —and whether
it be not time to establish a Democratic Club
—to fight its way on constitutional lines—
at every street comer in every city through-
out the length and breadth of the continent,
and trumpet out the battle- cry of the coming
struggle: “ Australia for the Australians !”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Fleecer’s Guild.
Mr. Frank J. Smith, the Balmain legislator
wants an extension of the right of audience in
New South Wales courts of justice. What this,
if granted, comes to is that the plaintiff or de-
fendant in any case need not employ either a
solicitor or barrister to appear for him, but may
select from among his friends and acquaintance*
or anywhere he likes a layman in whom he has
confidence. The innovation is important, but it
has been heard of often before. Sir George Grey
introduced a measure of similar purport into the
New Zealand Parliament some years ago. M hen
the Criminal Law Amendment Bill was before the
Parliament of New South Wales an addition was
moved to clause 343 which went in the same
direction. Mr. Smith should carry a majority
of the present members with him. Notwith-
standing that the leaven of the professional
lawyer is considerable on the floor of the House*
the rivalry between solicitors and barristers will
go far to spoil its effect. When last extension of
audience was debated, solicitors went for it up to
the extent of claiming for themselves the prl*
vileges restricted to barristers. Mr. Slattery
drew heartrending pictures of the plight of poor
men in the interior who could not fee a bar-
rister from Sydney, and who came before a
court which refused attorneys audience. Mr.
Burdett Smith was lachrymose in the same
strain. Both of these maintained it to be eter-
nally right that their class should have full free-
dom to argue a case before a j udge of the Supreme
Court. Mr. Wisdom, from the barrister’s side,
made the show of legal philanthropy wither up.
He proposed to go one better, and it was then he
moved to have right of audience extended to any
person named by an accused as his agent. The
solicitors obstructed this with a will, and the
barristers as stoutly worked for it, and it tempor-
arily succeeded by a majority of 21 to 12. On
grounds of sound commonsense, Mr. Frank
Smith’s Bill should be oarried. The evils feared
from it are purely imaginary. People talk of the
insult it would be to a court to have one thief
calling on another to rise and defend him. Mr.
G. H. Reid killed that spectre when he pointed
out that the thief who would do that would be a
lunatic, as he would be thereby giving himself
away as the associate of. criminals, A little cob j
fusion with regard to legal ceremonial might


arise, but to an extent that arisen even now. O
very certain result of the new practice would
that the cumbrous phraseology of legal ena
ments would come to an end. Mr. Smith's Bi
has no chance of becoming law this session, b
the thoughts it will give rise to will not be prod
less.
“ Gimme My Bunk !”
It is really funny to observe the unwonted una
imity of the Sydney journals in condemnation
ex-Minister Copeland’s bunk-jumping perfor
ance. All the local editors have discovered tha
Minister of the Crown enjoys no moral right
seize the sleeping-place engaged and paid for
another railway passenger, and tell the ousted o
“ to be damned,” and all have expressed virtuo
indignation at the cool assumption by a Minist
of such a priv: v re. The Bulletin, of cuurs
does not agree with its contemporaries. IV
Bunk-Jumper Copeland bar now, in our estim
ticn, proved his perfect fitness for the onerous anc
dignified position of a Minister. Heretofo
there was some doubt as to his qualification
There was always room for misgivings as to h
capacity for high political functions until th
coup-de-main of the bunk-jumping. But no
there is none. A man capable of carrying ou
with success the arduous and dangerous business oi
unlawfully depriving a fellow-traveller of his vo
bed is evidently endowed with a genius for wor
in the world of colonial politics. The admirab
contempt for the rudimentary principles of justi
exhibited in the performance betokens rare fitne
for the Ministerial office; and if Copelan
doesn’t make a splash very soon we shall give
(like the D.T. of late) casting the horoscope
our public men. The jury which awarded
farthing damages to the passenger whose bed wa
illegally annexed by Copeland showed a hig
appreciation of the ex-Minibter’s claims on th
public esteem, and gave a beautifu
illustration of the axiom that twelve men, or an;
other number crammed in a jury box, cannot er
There is only one feature of the case that seem
to us unsatisfactory, and it is painful to notic
that all the daily papers of Sydney have ap
plauded just where they clearly ought to hav
lamented. Chief Justice Darley certified fo
costs against Copeland, though the damage
awarded were measured in the infinitesimal sum
of one farthing ! Sir Frederick Darley ma
be an able lawyer and a just man, but plainly h
daes not comprehend what goes to make up tb
claims of public men on the gratitude and respec
of the community. So far from being compelle
to pay the costs of the thin-skinned gentlema
who sued for damages, Mr. Bunk-jumper Cope
lard might well have been allowed his own cost
out of the plaintiff’s pocket. But truly in thes
degenerate days virtue i 3 its own reward ; anc
unless the public come forward and subscrib
the law expense?, this fine specimen of the New
South Wales statesmen will suffer to the tune o
a hundred pounds or so as a direct consequenc
of an action showing in the superlative degre
his fitness for the highest offices of the State.
♦
The Jingo Centennial Commemo-
ration.
Out of the gigantic intellects of Parkes anc
Governor Carington has at length been evolved
a glorious scheme for the commemoration of wha
is unblushingly termed “our Centenary.” The
Lachlan water-reserve is to be converted into
“ Queen’s Park,” with a Rotten Row, and othe
contrivances calculated to give pleasure to the
wealthy. There is no particular objection to the
scheme so far. The large area of land reserve!
for catchment in the neighbourhood of the Botany
Waterworks is Buited for a public park, and when
the Government has wiped off the deficit and go
together a surplus, the cost of transforming the
present wilderness into attractive gardens anc
recreation grounds will be amply justified. Bu
the project does not end here. In this proposed
park there is to be .erected a sort of Pantheon
embellished with statues of all the gods of New
South Wales Jingoism—such as the leonine
Parkes rampant, the valiant Plain Bill, P.C.
the Little Boy of Manly, the Soudan Goat, et hoc
genus omne. The rising generation of the colony
are to be perennially confronted with these heroic
carvings as an incentive to performances of
valour, fortitude, and devotion to the Empire, a
part of this edifice, we are told on no less an
authority than that of Parkes’ special organ, the
Sydney D.T., is intended as a place wherein all
celebrations of a national character, such as the
rendering of thanks to soldiers for acts of bravery
in defence of the colony , are to be carried out.”
The question here arises—with whom is it designed
by the Imperialistic party that Australia shall go
to war ? It evidently is designed that we shall go
to war. This is making ready with a vengeance
The D.T. has tried hard to re-establish some of
the old Soudan “ thrills” and “ throbs ” over this
proposed National Memorial Hall. But the times,
unfortunately, are not propitious. The dry and
practical question touching estimates of cost
blocks the way in these daps of indus-
trial distress and commercial depression. When
Dalley and the D.T, got up the Soudan thrills
and throbs, business was good and money plenti-
ful ; but with a vast and growing deficit in the
public Treasury, increased taxation, and universal
scarcity of coin, it is hard to get a good, hone3t
thrill or throb over even a centennial celebration
of the institution of New South Wales convictism,
and the D.T.’s effort is so far a complete failure.
However, when the proposed structure is put up,
and Parkes and Dalley, flanked by the Donkey
and the Goat, are put up too, in brass, doubtless the
D.T. will be rewarded by at least a tremor, and
richly that journal will deserve it. That part of
the scheme which aims at selling a large portion
of the reserve for building sites at £8 per foot has
already caused some little commotion among the
land-auctioneers and land-speculators. Of course,
it may be all cut and dried how to turn an honest
penny out of these sales of sites; and with t-use
who perceive the way of doing this the whole
plan of centennial celebration is no doubt intensely
popular,
Royal Gratification.
The London “ special” correspondent of every
one of the Australian daily papers has cabled to
the effect that “ Her Majesty has expressed her
gratification at the result of the recent loyalist
meeting at the Sydney Exhibition Building,” Of
course the wires had been previously pulled from
this end by persons skilled in the art of inventing
things calculated to afford pleasure to queenly
ears. The result of the meeting in question was
not such as to yield gratification to her Maiesty,
while the proceedings generally were such as to
induce in her Royal mind a sense of shame. It is
doubtful whether the resolutions in favour of the
Jubilee schemes were carried at all, but in any
case there was.exhibited by the meeting a feeling
of intense hostility to the Jingoistic proposals ;
and if all the police, soldiery, University under-
jraduates, Orangemen, prize-fighters, and foot-
rnllers capable of being got together in Sydney had
not been raked in in the interests of Mayor
Riley’s programme, no doubt the crowd of
magnates on the platform would have been run off
with celerity, and the meeting converted into one
which., if not absolutely antagonistic to the resolu-
tions submitted, would at least have been pretty
evenly divided. But the “ special ” cables sent
to England no doubt told a different tale. It re-
quires no greatjgift of proptecy to forecast the
port of cablegrams which the London dailies pub-
lished about this “glorious demonstration” on
the day after its occurrence. The Sydney dailies
were successful in fabricating a glowing and
wholly false account of the affair ; but they had
perforce to describe certain details—such as the
packing of the hall with Orangemen and others
by means of pass-words, the employment of pro-
fessional pugilists, and so forth—which the com-
pilers of the cablegrams no doubt carefully sup-
pressed in their account, and thus led the Queen
and the uninitiated British public to believe that
the gathering was spontaneously and unanimously
in favour of the Jubilee high-jinks projects of the
handful of sycophants who found a somewhat
insecure resting place on the plat form. The con-
duct of the ultra-loyalists in deceiving the Queen
as to the real character of this meeting and its
outcome can only be regarded as criminal. It is
surely the height of disloyalty to persuade a sove-
reign that her subjects are, every man Jack
of them, imbued with the exalted sentiment of
devotion to her person in the face ot evidence that
their feeling towards her is simply one of recogni-
tion of the fact that she has done her duty toler-
ably well, and has been more than well paid for
it. The Sydney D.T. only the other day averred
that— ‘ There is in this realm to-day no legal
agency of any kind established for the coercion of
popular thought.” If this is so, then the methods
that have been pursued all through this business
of the Jubilee meetings by the authorities were in
violation of the law, as well as egregious! y and
pitifully indecent. And not the least culpable
feature of the case is the transmission to London
of the transparently false account of the “great
demonstration” which the public of Australia
will have an opportunity of reading when in the
course of post the English newspapers of the
period come to hand.
♦
Political Economy from Bega.
The Bega (N.S.W.) Gazette —a lean old
heartbroken journal in a back settlement—thus
explains how Protection will ruin the bleeding
colony when once it gets a fair start. Commenc-
ing with a theory that £lOOO worth of parchment
is used annually in N.S.W., it hits its subject in
the eye at the first shot :
“ This parchment comes from England. ■ But to encourage
native industry let us put on a tax at the Oust .m-houae of
6d. per sheei--, or, say 25 per cent., and- the parchment would
then have to he sold for £1250. Whether made in the colony
or imported, the extra £250 must be paid, and the 400
lawyers have to subscribe 12s. 6d. each per year for the pur-
pose of encouraging native industry. At first one manufac-
turer of parchment is encouraged to start a parchment fac-
tory ; but after a while one of his men leaves his employ and
sets up a rival factory. Competition[entues ; prices go down,
until one or the other maker hvs to compromise with his
baker, butcher, tailor, clothier. And thus a system of gene-
ral robbery of professional man and tradesman is set up."
That settles it. If the parchment industry were
chewed up by a mad dog it couldn’t be crushed
more hopelessly. It is not only dead but buried
and extinct, and its bones are trodden into the
soil, and it will never rise again. Protection
encourages manufactures, and manufactures re-
duce prices to the consumer till the manufacturer
bursts and gives a nasty jar to the pork-sausage
man. Freetrade, on the other hand, keeps up
prices to the consumer, and then the manufac
turer doesn’t burst because there is no manufac-
turer, and the pork-sauiage man doesn’t had
himself robbod in his old ago because there
being no parchment-maker to pay wages to
men wherewith to buy sausages there is
no pork-sausage man at all. All manufac-
tures, of course, whether under Protection
or Freetrade have the same ruinous tendency. So
has agriculture, for the farmer occasionally lets in
his tailor, consequently let the farmer be abolished
or go naked. Even miners and Freetrade politi-
cians->-yea, even newspaper men sometimes go
hung add rob their tradesmen in the same way,
so let them all be wiped out along with the manu-
facturer. Let’s abolish everything and everybody,
and then prices can't go down and that unhappy
butcher can’t he let in If we give a man a billet
he is enabled to get credit thereby, and then he
may not pay up ; consequently don’t let anybody
have a billet. Let's all be unemployed. The im-
porter himself, owing to competition with other
importers, is sometimes induced to sell too low,
and goes broke—we knew one who filed for £87,000,
all the assets in his bonded store being an assort-
ment of clothes-pegs, and he afterwards went mad
and called for a door-nail for breakfast every
morning—consequently let the importer he cleaned
off the surface of the earth lest a “ general rob-
bery of professional man and tradesman he set
up.” Hi-Yah!
The Church of Rome is goiog Teetotal. There
will soon he no choice between Orangeism
and cold water and Catholicism and cold water.
The Pope recently addressed a “ brief” to Bishop
Ireland, of Minnesota (U.S.), praising that pre-
late for his zeal in the extension of Temperance
Societies. The brief refers to the “plague of
alcoholism ever prevalent in the world, and in-
jurious to bodily and mental health.” The docu-
ment is interesting, as the Vatican has never
previously given any official recognition to the
cause of teetotalnm. Of course Leo will have a
kindly regard for Sydney’s own Moran’s eff jrts
in the same direction. But it’s all very sad !
Another cherished illusion gone ! We had ever
previously a firm, unwavering faith in the insepar-
ableness of whisky and holy-water.
The yell of joy shrieked by the Freetrade Sydney
D.T. over the fact that Victoria had placed only
L 2 000 acres of new land under the plough to
Mew South Wales’ 100,000, is the brag of the
Brobdingnagian who twitted Gulliver with not
being able to consume as much “wittles” as he
(the giant did. The area available for cultivation
in Victoria has b;en cultivated for years past.
Victoria has been growing wheat while New South
Wales was producing only squatters and bush-
rangers. But there is one thing the D.T. over-
looks. The Protectionist colony is but a fourth of
the size of New South Wales, yet although she
has broken up only 12,000 acres to the latter
colony’s 100,000, she is still able to employ about
the same population as her Freetrade rival in
various directions other than the agricultural.
Nay, more—she has no overwhelming deficit ; no
army of unemployed “ statchu ’’-bruisers, no such
state of chronic depression as obtains on the
Sydney side. And while Victoria is content to
raise corn enough for local consumption, whereby
the farmer shares in the general prosperity of the
country, the policy of New South Wales, on the
other hand, though making no provision for the
settlement in manufacturing centres of a consum-
ing population, turns up acre after acre, increases
the exports of grain to foreign ports, and the
whole colony rises and falls, is enriched or im-
poverished, by the quotations of the London mar-
ket. Whatever Protection may or may not do, it
certainly does establish the local market and
affords an excuse for the existence of cities. At
present Sydney is a mere wharf-shed or depdt for
the storage of goods for shipment, and her biggest
grain and woo!-dealers are only mere shipping-
clerks and supercargoes, The manufacturing
centre exists by reason of its performing, not the
part of a gaping wound out of which the blood of
the country flows, but the part of the heart which
takes the life-fluid in one form and returns it in
another.
+
Afier satirising Griffith for his recent great
Imperialistic kow-tow, the Maryborough (Q.)
Chronicle says :
“ Outside the snuffy little circle of self-conceited Brisbane
nonentities, everybody is ‘full up' to the throttle of Jubilee
nonsense and of the sslf-interesttd and unpatriotic schemes
it is made to cover. Australia will never consent, without a
struggle, to become a city of refuge for aristocracy and Im-
perialistic id«as when their long and disastrous reign at
length draws to a close in the mother-country. The cheapen-
ing of fifth-rate ‘distinctions’ will have as little effect in
imbuing with a taste for those institutions as the swarming
forth of the titled rubbish who as aide-de-aamps, private
secretaries, yachtsmen, promoters of wild-cat companies,
bookmaking globe-trotters, and in various other equally use-
jess capacities are beginning to infest our shores and back-
blocks. We have worry enough already with Chinamen and
rabbits for both of whom we have to thank the British con-
nexion, without adding to these plagues the still worse one
of a privileged class.”
Sydney D.T., after an hjsterically “loyal” exhi-
bition of grovel and intolerance, has suddenly
swung round and, in a leading article entitled
“Mental Survivals,” which might have been
written by an advanced Republican, has adminis-
tered a terribly severe punishment to the
“loyalists,” singling out Sir F. M. Darlkv, Mr.
Salomons, Sir Henry Parkes, Sir Alfred
Stephen, and Mr. Justice Higinbotiiam for par-
ticularly rough treatment. In the DT. of the
following day appear these words, concluding an
editorial:—
“A?’ ? astly > we have the comments, which seems to be
perfectly just, on the fact that the Queen has not eared to
mark the occasion by the slightest c ntnbution on her part
or by a smgle national or benevolent act. There is no doubt
that this criticism points to a defective trait in the character
of Queen Victoria. She seems sadly lacking in the Royal
virtue of generosity. She thioks her part is always to re-
ceive and never to give. Probably a great loyal holiday was
never celebrated bef ire within the history of the world in
which the Sovereign, the recipient of so much honour and
o nnpliment, gave in return not a single act or gift c f kind-
ness, or charity, or munificence.”
How is that for the organ of “ stamping it out ”
and all the rest of the “loyal ” jabber t After
getting off such a huge chunk of truth at one time
the D.T.’s editor ought to take a prolonged holi-
day.
The following, extracted from an article on “ True
Conservatism,” printed in that howlingly Tory
organ, Vanity Fair, throws a lurid light on one
branch of the Imperialist conspiracy against Aus-
tralia :
“It is the mission of Liberals to turn the colonies out of
doors. It is the mission of Conservatives to enlarge me
house that it may contain the family. The Conservative
programme is recognition of the colonies as part of the E -n-
-pire ; the restoration to the colonies of the British flag with
British troops (they will pay for them, and why not the red-
coat in Australia as in ladia ?) ; nay, if necessary, differen-
tial treatment at our Custom House in favour of the
colonies. If it be a tax, it will be a cheap one iu the long
run. The manufacturing towns cry for new markets. Why,
the colonies are the new markets, ready found, and capable
of being douoled and trebled. Hug the colonies, aod snap
your fingers at the world.”
+
Les absents out toujours tort. In this world of
drivel a dead man is always in the wrong. Con-
sequently, now that Thomas Wilson, the driver
of the train which went to such awful smash at
Peat’s Ferry, has gone to another world, his fire-
man accuses him of having neglected to apply the
brakes until he had travelled a mile and a half
down the incline. To this “Motor-driver” re-
plies in the Sydney D.T. that even a man who
was mad-drunk would not have gone 100 yards
down such a gradient without endeavouring to
steady his train, and he stigmatises . Fireman
Pye’s remark as an accusation worthy—well, not
worthy of any fireman.
4
If William Makepeace Thackeray had lived to
satirise Jubilee, his Gracious Queen wouldn't have
dared to make, first a knight and now a baronet, of
Algernon Borthwick, proprietor of the Morning
Post. This is the organ which W.M.T. re-
peatedly held up to the contempt of all healthy-
minded men. It is a miserable record of sassiety’s
meanderings between town, country, and the
“continong,” strengthened with minute Court
intelligence, and leading articles on the noble
Queen and her mighty Empire. It is such a worm-
eaten print that Her Gracious reads it every
morning right through, while only the choicest
extracts from the Times are permitted to come in-
side the door. In baroneting Borthwick,
happily, the Queen has not farther insulted litera-
ture. Sir Theodore Martin did edit “Leaves
from my Diary,” and Tennyson certainly wrote
the odes which fetched his title. But the Moan-
ing Post man merely sells, without actually mak-
ing, the butter which Victoria finds so tooth-
some. What will she do for the staff—the poor
touts who report every blowing of a royal nose }
The cause of the disastrous Peat’s Ferry railway
accident seems at last to be placed almost beyond
dispute. Amid the hurry and bustle and mis-
management which form the normal condition of
things in the New South Wales railway service at
times of unwonted pressure, a heavy train and a
comparatively weak engine were despatched
down a long incline with the taps of the Westing-
house brake closed, and consequently when control
was most wanted it was unobtainable. The
brake appears to have been in working order only
so far as the engine and the first two carriages,
were concerned, but these were driven headlong
forward by the momentum of the loaded cars
behind. The disaster arose, as everyone has de-
clared, because the brake refused to work at a
critical moment, but so far the attempt to lay the
blame on the Westinghcuae mechanrm has
signally failed, and the whole responsibility at
present seems to rest on the official, whoever he
was, who neglected to turn the taps by which that
mechanism is placed in working order. Accord-
ing to the regulations the business of seeing that
the brakes are in good condition devolves equally
on the driver and the rear-guard, but probably in
this as in many other matters long immunity from
accident had induced carelessness. But if either
of these officials failed in any part of their duty,
Proctor, the pointsman, at all events per-
formed his to the letter. The line ahead was
blocked, and it was therefore his duty in any case
to turn the train on to the siding until the track
was clear. He performed his share of the work
with absolute fidelity, but the fact that he did so
was not sufficient to elevate him into a hero. Had
he acted contrary to regulations and accepted the
huge responsibility of bringing about an inline-
diate accident in the hope of averting a much
more terrible disaster later on, he might hava
deserved all and more than all the praises heaped
upon him, but as the matter stands, he is sin ply
a man who did his duty bravely without thought
of consequences. The r eally heroic trait in his
character is nis refusal to accept as his rightful
due adulation which wouid convert him into
demi-god, and his utter inability—no .withstand
ing the praises heaped upon him to recogn
anything remarkable in his own action. The t
timonial mania, however, has thrust g.eatne
upon him. Apparently men who do their du
are scarce in N.S.W., and when one is found it:
necessary to transform him into a hero.
The London Echo has been hit in the wind anc
reduced to a moral wreck. For some time
shining light named St. John Brknon— who
real name is Brennan-furnished its colum
with articles on the inner workings in Paris of t
Irish National League, and the sensation culminated
with a thrilling account of a meeting of blooc
stained dynamitards, Fenians, traitors, and do
poisoners, who planned hideous schemes for t
ovorthrow of the empire. But at. John, wh
by the way, was long since expelled from t
League councils, got mixed up somehow in alibe
action in Loudon, and under cross-examination ]
admitted that the meeting and the revelation
generally were only a pork-fed vision of the nigh
He had never been at any such gathering, andhac
no means of knowing whether anything of ti
kind had ever taken place ; he did not even kno
the locality where the slaughterous gang we
alleged to have assembled; and in short th
Echo's revelations were only a wretched cabl
gram from our own correspondent—The Bull
tin never likes to call anything a lie. This :
the kind of thing which serves as the basis of th
typical European political telegram to the Austr
lian daily papers.
+
A correspondent writes complaining that sic
prisoners, while inhospitalatDarlinghurst (Sydney
prison, are “often allowed such things as oyster
chicken broth, &c., which are very rare indeed i
Benevolent Asylums.” We presume, how
ever, that when a man is in hospital,** whether h
be a prisoner or not, the first object is to get him
on his feet again, and if in the opinion of th
doctor nothing less costly than oysters anc
chicken-broth, or champagne, will aid the process
then by all means let him have them. The Bul
letin is glad to find that at least one prison in th
world is controlled by officials endued with sue
humanity. In ce -1 »in of the benevolent asylums the
same luxuries would doubtless be allowed if the pur
pose of such institutions were, as many suppose, t
keep the unfortunate inmates alive as long as pos
sible, but as the real aim seems to be to kill off th
paupers and get them out of the way, akin grist]
and bones takethe place of the oysters, and the othe
items of the diet are too often served up in bucket
and accompanied with kicks and blasphemy. N
doubt thisobject all sublime ’ would be bette
achieved with an axe or gallows, hut then publi
opinion is not quite ripe for that- yet.
Wake up Tennyson ! Turn the creaky old crank
once more ; grind out yet another Jubilee paean
to Christian England’s glory, and let it start off
with: “You the Groat Thirsty One! You the
Great 80, szy One! You the Champion Druuk-irc
of tia* World ! ” In a recentsermon, Revd New
man Hall declared that the grog b 11 for the
United Kingdom in 1885 was £123,268,000, equa
to the total spent in bread, butter and cheese
more than the rental of all houses, nearly twice
the rental of all farms; and thirly millions more
than the entire expenditure of the Government.
One month’s drink bill equalled that of all the
national charities and schools; £l7 was the aver
age cost to each family, or nearly £4 to each indi-
vidual. Out of £12,000 paid by a single ship-
building firm every week £4OOO was spent in
drink. The grain destroyed as food in making
spirits and beer amounted to 74,500,000 bushels,
which, if made into 41b. loaves, would cover a
road 10 yards wide and 1900 miles long—enough
to reach from London to Moscow, with 400 miles
to spare, or to stretch to Rome and bacK again to
London. Above one thousand millions of gallons
of beer, wine, and spirits were consumed in the
year!
“What is Religion?’ enquires Dr. Bevan, of
Melbourne. That’s an easy one. Religion is
mankind’s vague belief in a good time coming. It
is especially cultivated by condemned murderers,
and all who know that until they are horn again
they are not a little bit of use to anybody. Re-
ligion is something in which the mean, sordid
C.M.G. —half realising his worthlessness —endea-
vours to find mock comfort—
“ When aDy sudden passion makes him halt
On the unguarded castle of the mind.”
It is too often the cool, calculating villain’s substi-
tute for stroog drink. The Christian young man’s
excuse for hugging the fair Sunday-school teacher.
The tool of a fraudulent bank-manager in his hour
of prosperity, and his refuge in the time of trouble.
Religion is all the world to women with new bon-
nets at Sunday morning service. Lastly, it is the
parson’s reason for taking up a collection. We will
now proceed to go up top.
♦
Dr. Garran, lately edit m of the S. M. Herald,
has been writing to that paper on “ Arbitration in
Trade Disputes,” and, of course, takes the capi-
talist’s view of the question. As the doctor him-
self admits, he has been for 14 years a director of
the Newcastle Wall send Coal Company, and he
looks at the question, as a natural consequence,
entirely from the standpoint of an employer of
labour. He altogether disapproves of the present
mode of arbitrating on labour and trade disputes,
and proposes, as a better system, to take the
quarrels of employers and employed before a
Supreme Court judge But which judge would the
doctor recommend ? Judge Innes, Judge
Stephen, Judge Faucett, Judge Manning i Or
would the choice fall upon Judge Darley, who
the other night spoke so courteously of the Re-
pubb'ean sec ion of the community, which, incensed
at the gate-chaining and hall packing tactics of
the Royalists, forced him and his friends to leave
in disgust the large room of Sydney Town . Hall
and take refuge in a small apartment upstairs,
toere t-i spout buckshot and bayonet, to a select
audience of newspaper reporters ? Were such a
method of settling trade disputes adopted, there
would be no uifßculty about forecasting the
judge’s decision. Constitutionally, though per-
haps quite unintentionally, the judges have
little sympathy with poor men as a class. Their
inclinations are with capital and its representa-
tives. No doubt the doctor would further advise
the punishing of dissent from a judge’s decision
in a trade dispute as co-tempt. We know how
beautifully the “enlarged functions” of the
Supreme Court work in relation to the libel law.


CORRESPONDECE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS,
“E. W. Masson” : The clergy simply ask that
all Sunday shows but their own be suppressed...." J A.A. ” :
Too hot to touch from this distance "Tasman”: Hope
yet to meet you “ W.L." : Like many other communica-
tions, yours has been held over—over the fire “ G.W.W.”:
Thank you very much...." One indistressed circumstances”:
Apply to a police magistrate...." A.G.”: It will deeply
interest you to hear that the circulation of The Bulletin
now increases more rapidly than ever it did...." Marlin-
spike ”: Wrong But who was the N.S.W. judge who ruled
in a certain manslaughter case that there are times in a
woman’s life when it is absolutely necessary for her husband
to treat her to a dose of compulsory education with a big
stick?...." W.C.” (Lismore): Thanks for bricklayer item. ..
" E.J.T." (Warrnambool): Verses very good. If you don’t
look after that young brother of yours he may grow up to be
a journalist....“ A. Grains”: If Australians w.-re cele,
brattng the Jubilee of some famous freethinkers, religious
people would probably detect in the two dreadful accidents
which have occurred in Victoria and N.S.W. within a few
weeks of each other, a direct manifestation of Divine ven-
geance...." Will,read it when possible....“ E.W.":
Yes, large doses of quinine might account for the deafness,
the giddiness and the intense pain on the top of the head.
See a reputable doctor "C. Taylor” (Melb): Thanks
“ A True Loyalist ”: What becomes of your argument in view
of the well-known case of the much-wronged and unfortu-
nate Lady Flora Hastings ? “ Lett ”: Too hot, even if true.
....“ H. J. Buchan”: Dr. M’Laurin will no doubt be glad to
see you officially " T. 8.” (Western Port, Vic.): Many
thanks for your letter “A.S.S.”: Held for consideration-
....“Lux”: If used, must be condensed... ."J.D.F.”: Will
read carefully, but fancy that ground is covered by to-day’s
leader....“ Republican”: Good idea. See our article
“Constant Reader,” &c. (S. Melb.): Thanks...." J.H."
(Wagga): Bulletin office will find him.... "Harvey Birch”:
Please call "H. O’R ”: The word is not legally obscene.
but is, of course, in execrable taste “ Youth”: Will con-
sider "H.A.L.”: You send us blank paper. Is it your
little j0ke?....“R.G.8.”: Yes, it is a genuine likeness, we
are sorry to 5ay....“0.M." (Adelaide): Many thanks
" P.A.” (Goulburn) : Hava already said all that you write—
and m0re...." Robert Wheatley”: “Musically wild” is
good :we have had it framed “ F.L.”: There is good
work in your verses; will brood over them....“ George
Macdonald” (Balmain) : See last week’s leader, “ The Voice
of the People,” “W. E. Harcourt” (Moonee Ponds,
Vic.): The yarn is somewhat apocryphal, and may or may
not, &c. We have, however, heard it before...." G.S.”
Melb.): Have no objection to the Melbourne D.T.’s calling
The Bulletin a “ notorious and widelF-circulated ”
journal, and we are sorry that we cannot return the com-
pliment as to circulation. The Melbourne DT. is, however,
" notorious” in a direction in which we are not ambitious cf
rivalling it ‘ Swagger” (Penrith): Your lines are good;
have placed them in the incubator “ Poker Fiat ”: Hon.
Thomas Holt, M.L C., of Sydney, now in England, is cre-
dited with the introduction of rabbits into N.S.W
"Peter M’Crae ” (Ploughman) : We are ploughing through
your expansive c0py...." P. Fagan” (Forbes): Will read....
“ S.D L.” (Wentworth): Why should you thus persecute us
with “powtry.”...." Democrat”: The article to which you
refer appeared in the Sydney D.T. of June 16, and the state-
ment that it was needless “ to invoke the aid of penal legis-
lation for the protection of interests already sufficiently
guarded by the adherence and support of the great mass of
the people,” is a mere begging of the question. If a plebiscite
were taken of the “ Australian” people—mere sojourners
are not concerned in the matter—we firmly believe the
Democrats would tremendously outvote their opponents
" T.M.R.”; It is a pity you cannot write verse, were it only
for the sake of your genuine sentiments...." After Bret
Harte—(some distance after)”: Yes! but thousands of
leagues further in the rear than you suppose...." Guelph ”
(Swanvale), " Bill Spokeshava ” (Upper Dargo), “Cheap
Ad.,” " Philanthrophy,” and “ D.M." : Received “Un-
known Correspondent ” : A sample of what you deal i .->, we
presume...." Frank W.” (Gunning): The fact that so many
people shared whatever pleasure was derivable from the
illuminations is no doubt, from one point of view, a pallia-
tion of the expenditure. But it was utterly unjustifiable for
the Government to wast® large sums of public money in
evanescent Jubilee fizzle while even one soldier who had
worn himself out in the Queen’s service remained in a
colonial Benevolent Asylum on pauper rations. The rich
shopkeepers were no doubt right in lighting up their premises
for business reasons: but the Government, if they wished to
do real honour to the Empire, should have taken in hand
every old neglected servitor of the Queen and enabled him
to rejoice for once. We hope to write an article for your
edification next week...." Jumbo” : (1) Many thanks. (2)
Yes, for garotting “W.H.8.”: Rec ived....“ J.H S.”:
Will shortly publish, and will then mail you the desired
CO pies “ J.C.S.”: Perhaps next week. Glad to hear from
yau “ English”: There is no more assisted immigration
to N.S.W., nor is there ever likely to be any. When you
nominate anyone for immigration, you have to plank down
the full fare “ Truth ”: Beg pardon. It isn’t pleasant to
hear of so game a mare as Lady Ashton being poll-axed
instead of being given a horse's death—by a bullet. How-
ever, that may he all mere trashy sentiment. [Scores of com
munications held over.]
Bowral (N.S.W.) people will have to go in
for cremation. Their new cemetery is likely to
ontaminate the local water supply. Ugh!
The following are choice specimens of tho
style in which the Times wrote of Daniel O’Con-
nell :
Slime condensed of Irish bog;
Ruffian—coward—demagogue !
Boundless li r-—base detractor !
Nurse of murder, treason’s factor!
Spout the filth—diffusp_thy si ine,
Slander is in thee no crime.
Safe from challenge, safe f o>n law,
W hat can curb thy callous jaw ?
Who would sue a convict liar ?
On a poltroon who would fire?
This appeared in the columns of the Times in No-
vember, 1835. Subsequently the “leading journal”
exclaimed : “ What an unredeemed and unre-
deemable scoundrel is this O’Connell! Oh, how
long shall such a wretch be tolerated among civi-
lised men ? ” This provoked O’Connell to send
the following reply :
Your rascality is purely venal, and has no more of indivi-
dual malignity in it than inevitat ly relongs to beings who
sell then- sauls to literary assassination ; and who, from
their nature, would he ao'ual a 1 sassins if they lived at t v at
period of hißtory when tho wage 3 of villains of that descrip-
tion ‘ ore a reasonable proportion to the hire you receive for
a different., only been;so a bloodless, atrocity . . . You
have made literary vileness a byword, It is really discredit-
able to Britain that it should be known that so much atro-
city, so depraved, s'; unprincipled a vileness as the Times
has exhibited should have any countenance or support. As
to me, the only sentiments I entertain are those of contempt
and utter defiance
BRIEF MENTION.
A Jubilee bawl—Shut up 1
Eternal Pain—Jubilee fireworks.
Jubilee soup is the latest. It is made
from toads and boiled C.’sM.G.
Bishop Barry is on his way back to Sydney.
Just about now he is very see-sick.
If Tennyson had died before he was
Baroned he would have lived longer.
Encounter Bay, N.Z., possesses a J.P.
named Tite. He is awfully rough on drunks.
It is popularly supposed that the Marquis
of Lome’s horse shied at a Distinguished Colonial.
An article in one of the papers is headed :
“‘The Messiah’ at the Cathedral.” We don’t
believe a word of it.
Mrs. Cable, of Fremantle, W.A., has
been sent to gaol for vagrancy. As a rule cables
don't work properly.
The Queen wore a lavender-hued dress at
the Jubilee ceremony. How long has Her Gracious
been “laid up in lavender?’
New Zealand possesses a military officer
named Nelly. This name would suit a certain
Sydney Lanceah who wears corsets.
Tho reason for apprehending that her
Gracious will live for another Jubilee is supposed
to be that her physician died not long ago.
Pastor Jefferis’ last Sunday sensation was
labelled “Hush!” We now hope to find some
other holy person orating on “ Slush.”
J. V. M'CARTHY,
Editor of the PEAK DOWNS TELEGRAM.
A.nti-Chinese cabbage companies are the
rage in Queensland just now. John will probably
he driven to earn his living as a policeman.
“ Wanted, hairdresser for Saturday ;
briDg tools," says an ad. in the Age. Tools ! A
monkey-wrench and cold chisel, we presume.
Two officials at South Sydney polling-
booth were Solomons. A chief supporter of Wise
was Salomons, too. What a lot of Wise men !
A dozen burglars and sanctimonious swind-
lers were let free in Adelaide on Jubilee day.
Henceforth they will be loyal—when out of gaol.
Judge Dowling (N.S.W.) declares that a
dead man cannot be libelled. We will now pro-
ceed to libel the members of the N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Council.
Good new 3 for milkmen. On the Mow-
bray river (N.Q.), grows a species of palm-tree,
from a leaf of which two pints of water can be
extracted.
It is rumoured, on bad authority, that a
certain eminent N.S.W. politician will celebrate
tho alleged Australian “centenary” by paying
his private debts.
The Victorian hatters complain that they
are being impoverished by the influx of cheap
German hats. New South Wales gets the bricks,
Victoria the tiles.
A Wellington (N.Z.) Chinaman carries his
money in his ears. We recommend this idea to
such members of the Sydney Primrose League as
are burdened with coin.
An oleomargarine factory is about to be es-
tablished in Melbourne. This is good news for
people who are attached to boiled horse-fat and
the ends of tallow candles.
A Sydney organ publishes a cable headed
“ Latest Jubilee Intelligence.” We believe the
Jubilee, but we are willing to offer £5 reward to
the man who cau discover the intelligence.
Item from the Sydney D.T. :—“Lady
Carington has sent a cheque for £3 to Mr. B ,
of , who recently gave birth to triplets.”
A man of that kind is certainly dirt-cheap at the
money.
It is a Victorian Post Office regulation
that when a mau changes his address the officials
must not tell where he is gone. The man who
made that rule mu3t have had severe experience
of bailiffs.
The Chinaman again. In. the Rockhamp-
ton (Q.) Police Court Ah Gye stated that if he
told lies he would go to heaven by-and bye. This
led to a row, and an indignant interpreter threw
up the case and told the lawyer to come and talkee
himself.
The champion insolvent comes from the
South Australian back-blocks He ran a restaurant
there and went up the spout with liabiiities £l7O
18s. ; assets (balance in bank) ninepence. The
creditors are almost inclined to let him retain the
whole property.
Purves, Q.C., speaking at the Windsor
accident inquiry, said lie “ didn’t believe in hal-
lucinations, but he believed in delusions.” This
reminds us of the man who said he “ didn’t be-
lieve in strong drink, but a good glass of rum
would hurt nobody.”
A Lambton (N.S.W.) man called the P.M.
a sanguinary old imbecile, and was promptly
fined £5 for the privilege. His Worship, recol-
lecting it was Jubilee time, remitted the fine—
possibly thinking the term was justly applicable
to people generally at the period.
The hangmen of South Carolina (U.S.)
met in convention on the 15th of May. One of
the subjects of discussion was "Is there any
better way than to put the knot under the left
ear ?” A long and earnest debate followed, but
the signs are that the knot will continue to be
put in the old spot.
At a land-court dispute between a young
and an old Maori, the young man contended that
his ancestors were buried on the land, to which,
therefore, he had the better claim. Then the old
man arose, and exclaimed, patting his stomach
with his hand, “ His ancestors are buried here. I
ate them, and that is my title to the land.”
A Dunedin (N.Z.) butcher was brought up
the other day for using light weights. He pleaded
(1) that he didn’t know the weights were light;
(2) that his wife was ill; (3) that he had a lot of
accounts out which he was unable to collect; and
(1) that his brother had borne an irreproachable
character for 25 years. He was fined all the
same.
“In the Town and Country Journal
this week is shown the deep sea chiasmodus,
swallowing a fish several times larger than him-
self. This would seem an impossibility,” says
Alfred. Pooh! When a certain Sydney editor,
who has the impudence to reckon himself a pretty
good man, wrote for Alfred (and got two pounds a
week for his valuable services) he once went into a
humble caravanserai where a very small News re-
porter-- may Heaven be his bed! - aliterary brother
in distress, was eating a very big pie. “Good
Heavens !” exclaimed Jem Punch, who happened
to come along, "the pie’s bigger than tho man !
"But, after all,” added the cautious and obser-
vant, though speculative, James, “I’m blessed if
I don’t back the man.” So that there’s nothing
so very wonderful in this fish affair, after all,
Alfred.
Subjoined is an exact copy of, perhaps,
the very first Declaration of Loyalty which
ever emanated from N. S. W. It was dated
from Parramatta, and w r as written by Bar-
rington, the literary pickpocket:—
Dedication to His Majesty.
“ Sire, —One of the most humble of your subjects
presumes to lay at your feet the History of New
South Wales, and your Majesty’s colony on that
Island. Tempted by that eminent philanthropy
with which your Majesty is so peculiarly endowed,
and the knowledge of which, in the most distant
parts of the world, has more gloriously exalted
your illustrious name in the hearts of all good
men than even your truly powerful fleets and
armies have enrolled it in the History of Great
Britain.
“ If your Majesty should deign to look on this
production, you will have the satisfaction of finding
that the life you have so well spent in promoting
the comforts and happiness of the many millions
committed to your care is even of such a Heavenly
nature as in many cases to correct, and often re-
form, the most vicious of those who have been
found improper persons to remain in those king-
doms which are blessed with your immediate
presence.
“ That just knowledge of mankind your Majesty
has so often shown in the appointment of your
officers has seldom been more beneficially felt than
in those you have, from time to time, chosen for
New South Wales, who have in all cases been
gentlemen particularly calculated to represent
your person and fulfil your intentions, as they
have possessed Learning, Prudence, Justice, and
Mercy.
"That your Majesty may long continue Vice-
Regent on Earth, and that you may r enjoy all
those blessings your many virtues so much merit,
is the ardent prayer of Your Majesty’s most
humble and devoted Subject and Servant,
“ George Barrington.”
C. J. B. WATSON,
Editor of the SHOALHAVEN NEWS.
A London paper states :
" Mr. Gladstone, the other day, appealed to the Speaker
because he saw a certain member seated a la Turc— that is
with his legs gathered up under him. The Speaker, there-
upon, with an air of gravity called out ‘ order! ’ looking to-
wards the offender. Down came one leg, but this was not
enough and ‘order, order' brought down the other leg.”
How the feelings of Gladstone and Peel would
be shocked if they were to gaze on the scene
which presents itself in the New South Wales
Assembly during an all-night sitting ! Members
are then to be seen asleep in all manner of posi-
tions—some on and some under the seats. All
that is visible of one member is a pair of leather
canoes dangling over the back of a seat and a dis-
play of about six inches cf unstockinged leg ; the
only sign of life in another member is the convul-
sive twitching of his mouth as an inquisitive fly
settles on his lip and "prospects” the yawning
chasm ; another member is stretched out at full
length on the floor and is completely covered with
rugs and coats, but the tellers have no need to
disturb him when his vote is required on some
important question—he proclaims himself by a
saxophonous snore which rumbles throughout the
building and for a radius of a mile round-about, to
the terror of new arrivals in the hash-foundries
opposite who are unaccustomed to the unearthly
sound. The true dignity of Parliament is not
usually displayed until about four o’clock in the
morning, when Somnus seizes the voting machines
and the House is redolent of stale tobacco and
whisky.
A man was put into prison in Paris the
other day for going to the funeral of his brother-
in-law and dropping a big stone on the coffin at
the graveside, saying, “ Take that, you wretch! ”
Such conduct is only defensible at the funeral of a
mother-in-law.
Persico.
" Ilia Holiness the Pope is d i s P a^ n do°r“Stf
as Apostolic delegate to I re l* n( i > * is not satisfied
step is being taken because the olcrgy oll ®
attitude assumed by many of the KW"
Rule question.”—Reuter s Message.
Peraicos odi, puer, apP Bl ® ’ ,
Displicent nexa; philyra coio
Mitte sectari rosa quo loc
Sera moretur.
Simplici myrto nihil alla^/ igtr nni
Sedulus euro ; neque te m ar t a
Dedecet myrtus neque me
Bite bibentem. j
Horace, Ode
Father Tom Mahony, a iOD 0 (
sends us the following f ree
Pagan poet’s timely verses ■ ,
Out with your Persico politics, I
Your red-hatted hiss f° r
crown ! Wse of loj
Give over your search for the o
What you call loyal,
What you call royal,
Has crushed the poor down .
An honest and simple directness of of 0
To govern our land, dhis ,
P lan - haV e non® ol
As for Persico politics, wc will
Kings they aye strength
Chains they aye wo meet
We fear them, W'e hate tfl
with ban.
Mr. John Victor M'Ca rthy.
A i for . (Q,|i
Mr. John Vtctor M‘Carthy, e cie tnl ! ,I L l #
Downs Telegram, published geco®fi. ##
was born at Cork in 1863, aI l /r <c ar th3 r > l ’ ! ji#
multiplied by two to Justm Que®^# 6
known novelist. He arrive foxtail
1876 and studied the mysteries “ er ty at v $
habits of porkers on his father P jggnCl" ■ & 8
berg. At the age of 15 yea** 1}
buting to the Press, and til e ag e °i 0
retired from the farm. ■V Bor ter o n \ e
reappeared in Bundaberg as later port
of the local Star, and a y Ba pei’ ®.m
appointed editor of a n founded
Douglas. Here ho afterware , ra fter ® j S ban 0
Douglas Times, which went , ne3 rt in \ ;of 8
career of 12 months. He fig l ppifCSt ot ?
as a contributor to Figaro an jjtorsb’l
year and a quarter held the 0 * u itin> a V
Toowoomba Chronicle, me nt ° f Lls
signed when offered the manag e #
Downs Telegram. This paper al id
in 1864, and consequently botn portr a»
are still painfully young,
latter is annexed.
Mr. C. J. B Watson.
gßOf
Mr. C. J. B. Watson, editoris
(N.S.W.) News, whose portrait , g
born at Braidwood in 1861, ff0 yer> . \ts
only 22 years of age. This, Cl/ c
fault He was the son of* i/Ll/
Watson, one of the oldest jour pT. /
and beats the record even 0 b ]j C
inasmuch as he made his first P _jja
age of 144. He managed the pj tj
for three years, and was for as tir ing jicfel
of the Braidwood News. V positi ol / ' fl
latter journal he assumed t t 0 re
now holds and which he bids
credit for many years to come. , (
—ol>lB> 18
■ r, „ late ]bo /
Sir Henry Wrenfordslejb ftt jj»
Justice of W.A., is now prac 1
as a barrister. Has b eeJl /
A Balclutha (N.Z,) woman pre oUlC
cuted for kitten-stealing. jpi l '
called it “feliney.” , -g n gli 0 h #
There are some articles 0 t 0 tat 6
facture which America d ecl ‘ n ncG . u#
price. Irish paupers, for ms pj oo
Mount Morgan (Q.) l ia ®. n q ° 1 «
of 2000 and 12 grog-shantie 9 -
adjacent policeman is 28 mu • l fs-i
The Newcastle MoRNiN 0 oke n
that a smallpox epidemic has
the portraits of the Q 0
Jernil. , i a nd 111 „tlr
Chinamen are not allowed . t
Rica under any circumstanc flic®p,
Consul Moon, who represents yy e» oC </.
is, in The Bulletin’s opinion. sg ibm
twenty-one-gun salute on eve Vs > "
The Argus traces the
from Ecgberht—we used to fc j£in# lV> p,
that was our ignorance the Sal 0* pat
land. Pooh! what of that- fi/ I '.
traces his descent from Aur * pg o*
Alfred—the Great, and 1 bo iie^ e y
from—we forget whom, but ’v q o,
ing for rain, and wo got it,/ gg*
washed off the face of the ear o s {U#
us that the Cardinal Pf® y . . B ave d wn’ 1 -j c ‘
slaughter contingent might . jjjOJ* 0 b 0 W" th 0
and they encountered noth , aro V W
than a billy-goat. Wondei y
Providence when it is prope * pi J
dorgy. frea3fi r !ll’ tl u«f
Patrick Egan, formerly t j, e Ti^ o
Irish Land League, submit!® .- s po Bo
letter, together with letters to » fl p(L# 1
ten by a man named
consisting of the Govern o » a/ 0 {b l ' c of
surer of the State of Nebr ,^ e o it) ft 0 fis
postmaster, and bankers 0 c tioU’p w/
none of whom are of Irish - g W rlt ,j j 6 P
mittee reported that the 1 8$ jP
gott were in the same handwi tfjy
Times facsimile. . if,
One of the Jubilee d e /. n6 t b/, V'V
front of Melbourne Harbour tJie ge'' $« , !■’
a picture cf a lighthouse, w . h e K p
neath : “ For fifty years she b« S preS s/f d «J
We were always under the e igo, 1> uy $
Grand Old Man, or somebody poft ce f ’ t}
while her Gracious slumbe Jeo inf, S ll ' <
Statecabin. What a heap of #
can acquire by merely ®mg “ cS J J# #
Queen” and believing all on g #
Some really choice 0lO blf; fej
about in the Victorian a 001*,
fiery M’Lellan stated that u pO» fj
bosom would yet be throw mP. ijL
the House,” the volatile L- be tte r \J
that his honorable friend baa 0 u
This “ shoppy "jokelet went «. gb ti^«
inclined to suggest that It AJj of
torian Constitution was P
humours.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Criterion Theatre.— “ Skipped by the light of the
Moon ” 15
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy •<
Theatre Royal—" Little Jack Sheppard
Opera House—" M» Sweetheart ” —... ••
Exhibition Building.— Holler Skating Rmk ■■
The crowded state of the ham business,
and the fact that the baby persisted in sitting on
G. R. Sims’ head while he was writing, are the
only excuses we can find for that gentleman’s
conduct in producing “ Skipped by the Light of
the Moon”—now running at Sydney Criterion. It
is just possible that the piece may gain a certain
amount of coherency when viewed upside down
through the bottom of a black bottle, but under
ordinary conditions it is as weird as an ancient
Assyrian washing-bill- Before it is half done the
spectator loses his grasp on things in general, and
would hardly be surprised to find fresh fish in his
back hair, or to see a man without any body or
legs taking tickets at the door from visitors with
heads of red-hot brass. The characters are
almost without exception too wild to live, and
yet if they were to die they would scare the
cherubim out of their wits. The heroes are re-
presented as a pair of sober city clerks, but every-
where except in the bill they are two of the most
larky roysterers who were ever hailed up on a
wall at midnight by ten yards of bull-dog, and
their wives are the most remarkable ladie3 who
ever lost a baby with £2O of somebody else’s
money sewn in its underclothing. One of
the gentlemen tries to eat his way into an iron
letter-box in which he has posted —add "eased to
his wife -the portraits of 12 ballet girls in mistake
for as many ministers of the Gospel, and, failing
in this effort, he strives to pound in the receptacle
with his head ; the mother of the lost infant
faints on top of a total stranger’s corn ; Constable
Macphair-r-rson, under her directions, given in a
fit of hysterics, ransacks the town for a blue-
headed infant with no hair, and hursts in both
ends of a lot of real and personal estate ; and then
there is a sudden denouement, and everybody, ex-
cepting the but-deg, joins hands and is leconciled.
Most of the incidents, when viewed separately,
are stale to the last degree, but the combinaii m
is wilder than an undressed savage, and trai els
exceedingly fast. Messrs. Gourlay a<id Warner are
as good as the painful condition of things will
permit, and Miss Maggie Olliver, as an over-
dressed, vulgar lady with a baby, does not get
aDyi hing like the show she deserve’. The same
remark applies to Mc-srs. Forbes and Sweeny and
Miss Gordon - also to the hull-dog.
## * *
“ Pygmalion and Galatea ” was produced
at Sydney Royal Standard on Monday in the pres-
ence of a miserab'y thin and depressing house.
The larrikin who ventilates his moral being in the
pit of this establishment evidently does not care
for genuine art; what he wants is to see
gore spouting up to the blue arch above, and dead
bcd'ei, and mou dering bones, and a frenzied
mother of 25 holding in her lap a lorg-lost child
of 23, and forsaken maidens eating “ Rough on
Rats ” to the accompaniment of a tom-tom ; and
when he rolls up under protest to see a comedy in
which there isn t even a policeman, he invariably
brings with him two pies and a quantity of oranges
and gingerbeer to keep him up. Never heless,
Galatea succeeded in bringing down even this un-
sympathetic audience, and all through the second act
she was hampered and delayed by ceaseless roars
of laughter and perpetual applause. Miss Alice
Norton as the animated statue scored a success
which eclipsed all her previous efforts, and proved
conclusively her fitness for something better than
the part of a melodramatic orphan in a tailor-
made suit. Miss Ada Rochfort was good, too, as
Cynisca, and Mr. Sidney’s Pygmalion was within
a Sabbath Day’s journey of absolute brilliancy.
Mr. Leston imported the remains of his carefully-
acquired Hebrew accent into the character of
Chrysos. The performance concluded with a
farce—“ That Rascal Pat”—which is meaner,
stupider, more idiotic, and squalls louder and
kicks up more dust about nothing at all than
almost any other farce of its size.
«y» At*
'Tv‘ w w
We have Iroken the back of the office
dictionary in our efforts to tree bad language
suited to the new “ Fun on the Bristol.” At its
best the performance is an unspeakably wooden
shadow of the departed Widow O'Brien; at its
worst, which fortunately is kept carefully con-
cealed, it is a one eyed, hump-backed, broken-
kneed, strabismus sed wreck run by an over-
worked prompter who howls with impotent dis-
gust from the side-scenes—an irredeemable dra-
matic smash compared with which every other
smash on this side of Gehenna seems small and
insignificant, and all the balm which ever ran
wild in Gilead, accompanied by a blister
seven feet long, could not ease the anguish of the
dramatic critic who sits it out. The longest boy
in the company plays the Count, and the shortest
boy acts as the detective. Consequently, when
the latter arrests his prisoner he has to jump up
to reach his collar, and it is ten to one he misses
it even then. The widow is ‘ ‘ after Sheridan,”
and if Sheridan saw her after him he would pro-
bably kill her on the spot. The singing, as a
whole, reminds us of the last words of our eat
when we dropped the piano on him in the course
of a recent removal; and the dancing probably
the best feature of the show—suggests one query
which is never likely to he answered if the per-
formers go on like this when they are alive, what
ivill they do when they are dead 1 This witticism
is borrowed; we feel too depressed to waste the
delicate blossoms of our own talent on the present
company. Even Samuell’s overflowing energy
can’t make “Fun on the Bristol gee vcy fast
under such awful circumstances.
*# # *
The S.M. Herald’s notice of “Pygma-
lion and Galatea ” is very nice indeed. It re-
minds one so much of dear o’d Dutton Cook.
## * *
Several promising Sydney shows are
packing up their other collar and their tooth-
brush, and preparing to quit the scene. Cogill s
Minstrels, at the Gaiety, following the example of
Mr Boffin’s Roman history, will decline ana ran
on‘Friday, concluding with the usual benefit.
“Little Jack Sheppard” will quit the Royal on
the same date, to make room for A Run of
Luck ” and meanwhile it is gratifying to learn
that the palsied dude who is mashed on Miss
Fanny Robina can procure that lady s photo.,
oheap, on application at the door. Minnie Palmer
announces her “farewell nights in My
Sweetheart.” When the present writer leaves
his place of residence he generally does it unob-
trusively and by night, and takes his steerage
ticket in the name of Jones, but Minnie evidently
intends to retire amid a blaze of glory. Mr.
Locke Richardson, in response to a requisition
from the N.S.W. peerage, has consented to re-
main some time longer, and the Strasburg Clock
still Ranga out in Market-street. Our hair is also
coming out a good deal at the top, and a baby’s
rattle turned up yesterday in the hash, at our
boarding-house, but these are not strictly show
items, and may, therefore, pass without further
comment.
## # #
In future, concerts may he held in Sydney
theatres on the blessed Sawbath, provided the
programmes are previously submitted to the
equally blessed Parkes, and prove to contain
nothing which offends his sentiments. A few
weeks ago everything was to be quashed which
was “ odious to the maiority,” but now so long as
things are not odious to Sir ’Enry they may go on
as of old, and the majority can go and hang itself.
Secularist lectures will not be permitted in
theatres on Sundays, but they may be held in any
unlicensed building, and as these are to be ob-
tained by the hundred it would appear that the
day of rest stands very much where it did before
Parkes began to bounce round in the name of the
Gospel. Nothing short of being run over by a
runaway express train loaded with railway-iron
will ever keep Parkes orthodox for more than
two days at a stretch.
AA. At- Ai.
'7v* */v* 'a* *7v*
Melbourne Opera House is doing lively
business with the “ Two Orphans.” Mr. George
Rignold appears as Jacques —the character created
in London by his big brother William —and makes
of him a festive, fascinating beast that you would
like to flay alive one minute and liquor up in the
next. It is altogether a clever picture of in-
human humour and comic brutality. With the
exception of his leg, there is nothing lame about
the Pierre of Mr. Boucicault. Mr. Harry Taylor
lights up the situation with some flashes of broad
comedy, and Mr. F. Laye -barring a tendency to
look too happy—is a first-class Chevalier some-
AT THE FORESTERS’ PIONIC.
thing. All the other fellows, especially the
Doctor, appear to advantage, and a stronger male
company seldom crowds together in a revived
drama. Of the ladies, Miss Boucicault is a quite
too affectingly natural blind Louise, while Miss
Trevelyan hardly lets herself go sufficiently as
“ the other sister.” Miss Jennie Bryce does very
well in the strong part of La Frochard, but some
of the other ladies would be more impressive if
they behaved differently. Take it altogether, the
“ Two Orphans ” is an alluring show, which ought
to allure for some time longer.
## # #
“ The Corsican Brothers,” a ghostly gory
story of two souls that beat as one, is thrillingly
told at Melbourne Bijou. As a mild corrective
to Jubilee hysteria this revival is distinctly useful.
It answers the same purpose as did the mummies
which were trundled round at Egyptian banquets.
A gentleman who returns from the grave in a
sanguinary shirt-front to remind us that flesh is
grass is an acquisition at this rollicking period of
our careers. Signor Majeroni scores very heavily
as the unhappy twins, Louis and Fabien. He
plays his characters to the life in the two first
acts, and finishes up by fighting another character
to the death. His duel with Chateau-Renaud is
as strong a thing in stage combats as the most
desire. Credit—long credit-
may also be given to Mr. H. R. Jewett for his
fencing and jabbing with a broken sword-blade,
but in his capacity of gay seducer, Chateau-
Renaud is melancholy, both in the manner and
make up. Signora Majeroni does all she can with
the small part of Emelie de Lesparre, the giddy
grass-widow, and several others are more than
satisfactory. As for the all important “ appari-
tion,” it is a better managed spectre than we can
ever hope to meet again on this side of the grave.
This prince of ghosts walks for only one more
night. On Friday Signor Majeroni takes a well
deserved benefit, and on Saturday the mercurial
Miss Gracie Plaisted appears m “ Girofle-Girofla.”
## # *
There was a dreadfully slim house, and
the only occupant of the dress-circle was a fellow
who put his boots on the plush-covered chairs.
The manager saw this, remonstrated, and, getting
an uncivil answer, threatened to turn the free and
easy one out. “ Turn me out, will you ! ” ejacu-
lated the smiling villain, “don’t you think it
would pay you better to go outside and turn some-
body in ? ”
#* # *
The latest from our Adelaide correspon-
dent is that Wybert Reeve and Company have ap-
peared at the Royal in “ Only Dust” to very fair
houses, but the comedy was not altogether appre-
ciated. “ The Crushed Tragedian ” and other
pieces follow. “ The Fisk Jubilee Singers ” are
drawing crowded houses. The Japanese Village
has nothing to complain of ; and St. Leon’s Circus
is doing very well. Simonsen’s Italian Opera
Company opened at the Theatre Royal bn the iftth
July for a short season.
vv •'a' w w
A man down South tries to palm this off
on us as original : When Mr. Johnny Cowan was
in America he lectured once at a pretty consider-
able town where, on account of ihere being so
many other attractions “ on ” that night, the
audience to hear Johnny consisted solely of one
solitary individual, who, though he certainly sat
in the best seats, did not seem particularly
anxious for the curtain to go up. Neither was
Johnny, but as a show is a show, and one must
go through with the performance even under the
most depressing circumstances, the versatile
comique determined to please at all hazards his
unanimous audience. So, advancing [before the
curtain, he said ;
“ Sir,—l perceive you are the sole inhabitant in this
blatant town who has patronised my entertainment this
evening. X thank you for it, and before going through the
published programme may I ask is there not some song—
some melody which you may particularly admire—which
will cause to rise in your mind memories of the dear old land
or of the place where you were born ?”
The audience said nothing. “I repeat,” said
Johnny, “ that I view this mark of your apprecia-
tion of myself and my entertainment with heart-
felt feelings of gratitude. The programme is a
good one for this evening, but is there really no
melody of the old times long gone by that I can
perform at your special request this evening ? ”
The audience shrugged its shoulders and was
silence itself. “ Now,” said Johnny, nothing
abashed by the coldness with which his offer had
been received, “If ‘ Home Sweet Home,’ or ‘ Old
Kentucky,’ would bring back to your recollec-
tion” —“Oh, hang it! Cowan!” came a voice
from the solitary man in the best seats ; “ I’m the
reporter from the Picayune sent in on the free
list, so put throng li the
programme or close up
the show for—l want to
go to bed ! ” They closed
up the show and—
liquored.
-M- -V-
-w 'Tv- w
Queensland journal-
istic criticism is brief but
but effective. A Towers
paper srys of a certain
circus “ The goat was
a fraud, and so were a
couple of the upper Is.
seats, which broke and
let down about 20 or 30
ladies and gentlemen into
a mixed heap on the
door ; fortunately none
of them were seriously
hurt.”
Af- AA. Ai.
W W W
A good parrot story
appears in Maurice Stra-
kosch’s “ Recollections of
an Impresario.” Madame
Frezzolini had one of these
birds which she always
took with her in her
travels, and of which she
was very fond. It had
learned to imitate so ex-
actly the voice of its
mistress that there was
no telling the one from
the other. One day, in
New Orleans, Strakosch
knocked at the door of
his prima donna's room.
“ Come in!” was shouted
from within, and he en-
tered. La Frezzolini was
just then in the costume
in which Eve wandered
about Eden.
# # #
Miss Fay Templeton
intends to go before
a London jury and a
respectable old judge in
evening-dress-tights. She was dismissed from a
theatre because her tights were too tight and
because there was so very little of them, and also
because what there was of them was all in one
place and none at all in others, and the matter is
to be settled in a court of law.
#* # *
Theatrical mission-woman to burlesque
actress: “ How could you let your daughter, a
mere girl of 16, appear on the stage among the
unclothed women of a theatrical company ?” “I
had my reasons, madam. I don’t mean to give
my daughter a chance of saying that she blushes
for her mother.’'
## # #
Thus a London paper on Mrs. Langtry’s
rival, Mr. James Brown Potter, the new American
“ society beauty ” actress :
“ Mrs. P, is spare of figure—not to say angular—and her
strained and jerky gestures and attitudes accentuated both
the spareness and the angularity. She wagged her head in-
cessantly, meanwhile rolling her eyes to such an extent that
only the whites thereof were visible. Seldom have I seen a
modern character attacked in so blood-and-thunderous a
fashion."
** # #
Mrs. Langtry is being sued by a Montreal
theatrical manager for breach of promise of —
engagement.
The Queen wore a crown of roses at the
Jubilee ceremony. Certain of her subjects wore
the thorns.
A university undergraduate six feet high
was heard to remark recently in a Sydney bar that
“ the secret of the game of draughts lay in the
unification of your static force.” We have played
draughts occasionally for a good many years,
but this is the first time we have had counsel’s
opinion on the game
Mr. Wm. Busby, a respected member of
the N.S.W. Legislative Council, died last week at
the age of 75. For some years towards the end of
his life Mr. Busby was unable to appear in Parlia-
ment except on special occasions, but by the
working of our glorious Constitution he remained,
even in the last stages of physical decay, a part of
the governing power of the nation. His family
name is known chiefly in connection with the
great engineering work known as “ Busby’s bore,”
and, as a member of the Upper Honse, he main-
tained his connection with bores to the very last.
Sir John Hall, ex-Premier of N.Z., still
occasionally wanders about the scene of his former
greatness. One day, a few weeks ago, he was
standing in- the lobby of the House at Wellington
when Sir George Grey entered, and in a rash and
airy moment he walked up to the old knight of
Kawau and held out his hand saying he would
like to let bygones be bygones. He probably mis-
took Sir George for a Bulli widow, but to Ira
horror that fine old warrior turned savagely on
him and shoved his clenched fist in his face. He
did not say anything, but the two venerable
gentl9men obviously understood each other.
The Referee
Trotting is in but its infancy in the
colonies, and can ill afford the death of such a
likely stallion as the American Vermont Junior.
Vermont Junior was imported by Dr. Weir, who
obtained a big price from Mr. W. Harris for him.
* * *
Many recent events tend to show that a
few days’ rost or a bit of condition on previous to
a race are rather in a horse’s favour than other-
wise. The Adelaide horse, Isonomy, a deal on
the fat side, fairly romped home with his lOat. in
the Jubilee Handicap of tho S.A.T.C. meeting
last week.
# * *
There was a repetition on a small scale of
the Peat’s Ferry smash up at Parramatta on Satur-
day last in the football match between the
Nomads and Imperials. Four of the warriors
were “ laid out” with different injuries, and the
Rev. W. A. Charlton, whilst attempting to
“ collar ” a man, received a severe blow in his
victualling department which sent him to the
hospital.
* * *
Ned Trickett has ordered a couple of
boats from Clasper, and intends to go into work
again, probably with an eye on the Deeble Handi-
cap, to be rowed on the Parramatta in January
next. It is within a few months of seven years
since Trickett lost the world's championship to
Hanlan on the Thames, and Ned is now in his
thirty-sixth year. If Trickett rows in anything
like the form he showed when he rowed (lie
series of races with Beach, he should still be able
to beat anything in Australia, bar the Champion.
* *■ *
The 100 yards’ flutter on the Carington
Ground, Sydney, on Friday next, between 1?„
Ashworth and H. Miller for £lOOO is stated to 1 e
a genuine affair. Such a novelty in the footracing-
line should prove a big draw.
•X- * -X-
It is hoped that George Palmer, the Vic-
torian cricketer, whose kneecap was badly frac-
tured some time ago, will be sufficiently recovered
to take his place in the field next season as usual.
Lovers of the noble art had a fine show at
Foley’s on Saturday night. Peter Jackson, the
champion, and the amateur champion showed
great science in their four rounds. Jackson, with
bis herculean frame, standing over 6ft. in his
stockings, made the amateur’s sft. Bin. look small
indeed, but there was nothing to choose at the
end of the tapping match. The six rounds be-
tween “Professor” M’Carthy and Fogarty were
in bitter earnest, and resulted in a draw, both
men going in for a slogging give-and-take in the
most manly st le. Dooley and Nolan had four
rounds, the former punishing his man for a couple
of rounds, and letting him off light for the con-
cluding two.
* * *
Unintentionally or otherwise, the Argus
is always mis-stating facts in its leading articles.
The latest is a harmless exhibition of sporting ig-
norance in speaking of “ the Anglican rector who
ran Achievement on the turf and won the St.
Leger with the famous mare.” Poor old Argus 1
It is failing fast. Vague memories of the bygone
days when it enjoyed a monopoly, hover round
the softening brain. There was a rector—Parson
King—who won the Leger with his famous mare
Apology. Achievement ran in the colours of Mr.
Sutton, and was leased by him for her racing
career on the same terms that he leased her own
brother, Lord Lyon. So much for the Tory Tarra-
diddler when it drops into sport! Talking
of Parson King, he bred his own horses
like his father before him, and raced
under the name of ‘‘ Mr. Launde.” It was
not until the close of his career that “ Mr.
Launde’s ” bishop had his attention called to the
“ scandal,” so termed, and requested the reverend
sportsmad to retire from either the Turf of tho
Church. King wrote back stating that having in-
herited valuable blood stock, he saw no harm ip
encouraging a noble sport on which he never
wagered, and which, out of respect for society
prejudices, he never witnessed. But as an pld
man, anxious to die at peace with all mankind,
he (Rev. King) would resign his living without
further demur. The correspondence between
bishop and rector was duly published, and it was
generally considered that, in the language of the
turf, King beat Bishop hands down.
* * *
Another “ champion ”is in trouble. Fred
Woods, the bicyclist, has been served with a writ
of attachment— to another man's wife. Damages
are laid at £5OOO, which is rather more than the
champion has made at his “business” since he
came among us. Meanwhile, he is out on bail
under what looks like a trumpery charge of steal-
ing the petitioner’s purse.
* * *
There was a high old game at that ancient
Sydney hostelry, the Patent Slip Hotel, this week.
The old home of aquatics is in course of being
pulled down to make room for a new and more
imposing structure. Joe Davis, the father of
local aquatics ; Johnny Deeble, the backer of the
champion ; Jack Thompson, Christie Moore, of
the Bells,” and Harry Deeble, with some other
fine spirits, assembled in a casual way to do
honour to the occasion, and this they did by
drinking five fathoms deep of dry Roederer in the
street, there being no room inside in which to
imbibe. Aquatics are evidently not dead yet.
Five cases of wine were consumed.
■* * *
Says “Pendragon,” in the Referee:—
“Australia is at present head centre of pretty
nearly all athletic pastimes. Judging by the
capital put into some of them, it bids fair to main-
tain its prominence in most of them.”
SOCIALITIES, ’B7. Is., post, Is. 3d. Over lOOp.p. of
comic wood-cuts and letter-press. The brightest, lest, and
far and away the cheapest (as it is the largest) One Shilling's
worth published. Ready, June 30. The copy for presenta-
tion to Her Majesty will be shortly on view in one of the
principal shops in the city. All Booksellers. A. McKinley
and Co., Once a Week" Office, Sydney.


pepper
And
Salt
Great Heaven wept to see these cursed sights—
Its tears rained down and put out half the lights.
* “ A large number of people who were not par-
ticularly loyal began to howl against the decora-
tions that were exhibited at the General Post
Office. ... To quell this the police drew their
handcuffs and charged upon the crowd. It was
quite a chance as to who would get the best of
the vielSe when a large body of Militia came
along, reinforced the police, and restored order.”
—(Melbourne Age.)
* * *
God bless the Prince of Wales ! When the
half-dazed Marquis of Lome rose from the ground,
where he was deposited by his Jubilee steed, the
precious Prince —like the First Gentleman in
Europe that he is ! —“ shook the Marquis warmly
by the hand.” There was a world of dumb elo-
quence in that handshake. It meant just this :
“Lome, we’ve all snubbed you and kept you in
your proper place for years. And now, after
mother insisting upon shoving you among your
betters, you show up the family by tumbling off
your horse. Get on again, like a man, and I’ll say
no more about it.” So poor Lome did get on
again, His skull was considerably impaired, the
skin was rubbed off both knees, lights danced be-
fore his eyes, and the singing in his ears was
something awful. In this cheerful condition he
staggered into Westminster Abbey and prayed for
his mother-in-law.
* * *
General Wung Yung Ho, our distinguished
visitor from the Flowery Land, has given his
cause clean away by saying : “ The Chinese are a
law-abiding race, but those of them in these colo-
nies represent only the poor class of the Celestial
Empire.” The AGE pertinently enquires, “ Why
should these fair colonies be a spittoon to China ?”
We’ve gone bald ourselves in trying to find an
answer to that conundrum. It’s time to address
a protest to the Emperor
Mrs. H. A. Dugdale, of Melbourne, a
blood and iron lady who stalks around in a divided
skirt and longs to emancipate her sex, a stern-
souled charmer who would abolish kissing and put
Love’s young dream under police surveillance—
Mrs. Dugdale has fainted. Her little finger was
jammed by the door of a railway carriage, gore
showed itself, and Mrs, Dugdale “swooned
several times.” If any bones had been broken
we could have excused her, but to faint under a
mere squeeze —Oh ! strike up a tender love
melody on the guitar—
Let us jubilate ! John Fitzpatrick, one
of the Light Brigade, died lately in England. At
the inquest on his body a verdict of death from
starvation was returned. He received • a pension
of sixpence a day on his return from the Crimea—
J%4 A
fi/u? L&&C {~( : \'.y> '',':< f'- : *'^
y#>o h.rUJ-y tIU-CCIA. SlCu.J^y^
<s/</y***'^ Jp^
%
(A\ Jfa.4 yS
"Q JcujUA C<AAy cy*«y>\
CO&4 a- «“
(jrertdL/ fauui
cK Y?s J°A''-yCr
<w< sfcu, V!W
AjtxT\, &ALtL Ax n>^
Q c h v J QaJVL CL
yLy-ixiy^
"£r fc. Jtec/A
Jhj -
Su^y"
INDEX.
T.'u.i Quarter Me o_<fyg : i/1/o 0 VOOVQ /««£.
Loft Quarter.y p p p g u ~
ConmnfpfftfPffi? A. &o 0 f eet
l4 Reader.
# 1 JUy. „..._„
e*~X*s
cfoJ^^p*^/r2
O&i. £&■«
ifcXJL t '., • Q ,J
(ft o//£~ t#yfc/~'* nv -
S-lt **«J!.x»' ■ /
(fe'SAtfe' djLCSu /fe-.J
/c J
/$ £«•••.
-fr, luS: /^/"/-r 4 :^^
XjM' >y AA ’
*jt f^-*J
/&/>•
I 9
ii ity
a& Z"-
j!&<? gM*dty
i|| _ Z&rytL'uU^
THE AFTERMATH.
There was a new chum on the Croydon
(Q ) goldfield the other day, hut he isn’t there
now, for the hotelkeeper seized him with his fine
Roman hand and threw him out, and told him to
fly, and he flew. He only stayed on the field 48 hours
in all, and he nearly provoked a revolution the
first day. He arrived in the evening, and made
his debut at breakfast time, when he electrified
the waiter and stunned the regular boarders by
calling out in a shrill voice, “ Gimme some jam,”
“ Wot ? ” gasped the attendant, in a consumptive
tone. “ Gimme some jam,” said the stranger,
firmly, and the wretched d - puty fell into the arms
of Htnew arrival, whispering feebly, “ Did ye hear
that ? He asked for jam." Then the landlord
burst in, pale with wrath. “Is there hany think
else you’d like, young Hotspur ? ” he demanded,
in a quivering voice. ‘' Just say, now. P’raps
you’d be on for Heggs. Don’t be bashful about
haskin’. Now that you’ve hopened the ball and
demoralised hall my boarders, and brought dis-
content and mutiny into my ’ouse, go on with your
music. Hev some chicken. Try a little tongue,
young jackanapes. I hask jou ; his there hany-
thina el-e y ou’d like ? ” and he fairly danced with
red-hot fury, and shook a list the size of a country
hospital in the face of his scared victim, who
coula only grumble feebly. “ Well, there’s no
sugar, and there s nothing to eat but this in-
fernal beef and some Chinkie spuds, and there’s
no salt even, and no soap to wash with, and the
tea is like ditch-water.” . “ Oh, hany think
helse?” “And there’s no blanket on my
stretcher, and there's nothing at all id your
darned hotel to drink unless it’s kerosene,
and the place ain’t good enough for a dog
to live in.” There was an awful pause, and forty
dishevelled diggers sat round the table in paralysed
attitudes waiting for what was to come next.
Then the landlord spake solemnly. “ Yourg
man, I forgives you You’re making an awful row
about jam, you are, but you don’t know any
better. Pr’aps you ain’t aware that there’s not a
bit of flour within fifty miles, and the last was
sold out at half-a crown a pound; nor soap, hex-
cept soft soap, and that’s long since used hup;
nor salt, nor sugar ; and the tea came along with
a carrier as got drowned, and it’s been fished up
along with his corpse and sold at Bs. a pound and
it was finished yesterday. And there ain’t been
any likker for a fortnight, and your huuseemly
levity about kerosene’s hout of place for it’s just
giving hout. Why, there hain’t even a hounce of
’fracteur in the place, and in the face of 1000
miners knocked hidle for want of it you come
here and ask for jam. Young man, go home to
your mother. I forgive you, but go.” And the
young man went. He was altogether too refined
for Croydon.
* * *
Even the Anglo-Israelitish duffer has
caught the prevafiing Jubilee mania, and ha has
got it awfully bad. Dawn in Victoria a healthy
pirate, who seems capable of scuttling the whole
human race, ha 3 issued what he calls a “Great
Jubilee Chart” to prove “ the descent of Victoria
from Egbert and the identity of Ephraim with the
English nation.” also to set forth “the startling
coincidences between the Saviour’s genealogy,
Jacob's ladder, and the British Empire.” This
document is as large as a horse-blanket, and
spreads from Abraham and Arphaxad to the
Grand Old Man. It also covers Azir, Shem,
Ethelwulf, and the Duke of Kent mixed up with
the “Tree of Vengeance,” “Shem’s Number,” —
we never knew he had one—and Zerubbabel. A
hundred and fifty other things, varying from
Bash an down to Parnell, lend variety to the view,
and the document wind 3 up with the query :
“Where is the Lord God of Shem?” Most of
these ancient characters are simply chucked
down on their backs, and the student is left to
pick them up. .ancient Hebrews in short petti-
coats scramble painfully over the page, and an
Eastern savage has his foot on Gladstone’s shirt-
collar. This genealogy is said to be the work of
a white man, and all comes of too much brain-
destroying Jubilee.
* * *
What is this dark and solemn mystery ?
Can Tankerville Bennet solve it, or will Plain
Bill kindly throw some light upon its unfathom-
ableness ? Has the bottom fallen out of the
British Constitution, or is the Established Church
up a tree, or is it only a dream from which we
shall wake presently with a screech, and grasp
wildly with all four limbs at the misty depths of
the unspeakable, the boundless, and the sublime?
If it is a vision, blow in our left ear and rouse us
gently, and pass the beef-tea to support our faint-
ing frame, for this is too, too much. Listen :
“ The cup and saucer the Queen drank out of at Brmirg
ham have been purchased by an ultra-loja. subject at a good
price.”
If our gracious Queen drinks her tea out of her
saucer the game is about up. A lady who does
that would think nothing of putting her elbows on
the tray and blowing into the saddle-coloured
beverage to cool it in the presence of the crowned
heads of Europe. She would sit sideways at the
table with her feet in a chair, and climb trees and
whistle —in fact, a queen of that sort would do
pretty nearly anything. And if she doesn’t drink
out of her saucer then somebody has played a
villainous trick on that ultra-loyalist and the bird
of drivel is sitting on the wrong egg. Altogether,
the position i 3 too painful to contemplate. Ihe
office-boy will now proceed to take up a collection
on behalf of the Imperial Institute and Tanker-
vilie Bennet’s Primrose League.
Lord Harris, who is a cricketer-man —
Heaven help the British nation ! he is also Under-
secretary for War, for no other earthly reason
than that his father, General Harris, used to slay
half-armed niggers in India—says, in reply to
Churchill, that King George’s Sound is not an
important place, and its defence is not of great
moment.” Consequently, Lord Gamp —we
mean Lord Harris’s —boss proposes to build a lot
or costly fortifications, and pile on top of them a
number of obsolete guns which won’t go off;
£30,000 of Government bricks and mortar are to be
dumped down on a place of no account, and are to
be defended by a one-eyed man with one arm and
a hook.
JUBILEE NIGHT IN MELBOURNE.
The streets were thronged, a careless wondering
mass
Inspected royal crowns wrought out of gas
True symbols of a power, a sovereign sway,
Which live* hy dazzling fools with vain display ;
Foot-deep in mud the patient people trudged,
To gaze on sights whoss cost the givers grudged ;
Staying, perchance, transparencies to laud
None more transparent than the “ loyal ” fraud
The show upheld. Wax candles too were seen
Burning in honour of Our Gracious Queen.
Far be it from our thoughts to hint at evil—
But so tie would hold a caudle to the I) 1.
Bold lamplight legends greet the ravished eye,
The truth of which ’twero treason to deny ;
And portraits of Her Gracious critics strike
As showing children what she isn't like.
* At one point loyalty found vent in groans,
“ Long May She Reign!” provoked a storm of
moans;
Of such a chance to serve their Sovereign proud,
The valiant “ pleecemen ” charged upon the
crowd,
And vainly charged until (our Monarch’s game
Is “ Peace on Earth ”) the usual red coats came.
To cheer the Queen is legal—if you hoot,
The law is up in arms and on the shoot.
Though a Royal play disgust, remember this,
The management chucks out the chaps that hiss.
Great potentate, related to
The shining Sun and Moon,
Is Fair Australia fated to
Be used as your spittoon ?
The Chinaman to us appears
A kind of a baboon —
Yet have you made, for many years,
This country your spittoon.
His opium-scented garments do
Send us into a swoon —
No virtues have the varmints who
Are spat in this spittoon.
We hold them up to ridicule
In verses and cartoon,
And even daily papers pule
“ Alas ! for the spittoon.”
But, spite of leading articles
And well-deserved lampoon,
These yellow human particles
Are filling our spittoon.
They brave the briny waters and
Risk even a typhoon
In search of better quarters,- and
Make Sydney a spittoon.
Rank cabbages they hawk around
From nine o’clock till noon.
’TiS “ Johnny’s ” happy hunting ground—
The Celestial spittoon.
Until Australian ports are shut
Against the slant-eyed loon,
This country will be nothing but—
Lord help us I—a spittoon.
We beg of thee, great potentate,
A blessing and a boon—
For pity’s sake expectorate
No more in this spittoon.
We’ve kept our temper long enough—
So stop it pretty soon,
Or we shall really cut up rough
And empty the spittoon.
Stropg minded may our Dugdale be,
She scoffs at stays and naint
And apes the man, but all the same,
She still asserts that ancient claim
That woman’s right—to faint.
Impatient of old-fashioned thralls
And society's restraint,
Yet, like the giddy girls at balls,
At sight of blood our Dugdale falls
Right off into a faint.
Let Woman’s Righters raise no more
Their stale, unheeded plaint;
The darlings whom we all adore
Must weak be deemed for evermore,
When Mrs. D. can faint.
And would we have them otherwise —
Did ever any saint
Look sweeter than the girl who lie 3
In loving arms, the while her eyes
Are closed as in a faint ?
Dear Dugdale, we regarded you
As somewhat odd and quaint,
A bit of ice, a stocking-blue—
We hail you as a woman true,
Who, when she likes, can really do
The regulation faint.
Riche3 to right of him,
Wealth to the left of him,
Food all around him, yet
The veteran perished :
Killed not by shot or shell,
From hunger and cold he fell —
Britain is rich, they say;
Sixpence a day his pay—
How he was cherished !
SOCIALITIES, ’B7. Is , post, Is. 3d. Over lOOp.p. of
comic wood-cuts and letter-press. The brightest, best, and
far and away the cheapest (as it is the largest) One Shilling’s
worth published. Ready, June 30. The copy for presenta-
tion to Her Majesty will be shortly on view in one of the
principal shops in the city. All Booksellers. A. McKinley
and Co., " Once a Week " Office, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lord Carington advises all poor boys to
become bankers.
The Czar is 45in. round the waist. He
fattens on worry.
Parkes is rapidly becoming bald. He has
long acted like a bald-headed man.
Queen Victoria has 931 individuals per-
sonally attached to her service.
This year’s Senior Wrangler is a lady.
Every year's senior wrangler is a lady.
Musical Robinson, Governor of South
Australia, has declined to go to Hongkong.
Cardinal Gibbons, who supports the
Knights of Labour, is himself the son of a labourer.
Mr. Dailey has given £5OO towards the
completion of St. Mary’s R.C. Cathedral, Sydney.
The Queen, says a London paper, dislikes
gentlemen as guests. So does the Prince of
Wales.
The Prince of Wales “ breakfasts on
sardine-on-toast, with a cup of coffee or a brandy
and soda ”
Parkes says he has had but little ex-
perience in the manufacture of butterine. How
about Dailey ?
Mayor Riley said he commenced life as a
message-boy. Dick Whittington’s story varied to
suit the time? 1 .
Several London papers state that Parnell
is pronounced by the doctors to be suffering from'
cancer of the stomach.
There is in England a viscount named
Cantalupe. If he can’t alupe he must bo built
very differently from most of ’em.
A Melbourne judge (Irish), exasperated
at continued interruptions in court: “If you
don’t stop I—I —I—l’ 11 do—something 1 ”
Dr. Edward Aveling, the Socialist, who
has lately returned to London from America, in-
tends visiting Australasia on a scientific lecturing-
tour.
Our old friend, Stuart Cumberland, has
been reading thoughts and fossicking for pins in
Portugal. The King created him a Chevalier of
the Most Noble Order of Christ.
Sir Charles Clifford, the first Speaker of
the N.Z Lower House, has been created a
baronet. It is believed the honour was conferred
on account of his extreme old age.
Honduras held a Jubilee on the departure
of its unpopular Governor. The bands played the
“ Rogue’s March,” and a Spanish tune which
translated means “ Good riddance.”
Mark Twain is ageing fast, but he does;
not like to be told of it. His hair is now nearly
white, but he explains that this was caused by
sitting in damp churches in California.
The rival editors at Cairns (Q.), had a 1
nine-round bout the other day, bo' h rolling on the
golden sand. The live editor (who has had three-
pugilistic and several libel tilts) came off best.
“The Czar,” says a correspondent of a
London paper, “ looks a stupid, lumbering v rute..
His wife has a physical refinement and prettiness,
but she looks as if she had no brains to speak of."
Sir Patrick Jenkins has been made an
honorary LL D. by Dublin University. Doctor Jen-
kins ! The Hon. Sir Patrick Jenkins, K.C.M.G.,
K.S.G., LL.D ? Lord Jenkins is in the womb of
the future, sure.
Mr. Charles Lett who is an authority on
Court affairs, hears that it is a certainty that Sir
Patrick Jennings will get a baronetcy. Sir-
Patrick, Mr. Lett “presumes,” will wait in Eng-
land until he doe 3 get one.
“ Brains ” Cunningham, of the Melbourne-
Argus, was the only Australian Press represen-
tative who was freely supplied with detailed in-
formation as to the doings of the
ence while the delegates were still sitting *
Until the other day there was only one-
oldest white native of Victoria. Now there are two.
In 20 years or 30 there will be a Benevolent Asylum -
fill —all of whom will claim to have been born im-
mediately after Batman’s landing.
While travelling over the Peat’s Ferry
(N.S.W.) line on last Monday week, prior to the
terrible accident. Locomotive-driver Wilson said
he didn’t think much of the line, and hoped the
next daj’s trip would be his last. It was.
Dr. George Teague, who was accidentally
killed by a tramcar ia Collins-street, Melbourne,,
on the 20th, although only 30 years of age, had
one of the largest practices in the city. He was ■
a Victorian native and an old Grammar School l
boy.
Melbourne Insolvency Court has issued l ,
yet another warrant for the arrest of Mrs. Marie !
Louise Thonemann, who is “believed to be ini
Sydney.” Mrs. T. is the mother-in-law of James-
Service’s son, so this is somewhat of a political
event.
The Marquis of Lome was the only non-
royal member of the cavalcade which attended
Her Gracious to Westminster Abbey. His horse
signified its disgust by chucking the noble
Marquis off. There must be something in blue
blood after all.
What humourists they are in Sydney! At
the close of the Jubilee ball her Majesty’s health
was proposed by—the Sheriff, who is alleged to
have said that the festivities were a part of the
rope which kept us hanging to the dear old
mother-country.
Ellen Thompson, who was hanged at Bris-
bane the other day, wrote to Governor Musgrave
a few days before her execution asking for mercy.
“ When you were visiting Port Douglas,” she re-
marked, “I was one of the women who followed
you on horseback 1”
Having had a “state” car, as it is called,
placed at his service from Ballarat to Melbourne,
Lord Brassy applied for a special to carry him to a
railway junketing somewhere in the country. The
Government declined, so he had to rough it out
like a mere ordinary mortal.
The Marquis of Lome fell off his horse
while following the Jubilee procession to West-
minster Abbey and landed on his h?ad. The cable
doesn’t say it was his head. We say that. You
see he fell and wasn’t hurt. Therefore it must
have been his head. Q E.D.
The bones g of the erstwhile millionaire
mundic-king of Charters Towers “ lie at the
foot of a blood wood tree, about 200 yards
from a lagoon, near Mother Foote’s Hotel, at the
Croydon goldfields. On the tree trunk are in-
scribed the words, * Stubley, F. Gill, 7th May,
1887.’ This is the final record of a man who made


nch gold, and baat the record in getting rid
as any min in Australia.” Frank hailed
of* 1 ’ victoria and was originally a blacksmith,
froin v
fhe Melbourne Argus is represented at
1 Adelaide Exhibition by Mr. James Smith ;
tt e GK q,y Messrs. Schuler and Mitchell. The
d> e mentioned gentleman, who is one of the mo3t
ular pressmen in Melbourne, has just recovered
P°*\ a severe attack of typhoid fever.
(r °Tud(re Richmond of N.Z., should have
placed in an aristocratic country. Address-
the Caledonians of Wellington lately, he re-
‘’’led to the “young men” of the business
Kses and the “ young gentlemen ” bf the civil
’‘vice. Judge Richmond is himself a Civil ser-
St, y° u see>
\Vhon a Queensland blackfellow is being
.1 f or m urder he sits down in the dock and
t 0 s ieep. When Gordon, the aristocratic
vidler, who pleaded guilty the other day and
t"d his plea refused, was before the Judge he
] Ul ly read yellow-backs while his liberty was
Sing sworn away.
In London now everybody is saying under
. breath, that the story that the Prince of Whiles
evilly stayed in his bed when called at the time
f the earthquake at Cannes is all bosh. A lady
0 waB at the same hotel declared that Albert
Lward left the building as quickly as any of his
] e9 g distinguished occupants.
American joke. As we may suppose it is.
Carina (coming into breakfast) : “ Good morning,
my dearvitchl” Czar: “Good morningecoff!”
Ciarina: “ Allow me to congratulate you upon
vour escaping assassination during the night.”
Cm : “ Thankski! Will you please taste the
coffee to see if it is poisoned 1 ’
Sir William Robinson, Governor of South
Australia, was heartily hissed on his way to and
from the Jubilee Exhibition. The dailies don’t say
much about this. Their “ special reporters ” were
instructed to chronicle “ loyalty ” and nothing
# lse. These deaf adders of the Press close their
|a rs, hiss the populace never so wisely.
There is a barrister in Melbourne named
Charle3 Cock, and a managing clerk for Crisp,
Lewis, and Peddemick named Bull. The other
day Bull was instructing Cock in the County
Court, and when they disclosed their case, Hood,
who was on the other side, said he “ never heard
juch a oock-and-bull story in all his life.”
Eggs are eggs in Roumania, and conse-
quently the enthusiastic populace of Jassy, when
they turned out to welcome their king last month,
had to be content to use squashy apples instead.
The average Roumanian is rather a good shot with
an apple, and the monarch had to bob up and
down for about half-an-hour like a grampus com-
ing to the surface to breathe.
A gentleman at Grafton (N.S.W.) named
M'Kee, who is about to celebrate his centenary,
celebrated the Queen’s half-centenary by planting
a tree.—
The jubilant, frisky M‘Kee
Has planted “ Her Majesty’s tree,”
And surely, in gratitude, she
Must make him a K.C.M.G.
Mr. John Gardiner and Mr. R. D. Reid
are respectively the youngest and oldest Austra-
lian natives in the Victorian Assembly. The
former's delight is to play football with his jersey
hanging out, while the latter is never so happy as
when he is riding in the guard’s van on his free
pass and working the brakes. Thsv are rather a
jolly pair, and between them have an awfal com-
mand of language.
Senior-Sergeant Corbett, who has been
recommended for dismissal from the Victorian
Police Force owing to his alleged connection with
the case in which Mrs. Beedham, a Melbourne
hotelkeeper, died from the effects of an illicit
opsration, is the officer who, during the Soudan
mania, distinguished himself by putting down his
name as a subscriber of £lOO to the bogus
“Patriotic” Fund.
Fitzgibbon, Town Clerk of Melbourne, is
peculiar. He illuminated the Town Hall at a
cost-to the ratepayers—of £450, but his own
hotel, which occupies one of the most prominent
sites in the city, was only decorated by one cloth
ibortion and an outrage on art painted on calico.
The total value of the pair was 2s. 6d. or more.
Somehow or other loyalty always seems to con-
sist of spending other people’s money.
Mr. S. V. Winter, of the Melbourne
Herald, went to Sir Henry Loch’s Jubilee ball as
I monk. In future the language which he uses
in the composing-room just before the paper is
' sent to press will be euphemistically known as
“ monkish Latin ” Such as this, for instance :
"Blanky, blank, blankity! what the blanky
blank have I done that I should be surrounded by
ill the blanky fools in this blanky country l”
Premier Parkes, it is not generally known,
had a narrow escape while crossing the lines at
Neweastle (N.S.W.) railway-station a few years
•go from being eut down by a rushing train. A
shunter, at great risk to himself, unceremoniously
hauled the veteran from the very wheels of the
ingine, which was no doubt flattering itself that
it was about to secure the honour of being the
first of its kind to wipe out a Premier and capsiie
1 Ministry.
A man, sued for his newspaper-subscrip-
tion at Melbourne, pleaded that, though he had
skived the paper, he had never ordered it. Asked
the Judge (Cope): “If a baker left a loaf ef bread at
Tour door, and you took it and ate It, would you
Pay for that!” Defendant: “Certainly, your
Honor; but that is a differeat thing. ” His Honor :
"Not at all. You eat the loaf and devour the
8e Wspaper.” Verdict for amount, with costs. O,
‘Post noble Judge!
Our dear old friend, the Duke of Edin-
burgh, aocording to a “home” paper, “is ac-
I firing the face and figure of a man who rather
1 hves to eat than eats to live, and the ample meals
he takes are invariably washed down by generous
Naughts of various wine 3. Altogether the Duke
Pi Edinburgh appears to have a more than usually
PPcellent appetite —even for the Guelphs.” It is
•tated by the papers that some of the newest
habits of the Duke don’t meet with the approval
°i the Duchess.
Major Ind, one of the Victorian imported
JPhliers, died rather suddenly last Thursday.
M played a leading part in the “ glorious battle”
°i Tel-el-Kebir, and was specially sent out here
f °r the purpose of re-organising the Victorian
p Prmanent Artillery, His re-organisation was so
pPtnplete that the men deserted in considerable
Ptrnbers On parade, Major—then Captain-Ind
JPostrophised his artillerymen as a “pack of
•PUnds.” Taat trouble, had blown over, how-
and the somewhat martinet Major was fast
“®°oming popular, when congestion of the lungs
Purled him off in his 29th year. He was a son of
Mr. i nc i 0 f i n d, Coope, & Co., the well-known
®®glish brewers.
POLITICAL
POINTS
An injustice to N.S.W. Freetraders. —
The dnty on rope.
Did the Goblet Ministry in France die of
Stout like the late N.Z Cabinet ?
It is not likely that J. P. Abbott will
ever again be returned for Gunnedah.
The day of the ironclad seems past. Yet
England is launching several which will cost a
million apiece.
Labouchere says that the Zululand an-
nexation cost England £12,000.000. And it was
only a little war.
THE PRESENT SITUATION.
A Liberal paper, the Evening Post, is to
be started at Wagga, with Mr. Hermingham, erst
of the ’Tiser, as editor.
The loyal and dutiful address of the
women and girls of N S.W. is lying cold (or
coldly) and neglected at Tam worth.
The hopeful Herald had a long article
the other day headed “ Victoria the First ” But
do they seriously apprehend a series of Victorias ?
A Sydney firm of softgoodsmen have dis-
charged an era ploy 6 who admitted having at-
tended one of the anti-Jubilee meetings at the
local Town-hall.
Treasurer Dickscn, of Queensland, is
about a million or so out in his reckoning : So
says one of those beastly good-natured English
financial papers.
The London Spectator thinks Australia
will be a Republic twenty years hence. Even a
semi-Jingo journal knocks up against the solemn
truth now and then.
Dan. O’Connor, M.P., says that life is too
short to detail the shortcomings of Dibbs. Our
conclusion is that eternity is not long enough to
punish the political sins of both.
The cost of the Governor of New Zealand’s
establishment since 1880 has increased on an
average £5OO per annum. No wonder the colony
thinks of pawning her scenery.
Ominous this. July 4 —the day fixed for
the Imperial Institute inaugural ceremony—is the
same day on which America declared her Inde-
pendence a hundred and ten years ago.
A Charters Towers, Q., paper protests
against the Sydney Ministers’ Trade Union being
protected from the competition of others who are
putting a more desirable article in the market.
Ranndolph Churchill and Joseph Chamber-
lain are expected to form a new party of a Tory-
Democratic stamp. One aims to supplant Salis-
bury ; the other, Gladstone. Here, their likeness
ends.
Salisbury is suspected of an intention to
put the whole of the Irish Nationalist members
into prison. Beds for sixty first-class mis-
demeanants have been provided in Millbank
Penitentiary.
The Tory First Lord of the Admiralty,
Smith, is the head of a firm which has entire con-
trol of the British railway-bookstalls. As a
matter of course, Radical publications receive
scant mercy at their hand’.
Sir Robert Wisdom told the St. Stephen’s
Club that “ the colonies ciuld better afford to
lose the mother country than the mother country
could afford to lose her colonies.” What sedition !
Surely Sir Boh spoke after dinner.
Lee Si Moon, the Chinese burglar, when
captured last week in Sydney had £9 18s. sd.
rolled up in his pigtail. If Parkes’ hair envelopes
anything as valuable, he will probably he able to
pay off the N.S.W. deficit with the contents.
For directness and courtesy you can’t lick
an Australian country paper. Thus one “ Re-
ceived a copy of a London rag styled the ‘ Journal
of Imperial Federation.’ The matter contained
therein is of an uninteresting nature to Aus-
tralians.” Amen.
The beginning of the end. Germany has
made an offer to the Dutch, according to which,
i “ in return for advantages to be given to German
trade, military and naval a°sistance would be
rendered by Germany in preserving order in the
Dutch colonies ! ”
The Jubilee service at Westminster cost
over £20,000, and the 3acred edidcs was closed
against all coiners for about seven weeks —that a
nondescript ceremony of an hour’s duration
might take place, aud that, not for the edification
of the public, but that God might he pompously
mocked.
The Queen h.ving been presented by the
Lor don costers with a prize donkey, a movement
is now being organised in Sydney to ship home to
Salisbury the Sradan ass. Apropos, the story
lately current that Plain Bid had bought a racer
and meant to go on the turf had reference to the
Soudan animal.
It is reported that the Princess of Wales
is threatened with melarcholia ; the complaint
from which her sister, the Duchess of Cumber-
land, is now suffering. A grim look-out indeed
for the monarchy —madness not only on the side
of the Prince of Wales’ relation 1 ) hut also on that
of his amiable wife’s.
The alarming spread of Republicanism in
Sydney is traced by the Armidale Chronicle to
the action of Dailey in \ acking off a body of un-
trained recruits to the Soudan to make believe
at saving England from destruction—with the re-
sult of adding to the deficit and getting rid of a
lot of useless ’bu-t horses.
Vanity Fair says it “doesnot at present
approve of Australian Securities.” “ Beastly
country,” we presume, has not yet been suffi-
ciently Imperialised to be honest. Vanity Fair
advisee a workman who appeals to it for advice as
to how to invest £OOO, his savings, to put some of
it into Ottoman B ink shares !! !
China has borrowed 5,000,000 marks in
Berlin. A Chinaman took the money away and
said it was “ all lightee,” Next the Germans will
want to collect the interest, and they will look for
that Chinlcee man at the end of the half-year, and
won't he able to identify him. If they do find him
by accident he will say, “ No savee ”
When the stipulated time came for closing
the reception of goods for the N S. Wales Court of
the Adelaide Exhibition, the only articles which
had arrived were a case of baking powder, six
perambulators, and three plaster figures. John
Cash Neild must have halted somewhere on his
journey to make another nine hours’ speech.
The N.S.W. Assembly has tacitly abolished
perdition. When Garland, M. P. for Carcoar.
arose and asked if any m°mb?r believed in Hell,
no one responded, and Tophet was allowed to
drop almost unnoticed. Nobody manifested the
slightest interest in the matter, and a valuable
and long-standing institution was sacrificed with-
out a division.
Governor Musgrave, of Queensland, re-
cently told a Clermont audience that pastoralists
were the main supports of the country, and miners
were no good. He argued that every ounce of
gold got out of the earth cost its own value be-
fore it was obtained ; ergo, it wasn’t worth ob-
taining. Now, suppose we apply that theory to
Governors, what then ?
The Dublin Evening Mail, a rabid organ
of the Unionists, speaking of the Farnell letter
trouble, gives the Thunderer away rather cheaply
hy observing : “ If the Nationalist leader elects
not to fight, the leading journal will, in due
course, forge other links in the chain of evidence
on which its serious allegations rest.” “Forge”
is “good, very giod, very excellent good.”
Bent, member for Brighton and leader of
the Opposition in the Victorian Assembly, was
criticising the measures of the Minister of Edu-
cation the other night. “ Boys should be learned
a trade at school,” remarked the member for
Brighton. Yet Ihere is not the shadow of a doubt
that he considers himself perfectly competent to
fulfil the duties of Minister of Education to-
morrow.
It is now explained that the Duke of Edin-
burgh's recent omission to salute the French
flag at Cannes arose from the fact that the Queen
was staying there, and had ordered that no salutes
should be fired in her neighbourhood ! The story
mendaciously told by the French Press is that the
Duke of Edinburgh, who has of late years become
somewhat notorious as a gourmand, and has
grown horribly fat, had “stoked himself with
wine.”
Lord Brassey says that the Australian
fleet is at once costly and inefficient. The Nelson
is at best only a second-class corvette, and the
rest of the ships on the station would be abso-
lutely useless in war time. Of course this opinion
of a First Lord of the Admiralty speaks volumes
for the naval protection afforded to her colonies
by the British Empire ; and will always he avail-
able as an argument in support of Imperial
Federation, &c.
No less than three Distillery Inspectors
are stationed at a certain little N. S. W. town, and so
hard have they to slaveattimesthattheyfrequently
require two days' rest to enable them -to recover
after a spell of one day’s work. For this terrible
drudgery two of them have to put up with a
paltry pittance of £175 a year, and £5O for quar-
ters, and the other £370 a year, and £5O for
quarters. Eight officials in this department draw
£3lOO a year among them !
That people shall only have political
liberty when they are religiously orthodox is the
idea which was exploded half a century ago ; its
converse (not reverse by any means) is just re-
vived in N.S.W. People may not have religious
liberty unless they are politically sound. May as
well weave the two things into a creed at once,
and make everybody take oath to it before allow-
ing them to be born. Church and Throne for all
in all, and die all who object.
Says Life, a Tory organ run by a German
Jew, one Felbermann :—“ If Socialism has to be
dealt with, there is only one way of dealing with
it—with a strong and unfaltering arm. The men
who embrace Socialism are cowards of the most
prominent type, and the administration of the cat
to a few dozen of them would scatter them to the
winds, as it disposed of the once notorious garot-
ters.” The low-clas3 Tory organs say what the
high-class Tory organs on'y dare to think.
There have been disturbances in re “collec-
tion of tithes ” in Wales, and yet they prate about
British religious liberty It is a nice thing to
have a church entitled to come in and appropriate
a man’s property to its own use, even if he thinks
it a sham, or perhaps—as sects wilt—the road to
Sheol. How would the church like beiDg taxed
by and for the Secularists 2 By-and-bye churches
will be taxed, as a logical sequence to the present
alleged withdrawal of all State-aid to religion.
Says the Melbourne correspondent of the
Sydney K. News : —“ The growing feeling in Vic-
toria is that no man can afford to take a title
un l il he has made up his mind to retire from
political life. There are many public men who
will not take it even as an ornament for their re-
tirement.’' The time is not far distant when no
Australian will accept a title who dees not intend
thereafter to quit Australia and permanently re-
side in the land from which his title was sent him.
A man has been brought to the bar of the
House of Commons and severely rebuked by tho
Speaker for having forged signatures to a palitical
petition. Not long ago, in Melbourne, a man was
tried for forgery before Mr. Justice Molesworth,
and in order to prove the prisoner’s handwriting
the Crown Prosecutor tendered in evidence a peti-
tion to the Legislative Assembly having the name
of the accused attached. Old Moley said that
that evidence would be in favour of the prisoner.
(Sniff, sniff.)
Mr. T. P. O’Connor, who will, it is said,
succeed Parnell, is a debater of considerable
power, and with just exactly the readiness of re-
source required for the leadership of a party. A
London Tory print scornfully remarks that, he “is
a very good example of the political ‘ carpet
bagger.’ Some five or six years ago he was an
out-at-elbows purveyor of news in Fleet-street,
whence he managed to get some inferior position
in the reporters’ gallery of the House of Com-
mons.” They don’t like to see a man of mere brains
rise to a position in England.
“ S’r Henry Loch said that her Majesty
would be glad to know that such beneficial insti-
tutions (as the M U. 1.0 O. if.) were flourishing
well in such a remote part of her dominions as
Victoria .” That’s how it is : a sort of patronis-
ing contempt, with a tinge of gaping wonder at
our ever having any thing civilised amongst us.
A sort of out-of-the-way corner where the poor
things have actually managed to work up their
little institutions really quite like even what we
English people have. How very funny ! Quite
the same as if they were civilised, doncherkuow 1
Is this sarcasm ? Carington, in addressing
the boys whom he treated to some lessons in
etiquette at the table the other day, said : “ You
are proving yourselves worthy of your glorious in-
heritance of freedom, and in Sir Henry Parke9’
memorable words, ‘As real assertera of liberty
you rally round the throne upholding the laws of
our great country.’ ” This was before the knives,
forks, and spoons had been counted ! What will
the newsboys say about this “glorious inheritance
of freedom” when the Dictator prohibits them
from selling anything but Protestant Standards
on Sundays, as it is said he intends to do 2
Premier Parkes thinks it is a highly meri-
torious thing if Civil servants supplement their
incomes by practicing any of the fine arts. Some
of our skilled musicians think quite differently,
especially in cases where the Civil servant does
his supplementary work during his Government
offi.ee hours, and on the strength of his official
salary plays or teaches at half the customary rate
of charge?. We wonder how Sirenree would
have felt 40 years ago if a Civil servant undersold
him in such lines as squeaking dolls, and painted
effigies of himself shinniag up little red sticks 2
Circumstances alter case3-and opinions also.
Says an English paper :
“How long are we here in England to goon bearing all
the expense of maintaining a navy—and to some extent an
army also—to protect three dependencies ? Are they to con-
stitute themselves indefinitely a burden upon us ; or is not
the time approaching when the stronger among them should
be instructed to look after themselves 2"
Just so ; we are able to look after ourselves. You
can keep your Governors, shoddy aristocrats,
shoddy titles, shoddy goods, Imperial Federation
schemes, pigtail Blitish subjects, and other rub-
bish, and when you do we shall go ahead, and
England can go raising little wars or big wars
without danger of Australia being drawn in, or
having to pay the piper.
Though a regular attendant at the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, we, nevertheless,
can say that for length, breadth, and general
massiveness the most successful lie we ever heard
of is this :
“ I*i is stated on good authority that several bricklayers
were sent to the Cooma railway line and were offered work
by the contractors at 12s. a day ; but the offer was refused
with contempt, the men stating that rather than accept less
than 14s. a day they would throw in their lot with the un-
employed."
Need we say that the foregoing extract is from
the S. M. Herald 2 The unction with which that
paper reels out perjuries commencing “It is stated
on good authority ’ has loDg commanded our
silent admiration.
Eight hundred of the inhabitants of Par-
ramatta, N.S.W., have sent a “declaration of
loyalty ” to Governor Carington for transmission
to the Queen. We recommend Governor Carington
to improve his knowledge of colonial history by
reading the very first declaration of loyalty
which ever emanated from Parramatta—the
nauseating preface aflixed by George Barrington,
the pickpocket, to his celebrated and now rare
“ History of New South Wales.” Barrington’s
book was published a hundred years ago, but so
sickening was the quality of the thief-author’s
grovel to his illustrious Majesty, Kiag George,
that it is yet too soon, by at least a thousand years,
for the issue from the historic City of Sleep of a
fresh dose of slobber.
The hall of Parliament buildings, Mel-
bourne, was solemnly dedicated to Her Gracious
last week. It has been built for eight years.
Most of the men who first trod it are dead or for-
gotten, and it is showing distinct signs of wear.
The idea of giving the thing a name was a Jubilee
inspiration of the sentimental Gillies, He sug-
gested to Sir Henry Loch that this was a glorious
opportunity for tackiDg the name of the Queen on
to something fresh, and this Hall ought to be
called the Queen’s Hall, His Excellency wired
home to Her Gracious, she wired back expressing
her “approval” of the scheme, and there you
are. The hall was named, after which Sir Henry
and his faithful commons “blewed” a bit more
of the revenue in another free lunch. Pagh I


/7rj </"s¥, ctl £-ke 0
/ Aetto* l C ' ’/7/,il!'ft'-'fy
Coot /?*e CLiy/fintf- r aeftt
r,7i*.rrvj‘
>r)o/)fc~ey /Q/)er
fifci ce.
/Jr f ;osf}-tccS'vo s J
-Jf*U ,f a »y6ocly
a /Te ?7j/t> 7~S /o S s ytjcc tOAy Sic J A /s>f e >?j
"//eij 7£e rsJay f </o uf°
/ 4a.6</ Oaf /£> 7%e cCo/v<uo/°>-
/cc ■ „ / 7)n
ay cor'Oq- "°Jf
Careful Ctycl
can 1 )
dr**//-?'
'7>or (Ce
py
ijw '<*■*
%
h\, ,
ffeC) u^jy
Pr? trjQcnwus jflmencan ( named Parfces. Canoaety enoughj
Comic jb,c frrcsj and /du/i/ftS $&/'j/?7/me./hevftUi/ fo£ eri j
8w
' s> • tdai)t3 Too
r ' OU/~" //-*r
f "0, 6/1 / 5
/ e. c/, a , oeci tc^_


* y/tiouS
//-
l HJWOS
Jj d /?/e a-»y&'9<{
ht VY
IJI flintnutnfiei/6 can he f/uiyed6 Jo a/mosb any &att'o/dmyfoery '*»»
e®W UJ derv&afj buy^c^idir'/ou.s bbjnjo^ti>
>eo r S “ 1
"blow M(tt£
u^'S
7 /' voii acl^rtiLeU/or a - Juie '
%e<o/J y° . s e /»fyou-c6«0./> rfr* , o ea '
* „>» i
,Ib. «s e .
re'V't
-—7 -„■«:«”#% 1F .4“ V
ri rf /C
W r '>£^
V tD^ 10 ci^y-
«> £
7 p Z7”f
7 % filled ■%"'*«'*■
J>,W7/&-"•'’« ? fi
of feroSeve '9 3 *
VoWS 7‘7 .7(fi Zet i 'fit *'
rf,/5W
w c *’>
Tlz Ut Ltlo c»7errabo
* , ;‘siJi* ,e S)
£_!// u»u.ed \ ‘!
idea- To fiai/e °’J t ° U .
IcCufy /T-cOoued />efo
CooK 6rc*y?ujf-
Y‘- ’™"’9‘% %


Society
The Vice-regal Jubilee Ball at Melbourne
Government House was a very magnificent affair
indeed. The reception rooms covered over an
acre of space, the whole of the Fountain Court
being turned into a temporary ball-room. All
Toorak and South Yarra were ransacked for bric-
a-brac to adorn the rooms, and Mr. Guilfoyle sent
waggon-loads of flowers and shrub 3 from the
Botanical Gardens. Not a shilling of the public
money was spared to make the event worthy of
the Jubilee of our canny sovereign. Lady Loch
only wanted red hair to make her the walking
presentment of the “ Virgin Queen,” and her
friend Lady Brassey looked ever so much better
as Mary Tudor than historians are in the habit of
painting that amiable lady. The Argus, by the
way, seems to think that Mary Stuart and Mary
Tudor were one and the same person; but that is
a pardonable mistake. Neither of them would b 3
a desirable addition to a select evangelical tea-j arty
of the present day. Tfce Mayoress of Melbourne
went as Rubens’ wife. Cain’s wife would not
have sounded half so pretty. One of the most
striking and original costumes worn at the ball was
that of Miss Winter, daughter of Mr. S. V.
Winter, of the Herald. It represented “ Vic-
torian Products,” and was composed of yellow
satin and sheepskin— i.e., gold and wool. On rhe
front was painted a huge eucalyptus and a pastoral
scene embracing several niggers and other children
of nature with few perceptible clothes, also a
patch of bush and a cockatoo’s farm, and the
other decorations consisted of pictures of famous
nuggets, a vineyard, some flowers and vegetables,
horses, cattle, sheep, a garland of holly, a wattle-
tree, a wine-cask, and a wool-bale. Unfortunately
the lady’s dress wasnotlarge enough to afford space
for a sample of bush rum, a colonial politician tak-
ing his “ land agency fees,” a railway accident,
Jubilee grovel, and a mining swindle, so these
were unavoidably held over till next issue.
» • •
Duncan Gillies, the well-fed and canny,
was not always the heartless cynic that he seems
to-day. Deep down beneath the white waistcoat
in which he radiates at the Club door is buried a
secret grief. He was once engaged to a lady
more recently known in literary circles. She is still
unmarried, and meditates on the hollowness of
human affairs in general, while Duncan vents his
feelings in bamboozling deputations and tipping
waiters with Oriental munificence.
* * *
Wishing to hurry up the completion of
the new ball and supper annexes, at Govern-
ment House, H.E. the Governor of Vic-
toria asked his workmen to labour at the job
during a recent Saturday half-holiday. Much to
his astonishment, they flatly refused.
* * ff
An unfortunate pair of lovers, who got a
broken leg apiece, were among the victims of
a recent colonial railway smash. They
had been sitting together, and when
the final shock came they were hashed up at the
same moment and in precisely the same fashion.
That night the young lady’s unsuspecting mother
was out at the theatre, and when she
came home she found her daughter groaning in
one bedroom and her future son-in-law trying
hard not to groan in another. We rather envy
that young man. When he and his best girl re-
covered sufficiently to limp about on crutches they
could sit together all day and compare notes and tell
each other how bad theyfeel, and sympathise gener-
ally. We never had a chance ourselves to recover from
anything under such agreeable circumstances, and
if we had managed to get smashed on the premises
the chances are that the old man would have
wheeled us to the hospital over a bumpy road in
a hand-barrow, and left us outside six public-
houses on the way while he went in to have a
drink. And in the end he would probably have
lost his way with us, and would have wheeled us
into the bush and left us there for the night. We
never had any luck in matters of this kind —
never.
• •
The late accident at Melbourne, where
dead bankers are now assessed at £25,000, and
damaged “ swells ” at equally liberal figures, is one
more proof that there is money in a railway
smash, but there is at least one old lady living
in N.S W. who knew that fact before. Her story
is a sad one. A good many years ago a man
named Thomson was on his wedding trip when
the train concussed into some cattle trucks, and
when he revived he found that his bride was only
an unpleasant smash and of no further use to
anybody. He got £5OOO for this, and in a state of
exuberance he went and told his friend Jobling,
who was almost in his second childhood, that he
had made a pile out of the Gov'ment. Jobling
hardly got the hang of the circumstances, but he
acquired a vague idea that if you took a woman
on a railway she was sure to be killed, and then
you got £5OOO, and on the strength of this he
went off and married a she creature aged 65 and
as ugly as a crow on a 'ence, whom he
wanted to get properly killed. He took her on a
wedding trip of 500 miles, but at the end of the
excursion she was still alive and tolerably fresh.
Then he hauled the bleating fossil into a return
train, and they did another 500 miles back again,
which nearly killed the bride with fatigue, but
did her no further injury. After this Job-
ling skimmed round until he found a driver
who was starting on a long journey in a
hideous state of intoxication, and by dint
of towing his distracted wife through the
streets at a gallop he got her on board in time
to take her chance, but except for the untimely
death of a cow nothing happened. For nine
long years after this the old man spent his assets
in railway fares, and grew more and more like
a maddened hjsena every time, and at last in
despair he abandoned his immortal wife and fled
to a foreign land. At least he started to fly, but.
before he had travelled many miles the train fell
through a bridge, and all that was left of Jobling
was what looked like six platefulls of hash at the
bottom of a gently-flowing stream. Mrs. Jobling
got a verdict for £6OOO damages, and one of the
jurymen who gave her this award —a muddled
old patriarch named Cowman —proposed to her
next day and got married the same week But
the Government moved for a new trial and got
the verdict quashed, and then Cowman was so
mad at finding himself tied to a bag of bones old
enough to be his uncle’s grandmother that he
went and blew out his brains. Mrs. Cowman got
his farm and the £2OOO for which he was assured
and a lot of other accumulations, and has lived
happily ever since. Which all goes to prove that
there is money to be made out of railway acci-
dents if you only know how to go about it.
* * *
A hot and dusty little town in the interior
of N S.W. was troubled recently with what some
people call a contretemps, and what other people
would define as “an awful boah ” It was all
along of a visit which a local society lady received
from the wife of a neighbouring squattah. On the
first day the fair stranger proved a decided
acquisition ; she played brilliantly, sang well, and
talked pleasantly on every subject under the sun.
But when the second morning arrived she girded
herself up and sallied forth into the township, and
at the nearest pub. she erected a brilliant and
complicated drunk. Then she returned and fell
with a mighty whack “ agin the dhoor,” as she
herself described it, for the whisky had resur-
rected her childhood’s brogue, and when her
hostess opened it she fell against her saying feebly,
“Whazzer matter wiz ze ole she-cat? Hollup,
can’t ye ?” Then she suddenly straightened up and
offered to drink the other lady's gore, after which
she melied again and described her as a “zholly
goo’ feller, but awf’ly vulgar. Did’nt know 'nuff
to pull her foot out of the mud.” The squatter’s
lady was sent home as soon as she revived, and
there is now a coolness between the two fair
creatures which even a sealskin jacket would not
melt.
* * *
Speaking of the Jubilee illuminations, the
aesthetic old S.M. Herald laments that there was
“ a decided want of originality about the dif-
A NEW FASHION.
Says the WORLD :—“A genuine dancing shoe is one of the newest receptacles for gifts of
flowers, and really it looks very charming. Imagine one of pale pink, with a pink ribbon on the
instep, and all filled with glorious Neapolitan violets! A sentimental lover may like to cherish
a lost slipper, but would it not be kinder to his lady-love to return it full of flowers?”
ferent designs.” And yet we noticed that the
gorgeous transparency erected over a certain big
Sydney business-house was topped by the words,
“ Rule Brilfania 1 ” There was rather too much
loyal-T about this, of course, but the spelling was
original enough to satisfy even the late Mr. Josh
Billings.
* * *
Rumour says that the wife of Mr. Peter
Spence, of the Alice River (Q.), and formerly of
Cardwell, has succeeded to a fortune of £120,000.
This is a complete take-down for the other Peter’s
Pence.
# * *
“ Was it a nice dance ? ” asked old Mrs.
Blanque, when her big daughter returned at 3
a.m. to the ancestral halls. “ Not much, ma,”
replied the Bianque beauty, as she yawned and
hooked up her skirts to examine the braid on the
bottom: “It was simply awful; the chicken-
salad was made of veal; nobody was dressed de-
cently, some of the women being actually but-
toned up to their throats ; there were no oysters,
the champagne was a damaged lot they bad
bought cheap at a sale, and an awkward idiot of a
Captain Something walked up the back breadth
of my dress as far as the waist, and then only
stopped because he was too stupid to climb ”
Mr. Pring Roberts, a Brisbane solicitor,
of football fame, who lately married a very charm-
ing Sydney lady, has just settled a breach .of
promise action brought against him by Miss
Margaret Clune, a Northern barmaid, who origi-
nally wanted £lO,OOO as balm for her wounded
feelings, but at the last moment considerately ac-
cepted a composition of a shilling in the pound on
that gorgeous amount. Misa Clune is to get
£250 down, and £250 “by instalments,” but we
advise Mr. Roberts to cash up at once and have it
over, as it will by no means do to be eternally re-
minded by his cronies that “ that instalment” is
coming due. It is only fair to the defendant to
state that throughout the affair he seems to have
acted in a most honourable way, and that his re-
fusal to marry Miss Clune appears to have simply
been brought about by one of those changes of
feeling to which the heart of even the hardy foot-
baller is liable. Ah ! who has not been there him-
self 2 Where is the man, who, having seen a
pretty girl to-day does not see a still nicer one to-
morrow 1 We venture to submit this aspect of the
case for the professional consideration of our re
spected journalistic brother, Bobby Byrne.
* * *
It is stated that the Sydney Primrose
League will shortly demand that a portion of the
local Botanical Gardens be fenced off from the
vulgar public and set apart for the culture of
primroses.
* * *
Four thousand guests attended the Jubilee
ball held at Government House, Melbourne, on
the 22nd, and as £4OOO was expended on the addi-
tions to the ball-room they cost the country just a
pound a head, and dear enough most of them were
at the money. The Melbourne papers were
all loud in their praises of His Excellency’s muni-
ficent hosp'tality, but most of us could afford to
be munificently hospitable on the same terms, es-
pecially as even the caterer's little bill is to be
sneaked through the Estimates.
* * *
Sir H. B. Loch, Governor of Victoria, is
to get £5OOO for incidental Jubilee expenses, and
the Government has built a temporary ball-
room for him at a cost of £3OOO. Notwithstand-
ing this, when the Australian Natives’ Association
asked his High and Mighty Excellency to attend
an entertainment in honor of Mr. Alfred Deakin,
the talented young native-born Ch'ef Secretary, a
short, snappy note from an underling declining
the invitation was the sole return for the kindness
shown H.E. by the Cabinet of which Mr. Deakin
is a leader. As the Governor has feasted with
the Chinese Commissioners, the Civil servants,
and o her curled darlings lately, the Australians,
whose association numbers 6000 members, are
ramping round and asking each other whether
after all a Republic isnotcheaper than a monarchy,
and more civil. Anyhow the snub at this festive
season is equally inopportune and unmerited.
* * *
Two free and independent electors were
talking over the merits of the member for their
district the other day. The last election in those
parts had been a rowdy one. “I defended him
wid a stone in my stocking at the end of the day,”
said the disappointed one, “ and he never gave me
anything—not even made me a J.P- Bad luck to
him 1’
* * #
When Consul Woodhouse, who represents
the Shah of Persia in Sydney, visited the Japanese
man-of-war last week they fired off seven guns in
his honour. Good heavens 1 Again let us specu-
late as to whether Woodhouse’s Imperial Mahom-
medan master is aware that he belongs to a
highly-respected family who have done much for
Australia by improving the breed of that unclean
animal the pig 1
# * *
As a rule, there isn’t much female beauty
about a new goldfield. A few ladies clump
heavily about—ladies with strong arms and pon-
derous ankles, who stand sft. lOin. in their bare
feet, and who wear their hair in a fusty knob
behind, but they devote themselves chiefly to
washing and are useful rather than ornamental.
Poetic loveliness is scarce. About three weeks
ago, however, a vision of grace and elegance
descended on Croydon, and almost shook the
North Queensland digger out of hia boots. She
was apparently aged about 20, and as she hoisted
her dainty skirts in getting out of the coach she
showed a wonderful little boot with a double row
of buttons. She was tall and slender, too, with
beautiful features, rosebud ch • an( i she
golden hair that descended to he doz®
had a smile that was worth dying mouths
lumpy diggers with short pipes i as she
fell back hurriedly to make waj no wledBe“8 e “
tripped down the street, and s gjr little
their courtesy with a bend cr j /or 8
head. Then she paused, | ook iJ I a n dfinay
moment as if puzzled as to her' i ’ sa id, ioj 1 ?
stepped forward to the group galoots
sweet, young voice : “ Can any oy- a t
me where the blanked post-office i• •
all. jThis vision of loveliness was #
* * . y fhe SocieV
Battenberg is now Chairman o !* 3C
for the relief of Distressed * presid® ’
time his predecessor, Prince Dhi 3 uBua l
there was a glorious dinner, ® , ven t W® 1 .
benevolent societies, and everyth to
he proposed ilie last toast, . . a hiccup ®®„ t
Society.” Then a city knight wi & poke; ,
frog in his throat suddenly e h -j eoU s di3tll ' ne
shecond the toast,’ he said with
ness. “ The Hinatitooshun isa u , Igbn ess “
acd no one can testify better tha in of® ,
liberal - thic ,—re the HingM »»>« t »eJ>
to the aid of impoverished f° re °. nt ”—-• >
as he himself has been the rec s P . oU t n
was seized at this juncture and .j u p as
and heels, but the meeting never g]ida (»»
after such a shock, aud Prince L
early hour. *
* * . who call
An eminent social nuisance> o \oaeV^ 0
himself the Hon. and says gtuC fe of' J
lated to a British peer, rope ll J aD d b §r fl j
plain-clothes officers in Melbou [,j e g ot , O b 3 ut
for the price of a night's lodging- g an d 9 ot .
up in consequence ; and in view has
17 similar incidents with which■ W o ]j je d
nected in various parts of Au $ t
suggest that the family P e P r ,j 0 well 1 , e i
brothers of the deadbeat mpg
him home to the family rubbish- <jisa
as a colonist, he seems to be a a
failure. # * re ad
The Daily Telegraph
itself out over the Jubilee tb o
When Governor Loch drove thr _it £, 0.
a crowd of waggonettes following 1
chronicled, “In the last caJ m ake 9 Oll ho ldG r
Davies.” This is satisfying* &n a B ha<r e
Jubilee more than ever. Davi
intheD.T. # # *^o
A writer in a Melbourne w to r ®
and a half columns to explain 0 "
Husband’s Regard.” This is a
—at least it would be of °. ur f w ive 9
few short rules, is our advice _____
to retain their husband’s regar •
1. Never contradict your h uo ba tb o c ' e
2. Always pretend you thins
man in the world. . joke 3 ' ° 0
3. Never fail to laugh at , 7inZ oB 01 ffo®
when you are not sure he is nia on ’t b ur
chance. It will please him an birt s. or #i®
4. Always keep buttons tb o *> 9
5. And get up bright and eany jjirn * #
and have his breakfast ready ~ eo to b j, e »
rises. Also bring him a cup 0 be®p. ),i9 1,3
6. Never ask him where he ..jpg " rlt ? If
comes home at three in the ® t be ba cK ' e <#®
telescoped and his coat split P BU t)je ct W
volunteers any information on dob’*'
it with apparent good faith>, a iß g.
you can't understand what he s jje 1
7. Never ask him for money. . 3
8. Never go through his P° j &0*
a "ffi 6 Never do anything he d ° 10
ever hard you have 1 o wor£ fl
appear pretty and as though >
do, when he sees you. w jil r 0 fjji lj’
The wife who observes these ru gb^.J
regarc s of her kini? 8 0
begins to go to the kilk , b 0 ®
B mrke-street, Melbourne. Vif vvb ft
ourselves, a fow timo3, and wc
talking about. * ,)#"
* * ,
At the fancy-dress ball a jrfr.
House, Melbourne, on Jubilee .* pas s * 0 )jO u
the member for Ararat, went a tb o ",
Ho was a great success—so % 1t - and.
have been immediately taken * ,unUf lje ’
* *
At the Alexandra Thea f£ d f>s
on June 21, the Salvation -''- r |. a | 0 ger vo fe et» 'bf
stage, who had volunteered ir a i p
dressed in Oriental attire and a ilo' v ®
yet it is said actresses ar9 n J
“ Jo ” without hosen. *
* * of
A distinguished residmi p f 68 8 (6 o
wished to go to the Loch 11 b fg ot
Ball as a green-grocer. His e 8 00
jected. “ Can t you let o>g # j
John 1” she exclaimed. 81,..B 1 ,..
* * -is 1' i
Justice Holroyd, of
extraordinary after-dinner sp j u /jjie 0
His speech at Mayor c!a,lQ f,. r iieii 09 ' .ig
week greatly astonished the a * jj.il)
* *. ' m°
A Jubilee suggest oll '
should give a calico-ball. * }jj«
* * . e\i-V°os
The latest invention ia a 1 \ o ufc 9p
pot. You press down the lid , 0 t
tea. . , «i»
* nrc
Mr. Alfrod Bennett w°rc
uniform at Mayor Itiley’s ba • wa 3 <iP‘
the gentleman in whose pap P ji 9 ‘
day insinuated in a roundabo (jti o
of a London cablegram, that # F
nexed some spoons. _
«• i. i 0 * j)
A breezy little story I s
the effect that at a recent attefWJV?
House reception a certain la fco r sk a
pug-dog under her arm, af p«f r
with the Governor she held V j lO W o 'j.,joD tW
shake, too. “ Our CharleY' gU* ll
ho had already demeaned hi' # wft
declined to shake. d /
* * (■ > JI.
The relatives of the
general manager of the Ban Co nod' pi of j( ,i/
suing the Victorian Raxlwaf £20 ,0O 0
Railways for £15,000 daniag C Q- tiij
the compensation offered. ..fr 9 '<y
have given a general retain 0 „ o 3C —tb jH'
Madden, C. A. Smythe, and £ Jlo dg 0! ”
the eyes ” out of the Bar.
The beautiful Illuminations and Fireworks prepared for
Tuesday last are now no more, but many aeauties still
remain at 402 and 404 George-streot, wher they have been
quite a centre of attraction.*
Nothing prettier was to be seen during the illuminations
than the window display ot Messrs. Bray Bros., the china
and glass people, in George-street.*
The most Artistic Costumes at the recent Balls were de-
signed at Mrs. MoCathie’s, King-street.*
b e*?ot
The beet aelectisn of Boote anL^tb»n
trl at. u. rfinannnhlo nricfl. P -A^'
Sydney Aroade. roint u>e» t i
fort ; to suit young or old, in tV)
and tee for Fourielf.*


and Mr. Isaacs will probably have the lion’s share
of the public briefs. The little bill which the
Government will have to pay over the Windsor
collision will be little if anything short of a quarter
of a million.
* * *
Sarah 'Bernhardt tells the story of her
rupture with Damala, the actor whom she married
in so much haste, as follows“ Damala gave a
necklace to his wife ; and, as she is always in
need of money, she looked at the jeweller's name
on the case, drove to his shop, asked how much
had been paid for it, insisted on looking at the
book and this is the account that she saw : ‘ M
Damala necklace to Malame Damala. 30,000
francs; necklace to Mdlle. , 10,000 francs.’
Madame Damala said nothing, sold her necklace
for half its cost, returned to her home, gave
orders for three covers at the dinner-table, and
■waited. M. Damala came, asked whom the third
cover was for, was told it was for Richepin, looked
daggers, declared sententiously that Richepin’s
plate or his own would have to go ; the waiter re-
moved his plate, and M. and Madame Damala
have never met since.”
» * *
An illustration of the giddy height to
which the dazzling Henniker has ascended in
England. From Vavitv Fair
ii There is something > adioally wrong in the price charged
for par cel post in E’gland as compared with that in France.
A friend sene me a box of flowers from Biarritz last week
bv Parcels Post, and I noticed that the stamps on it. were
35 centimes, oi 3id I had occasion to senda pairof worsted
stockings to a friend in France list week They weigh d
about the same as the box of 11 wers; hut at the English
noat-offlee I was compelled to place on them three shil.ings
worth of sta tps. I wish Mr. Henniker Heitoa would ask
Mr. Raikes a question about these charges.”
Ye 3, Henniker. Go to the Pos 5-office at once like
a good man and haggle with Raikes about the
over-postage on Thomas Gib-on Bowles’ worsted
stockings. It’s just about the sort of statesman-
ship you’re built for.
* * *
The latest society novel “ Sex to the
La’t,” by one Percy Fendall. is the sort of story
which might have bom written by a superior
lady’s-maid of romantic, but not necess vily moral,
tendencies. The hook, however, contains a really
natural, if very prosaic interview, between an old
maid with the toothache and a second-rate dentist
with red hair.
* * *
She was a beauty, and used to allow a pet
bird to pick dainty bits from between her lips.
The other day, as one good turn deserves another,
the grateful bird dropped an immense green, fat
caterpillar into the lady’s mouth.
* * *
This is a fair question, now that the
Jubilee is oyer. When a Civil servant becomes
00years of age he is superannuated on the grounds
that he is too old to properly fulfil his duties.
The Queen is a Civil servant, and she is 68 years
of;age. Why isn’t she superannuated? Is it
because she is “well-connected”? We think it
would form a graceful conclusion and point a fine
moral to the Jubilee proceedings if, at the end of
the year, Her Gracious were politely hut firmly
requested to retire on her savings.
* * *
An Australian bookseller, in anticipation
of the Jubilee, imported 100 copies of a gorgeous
book extolling the reign of Queen Victoria. He
has only sold three of the fit’3t hundred, and has,
ala 3! at least a thousand copies on the water.
* * *
All things considered, it is a somewhat
curious coincidence that Fred. Wood, since
arrested on a charge brought against him by
a Mr. Marshall, should have issued his
bicycling deft, to Con. Dwyer from “ Her
Majesty’s Hotel,” Melbourne.
tr # *
The law appears to be that, though you
can’t be punished much for stealing a man’s wife,
you could be punished a good deal if you were
shown to have stolen his purse and fifteen
shillings.
* * *
Apropos, a little while since, a cold-
blooded swell, after shamelessly accepting for
years the hospitality of a man who was too open-
hearted and generous to suspect the virtue of her
who should have been his life-partner, stole his
Wife. A divorce ensued, and the guilty couple
got married and went to another colony, she leav-
her beautiful child behind. The “Lothario” has
now been stricken with blindness. Just think of
becoming blind after you had married a woman
who wanted watching ! Gould the gods have in-
vented a more savage revenge for the injured
husband?
* * *
It was reported recently that “Wales”
had one Royal coat tail torn away by concussion
against a waggon while crossing a London street.
The incident was cablod to America, and next
day 500 dudes went out with only one coat-tail
apiece.
# * *
It is expected that that clerical swell, the
Rev. W. H. Quirk, will succeed his late chief, Dr.
Corbett (now a bishop) as incumbent of St Mary’s,
St. Kilda, the most fashionable of R.C. Melbourne
churches.
* * *
The Age, in a leader on the gubernatorial
fancy-dress ball, threw out the suggestion that
Mr. Alfred Deakin, the Victorian Chief Secretary,
should, on the occasion, “be allowed to wear
nothing but his laurels.” A laurel shirt would be
rather a cold dress for this time of year.
* * «
A teetotaller recently arrived from Not-
tingham (Eng.), and who now, in his new home at
Waverley, Sydney, weeps tears of anguish and
kicks himself unto seventy times seven for hi 3
lunacy in coming out, writes thus to an English
paper
“ I can assure you, you don’t come here to teach the Aus-
tralians anything in sharp practice. They are, as a body,
confirmed sharpers. Anything you may hear from Finch
natton about the affinity of the colonists to the mother
country you can take it as a lot of nonsense. They only use
England for the purpose of borrowing money, and the use of
I, navy. The colonials have the impression that all
Mglishmen who come out here are fleeing from poverty and
starvation, and instead of meeting you with enthusiasm,
tney positively despise you. The scenes in our Parliament
nfi-S treat ’ hkhts being of frequent occurrence, and language
P~ “ e most abominable description; but this is only natural
to we M.P., as the fathers of most of them were convicts
ooaie of the natural scenery is very beautiful, but working
men cannot live on scenery. Take it altogether, a man is far
: e “ [ home with 30s. a week and comfort. If a man
earns *3 a week it takes half, through the terrific heat, in
ooat and bus riding and drinking lemon squashes.”
How is that for high ? We didn’t receive this in-
dividual with enthusiasm. There was no brass
band to welcome him, and he came ashore with
his 47 trunks and went to the best hotel
and yet there was no deputation to take him by
the hand. And he has been despised ever since,
partly on account of his exceeding newness and
partly, we presume, because he wore gaiters and
an eye-glass, and two-acre-check trousers,
and had that tendency to grumble, weep, and
snuffle, which marks the homesick greenhorn
in a new land. If this is the quality of the
model English emigrant, Australia will get on
better without him.
* * *
“ George Prince ” writes a long letter
filled with drivel to the Adelaide Evening
Journal on the subject of the Queen. From it
we gather that 48 years ago George saw a young
lady and gentleman somewhat angrily trying to
shove each other through a gate in Windsor
Park, and when they had finished shoving they
had made it up and kissed each other. The pair
in question, he afterwards discovered, were the
Queen and Prince Albert, and when he received
this information he rose and said “ He was doubly
thankful to have seen them so lovingly together,
and his ignorance of their royalty increased his
pleasure, and his unceremonious laughter did not
mitigate against theirs.” The above is the brainy
George’s reason for being an affectionate subject.
# * *
A fashionably-rigged young lady got into
a suburban 'bus the other day, and seeing it was
pretty full looked around for some perfect gentle
man who would arise and give up his seat to her.
No one stirred until a horrid man with a little boy
sitting on his knee put the child down and mur-
mured, “ Be polite, my boy, and give your seat to
the lady” Tableau,
* * *
Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, thinks him-
Iself a philosopher. Said he the other day at an
inquest : “It is curious that a man will go and
spend the last five shillings he has to buy a re-
volver to kill himself. If he had got a nobbier
with it it would have given him courage to meet
his trouble.” The Coroner, as an experienced sur-
geon and man of the world, really ought to kmw
that it is the man who has constantly “ taken a
nobbier to enable him to meet his trouble ” who,
in the long run, buys the revolver.
* * *
In Chicago it is not considered good form
to re-marry in less than two hours after securing
a divorce.
• * *
The Melbourne Age, in its Jubilee num-
ber, says that when Willian IV. died, the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury and the Lord Chamberlain
knocked up the Princess Victoria out of bed to
tell her she was a Queen, and that the Princess
received the big men in her snowy robes of night
CONVENTIONAL SENTIMENT.
AT SEA.— BRIDE: “I FEEL SO SICK, DEAR, AND IF I SHOULD DIE . AND THEY
BURY ME HERE, WON’T YOU SOMETIMES COME AND PLANT FLOWERS
OYER MY GRAVE?”
and slippers, with a shawl thrown round her, and
her back hair down. But that’s nothing. There
are Queens in Australia who receive swagger visi-
tors with only a Government blanket round them
and attended by a small retinue of hungry dogs.
* * *
A lady voyaging lately on an ocean
liner was much amused at the flirtation of the
steamer surgeon and one of the fair passengers,
One day, when the breeze wafted strongly in her
direction, these words were borne to her from the
loving couple : *' It’s so chilly,” said the young
lady “ I feel as if a goose were walking over my
grave ” “Do you ?” asked the surgeon, tenderly,
I wish I was that goose.”
* * *
The very latest in the Yankee canvasser
line is this Good day, sir. I have come to
enquire whether you have made any provision for
the disposition of your body after death !”
* * *
At a Melbourne Jubilee fancy dress ball a
lady of an original turn went as a hen. She was
quite perfect about the head, but as to the rest of
the bird her courage had evidently failed her. A
pair of thin, scaly legs ending in claws would
have completed the illusion, and then the fair
creature could have scratched up the floor and
clucked for a living ; but she was apparently not
equal to such realism as this, and presented in-
stead the amazing spectacle of a fowl in boots and
embarrassed with flowing skirts From this it is
evident that the hen of real life and the hen of
•'the ball-room are two very different hens.
“The Escaped Nun” and “ Mephis-
tophele3” were prominent characters at Mayor
Riley’s Jubilee bail last week. The lady danced
with Satan several times, and seemed to quite
enjoy the Old Boy’s company.
* * *
The London Citizen, the organ of the
city magnates, and a paper which is, as a rule,
I tolerably accurate in its information, states that
the Queen intends applying to Parliament for pay-
ment of some expenses which she incurred w'hile
jubilising. Perhaps the stove has suddenly gone
wrong again.
* * *
The Sydney Hospital Nurses’ Union is,
we read, “ for mutual fellowship and prayer.”
The world is evidently becoming very good indeed.
If the feminine “ mutual fellowship and prayer ”
programme comes off, most of the romance will
go out of the lives of the medical students. How
the surgeons will snigger, to be sure 1 Apropos,
most of the Sydney hospital nurse 3 are pretty well
guarded now-a-days. We once heard of a pretty
litt'e waiter-upon-the-sick who declared that
whenever she wished (and that was tolerably
often) to escape the vigilant eye of the matron
while she read her surreptitiously-received love-
letters she had to “ pop into the dead-house ! ”
Such is life. Truth is stranger than fiction.
* * *
At the Queen’s Jubilee drawing-room,
Lady Griffith, the wife of Sir Samuel, of Queens-
land, radiated in a superb dress of pink brocade
and ruby velvet —a chef dceuvre of Madame
Elise. Mrs. Henniker Heaton wore a magnificent
jet-trimmed black satin train. Black satin is
extremely fashionable wear just now. Many
years ago the fabric fell into sudden disgrace
owing to the fact that a lady named Manning,
who, in concert with a compliant husband, mur-
dered an old man one Sunday at their house in
Bermondsey, was hanged at Horsemonger-lane
Gaol, attired in a dress of that material. Mrs.
Heaton presented one of the “ beauties ” of the
drawing room, Mis 3 Agness Plummer, daughter
of Mr. Plummer, the chairman of the Canterbury
Conservative Association who helps to hold up Mr
Henniker Hin the “ corrupt borough.” “Miss
Plummer’s appearance created quite a stir, and there
was a buzz of admiration when, with all the coolness
of an ‘ old hand,’ she made a graceful obeisance to
her Majesty,” says Mr. Charles Lett. “ The cool-
ness of an old hand!" However, they won’t see
the double in England.
* * *
Lady Brassey keeps a black poodle, plays
chess, dispenses with gloves at the theatre, and
tries to write verses.
* * *
A South Australian paper announces that
Lord Carington and his wife will arrive in
Adelaide on July 9. The Sydney dailies wouldn’t
dare to call her ladyship “ wife.” They think it
bad form, my dear.
* * *
At Lady Loch’s fancy dress ball the eldest
daughter cf the house of Brassey represented
“My Great Grandmother.” The young lady ex-
plained that her costume was designed from an
“ old family p'eture” by JSir Thomas Lawrence.
Great Scott! The bold Baron B. must have been
buying ancestors for his family at auction sales.
We know a Hebrew who will be glad to sell him the
battle-axe which Thomas de Bresn carried at the
Battle of Hastings.
* * #
Frederick Ashton, of Auckland (N.Z.),
obtained a pair of corsets lately by false pretences.
From this we gather that he must be an escaped
Sydney Primrose Leagueah.
* * #
A correspondent writes us from Mel-
bourne “ There are many young fellows in this
city, whose education cost their families some-
thing considerable, who, after passing the Uni-
versity ina ! ricula' ion and other examinations,
have been obliged to become counter-jumpers in
soft-goods warehouses.”
* *
An English woman recently from Eng-
land left her husband and fled with a Chinaman
the other day. More Imperial Federation, Let's
see. Primroses are yellow, and this elopement
results in a real Primrose League.
# * *
Small Sydney boy to gorgeously-apparelled
rider going to the hunt : “ Hi, mister, 'ow are
you goin’ to get through the fences? You’ve
forgot your axel”
* *
The following is taken from a religious
“ organ ” published in London
“ A Christian brothpr and labourer in the vineyard, who
is in a little dittio'ilty, is desirous to find a Christian brother
or sister who will lend him £5O for a period of 12 or IS
months at 5 per cent. Ample security. No agents. To
some hearts a godly way of celebrating the Jubilee.”
That’s all.
* « •
A good true story now current tells how a
young curate has made his way rapidly into great
social favour. He did it by making the influen-
tial ladies of his congregation believe they were
responsible for the best points in his sermons. In
making a pastoral call upon the ewe-lambs of his
flock, and when the conversation turned on re-
ligious topics, he would pick out some utterance
of his hostess, declare it admirable, and promise
to use it on the ensuing Sunday. On that occa-
sion she would proudly hear him introduce an em*
bellished form of the conceit with such an intro-
duction as “One of the brightest minds I know,”
or “ From a beautiful source comes the idea.”
Could she thereafter fail to pet him ? He is the
lion of a hundred drawing-rooms.
* * *
It’s a wise child that resembles its richest
relative.
* * *
A wealthy London swell had a royal time'
lately in Newport, U.S, He had been travelling
to Niagara, and was deucedly tired, dontcher-
know, with looking at a place where there’s
nothing to see but a lot of beastly water coming
down all of a sudden, and at last he stranded at
Newport, and sat in the hotel looking vacantly
through an eye-glass at his boots. He felt that
life was a blank, and as the weather was fearfully
hot he told the black waiter that —haw —he would
have some iced champagne. The champagne was
iced just a little too much —in fact, the end of the
bottle was almost frozen —and a luminous idea
striking him, the peer made a bet of 50 dollars
with the perspiring darkey that he would make
the latter shiver in less than two minutes, and
then he stuck the bottle down the back of his
neck and left the wine to drip slowly over his
spine. In five seconds all the coloured brother’s
friends had gathered round him and encouraged
him to hold out by threatening to kick the top of
his head off if he gave way, but he shivered at
the end of a minute, and, groaning out, “ Oh,
Moses, I’m gone!” was told'to stand out. The
next two hours were spent in putting bottles down
the backs of everyone who wanted to earn 50
dollars, and when at last the wine gave out a
happy and contented nobleman sat looking at his
boots in that hotel under the impression that
America wasn’t —haw —such a horrid place after
all, doncherknow.
* * *
Editorial explanation from a Texan
paper :
" We wish to correct a false impression in reference to the
‘firing’ of the editor’s wife and mocher-in-law from the
Methodist church. They were not put out of the building
by the pastor, as some suppose, but merely had their names
erased from tne roll of membership. The editor is not the
kind of man to quietly submit to having his wife and her
mother ‘ fired ’ bodily from a church or elsewhere. He is not
built that way ; neither is his mother-in-law.”
* * *
The Jubilee has brought unmeasured joy
to the eligible young ladies of Clermont, Q. The
mayor is a single man, and possesses all the quali-
fications of a good husband. He lately received
a communication addressed to the Mayoress of
Clermont, and after pondering as to whether he
was justified in opening it or not, he slung it into
a pigeon-hole and left it there. By-and-bye the
papers got hold of the facts, and his Worship has
now to choose between resignation, marriage, or
prosecution for detention of the letter The
young ladie3 are now all curious to read that
letter, and his Worship is trying to hurry up in.
order to have it read as soon as possible,
* * *
The friends of the genial Frank Stuart, of
Stuart, Lincoln, and Co., late president of the-
Victorian Chamber of Manufactures, resolved, at
the instigation of Jim Maloney, the muscular and
elocutionary attorney, to give him a grand feed
prior to his departure on a globe-trotting expedi-
tion. A night was fixed for the spread, but the
date had to be altered, and the Argus startled 1
Frank’s friends and admirers by announcing the-
postponement of “ the complimentary benefit to
Mr. Frank Stuart.”
* * *
Among curious advertisements, the fol-
lowing, which appeared in Saturday’s Ag«i, may
be cited as “passing strange” “ Furnished
room to let for three young men, or one married
couple.”
* * *
Blood will tell, especially when it is blue—
or black-and-blue. A British nobleman, with the
remains of a black eye, may now be seen every
fine day taking two dogs out for an airing in a
certain Sydney suburb, and he performs even this
humble office with the high-born elegance pecu-
liar to the aristocracy.
We are pleased to see that some of the leading Tobacco
mats have taken up J. B. Pace’s Tobaccos, so that all love
0 tlle wee d have a treat in store, as it is the finest tobacco
■moked in America.*
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Oough Emulsion is such as to render! t the best-known
remedy in the world for CoughSi Golds, Asthma, or Bron-
ohitis. It can be obtained direct fromW. M. Rowley,[Chemist,
Bourke-street, East Melbourne. Price 2s. 6d. per bottle, and
from all •bemiits.*
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, brings with him ail that
ia new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
may be consulted at Kidman’s Baildingi, corner Qoorgs ana
Market street*. Take Lift.*
SOCIALITIES, ’B7. The Edition for the present year will
be published on June 30. To those who have read and ad-
mired previous issues we say, “Ready, June 30th!” To
new readers it will come as a revelation. One Shilling (post, s
a. 3d ) All Booksellers. A. McKinley and Co., Sydney


The Jubilee fancy dross ball given by
Mayor Riley, at Sydney Exhibition Building, on
W ednesday Jast, was a gorgeous affair, at which
nearly 4000 people were present. The crush at
the doors reminded many of the rush on another
Jubilee occasion not so very long before, and
many magnificent toilets stood a fair chanco of
being squeezed flat. Lady Carington appeared in
deep-red brocaded velvet and pale-blue satin,
with a tiara of diamonds. M?s. A.
J. Riley was attired in pure white silk with
a long train of brocade ; Mrs. W. Cooper,
in white satin and tulle, ornamented with
silver jet and diamonds; Mrs. John Young,
buttercup and white striped bodice; Mrs.
M’MilJan, white satin entirely covered with pearls,
and waterfall of spotted guaze; Mrs. Garrett,
white brochC silk trimmed with ropes of pearls;
Miss Parkes, shell-pink satin ; Mrs. S. Burdekin,
white satin and old gold ; Mrs. G R. Dibbs, black
lace; this paper is not large enough to hold
any more. Fancy costumes were comparatively
scarce, though such grotesque characters as
“ Jubilee,” ‘' Freetrade,” and “ Home Rule,” ap-
peared here and there, also the invariable Hun-
garian peasant, and a sprinkling of Pompadours,
nurses, and sweet girl graduates ; also one solitary
Chinese mandarin. Almost all the leading male
citizens of Sydney were present. The supper was
excellent, and through a special dispensation of
Providence only one toast—that of “ The Queen”
—was drunk ; also, thank goodness, no one made
a speech. The proceedings closed with the
National Anthem, and then nearly 4000 people
rushed at once for the rest of their clothes.
* * *
Mayor Riley finished the gorgeous part of
his Jubilee by giving a dinner to the sailors
of all nationalities—Germans, French, English,
Swedes, and Italians being the most prominent.
Some of these foreigners, possibly, did not quite
enjoy the position when Sir Alban rose and told
them that “ for many years past the British navy
and the Briti-h mercantile marine had stood pre-
eminently foremost among nations,” but they
doubtless felt consoled when they remembered
that they were gradua’ly elbowing ihe British
Jack out of his own tliirs and thereby giving
effect to that great unsentimental Freetrade law,
the end and aim of which is ihe survival of the
cheapest There was a lot of good singiDg, and
the proceedings were joyous all throueb. A right
or two later the Mayor gave a breakfast and
dinner to all the inmates of the City Night Refuge,
a piece of genuine kindm S 3 which redounds to
Mr. Riley’s credit, and which will do a lot to lend
respectabili y to the poor old Jubilee.
* # *
There was great excitement up Winborn
way last week when Lord Carington and Admiral
Fairfax essayed to shoot a deer. After seven
pot shots by his lordsb in, and a couple less by the
sailor, the d'-er succumbed. It was early in the
day, and the quality of t< e refreshment? could not
in any way be held responsible for the bad luck
attending the efforts of the distinguished sports-
men.
» * *
Adelaide’s Jubilee Exhibition has been
opened, but Her Gracious has not knighted the
Mayor of the city, Mr. K T. Smith, M.L. A., who
was the principal promoter of the scheme. The
holy city is in tears over this unmerited slight,
and strong representations are being made (say
the daily papers) “ through the proper quarter” to
have the matter remedied. Poor Smith ! By the
way, the S.A. Advertiser gives as the reason of
Smith’s omission from the Jubi’ee honours the
fact that he occupies the civic chair. If he had
been knighted, you see, the Mayors of Melbourne
and Sydney would likewise have “ wanted tome-
thing.” What an escape for Mayor Riley ! !
• • *
The good Pastor Jefferis, of Sydney, ?ays
that the frequent use of the exclamation “Mon
l)ieu” is an evidence of the moral decreptitude of
the French nation However, we must pirdon
Dr. Jefferis, who probably can't speak French like
a native. The Pharbah-m of his remark is ac-
counted for by the fact that the godly Doctor hails
from the land of the people who, by their neigh-
bours across the Channel, are generically known as
“Johnny Goddam.” Which is a queer com-
ment’ry on this latest theory of Doctor Jefferis.
* * *
Miss Romilly left for England in the
Bengal. The party of whom the lady formed one
seem to have soon grown tired of New Guinea.
* * *
The young Englishman who, a while since,
left so much dishonoured paper in N.S.W., has
just come in for a modest little pile of £600,000.
Bookmaker Sutton, now in England, has recovered
£5OOO from him.
* * *
Sir Hercules Robinson’s youngest daughter
has just been married, at Cape Towd, to Mr.
Dawkins, of the 85th Regiment.
ft * *
Mrs. Thorn, of Prestonville, Macleay-
street, Sydney, gives a dance on July 14th.
* *
The next Woollahra assembly takes place
on July 1, at Need’s rooms, which is also the date
of Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman’s “audit” of
her juvenile classes.
* * *
We see it recorded that, at Manchester,
the other day, Bishop Moorhouse’s daughter
joined Madame Albani in the duet “ I waited for
the Lord,” and performed her task in excellent
fashion.
* * *
When the eloquent Mr. Inglis (then Dean
of the Faculty of Law at Edinburgh, now Lord
Justice General Inglis) defended Madeline Smith,
accused of having poisoned her lover, Emile
L’Angelier, he gave this advice to his fair client
on the morning of the summing-up: “ You have a
pretty foot and ankle, Miss Smith. Take care to
keep them well before the Judge’s eye to day."
Madeline, on her acquittal, was inundated with
offers of marriage. She finally accepted a South
of England clergyman.
* * *
It is cabled that Admiral Tryon has been
knighted, and that Admiral Erskine, who got
married but a couple of years ago to Miss Con-
stable, is dead. Some people, however, say the
message refers to another Admiral Erskine, who
was out here in the Havannah 30 years ago.
* * *
Mrs. J. C. Ellis has been cabling the
Queen on behalf of the gushing women and girls
of Newcastle (N.S.W.). The response was briefly,
“ Queen’s thanks for kind telegram.” Her
Gracious never saw the telegram, but the Junior
Stick-in-waiting said to the messenger with the
bulgy red waistcoat: “Heah, Jones. I say,
you’d bettali send some kind of a—haw—civil
message, you know, to these—aw —loyal persons
out in Australia. The only way to get a
letter direct to , her Maiesty is to enclose crossed
cheque, payable “ Victoria, or order,” and gum it
so hard to the epistle that the two have to go up
to the Queen t r get her for endorsement.
* * #
At Fremantle, Western Australia, publi-
can Conroy put a bullet through the mouth and
ear of Councillor Snook because the latter had ob-
jected to Conroy’s children attending a children’s
Jubilee fancy-dress ball.
* * *
Yellow, it has been remarked, was the
favourite colour at Mayor Riley’s Jubilee ball.
Yellow, it has also been noticed, was the favorite
colour at Mayor Riley’s recent Jubilee political
meetings.
* * *
According to the Sydney E. News Lady
Carington lately said that she was “ awfully
pleased ”at something or other. We don’t believe
that her ladyship ever uses the word “ awfully ”
—except perhaps in conjunction with the word
“ bored ” (on reception days).
• * •
The Rev. Father M'Kenna, of *North
Fitzroy (Melb.), objects to rice being showered
about at weddings in his church. He says it’s a
heathenish practice. On anti-Chinese grounds,
The Bulletin concurs.
A DEMOCRATIC MENDACITY.
OLD-FASHIONED SON: “I SAY, FATHER, WHAT DOES V. R. MEAN ? ”
THE NOOZES BELGIAN ANARCHIST': “IT MEANS, MY SON, ‘LONG LIVE THE
REPUBLIC.’”
Some of the boys were having a high old
time in the billiard-room at the Melbourne Jubilee
ball, and had finished all His Excellency’s whisky,
leaving nothing but empty bottles. Presently
they filled a bottle with water and awaited de-
velopments. The next comer was the American
Consul, genial and urbane, like Buffalo Bill, whose
character he assumed. B. B. went for the de-
canter, and helped himself to a first mate’s nip,
and, having added a modicum of water, took a
long drink. This proving unsatisfactory, the
bottle was again resorted to, with no better re-
sult—and the Consul, remarking, “Wal, this
is real curous,” left the room with the reflection
that Republican institutions were far superior to
the effete and stuck-up regulations of monarchical
Government.
* * *
Signora Majeroni advised Lady Loch on
the subject of her Queen Elizabeth costume for the
fancy dress ball.
• * *
They say that Sir Henry Loch objects to
the band playing “A Fine old English Gentleman ”
when his health is drunk at a banquet. In the
first place, his Excellency is Scotch. In the next,
he doesn’t consider himself old by long chalks.
In fact, there is a good deal of the young masher
about Sir Henry. If it were not for his grey
beard, he might pass for a dude in a dim, re-
ligious light.
* * *
A gentleman down in Illawarra with his
dexter ear in a sling says he will never again go out
shooting with anyone from Government House,
Sydney. We wonder what he means ?
From an Adelaide print:—“ Fritsch.—
On the 10th June, at Salisbury, the wife of F. E.
Fritsch (eleventh birth) of a son. Both doing
well. No more.”
* * *
A Jubilee banquet was given by the mem-
bers of the French Club on Saturday evening last.
Among the toasts were “ The Republic of France,”
i and “ The Ladies,” coupled with the name of
Lady Carington. At this point somebody sang
“ She’s a iolly good fellow.” On the same even-
ing the officers of the German squadron were ban-
queted at the German Club by the President,
Herr Yon der Heyde. Mr. Dailey, who seems to
have taken the German Empire under his special
protection, was among the speakers.
* * *
A tasteful Sydney Frenchman, whose sig-
nature we are unfortunately unable to decipher,
the other day lilted The Bulletin to an exhibi-
tionofhair-dressinggivenbyhispupils, Theßulle-
tin being absolutely bald-headed, such an invita-
tion can only be construed as a deliberate insult.
* * *
At Mayor Riley’s Jubilee ball in Sydney
Exhibition Building|some thousands of ladies’ gar-
ments got mixed owing to the owners having lost
their tickets. Consequently, when they rushed
for their clothes a terrible scene ensued, and many
fair creatures vanished into the night with nothing
at all on their shoulders, while others went away
in their big brother’s things. All the good hats
were gone shortly after midnight, and the last 300
gentlemen struggled frantically for the bad ones
which had most extenuating circumstances about
them, and towards the conclusion of the proceed-
ings seven men might have been seen hanging on to
one umbrella. When the last of the guests had
vanished, nearly ten barrow-loads of debris re-
mained still on hand. An owner is especially
wanted for an elaborate opera-wrap made out of
the sound part of a window-curtain.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. William Beaumont, of
Arthursleigh, Burwood, gave a dance to a large
number of friends on the evening of the 23rd
inst.
* * *
Last Thursday week a birthday entertain-
ment was given at the residence of Mr. A. R.
Pyke, Selby House, Woollahra. About 140 visitors
were present.
Murkan par :
“ Women who have nothing to wear wear it with the ut-
most grace and in the most public places. Put a man in
their place and he would blush himeelf to death.”
A man shot himself at a Melbourne eating-
house last week. A gruesome commentary on
the dinner they had just given him ; a grim grace
—we mean, coup de grace—utter meat. There is
ghastly significance in the fact that so many
suicides have occurred in Melbourne restaurants
of late. There must be some reason for it. It
is doubtless in the hash.
One of the most attractive adjuncts to the " Criterion ”
is the Japanese Caf<§. Handsomely decorated with the arts
of Japan, it is a perfect Fairy Bower, presided over by a bevy
Of bewitching beauties.
SOCIALITIES, ’B7 The Edition for the present year will
hepuolished on June 30. To those who hive read and ad,
mired previous issues we say, “Ready, June 30th!” To
new readers it will come as a revelation. One Shilling (post-
ls. 3d ). All Booksellers. A. McKinley and Co., Sydney.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Women are employed as sandwich adver-
tisements in the London streets!
The very latest. “ Ma, where was I
when yon married papa ? Why, young as I am, I
could have picked out a better man.”
The greatest reformer of the age —the man
who invented the bustle. It has re-formed nearly
all the civilised women the world holds.
His first view of the new baby. Nurse :
“ Well, Charley, what do you think of it ? ”
Charles : “ Well, I think it's goiDg to be a girl."
A Sydney (N.S.W.) servant-girl has died
of fright at the groaning of a diseased cat. The
midnight groaning of a healthy cat is quite enough
for unhappy us.
The Adelaide Lantern is about to be
“pulled” for libelling the “Escaped Nun.” It
must have stated that she brought peace and good-
will towards men.
From a Melbourne paper : —“ Mrs. Payne
Billman, of Sheepwash, has given birth to trip-
lets, all girls. The father is far gone in consump-
tion.” That, s all.
A has six daughters, all of them very
tiny. “ I wonder,” asked someone the other day,
“ why they do not marry? Any two of them
would make a very good little wife.”
“ Who is your lawyei ? ” growled a
Chai’ters Towers (Q.) J.P. to a lone female de-
fendant in an interesting case. “Constable Ken-
nedy, yer Warship,” replied the unblushing trans-
gressor.
A Cairns (Q.) kanaka shot his wife, whom
he suspected of infidelity. We never hear of a
Tory lord shooting his wife through jealousy—
though we often hear of his kicking her because
he is drunk.
A Manchester (Eng.) woman has been
charged with s'ealing a child. If she came to
Sydney and took an early morning walk she
would find lots of them tied up in sugar-bags and
left to pot-luck.
“Scotch Mary,” the honest old lady from
Caledonia stern and wild, who doctored so many
of Sydney’s spinsters with herbs at half-a-crown a
pop, is dead, and has left the greater part of her
little hoard to charity.
Professor Scott says that the number of
women students at the Sydney University is
steadily increasing. He might have added that
the number of old ladies in the senate of that in-
stitution has always been considerable.
The ascription to Queen Victoria, by the
Sydney Jubilee women, of a mania for relieving
female distress makes the Carcoar (N.S.W.)
Chronicle (edited by a lady) remark:—“The
charity coating is too thin to hide the Jubilee jalap
it was intended to cover.”
When it was rumoured that Mrs. Craw-
ford was going to take to the boards professionally,
an actress wrote to say that the stage did not feel
honoured by being made a happy hunting-ground
for ladies who had committed social suicide and a
refuge for female outlaws.
An Auckland man, a three-score and tenner,
has been sent up for three months for vag-
rancy. He was found at the sea-side washing
his shirt —his only one. If he had made his wife
wash it and then kicked her to death he would
probably have got off with a caution.
Wife (in tone of sarcastic reproach): “What
do you think, John, of paying half-a-sovereign for
an orchestra stall on Saturday night, and only
putting sixpence in the plate on Sunday morn-
ing ?" John (the guilty one): “ I think, my dear,
that it doesn’t leave any change out of half-a-
guinea."
A Ballarat woman, while running away
from an infuriated lunatic the other day, fell into
a municipal hole and got smashed up. She sued
the Council, and a jury awarded her £150. The
Council pleaded contributory negligence, as the
woman had no right to be running at the time !
What next!
Frenchstory. Between husbands: —“Say,
do you ever read the letters that are addressed to
your wife?” (With indignation). “Never."
“ What 1 you have absolute confidence in her ? ”
“ O, it is not that. I am afraid that I would find
something in them that might be disagreeable for
me to know, and I adore her 1 ”
Margaret Greenwood, who died in Sydney
lately from the effects of tramcar on the head,
was an Irish widow of 72, who had put in two
years in gaol on three separate occasions, and had
24 summary convictions recorded against her into
the bargain. The discriminating tram wisely
stopped further expense on her account.
Mrs. Hetty Green, of New York, has a
fortune of £5,000,000, and is as ugly as a crow and
as close-fisted as a crab. The extent of her wealth
was never suspected till the failure of her bankers
took place, when it became known that they held
securities bjloDging to her to the extent of twenty
six million dollars, all of which were returned
intact.
In N.S.W. Supreme Court, a few days
ago, an application was made for an “attach-
ment” against the respondent'(the husband) in a
suit of Hodge v. Hodge. The “ attachaent ” in
this matrimonial case, as in many others, proved
to be not for the man but for his money. The
woman wanted her husband to give her £150 to
further her “ suit.”
Hygiene and holiness. From a Weston-
super-Mare (English) paper : —
“ RANTED, a thoroughly domesticated and some-
what accomplished young lady to act as sister to-
wards two Christian young men. She would find a
refined and comfortable home, and receive every atten-
tion, in return for which she would Ire asked to make
herself very agreeable. Plymouth Sister preferred.
Apply, with photo., which shall be returned, to ‘Junius,’
Mercury Office.”
A rascally young English farmer has just
evaded a claim made for the maintenance of his
illegitimate child on the ground that he was
under 21 years of age when the child was born,
and that he was entitled to protection under the
Infancy Relief Act on the ground that an illegiti-
mate son was not a necessity. The question of
necessity was gravely discussed, and decided in
Brett’s favour, so that the unhappy infant gets no
support from its infant father.
Responding to the “ Ladies ” toast at the
recent Foresters’ anniversary at Tamworth
(N.S.W.) Mr. C. Priest gave some of the towns-
men away rather cheaply by observing : “ We
all owe a debt to women. Some of us owe more
than others, but we are all indebted.” It is sig-
nificant that just after the banquet every washer-
woman in Tamworth sported a new dress, and
one went so far as to hitch on an improver bigger
than a cockatoo-cage. Even banquet speeches
seem to have some goodjin them at times.


Our Land.
[?] UNHAPPILY. THE SENTLMENTS OF
THE DAY.)
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
lt^‘ ( 2E;Ci'* , ' Mtm '
SS”fS lketad ’
'p;:^izr
Oe&ftsr-*-*
SrSS?-* 88
fe; 1 »»'Sr ,rle ’
! « a “
A- Y.
JVo'g
l Mhl goin g the rr a ■
Vi of * ‘ J. o ™,* 8 3 usfc now
®SJ? • te£ k boloney, in-
%S. X h^ rl> at,the f iK graphs - and his
*2?. havini me dico, of
hia Cr ol Casion t 0 send
c ' ? w&
*“&?. an inquisitive
0, Pt °M o7l mea ns ' replied the
S„. ' rela Uo 2 h t 3 T Brother ’- he ’ s
! B ympath P f- ople ' s ex P onBe ,
SC tluffiS? Queen. From
R> awav i night upwards
u y b y the N.S.W
W'a'Cu? “don tke M-
%tn.-, y Ihiostl-oX White Bay relief
LJkesther Q -I I |> d breadwinners),
excuse “ ad e
h h °Pgh the inK ? t>ey ieftto carry
IICV, 30b ln hand was not
°u Z hlud ßSE A VER ha 3 S ot a
about it A . rival Paper, it
redoW C f on ? oitcd and
tJSC-’- and bis preaL° f • beer - stale
;\>rabiy- That w a f n u C v in the office
X h 7 thl *-skinned *?’ „ but then some
t C ,? aa ’ nd can ’t endure
‘>°ok. oat „ .
CJ &4| &l .^ite r v , y 'height K Ut ln the final
S? cargos blo odl 0x ®'' 8 at Melbourne
S 4o vCd? y laidhL r o oanda ’ °ne of
ia trb lcalt > Was d th Pla>ed ra ther
;;>5 to ,?Vti v l l ?Ph. conducted
of con ßi H„ h f r bo uts, how-
h ! 't w G r! rable bloodshed,
V 6 l Of bdxinl rved out after
Srtsj; kw XIX* “'"X™"’ to be
of£& pul ™i«l its
'*S,> pit, *" issue at th"*’'?' 6
V i ah* by rned of em t nfc which
i “ktOeq/ attacks !, ulgar ambi-
V* o lt Cf 0r in the P P ° n bimself,
h «ife°^ s t t ress, with a
,C l XXr'X 'Sit
ssn?
>7^^Me.bourae-
<s*.r* hers ° c » n^&
;x t4,^4CunchinBteara -
V 6 °04; 0t (!!) lr, nng
SSfe. and small,
!!! '!! !!]
Jv;\ t l C '» / dliB yph thotwo last lines
SsSfN'VVhey ~
bad X rn p ent de -
J jSI I y e it Qi<l Hot ho on o fc5 y * and tad
h c>: h ri-'=s£
I'SV'.V S^r^fS
\\Sht, Jiis ul'S'Js:'the Chief
) \V e N b b °t in r ae nd in
Xfa 7^ti tly i^ ter . , ’\ PoBi tion a f Clerk was
tp te r dof s aid Quarrel
>« “4‘, 0
d from the
V Ve iag w^^.°hr ite
' N\ 8oi »8 K° llnB
he to no
** afraid Bhe
would find it dull. But she answered No, and
that she didn’t care, for she was tired to death of
masquei’ades and balls, and, in fact, of every kind
of gaiety. The King pressed her with questions.
Was she sure she was tired of everything ?
Wasn’t there something she would like to see?
But she kept on answering no for a long time,
until at last she suddenly said, with the utmost
innocence, that, yes, she had thought of some-
thing. She had never seen a coronation, and she
thought she would like to see that. The old King
took it very good-humouredly, and didn’t show
the slightest trace of displeasure, and told it to
his family at dinner as an excellent joke.”
in a recent report of proceedings in the
N.S.W. Assembly we read that
“ Mr. Allen moved the second reading of the Fuel Delivery
Bill, the object of which he explained was to compel trades-
men to supply a full ton of fuel when a full ton was paid
for by purchasers.
Ye gods 1 Has N.S.W. gone on for 100 years
without any legislative machinery to make a
wood-hawker give full weight ? Is there any law,
then, to reach the sausage man, or are we equally
at his mercy ? Does vengeance lie in wait for the
cheesemonger, and has the beak any jurisdiction
in the case of half a cart-load of turnips? Evi-
dently the Bill which N.S.W. wants is one cover-
ing a good many things besides fuel, and we pro-
ceed to draft the required document at once
1. Whereas it has been discovered that certain people
diddle the public
2. Be it hereby enacted that a pound in IN.S.W. shall be a
pound, and no darned nonsense about it, and every
thing else in proportion, under penalty of six weeks im-
prisonment, and twice as much next time.
This, we may state, is the first time we ever
drafted a bill.
North Queensland gold-mines, especially
those at and near Charters Towers, are the boom
of the day on London Stock Exchange, the few
floated last year rejoicing the hearts of scrip-
holders with fat dividends. This is a splendid
thing for Australia. The Day Dawn and Wynd-
ham Block, floated in October, was at first de-
nounced in London as “a swindle,” but the £1
shares are now selling at 505., the market value of
the mine on 'Change thus being a million and a
quarter sterling, and judging from its Australian
reputation it is likely to continue worth the
money. It is now cabled that the famous and
solid original Day Dawn prospecting-claim (from
which at least £600,000 worth of gold has already
been extracted by its owners, a party of working
miners who many and many a day had to
get their rations on credit) and the claims
No 1 and 2 West, have been floated for £480,000 ;
and as stated by us a week or two since, the
celebrated Mount Morgan mine (Rockhamp-
ton) will probably be “ put through” for the little
sum of five millions, should the London
public not be frightened off by the prospect
of eternal litigation as to the title of
the ground. Ten years ago five hundred
pounds would have bought it, lock, stock and
barrel, but alas, we neither had the “monkey”
nor knew of the colossal wealth concealed in that
golden hill. It is not generally known that the
enormous increase in the value of this mine is
owing to the successful application of a new chlo-
rination process for extracting the gold. By the
old system of amalgamation with quicksilver the
intractable of Mount Morgan only gave a re-
turn of afew pennyweights per ton, whilst with the
new method it is said to average nearly four
ounces to the ton. Since crushing began in the
early days of Ballarat and Bendigo, hundreds of
millions in gold have, through defective processes,
been washed away in tail-races, and scores of
millions lost in interest that would have accrued
on gold locked up in rich, but pyritons, claims.
The improved processes promise to revolution-
ise mining on such goldfields as Ravenswood,
near Charters Towers, where the quartz is rich
but intractable, and where big fortunes have
already been sunk in the pyrites puzzle. Some
years ago, when N. Queensland mining was in its
infancy, that colossal reef called the “ Old Man,”
at Ravenswood, was owned by poor Zollner (of
Sydney, now dead), Ebenezer Vickery (now
M.L.C.), H. E. King (Speaker of the Queensland
Assembly), John Sands, and others. They sent
up a small battery, and the first crushing looked
like a thousand ounces to the ton. The share-
holders (as the reef is between 15 and 30 ft. thick and
absolutely stiff with minerals— it would keep a hun-
dred stampers going till the crack of doom —
at once reckoned themselves billionaires, but
unfortunately for their calculations, at least
999 oz. turned out to b e—copper ! Despite
this disappointment, however, the true gold-
return was good enough to pay dividends, even
with the crude machinery available, which barely
secured a third of the gold. A new “dry” pro-
cess plant was then specially imported from
America, and all looked rosy for the proprietary,
when suddenly, just as the new machinery was
being landed, the fact that the annual rent to the
Crown (a few paltry pounds) was due, happened
to be overlooked. The claim was instantly
“jumped,” the shareholders turned out into the
cold, and the mine sold for much coin to a local
association, who have, no doubt, carefully ‘ ‘ shep-
herded” the lease for years and years awaiting the
opening of the railway, and a sure method of treat-
ing the stone.
Tatterßall.a Monster Consultation, Bank Handicap, run
August 1, at Canterbury; and the Spring Handicap, run
Randwick, August 27; each 2000 subs , 20s. now open and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams. Pitt-street.
Sydney Bicycle Club
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next.
J. WILKES,
297 George-street. Hon. See
“PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockampton)
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
greet Melbourne toffee Palace. A lery
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows :—6s. per die®, All meals Is. 6d.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms wi' hcut extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Bil.iards (Alcock’s). First-class chef.
Charges s'rictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.!!
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrovo.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o’clock.
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
Prices, 55., 35., and Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
RITERION
C
Sole Proprietor
THEATRE.
Mr. John Solomon.
INSTANTANEOUS AND LAUGHING
SUCCESS.
“FUNNY, VERY. VERY, VERY FUNNY.”
SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON.
BEGINS WITH A BREEZE,
EMERGES INTO A HURRICANE,
and ENDS AMID A CYCLONE OF LAUGHTER.
JOHN GOURLAY,
In his original creation of OBADIAH DINGLE
created peals of laughter.
TO-NIGHT, at 8. TO-NIGHT, at 8.
Dress Circle, os.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is,; Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Robert G our lay— Representative for Mr. John
Gourlay.
W. J WILSON, Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
THIRD YEAR.
THIRD YEAR.
THIRD YEAR
of this Unrivalled Combination of
MINSTREL ART.
of this GREAT LAUGHTER EMPORIUM.
Look out for an entire remodelling of our first
part next Monday.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
E W
OPERA
HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
Brief Farewell Season of the World Famed
MINNIE PALMER
MINNIE PALMER
MY SWEETHEART
MY SWEETHEART.
By Arrangement with Mr. JAS. M’MAHON.
YDNEY EXHIBITION BUILDING.
s
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
WOSDm! WONDERS! WONDERS!
WONDERS OF THE WORLD ! 1
MARVELLOUS Wonders of the whole World
is a vast Museum of all that is marvellous
and wonderful in the earth, sea, air, and skies.
Unparalleled opportunity for making money fast.
Free on Application, circulars and full par-
ticulars,
R. B. JONES, 614 George-st., Sydney.
A G-ood Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
M
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
Patron :
His Excellency Baron CA'- RINGTON, G.C M.G.,
P.C.
President :
The Hon. J. B. WATT. M.L.C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that their
TWELFTH ANNUAL BALL,
under the patronage of the
Worshipful the MAYOR (Alban J. Riley, Esq.),
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised
to be present,
will be held in the
TOWN HALL
on WEDNESDAY, JULY 13,
and that the number of guests will positively be
limited to 300.
Tickets are now obtainable from the following
members of the Committee and the undersigned
ONLY:-Messrs. T. M. Alcock, F. J. Bull, F.
Boulton, J. Blackman, S J. Fotheringham, T. W.
Freeman, M. J. Fitzgerald, K. Gittinan F. R.
Isler, F. Ives, R. A. Keddie, S. A. Kemp, J. Lord,
J. Mannix, S. H. Martin, J. H. Smart, F. Thorpe,
and J. Young.
W. A. BLACKBTONE, Hon. See.
Telegraph Department.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland,
G S CURTIS,
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of LOWRY AND
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facin g the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BIiiLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, June 18, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BUG
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whloh is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the snooessfu
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly compiled with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
o a)l Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dcloreux, Aching Painb In the Limbs
Face, cr Head.
Why suffjr those excruciating Pains when one
. bottle of
DR. SOUTH AM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOH BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
a. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ofcmist,
681 9eorare-3treet only.
SEN OR BERNADO.
The Celebrated Ecleetopathiat,
10 Yeara’ Experience in Hospital Practice, Paris
has established
THE N.S.W. MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
for the speedy, t ffective, and permanent cure of
Nervous debility, Mental sr.d Physical Depression, Loss of
Energy, Kidney and Bladder Affections, Liver Com-
plaints, Rheumatism, Skin Uise'ses, Ailments peculiar
tu Ladi-s, and all morbid coudi ions of the Blood and
general System, no matter from what cause arising.
Fits of 10 to 20 years’ standing, even after thoy have been pro-
nounced incurable, sucuessfully treated.
Guarantee of Cure given in every case undertaken.
Consultation (personally or by letter) free.
CONSULTATION ROOMS, 207, ELIZABETH-BTREET,
Corner of Bathurst-strcet,
or 0.P.0., Box 799.
Hours from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. dally.
DR. O’CONNELL has Removed frem his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation, to 10 am till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
advertising, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to thoir
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
M
O N U M K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Iron Tomb Railingi.
Deiigni and Eitlmate* forwardod on requea
a CIIXNIXCnAM,
Minvr ' n <t. Wra vrAKD-squAjm, Urn
a


Worth Your While to
Peruse.
Did you ever notice how surprised you were
when you put your foot on the next stair-step and
ound there wasn’t any there? St. Jacobs oil
cures bruised shins and sprains ?
The Trotting Editor, the Spirit of the Time
New York, Mr. E. C. Walker, after an exhausti
interview with leading horsemen, stab'eme
sportsmen, drivers and breeders of horses, states
editorially, that St. Jacobi oil will do all that s
claimed for it in the cure of aches, pains, anc
suffering in man and beast.
When a man discovers his boy using his be
razor on a slate pencil his faith in being tl
father of a future statesman is overcome, in h
anxiety to And St. Jacobs oil to apply to the ci ;
finger. A sure cure for it.
One of the largest woolgrowers of Australia M
Alfred Hay, MulwalaP.O., N.S.W., writes: Hav
ing had occasion to try St. Jacobs oil for a case o
very painful neuralgia, I am pleased to state tha
its use was accompanied by the happiest result
A few applications only were necessary to banls 1
all pain and effect a cure. I keep a supply at m r
station, and I cheerfully recommend it.
Josh Billings says : The best medisin I kno fo
the rhumatiz is to thank the Lord it ain’t the got ;
and use St Jacobs oil.
The West End Bus Company, Auckland, New
Zealand, of which Mr. S. Child is manager, write
to the Daily Herald of that city: We hav
much pleasure in bearing testimony to the efilcacy
of St. Jacobs oil. Its succes has been particular! r
marked in cases of lameness in our stables. Fo'-
man and beast St. Jacobs oil is the greatest pain
cure ever discovered.
Next to a clear conscience, for sound comfort
give a man a pair of easy shoes and a bottle of St
Jacobs oil for the cure of pain.
For months the daughter of Mr. James R
Hatcher, of Clair View, Inverell, N.S.W., Aus
tralia, was unable to speak from cold. Her case
was given up by physicians, and her father writes
that one application of St. Jacobs oil restored her
speech.
What is the cheapest way of getting a fiddle
Buy a bottle of St. Jacobs oil and you get a vial
in. It conquers pain.
“Asa testimonial from one of the oldest drug-
houses in great Britain respecting your household
remedy,” say Messrs. Francis Newbury and Sons,
London, England, established for 125 years, “ will
no doubt be of interest to you, we are pleased to
make the statement that we have sold, with satis-
faction to the public, St. Jacobs oil for several
years, and that owing to the extraordinary merits
of the article, the demand is continually increas-
ing, and that we have heard of many favourable
reports regarding its great virtue as a pain curing
remedy.”
Sold by all Chemists and Diuggists.
Price 2s. 6d.
3Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Hair Brush .
Y-
ho!
h
i
\
S
THE ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH.
It is a Beautiful brush, lasting for years. No. 1
Hair-brush. ss. ; No. 2 Hairbrush, 7s. 3d. ; No. 3
Hairbrush, 9s. 6d. ; No. 1 Hairbrush, Us. 6d. ;
No. 5 Hairbrush. 13s. 6d. ; Fleshbrush, 13s. 6d. ;
Toothbrush, 2s. 6d. We will send by mail, on re-
ceipt of prioe named, with Is. added, either size of
this Beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of New
South Wales or Queensland ; or request your
nearest Druggest or Fancy Store to obtain one for
you ; and be sure Dr. Scott’s name is on the box.
Money returned if not as represented. As soon as
you receive the brush, if not well satisfied with
your bargain, write us and we shall return the
money. W T hat can be fairer ? Remittances should
be made payable to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
56 Margaret-street, Sydney.
P. 0., Box No. 221. They can be made in
Cheques, Drafts, P.O. Orders, Currency, or Stamps.
Cheques should be crossed Union Bank of Aus,
tralia.
A Dunedin, N.Z., gaoler has been dis
charged for refusing to flog a lad sentenced to
whipping.
An expert from England has inspected the
Mount Morgan gold mine, and has confirmed all
that has been said of its richness.
George Perkins, the English sculler, ar-
rived by the Iberia. George states that he is
hopeful of recovering his old form, but that’s not
good enough. New form is what he wants.
Hanlan professes to have discovered
new stroke, which, when perfected, will make
him faster by two boats’ lengths per minute. If
we believed in that stroke, we should expect to
see a striking improvement in Ms style when he
comes to Australia. But the “discovery” needs
verifying.
In New York lately, Mrs. Jefireys-Lewis
Maitland recently became Mrs. Mainhall, and at
the same time christened her baby Henry Richard
Jeffreys Maithall. In the old days it was con-
“The N.Z. shop-keepers are now compelled by law to provide seats for their
female employes.”
sidered de riguer to defer christenings until some
time after the wedding. The Americans are a
great nation.
The champion light-weight Jives in a
Sydney suburb. lie knocks a 21b. loaf out of
17oz. dough, and can, according to the evidence
in a recent police-court case, still find time to
thump his wife and read family prayers as usual
The larrikins were “ cocking snooks ” be-
hind the Police Sergeant’s back during the races
in Coon amble, N.S.W., when the officer noticed
the trooper laughing. On asking him about it the
latter said, “They’re making game of you behind
your back.” “ Then why don’t you check them?
They’ll soon have no fear of me.” “ What?”
said the trooper. “Fear! d them; they’ve
no fear even of me /”
What the Australian people will think
of the Mount Rennie affair when all the
papers in the case are brought to light, it is hard
to say. We laugh at the Americans for their
habit or keeping a convict in gaol for months and
months before executing the sentence of death.
But aren’t the Americans right ? Is it not a very
poor sentence which will not stand the test of six
months’ consideration ?
Dear Bulletin,— l remember in the old
days that every new-chum you met in Sydney
(if Milesian) would ask the way to “Captain
M'Larey’s ” office. They all went for the police.
I have just met some Sydney “forties” who tell
me that the new immigrants (generally passed on
from Queensland) are all primed with two ques-
tions : “Where do the unemployed meet?” and
“How do you get on the relafe works?” Many
men are leaving the bush for the rush in Sydney.
At the present moment there is a swagman resting
with me who has walked since last shearing, and
does not know which is the better—to hang it out
till the wool chopping begins, or to make for
Sydney; and Victorian white Chinamen, includ-
ing Sir P. Q. (no names, no libel) are liberal
employers of their yellow brethren. I don’t
wonder at General TuDg-Bung and Mr. Oh-My-I
coming over to spy out the good things in Aus-
tralia. My swagging friend is cursing the season
which has been so unfavourable to bush fires, but
1 have consoled him with one word —“Rabbits.”
—Yours as usual, Scotty the VTrinhler.
A 24 jlb. nugget of gold has been found at
Maitland Bar, N.S W., eleven feet from the sur-
face.
In a N.S.W. back township the price of
whisky has gone up to 4d. A lavish “ shouter ”
treated nine able-bodied adults there recently,
and after the landlord had scratched his head
nearly bald and reckoned up on his fingers and
thumb 3, and spilt a bottle of ink over a sheet of
foolscap, and smashed a pen, he rose with a
mighty oath, and said: “ Two an’ thrupence.”
“Ain’t whisky fourpence now?” “Well, yes, in
a sort of general way, it is : but I haven’t time to
burst my brains for a few coppers. Gimme that
two an’ tbruppence.”
Cardinal Manning has been giving himself
clean away at a London temperance meeting. He
told his audience a yam about a workman he met
one night in a London street. He and the work-
man began to ‘ ‘ pitch ” about temperance, the
latter stating that he did not take the pledge,
because he was not a drunkard, and therefore did
not need it. The Cardinal held himself up as one
who had taken the pledge, but the stoical toiler
merely remarked, “Perhaps you wanted it, your
reverence.”
Children starving to death on account of their
inability to digest food, will find a most marvellous food and
remedy in Scott’s Emulsion or Pure Cod Liver Oil
with Hypophosphites. Very palatable and easily di-
gested. Read the following testimonial: “ I have prescribed
‘Scott's Emulsion’ in cases of children suffering from
wasting and mal-nutrition, and can report most favorably of
its good effect; It has been in each case taken most readily.
W. Perkins, M.R.C.S.,
Medical Supt., Burleigh Hospital, Eng
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.*
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
Balsam op Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rigney, late Mitchell,
Twiner ctrppf *
WHAT THEY ARE ALL AFTER.
The Lawyer with his case,
The horseman with his race,
The artist with his art,
The actor with his part,
The traveller with his tours,
The doctor with his cures,
All yell unto the press,
Oh push us to success !
If only by a hint,
Just put us into print,
And all you do and fay
(Please print it every day)
Will close by saying here,
Drink St. Louis Lager Beer.*
NOTICE !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Bookings
high class selected old vintages, for invalids. 43 Pitt-
street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Friui
L
A W L E R
GREAT CENTRAL EMPORIUM
and
STEAM CABINET and UPHOLSTERY
FACTORIES,
Sydney.
Entrance at 608 George-street.
Lawler’s Factories have held the trade of the
colonies for upwards of 26 years.
Parties FURNISHING will receive the very
best make of goods at the lowest prices at whic
sound and substantial Furniture can he sold.
Almost everyone in the colonies requires chair,
occasionally. We advise thorn to purchase at
LAWLER’S.
Austrian Chairs of the celebrated “Thcnet’
and “ Turpes ” make—and a guarantee with the
chairs that they will be put together in a thorough
and tradesmanlike manner •
CHAIRS.
Austrian Chairs, is. 3d., 4s. 6d., 5s. 6d., 7s. 6d.
American Chairs, 2s. 6d., 2s. 9d., 3s., 3s. Gd.
Child s High Rocker. Table and Perambulator
Chairs, 25s.
Child’s High Table Austrian Chairs, 12s. Gd.
Large American Arm Rocking Chairs. 11s. Gd.
How often at the outstart of house furnishing
aoea the young couple, forced to
neglect that essential to every room—
ornamental Pier Glass. Surely one
enough by the practice of economy for a
to purchase one whilst at the following
economise,
a neat and
can save
i few weeks
prices
PIER GLASSES.
All Gilt Pier Glass, cottage size, 25s,
Ditto ditto larger size, 39s.
Ditto ditto extra large 60s., 80s.
Black and Gold Overmantel, 60s.
Ditto ditto with Brackets, 70s.
Walnut Overmantel, with brackets, 60s.
Ditto ditto very 1 andsome, 70s.
Ditto ditto lit for mansion, 90s.
An assortment of Overmantles in Oak, Walnut,
and Mahogany, at prices ranging from £6
After the cares of a hard or a busy day’s work
when home has been reached, and the dinner been
eaten, what more enjoyable than to puff a cloud
upon a comfortable Couch. And whilst the most
luxurious couch ever made is the glorious spring
Stuffed Eugene~a line LAWLER sells at 19s.
and not to be had under £5 5s. in any establish-’
ment outside of London- still the fact is borne in
mind that cheaper couches are required by many.
Let pj ice not bar the way.
COUCHES.
All Spring-set Best Upholstered Couches, in
Cretonne, 27s. 6d.
Ditto ditto, very superior and castored, 35s.
Ditto ditto, extra strong and covered in
Crockett’s leather, 35s.
Ditto ditto, in best hair cloth, 47s. 6d.
The glorious Eugene, full size, 79s.
Bedroom Box Ottomans, 40s., 50s., 65s.
Never before was such value offered. Never
before was legitimate and BEST UPHOLSTERED
WORK so within the reach of all,
tl You cannot have “ hair ” or “ Ceylon fibre ” or
kapok” properly cleaned and prepared unless by
steam machinery. The foreman at LAWLER’S
will willingly show the public the machines at
work.
Spare bedrooms are convenient only when the
few necessaries are in. Now, LAWLER’S can
supply
SP^RE
BEDROOM.
Cedar Washstand, with towel-rails attached
Set of Fancy Toilet Ware
Toilet Table and Toilet Glass
The Suite complete for 27s. 6d.
Does a geutleman with a sweet and snug income
anything better than that suite of LAW-
LER S named “The thing itself,” and which is
capitally suited for spare or young ladies’ rooms
SPARE
BEDROOM.
Duchess Dressing Chest, with glass fixed
Marble-top Washstands
Set Handsome White and Gold Toilet Ware
Towel-rail and two Cane Chairs
The Suite complete £4 15s.
And then, when suites proper, with glass-door
wardrobes, and all that s required in the bedroom
combination are wanted, why LAWLEit’S, by all
means, if you want a first-class article at ’a very
low figure.
BEDROOM
SUITES.
Bedroom Suites in Woods japanned, Oak
Siberian Fir, Birds-eye Maple, Pitch Pine’
&c. ; Wardrobe, Marble Washstand, Dress-
ing-table, Glass (fixed), Towel rail, and two
Chairs, £9 10s.
Ditto, with Bevel Plate-glass Wardrobe,
Marble Washstand, Chest Drawers, Bevel
Plate-glass Dressing-table, Towel-rail, and
two Chairs, £12 10a.
In Ash, £17 10s., £22., £28., £37 10s.,
In Walnut, £25., £30., £38., £15.
This list would be incomplete were we not to
place those ordinary and useful articles of every-
day sale before the readers of this paper :
CHESTS
DRAWERS, &c.
'I hat large-sized Chest of Drawers at 52s. 6d.
hiote. This is sold at 65s. by other houses.
It has seven drawers and is in cedar, with
pine linings.
The College Chest of Drawers, 25s
The Cedar Chiffoiner Safes, 20s.
The Handsome Chiifoiner Sideboards, 50s.
The Shaped-front ditto, 55s.
Dining Tables, 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d 25s
35s., 40s. ' ’
Kitchen Tab.es, 7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 15s. 20s
Kitchen Safes, 10s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d.’
Sideboards and Jjinner Waggons next engage
attention, and it is no hackneyed flgurejof speech
to say they beggar description and paralyse com
petitition. £1000 lies waiting a turnover in side
boards and in Oak, V\ alnut, Mahogany, and Cedar
you can have your choice. It is not usual to quote
sideboards, as an inspection is necessary, but a
few prices may be named as a guide —£7 10s
£9_10s., £12 15s., *15 10a., £17 10s,, £24, £2S 10s.’
Drawing-room Suites and Dining room Suites in
newest styles, and in English and Continental
coverings are with LAWLER as much of a
speciality as Bedsteads and Bedding, and that is
putting comparisons as far as they can be put.
CARPETS,
FLOORCLOTHS
and
LINOLEUMS.
One immense Showroom
devoted to Carpets and Mat;
tings alone. Ground is too
valuable in George-street to
give that space to a single de-
partment unless prices were
cut low to admit of business.
LAWLER’S.
608 GEOKGE STKEET,
SYDNEY.


xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Please say that you saw this In
Taa Bulletin.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES XX
XX
THAT WE WILL ECLIPSE ALL XX
XX
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
PREVIOUS EFFORTS,
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-Btreet.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
c Ma
&
4?
PATENT
8
LLS
PI
&
4$
<§>
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
sueh as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable!
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of tbe human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent-
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public fer Asthma tio and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
ef breathing wbieh nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Piles a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. ltd. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Everybody \
SHOULD USKJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
la a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
RSI OiOBaK ATBKin. s?nm.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
I fragrance.
Three Golb Medals—
PARIS, 1»78; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
SPUING FLOWERS
JOOKEY CLUB
HILIOTROPE
JASMIN
MAGNOLIA
Atkinson’s renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDER WATER
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON'S ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE.
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying, ana
preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealert, and of the Manufacturer!—
J & E ATKINSON,
24, Olb Bond SmEiT, London,
n Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“ Golden
fta Lyre.” jA
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
THK above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
in Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and fire-proof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electrie
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room. Sample room.
O. H. DANIELLS, Proprietor
THE AUSTRALIAN
DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
jOAN,
m
HEAD OFFICE =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £3.,661 4s. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AKD
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4\ per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M‘NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
c
manufacturers
|r IMPORTERS OF ~
HATS CAPS &t
-^frr
438 CEORCE ST
3VUNEV %
op/r 0.31 fit XrtuseCCtns
o'.
a
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERG.
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
i » M . RILEY
tlafce of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
13 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
• bsoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
onfidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
II vorce. libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro
Hiion and otherß. Copies of wills, certificates of birth
Marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
gents and debts collected. From R. M. R.'b long experience
lt> the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Haw Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
(labe, be li in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
xpaudtluß and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
w attend to all business entrusted to b care
sdf
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv farm, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
tso
m
Scrofula on tMeck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Seres, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured_ by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of CuticußA Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Con-donees,
H Town A Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puii-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henee
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Cheat Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
iset-ts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, aDd New
Zealand. Cuticura* 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Hotter I»r»g A t'i>«-niie»' Co , e -bloti. U.S.*
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
undean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for if, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution.— As there are in this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
CAN BK OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS,
B
RADI.&Y, NEWTON, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
C'.
I&LW
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. iffi’We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s, 6d. extra
RAWING ROOM~SU|TES, Fashionably Up.
bolstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
--
V '
TTTALNUT FALL
V? FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
We*--
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUXNITUKI WAREHOUSEMEN,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
sd
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
f
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell Its.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street,
sd
Bedsteads, aii sines,
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, anS?
LAMB,
Importers,
□'Canned and Spring Street!,
r
SPRING MATTRABSEB
Woven Wire, be; fc
make; also, Spiral Spring •
Price, from 11b. each.
RRABLKY. MKWTON and LAMB
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pina Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. od.j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
305.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side*
boards, from £3 Ios,| Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
BRADLFY, MIWTQM, and LAMB,


Only A Name.
HER MAJESTY (loq): “NOW, MISS AUSTRALIA, YOU DON’T MIND MY CALLING MYSELF QUEEN OF THE COLONIES?”!
MISS AUSTRALIA: “NO, YOUR GRACIOUS, I DON’T MIND. TITLES DON’T MEAN MUCH IN THESE PARTS— DO THEY, KING BILLY?”


m
■*
YEAST POWDER
THE ONLY PERFECT substitute for yeast.
“Read, pastry, &c ,
light, wholesome, and digestible,
WHEN MADE WITH
«!* Australian Yeast Powder.
* OR TIIE TOWN, the bush, and sea.
PEWARE OF worthless imitations.
HALF POUND.
i Hardman Bros.
Go to £nSyrcPj
AMO /
JRCAC££
iiMimni
ANUFACTURERS
min*
■uu
'Off.
Factory Newtown
BRANCH. C£ORC£ ST. SVDN£Y
Any Book Yon Want. “ BOOKS."
<Sc ROBERTSON.
IU *AKMI STKEET, BVMEI.
■hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sent b>
®ail to any Dart of Ana 11a.
T&
<J OTs
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
-p IMPORTERS OP
hittsh & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alio Manufacturers of
H ® Finest Quality or Goods in the above Lines.
2 ?8 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HO&S
HOCS
W "AT is your hobby?
s
K,!N &»£,£?«
S' if*‘ y «U kex
s*
NN», p i>
: ii
s«
ss
Cl ta
*„.*“%*
v
<s
<*>
b y it.
it;
/
A
&
• J
The coot of every requisite
for a beginner is so low, it will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself by a visit
to our
WHOLESALE
PHOTOGRAPHIC
WAREHOUSE.
tner AND CO.,
0 Connell street, Sydney,
Jr
for Photographic Supplies
Southern Hemisphere.
° OUE IST 33 "W CATALOGUE.
hay
s en^°' v , our new Enlai-ging Department in wcrk, and shall be pleased to
PWce lists upon application to the trade only,
fs
fM
&
SALE GYL
\ eT
v^,
ffA
TOOTHPASTE
(Jjttrtfueo fo/f rrsphtsw/c
f D CLtAffsi/io f/10P£AT/fS
\ H UISH P HARMACEHTJCAL CHEMIST
*Zt*nuim S' S YD/V£~
'§>wfo
k
t-Sv-e;':
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
The bank of NEW ZEALANI I.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT-STREHT, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve fund ...
£1,000.000
500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNIT*' D STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cialand Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application., . wjjw w •
' ’[N, F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
THE MERCANTILE RANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869)
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Hbokitabv
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern. Gosford, Nyn
Kan, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard'*, Newoaitle an
Brisbane.
London Branch : 58 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank ol
England.
A.A.DE bKiEV & C°
ts huntxrTsTrect^syoney.
SHIRT MAKERS.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
df
STUDY ECONOMY
»nd
Have pour Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and wade eon a
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Briokfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to matoh cos
»n»ei Benairs neatly ezeontad
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and V* M
LICENSED BAU6 JB,’
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND*
STREET, SYDNEY. ?Tr& • '
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, la)iov»
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN All ITS BRANCH®!.
TO WINEGROWERS AND 0X&BR8
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE .CASKS, 350 to 100 gallons |
also,
Rate. Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS,
head Quarter casks. Spirit Kegs, from
ga ons and upwards.
, COOPERAGE-
-87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
flour! flour I Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
'"IEKT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat proonrable,
and at the lowest prices.
9«jr»o* « '*-1
CONQUEROR
* jo»* '
YANKEE DOODLI
MX»OW &
SIR ROGER „
#4K %Q* * s'■*«> **
NAILROD
eon o* * te*»i
CHAMPir
aUSAO« « ?
C U T. tft ika v».«'
iCEUBr.ORIENTAL MU
fIfiARETTE GOLD LET
h ef*
A™**—^o«ur
OBTAINED A
FIB ST CLASS AWARO .
O-P.
HIGHEST DEGREE OF,MERIT
.>'
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
none other but
WAUGH’S
RECEIVEJTHf. INTS HNATIONAt
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChannon |
ttARSOUR S T SYDNEY” I
Sold by All Grocers and StoreK«qpers |
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System or Floor Milling
Sole Agents t ,
E. C. ELLIOTT & 00.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
f
u
?
H
4
I
IAN"
UEEN
j ASTHISIA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
mmmsxEa
-me
P&£FaK£JP only by
Thomas Ingham*
iff T? OCKHAM f* T Q N.
1
i
D"'RIDGE’S
FOOD
F.OR INFANTS m INVALIDS
Has an enormous sal» *n Knglanr
jjnd is"'now being introduced into t.nw
<Eolonics.
EvervStorekeeper should g«da supply,
asTVyery wise mother-will certainly
use It.
OR., RIDGE’S ROYAL FOODMItXB,
LONDON. ENGLAND. ,
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland!
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room. t
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
£*KMENT, “ LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOSTLING and Co., and GOSTLING and Co,>
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.


f-IP&F
V3V.U
ROYAL
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha j aid of
yeast, saleratus, dr cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
JF® 3B& Tpg, T jN '
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLO WED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &c., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PENCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.'
jsrimw
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London. /
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
CHEAP and BB^ rlF!I
GENERATE your I
KBELBT &
Spreader ® aS
if!! 1
iSO
NINE II ,;BTS € the 3?
One to twenty-four candle W* of gas
'' l ir ?®SiS° In use in
teen towns in
NOW FIRST IST&OP 1^1 ,
>W FIRST
gjgS&f* , ‘
--
D. KEELED®
pßioi^ Bl '
1 Branch Brass
2b ,..oK|«Ei»'>
3 B,»offiSHSfeS’>
iun - ungues
With GlobM -
4 Branch Brass Hang <p
-ir3Ss„
1 “&’£***''*'
Outside Lamp for 0 ’ .. •• ~
Halfstlined <SS«Ig£U ff,ft
orf SSto!S« ;p ,*j.
Ke, site l »aS.sSs:«' jl ‘ /i
or Chimneys, one BU. , oe r,«,
Candles • • T^nanu®^' 08
Naptha Lamp, Tin W ~ ••
24 Sperm Candles
1 to'
Each burner
can '’e reg
Gas Oil per g»“°“
Naptha per gallon
Naptha per d f i
iaar«.-3M|ffisgSY'|;J«M
SS&SSBO?
A "-“ ‘VSSS^TM
By e&yrying '
“dte’ssfi--®
ASK YOUR GROOER FOR _ . x-V H
FRYS MALTED COCoi>
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
••AN ORDINARY ODP CONTAINS Mt QRR AOTIVB
THAN A PINT OP THH BEST ALB OR
ALLAJf A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS lot
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <sso.
ESasa and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Gopperemithing, Blackamithing, Plumbing,
Gaafltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “ VALVE," and~“PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propeller*, Exhaust Fan Cowl*, «a* Eire*, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac,
BON ACCORD WORKS,ITaND9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prick on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Sqiiatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
OT Private Suites for Families. 'S®
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HoWl7Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
brands.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor, j
i
O. H. SMl^i
Manufacturer o^
hats 8 ;;
302 0E° P , 0
8 Doors Soo**
/CONSULT Dr*
safest treatmen j*»
3kin Diseases. The 0
it the Royal College 0
College of Surgeon
Sooms, 293 Eliz» beWl '
laily.
E. ROWLANDS,
LATE KOWMSBS A LEWIS, /
DERATED WATER and CORDIAL MANUFACTURER, J
Has REMOVED to NEW pp |
GOJRisrzEie. of rHHv
BURNS & LITTLE HAY s im
QAHLIWO HAEBO
A LOVELY SKIN,
bewitttll coßuplexi'W soft, smooth and deMcaite neck, face, hands and arms can best be obtained
by discarding » l leaden and ormasy eosmotics and cheap: scans, which, not being allowed to
remain on the skm cannot possibly have any good effect on it. and by using
K&lgdor
ILgfeJPfi ?g o fe in ff’ healing and refresbjng preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
tan°snrih?)rn e Jtmi U viv W *° f or wg COM and damp of win ter:, it eradicates freckles,
water , ri ? lpesa i and roughness of the skm caused by cold winds or the use of hard
SJuT 3 ?di! lrap! i S ’ spot*, -discolorations. chilblains,'eczema. etc., relieves inflammation,
inflamed eyes and renders a changed ami rough skin delightfully smooth and
abnmtSi , In * f' a£ter * a ; vu \ K Will j ind i* allays all irritation and tenderness of the skill;
sk£ of fJe^niirdeSto al ‘]|d^r o chlld U * gredientS ’ “ n be used wia hnpnnity on the
■size at 'is 3d *“• 8(1 - ** d 8s - 8d -I* l, bottle ; bottles of half ttie usual
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL
IS also sold m a goldea colour for falr-baired people,
, ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens ttie teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
Erasing fragranae to the breath.. Ask anywhere, for ROWLANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton
Harden, London, and avoid cheap, worth lees imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and E, Pbossbr & Co., Sydney.
promotes the growth of the hair, and
mr THE NEW SOUTH WALKS PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £106,000.
Allow Interest as follows?:—SEVEN PER CENT cm
fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
andUPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from Ml to £5B in the Savings Bank
hmck. Payable on demand. Offices. £ Park-sfc,
THOS, HOLDKRN-ESS, Acting Manager,
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS &*s to
bo found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy ware of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &«. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address —
8. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Han ter-street, Sydney.
' “Technical GoHege Laboratory, Sydney, SQfch
October, 1886.-The Syphon Crated Water Com-
pany —Gentlemen,—Having soon the process of
iKrated Water manufacture carried on by you,
and having examined analytically your product,
I can bear witness to •> its purity, and thorough
saturation with carbonic aeid g>*. Ghemioal
analysis shows that your system ef water purifl
cation is as near perfection as can be.—l remain,
yours truly Wtet. A. Dwcow F.1.®., F.C.S.”
_cSO
V
€>
o v
sdfsdf
rE
y
g£
& 0
Q A
m
POSOHO SKI,
705 GEOIU3E-ST.,
Sybney.
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Post
706 GEORGE STREET..
tafet tMWUWCTPRt
mmwmym'JP
JaMCS STEDMAfcI
WWrt'jKiiV' i* *tA« Crimnc.*!
pwfatsA&t aOmmU
#P*?f
SIPHON mm WATER CO.,
IS CHURCH HILL, SYONEY.
#
s*
Guinness
FIRST
.j#' J A
S OT-K pTjf Ll>*>? I
flWXOfflA*'
» '
AowwJfr 1 iOHjiM
W. BALCHIN
« ,w
■d*
B 0
WINK
te^-H
preset v ~
0$
The Water
families at eaoM jM
and should f ' d^ flgo ,
and refreshing ° eVO
