

The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 377.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1887.
Prloe., Od.
“Those Political Thugs.”


THE BULLETIN.
rUBIiISHIKW OSCE A WEES*
At 21 PITT-MTBEKt, StDNKY, N.S.W,
fERMB TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance.
Per annum - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - 0 os. 6d
Ail money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
bo whom all orders lor the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE
By sending dlreot to The Bulletin Offioe twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Poet Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony—you oan
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This efler Is not open to residents of Sydney. In that olty
TilE JfullEtin is not delivered by mall, but is entirely in
thediands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1887.
The Federated Chinaman.
The coming Mongol—the Yellow Brother of
the Future as distinguished from the yellow
agony of the present—is a being wh < has
hitherto received but little attention in Aus-
tralia. But the progress of events in Bur-
mah and the extension of the British terri-
tory towards the Mongol borders mu t
shortly bring the Empire into closer rela-
tions with the Chinese nation, and the noble
labours of the bankrupt Mortimer Fran ki.yn
and others of his tribe—if blessed with ulti-
mate success —promise to improve these new
relations and place the Yellow Man in Aus-
tralia upon an entirely new and unspeakably
objectionable footing. Ihe Jubilee China-
man of 1887 will blossom under the fostering
influence of Imperial Union into the Feder-
a,ted Chinaman of future years, au individual
whose apologetic blandness h is been rubbed
off by Act of Parliament, and whose tendency
to self-assertion is encouraged by the know-
ledge that he has received Imperial recogni-
tion as a man and a brother, so this coining
Asiatic deserves a certain amount of notice.
When ho comes he will come to stay, and a
Mongol who has come to stay must neces-
sarily he an object of interest. Moreover,
the continued presence of this loathsome
death’s-head will be one of the inevitable re-
sults of Imperial Federation, and it h worth
whilo, therefore, to study the appalling spai tre
which—if the party of “Loyaltyshould
prevail—will one day be chained to us like a
corpse to a living being, as well as to devote a
little further attenti m to the p obey which
promises to make this leprosy-stricken pil-
grim a fixture in the land.
1
’The results obtained under the Sew South
Wales Chinese Restriction Act of 1881 form
a striking commentary on the advantages
accruing to Australia through its conne ‘tion
with the British Empire. The poll-tax of
£lO per head imposed under that law, it was
populaily imagined, would effectively sup-
press the pig tailed wauderer from tae
Yellow Sea and free this continent from a
curse which Was fast becoming unendurable.
But the existence of the British colony of
Hongkong had already given the Mongol a
firm footing in the Empire, and under the
10th clause of the Chinese Act the yellow
British subject was expressly excluded from
the disabilities attaching to his brother from
the mainland. Clause 11 further extended
this freedom from tax to Chinese embassies,
consequently the satisfaction of levying on
the yellow and possibly leprous commission
which is now patrolling these shores is denied
us ; and thanks to the misplaced tenderness
of our legislators there has, ever since the
passing of the Act, been a steady in flux into
these colonies of Mongols armed with all the
privileges of citizenship, who are free to
c<ime and go without question or hindrance.
Fully half of the Chinese who enter Austra-
lian ports are provided with papers which set
forth that they are already British subjects,
and against these visitors the law has no ob-
jection to urge. The naturalised dirt,
disease, and vagabondage of Hongkong
pervade our cities, and as fellow-subjects or
Queen Victoria and fellow-citizens of that
empire whereon the sun never sets, these
aliens hold a position that the laws of New-
South Wales have rendered unassailable.
And, unfortunately, the evil is likely to in-
crease instead of to diminish. The conquest
and annexation of Burmah have opened up
fresh territory for the yellow men to exploit,
and from the Burmese ports there will set
in, sooner or later, another stream of
Chinese immigrants directed towards the
shores of Australia. And these strangers,
too, will be naturalised subjects of the
Queen, and under the same 10th Clause of
the Influx of Chinese Restriction Act
their position will be as secure as that of the
riff-raff which now pours in from Hongkong.
Ho doubt years may elapse before this new
inroad assumes the shape of a serious danger,
but the ceaseless movement of the over-
crowded Mongol nation ntakes the ultiniate
result inevitable.
And the doming Mongol* when viewed
with the naked eye. is not likely to prove in
any way different from that other Mongol
who, like the poor, is always with us. The
lean, lanky, and loathsome cormorant of to-
day—the heathen swindler whose manners
are nil and whose customs are beastly —
will be there in all his degradation and re-
pulsiveness ; ho will be more numerous, and,
with increasing numbers, probably more
self-assertive, but it may be safely predicted
that he will show no substantial improve-
ment. The opening of a road through
Burmah affords a path by which the natives
of Southern China will one day reach Aus-
tralian shores, and then thanks to the
letters of naturalisation which they will be
enabled to procure en route — the people of
Australia will have an opportunity of making
acquaintance at a cheap rate —cheap, that is,
for the yellow immigrant —with these rude
tribes, from among whom the Black Flags
of Tonquin were so largely recruited. A
few new forms of murder and fraud arc all
that these strangers are likely to teach our
colonists ; they are stronger, hardier, and at
the same time less civilised than those of
their race with whom we are already ac-
quainted, and when they come, as one day
they will, the latter state of the Chinese
settlements in Australia is likely to be worse
than the first.
Neither against the constantly-increasing
stream of Chinese immigrants from Hong-
kong nor against the inroad whiph will one
day reach us via Rangoon, was. tips Chinese
Restriction Act ever intended, apparently,
to afford any protection. In Austral a many
white men of peculiar morals, and still more
pecidiar manners, have been declared gen-
tlemen by Act of Parliament, and by the
sarqe fiction the naturalised Chinaman is
declared the brother and equal of the edu-
cated and civilised colonist. In his former
state the Mongol was probably something
half-brute and half-human, a grovelling
wretch, soaked with opium, d-graced by
vice, ignorance, and superstition, a
creature whose very touch would he pollu-
tion to the sons and daughters of a free and
enlightened race. But he mumbles a for-
mula before a magistrate and blows out a
match, or decapitates a rooster, or breaks a
dish, and straightway, with all his vileness, he
is the legal equal of every Australian citizen,
and no one can bar his entrance to the
towns and cities of the colonies. He is still
the same perjured miscreant who, in his old
home, could be hired for 10 cents to ,'estify
on either side in a court of justice, and who
for 15 cents would swear on both sides at
once, but he has become a British citizen,
and the “ loyalty ” or the maudlin folly of
our legislators recognises him at once as a
man and a brother.
* » •
It is time and more than time that all
this were changed. If public opinion is not
yet ripe for the wholesale exclusion of the
Mongol, with his leprosy, bis immorality,
and his degrading vices, at all events the
absurd system by which the yellow aliens
now- evade every restriction should at once be
swept away. The Chinaman should be
taxed or expelled, not b: cause he is a
stranger, but because he is what h- is—be-
eiuse of his loathsomeness and the m >ral
infection which he spreads around him
wherever he goes, and so long as the
naturalised Chinaman carries with him the
ear marks of his race he deserves no con-
sideration. The ancient boast that the
British citiz <n, whatever his colour, was free
in every sense of the word, has a glorious
sound, but its ring, like the clang of false
coin, is hollow and uutrue. If Britain is
shamed by the existence of such citizens,
Australia must not be sacrificed to her obso-
lete traditions ; if Imperial Britain must
needs extend her empire by force and fraud
over the unclean tribes of Eastern
Asia, Republican Australia has no desire to
be the compulsory sharer of such triumphs.
The Chinaman who comes armed with a
dirty piece of paper from a British magis-
trate in a distant Crown colony is no more
fitted to enjoy the privileges of Australian
citizenship than the Chinaman whose bacon-
coloured face and ability to sleep in a gin-
case are his only recommendations. The
two are brothers, and there is no reason
known to logic why one should be taken and
the other left.
* * *
Should Imperial Federation ever become
an established fact, the Chinese question in
Australia will enter upon a new phase. The
Chinaman from Hongkong is now one of
ourselves by Act of Parliament, but if the
clause which declares in effect that the
leopard has changed his spots should be
repealed, he is a brother no longer, and the
leprous Mongol can then be dealt with as his
peculiar qualities deserve. But if New
South Wales, in some fresh delirium of
“ loyalty,” should attach herself to a league
by which the whole British Empire is bound
together with equal rights and privileges,
then the Mongols of Hongkong will be our
brothers by virtue of a power which will be
beyond our control The various Australian
Parliaments will still possess the nominal
right of legislating in purely local matters,
but to pass a measure by which disabilities
were placed on the inhabitants of another
colony would be beyond their powers. If
Federation is to be anything but a name,
then Hongkong and Burmah must both be
represented in the Council, and the dele-
gates from these colonies will of necessity
oppose any measure which is calculated to
injure the population of their respective
territories. Imperial union will throw Aus-
tralia open as a country to be exploited by
every unwashed tribe in the British do-
minions ; it will drag the white man down
to the level of the Chinaman and the coolie,
and bind him in the chains of brotherhood
to the infected alien whom he is already en-
deavouring to shake off. Such a bond must
inevitably lead to revolution, and yet if the
league were formed on any other terms the
boasted principles of liberty and equality on
which the Federation is to be built must
vanish like the morning mist, and the Union
will be merely a combination of the con-
quering races for the better subjugation of
the conquered.
* • •
The Chinese Commission which is now
visiting Australia has been despatched for
the avowed object of securing additional
privileges for the Mongols, and, thanks partly
to the 11th clause of the Influx of Chinese
Restriction Act. and partly to the respect
which is always due to ambassadors, the
envoys will doubtless be received with
respect and consideration. Wh* n a Chinese
mission recently landed at San Francisco
bound on a similar errand its members were
met by questions tegarding vaccination, poll-
tax, and other matters which, thanks to their
inability to comprehend the subtleties of the
American joke, threatened at one time to
lead to trouble, but there is no necessity to
attempt any such system here. But the
bland envoys from the Central Flowery
Land should be received with empty cour-
tesies and nothing more. Concession is out
of the question. They themselves would no
doubt be desirable citizens, for the Chinese
gentleman has few, if any, equals in honesty,
refinement, and lofty courtesy, but the un-
clean tribes whom they represent must bo
got rid of at any cost. When, seven cen-
turies ago, the peoples of Europe and Asia
came in contact in Palestine, the Crusaders
carried back with them the Eastern leprosy,
and for 400 years England, France, and
Germany were covered with pest-houses
where the miserable victims of the disease
sought refuge. Given suitable conditions,
and Australia may one day be ravaged by a
similar outbreak as the penalty of Mongol
colonisation. This almost unconsidered
danger is only one of the many risks which
the colonists incur through the presence of
these Asiatic settlers, but it alone should be
sufficient to bring down the ban of expulsion
against the yellow men at once and for ever.
More Jubilee.
It is satisfactory to' note by the English papers
that the grand old lickspittle movement of grovel
and Jubilee has bored down to an abysmal depth
of flunkeyism and social abasement absolutely
impossible to our colonial Jingoes even in their
wildest dreams of sickening slaver and abject
toadyism. An English print records that the
Prince of Wales attended some footba’l matches
last year, the proceeds from which were devoted
to charitable institutions. This .tear, it is re-
ported. he was asked to do the same thing, and
consented on condition that the proceeds should
be given o swell the funds of the Jnbi ee Imperial
Institute craz? ! Tnis has become public, ai d
some of the leading fool bailers are lngb’y indig-
nant. at having the Jit goistiomovemeut “crammed
down their throats."
Wlint “Wales” does is sure to ba promptly
imitated. The Mayer of Hull determined 'hat so
good an example should not be lost, and so, no
doubt with a prospective decoration dangling at
the end of the Jubilee flsbing-rod, he has been
seeking to extract contributions towards a present
to Her Gracious from the poor little “ kids ”
attending board-schools, many of whom during
the past winter have been in want of even the
common necessities of naked existence. “It is to
be hoped,” remarks an English paper, “ the masters
and mistresses will be prevented by the local
school board committees from blackmailing starve-
lings. That any Mayor should cadge on the
Queen’s behalf from such is sufficient, we are
sure, to cause ner Majesty the greatest indigna-
tion.” H’m ! we are not so sure of that. A pre-
sentation, even from famishing babies, is an ugly
way of getting .Victoria’s dander up.
* * *
But some of the cheekiest things in connection
with this Jubilee farce is the collecting-card
dodge. This little game, the raison d’etre of
which is the servile fear entertained by under-
lings for the official “ bosses,” is carried to an in-
gentine extent. Soldiers, sailors, under-paid and
under fed C. S. flunkies are levied upon by their
officers with a success that is simply astounding.
The poor wretch of a dependent, conscious that if
he refuses he will be a “ marked” man, surrenders
at abject discretion and gives to the unhallowed
cause a contribution which he can ill afford, and
which undoubtedly occasions numerous and unre-
corded instances of privation and domestic dis-
tress. In fact, a donation to the Queen’s Jubilee
collection-box on the part of the unfortunate is
the black-mail paid for the privilege of calling his
life his own—a sort of rebate on the screw he
draws from the British Government. The system
is rampant throughout the barracks, dockyards,
and ships in the United Kingdom, but we are
pleased to note that some independent members
of Parliament have taken a stand against this
species of grovelling and iniquitous Queenolatry.
But the soldiers and sailors of the Empire are
not the only victims to this brand of Jubilee
swindle. Even the domestic servant is called'
upon to “ tote along ” her- infinitesimal mite, and
her mistress is performing the mean-spirited
and degrading office of tax-collector. Hera is the
latest little pewter-souled circular issued by ihe
Servant Girls’ Friendly Society—Heaven save the
miserable “ slavies” from such friends :
"The Queen's J übilkk. —To the Associates and Mem-
bers of the S.G F.S.—The Ist of March is drawing near, and
the collection for an offering to the Queen is not so forward
as it ought to be. I trust that the S.G.F.S. will not have the
appearance of lagging behind in this matter. It is note)
much the amount of the Collection as its universality that
will give it value; all the subscribers' names will he laid
before the Queen, who has graciously been pleased to ex-
press her satisfaction at hearing that our contribution is to
lie given us a society. It is therefore hoped that every asso -
ciate and member will feel it to be a personal duty and pri.
vilege to do her best towards presenting such an offering as
will be a worthy mark of the loyalty and affection of the
S.G.F.S. to OHr most loved Queen and Patron.—M. Arer-
I'KEV. President.”
The most unworthy means are used, and the
worst passions that disgrace human nature put in
operation to swell this Jubilee subscription-list.
The Blavering respect and adoration of a certain
section of humanity for pewter decorations, is a
prime factor in this miserable “move.” The pro-
vincial Mayors of England are working tooth and
nail to secure cheap distinctions, and their wives
are wrestling like unwashed molasses-founders,
holding meetings, making siieeches, and organis-
ing holy shows for the purpose of creating a
special Ladies' Jubilee Testimonial to half-a- cen-
tury Vic. And all this storm in a Jingo tea pot
because the sweet creatures are hungering and
thirsting for the paltry distinction of “ my lady."
For this gorgeous ennoblement they trot round the
collecting-card find forget the ordinary decencies
of their sex in their eagerness to “jump” the
Jubilee penny.
A correspondent in an English print details her
experience at the hands of one of these Jubilee
harpies, armed with the Imperial pencil-ease and
Queen-worshipping collecting-card. Tall, gaunt,
white-haired, and aggressive, the devastating
female highwayman strode into the hall, where
the following conversation took placs : “I want
to see the woman of the hou.e.” “If you mean
my mistress, she is not at home.” “Oh I that’s a
nuisance ; when will she be in ?” “ I can’t say.”
“ Well! I want a penny, or more, from you and
each of your fellows for the Queen.” And the
girl had the greatest difficulty to induce this
petticoated tax-collector to withdraw. England,
sweet land of Imperial flummery and expansive
grovel, is having a happy time of it, and all be-
cause a decent, portly, commonplace old lady
didn’t die of the measles, or of scarlet fever, or
some highly aristocratic complaint some 20 years,
ago.
After all, blessod is the man who can say that’-
his father was hanged in democratic Australia.
Sunday Papers.
According to the Sydney Morning Herald,
* ‘ Two correspondents, under the respective signatures of A
Mother, and A Matron, have written to complain of the
open desecration of the Sabbath by men and boys, who go
through the streets hawking Sunday papers for sale. Both
writers protest against the peace of the Sunday l)eing broken
in a manner that cannot be other than pa-uful to sober-
minded Christians, and ask if something cannot be done to
stop the nuisance.”
There are amongst us those who would muzzle the
dogs on Sunday impose a fine on the birds for
singing on that day o! rest, aid, if .they uould. put
a break upon the motion of the earth, and compel
it to rest for once in seven days upon its axis.
Nature knows no Sabbath And if men lived ac
onrding to the exact plenitude of their natural powers
no Sabbath would ever be required by man. In
order that the seventh day may be kept holy, what
fearful over work and exertion is necessary on the
part of fully a third of humanity ! Shops ordi
narily close at six, some remain open till nine o’clock.
That we may enjoy our day of enforced leisure the
shops remain open until eleven, twelve, and the
shopman is frequently employed an hour later
getting things into trim for the Monday morning’s
opening again. When he ceases his labour, he
goes to his bed too tired and jaded to thoroughly
appreciate what we are all accustomed to regard
as the inestimable boon of the Sabbath. However,
as the world is constituted, far be it from us to
controvert the philosophy of a day of rest.
* * *
But there are some amongst us too poor and too
ill-paid to earn enough in six days to provide for
the keeping of soul and body together for that
time, leaving out of all calculation the necessities
of the seventh day—which have likewise to be
provided for. These unfortunates—the news-
paper, match, fruit vendors—are obliged to work
on Sunday, or they have to face the alternative
of “ throwing up the sponge ’’ altogether. Yet
“ sober-minded Christians ” are offended thereat..
These are the same “Christians” who would have •
had Christ himself arrested for disturbing the -
Sabbath when he speke from the corner of some?
vacant building-lot.
But, granting the sanctity of the Sabbath. It
it not in any way outraged by the publication of
Sunday newspapers—and that is the hint convey ed
in the letters signed “Matron” and “Mother.”
It is the respectable, “sober-minded” Christian
organ which makes its columns a general ash-bin
for denominational twaddle, and which appears
with unvarying regularity upon the breakfa»-
tables of other “ sober-minded Christians ” every
Monday morning, that really desecrates tie Sab-
bath. Compositors and editors, reporters of ser-
mons and advertisement-compilers, machinists
and printers -devils, bulk-hands, anl typographi-
cal-readers, and galley-slaves gqj era lly work all
through Sunday night prepay Monday’s hash
of news for the especial of “sober*


minded Christians” such as “Matron” and
“ Mother.”
Sunday papers are set-up and go to press and
are printed on Saturday night. So the sin, if a
sin were possible in this connection, is brought
heme exclusively to the door of the poor little
newsboy honestly endeavouring to titrn a
penny on the whistle-tied, pleasure-pinioned Saw-
bath. If we are to take measures against Sun-
day traffic let us go to the root of the matter. Let
us by Act of Parliament close all drapers’ and
other shops at sunset on Saturday, so that in the
proper sense of the term Sunday may indeed be a
day of rest for the jaded retailer’s assistant. And
let us, ere we abolish the sale of Sunday papers,
take steps to see that the Monday morning
journals, the production whereof compels hundreds
of persons to absolutely lose their day of rest, are
also overhauled The godly “ Matron” is unex-
preseibly shocked, because while she reads a tract
and takes her breakfast in bed on Sunday morn-
ing, at her luxurious suburban villa, the voice of
little Billy, the newsboy, is heard above the
rattle of the milk-cart and the hideous jang-
ling of the church-bells. But what will Matron’s
husband say if he has no cablegrams and no ship-
ping news to read in his Monday’s Herald?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bed of Justice.
Extract from a Sydney daily paper
14 Sir William Manninu, the Supreme Court Judge on
the Albury circuit, was too ill this morning to go to t he
courthouse, ami it was decided he should hear the case 3 in
his hotel.'
Sir William Manning has been ailing for years
In fact, his retention on the list of New South
Wales Judges is a crying injustice to the colony.
He should have been superannuated years and
years ago. What stamp of justice can be ex-
pected from an enfeehled septuagenarian whose
blood runs cold ! The clouded mind, worn out by
age; the weakly body, racked with pain and
exhausted by disease, are hardly the source!
whence to expect imoartial justice and sound
legal verdicts. An attack of gout may inflect a
judicial decision to the extenl of the utmost limit
allowed by the liw ; a spasm of neuralgia, added
to Lhe uoimal enfeeblement of intellect which is
the concomitant of extreme and debilitated oid
age, may increase a man’s sentence five years
beyond the verdict which would have been given
had the same judge been sound and healthy, in
possession of all his faculties, both of mind and
body. But a Judge delivering his verdicts from
the bed of sickness is nothing. It is only the be-
ginning of the trouble. We expect that if the
present condition of judicial valetudinarianism
continues, we shall hear legal decisions of vital
moment enunciated from that same cold and
silent tomb to which in days not long gone
by certain colonial Judges were so inde-
cently ready to hurry their wretched victims
Even in New South Wales, within the last few
months, in a great criminal case, the physical
endurance of the entire officialdom of a criminal
court was put to such severe tests that Nature
refused assent, and sleeping pleaders, a fainting
jury, and a judge who only left the court
to swoon, were tolerated by the people,
the press, and the Governor. Jurymen
who faint, and who bring in death-verdicts
while under the influence of sal volatile, a judge
who holds a trial in his hotel, and prisoners who
are too exhausted to heed the sentence which may
banish them from existeucs, hang well together
In the interests of public justice it is nearly time
that reform in the judicial administration of the
colony should be initiated. Superarnuate the
dotards, remove the notoriously cruel whose
manner is calculated to d’sgust the onlooker and
to bring the law into hatred and contempt, strike
from off the rolls the lawyers guilty of gross
peculation, and supersede the bodily and mentally
diseased. We may then get something like
justice. At present we get the law as interpreted
by harshness and imbecility—that worst of all
kinds of imbecility, the imbecility of the played-
out lawyer.
The “Evening News" v. the N.3.W.
Typographical Association.
Here is the story of the dispute between the
New South Wales Typographical Union and the
proprietary of that soi-disant “ working-man s
paper, the Sydney Evening News :
Over a year ago the E. News printers gave
notice to Mr. Bennett that at the end of three
months the price of composition would be the
same for daywork as it had been for niglitwork
—the price of the latter ju3t having beeu
raised a penny per thousand. Mr. Bennett
took no heed until the notice had expired, when
he had to consent to the increase as an alternative
to inflicting the irreparable iujury on Australia of
stoppiug the publication of the News for at least
one issue. But the memory of his defeat seems to
have rankled in his bosom, in which cavity theie
also developed a natural desire to got level with
his audacious menials. That splendid genius of
Bennett's was forthwith put inti full force and.
operation with the object of ridding the office of
the recalcitrant printers who had demanded m re
money, and Bennett conceived the sagacious
idea of enrolling a new “companionship,' as a
printing staff is called, in another colony. He did
not intend offering lower wages, hut was bent
only on punishing the men who had demanded the
ruling rate of pay. Accordingly, he advertised
for compositors in a distant colony, the aim evi-
dently being to organise a staff under a fixed
agreement before the printers in Sydney could hear
of the movement, and spring the new staff thus
S 'crotly got together upon the News office, to dis-
place the old hands. But the New South Wales
Typographical Society was informed by telegram
of the appearance of the advertisements in the
distant colony ; and the News printers at once
struck for a twelve-months’ agreement. That
agreement will shortly expire ; so a few days ago
Mr. Bennett set himself diligently to work with
the view or gaining a signal victory over the men
this time. He began by discovering that the
" oompanionship ’’ was too large, and dismissed
Beveral of the men. These were soon replaced by
non-union men on fixed wages—technically known
as “ stab” hands ; and shortly over a dozen of
these non-unionists were brought into the office.
Then the companionship concluded that the in-
tention was to gradually supersede all the old
employes, and began to assert their rights. Ben-
nett, however, didn’t care a straw he had per-
fected his plans, and had a new companionship of
non-unionists ready. He vowed he would fight
the Typographical Union to the bitter end. But,
unfortunately, there is such a thing as solidarity off
labour. To Mr. Bennelt’s intense surprise and
mortification he found himself suddenly confronted
by the representatives of the whole body of work-
ing men in New South Wales, who, having a
comprehensive boycott up their sleeves, just
whispered a few soft words in his ear, whereupon
he caved in like the Bondi sewer, agreed to dis-
miss the non-unionists, to employ none but the
old hands, and to dismiss none of these in the
future except for good and sufficient cause. Thus
we have an example of how the designs of even a
gigantic intellect may sometimes be set at naught
on the very eve of fulfilment by combined
effort on the part of infinitely smaller and feebler
minds.
An Australian Protest.
We object to the pigmy creatures who just now strut
their bogus importance on a Piccadilly pavement,
being accredited as representatives of the Austra-
lian colonies at the present Impe ial Conference,
and still more do we object to their being con-
sidered Australians themselves. In the great
majority of cases, indeed, they are not even Aus-
tralians in sentiment, waiving altogether the
accident of birth in a London fog, or an Irish bo/,
or a Scotch mist . They came to tne colonies to
push their fortunes. Some have succeeded in
pushing them so far that they have pushed them
right out of their reach Hence their voyage to
England in search of Royal favours which may-
give them an additional chance of starting a little
stock-jobbing shop on their return to the land of
the dingo and the kangaroo-rat. Sir Murphy
Mulqueeney, K,C.M.G., would be a good name
on the directory of a Providential Assurance
Company of the latest brand, and even
a despised Michael and-GEORGE in the first
degree would give an additional prestige
to the dubious business of a second-hand
pawn-office. But these weak-kneed gentlemen
are not Australians. The greater number of the
title-hunters were not even born beneath the
Sou'hern Cro=>s. The man who refused the
alleged decoration peculiarly sacred to the colonial
make of aristocrat —the only man (Deakin) who
fctands upright amongst the soft-spined crowd, is
an Australian, both by birth aud in sentiment.
The ma» who becomes a C.M.G. generally starts
life as a a errand boy ; at the age of 10 he is pro-
moted to the position of counter hand, saves his
‘•screw,’' and ul imately bocom. s a junior part-
ner, or runs a pub., is elected an alderman, stinds
for Parliament, re'ires from business when it is
driven into hii thick skull that politics pay
better, goes to K igland as a colonial representa-
tive, a .d there his vote and voice are bought
with a cheap and paltry distinction. The same
kind of man is bought in the same fashion in his
native fetamping-ground—the English grocer or
retired butter-and-egg merchant, who flaunts his
knighthood on the displayed bill of a Sunday-
school celebration. We may congratulate our-
selves—poor comfort—that tne greater number of
the men who are now poking as Australian
colonists in England are not, even by birth,
Australians.
The “Herald ’ on K.C M.G ’e.
The Sydney Morning Herald has evolved from
the depths of its inner ilunkey a new reason why
the dog-collar of the two dubious saints should be
treated with due respect in Australia. This is
how it treats the subject: —
“ A te v days ago it was reported that the Chief Secretary
of Victoria, Mr. A. Deakin, had been offered and had de-
clined this honour, and the question has been raised as to
how far colonists are justified in refusing marks of favour
offered by the Crown. It seems to us that, as a generai rule,
these distinctions ought not to be thrust aside. They were
intended partly as a recognition of public services, but chiefly
as a comp iment to the colonies. It is the office that is
honoured more than the man, and a refusal carries with it
something beyond a declaration of personal disinclination
for titular distinction.’’
There is a subdued and shady grovel about this
which is exquisitely touching. "The question
has been raised as to how far colonists are justi-
fied in refusing marks of favour offered by the
Crown." The favours of the Crown are now
offered to every colonist who goes “home” on a
political mission, and any man is entrusted with a
mission who, as a member of Parliament, makes
himself sufficiently troublesome to be woi th ship-
ping out of the way. He must be decently dressed
and fairly sober, and his qualifications are complete.
In these respects—and, so far as the public are
aware, in no others—Sir Roukkt Wisdom,
K.C M.G., fills the bill. On the last occasion
when he came into prominent notice, it took four
men to carry him out of the New South Wales
Assembly, and as he hung on to the table he
nearly dragged that necessary article of furniture
along with him. It was better, therefore, that he
should be sent home as a delegate to the Imperial
Conference than that somebody should burst
a blood-vessel carrying nim out a second
time; and, thus favoured by circumstances,
the ex-Attorney-General has been elevated to
the lowest rank which the Queen could find for
him. As Mr. Wisdom never committed any act
of conspicuous gallantry it was impossible to
decorate him with the Albert medal of even the
second class as if he were a Cochin-China fowl in
a how—the Iv C.M.G.-ship was therefore the only
resource left. Unlike Mr. Wisdom, however,
Mr. Deakin of Victoria has never been dragged
out of the House of Assembly, kicking, strug-
gling, and carrying off handfulls of furniture as
he went, and t herefore when the customary dis
grace was offered him he naturally exclaimed,
" Oh, Lord! What is this for," and as naturally
he declined the compliment. The S. M, Herald,
however, regards his action with surprise, and is
apparently unable even to form a conjecture as to
his reasons for not accepting a share of .the
“ honours ” which were going so freely. Yet if a
Chinaman offered to give the Herald a share of
his leprosy that well-meaning journal would
probably dodge the distinction with surprising
aciivity, and would prefer to be lost among the
common herd rather than live in lonely grandeur
distinguished by its spots, and Mr. Deakin has
simply viewed his matter in the same light. As
a penance for his sins, and with a view to mortify-
ing the flesh he ought, perhaps, have accepted
the offered title, but the position of the left-hand
malefactor is not an attractive one in politics, and
the young Victorian politician very naturally
declined it with thanks.
Post Office-street, Sydney.
Tiie street fronting the noble r a?cade of the new
Sydney G.P.O. is to be flanked by a dead wall.
This because the owners of the land adjoining the
street will neither buy the frontage nor sell their
land to the Government at a reasonable price per
foot. Of course we take it as a fundamental
principle that they have no right to any frontage
to any new street that may be projected along-
side their property, and if it comes to a question
of abstract right they have no right to the pro-
perty itself when such a claim would act detri-
mentally to the public interests- Their claim, too,
8 an exorbitant one. In any case where the
Government might desire to resume land for
public uses, the original price, with 10 per cent,
per annum added, would be all that justice re-
quired. Had the owners invested in any legiti-
mate business, 10 per cent, per annum would
righ' ly be regarded as a good return for their
original outlay, and in investing in land they run
little of the risk attaching to ordinary business
speculations. Men have no right to endeavour to
wrest value from the public for value created by
the public, and which value could not have been
created but for the public. The increased value
of land in Sydney, as elsewhere, is not due to the
exertions of the property-holders. In this parti-
cular instance, the shops are among the shabbiest
in the city. Ihe influx of population, and the
influx of population alone, occasions, by increasing
the demand for land, a rise in its value. Post-
offics street in the Cannibal Islands would have
no more value o ne New South Wales govern-
ment than if it were situated in the moon. Pro-
perty pays n thing o ;he revenue of the colony,
tut in some instance land held by absentee colo-
nial landlords pay* heavily, in the form of an
income-tax, to the English revenue ! !! If landed
property were'taxed somewhere near its ground-
rent value, landlords would be less anxious to
conserve their claims, for the taxation would
keep pace with the increased value given to land
by increased population. The greater the immu-
nities from taxation eßjoyod by landlords the
more grasping they become. In this case, we see
no reason why the Government should not com-
pulsorily resume the land required to form the
street. In the case of the formation of a line of
railway the cause of the public has precedence
of private claims, and the price of such land as
may be required is settled by arbitration. Why
should not a similar course be pursued in this in-
stance l The landlord has no right to private pro-
perty in land when the acknowledgment of such
a right is an obstacle to the carrying out of some
public improvement; and a day is dawning when
the belief in the right of private property in land,
under any circumstances, will be a posteriori
evidence of lunacy, and will quicker fit a man for
Gladesville than even embezzlement under the ex-
tenuating circumstance of insanity. The land-
lord who cuts up and sells allotments virtually
sells with bis few feet of surface the air above as
far as the bounds of space, and the earth beneath
down to the vanishing point in the centre where
the claims of the proprietor in the other hemi-
sph< re begin. In the early days of the colony his land-
lord's ancestor probably bought for a few bottles of
rum this perpetual mortgage on the whole extent of
earthly creation, and after generations have
allowed his mot strous claim The ent ire works of
God are now offered at so much per'foot frontage,
and as the earth becomes filled the range of
human liberty grows ever narrower. For some
future generation, should the present system
endure, there would be nothing left but the dusty
highways, the barren mountain peaks, and the
trackless ocean : all the rest would be already in
private ownership, and the population of the
world would be divided into two classes—land-
lord and outcasts.
♦
A Legal Swindle.
In the last half-yearly report of that highly-
virtuous and immaculate body of men calling
themselves The Incorporated Law Institute rf
New South Wales we find that they—
“ Have dealt with many complaints made against certain
attorneys (some having been referred to them tor considera-
tion by their Honors the Judges of the Supreme Court); but
in many instances the explanations furnished by the attor-
neys complained of have been satisfactory.”
Satisfactory to whom ? As to the complaints to
which unsatisfactory explanations were given, the
report (with two exceptions) is silent. StraDge
anomaly—a silent report! We wonder if any
attorneys were asked to explain their conduct in
demanding from unsuspec‘ing and trustful victims
the customary “ ten-and-six ” for costs of a letter
of demand. It is a fact well-known to every one
of those severely moral, high-toned, and respect-
able men of whom the Institute is composed, that
it is a universal practice amongst solicitors all
over the colonies to conclude every letter demand-
ing that a debt or a sum of damages should be
paid to their clients in words to this e ffect;
“Unless the sum mentioned, together with JOs. 6d., my
professional costs, be paid to me forthwith, legal proceedings
will be taken for its recovery.”
And it is a fact equally well known to these self-
constituted judges of legal morality, but not
known to the community in general that a solici-
tor cannot compel the payment of a fraction of
this 103. Gd. by the alleged debtor. Neverthe-
less, the solicitor, taking advantage of his dupe’s
ignorance of the law, iu four out of every five
cases (at the very least) succeeds in UDj uptly ex-
torting this fee. We wonder whether, when
defending a prisoner charged with obtaining
money under false pretences, there arises in the
breast of the defender a feeling of brotherhood in
crime and sympathy for the defended l True, the
attorney by his legal knowledge is enabled to
frame his demand so that he may pass unharmed
through the avenue of deceit and imposition, but
who will dare say that he is not as morally guil 1 y
of obtaining money by false pretences as the
vilest swindler ever convicted of the crime ? The
Institute can never expect ihe pubiic to believe in
its prudish honesty nor in the avowed objects of its
formation while it tacitly permits such an iniqui-
tous practice.
A Subvention to Wealth.
Me. G. H. Reid’s New South Wales High School
seneme is working beautifully. In the Sydney
establishments .90 per cent, of the pupils who are
receiving a high-class education .free of expense,
obtained their elementary instruction otherwise
than in the National schools, though when the
H<gh schools were instituted the public were tol 1
they were intended for the benefit of poor and
clever boys and girls who had passed a scholarship
examination in the primary National schools. It
was to round off and make thoroughly complete
the National system that Reid brought forward
his project, and he waxed eloquent touching the
simple justice of allowing the children of poor
parents an opportunity of indulging in the
higher walks of learning whenever they dis-
played extraordinary talents. Well, if 90 per
cent, of the pupils in High schools come
from private seminaries, we may rest assured that
their parents are far too “ respectable” to take ad-
vantage of the National primary system. And such
is the fact. These High School students are the
sons and daughters of merchants, solicitors, well-
to-do-tradesmen, high-salaried civil servants,
doctors, and rich landed proprietors and graziers.
We believe one or two children of bond fide work-
ing men have secured scholarships, but they did
not stay long at the High Schools : a poor boy in
fustian or a poor girl in cottons felt —and was
made to feel—out of place among the well-attired
sons and daughters of the wealthy, and was glad
to leave a school wherein he or she was ever con-
fronted with the fact of there being such a thiDg
as “difference of station in society.” Wealthy
and refined papas and mammas have now the con-
solation of knowing that, in sending their boys
and girls to High Schools maintained solely
out of the public funds, they not only save ex-
pense, but incur no risk of their offspring asso-
ciating with the children of vulgar people The
only persons who object to the arrangement are
the whilom keepers of private high-ciass educa-
tional establishments, who now find their occupa-
tion gone.
Where now is the Flogger ?
Ix New South Wales, as everyone is aware, the
law is administered alike to rich and poor, and
consequently we have been waiting anxiously to
hear how many years’ imprisonment and what
kind of a flogging was, on conviction, in store for
the rich and influential individual who is alleged
to have perpetrated a gross act ef indecency at a
Sydney} suburban railway station, one afternoon
about three weeks ago. The offender in this case
was not a chimney-swesp, or a labourer brought
up in poverty and ignorance amid the lowest and
most sordid surroundings; he was what is termed
in mockery a "gentleman,” occupying a good
position in society, and to judge by appearances
he was in a brutal state of intoxication. On
alighting at the station he seems to have per-
petrated a hideous act of indecency in the presence
of some 20 women and children, and except that
an official drew no a report—which, we believe,
was never forwarded—no notice whatever seems
to have been taken of the act. Some time ago
the same person is said to have distinguished him-
self in a similar way at the same place ; on th*s
occasion a report was forwarded, but no notice
was taken of it. If a labourer or tradesman
had committed a similar action he would un-
doubtedly have been arrested in two move-
ments and a jump, and the after-results would
have been worth remembering. Six months and
fifty lashes would not have more than covered
his case under such circumstances, but when a
wealthy citizen sinks himself to the level of a beast
in the presenceof acrowdof decent women and their
children it is not considered even worthy of passing
mention in the daily press. Only a few months
ago, when a party of miserable boys were strung
up on the evidence of a street-walker, a thief, and
an alleged forger, there arose in many quarters a
cry for lynch-law as the only means of preserving
public morality. Strangely enough the cry has
not been repeated in the present instance. Could
it be possible to mark more clearly the gulf which
separates the wealthy brute from the penniless
larrikin of Mount Itennie ? Well do we remember
the first victim of the flogging provisions of the
“ revised” New South Wales Criminal Law. He
was a workman who in court was able to show
that he had never previously been charged with
any offence, and that he had a good character
of many years’ standing, lie had gone to Manly
and got drunk, and coming back in the steamer
had, perhaps quite unconsciously, committed an
act of indecency. His character availed him
nothing : he was handed over to the triangles and
skinned by the flogger. When shall* we see the
spectacle of a beautiful, fashionable, and accom-
plished girl, who is on terms with all the “ best
people ” at Darling Point, going to Darlinghurst
gaol t) visit her rich and brutal father, who has
just had the hide cut off his back by the common
hangman ? We shall see it when figs grow on
thistles. It is always a fustian coat that is taken
off at the whipping-post. Never a coat of broad-
cloth.
We ha e occasionally read love-scenes in novels
which would make a hog swear, but the follow-
ing beats everything. Please mark how rever-
entially a religious tag is worked in after all the
erotic Beecher-Tilton fooling ;
“ In the cabin, Forteacue combing Agatha's hair would
have promised a wonderful study to anyone lookibg on a
minute or two; though much longer would it have needed to
witness the truth in the girl's quietness, the passive clasp of
her hands on her lap, thp listless steadfastness of the gaze
that seemed neither to see nor to heed anything. Yet one
would have been detaioed were it but for the s.ke of her
tranquil beauty, the shining of her hair in fcLe han- s <>f her
over, his gestures of tenderness, his sidelong glances .tt ner,
the radiance of passion that would come floatii g iu:o h:s
large dark eyes, replacing other expressions, suen as particu-
larly tQe craving of anxiety. The westering sunshine broke
iu beams through the swaying «k>light, and went, supping
like molten gold along bulk-head and deck-dour; the at nos-
phere trembltd with the azuro wind gushieg with sounds as
of distant music in it down through the lifted frames: the
splashing falls of water over the side tilled the ear with a
sense of refreshment. The beautiful hair was wildly tanghd
indeed; yet it was bound to yield to such gentle, loving, but
resolute uandling as his. The touch of it! The light upon
it! Why, since it is known how a little lock of the hair of
the dead will move the mourner, it is not hard to conceive
what sort of feelings came to the young clergyman with
the length of beaming tress he lifted—the love unspeakable,
the deep thanksgiving to Almighty God for the guidance
that had Drought this issue to pass.’’
This is what the Daily Teleqrarh (Melb.) regales
its leaders on. And the Telegraph is a godly
paper, owned by a syndicate of saints and edited
by Parson Fitchett ! It is indeed “ not hard
to conceive what feelings came to the young
clergyman”—who is the hero, of course.
Tiie constant wobble of the Sydney D.T. compels
us again to inquire of that journal, “ What are
you giving us ?” or words to that effect. Parkes*
literary poodle is now troubled because South
Australia has given a solid vote for Protection,
and in the course of its wailings it says :
“ But chimerical as is the experiment, it is, it seems, to be
tried, and another barrier will probably be raised to secure
the segregation and isolation of the Australian colonies."
As a combination of gad, wormwood, and cheek
this sentence stands unrivalled. South Australia
has at last decisively gone with the majority and
now every Australasian colony excepting N.S.W.
is either Protectionist or semi-Protectionist. The
latter colony is therefore the one standing obstacle
to Australian unity, and boasting as she does the
largest deficit and the most imbecile band of poli-
ticians on this continent, it is rather rash for the
Sydney D.T. to assert that she alone is right, and
that the others all put together are wrong. The
Telegraph's position is strikingly like that of the
solitary juryman who entered his protest in these
words, “ Well, I’m hanged, but eleven ob-
stinate men I never saw in all my life,” and it also
bears an inebriated resemblance to the drunken
soldier who averred that all the rest of his regi-
ment were out of step.
Some year or two ago the London police so far
forgot what was due to the aristocracy as to
institute a criminal prosecution of “ Mother ”
Jeffries. This old harpy was the notorious
lessee and proprietor of a still more notorious
house of “ ill-fame,’ and her arrest spread dismay
among the Peers. Humour even insinuated that
Royalty was on nodding terms with Mother
Jeffhies, but, whether or no, the lady catered
for such a superior circle that the conduct of the
police was felt to be rash and reprehensible. As
it was then too late to withdraw from the prose-
cution, a bogus trial was brought off. Names
were suppressed, honest evidence dispensed with,
“objections” allowed, and society extricated


from its dilemma. Mother Jeffries— if we re-
member rightly—paid a heavy fine, winked at her
gilded patrons, and skipped out of Court to ar-
range for a fresh consignment of human ‘ goods.
Th s unsavoury case was tiied (?) at Middlesex
Sessions, and the legal practitioner who bossed i he
successful judicial abortion was Mr. hDLiN,
As-istsnc Judge Edlin's eccentric sentences
long ago obtained for him the item dc justice ot
‘‘Addling," but on this occasion he proved him-
Knglnnd, made by the rich for the rich. Hence it
is not surprising to learn that the Prince of V\ ales
has appointed Edun to be Deputy-Trea-urer of
the Middle Temple, a position which will ensure
for its lucky holder a “ Jubilee honour."
“ Laws which are in open contradiction to the
ideas and manners of a people, are soon looked
upon as words, aud as words only. ’ So says the
sl rewd Figako, in the play, and no better proof
of the truth of this could be found than in the
contempt shown all over Australia for that outra-
geous farce, the Sunday Observance Act. That
etatute. » hioh owes its origin to Charles 11., of
immoral memory, peim.ts milk and mackerel to
be sold before aud after divine service. It is
the: efore lawful for any mau to hawk mackerel
(if he can get it) through a city street on Sunday,
but the mau who sells a banana is liable to be
placed in the stocks, if such implements of torture
can be found. An easy plan to evade the Act is
suggested by the clause which prohibits all par-
sons, other than milk and mackerel men, from
following their usual occupation on the Sabbath
Lay. A painter dare not paint his house on that
day, but if he knows a carpenter who has a fair
idea of the daubing business he can hire him to
do the work, and he. in return, can do a little
amateur carpenting for his friend, because neither
of them are working at their “ordinary occupa-
tions." The obsolete Act of the King of Lechery
was passed to protect a State religion. In Aus-
tralia there is no State religion, and yet our
dunderheaded representatives cannot see their
way clear to repeal this played-out enactment,
and let us have another adapted to the require-
ment of modern society.
Tub principle of payment of members is not the
drastic and novel experiment that many insuffi-
ciently-informed people imagine it to be. Pep vs
writes in his diary, under the date of March 30,
1068 :
"At dinner we had a great deal of good discourse about
Parliament. All conclude that the bane of the Parliament
hath b en the 'eaving off the old custom of the places, al-
lowing w iges to th >se that serve them in Pari ament, by
whicu rhey chose men that understand their busi ess, and
would attend to it, aud they could expect an account from,
which now they cannot, and so the Parliament hath become
a company of men unable to give account for the interest of
the place i hey serve for."
The last payment of wages to members of the
British House of Commons took place in 1681,
when Thomas Kino, after having given due no-
tice to the corporation of Harwich, obtained from
the Lord Chancellor a writ “ dc expensis burgen-
siumtevandi." In his “Life of Lord Chancellor
Nottingham, ” Lord Campbell cites this case,
and even declares that the writ might still be
claimed in Great Britain without a new enact-
ment to revive the old usage. In 1830 the Lord
Bi.andford of that period, who represented
Woodstock, introduced a Reform Bill in accor-
dance with the tenor of an abstract resolution in
favour of reform, which the English House of Com-
mons had previously negatived. He proposed not
only to transfer thefranchises from decayed or oor-
rupt boroughs to large, unrepresented towns, to
confer the franchise on all payers of scot and lot,
all copyholders and leaseholders, but to pay coun-
try members at the rate of £4, and borough mem
bers at the rate of £2 a day. Somewhat a little
over a year since, Mr. Howard Spensley, M.P.
at that time for Finsbury, and once Attorney-
General in a Duffy administration in Victoria,
attempted to introduce a Bill providing for the
payment of members of Parliament in the English
House of Commons. The principle is practically-
endorsed in Great Britain and Ireland, for it must
be remembered that not only Home Rule, but many
agricultural and trades-union members are paid
by subscriptions raised by their constituents. In
the colony of Victoria, the rate of remuneration is
£3OO per year, equivalent to a fraction over 16s.
sjd. per day : surely not a penny too much for
work performed at all in a manner worth paying
for.
There is a precious lot of rhodomontade talked
about our privileges in buying the products of
European pauper labour. In the face of facts
like the following, how is New South Wales,
without protec.ion to native industries, going to
employ her own people after constructing land
laws which almost effectually debar them from
the occupation of tillage ? We read that—
“ The average length of the German working day (intervals
of rest deduct d) is 11, or at most 12, hours. Persons in
charge of machinery and boilers are liable to unbroken at-
tendance of from 12 to 13 hours, in rome cases of 24 hours,
although th- y have a great degree of responsibility. The
lengtn of the worsing day is subject to great variation from
place to place. It is a maximum in the East aud West
Prussia : in Pomerania it averages 11; in Posen, 10 to 11 ; in
Hanover and Schleswig-Holstein; 11 ; in Dresden and
Bautzen, 11; Ziehau Mensen, 11 to 12 : Leipsig, 10 to 12;
Hamburg, 10 to.ll; Bremen, 10. In the Silesian district of
Oppelau there "is a 12 hours' day in blast-furnaces, lead,
silver, and coke works, flour-mill, dyeing works, and printing
offices In the mining industry the rule is continuous day
and night work in 24 hours' relays, two hours of rest in-
cluded. For part of Bavar.a it is reported that in the larger
part of the industrial concerns (employing 30,000 hands) the
daily time exceeds 11 hours, aDd in 200 concerns, with about
5000 hands, the period is over 12 hours."
New South Wales continues to “get her name
up." That horrible act of judicial savagery, the
Mount Rennie affair, in which the undiscerning
and inexperienced Governor Carington was bam-
boozled inio hanging four boys, convicted, after a
legal travesty, upon the evidence of a street-
walker and a thief or two, a few weeks ago
formed the subject of a debate in the Norwich
(England) Young Men’s Christian Association.
“ What,” asks a correspondent of the Norwich
Mercury, “ will our Queen say upon the recent
revolting Sydney executions? Four youthful
lives (all of them) cruelly, foully choked out under
the Australian Draco Christian legislation, and in
the Jubilee year of her Imperial reign ! Its crown-
ing infamy, which years of Colonial prosperity
cannot expunge."
Alfred DeakiN, Victorian Chief Secretary, has
wisely declined knightnood. aefrkd probably
looked at those extinct volcanoes, Berry and
M'Culloch, both at one time idolised leaders of
Victorian Liberalism, and forebore. It would
also have been “nuts" to the Radicals, who like
not a Coalition Government, to poiut to Dkakin s
tiiie and iay he had been wholly appropriated by
the South Yarra, Flinders’ pane, Conseivative
mob. It was suspected before Dkakin left Mel-
bourne that he would be offered a knighthood,
but his refusal of the honour was not considered
absolutely certain. He has now done what is
beat, for a title to a young and aspiring Libaral
politician ia something like a tin-kettle tied to a
dog’s tail. As to old people—the Polonius poli-
ticians of Australia—when they make fools of
themselves it does not very much matter—the
grave soon covers it all up.
The following cablegram is one of the few of this
week’s that are worth publishing in ex'.enso .-
" London, Monday.—The Times to-day publishes a J'ac-
timile of a letter written by Mr. Parnkll, dated May 15,
18S2, explaining that, the on'y rourse to adopt was to de-
nounce the Pineinx Park mur. ers. which had then just taken
place. In the letter Mr. Parnell expresses regr.tatthe
death of Lord Frederick Cavesdish, but declares that
the late Mr. T. H. Burkf., his fellow-victim, only g.t his
deserts. ’
To the English Tory who was fast being reduced
to beat his jaw ioto a plough-share and talk no
more, this iotter has come like a special dispensa-
tion of Providence. But it will be noticed that
the document iuself (assuming it to be genuine)
affords solid evidence that Parnell had no hand
in planning the murders, a charge which the late
Buckshot Forster and the Australian Tory Press
freely laid at his door. Uis sincerity is proved by
his deliberate assertion that Burke d-served his
fate, and his sorro w at the death of Cavendish
may, therefore, be taken as equally sincere. In
rejo cing at the eud of one whom ho regarded
as an enemy of Ireland, the Irish leader sim-
ply took what the gods gave him. Many a
man secretly smiles when he inherits a for-
tune from his dead mother-in-law, and
his smile is not, as a rule, set down as evid-
cncs that he murdered an obnoxious and wealthy
relative; similarly, Parnell smiled to himself
when he saw one more obstacle removed from his
path. He was honest, too —more honest than a
murderer could afford to be Even when the
horror was filling men s minds with temporary
detestation of Ireland and the Irish nation he,
when challenged to speak in the House of Com
mons, uttered no word expressive of grief for the
recreant Burke's untimely fate. The Irish people
both then and now would gladly resurrect the
dead Cavendish, who was an honourable and
kindly English gentleman, but they and their
leader had no sympathy for Burke—the dog who
ate dog, the Irishman who had turned upon his
own race. A few obscure assassins “removed”
the treacherous sgent of an obnoxious tyranny,
and the patriot* were not such hypocrites as to
shed tears on his unhonoured grave. The English
nation declared that Napoleon 111., the sham
CvS-isar of Algiers and Mexico, had deserved his
fall, yet Eng'and had no share in the carnage of
Sedan.
What a lot of “ respectable ” people attended
that Irish Nationalist demonstration, the recep-
tion given to Lord and Lady Aberdeen
at Sydney Town-hall on Saturday last! Not
long ago—when the Redmonds were here—lrish
Nationalism wasn’t so fashionable in Australia.
All the daily papers then howled “ Murder?”
“ Treason ! ” and not a hall in the land could
John Redmond, an eloquent member of the
British Commons, hire for the purpose of advocat-
ing, in the most temperate of language, the cause
of the great majority of one of the nations which
compose the British Empire
” They told us that the cause was bad,
That we were linked with crime ;
But when a lord becomes a Kad.,
The flunkeys with him chime.”
*
The saved drunkard of the Melbourne Argus
makes the following observation, which for open,
candid, childlike, breezy, exhilarating truthful-
ness seems to embezzle the pastry from all
comers —
" We trust the people of New South Wales will not be
deluded into fostering or l olsteiing up exotic industries by
protection.”
That’s all, and the Argus “ trusts ” it with all its
heart and soul. Victoria herself went in for
fostering every “exotic industry” which came
within telescope range of her eye, and now they
are nearly all prospering, and afford work to
thousands. But she hopes New fcouth Wales
will not follow her example, because in that case
the slow going, conservative old colony will at
last begin to manufacture for herself instead of
buying from her neighbour. The very term
“ exotio industrie?,” too, is a noticeable
part of this bland and friendly warning.
Wheat growing is an “ exotic industry ” in
New South Wale 3, so is building, tailoring, bank-
ing, sheep-rearing, dairying, boot making, market-
gardening, preaclnng, journalism, baking, brewing
—in fact, everything except going about naked,
committing murder, and eating ’possums. The
whole range of the white man s industry is exotic ;
every trade or profession known to the country
has been imported contrary to Parkes’ view of
the laws of Nature, and the Freetrader simply
says in effect that, having started a certain num-
ber of profitable industries, it is time to arrange
the tariff as to prevent any more getting afloat.
Victoria, under her present system, is starting
new “exotic industries’ every year, and she
grows rich in the process, but she solemnly warns
New South Wales not to follow her example, and
the object of such a waining, addressed to a pro-
fitable customer, is not far to seek.
Parkes on history is a spectacle for the gods.
When the old man rises to facts right
back to the days of Julius Cjesar, to mix up
George Washington and his axe with Moses,
and tell how Pompey led the children of Israel
into Mexico, it is time for Macaulay and all the
other historians to take a back seat. Not even
the much-cursed Bancroft could hold so much
ignorance as this :
“ This reminded him of the challenge which he had often
heard to point out any country that had grown into a nation
without Protection. He pointed to the United States of
America. The declaration of independence was signed in
1776 ; the Constitution was ratified during the next year, and
the first Tariff Act that embodied a protective policy was
not passed until th 3 year 1779. Thus these great colonies
had gone through all the bloody throes of insuirection ; had
asserted their independency ; h.-.d formed themselves into a
nation ; and had consolidated their Constitution, and lived
for fully two years afterwards as a nation before they -e-
-sorted to any protective law.”
Henry ha 3 apparently never learnt that the
United States did not get through the “ bloody
throe 3 of insurrection ” until 1783. The two years’
Freetrade about which he boasts were 3 cars when
the whole land was stained with blood and deso-
lated by war, and in the 100 years of Protection
which followed them the States gathered a popu-
lation of 50,000,000, and became the greatest and
richest nation on earth, while 100 years of Free-
trade have given New South Wales only a jopu-
lation of a million, a huge deficit, and the great
“ Hi-llam.”
Mr. Thomas Holt, the New South Wales mil-
lionaire, is giving a series of dinners to the
indigent poor of Soho (London), and is getting his
name up in consequence, Mr. Holt, it may be
explained, is the same gentleman who is hnggling
with the New South Wales Government over the
value of his colonial property in Post-oflict -street,
Sydney. He draws a huge annual income from
New South Wales and spends it in London ; he
contributes nothing to the local revenue—there
being no property-tax to trouble absentee mono-
polists—though he aids the British exchequer in
the form of income-tax to no inconsiderable
degree ; and, lastly, he does nothing in particular
for the indigent poor of the colony from which he
derives his wealth, but reserves his benefactions
for the outcasts of the mother country. If Mr.
Holt is not made a K.C.M.G , something will
burst. Poor Australia has ro stand the kicks,
while London gets the hall pence.
This is pretty rich. “ We read," says the Agio
“ in every bcok of memoirs that sees the light, of
Ministers bting close ed with newspaper eoicors
befoie they form their Cabinets to announce their
policies; but the men who pull the strings are
neglected, while the puppets carry off the prizes
and the hon* urs too " What about Mr. Dow,
the present Victorian Minister of l ands and once
agricultural editor of the Lkader ? What about
Mr. Deakix, now Chief Secretary, and one of the
representatives of Victoria at the Imperial Con-
ference, once (and still sometimes! leader-writer
for the age? What about Mr. Quick, one of the
mem ho s for Sandhurst, one on the staff of the
same paper? What of Mr. Pearson, Minister of
Educ tion, another Age scribe? Confound itl
does Mr. David Syme want to run the whole of
his staff, and the machine-oilers, into Parliament ?
Thera is such a thing as being too greedy for
governing. Mr. Syme is one whole bump of it.
We should have thought he would have had more
respect for the dignity of the Press than to want
to send its representatives to herd with members
of Parliament.
The moral sense of a landing-waiter is about as
keen as the wintry wind and as active as a tom-
cat on the tiles. Only the other day a good young
man in the Victorian Customs sniffed something
spicy in a consignment of Zola’s novels, and
seized ’em for the glory of the Loard. Some wharf
purists of snivelling Adelaide trumped this
Christian trick by impounding an oil-painting
shipped from Melbourne for the local Art Galleiy.
It happened to be a nude figure - “ The
Spanish Girl ’’ —and the children of grace gloated
over it like baldheads over a new ballet-girl.
There was a real high time in the Customs touch-
ing this Spanish Girl. The word was passed
round among the pasty-cheeked believers, and
they held a kind of private Holiness meeting on
their undraped prize. They put her in all sorts
of positions, tried the effect of subdued lights on
her gererc us proportions, and thtn coveied her
up and thanked Heaven that they wer.; not as
other men, who see nothing nasty in works of art.
Finally, as the upshot of their cackle the
trustees of the Gallery quibbled about terms
and decided to ship the bonny maiden back to
Melbourne. All things considered, these landing
waiters have scored in the flesh and in the spirit.
They CDjoyed a picture which, from their point
of view, was indecent, and had private prayers
offered up for them by their respective pastors
After such a wicked advertisement, however, the
rejected Girl is bound to sell at an advanced
figure, on the strict Q.T. Whieh reminds us that
a certain Italian gentleman, who landed in Mel-
bourne with sample pictures and statuary, tele-
graphed home for nude subjects directly his busi-
ness eye took in a forest of church-steeples. His
wire lan ; “Melbourne pious. Send w 7 arm
goods.”
The hollowness of the Jubilee excitement has
been innocently admitted by one cf its natural
promoters. Touching the Melbourne statue to
Her Gracious—which is to ce a spontaneous ex-
pression of Victorian loyalty—a little difficulty
has arisen. According to arrangements, each
borough council is expected to contribute a fairly
proportionate share of the public funds towards
this “ spontaneous’’job, on the far-fetched assump-
tion that they will be carrying out the wishes of
the ratepayers. There is a sublimity about the
bare-faced impudence of this idea. On the same
principle the directors of every public company
might stick up a golden image to our beloved
Sovereign, on behalf of shareholders who were
never consulted in the matter. Some vague mis-
givings as to the righteousness of the intended
Jubilee swindle troubled the mind of a Footscray
councillor, who suggested that the borough should
raise its little bit by a private subscription of
half a crown a head. The Fcotscray share is
fixed at £G3, so Her Gracious would only need to
touch 504 loyal subjects for two-and-sixpence in
the whole of the borough. Now, mark ! Coun-
cillor Mitchell “felt certain the half-crown pro-
ject would be a failure,” and moved that the
Council vote the £O3 right away, auch are the
means by which the “loyalty" game is kept
going, and public opinion stifled. This precious
Jubilee statue will be worthy of the lady whose
lineaments it will flatteringly misrepresent—
erected by a clique of municipal guzzlers, in open
defiance of the public who find the necessary
fund 8.
Lord Wolseley told the bloodthirsty young
cadets of Woolwich Royal Military Academy that
“ the surest way to success in active service is to
face danger—in plain words, to take every oppor-
tunity of being shot.” The humour of this speech
consisted in the fact that it was made on behalf
of the Duke of Cambridge (absent through chil-
blains or a cold in the head), a warrior who draws
£lO,OOO a year, as Commander-in Chief, for keep-
ing under cover when guns are discharged. The
Duke went to the Crimea, put himself in the way
a spent bullet, and promptly returned to Eng-
land with a trumpery flesh wound. He is such a
whale for “ danger” that he reviews troops from
under the shelter of an umbrella And in the
name of this fat, feather-bed warrior, V- olskley'
had the calm impudence to tell a parcel of boys
that the surest way to success is to face danger.
Pshaw!
The professional Christians of Melbourne are now
licking their lips in anticipation of a pious little
job. Efforts are being made to float a Victorian
Charity Organisation Society on the original sug-
gestion ot the Rev. Charles Strong. The Bul-
letin had something to s«y aooutthis matter a few
weeas ago. when it pointed out tha r the object of
thepromoiersof suchaffairs often was to let charity
trickle t hrough a sponge, to be periodically squeezed
for i heir own benefit. It s on such s< c eties that the
bogus philanthropist fattens He is appointed
secretary, and poses as chief almsgiver at a screw
of £5OO a year. Or he gets on the Beard and dis-
cusses urgent cases of starvation over a glass of
sherty, with a guinea “attendance” fee thrown
in. Or he diops down to a n t dost clerkship of £4
a week and picks his teeth over an appealing
letter from a paralytic widow. His son is provided
with a billet as “inquiring officer ” to the tocieiy;
his brother furnishes the office and pays him a
commission on the order. His uncle does a re-
munerative trade with the society—in the way ot
blankets, butcher’s meat, and other neceesaiies for
the poor—and starts a buggy on the streogth of
assisting to do so much good. This organisation
system is donbly deservii gof exposureferan excel-
lent reason. People who subscribo to a I-inii! ed
Liability Company look (and generally in vain) for
the return of their money with interest ; bat the
weil-meanirg dupes who hand over their annual
sub cription to a smug-faced C O.S. collector
trouble little about its disposed. As a good solid
argument against the Melbourne scheme we clip
this paragraph from a “ Home paper:—
“Trelaust report of tte London Chaii y (irKsn-'sation
Soci*-ty thowglhat during the part ye-r about £l5 000 w.*s
spent in orffanuation, and about £ .15,000 in actual Itlief.'
No such Society is needed in Victoria as a safe-
guard rgainst " indiscriminate chaiily, ’ because
there isn't enough of the article knocking about.
There never was, ai d never will be. When the
Master told a cel tain rich young man to sell all
his goods, and give to the poor. He never instruc-
ted that joung man to pay in the proceeds of the
sale to a clique of oily Pharisees, that they might
stick to seven and sixpence in the pound, and see
that the rest wasn’t wasted.
Lord Aberdeens Welcome.
The most rabid Coercionist could hardly grudge-
poor Paddy his last Saturday’s gathering, with a.
real live Lord and Lady for its raison d tia e. The
elements, as in duty bound, were on the side of
tlie powers that be, and tlie "wearets of the
green ” had to hudola in a confined space under
dripping skies, while listening to Lord Aberdeen's
oration. Vet sunny good temper radiated from
every face in that packed crowd, where women
and children stood in fearless confidence. No
thanks to Bobby, for that functionary was at a
discount, so long as he stood cautiously behind,
closed gates his power was supreme, but the
instant the iron doors swayed to admit gaudy/
banners and green seatves, Paddy, patiently biding:
his lime, rushed in with a quiet, over-mast ring,
force before which the police stood powerless..
Yet no woman turned faint, no child’s cry was-
heard, and, as we gazed down on the sea of up-
turned faces, all glowing with reverential love for
the woman whose "heme rule” had been so
tender and beneficent, it btruck us that the Paddy
who could “ get round ” Bobby, while protecting
and respecting the weaker vessel, might fairly be
trusted with the care of his own ould Ireland.
Place aux dames ! tor without doubt Lady
Aberdeen carried off the palm amid all this Celtic
enthusiasm. As she sat on the platform beaming
down on her hard-handed and soft-hearted ad-
mirers, the quiet grey of her attire only relieved
by the bouquet which Mr. Toohiy had presented,
there was probably not a “son of toil” present
who did not appreciate the innate delicacy of this
ack of display.
* * •
Lord Aberdeen was singularly happy in his
speech, skilfully avoiding “ disloyal” sentiment
while touching on Irish grievances. What he
might have said in the other time and place for
which he owned a preference, we may not guess.
As it was. his terse dispassionate phrases at once
satisfied English listeners and e.cited Irish en-
thusiasm. Probably the matter of the speech
was of less consequence than its general tone and
spirit. Paddy saw before him a member
of the English aristocracy, who had in the old
country shown practical fellow-feeling, and who
sympathised with the cry, “ Ireland for the Irish.”
Pat does not ask for much: a good handshake
and a hearty word will flavour his potato and
fruit for many a day, and to those coercion
n aniacs who are at their wits' ends as to how to
manacle their Irish difficulty, we recommend the
scene of Saturday. A self governed Irish crowd,
listening eageily and patiently to the quiet-spoken
gentlemanly man who, ruling them in England's
name, had ruled, not with unfruitful iron, but with
that intelligent love which is returned a hundred-
fold.
Surely it would be possible to improvise some-
shelter for the devoted heads of those who thus
brave inclement skies ? A sea of umbrellas is not
an addition to the picturesque, and the divers,
ladies who were in the wake of Lady Aberdeen,
and the Mayoresshad some cause to glance ruefully
at their attire. However, ncblesse oblige , and
everybody tried hard to look as if they didn't see
t he rain— that s the correct thing in polite society,.
It is also the correct thing not to be in the least
alarmed if ra'ters crack a- d a platform sways:
under you; hence the stoical aspect of divers
folk- 1 , who probably were indulging in secret pal-
pitations. From this point of view Lord Aber-
deen was undoubted!/ the best-bred of the
assembly. He not only ignored cracks and traps,,
but stood bareheaded in the downpour till some-
one took the loud-spoken hint of a reporter:
" Will nobody hold an umbrella over Lord Aber-
deen ?”
* * •
Inside the Town Ilall flowing champagne and
flowing speeches followed the platform doings,
Pa'rick outside had only sky-water to wash
down his enthusiasm, but he did not seem to mind
—he had seen an English lover of I-eland, he had
listened to justice for Ireland from English lips,
and behind rainy skies he spied Hope’s rainbow,
Harold Stephen, ex-M.L.A,, is to edit a
third paper at Bombala.
Says an English paper “Bishop Moor-
house of Manchester—all honour to him !—has in
his diocese started a thirty thousand-pound fund,
in practical opposition to the offensive Church
House scheme, to provide incomes for clergy men
who are impecunious as well as aged and infirm.
If the Archbishop of Canterbury still persists in
bolstering up the Church House with silly plati-
tudes and whining appeals for subscriptions, he
will certainly deal the death-blow to his popu-
larity, and if he imagines he will be able to revi-
vi'y it by dispensirg strawberries and cream at
Lambeth Palace to Society women during the
coming summer, he is miserably mistaken.”
Marriageable young ladies arc nut plenti-
ful at Cairns, Nerth Queenslend. Thus the local
editor " A resident of this town walked into
our office one morning with a smile like the first
cut in a leg of mutton and announced that he had
that day entered the state of matrimony, and
wished us to frame an advertisement for him to
that effect. Hesupplitd us with his name, and
we then enquired after the maiden patronymic of
his fair spouse. He said, ’Sarih,’ with great
promptness. ‘Yes,’ wesaid, ‘but what was her
maidtn surname?’ He looked perphxed for a
moment, and then raid he was ’ Plowed if he
knew, but he would just run across to .
who had known her longer th .n he had, and
enquire.’ [ This is a fact.—Er>. C.P.].” We have
said that eligible young ladies are scarce at
Cairns.


SUNDRY SHOWS
We would like
for once to eee a
drama built on a
new plan, for the
old one is getting played out.
The triumph of virtue and the
final squash that descends upon
vice are altogether too thin, and
we have had a great deal too
much of them : moreover, they
are untrue to Nature, and an
insult to the human urderststnd-
ing. If a playwright would only arise who would
depict the embezzler a nd the third-rate legal shark
rising to wealth and eminenc e and founding soup-
kitchens and asylums, and having “K.C. M.G."
written on their tombstones when they die amid
the blessings of a grateful nation, he would come
nearer to reality than any of his tribe have done
this century, while the vir'uous hero should be
hanged on a false charge, and the pretty, innocent
maiden of the first act should die in the fifth after
a lingering illness amid the squalls of her six
■children while her husband spends the proceeds
of the tables and chair 3 in an orgie at the public-
house. This would, at all event”, be true, while
the present style is a fraud, and if truth is worth
a cent let us have it at any cost.
** * *
The noble-hearted Irishman who is be-
hind with his rent is again on view at Sydney
Opera House. This time he is disguised as
“ Peep o' Day,' but he is easily recognbed by the
lofty sentiments which issue from his head, and
the way he sticks out his chest as he geos to gaol
The difference between the hero in “Peep o’
Day ” and the 150 others who went before him,
and who alsr sacrificed themselves in their
.pyjamas for the good of their country, is that the
lire-enT man writes poetry, and when he is not
“shooing” the cow out of ihe bog he devotes
himself to literature. The landlord, as per sam-
ple, is desirous of obtaining a legal right to pay
the board and washing of this yourg man's sister,
and on these terms he is willing to go slow with
the rent, but he is treated wiili scorn and told to
“avaunt!" or words to that effect. He doesn't
avaunt, however, but goes on more dreadfully
than before A faithful peasant at this crisis
volunteers to back the hero up till his nose bleeds,
but the offer is not acepted. Naturally, the land
lord doesn't like this treatment, but he dissembles
and weeps on the poet's shirt-front till he induces
that youth to convert himself into a beast of bur-
den and hump a lot of treasonable papers about
the country. Then he sets the soldiers on his track
ai d hides behind a twig while his victim is
brought up with a short, sharp shock and sent
into penal servitude. As he goes he solemnly
vows that if the landlord really has let him into
this sultry corner he will return one day and drag
that perjured wretch over rocks and briar3 and
broken road-metal until his leg comes off.
The landlord afterwards mairies the sister
of this unhappy bog-poet, and here Ihe drama
diverges for the first 1 ime from the c Id, old story
of our happy childhood's days. Properly, the girl
ought to have put the old family inkstand in a
stocking and hit the proprietor and his myrmidons
over tho head with it, and when 'he base, de-
graded tyrant throws her off we feel it serves her
right for hashing up the ancif nt narrat iv e. Things
right themselves, however, when the convict poet
comes back and turns rebel, and, as the landlord
is shot in the last act by the warm-hearted pea-
sant, the audience have no real reason to com-
plain. There is a captain in the drama, as usual,
but he is a watery youth, with an apologetic nose
and a dreary loot as if he were accustomed to be
kicked, so be needs no further desciiption. Mr.
Grattan Bings and Mr. West have the fun chiefly
to themselves in “Peep o’ Day,” with Miss Blanche
Lewis and Miss Addie Capper to help them. We
feel sorry for EOtne of the other gentlemen con-
nected with the piece especially when they are
chasing a pig with a curled and oiled tail about
the stage, and we trust they may shortly drop on
some nobler and less slippery beast to amuse
themselves with. Somebody else’s cow is as good
as anything else to practise on.
#* # *
The New Federal Minstrels are gradually
proving to the full satisfaction of the public that
they are not equal to the sable jokists who
formerly haunted Sydney Academy. In some re-
jects they are no doubt calculated to cheer up a
paralysed kanaka without feet, but an entertain-
ment that is run for the exclusive benefit cf so
small a class is not likely to retain its popularity
long. Alf. Lawton is as good as ever, but the
rest of the entertainment is about as promising
as a scheme for extracting soothing syrup from
doormats. Also, we would point out that perspira-
tion is not fun, nor is fun necessarily perspiration,
and some of the new Federals might be more
amusing if they were dry instead of damp. These
remarks are offered in a Christian spirit, and are
not intended to hurt the feelings of anybody.
## * *
Considering the popularity of the ‘'Miner’s
Daughter" at Sydney Criteiion, we think Carrie
Swain had better stay there and grow up with the
country. Her audiences, it is true, show no sign
of increasing, but then they can t increase much
unless the side of the house is taken out to give
additional space, and they can't very well grow
more enthusiastic without killing somebody. The
dreary drivel of the "Tomboy” is now pretty
nearly forgotten, and the fiery Mab of Smiths
Pocket does not labour under the disadvantages
which hampered the long lost child who sat on
the telegraph post at the Royal. Carrie s voice
too seems to improve every night, and we are
prepared to back her exquisite sieging against the
“rendition” of any artist armed with a flute
obligato” now travelling in these colonies. She
is well supported, especially by Mr. George Leo-
nold as Yuba Bill, and Mr. Carey as Judge Bee-
swinger. Several hundred old church members
with only three hairs apiece now talk about her
everv night in their sleep, and some ladies have
taken to jotting down strange Californian swears
in their prayer-books.
#* # *
A little hanging is badly wanted at Sydney
Alhambra where nothing but blood can wipe out
the insult Fully half a dozen individuals in the
company are in more or less urgent need of
having something done to them, and Mr. 1 erry
Ryan in particular requires violence. He also
wants a lot of it, and he wants it at once. He
begins mildly by turning “ We Sat by the River,
you and I” into “ We Sat on a Hunk of Liver, and
you’re a Liar,” but later on he warms up to his
work ami for five minutes the air is full of
“damn.” He only uses the one swear, but he
pours it forth in a sheolic stream which nothing
short of a gun could alleviate. Johnny Cowan
goes one better by side allusions to anatomy and
malignant diseases. We are glad he |is a
nigger; a man who goes on as he does is not
fit to be white. Little Ida Heath’s clever per-
formance is one of the best features in a show'
that would hurt the reelings of any self-respecting
elephant, ard the singing of Miss Florence
Schuler and Mr. E. Lawler, and the jokes of Bam
Keenan, who doesn’t swear, furnish one or two
righteous men with an excuse for being present.
We may also mention that the beer at one of the
neighboring hotels is a hideous swindle ; it would
hardly make decent sheepwash.
## * #
The Minstrel Company with the long
title is still doing a business at Sydney Gaiety
which is calculated to cheer the heart of the
lessee —the namesake of that old king who had too
many wives—and everybody else concerned. The
Cogills rank among the most comical of the
painted and frescoed sons of Ham, and they can
be amusing without taking refuge in profanity
and cuss words, which some members of the burnt-
cork tribes are unable to do. The athletic St
Clair Brothers, Fred. Garnett, the contortionist,
and the basso-prof undo Amery are among the rest
of the attractions, and there is a nightly struggle
for standing room which must promote a healthy
stats of things in the cash-box
** * *
“ The King of Diamonds ” is doing a
second week’s run at Sydney Royal Standard,
notwithstanding the shortness of the Zulu’s petti-
coat.
** * *
Verdi’s tragic opera of “ Rigoletto ” was
put on at Sydney Royal on Monday evening, and
the attendance of Governor Carington and staff
lent a sort of jubilee air to the performance. The
opera was as well, if not better, mounted than
MISS. CARRLE SWAIN.
any of the previous ones, and although the audi-
ence seemed rather cold at. first, as the opera t ro-
greseed and the familiar music was well supported
by a faithful pourtrayal of the plot, it warmed up
until at the end of the third act its approval was
proclain ed in hearty bursts of applause. Signor
Cerne’s Itigoletto was a most excellent interpreta-
tion of the character of the deformed buffoon
His acting showed evidence of dramatic ability in
no mean degree, and his singing was better than
any with which he has yet favoured the Sydney
public. He was excellently made up, but the de-
formity was expressed more by conscientious act-
ing than by any reliance on the costumier.
Rigoletto is clearly his best ro/e. Tagliavia sang
well as Gilda, and her duos with Rigoletto were
very effective. Signorina Cavalleri looked charm-
ing and evidently understood her part. Signors
Lazzarini and De Alba were both fairly effective,
but show to better advantage in the “ Barber.”
I# # # #
The “swagger” amateur performance, at
Sydney New Matonic Hall, on the evening of 6th
May, is for the benefit of the Hospital for Sick
Children, and not, as stated, for that of the In-
fants’ Home. The affair is patronised by Governor
Carington. “Major-General” Richardson, C.B.
(Colonial Brand, dontcherkno'.v), and oiher dis-
tinguished personages.
** * *
Our old friend, Joubert, despite his past
hard luck, has by no means caved in at Melbourne
Alexandra, which he says he hopes yet to make
the theatre of Victoria. Apropos , it ba3 been
stated that the Alexandra cost £17,033. As a
matter of fact the price paid was nearly £40,000.
The house is splendidly appointed, and according
to the Italian artistes of Simonsen’s troupe it has
acous ic properties second to those of no theatre
in the world.
#* * #
Mr. Gardiner, Carrie Swain's manager,
has successfully introduced at Sydney Criterion
the plan of throwing a calcium light on to the
stage from the centre of the gallery. The idea
has been successfully trial in America, but is
quite new in Australia.
** * #
Brough and Company will open with
“Little Jack Sheppard” at Sydney Royal on or
about May 28—immediately following the Italian
opera. The Sydney public have a treat in store
in hearing Fanny Robina.
** * *
Minnie Palmer’s season in Melbourne
closes this week. After the Brisbaneites (who,
by the way, seem to regard her coming as the
rainbow that announces the end of the flood and
the return of better luck) have been satisfied,
Sydney will be “ pert ’’•iculariy pleased to see her
back again.
## # #
The Italians gave Sydney a musical kalei-
doscope last week, alternating “ Faust," “ Trova-
tore,” “ The Barber,” and “ Belisario." “ The
Barber" was most popular, Cerne and Rebottaro
as Figaro and Rosina respectively sustaining their
parts effectively and in good taste. De Alba, as
Don Baasillio, gave evidence of considerable
talent as a comediaa. Lazzarini and Buzzi divided
the remaining honours.
** * *
A grand fancy fair, tea-meeting, concert,
illumination, and a number of other things, down
to a brass band, Quong Carington and Lord Tart,
willhappanat Sydney Exhibition Building on April
22 and 23, in aid of the Buili Relief Fund. Paikes
and Knight Aston will be present, and one of
i them will sing, and the one will not be Parkes.
Also a score of eminent artists will assist, and a
success may safely be prophesied.
** * *
; The portrait of Miss Carrie Swain, which
appears in this week's issue, is from an excellent
portrait by Messrs. Tuttle.
## # #
A star amateur performance will be given
in the Melbourne Princes’ Theatre on Saturday
afternoon, 17th May, in aid of the Consumptive
Hospital. Colonel Brownrigg, Messrs. W. L.
Hallward (of London), Verdon, M'Dermott, and
I others will fill the male characters in Gilbert's
“ Palace of Truth.” The amateurs will have the
I assistance of Miss Kate Bishop, Miss Watt-
Tanner, and possibly Miss Boucicault and Mrs.
Brough. Mr. W. G. Fraser is the organiser and
manager.
** * *
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
Comic Opera Company are reaping a golden
harvest in N. Z. In Pres-
byterian Dunedin and in
Anglican Christchurch
people fleck to see the
Mikado and the Lord
High Executioner, the
three Little Maids fiom
School, and the Titanic
Katisha share the
honours. The success
ot the tour is desctibtd
as utterly ut.precedented.
Paving said this much, it
is scarcely necessray to
add that the company is
under the managenn nt of
Mr. R. S. Smythe, who,
after losing H. M.
S anley, seeks consolation
among Japanese school
girls and rapturous love-
sick maidens.
** * *
Verdi’s new opera,
“ Otello,” proved such
a success that the man-
agers of La Seals, Milan,
took tt e triumphant op-
portunity of going bank-
rupt. At that rate our
well - gilt Triumvirate
ought to have been burst
up by “ The Mikado.”
#* * *
The Misses Joran
have not made a very
considerable fortune in
Melbourne, and they are
to be tendered a compli-
mentary concert on April
30th “as an acknowledg-
ment of the undoubted
ta'ent displayed by these
young artists.” Well,
it’s all right, the Jorans
are clever musicians for
theirages, whateverthose
ages may be. But we
have been bubbling over with “ undoubted talent”
for some considerable time without receiving a
special acknowledgment. The public get the
benefit.
## * *
Some students of Trinity College, Mel-
bourne, played “ Aulularia,” last week, in aid of
the hostel of the sweet girl graduates. The per-
foimances (2) were a refreshing change from the
melodrama of these latter days, and furnished
melancholy proof of our degeneracy. When
Piautus wrote this roaring comedy, some 200
years 8.C., things were bet’er managed than they
aie now r . There was no courting on dining-room
* ofas, with the lights turned low. Fellows mashed
their girls in the street, couples were betrothed in
the street. When anybody, young, middle-pged,
or old, had anything to say, he came into the
street and said it. The educational advantages
of our ancestors are made painfully manifest by
Plautus In his day the vulgar maid-of-all-woi k
knew r a lot more Latin than a modern sassiety
lady. Further, it is evident that our classical
scholars devote a lifetime to the task of acquiring
idioms which w r ere common property 20 centuries
back. These *nd similar humiliating reflections
tormented the ignorant wretches who planked
three half-crowns for a seat in tee Masonic Pall.
For all that there was a pleasant excitement
about the show. Mad anxiety to laugh at the
right moment kept popular interest well sus-
tained, and when proceedings terminated with an
Knglish epilogue, everybody went home satisfied,
and hoped the students wouldn’t do it atrain.
There is plenty of average amateur acting ability
among these young men. If they were to black
their faces and give a nigger entertainment in
Greek we w’ould have no particular objection to
going in with an order. At opera bovffe in Hebrew'
it would be necossary to draw the line.
## # *
As expected, Bland Holt’s “Run of Luck ’ has
developed into a galloping success at Melbourne
Royal. Certain little matters have been attended
to since the first night. A new Daisy filly, of un-
doubted feminine gender, frisks around in place
of the antique golding immortalised in our last
notice, and things have been condensed sufil*
ciently to allow this fiery quadruped to romp in an
easy winner at 11 o’clock sharp. There are 28
characters billed in “A Run of Luck,” irrespec-
tive of horses, hounds, huntsmen, at d other dumb
crea ur< s. Miss Kate Bbhop is ali there as DaLy
Copsley, the fair daugh er of an old b y who be-
comes poor and honest through backing his own
nags. Miss Ida Herbert is a husky but otherwise
enchanting orthodox heiress, and Mrs- W’alter
Hill strikes us as having undergone a hurried pre-
paration for the five-furlong character of some-
body’s aunt. A warm-hearted young person, gone
wrong, is cleverly handled by Miss Watt-Tanner.
The pf cnliaritif s of a procuress are discreetly oour-
trayed by Miss Mabel Tracey, and the rendering of
a nice little part by a Miss Monee Fredric is not
so unnatural as her name. Mr. George Rigm Id
is picturesquely virtuous. Mr B. Flemming is
an effective young squire who redeems a reel-less
past by putting the pot on Daisy. and Mr Glover
is it robust old sw ell engaged in regretting the
sins of his youth. The familiar wict ed captain
of four act dramas falls to the lot of Mr G. R.
Ireland. All the laughs of the evening are re-
served for a flash, slangy beast, named Charlie
Paudown. This is Mr. Bland Holt’s part. He
makes the most of it, carries off the honours —
such as they are. The reception given to Mr. H.
is a feature of the show. Mr. Leake is a very
heavy fa'her, and Mr. Wiseman is dull in the
likely character of a faithful stable-boy. A lot of
e ther people are stiff 'uus weighed out to make a
field. One or two of the young ladies show
enough good looks and quality to be worth watch-
ing for future engagements.
** * *
Signora Majeroni is at present in Sydney.
On dit she intends to appear in public m leading
rOles.
** * *
Gumboil’s own Miss Fortescue. they say,
is going to marry Marcus Mayer, of New York.
Since Frank Clark established his burnt-
cork business at Victoria Hall, Melbourne, a good
many rivals have come to grief at St. George’s
Hall, across the road. Hugo’s Buffaloes have now
taken the house for a season, and this time 'here
seems to be money in the speculation. A bright
first part is backed up by a strong variety pro-
gramme Horacs Bent and Charles Hugo are at
the head of (he male talent, and Miss Priscilla
Verne does more mashing than a blue-eyed curate.
Others of the company come well up to the neces-
sary standard, and the whole show moves along
very briskly—not too much of this, and just
enough of that.
We gave “ The Pickpocket ” three weeks
at Melbourne Opera House, and his sentence ex-
pires on Saturday, 23. TheD, by way of a change,
he busy B’s will try “The Shaughraun,” which
contains more smart writing than ten mchern
dramas. Mr. Robert Brough is to appear as
Harvey Duff, and Boucicault the younger will
play Conn in emulation of his gifted aw ful dad,
Boucicault and Irish drama sounds fetching.
** * *
Artemus Ward says, “ I met a man down
in Oregon who hadn't a tooth in his head, but lie
played the bass drum better than any man in all
the world.” The Sydney Morning Herald says
of the opera “Belisario” :
"Thu chorus of the (Paths was v.ry well sung, notwith
standing the peculiarity of their costumes.”
** * #
The Queen did not ask, “Who is Mr,
Gilbert ”at all. The story is contradicted by the
Era Her Maiesty asked no hing atall about Mr.
Gilbert.
** # *
A ’Frisco paper says : —“ Sara Bernhardt
will be here in May. If they do not go to Aus-
tralia. as is DOW thought of, the company will dis-
band at Pan Francisco, and return to Franco from
here by way of Panama.”
** * #
The N.Y. Mirror says that Signor
Majeroni has made a liberal offer to Alexander
Pa'vini to star through Australia.
A Port Macquarie man sold his horse and
gave an unstamped receipt to the purchaser, who
got diunk. The drunk was searched, the receipt
found by the police and the signer fined £2.
Charles Bright is now, and has for some
time beeD, assistant-editor of the Age. Five-and-
twenly years ago or more he was on the Argus,
duriDg Mr. Higmbotham’s editorship of that
journal.
The Dunedin (N.Z.) volunteers did not
muster strongly at the Easter encampment. They
objected to be carried in cattle-trucks and covered
with tarpaulins —
They all want to fight but, by Jingo, it they do.
They 11 go first c'ass, and not in trucks, as butchers
bullocks do
Some leading English Catholics are taking
steps to get the Pope to canonise Queon Mary of
Scots. But how about “ poor Rizzio?” Is he to
be made a saint, too, or left out in the cold 1 The
couple found each other’s company pleasant dur-
ing life; why should their names he divided in
the calendar of Saints i
Tho following pathetie vprses were gravely
presented by the Lunatic Poet of Varra Bend to a
gentleman who visi’ed that institution the other
day, and were handed to us for publication. Wo
have muclt madder stuff sent to us, and we piint
these as a solemn warning to those persons who
inflict their villainous concoctions on us every
week and want us to print them ;
The following sentence from a circular
just sent to every branch of the British Army,
is worth quoting, as showing to what depth of
grovelling dog-meanness it is possible for a human
being to attain when he devotes all his time to it :
“ In forwarding the enclosed letters and pamphlets rela-
tive to the Imperial Institute, the General Officer Command-
ing d‘ sires me to inform you (privately) that he is of opinion
that one day's pay from all ranks would be ample, but th t
any subscript ion. however small, will be accepted as a mark
of loyalty to the Q ueen. Kindly ensure this being mads known
to all under your command."
The soldier who spends his best years in the ser-
vice of the Queen, w r i h a wage of about Is. a day
and two meals of dry bread—the third meal ai d
the other it< ms of his diet he has to pay for him-
self—and is finally discharged with a wooden leg,
a bullet somewhere in his ribs which 'he sn.geons
can’t dig our, and a pension totalling about eight-
pence-halfpei.ny a day, is called upon to sacrifice
a portion of his miserable pittance as a tribute to
the virtues of a woman who has some £11,000,000
Btacked away, and is adding to her pile with every
succeeding year 1
“ What is the meanirg of this gag-maggery »
Can this guffoclery be ?
Why do they worry me, this rag-taggery.
I'm a bob-tailed C M.G
The world is mad - mad-drunk and staggery,
It can go to h 1 for me.
“ I once wrote verse for the evening journals—
That’s why in here I’m jammen—
Those editors—bah ! they're all internals.
They stole my brains. By the two Eternals
I wish the lot were d d.
“ Whoop ! I’m King of the great mammalia !
This night I intend to clear ;
And when I m out in my grand regalia
I’ll build a wall right round Australia
Labelled, ‘ Only madmen here.’ ”


PEPPER
Salt
The substance of this story comes from a
Sydney religious paper, the Echo. A few weeks
ago a bishop had stacked his episcopal limbs in a
narrow bed at an Australian country inn, and the
landlady, who was resolved to pay him proper
respect, was drilling the boots downstairs and
giving him his first lesson in etiquette. When
ye take up the shaving-water," she said, ye
must knock at the door, and when he asks who a
there, ye must say ‘ The boy, my Lord. Now,
let me hear ye say that.” The unhappy youth
said it accordingly a dozen times over. lie sum
it straight off, and upside down, and crossways ;
he said it sometimes with the boy first, and some-
times with the Lord first, and sometimes with the
two walking abreast, and when he thought he had
go it right so that the bishop would lully under-
stand that it wasn’t the girl he started upstairs
and knocked. The bisnop yelled “ Who s there ?
just as the lady had foreseen, but he was floored
in one [act "when the voice outside responded
promptly, “The Lord, my boy !” Judging from
the way the good man rushed to the door it was
the very last individual whom he had expected
to meet. He had often preached that He came as
a thief in the night, but for Him to arrive with
the shaving-water in the morning was a circum-
stance that took him all in a heap. The conse-
quences to the boy were too painful to be des-
cribed. #
A Melbourne phrenologist solemnly asserts
that “ it is the duty of the Earl of Aberdeen to
keep alive." We must impress the fact upon him.
The will of Aaron Waxman, usurer and
pietist, has been proved in Melbourne. Real and
personal estate, £161,300.
Hobart (Tas.) possesses a prize Jubilee
sycophant who is torn by uncontrollable emotion
when he thinks about his Queen. 1 his gentle-
man got badly shaken up recently when a lecture
was announced on “ Icfidelity and the Jubilee,
and he stucs the following advertisement in the
paper by way of an anecdote
“ All loyal subjects will oblige by leading what was done
with Syme in Victoria Advocates of infidelity and dis-
lovaltv are the promoters of meeting in Domain to-morrow
afternoon Lovers of your Queen, show your loyalty in being
conspicuous by your absence Mothers of Tasmania, if you
want your children to enjoy their sleep, give them your smile
of loyalty.”
Now, what in the name of drivel is this ' smile of
loyalty,” and why won’t the kids sleep without
it 1 We have seen smiles of fiendish malignity
and smiles of imbecility ; we have also seen dog-
fights and whales and a lot of other things, but
this smile of loyalty is one too many for us. Evi-
dently, however, it is something that is handy for
children in Tasmania. If the fond mother of Van
Dieman’s Land uses it, the youngsters will sleep,
while if in place of it she gives them a grin ex-
pressive of contempt for the whole Royal family,
and turns up her nose at Battenberg and his brat,
the baby will howl all night and will positively
refuse to he comforted. The Republican and
Democratic ma of these colonies has evidently a
powerful lot to answer for.
Taking a hsalthy average based on long
experience it appears to ns that a Victorian
coroner is the very last earthly possibility in the
way of an ass. This remark is based chiefly
on a corpse which was discovered about a
fortnight ago in a deserted shaft, atMarong (Vic.)
It was the body of a girl named DaVis, aged 14
rears, and possessed of a reputation which is too
well-known to require description. She was only
partly dressed, and her boots and the remainder
of her clothes were rolled up in a bundle by her
side ; /both her legs were broken, and her neck,
around which a bootlace was tied, was dislocated.
The coroner's theory regarding these circum-
stances was that the girl had “partly undressed
herself and endeavoured to wash her clothes in a
waterhole, and then, in a fit of frenzy, had thrown
herself and her garments down the shaft,” a sug-
gestion which leads us to think that that coroner
would make good glue if he were boiled down,
for a man must be good for something. It never
perms to have dawned on this otlicial that the girl
might have partly undressed at the bottom of the
shaft, and then been killed by jumping up instead
of down, or that she might have fallen oyer the
edge while on her way at a late hour to give her
superfluous garments to the poor, or to subso ibe
to the Jubilee fund, or that she might have
suicided, not in a burst of wrath at the bother of
washing her clothes and boots in a waterhole at
midnight, but because her brain had begun to
whirl through pondering over the stupidity of the
local coroner. Or, to take a wider range, she
might have taken off her boots with a view to
throwing them through a Chinan an’s window,
and before she could accomplish her purpose she
may have been waylaid and flung down the shaft
by a disguised bishop. The coroner at Marong
might kindly have a look at these theories and
see what he thinks of them. They are at least as
good as his own, and they are presented rather in
sorrow than in anger.
“There are to be bath-rooms in the new
Age (Melb.) offices. The Age can surely no
lODger be a democratic paper.” —Extract from
letter by J. P .
A 23-days’ service between England and
Australia will soon be an accomplished fact. The
N.Y. Tribune states authoritatively that the
Canadian Pacific Railroad Co. have purchased the
fastest steamship of the Cunard line to run be-
tween Vancouver and Australia. This must
“The Pope has anathematised cremation. "—Daily Paper
DEVIL (to Pope): “THANKS, OLD BOY. YOU’RE THE PROPER SORT OF BUSINESS
RIVAL—A PERFECT GENTLEMAN, IN FACT, SOME PEOPLE WOULD HAVE
BEEN MEAN ENOUGH TO TRY AND POACH ON MY PRESERVES.”
mean either the Umbria or the Etruria, the
fastest ocean merchant steamers in the world.
The former is 7800 tons, and the latter 7718 tons ;
and they have speed of fully, if not more than,
20 knots per hour. Jprojios, the Arrow Co. of
N.Y. are building a steamer, the Pocahontas,
which is to have engines of 27,900 horse-power,
and to attain the phenomenal speed of 22 knots
per hour, or fully two knots faster than any mer-
chant vessel now afloat. The R. M.S. Ormuz (the
Orient Co.’s “ ship of the age ”) attained a speed
of nearly 18 knots on her trials, and was expected
to be able to do the voyage to Australia in 28
days.
“Subscriber” writes us an interesting
letter in answer to the article entitled “ Sur-
veyors’ Chinamen,” which appeared in The Bul-
letin of 19th March. In that article we pointed
out that it was half-way between a fraud and a
swindle that the N.S.W. Government should be
charged £2 2s. a week in name of wages for a man
who really gets only 15s. and board, and that the
case was not improved when the man was em-
ployed half his time chopping firewood, nursing
his master’s baby, and driving his master’s wife
abroad. “Subscriber,” however, points out that
the surveyor receives a certain allowance for
wages, and that the amount he really pays over
“ is lhjft, and rightly, a matter between him and
his men.” Just so. But. supposing a clerk re-
ceives a certain sum with which to pay his em-
ployer’s workmen, and, after giving them one
half, embezzles the rest, perhaps the matter would
not strike “Subscriber” in quite the same light.
Further, he says that there are unavoidable
breaks in the work of a surveyor, and that the
men should be kept employed during inter-
vals to prevent them “loafing about or playing
pitch and toss.” We hadn't thought of that. The
surveyor, at one and the same time, saves and
pockets half the men’s wages, preserves their
morals, and avoids incurring the expense of a
nursemaid. When a man can get rich and get his
baby nursed gratis, and can save another man’s
immortal soul by docking his screw and making
him nurje the said baby at the country’s expense,
why, of course his duty is clear.
Moat noble Earl, we beg of you
That you will always strive
Your simple duty for to do
And keep yourself alive.
The world has need of busy bees
Like you inside the hive —
We beg you, on our bended knees,
To keep yourself alive.
Without the aid of noble peers
Old England cannot thrive,
And so we hope for many years
You’ll always keep alive.
Take heed to wear an overcoat
When you go for a drive,
And tie a muffler round your throat—
Yes, keep yourself alive.
When you attend a swagger dance
Don’t gallop round till live,
Nor throw away the slightest chance
Just keep yourself alive.
Good tipple with your dinner take ;
Much strength you will derive
From doing so. For pity s sake,
Now, keep yourself alive !
If Ireland you should boss again,
On no account connive
At Tory tricks, but make it plain
You mean to keep alive.
Though others at life’s journey’s end
May, day by day, arrive,
We crust that you will condescend
To keep yourself alive.
Addresses, banquets, dreary bores
Try bravely to survive,
And when you quit Australian shores
May you be shipped alive !
DE MORTUIS-THE PLAIN TRUTH.
A damned pile ! Of bitter, bitter tears
Those figures told,
Shed by poor, pliant spendthrifts, young in years,
And widows old ;
Of curses ringing in unheeding ears
And plaintive pleading met with cruel sneers.
Of Aaron’s gold
Could ghosts of dead men, rotting oa their biers,
A tale unfold.
De mortuis nil nisi bonum. Why
Such maxims preach ?
“Thou know'sb ’tis common—all that live must
die ”
Death comes to each ;
And nought avails a monumental lie
At the dread reck’ning in the By-and-Bye.
E’en parsons teach
For mercy those, who mercy did deny,
In vain beseech.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ The Vagabond,” according to last ad-
vices, has not yet slain a Wesleyan minister, but
is yachting in Port Phillip training for the South
Seas again. Julian is going into the copra trade.
The Archbishop of Yotk says “ a nation
can never become moral until it becomes sober.
But
Can a buhop be meek
On £2OO a week?
Prince Albert Victor, Potts Point and
Toorak will be interested to hear, is to visit Ire-
land this summer, and make an extended tour of
ihe country. An Eoglish paper suggests that he
should travel incog, as a draper’s assistant.
Mr. Fred. Wolseley’s (be now spells his
name “Woolesley”) sheep-shearing machine is
not an absolutely original idea. Twenty-five years
ago Mr. Ettershank, of Melbourne, invented some-
thing of the sort, which, however, was only a par-
tial success.
The Duke of Westminster—considered to
be the most substantially rich man in the world—
rejoices in a nonagenarian mother. He has
£BOO,OOO a year (from freer.old property), a joung
and pretty second wife, and a fair family pros.ect
of living for ever, or something like it.
The S.M. Herald informs us that “the
King of Sweeden and Mr. imith” are doing
something in conjunction. We are anxious to
know v-hich Mr. Smith > We have an uncle Smith,
who is remarkably addicted to low, bad company,
and we ne er feel surprised at any depths he may
sink to.
It is re ated that “ some months ago a
lady, sightseeing at Windsor, saw the Queen
about to start for her daily drive, when out of the
’ Castle rushed the Dube of Edinburgh, and, step-
ping up to the carriage, began to speak to the
Queen. Her Majesty, with a look of displeasure,
interrupted him and made a slight gesture toward
the Duke’s hat, which was still on his head. The
Duke looked confused, quickly uncovered, and
made a low bow. He finished his conversation
with his hat in his hand.”
“ The Vagabond ” has, in his lecture,
been figuratively throwing up his hat at the fact
that The Aoe has two of its men, Deakin and
Dow, in the Victorian Ministry. Does this mean
that Julian is going to follow in the footsteps of so
many Argus writers, and migrate to Syme’s
paper? The sketches of “ Picturesque Victoria ’’
are now being witten in The Argus by “ Telema-
chus ” (Mr. Francis Myers )
One gallant Lieutenant Colonel of the Vic
torian Army is so short-sighted that even with
double barrelled binoculars he is unable to see his
men. “ Stand at ease ! ” he thundered forth at
the Easter Review. “ Why the don’t you
stand at ease ! ” “That’s wot we are a doin',
sir,” said Private Jones. Gallant Colonel advanc-
ing : “Aw! so you are aw aw My
mistake, gentlemen.” And this is war !
The Gracious Queen Victoria has been
graciously pleased to send (through the medium
of a “collect” cablegram) an expression of her
gracious “sympathy” with the distressed widows
and orphans of Bulli However, she didn’t remit
anything but jaw—jaw. “ Talk is cheap ” —and
it's none the dearer or more precious if cabled a
long way at the public expense. Vic.’s heart is
unprotected, but her pocket s boiler-lined.
The amenities of journalism still flourish
up North. ThKdeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner, comes from Kerry, and in response to an
insulting advertisement in the rival paper he
elegantly says:
"It is Quite possible that the editor of the Northern
Mixer, whom it is proposed to bring into public ridicule by
the Kerry --owl might plug J -bn Hooligan, or John
Lynch, or La de-Dah Walker in tee mouth with 1 his hit of a
stick,’ or something harder, which would save the dentist
the trouble of extracting s jme very dirty teeth."
More judicial humour. At a recent Liver-
pool Assizes, a poor wretch pleaded “ guilty,”
when a barrister, rushing into Court, announced
that he had been instructed to defend. There-
upon the aeeused altered his plea to “ Not
guilty,” and so, eventually, the jury pronounced
him. In discharging him, Judge Hawkins said :
“ The jury have found that you are not guilty,
but Ido not envy you your feelings, On your own
confession you are a thief, and the jury have
found that you are a liar.”
At a Bulli Belief meeting in Melbourne
the other day, Mr. Purves, barrister—the same
who, dressed only in his pyjamas and a poker, re-
cently chased a midnight marauder—said that he,
as well as the unlucky miners, earned his bread at
the risk of his life. From this we imagine that
Purves fully expects to be killed sooner or later
by some much-bullied witness. It has often
struck us that this would be the end of it, but we
didn’t like to mention our idea lest it might be
supposed we were inciting to justifiable homicide.
If you like, however, you can call it murder.
M. le Comte Ulj sse de Seguier, now
French Consul in Sydney, is a soldier, a diplomat,
and a man of letters. As an officer of the French
army, he has seen service in the Crimea, in Italy,
and in Mexico, and was attached i close per-
sonal service to the unfortunate Kmperor Maxi-
milian. He lately undertook an important diplo-
matic mission foMadagascar, and waasubsequently
appointed Consul in Crete. On the death of M.
Jo lien Decourt he was appointed to succeed that
gentleman as French Consul at Sydney. In litera-
ture Comte De Seguier has perforn ed no ordinary
work by his translations of the “ Loves of Ovid ”
and the ‘‘Odes of Horace."
Patrick O'Brien, an alleged light of Roman
Catholicism in Victoria, is dead {vide last week’s
cablegram). He had been in the Legislative
Assembly for a few years, and was known chiefly
for concluding every speech with the words,
“Them’s my sentiments, Mr. Speaker.” Still,
Patrick had good common sense, and knew how
to make money. The most remarkable fact of his
later years was his donation to St. Patrick's
Cathedral, Melbourne, of the sum of £lOOO. Im-
mediately after this, he was made a knight of
St. Gregory the Great “for services in the Catholic
Cause.” Of course the £lOOO had nothing to do
with the giving of the distinction, and the fact
that the order was conferred so shortly after the
donation was only a coincidence—such as occurs
sometimes in C.M.G. affairs.
“ How does the Good Shepherd know His
sheep I’’1 ’’ asked Tommy’s father on the Sunday
afternoon after the return of his eldest son afore-
said from a visit to his uncle’s sheep-station.
“ That’s an easy one,” chuckled Tommy, who felt
that his time to score had come. “ Some on ’em,
le slits their ears, and th’ rest he marks wid a
chunk o' red chalk.” Then Tommy was ear-
marked by the old man.
It is reported that a Sydney detective
raided an illicit still in a Sydney suburb the other
Sunday. The information available is very scanty,
but as the intelligent officer was found lying in-
sensible under a cask with three bottles of stag-
nant water in his pockets and an empty glass by
his side, it is presumed that the affair was a plant
aad that the representative of the law had taken
a deep swallow of mud, water, tadpoles, polly-
wogs, and other sundries before he discovered
that it was not whisky after all.
We cut the following from the Melbourne
Weekly Times Read it after you have been
Ailing yourself with back-blocks rum for a week,
and if you survive, and regain the use of your
reason, write and let us know how you did it 2
11 Cut an earth-worm in two, and place the two haired in a
flower-pot with earth kept constantly moist, and in less
than a year you will find two whole worms. A head will
hav grown on the half that had but a tail, while a tail will
have grown on the half that had none."
If you want to get the most enjoyment possible
out of the above, think of it at night when you
can't sleep, and the figures on the wall-paper be-
gin to crawl around the room and twist themselves
together. If it doesn’t keep you amused then you
must be a perfect glutton for excitement.
The following item is cut from the Sydney
D.T. :
“ For pure, unadulterated Jubilee twaddle (says a London
paper) a letter signed ’ Victoria,’ in an Australian contem
porary, surely stands alone. The letter suggests that as a
befitting way of celebrating the Queen's Jubilee, the whole
cadet force of Victoria—about 3000 boys—should be sent to
England to take part in reviews, &c. 1 Victoria ’ says:—* It
iB easy to prophesy the waves of enthusiasm that would spread
over England on the publication of a telegram from our Pre-
mier—” Victoria sends 3000 of her children to honour the
great Queen Mother.” We find it much easier to prophesy
the gresu seas of ridicule that would moisten the inspired
iuiot who would attempt to execute such a plan.”
We have no desire to touch up the Daily Tele-
graph s sores or to hit it on its tender literary
boil, but we would point out that the above item
appeared about three months ago in The Bul-
letin. Then it was copied without acknowledg-
ment by Society, a London weekly which fills up
half its columns with extracts from this paper,
and prospers exceedingly in consequence, and the
D T. borrows it from this new source, and ac-
knowledges it as taken from “ a London paper.”
The D.T. never by any chance, in the course of its
beneficent endeavours, borrows items direct from
The Bulletin, but it, like the Sydney Echo,
gladly takes them at second-hand when they are
stamped with the kind approval of a British
literary prig.
Ever since Esau sold his copyright for a
bottle of potash this world has been full of duffers,
and Mr. James Broadbridge, of Melbourne, is ob-
viously one of them. Woman, lovely woman, is,
of course, at the bottom of the bother. James
was a clerk at Reuter's telegraph agency, and he
was in love with a sweet young creature whom he
called‘ Julie. ” This lady's image haunted him,
and even when he left the agency and took to
banking, her face used to get between his aching
eyes and Smith’s overdraft, and keep him from
giving his strict attention to business. But one
muggy morning Mr. Broadbridge awoke to the dis-
covery that the young lady had given her maiden
heart to another, and then he resigned his billet
and went back to Melbourne. There his first proceed
ing was to hunt up his old employer, for whom he
left a note Btating that as his life was no longer
an object of personal interest he was going to be-
come a corpse on the instant. But instead of do-
ing this he came back again, apparently to see if
his late boss was going to make it worth his while
to continue alive, and then finding that there was
no answer to his letter he proceeded to fake it out
by dying on the premises. He swa owed some
" Rough on Human Beings ” in the presence of
the office-boy and then lay down on rhe door-step
making remarks about the perfioious Julio. Bven
after he had been pumped out in the lock-up he
wanted to tase off his clothes and send them to
the young lady, but this act of homage was sup-
pressed by a policeman. Regarded as a buicide
James Broadbridge seems to be a fraud. His
burning anxiety to find someone to prevent him
doing the job stamps him as a fraud, and his mean
attempt to pass away on another man’s premises
and under the terrified gaze of another man’s
office-boy, ranks as one of the most contemptible
things we have heard of for a long time.


POLITICAL
POINTS
W. J. Foster—Willing Judge Foster.
Tonga is provided with a Baker and plenty
of butchers.
Fully 100,000 persons took part in a
demonstration in Hyde Park, London, to protest
against the Irish Crimes Bill.
The Jubilee thanksgiving service in West-
minster Abbey is to cost £12,000. That ought to
reach the throne of grace, anyway.
Sir Julius Vogel proposes to buy all the
Australian telegraphic cables. The Father of Lies
has already got a mortgage on them.
A S.A. contemporary calls the N.S.W.
Government the “ Sydney Government.” That
editor knows what he's talking about.
While a cheese-paring N.S.W. Govern-
is shutting down on the Civil servants, the toy
officers in the military camp are allowed five shil-
lings a day for their wine-allowance.
It is rumoured that England and China
have agreed that, should thoro bo further Russian
aggressions on the Affghan frontier, the Chinese
are to be “turned on” against the Muscovite.
It is alleged that a few days ago a brilliant
member of the N.S.W. Government turned up the
corner of an official document and wrote, for a
clerk’s direction, “ Reply to This that their is no
Anser."
The London Times says of the Irish Par-
liamentary party that “ they are men who draw
their living and their notoriety from the steady
perpetration of crime for which civilisation
decrees the gallows.”
In the N.S.W. Legislature Council, the
other day, Hon. George Thornton declared that
multum in parvo meant “ much water in little
milk.” Bitter experience at temperance-bars may
have mixed up George’s Latin.
The Toowoomba (Q.) Debating Society has
decided by the casting vote of the chairman that
Australia is to remain for ever under monarchial
rule. It is hard to guess what might have hap-
pened to Australia if that chairman had not had a
casting vote.
The Sydney tramways carry about
40,000,000 passengers annually, and the receipts
are nearly £224,000 a year. Still—not to put too
fine a point upon it—the tramways don’t pay.
That is to say, they don’t pay the Government,
dontcherknow.
A Newcastle elector thus writes to The
Bulletin about tho N.S.W. Premier.—“ When
Sir Henry was up here I asked him two questions.
The first he replied to by eating me a ‘Brazen
faced man, who dared to ask such a thing,’ the
second he answered by telling me to ‘ shut up.’ ”
“ All round,” says a London paper, “ the
same question is asked, * Ain’t Jyou going to give
me nothink?’ and until it is answered with a
shower of stars and ribands, and orders and de-
corations, the Jubilee looks like being the first
big frost the Prince of Wales has ever been con-
nected with.”
Bradlaugh was once a dragoon. While in
Ireland on eviction-duty he saw a sink husband
carried out to die ; a few days afterwards the wife
was found with one child dead at her breast, and
the other dying. Bradlaugh has reason to be a
Radical. And yet we don’t know. It wasn’t his
wife. It wasn’t his child.
Treason ! Half the members of Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum Committee have refused to
sign the address to Her Gracious for permission
to change the institution’s name to “ Royal ”
Benevolent Asylum. Further, they have asked
Gov. Loch not to forward the address, while one
has taken advice on the point 1
Bishop Moorhouse won’t have any Jubilee
nonsense. He is not going to support the Church
House, which is intended to be a sort of “ free
and easy ” for elderly prelates on a visit to
London away from their wives on “ Convocation ”
business. Moorhouse has just started a Jubilee
Relief Fund for the Manchester poor, and expects
to get £30,000.
Vanity Fair (London) in reply to a cor-
respondent, says that Queensland I per cents are
“ good for a moderate risk, notwithstanding that
the debt of that colony amounts to £22,000,000 and
thepopulationisunder 250,0001” It also thinks that
the Bank of South Australia is good for a deposit
of £lOOO, but “wouldn’t advise him to put the
money there,” all the same. Vanity has evi-
dently heard of the bank-saints of Australia’s holy
city.
Britain has some small dispute on with
Hayti about money-matters—a dishonoured
cheque, probably—and threatens to blow the little,
worn-out, negro Republic into the middle of the
At'antic unless her demands are satisfied. Some
months ago a Russian general abducted and
flogged a British Consulate clerk on the Persian
frontier and nothing was said. This system of
hitting a small enemy and cringing to a big one
would be called grovelliDg cowardice if anyone
else did it.
Vanity Fair rises to move that the
Queen should in her Jubilee year make a “ Royal
Progress” through Canada, India, and Australia;
and Society at the same time suggests that she
should take a monthly trip through tbe East End
of London and have a look at the, ghastly faces of
the starving thousands in that God forgotten
region. There is apparently a vile conspiracy be-
tween these two journals to shock the old lady to
death. At all events we trust she won't come
here ; we'll pay anything rather than that.
Copy of a resolution passed by the Thurles
(Tipperary) Board of Guardians :
“ Inasmuch as in this, the fiftieth year of the reign of
Queen Victoria, our laws are being made and administered
by a little German Prince, the Privy Council, aud the Court
of Queen’s Pencil; our Press ia being persecuted, our
national leaders prosecuted, the houses of our tenantry are
being burned, and all Catholic Jurors are told to stand aside;
we, the Guardians of the Thurles Union, hereby decline to
take any part in the celebration of her Jubilee.”
The words “ little German Prinoe ” apply to
Prinee Edward of Saxe-Weimar, Commander of
the Forces in Ireland.
At the great temperance demonstration in
the East End of London on February 23rd, one of
the speakers, Mr. J. H, Roper, said : “ You are
going to have the Q.ueen down here soon,” where-
upon the vast assemblage hissed and hooted and
cried : “We don t want her here ; we are out of
work ! ” Roper tried hard to get a further hear-
ing on the subject of H.M.’s visit, but the men-
tion even of the revised National Anthem produced
such demonstrations of disapproval as to warn
him to abandon the tOyic. So much for loyally in
the capital of Britain.
CHe Chinese in Australia seem to enjoy a
larger benefit from the laws than the white popu-
lation. At Palmerston iN.T.), the privileged
pagans keep their business places open on Sunday,
while the white man is compelled to keep a strict
observanoe of the Sabbath with closed shutters.
Washing, mangling, tailoring, and similar estab-
lishments run by heathen Chinkies are allowed to
do trade while the Chris ians, because they are
Christians, are forced to calmly look on and swear
under their breath at the suicidal laws that handi-
cap them with such rivals.
The Financial News wants something in
return for its Jubilee donation. It has ottered
£5OO to the Imperial Institute on condition that
the disbursements of the £215,292 received at the
London Healtheries Exhibition shall be audited
by a competent person. The South Kensington
ring, which is nothing but a conspiracy to run up
A FACT.
NEILD, M.P. (to Parkes M.P.): “WHY ON EARTH IS THAT ODIOUS PERSON, MELVILLE,
MAKING SUCH A TREMENDOUSLY LONG SPEECH TO NIGHT?”
PARKED: “ OH, HE’S BEEN A MUTE SO LONG THAT HE IS TRYING TO MAKE UP
FOR LOST TIME.
in value the vast properties locally owned by
Queen Victoria, will, of course, shudder at the
idea. It is estimated that over £650,000 was re-
ceived at the Healtheries and the Inventories Ex-
hibitions, and not a scrap of a statement of dis-
bursements has ever been published.
German Socialism will yet drown German
Imperialism. At the Berlin election in 1867,
when the Socialist Labour Party, as they call
themselves, first put forward candidates, they
obtained only 68 votes. This year they have
polled 93,000. Their total vote in Germany in
1877 was about 440,000 ; it is now over 750,000.
They attribute their loss of representatives in
Saxony at the late election to tho calling out of
the reserves “ for practice with the new rifle,” by
which some 10,000 votes were withdrawn from
the poll; and to the action of the Saxon Poor
Law, which disfranchises the recipient of Poor
Law relief.
“Even the most ardent friends of the
Jubilee Imperial Institute” (saysthe Bat) “ admit
that the ‘ beating up ’ of subscriptions has hitherto
been a failure. Of course, all the talk about an
army ‘poll-tax,’ in aid of the scheme, is sheer
mischievous nonsense, but undoubtedly the finan-
cial necessities of the promoters have led them
into measures only too capable of being misunder-
stood. There is now some talk of a Paliamentary
grant being asked for. That, too, looks like an
attempt to make John Bull a subscriber malgre
lui , and cannot be regarded as part of the spon-
taneous offering of a loyal and joyful people. The
plain fact is, that the proiect has failed to hit the
popular taste.”
Oh, for a Dailey at the helm of State once
more ! You have all read this : “ A curious com-
plication has arisen between Great Britain and
the Republic of Hayti, in the West Indies.” Here
is the Grand old Mother Country in another hour
of her direst need, and the veterans of N.S.W.
stand idly by and drink shandygaff! It is a sorry
fall. Perhaps, however, it is just as well. “ God’s
images cut in ebony ” of Hayti are much given to
a mild creed known as Vandouxism which is a
species of cannibalism sanctified with religious
ceremonies. “The goat without horns” is the
pleasant, not to say humorous, euphemism in use
among them to describe a human victim. On the
whole, it might, perhaps, be better for N.S.W. to
bo content with the Soudan goat and the glory we
have. It is unwise to tempt Fate too much.
The redoubtable Mr. A. G. Taylor last
week made his first appearance in the N.S.W.
Assembly since he signed his name in a big round
hand on the omening day of the present session.
Head-disorders, arising from stomachic ditto, have
stretched the man from Mudgee in his little bed
of late, but he is now on the mend, and his coming
reply to Dr. Cortis’s “conscientious” attack on
him will be worth riding 15 miles in a springless
van over a corduroy road to hear. Here is a
little story about Dolph. During his last elec-
tioneering campaign he was holding forth on the
dignity of toil, when one of the tunicatus populus,
or shirt-sleeved crowd, called out, “ Yah ! what
do you know about hard work ? ” To which
Mudgee’s senior promptly replied : “I know as
much about hard work as you do about hard
labour, and that’s saying a very great deal in-
deed.”
Mr. Waddell, senior member for the
Bourke (N.S.W.) district, was interviewed the
other day by a local deputation bent on eliciting
his views regarding the new tariff. Mr. Waddell,
who was elected as a trimmer of no mean order,
dodged the question in these memorable words :
“Mr. Waddell: ‘I shall have to consider the matter, I
should not like to t ay yet, as I shall have to give it very care-
ful corsideration. I may say that lam not altogether in
favour of the new tariff, but I must consider what we should
have to expect in the place of it. It is a serious question,
and I shall leave it open to the last moment. A great many
members have not made up their minds.’ Quest on : ‘Are
you of opinion that the number of unemployed walking the
country at the present moment in a starving condition is
more than counterbalanced by the number of ships deily
entering Sydney Harbour freighted with foreign sroods?’
Mr. Waddell: ‘ Gentlemen, this is a ihoit unfair question.
Ido not know if it is intended as a catch. (No, no.) Ido
not admit the fact that the shipping has anything to do
with the unemployed. The cause of the want of em-
ployment is due to the want of a proper Land Act !
Question : ‘ Would you be in favour of Parliament voting a
sufficient sum of money to send our unemployed to German
and other foreign workshops in order that they might assist
in manufacturing goods for Australian consumption.’ Mr.
Waddell: 1 Anothei unfair question. Who would go back
to Germany ? (Mr. Robertson: If the Government would
send me and my family back home, I won’t trouble Austr. -
lia again.) Ido not admit that the fiscal policy of the colony
has anything to do with the number of unemployed. The
principal causes of the present depression are—(l) a bad
Land Act; (2) general depression of trade all over tbe
world ; (3) previous bad government.’ ”
The Sydney D.T. speaking of this interview,
boasts that its friend Mr. Waddell “ sent his ques-
tioners away as wise as they came. For once it
was right. A man who has no opinions of his own
or. having any, is too cowardly to express them,
is hardly the person to enlighten anybody or any-
thing.
Mr. B R. Wise, the young N.S.W. poli-
tician “ without a hair on his phiz,” is evidently
bidding high for the Attorney-Generalship which
is likely to become vacant on Mr. Foster (for
“purely patriotic reasons”) accepting the new
judgeship that the Government propose shortly
to create. Following in the wake of the
, Government proposal to deprive clerks of petty
sessions of fees, Mr. Walker moved for leave to
bring in a Bill to deprive the Attorney-General of
patent fees, which mean over £lOOO a year to
that office. Mr. Wise baulked the Northumbrian
reformer in the initial stage by objecting in a very
emphatic way to the motion being passed as a
formal one. Another fact which gives colour to
the suggestion that Wise is the coming Attorney
General is that Parkes always addresses him a-
the “ hon. and leaimed member ” —a distinction
to w'hich he has hitherto objected on the ground
that all members are equal “in the sight of the
Constitootion.”
The Neapolitans are about the dirtiest
people in the world. A Parisian recently sent a
bath-tub to a gentleman in Naples as a present,
and received a note a day or two after, asking
when the oars were coming.
Bismarck’s large consumption of brandy
during his speeches in the Reichstag, has brought
out the alleged fact that he has been a confirmed
tippler for many years. After the Franco-German
war, when the treaty of Frankfort was to bo
drawn up, M. Thiers was in a quandary as to
whom he should send as the Representative o"
! France. M. Pouyer-Quertier, to-day a Senator,
I was finally hit upon, “because he could drink as
much as the Chancellor.”
A Melbourno “ trap ” tried to acquire the
manly art of smoking in one lesson the other
night, and, after consuming a powerful black
cigar, sat down on a doorstep to think. Whilst
he was in the act a couple of mean thieves eased
him of 2s. and a handcuff-key. The wretche
X. endeavoured to make an arrest, but hi>
misery was too much for him, aud he had to call
in the assistance of a brother guardian. There's
a tricky law point involved in this little fracas.
Can that policeman charge his inner man with
impeding him whilst he was in the execution of
his duty ?
THIS WICKED WORLD
In N. S. W. the Crown pays a barrister £BO
for prosecuting at au court. ... The Jen-
nirgs nfteen-days-drunk Jubilee would h4re done
oome good after all. The gaols at Forbes and
Glen Innes are as empty as the N.S. W. Parliamen.
bar afcar an all-night sitting The Clarence
River blackfellosvs predict that this year the local
cane-crops will be destroyed by fro3t,_... An angler
who went to fi3h in the Namoi hooked a dead man
At Napier, N.Z , one Parsonage, while drunk:
in gaol, smashed in his skull by battering against
the wall. The jury returned a verdict of “ death-
from natural causes.” Happy is the country
where whisky and bricks are natural causes
Owing to th 3 present Civil Service policy of the
Parkesites there’s far more swearing out of office
i than swearing in....A repentant sinner was rather
lengthy in his confession of crime at a Bundaberg
(Q ) Harmy service, when the captain whispered
to him, ‘ You are rather long ; cut it short and
make the collection.” At the little town of
Bourke (N.S.W.), 86 men have petitioned the
Mayor for work or food on the ground that they
and their families are absolutely starving
Archdeacon Clarke, of N.Z,, had a few Maori
clergymen staying at his man3e some time ago.
One day they were regaled on beef-steak
that pie killed three of them, and the others had
to fight for their lives. Mr. Archdeacon did not
partake of the pie, he knew' the kind of cook Mi g»
Archdeacon was “ Why, Bill, yer meaner nor
a dook or lord !” is the expression with which the
Collingwood gamin now withers up an offending
companion Six Chinamen, w’ho left Port
Darwin by the Airlie about three weeks ago,
took 497 ounces of "gold to the Flowery Land with
them.
* * *
A little burlesque actress who went to
enslave the English provinces, and lost her lug-
gage on the way, wrote, without a thought of
guile, to the editor of the local paper to say that
she had lost every stitch of her stage wardrobe,
but would appear all the same that evening
Mr. Samuel Murfitt, the biggest man in England*
died the other day, aged 55, at Tipton, England.
His dimensions were—he’ght, 6ft. lin. ; weight*
• 10 stone ; girth of waist, lOOin......Brevity is the
soul of wit. Recently, a printer driven for space*
and finding insufficient room for the words* “ Our
Gracious Sovereign, substituted “Our Gracious
Quid.” It is calculated that each gambling-
table at Monte Carlo wins from £l5OO to £2OOO a
day, and shows a gross gain from the eight tables
of from £12,000 to £16,000. These sums must be
multiplied by 365 to show the probable yearly in-
come, as Sundays are the busiest days of the
whole year. This prosperous hell soothes its con*
science by building cathedrals and keeping a bishop.
. ..The Lord Mayor of Dublin announces the rece*i t
of lOdol. f om a New Yorker, which sum, tbe
sender said, was to be applied ‘ in any way that
will annoy Great Britain.” On a rough estimate#
therefore, there is £2 Is. Bd. worth of unpleasant-
ness stored up for poor old J. Bull The British
clergy, seeing what’s ahead, have begun lo alter
their style. The Bishop of Lincoln actually went
the other day to pay the last offices to a condemned
murdere", a miserable fisherman In one hotel
in the Riviera at the time of the late earthquakes
there were 14 old maids, 63 widows of various
ages, and one young man. Unhappy mortal!
the Duke of Edinburgh has got rid of his flag-
lieutenant, because the. latter had ‘ said things”
about the Germans “ Between the years 1783
aud 1857 the kingdom of Naples lost no less than
110,000 inhabitants by the effects of earthquakes,
or more than 1500 a year, out of a population of
6,000,000 New song—“ Let me Cadge Them
for My Mother.” 1 edicated to the Prince of
Wales. Beautifully illustrated by a German
artist In two keys—A flat for subscribers to the
Imperial Institute and B sharp for others ; post
free, 2s. Toady and Sod, Regent-street, London ....
It is now in Eeriou-t contemplation to reduce the
price of the London Times to one penny There
have of late been so many libel actions in England
that a London paper defines newspaper proprietors
as “a class of men whose public utterances are
confined to saying ‘ Not Guilty.’” Dilke is now
writing a good deal for the Athknteum, which, as
everybody knows, belongs to him The very
latest Salvation Army advertisement:
“Sunday. All day. The Angels’ Band. The Ten Virgin*
will siug and speak at 3 p.m. Night, at 6.30 p.m , Ten
Virgins, with lamps trimmed and burning, in white.”
At a “ Women’s J .bilee meeting” in an Eng-
lish village the other day, it was explained that
the money was being collected to enable the Queen
to abdicate in favour of the Prince of Wales. The
assembly thought the idea an excellent one, and
more than one speaker “ hoped that enough money
would be obtained.” St. James’s Chapel costs
the Queen, or rather the British taxpayers £4OOO
a year. The last time she entered it was 25 years
ago Ia Colorado hey hang a man who refuses
to marry the girl. Tne poor devil is invariably
glad to get off easy At. a recent ball at tho
M6tropo!e Hotel, London, one lady carried £lOO,OOO
worth of diamonds on her. And then people talk
of hard times and such nonsense! Eviction in
Ireland followed by tho transfer of the evicted
poor to the nearest Union, is now called “ Cut his
head aLd give him a plaister business.” Two .
churchwardens of Liverpool Anglican Church,
England, upon two candles being lighted on the
altar, jumped over the Communion rails and blew
them ou’, sayi g there was enough light in the
Homo if God without candles Part of Zulu*
land has been brought beneath the beneficent rule
of England. Heaven help thenigg rs! Prin*
cess William of Prussia has another eon. This
gives Queen Victoria a fifth great-grandchild
Very prolific, these Germans.


7he fame Con^'f ,^iec^'
/'Jure o/ % 9.
* Jet m e
’Ft/t/S .
) "I---
'Tfie A&U! Qurrt. CCno 4ck
fA e o/c/es/~ /nAai/AccnAs
UfvrcZfcrif- area Ca-me.
' out u)ifl)Out~an
limb relic *-
A* ' .coAr/e /ora dry/Ace To A n d
fer/a s sen y ers Ce-me ftea.r Ccdrc/tftq Ctf/7Z~co.
fra ten tf/ree f- /rccnr. . 77re E/rr u yi reo//!* (T/cc/rrr
/Ao-7 Trccm's 'f/ccr/rrjj cfea-r alas ou79_f °*~-
der
/? ///?/. orrD Ac'7a A<s corn eAT
Coffee 7 7Ec renfy “TyAj/ Z'/r*
A/+s/~ // /Ae A/eo/n/n ouse-
cSodr? tye
JeoOer /
A*#” 1 * k
7
M,VV;..
\ 7e’ f
J//A
°* ( v'
*y
A/ —rJ Af—L LL E O/oi
*See rt o/tjarn
=— Z*ctrfcLmenf~ //t>cz\Se ffl CL
feczfy Co///n.
.. >;<••.*■'■ -
f arr! ’
rreurj o/tfe. <£>*
Co/fa/je */ Jbcoer 03
■feee/ trecJ A cf//f*>sn.atrC O/refes aArod.cZ CdA*
fi/ery cfemorzeS-naSrort. O/ % r ' e / -
florJArj At*}
/ ZZ TJA/J
Q(r ft/Efty £u*/romned
A Aare <x Ar/dae 6urft
across A Treer
Af or,C *' y^o/
After the Deluge—What?
SOME INCIDENTS OF A RAINY DAY IN SYDNEY.


Let Us Federate.
LITTLE RED RIDING ROOD AUSTRALIA: “O, GRANDMOTHER, WHAT NICE IMPERIAL TEETH YOU HAVE!"
GRANNY DOWNING - STREET: “ALL THE BETTER TO CHEW YOU UP WITH, MY LITTLE COLONIAL PEAR."


'I he best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had
in Sydney, and at a reasonable price, far les3 than
London or Paris prices, is at Hust s Boot Em
porium, 408 George-street, corner of Sydney
Arcade. Come and see for yourself.*
Society
On Wednesday evening last Governor and
Lady Carington gave their first dance of the sea-
son at Government House, Sydney, when 200
guests were present.
The Mayor and Mayoress of Sydney will
give a plain and fanev dress ball in honour of the
Queen’s Jubilee at Sydney Exhibition Building on
June 22. It is not every city that has two Queen's
Jubilees inside of 13 months.
* * *
Prince George of Wales has, it is said,
presented a pretty little file of unpaid bills to his
father, to whose remonstrances he answers :
*• Yeu were no better yourself at my age, sir.”
Lord Carington didn’t go to Sydney races
during Holy Week. Nevertheless, certain of his
titled entouraoe went openly to the ungodly
show. His lordship ostentatiously keeps away
from the gee-gees during the sacred period, but
does not prevent the attendance at the scene of
unholy frivolity of a number of gentlemen who
are taken by the public to represent him. His Ex-
cellency is a great diplomatist in a small way, and
he will undoubtedly give ‘ every satisfaction.”
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Fullford gave a very
enjoyable “At Home” at their residence, Nor-
wood, Hurstville, on the Gth inst. Dancing was
the order of the evening, and the ballroom floor
was all that could be desired. Several songs
were contributed between the dances, and added
to the general pleasure.
• * *
The new cab that has recently come upon
the Sydney and Melbourne streets, wherein the
fare sits with his back to the gee-gee and the
driver upon an ordinary box in front —not an
serial perch—appears to us to offer many advan-
tages to the tricky passenger. For instance, if
you are on for an economical ride, you tell cabby
to drive to the Circular Quay when your destina-
tion is Hunter-street. The regulation forces cabs
to walk over the crossings, so when he slackens
up to go over Hunter-street, out you quietly step
and leave him to pursue the unpaid tenor of his
way without his fare. — P.'S. —This is not a sugges-
tion to anyone but cabby.
What is home without a mother ? At a
dreamy country house the other day, we, as a
summer boarder, saw how she scoops the pool.
There was on the tea-sable a shoulder of cold
mutton, not too fresh which it was the landlady's
ambition to dispose of, but which she proffered in
vain. At length in came her last hope—her
grown-up son, who, in his turn, refused the dish.
Then, assuming a rapt expression, the general
leant forward and said feelingly, “ What ! not
with pickled onions ? ” She won.
• * *
The subjoined was published four months
ago
" Another nobleman who is a social success in Victoria is
Lord Deerhurst, who is an immense favourite. It appears he
has a happy knack of securiug all the pretty women and
handsome men as his associates, and is the life and soul of
all entertainments he patronises."
How docB it read now !
• * *
Mr. Charles Lett writes that at the
Queen's first drawing-room this season “ there
wa3 a considerable array of diplomatic celebrities,
and most of the Under secretaries of State were
presented. Amongst the ladies who had the
honour of presentation was Mrs. S. Hoffnung.
She wore a lovely dress, with a gorgeous train,
and I should be afraid to mention the value of the
diamonds with which she was bedecked. I did
not notice any other colonials, but several Ameri-
cans were introduced.”
...
At Moss Vale, a little while ago, a gentle-
man staying at the gubernatorial residence went
down to an adjacent creek for a bath. This
creek had been strongly recommended to him by
a local man as a regular bathing Eureka, so he
sallied forth anticipating a thoroughly enjoyable
dip. When he arrived on the bank he plunged
into the somewhat dark-looking water, and to his
disgust discovered it to be simply liquefied mud!
Enraged at being so disappointed and beslimed,
he resolved to play dear Lord Carington and the
aides a trick. So he told them that the creek was
the ne plus ultra f t a bath on a hot summer day,
and the gentlemen, exhausted with the weather,
and thinking joyfully of trystal shallows, set
forth the next morning for a bogie. We won’t
describe the scene as the mud-covered forms
clambered sorrowfully up the bank, only we think
that, in a less high-toned throng, that practical
jokist would have seen stars.
...
“ Lucas Malet ” (Mrs. Harrison, of Olo-
velly) is coming to Australia. 'I he lady is the eldest
daughter of the late Charles Kingsley, and has
all her father’s genius. Ur. Harrison accompanies
his wife. The author of “Mrs. Lorimer” will
have a fine study in colonial society.
A Rockhampton (Q.) lady lately felt her-
self affronted at not receiving an invitation to a
certain local ball. “Very well,” she said “77!
make them smart for it.” And she did make
them smart—to the tune of £lO,OOO. “ How did
she manage it ?” we hear you ask. We’d not tell
you for half-a-million.
...
There is a deal of method in the “Jubilee”
madness of the man who thus advertiees in the
Sydney E. Nxws :
“A WEALTHY OLD BACHELOR, who wax born
on the same day, month, and year as the Queen,
and landed in N.S W. the year she wascrowned, wishes to
commemorate the err nts by presenting to all families in
N.B.W. a portrait of Her Majesty in her 19ih year , only
one sent to each. Hend 2s. to defray packing and post-
age. Address OLD BACHELOR, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney. ”
Now, don’t all crowd up at once, but after sending
along your two shillings sit down in a cool spot
and prepare to gush over the photo, of Our
Gracious, as she appeared at 19. Money, of
course, is no object to the “wealthy old bachelor,”
he simply wishes to commemorate the events
which make him a sort of Dutch cousin to his be-
loved Queen, and the two shillings are required
not necessarily tor publica! ion, but as a guarantee
of good faith. No respectable family should be
without a copy of Her Gracious as she looked
when she was thin.
*■ * *
According to divers accounts, a certain
ve y sawney and wooden-headed royal youth, in
whose mou.h butter wouldn't melt when he was
in Australia, has been holding a little Jubilee on
his own acoount in England. In this, rumour
states, he has been considerably assisted by a very
beautiful American lady, the wife of a rather
well-known politician, who now talks divorce at a
great rate. This is the matter to which the Eaglish
papers allude wnen they speak of a ooming
divorce case calculated to put the Colin Campbell
affair into the shade. Like great grandfather,
like grandfather, like father, like son.
Bishop Goe, who arrived in Melbourne on
Easter Tuesday rather knocked up, poor old man,
after his journey from Bloomsbury to the Anti-
podes, was dinnered by Sir H. Loch on Wednes-
day, and inducted at the pro-Cathedral and
luncheoned by his parishioners on Thursday
morning. Divine Providence is believed to be the
agency that selects bishops. In this case it was very
good of Divine Providence to promote Mr. Goe to
£2OOO a year. For there are bishops at different
screws all over the world. The Calcutta Evan-
gelical boss gets £4500 a year. The Bishop of
Mackenzie Kiver, who has a flock chiefly com-
posed of Red Indians, gets just £7 a week, which
is low pay considering the trouble his lordship
experiences in substituting the idea of Hell Fire
for that of the Happy Hunting Grounds in the
brain of the Red Man. The Central African
Bishop, who is evidently not in high favour with
Divine Providence, gets only six notes a week,
and his flock are all niggers except the dean.
But, coming back to Field Flowers Goe, he is cer-
tainly neither a Moorhoase, nor a Selwyn, nor a
Ileber But he is a pleasant speaker, and says
neat things about Madame. “He is not
sure,” he says, “ whether Melbourne has a good
bishop. But he is certain that it has a good
bishop’s wife.”
• * *
The Argus, in its account of the Mel-
bourne Mayoress's garden party, says that the
Autumn is “ best perhaps described as the moult-
A MODEST BUT AMPLE REWARD.
HER MAJESTY: “WELL, REALLY YOU COLONIALS ARE VERY TROUBLESOME. I
OFFER YOU A K.C.M.G.-SHIP, AND YOU WON’T TAKE IT. COME, NOW, I
WISH TO RECOGNISE YOUR SERVICES AS A COMMISSIONER. FOR GOOD-
NESS SAKE TELL ME WHAT YOU WILL TAKE}”
MODEST COLONIAL: “WELL, MUM, SINCE YOU ARE SO PRESSING, I’LL TAKE A
GLASS OF COLONIAL BEER IF YOU 'AVE IT IN THE ’OUSE!”
ing season with the girls.” The writer proceeds : |
“ Here and there a tall maiden has taken time by
the forelock and dressed herself for the boisterous
wooing of the South wind.” Sassiety will eagerly
yearn to get hold of the Argus man by the fore-
lock if he goes on in this way. The idea of any
young lady being wooed by the south wind. Why,
it has nothing a year 1
There was a marriage recently in a church
at Sandhurst (Vic.) Like a dust-storm it came on
rather suddenly ; the minister was informed by
his daughter that a couple were waiting to be
hitched, and he had only time to get into his robes
of office and rush into the church before the pair
were standing at the altar. The ceremony was
gone through in the usual form ; the bride tittered
a little, but that was set down to nervousness,
and the bridegroom looked as grim as an owl. But
j ust as the reverend gentleman was endeavouring
to collect his fee he observed with horror that the
young lady was undressing on the premises, and
when he proceeded to remonstrate she broke into
a roar of laughter and took a few more things off.
Then he ascertained that she wore a boy’s suit
under the other one, and when she had got
down to one feminine garment of a flap-
ping description whioh hung from her
waist to about her knees he discovered that it
was his own scapegrace son who had been bring-
ing his holy office into contempt. It was not till
some hours later that the youth was caught, and
judging from what oould be heal’d in the neigh-
bourhood it is presumed that he was tied up in
the woodshed, and that all the next day, when-
ever the shepherd could spare a moment from his
task of saving souls, he went out and walked Into
him with a fresh strap. The clergyman’s
daughter, who delivered the message by which he
was induced to go and degrade his sacred calling,
is also rumoured to be locked up on bread and
water, on suspicion of having been an accessory
before the fact, and if the sham bridegroom can
be caught it is understood that something unpleas
ant will happen to him.
Our respect for the contributions reposing
in our W.P B. has risen since we perused the
“specially-written” epilogue (che Argus calls it
“ witty ”), delivered after the classical plav, the
“Aulularia,” of Plautus, at Trinity College, Mel-
bourne, on 11th inst. Here is a chunk :
“ ‘The time has come,’ the council said,
' To study snails and lizards;
If crabs are really coloured ■'ed,
And whether frogs hav * gizzards.'
So let us straight without debate !
Import some English wizards.
Chorus—
“ Without debate ! they went and straight
Brought out two English wizards."
But, further on, we see why the Argus calls it
“ witty ” :
“ The Arous mentioned in our play
Of hundred eyes was Lord ;
But o'er the Arous of to-day
Ten thousand eyes have pored."
We have every reason to believe that what the
bard originally wrote was :
The “Argus" mentioned in our play
Of hundred eyes was Lord ;
And by the Arous of to-day
The Melbourne public's bored.
Why the Trinity men stopped at 10,000 we don’t
know. When they want to give an advertisement
(especially when the Age is read by at least seven
times as many more people) they ought to go the
whole animal.
The N.Y. correspondent of the Age tells
us all about a Yankee lady who intelligently and
artistically murdered her husband, and was,
therefore, duly hanged by an appreciative coun-
try. Whilst awaiting execution, the loving wife
of the late lamented had a special dress made for
the occasion, a gown of deep black, cut to tit
closely. It was tastefully trimmed with lace, the
condemned woman being extremely particular
about its build and general get-up. Ho w like a
woman ! —the dear things all love to appear well
at tho alter !
The silver wedding of Mr. and Mrs.
Beveridge was celebrated by a large evening
party at their residence, Terrandra Park, on 14th
inst. The visitors, who were numerous, were
entertained in a style lor which the Murrumbidgee
squatter is famous. All appeared to enjoy the
dance thoroughly, the pretty daughters of the
host and hostess receiving much admiration.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, — In the third of your
last week's society columns is a copy of an address
written by “ a gusher ” for a Mr. Timbury, late of
Townsville. If you read the following lines from
one of Thomson’s poems you will discover the
source of “ a gusher's” inspiration :
” Friendship is no plant of hasty growth,
Though planted in esteem’s deep-fixed soil;
Tho gradual culture of kind intercourse
Must bring it to perfection.’’
• * *
Endeavours are now being made to have
the son of C. M. Officer, M.L.A., who was re-
j cently pitchforked into a captaincy in the Vic-
torian militia over the heads of his seniors,
appointed A. DC. to Governor Loch. Officer,
junior, is a nice young man, tame and perfectly
harmless, with more of the breeding and instincts
of a gentleman than most of his predecessors, and
his friends can only regret the risk of demoralise-
tion he will incur if invested with the mantle of
the noble Deerhurst.
Writes a correspondent, “ Colonial ” :—•
“ Dear Bulletin', —In connection with the
‘ Woman Question,’ I note the following cccen
tricity of etiquette constituting a difference,
which the favoured flutterers about the flame of
fashion might consider an important on between
the manner of saluting women—or, using the
term Mrs. Grundy moie approves, “ladies” —
when in the company of men unknown to the
saluted. In England a man may salute a lady
known only to himself, and his male companions
mar oh stolidly along in the British fashion as If
they were absolutely unconscious of her existence.
Or, he may salute a gentleman whom he knows
accompanied by a lady whom he does not know,
simply because of the presence of a lady, but his
masculine friends make no sign because they
do not know the gentleman. In the colonies
all this is reversed. You may see a
whole regiment of men taking off their
hats like a machine worked bv a single lever, and
only one man out of the whole of them may have
a mere speaking acquaintance with the lady.
Now, not that it matters in an [infinitesimal de-
gree, but just for the sake of being on the right
side of that venerable old lady, Mrs. Grundy,
which is correct? And, in this connection,
another question is suggested. If it is right to
bow to women, which women ? If we are to
salute women by raising the hat, because they are
women, it is manifestly the proper thing to salute
all the women one knows by raising the hat.
Servant-girls, bar maids, match-vendors, all should
be treated alike, from the little feminine gutter
snipe up to ller Gracious. If we salute women
simply on account of their station—because they
are the wive 3 of ‘jocks ’ or C.M.G.’s—the act is
clearly a snobbish one. I should be glad of infor-
mation from somebody peculiarly qualified, don-
cherknow, by residence in the highly ‘ culchawed*
circles that supply our gubernatorial ailes.”
Mr. Fillingham Parr, of Levuka, who was
ruined by Sir Arthur Gordon. and vvent to England
last year, has come into another fortune, and is en-
gaged to be married to the prettiest girl in his
county. All white Fijians will rejoice at the
news.
* * •
“ Gumboil ” Cairns has sailed for New
Guinea, via Queensland. A number of far-seeing
savages are already planting vegetables to eat
with him.
Thus the Weekly Despatch apropos of
the trouble into which the chip of the old block
has of late got himself “ all along ” of a woman
high up in sassiety “ Why has Prince Albert
Victor been suddenly transported to Gibraltar
under the eyes of two ascetic equerries ? The
pretext that he goes to join the 60th Rifles is ab-
surd. He has not yet learnt his duty as a Hussar
officer in his father’s regiment—the 10th—and, as
his mental capacity is notoriously limited, it is
ridiculous to suppose that his parents would
thrust a fresh task on him whilst the original one
is not yet half done. The truth is the Prince of
Wales has been greatly absorbed lately with
public business—notably with touting for the
Imperial Institute. We fear, therefore, that his
hopeful heir, like Joe Gargery and Pip, when the
eye of Uncle Pumblechook was not on them, has
been up to what Mr. Gargery called ‘ larks.’
Deportation from the 10th Hussers to ‘ Gib,’ with
two stern equerries - one to relieve the other—to
guard him, and with no possibility of getting out
of the fortress without ‘ a pass,’ must seem to a
gay young Prince a disciplinary rather than an
educational measure.”
Dr. Cortis, M.L. A.., has taken Dr.
Foucart’s house in Macquarie-street, Sydney. Dr.
and Miss Foucart left for Europe by the M.M.S.
Salazie, as did also, among others, Dr. and Mrs.
Rundle, of Darlinghurst Road.
* * *
It is a curious fact that many American
ladies residing in Australia import their boots
from New York, and though we are perpetually
informed that the cost of every necessary of life
is enhanced in America by Protection these
articles, after paying freight and expenses, are
from 25 to 60 per cent, cheaper than the clumsy
English rubbish with whieh the colonial market is
swamped. The best qualities can be landed in
Australia for about 20s. as against 30s , which is
the selling price for the best English production.
Free-trade is a glorious institution —for the manu-
facturers of Brummagem and Shoddy.
Noah wasn’t a strict Jew. He took Ham
into the Ark.
Faith is that by means of which we be-
lieve what we should otherwise take to be a lie.
Milton says : “ Better to reign in hell
than serve in Heaven.” But there isn’t any rain
in hell.
“ This is the twenty-sixth time you have
been convicted at this court for drunkenness,”
said the worthy magistrate, severely. “ Have
you no friends-no home?” “Home!” blurted
the incorrigible, indignantly, “ ’course I have!
Nice way to welcome the Prodigal Son —I haven’t
been out more than two days, have I ? ”
We always had an idea that there was
something in the transmigration of souls theory.
A few days ago a turkey was kiiled to grace an
Easter board in a Southern town, and a half-
sovereign, coined in 1820, was found in its corn-
depot. That turkey, no doubt, held the soul of a
defaulting bank-manager, who was making for
Fiji with the balance of his plunder.
Aboard a Queensland Polynesian schooner.
Supper time One of the “boats-crew” (log.) :
“ I say, cook, me no all same altogether boy ; me
man belong missionary—me Christian—me want
im butcer alonga supper.” The Cook : “ Butter !
Butter, you black son of a (gun), there’s no
Christian butter aboard this ‘ hooker.’ ” (Mutter-
ing to himself) : “ Butter indeed 1 I suppose he'll
want his —beef bilecl in Holy Water next.”
Drunken Yankee at bush-pub., seated on
verandah chair. “ Yes, sirree—l’m the genuine
article, / am—l’m Umerikun to my hair ends, I
am.” Irishman among the audience sees a chance
of a cheap drink : “ Give us yer fisht, me bhoy !
Shure Im a Yank meself.” Yankee : “ You air.
air yer. What State wor you raised in ? ” Paddy
(a bit puzzled, but not to be licked) : “ Shure, I
was raised in the state of Sin, and I’ve been in Ihe
same shtate iver since.”


WOMAN ITEMS
“ Wife (4 a.m.) : “I should think you
would bs ashamed to hear the cocks crow on your
way home.” Husband : “ 'Fi went t’ bed (hie)
five ’clock, I’d crow too. That’s the kind o’
rooster I am."
A Napier (N.Z.) husband brought his
better-half up for assault. She w-as fined, and
had to pay legal and professional costs as well.
But the money was tae husband’s. The ways of
justice are curious.
Young husband to slightly younger wife :
“ Confound it, Maria, didn’t l telegraph you not
to bring your mother with you ? ” ” Yes, Edwin,
dcah. That's what she wants to see you about.
She read the telegram.” Tableau.
At Galveston (U.S.), a female compositor
and member of the typographical union, married
a non-union “comp.” As he refused to join the
Union, it boycotted him, and his wife, as a mem-
ber, left him and proceeded for divorce.
From S.M. Herald :
(( M ltd. apologises to Mr. John Miller, for what-
ever sfce has said is not true.”
Mrs D , the comprehensive apologiser, must
be just about the most unreliable woman in Aus-
tralia.
Lady to house-agent : “ You have houses
to let 1” Agent: “Yes Here is one list of about
150." Lady : “Ho you think that you can give
me one that will suit me!" Agent: “ Madam, I
don’t believe I can. But possibly I can give you
one that will suit your husband.”
A Californian paper publishes a depraved
boast about the women of the Pacific slope, who,
it says, don’t require gum to keep their stockings
on. The lady who keeps her stockings on
with gum is requested to communicate at once
with the editor of the Christian Weekly, Ade-
laide.
When about half through dinner, Bobby
said to Mr. Featherly : "Ma likesUo have you
here to dinner, Mr. Featherly.” Featherly looked
very much pleased, and was about to say some-
thing appropriate to the occasion, when Bobby
continued: “Yes,” he said, “she likes to have
you here to dinner because she says it does her
good to see you eat."
He entered her dainty boudoir and found
her in tears, with a piece of note-paper in her
hand. She was, by the way, given to express
herself in very elaborate language. “ What is
the row now 1” he asked rather brusquely. “ Oh,
Arthur ! ’’ she sobbed, “ I have received a synony-
mous letter, and to trace the autographer thereof,
I am afraid, would prove a herculaneum task.”
A Sydney girl put her No. 1 in it properly
lately by putting a stop in the wrong place. She
worked in the daintiest embroideries the Scrip-
ture text “ Walk in love ’’—only she introduced a
comma between “in” and “love," so that it
read “ Walk in, love.” Her mamma thought it
was overpoweringly free and easy she feared
that the tone of the invitation was too general,
doncherkuow.
The “outrage” season, it would seem, is
not quite over yet. At a Charters Toilers (Q-)
convent there is a dormitory where some 12 or 15
agreeable girls repose. These young ladies were
all busy taking down their buck-hair one evening
recently when a man came in through the window.
He gave one atfWgkited glance around him and
then left, probably feeling that he could not elope
with the whole dozen at once.
And yet we always believed the S.M.
Herald to be a decorous and truly religious
paper ! What do ihe Messrs. Fairfax mean by
this :
u \yANTED, general servant for Manly, no shirts.”
“No shirts !” Ahem ! Her wardrobe, then, must
be extremely curt! „
JVe wouldn’t engage, at any age, a gal who
wore no “ shirt.”
This is simply immense, and how
tralv Vic. is the mother of her people :—“ At a
meeting of the Westward Board of Guardians,
Westmoreland, one of the applicants for relief was
a woman who had 23 children, five of whom had
Seen born in 11 months. Relief of halfa-crou
per week was granted to her f We wonder i Her
“Gracious” thinks young Battenberg could be
reared for a week on the 23rd part of half-a-
crown ? .
The wife of one of the Bulb miners had a
peculiar vision, or dream, three days before the
catastrophe. She dreamed of seemg dead bodies
lving one after the other in a row, but Bhe could
not (as is generally the case) identify any one of
them This dream so affected her that she aw oke
her husband to ask him, “ How do people look
when they are dead, Joe?” Her husband bade
her not think of such things. In three days his
dead body was recovered from the mine, and his
wife was a widow.
Says a London paper
“ The Baroness Burdett-Coutts presided at a meeting in
furtherance of the Women’s Jubilee Offering. Her Majedy
-s w e “f^rtmer a rcu^“tael!and o kt^he 0 r a affectionately
Sian
IffoTte the wimen of England s Jubilee Offering, like the
ef’the Jubilee schemes, is not making progress. 1 his is
we expected The promoters, who assume to represent
Se whole »e* in this matter, belong to that class of ladies
who are always panting to grovel before somethmg-from a
weak kneed Lord to a favourite tom-cat.
A lady thus writes from Wallaroo, S. A. :
“ Dear Bulletin, —Have you nothing to say
about this house-to-house begging among
women of England, to give a Jubilee gift to the
Queen-about the absurdity of the reason, given
by a few toady ladies who initiated the movement,
‘ So that every woman may have an opportunity
of giving her mite?’ A very small mite some
would have to give ! One might ask v hat has
niieen given to the women of England? I»
there one action or noble deed in her life that, a
hundred years hence, the cold-blooded historian
could mention in her favour? What has she, with
her boundless opportunities, done to make their
lives brighter or better ? Fully half the women
of England —God help them-never know- rest
never realize the luxury of being deoently clothed
and fed as a reward for all their labour. What
has the Queen given them out of the millions ef
pounds their poor bony, tired, cold fingers have
helped to gather for her to hoard ? Better that
the Queen should art like a queen, and out of her
enormous wealth give back something to the
women of England, to the white slaves
of the factories and the mines, if it were only one
good meal and one day’s pleasure and rest-a
l?eam of sunshine, that they might be enabled to
shout, though feebly, ‘ God Save the Queen - and
that she might live in their memories by virtue of
on# kind thought and one generous action.
C.F.T.
I Imperial Federation—or an Aus-
tralian Republic ?
ditor Bulletin,—lt is proposed to chain Aus-
alia to the fortunes of the British Empire by the
on bonds of a military federation. This chain
ice forged will not be easily broken, and it will
5 a load which will paralyse the strong right arm
[ Australian sentiment. It will serve as a bridge,
long which, like an electric current, much that
brilliant and inspiring among the ambitions of
nr youth will be guided from their own land of
mstralia to the distant source of “rank” and
ime and those glittering gauds of military glory
therewith Britain with a lavish hand will bedeck
tie guardians —and betrayers —of her subject pro-
inces and barbaric realms. What want our
outh with temptations such as these to ensnare
heir souls from peaceful labour and citizen de-
ence in the fair land which it is their birthright
,nd should be their pride to garnish for enshrine-
neni in the tiara of nations ? We have heard
mough and to spare of loyalty to lands across the
vorld ; it is about time we were beginning to
earn that our paramount duty is to be true to our
iwn country, and that he alone among us is a
traitor who subordinates the interests of the land
)f his nativity to those of any other on earth, be
it even the home of his fathers. Many there are
amongst us who are Australians of the third
generation. Shall these not love and cherish their
Dwn homes far before those of their grandfathers
whom, it may be, they never saw ; and shall not
they, too, who are of the second generation answer
the call of nature to love the soil wherefrom they
have drawn all of grief or joy that has been their
portion in life, before a land across the world,
only known as the birth-place of their sires ?
Were not the sons of the Norman invaders true
to England in the day of war against the land ot
their forefathers ? Were not the Saxons of the
second generation Englishmen to the back-bone ;
were not the American colonists loyal to the Re-
public, even unto death ; and shall not, also, the
offspring of Britain in Australia centre all their
pride and hopes in the great land that is theirs ?
Ail history goes to show they will. But the spirit
IF THE PRINCE OF WALES HAD ACCEPTED.
SIR 'ENRY: “WELL, YOU SEE, HE AIN'T PREMIER NO MORE; BESIDES, HE AIN’T
AT ’OME NOW, AND BESIDES WE AIN’T GOING TO HAVE NO JUBILEE, AND
WHAT’S MORE THERE AIN’T NO FUNDS.”
PRINCE: “WHEN DOES THE NEXT STEAMER LEAVE FOR EUROPE?”
of Australian nationality is being insidiously
checked. An attempt was made in the accursed
expeditioa to the Soudan to poison it, and now a
more determined effort is being made to waste it
on an illimitable plain. That plain is the cosmo-
politan British Empire. A man who had helped
to build that up might take a pride in it; but who
could feel patriotism as a unit in it ? One might
much more easily and nobly be a patriot of the
warld. For what in common have the offspring
of America. Africa, ? And of such
is the Empire of Britain. In early Rome patriot-
ism was universal; in the world-wide Roman Em-
pire, pride had supplanted the last vestiges of
patriotism. So, in our case, one can understand
a Canadian having a passionate love for Canada,
and an Australian for Australia; but who can
imagine the citizen of the former country taking
anything more than a very passing interest in the
latter’s country or vice versa ? There is no marriage
between these iands and t her efore can be no div orce.
The flat of nature ordained each to be the seat of
a separate nation, and he who attempts to join
them together is Hying in the face of the Ordainer.
The Union could never be anything more than a
jarring and unnatural one, which would in the
end disrupt in a sea of envy, hatred, ard malice.
But who oan estimate the damage that would have
been done meanwhile to the national spirit and
prospects of each factor in the unholy alliance ?
It would be well, indeed, if the national progress
of each had nothing more to do to recov3r lost
ground than to start from the point at which the
essay in cosmopolitanism had begun; but, alas! that
would be rather too cheap a price to pay for the
experiment. The price that would have to be
given would be a vast moral, as well as material
loss. There would be the pernicious example to
the rising youth for generations, of men whoso
souls had been lost and degraded from the pure
shrine of patriotism on the altar of the Moloch of
Chauvinism, hereditary titles, and military glory,
and who yet had names in the annals of history.
There would, again, be the vast material loss
through the natural bias of a young people in a
great land towards peaceful progress being diver-
ted to distant enterprises and adventures, and be-
ing occupied by oonstant cares for the preserve-
|)n of the Union. Worse still, standing against
.e supposed interests of that Union. . truth
ould be falsehood, right would be wrong, justice
ould be injustice, loyalty would be treachery,
id, in short, in the mesh of “ Imperial in-
rests” would be lost, the last remnant of the
>od name of our race—a treasure that cannot be
;htly dispensed with—attenuated though it be
f the shameful doings of a murderous and greedy
nperialism in India. Hurm ih. Egyp', and else-
here. Lastly, » ustralia (as it is proposed she shall
mply pay her quota to a general defence fund)
■ould hare no forces she could call her own ;
■ould practically have her defence committed to
tie care of mercenaries, and hence would have no
leans of inspiring a spirit of self-reliance and in-
ependence such as should ever go hand in hand
ritn freedom and with manhood. It is because
hey wish to keep us for ever in the swaddling
lothes of infancy or the puling spirit of childhood
hat they tie us, or seek to tie us, to the apron-
trings of the motherland by robbing us of the
neans of independent defence. Let Britain con
rol our fleets and our soldiers and we lie weak
ind helpless at the feet of Imperialism, and if at
my time, under such circumstanees, we did
■ashly wander from the parental side, a nod from
Downing street would leave us without a single
trained soldier or vessel of war— a fact which the
English-born Tories in our midst who want us
bound to Imperialism for ever—would continually
bold up as a menace to the restive among us.
Let all young Australians remember Imperial
Federation in any shape vrill be deadly to Aus-
tralian interests. —Cornstalk.
Can a girl lace herself, or a man drink
himself, the tighter ?
A Hawaiian Island convert is suing the
regenerating missionary for “ gross carelessness
in conducting a baptism.” The good man, it
seems, put him through in cold weather, and
when he came out of the water he kept him
standing while he delivered a long and impas-
sioned address before he allowed him to put on
his rag and take his wet and dreary way home.
Consequently the disciple took a bad co’d and
nearly coughed his ears off. W hen he had got
through coughing he started and sneezed the cold
right down into the basis of his system, and then
he retched it up again, and when he wanted a
holiday he rook bronchitis and choked by way of a
change. He is now reduced to a shadow and he
ppeals to the secular arm of the law for damages.
From the S.M. Herald :
<< PERSONS having vacancies and people requiring
x board should register with Walters Brown and
Co., 243, Pitt-street.”
The “ persons having vacancies,” dear Walters, it
is plain
You’ll And beneath the spreading trees that grace
our large Domain,
And those “ requiring board,” dear sir (This
really is no lark),
You’ll find at ease upon the turf that ornaments
Hyde Park.
Dr. Windthorst, Bismarck’s chief foe in
the Reichstag, is described as a little man very
ugly to look at, with eyes like a frog and mouth
reaching from ear to ear. He is opposed to Bis-
marck ostensibly on patriotic but really on personal
grounds, his grievance being that in 1866, by the
annexation of Hanover, he was eliminated from a
fat office which he had held in t hat kingdom. M.
Saint-Clerc, a writer in the Figaro, draws an
animated picture of Prince Bismarck and Dr.
Windthorst face to face in the Reichstag—“ the
one (Windthorst) a dwarf, the other (Bismarck) a
giant ; the one refined and polished, the other
brutal and overbearing : the one an ardent
Catholic, the other an austere Protestant. ’ The
antagonism is carried out even in the matter of
beverages, for Dr. Windthorst drinks champagne,
and Prince Bismarck keeps to beer. After this
we need not be surprised to learn that Prince
Bismarck has big cuirassier’s hands, and is inor-
dinately proud of their size and strength, while
Dr. Windthorst has very small hands, and is
“ coquet ” about them.
CORRESPONDENCE
Ihk Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ 8. de C.”: We have the impudence to concur
with Dr. Thompson in his opinion that the ammoriacal pro-
ducts with which the Oh in a man fertilises his cabbages do
not induce tjphoid in the consumer. Dr. Thompson talks
sense when he says that: “ You might as well expect a man
to be marbled in veins of veal and ham and green-stuff, or
of beef and mutton in patches, as to recognise in the plants
the manure they have absorbed.” Similarly, a man's hands
are not necessarily made of whisky because he drinks that
liqucr. But if you eat Chinese-grown lettuces, &c., without
thoroughly washing them, you may get typhoid by taking
into your stomach some cf the liquid manure with
I which the leper waters his plants “E. J. Morrison”: The
act of Lord Salisbury in appointing a man like Colonel
King-Harman to an Irish Secretaryship is obviously a de
liberate attempt to bring about outrage and civil war in
Ireland. It would be just as reasonable for the Pope to
appoint Pastor Allen or Ginger Clarke as private secretary
to Cardinal Moran as it is for Salisbury to set King-Harman
in authority over the great mass cf the Irish people....
“G.R.H.": Good “ 5.0.”: When Giovanelli sacked one
his company he remarked, ‘ You are a d d bad actor.” “If
it comes to that,” replied the sacked one, “ you are a bad
actor." “That’s just it,” answered Giovanelli, “and the
public won’t stand two d d bad actors.” And if we have
not been up to the mark you aren’t either, aDd the public
won’t stand two potes not up to the mark, so W.P.B. to you
old warrior....“ Camera ” (Yarrandabby) : Your verso is too
sultry, dear boy. Just think of the consequences of applying
five verses of this kind to local Preacher Jones :
If Jones were Jonah on a ship,
From thence cast in the sea,
There is no fish him in could slip—
So big and fat is he !
“ He had not where to lay His head”—
The Lord, your Master, Jones !
Have you not got a feather-bed
To rest your blubbered bones ?
Pooh! If we printed two verses more, Jones might want
libel damages “ Tommy Brough ” : Malyooah !
"M.J.”: “Hot-cross buns” are one of the few surviving
relics of an ancient and splendid creed called “Christianity.”
The cross symbolises the gibbet carried by the Founder of
the Faith; but now-a-days nobody cares to carry the cross
without carrying the buns, t 00...." Wager ” (Bourke): They
are not yet absolutely matched, but it is understood that
they are to row “ G.E.” :We don’t want to “unveil” Miss
Adith O'Gorman. She's not sufficiently attractive.. “M.
Moisey ” : As a matter of fact Dhuleep Singh was little more
than 10 years old when he signed the treaty renouncing his
sovereignty over the Punjaub and agreed to live anywhere
the Governor-General of India might choose, on condition
that he should retain his title with a pension of about
£40,000. As further evidence of his respect for the all
conquering unbelievers, the juvenile Prince surrendered the
Koh-i-noor, which was to be presented to Queen Victoria"
The Koh-i-noor is, therefore, simply stolen property, property
extorted from a child....“ Condamine”: What is the ex-
tent of your paid-up capital of pure impudence ?
“ C.S.W.": A mere paraphrase of Charles Dickens’ observa-
tion to the effect that the Americans are so devoted to
Liberty that thev regard her as peculiarly their own, and
consider themselves entitled to take liberties with her
“ James Knowles ” : The explanation seems to be that
though half-a-grain of morphia hypodermically given might
not be too heavy a dose for the average patient, yet it might
be fatal to one the eliminating powers of whose organisation
had been lowered by kidney-disease “ G.R.H." and
others (Brewarrina): You had better e-mmunicate with the
Miners' Association, 8u11i....“ A C.” (Wodonga): We are
much obliged to the Rev. Drewett It gladdens us to find
the clergy come round to the generally-entertained opinion
that The Bulletin is good enough to be subscribed for by
the quarter instead of being read free at Mechanics'lnstitutes.
“ B.B.” (Bathurst) : The Colonial delegates at the Im-
perial Conference we e probably paid, or bought, or bribed—
whichever you like to call it—in advance with the d<g-collar
of St. Drinkall and St. Gorge, because they were such a
mean-spirited crowd that they wouldn't give credit....
•‘Generosity” : You don’t reiish the brutal truth, which has
made The Bulletin. Why don’t you state your real griev-
ance: the fact that th's journal goes on Republican lines, and
speaks of Queens and Princes with no more reverence than
if they we r e educated charwomen and hodmen ? You and
The Bulletin are at opposite poles, and when the paper
concedes to your views it will die—and, what’s more, it will de
serve itsdoom.. “A.C.” (Kempsey): Thanks, but we had already
seen it “S. Cooper" (Ourrawang): We do pay for con-
tributions according to the printed scale hung up in this
office. Plain jokes are the cheapest: ditto, with subdued
truculence, come next; and an article showing that a pro-
minent member of Parliament has embezzled his sick
mother's gruel and spent the proceeds in drink is always
regretfully received, but acceptable neverthelefs. Your item
makes a good two-pen’orth “No Sham Retrenchment”:
Of course Mi. Inglis is going to have a new school put up in
the town which elected him. £l2OO is not much to squander
on a town which returned a strong Parkesite—“F.H.”
(Macdonaldtown): Call for prize on 31st April at midnight.
“P.W.” (Melb): Thanks. Give our kind regards to
Waxman’s executors “Radical” (Toongabbie): Write
to “Henry George, Standard office, New Y0rk.”....
“ J.F.” (Sydney) : You have attached on to our premises
six long pages and eight short ones in which you state that
things are going on pretty well at the Field of Mars. Hav*
ing given your central fact in half a sentence, we have be*
queathed the padding to the office kitten and her mamma.
....“ J.M.”: Don’t alarm yourself; none of your matter
will be published....“ S. Andfrson” (Pyrmon*): Thanks,
unsuitable. By the way, haven't you written under another
nom-de-plume ? “Subscriber” (Parramatta): Not bad,
but not good enough “A Citizen”: Thanks Dealt
with “C. M. Boyce” (Woollahra): Leonis est recti vertus
Bookkeeping, double entry, by Inglis “ J Turner,” also
“ D.W.’: Call for your money on 31st April, at2p.m
“ 11. (Melbourne): Vour “ Hearl ” seems to have been
making rath< r fast travelling —“ J. T. Palmer” (Mel-
bourne) : The Mechanics’ Institute Comruit’ee iu the solemn
grass-grown town of GeeloDg may decline, if they choose, to
admit The Bulletin into their establishment And so
may all the rest of the Mechanics' Institutes We shall be
delighted “ J.W.W.” (Geelong): We don’t propose to
further advertise the person named “ P.P.’ : Exactly.
When the consumers complain of the high price of an
article, the employers considerately reduce the wages of their
employees “ Angle": Queen Victoria gets »bout £385,000
a year, and a further sum of £234,379 is allotted to keep
palaces, &c., in repair, making a total of £619,379per annum.
During the fifty years of her reign she has received about
£31,000,000. not counting some £2,500,000 received from the
Duchy of Lancaster. Her relatives and hangers-on have had
more than £20,000.000 ia grants and about £2oo,oooannually,
and many of them don't kn >w enough to come in when it
rains. We can’t supply any information about the other
matter.. “ Argus” (Maytown, NQ ): Tney must be perfect
whales at morality up your way. Wewouli like to publish
your letter, but respect for the feelings cf 2700 parsons and
182,663 church members who are among our hubscribeis
makes us back down “D. Mills’’ (Bathurst): Your
truculent shivoo has been ground exceeding sma'l and
dropped into the waste-paper basket “ X.” : The Bulle-
tin is not responsible for anything the individual referred
to may say. (2.) Do The Boys Hall. (3.) Dilke is pronounced
“Di1k.”...“ Shade of Romilly” (England): Many thanks...
“ Senex ” : Metre correct, sentiment thin “ W. Fincher \
(Melb.): Better fitted for Protestant Standard
“ John Kinivane ” (Warren): Sorry we cannot supply infor-
mation ; the labour would be incalculable. Better w/ite
direct to the gentleman you mention, who, if you gave good
reasons, might get it for you as a Parliamentary return ..
“ Unknown’ (Ferumount): Thanks !.. “Valentine” : Too
lengthy and too diffuse. You must learn to compre.s
“My Country”: Read our next article on Parkes ana Imperial
Federation “ Ajahdof” : Not bad, but needs much revi-
sion.. “Canto”: If Piddington, M.L C., may speak of
such things, so may we. When we hear a man baasting of
his superior blood, we always wonder whether it would taste
better in a sauciest noire ; and we often speculate as to
whether, supposing that we and some barons orC.M.G.’*
were on a raft together iu mid-ocean and cannibalism be-
came the order of the day, the noblemen would like to eat
us much less than we’d like to eat them.
[A very large number of communications are unavoidably
held orer.]


The Referee
“ Lucky White ! ” Nonsense. Its sys-
tem. The honourable James buys or breeds the
best blood obtainable, retains the best riders, al-
ways runs to win, doesn't start unless he thinks
he can, gets rid of his horses as soon as the
weigh! begins to accumulate, starts again each
season witli a fresh batch. How often has White
won races with four-yt ar-olds or over, eh!
“ Teddy ” Sampson, the owner
of Frisco and Matador, is a much re-
spected and liked member of the rirg,
but is afflicted with bashfulness or
the gout When his horse had won
the Sydney Cup, and Lady CariDgton
was waiting to present him with her
trophy with her own fair hands,
“ Teddy ” was nowhere to be found,
though the calls for him must have
been heard at Oxenham’s house on the
hill opposite the back of the course.
A “wait” occurred, during which
her ladyship lookel amiably around,
and just as the thiDg was becoming
visible, Roberts, his trainer, stepped
forward to do the owner's devoir.
“ Teddy's ” absence is variously at-
tributed to the above named afflic-
tions.
How fond the ladies are of Tri-
dent, and how pleated they lcok
when Mr. White’s horse just canters
in before the other horses whenever
be races ! Well, we will let them into
a little secret by which they can win.
Oh, ever so many pairs of gloves. The
weights are not .vet made out for the
Melbourne Cup, but the handicapper
cannot give him more than 9st. 121 b.,
and most judges think with us that,
if his health continues, no other horse
in Australia can beat him, for he will
be four years old then. Mind and
keep this a secret, fair dames.
e * *
The sporting representatives of
the Melbourne papers are no sooner
home than they wiite ail kinds of
nasty things about one of the mott
respected of N.S.W. M.L.C’s and bis
h< rses. That's always their way, the
irgrates 1 We are not quite sure
whether it is libellous to read last
Saturday’s Leader and Avstraia-
sian, nor whether the telegraph de-
partment, or the wires, are not liable
under the N.S.W. Libel law.
There was consternation in
Britain —From Pall Mall to the Seven
Dials, from John o'Groats to Land's
End—mute, questioning eyes, and
whispering lips asked was it true ?
Alas! the national calamity amounted
to nearly a suspicion, and the Press
and public alike proclaimed their ex-
aggerated fears— Ormonde hasbecomc
a roarer ! The Duke of Westmin-
ster. however, says that the horse is
quite well enough to fulfil his ftw
remaining engagements.
* # *
Mr. W. Gannon has in his re-
cent purchase, Friction, one of the
most wonderful jumping horst s in tho
world. He comes from Queensland,
where be won all before him, with
big weights up too, somelim s beat-
ing his field by half-a-mile. He cost
350 guineas. Look out for him at the
Grand National Steeplechase Meeting.
Friction will be a better thing than
Arsenal whenever the stable money is
on.
* *
The Public didn’t think much
of Dragon af:er Marmion beat him by
eight lengths in the A.J.C. Steeple-
chase on Saturday, but the Victorian
clever division did, for Mr. Martin
Loughlin gave 600 guineas for the
grey gelding after the race. Dragon
goes to Ballarat to compete his edu-
cation, and a thousand pounds to a
century has been accepted about his
winnirg the first hurdlo race he is
sent and meant for.
* Ht *
A civil war appears imminent among the
N.S.W. Bicyclists. For years past the Sydney
Bicycle Club have held their famous race mest-
ings in August, but it appears their claim is to be
jumped thiß year by the Suburban 8.C., who hold
their annual in May. The Sydneys applied for the
use of the Association Ground well within the
advertised time, for the 6th August, and received
reply that the Suburban Club had secured the
ground for that day, but they could have it on
the following Saturday, with the proviso that If it
rained on the Gth, they would have to postpone j
till the 20th. Considering that the Suburbans
have secured the ground for two days in May for
their annual meeting, bicyclists outside the two
clubs are unanimous in their opinion that the
Sydney have been very unfairly treated. There
is but one Sydney ground to race on, and Mr.
Fairland, the paid secretary, is its prophet. Mr.
Fairland is also t he hon. secretary of the Suburban
Bicycle Club, which naturally gives that club an
advantage over others in obtaining the ground. In
the interests of 'cycling the Suburbans should
withdraw their claim.
Wars and rumours of wars amongst the
“fancy” for the next month. The ball com-
mences next Saturday evening, when Champion
“Professor” Jackson undertakes to knock out
Mick O'Brien in six rounds. Jackson we believe
to be capable of the task he has undertaken, and
Michael will have a lot of luck if he is able to face
the music at the termination of the 6th round.
On the 30 hh instant the Yankee, Costello, is to
fight “Professor” M’Carthy to a finish for £5O,
offered by Foley ; on May 17 Slaven and Costello
again meet for £lOO aside : and on 24th May the
doughty little Yankee “ Young Mitcholl ” is to
meet Jack Molloy for £5O aside.
The A.J.C. Club had showery weather for
their third day, Thursday last. Exbank, at sto 4
on, justified the odds by winning the Two-year-
old Plate comfortably from Unmanned. The All-
aged race brought forth a great struggle between
Nelson and Matador. Matador led into the
straight with a slight advantage, but at the dis-
tance Nelson drew level, and the pair raced nose
and nose to the finish, wb ere the j udge was unable to
separate them, and declared it a dead-heat.
Matador won the run-off comfortably by a length.
Toorale won the Welter Handicap from Ellington ;
and Abercorn, at even money, annexed the First
Foal Stakes from his stable companion Lava. The
Cumberland Stakes proved a foregone conclusion
for Trident ; and the 8 to 1 chance Peeress won
the City Handicap from Honeycomb.
Still more rain at the concluding (Steeple-
chase) day. Yellow Jacket at 4 to 1 had most
call for the Rous Handicap, but he fell duriDg the
running, and the everclangerous Mayo stable
BEERTHIRST AND THE BOOKMAKER.
1. Sutton “plugs” hi 3 lordship's patrician nose. 2. Sutton v. Deerhurst —Case dismissed by Panton, P.M.
3. Melbourne Justios dearly love 3 her lords. 4. Deerhurat receives the congratulations of the Bench. 5. “Sutton,
the finding of the Court is tl at you be imprisoned for two weeks.” 6. The apocal—the conviction quashed.
7. Deerhurst leaves Australia without a stain upon his character. 8. Lord Dudley was favoured with a seat on the
Bench.
carried off the race with Invader. The favourite
Ringmaster won the Place Handicap from Cross-
fire ; and another favourite, Perfume, svon the
Second Nursery Handicap. Dragon was much
asked for at 5 to 2 for the Steeplechase, but he
had to go under to the next in demand, Marmion,
who won by some ten leng :h3 from the favourite.
The A.J C. Plate proved merely an exercise
gallop for Trident; and in the Free Handicap The
Levite and Piokie came down, and Mayo once
again upset the pot by winning with Stanley.
* * *
About 100 persons attended the postponed
wrestling match between Sali and Christol, at
Foley's Athletic Ha'l. Sali, who wa’ghed nearly
16 stone, was as hard to grip and hold as a bladder
of lard, and his skin seemed to distil fat in place
of perspiration. Christol was in fine buckle.
After 30 minutes play, during which time Sali
acted on the defensive, the Italian secured a neck
hold, and gained first fall. After fifteen minutes’
spall, work was resumed Sali making a little more
play and getting several holds on Christol, from
which the 1 after managed to escape by extra
smartness. In ten minutes Christol got behind
Sali, while on their feet, and getting his arms
around the Italian, lifted him bodily from the
ground throwing him squarely on his two shoulders.
In the fall, however, Sali came aoross Christol and
hurt his right side so severely that it was ten
minutes before Christol could bear the pain of
being lifted from the stage. That the match was
genuine there could be little doubt, and the public
showed their appreciation by making a small col-
lection for the injured man. All through the
show had a limp appearance, and the unfortunate
termination did not tend to mend matters.
« • •
The management of tho N.S.W. eight-oar
crew is not what it should be, and the time is
being frittered away to such an extent that hopes
for a win this season are becoming small indeed.
Mr. Goodyear, of the Balmain Rowing Club, and
a rowing enthusiast, has, with the very best in-
tentions, been going out with the crew, but they
don't get on together, and the writer scarcely
thinks Mr. G. is the man to coach an Intercolonial
crew. The Balmainite is chock-full of theory,
hut unfortunately he lacks the practical part of it.
The Balmain R.C. crew- coached by Mr. Good-
year throw their heads about at the extreme risk
of a dislocation, an imported style which it is
hoped will remain peculiar to the Balmain Club.
The only amateur in Sydney who seems able to
coach an eight is for some reason not goiDg to
tackle the task this year, and the present outlook
for the crew of 87 is gloomy in the extreme.
* * *
Sydney people, the writer amongst the j
number, were completely at fault as to the cipa- j
bilitie9 of “ Young Mitchell.” Judged by his
bout with little Murphy, it appeared as if Hall I
would beat the 'Murkan out of hand wh“n they
met at Foley's last Tuesday week, end so he
m'ght had he forced the fighting from the start,
as he was able to land when and where he liked
on the American ; but when he stood out and
played a game of endurance, it was long odds on
the perfectly-built and conditioned Mitchell. Hall
did not fight up to his form, for noted man as he
is on his feet, when Mitchell rushed him he was
unable to get away, and the Yankee getting him
in a corner fairly beat down his guard and floored
him, Hall remaining down until the 10 seconds'
gracs had expired. Hall got up weak, but
“corners” was soon called, and the minute’s rest
brought him up strong for the next round. For
several rounds Hall took a decided lead, but the
Yankee again brought matters even by dropping
him with a right-hander on the point of the jaw.
It looked all over for Hall, but he came on strong
again, and up to about the 30th round the fight was
even, and a splendid exhibition of science and
endurance. Hall then dropped any semblance of
fighting, and merely stood, or rather got away, on
the defensive, with Mitchell rushing after him,
until a draw was agreed to after over three hours'
fighting. Hall afterwards stated that his hands
had knocked up and that he fought as he did
as the only way to save his backer’s money. It
no doubt seemed hard lines for Mitchell, after
taking the bulk of the punishment, to have vic-
tory snatched from him in this manner, but it
cannot be lost sight of that Costello, his corn-
panion, served Slaven in a similar manner on the
| previous Saturday evening. Mitchell is a perfect
glutton at taking punishment, and only com-
mences to fight when tho ordinary man thinks it
i 3 about time to knock off.
* * *
They manage racing matters curiously in
Brisbane. The official* forgot that hurdles were
not altogether without their use In the Hurdle
Race, so the event was lun without them. Fortu-
nately, there were no accidents.
All the money in the market has been
taken about the Hon. Jas. White's pair, Abercorn
and Trident, winning the Melbourne Derby and
Cup.
• • •
Poor starter Devlin has few friends out-
side those who retain him in a position, which
he fits like a square peg in a round hole. The
public call loudly for J. Kean, and they are the
real bosses of the show. But probably Kean is
not high-toned enough for Randwick, as he has
been a jockey, and understands the business like
any other common workman does his.
Money must be plentiful when even 50
people can be found to pay 10s. per nob to view a
third-class boat-race. We refer to the Charles
Matterson-Nelson outrigger race over
the champion course on Friday last,
when Nelson won in the easiest man'
ner by some six lengths.
* * *
Jack McElhone, M.D., famous
again. This time as promulgator of
the cash versus credit betting con-
troversy.
The N.S. W. Premier told
Abbott, the Opposition leader, the
other n’ght, to “ stop piling on tho
hsgony and not to ’aggie any more
about being hinsulted.” Truly this
is hexasperating!
A certain masher member of the
N.S.W. Parliament used to wear cor
sets in the dear days long ago when
he never dreamt of anything be-
yond a “ reasonable profit.” By the
slender symmetry of his lissom waist
we hare concluded that he mußtkeep
up the squeezing i raotice.
Garrett lashod into some mem
bers of the N.S.W. Opposition the
other morning for their “ unprinci-
pled and unscrupulous ” conduct.
When he resumed his seat an in-
dignant Oppositionist put the ques
tion : “ I wonder whether the hon.
member has forgotten all about the
Milburn Creek Company and the
Darling Harbour land resumption ?"
Honest Tom suddenly remembered
that it was breakfast time, and
vanished with amaziogalacrity.
A correspondent informs us
thit Ermington, Parramatta River,
is to shortly possess a school. There
are not children enough to load a
donkey at Ermington, and there are
three schools already in a four-mile
radius; but as a building wor h
£l7OO is to be put up on two acres of
land, worth £l5O an acre but pur-
chased at £350, it is evident that
some local industry is about to be
fostered by the Freetrade Ministry.
The Bishop of Goulburn
(N.S,W.) says that “ when a man
speaks loudly he has to speak slowly,
and when he has to speak slowly he
has to speak cammonsense.” We
understand now why so small an
amount of commor sense is uttered
in the NS W. Parliament. Next to
efforts to determine who can talk
the longest, the maiority of members
talk as though they were contesting
for a big prize for the fastest gabbling.
Some of the Tasmanian country
rifle club 3 encamped with the volun-
teers near Launceston at Easter, and
as the majority of the men have
everything relating to military affairs
yet to learn, some of their move-
ments were rather amusiDg. The
D'Entrecasteaux Channel men, march-
ing from the steamer which bad con-
veyed them to Hobart, chanced to
pass a spirit-store, the proprietor of
which was “ taking stock ” of these
recruits. The non-commissioned offi-
cer in command gave the order,
‘‘Halt! Mark-time 1” Then he ac-
costed the wholesale publican in a
rich brogue with : “ Mr. Watchorn,
will you se r d me down a case of your
best whisky, and don’t forget it. for
I'm r'ght out, not got a drop.” Then
the order to advance was given and
the riflemen proceeded to their des-
t nation. On Easter Sunday church
parade was held at the camp for Pi o-
testants, while the Romanists were
marched into Launceston to church.
The number of the latter astonished
the authorities. Enquiries were made, and it
was found that many of them had adopted
Romanism for the occasion, just for a jaunt into
town.
Lady Caiington’s reception stands post-
poned to Wednesday, 27th inst.
How is it that people are asking, that so
many who fancy themselves high in Sydney
society are omitted from the Government House
festivities ?
A marriage will take place to-morrow
(Friday) between the Rev. Mr. Rose, who went
as Anglican clergyman in the expedition to the
SoudaD, and Miss Priddle, daughter of the Rev.
Mr. Priddle, late of Liverpool.
The Mayor and Mayoress of Sydney will
begin their festivities next month. Mrs Riley
intends holding a reception on May 11 at tha Ex-
hibition Building, Prince Alfred Park. On the
following evening they intend giving a juvenile
fancy dress hall, and on June 22 there will ba a
fancy dress ball on a large scale.
That enterprising bookseller, Mr. Wm.
Dymock, has just converted Crane’s auction-
rooms, King-street, Sydney, into a book-arcade,
and has placed therein his unrivalled stock of
80,000 volumes. A few hours spent in glancing
over Mr. Dymock’s vast array of valuable second-
hand books is a veritable treat to the bibliophile.


POGOHOSKI,
705 GEORSE-ST.,
Sydney.
CONCERTINAS
accordfons
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Post.
705 GEORGE STREET
uuiisra.
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
GRAND FANCY FAIR, TEA MEETING,
AND
MONSTER CONOERT.
BR kSS BAND 3, ILLUMINATION®, &c.
To take place on the *
22nd and 23rd APRIL,
Attsrnoon and Night,
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the
Governor,
Baron CARRINGTON,
Lady CARRINGTON,
and SUITE.
and in the presence of
SIR HENRY I’ARKES, K.C'.M.G.,
THE MINISTRY OF N.S.W.
MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT,
HIS WORSdIP THE MAYOR, J. IULEY, Esq.,
M.L.A., and the BOARD of ALDERMEN.
To ensure the complete success of this laudable
obiect an influential committee has been formed,
with power to add to their number :
His Worship the Mayor, A. J. Riley, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
The Committee have great pleasure in stating
that they have received a large and varied assort-
ment of goods, and they also will be pleased to
accept further subscriptions and contributions of
ai tides of any description for the above fund.
All donatsons will be received at A. Huenerbein
and Corbett s Music Warehouse, 318 George-street,
and at Mr. Quong Tart's. Sidney Areado, and
acknowledgment of same will be duly notified
through the Press.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
A MEETING of the Executive and Working
Committee will be held at Mr. Quong Tart's
Rooms, Sydney Arcade (upstairs), on MONDAY,
the 18th instant, at 3 pan.
Ladies and gentlemen wishing to join the com-
mittee are requested to attend the meeting.
All communications please address Signor
Agrati, care of Messrs. Huenerbein and Corbett’s
Music Warehouse.
A. HUENERBEIN I Hon.
R. GU ¥ f Secs.
A. L. NELSON I _
A. HEWLETT
QUONG TART J lrea3 '
Signor AGRUI, Manager.
Department of Publio Works,
Sydney, April 19, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offloe In ths colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the Ten
den are opened, and the name of the successfu'
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly oomplied with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aocept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whits* 1
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Construction, &c., of Eight Sets
Valve Gear, Prospect Dam,
Sydney Water Supply
Erection of Iron-decked Bridge
over Cook's River, on Punch-
bowl Road
Purchase of old Boiler, &c ,
Fitzroy Dock
Supply of 10,000 Compressed
Cedar Rail Keys
Tuesday,
April 26,
at 11 o’clock..
Erection of Residence, Officers I
in Charge, at Stone Creek and
Mumbil, Great Western Rail- |
way |
Construction of Rushcutter’s
Bay Sewer, Contract 26, Syd- I
ney Sewerage Works
Erection of Station Buildings I
Cowra
Erection of Station Buildings at
35 and 41 C. Point and LoDg
Islands, Homebush-Waratah |
Railway
Snpply at Armidale Station of |
20,000 bricks
Tuesday,
May 3, ■
at 11 o'clock.
Repairs, Police Barracks, Hay |
Erection of Bridge, Bungambo-
watha Creek, Smollet-street,
Albury
Construction of Kent-street
Branch of Main Northern In-
tercepting Sewer, Contract
No. 25, Sydney Sewerage | Tuesday,
Erection of Quarters for Inspec- I May 10,
tor of Stock, Randwick at 11 o'clock.
Alterations to Wharf at Five |
Duck, D arramat'a River |
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
La’ rikinism—Its Cause and Cure.
Wf. have received from a young compositor
the following long letter. We print it be-
cause the writer, however free he may be
with his adjectives, and however irrelevant
may be some of his matter, is desperately in
earnest, and, in the main, has what we con-
sider a good grip of his subject :
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—Mr. Burton Bradley
lenders cod to be an attorney I has lately, in the
Sjaney daily payers, written a deal of matter re-
garding Larrikinism, and in doing so has displayed
his complete ignorance of its cau/es. However,
he is by no means the first Conservative who has
posed as a moral reformer, and showed lamentable
incapacity for the task undertaken In order to
understand the sources of an evil one should go to
the bed-rock of the subject , and not appeal to the
recoids of official bumbledom, oraltogetherdepend
for information upou policemen, time-servers, and
interested capitalists. It is rather amusing to
hear one who belongs to the parasitical clats talk
ing about the evils of factory-work, and the
wretched, unwholesome dwellings of the poor
which it is the object of the class he represents to
improve off the face of the earth. It is the
usurious landlords - with their hangers-on, the
lawyers, brokeis, hankers, and parsons—who are
ruining this fair land of Australia, and doing
more to generate crime, larrikinism, and disoon
tent, than all the alleged causes which Mr. Burton
Bradley has enumerated. His contention that
Freethought lectures bring about larrikinism goes
only to show how ill-qualified he is to deal with
an important problem. His desire that Free-
thought lecturers should he flogged brands him a
bigot of the first water who understands neither
the men nor the evil he professes to attack. Those
whom he condemns, are, in large numbers o;
cases, the ones who are really trying to better the
conditions of society and to remove the present
inevitableness of larrikinism.
“ But if Mr. Burton Bradley was greatly
in error as to the causes of larrikinism, he
erred still more when he proposed his cure,
founded upon other persons’ partial investigations.
Larrikinism —one of the worst developments ot
modern society—is a disease begotten of sacerdo-
tal Blavery, hypocrisy, poverty, destitution, ignor-
ance, bad housing, class oppression, evil environ-
ment, and want of rational and elevating amuse-
ment. To these may be added bad and inefficient
systems of education, the Pharisaism and the ex-
clusiveness of the upper classes, besides (in some
of the Australian colonies) the taint of conviction),
improved upon by brutal and barbarous laws.
* * *
“We need to reform home life in Australia, anc
organise rational, elevating out door amusements.
The average larrikin is, and no wonder, discon
tented with his home and his social condition.
There is nothing put before him to elevate his
higher nature. The hollow-hearted churches,
with their senseless, unmeaning ceremonies, have
failed to improve the larrikin ; they have no in
fluence on him, except of a negative character.
Born in a freer atmosphere than that of sacerdotal,
aristocratic Europe, he sees through their preten-
sions, and is not in touch with the antiquated and
perhaps, hypocritical lives of his pastors and his
parents. He is therefore discontented. Discon-
tent and bad moral training are two of the most
potent factors in the production of larrikinism.
That discontent is brought about by several
causes. Parents in the majority of cares treat
their children, and employers manage their ap-
prentices, in a cruel and tyrannical manner—by
mental and physical repression. They place im-
plicit faith in ‘ bossing ’ and slave-driving- They
have an intensely lively notion of the duty of
children and employs to parents and masters,
but very little of the duties of parents and masters
to children and employes The parents are often
of a hard and forbidding stamp. The fathers, in
numbers of cases, take to drink and gambling;
further, they yield to wild, ungovernable out-
hurts of passion, and punish the slightest indul-
gence in pleasure in the children with a harshness
that is intolerable. In the majority of cases, the
parents, coming to Australia with the Conserva-
tive ideas of the old world, seem not to be in har-
mony with the feeliDgs and aspirations of their
native-born offspring. The free, Democratic spirit
of Australia, removed as it is from the stifling
atmosphere of the king-and-priest-ridden old
world, does not assimilate with the fossilised,
bigoted, flunkeyish ideas begotten by centuries of
oppression, ignorance, and superstition. The
people that emigrate to these colonies are, in
most cases, those who have undergone the most
extreme privation and poverty at home, and
therefore, when in any kind of a position here,
they are hard and exacting employers, indifferent
or hard-hearted parents. The elder generation is
mainly composed of men and women who have
suffered want and starvation, and have not be-
come oblivious to it. The rising generation his
not the faculty to see this, but individually they
feel it deeply and passionately. The native of
Australia who grows up a larrikin or criminal,
would, in ninety cases out of a hundred, bs a
highly useful member of society if persons or
organisations took him in hand in a proper way—
if pharisees and superficial egotists, instead of
deluging the world with a mass of nonsensical and
nauseating cant, went right to the depths of the
question-to the root of the festering cancer.
. • •
“ The larrikinism of our hoys and the shameless
prostitution of our girls are, in the maiD, due to
the terrible sameness and mental repression of
Australian home life and hot house associations.
Their aspirations are stunted, their moral training
is neglected, their minds are left in ignorance of
useful knowledge (and perhaps clouded with a
host of worn-out dogmas and false conceptions of
life), and their physical comforts and pleasures
are disregarded and neglected. At times the
parents tyrannise over and severely castigate
them for what in the nature of things, and from
their training, they could not help doing. At
other times they leave the youngsters to do just
•as they please, to run riot, and play the very devil
with everything. Thus the children go on the
street. Tyrannised over or demoralised at home
bv- drunken, reekless parents, and huddled away
in corners like pigs in a stye, when children
e cape from close factories and fever-breeding
homes, they abuse their temporary and anarchis-
tic freedom. They run about the streets and
lanes of Sydney and suburbs, barefooted and
ragged, at all hours, in all kinds of mischief, and
in the worst localities. Is it astonishing that
they should develope into manhood and woman-
hood perfect fiends and diseased abortions?
Soeiety, that yells so loudly for vengeance and
stern examples, even unto the strangulation by
the common hangman of a herd of sixteen-year-
old boys when any startling act of depravity
comes to light, throws all kinds of temptation m
the road of these unfortunates. Society may try
to wash its hands of the matter by hanging a few
to day and flogging a few more to-morrow, but
the cancer remains; the deadly disease that is
enervating our manhood and womanhood con-
tinues to gnaw at the heart of Southern civiliza-
tion.
# * *
Let us be honest, and apply the axe to the very
root of the evil. Theie ar» two or three things I
havo specially noticed in the average larrikin, lie
has an enthusiastic taste for music: an intense
love of athletic sport, and an admiration for those
who excel in manly exeicises ; and h# cultivates a
taaie for dress. He is exceedingly vain and
frivolous, but manifests the democratic spirit.
He, undoubtedly, shows, in his own ioud fashion,
a margin of self-respect as regards attire,
but he displays little respect for the gentler
sex, whom he seems to look upon as his
persi nal pi operty and lawful prey. As a rule, he is
not fond of over-feeding, and he does not manifest
the inordinate craving for intoxicating drink
characteristic of hie English prototype : but ho is
cursed with an intense mania for gambling— prob-
ably partly dne to climatic influence. The de-
grading rowdyism of the Australian native is,
however, principally chargeable to want of proper
provision for out door recreatlOD. to a lack of home
somforts, and to thy class axclusiventss, selfishness
and Pharisaism of society. If the upper and
middle classes were to descend a little from their
•elf erected platform of superiority, and if they
were to frateraise more with the poorer claases
and ahow that they are in real sympathy with
them, that they wish to raise the fallen and edu-
cate the ignorant, some good might be accom-
plished. Great reforms are calling for earnest and
universal attention, and one of the principal is,
the organisation of our outdoor life. Children
reared in filth, vice, and poverty, confined in
batches In foul-smelling garrets, caanot be ex-
pected to develops into healthy moral members of
society. We need not take into account how, as
a matter of course, they bequeath their vices and
mental leprosy to their children and their
children's children. Let that pass. More oppor-
tunities for education, amusement, and elevating
games should be given to gutter-reared children
and the denizens of the slums. Properly-super-
vised open-air concerts and moanlight demonstra-
tions in our parks and gardens should be initiated
on a large scale, The larrikin is at a loss how to
“ kill time ’ when he is doing no work. When
he knocks off work of an evening (that is if lie
has work to do) as soon as he is dressed up he
hurries ofT to join his special gang at the street
corner, the vacant allotment, the tobacco-shop,
the low billiard-saloon or the dancing den. He
may go to the theatre once or twice, but during the
other portions of the week he is practically lost, his
superabundant animal ei ergies have not a legiti-
mate outlat, they exhaust themselves in frivolous
or vicious amusement. He should be encouraged
to join clubs for social elevation and useful physi-
cal and mental exercises. We could form militia
corps out of our rising youths —instruct them in
drill, and discipline, aid gymnastics. Let there
he no ‘ stand-aside, I am-holier-than thou ’ busi-
nefcs —no straight-laced snobbishness. Cultivate
his taste for music and athletic sports by tand-
contests and demonstrations in the open air.
Turn Sydney Domain into a Champs Elyfees, with
refreshment booths and cafeis, where light and re-
freshing drinks and food might he obtained at low
prices.
# * *
“ The late Fireworks Exhibitions show what
might be done in this latter direction. Hundreds
of thousands of people attended the few displays
thatweregivenin Sydney Domain. Itwasquite sur-
prising to see how the street-arabr, newsboy's, and
larrikins entered into the spirit of t lie affair. Mr.
Bradley ought to have attended some of those ex-
hibitions—he would have then seen the makings
of some of the very w orst type of larrikins—
creatures diseased and mentally deformed from
their mother s womb. There were hundreds of
embryo larrikins—mt re boys—for his cold philan-
thropy to exhaust itself upon. Under the open
canopy of htnven—with the free ecean breezes
fanning his ttmp’es—the Australian larrikin can
be inspired and elevated. Our present heme life
(with its little miserable ciibs, built, through the
greed of capitalists and theorimeof Governments,
on wretched allotments doled out by the inch —
yes, doled out inch by inch in a land where there
should he unres'ricted room fo ■ millions) is a
hideous failure ; under these glaring skies, in this
damp, relaxing a>r, it is stifling, monotonous,
enevating, fatal. Let us surround the young with
be.ter conditions, remove evil accumulations,
force landlords to adopt a rational system of
housing their tenants, improve our methods of
education, work in the direction of removing
social inequalities, and balance the conditions be
tween capital and labour ; settle the people on
the land by nationalisiig it, make people study
the uses of their own bodies by instilling into
their minds the laws of physiology, and, above
all, trail the mind in accordance with strict
moral principle—teach a child to do right for
right's sake, te shun evil because it is evil, to be
honest, true, and straigh forward, because it is
mean, cowardly, and contemptible to be the op-
posite. Let t s strive, as far as lies within us, to
bi ing about such a state of things, and larrik inUm,
and crime, with poverty and ignorance, which
breed them, will disappear from the esrth ; there
will be no need to erest gibbets or triargle?, gaols
or pauper asylums ; no need to pay ciiminals and
professional assassins to dislocate the necks or cut
the throats ef our fellow-men and womi n.
* • »
Hereditary transmission of vice, crime, and
disease, improved housing of the poorer classes,
scientific and moral methods of teaching the
young, are all important questions that will have
to be more generally studied, and brought into
practical applicatio , if we wish to regenerate
mankind, and prevent the growth of lsrrikinism,
crime, and disease. The seeds of destruction and
decay are implanted in our so-called mighty civi-
lization - the unnatural and depraved ideas of life
foitered by the conflicting systems of modern
superstition, have been the cause of incalculable
and unspeakab • evils, which will take centuries
of earnest and toilsome effort to neutralise. In
spite of the advance of soience ‘civilization” is
but a high-sounding werd—very pretty to roll
over one a tongue—but signifying mammoth for-
tunes for the few, and squalid misery for the
many—a system of cut-throat competition which
enables the crafty and unscrupulous to crush the
defenceless masses! All the principal European
nations are armed to the teeth with the most
deadly weapons of scientific warfare—despotism
and landlordism are rampant and crushing out
the energies of the numberless poor. Over
19,000,000 hired assassins are ready to fly at one
another's throats, at the command of their pay-
masters. There are over 100,000 paupers and
60,000 prostitutes in the city of London, where
squalid poverty exists unchecked side by side with
the most luxurious forms of wealth, and thou-
sands of human beings are starving for want of
bread—and machinery is crushing out manual in-
dustry, and accumulating riches into the hands
of the few In America there are a million tramp i
on the highways of the United States, and ten 3 of
I thousands turned out of work or employed at
starvation wages to build colossal fortunes for
grasping millionaire monopolists. The toiling
millions are deprived of their natural inheritance
—the land and the just fruit of their labour ; and
are compelled to live a hand-to hand-mouth exis-
tence, and to wallow In poverty, vice, and ignor-
anoa, the while age withers, manhood and virtue de-
cay, prostitution and latrrikinisai increase, disease
and oppression fl iurish, and a so-called Christian-
ity, with its Pharisaical hypocrisy, spreads itssdares
and delusive nostrums. Society lulls itself into a
fancied security, while one of the most gigaotlc
revolutions that ever broke over a class-polluted
world is slowly but surely coming. In which
direction are we working here / —Yours sincerely,
An Australian Native.
- __
The world of sport will be sorry to read
the following bankruptcy notice Etienne de
M r -ore, of Ten are, N.S.W., gentleman. Liabili-
ties, £1357 10s. Id. : assets, £18,G95.”
The most desperate fighting that took
place during the late war between the Victorian
Shandygaffs. led by Lieut. Colonel Brownrigg,
and the Russian Portergaffa, led by Lieut.-Colonel
Templeton, was around the canteen. The Porter-
gaffs were repulsed with great slaughter, Dulce
et decent m est pro ta nylefoot mori!
At Launceston (Ta».), George Thomas,
finding himstlf suffering from an inner void,
entered a dwellisg-housc and abducted a pie and
some biead. Be got three year* for this, from
which we gather that pies has ilz. If he had re-
mained huDgry he would probably have got six
months for vagrancy, so perhaps it was just as
well to go in for the pie orgio and enjoy himself
for once.
The advent of the German magazine-rifle,
which can be used either as a single-shot or as a
continuous shooter, has been a woeful shock to
some of the great Powers of Europe The arrange-
ments were conducted in strict secresy, and when
five army corps were armed simultaneously with
the new weapon, France was thunderstruck.
That one move put the Sauer Kraut tribes 20
years ahead of their neighbours across the Vosges,
while Austria, after its painful efforts to gain an
equality vt ith Germany, finds herself again left in
the rear.
Read this and terremble. “ Tenders re-
quired for the erection of a town residence for the
Hon. J. G. Beauey, M.D., M.L C.” We clip it from
the advertising columns of a Melbourne paper,
and sigh. The pen may be mightier than the
sword, but it isn't in it with the operating-knife.
But no matter ; when wc get fixed up in our man-
sion above the skies we shall be a cut above the
irrepressible doctor. Angels never require their
limbs amputated, and Beaney’s occupation will be
gone while we are in much request as a hymn-
writer.
The new C. of E. Cathedral at Goulburn,
N.S.W., is such a vast structure that the good
bishop thinks that it will take an exceptionally
strong-lunged man to make himself heard in it,
and he suggests that the clergyman should be
provided with a speaking-trumpet. To make the
thing complete, the auditors ought to be provided
with ear-tubes, and each one ought to have a
galvanic battery attached to his feet so that he
might be kept awake, otherwise a blast from the
trumpet might alaim some dozing octogenarian
and cause him to exclaim, “ The resurrection has
come—glory 1”
A young Melbourne sportsman made one
of the be3t tags on record on Good Friday. He
went to Lancefleld rabbit shooting, and brought
down three men at a pop. One was wounded be-
hind the ear ; another received a large assortment
of large-sized shot in various parts of his body;
the third escaped with a shattered finger and a
severe shock to the constitution. The remainder
of the cha-ge was divided between the smiling
landscape and the blue canopy of Heaven. That
young man will bo simply invaluable when the
Russians come along. Of course, he will not fight
on our side. No. He will be instructed by the
nation to go over to the enemy, and then open
fire on his native land.
Bishop Got has been long enough in Mel-
bourne to get sick of the name of Moorhouse.
Like a “ second ” husband he is nauseated with
praises of the dear departed, and had the pluck
to protest at an early stage in his new life. Speak-
ing at the installation luncheen, Goe said—“ All
I have heard has increased my admiration of Dr.
Moorbouse's great ability, but ‘ comparisons are
odious,’and I would be glad when they ccese to
be made." That was pretty straightforward—for
a Bishop. If an ex-widow's new bridegroom
opened out like that at the wedding breakfast, it
might prevent the subsequent hurling of many a
flat iron. Goe, by the way, is not an imposing in-
dividual. He may be a good 'tin to go, but he's a
rum ’un to look at. The fact that lie completes a
trinity of childless Bishops of Melbourne hardly
surprises a shrewd observer.
You will smile gloomily when you read
this The manager of the Melbourne Cemetery
was entertained at a banquet and presented with
an illuminated address and a gold watch and
chain by his gravediggers, the other night. As
was fit and proper an undertaker was in the
chair. The proceedings are said to have keen
hilarious in the extreme, and, from a somewhat
extensive, not to say uproarious, acquaintance
with gentlemen connected with the tomb, we can
imagine they were There are no fellows so un-
expectedly light-hearted and gay as your under-
taker and your gravedigger when their business is
finished and they are relieved from pretending to
be so emn and bowed down with sorrow. We
knew one—but, ah, that merry spirit is quenched
for ever. Nevermore will he slyly, his eye glim-
mering with fun the while, draw out the whisky-
bottle from the “ Rosewooder” to ret ’em up for
us i—Nevermore convulse us with the story of the
Irish corpse who smashed his hearse, jammed the
driver in the coffin, and then got up on the box
ana drove through the town getting a drink at
every hotel he passed on his way to the cemetery,
where he was going to take the driver for burial,
till be overturn* d the hearse and was locked uo
for beiDg “ drunk and disoiderly." Peace to his
merry ashes I If there is any laugh'er in the
grave he will lead it. Much of the fun of our
life died with him. Yet why should we weep
because he is no more ? He would have chuckled
himself hoarse if he had had the chance to bury
us.


HOLTS RELEASE RECOMMENDED.
How about the poor fellow who wag sent to
gaol for ten years? Do any of the Ministers of
Justice call upon him with the same sympathy ?
Echo answers, “ No.' One was a banker, and the
other only one of the common people—one has
influence, the other not any. The way of the
world. Yes ; the bigger the rogue the less is the
crime Taking £4OOO is called a case of genius ;
£2009, shortage; £lOOO, litigation; £5OO, insol-
vency; £3 0 irregularity; £lOO, corruption ; £5O,
embezzlement; £25, dishonesty ; £lO, thieving ;
205., total depravity. Taking one bottle of the
famous St. Louis Lager Beer, war on society.*
Travellers, when arriving in Sydney, know not where to
seek accommodation, the knowing ones tell the cabman to
drive direct to the G-reat Northern Hotel, George-street and
Charlotte-place, where they find comfortable accommodation
and the beet meals supplied by any hotel in Sydney The
shilling luncheon theie is the talk of the town.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other Insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rlgney, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioes
STOP RIGHT HERB!
JOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30« and la aj 07 for ev
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twent7-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the parts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wnlch at present consists of over
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. Wlt is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family oircle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto teßted. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
"JAMES G. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870."
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes
Do. do. (key winder)
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pitent pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-case
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at asoending prices up to the finest in the
world at £lO 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
£2 10
£2 0
£3 0
£" "O
£3 S
3 15
£lO 0 0
ORIENTAL
GOLD
Is the latest triumph cl
Science. It is a noble
alloy, possessing tbe exact Instro, beauty
and endurance of sterling Sold. A legi-
timate uso has boon found for this noble metal, by
working it into /ewollery of the moet exquisite de-
sign. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely good 3, which they
sell at a fraction of the oost of Sterling (old Jewellery.
Ho one can detect the difference. Send for »
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches, ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
BrHliantt) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 73. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled', lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
IBs. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
IggjfWe send these on approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the Firat
Mail, and rve repay the cash.less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
F »r «V. sent anywber* by post,
Tyj" ILITARY GLORY
“ What a piece of work is a man ! How noble
in reason ! How infinite in faculty 1 In form am
moving, how express and admirable I In action,
how like an angel! In apprehensio', how like
god! The beauty of the world ! The paragon of
animals.” So said Shikespeare : referring, no
doubt, to a man in flee weather and with all his
store clothf s on. But wh.n a man has got up to
look like an incomprehensible Guy Fawkes in a
second-hand clothes sh f p, and turns out with an
umbrella to leirn how to save his country, in a
sea of mud and in a climate composed principally
of waterspouts, he’s not nearly so much of a
“ beauty” as ho might be, and his resemblance to
a “god" is ha-dl> good enough to satisfy the
yearnings of a Papuan for the inscrutable. Mili'
tary glory and external moist ure don’t harmonise
the noble ardor which fills the tented field with
warriors evaporates more rapidly under water
than it does under Are : even the warmest-hearted
girl fails to see anything imposing in the figure
of fun presented by the object of her affections
after he has been rained on for 10 days and IC
nights, and lived and moved and had his being in
a'sea of soupy mud. But his mot hers and his
sisters and his maiden aunts get ready for him at
home the oil which gladdens the heart of mao.
and when he has been shifted out of his warpaint
and the mud holystoned and dumscraped off his
classic form —when he is writhing with rheu-
matics or screaming with sciatica—then do these
good angels with tears in their eyes, and bottles of
St. Jacobs oil in their hands, surround him, and
rub him, and soothe him, and quickly cure him
by the aid of the great pain conqueror which
never fails in such cases, until the man who might
have been a hero if the rain had only kept off,
swears by St. Jacob and his blessed oil that he
will do it again, and do it every time, no matter
how disco-dint the elements may be ; for so long
as that wonderful curative is to be had, and so
long as there is anybody left alive to rub him
with it, he will never desert his country or his
corps, not even if the mercury creeps out of tho
bottom of the barometer to find shelter from the
storm. That is the true spirit of military glory.
gOCIAL PURITY.
The cause of social purity is just now exercis-
ing the minds of a great many people who are
very much in earnest in their search for the best
prescription to enable them to get it and after-
wards to keep it. The importance of the search
is intensified by the knowledge that there is no
surplus of the article in any of the more civilised
nations of the earth, and the limited supply which
might perhaps be obtained from New Guinea or
some of the smaller islands of the douth Paciflo
is not adapted to the Australian complexion.
What is wanted is purity at home as well as
abroad, purity of the mind as well as purity o f
the body—and the want is a big one. Some of
the people who want it arc enthusiastic and
optimistic, some are earnest but desponding, and
others, again, would fail to recognise the object
of their search if it came into collision with
them at noon on the Queen’s highway. But to
diverge for a moment from the subject of these
remarks, we are reminded that there is one
emblem of purity intimately associated with our
everyday life, and one in the possession of which
Australians positively revel. The reader will at
once divine that we allude to Clausen's New York
Champagne Lager Beer. The really magnificent
condition in which this be9r opens is the subject
of universal comment, although it is the result of
a very simple process As bottled, it is the pure
unadulterated product of the well-known brewery
of H. Clausen and Son, New York. It is bottled
by the Phoenix Bottling Company of that city, and
its live condition in the battles is assured—not by
the addition of chemicals, as is the case with some
beers —but by simply standing the bottles, full of
beer, in hot water troughs up to the neck, and
driving the air out by a steaming process, which
ensures the keeping properties of this favorite
beverage in all climates. They are then corked.
A recent analysis carried out at Adelaide,
under the instructions of Messrs. Milne and Co ,
gave the following splendid results :
“ Gentlemen, —I have made a careful examina-
tion and analysis of the sample of H Clausen
and Son Brewing Company’s Champagne Lager
Beer, bottled by the Phoenix Bottling Company
Seeond-avenue, New York, and I find it to be a
very pure malt and hops beer, in most excellent
condition and free from any contamination of false
ferments. It gave me 2.95 eer cent, of pure
alcohol, equal to 6.5 per cent, of proof spirit, or
half a pint of this latter in one gallon of the beer.
It also yielded 12foz of dry extract per gallon, or
28|lb per barrel; this extract was not glucose,
but resembled gluten mixed with gummy matter
and a small proportion of maltose, such as would
be obtained from an infusion of malt and hops
after fermentation. The beer was free from
acidity beyond the natural acidity of any veget-
able extract: and, further, a glass of this being
exposed to the open air for a week simply became
flat, and acquired a slight film on the surface,
without getting in the slightest degree offensive
or sour, proving its admirable keeping quality.
“ I am, gentlemen,
“ Your obedient servant,
“George Francis.”
The very moral S.A. Customs authorities
have drawn the line at a iust-arrived picture of a
Spanish young lady without even an improver on.
It had better be shipped to England at once and
sent to Downer, K C.M 6., to exhibit to the Con-
ference as the portrait of a South Australian
Deceased Wife's Sister.
A Gundagai pastoralist let his black boy
Tom into town for St. Patrick’s Day. Tom,
though not exactly descend d from Brian Boru,
enjoyed his holiday very much Next day he in-
quired who St. Patrick was that they make so
much corrobo’-te about. On being told that he
was a saint. Tom exclaimed, “ You think him a
saint; mine think it ’em d d big squatter."
Somebody once said that a pig was a
nobler animal than a man—in the pig's opinion—
and now it has been discovered by scientists that
dirty pigs do not get so fat as clean ones. Six
pigs of equal siz9 were experimented upon, three
being kept clean and the balance left to revel
after the manner of their kind. The clean ones
put on 301 b. more flesh than the others. Now this
NATURALLY TALENTED.
LAWYER SHARSMORE: “HE DOES NOT SEEM TO BE QUITE SHREWD ENOUGH
FOR OUR PROFESSION.”
MR. BULLBY (who has just re[?] from his country pub., and wishes to article his son to a
solicitor): “SHREWD, IS I YOU SAY? AH, YOU OUGHT TO BE HIS FATHER
—HE KNOWS HOW TO GET THE MONEY OUT OF YER—AND WHAT’S MORE,
SIR—HE’S AS BIG A LIAR AS WAS EVER BORN.
is a truth which should be widely known. We
don e want a new society, goodness knows, but
how would a Hog Ablution Association do vice tbe
Melbourne Shelley Society, deceased l Better wash
hogs than wallow in the “ Cenci.”
An awkward story comes from Fifeshire
(Scotland). It was sacrament Sunday, and the
old shepherd was about to administer the bread
and wine to the flock, when it was ascertained
that the more cheerful of the tvro elements had
gone amiesing, and nothing but bread remained.
The clergyman and the elders hastily formed
themselves into a committee of live sour-looking
Calvinists to consider the difficulty. There was
no public house in sigh*", and the congregation
were waiting, so it became necessary to resort to
chemical experiments, and fina’lv the sacrament
was administered by means of jam mixed wbli
water and strained through a cane-bottomed chair
of the sixth magnitude After the service, the
minister’s son was discovered in a state of hope-
less intoxication lyiDg behind a grave, but the
connection, if any, between the two events hasn’t
been satisfactorily estab ished.
At St. James's Park, London, a man re-
cently attempted to drown himself while intoxi-
cated. When he was hauled out, an emetic was
given him and he vomited 4s 6d. He explained
that he had quite forgotten what he did with the
money, and in his disgust at losing it had resolved
to end his days. This item is vouched for by a
policeman.
According to the latest magisterial inter-
pretation, the N.S.W Licensing Law stands
thus: —“ A resides in private lodgings, and B his
brother, arriving from England on Sunday morn-
ing, puts upat the Oxford Hotel, Sydney, where he
takes A to dinner; B has his bottle of wine at
tabic, but A cannot partake of it. 2. A lives in
private lodgings, but dines daily at the Metro-
politan hotel, Sundays included ; he is accustom- d
to a glass of ale at dinner, gets it on every week-
day, but is debarred from obtaining it on a Sun-
day.” All this sort of thing is brought about by
the Sawbath-observance Pharisees, who, poor
idiots, imagine that the Deity is displeased if a
man drinks a glass of soda and whisky on the
first day of the week.
Scene, deck of steamer at Manning Heads.
Local storekeeper sees person on board who owes
him money and looks as if he were about 10
“ clear.” “ Are you going to Sydney ? ” enquires
the creditor. That’s just the idea,” answers the
debtor. “ What! before you pay what you owe
me T “Yes, to be sure,” responds the other;
“ what the devil is the use of my staying here
after you’ve stopped my credit ?”
Kditor Bulletin.— Sir, — l have been long looking in the
columns of your and other papers for some signs of Messrs.
Wright, Heaton, and Co. being brought to trial, and I have
come to the conclusion that whatever the merits of their
case, they are, so far as the N.S.W. Crown Law authorities
are concerned, very likely to get off scot clear without serious
prosecution. Now, sir, I have a poor young brother at the
present time serving two years in Darlinghurst prison lie-
cause he, in a moment of temptation, defrauded his em-
ployer, a Sydney merchant, of the sum of seven pounds odd.
lie, God help him, was promptly enough brought to trial,
sentenced, and sent off to herd with confirmed criminals ;
while these alleged arch-defrauders are allowed to cast the
radiance of their smiles over the people of the land. I grant
that it was perhaps necessary, in the interests of society, that
this youth, my brother, was deserving of punishment, not-
withstanding that he had committed but the one small
offence. But I also contend that these men should also, long
ere this, have been placed at the bar of justice. However,
it was always the same—money protects the wealthy from
the laws of the land. I came to this country from Europe
expecting to find justice alike for the rich and the poor, and
what do I see ! Why this —that the laws in many instances
are much better, but the administration infinitely worse. I
must beg your pardon, sir, for troubling you with this out-
come of the bitterness of my heart, for I loved my young
brother, but when we have these distinctions made between
the rich and the poor it is calculated to make men ignore and
defy the laws of their adopted country.— Justice.


I When a picnic is pending in his neighbor-
lOOd, the average Australian small boy usually
'ustens on to the idea that life would be, to him,
(imply a drear, cheerless waste, a hateful void,
(hould he be debarred from participating in the
revelry. Some youngsters of Fitzroy (Meld)
wanted to be part and parcel of an cxcur.-i -,n that
was about to visit Sandhurst but the damages
ran into a power of money, and many a fair-haired
boy, after sacrificing all his property in the way
of tops, balls, and bottles, was still too miserably
poor to stand in ; but there came to the town an
enterprising quack, who pitched his tent on a
Spare lot, and offered to the public a wonderful
nostrum that was guaranteed in writing to cure
everything, from blind-boils to rheumatic-gout,
Inclusive. This travelling wonder also drew teeth
at something leas than cost, and he paid any
youth, who would allow him to wrench out his
grinders, so much a grinder, just to inspire the
crowd with confidence, and let the people see
What a mere trifle it is to have a double fang
prized out. He was not an artist at the business,
but once he got his grippers in he brought away
a tooth, and if a fragment of jaw cime along—
well, the owner could have it back on appli-
cation. The coming men of Fitzroy sought this
maD, In numbers, and cheerfully yielded up
grinder, molar, incisor, and jaw-splinters, for ca9h
down ; and then they went to Sandhurst, and re-
joiced with exceeding great joy; and now fari-
naceous food-stufTs are commanding big money in
Fitzroy.
MASON BROTHERS,
m .
BlJite
LIMITED,
283 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Hats always In STOCK, foi
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINE?, BEERS, AND SPIRITB
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
.» °IORIN and CO.'S
Cognao.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
IMPERIAL HOTEL, Brisbane.
THB above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladios, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and fire-oroof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room.
C. H. DAXIELLS, Proprietor.
Sample room.
High-class Dentistry | at Reform Prices.
MARSH ALL*BRCH
DENTISTS
Teeth painlessly extra ~ted under n'trous
gas, dally at 11.
AGENTS WANTED
to sell the Pictorial History
of the World The best
and fastest selling book ever published.
The werk embraces full and authentic accounts
Of every nation of ancient and modern times ;
including the Rise and Fall of the Greek and
Roman Empires, &e., &c.
Send for descriptive circulars, and full particu-
lars, NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY,
367 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S. W.
MANUFACTURER’S STOCK OF HATS,
AT
ONE-THIRD COST PRICE.
Z. F. PRIOOY & CO.,
HAVING purchased the above are now
Retailing below ordinary wholesale prices,
Cork-lined Mashers 6/6
Best quality English Felts 7/6 to 8/6
Second ~ ~ •• ■■■ ••• °/ 6
Usual prie’S 8/6 to 12/6.
c. F PRIDDr & CO ,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite LassetWs,
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
CONSULT Dr. THOMAS for the best and
safest treatment of Nervous Debi’ity and
Skin Diseases. The Doctor has passed Ids degrees
at the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal
College of Surgeons, England. Consulting
Rooms, 203 Elizabeth-street. Hours: 9 till 9
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gamer, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THURSDAY, April 21. and FRIDAY. April 22,
NORMA.
SATURDAY, April 2:i,
THK BARBER OF SEVILLE.
Prices—Dress Circle. 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls,
os,; Stalls, 4s ; Family Circle. 2s.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp,
SURPRISING SUCCESS
SURPRISING SUCCESS
EACH NIGHT. EACH NIGHT.
The great HOSE A. EASTON, Banjoist and
Comic Artist, appears in this hall, in conjunction
with Messrs. JOHNNY COWAN, SAM KEENAN,
the great Soprano Miss BEATRICE JAMES, and
the other members of the company, numbering
30 Artists.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
r
HLfi
Cjl£
ZuiTTZ
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,{JLtfcITWan*.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist, I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. I do not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
.ife-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
bas reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this ecarely ever beiDg suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvanic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costa nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPRING STREET (eff Pitt-st.. Sydney.
Guinness’ Extra Stout
FIRST QUALITY,
BASS’ PALE ALE
SOLE PURVEYORS to th*
COLONIAL AND INDIAN HHimlOl
LONDON,
Bj Special Appointment.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO
Commercial C< amb*r*» Bond* HrMl»
T
HE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DKTOT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE
where they supply
Mlllr, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coooa, At., will
light refreshments
At this Branch, orders may be left fo deNrerj
by their carte.
They have also taken over the Agenoy it
“ KOUMISS." so highly reoommended in pnlms
nary cemplalnte.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00., LIMITED
Head Office
Stablee
Factory
31 Harbour-street
Liverpool-street
Mittagong.
Notice lo Visitors tc tlie American Exhibition
of 1887.
50,592 English Miles hare been cohered since Oct. 11,1880, by
THE “WOISTIDER”
which last season'carried 1978 passengers in perfect safety.
Dr. Rumney (of “ Bidoe's Food” fame) will, to prevent
disappointment to American and Colonial visitors, again run
his celebrated six-horse Stage Coach, THE “WONDER,
between London and St. Albans, leaving Hatchett s Hotel,
is Piccadilly, London, every morning at 10 45, returning to
Piccadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch and for
passengers to inspect the CATHF.DBAL, which is one of the
FIN* ST and OLDEST IN THE WOBLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be taken
and the price charged for the return fare is 20s.
For time Cards and other Particulars apply to “ WONDER
oaoh Office, Hatchett's Hotel, Piccadi.lr, London, England
DR, O’CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
Avertising, as all of his patients who have con-
jlted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
O. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
HATS OAF’S,
302 GEORGE STREET,
S Doors South of Hunter-street.
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Lifted
89 COLLINS STREET E., MELBOURNE.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Persona! Requirement under One Roof.
Branches— Chapel-st., Prahran ; Brunswiok-st., Fitzroy ; Bay-st, North Brighton; Dundaspl., S.
Melbourne ; Burwood-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office —20 & 22 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES SO PER CENT.
lIUDOLPHO WOLFES SON *C C
s y /fp (ffiP) /
Ly/?^/ c >/j?fi/?/yy
/&?/&&£> xrJ
*
<%> tis^&wWie'.
ILLUSTRATION (In retnoed rise) * JZ\ Order to be found In the
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
j&T, NEWTON, at LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS. UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, rll
to ma'.gh.
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
IS
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, lrom
sitting to reolining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. AS" We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, Ac. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari]
0119 sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
IBB)
Drawing room cabi-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale design?.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB
rcsximi Warehousemen,
Im oorlers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Street r.
Sli
{• O P* PIANOFORTH,
jtOO guaranteed
sound, strong, anddnrable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ait
tone, is handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves tor
eash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by tbs MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
I C K
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From 17s,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order In
any material.
ELF- AD JUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, fcr
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O'ConneH-street.
s
BEDSTEADS, all sizes
Nlokel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and'
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
SPRING MATTRASSKB
Woven Wire, bet
make; also, Spiral Sprint
Prloe, from 14s. each.
RRADUIT. MWWTOV STvl T.AVP
I HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13b. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d. |
Chests ef Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 365.; Cedar Side-
boards, from 413 10a. | Clothes Horses, from 10a. Bd.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 80s.
ADLPT, NEWTON, and LAWS,


BRIEF MENTION.
A bank lark—defalcation.
Great Scot —Lord Aberdeen.
Hard to raise—the price of grog.
Sent to the Exhibition —Jawbone Neild.
The three “T’s” taxed —Tea, Tobacco,
and Tanglefoot.
Dunedin (N Z.) is to jubilate by spending
£27 10s. on fireworks on June 21. They might
have made it £2B.
Speaking of the new. hall for the Victorian
Female Operative Union, the Melbourne Herald
Squire Greenhide, of Bun-
gareebudgeree, visited Sydney
Art Gallery on Easter Mon-
day. At the door, an officer
of the gallery handed him a
medal merely begging
in exchange the S quire’s seedy
umbrella. “ Can it be,”
thought Greenhide, “ that my
*ame has preceded me, and
that this is a K.C.M.G.-ship
thrust upon me? Yes, it must
be so—everybody is getting
’em now ; and that official,
who is evidently hired for the
purpose, is giving 'em out to
them—people of distinction,
.like myself ! (He kept a pub.
and was a local J.P.)
Fastening the medal rather con-
spicuously upon his coat, the visitor
went inside, dividing his thoughts be-
tween the pictures and his own magni-
ficence.
At length, on his way out, imagine his indignation when
the officer aforesaid demanded his medal back, offeringto ex-
change the same seedy old umbrella for it—which was done
after a pains taking explanation.
“After all,” thought Greenhide, J.P.
“a K.C.M G. badge wouldn't keep the
rain off equal to this here old umbrella.”
say “ the design is chaste.” This is just what it
should be
In the course of a desperate engagement
at Frankston (Vic.) on Easter Monday, lieutenant
Tucker, of the cavalry, was severely wounded.
He rode into a tree.
Flogging has been introduced into the
Hongkong criminal code. This is a good sign.
When flogging has g.vne to Hongkong it has only
one Btep farther to go to utter abolition.
We notice that the ship Roth well Castle
has brought a consignment of long hair to Mel-
bourne. This ought to be great news—when they
hear of it—to the poets now in Pentridge on thort
sentences.
War is not such a deadly game as we
• thought, after all. During the whole of the late
Victorian campaign only one man—a private—
was left dead upon the stricken field. And he
was dead—drunk.
It has been officially announced that the
Queen cannot receive any Jubilee presents from
private pers ns. That's rough. We had got the
whisky packed ready for shipment, and now we
must drink it ourselves.
A correspondent writes furiously to the
Melbourne Dailt Telegraph to say that " the
Austra’ian Church should not have been inau-
gurated with champagne.” Surely he would not
have had it inaugurated with beer !
“ Good business woman would like to hear
of employment during business hours. 1 aura.
Herald Office.”—Daily paper. The above is obvi-
ously the advt. of a Civil servant. They are the
only people who want “employment during busi-
ness hours! ”
From Thursday week’s Sydney Evening
News :
'* People who get locked up to-night will have to remaiu in
the police cells till Saturday moraing.”
With what thoughtfulness does Alfred attend
to the best interests of his subscribers !
A bullock-conductor was killed at Strath-
merton (Vic.) by his waggon passing over his
chest and crashing him. 'lhe Age says he died
under the influence of liquor. You can’t heat the
Age at ferreting out cause and effect; it is a
whole commission of enquiry and a man over—
the waggon was loaded with hogsheads of beer.
At latest date", the warders of an English
gaol were poking food down the unwilling throat
of a condemned prisoner, who wished to starve
himself to death. This seems a brutal method of
fattening a man up for the gallows. They should
force the prisoner to take in sustenance through
the pores by poppiog him into a warm beef-tea bath
and anointing him with rum.
Wads the Sydney E. News :
“ At. Nvwinyton Asylum for old women, they keep four
horses, four cows, and about forty pijrs. ai d yei the i mates
allege that they cannot get a drop of milk, or ar y other com-
fort.’'
Now that the Noose demands milk from the pigs
and the hoises, it is surely time for Alfred to get
a new ‘ agricultural " editor.
Two vagrants were taken up in Melbourne
the other day whose names will bo worth men-
tioning for the benefit of some future Dickens.
Th«y were called respectively Kux and Quelch.
If we had time wo could write characters for
these names which would make pilgrims come
from the ends of the earth to water our tomb with
rum. But we haven’t We have to go out and
get a drink.
A correspondent writing to the Melbourne
Heraid makes the startling statement that
“ Pentridge prison is full of broken-down scribss.”
Yet, perhaps, after all, Pentridge is a better place
to pass the winter in than a boiler on the wharf.
We may look forward, however, to a tremendous
crop of poetry early in the sprirg. Lyrics will
then be selling at half-a-crown apiece, and odes at
l a shilling the gross.
I The Down and Gumtree Jernel an-
nounces that it will shortly publish a tale “ in
which love, sheep-shearing, and horse-racing are
combined.” This is a promising arrangement and
j ought to command success. We would point, odt
| to Alfred, however, that a beautiful du ,hees, a\
poodle-pup, some ham and eggs, and a pawn-
! ticket would afford a really first-class basis on
i which to erect an interesting story, and these
l
thrilling incidents, so far as we are aware, have
never yet been worked up together, even in the
Jbrnel.
Five larrikins were set up before a Mel-
bourne magistrate the other day charged with
insulting behaviour. The arrestirg constable
deposed th»t they asked him why he did not wash
his feet. How about their boasted education now' l
Here are five young Victorians who do not know
that P rt Plrlip is too smalt for a Melbourne
policeman to wash his feet in.
Last Sunday night a certain leading light
of the Church of England, whilst touching up his
beloved congregation for their backwardness in
coming forward ” with the gate-mouey. ob-
served:—‘'lt has been found that—ah—the
majoritay of those who attend at—ah—the evening
services do not even care to give towards the—ah
—offertory the smallest coin hearing the —ah—
image and supersc iption of her Majesty the
Queen.” Well—ah—supposing they don't, they
are only acting on the Biblical command to render
to Mrs Cm-ah li at which belongs to the said rulah.
They are keeping their “ thrums,” deah brothah,
to enable Grandma Vic. to buy Bat’s baby a new
feeding hettle in this—ah—blessed Jubdee yeah.
From the S.M. Herald :
“ QUIET ROOM, married couple, furnished or un-
f m isbed, use kitchen. Amy Cottage, 2J Cum-
berland-street.”
Let us querify :
Do a “furnished” married couple sport a table on
their heads 1
On their shoulders do they carry one or two ‘ ‘ half-
tester” beds?
Have they saucepans round their middies ? and
v their ears adorned with griddles ?
If so, the present writer is “ unfurnwhed ” when
he weds I
