

The Bulletin
VoL 8-No. 382
SATURDAY, MAY 28, 1887.
Prioo., eo.
Yet Another Twist.


THE BULLETIN.
I>l RUSH'D OKCB A WHS,
AT 24 PITT-STREKT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per annum - - - -£1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O os. 0d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE
By sending direot to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
• year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
Recent political events, and the tenor of letters
published in the N.S.W. country pres?, render
the announcement necessary that Mr. John
Haynes, M.L. A. for Mudgee, has no longer any
connection whatsoever, either commercial or
literary, with The Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MAY 28, 1887.
Australian Water Rights.
The Germans tell a ludicrous story of a
Viennese, who, visiting the tiny Alpine fount
called the source of the Danube, clapped his
cap over the little squirt of water, thus sus-
pending tho outflow, and then wondered
what the inhabitants of his native city would
think of the awful consequences. Herbert
Spencer, in his “Collective Wisdom,” nar-
rates a parallel instance of ignorance of the
rudiments of physical science on the part of
the House of Commons and the London
Press. A Bill was submitted to Parliament
asking for power to supply the small town
of Cheltenham with water from the Cerney
Springs, which, by a poetical fiction, are
dubbed the source of the Thames. The
quantity of water required was about a
million gallons a day. The Bill was running
through without any opposition, until all at
once the Times alarmed the House and not
a few simple London folk with a paragraph
arguing that this proposed tapping of “the
source of the Thames ” would produce a
lexicon of evils affecting the inhabitants
of the metropolis; whereupon even such
men as Lord Palmerston opposed the
measure, and it was unceremoniously re-
jected. Similarly, when the New South
Wales Water Commission suggested the
tapping of the head of tho Snowy Biver
for irrigation and other purposes, the Mel-
bourne press entered an indignant protest
against a scheme which, to the feeble intelli-
gence of the writers, seemed calculated to
inflict immeasurable injury on the portion
of Victorian territory traversed by that
stream. And now we find Now South
Wales, Victoria, and South Australia in a
state of great effervescence touching their
respective rights to utilise the waters of the
Murray. There are sound reasons for affirm-
ing that the jealousy of the three colonies
named over this question arises entirely
from ignorance, just as the alarm felt in
London at the proposal to take a million
gallons a day from the Thames to supply
Cheltenham with water was due to ignorance.
* • •
There is no subject on which even science
is so much at fault as that relating to river-
motion and river discharge. Given the
breadth, depth, and declivity of a river, and
it would seem at first sight an easy matter to
calculate its velocity and outflow ; and it
would seem not less easy to estimate
with an approach of accuracy the ex-
tent to which its level and volume
would be decreased by the subtraction
at a given point of a given proportion of
the water passing that point. Yet calcula-
tions based on the hypothesis that a river is
a mere conduit are hopelessly misleading,
and when other necessary data are taken into
account, so far as they can be ascertained,
the result is simply to make confusion worse
confounded. The truth is, no doubt, that
rivers draw their supplies from countless
natural reservoirs whose resources are
beyond calculation—whose capacity for
supply cannot be ascertained by mere refer-
ence to extent of catchment, or to any other
known datum; and hence we often find
enormous quantities of water taken from
rivers without making any appreciable differ-
ence in the level and delivery at their
mouths, or in their velocity and magnitude
at any point in their course. The current
jealousy between the colonies concerning the
use of the Murray is on the face of it absurd.
South Australia a short time ago threatened
to appeal to the Imperial Government in the
event of Nsw S-uth Wales diverting any of
the waters of this stream, her claim bcin
that the full natural flow of the river shall
come to her, and that practically neither
Victoria nor New South Wales have any
riparian rights as regards this river. The
absurdity of this claim is capped by one put
forward by Pakkes on behalf of New South
Wales, to the effect that the mother
colony alone enjoys the right to utilise these
waters. Both Victoria and South Australia are
about to construct irrigation worksof consider-
able magnitude, the former atMildura and the
latter at Bookmark. To the carrying out of
these works the New South Wales Govern-
ment strenuously objects on grounds which
seem scarcely worthy of a moment’s con-
sideration. What may be regarded as the
normal discharge of the Murray at Echuca
is no less than 1,130,000 cubic feet per
minute. The Chaffey irrigation colonies
would probably not absorb a thousandth part
of the volume thus indicated, and it is there-
foretheheight of ridiculousness for Pakkes to
raise the objections alluded to. This paltry
interference with the projects of Victoria
and South Australia is likely to induce hos-
tility in those colonies to the schemes sug-
gested by the New South Wales Water Con-
servation Commission for the utilisation of
the Murray waters in the supply of artificial
lakes, canals, and reservoirs in the upper
regions of the basin ; and evidently a fruit-
ful source of intercolonial animosity has
been sprung upon Australia by the alleged
G 0. M.
In Mr. F. B. Gippn' report on the Upper
Murray he draws attention to several sites
for impounding lakes of such great capacity
that not only would they serve largely to
diminish the evil consequences of high floods,
but they would also conserve sufficient v ater
to maintain a constantly navigable stream
from Wclarew r ang to Albuty. The absence
of natural storage for flood waters, which is
the cause of the great variations of the
volume of the Murray and other Australian
rivers, would by this scheme bo in a consider-
able measure rectified. But if this inter-
colonial quarreling is allowed to proceed,
none of these beneficent projects can be
carried out. What clearly is needed is an
Intercolonial Commission tocontrolthe use of
the Murray. In the hands of the second-rate
politicians who usually climb into office,
the management of this federal river
can never lead to its utilisation for
any purpose without causing intercolonial
bickerings, and its complete utilisation in
such hands is impossible. Men of Pakkes’
calibre cannot take a broad, intelligent, Aus-
tralian view of the question. Such men are
constantly on the outlcok for means to catch
a breath of popular favour, and are ever
ready to raise an ad captmulnm cry about
local interests and rights in order to gain a
cheap reputation for patriotism. Pakkes
knows well enough that a by no means small
section of the people of New South Wales
suffer from that distressing political malady
styled the bias of patriotism. An appeal to
New South Wales Chauvinism, especially as
against Victoria, always finds a ready re-
sponse. Hence, undoubtedly, his impudent
assertiveness with reference to the Victorian
and South Australian irrigation colonies.
The counter objections of the South Aus-
tralian Government to New South Wales
proposals are perfectly natural in the cir-
cumstances. This game of dog in the manger
will probably go on until all sensible and
reasonable people are roused and demand the
denationalisation of the only important river
basin in Australia, and its improvement and
utilisation for the benefit of the three colo-
nics directly concerned in those desiderata.
And this would be a practical step in the
direction of Australian Federation. It would
be the thin end of the wedge that would
ultimately demolish the petty parochial
sentiments betrayed more or less at present
in all the colonies. The Commission, or
whatever the body might be called, would
be an imptrium in imperio, with limited
jurisdiction and limited functions, it is true,
yet within certain limitations supreme ; and
working as it would for wholly beneficent ob-
jects it, would afford a practical illustration
of the ’benefits derivable from a union
of the colonies for all purely Australian
purposes. A Melbourne journal sug-
gests the establishment of a commission
on a basis similar to that of the Danube
international pact. But plainly that method
is open to serious objection. The governing
body should be elective and representative,
and untrammelled by colonial Governments.
Its subordination to colonial Parliaments
should also be confined to matters of finance
and the use of land for the storage of water
and like purposes. Its responsibility should
be to the peoples of New South Wales, Vic-
toria, and South Australia, and not to the
several Governments and Parliaments. A
body partly appointed by Parkes and partly
under his control, for instance, would simply
be a costly nuisance. A body representing
the peoples concerned, and clothed with in-
dependent powers, would, at any rate, enjoy
a good show of becoming something in the
nature of a blessing to Australia, both by
yielding direct advantages and giving an
example of the good effect of federal action.
* » *
The public of Australia will no doubt look
to Victoria for the initiation of the union so
imperatively required. For nobody ac-
quainted with the public men of New South
Wales will expect any such statesmanlike
scheme to emanate from them. Parkes has
no constructive or originative ability what- •
ever. He is a mere copyist, and not a parti-
cularly intelligent copyist either. Among
his colleagues and followers there is no man
above mediocrity ; and the Opposition is too
weak numerically to attempt to do more
than criticise the proposals of the Govern-
ment. Nothing can be hoped just now from
New South Wales, that is clear ; and as
South Australia is too deeply concerned with
her local affairs in this year of trade depres-
sion and distress, it would seem that if a
satisfactory arrangement for the control and
utilisation of the Murray and its tributaries
is to be immediately realised, the measure
must be formulated and perfected in Victoria.
Theobjects are assuredly sufficiently impor-
tant to induce the ablest men of that colony to
engage vigorously in the business of further-
ing them. The causes of the failure of Aus-
tralian rivers are now tolerably well known,
and to know the causes is to apprehend the
means to be adopted for their removal.
Under scientific management, the Darling
and the Murray might be made to maintain
levels approximating to those of a normal
state of things, instead of violently fluctua-
ting between foaming, devastating torrents
and chains of semi-stagnant water-holes.
The enormous advantages to bo gained in
respect of inland navigation alone ought to
suffice for a motive for organising an efficient
managing body. But, in addition, there are
the incalculable benefits to be derived from
irrigation works. If the colonies are con-
tent to ignore the vast advantages likely
to accrue from proper attention to the
physical characteristics of the watersheds re-
ferred to, all that can be said is that they
are miraculously indifferent to the principles
and behests of intelligent self interest.
A Worn-out Institution.
Tfte 14th of May was Commemoration Day at the
Sydney University. These annual erudite festivi-
ties, and the occasional commotion incident upon
the election of a Senator to the governing body of
the highest educational institution in N.S.W.,
are the only events in connection with the Uni-
versity that bring into public notice a system that
had its origin in the distant and barbarous needs
of the past. With each annual celebration the
columns of a Press which owes little or nothing to
the existence of such an institution teem with
eulogistic nonsense, ringing the praises of a mode
of teaching out of touch with the requirements of
our daily life, and engaged in furbishing up the
mental armoury of an epoch contemporaneous
with the Aristotelian puerilities of tho anti
quoted logicians, who were deposed by the new
method of Bacon. The University of the old
type —the type to which that of Sydney belongs—
is the worst enemy of progressive Democracy
with which we are acquainted. Its influence upon
the everyday life of humanity is small, indeed ;
but wherever it is felt, it is felt in a sense adver-
sative to intellectual freedom. It is the mental
crutch of Conservatism, the bolsterer-up of the
inefficiencies of the past, which have lingered
into the life of the present.
Were the legal, medical, and clerical professions
regulated by common sense instead of by the anti-
quated and arbitrary dogmas of a defunct anti-
quity, a marked improvement'would instantly be
perceived in the personnel and calibre of each of
these departments of thought. The greatest
minds in the various walks of life owe nothing to
the University. Those of its sons who may have
achieved positions of distinction after freeing
themselves from its suffocating and protecting
pallium, have commonly failed to secure the most
meagre honours, in its power to confer. Shake-
speare’s school was the world ; and Swift seldom
spoke of the college which he left without taking
a degree, but with a scorn and bitterness sugges-
tive of wasted years in a barren search for the
dead-sea fruit of academical learning. The great
mass of the people are ignorant of everything con-
nected with it save its walls and its name, and a
man, unless he wished to unfit his son for the ac-
tive business of life, would hardly think
of sending him thither. We do not deny
that it, perhaps, served a good purpose in those
ages men have agreed to term the “ Dark,” but
the only learnirg of those times was the learning
of Greece and Home, and such the University
taught. This teaching was better than none, but
a new world of thought, richer in prospect and
wider in scope, has since been revealed to the
astonished eyes of man, and the learning of
antiquity, may be justly considered as having
long since served all useful purposes.
Shakespeare and Milton, Chaucer and
Burns, Bacon and Ruskin speak to us with more
authoritative voice than those dying echoes of
greatness heard in the distant murmurs, far down
the steeps of centuries, of Euripides and Plato,
AEschylus and Aristophanes, Hosier and
Cicero. Jeremy Bentiiam and John Stuart
Mill have superseded the philosophies of Aris-
totle and Seneca, and the logic of the School,
men reverberates in ears lor g since sealed in the
silence of death. Our quick, eager existence,
charged to overrunning with earnestness and
burning aspiration for a brighter future, finds no
rest and no solace in the graveyards of the past.
The demands of current thought and current
literature, the demands of time as against those
of eternity, permit no worry of ours about the
emendations of a scholiast, or the exceptions in the
use of a dubious vocable.
But the University does not only little good. Its
influence is one of positive harm. Originality,
when submitted to its authority, is crushed beneath
the mill-stone of dead forms. The paradigms of
extinct albeit erudite absurdity replace the re-
sources of native talentr, It trades in the cloud
land of dogmatic hypothesis and presents the
exploded theories of antiquity as the truths of the
living present. The craving mind cries for bread
and receives the educational stone wherewith to
satisfy the pangs of mental hunger. And the
system is based on a logical fallacy. What we
admire we should imitate. The advocates for
classical, or which is the same thing University
training, quote ever the Greeks as the grand
exemplars of humanity. Yet the Greeks lived a
Greek life uncontaminated by the influence of an
outside authority. As Greeks they scorned to
imitate the nations which they regarded as their
inferiors, and their name for a foreigner was
synonymous in meaning with their name for
a barbarian. The art the Greek studied
was his native art, the language he'
sought to improve and cultivate was his native >
tongue, the philosophy upon which he shaped his:
life was the philosophy of a native teacher, his;
entire existence from the cradle to the grave was;
the grandly exemplar existence of a Greek.
The University, in its absurd reverence for th»
extrinsic and the foreign, goes outside the litera-
ture, the language, the life and the history of its
own country to seek for specious inspiration in a
museum of antiquities, to burrow for worthless
curiosities in the ruined catacombs and dusty
cromlechs, which doubtless owed their origin to
giants, but to giants of a long-forgotten epoch.
And this ridiculous system consigns to intellectual
babyhood for several years—the best of their life—
the men to whom we surrender our physical and
social health—our doctors, our lawyers, and (alas
that it should be so) the advisers of ouv
wives and our daughters. These gentlemen know
little or nothing of a really practical character,
and if at any time they should be bereft of friends
or of fortune, they are compelled to seek an ignoble
refuge in a benevolent asylum, or embrace some
menial occupation from which it has been the sole
but futile aim of their academical curriculum to
safeguard them. Lawyers, more learned in the
conjugation of a Sanskrit verb than in the devious
sinuosities of English law ; doctors, noted more
for their mastery of the amorous episodes of Ovid’s
deities than for their ability to treat a case of fever
parsons and priests who have for ages blocked the
path of mental enfranchisement, and who have
met the aspirations of men’s souls with the con-
solation derivable from the various applications of
an Hebraic accent, are the fruit of the University-
tree. And by its fruit ye shall know it!
» * •
Briefly summarised, the various aspects of the
classical question >re these : “ The University
has outlived it original usefulness ; it is not in
harmony with the mental freedom or the educa-
tional needs of to-day ; it is a stifler of originality
and native talent; it is a nursery for the foster-
ing of Conservative thought, and a point d'appui
tor the dissemination'of Conservative platitude.’’
The old exploded notion of its training being, if
not in itself useful, a gymnastic conducive to
intellectual vigour and mental development is too >
puerile to mention. The man who devotes his ener-
gies mainly to the acquisition of modern languages '
is mentally the equal, if not the superior, of the mere'
classicist, with the additional advantage of having
acquired something of practical service in the'
daily commerce of life. In fact, to sum up the whole’
matter into a sentence : If the University is to 1
Pe a power in the land it will require to be abso--
lutely remodelled upon a modern basis, accomo-
dating its aims and aspirations to the needs of the'
present and the intellectual direction in which
shapes the future ; as it is now constituted, it is-
simply a ghost of the past and an institution'
which ought not to be continued as a State-
endowed branch of our national education.
Foster v. Parkes.
When Parties was addressing tf>ff electors of
Queanbeyan with the object ofeecuring the defeat
of the Protectionist candidate, he endeavoured to
gain that end by persuading them that he alone
was capable of giving good Government to New
South Wales. Under his regime, he said, there
would be no misuse of office, no nepotism, no
bungling—nothing save honest and efficient man-
agement of the public affairs ; while, on the other
hand, under any other possible Prime Minister,
corruption and blundering were certain to super-
vene. Parkes has been a little over four months
in power, and into that short space he has crowded
more suspicious performances than any Minister
who ever previously occupied his position. The
appointment of A. G. Taylor to a sinecure ap-
parently created for the express purpose of getting
rid of an Assemblyman whose caustic criticisms
were all the more damaging to the Government
because they were ostensibly those of a friend, is
typical of several transactions to which the term
shady can only be applied ; while, as to mere mis-
takes and mismanagement, the Parkes mob have
already in their brief term of office shown them-
selves as liable to fall short as any set of men ever
likely to find themselves in similar places. If the ■
present Administration is the best the New South
Wales Freetrade party can furnish from its ranks,
then assuredly that party might well sink its
views in fiscal matters, and yet feel convinced
that it was a duty ; for decenoy of
Government is demonstrably the first desideratum
and should be insisted upon even at the cost of a
policy which its strongest advocates are at last be-
ginning to see, is after all very debateable. Yet
doubtless this Assembly will go on supporting the
Parkes conclave until the day of its constitutional
decease which will, probably, however, be quickly
followed by the day of retribution.
* * *
The latest performance of the Parkes Cabinet
is not without its points of advantage. It has led
to a falling-out, and when a Pro-Trade Free


teetion Cabinet falls out other and more deserving
people generally score a win. There was a small
matter of £2,500 a year to be given away, and this
of course could not be done by Parkes without
resort to trickery and breach of fai'h. Whenever
he perceives a grindstone in motion he is imme-
diately on the outlook for an axe to be ground.
The whilom little white-haired boy of the Cabinet,
Foster, was distinctly promised a Judgeship
whenever there was one offering : but when the
time for fulfilment came poor Foster dis-
covered, as many a better man has discovered
before, how brittle are the promises of Parkes.
The history of the business is very pretty
reading. When Parkes had “reasons” for
shunting Foster into the Speaker's chair he
gave him clearly to understand that the circum-
stance of being Spoaker instead of Attorney-
General would in no way affect his claim to a
Judgeship in the event of a vacancy on the Bench
occurring. Foster evidently entertained some
distrust of Parkes at that juncture, for he pre-
ferred to remain in the more influential position
of a Cabinet Minister to accepting a po3t in which
he would be completely at the mercy of a noto-
riously treacherous memory. The hour of
Foster’s joy approached sooner than he ex-
pected when he refused the Speakership. None
of the Judges died or retiied, but a “ necessity
was discovered for an additional member of the
Supreme Court Bench. The exact part Foster
himself playcl in the making of this discovery is
at pre3ent unknown ; but it is certain that he as
Attorney-General took a deep interest in the
progress of the measure authorising the new
appointment, and looked daily more like a man
in receipt of £2,500 a year as the Bill passed its
successive stages. But, alas for human hopes !
one day there came a note from Parkes— begging
his “dear Foster ” to accept the Jud geship and
congratulating him on his elevation to the
Bench t— no, but asking him nor, to press his
claims to the otticj, reminding him that
than one of the Judges war get*- ue pa tch amo
another vacancy must •* ’husband, who g.
While alludmg to the ever
months ago. gently hinting i,ij OW he ex
could not conveniently be kept jusv -v, and
pulled a long face and wrote a long repi" ■
Parkes, but the matter had been settled and it
was useless arguing or expostulating. Matthew
Henry Stephen was to be the new judge, not
Foster, whereupon the white-haired boy of the
Cabinet “cut up rough,” told Parkes he was un-
worthy of further confidence, and resigned the
Attorney-Generalship.
. * *
The quid nuncs have been puzzled as to the real
reason of Parkes for throwing Foster overboard
in favour of Stephen. Parkes’ explanation tr
Foster at first partook of the nature of soft soap
—it was that it would damage the Ministry to lose
the latter’s services as Attorney-General. .But
this does not chime in with the statement made
by Parkes in the House to the effect that he
knew all along that if Foster did not get the
billet he would still leave the Ministry. If Foster s
support had to be lost, it would be better to have
him afterwards on the Supreme Court Bench than
in the Assembly suffering under a sense of injury.
In his earlier statement in the House Parkes in-
timated in language scarcely admitting of mis-
apprehension that Foster was regarded by him
as unfitted for the position of a Judge ; but he
soon had to back out of this b'ufflng assertion
when Foster threatened to produce the corres-
pondence that had passed between them. Parkes
has given so many contradictory explanations, and
has shuffled in a manner which even for him is so
extraordinary that the public have justly
enough come to the conclusion that is a
nigger in the farce. He had no reason of his own
showing for not appointing Foster ; therefore it
must have been under some mysterious and irre-
sistible impulse that he appointed Stephen. No
doubt the Stephen family were on the alert. It
is a curious fact that whenever a lucrative post
is offering in any part of the British dominions
there is a Stephen exactly fitted to fill it. Mem-
bers of this family scent a vacant judgeship afar
off and come hoverirg round any fat billet like
vultures round a deal camel. They are skilful at
wire-pulling, moreover ; and no doubt in the pre-
sent case contrived to pull a wire which forced
Parkes to jump tire way they wanted. Some
people attribute the selection of Stephen to
one class of influence, some to another clas3
of influence. Whether Parkes was, got at
through the Governor or through the rag-im-
porters, through the Roman Catholics or through
some of the innumerable gentry to whom he owes
debts of gratitude, are questions unworthy of con-
sideration in the face of the transparent fact that
whatever the influence was, andhoweverexercised,
it must have been sinister as well as potent And
here we would remind those publicists who are in
favour always of rounding off and making things
pleasant that the proper and only way of avoiding
scandals over the appointment of Judges, and
the only way to obtain J udges in touch with the
people, is to make them elective.
If the Judges were elected for a term of say
three years, Mr. Justice Winpeyer would long
since have been chucked out at the ballot box.
These functionaries are in many respects of more
importance than Ministers ; yet how intolerable it
«y mid be if Ministers were not elective, besides
being amenable to Parliament! If the country
had been polled over this appointment Foster
would probably have scored two to one against
Stephen. Foster has always seoured the confi-
dence of a large section of the public, while
Stephen’s influence with the people is represented
by zero. And, notwithstanding Parkes’ theory
to the contrary, the fact of Foster being Attorney-
General does give him a solid claim to a position
on the Bench. If he is not fitted to be a Judge,
he certainly is not fitted to be Attorney-General.
In New South Wales the Attorney-General is a far
more important functionary than a Judge. He is
the Grand Juror of the colony—can find true bills,
or throw out bills ad libitum , and against his
decisions in the latter case there is no appeal. To
regard the office as of inferior importance, as
Parkes does, is to incur the risk of obtaining the
services of only second-rate m*n for the perform-
ance of du l ies of the highest possible character.
Parkes’ action all through this business is con-
temptible : but the arguments with which he
seeks to justify his action are the most blame-
worthy, because they indicate a dangerous intent
—an inveterate crook—as well as the ten-
dency to do a wrong action under the pres-
sure of some mysterious necessity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Automatic Brakes.
Tn r recent railway calamity in Victoria is attri-
buted primarily to a blunder on the part of a
signalman in allowing two trains on the same
section of the same track simultaneously ; and,
secondarily, to a fanlt of the guard of It e train
unexpectedly brought to a standstill, in not going
back on the line and exhibiting a danger signal.
The neglect of the guard, however, seems to be
excusable, inasmuch as it was due entirely to the
perfectly natural sense of security er gendered
by the block system. Like all elaborate methods
of preventing accidents, the block system induces
a feeling of safe'y which sometimes is the cause
of serious mischief. Teat guard was justified to
a large extent in supposing that no second train
would be allowed on the track until his own train
was off; imil since it was necessary to release the
brakes on his train, 119 was warranted in perform-
ing that duty under all the circumstanc s to the
neglfOt of signaling to a tra'n he had no
reason to expect t-i be ful'owing 13ut the
accident assuredly teaches one plain lesson.
It emphasises the condemnation heaped on auto-
matic brakes by numerous railway authorities, so
far a 3 their use on suburban lines is concerned.
The automatic action of these appliances is a con-
-1 stant source of danger on crowded lines, for what-
ever happens to prevent the brakes being put on
pivoluntarily by the driver leads to their being put
m most effectually without his aid and mo t often
gainst his will. The London suburban lines have
TVund it impos-ible to use automatic brakep, yet
the colonial managers will persist in employing
them in the tee'h of all experience. It is all very
well to talk of the excel'ences of the block system,
but we all know that system to be frequently at
fault. A signalman occasionally exhibits the
wrong light, and a driver often suffers from tem-
porary daltonism. Anyhow, it is by no means so
unusual as many confiding travellers suppose fora
train to run on a section already occupied by
another: and then, if anything happens to the
(automatic) brake of the train in advance, as in
the cate of the Windsor accident, a catastrophe is
ti.i ost inevitable. The theory of ihe adoption of
axiomatic brakes is that the only dangers with
which a train is threatened are ahead—that while
it is perilous to be unable to stop a train within a
short distance, there is no danger whatever io it
pulling itself up, and thus incurring the risk of
collision from behind. Skilful and experienced
railway managers have pointed out this feature of
the automatic action, and have roundly con-
demned automatic brakes where the traffic is
similar to that between Melbourne anil Windsor ;
but, so far as colonial managers are concerned,
English authorities seem to have wasted their
voice on desert air.
-•
Fiscal Damnation.
The following, which appeared in the Sydney
D.T. a little while since, is a good specimen of the
“ Freetrade-run-mad ” theories of the King-street
purveyor of fiical damnation. It appeared as a*
comment on a perfectly sound observation of a
Protectionist member of the New South Wales
Parliament: —
" For a true sample of Mr. Creer's new fiscal ideas, how-
ever, take the following: He says any article, a pounds
worth of which can be produced by the exper diture of only a
shilling's or two shillings’ worth of labour, is an iudu-try of
no use whatever to the country, aDd ought not to be con-
sidered. Now, if the useless Less if an industry is to be
measured by the cheapntsi of production, we suppose the
converse of the proposition will hold good. If it is better for
the country to produce an article worth a pound by the ex-
penditure I f lire shillings' worth of human energy than to
produce another article of the same value that only requ’r s
the expenditure of one shilling's wort -, then an article re-
quiring t e expenditure of ten shillings' worth of labour
would be better still. Carry the argument on to its u timate
issue, and to produce an article worth a pound by using up
two pounda' worth of labour in the process would be to at
once commence growing rich. Mr. Cheer hss put the whole
protectionist case as ingeniously as it could be put in this
reductio ad absurdum. What Protection aims at is to take
labour away from the more productive aveoues which it
naturally seeks and force itintootheis where the deficient
result of its exercise will be made up by public subscription.’’
This argument of the Sydney D.T.s, which it
terms a reductio ad absurdum of Mr. Creer s
contention, is simply a specimen of thick-headed
ness. If a man suffers from mortification in Ihe
big toe it is a good thing to cut off the big too 1
You cannot have 100 much of a good thiog, and if
it is good to cut off the big toe, why not cut off
all the other toes i If that is good, very well, cut
off" the foot, the leg, the trunk, the head : cut off
the man altogether aril it will do him all the good
in the world ! ! Doctors administer arsenic in
certain diseases and find it cures. Wire in, pile
up the a senir, you caDnot have too much of a
good tiling ! ! Now, Mr. Creer's remark had,
no doubt, a reference to the production of the raw
material of wool. We all know how beautifully
the thing is worked. Plenty of land at a merely
nominal rental, a few hands at los. a week, the
wool is produced in great quantities; the only
really considerable expenses are incurred at
shearing-time ana in shipment, and the result is a
fortune which the retired colonial squattertakes to
Europe to spend. Articles of costly production
are manufactured ar icles. They mean a division
of profits between capitalist and workmen : th y
mean the dissemina’ion of wealth throughout the
community ; end they mean a retention of the
country’s wealth within the country. They mean
also better w..ges to ths labour now employed in
the produc ion of raw material Other avenues
of labour would he opened to its operation and the
unemploy ed "bummer’of the past would disappear.
We do not say that a cheaply-produced article is
“ useless ” , but it is useful only to a section of
the community ; it tends to conserve wealth in the
hands of a few, who are interested in keeping up
an army of “unemployed,” because such a state
of things cheapens labour, and as the “ few ” look
across the water for a market, they are indifferent
to the prosperity ot the country as a whole. Let
the D.T. shuffle again and try another deal.
The New South Wales Divorce Bill
Again.
is far as the New South Wales Legislative Coun-
cil is concerned, Sir Alfred Stephen’s Divorc?
Bill is virtually a bounced-out measure. It has
escaped absolute rejection only through the want
of a quorum, but unless a strong rally of its sup-
porters tikes pl«ce there is litt'e hope of its ulti-
mate success. Should it again come up for discus-
sion this session, its fate will be resolved by the
votes of the halt, the maimed, the blind, and the
bedridden. Both parties will go out to seek for
Mipportera, and legislators who have loDg since
fallen into second childhood and become incapable
of managing their own affairs will be brought
in as the final court of appeal for the people of
New South Wales. At times like these the value
of the broken-down legislative dotards of the
colony becomes suddenly apparent. They come
in carriages, or in litters, and are all but carried
into the House, where they require to be shaken
up, and revived, and beef-tea’d, and otherwise
refreshed until their bleeding country calls on
them to vote and save it from destruction, and
then they totter and cough their way out again,
and disappear, with one leg in the grave and the
other swollen with gout and swathed in band-
ages. It is only upon momentous occasions that
these moth-eaten fossils are aroused from their beds
and their obscurity, but when they do rise they
are the rulers of democratic New South Wale 3.
They are rich men, mostly, with a keen
eye to the sanctity of “propuity”; they
have long since lost touch of the coun-
try, and their Toryism is the Toryism of the
last generation—sometimes of the generation
which flourished when the last one was still in its
cradle. Bat their numbers are sufficient to veto
almost every proposal that affects their interests or
grate 3 upon their prejudices, and when they rally
np, as they do at long intervals, they can vote
down the people's representative* and treat the
will of the nation with senile contempt. Happily
for N.S.W. ic is only on a fine summer day that
this doddering oligarchy is at its be3t. In the
bleak winter months the aged legislators are con-
fined indoors, and their country may call for them
in vain even though their aid alone can save the
sinking State. But however harmless they may
be under ordinary circumstances, their very exis-
tence is a danger, and may at any moment become
a curse. The majority of them are bores, who were
appointed as life-long rulers in some long-forgotten
past in order to remove them from positions where
they were more actively obnoxious, and men who
were useless in their youth are afflictions in their
old age. Yet even the meanest of these dying
relics of a bygone age has a voice in cancelling
the acts of the elected Assembly, and so long as a
band of played-out cariosities can be dragged
from any place short of the tomb to reverse the
decisions of the national representatives, the
democratic institutions of New South Wales area
delusion and the liberty of the people is little
better than a farce. Weather and other circum-
stances permitting, the living grave will shortly
yield up its dead once more, and the final decision
upon the Divorce Bill will be given by the incap-
able and decaying grandfathers of the state. The
result depends mainly on the thermometer.
Free Trade and Imperialism.
In Sydney, la=t Saturday afternoon, on either side
of the Rand wick tram-line which skirts Moore
Park, might be found illustrations of the Jingoistic
Siamese-twin policy which is plungiDg New South
Wale 3 into a financial quagmire. In one enclo-
sure bands were playing pmans to all sorts of de-
funct military heroes, and pot-bellied, high-
shouldered men, clad in various ill-flttir g uniforms
of martial bedevilry, strutted along to words of
command given by a belted and epaulettcd grocer
or apothecary, to the tune of the “ Briti-h
Grenadiers.'* The poor fellows taking part in
this red-ochre display were rehearsing a farce for
presentation on the following Tuesday. ’Jh y
represented the glorious principle of Imperialism.
Stepping across the tram-line into the Agricul-
tural Association Grounds we had practically ex-
emplified in resul s an equally glorious principle—
that of Freetrade. A more sincerely mi-.erable
and unostentatiously one-horse affair we never
saw before, unless it was the show held in the
same grounds last year. Beside the horse-jumping
there was ha-dly anything of signal interest.
The show was an agricultural show with agricul-
ture carefully left out. It was infinitely inferior
to dozens of country shows held in Victoria in
towns of under 3000 inhabitants. The cattle were
wretchedly housed, and in many instances the
approaches were impassable. The exhibit of sheep
was, for a wool-produciDg country, an altogether
miserable and inadequate one. The show of agri-
cultural machinery was represented by a display
of the imported goods which may be viewed in
any iron-firm’s yard. Compared with the magai-
fleent exhibitions of cattle, horses, produce, and
locally-manufactured implements which take place
every year in Melbourne, the Sydney show was
miserable and disgraceful. There may be some-
thiog better in the country, but it certainly puts
in no appearance at the annual display in the great
Freetrade capital of New South Wales. The
poverty of the Sydney show evidences that the
New South Wales Government makes no effort to
encourage competitive display. In other words,
the New South Wales Government is afraid of
too plainly pointing out the nakedness of the land
and the rottenness of a Freetrade system.
Wages Without Work.
Sir Frederick Darley says that barristers must
not undertake the conduct of more cases than
they can attend to. The N.S.W. Chief Justice's
behest is hardly likely to receive much attention
from the gentlemen of the bar. Human nature
will be the same for all time. When a corpulent
brief is politely handed to Mr. Bigwig, Q C., with
the glittering endorsement “30 guas.’ branded
upon it, it is hard to send that bland attorney’s-
clerk away sorrowing, and say, “ I can’t take your
brief or your client’s gold ; I have too much work
on hand, I see your case of Pullem v. Bruiser
is set down for hearing on Wednesday, but on that
day I shall have to defend in Regina v. Sikes
(burglary) at Darlinghurst; examine an insolvent
before the Commissioner ; reply for the petitioner
in the great divorce suit of Savory v. Savory ;
open for the plaintiff in Snooks v. Snipson before
Manning ; look after Brown’s appeal in banco; pull
through one or two little caaes before Dowling ; and
have a consultation with Frank Smyth e at 2 p.m.”
It’s hard, notwithstanding the enormous quantity
of business which he may have on hand, for a bar-
rister deliberately to refuse his valuable —or in-
valuable —services to a member of tne litigious
public. And, therefore, it’s not to be wondered at
if he takes the extra brief, and Brown or Tanner,
his clerk, collects the “30 guas" and hi 3 own
half-crown. Then when the day of hearing
comes, and Pullem v. Bruiser is called on,
Mr. Thumper, Q.C.. rises and says, “If your
Honor pleases, I appear for the defendant.”. An
excited attorney’s clerk bumb’y informs the
court that he is going to Jo k up Yir Bigwig, who
i 3 retained for the plaintiff. His Honor takes a
pinch of snuff and sits back in his chair, and there
is a pause of ten minutes in the public business.
At length the clerk returns and informs the court
that Mr. B. is at that moment addreisiDg the
jury in Savory v. Savory. An adjournment is
asked, which Thumper consents to only on condi-
tion of Pullem paying “ the costs of the day.”
The poor devil of a clerk must consent to
thia (Pullem has no voice in the matter)
and so the case is “ put at the bottom
of the list. When the case is next called on, Big*
wig’s junior is in attendance, but Thumper, Q C.,
and his junior are knee deep in a case in the next
court, and can’t leave. They’re on opposite sidee*
An adiournment for two hours is chained, and
then the two juniors go on with the important
case of Pullem v. Bruiser. During the progress
of the hearing. Bigwig comes in for twelve
minutes and cross-examines a Civil servant who
has been called t o produce documents. Later on
Thumper waltzes in, sits down for six minutes,
shakes his head disparagingly at the evidence of a
female witness, makes one or two insulting insin-
uations, and then retires. The juniors make a
pretty mess of the whole case, and fog the jury,
who are unable to agree, and are discharged with-
out finding a verdict. The learned Biowro, how-
ever, has got his “ 30 guas.” for twelve minutes’
“ work, ’ andhedoesn’t care abrass farthing fortlie
result. A barrister never by any chance complains
of the absence of his senior, junior, or opponent,
because he knows that what is So-and-So’s posi-
tion to-day may be his own to-morrow, and when
he is unable to attend to a case in which he has
been fee’d with So-and-So, So-and-So will make
it all right. This is the way that, almost daily, in
Sydney, Melbourne, and elsewhere learned counsel
pocket fees for doing nothing, attorneys run up
bills of costs, unhappy litigants are fleeced, and
“ law and justice ” are purchased. There are two
notable exceptions, however, in the legal profes-
sion to the barristers who take work and fees
while they can attend only to the latter. It will
lie remembered that the Lord High Chancellor in
“lolanthe” declares that when he was “called,”
he “said to himself, said he,” that he would never
take work that he couldn’t do ; and it is well
known that the present Chief Justice of Victoria
(Mr. George Higinbotiiam), when at the bar,
carefully refused to accept more briefs than he
could conscientiously manage, and if by any chance
he found himself unable to give his best attention
to any matter in wh ; ch he had been retained, he
invariably returned the fee that had been paid to
him. It is to be feared, however, that Sir
Frederick Darley will find some difficulty in
converting all the members of the New South
Wales bar into men like that model lawyer of
Gilbert and Sullivan’s, and George Higin-
botham, of Victoria, who, in his dealings with
clients and attorneys, has always been emphati-
cally and literally “honest.”
Sydney D.T. ha 3, from week to week, been treat-
ing of the “Rise and Progress of the Benevolent
Society of New South Wales.” The rise and pro-
gress of a human boneyard would be a tame joke
beside this. Benevolence is compelled to make
huge progressive strides in a young Free trade
colony, of course, in order to overtake yearly in-
creasing poverty and destitution. It is satisfac-
tory to note how very much in advance of other
colonies New South Wales is in this particular.
The deaths are steadily increasing every year,
and there ij also a satisfactory improvement in
immorality. According to the gifted historian
of the rise and progress of indigence, the number
of accouchements in 1865 of married women, in
certain alleged charitable institutions, were
50, and of unnnrried 79 In 1886 the married
total 71, and the unmarried 229 This shows that
Benevolent Asylums are cultivating the unmarried
accouchement business with remarkably good re-
sults. To censure would be ridiculous after our
jubi'ation over the attainment of New South
Wales’ first million of population
The politician who makes a tolerably truthful
statement in Parliament, and who when challenged
by the person rgainst whom it is directed denies
having made it and accuses disinterested reporters
of having misrepresented him, is the personifica-
tion of meanness. Oa two or three occasions Mr.
J. P. Abbott, of the New South Wales Assembly—
who, by the way, is a solicitor —has resorted to
this contemptible device only to display
his arrant cowardice, or terrible lack of
memory. A most extraordinary case in
point occurred last week. In the course of a
debate on the appointment of Judge 3 he referred
to that respectable mediocrity, Sir George Innes,
who, he said, “ never filled any position at the bar
in N.S. W, or any other olony and never displayed
any qualification except that of getting into
public life and drawing a salary for the whole
time that he was in it.” Tlus remark was fairly
reported in tho Herald, and Sir George Innes
at once sent an indignant letter to Mr. Abbott,
who forthwith wrote to the irate Judge
assuring him, cn h’s henour, that he
never said anything of the kind. The
correspondence was published in the Herald,
together with an editorial footnote, which was a
complete crusher for Mr. Abbott, as it contained
a verbatim transcript of the official reporter’s
note, which made the remark appear still stronger
than it was as reported in the Herald. There is
yet another aspect of this matter. Is not the
action of the lucky Judge Innes a tacit confession
that the remarks attributed to Abbott contain a
sufficient tlement of truth to make th*m “bite all
the way down?’ Suppose Abbott had thus
sneered at the late Chief Justice Martin, or at
the present Chief Justice Darley, doss anybody
suppose for a moment that either of the latter
would have considered it worth while to descend
from his judicial pedestal for the purpose of openly
resenting such a piece of criticism ?
The Sydney Freetrade journals wisely shirked the
subject of the Protectionist meeting h*ld at Dar-
lington last Friday, and carefully steered clear of
the unpleasant figures which Mr. Luscombe
brought for ward. In speaking of the N.S.W candle-
making industry that gentleman pointed out that
owing to the increase of the duty to ljd per lfi.
last session, a factory had been established near
Newcastle, £60,000 had been invested in buildings
and plant, and that the price of candles, thanks to
this slight measure of protection, had gone down
to 6jd. per lb. retail—the lowest figure ever
quoted in the colony. In reducing the duly to Id.
Mr. Burns* object is avowedly to crush out the
industry, and he boasts that imports willsQ largely
increase at the expense of local production that
he will gain more revenue on Id. than his prede-
cessors did on l£d. Tne result will be that 20Q
more men will thrown out of employment and
be maintained on relief works at the expense of
the country while the price to the consumer will,
when the industry is finally annihilated, revert to
the high figure which prevailed before local com-
petition reduced the proti s of the importing cor-
morants And while the Treasurer is psrpetra’ing
this inhuman act, the only public work w th which


the Government are anxious to proceed is a rail-
way from Crow's Nest to Pearce’s Corner, which
latter place is entirely owned by three men, of
whom Treasurer Burns is one?
The payment of members’ question was discussed
in the New South Wales Assembly last week on a
formal motion by Mr. Fletcher. The division
showed : ayes, 43 ; noeß, 24. The only obstacle in
the way of the principle being practically affirmed
by the Assembly is that Parkes (who objeots to
members being paid) may refuse to get the re-
quisite message from the Crown, in which case
the Bill cannot be proceeded with. He is a
great stickler for the observance of constitutional
principles—when it suits his purpose. His con-
tention that if he advises the Crown to present a
message covering the Bill it will be tantamount to
his introducing the measure, is sublimely absurd.
His duty is simply to bow to the expressed will
of a majority of members, and he can do this
without in any way compromising his alleged
principles. It would come with singularly bad
grace from him to defy a maiority by refusing to
exercise a purely formal power. There is an abso-
lute majority of members of the Assembly in
favour of the principle, and they will be fools
indeed if they quietly submit to have their voice
set at naught by Parkes -to whose system of
government payment of members would be the
very crack of doom.
The sad fact is gradually being forced
upon us that we must withdraw the light of our
countenance from Bishop Gok, and give him up as
a bad, bad job. Considering that h© “ vittled
free ” at Government House, Melbourne, for a few
weeks, it was only natural that the new bishop
should do some holy bonneting for Lady Loch’s
“Queen’s Fund.” Sassiety obligations must be
attended to. Hut the good man might have drawn
it a little milder at Melbourne Town Hall meeting.
Why did he say “ there would be nothing by
which the Queen would be more gratefully remem-
bered than this—that there never was a great
calamity or any trouble by which women and
girls were plunged into distress but with which
she always showed her sympathy by a kindly,
Queenly message, and doing all she could to alle-
viate the distress ” ? Pagh ! If Goe can name an
instance in which Her Gracious has alleviated any
distress but her own, we'll eat his apron and
gaiters. And as for the “ Queenly messages” of
Her Pre eminence in Grief—we gratefully re-
member that they are either marked “ Collect," or
charged to the British consolidated revenue.
“ Jack” Want, of the New South Wales Assem-
bly, is too childlike to be a lawyer, and if it were
not that the profession wants some one of his
stamp to lend an aspect of innocence to the scene
he would shortly find himself “out of a billet.”
He went with the untutored Parkes to visit
Newington Asylum, and he is certain everything
is right about that institution because “ he had
seen the old women stroking the cheeks of the
matron in absolute affection.” And his visit
wasn't expected either. Simehow we are re-
minded of another unexpected visit we have read
of. Mr. Squeers, of Dotheboys Hall, had just
knocked a boy off a box with a whack on one ear
and then knocked him on again with a whack on
the other when somebody called, and he had only
time to order that boy to smile and look happy or
he would find himself flayed alive before his
visitor came in. And the boy looked happy ac-
cordingly.
Mr. John Haynes, the new member for Mudgee,
N.S.W., began business by stonewalling his own
leader, and calling Protectionists who opposed
him at Mudgee “ Phoenix Park assassins, and
hedge-occupants, jackalls, hired murderers,
&c.” When Parkes raved, and snorted,
and belched forth foul names and foul
insinuations at his opponent on the night before
Bathurst election, he was not a jackal, a murderer,
or a hired assassin—he was a high-souled patriot.
But the Protectionist who dares to oppose the
Escaped John is not a high-souled patriot—he is a
whole menagerie of brutes, and a slang dictionary
load of disgusting language. Mr. Haynes has
given notice of a Bill to abolish election deposits,
on the ground that they are an unjust bar to truly
democratic representation in Parliament. He is
quite right, and The Bulletin hopes he will suc-
ceed with his Bill, which ic regards as a logical
corollary to payment of members. Besides, we
do not wish to see any impediment placed in the
way of the poor would-be Freetrade member of
the near future as he totters hopelessly on his way
to the place of nomination. Only the other day
the Freetraders were in a big majority in South
Australia. Now there are only seven or eight Free-
traders in the S. A. Assembly. Less than seven years
ago there were not six Protectionists in the N.S.W.
Assembly ; now there are 40, sworn to the cause
of native industry, to say nothing of the fact that
Parkes and Burns have “ turned dog ” on their
own policy. Where is the colony which, once
Protectionist, has gone back to Freetrade ?
That artful humbug, Chiniquy, the “Es-
caped Priest,” is dead.
Sir Dillon Bell has been denouncing
Froude’s “ Oceana” in London. “ Oceana” is now
cursed in New Zealand by Bell, book, and candle
light.
Only four habits have been found
strangled in Sydney duriDg the week, which is
why the evening newspapers are not making a
sensation of the circumstance.
Sir Salmon Wilson intends giving £lO,OOO
towards the Jubilee crowD. How much more will
the gilded peasant with the ginger whiskers have
to pay for his long-coveted bauble ?
“ Mr. M’Elhone then spat and cursed for
20 minutes,” is the way the Globe sums up one
of John's best vocal efforts. Somehow J. M’Elhone
never does get properly reported nowadays.
Sydney D.T., we notice, speaks of the
Mayor of Sydney no longer as ivir. A. J. Riley,
but Mr. Alban J. Riley. This is no doubt in order
to get us us d to his first nam© so that “Sir Alban”
won’t sound awkward.
The Queen fed an elephant and caressed a
hound during her visit to the Olympic the other
day. This is only natural. “ Wales ”is known
as “ Jumbo,” and Her Gracious has a constitu-
tional predilection for statesmen of the fawning
type.
In a London newspaper report of the ban
quet given by the Imperial Federation League
“to the colonial representatives at the first Im-
perial Conference,” occurs the line : —“Sir Patrick
Jennings (N.S.W.) also replied.” This is about the
gauge of English opinion respecting Sir Patrick.
How many lines make an inch ?
THE JUBILEE “BULLETIN.”
TO NEWS AGENTS AND THE PUBLIC
TO keep pace with the times, The Bulletin will Jubilata in a specially gorgeous issue,
bearing date June 18, 1887. A Mammoth Edition will be printed, but in view of the
extensive demand which has already set in, agents are requested to forward their orders early.
Agents at a distance will please wire.
The Bulletin, The Bulletin,
The Journalistic Javelin,
The paper all the humour s in^
The paper every rumour’s in,
The paper to inspire a grin,
The Bulletin, The Bulletin.
BRIEF MENTION.
A howling success—John M’Elhone.
Lord Lansdowne —Lord Lamb down.
A Squeezed Orange—Water Jug Foster.
Jubilee Day is also the shortest day in the
Australian year. Thank Heaven for this much.
The Press is a great instructor. Everyone
should read the recipe for sausage-rolls printed by
Alfred Benn»tt in Sydney E. News.
A poor ex-bank-clerk advertises for em-
ployment, and says “ he wouldn’t object to leave
the colony.” Bank clerks rarely do.
Her Gracious declines to accept Jubilee
gifts from persons whom she does not know per-
sonally. We are thus compelled to forward that
joey-opossum through ex-Mayor VouDg.
David Buchanan says he went all over
London and couldn t buy a single artiole of
English manufacture. Perhaps David asked for
credit.
To the phrase, “ Neither fish, fowl, nor
good red herring,” Sir ’Enry Parkes has added the
elegant words, “ Nor good guano.” A polite and
witty Premier, truly.
Is Wise to be a successor of Wisdom ?
Fortune favours the brave —and the
boozed.
“ What’s in a name ?” “ Brassey,” anyhow,
is a frightful handicap.
Lord Beerthirst is travelling incog, in
Queensland—Croydon wards.
Sir Alfred’s Divorce Bill has been killed
by the N.S.W. Council. It died of Knox.
Stillwell and Co. are the publishers of the
Australian Medical Journal. Still well !
There is a constable in Melbourne called
Baldchin. A man will have to get up very early
in the morning who wants to beard him.
The number of men now engaged on re-
lief works by the N S.W. Government is 4200.
The average wage paid to them is 3s. 9d. per day
Glorious country for the working man 1
Supplies of blankets for the blacks have
run short in the Pialba, Howard, and Tiaro dis-
tricts of Queensland. The far northern blacks
complain of the supply of roast Chinamen running
short.
We learn from Sydney D. T. that
the attendance of the general public at the “ Mid-
day Prayer-Meeting Association's rooms” was
rather small. This augurs well for commercial
morality.
Rev. Chalmers advises that the attempts
to Anglicise the Papuans should be discontinued.
We take it that the rev. gentleman does not think
that gin, tobacco, psalms, and disease will make
the noble savage a better man.
Croydon, the new Queensland diggings,
has three policemen. Two of them, however, are
laid up owing to violence met with in the pursuit
of their calling, and the third man expects to be
kicked every moment.
In the N.S.W. Assembly, the other night,
during the twenty-four hours’sitting, Sir Henry
Parkes wanted to know “where Friday was?”
This same question was frequently asked by
Robinson Crusoe, C.M.G., many years ago.
A Japanese naval cadet was buried a few
days ago at Adelaide. Carrots, turnips, rice, and
water were lowered into the grave as refreshment
for the corpse in case it should wake during the
night. If it had been a British corpse it would
have been left to eat its own tombstone.
There is in the ranks of the Sydney
Lancers a particularly howling swell who is
understood to have been at no very distant date
not unconnected with the tonsorial profession.
However, when we come to think of it, there is
nothing very wonderful in this. Anciently the
barber was always the lancer.
The Sydney D.T. says that at the con-
clusion of Mr. Locke Richardson’s first recital
“the Governor shook hands with Mr. Richard,
son.” Mein Gott! “Shook hands!” Governo-
Carington should be careful. It’s nice to see him
so affable and condescending, but he oughtn't to
do it too often. It's like tempting Providence.
One of the most perfect specim«fet|
manly beauty in New South Wales is
Mr. ‘'Joe” King, of banking celebrity.
other day, Mr. King was crossing the
when a brutal bull-dog rushed up and
to lhat portion of Mr. King which
when his eyes are turned to the setting
is all.
Last week we suggested that a good way
of showing our loyalty in this heavenly year of
Jubilee would be to re-name the Southern Cross
and call it the “ Victoria Cross.” On Becond
thoughts we have repented of this suggestion. If
it were once taken up in earnest there are people
here who would never remain satisfied till they
had changed the name of God to Guelph.
A petition has been lodged with the
N.S.W. Education Department for the removal
from a certain country town of the pretty school-
mistress. The chief ground of complaint against
her teems to be that the parents can never induce
the boys to leave school, for even when as old as
the schoolmistress they consider that they will still
receive educational benefits by remaining under her
control!
This is a sample of what the S.M.H.
dishes up to its weary readers day after day. “ The
annual meeting of the Sydney Diocesan Educa-
tional and Book Society was held at the Chapter
House yesterday, the Venerable Archdeacon King
presiding. The report and balance-sheet were
read and adopted, after which some other business
was transacted, and the meeting was brought to a
conclusion." Ouch!
The Melbourne dailies were gloating over
certain exposes of loose management in connection
with a defunct Mutual Live Stock Financial and
Agency Company. Just when it was hoped that
little Jimmy Mirams, as one of the directors,
would drop in for it, a compromise was effected
and Insolvent Court proceedings terminated. This
was rough on the yelping Tories who would like
to hunt such a sturdy Radical as Mirams, for
mere love of the sport.
The Mayor of Geelong sued the local
Evening Star for an alleged libel. Mr. Mayor
claimed that he was the gentleman referred to as
“an astute rogue and rascal who made it his
boast that he could never read two lines of poetry,
nor enjoy two notes of music.” Local influence
was not quite strong enough, even for a Geelong
jury, so the Press pulled through victoriously.
For the future, though, it will be safest to reflect
upon municipal big-wigs in the bulk. “To say,
“ nearly all Mayors are rogues and rascals, more
or less Their musical education seldom soars
above the Jew's-harp, and darned few of ’em can
read two lines of anything at all.” Those are
cold, hard facts, which can’t be sued upon.
Governor Loch snuffles about the Queen :
" There is many a desolate home which she has cheered
not only by giving material aid, but by kind and loving
words of real sympathy, not confined to one class, but ex-
tended to persons of all conditions of life, in whatever posi-
tions in this world God may have been pleased to place
them. (Applause).*’
The immediate inference from this, of course, is
that it has pleased God (and not merely the
British Government) to call Loch to be Governor
of Victoria. This Imperialistic drummer seems
to regard it as a wonderful example of condescen-
sion and benevolence that Her Gracious has not
confined herself to condoling with dukes and mar”
quises whose wives have departed, or with earls
with broken legs. He seems to forget that "persons
of all conditions of life” have to help to pay her
Gracious screw, and considering what a dead lift
it is for some to defray their share, they quite de-
serve all the practical sympathy they are ever
likely to get out of the Guelphs.
Sir Henry Loch, who doesn’t approve of
any grovel other than the superior article manu-
factured at Government House, declines to bother
Her Gracious with the historic petition from
Melbourne Benevolent Asylum. In the first place,
bless your heart I the proposal to call this a
“ Royal ” asylum had not been submitted for the
approval of the Governor in Council. In the next
place, a majority of the contributors had not
assembled and met together to discuss the change
of name. Lastly and this touches us nearly—it
is not necessary to petition the Queen over a job
like that. There now ! If aU our subscribers are
agreeable, and if Carington in Council doesn’t out
up rough, we can issue this paper as “ The Royal
Bulletin,” without saying a word to Victoria
beforehand ! Won’t the dear old lady be sur-
prised and delighted. The Royal Bulletin 1
0 Jubilee! Is it a knighthood that we see
before us !
New Zealand saleswomen are to be pro-
vided with seats by legal enactment. They will
have to be pretty extensive—the seats, we mean.
Some Bathurst people have petitioned the
N.S.W. Premier calling attention to “the non-
recognition of God in the Assembly.” No wonder.
The Freetrade Ministry is evidently bent on send'-
ing the colony to the devil.
The Pall Mall Gazette made a stupid
error lately. Referring to the general election in
N.S.W., it said:—“The battle was fought and
won by the Freetraders.” It should evidently
have been “ bought and won.”— Globe.
Big, burly Sir William Vernon Harcourt
said to Lord Charles Beresford, of naval renown,
the other day, “ You are a very good sailor but
no one takes you for a statesman yet.” “ Just so ”
retorted Beresford, “ no one knew you to be’a
weathercock at first.”
Randolph Churchill is a smart fellow and
knows how to talk to a crowd. A man in the
gallery kicked up a row at his big meeting at
Paddington. “I wish,” said Randolph, “my
friend there wouldn’t interrupt. How can I con-
vince him if he won’t listen to what I say ?”
The Granville Express on the recent
“ ratting ” to Protection of the Parkes crowd :
“ The retention of the bacon and cheese duties is th
natural sequem e of the concession to the iron trade, and
bath are r art of a gradual change in the direction if the
point toward which public opinion is turning. We reed not
'‘Protection; it needs no name, and the rose will smell
as sweetly to the believers in fostering our indimtrip* ««
though it had a sesquipedalian botanical appellation.''
Parkes is in a Difficulty about the Attorney
Generalship in his Government. The only eligible
men in the Assembly are Messrs. Reid, Want and
Wise, and it is said that all of them are averse to
taking the position. In view of th© way in which
Parkes “ sold” Foster, the man who will take the
office will lose all character for independence No
doubt Parkes would like to have Reid or Wise in
the Government to keep the protectionist-free-
traders in cheek.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of auoh
MSS.
“ C. St. B.” : We have already on hand fifty
parodies of the ode. Besides, you haven’t caught the
metre “ L.L.” : Will read for next week ‘‘G.H.H.” :
Go to a decent medical man—not to a quack....“ The
Orphan” (Copeland): Your coloured friend Bugg, when put
into print, is about the dullest joke on record...." A.H ’
(Walcha): Your versts are not particularly polished,
but the sentiment is good enough “Rambler”
(Warren, N.S.W.): If Chinamen are allowed to enter
the country you can’t keep them from putting up
the hotels; and even if you could they would only go and
camp down a gully and save three-fourths of their board-
money. Let them be refused work by all means, but let
them enjoy all the luxuries of the season so loDg as they pay
for them It is spoiling the Egyptians...." Oyster Johnnie’*
(Wardell): We don’t guarantee sweeps, word-competitions,
snake stories, Chinese Commissioners, aide-de-camps’ morals,
nor men who advertise that they will give £1 to everybody
born on the same day as themselves. They may be as honest
as fan-tan for all we know, but we have our doubts
"Nanreik" (Sydney): The 11th section of the Chinese Re-
striction Act provides that yellow ambassadsrs shall not be
poll-taxed. The present pair say they are ambassadors, and
we have to take them at their word "J.S." (Hawthorn)
We have formed an interesting project for getting you r
poetry out of the way. It has unexpectedly “beoome tore”
"A Shearer” (Coreeta, Q ): Your fact occupies a lot too
much space, but will try to boil down...P.”: You are
evideutly one of those gentlemen who get their living by
keeping“the Statchu”up with their backs “ C. 8.” (day):
JThanks. Seem to have Jubilee pretty bad down your way
Creek): Mail it to Mayor Riley
doth it profit it man to vote the straight
i win!*- hi.- of I.is ;,iid his
skylight in his hat/' “Ambo”: If a
in any w*y to the support of his wife, his
does not constitute desertion “ X.U.”
(Ourme) : Regret we can’t give the “Bohemian’s" present
address. We only know of one firm in England which ever
professed to do what you want, and we would rather not
advtrtise them for several reasons—they were a swindle for
one thing, and we also believe they are dead, which is
another serious drawback “H. M'K." (Drake): Why don’t
y:>u have it contradicted by E. News? “Kurrajong"
That band item is a hob 1ibe1...." L. Norton" : You write as
if Judge Darley’s knighthood was a special distinction,
whereas the fact is that knighthoods now a days are recom-
mended to be made by some tenth-rate official in some
obscure departmental office in much the same off-handed
fashion as the "super” of a cattle-run advises which
beasts shall be sent to market as stores " C.K A.” :
Thanks, but have already published the substance....
“P.S.": Dulcet mush....“ Ingoldsby T.” : Local and libel-
lous “J. Maisland” : A hoary story. Goal and gaol are
the same to the poor newspaper-man...." Justice” : Hope-
less inanity “J.L.C.": Thanks...." G. Forbes”: Will
publish... “ J.H.S.”: Excellent “ R 8.” : There is a lot
of nonsense talked about “ the wisdom of age. ’ Old men
often know nothing, but then they have such an experienced
way of knowing it " H.C 8." : Already noticed
“ Liberty ’’: Thanks. Many London papers get it...“ W.R ”
(Macquarie-street, S.): What bosh! Camera ”: Please
ca 11...." Workman ”: The reason your employer makes you
insure your life no doubt is that he wishes to protect himself
against Lis liability under the Employers’ Liability Act. Bu
he should not be permitted to pay the insurance premium
out of your wages, inasmuch as such an arrangement would
tend to make him careless as to whether you are injured or
not..,E E.” : A will is not necessarily illegal by reason of
its substance having been dictated by parties interested.
That which will invalidate a will is the extorting from a
testator provisions contrary to his or her wishes “Patty
You don’t say what it’s all about “A. Ross" : The Tories
oppose Home Rule simply because the cause of Ireland is the
cause of British democracy “Malcontent” (Tas): You
ask us to advertise a nonenity “ Camo” (Mackay): No,
because there is no tribunal to decide (as in the case of the
House of Lords) who is, or who is not, entitled to a
baronetcy.S. Krout”: To hand " James Robertson ”•
Will be considered for Bulletin s Jubilee number, to be
published 16th June...“ Jumbo” : Thanks. The paragragh
re Lady Carington’s nice “ whifkj-line” guests was taken
from The Bulletin by a London journal and re-copied
into Sydney D.T. which credits it to “ a London aociety
paper.” As if it didn’t know! “W.T.S.”: Good senti-
ment, perhaps, but not poetry.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Criterion Theatre”—” Uncle Tom’s Cabin” p. 14.
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
Theatre Royal—” La Sonnambula ” p. 15.
Opera House—” Current Coin, or Snared ”
Thanks to the advent of winter, there are
now more clothes and less evening dress at the
theatre than we have feen for a longtime. Slen-
der, nice-Jooking, young ladies, on whose whit e
shoulders the mosquito has dined about three
nights a week all through the summer, have
stopped the supply of food for that cantankerous
fowl. Skinny, elderly ladies, whose bony frame-
works would be impervious to the attack of a
bulldog ant, have mostly taken in their sign -, and
stout, middle-aged ladies have to a great extent
sensed to expose the fiat of their backs to the icy
blast. Those females who have not yet hauled
their attire up round their ears appear rather cold
in a half-empty theatre, and look as if they wanted
to spank each other’s shoulders in order to pro-
mote a glow, and generally the naked—or rather
half-naked—truth is at a discount. A few manage
to warm themselves in their own. back-hair, but
for those who have more back than back-hair the
position is a trying one.
** # *
“ Current Coin,” a sad story of hard cash,
has not, so far, proved a colossal draw at Sydney
Opera House. As the drama unfolds it reveals a
tale about an officer with £lO,OOO a year, who is
sentenced to death in Afghanistan for haviDg re-
treated and smacked his general in the optic. In
his last moments he employs a brother slaughter-
man, whose assets only foot up to 6s. 9d. in cop-
pers, a nickel watch, a pawn ticket, a glass eye, a
funeral card, and the key of the street, to draw
up his will, and this gentleman publicly, in the
presence of certain affluent personages in boiled
rags and old hats, cooks the document and leaves
the fortune to himself. An attack by a party of
leggy Afghans, each with a single tatter round his
waist, occurs about here, and when it is over the
widow finds herself reduced to take in plain sew-
ing. Her daughter grows up, and ten years after-
wards the pair in their anguish appeal vainly to
the wicked officer for assistance. But at this
crisis a shabby pelican in a brown suit, and with
a patch on his eye, makes signals of distress from
the middle of a flower bed, and gives them £5 in
a husky tone of voice. Later on the widow is
arrested, and then her friend rends the patch
from his face and proves to be her husband, who
hadn’t been killed after all. At the end of the
third act the wicked major naturally finds himself
languaging in a dungeon—considering how he ex-
presses himself this teim is almost correct-and
his male victim is in another part of the same in-
stitution waiting to be shot over again. They
both escape at the same time, and meeting on the
walls the cankerworm of grief jumps on the ser-
pent of duplicity and knocks out his brains. The
touching story afterwards ends happily. Mr.
George Herbert, anew arrival from London, takes
the leading character as a low comedy soldier, and
deserves a certain amount of credit, and Mr.
Charles Seagrave, Miss Blanche Lewis, and Miss
Ada Lee all do good work in propping up a piece
which has not very much to recommend it.
■** * *
“ Jo,” with Fanny Wiseman as the for-
lorn hero with the broom, proved to be a decided
advance on recent productions at Sydney Aca-
demy. This little lady seems considerably uncer-
tain at times, and her performance ranged from a
good deal below par at what she termed the
“ inquidge ’ to a very tine impersonation in the
closing scenes, where Jo is stretched on a couch in
a lodging-house and will be “moved on” by the
police no more. On the whole, ho wever, she gave
a very tolerable rendering of the character of the
poor waif, who “never had no money nor no
friends, ’ and who lacked the necessary education
to make a living by word-competitions or pea-
counting expedients, or by going shares with a
member of Parliament in an estate in the howling
wilderness and then getting a railway made to it.
Miss Helen Vivian made a good Hortense, and a
very doubtful Lady Dedlock. Mr. South, as
Detective Bucket, sometimes wanted a hunk of
lead thrown at him, and at other times could do
without it. Mr. H. Dverton, as Krook, required
a tombstone and a brief obituary. Mr. Norman
Rose, as Guppy, the friend and patron of Snail-
weed, brought down the house, and as for the rest
of the characters, they mostly needed to have
something done to them. They also needed to
have it done at once. The orchestra at the
Academy is now reduced to a soliloquy, the other
man who helped to tread on the cat s tail having
smothered his tendency to be present.
# * * =*=
Carrie Swain, as Topsy, is still making a
great success at Sydney Criterion, and Pastor
Jefferis’ one-act performance next door is becom-
ing more and more washed out in comparison.
# # *■ *
Cogill Brothers are now in their eighth
week'at Sydney Gaiety and the attendance shows
no sign of falling off A lot of new items calcu-
lated to provoke a titter are announced for this
week#
** * *
“ Lost in London,” a melodrama of “ The
Jook’s Revenge” description, filled Sydney Royal
Standard to suffocation on Saturday night, and
good scenery and tolerably good acting carried a
soft-headed piece through in triumph, The story
itself is older than the surviving members of the
first Australian rarliament, but it never seems to
get quite used up. A hereditary son of toil, who
works down in “the bowels of the earth" (this
phrase is original, and has been copyrighted ac-
cording to law), is married to a beautiful creature
with a complexion like a boiled ham shining
through a Christmas-card and a fluff of lovely
hair on top, and the pair put up in a cottage with
the water laid on in the back yard, and all modern
conveniences. But the lady is dissatisfied with
her lot, and one day a gaunt stranger slides down
into the aforesaid bowel-i of the earth and informs
her husband that she has skipped. He falls back
on top of a casual acquaintance. Six months
later he sees a shadow that seems familiar re-
flected on the blind of a lordly mansion, and,
rushing through a favourable opening for a young
man, he seizes the vile seducer by the neck and
shakes him two or three times, after which he
puts his erring wife on his back and flies down
the marble staircase. The rest of the story is
pathetic in the extreme. The golden-headed angel
repents with her hair all down her back, and goes
through much suffering in a small room up three
steps and turn sharp to the left. Shs makes her
peace with her husband through the medium of a
faithful friend of childhood’s happy days, who
takes ” washing, and then she dies on the floor
in time to prevent the injured man chawing off
the ear of the wretch who had wronged him.
Exoepting for a bloodthirsty struggle with his
Lancashire accent, Mr. Sydney played the part of
the hereditary toiler cdmirably ; and Miss Norton,
as his missing wife, scored a moderate success,
which she somehow omitted to do last week.
Miss Katherine Russell carried off the rest of the
onours in the character of the early friend at the
washtub, and the scenery was quite too utter,
** * *
Simonsens’ Opera Company love applause,
but when it comes to an assertive bald-headed
man pounding the floor with a big stick like a
battering-ram right alongside the orchestra en-
closure, to the complete demoralisation of some of
the musicians—what can they do but biff him
out ! The bald-headed man now says he doesn’t
think much of the performance.
*# # #
Mr. Locke Richardson’s recitals have so
far been even better than the public had reason to
expect, and the elocutionist has proved himself
all that two books filled with testimonials had
painted him. “ Othello,” which is announced for
Friday, ought to fill the Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall to
the doors.
** * *
Mr. W. E. Sheridan, the tragedian, has
passed away, and his remains now lie in the plea-
sant cemetery at Waverley, along with those of
many others who were celebrities in their day.
He has carried with him a solid histrionic reputa-
tion, which, had he lived longer, might have
become obscured by misfortune and all but for-
gotten. On his first visit to Sydney a few years
ago he took the city by storm, and his magnificent
performance as the unhappy Lear caused many to
pronounce him the greatest tragedian ever seen in
Australia. But owing to a series of mishaps his
tour on that occasion brought him little substan-
tial reward, and when he returned to these colo-
nies a few months ago he had been reduced by
illness, and was but the shadow of his former self.
In his splendid performance of Louis XI. his old
strength seemed to return
for a time, but his frame
was terribly enfeebled,
and this was almost his
last appearance. He
died, after a short ill-
ness, in Millthorpe’s
Hotel, adjoining the
Sydney Opera House,
where, in the unavoidable
ah once of his wife, he
was watched over by a
multitude of friends,
among whom were Mr.
B. N. Jones, and the
ever kind-hearted Mr.
Dampier.
* * *
Some years ago a
man made a sensation in
Melbourne by performing
in a tank as the Man
Fish. He dropped out of
notice suddenly, but it
now appears he has been
occupying his time in
training his wife to the
same business, and she is
to make her debut shortly
as the Female Fish.
Humphl Fishes are
mostly dumb. If she can
keep her mouth shut
long enough to act the
character she ought to
draw big houses of ihe
bald heads, who are be-
ginning to get tired of the
pallid pleasure to be got
out of staring at the
ankles of Frank Clark’s
Silk Stocking Ladies.
* # #
A threatening cloud
gathered over the first
performance of “ Alone
in London,” at Mel-
bourne Royal. It has
passed away, and now the
bright sun of prosperity
shineth upon packed
houses, and the great
heart of Bland Holt re-
joiceth in the fullness
of his exchequer. The
drama plays closer by
some 30 minutes, while
that Old Sluice House ar-
rangement only needs a
little more grease at the
hinges and a quicker cur-
tain on the denoomong to
be the livest sensation
ever seen in Australia.
Miss Kate Bishop has
awakened to the re-
sponsibility of her position, and is her old !
sweet self again, or very nearly. She t iir)' a
more fire and inflection into her tones, with grati-
fying results. Thanks to these and sundry other
improvements, “ Alone in London ” promises to
last as long as “ A Run of Luck.” Anyway, it
deserves to.
# # # =X=
They haven’t done with our old Australian
friend, Kyrle Bellew, yet in New York. The latest
says that he will go down to coming generations
in the history of the English stage as the only
actor who was wont lo appear before the curtain
in response to a call, with his bai ds in his pocket.
** * *
A voice from the back of the pit says with
conviction and some pathos that when the ballet
is on one realises how atrocious the high hats in
f ont are. By the way a ballet-girl was recently
arrested for vagrancy. She surely might have
secured her discharge by showing the magistrate
that she had visible means of support.
## * *
The poor player isn’t as poor as he used
to be. A call-boy got 14 days for abstracting £6
from the pockets of Mr. Herbert Flemming’s
clothes in the dressing-room at Melbourne Royal.
## # *
Our cousins German duly brought off their
one performance of “ Czar and Timmermann, at
Melbourne Alexandra, on May 16th. Albert
Lortzicg’s opera, already familiar to many among
the audience, proved to be not too comic, but just
comic enough, especially for those who didn’t
need to hunt up the jokes in a dictionary. For
the intelligent Englander it compares favourably
with “The Barber of Seville,” in the matter of
humour he can hold on to without painful effort.
Music is neither as catchy as Sullivan’s, nor as
“advanced” as Wagner’s, but a sufficiently popu-
lar compromise between the two. The former
remains in your head —the latter rinks into your
boots. Lortzing touches up your soul (if you have
a soul) without disarranging the system to any
marked extent. Vocal honours and various bou-
quets fell to Mme. Elsie Wiedermann, who was
well-qualified to play the lovely niece of a fat
burgomaster, the unmistakable original of the
Bailie of Corneville. Among the male principals,
Herren Hartung, Himmer, and Schmidt sang cor-
rectly, and showed themselves to be more than
amateur actors, while the others were too capable
to be pointed at with the finger of scorn, or pelted
with oranges. Chorus and orchestra—bossed by
Herr Otto Linden —were scarcely ever discordant,
and tha whole thing went so well and fetched
such a mighty house, that the season should cer-
tainly have been prolonged for one more night.
We revere the manly Briton, and dote upon the
Union Jack something awful. But we must ex-
press doubts whether the English residents in
Berlin could do a comic opera of their country as
well as the German residents in Melbourne did
“ Czar and Timmermann ’’ last week.
** * #
Mr. W. S. Craven’s comedy “ Hide and
Seek,” a hash of stale absurdities and antiquated
horse-play, brought Mr. Gourlay’s season at Mel-
bourne Bijou to a violent end. “Mixed,” with
Phil. Day as “Bosco, beloved of our soul,” is
billed for the present week, and anon the accom-
plished Majeronis appear in a new play called
“Wanda.” We shouldn’t wanda if this turned
out a big thing.
*# # #
Mr. Alfred Cellier, sometime musical
conductor for the Triumvirate, is back again with
the original Gilbert and Sullivan crowd. We hear
of him presiding at the annual “ festival ” of fair
women and brave men connected with the Savoy
Theatre, London.
** * *
The World, referring to the Brown-Potter
premiere , says maliciously :—“ But even a more
exciting theatrical event is anticipated. Arrange-
ments are in progress under which we are to ave
a revival of the famous farce of ‘Box and Co he
“AH! IF I HAD THE MONEY I WOULDN’T BUY
THAT BOOK.”
title-roles being filed by Mr. Langtry and Mr.
Brown Potter. 11 is expected that the appearance
of these gentlemen, so much talked of but so
little known, will cause gcat interest.
** # *
A lately deceased manager has left it on
record in his note-book that in all his forty years’
experience he never knew a leading laiy to be sick,
or have a cold, on the day she was to take a
benefit.
*# * *
We read in N. Y. Mercury that “ Minnie
Palmer was lately presented in Melbourne, Aus-
tralia, with a gold crown adorned with eighty-
seven gems.” As loyal subjects we sincerely
trust that the tiansaction here recorded partakes
in no sense of the character of a conspiracy to
oust Queen Guelph from her colonial dominions.
However, we must say that the affair has prima-
faeie a very li-hy and treasonable look. It was
evidently done in secret, for nobody here seems
ever to have heard of it before.
** # *
The Melbourne D.T., an excellent autho-
rity on tea-fights and church matters, has been
drivelling about the spiritual perils which beset
stage life. ’Tis a good subject to preach upon in
a general way, even for a preacher who knows
nothing about it. A smart actor, who never set
foot in a church, might deliver an improving
lecture on clerical giddiness, so long as he men-
tioned no names. But the D.T. was indiscreet
enough to air its ignorance by ooupling the names
of Ellen Terry and Mrs Kemble as “ moral
lights” of the theatrical profession. It is ex-
cusable for a piety paper to mistake Kendall lor
Kimble, but cruel to hold up poor Ellen Terry as
a “ moral light.” Sne would be the first to deny
the impeachment. The D.T., bless it ! knows
nothing of Ellen Terry beyond that she was in-
vited to dinner by the Rev. Ward Beecher—
thence the joke.
** * *
Bellini’s opera, “La Sonnambula,” with
Signorina Rebottaro as Amina, was performed at
Sydney Royal on Saturday evening. The Signor-
ina’s performance was a good one, though her
voice was hardly equal to the demands made upon
it. Signor Lazzarini, as Elvini, was at his best,
and Signor Buzzi and Miss Graupner, in their
respective characters as Rodolfo and Lisa, were
tolerably successful both in singing and acting.
The scenery, too, was worthy of the piece, an
assertion which, owing to its novelty, almost re-
quires an affidavit to support it. On Friday next
“Faust” will be performed, and on Saturday
Brough and Boucicault open in “ Little Jack
Sheppard.”
** * #
The Court Journal states that Augustus
Drury Lane Harris sends round boxes of bonbons
to the occupants of private boxes, begging them
to accept them with his compliments. Poor
Gussy I
** * *
After a long run of success in Brisbane,
Minnie Palmer is about to return South, and this
too, too utter charmer is announced to open at
Sydney Opera House in “ Pert” on 4th June.
** * *
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s Comic
Opera Company are now at Wellington (N Z ), a
breezy city where, not long since, a whole girls’
school was blown out to sea and foundered miser-
ably.
** # #
There was a sort of surprise party at North
Shore, Sydney, last week. A variety company
came down like the wolf on the fold, the chief
item on their programme being a grand distribu-
tion of prizes, and their performance was given to
a full house. When the programme was about
over, the band commenced to play, “while the
gifts were be : ng got ready,” and if they had ad-
hered to the letter and spirit of the agreement
they would be playing yet, for the company shifted
over the back fence and fled.
*# * #
A very successful matinee performance
took place on Saturday at the New Princes’s, Mel-
bourne, in aid of the Consumptive Hospital, when
“ sassiety," to the delight of J. S. Butters, roiled
up handsomely to support a good cause.
*# # #
A brutal English paper says that Henry
Irving was nearly played out years ago, but he in-
vented a fresh skip and two new slides, and dis-
covered a brand-new mispronunciation of a com-
mon word, and consequently he is now the greatest
actor of the day.
** * #
“ Ruddygore ” is a complete frost in New
York Amy Sherwin arrives in Sydney by next
Frisco mail. She seeks rest at her old home in
Tasmania According to most of the London
papers, Mrs. James Brown Potter, the new stage
beauty was, despite her friend Wales’ assiduous
hand-clapping, a great disappointment as Anne
Sylvester in “ Man and Wife.” She seemed under
the impression that she was assisting in a gory
tragedy, instead of in dramatised domestic story
by a popular novelist Jennie Lee, when inter-
viewed in New York, said that Australian society
opens wide its doors to the respectable actress.
“The Marquis and Marchioness of Normanby, at
Melbourne. Lord and Lady Lofius, at Sydney, Sir
George Strahan, of Tasmania, and Sir William
and Lady Robinson, of South Australia, continu-
ally had me at Government House.” Pooh ! Why
Sir Geo. Strahan had all sorts of people at Govern-
ment House The N.Y. press gives much mar-
malade to Louise Thorndyke (*trs. Dion Bouci-
cault) Max O’Rell’s American leeturing-tour
begins next October. After doing the States, he
will visit Australia G. R Sims cleared last
year over £15,000 for his rights in “Harbour
Lights” at the Adelphi. Hawtrey made over
£50,000 by the “Private Secretary.” Miss
Fortescue returns her best thanks to the news-
papers for fixing the date and place of her alleged
approaching wedding, and naming the bridegroom
and best man. She adds : “ For a prospective
bridegroom, however, Mr. Meyer, who is our
advance-agent, has kept so far ahead that I have
not seen him since he left us—which is very repre-
hensible in a gentleman holding the position the
newspapers have given him, is it not?’’ Sara
Bernhardt has discovered that she has eight
cousins in Chili. She says she hates Chili
but likes her cousins. Poor Chili, Poor cousins !
Sir Graham Berry attended the Cobdi-n
Club dinner recently given in London!
Jennings and Wisdom received during the
Imperial Conference sittings a telegram from
Parkes instructing them not to discuss the subject
of Imperial Federation, which had not been set
down in the Conference programme as originally
submitted.
Sir Henry Parkes says that he has always
believed in the principle that the ablest man at
the bar should be appointed a Judge even though
he is not the Attorney-General. Who appointed
Windeyer and Innes ? Were they tot Ministers
at the time of their appointment as Judges !
And were they fhon the ablest men at the N.S. W.
bar ? Heaven foreft nd !
The S.M. Herald mav he accounted a
thiek-and-thin supporter of the Parkes crowd no
matter what may happen. Dr. Garran, erstwhile
editor of the paper named, was elevated to the
Upper House by a stroke of Parkes’ pen, and Dr.
Garran, though no longer editor, still has potent
influence at the Hunter-street conventicle, and
still to no inconsiderable extent shapes the policy of
Ihe Hekald. There was something more than a
mere desire to “compliment the Press” in the
doctor's nomination to the Macquarie-street House
of Lords.
It is stated in a Sydney morning paper
that “ the engagement of Dr. J. W. D.
Cooper”—with a lot of draggle-tailed initials
walking behind his name—“ to Mademoiselle
Heymahn, was formally announced at Government
House (Melbourne) by Sir Henry Loch.” 1 his
seems to be rather a new use for a Governor, and
if it beoomes fashionable we will some day have
Lord Carington announcing as follows: “Ladies
and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform you that
Mr. Thompson, C.M G.” (Thompson, late of the
little whisky-mill round the corner—only Caring
ton wont announce that), “has offered his affVc
tions to Miss Jones, and all difficulties having been
satisfactorily explained she has accepted the
offer. Mr. Brown authorises me to mention that
his engagement has been broken off owing to in
compatibility of temper. A deserted wife moving
in the best society desires the prayers of this con-
gregation. The personal effects of Lord ,
who is now travelling in this colony, will be dis-
posed of by auction to morrow, unless his hotel
bill be previously liquidated. They include a
choice collection of shirts and other articles of
vertu. God Save the Queen.” This arrangement
should supply a long-felt want in sassiety, and
when the system takes firm root the Governor
might lease out the flat of his back as an adver-
tisement hoarding.


Pepper
And
Salt
You don’t believe in phrenology ? Don t
you! “Profecsor” Wiley, mesmerist and stipen-
diary bump groper, is now travelling in N.Z., and
we write this item to point out why he needn’t
come back. A few years ago he was ranging
through Victoria, and at the desolate village of
Mansfield he dropped on the skull of the local
bank-manager, and gave him an excellent charac-
ter on a large Bheet of foolscap, which he desig-
nated “a chart.” The banker then lent
him a buggy that he might call on a
squatter some nine miles (listant, whom he
represented as prepared to give a wholesale
order for bumps, and while the deluded Wiley
was rumbling along a ssries of exasperating coun-
try roads he, the manager, took a short
cut on horseback and got to the station
before him. On the Professor’s arrival, he
read the heads of several children at a guinea
each, and chepred the heart of their fond parent
by assuring him they would all rise to greatness,
and finally it was suggested that he should experi-
ment on a dirty, round-shouldered man with
greasy hair, who was supposed to be semi-idiotic
and who did odd jobs about the premises. This
animal quarrelled fiercely with the Professor about
terms, which were ultimately fixed at 10s., and
then the scientist commenced his task, asking, as
he did so, why the patient “ didn't wash that
grease off his head ?” When the operation was
finished the Bquatter learned that the “handy-
man ” whom he had taken into his household was
a notorious thief and incipient murderer, at which
information he only smiled. Tbe Professor smiled
back. The whole family smiled, so did the handy-
man, who somehow- did not look so imbecile as
before, and as Wiley gazed at him it suddenly
dawned on him that he had been taken in by the
banker in a ragged suit and with his hair greased.
It was partly owiDg to this that the phrenologist
did not stay to dinner, and for the same reason
he really needn't go back to that part of Aus
tralia any more.
Her Gracious is going to do something in
the year of her Jubilee, after all. She intends
distributing 30 000 empty mugs to the poor
children of London who are to be reviewed in
Hyde Park on June 22. Mugs can be obtßined in
England at ninepence a dozen, but if the econo-
mical Edinburgh goes round to make a bargain
he will be able to buy them at 7Ad on a three
months' bill dating from Ist July, so that the total
cost will not exceed £7B 2s. 6d The review of
course will give the children a fine appetite, but
it is not yet decided whether a halfpenny worth of
beef-tea will be put in each dish in order to keep
them up through the ceremony. A good many of
the youngsters will have to walk some five or six
miles to the scene of action and the same distance
back, which seems rather a long stern chase after
the fata morgana of a brown st one mug, espe-
cially considering that three meals a week is now
good allowance for the happy Hnglish infant.
Her Gracious ought at least to stand a Bath bun.
She would find it genuine economy in the end.
else she may have about 12,000 foundered, swoon-
ing infants on hand when the day is over, and no
plaoe to put them in.
■When Sydney Evening News starts to let
out on the Queen its language is peculiar ; it
writes with one eye on its Primrose League syntax
and the other on the gum pot and the public, and
the results are ghastly. If her Gracious’ honour-
able dog makes a bolt, upsetting a perambulator,
the fact is cabled out that Victoria was “graciously
pleased " to whistle the brute back again, or else
the tale is turned upside down, and we learn that
the imperial dingo had the “honor” of being
whistled to. Here, for instance, is one day’s
allowance of this kind of gush from the telegraphic
columns alone
“ It is announced that her Majesty the Queen has been
pleased to confer the distinction of a baronetcy upon the Lord
Mayor of London, Sir Reginald Hanson.''
It was only done to amuse the baby, after all.
Little Bat eDjoys state functions of this kind.
" The Mayor of Newcastle (England), Alderman Browne,
has had the honor of knighthood conferred upon him.”
Paw beggah !
" Mr. Adye Douglas, the Agent-General for Tasmania, has
refused the honor of knighthood."
Alfred, man of genius and literature, politician,
journalist, and cultured diner-out with the peer-
age, don’t you think this roundabout grovel has
gone just about far enough ? An impression may
yet get abroad that the Noose is sub edited by a
fresh greenhorn from the Morning Post instead
of by an Australian with a speaking conntenanoe
and a towering brain,
• * *
Take note of this, for there may be money
in it. We clip it from the Melbourne Aitcts. —
" Walter WoodmasOD, of Malvern, age 15 years, left his
home this morning, wearing a grey coat and vest, dark tweed
trousers, print check rhirt, laee-up boots, soft felt hat, fair
complexion, treckled face, red hair, email features. Any
person giviDg such information as will lead to his where-
abouts will be handsomely rewarded.
This is clear enough as far as it goes, but it does
not give sufficient data. If we, for instance,
were starting on the track of Walter we would
like to know, in addition to the particulars given,
whether he wore a look of settled melancholy and a
hollow tooth, oraningenuouBsmile. Butat the same
time if we were that boy and were shown up in
the newspapers as running away from home with
a freckled face and red hair we would let the light
tfurn in the window of our ancestral hall for us
tjU the old man went bankrupt on candles and had
to be humped away to the Benevolent Asylum be-
fore we would go back—even if we had to turn
pirate or policeman. And it would take a lot to
make us turn policeman.
A Melbourne cabbie, charged with run-
ning his old fever-box against a tram car, was ex-
cused on the ground that h's negligence was not
• wilful.” Great Scott! what irony. We re-
member being one among the unhappy occupants
of a Thames rowing boat which collided with a
decent-tized yacht as she drifted down stream. A
wag looked down upon us from the yacht, and ac-
cused us of trying to sink them. The team car
and cab incident suggested this yarn, and there is
some connection between the two, somewhere—
hnt w-e haven’t time to enlarge upon the subject.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Jennings, C.B. —Can’t Boss.
Sir Sam. Griffith has just learnt Welsh.
Dcakin is the only Australian-born member
of the Imperial Conference.
The Mayor of Adelaide has refused Edith
O'Gorman the use of the town-hall.
Chief Justice Higinbotham says Zola is
to be kept outside Free Libraries and Mechanics
Institutes.
“ The Vagabond,” having attached him-
self to The Age, intends to enter the Victorian
Parliament.
T wo of the members of the present N. S. W.
Government have long paid newspaper-men to
write their speeches for them.
Sir Patrick Jennings, we read, “ was the
very firet person whom Lord Rosebery called upon
in England on his recent return from abroad.”
Mr. J. S. Gair, of Brahe and Gair,
solicitors, Melbourne, who was injured in the
W indsor railway collision, wa3 in Sydney a few
days before the occurrence.
Cardinal Manning is an A 1 all round
patron. The other day he presided at a meeting
of London jarvies and now he has become Vice-
President of the Newspaper Press Fund.
The Melbourne Herald, edited by an
Irishman, in speaking of Coroner Youl, says “ he
never opens his mouth without saying some-
thing.” And yet Youl looks as if he did eat
occasionally.
Somebody writes to the Melbourne Herald
suggesting that the Herd Laddie should “ give an
exposition of his wonderful skill at draughts ”
THE MARCH OF DEMOCRACY: THE “COPPER"-TRADES’ UNION.
“The Redfern police are on “strike.” Up to March, constables on night duty,
and those who had to attend the Court in the morning to prove charges against
prisoners, were allowed two hours’ “spell.” On and after April 4, the “spell” was
stopped; tho consequence being that the police do not care to arrest prisoners unless
they are obliged; for if they do they will have to attend the court.” Sydney Daily
Paper.
POLICEMFN X.: "BEGORRA, IF I DIDN’T BELONG TO THE TRADES’ UNION ID RUN
YEZ IN.”
before the inmates of Yarra Bend Lunatic Asylum.
And this is fame !
Mr. Gat diner, of Victoria, has carried off
the champion prize for the best bull. Of course
this lucky fellow is, as it were, Mr. Jack Gar-
diner, M.L.A. for Carlton, who has always been
famous for “ bu'ls.”
The other day The Bulletin asked “who
is Mr. W. H C. Tankerville Benneti" It now
hears that W.H.C.T. B. is a young man who has
been specially sent to Australia in the interests of
the English Primrose League.
The Argus gives a list of big fees paid by
swagger patients to swell doctors. The Argus
might have added that the late Dick Golds-
brough on one occasion gave Dr. Hewlett, of
Fttzroy, £lOOO for services rendered.
It is said in some quarters that Parkes
threw over Water-Jug Foster for the N.S.W.
sixth-judgeship in order to curry favour with the
anti-Orange party. Others say that old Sir Alfred
worked the oracle through Lord Carington.
The Duchess of Norfolk is dead. Now
tho Earl Marshall can marry again, for ihe only
child of the marriage is the poor little deaf and
dumb imbecile, Earl of Arundel, who is fit for
nothing but to take his seat in the House of Lords.
One of Mr. James Fairfax’s sons has
taken the late Mr. Hugh George's position in the
S.M. Herald offies, and another has joined the
literary staff of the paper. Which looks as if tho
family had determined to manage their huge pro-
perty for themselves.
Henniker Heaton has a long article in the
P. M. Gazette on “ Federation by Telegraph.”
We are at liberty to presume that the first instal-
ment of federation by telegraph is that E. News
cablegram actuiig Queen Victoria of stea’ing the
1 Lord Mayor’s spoons.
M Henri Follet, for many years Vice-
Consul for Franoe at Melbourne, where he was
much esteemed for his kindness and social quali-
|! ties, died suddenly in Paris last month. After
leaving Melbourne M. Follet was Consul in South
Wales and ar Bombay.
David Gaunson, of the Victorian Assembly,
say 3 that the teetotal members of that body don’t
drink because they can’t trust themselves. If they
drank they’d make beasts of themselves. Nimmo,
he says, doesn’t drink, but he smokes, and he
(D.G.) abominates that vile habit
The Bourke (N.S.W.) Watchman lately
put up its shutters. S->id the ojor editor in hii fare-
well to journalism :
“Ido not say there is not a peculiar fascina'ion about a
newspaper that makes it hard to put aside, but it is the
fascination or attachment one feels for an old suit of
clothes—you feel at home in them, but you know the neces-
sity for getting new.”
The Secretary of State for tho Colonies
announces that it has been decided to limit the
number of Ks.C M.G. to four in each colony.
This being so. N.S.W. has already her full comple-
ment. and the Marquis of Salisbury, when he
wishes to honor Henniker Heaton, will have to
make him •xn earl.
Arthur George, Viscount Grey de Wilton,
and Edward Southwell Ru-sell, Lord de Clifford,
had a lively mill at the Gaiety Theatre, I.union,
recently, the cause of the conflict being a snub-
nosed damsol in abbreviated skirts. Two black
eyes and one swelled nose testified to the ar Jour of
the combatants.
Sir James Lorimer, who is the Sir Joseph
Porter of the Vietorian Goverament, has been
advising the British authorities about the defence
of the Thames. 'J his is the m?.n who, because he
successfully sold candles and got mixed up in
the Scots’ Church dispute, the Argus said was fit
to be a K.C M.G. Well, he is.
E. B. Hamilton has been made a County
Court Judge at Melbourne in the place of the
veteran Judge Cope, on leave Judge Hamilton
has been 18 years at the bar, and, with others, at
a banquet, welcome 1 Adith the Escaped Nun. He
married a daughter of the late Mr. Justice
Stephen, of the Victorian Supreme Court.
The renowned litigant, Mr. Merry (of
Merty v. the Queen) has filed his shovel in Mel-
bourne Insolvency Court. Mr. Merry’s assets
consist mainly of £579,095 due to him by the
Government of Victoria. The Government ha 3
kept Mr. M. waiting ior the last 16 years, and
now he. wants the money very badly indeed.
Prince Alfred, son of the Duke of Edin-
burgh, is to bs sent to Germany to be educated as
a German in order to be qualified to reign over the
Duchy of Saxe-Coburg. Bat why send him to
Germany for this purpose 1 Where could he be
brought up as a German better than in England,
in the bosom of the Royal Family of Wettin 1
Miyor Riley’s voice trembled when he
addressed the jubilating women and girls of Syd-
ney in the Town Hall. And yot this is the doughty
man who yearns for the spurs of knighthood, and
who awarded a verbal Victoria Cross to the “ gal-
lant hero," Stanley. By the way, the police seem
slow about running this fallen idol into gaol.
R.S , the “ much-travelled,” when he has
had a “star” of some kind or other in tow, has
gone round to the Melbourne newspaper offices at
night and written glowing pars, about his man or
woman as the case might be. He has then pub
lishfd the “opinions of the Dress,” with the start
ling heading, ' ‘ The Press for once unanimous 1”
Mr. Hutton, C. M.G., for many years
haigmin at Brisbane Gaol, died last week. There
are several men go be hanged shortly, and the
poor old gentleman (who had been pensioned after
23 years hanging and flogging), incensed at his
physical inability to do the work, gave one glance
at his official successor, turned green with sheer
envy, and slept with his victims.
In noticing Signor Sani s recently-com-
pleted terracotta stvtue of ‘ Sir H-nry,” the
Sydney Morning Herald says :
"The workmanship is delicate and highly-fioished, and
reflects credit upon the artitt, whohas represented Sir Benry
Parkes as standin/J on a small pedestal’’
A small pedestal! Humph ! Sani evidently tries
to be absolutely true to nature.
Jim Hogue, the Sydney E. News editor,
should liven up. The other night he printed this
paragraph :
Bishop Glut-, the Anglican missionary in the Ar tic regions
of Canada, sajs that in his juri-diction from October 1, 1885,
to May 1, 1886, the thermometer was never above zero.
Why didn’t Jame 3 add : —“ How his lordship will
enjoy himself in the next world 1”
It is cabled that the Imperial Government
do not look with much favor on Mr. George
Collins Levey, C.M G., as an exhibition-promoter.
That this should be eo is indeed curious. George
Callins is a most en'erprising man. He is a
Hebrew, and yet when we went to London the
very first thing we saw wa3 his portrait and
biography in the Christian Commonwealth.
The mother of the late Fiank H. Stublty,
the erstwhile millionaire, of Charters Towers (Q.),
who was killed by sunstroke on his way to
Croydon (Q.) goldfield, has been testimonialised.
She was in destitute circumstances. HadStubley
lived, he might have recovered himself, for
Croydon now promises to be a fabulously wealthy
field. As it was, however, Death came along
when the reefer's luck was out.
Colledge, late British Consul at Kertch,
has just won 16 libel actions at one jump. As he
had previously gained 18, this makes a total of 34
in all, with damages amounting to £B5OO, and he
has six more to folllow. He spends all his time
now in prosecuting actions, and the whole lot are
ba-.cd on one small paragraph which was copied
from one English paper to the other till Mr. Col-
ledge got rich on the consequences.
Had Mr. Speight, Chairman of the Vic-
torian Railway Commissioners, been injured in
the Windsor collision, he would have been placed
ii the curious position of having to sue himself
for damages. Speight v. Speight; Dr. Madden
for the plaintiff, Mr. Fisher for the defendant.
The court sugg- sted a compromise. Counsel said
their olients would retire for a con'erence. Verdict
entered by consent for £70,000 ; costs on the higher
sc Re.
The “ Boy Politician,” who runs the Lith-
gow (N.S.W.) Mercury, deals with his business
rival at the length of two columns in this style:—
“ At last Wd saw one day that a shop in Main-street had
some antiquated printing-presses insioe it, and on Poking
th-ough the window we discerned something biive, sitting at
a table writing, blinking, smoking, chewing tobacco, and
blowing its nose, all at one and the same time. Then the
next day we saw this same live affair working with both its
hands—those it was born with—and were told that it was the
new editor (?) “
And this is journalism !
J udge Cooper, in putting a question to an
accused Chinaman, at Charters Towers (Q ), hap-
pened to place his hands before him in Chinese
Mandarin fashion, at if askiiig John to fall down.
John salaamed very low, and his Honor remarked
that John wanted to copy him, to which the
Chinkie replied with ‘nosavee." John did not
understand the full purport of the remark, or he
would have indignantly denied that he wished to
spend more than £4OO a year in travelling-ex
penses.
The O’Grady, of Melbourne, visited Sydney
last week. He is a Melbourne alderman, and was
boss of the Council for one year. He wears an eye-
glass, and once went on a shooting party and fired at
and bagged a dead bird which one of his com-
panions had thrown into the air. Sat as a beak
in the city court when Mayor, and told every
mortal prisoner who came up during the twelve
months that if he appeared before the coort again
he would get “ the lull benefit of the law." The
Melbourne Evening Herald kept this teriible
phrase “standing” for a year. The O’Grady is the
lineal descendant of Irish kings.
The Argus (Melbourne) says that a Rus-
sian peasant who recently died in Bavaria drove
the sledge in which the First Napoleon was con-
veyed from Moscow to the German frontier, and
that the venerable Muscovite religiously pre
served the gold coins which were given him by the
Emperor in recompense. The Argus might have
ree rded a similarly interesting fact nea er home.
There lives in Napoleon-street, Collingwood, close
to the mansion of Henderson'Africanus, a man with
wrinkled brow and snowy locks, who ten years
ago drove the saveloy-machine which conveyed
home at 2a m. Jame Gatehouse, Esq., when he
was Mayor of Melbourne. The old man takes
great pride in showing to visitors the threepenny
pieces which the Mayor gave him as an honora-
rium.
Dr. Reynolds, R. C. Bishop of Adelaide,
who is “about to receive the pallium"
is a cooper by trade. When a boy in Dublin
he wore his apron and helped to make
beer-barrels and water-butts till an old
maid, with a good eye l or budding ecclesiastic?,
saw there was some religious stuff in him and
sent him otf to college, wheie he was educated
for the church at her own expense The Bishop
has always been a favorite with the ladies. He
officiated for a time as locum tenens at Geelong
(when he was simply the Rev. C. A. L.), and
when he was returning to Adelaide the fair’ones
of the Pivot made him a gorgeous presentation.
Probably the Bishop’s hand has not yet lost its
cunning and he could turn cut a decent keg or
puncheon even now, just as Mooihouse, of Man-
chester, may still have some of his early Sheffield
skill at his fingers’ ends and be able to throw off
a good jack-knife or pair of tailor’s shears.


POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.Z. Government intend turning
their married unemployed into small landholders.
In N.S.W, now they don’t talk of Bacon
and Shakespeare. But they do talk of bacon and
Burns.
Victoria possesses 223 free libraries, whilst
the dear old mother country we are striving so
much to imitate reckons up but 114.
Brisbane Courier recently called Grand-
oleman Parkes “a person of not very exemplary
character,” and dubbed Dailey “ a lazy amateur
Demosthenes!”
The boots supplied by English contractors
*» a detachment of the troops in Kgypt have been
Analysed, and found to be machine-made, and con-
sisting of thin leaves of leather filled out with a
substance like pitoh.
General Wong Yong Ho says that the
southern provinces of China would be glad to re-
ceive Australian wool. Wong Ho wants us to
say that the northern provinces of Australia will
be glad to receive Chinese pig tails.
up “ Jubilee ” in the Dictionary,
we find it defined as ‘' the celebration of continu-
ance for 50 years.” Her Gracious has enjoyed a
continuant's of £355,000 per-nnum for 50 years, so
.the tax payers are about to jubilate.
An English exchange says : —“ If there is
,onc man more than another who should eschew
politics, it is the merchant. Politics is a trade
like everything else, and one trade is enough for
any man.” Mr. M’Million might make a note of
, this.
Three R.C. policemen in the South of
Ireland laid down their arms and struck because
they were directed to arrest a priest. We wonder
what would happen up North if three Orange
peelers were ordered to run in their Worshipful
G.M. 1
Thomas Bracken, member for Dunedin
Central, has tabled a motion in N.Z. Parliament
denouncing Irish coercion as calculated to mar
the Jubilee rejoicings, and as being opposed to the
spirit of liberty which pervades the British Con-
stitution.
Ashmcad-Bartlett, speaking of the great
non-Tory portion of England's population, lately,
said it was “ composed of Atheists, Socialist*, and
Revolutionists, who had one object in view—to
break up and deitroy this glorious Empire.”
Tarantara!
The Dublin Nation says of the proposed
87th Irish Coercion Act:—“The hand of the
ruffian is traceable in every line of Bloody Bal-
four’s Bill.” The gentleman with the alliterative
name is Chief Secretary for I reland, and nephew of
Lord Salisbury, the Premier.
Henniker Heaton, not content with advo-
cating cheap ocean postage, now goes for cheap
cablegrams. He insists that, under a new cable
system, owned entirely by the British Government,
a payiDg business could be conducted at the rate
of Is. per word. At present the rates are simply
monstrous. It costs 9s. 2d. to 9s. 9d. to send a
single word to Australia.
H.M.S. Nelson is going to England, and
Hie Imperial authorities oiler the colonists the
Imperieuse orthe Northampton—" whichever they
may please to select,” so says the cablegram, as
her successor. Probably both are rather rotten,
but still the British Government are getting won-
derfully polite to us no w-a-days.
The other day, in Hunter-street, Sydney,
we met one of the Calico-Jemmies, and after ex-
changing salutations we asked him where he was
going. “Oh! ’ he replied, " I’m going back to the
office ; I’ve just been up street doing some wire—
I mean I’ve just been seeing some of the Ministers.
Then we gave him a pinch for stale no ws.
Writing of a meeting at the Colonial Insti-
fcute, our London correspondent says
“ There was a large attendance, among others our old
friend, Sir George Bowen, who succeeded in getting the
opportunity of working off his stereotyped expressions of
colonial loyalty. How that man has the audacity to deliver
that same speech in exactly the same words, time after time,
I don’t know: but it generally goes down.”
In the N.S.W., the other night, Walker
asked Parkes if the Chinese Commissioners bore
proper credentials from the Emperor of China,
The Premier replied that he didn’t know the
Emperor and couldn’t recognise his handwriting.
The Chinese Emperor's signature is probably just
about the only one that Henry feels at all uncertain
about.
It is cabled that Mr. Adyo Douglas (ex-
Premier of and now Agent-General for Tasmania',
has declined a bribe. In other words, he has refused
to accept a knighthood. Mr. Douglas is the man
who at the late Hobart Federal Conference stood
up and said, to the horror and astonishment ol :
the assembled magnates, that his soul yearned to
welcome a Great Australian Republic !
Scobie Mackenzie, M.H.R (son-in-law of
Sir Dillon Bell, Agent-General for N.Z.), lately
compared New Zealand to a drunkard who had
ruined his health by his excesses, and who, with
every desire to be sober, had to fall back on drink
to keep him alive. Similarly, the colony could not
exist without further borrowing, however desir-
ous it might be to knock off the bad habit of
getting deeper in debt.
It seems that the City of London Corpo-*
ration annually spends a few thousands »f public
monies in organising bogus meetings to protest
against municipal reform. The chairman gets a*
cool hundred for delivering an eloquent address,
and a number of loafers get £1 a head for car-
rying resolutions unanimously. All this is very
shocking. Bad as promoting bogus “loyalty’
with Jubilee illuminations at Government ex-
pense.
At a Jubilee meeting at Islington, Lon-
don Richard Chamberlain, own brother to the
Right lion. Joseph, of the coat of many colors,
was greeted with cries of “Turncoat," “Traitor,”
“ Coercionist! ” An amendment on the Jubilee
resolution was carried to the effect that there was
“no occasion to recognise the Jubilee in any way
in Islington.” If comvien sense progresses at
this rate, in the “dear old mother country,”
Royalty will have to shift to Potts Point or
Toort) k.
Speaking at Granville, N.S.W., the other
day, Mr. Fletcher, M.L.A., declared that but for
his resolution that locomotives be made in the
colony, Hudson Bros’. Company would have had
to close or reduce wages 15 or 20 per cent. But is
it not a fact that certain employers in the iron
trade have circularised the various trade
societies to the effect that unless the workmen
are prepared to accept a reduction of 10 per cent,
in wages, they, the said employers, will not tender
for the locomotive buildiog referred to ?
The Bulletin at last finds something
Parkesian to praise. Says the S. M. H.: —
“ Sir Henry Parkes has replied to the cable message re-
ceived from Sir Saul Samuel, inquiring what amount the ;
Australian colonies intend to contribute to the funds ef the
Imperial Institute. The Government regard the matter as
of no pressing urgency, and the reply sent is to theeffect that
New South Wales is not in a position to do anything at
present.”
Now if Plain Bill had been at the helm when that
“collect ” cable arrived—but we must leave off to
indulge in a cold shudder.
It all comes in one word. When the tele-
graph-man in the Sydney newspaper office reads
“ Czarbomb” in a cablegram, he sits down to
write :
“ Another attempt has been made to kill the Czar, who
only escaped through varying his route. Twenty-four
military students and a colonel of artillery have been ar-
rested. At a Nihilist printing office visited by the police in
connection with the plot, two compositors, employed in
setting up t'easonable documents, blew out their brains
when the officers entered. Seven men were to-day hanged
for attempting to murder His Imperial Majesty last week.
Telegrams of sympathy have been sent to the Emperor by
the Queen and the Emperor of Germany. Several large
discoveries of bombs have lately been made.”
The N.S.W. Farming Interest conveys its thanks to the Pro-trade Free-tection
Government.
W. J. Foster labours under the disad-
vantage of not being a humorist. When Parkes told
him “ it would be all the same so far as the judge-
ship was conoerned, whether he took the A.G.-
ship or the Speakership,” Water Jug interpreted
this oracular and unmeaning remark as a promise
that he would be made a judge He furthermore
fell into the grievous error of accepting Parkes' Joss-
like utterance as the promise of the whole N.S.W.
Ministry. He, tho virulent teetotaller, quite for-
got that there was in the government a man who
had made a f jrtune in the grog trade.
From the Sydney D.T. in one of it*
calmer moments :
“By yt'v 'if it lust rating th> snccextjul working of the early
morning .rain from Sydney to Albury, a correspondent, Wil-
liam Reuwick, travelling agent for the National Mutual,
writes to us from Davey’a Hotel, Albury, on Mar 17 : I
was on the platform of this station ou tee arrival of thia
tram at 8.15 p.m and secured a Daily Telegraph. \es-
terday’s train also arrived at 8.15 a.m.’”
We would aek with frightful emphasis if the suc-
cessful working of that expensive morning train
can only be proved by the fact that an insurance
canvasser or a book-fiend was able to buy a copy of
the Rum at 8.15 a.m. ?
The N.S.W. squatters have a new cham-
pion of their grab all cause in the person of Mr.
M‘Millan. He has given notice of a motion in the
Assembly to the effect that the Minister for Lands
ought not to increase the rents—he may reduce
them if he likes —of pastoral leases as fixed by the
local land boards. Parkes out of office would
have insisted that such a motion, implying as it
does bad administration of the land law by the
Minister, should be treated as one of censure.
Perhaps he choses to treat it otherwise now be-
cause he recognises that there is a strong proba-
bility of its being carried.
The much-respected authority on potatoes
and maize who, by an outrageous freak of fortune
was placed in a position in the N.S.W. Assembly
where he lias to pretend to be an authority on
Parliamentary and Constitutional law, finds him-
self in an awkward and unenviable position, as
his patron, the Premier, instead of protecting him,
as he should do, never loses an opportunity to
offer him most outrageous and uncalled-for insults.
Possibly Sir Henry wants to force Mr. Young to
resign so that Foster may be mollified, and may
secure £l5OO a year which will prevent his family
being “ seriously inconvenienced.”
In N.S.W. 513 persons hold between
them 17,251,000 acres of freehold land; 130 of
these hold amongst them 10,620,845 acres—
-81,698 acres each ! In Scotland 1700 persons hold
nine-tenths of the whale country. In N.S.W.,
already, 513 persons hold more than these 1700 in
Sootland. Two-thirds of Ireland is held by 1942
persons ; in N S.W., an area equal to the whole of
Ireland is held by 1005 persons. These N.S.W.
large estates are all untaxed by the State. In the
sister colony of Victoria, as a contrast, fourteen
great property-holders pay £24,402 in State taxes
—an average of £1743. Sir W. J. Clarke has to
pay every year £4253 ; Mr. Chirnside, £3166 ; and
Sir Samuel W ilson, £2999.
“ Though Mr. Henniker Heaton,” says
the E. News London correspondent, to some ex-
tent il l us trateffthe proverb that “A prophet has no
honour in his own country, he has rapidly risen
here to a position of influence and authority which
make 3 his admission to official life, either in the
Postal or Colonial Departments of the Govern-
ment only a question of a short time He has the
valuable art of compelling attention to the various
schemes connected by the postal and telegraphic
services between the mother country and her de-
pendencies, which he has of late years made pub-
ic in the press and in Parliament, and he would
find his fitting place, in the opinion of nuny,
either at St. Martin’s-le-giand, or Downing-
street.”
A London correspondent, sub-editor of a
daily paper, writes thus to us of one of the ban-
quets to the Delegates to the Conference: —
“ Sir Saul Samuel also chipped in ; he always doea when it
is possible, I never knew such a fellow for feeds. He is
hand and glove with the London Corporation and ihe City
Companies, and at every dinner that I have yet attended,
there has been Sir Samuel in the midst of us, with his bald,
polished old cranuim looking for all the world like a sugar-
loaf in wax. He is generally referred to as Sir Samuel
Saul : He always responds for '* Tee Colonies,” and always
concludes with the same words—something about the colo-
nists b' ing ‘ the most loyal of H.M.’s subjects, and ready in
any time of peril to the mother country, &c., &c.’ He is
always, too, very careful to see that his name is put down
in the papers among the list of guests ; but I make a point
of not gratifying his vanity more than is atsolutely neces-
sary, by cutting his remarks down to the minimum."
The Sydney Morning Herald, in a re-
cent issue, inflicted upon its subscribers a red-hot
“ loyalist ” Jubilee leader. It began with a quo-
tation from Froude, and went on to say that
“ It might be difficult to define or analyse the fteling, or
rather combination of feelings, which constitutes the senti-
ment known as loyalty tolthe throne.”
It might be difficult for the but it it n’t
for The Bulletin. The sentiment known in
Australia as “Loyalty to the Throne ” is the
slavering love of so-called aristocratic hangers-on,
“noble” office-bearers or seekers, and opulent
trades people, for the thing that is powerful to
enrich or “bedizen” them. The sentiment of
loyalty is merely the sentiment cf cupboard-love.
Said that sententious divine, the Lev.
Pastor Jefferis, to his Congregational congre-
gation the other day :
“The present N.S.W. Ministry were not chargeable with
evils that had been growing and accumulating year by year,
i but if they did not purge thtmselves of complicity in this
monstrous wickedness by dealing with the charitable asylums
■ officials, who were justly chargeable, as had b en proved by
two distinct and independent commissions, then ihey mutt
expect—and he said it in the presence of the Attorney-
General, whose heart was as sound and tender as hiß mind
was clear—(cheers)— they must expect to forfeit the good
opinion of the public of N.S.W.”
Where, oh where, is that Attorney■ General now?
By the way, Paator Jefferis’ anatomical knowledge
ia defective. He talked about Foster’a heart, but
Burely must have meant his head.
Geseller, an officer of the Swiss Govern-
ment, published recently an account of the foun-
dation and growth of the Society of Workmen
Manufacturers, organised on the co operative
principle in connection with the Swiss Watch
Industry. This most successful movement ori-
ginated in consequence of the growing sub division
of labour in their special industry, and the conse-
quent diminution of wages towards the bare sub-
sistence point. The only people to prosper were
the great manufacturers ; so the workmen, to the
number of 600, started watchmaking on their own
account in June, 1886. The Association now
numbers 5000, and a special committee of seven
members was recently elected for “purposes of
agitation and propaganda.” The watchmaking
guild are their own capitalists and their own
workmen. The principle of co-operation, which
they have practically applied and with such
splendid results to a local social difficulty, will be
the ultimate solution of the universal social pro-
blem.
At Brisbane, Mount Morgan shares are
quoted at 625. buyers. This makes the total value
of the mine £3,100,000 !
Gaelic-speaking peasants from remote dis-
tricts of Ireland are to be tried by juries in Eng-
land under the Crimes Act.
Count Bismarck is about to visit Ireland.
He probably wants to discover a few “ blood and-
iron ” wrinkles for the old man.
A Sydney Chinaman has been reduced to
boneduSt by the tram. This is the crowning act
of our federation with the rice-assimilating
heathen,
Conundrum, which reached us in the
handwriting of a celebrated N.S.W. statesman :
“Suppose Noah of old were alive again and were
going round the Ark to name the animals, what
would he call the he-goat ?”—A Jew-Billee.
The name “C. Swain ” appears on the
window of a Sydney boot and shoe shop. Is it
possible that Carrie has deserted the display of
the buskin on the stage in ordsr to manufacture
and sell cheap specimens of that article ? Any-
how, there are lofty precedents for the course
Carrie appears to have taken. William Shake-
speare keeps a store on Collingwood Flat (Melb.),
and Henry Bishop has struck out in the bakery
line hard by. Bob Acres has a ooaoh factory in
Fitzroy. William Sykes, Esq., keeps a shop in
Melbourne, and Marcus Clarke is not dead after
all, but has opened a rag store in Sydney.
Sydney E. News writes (in a leader
about “ all along the (Brighton) railway-line to St.
Kilda and South Melbourne.” From this we pre*
sume that St. Kilda has just been shifted bodily
to Richmond and South Yarra. Melbourne is
indeed a wonderful city.
An incoherent tax-payer at Wellington
(N.Z.) proposes that the Jubilee be celebrated in
that city by “ the establishment of an institution
for the gradual elimination of all still lingering
conditions opposed to the inherent co-operative or
regulative tendency of the higher elements of the
human mind, in order to pave the way for a
national and universal mind education, which will
remove mankind further away from the harsh
lines upon which, and up to the recent past, the
animated world necessarily rose.”
This is the calm way in which they puff
the South African gold-mines in the London
“ financial ” papers :
“ An emin«Lt expert reports that there is in sight in this
mine (the Oriental claim, Transvaal) upwards of twentj-one
millions sterling. These shares are only £ss at £-3 now, but
can be bought in safety up to £2O. The Company intends
opening a registration office in London shortly. We have
seen London assays of outcrop from this mine running up to
150 oz. of gold. There is a panic on at the moment in
Barberton, and the opportunity—which will never occur
again—should be taken to purchase everything. There is
more scrip than hard cash in the Transvaal just now, but
gold will soon become as common as dirt in this country.
We have reasons for thinking the trial crushing of Orientals
was spoilt i urposely. The neit one will be all right, how-
ever, i.e., when their own mills are up. Remember, these
shares will go to £50.”
Some awkward individuals connected with
the Melbourne Protective Labourers’ Union haVe
ascertained that Sir Henry Parkes has been quietly
despatching large numbers of the Sydney unem-
ployed to Victoiia, and they actually object. The
men, it seems, were supplied with ordinary tickets
instead of passes in order to avoid drawing atten-
tion to their movements, and consequently the
I apostle of good government can rise in the House
and lay his paw on hi? chest and declare solemnly
that passes were not granted, and that the gradual
d minution of the crowd round the half baked
image in Kii g street. Sydney, is solely owing to
the blessings of his administration.
The Victorian Railway Commissioners have
retain«d Q.C., Madden, and Hodgss, to
defend all actions brought against them by suffer-
ers in the Wind-or collision. This ]egal trio com-
prise all the present leaders ef the Bar since the
several recent elevations to the Bench. The
Government could have had C. A. Smythe (aa
before) and other ef their own proeecutois to con-
duct their defences, but the idea was to mop up
the best private practitioners so that the plaintiffs
couldn’t get them. The maimed and disabled, the
widow and orphan, will now have to depend on
the legal learnirg ard forensic eloquence of lights
like Fisher (of the eye), M‘Donnell (of the eye
glass), Taylor (of the wondrous moustache), and
Bob Kelleher (the silvery tenor).
Dear old Tennyson’s “Jubilee Ode” is
essentially practical. After beirg on the job for
several month?, the poet finally renounced all hopo
of idealising his subject and jerked out certain
commonplace suggestions just as he received them
on paper from her Gracious. For instance —
“ You there loyally, nil of ycu,
Deck your houses, illuminate
All your towns for a festival.
You, the Patriot architect,
Shape a stately memorial,
Make it regally gorgeous,
Some Imperial Institute
Rich in py nbol, in ornament.’'
There is no graceful play of fancy or involved
sentiment about those lines. Only plain, straight-
forward business, and no nonsense. Perhaps in
such a line as
“ Make your neighbourhood healthfuller,"
Alfred has indulged in a little of the divine frenzy.
His brief from the Queen, we guess, merely in*
structed him to “ touch upon the question of
drainage,” or “ say something out of compli-
ment to Jennings,” (the Queen, by the way, calLs
him “ Jenkins”) “ about the Bondi sewer.”
Nowhere else does he seem to have let go to any
extent, and we observe with sorrow t hat the odti
cont ains no reference to the equestrian statue of
Prince Albert, or the loss of Brown.
The Australian shearer has earned for
himself world-wide fame as a joker. There \ras
a one-eyed new-chum cook engaged on a station
in the Western district (Vic ) last season, who had
been too busy cleaning boots at a London hotel
most of his life to spare time for the study of the
natural history of this playful party, consequently
he knew nothing of his eccentricities— how could
he? The most stupendous practical jokes were
played upon that poor stolid mud-head, but ho
didn’t seem to mind. He did not rear when they
put Scotch-thistles in his bunk, and he never tore
round and wanted to wipe up the whole shed
when they relieved the dull monotony of his life
by dropping a dead snake into the folds of tho
flour sack. To look at him you would not think
he cared an old hat; he did, however. It hurt
his feelings when he found jew-lizarda in his boots,
because he had no natural fondDess for jew-
lizards. and he was cut to the heart to discover
all his clothes missing of mornings, because he
hated to follow his calling attired in a blue
blanket, like the rude, untutored savage ; but he
cloaked his feelings and murmured not. He
brooded day after day, elaboratirg a scheme of
dire vengeance. He built the boys up with a
glowing description of a Sunday dinner he in-
tended to give them—roast-meat, spuds, and duff
—especially duff, duff was the item he dwelt most
upon. He made them fairly drip at the mouth
the way he cracked up his currant-duff. In further
ance of his black plot, he procured a tin of baking-
powder around which he carefully pasted a * 1 Rough
on Rats ” label. When Sunday came he compiled
his pudding, and imparted a queer flavor with a
camomile-flower. The boys ate like blacks who
want to make one load last a week, and not until
they began to slack off did they notice the t inge of
bitterness in the boiled pastry ; then they com
mented on it in language peculiar to the Parlia-
ment of N.S.W. The cook said he was surprised
at that flavour, he had not expected it ; he said
it must be in the powder, and he reached down
the tin, and examined it narrowly, carefully ex-
posing the label. Several hawklike eyes spotted
the dread insignia at once, and there went out a
fearsome yell o’er hill and dale. “Holy wars!
that’s poison ! Did y’ put that stuff in the duff?
Sanguinary arsenic ! Gory Sheol! it’s poison !
Can’t you read—you accursed bunyip ? It’s rank,
horrible, blank blank poison 1 ” Then there was
hurrying hither and thither, and such a scramb-
ling, and clamoring, and cursing in that hut as you
never saw. The lads drank mustard and water
while the muttard-tin held out, then they fell
back on the brine in the pickle-barrel, and pre-
sently the sickest lot of shearers ever beheld
lay round that hut in attitudes of hopsless
abandon. A boundary-rider, who had drunk about
two buckets of brine, was persistently standing
on his head in a corner, and the cook, who, after
pretending to take emetics, had gone to the back
of the hut, hung on to a sapling, and was convulsed
with merriment—he was revenged I


/yy iY Torf/ic /« y (tyo/s
/pau/’/oq b^o
o fse vtcfonav 'ypcoAooyt
•M mc/eect tdef^e.
S<?Mer AA/#y /// f £ ,
for ”?%/
PeoyoW' &a ' *
cdc ( y z/rp
Tyie/rA
7%e c/erA ct-/' 'T’rafran? S/at/fop U)£rs a/Cz
/encJeJ 7& rfe « ligna/fthg- / I a./& at o/aSoccf-/ir und
/ifujf- "Jays cl T?eu}q6a/>ej-
"/d /%a ry c/a/7<?£
Qj 1 6'd /aodi/TOt?. "
\iouna, lady Yct)Ao is do/og 7%e J 'jjnaJ/^'
/ riur/ntj 7se 7afn/zorary &6sence of 7,erfafia >y
' "7serer>o<2 ' f S u /i/>ose fcS**e
7% e redy 7<< g /os/eci c 7 <y/
ct<Ty-tcP7y y iPy orn / > f‘ s Y' t, y? 7io /j<iu){
*
a>. toy sfoocf ipjjis cfacfcfy/s jblace/,
ppcf c£av£ a Sadder} Jerk.,
sargeoy apelike Cort>per
cfie<f ov£ ndork^
>
•s£ e y yt? •
* i/ *s”&f-'7&* v
'p
& /& zri„ ? t,/i,ycc„d T~n
G<=^ s o.j cS//~ccf^S
The Death-Dealing Small Boy.


SHADE OF BUTLER: “I TOWLD YEZ SO.”


Society
At the Sydney Children’s Fancy Dress
;all the chaperone of one of the prettiest little
hildren present received an awful thock. She
ras crossing the vestibule, and saw there standing
three-ply specimen of the genus homo, tall and
istractingly proportioned, with an air of calm
ristocracy that totally disarmed her susceptible
.hough married) heart. Fleeing with satin-shod
jet to a passing friend, she t remulously enquired;
Who—u>Ao is that glorious mash yonder by the
raleas ? ” Her friend turned a ready-to-be carp-
lgly-critical eye in tho direction indicated, then a
fide smile disturbed the scented air (our blue-
red editor is doing this par wilh a gardenia in his
uttonhole) : “ That, my dear Mrs. ——, is Lord
arington’s coachman with his hat off.'’ A swoon-
ig figure attired in giraffe’s-sneeze-satin now ob-
jured the firmament and
• * •
A London paper, in the “ Births column,
inounces the arrival of a “ fine Jubilee son :
l be a Jubilee boo you must have a Jubilee ma,
nd to have a Jubilee mother you need a J übilee pa,
nd be »ure the Jubilee pa would hire a Jubilee nurse
it, if the Jubilee btby dies, will they hire a Jubilee hearse .
lis is getting to sound like bad language—we
e near it, anyhow,
• * *
In regard to the opening by His Excel-
ncy the Right Honorable Baron Cartegton of the
rdney West End Working Men’s Club, the S M.
erald, with the subdued rapture pedal down,
' Lord Jarington, amidst cheers, state 1 that he had much
javure in declaring the Club open, and his Excellency then
weeded to shake hands with each person present.
ie Daily Telegraph adds : “Which appeared
afford great satisfaction to all.” Lord Caring-
n’s hand-shake is almost historical. Few
,n escape it. Me lud had no doubt road
at at the Melbourne Working Man's Club tho
her day. Governor Loch, by shaking the hand of
te “ son of toil,” evoked columns of sweetly
mpathetic slobber from the Press. Fellah must
ah—try to please these Austwalian persons.
* » *
The following is not meant to be a funny
jm. It is solidly true and is built with a view
pathos and subdued tears, and if it is ever made
to a song it should be set to the tune the old
w died of. An old man residing on a North
aeensland gold-field had a very young wife whom
j was accustomed to reprove with a strap at
ort intervals. He was naturally cantankerous,
id his temper had been additionally soured by a
lalthy mortgage for £32 9s. 7d. which hung over
s property and was about to be foreclosed,
nally he resolved to wipe off his difficulties by
jposing of the lady, and he made her over by a
atfully and wonderfully-spelt bill of sale to a
iung digger for about £33, and then retired,
living the latter to take possession of the weeping
id terror-stricken property. From this point the
ary goes wrong. The digger took the girl
vay—to the house of a female friend, where he
tt her until he could purchase an outfit of
jthing, and then he sent her down to his
irents. who, at his request, adopted her as a
■lighter. Meanwhile the aged husband did not
e as he does ia novels, and the hero went away
id married somebody else to whom he had been
gaged all along. There was no particular
ietry or romance inthebusiness, after all, and the
ory ends just here. It was only the act of an
meat, generous digger-man in a world where
merous men are woefully scarce.
The church in which a recent N.Z. wed-
ng took place, was wooden and aged and
jkety, and when the lovely bride accompanied
■ her consummate ma entered the building it
ook beneath them. Things went on smoothly
iough, however, until the clergyman inquired,
Do you take this man ?” and then before
i could finish the sentence the floor opened and
ie whole happy squad went down together into
e cellars The bride led th« way head foremost,
ith the baptismal font, the altar, and a specia-
l's baby close behind, and after them came the
■idegroom with the bulk of the weddiDg party
i top of him, his collar burst, his hat flyiDg
ose, and a black eye. The parson, however, re-
ained above, clinging te the pulpit-rail, and the
at thing he heard was the voice of the bride
tiling out, “I will,” as she was half-way down,
ie was under the impression that the bridegroom
as beneath her, and as he was a wealthy man
e had resolved with great presence of mind to
it through the service and get a claim on his
sets before she fell on him and squashed him
it.
# f * *
Doctoi Frederick Camming, of Woollahra
T.S.W.), has written and (alas II printed, a Jubilee
pome,” dedicating to Her Gracious a forthcom-
g work of his. which is to he patriotic and his-
rical, and 4000 lines long. After a veiled allu-
an to the “ pre-eminence in grief ” business, the
arned doctor, without the semblance of a blush,
sclare8 —
“ Lovers she has, and shall have ever more.”
ow, of course this allegation, especially when
it in the plural, is mere nonsense, and we are
irtain that the loyal doctor will, on mature refiec-
on, agree with usthateven the talk about Brown
as'just as absurd as the story concerning Dizzy
id the primroses. After giving us a somewhat
coherent jumble about Sydney Garden Palace,
ic., and the Jubilee, the doctor triumphantly
inds up with the remark that his grandfather
ved a hundred years. All that is now left for us
> say is that we hope Grandfather Cumming
idn’t write poetry.
Lady Carington was “at home ”• last
hursday. It was too wet to go out.
The singularly pathetic picture, “ Break-
Dg the News,” by young Longstaff. a pupil of
Ir. Folingsby, at the Art Gallery, Melbourne,
which depicts, after the father of the claim break-
ing the news of her husband’s death to a
young miner’s wife, and which has won
for this Australian genius the travelling prize of
£l5O a year for three years, has been purchased at
a good figure by a Melbourne man of means.
• *
At Croydon (Q.) diggings there are two
str^t 3 Whisky e X r cfples Uy The ’ wo°rd "‘Bar™ has
hopn nainted in biir letters outside one establish-
ment md the shai»eU‘9s vision of drink which is
thusconjuml
attracts "a lot ,5 business, t/s other manager.
however, is getting a banner fixed up outside his
shandy with the strange device “ rum and lunch ”
inscribed thereon. t This is called legitimate trad- j
ing in the rowdy North.
* * *
The Children of Light were holding a !
bazaar in a tumbled-down old shanty in a N.S.W.
country town the other day, to raise funds for the
'
local convent. when along came a counter-attrac-
tion—the Children of Darkness—in the shape of
an itinerant tragedy company. But the Principal
Holy Roman was equal to the occasion. He hired
the only hall in the place, and walked round with
the key of his white elephant in his pocket till his
own show was over, thus securing a monopoly of
business, and starving the enemy out, which con-
duct, if it had not been perpetrated by a sky-pilot
with a soft hat and a clean shave, would have
been hardly the thiDg for a white man to do.
The N.S.W. Government has introduced
a bill to empower any Supreme Court judge to
hear a divorce case— a wise provision in view of
the tremendously heavy divorce-lists which will
follow the passing into law of old Sir Alfred’s
divorce made-easy enactment. Besides, as the
smiling Windeyer, J., has hitherto had ail the
divorce-court fun to himself, the new arrangement
will only be an act of fairness to the other judges.
When this system was introduced into Victoria, not
long since, objection was raised to it. Some people
thought that such power was too great to
place in the hands of judges in general. However,
Mr. Anthony O'Grady Rose, associate to Mr. Jus-
tice Molesworth, set,tied tbe matter thusly “ If,"
sez he, ‘ ‘ a dhrunken registhrar can join a couple
together, why shouldn’t a sohbeer judge have
power to separate them t ”
Well-intentioned death notices are back-
handed sometimes. For instance the following :
“ On the , at , the beloved hupband of
Mary , aged years. Now At Rest."
* * *
Lord Castlerosse, late of Melbourne, got
married the other day in England to the wealthy
Miss Baring. Report has it that his chum and
proselyte Lord Neville (son of the Marquis of
Aberguvenny) has elected to be a celibate. While
in Melbourne, Castlerosse was a strict R. C., and
used to take young Neville (no relation to the
snobbish scoundrel who treated poor Corinne so
badly) to ft. Patrick’s, Dr. Corbett's church at
St. Kilda, and other fashionable places of R C,
i worship. The result was that Neville went “Rome-
ward.” Having gone Romeward, Lord Neville
went homeward, and it is now said he proposes to
take holy orders and ioin church swells like Lord
j Petre, Lord Archibald Douglas, and Lord Charles
Thynne. And the worm of untold love is feeding
on the damask cheek of some maiden at East Mel-
bourne or Toorak.
Eumor declares that it is proposed to re-
sume St. James’ Church, Sydney, and fit it up for
a third court for Divorce and Equity. Fancy the
frills that man would put on who could boast of
having been married and divorced in the same,
building.
A R.C. priest in Sydney the other day
baptised an infant two months old. “Don’t keep
the next so long without baptism,” said his rever-
ence to the mother as she left the church with
her wailing cherub and a numerous retinue of
admiring females. When the happy mother got
home she told Micky (her husband) what the
priest had said. “ Who the devil,” retorted
Michael, “ towld him that there was goin’to be
another ?”
It is estimated that the Windsor accident
will cost the Victorian Government over £200,000.
The family of the late Mr. E. S. Parkes are ex-
pected to get £25,000 alone.
* « *
When the Earl of Aberdeen visited the
Auckland (N.Z.) Art Gallery he and his “ suite ”
were preceded by Piper Fraser. A brither Scot
enquired of Fraser what tune he was going to
play. Replied the Aberdonian stiffly : “Eh
■non, jest na toone, at a’ — l’m a ’goin’ to play ta
bogpeepa.”
Literary gem from the Coonamble (N. S. W.)
Times
“ Mr. John Sands’ Jubilee gift to the Queen is a most
artistic and valuable one, and t'uly Australian- It consists
of a Russia-leather portfolio, containing a drawing in black
and white of native flowers. These flowers enclose a scroll
shield, on which is inscribed ‘To Queen Victoria on her
Jubilee; a humble token of loyalty from N S.W.’ Aus-
tralian views complete the corners of this great thing of
beauty, which no doubt will be much admired in England.
Lord Curingtou has been asked to forward the present, aa
the donor desires his name to be kept secret.’’
We are sorry that Mr. Sands is so anxious to keep
his Dame secret, and lets his great leather thiog of
beauty go out anonymously. Also we are sorry to-
learn that the best method of keeping a thing,
s’rictly secret is to insert it in the columns of tha
Coonamble Times.
The St. Patrick’s Old Collegians’ Associa-
tion (Melb.), are to have their annual dinner at
Clements’, on the 31st. This is the Association’s
second spread. The Jesuits disown those prodigal
sons of theirs. At the dinner last year none of
the members of the College “ Sodality" (thegreat
lay representative body) attended, and not one
priest. Charley Pofts, the attorney, was the
prime mover in getting up the dinner, and Dr.
Madden, the barrister, was in the chair.
The Woollahra Private Assembly held
their first dance of the season on Friday evening
last at Nithsdale, when about 120 were present.
Some very handsome dresses were worn. The
four remaining dances are to be held on the first
Friday in each month.
• • *
Mr. Charles Lett writes from England :—-
"When I came to England, only seven years ago, Mr.
William Forster, who was then our Agent-General, said to
me: ' Whatever you do don’t let. people know you are an
Australian; you will get the cold shoulder in society, and
everyone will try to rob you.' How different a state of things
exists now—the word ’Australian' is equivalent to ‘open
sesame' everywhere ; colonists are welcomed in the most
exclusive social circles, and piople who are really nobodiea
in the colonies aie not uncommonly privileged to perform
the familiar ' knife-trick ’ with peas at the royal table.”
Of course, what Mr. Forster (who was cynical and
a diplomatist) really meant was that if the London
aristocracy knew a man to be an Australian, they
would be afraid of his robbing them. In those
days there was but one door that yawned for the
representative Australian. It was at the gaol.
* * *
A man living near Kiama (N.S.W.) in
filing his insolvency schedule the other day gave
as the cause of his bankruptcy, “The constant
confinements of my wife—and the doctor's fees
attendant thereon.” Another bankrupt urged as
the reason of his not beiDg able to pay up:
“Medical expenses consequent on the poisoning of
my wife and six children with tinned salmon.”
Mr. Aldred, aged 70, who makes a humble
living by purifying a Wesleyan Church in Mel-
bourne, seems likely to have a streak of luck be-
fore he dies. In his old age he has come into
possession of a pedigree measuring 18 square feet,
and nearly lewt. of written evidence, which goes
to prove that he is the descendant of Thomas
James Selby, whose property has been accumulat
iDg in Chancery as fast as ever the lawyers would
let it, for 115 years, until now it amounts tn about
£3,000,000. This sort of thing npßwful fun for an
old man of 70. and if the money is paid over
before he is 85 he will be able to smoke big cigars
in fashionable clubs, and whirl round with the
ballet in hansom cabs if he wants to, and pay a
doctor to keep him alive until he has sown his
wild oats
It is nearly time that a reward was offered
for the scalps of those uniformed humbugs who
are supposed to regulate the traffic of Sydney
street-corners. Theoretically they are the servants
of the public and are supposed to give the same ■
attention to the headlong dude who gallops his
rakish horse and spidery vehicle round dangerous
corners and treads down an orphan or a blind dog
or a mouldy beggar with equal calmness, as to the
carter whose dilapidated waggop blocks the trapk
and makes the C.M.G. swear in his buggy close ’
behind. But as a matter of fact they do nothing
of the kind. Any wealthy swell, “ Lancer,”
carpet-bagger, softgoodsmau, political acrobat,
juggler, renegade, refugee, or lickspittle, can
canter on the wrong side of the road, rush over
crossings at a racing pace, loaf alongside, the foot-
path, or cut out other ’ vehicles by all kinds of
dizzy jigs which bring things to the verge of colli-
sion, but the official is deaf and blind and imbecile
into the bargain. Yet when a cabman or a carter
ventures on the smallest of these jinks, he is
promptly hauled up and fined in a sum which pro-
bably destroys all chance of new boots in his family
for another month at least. A bye-law against
grovel and tip is badly wanted in Sydney.
» * *
Extract from a young lady’s letter from
England: “ I had an opportunity yesterday of see-
ing your late Premier, Sir Patrick Jennings, and
after seeing one or two other Australian Premiers
I am glad to find that you have a chance of ap
pointing a white man now and then to the billet.
I was labouring under the impression that your
choice was limited to the immediate descendants
of the gorilla tribe.”
THE SPINSTER’S TABBY.
Miss Nippit lives in Darlingliurst,
Amid tbe crime de crime —
To curdle it with gossip-wine
Is her delicious game.
I am the spinster’s tabby-cat,
Andcry “mee-ow” and “lie,”
Whene’er we see what we don't
like.
The cross old maid and I.
We think the world is upside-down ;
And girls ! I—in1 —in jonr young days,’
Our manners were so modest,
sweet.
We'd scarce an eyelid raise;
And now—although I am a
puss—
Some shocking ways Ispy,
How, in the most improper way.
To ape the men they try.
When we were young, we wore poke-hats,
Or bonnets close and neat,
A fitting frock, just short enough
To show our sandalled feet;
But maids sport men’s collars, shirts,
And insolent high hat,
While tailors make their dresses, ow !
As sure as I’m a cat.
We danced a solemn, stately waltz,
Held out at good arm’s length ;
But now they hug each other’s waists,
And bounce with all their strength :
And then they don’t go to mamma
To sit down till they’re asked ;
But in the dark verandahs flirt,
Or jig till midnight’s past.
We played some good, old-fashioned games,
Demure, and gravely slow ;
Now oricket, tennis, such bold sports
With hoydens is “ the go.”
Just see them jump and shout out “ love! ’
Mee-ow, mes-ow, oh tie 1
We never whispeied such a thing,
That prim old maid and I.
We used to knit and sip our tea.
And chat on homes and clothes,
Of pies, reosipts, and pickling—babes,
Of neighbours’ aches and woes;
But here they talk of “ sooial ills,”
The last Divorce-Court news —
No wonder that a tabby cat
Puts up her paws and mews !
We learned to read and write and stitch,
And work a sampler, too ;
Now naught but logic, science, art,
For thess “young women" do-
le our good time, blue-stockings were
Considered shocking wear—
A sort of thing, if seen, one glimpse
All husbands, beaux would scare.
We've seen some maids in college gowns !
In tennis “ flannels ” drest!
At other times with bustle huge,
And head-piece with a crest 1
Ah dear, it’s a degenerate world !
Mee-ow, we say, and sigh ;
These dreadful girls to grief will come,
Or cross old maids must die.
PLUCK.
There is a Curio on Exhibition in the window of Bray
George-street, that is unique; it is in the shape of
candlestick that can be attached to any smooth surface by
unseen process. For my Lady’s Boudoir it s immense.
Biiay Brothers, importers of China, Glass and Earthen-
ware, Kerosene Lamps, Globes, Chimneys, and finest hand-
painted China. Bric-a-Brac, articles of virtu, and articles for
interior Decoration. A special artistic line of Fairy Lamps.
Goods ent on hire/' 2-12.
At the Mayoress's Reoeption, on the 11th, stveral of the
most tasty and stylish costumes worn by our fashionables
were from Mr?. McCathie's, 86 and 90 King-s v reet, where
gowns and millinery are all designed and made by first class
artists' 3-12,
The best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sydney,
and at a reasonable priee, fjr less than London or Paris, is
at HuST'fi Boot Emporium, 408 George-street, corner of
Sydney Arcane. Point toes foi fashion, low heels for com-
fort; to suit young or old. in fact, to suit everybody. Come
and see qr yourself.* 4-12


An Italian organ-grinder, on being asked
the other day why he never brought his hurdy-
gurdy to Maoleay-street, Sydney, replied : “ Too
much piano-play for me. Eet shocks my nerva."
* * *
A new style of umbrella has a glass look-
out in front. If someone would now start a bustle
with a glass look-out behind, what a lot of anxiety
would be spared the fair wearer ! She could at
once scan the set of her rigging, and at the moment
of observing the hang of her neighbour’s attire
discern at a glance the condition of her own com-
plexion, and the “sit” of her frizzes. There is a
future for glass.
• • •
It is suggested that the addition to the
Women’s Hospital, Melbourne, erected through
the noble exertions of a distinguished actress,
should be called “The Genevieve Ward.”
Commemoration Day and Commencement
Day at the Sydney and Melbourne Universities
are now the great larrikin shows of the season.
We should like to have a quarter of an hour at
Foley's rooms with the cockney who some years ago
complimented the Melbourne undegrads on their
orderly and gentlemanly conduct at the annual
Commencement. The idiot told the dear boys that
rowdyism was considered the correct thing on
such occasions at Oxford and Cambridge, and ever
since then nobody has ever heard what the Chan-
cellor or the Governor says on Commencement
Day. Comic songs with choruses, and gymnastic
performances, make up the programme.
General Wong Yong Ho and his accom-
plice have been duly dined and drinked by the
Sydney Chamber of Commerce, on which occasion
the health of the Emperor of China was given
“ with the customary honours.” A number of
husky gentlemen aimlessly pottered round, and
cackled to the two Mongols about promoting good
relations between Australia and China, apparently
quite oblivious of the fact that a picnic party
assembled on a cold afternoon at Chowder Bay
has about as much influence in the matter as a
dead printer and a one eyed dog, and Wong Yong
Ho said he thought so too. Tho Emperor will no
doubt feel better whin he learns that his health
has been drunk, but then the average Sydney
man will drink pretty nearly anything. Also
he is not very particular about whom he drinks
with.
A cavalry corps was lately raised in the
district of Takapuna, N.Z. In the first burst of
enthusiasm twenty gallant marauders jo'ned
and demanded to be led on to slaughter.
But there was no slaughter to be had just
then, except they turned rabblters, and there
gluttons for gore and glory were upon the
point of quitting the corps in disgust when
the captain in command had a happy inspiration
It was to have all of them promoted The cor pi
now numbers seventeen men—sixteen of whom
are officers and the remainder is a private. He
was offered a commission but refused it with
gloomy scorn. It is said to be a sight that would
make a dead man laugh to behold those sixteen
officers quarrelling among themselves as to which
of them shall command the corps for the day, and
Anally deciding the dispute by shaking in the hat,
the winner then sternly ordering the corps to form
in extended order and charge the foe, and the
corps telling him to “go to ,” and riding
Bullenly off the field to the nearest pub., there to
load up with rum and curse his sixteen superiors.
* « •
Under the heading, “Justice overtakes
him," a N.Y. paper “hopes that Earl Cairns will,
in New Guinea, find a wife to his liking—and one
who can endure his inanities. Only he needs to
be quite certain that the dusky maiden whom he
selects to wear his coronet is not a cannibal, for
it would be sad indeed for one of Britain’s peers
to find a tomb in the untutored stomach of a
damsel with kinks in her hair.”
Freddy Gebhardt, who, it is reported, is
going to marry Mrs, Langtry as soon as she can
get a divorce, has a sis er who is already divorced
and is about to marry aga’n. This lady some
years ago married a nice-looking New York mash,
and became famous by going to one of Vander-
bilt’s fancy balls as a corpse. She was attired in
grave-clothes, and was enveloped down to the
waist in a coffin, her face and crossed arms be.ng
visible through the glass front. The date en-
graved on the plate showed that she hadn’t yet
had time to get cold, but a few ghastly touches
with chalk made her look a very unpleasant body
indeed. Apparently the Jersey lily is going to
marry into a nice, lively family.
Ono may gain fame at too dear a price.
For a young married woman to succeed on the
stage means, in 19 cases out of 20, to separate for
ever from her husband, and o'ten even from her
children. The moral of more than one recent
Australian so-called dramatic and lyrical triumph
is thus :—lf you are an actor, do not get married
at all, unless to an actress in your own ' line of
business." If you are not an actor, you will, the
odds are more than ninety nine to ore, u terly
ruin yourself by marrying an actress or public
singer, unless you are solidly rich and she happens
to be a woman of inferior talents and attractions,
absolutely dependent upon you fi r bread and silk
An actress is a woman who must have admiration,
and she, unlike the woman in piivate life, is
placed in a position where she challenges the
admiration of everyone who can pay a shilling to
see and hear her. A pretty woman who has a
good voice always has a lot of kind friends who
say : “My dear, how foolish you are to waste
your best years in household di udgery instead of
developing your glorious gift of song And then
she proceeds to develope her glorious gift of song,
but she doesn’t develope it for the benefit of the
old man.
• * *
The attendance at Sydney Association
bicycle races last Saturday was excellent, even in
the face of the strong counter-attraction afforded
by the horse-jumping contests at the Agricultural
Show. Governor Carington was there, and so
was our dear old friend “ God Save the Queen.
Many pretty dresses were hidden in the crush.
Among the most stylish of those visible to the
writer were: one of light grey cloth, trimmed
with the same material and small toque of grey,
with long looped bows of rich brown ribbon. This
was a chaiming cottume, as was also a tailor-
made gown of green cloth, and bonnet of velvet to
.match. Navy blue appeared to be the favourite
colour.
Lord Carington, who was accompanied by
his wife and their two little daughters, opened
the so-called N.S.W. Agricultural Show last
Saturday afternoon. Some of the exhibits were
seen to great disadvantage, especially the dogs,
poultry, and ponies, and the miserable way in
which the poor animals were cooped up was a
practical advertisement for the necessity of a
society for the prevention of cruelty to animals.
During the afte noon we noticed the white head
of Sir Henry Parkes bobbing about the viceregal
party ; Mr. Salomons, Q C . was very much in ev>
dence, Burdett Smith was there, and so were the
Chinese Commissioners, who took great interest in
the horse-jumping. General Wong Yung Ho was
dressed as gaily as a woman. He wore a very
showy coat or cloak of numerous hues, and a
petticoat of loud green quilted satin —while his
friends turned out like dyer’s dreams. As usual
several social hangers-on made themselves cm-
spicuous by cringing and smirking round the vic3-
regal carriage. Lady Carington wore a neat cos-
tume of navy blue, trimmed with velvet; bonnet
and parasol to match. Her two little girls wear
ing simple coatettes of pale blue, and hats of the
same colour. A few poppy-tulle bonnets were
noticeable, also a great many tailor-made gowns
of check. On leaving the show HE. and party
proceeded to the bicycle sports.
* * *
A suburban Municipal Council the other
day wisely declined to spend the borough funds in
Jubilee illuminations, but the members loyally
determined to illuminate their places of business
at their own expense instead. As three of these
gentlemen carry on the respective businesses of a
butcher, an undertaker, and a greengrocer, the
effect will be loyal and affecting to a degree.
* #
Florence Harriet Angus, of Melbourne,
has arisen and gone to her father In her early
life she dwelt in marble halls and was nursed in
the l*p of luxury, but she married at the early age
of 19 and was spanked across the knee of adver-
sity ever afterwards. Her husband was a bagman
with whiskers, aged 21, and during the eight years
of their married life he, so she says, gave her
exactly £7. The happy family were compelled on
more than oae occasion to flee from the wrath to
come in the shape of a bailiff, and then they
would go to their respective mas and wait for the
clouds to roll by. This sort of thing, however,
A FACT.
OLD GULF HAND (at Burketown, Carpentaria): “ANOTHER BOTTLE O’ RUM. MISTER,
AND PUT IT DOWN TO THE EDITOR OF “THE SYDNEY BULLEYT EEN."
gradually soured Mr. Angus, and he spanked his
wife with a hot ox-tail. He also spooned with
barmaids. He was suspected of staying out late
with ladies connected with the comparatively un- I
clothed part of the drama, and he Anally left for
America accompanied by a female who was too
numerous to mention. Judge Webb was shocked
at these proceedings and gave Mrs. Angus per- ;
mission to go and marry any other man who was
in a position to support her and who didn't stay
out late at night.
* • •
Flotsam and Jetsam. —An alibi was sought
to be proved in a shady case down South the
other day, and three witnesses were examined to
support it. The first was the son'of a general in
the army, the second a graduate of Oxford, who
had once taken orders, and the third an ex-gentle-
man who was one of an aristocratic circle of young
bloods in London only four years ago. The jury
apparently disbelieved the whole lot of them, so
there was all the trouble for nothing.
* * *
Christchurch (N.Z.) has started a Shake-
speare Society, with the usual Professor, doctor,
and sixpen'orth o’ all-sorts for a committee In
his inaugural address, the gushing secretary
quoted the Melbourne Society as an example of
success, with its 340 members. We once heard a
Mr. Mullen, of the latter, read a paper on Juliet’s
soliloquy, in the broadest of broad Scotch. As a
method of inducing sleep it romped away from
morphia, and made “counting sheep" appear
quite obsolete. Melbourne should’llet Christ-
church have its Mullen as a model.
* * *
The Duke of Marlborough, we read, is
applying to make Lord Colin Campbell insolvent.
Every one knows who and what this Duke is. Of
all Dukes “crawling ’ Twixt Earth and Heaven
he is the worst, and unites in his carcass nearly
all the ulcers of aristocratic society. -His con-
spicuous meanness is also well recognised. When
he elooed with Lady Aylesford the result of the
escapade was a child whom they called Lord
Guernsey, but who, of course, wasn’t anj body at
all. The man wrote to the nurse to get a peram-
bulator for the child—‘ pick up a second-hand
one if you can,” he said. This litile episode is
chronicled for all time in the English Law Re-
ports. But what will Colin Campbell do? If he
were a German prince kicked out of his king-
dom, or the proud possessor of a German duchy
bringing in a revenue of half-a-crown a week and
his washing, perhaps Her Gracious would pay h s
debts. Very likely, however, as he is the brother-
in-law of Princess Beatrice he will be foisted on to
the Imperial Institute.
The good young man that died must have
left a numerous progeny behind him in Canter-
bury, N.Z., for the local member has just pre-
sented a petition bearing 2400 sigra'u es to the
Legislature praying for the abolition cf barmaids.
It is to br hoped that these naugh’y temptations
to the good joung man will be removed, and then
he can have his drinks served him by the nice bar
mao, whose profanity has been Lnown to give a
tornado a beadat he.
Here is a queer fact : A man with his
wife arrived post haste at the Melbotrne Morgue
to see the bidies after the Windsor accident
because, as he explained, “the old woman had
never seen such a sight before.” He was run out
on his ear, of course.
. * *
A veiy pretty suggestion is n ade in the
Argus of May 14 : J.S.” writes (query—James
Smith?) to suggest that a cottage be bought by
public subscription for the widow of Maskell, th)
brave driver of the Brighton express, over the
door of which should be placed a marble tablet in
scribed with the particulars of how he faced ine-
vitable death in the performance of his duty.”
Yes, the house is all very well, but suppose- and
it is wi hin the bounds of pos-ibility—the Widow
Mashtll married again ? Wouldn’t that tablet be
a little in ’he way ?
„ * *
“ The patronage of His Excellency the
Governor ” has ceased to be a deeideratum in a
certain colony where the gubernatorial house-
hold is conducted on such oheesepariDgly econo-
mical principles that many of the local tradesmen
decline the honor of supplying it. “ Her Lady-
ship ’ (who, it is averred, wears the—ah,
divided skirt), disputes nearly every account pre-
sented, declaring that she has not come to the
colonies to be “ fleeced.” She dismissed half the
servants usually attached to Government House,
and, finally, has announced that she wiil not buy
fuel while there are so many trees in the
grounds surrounding the vice regal residence,
and has ordered some to be felled. A prohibition
from the Minister for Lands informing her lady-
ship that the raid tree 3 “ belonged to the colony,
not to the temporary occupants of Government
House,” stopped these proceedings bit from the
numberless reports of parsimony and niggardliness
her ladyship appears to deserve the sad title of
pre-eminence in meanness.
• * *
M. Henri Kowalski's pupils give “audi-
tions” at the Y.M.O.A hall, Sydney, to-day
(Thursday) at 3 p.m. and 8 p.m.
ft t •
Lady Carington will be “ at home ” to-
day (Thursday) at 3 p.m. We are sorry for Lady
Carington. It must be hard work.
• * #
On Wednesday, June 1, Miss Riley, sister
to the Mayor of Sydney, will be married at St.
Mary's Cathedral, Sydney, to Mr. T. M. O’Neill.
The Mayor and Mrs. Riley have issued a large
number of invitations.
* * *
The Columbia Skating Rink opened at
Sydney Exhibition Building on Mondav. There
are 30,000 square feet of skatiDg surface, 2000
pairs of skate 3, toilet and smoking rooms, ladies’
drawing room, and a lot of other things suited to
gladden the heart of man.
* * *
The Right Honorable His Worship Sir
Alban Riley, K.C.M.G., Lord Mayor of Sydney,
told the “ women and girls" at the Town Hall
meeting that Her Gracious possessed a fund of
| “ sympathy with human suffering unexampled,”
; and further, that Victoria was also a “ woman of
| sorrow unspeakable.” No doubt Sir Alban meant
first to say that H.G paid for the Bulli telegram
of sympathy out of her own pocket, but it’s more
than l'kely H.M G M. is a “dead-head” at the
telegraph office. Tnen, as to the “ sorrow un-
speakable,” doesn’t the minor see that he’s
making a donkeu of himself by jubilating over the
prolongation of Vic’s, pre-emin ent agony ?
On Tuesday, the 17th inst., Governor
Carington entertained the two ambassadorial
Chows to dinner. The Commissioners looked as
if they missed the fried pup and other delicacies
of their native land, and didn’t seem to be bathed
in joy when they found there was no grilled rat
stuffed with sea-slugs
* * *
Still more vice-regal shake-hands : —“ A
great many children during the evening were
taken up and presented to Lord and Lady Caring-
ton, but the Governor did Dot wait for presenta-
tions ; he stood up and good-naturedly shook
hands with every child who came near him, and
several delighted youngsters rushed off to pro-
claim aloud to their parents that the Governor
had spoken to them,” This is, ofeourse, from the
Sydney P.T. How we do love to see the dear
little things being educated in Toadyism 1
it. hath eyes to see, let him see; but he thatrequireth
“Si, shoufd only wear “Pebbles." They are he coolest
tcTthe eye*. and the most preserving to »he sight, os. per
1,0 tne ey . Huntkr s, the Spectacle-makers, 63
JK& KtaSES." . (tat floor). 'With case and postage to
the country 6s. per pair. Repairs. Glasses, &c„ fitted. 1-13
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Cough Emulsion is such as to render it the best-known
remedy in the world for Coughs, Cold*, Asthma, or Bron-
chitis It can be obtained direct froraW. Row lky, Chemist,
Bourke-street, East Melbourne. Price 2s. 6d. per bottle, and
ft-om all ohemists.*
Dr Frederick Ware, having leUrned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, brings with him all that
is new in Dentißtry. Dr. Ware baa Returned I ractice, and
may be consulted at Kidman’s Buildings, eoroer George and
Market streets. Take Lift. 3-13.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Little Tommy : —Mother, what part of
heaven do people go to who are good, but not
agreeable 1 ”
Princess Beatrice has now attached her
signature to the music of a song. The words are
German, of course
Little Johnny (in re the latest baby): —
“His face is just the color of Uncle George's.
My word, but he must be a hard drinker! ’
A learned man doesn’t need a learned wife.
Ho needs a rice little woman to look after his
house md eee that he has his necktie on when he
goe3 out.
An English soldier with £5OO who, the
other day, wanted a wife, could, it seems, with
only partial ad vet tieemenr, comma d the pick of
800 more or less love'y damsels.
Sydney women are now unanimously in
favor of free trade They flad that their costliest
dresses are not half so rich as the elegant brocade
of the Chinese General s petticoat
“Who is the god of battles?” “Mar,”
answered little Johnny Benpeck. “Mars,” you
mean, Jihnny,” corrected the teacher. “No, I
don't, neither. I only got one mar.”
“Mamma, why w?s me and Sam not
kittens!” “Why, Johnnie, what made you think
of such a thing?” “ Why, when pa talks to nurse
about you, he calls you the old cat.”
Infuriated subscriber (to editor): — “What
does this mean, sir ? In that obituaiy notice of
my respected wife’s mother, you have said that
she was 'consigned to her last roasting place.’”
At Divine Service: Miss Molly—“ Come
into our pew, Kate.” Kate—“ Oh, no ; come into
curs. We’ve got such nice, comfortable, high
kneeling cushions. They don’t strain your polo-
naise a bit.”
“ The funeral services of the late William
P. Lewis were somewhat hurried, to enable his
estimable and grief-stricken widow to catch the
two o’clock train for Chicago, where she goes to
visit friends.”—Murkan par.
Maud —l hate that fellow de Johnson.
He never knows what to do with his hands.
Maria—” You are mistaken, my dear. In that re-
spect he is one of the nio3t accomplished young
men I ever went out in a buggy with.”
Mrs. Gibson, of Wahanui, sued Mr. Wil-
son for libel at Timaru (N and was awarded
one farthing damages. The lady is a cockatoo-
farmer, and has a weakness for law. This is the
fifty-third case she has been a party to, since 1871.
Professor—“ Where is your heart, dear?”
Mabel—” Here.” Protestor— “ And where is your
liver?" Mabel—(indignantly)—“I haven’t any.
,'ows have livers.” Professor —“ Oh, yes, you
have.” Mabel (after some thought!—“Well, then,
where is my bacon ?”
Chambermaid — “ Wait, Mary, it isn’t time
to lock up the house yet. Miss Ethel s young man
is in the parlor.” Kitchen Girl—“ He’s gone,
Sarah” “Did you hear the front-door shut?”
“No, but the drawing-room gas is turned up
again.”
Young Man (whispering to jeweller)—
“ That engagement ring I bought of you yester-
day ” Jeweller —“ What’s the matter with it;
didn’t it fit?” Young man (cautiously)—“ Sh !
It didn’t have a chance. Gimme collar buttons
for it.”
The hoop-skirt, petticoat and shawl which
Jefferson Davis wore when he was captured are
carefully preserved in the State archives at
Washington. Jeff Davis was captured in a petti-
coat,” £a ys a Yankee print, “and better men than
he have escaped by the same medium.”
An American town has a female sheriff.
Recently the arrested a man, and he, hoping to
flatter her to let him escape told her she was the
handsomest woman he ever saw. And did Bhe
let him escape ? No ? She wouldn't let that man
out of her sight anyway, but wanted him around
all the time. Trickery is sure to fail in the end.
“Oh, isn't he horrid ! I’d have boxed his
ears.” The o'her gir's (volubly agreed with
this declaration, and tho young hostess then
declared : “ The wretch ! But I can manage him,
I can! You should see me sit on him ! ” Just
here comes in the enfant terrible, always around
to interpret statements literally and honestly : “ I
seed you sittin’ on him once, Lou.”
Recently the male students of the Harvard
Medical School rashly attempted to annoy a female
student, Miss Amelia Copeland. She was sent
for in order to attend a c=se of fracture of the leg.
The patient was a man fifty years old, and the
lady found that she had been called to repair a
broken wooden leg She coolly tent for a hammer
and nails, mended the leg, and then sent in her
b‘ll for twenty-five dollars, which the jokers had
to pay.
“Oh, you good-for-nothing drunken
wretcb,” she exclaimed as she reached her hand
out from under the bed clothes to feel in the
cradle if the baby was covered. “Washer
masher?" murmured her husband, rousing from
a drunken doze. “Matter enough,” she in-
dignantly shrieked. “ Wake up and go down
stairs and firing baby up here this minute.”
“ Did brieg him up ; he’sh in er cradle.” “ You
did no such thing, jou drunken brute You
wrapped the turkey I dressed for Sunday’s dinner
in baby’s blankets and rocked it in the cradle for
an hour, you wretch, while my poor dear baby
is freezing to death down stairs on the sofa.”


The Referee
The newspapers are asking— “ Is Dwyer
an amateur ?”
Why IJwyer bears professional ban
No thinking person knows,
For never since the world began
Were “ Cons” accounted “ Pros.”
* * •
All things considered, Mr. Bale had a fair
attendance at his bicycle show on Sydney Asso-
ciation ground, but the quasi-professional element
has done its work, and packed attendances at
these meetings are things of the past. Bennett
defeated Dwyer in the one and five miles cham-
pionship race 3 after what appeared genuine
struggles, but it is too soon to crow until the
three and ten mile races are run off. The “ Ame-
rican laD” and “two of either colony first past
the post" races proved rank and dismal failures.
It is all very well to censuro Slaven for
not facing champion Peter Jackson on Saturday
night at Foley's. The writer commends the man
from Alligator Land for his good sense. Peter was
“ on the job” and would have chawed him up.
•
Mr. Dick Mathews, the Yankee who bosses
N.Z. pugilistic affairs, should visit Australia, and
find out what he is really made of. Last time he
was in Sydney, Peter Jackson put him through in
a couple of rounds at Charley Ricketts’ “ for love ’
one morning. When Mathews returned to the
States and was pounced upon by the interviewer
he seemed to have quite forgotten all about that
little event.
Noble sport, Graeco-Roman wrestling. In
the second bout in the match between Connor and
Cannon, in Melbourne, on Saturday night, Connor
got hold of CanLOn round the neck and half-
strangled him. Cannon won the match, when
Connor stated he was unwell, and would meet
Cannon again in a fortnight for £2OO aside. Can-
non agreed, ar.d said he would make it £5OO if
wrestled in Sydney. On behalf of the Sydney
people, we thank Cannon for his good wishes, but,
at the same time, we must state our belief that
they would rather give him £5OO to wrestle in
Melbourne.
* * *
Mr. Mackay has done well out of Grand-
master. He originally gave 150 gs. for him ; sold
his stock to the tune of £7OO, and still holds some
good ones ; and has now sold the 19 year-old horse
to the Hon. John Eales for 1200 gs.
£20,000 has been refused for the Irish-
bred horse Bendigo, winner of the Eclipse Stakes,
£lO,OOO ; and the Jubilee Stakes, £OOOO.
The runner of the “Barb Consultation ”
was brought before the Sydcey “beaks,” last
week, and fined £25 and costs, or two months’
imprisonment. It is one of the things a fellow can’t
quite understand, how Green was fined in the
face of the “sweep” run by “Tattersall.”
“ Tattersall” advertises in every prominent paper
in Australia, has a letter-box placed in the bar of
an hotel, and held no less a sum than £OOOO on the
Birthday Cup alone, but the police don’t see it.
“ Wallace,” who was a rank swindler, had
even a box at the General Post Office, Sydney, for
years, and it was not till the press of the colonies
fairly rammed it down their throats that the
police took action.
“ New Zealander,” in a Sunday paper,
holds that the narrow, deep, heavy-ballasted open
boats in vogue in N.Z. would drown the “skiffy ”
craft of Sydney in a big blow. We will give him
an instance. Some years since there was insuffi-
cient wind to finish the open-boat race at Balmain
Regatta, and it was sailed off on the following
Saturday in perhaps the biggest blow in which a
race was ever contested in Port Jackson. Some-
thing under a score of boats started, 23 and 24-
footers, a lot of them comparatively deep and
heavily ballasted. Only t wo boats finished, the
Lottie, 24 feet, then owned by Mr. Ilyam, and the
Young Jim, the former wallowing in it like an old
tub, and getting round, more by good luck than
seaworthiness, some miles behind the Jim. The
Young Jim, 23 feet long, little better than a big
Bkiff, without an ounce of ballast in her, went
through the terrible blow like a duck.
Tasmanian footballers were defeated in
Melbourne on Saturday by the locals.
Matterson and Kemp are to row for £2OO
and a cup on July 2. The result of the race will
not satisfy one of the two. A meeting at Larry
Foley’s with the mittens is about the only way we
see out of the difficulty.
The coloured lad, “ Young Pluto,” the
clever boxer who showed in Sydney, is now learn-
ing in a Melbourne stable the art of jockeying. If
he turns out a 3 smart in the pigskin as with the
kids he will take a lot of beating.
* • *
Costello says he could have knocked
Slaven out had his seconds allowed him to force
the pace. The pair ought to inset again “to a
finish.”
• „• *
Sydney footballers have taken a kick in
the right direction. They have established rooms
where club-men can meet and compare notes and
comminuted fractures and the depth of their
wounds after the day’s play is over. The name
of the resident surgeon has not transpired.
Dwyer and Bennett could not let Saturday
pass over without humbugging the public, for
which, by the way, they received a fair amount
ofj hooting. In the teams-of-three race, two of
either colony first past the post to win, they both
retired in the second lap and left Jenkins all alone
in his glory as N.S.W. representative. Had
Mutton and Eichler been allowed to start in place
of Bennett and Dwyer, the home team would have
stood a good show of winning, but no hint was
dropped by Bennett and Dwyer at the start that
they did not intend tojp through with the race.
* *
The yacht Maggie is now up on the A.S.N.
Co. 8 slip, and we understand itj is the intention
of her owner to leave her up the whole of the
winter. This should make a new boat of her, as
she has never had a thorough drying and must be
pretty well waterlogged.
Next Saturday N.S. Wales meets Victoria
over the Parramatta course in the annual eight-
oar race. There is a deal of mystery attached to
both crews. New South Wales did a trial la9t
Sunday morning, but the result has been kept a
dead secret; and one day last week Mr. Upward
eased down his crew because he saw a Chinese
hawker on Gladesville Wharf, whom he thought
might be Jack Myers in disguise. Seriously
MR. FRANCIS HART,
Editor of the VICTORIAN EXPRESS, Geraldine W. A.
speaking, there can be ODly one object in keeping
secrets of this kind—betting, and the less betting
creeps into intercolonial races the better for their
future outlook. The opinion prevails amongst
riverside people that the Melbourne crew will
win.
*
When that noble animal the horse is used
for trotting matches he becomes a fruitful source
of rowdyism, and a mischief-making quadruped.
If these remarks don’t apply to trotting in
America they''.re full of painful meaning as re- t
gards the “sport” in England or Australia. The
Sydney mare Doldy tried conclusions with. All
Fours at Elsternwick (Melb.) last Thursday.
When All Fours had lobbed in an easy winner the
owner of Doldy lodged some derned objection or
other, and the company took sides for a wholesale
scrapping carnival. None of the local dailies
furnished a list of the killed and wounded, but
several prominent patrons of the turf are under-
stood to have left chunks of their anatomy on the
bloody held. Win, tie, or wrangle—plug, kick,
and strangle. Such are the ru’es of the game as
it is played in these parts.
The fact of The Baron being quoted at
liberal “ odds on ” for this year’s Derby shows
that the English three-year-olds are a poor lot, or
else that some of the best of them are not going
for the Epsom event. Probably the latter. Derby
entries get fewer every year, and the honor of
winning the Blue Riband is not much sought after
in these days of £lO,OOO stakes.
A New Zealand turfite has christened his
moke “ Tommy up a Pear Tree,” another has
saddled his steed with “ Johnny come through the
Raupo,” and a third calls his flyer “ Here I come
with my eye out and my lip down.” Such nomen-
clature is uncalled for in a country that has
already provided such tongue-tanglers as “ Tupa-
paku,” “ Puhinahinahina,” “ Pungawerewere,”
“ Parikarangaranga,” “Taka inoemoe ” (my
dream), and •* Taku moemoe reka” (my sweet
dream). Wales is about the only spot that can
give New Zealand points in this line, and we fancy
it holds the belt to-day with “ Llanfarpwllgwyng-
yllsfplogogooch.” Post-betting is unknown in
Wales. No bookie could yell the odds once before
a race was finished.
The Brisbane police have revived that
Mrs. Wagener’s husband was not murdered, but
committed suicide, and adf eply-injured woman
has been taken to the front door of the gaol and
shoved out. Wagener’s way of committing sui-
cide, however, was such an awkward one that
mistakes were very apt to arise. He was found
one morning holding his nose with both hands, a
gun resting across his knees, and a bullet lodged
in the back of his head, and it was never satisfac-
torily explained how he managed the job. The
common theory is that he stood up in bed, planted
the butt-end of the gun on Ihe pillow and leant
his head on the muzzle, and then pulled the trig-
ger by hitching his toe in the machinery, but the
point is open to a lot of discussion.
Mr. Fletcher, M.L. A., said in the N.S. W.
Assembly last week that he “ wouldn’t insult a
puppy by comparing the honorable member, Mr.
Smith, to it.” This was the “apology” which
Fletcher made after he had called Smith “ Jack
Sheppard’s puppy.” Later on, Vaughan, M P.,
said that Haynes, who was addressing the chair,
told “ a damnable lie. ” V. was called upon to
“ withdraw,” and he did so by saying that what
he had stated “was true.” Now, this was all
very clumsy business. Members should take a
lesson from the book of M’Lellan, M.P., the Dove
of Ararat, who manages his insinuations better in
the Victorian Assembly. He once delivered him-
self thus, in silvery accents, to the chair : “ Mr.
Speaker, if ever it should be permitted to throw
eggs in this Chamber, I shall be the first, sir, to
break one on the nose of the Honorable the Minister
of Justice.” Bindon didn’t ask that the words
should be taken down, and there were no ories of
“chair,” or “order,” or “withdraw.” Williams
deliverance only produced a deep sensation in the
House.
Mr. Francis Hart.
Mr. Francis Hart, editor of the Victorian Ex
press, Geraldton, the only journal published in
the northern wilds of West Australia, is yet a
young man, not having reached his 29th year. He
arrived in the painfully empty colony which he
now inhabits in 1878, and shortly afterwards com-
menced contributing a series of papers to the
Perth Inquirer under the nom-de plume of
“ Cosmopolite.” In April, 1882, he was appointed
sub editor of the Morning Herald, the first
daily paper published in that lo ely region, and
his “ Telephone Papers ” gave him at once a lead-
ing position among the journalists of the West. In
September, 1883, he Was offered the position of
editor on the Victorian Express, and started
out to be a voice crying in the wilderness at
Geraldton. Here his liberal views speedily brought
the paper into prominence and gained him many
friends, though the squattocracy, who are Toiies
almost to a man, do not hanker much after him.
Among Mr. Hart’s miscellaneous writings are a
handbook of West Australia, the W. A. Exhibi-
tion (1881) cantata (written in conjunction with
Mr. S. P. Needham), the song “ Unfurl the Flag,”
which Sir Wm. Robinson set to atrocious and
fiendish music, and various other productions,
His portrait accompanies this sketch.
Mr. G. H. Varley.
The portrait of Mr. G H. Varley, editor and
proprietor of the Clarence and Richmond
Examiner, published at Grafton (N.S.W.), is
attached. We have no distinct idea as to where
this gentleman was born, but he commenced his
career as apprentice in a printing-office in Mait-
land (N.S.W.) some 24 years ago, and was pro-
moted at a very early age to the position of chief
of the mechanical department of the office. He
afterwards exchanged this position for a similar
one in the office of the Newcastle Morning
Herald, which he held for many years. Here he
speedily became noted as a sporting writer, and
his contributions above the signature “ Judex ”
were widely read and appreciated. In 1882 he
acquired a share in the Clarence and Richmond
Examiner— partly through the assistance of the
present Minister of Justice—and about two years
later he obtained sole control of that journal— one
of the oldest and best provincial papers in the
colony. Some day, possibly, Grafton may become
the capital of a new colony, and in that case the
Examiner will find a great career opening out
before it.
Madame Sabatowska, widow of the medical
man who lately suicided in Sydney rather than
face a criminal charge preferred against him, is
deeply affected at the allegation made to the
effect that her unfortunate husband was unquali-
fied, and an impostor. She has shown us official
and other papers which go to prove that Joseph
Sabatowska, medical student, by birth a Pole,
at the outbreak of the Franco-German war served
with the francs tireurs, and was made corporal
for bravery on Bth October, 1870. He was deco
rated with the military medal and specially
named in the order of the day after the sangui-
nary affair at Chateaudun on 18th October, when
he was wounded ; was promoted to a sergeantcy
ME. G. H. VARLEY.
Editor and Proprietor of the Clarence and Rich-
mond Examiner.
after the combat at Varize on 29th November ;
got his sub-lieutenancy on 2nd December at the
battle of Orleans ; and gained the Cross of the
Legion of Honour on 15th January, 1871, for his
gallantry at the desperate light of Alen'.'on.
Thereafter he proceeded with his medical studies
and honorably took his degreeat Paris University.
if the phenominal success of the Columbia would
continue, Mr. Ridgely, with that push and nerve
which has brought his rinks into such prominence,
established and successfully conducted the elegant
Geelong Columbia, the Launceston Columbia, in
the pavilion building, and that model of Austra-
lian rinks, the Dawson-street, Ballarat. (The re-
ceipts of the above four rinks are in excess of
£BOO per week.) In fact, whatever Mr. Ridgely
has attempted in the roller-skating business has
proved so eminently successful that many imita-
tors have already sprung up, and it is only a ques-
tion of time before every city and town through-
out Australia boasts of a rink among its attrac-
tions ; but the success attained is, in a great
measure, due to the admirable discipline con-
stantly maintained, and to the vigilant watchful-
ness by which all objectionable features are care-
fully excluded. Wherever the Columbia is estab-
lished it has the hearty endorsement and approval
of the mayor, councillors, and leading citizens ;
and it is a well-known fact that ladies and chil-
dren are as safe and well cared lor as they would
be in their own homes.
And now, after seeing rinking fairly established
in Victoria as the favourite amusement of the
elite, Mr. Ridgely has come over to Sydney, here
to repeat his triumphs, and to gather round him,
as his roller Skating patronage, thousands of those
who constitute the best element of Sydney society.
What a royal welcome he will receive ! And what
a triumph, too ! For it was only by courage and
perseverance, in the face of sneers, jibes, taunts,
and positive insults from almost everyone to whom
he broached his scheme, that this energetic young
man from America has, in the short space of six
months, achieved such a grand success. And we
predict that it will be in Sydney as in Melbourne
—that the nerve, confidence, and persistency of
the promoter, will form a combination which
neither apathy, prejudice, or opposition can with-
stand, and that, although roller-skating in Sydney
has hitherto attracted so little attention, Mr.
Ridgely will now infuse new life and spirit into
the business, and we believe he will score a suc-
cess unparalleled in the annals of any amusement
ever introduced into New South Wales. The
beautiful skating surface of the Exhibition is now
laid in the finest selected 2in. kauri, and will be
nearly an acre in extent. The entrance is at the
northerly end, with handsome club headquarters,
which will prove attractive and convenient. There
is an elegantly equipped cafe ; a learner’s room,
where the tyros can bump and bruise themselves
to their heart’s content ; oalconies, seating 2000
spectators ; and there will be a track for swift
skating and bicycling of eight laps to the mile.
The skate department is equipped with 1500 pairs
af the finest Raymond skates. Mr. Ridgely will
conduct the exhibition rink very much as those in
Victoria, and fancy skating and bicycling, races
costume parties and carnivals, will follow each
other in such rapid succession as to render this
mammoth rink, par excellence , the centre of at
traction for the elite of the amusement lovers of
New South Walee.
While speaking of Mr. Ridgely’s rinkiog enter-
prises, a few words about roller-skating in general
might not go amiss :
“A nobler theme let others choose,
Fit subject for my humble muse
Are ye, whom every day I use
My roller-skates.”
Never since the unknown date, at which some un-
known genius first conceived the idea of skating
with rollers, has this favourite pastime created
such a furore as duriDg the past few years. Some
men whose hair is beginning to show a tinge of
grey, can, perhaps, remember when this innova-
tion in the category of sports, was first introduced,
about a score of years ago. But the facilities
then afforded for the exercise were not good, and
there existed a sentiment that such skating was
only a parlor game, and something to be conj
sidered as effeminate by the lover of genuine
sports. The idea of hobbling and shuffling around
a small dark hall on a set of little wheels was an
object of ridicule from the paragraphers of the
time. To-day, however not to be a good roller-
skater is considered, in the United States, a de-
cided disadvantage, and, in fact, it is the most
popular amusement indulged in by the youth of
America. In the city of New York alone, there
are now nearly a dozen rinks, all doing a thriving
business, whereas, a few years ago, there was but
one. The suddenness and rapidity with which
the roller-skating sentiment inundates a city, has
caused it to be termed by some a “ craze,” and by
others a “ fever,” and while neither appellation is
satisfactory, they are both, perhaps, warranted,
so completely do they indicate the mighty power
and fascination of America's favourite pastime.
It seems to be generally understood that the sport
owes its introduction to Mr. Jas. L. Plimpton, of
Boston. Though not the original inventor, it
was reserved for Mr. Plimpton to perfect the
roller-skate, to develope the system of rinks in
every quarter of the globe, and to obtain for the
sport the sanction and patronage of the best
classes of society. Unlike ice-skating the rollers
are not affected by the weather, and their use is
not attended with detriment to the health. There
is no danger connected with the exeroise.
A NEW DISCOVERY
Hoffman’s Eucalyptol (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints and discharges,
inflammation, gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c.
Purely vegetable, contains no balsam or sandal wood.
All principal druggists and storekeepers. Price 2s. 6d. and
3s. 6d. Take no substitute.
The Columbia.
OPENING OF RIDGELV’S MAGNIFICENT
ROLLER SKATING PALACE IN THE EX-
HIBITION BUILDING.
The red letter event in amusement circles in
Sydney this season is the transforming of the Ex-
hibition Building, Prince Alfred Park, into the
largest and most magnificent Skating Palace in
the world. The enterprise is under the sole
management of Mr. A. Newton Ridgely. the
originator of the present popular and profitable
system of roller-rinking in Australia. Hitherto,
the business had been so hampersd by bad skates,
incompetent supervision, and ridiculously small
rinks, that it made but little progress in public
favor ; and it was not until the “ Columbia ” de-
monstrated the grand possibilities of enterprising
rink management that roller-skating began to take
rank as the most popular amusement of Victoria.
In September, 1886, after months of discouraging
and useless atcempts to secure financial support
and co-operation, Mr Ridgely determined to enter
the field single-handed, and alone and unaided, to
develop this fascinating American pastime through-
out Australia. Upon one of the finest sites in St.
Kilda (Melbourne), Mr. Ridgely proceeded to erect
a most eomplete and thorough roller rink. As a
nucleus of the association there, the mayor and
councillors, clergymen, deacons, and the best
people generally of this fashionable and aristo-
cratic suburb, were elected, and gave their
patronage and endorsement to the enterprise. In
November the new rink was opened to the public,
and from the first its success was unprecedented.
The fame of the Columbia soon spread through
Victoria, and ere long speculators from nearly
every large town in the colony visited this pioneer
rink, with a view to copying Mr. Ridgely’s ideas
and methods, and opening similar though smaller
establishment in all parts of the country. But
while they were considering, and waiting to see
QRITKRION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
REVIVAL on a MAMMOTH SCALE by
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
MISS CARRIE SWAIN,
the Gifted
ACTRESS, VOCALIST, and DANSE USE,
will again demonstrate that the New York Herald
was right when it declared she is
“THE ONLY ONE.”
THE ONLY TOPSY i
THE ONLY TOPSY f
UNCLK TOM’S
CABIN.
Admission—os., 3s , 25., Is.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWN,
Business Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket,
Proprietor find Manager Mr. Frank Smith,
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp,
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
OUR THIRD YEAR. OUR THIRD YEAR.
The proprietor and manager begs to return his
hearty thanks for the substantial support he has
received in the past, and hopes that the many
novelties he intends producing during the next
twelve months may meet with the same recogni-
tion as their predecessors.
SPECIAL PROGRAMME for Our
THIRD ANNIVERSARY.
POPULAR PRICES:
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.


T
KATRK ROYAL.
Under the Direction ot
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THURSDAY EVENING last time of
LA SONNAMBULA.
FRIDAY, the LAST NIGHT of the SEASON,
FAL ST.
Prices—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.: Orchestra Stalls.
55,; Stalls, 4s ; Family Circle. 2s.
OPERA
HOUSE
E W
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jonee.
10th WEEK 10th
of
GRATTAN RIGGS’ SEASON.
CURRENT COIN, or SNARED.
CURRENT COIN, or SNARED.
By Arrangement with Mr. CHAS. M'M A HON.
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,.
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSIO *I—ONE SHILLING.
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERG.
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef, I am enabled
t o cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
G istom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatter*, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
US’ Private Suites kor Families. T*
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
V. R.
£5O —IN PRIZES —£50
PUBLIC NOTICE
To Competitors in the great Word Contest
from
RHEINGOLDS.
In Consequence of there being such a great
number of lists sent in for competition by persons
who coold not have possibly understood the rules
by which the Committee would bs guided, and
the Promoter’s intentions being to give every one,
old and young, a fair chance of gaining one of the
ten valuable Prizes offered; it has been decided
(advisably) to allow the contest to remain open
till
JUNE 21st,
and to award the prizes immediately afterwards.
THE FOLLOWING RULES TO BE S I RICTLY OBSERVED.
Any words used in the English Language,
whether Singulars, Plurals, Biblical, Historical,
Geographical, Proper Names, and even Foreign
Words, if used in English Language, are to be
accepted. No abbreviations allowed; no letter to
appear more than once in a single word: and only
the following letters are to be used :
RHEINGOLDS.
NOTE.—Any Person, having sent in a List prior
to 24th May, may send in a revised or additional
one, which will be added to their former one, on
sending a stamped addressed envelope, and six-
pence (6d.) in stamps to defray expenses.
All Lists from New Competitors must have a
stamped addressed envelope, containing 2s. in
stamps, and to be sent to
MR. H. BENNETT,
No. 11 Park St., Sydney.
Any Competitor who wishes may assist the
Committee in Examination of Lists.
S. F PSIDDY & GO.
Having purchased Bankrupt Stock of
HATS,
AT
ONE-THIRD OF USUAL CO3T,
are now retailing them
BELOW ENGLISH COST.
Special Lines :
English Zephyr Felts, * * 11/6
Do, Do. Do. at 5/6
At our two Establishments,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Lasse tter’s,
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
, 'SEE-g ”2;;
7‘ ‘ ‘ @Mﬁﬁm
VL MUM
;e-«f»- Haﬁz:
”HEW '-
5 r was yum ‘
FTTT! A T~) OFFICE] :
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1486.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING].
RESERVE, £3i,661 4s. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, L'mit-d,
transact all usual B inking B isiness. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upcn
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 44 per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
§, Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deuosit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTOR 3 .
B. M'NAMAEA,
SECRETARY.
£<EMENT, “ LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,”
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOsTLING and Co , and GOST LING and Co.,
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D F. WATSON, 5t Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
Royal polytechnic, 490 george-st.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Just added, and now on view, a Monster ALLI-
GATOR, 15fc in length, and weighing 18001bs. To
be seen ALIVE and swimming about in a Mam-
moth Tank. We are also showing the GALATEA
M k STERY, or the Living Bust. Also the Great
Mechanical Model of the BULLI COAL MINES,
showing the miners at work, &c. EDgraving on
Glass by F. P. Webb. Electrical and Mechanical
Models of all kinds, Curios, &c. Also just added,
the Freaks of Nature —a SNAKE, TURTLE, and
a CAT with Eight Leg 3.
Admission to the whole of the Exhibition, Is
Children, 6d.
rft r r PRESC RIPTIONTS are to
r If EC be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility, Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Department of Publio Works.
Sydney, May 23 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will he announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Dam no whio‘
ﬁlm. 0! Work: and Supplies” Mahmud
It. this Moe
Delivering and Laying About 22 I
miles 1511.. Pipes, Oanmctso,
Sydney Wam Supply
Brennan 0! Iron Shed. Cowper
Wharf Tuesday.
Supply of Railway illeepm Mu ax.
Bridge over Gap Greek. road at ll o'clook.
Kempoey w Armidnlo
ErecLion Engine shad. Cowra.
Emotion Winning Shed at. Corri-
mnl. wawmn Line
h...—_._..._.—..—..____.
Construction 0! Runway Lina.
Bomb] (Poured: corner) to Tuauday.
8t» [mounds J cum 7
Em Lion of Bridge, Bell's Creek. at 11 o'clock.
road Tumbgrﬁmfm to Juggnlc
Emotion Dwarf Wall. 8m. Bab Way.
main Post and Telegraph June u.
once at H o‘clock.
Adamo". 8.0.. M Home, Gir-
oulu Quay Tuesday.
Additions Pm: Ind Telegraph Juno 2|,
Olin. YA. nt 1-Ldaloct.
m
m wmmzm.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
674 George Street, 674
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Is the Only Address of the
m imm
DIRECT SUE PLY ASSOCIATION,
With the Largest, Finest, and most Superb Assort-
ment of all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings ever seen in the Southern Hemisphere,
From a JEW’S HARP to a CHURCH ORGAN,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
7/6, 9/6. 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key... ... ... 35,
, Splendid Organ toned Concertina,
in box with key 21.
‘3: :3: I; 33’?
, 7 .. . 'I //
x' )f:if:;"2_.-3J§--‘J'-‘!C'#737” ""
4 ;—:.———_—_ ;—— ;~.-/
w; :3 ”L. 4mg;
, n -- 773:1» 4%,":
E. .3 _:-___ 373—;7 _~ ;:_..':=,.§- _(/
.1 .31” fT'-‘,,-W~
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-, 30/-, 10/-, to £6.
Speciality : The miniature Melodeon, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 12/-.
15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Special ;■ : German Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Old copy Violin, with case (leek and
key), toll mounted how, extra set
of strings, Tutor, &c. £2 12s. 6d.
fl
L . rOYET
CORNETS, at 40/-, 50/-, 75/-, 105/-, 130/- to £lB.
Specialities : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key £5 0 0
~ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 9 0 0
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 0 0
Flutes.
F, om 1/6 to £lO
About 100 varieties in stock.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, Best
English make * ...50/-
5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Nickel Banjo, Walter Howard Model,
witti 6 or 7 strings, as required, £3 3s
Strings for Guitars, Violins, Harps,
Zitras, Cellos, Banjos, Dble, Bass, &c.
Speciality,: Post free, one set of Roman Violin
Strings, 2s 6d.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
All kinds of Instruments skilfully repaired
at moderate charges.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
Orders promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Please say that you saw this in
The Bulletin.
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT Wit WILL ECLIPSE ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
211, Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXAXXXX
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Banda to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and aft
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few dos’es of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine- to be found to equal BEE CHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human, machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepare ! only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine-
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.— Full directions are given with each box.
VKRYBODY \
SHOULD USK /
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
p L O ip- t
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
Rill Gkoboe-rtbeet. Hviimit.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
e and peculiar fragrance, ana Delng
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents
ATKINSON’S
CELEBRATED EATJ DE COLOGNE
is unequalled for its strength and delightlul
odour !t far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally hue periume for the hand-
le -rchiet, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dialers, and of the Manufactu
: K. ATKINSON
24, Old Bond Street, Lo:
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose on “ Golden
fcy Lyre.”
“J
IMPERIAL, HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
THE above has been known for some years ae
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
in Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and flre-uroof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room. Sample room.
0. H. DANIKLLS. Proprietor


WORTH YOUR WHILE TO PERUSE
Did you ever notice how surprised you were
when you put your foot on the next stair-step and
found there wasn't any there ? St. Jacobs oil
cures bruised shins and sprains i
The Trotting Editor, the Si’iuiT of tub Times,
New York, Mr. E C. Walker, after an exhaustive
interview with leading horsemen, stablemen,
sportsmen, drivers and breeders of horses, stale>,
editorially, that St. Jacobs oil will do a 1 that is
claimed for it in the cure of aches, pains, and
suffering in man and be ist.
When a man discovers his boy using his best
razor on a slate pencil his faith in being the
father of a future statesman is overcome, in his
anxiety to find St. Jacobs oil to aoply to the cut
finger. A sure cure for it.
One of the largest wooigrowersof Australia, Mr.
Alfred Hay, Mulwala P. 0., N.S.W., writes : Hav-
ing had occasion to try St. Jacobs oil for a case of
very painful neuralgia, I am pleased to state that
its use was accompanied by the happiest results.
A few applications only were necessary to banish
all pain and effect a cure. I keep a supply at my
s tation, and I cheerfully recommend it.
Josh Billings says : The best ntedisin I kno for
the rumatiz is to thank the Lord it ain't the gout
and use St Jacobs oil.
The West End Hus Company, Auckland, New
Zealand, of which Mr. S Child is manager, writes
to the Daily Herald of that city: We have
much pleasure in bearing testimony to the efficacy
of St. Jacobs oil Its success has been particularly
marked in cases of lameness in our stables For
man and beast St. Jacobs oil is the greatest pain-
cure ever discovered.
Next to a clear conscience, for sound comfort,
give a man a pair of easy shoes and a bottle of St.
Jacobs oil for the cure of piin.
For months the daughter of Mr. James R.
Hatcher, of Clair View, Inverell, N.8.W., Aus-
tralia, was unable to speak from cold. Her case
was given up by physicians, ami her father writes
that one application of St. Jacobs oil restored her
speech.
What is the cheapest way of getting a fiddle ?
Buy a bottle of St. Jacobs oil and you get a vial
in. It conquers paiD.
“ As a testimonial from one of the oldest drug
houses in great Britain respecting your household
remedy.” say Messrs. Francis Newbury and Sons,
London, England, established for 125 years, “ will
no doubt be of interest to you, we are pleased to
make the statement that we have ?old, with satis-
faction to the public, St. Jaiobs oil for several
years, and that owing to the extraordinary merits
of the article, the demand is cominually inert us-
ing, and that we have heard of many favou-ablc
reports regarding Ps great virtue as a pain curing
remedy.”
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
Price 2s. (id.
A Melbourne flock are complaining about
the conduct of their poah deah shepherd, who has
been e. joying a nice holiday at home. He had
12 months' recreation on full pay and three months
more on half-pay, and just as they were begin-
ning to tire of this it was announced that the
good man was ooming back. Accordingly, for the
last two Sundays special prayers have been offered
up “ for those in peril on tbe sea,” and a good
deal of sympathy has been wasted on the fancy
picture of a fashionable Anglican pastor sitting
down on a sloppy deck beside a bucket. And now
it all ends in a short note from the apostle stating
that he is not on the sea at all, that he is not lan-
guishing on a rolling bunk, that he is not sick, and
that he isn’t coming back. He has taken a new
billet instead, and is 15 months’ screw ahead of
his parishioners.
No. 1. He pawns his Sunday clothes.
No. 2. And purchases a bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps (Agents, M. Moss and Co , Wynyard Square).
No 3. Inside the Label he finds a £1 order—hence his joy.
No. 4. He planks the money thus acquired in a sweep run by an honest man—alas how few they are!
No. 5. He gets the first prize. (N.B. The cheque is duly paid).
No. 6. He buys a wi'e and a four-in-hand and a lot of other things with the money, and drinks
Wolfe’s Schnapps ever afterwards.
Sydney D.T. publishes a long letter from
Lieut. Col. Bingham about some nigger-slaughter
in Burmah, in the course of which a military
man named Airey, from Sydney, whq is det
cribed as a captain, distinguished himself by “ his
gallantry, ooolness, and judgment.” If a man is
Airey we presume he oan’t very well help being
0001.
“ You, the great governing power ! ” Bah,
Mr. Tennyson ! The Chevalier D'Kon, one ot the
shrewdest diplo natists of France, once truly said,
“So long as a kingdom is under the domination
ef a weman all will go well. Why t Because it
is then that men will govern ” .Shades of Mel-
bourne, Palmerston, Disraeli, and J. Brown ! how
you must squirm when Alfred’s slush is wafted to
yo ir present addresses.
The Star of Bethlehem is likely to get
p-etty wel worn to the bone on the occasion of it*
appearance this year. In the first place it is to
be put to a lot of hard servioe for Jo bilee pur-
poses, and now a painful wretch at Yeppoon (Q )
writes to the Rockhampton Argus inquiring if
that paper doesn’t think there should be a good
chanoe of finding the richest golddeld in Australia
f a man gets right under the star and digs !
The Sydney Morning Herald respects
the feeling of Its constituent advertisers, and does
not presume to correct the soellirg of the horny-
handed son of toil who wants a door-man {o’ten
called floor-man) for his smithy. In its issue of
May 18 appears an advertisement “ Wanted a
Doresman,” &c. No doubt it would he infra, dig.
tor a Freetrade jeurnal to understand the techni-
cal terms in use among those to whom Protect-on
means a living.
Dr. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSET.
health
fIECANCE
cmaiuTy
Thrse goods are sent out in a handsome box,
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by w iich
the Klectro-Magnetio influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, wa will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New.
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named with Is Cd. added ; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover full
postage. The prices are as follows :
s. d. | s. d.
No. 1 Corset ... 6 6 No. 2 Corset ... 8 6
No. 3 Corset ... 10 6 | No. 5 Corset ... 15 6
Electric Belt .. ... 15» Od.
GENERAL APPLIANCES
We will send by mail on receipt of the price
named, with one shilling added, either size of this
beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of N.S.W.
or Queensland ; or request your nearest druggist
or fancy store to obtain one for you, and be sure
Dr. Scott’s name is on the box. Money returned
if not as represented.
Remittances should be made payable to PALL
MALL ELEC rRIC ASSOCIATION, 56 Margaret-
street, Sydney ! P. 0., Box.. 221.
EYOND COMPETITION.
The Waterbury Watch takes front rank as “ the
timekeeper of the day.” It is not an “English
lever” made in Geneva, and puffed into notoriety to
enforce sales and ensure disappointment. The
factory, which is now turning cut over 500,000 of
these watches per annum, is still unable to keep
pace with the demand, and is now extending its
operations into the very heart of the cheap watch-
making territory on the continent of Europe,
where it will compete with these “English levers”
on equal terms. The Waterbury is only a nickel-
plated Watch, sold at 13s. 6d. but it gets its repu-
tation from purchasers, and not from the owners
Of dead stock.
Food for Consumptives. Scott's Emulsion of Pure
Cod Liver Oiu with Hypophohphites of Lime and
Soda, is a most wondeiful food for the Consumptive. It
not only gives strength and increases the fl*sh, but heals the
irritation of the th'o»t and lungs. It is very palatable;
children take it like milk, and in all wasting diseases
ooth for adults and children it is a mtrvellous food and
medicine
Large and small bottles at all chemists.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George*
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney., The shilling luncheon
thcr*.* is immense.*
NOTICE ! —Beware of young Wire. Drink only Hookings
class sele tel old vintages, for iavalids 43 *itt-
strect.*
TATTKRSALL’S MONSTER CONSULTATION BIRTH-
DAY CUP Nr>. 2. 2000 Suoscri ws. 20s. each. Run May 24;
xlso WL\TLK STAKES. 2 00 Snbsciibers 20s each. Run
June 4 f h. Ist Horse £lOOO : 2nd, £3OO - 3 d £2OO. Starters,
£250; non start*.rs, £250, to te n ivided amam st them Apply
to ” TA't TERSALL," care of Geo. Adams, Tattersall’s
Hotel, » itt-s reet. City. Note —Please register your letter
to ensure safa delivery; also, enclose two addressed stamped
envelopes, one for reply and the othtr for result of the
drawing.*
THE SENTENCE ON GEO. BERNER.
At the breakfast table this momiDg The Daily
Telegraph was placed beside my plate. My eyes
glanced down its columns of news and rested on
the name of Berner, who by the kind efforts of
Mr. Hugh Taylor, the prisoner's triend, and the only
one who made a move to have the unjust sentence
remitted on the same scale as others who weighed
just as heavy in crime. I was pleased to read tint
68 members thought the same as Mr. Taylor did.
It must be a great satisfaction to Mr. Taylor to
know that through his instrumentality the poor
prisoner can see his innocent family seven years
sooner than he expected. Shakespere i aid that
all the world’s a stage and each one plays his part
and drinks St. Louis Lager Beer.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garment* to Order at Moderate Price*
QNE OF THE SIGHTS OF
ST DKEY
A casual glance at G08 George street conveys
but little idea of the Series of large and well
stocked Showrooms and Factories, and Stores ad
joining the main Entiance to Australia’s Pre
mium Emporium.
It was only last Saturday that a well-known
and popular member of the present Ministry
paid the Central Emporium a visit, and these
were his words : —
“Well, LAWLER, I had thought, and so
had many others, that you were confined to the
Manufacture of Bedding and Upholstery. I
knew you were an fait in thoee departments, and
that your name was identified with the supply
of Bedsteads and Chairs ; but it is to me a
surprise to find so extensive, yet withal decep
tive-looking an establishment in our midst
Why here are Carpets and Linoleums, Bedsteads
by the hundred, Bedding and bed hangings,
Bedroom suites, Drawing and Dining-room furni-
ture, Boots and Shoes, Ironmongery and Earthen-
ware, Glass and China, Drapery of all kinds, Mer-
cery, Hats, Caps, and Ties. Why, as viewed
from your narrow frontage the whole thing
seems marvellous.”
And marvellous the Establishment most surely
is, not only in the surprise it occasions those who
walk through its rooms and multitudinous pas-
sages ; but in the stock— the excellent quality!
the high-class style ; the superior finish of goods
that none ever believed could be sold at the ex-
traordinary low prices that from the 1st to
the Gth story and right throughout those 12
IMMENSE SHOWROOMS DOB8 EVERYWHERE OBTAIN,
Boasting will not sustain the hundred hands
aad more engaged in connection with LAWLER’S
CENTRAL EMPORIUM.
NO ! NO ! NO ! VALUE AND GOOD GOODS
ALONE WILL DO THAT. And let anyone who
has PURCHASED AT THE KMPORIUM— and
their name is legion— let anyone who has pui-
chassd eay they have been badly served or have
not received most excellent VALUE for THEIR
MONEY, and the account will be most willingly
refunded. Now a word or two as to how goods
can be both good and cheap at LAWLER’S. It
is supposed, and with truth too, that best goods
cannot be sold cheap ; but then one ought te re-
member that that applies to goods bought in
this markrt. Those who import and hold
goods for the trade must have their pro-
fit. Tbe trade who buy from these
colonial warehousemen must in turn have
their profit, and -he retail purchaser is the
poor pilgarlic ” who, in the end, has to pay about
50 per oent. upon landing price, instead of from
per cent, to 15 per cent, as at A DIRECT IM-
PORTING and MANUFACTURING ESTAB-
LISHMENT like LAWLERS.
CHEAP GOODS are too often associated with
taint of the auction room to find much
favour with general purchasers. Well, all
know the auctioneers cannot lose ; neither do the
Manufacturers in the old country ; or else those
“worjhies” would not continue rushing con-
dgnment upon cons'gnment year after year into
the auction rooms of the colonies. Stuff at auc-
tion is always dear, however low the price ; be-
cause it has been slopped up and preparbd
SPECIALLY for a PRECARIOUS AND LOW PRICE
AUCTION TRADE.
But best goods can be sold cheap and will
be SOLD cheap at LAWLER'S because LAW-
LER S buyers havk the money at their back,
and no expense is spaied upon their travelling
expenses from seat to seat of the old country
and American and Continental manufactur-
ing centres. IMPORIING D1RKCT and MAN-
UFACTURING HERE, ALL GOODS are FIRST-
CLASS and PRICES EXCEEDINGLY LOW.
If you want to lay out £30 in BEDSTEADS
and FURNITURE you will save at least £6 by
purchasing at the GREAT CENTRAL EMPO-
RIUM-. If you purpose FURNISHING at a cost
Of £60 you will save £15. And if in the FUR-
NISHING of a first-class RESIDENCE or HOTEL
you intend an outlay of a few hundred, then
WITHOUT DOUBT OF ANY KIND WHATEVER YOU
will save £100; because £24 10s. will supply
suites at LAWLER'S that you will be asked £35
FOR ALL OVER THE CITY. AND SO UPON EIGHT OR
NINE ITEMS YOU WILL HAVE SAVED THE £100.
From March, 1886, to March, 1837, LAWLER’S
•old 22,960 Bedsteads and Cots. And during the
same 12 months lawler’s turned over at ship’s
SI EE AND FROM HIS WAREHOUSES
20,104 1 Austrian and American
20,104 ! Chairs, Settees,
20,104 J and Rockers.
Facts are chiels that wunna ding
And daurna be disputed.
Thus wrote the illstarred but prophetic Burns,
Figures are the best assurance of success. Bed-
ding and Bedstuffs would take a special clerk to
total up, and the figures would amaze.
None, however envious, will gainsay the Repu-
tation and Esteem in which LAWLER’S BED-
DING aud UPHOLSTERING FACTORIES aie
held. £3000 in Tapestries, Plushes, Velvets,
Damasks, Fancy ha-'r-seating and moroccos for
covering Drawing, Library, and Dining-room
suites.
£20,000 worth of Sideboards, Tables, Hall-
stands, Overmantlesand PierGlasses, Canterburys,
Whatnots, &c. £7000 in Bedroom suites.
IMMENSE STOCK. IMMENSE SHOW.
RARE EMPORIUM.
WONDERFUL AND ASTONISHING VALUE,
£9000 in Carpets, Floorcloths, and Linoleums.
This is an entirely NEW STOCK. Everything
is MODERN. Style carefully observed.
Then pass along until you come to the BOOTS
and SHOES, and your astonishment will be raised
to a pitch you had never contemplated. Quiz
pries! Judge quality! Compare style and
finish ! Buy or not as you feel inclined, and then
as you get to the IRONMONGERY and EARTH-
EN WARE, GLASS and CHINA DEPARTMENTS
—Departments that will engage you an hour at
least—be sure you STOP aT THE HEAVY
DRAPERY COUNTERS upon the bottom floor on
your way out, so that you may
inspect BLANKETS, QUILTS, SHEETS,
FLANNELS, BED AND TABLE LINENS,
CURTAINS, COVERS, CURTAINS.
There is no likelihood of you passing the CLOTH-
ING department—ready made and made to order
—without your attention being attracted by Hats,
and Caps, and Men’s Mercery upon the opposite
side of the same (ground) floor.
Time spent in LAWLER'S is well spent, and
if you can only spare time to look over the
factories and see the machines at play, you will
have 3een an interesting and very satisfying Aus-
tralian sight,
LAWLER’S, SYDNEY -Write or Call.


A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
•Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
'each day at rates within the reach of all who
■desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
• Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
IHAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
MASON BROTHERS,
MKW
o
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
. °K3RIN and CO.'B
Cegnao.
.. T. GAYEN'S
■rohnappa and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE.”
ARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
,Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
(Sydney, N.S.W.; London, England,
G. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
H ATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street,
■te
r r iAP,T)s*ttLa
apopaiow
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,{££:c.£ on iWana.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future he consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
Increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. I do not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
ife-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this gcarely ever being suspeoted, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
(that medical science has produced for the relief of
(this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
,of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvanic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
dr RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., England,
7* SPRING STREET (off Pitt-st,, Sydney.
CONSULT Dr. THOMAS for the best and
safest treatment of Nervous Debility and
Skin Diseases. The Doctor has passed his degrees
at the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal
College of Surgeons, England. Consulting
Rooms, 203 Elizabeth-street. Hours: 9 till 9
. daily.
“VICTORIA GUELPH."
GRAND JUBILEE WORD COMPETITION.
A PRI *E of £25 will be given by the Committee
J\. of the Mechanics’ Institute, Kerang, to the
Competitors who can form the greatest number of
modern English words out of the letters comprised
in “ Victoria Guelph.” No absolute words or
geographical or proper names will be allowed; no
letter to be used twice in one word except the
•*i” in Victoria. Competitors must enclose list
of words in a sealed envelope, together with a
postal note money order, or Victorian stamps of
the value of two shillings, addressed to the un-
dersigned. Such lists will be received up to
6 o’clock p.m.'on Her Majesty’s Jubilee Day, 21st
June, 1887, and opened the following day in the
presence of the Committee of the Institute. The
name of the winner will be published in the Aus-
tralasian. DAVID G. RATTRAY, President of
the Mechanics’ Institute Kerang, Victoria.
Fireworks fireworks fireworks!
The Cheapest Place to buy
JUBILEE FIREWORKS
Is LITTLE HILL’S BIG SHOP,
796 Georgc-street.
Hill’s Half crown Parcels are Simply Surprising.
Is , 2s 6d., 5?., 103., Jubilee Packets forwarded
on receipt of Stamps or P.O Order. No. 1 Extra
Strong Chinese Guns, 4s. 6d. per dozen bundles. No.
1 Extra Strorg Red Packet Crackers, 2s. 4d per box.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
BIRTHDAY CUP, run May 24th. 1887.
6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £lOOO ; 2nd,
£3OO ; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £2OO ; Non-atartera,
£3OO, divided amongst them Cash Awards—
-5 at £5O, 10 at £25. 20 at £lO, 20 at £5 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, ar d
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “BARB,” care of T. G Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The Melbourne Cup of £20,000, is al-o open.
First horse, £lO,OOO.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
BASS’ PALE ALE
SOLB PURVEYORS to th»
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITOR.
LONDON,
B; Special Appointment,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALHS 1
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CC
Commercial C ambers, Bond-alrrr* Iris*'
DR. O'CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
.dvertising, as all of his patients who have con-
jlted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Casti.erf.agh Street,
Sydney,
WHAT IS YOUR HOBBY ?
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t hap-
pen to have one. or if you
have been indulging in one
which returns but a poor sat.
ie/action for your outlay, get
rid of it as sron as possible.
Better be without than beep a
bad one ! If you have a taste
for Art: if you want a remu-
nerative hobby try Photo-
graphy.
Instruments and materials
are not the costly toys they
were.
Anyone can learn it; every-
one can profit by it.
to
Pfr”
ml
The cost of every requisite
for a beginner is so low, it will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself by a visit
to our
WHOLESALE
PHOTOGRAPHIC
WAREHOUSE.
LIOHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Largest House for Photographic Supplies
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SE3STI3 FOR OUE IN" E"W CATALOG-UE.
Special Notice We have now our new Knlarging Department in work, and fhall be pleased to
send price lists upon application to the trade only,
Hardman'Bros..
¥'%sa;OP.
GoIDCNSYRVPfo
A HD
Treacie-
REE//VERS
, CLOTo
fgf
HCao Office & Factory. Newtown
BRANCH, GCORCf ST, SYDNEY
J. SILBEEBEEa 0 3.,
32 MARKET STREET, Corner of Clarence Street, Sydney.
IMPORTERS OF THE FAMOUS SILBERBERG SEWING MACHINES, and the DURKOPP
WHITE MACHINES, the beat and cheapest in the market.
Agents wanted throughout the colonies.
7:; u DOLPHOWULFES‘EED'N'EC?‘
FAN
s&uay&z x?y <
I7CREM
ILLUSTRATION (In reduced a!w> H £1 Order to ba touud In cb-
•‘LAHQE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SOHNAPFB
JgRADjRY, NEWTON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CON NELL STREETS^
Wm
Wk
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves tor
oash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
F PORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
"it
mtmß-
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed —light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb,
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.— side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRP
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, si
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extendiD;
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE - DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
m
AUSIRIAN CHAIR
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY. XEWTO>
and LAMB,
Spring & O'Connell sts
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o
VERY ELEGANT, Bradley, Newtoi
and Lamb.
'VfoVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOi
_LI SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lam
O'Connell-sfereet.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, noveltl
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Wood
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, rich
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newto
and Lamb.
'J‘ii-ﬁ; hi I
High
.4": éi.
gllnggLeI;
Drawing room cai
NETS, Early English ai
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, am
LAMB,
Fubnitub* Warehouse**
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Street
Drawing-room furniture.—The late
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD ai
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid wi
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now <
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAM
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
,V ERMA NT EL MlRRORS.—Handgen
u fashionable designs in blaok and gold, wil
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood,
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAM
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O Sonn
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or B
rooms. New designs covered to order
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and «
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, i
Lamb, O’ConneH-street.
I
t
_ 141?;
17'9939—5-5 5;
Bedsteads, au «ii
Nickel-plated and Bit
and Braes. Great variety.
Bedding,—AU descriptions
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, a
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Strei
fgƒgf
SPRING MATTRASfi
Woven Wire, l
make; also, Spiral Sprln
Price, from 14a. each.
BRADI.KY, NKWTON and f.Aim


A Brother Monarch s Stralght Tip.
KING BILLY OF YARRAMBUDGERE’E (whoa: remarks are now Englislmi by “ The Bulletin”): “I SAY MISISS QUEEN VICTORIA. THE PAPER SAYS YOU DECLINE TO RECEIVE JUBILEE PRESENTS FROM FELLOWS u no no NOT KNOW YOU.
NOW, MLSSIS QUEEN VICTORIA, LET ME. WHO AM IN THE SAME LINE OF BUSINLSS AS YOUusELF, ADVISE YOU NOT TO GIVE ANY MORE PRESENTS TO FELLOWS WHOM YOU DO NOT KNOW.
