

The Bulletin
lost place to Spend a I
.\2S IS
,4
i's&i «... n-ost
Ud
ASURE GROUNDS,
WHICH WILL BE THROWN OPEN TO THE PUBLIC ON
T.
T3P.M.
,1
S\y r
% ioy, Piscatorial Monstrosities, Seals, the Roaring of the Great Pacific Ocean on
Beach, an Aquatic Merry-go-round, a Camera Obscura, elegant Summer-houses,
Waterfalls, Mermaids, et hoc genus onine, are here to delight the ravished sense
to seek balmy repose amidst Nature’s most glorious works improved by man.
Hanging music hand ohot water are provided for picnic partes.
0 -*t doubt the very best place to invigorate the system onjj3rd October Jnext, the
EIGHT HOUR®’ DEMONSTRATION DAY.
,ir ? hi Suitys Mad, From 10 ld. to 5 p.m. a,nd 7to 10 pj.
v
Sl
V
ASS CONCERTS ON WEDNESDAY&SUNDM AFTERNOONS.
Adults, Is.; Children, «d.; except on Wednesdar during the day, when the charge
will be 2s. 6d. for adults and Js. for children.


fnEUSTRATED'C KT A LOG U E STf PWCES'T > 05TTREE ~
W.H.PALING&e
L 1M T 0
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
iflNo, Organ f Music Importers,
AVAUG&Co
PALING S. 6
_ the
from £l2-
CUSTOMERS
PRUNG St 0?
sd
ANUFACTURERS,
rsro
IBSS (mu,, . m
(TiimtTltffMnmimiiHUiiiii'HUMHiDiiMlTlinr
—
GoiDftvSrxvr
Aj*t> /
Ircacu
RFf/nffRS
i
mead Office i Factory Newtown
Branch. Ceorce ST. Sydney
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY.
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
CORNER of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated June, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq,
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
The rapid progress and prosperity attending the operations
of this Bank are doubtless well-known, and cannot be better
illustrated than by reference to the fol’owing
ANALYSIS RETURNS.
Increase of transactions for financial year .. *181,090 3 2
Ditto money received in deposits .. . • ’
Ditto deposits repaid 46,999 6 4
Ditto of investments and advances, bills
current and past due.. .< .. ■■ 30,696 6 4
Ditto to credit of depositors and share-
holders 28,890 i 6
Ditto »eceipts for financial year .. ..
Ditto disbuisements for the financial year. 89,846 8 10
Dit’o valuation of securities and bills held
by the Bank .. .. ... .. .. 54,257 9 6
Ditto of advances and investment .. 31,366 16 3
The dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders at the
last Annual General Meeting, held on the 18th July last,
was as follows
Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12 j per cent,
per annum
Bonus paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent)
„ „ 6 „ |1 per cent)
f The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
make Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST
OP DEEDS.
Deposits Received,
Interest Allowed :j£, - 1ZZ1...,
At Call, 4 per cent. tfc. ..
3 Months, 5 per cent. m
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent, t,
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS,OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
or portion of their deposits without notice, and
will be allowed current interest for the period of
deposit.
The Share Register is still open, and intending
shareholders can obtain upon application any
information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shares,
&c., &c.
BY ORDER OP THE "BOARD OP DIRECTORS
H. M‘NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
CAUTION.
THE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of 'the Uuited Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Globe” nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The nails in question are made of inferior metal,
and are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.H-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. S. HAZEON, Secretary.
116 Cannon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
J IMPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
0T First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings The “Western Cham-
pion" says t “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends.”
LEICHHARDT \ HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood.) *MI 4
First-class Family and Comrq|ffcial Hotel.l
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JjIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To a.;' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
DoroßKUx, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
W hy suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel let and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d.. 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
fl. A, ROSE Pharmaceutical Chi mist,
68) Georaro-etreor only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. O’CONNELL
I Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY,
w
ORIGINAL
V)* N $
WiHC p
%
Of
OBTAINED A
F I If ST GLASS AWARfII
OR
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT
•<ty
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
REC| IV ED TH E !NTER N at 10 NA t
P R I X E M ED A l
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Syduby
Sold by All Grocers and Storekeepers
9
DIZSON«SOMS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
m "conqueroß
"YANKEE Do° dU
'srRROGjyW
oixso
onfSas *
: * Sons n n
N Aliß° D
t>nrso*« sons
DWSON & soni
CUT.bT»>
MONTaK’S
NEW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES,
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita j
ns; also from eminent Doctors and
tudents from Sydney Hospital.
VAWEIA*.
MONK'S J
rtLE MIXTURE.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
IMONK’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoee Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bott.e.
UVEOiISriKZ’S
NEUKALOIA MIXTUPE;
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHKY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins treet East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Centrai. Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms withcnt extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office; Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. Si CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bomon) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address —
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
s; iu N B URST HOTEL,
■TT MOUNT MORGAN.
rjIHK REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Bares labour, stationerp, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and oendemlng matter to lew than
one-half the apace oooupied bp pen writing. Beautiful
aopiea map be taken In the usual manner In the letter- presa
Bold wholesale and retail bp the sole agents,
IMRAY ft co.,
410 Kent’Sfcreeo.
Vk\
•HA*lff*CTU«£RS
* IMPORTERS Of
HATSCAPSj*
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY’
HOT* 1,
GRAND
bundab® 80
UNBEB NbW
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM
PLUNGE AND S^ W .00^
BOX OO 0f
Good Stabling, and
drawing-koomJ oP
Having engaged a
to cater for the public u» q
alf . p'tso^
USTON
" TRIUMPH ” J*
MON'S ROIXER SYST"^
E. C. ELLIOT s jP*y
r KENT STB^__J^
E GREAT
Chablottb-pla° e _ rl
HAj^,
!, «°p*lgg;
:LIVEKKn A^ all ,er- °( ce e u*}l
*sss&"? : :Sf
!i2S»' w ' w ’'-
! Whisky
J * Oognao
<• -iidV
r.
ft *A”"m5 v&S&tjr ' .
MP*
UngtonlN-Z-k b»°
receive ftW »v*
tB, an® i> ee * D
MACHi^j
WBB^sSr
E • WJr
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
/
|s fl
A
Sydney ■
111, PITT STREET.
**•*2 sT
I#


The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 899
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1887.
Price., 6d;
The Modern Knight Errant: Weak Woman's Defender.


“THE BULLETIN"
(Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co.
Limited.)
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT PitT-sTreet, SyHney, New South Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum, ... ... ... £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6s. 6d>
Cheques Drafts, die., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to Willtam MacLeod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald
NOTICE.
lij sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
. stirtwg—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can hilve THE
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a fear.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of pur carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1887.
Jubilee Literature.
“ It is the third Gate of Barbarism-the Monarchical Gate
—which is closing at this moment. The nineteenth century
hears it rolling oh its hinges."—Victor Hugo.
Nearly three months have pass ad since, on
a glorious English midsummer day, a carriage
escorted by foreigners made its way through
the principal streets of London and drew up
at the British Pantheon, Westminster
Abbey. The Sovereign of England descended
and entered the sacred edifice to thank the
Girer of all Good for having shielded herself
and her throne from harm during the long
period of fifty years. It was a Bight never
to be forgotten by those fortunate enough to
witness it. All that the world could show
of civilised and barbaric pageantry was pro-
duced for the occasion, and as the noise of
clamour and cannon subsided, the hearts of
the favourel few inside the Abbey walls ani
of the vast multitude outside went out to
the elderly lady who amidst such pomp
humbly knelt to ask a continuance of
heaven’s favours for herself and her people*
Erom the ends of the earth came men and
women to bear a part in the gallant show.
Dasky Indian princes whose turbans’ jewels
and horses’ trappings wo aid pay the cost of
a campaign were there ; so too, were sturdy
Australians, prosperous colonists who years
before had left the British Islands in tatters
to return in broadcloth —who sailed from the
old home because of the difficulty experi-
enced in securing enough to eat; lefo it as
starving Radicals fuming against laws which
levelled their hovels to make way for deer
and grouse, to ret urn as sleek Conservatives,
staunch upholders of property’s inalienable
rights. Even a small Pacific island sent its
dark-skinned Queen to the great thanks-
giving. The share accruing to the Monarch
of Hawaii from a succesaful investment in a
contraband cargo enabled his consort to
appear in London in a manner befitting her
high station and the dignity of her wide
realm. This is the potentate, it will be re-
membered, whose ccachman had secret
orders from the Lord Chamberlain to drive
swiftly in the wrong direction and so miss
the procession. She, also, it is who very
properly objected to an escort of hussars,
rightly deeming that one who reigned by the
grace of God was as well entitled to the at-
tendance of life-guards as her fairer cousins.
# * *
But it is not so much with the pageant
we have to deal as with the poetry and prose
written to celebrate it. Long before the
birth of 1887 the magazines and newspapers
throughout the Empire gave many ind .ca-
tions of the approach of a period of unrest.
All seemed to be in labour, and anxious for
a speedy delivery. Some of the offspring,
in the shape of “ retrospects ” and “Jubilee
odes,” came into the w'orld before their time.
Still, whether born prematurely or aft j r the
full period of gestation, the birth-mark of
stupidity was plainly visible on all. Between
English Tennyson and Australian Halloran
the race for absurdity was for some time
doubtful. Even now there are those who
assert that the event between these two was
a dead heat, and should he run over again.
On the whole, however, we are inclined to
think the peer won by a head. At all
events, we trust that the injudicious friends
of each will come to some understanding,
even if the stake has to be divided, rather
than insist on a fresh trial. Why we lean
towards Lord Tennyson’s side is because, in
some of his couplets, there is to be found a
mastery of nonsense to which the Australian
cannot, as yet, justly lay claim. Still, it is
but fair to say that if the latter had had the
former’s experience, or if he had taken
greater care in pruning a few of Jhe more
sensible expressions in his ode,
for supremacy would have been closer. We
put forth these opinions in the hope that on
the next great public festival, such as a
coronation or even the betrothal of one of
the Prince of Wales’s clever soiu, the New
South Wales poet may rise to the occasion
by judiciously omitting anything with a sus-
picion of common-sense.
ft ft ft
From the list of those children of song
who haVe done so much to make ordina fy people
writhe at the sotmd of the word “ jubilee ”
there are two names conspicuously absent.
They are those of Sir Henry Parkes and
of W. B. Sladen. Hjw ic came that Mr.
Sladen, whose comprehensive muse went
into harness with easy indifference in pres-
ence of a thunderstorm among the Blue
Mountains or a fallen gum-tree at Dead Dog
Gully, missed the procession to Westminster
Abbey is not quite clear. He was in Eng-
land at the time —is there still, so far as we
know. It may be, no doubt, that he sang
the event, but that his song has not yet
reached Australia. This supposition, al-
though possible, is highly improbable. For
no one who has read the productions of this
gifted lyrist woul 1 rest content on hearing he
had published something fresh until placed
in po;session of it. The omission is inex-
plicable. In the absence of any Jubilee
poem from Mr. Sladen, it is mournful to
turn to his “Poetry of Exiles and Australian
Lyrics” and imagine how much fuller and
richer our Saxin tongue would be to-day
had the Jane promenade or the July naval
review attracted his notice. In the “Ad-
dress to Longfellow and America,” to be
found in the book mentioned, there are
stanzas with the true poetic ring. For
instance: —
“ I think that the noblest future for an Austral
bird would be
To become to all Australia what thou wast across
the sea,
To have her youth’s flower round him in an Uni-
versity,
And to have the whole dominion ringing with his
poetry.”
Yes; the absence of Mr. Sladbn's name
from the roll of Jubilee singers is a national
loss. Sir Henry Parkes, of course, may
excuse himself with the plea that, not having
been present, he could not do the occasion
justice. This is a poor excuse at the best.
He has been in London, has seen the Abbey,
and probably knows the whole route taken
by the procession. Surely his imagination
could fill in the details. He was not beside
the brook while composing the “Murmurs of
the Stream,” but brought away the impres-
sions in his head, and wrote while they were
fresh upon him. It is this aptitude for re-
cording in entirely original language what he
has ones seen that gives such a freshness and
racines3 to the Premier’s delightful book,
The fact is, whether through indolence t r
inadvertence, Sir Henry let slip an opportu-
nity for showing that the spirit of poetry is
not quenched by the removal of its possessor
from the fogs of England to the clear atmos-
phere of Australia.
* # *
There is one department of literature that
leaves a particularly bad taste on the reader’s
mouth, It is that written during the lives
« f sovereigns, and dealing with their virtues
or their talents. No one who has not ths
soul of a lacquey can glance without disgust
at the pages where vulgar and ignorant man
and women are clothed with the attributes of
gods. And in the wide world there is no
literature which contains so much of this
nauseating stuff as the British. We chal-
lenge any man possessing an ordinary sense
of human dignity to read what has been
written about English monarchs without ris-
ing from the perusal with a contempt, for his
kind. Nor is it possible to blink the fact
that when anything specially fulsome had to
be said—anything tending to p’ace a royal
pimp on the pedestal of a patriot or sage ; a
royal trull on that of a vestal —there was al-
ways a priest in readiness to tay it. Not to
go back to Plantagenet, Tudor, or Stuart,
with the ghastly lies of parasites ever in
their ears, it is enough to glance at what
was said and sung of the Georges while
those worthies occupied their island throne.
In “ Gulliver’s Travels ” there are chapters
so revolting that the reader’s gorge rises. A
somewhat similar feeling is experienced at
every page in the innumerable pages filled
by court chroniclers of the Hanoverian
regime when extolling the lives or lamenting
the deaths of their royal masters. When
Caroline, wife of George 11., ordered the
Archbishop and his coadjutors to take them-
selves and their mummery from the chamber
so that she might die in peace, the prelate
appears before the public with the good news
that her Majesty died “ in a heavenly frame
of mind.” Assuming that the frame of mind
in which Caroline of Anspach commenced
the future was a “ heavenly ” one, no sinner
need despair. And when her husband who,
on being informed that his father was dead
and he was King of England, yelled “ Dat is
one big lie !” lay in his coffin with the well-
earned reputation of having been the vnl-
garesb little scoundrel in Earope, another
parson elbowed his way to a bishopric with—
“ No farther blessing could on earth be given—
The next degree of happiness was—heaven !”
• ft *
On the table before us is a pile of Jubilee
literature which fills us with dismay. To go
through it all would require more time than
we have to spare, but we have examined
enough of it ti convince us that the spirit of
flunkeyism is still alive and vigorous. In
the course of 800 years a British monarch
has been found who manages to live decently,
and the world is invited to witness the sin-
gular phenomenon. We give in to none in
our respect for the negative virtues of
the Sovereign who turned her back on
tie blutiel cipies smt her by a ljng
line of illustrious rogues, and began a
clean record on a clean sheet. The great
lesson we owe to England's Queen is that
there is no necessary connection between
monarchy and active turpitude. To w ait eight
centuries for such a lesson may seem a little
tedious • but monarchy, like the mills of the
gods, grinds slowly. There is a class of per-
sons, however, whom the Sovereign should
never forgive—persons whom she should net
only punish herself but direct her successor
(if any) to pursue with relentless rigour.
They are those who, in the magazines and
journals in front of us, call the last 50 years
the “ Victorian era" and carry their vin-
dictiveness so far as to attribute to her
fostering care the advance made in all de
partments of human knowledge during that
long period. These are the real enemies of
monarchy, snd foremost amongst them stand
the traitor or traitors (no single person would
contain so much savage rancour) who, in
cold blood penned the J übilee articles in the
London Times. Not satisfied with opening
a branch for the palming iff of Irish auto-
graph letters with the signature on the
wrong side, this merciless broad sheet aims
at nothing less than bringing the throne
itstlf mto c ntempti This it does in a man-
ner as alroit as it is barefaced Trivialities
worthy of the nursery or of the criche are
givtn with an attention provocative of
mirth, while to Her Gracious Majesty are
assigned traits and talents hitheito carefully
hidden. Thus we read that, during the pro-
cession, the ruler’s “ white bonnet, a tribute
to the exultant joy of her subjects, was re-
garded as a sign of especial good-will." Poor
Lord Lorne’s mishap, too — he missed his
horse, it will be ream mbered, in attempting
to sit down—is a’luded to with unbecoming
levity. The Marquis, it appears, was dressed
in Highland costume, an attire which does
not readily lend itself to t questrianism, and
the Times observes, “lucktly he fell on the
soft side, along Constitution Hill.” This is
not alone flippant, but ambiguous.
* * #
The Westminster Review, also, has an
article on the subject, in which occasion is
taken to say a good word for Imperial
Federation, with the rather droll admission
that the writer is not quite sure what is the
precise meaning of the term. To return to
the Times. It continues : “ The arrival of
the Duke of Cambridge with the
Guards staff provoked, as was natural, much
cheering, since England could hardly pro-
duce a more distinguished company of mili-
tary men.” This is humour of a high order
Prince George is so distinguished that, had
he enlisted in a marching regiment where
the requirements were not too severe, he
would before this have risen to be corporal,
with the prospect of an additional chevron,
for long service and good conduct. Con-
nected with tthe British Army there is one
leading characteristic "which has always won
the approbation of foreigners. When a
person is not quite fib to be a sergeant he is
made commander-in-chief. Foreigners, es-
pecially, should be thankful for this wise
provision which has saved so many of them
in the past, and will, no doubt, do likewise
in the future. Referring to Trafalgar Square
during the progress, we get:—“Here, too,
there was a hoarse and continuous roar. -
‘ Here Bhe is ; I have seen her ; she is alive !
roared a sturdy patriot from the East-end,
and his companions of the crowd entered
into his delight.” We have no doubt. The
very expression “ she is alive ” is one that
could be relied on to awaken a sympathetic
response in an East end gentleman’s breast.
A few more extracts from the Times and we
have done :
“ For 50 years the Queen has associated herself
with all the sorrows and all the happiness of her
people. . . In their entire compass no scene
was ever depicted on canvas, narrated by his-
torian, or conjured up by a poet’s fancy, more
pathetic or more august than the spectacle of
Victoria, Queen and Empress, kneeling there at
the foot of the throne to thank Heaven for her
reign. . . Chief among the works to which the
Prince Consort and the Queen set their hands was
to improve the condition of those lowest in the
social sca’e . . to raise them in the scale of
humanity. . . No calamity which causes misery
and distress leaves her unmoved; she is ever fore
most with her purse and sympathy in aid of the
sufferers.”
* * #
Let us leave this Jubilee literature —it
sickens and disgusts. Away with it to the
ash-heap and the dust-hin. It has brought
the very name of Briton into derision. Men
look at tach other and say, “ Can those who
write and those who read such senseless
jargon be the descendants of the stubborn
people who two centuries ago sent one ruler
to the block and another into exile ?” Is
Lear in his desolation, or Mary at the foot
of the cross, less pathetic in the poet’s page
or on the painter’s canvas than a short,
stout, elderly lady lisping stereotyped
prayers on a well-stuffed cushion ? For
shame ! It is time the third gate of Bar-
barism, the Monarchical gate, closed for
ever, if only to shut the mouths of the abject
creatures who, bythoir abject iasensatediiv el,
invite alike the contempt of gods and men.
A few of Ireland’s troubles i Bull, bobbies,
bludgeons, bayonets, buckshot, boycott, bailiffs,
blood, and Balfour.
David Buchanan, having wrestled with
Farrar’s “ Life of Christ,” and Renan’s work on
the same subject, says “Farrar, believing Our
Saviour to be a God, makes him a man Renan,
believing Him to be a man, makes Him a God.”
Byron once remarked that, “If ever God was
man, or man God, Jesus Ciriet was both.” Wbat
wjull B/ion thiak of Bichaaan ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Protection and Overproduction.
When vanquished upon all their stock arguments,
Freetraders have a peculiar habit of falling back
on the assertion that Protection would “ inevit-
ably lead to over-production.” The factories
called into existence by a festering tariff would, it
is said, soon produce more than consumers re-
quired and then prices would fall. Before meet-
ing the argument on its merits, it would be as
well to point out that it is nothing more than
over-production which causes the present depres-
sion and distress. In N. S. W. the policy of Freetrade
has long since proved itself incapable of inducing
over-production with all the resultant evils of such
a state ; we need not wait for a change of policy to
bring about the disasters from which we are now
suffering deeply. The supply of goods of all kinds
has at the present time excluded the demand
because all the factories of the world are allowed
access to our lccal markets; things could be no
worse if over-production were the outcome of the
efforts of our own to-be protected factories. For
in the litter case the country would at least bo the
richer by the increment of value of our raw
material worked up, and therefore better able to
withstand the strain of depression. This point is
not usually sufficiently regarded. Take any ton
of iron now in tho ground and absolutely worth-
less so loDg as it remains there; Smelt it and it is
worth (say) £2; make it into steel rails, and it is
worth (say) £lO ; that sum represents the wealth
added to the national stock. Many thousand tons
would necessarily be manufactured before there
was any over-production, and there would be in-
crease of national wea’th in every tOD. For every
ou9 ton over produced, one hundred tons
would have been eagerly bought. Little conse-
quence to the manufacturer if one ton should fail
to find a ready buyer, if 100 tons had already
been sold at a good profit; little matter to the
worker that he should lose one week’s labour,
when he had been employed at a high rate of
wages for three years previously ; and little loss
to the country that the wealth represented by one
ton of steel should depreciate when 100 tons of lc 1
cally-created wealth of the same denomination had
already enriched the community. But the danger
of over-production, when only local labour is em-
ployed in supplying the local demand for goods, is
very much leas than under the Freetrade system.
Home manufacturers can better calculate the sum
of local requirements than antipodean operatives,
who know nothing of our state, are able to do.
And in the eight hour system we have another
safeguard a jainst the latest bogey raised by Free-
traders. At present the bulk of our goods are sup-
plied by foreigners who work from 56 to 84 hours
per week, but such industrial slavery can never
be introduced here, unless the Freetraders’ dream
of the “brotherhood of labour” prevails, and
Australian workmen are brought down to the
level of Englishmen, Germans, or Chinese.
Strengthened by a limitation of outside competi-
tion, our labourers will be enabled to maintain
their independence ; exposed to unrestricted com-
petition with the industrial galley-slaves of
Europe, they may become as degraded as those
oppressed, dependent, and helpless serfs of Capi-
tal with whom they now strive for their daily
bread. The M’Miplion was indulging in no
flight of fancy when he said that “ Freetrade
meant the brotherhood of labour.” He was talk-
ing sound common-sense, bat he omitted to state
that the brotherhood would be upon the basis
of the lowest and most enslaved workers in the
wide world.
Carruthers the Economist.
Mr. Carruthers, senior member for Canterbury
(N.S.W.), may be a magnificent political genius of
the road and bridge order, but as an apologist for
the Freetrade deity which he worships, he is one
of the most conspicuous failures who was ever
nose-led by ParKks. His reason for opposing
Protection is that as the Belgians can produce
iron manufactures for one-third of the amount of
the cost if produced locally, a protective duty
would be no good unless it were at least 300 per
cent., and therefore he would not protect at all.
ils he objects to protective imposts because so
high a rate is required, it is a fair thing to con-
clude that he would not object to a moderate duty
say, 10 per cent., which is about the figure that
would satisfy most Protectionists. But setting
that consideration aside, it is strange that while
admitting unrestricted competition with Belgian
workers to be hopeless, he should favour a system
which eaforces so distressing a struggle. He
would leave the Australian workers to fight a
battle which he declares to be altogether hope-
less ! The Canterbury electors have reason to be
proud of their six-and-eightpenny patriot. “Go
it, boys ; you’re bound to be knocked out in the
first round,” is his encouragement to the men of
the community who have not the good-luck to be
lawyers protected by every tradition and practice
of the profession. But in one matter we do Mr,
Carruthers an inj ustice. His remedy for the
disasters of Freetrade is technical education for
our workmen. In effect he asserts that the ignor-
ance of his fellow countrymen is the reason of
their being possessed of that painful hollowness
of pocket and stomach. This assertion, verging
as it does upon the insolent reproach of cow-headed
arrogance, must be infinitely soothing to the
electors wbo were so ignorant of his qualifica-
tions as to place him at the head of the poll in
February last And in the light of that fact we
are inclined to regard the censure as being partly
justified by circumstances. It may be wondered
that The Builetin should devote so much space
to so very dull and small a political personage as
Mr. Carruthers, but high precedent must be
our excuse. King Solomon made the habits of
the ant to point a moral
An Amoozin’ Cuss.
We have already endured the Sydney D.T. on a
good many things. We have had the Telegraph
on art, science, and education ; the Telegraph
on gospel and agriculture ; the Telegraph on
political economy ; and the same old dropsical
griffin on po’iticil morality; we have had the
Telegraph on “Humming Bee,” and “Humming
Bee ” on everything except cold pig’s cheek ; and
now we have the Telegraph on Intercolonial
Freetrade. The miserable old King-street bugle
has almost broken its back in times past while at-
tempting to lift along statistics concocted by the
offlce-boy, and facts that nobody but itself ever
heard of ; and still it survives, and comes out
every morning with a smile like a holy hymn and
a new cart-load of garbled bosh perpetrated by
same fresh correspondent, whose one recommen-
dation is that he is stupider and more angular
than the Polynesian litterateur of the day before.
The following is a sample of what the D.T’s. latest
kanaka can do when he spreads his naked form
over the paper :
“The protectionist bagmen carry two different sets of poli-
tical ‘s rop'es,' o-e of which ttey jurh io town and tl#
oth> r in tLe coon ry. To the city artis »n they are ijstructta


to offer intercolonial Freetrade with Protection only against
the outside world, while to the country farmer they promul-
gate what is exactly the reverse of this. . . . Either their
town principles or their country principles will ultimately
have to go. . . . As the N.S.W. farmer does not come
into competition with the outside world, Protection of the
sort that is hawked in the city would be to him a dead letter.
What would be the use of a produce duty from which the
goods of Victoria, South Australia, New Zealand, and Tas-
mania— the only places from which we import produce—were
exempt ? Farmers are not to be mocked in such a trans-
parent fashion as this, and consequently they are always told
that the Protection which is beiDg agitated for is intended to
op -rate against the colonies."
The italics are curs, and in the italicised sentence
the whole argument rests. According to the D.T.
the New South Wales farmer has to face no com-
petition except from the neighbouring colonies,
therefore if he is to be protected at all he must be
protected against his neighbours as well as
against the foreigner, and therefore again the
Protectionist who advocates intercolonial free-
trade is a double-dealer and a liar. This theory is
ably borne out by the statistics of the D.T.’s office
boy, but somehow it does not square very well
with official records. In 1886 nearly half the
bacon and hams imported into New South Wales
came from Britain, the United States, China, and
France. The colony also received barley from
Great Britain, butter in small quantities from
Britain, America, France, Germany, Italy, and
India ; cheese from Britain, Germany, and Francs;
eggs from China; farinaceous foods almost en-
tirely from Britain ; flax and hemp mainly from
China; dried fruit in immense quantities from
England ; and grease chiefly from the same
source. More than two-thirds of her foreign
supply of beans was derived from America and
New Caledonia, and two thirds of her maize
imports were also drawn from the French penal
colony. One third of the purchased wheat supply
came from the United States alone at a "cost
of more than £70,000 ; nearly half the imports of
hops were drawn from Britain, America, and
Germany, and more than half those of honey
from America alone ; lard was supplied by Britain
in large quantity, and for a multitude of other
articles the Parkes ridden colony was also in-
debted to foreign sources of supply. It is in the
face of these things that the Telegraph's head
ignoramus declares that the New South Wales
farmer has only intercolonial competition to fear.
A uniform system of protection against the
foreigner and freetrade witbin the boundaries of
Australasia would exclude fully one-third of the
present imports of produce, and yet the D.T. in
the holy calm of its insanity, avers that “ the New
South Wales farmer does not come into competi-
tion with the outer world,” and consequently the
protection which would benefit the city worker
would in his case be utterly useless. If this is
freetrade literature then freetrade literature is a
near relative of Barabbas, or some other ancient
person of the same description, and as for the
Freetrade litterateur, for an unhistorical fashion
of dispensing with the truth he is without a rival.
+
, “Clerical Humourists.”
When Dr. Cameron Lees lectured on “Clerical
Humourists,” the other day, it was a Scotchman
who was speaking. No earnest man of any other
nationality would have gone so gravely into the
subject as he did. He instanced a number of par-
sons who joked— Sydney Smith and the rest —
but forgot that the greatest joke—or joker, shall
we say ?—of all was himself. We speak of him
now only typically. But, “ Clerical Humourists 1”
It is—from" bis point of view—a most unfortunate
title. We have not had time to make these re-
marks before, but we would respectfully draw the
attention of the reverend doctor to the fact that
the Founder of his Faith and most of His apostles
and disciples were no humourists. Paul had a
certain gift for sarcasm which he expiated with
his life. Peter developed his last eccentricity in
being crucified with his head downwards. There
was no money in his pockets ! For some three
hundred years or so afterwards the best of the
Christians were devoured by wild beasts in the
arena, or slaughtered as holocausts. There was no
humour, which we can perceive, in that. After
those days, however, the reign of humour set in.
i Perhaps it was a reaction. Perhaps it was old-
; fashioned human nature. Pope Alexander YI.
was an enormous wag. M.Taine is said to havere-
mnarked that a frequent phrase among Englishmen
: is, “Itis a fine day—let us go out and shoot some-
i thing.” In a similar manner (according to a good
unany Italian authorities), Pope Alexander YI.
iused to say, “lois a calm and placid eve—let us
) poison a cardinal.” The estates of the cardinal
. came, of course, to the Pope. He was a mon-
f-strous humourist— Alexander Borgia— to sit in
(the “.Fisherman’s Chair.” Cardinal Woisey was
nalso something of a wag. So also were Richelieu
, and Mazabin and Alberoni. All thundering fine
humourists, not to tip the scales too much
. one way—wOiSN-’lyNox, for whom Dr. Cameron
'(Lees has such a regard, did not, as far as we have
iread, cut his cloak in 1 alf—So. MARTiN-wise—to
give it to the man who had no cloak. He was too
“ canny,” was John Knox. As far as we know
of (let us cleanse our lips before speaking of that
beautiful and solemn spirit) Christ was not
“ canny.” The prelates who sit in the House of
Lords at the present time must (if they hare any
sense of humour) chuckle ovi r those old times.
From the Bishop of Scdor and Man to the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury they range from a pittance of
£2OOO to a modest competency of £25,000 a year.
And yet Dr. Cameron Lees— who in spite of his be-
ing a Scotchman has seme humour - stands gravely
up and talks about Swift, Sterne, Barham,
Sydney Smith, and the rest as “Clerical
Humourists.” We are greatly afraid that he is
an exceedingly droll person himself.
♦
The Colonial Bar.
The colonial Bar is rapidly acquiring proportions
that may fittingly be described as enormous. Yet
it is not plain that quality is keeping pace with
quantity. On the contrary, appearances seem to
favour the theory that, owing to some cause not
easy to discover, few, save mediocre men, suc-
ceed in gaining admission now-a days into the
charmed circ'e of the law. Every now and then
a large batch of young barristers are added to the
rolls, and these remain briefless until some pitying
attorney (drummed up most probably by friends
of the briefless) gives one here and there a small
job in court, which is performed as though the
main object was to demonstrate the melancholy
depths of fatuity to which the human mind is
capable of descendirg—with the aid of what is
called a legal training. And it is worthy of note
that while the fellows who do pa : s their exams,
are for the most part rank duffers, not a few men
of superior capacity have from time to time
been plucked. Sir Henry Parkes, for instance,
has made two ineffectual attempts to become a
member of the New South Wales Bar ; and Mr.
T. Garrett, another decidedly clever man (as an
advocate, a pleader, and explainer of the law, so
far as he has had to do with it), has also suffered
a like rebuff. Chief Justice Lilley, of Queens-
land, a lawyer of remarkable abili y, and a meat
commendable Judgeexceptrorhis ioveof corporal
punishment, never passed an examination for
the Bar at all, but procured an Act of Pdi-lidment
to authorise his wearing a wig and gown. By the
way, Lilley’s penchant for the lash may be due
to the circumstance that in early life he was a
trooper in a cavalry regiment. That the process
of selecting barristers involves the admission of
men below rather than above mediocrity,
and the rejection of really capable and premising
aspirants for the privilege of practising in the
courts, is an inference supported by numerous
cases that might be quoted. No harm accrues
from the admission of inferior men, but a vast
deal of injury is inflicted on individuals and on
the community at large by the non-admission
of superior men. The remedy lies, of
course, in throwing the profession open.
Let the fitness of a practitioner be judged,
not by his ability to pass preliminary exami-
nations, but by the satisfaction he gives his
clients in the discharge of his duties to them. As
a test of intellectual capacity, or even of infor-
mation, examinations are a proved failure all the
world over ; and they are maintained mostly as
part of the system whereby the shallow-pated sons
of wealty and “respectable” people contrive to
monopolise whatever good things are agoing.
4
Dear Bulletin, —I cannot understand your point
of view in advocating the right of barristers, in
esse and. in posse, to “ augment their incomes by
writing for the Press.” The profession of journal-
ism and the profession of law are analogous in
one respect, namely that, speaking broadly,
the members of both are prepared always
to accept briefs on behalf of any cause
which is sufficiently supported with coin.
Barristers and journalists are alike a set
of dexterous manipulators of facts and logic open
for hire to whomsoever pays the best. I have
myself written simultaneously for a Freetrade and
a Protectionist paper, and for a true blue Tory
and a red-hot Radical organ. And we all know
that barristers are ready and willing to fight with
ardour and without scruple in furtherance of any
theory whatsoever—provided the payment is
adequate and sure. But we journalists are not
allowed to poach on the barristers’ preserves.
We are not permitted to speak in a court
of justice on behalf of a client, nor is an attorney
enabled to charge for our opinions. Yet a journa-
list who is not as thoroughly versed in law—
Roman, English common, constitutional, and
statutory—as the average barrister, would hardly
be worth his salt on even the S.M. Herald. And
if journalists are prohibited from putting their
fingers into the pie of barristers, surely it is only
fair that barristers should be under a like dis-
ability as regards competing with journalists. It
is not an easy task for a press-writer to make a
living in Australia under the prevalent system
which throws open the business to the dilettanti
—composed of all sorts and conditions of men,
sucking barristers blocking the way in the rush
for a share of the spoils. The least the legal pro-
fession might do, in return for the privileges they
enjoy, I submit, is to leave other profes-
sions alone. And I hold that the Board
of Admission is right in disallowing candi-
dates for entrance into a close borough from
stealing the bread out of the mouths of men who
have graduated in another profession. Unfor-
tunately the “ literary calling,” as James Pavn
calls it, is not like that of coal-lumpers, or brick-
layers, or carpenters and joiners. Journalists
cannot well form themselves into a trades’ union,
and strike if non-unionists are employed. And
here again the professions of law and journalism
are comparable. But the profession of the law is
a trades union nevertheless. Ancient usage and
enactment surround it with bulwarks it never
could erect for itself. It is securely protected at
all points against the competition of outsiders;
and yet it shrieks vehemently for the right to
compete outside its own domain with unprotected
pressmen, and, strangest phenomenon of all, The
Bulletin aids and abets the exorbitant and wholly
unjust demand.— Journalist.
f The Bulletin has always contended that the privileges
of the barrister’s profession should be abso'utely abolished,
and that anyone having a cause before Court should possess
the right to nominate any laymen he chose to conduct his
case. The end for which The Bulletin contends, viz , the
throwing open to laymen of the light to practise before the
courts as advocates, would in no measure be advanced, but
rather retarded, by any stepi taken in the direction of mak-
ing a close corporation of what is now the free profession of
journalism. Besides, it will be noted that the j idges do'not
seek to prevent “ admitted” barristers from becoming prefes-
s'onal writers for the Press. All they do is, in the interests
of the existing legal monopoly, to throw every obstacle in the
way of the journalist who seeks to become a barrister
Ed. B.]
-
Sydney DT,, in a leader advocating that
strenuous efforts should be put forward by the
colony of N.S W. to make a gallant show at the
forthcoming Melbourne Centennial Exhibition,
says
“ We can make a solendid show of manufa-tures if our
manufacturers will co operate with the commission and
send samples of th ir best to Melbourne.”
Imported American machinery and imported
English shoddy goods are about all N.S.W. can
muster. To talk tf “ our” manufactures is gibber-
ing Sala, At the annual N.S.W. Agricultural
Society’s show a few imported ploughs (meda
mostly in Melbourne), and certain machinery from
Ransome and Sims’ English yard represent every-
thing in that line.
4
In a recent Sydney Herald there appeared a
curious paragraph stating in a submissive kind of
a way that there were many urgent general
motions on the N.S.W. Supreme Court list which
seemed to have a fair show of remaining there for a
considerable time, and meekly suggesting that a
special day should te set aside for disposing of
these, as the barristers concerned would soon be
going on circuit, and if the hearing should come
on in the absence of these mikados, “the parties
would be forced into the expense of obtaining
fresh counsel.” There is a good old Tory leaning
to the encouragement of public robbery about this
suggestion which must endear it to the class of
men who read the Herald. The point is that if
the “members of the Bar” (nice phrase, that!),
who have been paid to make these general
motions, go away on circuit and neglect to do the
work for which they have already been paid, other
men will have to ha fee'd to take the place
of the absent! As it is one of the “ Devil's Own”
who does this species of law-reporting for ihe
S.M. Herald it is not to be expected that he
would put his finger on the real remedy for such
a state of things. The only wonder is that he
considered that there was anything noteworthy in
this instance of the law's delay. The postpone-
ment of these motions for a fortnight or so would
suit the members of the Bar admirably, for then
one set of practitioners would pocket fees for
doing nothing, and another set of practitioners
would pocket equal fees for doing what the others
ought to have done. Nothing better could be
planned in the interests of the professions ;
suitors might blaspheme at being subjected to
double extortion for the same cause, bat courts
are not run for the benefit of suitori—they a”e
m intuitu d for ihe profit of these who t rue ise in
them. The tiue radical remedy for the pie.ent
scandal is to make the barrister’s hire depend
upon his performance of the work for which he is
retained. The rule that obtains outside the
courts should he made to apply within them. Ex-
ample is better tnan precept. How the intelli-
gent thief must sneer in his heait at the lofty
moral homilies that so glibly and so often fall
from the lips of judges trained and appointed
under a system which connives at the most dis-
graceful plunder ! Bushranging on the stand and
deliver principle is an honourable and manly pro-
fession compared with that of the privileged law-
yer who, after taking his client’s money, rob 3 that
client by neglecting his work in favour of a fatter
brief.
4
The millennium must be surely approaching, at
least in New South Wales polit’c?. A few months
ago, and apparently, the colony was divided into
two great parties opposed on the principles of
Freetrade and Protection. But it seems after all
that it is only a mutual misunderstanding, and
that their platforms are identical. On the 31st
ult. Mr. Downing, stipendiary lecturer for the
Freetrade League, while referring at Maitland to
the United States, said
11 When they considered the production of wealth in the
United states they should not lose sight of these facts : It
was a country .hat sto°d alone : its territory was as vast rs
that of r urope ; it had 60,000,000 of people and a vast home
trade._ It contained the largest development of Freetrade, for,
ichile it was protected from foreign countries it had inter-
colonial (1) Freetrade."
Now, if this is the largest development of Free-
trade it is exactly what all sensible people
earnestly desire to see in Australia. Intercolonial
Freetrade end Protection from foreign countries I
And how nicely the cap fits us : Is not Australia
a country standing pre-eminently alone, though
the Freetrade set are doing their best to fasten it
to the apron-strings of Hingland ! Is its territory
not as vast as all Europe (available land consi-
dered, much larger), and ia not there room, if em-
ployment be made, for twice 60,000,000 of people
and a very vast home trade indeed ?
♦
The Adjutant-General of the British army re-
ceives £2700 per annum against £l6OO and £BOO
paid to the occupants of the same post in the
German and French armies respectively. Count
Yon Mot.tke bosses an army of a million and a
half for £l6OO, while Lord Wolseley receives
£2700 per annum for looking after 100,000 men.
The N.S.W. Commander’s salary and perks
amount to over £lOOO a year. His duties are con-
fined to looking pretty and occasionally reviewing
bodies of volunteers ranging in number from one
man to a score or two. We have a great doubt if
he is worth five sixths of Yon Mot.tke or even
half a 3 much as Wolseley. Come to think of it,
by sacrificing the Commandant and his Assistant-
Adiutant-General, N.S.W. would be able to engage
Von Moltke without danger to the deficit. We
commend this idea to Dr. Creed, M.L.C,
♦
Great activity prevails in the principal mining
centres of Victoria, the cause being important
discoveries which have been made in quartz-reefs
at Ballarat and Bendigo. At the latter place the
developments in the Great Extended Hustlers
mine, at 1800 and 1900 feet in depth, have in-
spired confidence generally, investors now having
no hesitation in putting their capital into deep
sinking enterprises. A few months ago Extended
Hustler’s shares could be bought in any number at
ss. ; now they are quoted at about £5, with plenty
of buj era and few sellers. The transformation at
the Beehive within a month has been wonderful.
The “sharks” who, during the dull times were
driven below to earn an honest livelihood at drill-
thumping, have again blossomed into unimpeach-
able inexpressibles and the shiniest of shiny hats,
and sale-notes written thus :—“ Soald to W. Joans
1 hundrid at 3 and foar pence pable this day
fortnite ” —are too plentiful. The so-called brokers
are the curse of both Ballarat and Bendigo.
Messrs Dibbs and Burns are busy j ust now calling
one another several brands of a political liar, the
point in dispute being whether the arrears of the
New South Wales pastoral rents did or did not
amount to £2,000,000 up to the end of last year.
The funny part of the dispute is that no one can
< ell even now what the arrears really do total, as
the rents of many runs have yet to ha recom-
mended by the local hoards, and then increased
and fixed by the wily Garrett. And it is worth
noticing that every extra copper that the latter
imposes is worth threepence to the Treasury
because it is so much extra on to the rents pay-
able on account of ’B5 and 'B6, as well as of ’B7.
This circ urns tares shows what a master of finance
the fussy and emphatic Burns really is. He
shoves the £2 500,000 deficit of last year forward
to be paid by the text Ministry, and makes a
rousing big surplus out of theae pastoral arrears.
He and Garrett are Milbarn-Creek-worthy col-
leagues, but if G. It. Dibbs dce3 not knock their
little enterprise flatter tban tram-car’d coppers he
will have no right to call himself a politician, let
alone a financier.
♦
Messrs Kurts and Levy, of Kurrajong fame,
have sgain come out uppermost, the prosecution
instituted against them for evasion of the NSW.
Stamp Act having collapsed owing to the Govern-
ment not having proceeded within the time pre-
scribed by the statute. Some six months ago a
correspondent signing himself “J.C.” pointed
out in the columns of The Bulletin that the
pants-making firm and their legal coadjutor were
issuing insufficiently stamped instruments, and
that the Treasury was thereby suffering a serious
loss, but no notice was taken of the warning—
probably for the simple reason that it emanated
from The Bulletin. As the result Attorney-
General Wise has stultified himself by starting a
prosecution which any sucking barrister could
have told him must necessarily be futile, and
Kurrajongism is again triumphant, as swindles, if
conducted on a sufficiently extensive scale, gener-
ally are in New South Wales.
♦
The British Asscelation - the bodyjjof fossils whom
Sir Patrick Jenkins wished to invite here to get
an authoritative opinion as to the antiquity of the
Bondi sewer and the killing power to the square
inch of its stinks —have been indulging in a tele-
scopic view of Australia, and they have startled
the world by discovering that the Protectionist
policy of Victoria has been detrimental to the in-
terests of that colony, while it has been beneficial
to New South Wales. How grateful New South
Wales ought to he to her neighbour for such a
magnanimous display of generosity! How is New
South Wales to atone for her past declamations
against the alleged selfishness of Victoria? It
will be interesting to learn on what alleged facts
the Association bases this assumption. We know
that Victoria’s policy has been beneficial to the
colliery proprietors and coal miners of New South
Wales, but we cannot get the “hang” of the logic
vli th attempts to demonstrate tbat the people of
Victoria hiv- not gained a larger benefit). Tne
report of the New South Wales Mines Depart-
ment for 1886—issued with the customary
promptitude last month—shows that if it had not
been for the requirements of the Victorian manu-
facturers the New South Wales coalminers would
have had a very bad time of ,it last year. The
output of coal was bonsiderably less in i 886 thali
it was in 1885. There was decreased local con-
sumption notwithstanding that, according to the
mighty Pulsford, there was a marked increase
in manufacturing industries. The only division
of the return which showed an increase was the
export to Victoria, where, if we are to believe
Pulsford, manufacturing industries are on the
decline. If that gentleman’s statement are cor-
rect, the Economic Association which has recently
been established in Sydney have a novel problem
to solve. They will have to explain why it is
that as manufactures increase the consumption of
coal decreases, and vice versa.
<«
The London Trades’ Union Congress has emphatic -
ally declared itself an idiot by prescribing the
eight hours’ system as a cure for the want of
employment prevailing in England. If that
system were introduced English workmen would
be simply nowhere in the competition with Conti-
nental labour. Foreign competition is the two ends
and the middle of the present trade depression in
the United Kingdom, and only by lengthening the
hours of labour, lowering wages, or imposing pro-
tective duties can the depression be removed.
Shortening the working day, or increasing wages,
is only playing into the hands of Belgians,
Germans, Frenchmen, and Chinese—not to men-
tion Hindoos. Under the present regime,
Be’gian ironwork can be sent to any part
of England cheaper than it can be made cn
the spot; where then would the eight hour
Britisher be if this Trades’ Union scheme were
carried out? Short hours and a Freetrade tariff
are more antagonistic to one another than Abigail
and orthography, or Freetrade pamphlets and tho
Eternal Truth,
To the Australian Press.
(PER FAVOUR OF THE BULLETIN.)
The fact of an editor not being held liable for the
opinions entertained by his correspondents prompts
me to solicit space to enlarge upon a matter con-
cerning which you and I hold different views, an d
as the Australian press is nearly unanimous upon
this question I address it as a body.
When England’s brightest essayist and bio-
grapher would start to write of an historical
epoch, it was his practice to pick out a contem-
poraneous character, and use him as a centre
round which to weave one of those magnificent
political literary dramas, embracing many concur-
rent events, and intertwined with that ancient
lore and simile of which he was so great a -master.
Taking a hint from so skilful a practitioner, I
will select a paragraph from “ Votes in Parlia-
ment” in the Sydney D.T., round which I will
wrap my arguments. Do not imagine that I take
this paragraph because it is weaker than the
articles upon the same subject in the other papers,
for it is immeasurably superior in every respect
to a recent leader and sub-leader in another daily,
and is written by one who certainly writes far
better than most of what appears in either the
D.T. or any other N.S.W. journal.
The D.T. writer quotes the following from him
whom he describes as “a popular writer : ” —“ The
place where woman can work with the best effect
to influence the laws of the country is in her
home.” Now, unless woman be refined and edu-
cated by the highest curriculum that each indi-
vidual can stand, and her body developed by good
wholesome exercise, what sort of a creature
should we have “to influence the laws of the
country ? ” That such training is woman’s right
as much as man’s has, after centuries of degrada-
tion, been admitted, and that she is capable of
successfully receiving it, can be demonstrated in
the writer’s family and friends.
My mother was a brilliant musician, cultivated
linguist, and well-read scholar. She was a good
cook, could wash and iron, and was as refined a
lady as any now alive anywhere. Can you show
me a man that can match that ? Can any of you
gentlemen of the Press stand up and honestly say,
“ Sex notwithstanding, I am that woman’s equal 2 ’
But I have not nearly finished. My father is said
to have been a clever man. Ido not remember
him, but he had the typical clever man’s failing :
by intemperance he squandered his own and my
mother’s fortune. Nevertheless, she, by her own
exertions, reared me respectably, furnished me
with a profession, and died, leaving me a couple
of thousand pounds which she had earned. Equal
her with a man upon the Sydney Press if you can,
and then peruse the following : —She was a very
beautiful woman, both in face and figure. I well
remember the excellent proportions of her form,
and the sweetly amiable and intellectual expres-
sion of her face. My knowledge of phrenology
was gained when a hoy by comparing the ap-
parent defects in the heads of acquaintances With
the smooth, well-balanced “caput” which, with
so much dignity, rested above her shoulders.
I was once seated upon a ’bus when the driver
called my attention to some people approaching
by exclaiming, “There is a duchess for you, she
looks fit to be queen of any country.” It was my
mother to whom he referred, and she was then 60
years old. Picture in your mind’s eye the ordinary
voter at 60 years old! But she was not fit to
vote. Then, gentlemen, I ask : “Why are you 2”
And yet you know that there i 3 not one man in
ten thousand who is the equal of the woman I
have described, and many a Sydney citizen will go
further in her praise than I have dared to do. .
My wife, though an out-and-out lively and gay
American society woman, is a college graduate,
and holds a diploma for music. Her cousin
(female, as the French school-books say) is one of
the leading teachers of music in New York —none
of your guinea-a-quarter kind, but makes £l5OO
per annum. My male cousin is engaged to be
married to an accomplished lady who took a B.A.
at 19 years old He is a semi-clownish dunce, but
has a vote ; she is said to be lively, and certainly
learned —as much his superior as she is that of
most of Australian pressmen, but she is too in-
competent (?) even to have a voice as to how she
shall he governed. My cousin (female) has a B.A.
and is “going for ” an M A., but is too incompe-
tent (save the mark!) to vote as to whether a
vu’gar person like or or —— shall out-
rage decency in Parliament, or Abigail shall bur-
lesque political jurisprudence and mineralogy, to
say nothing about etymologF. I was married
from the house of a lady physician, about one of
whose lectures even one of the Sydney daily
papers lately devoted three-quarters of a column
in praise, the laudatory article being from the pen
of the principal of one of the local hospitals.
The wife of a friend of mine journeys annually
to a foreign country to purchase thousands of
pounds’ worth of merchandise for her husband,
who i* himself a sp’endid business man, but he
says that she is the best buyer he ever met. Yet
she is not fit to vote. Then, gentleman, 1 again


ask, “ Why are you ?” I and my wife between
us have female relatives and friends ad lib. who
are high up in the artistic and literary world.
Her own private correspondence is so much valued
by her friends in Arh’erica that her letters are
handed round somewhat like the volumes of a cir-
culating library among families of whom she has
never heard, but who eagerly seek her M.S, They
are so good that they would be disgraced by even
appearing side by side with the rubbish with
which we in Sydney have to put with up in our
journals.
By last mail I received a letter from my aunt,
who therein states that she is 87 years old. buf
v ery feeble, and therefore cannot write as “of
yore.” Yet of this same letter Ido not think that
Rimy himself would have been ashamed, and at
87 years I will “ back ” her to write a page of cor-
respondence matter better than your whole staff
put together.
Pray make no mistakes about anything I lay
down as fact. lam prepared to prove all that I
say. But lam digressing, so “let us return to
our muttons.” I was endeavouring to show what
a poverty-stricken piece of mentality a usual man
is compared with even the female members of my
family. But you pressmen of Australia
are so damnably ignorant that you look upon
others as fools, and you set down women, in
whose society you could not remain for half
an hour without showing your inferiority, as
something entirely beneath you. Woman
has proved herself man’s equal in nearly every
walk of life in which man has shown excellence,
and yet the D.T. writer says: “ They can attain
their political aims if they have any . . . more con-
genially by moulding ihe minds of the men.”
More congenially to whom ? To the men or to
themselves ? But in either case what an asser-
tion ! A being who, as he shows further on, is
unfit to discriminate, and is inferior to man, is to
mould her superior ! Then, further : “As a mat-
ter of fact, it has to be admitted that few women
have any political aims.” He, like the rest ol
you, appears to he a man of some education, but
with what a peculiar class of women must you all
mix ? Granting his false statement to be true, how
many boys are there who “ have any political
aims” until they have a voting-ticket thrust into
their hands ? And what sort of “ political aims”
have a very large percentage of voters ? But cer-
tainly the half educated creatures Australian
women usually are, are just what our friend says,
aimless —because the quarter-educated, half-
developed ordinary male voter, frequent M.P., and
usual pressman, have all the say. Do you judge
of women by the ladies who get paid to scribble for
papers ?
Listen a moment. Citizen upon omnibus :
“ Women are a blanked crimson nuisance and at
the bottom of all trouble. Let them vote ! I should
think not, indeed.” Second citizen : “ I believe in
woman being kept in their place.” The writer
enquired if he meant a harem. “No ! ” “ Where
then?” “Mind the children,” was the reply.
Now that is, many people consider, woman’s
proper place. But a being who has “no political
aims,” and knows little else, is the last person
who should have the management of children.
Our friend then speaks of her “ outvoting the
meit,” and then completely upsets himself by say-
ing that “ the majority of them would never
avail themselves of the franchise.” The quotee
must surely he an Irishman “ Every man,” he
says, “ is what some woman chooses to make
him.” Granting this, and that she had a voice in
affairs, she would quickly sweep away the bar-
baric surroundings which he declares appertain to
a ballet-box. But “my little friend, Grildrig,
you have written a most admirable panegyric
upon your country” in pointing out that the over-
running - with - political - aims - male -free - and-inde-
pendent should, when exercising his noble prero-
gative, act so like a wild beast that woman’s
purity would he contaminated by her presence,
and would not upon this account, as he says, face
the polling-booth. Woman is so much above him
or below him that “ the place where she can
work with the best effect to influence the laws of
the country is in her home.” Take which horn
you like, and if above him, let him stop at home
whilst she goes out to vote ; if below such an
animal, of: what use is her influence ?
There are thousands of thoroughbred Austra-
lian women who, had they the chance, would
develope into a power which would materially
assist in making this the brightest spot upon the
surface of the globe, as it certainly is the most
favoured.—l am, gentlemen, yours,
AU REVOIR.
The Bulli Fund.
The always unfortunate Sydney D.T. has placed
i .self in the peculiar! y miserable position of advo-
cate of the Bull! committee. There was a wrong
side to 1)8 taken, and, of course, the D.T. took it
like the wobbling, flopping, web-footed bird that
only knows how to cackle, and will starve for days
with a troughfull of mashed corn right beside it.
The D.T. supports the plan of distribution adopted
by the Bulli committee because it is based on the
plan adopted in the case of the Gres wick c alamitr,
Yet in the course of his arguments the D.T.
writer shows that the two plana are radically dis-
similar. The fund raised in connection with the
Greswick catastrophe was used as a Mining Acci-
dent Relief Fund, and was raised from ths fir. t for
the purposes disclosed by the title. The widows
and orphans of the men suffocated in
the Creswick mine were to eDjoy merely
a life-interest in the Fund. They were to receive
weekly payments out of the interest yielded by
the invested moneys. And with what result?
The widows got 15s. per week—that is £39 pei
annum; and the capital remains for the relief of
sufferers through mining casualties for all time.
The Bulli plan is wholly different. The widows
are to get £3O per annum, and the capital fund is
to vanirh simultaneously with tte death of the
last widow or the exhaustion of claimants other-
wise. The geniuses to whom the D.T, accords its
sjmpathy and support are really going to give the
Bulli widows £9 a year less than the Creswick
widows get, and yet not leave a penny behind !
Surely even the D T.’s perceptive facul-
ties ought not to be unequal to the
tssk of figuring out something rotten here.
Ner is this the worst. At the meet-
ing of the Executive Committee on Monday
it was affirmed that members of that body and of
the local committee at Bulli had impressed upon
the widows the expediency of abandoning their
legal claims under the Employers’ Liability Act
against the colliery proprietors, the alternative
suggested being nothing short of losing all chance
of participating in the benefits of the Fund ; and
the widows present testified to the truth of this
serious allegation ! Nevertheless there is no
need for surprise at the action of the D.T. That
print seem now to be smile solely on the interests
of capitalists, land-jobbers, and calicc-jimmies. It
would have been matter for astonishmenr, if it
had ventured to defend the case of a lot of poor
and uninfluential widows and orphans.
CORRESPONDENCE
‘Jas. Smith' (3t. Leonards): Item forwarded
for our personal convulsion ” is to hand, with thanks....
‘Dunce’ (Grenfell); We were always of opinion that Sir
Enry could be stoushed by one in the weskit (we quote the
worcL of the Game Chicken) md now we are sure of it....
| Old Redfernite (Perth, W.A.): Thanks for interesting
items....‘A. H.. junior’ (Walcha): Are obliged for your
letter, but you are mistaken in supposing we dislike religion:
the church is not religion. For instance, the late Arch
bishop Button, in England, had seven of his family in
‘ holy ” orders, and he gave them sixteen of the best billets
in his gift more than two apiece. His son-in-law also got
eight billets, worth £10,00(1 a year altogether, and
then, on top of this, he was made a bishop. That
wasn’t religion, but it was the church all over,
and it is that kind of church we object to
‘X.Y.Z.’ (Georgetown): G00d...J.G.G.’: Thanks; rather
ancient clippings, though....‘D.G.G.’: It is illegal in N.S.W.
for a fisherman to pursue his ordinary avocation on Sunday
‘B. A. Latham’: Your writing is hideous, so we make a
guess at your name As f-r as we can make out, you want
us to say whether Janauschtk ever played Lady Dedloek in
“The Old Curiosity Shop" to W. J. Holloway’s Quilp.
Well, we guess she didn't. There is no Lady Dedloek in
"The Old Curiosity Shop.” She is in “ Bleak House.”....
1 M.D.W.’: Good ideas in defective metre. By the way, how
many Irish poets of our acquaintance make girl scan as
“gurrul " ? You are on tha list....’W. Tailleur': Ivrupp's
firm employs the most men, probably, but we can’t say for
certain ‘J.P.E.’; While taking every reasonable precau
tion, we cannot guarantee the bona-fide* of any advertiser.
If you have been swindled in any way, you had better write
to the lccal police....* Lux’: The gas meter was invented in
1831, hut the beautiful art of lying was popular long before
that. The coroner's inquest on Mr. and Mrs. Ananias
was held somewhere about the year 34 ‘F. J. Ross (Red-
fern); "Abigail” is sometimes used as a contemptuous
term,for a “slavey;" but the real meaning of the word is
“the father’s joy.”. We don't knew, for certain, why
Frawneis did not expose the shady transaction r< Crred to,
but we fancy Job had him “in his mind’s eye" when he
asked: “ Will the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or
will the ox low when he standeth before a full manger?”....
M.DH.’ (Ad.): Thanks. A paragraph to the same effect
as that in the clipping forwarded appeared in The Bulletin
months ago...E.A.’: We strongly advise you not to
trouble much over Abigail’s promised rabbit extermination
reward of £25,000. He has deceived us over that £25....
‘.Tago’(Narandera); Murder and high treason; they fluc-
tuate ; according to Statute Law a special act can always be
passed by Parliament which may indefinitely increase the
offences punishable by death—witness various Coercive
Bills. Martial law is again different; in time of war the
most ordinary laches are punished by death awarded by a
jurisdiction of officers called a court-martial ‘Si. Ar
naud’: A national bank of Australia, which did not repre'
sent a mere syndicate of speculators, would undoubtedly be
an inestimable advantage. Thanks for clippings ‘ J.P.8.-
(Tenterderj): Will look up your MS ‘ T.H.-; Your
“ Sydney Pauper "is a mixed-up creature, anyway. You say
" she tots along ths Sydney street"—" tots ” is graphic—and
then you refer to her as “ him ” What is the unfortunate’s
gender! " A Dead Level ”; Ths Bulletin has much to
say about your letter, which contains a lot 1 1 half-truths,
but no space to say ii this week Charity (Peat's Ferry):
See Powderly’s book re Knights of Labour ; thanks for com-
munication....‘Nemo’: Please don t bite our ear or tread
on our corn. We are not responsible for Barren Tennyson’s
ungrammaticalness ....* Hermit IT.' (Gannedah): Many
thanks for interesting letter.. .‘Nameless Individual’
(Parkes): Poetry is very nearly good enough, but, alas ! not
quite ‘ E.A.’ (Cardwell): The Calico Jemmies of Queens.
land are politically just as noxious as those of N.S W.
Queen-street, Brisbane, is a mere repli a of York-strest,
Sydney.... 1 Albert S.’ (Woollahra): Thanks fir items.,..’
‘ Far North’ (Southport): The lore letter you send us is only
the common, ordinary, stupid, dreary, monotonous, .drivel-
ling effusion that every fellow writes -hen he is in love, and
goes pawing round with a girl If you think it is anything
remarkable you’vj never been there yourself... Jemmy
You ask: “ What occasion was there fir making each of the
resident partners in a Sydney soft-goods firm a J.P. ? And
why should persons who havejust compounded with their cre-
ditors be put on the roll of magistrates ?' These queries are
ineolent and gratuitous.
The case of William Roy.
Some further donations to the fund in aid of
William Roy, the disabled soldier of Rorke’s Drift,
are now thankfully acknowledged
Sum already in hand, £B6. Fresh donations: Arthur
Buchanan, 10s. ; Bulletin- Reader, fn. : “ Two Gytrnie
Royalists,” £2 ; F. 0. Mackenzie, £1 Is. ; Boss and -fire
Overianders, £1 Kb. ; Pilliga, £i ; C. B. Watt for Mount
Lake Prospectors, £1I03.; W. E. M., 10s.
The Widow’s Might—Melville.
In the year 1888 there are 53 Sundays.
This is in order that Tom Walker, M.P., can take
a holiday.
A. H. Jacob -writes to Sydney D.T. to
know if pigs are cattle. Well, anyone by the
name of Jacob ought to know that much.
Newcastle (N.S. W.) is agitated over the
price of nobblers. This is a question that affects
all of the human race who haven’t got it on ’em.
A Goulburn settler has found in a hollow
log a tiger snake, opossum, two native cats, and
three rabbits all huddled together. They had
heard a rumour that Habigle was a kumin’.
The people of Portland (Vic.) have pre-
sented the leader of the local Salvation Barmy
with a cornet And ever since the captain began
to practice they are going farther and farther
from salvation.
An Auckland (N.Z.) Public school teacher
expelled a boy who refused to chop wood. How
happy those boys should ba who live in N.S.
Wales! There is no wood to be chopped at the
State schools there.
This is how- Government contracts are
worked in N.S.W. under a Freetrade Ministry :
“ Wanted tenders for a larga quantity best Mel-
bourne blue metal. Apply at the office, Botanic
Gardens.” This advertisement was not signed,
but it is a fair sample of Parkesian freetrade. Its
terms expressly stated that only the imparted
article was wanted, and no local producer need
apply. As it happened, however, the imported
article was not forthcoming. The Calico Jemmies
who put Parkes in, and who will also turn him
out when he cease 3 to do their bidding, don’t im-
port road metal; and when it was found that the
required material could not be conveniently ob-
tained from Yictoria it was resolved to give
N.S W. a show. The proceedings will now close
with a hymn in praise of Freetrade.
The Referee
Brilliant weather and attendance at the
opening (Derby) day of the A.J.C. Spring meet-
ing. Nothing but Abercorn was considered to
have a show for the Derby, for which event he
started at 5 to 2 on, and, taking command when
entering the straight, he won in a canter from
Niagara, in 2min. 39|iec. ; Australian Peer finish-
ing a length away third. Ellerslie won the Hurdle
Race from Inv.’ctus ; and the Hon. James White
scored a second win with Carlyon in the Trial
Stakes, The Charmer and Lady Yattendon running
second and third. Another favourite, Phaon, ap-
propriated the Epsom Handicap ftom Dividend ;
and Victory, the only outside winner of the day,
annexed the Welter Handicap from Kingswood.
Trident started at 3 to 1 on tor the Spring Stakes,
and won in the simplest canter from Dunlop,
Honeydew running into a place.
* * *
The great Metropolitan Stakes at Rand-
wick was won by Mr. Chambers’ Cardigan, which
beat Acolyte by a head after a great race.
Upper-cut came in third, and Phaon, the favourite,
was nowhere in particular. The field num-
bered fourteen in all. Chester led at the
start, but soon gave place to Frisco, who
held his ground till near the stand, when the
heavily-backed Dunlop got ahead. Acolyte and
Cardigan were then nearly in the tail of the pro-
cession, h rt at the back of the bend they came up
with a rush, just as Frisco regained the lead, and
settled the question bet ween themselves.
* * *
F. A. Booth won the Sydney B.C, hill-
climbing bicycle race. There’s not much excite-
ment in these races. If the Club want to give tte
general public a bit of lively sport the next race
should be down the hill.
* * *
Hanlan has again arrived in Australia.
# * #
No more of old Sylvia’s stock. She has
now missed two seasons.
* * •
The refusal of the Victorian R. A. to assist
in sending a crew to England in ’BB or ’B9 will
knock the project on the head.
* • *
“ Pendragon ” says that at Goodwood he
saw a prince of the blood with the bottoms of his
trousers looking as if a cattle dog had been
“ heeling ” him, and the Prince of Wales wore
the same hat with a grease-spot on the band
which he had sported at a couple of previous
meetirgs.
• * *
Hanlan will be back in Sydney ere this
appears in print. Beach visited the Nepean for
the first time the other day, to arrange for taking
up his quarters there early next month.
• * *
London Referee looks upon the Hanlan-
Gaudaur matches as having been mere dummy
affairs, and significantly poiots to the fact that
Gaudaur’s backer is finding the best part of Han*
lan’s Btake-money for his match against Beach.
• * •
How mad the Sydney Association Ground
trustees will be at ths association’s decision to
chai ge 5 per cent, on all English matches played
under their patronage! By the way, now that
the ground, &c., is in first-class order, cricketers,
cyclists, and athletes generally should petition
the authorities to allow the trustees only to levy
charges sufficient to keep the premises in order.
*■ •
Foley’s, last week, was the venue of some
good slogging. The match between Meadows and
Baxter was at first in favour of the latter, who.
however, was suddenly polished off by a right-
hander on t he jaw. The fight between M’Carthy
ardthe slow but powerful Gorman ended in a
draw after 24 rounds, though M’Carthy ought on
public form to have made a chopping-block of his
friend.
• _' • *
A little circumstance transpired at Rand-
wick, the other day, which once more illustrates
the saying that the way of transgressors is rough
on rats. A big bookmaker was driving a cash
trade cn the course, and as his clerk booked the
bets a dodgy little man stood behind him on one
leg and copied them down in his note book. The
bookmaker saw him, but he said nothing. He
only smiled, but the little dodgy man will never
again come within 10 miles of that smile if he can
help it. When the first race was run he looked at
his notes and found that “ R P.” was entitled to
£l5. He rushed up and demanded the money.
“ Wot’s the name?” said the layer of ye odds,
with an aspect of Methodist calm. “ R.P.,” was
the reply. “ Then there’s P.R, for you instead I”
and there was a sound like a planet concussing
against the solid earth, and the little man found
himself lying on the turf with one ear spread all
over his face and something very loose about his
teeth. He felt as if he wanted to lie still for a
month, but just then the real R.P. came up, and
he had to rise and fly lest the backer should have
a call to hit him on the other ear.
. . *
Who is the Juggins of the Sydney Gun
Club ?
# * *
Blood was well represented among the
placed horses in the Doncaster St. Leger. The
winner, Kilwarline, is out of the same dam as
Bendigo, and the third horse, Timothy, is own
brother to Peter. Kilwarline was backed at 10 to
1 a month ago. “ Mug ” Benzon recently offered
to back his horse, Carrasco, against Kilwarline,
himself to ride Carrasco and Lord Marcus Beres-
ford upon the other. From which we infer that
Benzon didn't win a fortune over the Leger.
• • •
The Temora (N.S.W.) coursing meeting
has had to be postponed for a fortnight because
some evil-disposei person or persons, with malice
aforethought, and against the peaes of Ler
Gracious went and let the hares loose. This
should teach the Temora people that tying up
hare 3 is no way of securing them. The right thing
to do is to hobble them with chain cables, and
side-line them with hsusers. Coursing is rare
sport after the hares have been kept this way in a
hutch for a month or two.
7T * *•
* ‘ The Queen would appear to be a bit of
a jade.” We clip that item from a Melbourne
sporting paper, and rise to explain that it refers to
a thoroughbred mare.
* * *
H. J. H. Scott, who captained the la3t
Australian Eleven, is batting occasionally in Eng-
land. For the Marylebone Club he scored 45
against Rugby S jhool—sufficiently good form to
show that his hand is still in.
* * *
The law protects even the humble welsher,
The Wagga police ran in one of these gentry the
other day to save him from his clients. There is
no necessity to do this with a lawyer. The j udges
protect him.
* * *
Michael Rush, Jay P., bedad.
* * *
A gentleman who lives in a box at Sydney
G.P.O. is selling consultation tickets in N,Q. as
secretary of —draw in your breath—ths Original
Approximation Prize Consultation Company.
*■ * *
A Kyneton (Vic ) man has invented a con-
trivance for releasing a runaway horse from a
vehi :le. All you have to do is to press a lever
and the horse leaves the harness. The inventor
doesn’t say where it leaves the driver.
* * •
Poor Joe Duffett, better known as “ J. G.
Reid,” committed suicide at Dandenong (Vic.),
lasb week. Since Grace Darling won the memor-
able Caulfield Cup of 1885, Mr. “ Reid” has not
had a very good time on the turf, and what with
chronic neuralgia and backing losers, his rash act
is partly understandable. To the last poor Joe
kept a stiff lip under his troubles. At 8 o’clock
on Friday morning he fortified himself with a
final lemonade and brandy, and strolled out with
his gun “ to have a shot at something before
breakfast.” Calmly and deliberately he shot
“something” through the lungs, and died in a
few hours.
A stupid mistake was made by those who
asked the Mayor of Sydney for the use of Belmore
Park fora meeting to promote the protection of local
industry. Had they told his Worship they wanted
the place for the purpose of invoking the Divine
protection for the Guelph lot, they would have gob
it without a moment’s delay, and Mayor Riley
would gladly volunteer to tell them all about his
attachment to the throne and person.
Sydney D.T. is now of opinion that the
“ glorious freetrade victory,” which it wrote so
exultingly about a few months since, was a mere
fiction. Several times lately it has told its readers
that “ the first Issue before the country at the late
elections wa3 the re-establishment of pure govern-
ment.” In the next sentence of the latest article
in which this statement is made the D.T. compli-
ments the electors of N.S.W. on their efforts in
this direction by slying : “In forming his present
cabinet Sir Henry Parkes unfortunately made
some selections which justify an extra degree of
vigilance over administration.” We never before
saw the eternal truth put so gently.
The Honourable Within-the-Colony G. A.
Lloyd, who seems to have been terribly cut up by
the mendacious statement male in The Artos to
the effect that he was an uncertificated insolvent,
has the complete sympathy of the community in
the matter of the cowardly and unfounded at-
tack made upon his reputation. Such mali-
cious statements, though they might be
treated with silent. contempt by men devoid
of sensitiveness who had been uncertificatedly in-
solvent, are calculated to be of infinite annoyance
to an upright citizen like Mr. Lloyd, the fact
of whose successful application for a bank-
ruptcy certificate is perfectly well-known to
everyone who moves in religious circles or who
has long been connected with commerce in Sydney.
Jeames Munro, M.L.A. of Melbourne,
who hails from Aberdeen, awa, and is the head
and front of Victorian tsetotalism, says he disnaj
approve o’ the pur-r-rehase o’ the telephone ll
which he regards as a weecked inatr-r rument,
and he is surprised that the Government o’ a
Chreestian country Bhould have undertaken to
work such a contrivance. It seems that not very
long ago Mr. Munro was sitting in his bank
counting up the money, when he was rung up by
someone in mistake for another Munro, and told
to send along another ten casks of brandy and be
dashed all the way to whatsisname and back
again. This was such a shook that Mr. Munro
could only fall hack against the wall and murmur
feebly “ Lo3h!” When he recovered, however, he
stated that he was sur-r-rprised to find the tele-
phone used as the meejum for orderin’ whusky,
and that, conseederin’ the thing had learned to use
language that was contrary to the teachings of the
Screeptures he would have it removed at once
from his office. And, in addition to that, he has
declared war sgainst the telephone wherever he
meets it, and the conduct of the Postmaster-
General in purchasing the Telephone Company’s
business on behalf of the Government has lowered
that gentleman so much in his estimation that he
wou’dn’t be surprised now to hear him whustlin’
on the Sawbath.
The N.S.W. Parliamentary bear-garden
lias opened again, and Parkes’ promised property-a
tax is not on the list. There is to be a bill for
making the land muddle worse than before, a de-
centralisation bill, a bill to enable Rabigle to run
after the rabbit with greater celerity, a hill to
prevent railways being made only where in-
fluential men have property, and to prohibit the
purchase of any more wharves which the country ;
doesn’t want at three times what they would be
worth to someone who wanted them badly, an in-1
solvency measure which will not affect the numer-
ous politicians who have made their piles through
“ the court," a bill to provide for giving less mem-
bers to constituencies, another for the establish -1
ment of model farms which will be supplied
with Government live stock, and where
Government professors at high salaries will giva
lectures on milking the horse under a mistaken
idea that he is a cow, and a comprehensive mea-
sure which will authorise the finances to perspire.
Also there is to be a military reorganisation, and
steps are to be taken to enable Burns to collar
Dibbs’ land-rent arrears and pass them off as cur-
rent revenue obtained by his own sagacity instead
of applying them to cover the deficit. But the
property tax, on the strength of which Parkes got
iuto power, is nowhere on the list. Calico Jemmy-
dom takes care of that.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Rovajl — 11 Human Nature”.. p. 15
Criterion Theatre.—" Romeo and Juliet”....
Exhibition Building.—Roller Hkatins Rink ...... ■■
Her Majerty's Theatre.—" Henry V.”
Aquarium and ru asure Grounds.—Bondi p 1.
The “ wessel ” who writes these shows
wishes to utter a word of explanation. He has
learned of late through various indirect channels
that he is not so popular in certain quarters as he
could desire—that one manager wishes to tear him
apart, and that another would like to take his
head outside and throw mud at. it ; and a gentle-
man cl' the acting persuasion recently called and
demanded damages for an 18-months old libel,
and then took him out to have a drink, with the
result that he was caught in a sudden shower and
got wet outside. Tnis sort of thing is undermining
his constitution, and it imparts a feeling of inse
curity to his profession which makes it impossible
for the roses of eloquence to come to full bloom on
his soul. He has resolved in future, therefore, to
pursue his avocation of dramatic critic in company
with his mother-in-law. The manager who would
hit a man when he has his mother-in-law along with
him is no gentleman, and his show will ever after-
wards be treated with silent contempt, and as the
lady is of a strictly peaceful disposition, it is
hoped that her presence will serve to allay any
friction that might otherwise arise. Bad language
addressed to the critic will in future be regarded
as levelled at his mother-in-law, and will be dealt
with accordingly.
AL.
•fF w w
That hunky kid, Mr. George Rignold,
proposes to run “Henry V." indefinitely at Her
Majesty’s, and his troops will hurrah till they
burst. As regards the KiDg himself, we sketched
what he called his character last week, and we
have nothing to add, except that his father had
boils on his face and suffered from fits. Henry V.
was a very regular man, as far as we can judge
from the drama, and always spent his mornings in
finding out conspiracies against his crown, and
his afternoons in standing up dressed in a boiler-
plate suit pointing his sword at a shabby little town
and yelling to his soldiers to come on. When he
wasn’t doing this he was generally fighting a man
two feet smaller than himself at the back of the
kangaroo-cage. Henry swells up to such an
extent on the stage that six harrowloads
of minor characters are almost invisible, but
among those who survive are Mr. Bailey, who
makes the shirty little Fluellen an object of in-
terest, and Mr. Sweeney, who generally brings
down the house as Captain Mac Morris. Also Miss
Athena Claudius, as the Princess Katherine, re-
fuses to be wiped out, and does her little part in
a style which shows that she is geiDg to be a
general favourite some day ; and Mr. C. Holloway
also does his share to prevent Henry Y. degenera-
ting into a staring butcher’s advertisement. Her
Majesty’s fills well every night, and the audience
are generally pretty sober and manifest no desire
to throw a centipede into the hind legs of the
company,
#* # #
Another breeze will come up at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, when “Twelfth Night’’
will be produced with Miss Essie Jenyns as Viola.
Mr. W. J. Holloway will also be there to tread on
the tail of me robe, and everybody, down to the
plain hog-thief in the gallery, will rejoice.
#* * *
The decaying text which has so long been
hung up by the tail in Sydney Royal will be taken
down on Friday and shot through the window.
In other words, “Human Nature ’ is to go and the
“ Silver King ” will reign in its stead.
Anyone who desires to see “ Human
Nature ” before it dies had therefore better hurry
up, for that drama has got its bleared and blood-
shot eye fixed on the grave, and there is going to
be a new deal. A job lot of Arabs, British troops,
Egyptians, niggers, and Soudanese will conse-
quently be for sale cheap.
AT. A/. AA. AL.
'TV* */Y VY '7V'
Miss Amy Sherwin’s last concert is an-
nounced at Sydney Opera House. Frank Smith
will open the Royal Standard with a minstrel
troupe on Ist October. A party of faith healers
advertise that they will meet in the Oddfellows’
Hall to get the rheumatiz out of their backs by
means of devotion, and the Parkes minstrels are,
as we write, in the act of starting their show in
Parliament House. The usual comic funeral is
also commencing in the Legislative Council, and a
few other amusements are in progress.
At, Ah
W 'TV* *7V*
The general air of sorrow and sadness
which pervades a place that a corpse is staying at
is becoming strongly marked at Sydney Academy,
where Professor Pepper’s ghost drags its spectral
form across the wilderness of time, and scuds
through the dusty caves of solemncholy which
gape with cavernous jaws above the yellow tide
of the sea of life. Amid the twilight of the
charnel-house the ghost rakes up a dust with its
bony, flesbless feet, and plays merry tunes on its
bleached ribs, while it vainly endeavours to shake
out the gravel which has drifted through its eye-
sockets into its head, and which weighs down
that top-heavy member like a meal of hash.
The Professor’s spectre would make a goed tomb-
stone if any thing sufficiently dreary could be
engraved on it; failing that, it had better have its
legs knocked from under it with a stick, and then
it should he put to rest for ever between the damp
sheets of a Sydney boarding-house.
## # #
The merry, jovial minstrels at Sydney
Alhambra are still blessed with an immortal
audience, and their fun holds out like an india-
rubber chicken. The only item on their pro-
gramme which seems to be getting old is the
battle of Tel-el-Kebir as executed by Herr Schoot,
“The Great Drum Performer of the Universe,”
but apparently the patrons of the Alhambra are
still as enthusiastic about Schoot as they were the
first day he appeared. Schoot is preceded by 10
songs of which nine are well worth hearing, and
as the man who sings the other one looks as if he
were of a blooodthirsty turn of mind we won’t
criticieo him by name, nothavirg any desire to he
butchered to make a darkey’s picnic The songs
and the farce which come after Schoot are equally
attractive, and Miss Florence Schuler in particular
—we abandon the throes of comjositien at this
point to look at a horse which has gone down with
a cart-load of meat in front of the ottice window,
and the pretty Florence must wait.
## # #
Miss Kate Alma is fast becoming a uni-
versal favourite at the Sunday evening concerts
at Sydney Criterion. Her songs are all well
chosen, and she sings them in a fashion that is at
once charming and irresistible. The Criterion
concerts now draw the largest Sunday night
audiences in Sydney.
Ever since “Jack Sheppard ” first opened
in Melbourne, that city has been taken bad with
“ Ri-tooral, ri-tooral, ri-addy-de.” Everybody
has it frem the Chief Justice downwards. Tne
high-church parson has been struck with it, and
intones the services to a tune that ends with
ri-addy-de; the Salvation Army bang it out on
the big drum, and the .Argus man writes his
leaders to the acourfcd jingle. Domestic differ-
ences have arisen owing to ri-tooral, and seven
divorce cases are pending ; homes that were once
happy and peaceful have been broken up, and
golden-haired girl-wives have gone home to their
mothers, while many a formerly loving and de-
voted husbaDd toorals amid the ruins of his
domestic bliss, and tries vainly to drown the
chorus in drink. The defeat of the Opposition in
the recent no-confidence debate is set down to
tooral, a number of the party having got it so bad
that they could not appear in public ; and in one
way and another the foundations of society a r e
broken up. But though the law is powerless, the
citizens are awake to the danger, and when an
organ-grinder started to disseminate “ re-tooral,
re-tooral, ri-addy-de” his blood was upon his own
head and his brains were on the pavement. He
died as a warning to other sinners, and when he
was dead, the organ which he had trained to aid in
spreading the fiendish tune was knocked in with
a sledge-hammer, and the monkey that accom-
panied the turn-out wag thrown over a house,
## # *
“ Held by the Enemy” ia improving as it
goes along at Melbourne Bijou. The artillery
practice at the wings shakes up sluggish livers,
and the corpse on its stretcher—suggestive of the
recent “ tragedy is growing on ’em. A lot of
rough edges have been worn down, but not with-
out considerable friction. On Saturday Miss
Florence Trevelyan played heroine in place of
Mrs. ‘‘’Ada Decker: these sudden changes of
leading ladies are usually painful operations fox-
somebody. In providing a popular substitute for
the recent arrival, Messrs. Brough and Boucicault
subordinated sentiment to business, with satisfac-
tory results. Mrs. Decker was disappointing right
away through the five acts. Miss Trevelyan is the
A MELBOURNE MOUNTED RIFLEMAN.
gentle possessor of peculiar personal charms which
almost persuade us that she is a fine aotras c \ She
has the nicest way of doing nothing in particular
that the present generation has seen.
That tuneful overture concluded we now go on to
mention that “ Mixed” is fetching them a 3 usual
at Melbourne Opera House Apart from Mr. Phil
Day there is a feeble caricature of a plot attach-
ing to the comfdy, and a lot of people are en-
deavouring to give it a touch of Nature this
journey. Messrs. Boucicault and Cates come out
real strorg, ani Miss Florence Harcourfc makes
the loveliest servant that ever killed the baker
with a blushing request for “ two crusty ones."
A hitch in B. and B ’3 domestic arrangements
prevented them from producing their “ Beetler,”
as announced. That's why things are “Mixed”
this week. But on Saturday (D.V.) they put up
‘‘Our Boys” with Blueskln Itoyca a 3 the ever-
lasting butterman. Meantime the Italian Opera
is thriving ail the while at the Royal ; and
“ Dorothy” keeps the Princess's warm enough.
On Saturday tbaL good old English show will be
replaced by the “Mikado's” barbaric magni li-
ce nee. Mis Brabam and the other new talent —
Leumane and Federici—had a one night’s trial in
this opera at the Alexandra, and the Triumvirate
saw that they were good.
*# * *
A company which recently appeared at
Perth (W.A.) can boast of having broken the
record. When they commenced playing the
audience went out in a body and demanded the
return of their money, and not a soul stayed to
see the performance out. The “ Champion
BaDjo Player " started the stampede.
There is a trivial difference of opinion be-
tween the two leading Melbourne papers as to the
merits of “ Held by the Enemy,” the new play at
the Bijou Theatre. The Age gushes : —“ ‘ Held
by the Enemy ’ is a thoroughly good play, abound-
ing in striking effects, full of interest, vigorous in
action, healthy in tone, and not devoid of
humour.’ Ihe Argus croaks:—“lt appears to
us to be about as loosely-jointed and incoherent a
piece of dramatic workmanship as has been often
put together."
K* ifr
At Adelaide Royal “A Run of Luck”
has been withdrawn in favour of “ Alone in Lon-
don," wli’ch seems hardly likely to have such a
run of luck as its predecessor. Mr. Locke
Richardson ha 3 al?o been drawing well, “ The
Merry Wives of Windsor ” especially bringing
together a large concourse of bald-headed citizens.
The only other worldly show which at present dis-
turbs the calm of the city of holy snuflie is Tommy
Hudson’s troupe at Garner’s Theatre.
TP If TP W
The “Mikado,” in pursuit of his object
all sublime, will open at Brisbane next week,
with Mr. Charles Harding a 3 Nanki-Poo. Miss
Grace Plaisted will play Yum Yum, and Miss
Sophy Harris will represent that human Baalbec
and walking Tadmor in the Wilderness, Katisha.
The St. Maur Comedy Company have been draw-
ing crowded houses at Brisbane Gaiety with
“ Brighton,” formerly known in America as
“ Saratoga.” As the name of this piece is evi-
dently moveable, it might be good policy to name
it “ Humpybong ” in Brisbane, and ‘ Goat Island ’
in Sydney, but that is a mere detail. Carrie
Swain is now taking the Queensland capital by the
wool with “ The Miner’s Daughter,” and as a new
and gorgeous establishment called “Her Majesty’s
Opera House" is to open at Christmas, it is evi-
dent that a once dreary city is going in for joy.
“Her Maiesty’s Opera House,” by the way, is a
sad misnomer. Her Majesty doesn’t care for
opera ; when she isn’t bathed in grief she looks in
on Buffalo Bill's shcrw, or has a glance at a
menagerie.
Mr. Dampierhas un-
veiled a monument to
the late W. E. Sheridan,
tragedian. Actors are
seldom remembered after
death by “a grateful
public ” whom during
life they have helped to
amuse. Some 30 years
ago the late G. V. Brot ke
erected a monument in
the Geelong (Vic.) ceme-
tery over Ihe remains of
Francis Nesbitt M'Cron,
whom grey headed Syd-
ney playgoers may re-
member some half-cen-
tury since at the old Vic.
by his professional name,
Nesbitt. Later still, the
pressmen of Melbourne
subscribed to perpetuate
the memory of the “ nob-
lest Roman of them all,”
G. V. Brooke, who went
down in the steamship
London, in the Bay of Bis-
cay, on the 10th January,
1866. This memorial took
the shape of a life-sizj
marble bust of the actor,
by Summers, which was
placed in the Art Gal-
lerj attached to the Mel-
bourne Public Library.
vSL -4f-
VS* '7v*
He was a good
young - man - who - died -
mateur and fond of
citing. When reciting
The Charge of the
L’g'ht Brigade where"
occur the words “ Into
Ihejawsof hell," hewould
recite “Into the jaws
of” then Btop, blush,
and deprecatingly re-
mark, “Imusn’tsay that,
you know,” Then again,
“Lay on Macduff, and"
“ I mustn’t say that,
doucherknow.”
## * '
The late John
Brougham is reported to
have said that “ so far as
originating and develop-
ing and writing the
comedy of London Assur-
ance,’ Dion Boucicault is
no more entitled to the authorship than he is to
that of the Lord's Prayer.’' Brougham claims that
he wrote in, but sold his right, title, and interest
in the comedy to the only Dion, who coolly
assumed the authorship of it also.
** * #
Busco Pnil Blithers Day, who Ins so often
“called about a hat.” called at a Vlelbourne
police station about two overcoats last week.
Some miserable sinner stole the toga—valued at
£l6, too !—from the Oriental Hotel.
## # *
A good many old chum no doubt cherish
tender memories of Miss Heath, an actress con-
siderably worshipped 25 years ago. She died only
recently at the age of 50. Miss Heath was con-
sidered a “ natural ” actress in her day, and she
was certainly powerful in emotional characters.
The present generation had a taste of her quality
when she “ created ” the heroine in Wills’ “ Jane
Shore." Before the Queen became pre-eminent in
grief, Miss Heath was a kind of dramatic lady-in-
waiting, and read plays to the Royal family
circle. She was the wife of Wilson Barrett, one
of the most successful managers and overrated
actors in the world.
#* # #
A Barcaldine (Q.) man named William
Shakespeare recently won a bet by gaining free
admission to a local drama disguised as the town
bellman. What’s in a name 1
** * #
Mary Anderson is coming to Australia in
May next. We are waiting—waiting for the
May. When it and Mary came, it will at once
be seen that Miss Anderson is, after all. Only a
feeble copy of Essie Jenyns.
*# * #
The latest cablegram is that Sara Bern-
hardt's pet tiger cat has mistaken her for a bone.
#* * *
According to' a London correspondent,
Sara Bernhardt is playing at the Lyceum to empty
benches, but playing better than ?h® has ever
played before, Folly and fashion—especMy the
female portion— are running after Buffalo Bull,
and his cowboys, who are considered greater stars
in their milky way than Sara.
X Jb Jf, Jf,
. 'A' "A' tv* Tv*
Overheard. “ Yets on at the noo theayter
on Saturday?” “Yy ‘Henry V.,’ an old piece.”
‘Vy didn't they put on ‘Romany Rye?’ Spose
they couldn’t get talent good enough.” Fact.
At AL
*7v* Tv TT
Henry Irving said recently that he had
heard it said that the danger of long runs was
that they led to madness ; but in his experience
as manager he should say that short runs were
more likely to lead to madness than long ones.
And Henry ought to know !
* * =* #
The greatest sensation in the London
musical world at present is the pianoforte playing
of Joseph fHofman. Although only ten years cf
age, he has as “big a tone as Rabenstein or
Billow, ’’ and his expression is simply indescribable.
No such musical phenomenon has been heard
since the days of Mozart.
*# # #
Alfred Collier's new opera is to be ca'led
“ Dorcas.”
Bread is a shilling per alleged two-pound
loaf at Croydon (Q.) goldfield.
“ If a railway is justifiable there is no rea"
soi why you shouldn’t have one.” This is what
Parkes has said north, south, east, and west.
When the Walla Walla (N.S.W.) German
colonist called Parkes, the other day, the “ Hairy
Bismarck of Australia,” he, no doubt, meant to
be complimentary.
It has just leaked out that Louis of
Battenberg’s promotion over the heads of his
seniors in the navy was carried out at the Queen’s
request, despite the faet that he had again and
again been declared by the medical officer to be
unfit for service in the navy l
At Manchester (Eng.) in 1811, a far -seeing
baronet, named Sir Oswald Mosely, gave a lease
of a piece of land for 9999 years without compen-
sation for improvements. The lease will fall in in
tbe year 11,810, and the present landlord has in-
formed the tenant that when it expires he will go
out neck and crop, and needn’t hope for a renown l ,
A'Russian governor is the sort of dignitaiy
who ' won’t stand any nonsense. At Odessa, a
111c nth or two ago, the local “Excellency” was
graciously pleased by the grace of God to ride in
a tram car, and an Englishman irreverently
dumped himself down alongside him. Ho was
hustled off to gaol two minutes later, and chained
up in a dark cell for about a week.
Here is an extract from the report of the
trial of Pranzini, lately convicted of a triple mur-
der at Paris :
“ The President, looking at Pranzini, here said, 1 Hold up
your head, Pranzini; you are crying.’
” ‘ Yes,’ replied Pranzini ; ‘ I am crying at tbe remem-
brance of my mother. Mdllo. Saba Her deceives herself.'
“1 he President : ‘ You say she deceives herself. But if
she does not speak the truth it would he an abominable per-
jury ; for you know your head iB at stake.’
"Pranzini; ‘I do not know what sentimert influences
her.’
“ The President: ‘ls this the way in which you speak of a.
woman who wanted to save you, and said. " It was Buch a
painful blow to me that I would rather have been guillotined
in his place?” Come, mademoiselle, look at him if you
can; s;-eak to him if you have still strength enough. Tell
him t.o confess.’
“ Mdlle. Sabatier turned slowly towards Pranzini, holding
fast by the bar.
" The prisoner, pale, but doing his beit to appear calm,
looked her in the face.
“ The President : ‘ Do not try to fascinate her, Pranzini.’
" The prisoner : ‘lam simply looking at her ; must I cast
down my eyes ?’
" This closed her examination.”
The Advertiser, the popular newspaper
of South Australia, is wroth with Parkes. It
accuses him of having “ neither modesty nor dis-
cretion,'* and of violating political etiquette by
delivering an extreme partisan speech at a ban-
quet which it was specially announced was to bo
of a non-party character ;
“Sir Henry Parkes’s address was long, it was tedious, it;
was personal, it was egotistic. It contained a full catalogue
of his own merits. . . No wonder that the Chief Justice
looked uncomfortable while the stream of unconscious [?] but
offensive egotism meandered calmly on. No wonder that
his Excellency wore the air cf a man who wished he was far
away. No wonder that the Commissioner of Crown Lands
left the hall in uncancealed disgust before the long oration
finished, and that others relieved themselves by a similar re-
tirement from the scene. There were many present prepared
to do honour to the guest of the eveniDg, but they were not
prepared to ray to Sir Henry or his admirers, except with the
sarcasm of Job, ‘ You are the people, and wisdom will die
with you.’”
The Sydney Freetrade newspapers reported the
'' great oration ” fully, but they carefully avoided
stating what effect it had on the hosts.
One C. E. Wilton, of North Shore,
Sydney, insults all human understanding by
evolving and publishing four rhyming com posi-
tions which he worthily names “Jubilee Poems.”
The dedication to our sweet singer Kendall is
enough to make that silent, poet shiver in his
grave, whilst one '‘ To Australia,” in which the
versifier declares his support of the fiscal policy of
Freetrade in the reliable couplet—
“ Protection flounders in a sea of scorn
And stands to-day most abject and forlorn "
makes us long to clo something desperate. The
third, however, “ To Our Noble Queen” takes the
laurel from all the rest for pure and lofty hog-
wash, It wore unkind to quota more than two
lines of this gem—
“ * God bless the Queen ’ millions on millions cry ;
‘ God bless the Queen,’ and may she never dir, /”
You need to be a “ pote ” to find rapture in the idea
of a never-fading Victoria. However we forgive
C. E. Wilton, Esq., of North Shore, Sydney.
After all he ia more—much more—to be pitied
than blamed.
There was much pantomimic display in
Prahran (Vio,) Police Court the other day when
Johanna Maloney toed the mark for spilling Mary
Ann Moore into the gutter, snatching her back
hair as thin as the heard of a Mongolian high
priest, and scratching her face Both ladies were
deaf mutes, and the trouble arose out of a neigh-
bour’s quarrel. Mary Ann slapped Johanna’s
baby, and Johanna, of course, could not retaliate
in the good old-fashioned way by poking her nose
t hrough a hole in the fence and calling her dear
friend Mrs. Moore flat-footed, lark heeled, and
ugly, a bold, brazen hussey, and a trollop to boot;
and for obvious reasons Mary Ann could not reply
to the other's scornful glances by climbing on to
an inverted wash-tuo and delivering a shrill
diatribe with special reference to a floor “as
wasn’t scrubbed from one month’s end to
another,” It was a cruelly trying position for two
women to be placed in. They coulda t stand and
glare for ever. So Johanna started first, tnd
whilst the conflict lasted the crowd was unable to
see the combatants for dust and fluff, and when
they had finished, the ground looked as if an
elephant had been rolling on the wreck of a
bedding factory. An obtuoe Binch lined Johanna
£2.
The roses bloom and the rases fade,
The grass now green soon withers—
But may that hour be long delayed
When Night shall cast oblivious shade
O’er Day and B osco Blithere.
The bard observes in hi 3 furtive way
How men speak ill of ithers ;
But never a soul has aught to say
In aught bu , praLe of the genial Day,
When merged in Bosco Blithers.


Pepper
and
Salt
In his favourite role of broad minded
statesman, our ’Enry has been saying more than
was set down for him. Under the soothing in-
fluence of an Adela'de luncheon, ’Enry begged to
disclaim any intention of imputing ways that are
dark to bis respected friend, Ah Sin. Shaking
the dew-drops from his leonine mane, the
Bsautious Errorist placed his hand upon the heart
where Stella reigns supreme, and protested that
“if he had for example, and he certainly had,
joined in legislation adverse to the Chinese, it had
not been from any low estimate of the Chinese
charaoter, or from any sympathy with those who
had attempted to attribute to that race faults of
oharacter which he did not believe they could be
fairly accused of. But it had been from a desire
to preserve the British type in all these Australian
colonies.” Bosh ! with a big B. We will slay the
slippery old poet with his own weapon
The lay of the last bootmaker comes from
Gisborne (N. Z.). He is going home to his mother,
and this is what he has to say before he tears him-
self from his customers :
IN BANKRUPTCY
(Nearly),
IN THE SUPERIOR BOOT SHOP OF GISBORNE,
In the matter of the number of Bankruptcies now existing,
and the several additions to come.
■NOTICE is hereby given that I, ARTHUR JOHN COOPER,
of Gisborne, Bootmaker, have this day tiled an appeal
to my customers that I am willing to sacrifice my Large and
Vatu d Stock of Boots and Shoes Ur the purpose of clearing
out of “ Bankruptcy Bay." This is a genuine notification,
and no reasonable offer will be refused, as I intend to retire
at a very early date. A joke is a joke, but Gisborne people
are carrying it too far, s i buy me out, and let me “ get." To
work hard for the public, and then to be “ had” in return is
not good enough.
Dated this 29th day of July, 1887.
Poor devil 1 Gisborne is one of the many places
we have been stranded in, and we pity him. We
arrived there by coach, one night long ago, in
company with a bony American female in striped
stackings, who was going about lecturing to prove
that nothing had ever happened, and, moreover,
that it didn't matter a cent if it had; and we
spent the evening in listening to an eloquent ad-
dress, in the course of which she drank six glasses
of water, and flogged the desk with her note
book, and proved beyond a doubt that there never
was anything or anybody, or anywhere to put it,
and that nobody cared about it anyhow, and that
she would see it hanged first. That was a good
many years ago, but Gisborne has never really
looked up since.
• • *
According to a Sheffield paper, a microbe
which feeds on railway iron and consumes rolling-
stock is the latest scientific discovery in Europe.
This insect is almost, if not quite, invisible to the
naked eye, but the German scientist who has been
keeping his eye on him reports that he can eat
811 b. of steel rail in a fortnight, and consequently
when he starts to graze on a loop line it may as
well be given up for lost Judging from the little
that is known of his habit 3, it would appear that
he seldom eats locomotives and boilers until he
'has finished the permanent way, but when pressed
by hunger he will gradually chew up a whole
engine shop. He seems to prefer railway to tram-
way, but still a bit of iron girder is not altogether
out of hi 3 line, and he can digest sidings and other
sundries. The German scientist who discovered
this greedy brute as he was going home at an
early hour in the morning has named it the
‘ railoverous.” Probably further investigation
will reveal the fact that the animal only consumes
direct lines, and that he oan be outwitted by tak-
ing the railway round by the property of an in-
fluential member of Parliament. In that case a
good many N.S.W. lines are tolerably safe.
* # *
A short time ago Mr. S. V. Winter, one
of the proprietors of the Melbourne Herald,
gave a supper on a terrific corned-beef scale to
his staff. The staff, in a frenzy of enthusiasm—or
surprise—gave him a return “bankit.” Mr.
Winter made a speech on the occasion, in which
he referred in terms of affection—which brought
the unbidden tear to many a cobwebbed eye—to
the undivided love he had for his sbaff, and the
undivided love the staff had for him. He said,
furthermore, that “without any desire to talk
shop he thought he might venture to tell them
that the circulation of the Herald had that day
again tern over 70,000.” The conclusion of his
speech was smothered in sobs of joy from the re-
porters and machine-oilers. What did they care
—great and disinterested hearts—for such possi-
bilities as milkmen depositing a half-pint with the
remark that they would “ leave no more till the
last was paid for,” or landlords threatening to put
the bailiff in on Monday ? Nothing. They swam
in the glory and the beer of the time
and were gorgeously happy. We have not yet
been informed that Mr. Winter proposes to give a
surprise present to to the members of his staff on
the strength of this enormous circulation, but we
suppose lie is keeping his munificent intentions
dark. It is an amiable weakness of gifted and
generous souls. We should not wonder if, during
the next week, Little Collins-street were ablaze
with half crowns. We should not wonder much—
if it were not. We think, however, that—giving
the credit where the credit is due—Mr. Winter
should offer a prize (say a sitver-mounted coffin,
lined with copies of the Herald) for the most
senrati inal suicide or sensational murder every
six months, It would, no doubt, be an encourage-
ment !
• *
Ayoub Khan is escaping a good deal too
much. He escaped originally about a fortnight
ago, and though he has never been caught, he has
escaped over again every day since. He escapes
every evening in the fifth page of the Noose, and
he also escapes half-way down the sixth page, and
as often as not there is a sub-leader in which the
editor explains that he doesn't know where Ayoub
has got to, and a brief paragraph announcing
that he is gone. He has also skeddadled sixteen
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
TRAVELLING SHEARER: “SAY. BOSS, CAN YOU GIVE ME A JOB?"
SMALL SQUATTER (only a 20,000 man): “NO, DON’T WANT ANY MORE, SHED’S
FULL.”
TRAVELLING SHEARER: “PERHAPS YOU CAN TELL US HOW FAR ALONG THIS
TRACK IT IS TO THE NEXT BLOOMING COCKIES?”
times during the last month in the columns
of the Sydney D.T., and five times that
journal has arisen to state that if Ayoub isn’t
caught there is no knowing where he may get to.
He has fled all through the S.M. Herald, too,
and has departed many times in the Argus. On
a large number of occasions, likewise, he has
absquatulated in the Age, and the Evening
Herald has put forth several score of soulful
wails in several hundreds of editions concerning
hia sudden and mysterious scarceness. He has
sloped in the Echo, and the Sydne i Mail men-
tions three times in one issue that he has cleared.
And as if this wasn’t enough the Jernil points
out in impassioned language that he isn’t there
any more, and the Tribune demands to know
“ Where is he ? ” Australia is beginning to get
rather sick of this low- priced Afghan at last, and
if the Jernil will only publish an article now
stating that nobody cares a cent, where the dooce
Ayoub Khan has got to, and that it doesn't believe
there ever was any such a person, it will do a good
turn to the community.
* * *
If A. J. Ivimey, of no place in particular,
Queensland, professor of things in general, dce3
not shortly enter Parliament we will be more than
surprised. When last heard of he was raining
verbal cats and dogs at Normanton on the Gulf,
that region of snakes, alligators, flies, blu i ruin
and purgatory. During the proceedings at an ex-
cited meeting, Mr. Ivimey’s political opponent
came on the platform and endeavoured to si-
down on a chair where no chair was; cmee-
quently hi fell with a great and awful thwacir,
and was heard no more till near the close of the
show. The candidate afterwards wrote to the
local paper about “a hairy hyena, recently out of
a bullock dray,” who had been promoted to an
editorship, and it is presume! that this poor
smitten individual was the person aimed at. After
his fall, the independent ratepayers became larky,
and while one half of the assemblage pounded the
floor with the furniture, the other half thre v the
undeveloped hen at the speaker. Msan while one
or two individuals, with great presence of mind,
inquire!, “ If he was in favour of making the road
two chains wide and putting up a three-rail fence
on the right hand side Yes, these were his
sentiments. Also, “ Was he p eparel to support a
vote for the erection of a culvert in the
creek iust ahint of Maggie Ryan’s cockatoo
fence?” He was. Furthermore, “ Did he think the
Government should send 50,000 tons of flour to
Croydon, and would he approve of having shandy-
gaff laid on at the principal mines?’ Yes, he
approved of the shandy-gaff, and he would give
Mr. Rafferty the contract to lay it on. Thin, be
gob 3, he was j ust the broth of a boy to represent
the district in Parliament, and when he got in
wouldn’t he raise h—l, and—but here the
squashy, undeveloped hen took the mover in the
eye, and the chairman left the chair, and the
lights went out, and the audience departed with
a general “ Hurrocsh." and carried out with them
a publican who had been shouldering. Ms way “tb
the front with the avowed intention of “rubbing
Ivimey’s nose on the e.” ' Politics are rather
an exciting science-up in the Gulf country, and a
candidate has g<jl to keep moving. If he stops too
long in one sp >o t, eom»th ! ug i 3 bound to hit him
before he gets away
The mission of the mild, soft-soapy U.
Ts'ng and the martial Wung Yung Ho is already
bearing fruit; the little Chinky-man is riz. When
the General’s despatches reached Pekin, and it
became known that the Chinee couldn’t eat his
chow-chow and his kitten-ha3h in peace beneath
the shadow of the Australian flag, a meeting was
called at Soo Chow, with Ho-ki fu in the chair,
and after that eminent oflicial had smoked
tv>roe pipes of opium he rose and asked
in a glowing speech if these things were to be
endured. Then somebody binged a tom-tom in
the body of the hall, and the audience yelled as
one leper “ Chink-i-sly.” The furrin’ devil most
be made to walk a chalk-line in his future deal-
ings with the Asiatic, or el-e the biler would
burst and send him kite-high. (Crie3 of Hi-
kum.”) At present the unclean dog put his boots
in the eye of the Children of the Central Flowery
Land, but the time was at hand whea
the M( ngol would. take his eye out of
the track, and would knock him into
one cocked-hattee. Sam ki then rose and asked
that the pig who came out of the Far West
should be taxed 500 dollars. (A voice : “ Hi-ky.”)
He wasn’t sure about the hi-ky, bat perhaps it
might be done. If it were possible to brand the
barbarian, say, on the back, it would be as good a
way as any, and then a law could be passed that
the barbarian should take off his clothes at the
order of any citizen and show that the brand was
there all right. Yangtse ky, who was very old,
and who was held up by his sod, considered that
the foreign devil should get a receipt for his poll-
tax, and that the paper on which it was written
should ba rendered accursed by having his
malignant features painted thereon; also that
it shou'd describe his geneilogy tack even
to his grandmother, on whosa grave he
trusted the dogs would camp out eternally,
and thereby prevent one defiled wretch pa9BiDg
himself off for another—whose ancastral tomb, he
also trusted, would be profaned and have dirt
shot on it. A mandarin, whose nama the reporter
failed to catch, considered that these suggestions
were too light, and moved that they should adopt
the practice of a tribe called the Irish, and “poy-
kot ’’ the grasping heathen. (Ories of “Ah chew.”)
Ha would explain. To “ poy-kot ” a man proparly
he was cut off across the waist, and his upper
half ilanted on a red-hot stove. This kept him
alive for some time, and his legs were then plac ;d
in front of him on a plate. (Loud applause.)
Another way was to cut off his feet, and then slit
him open and put his feet inside him. He was
then dropped 900 feet over a cliff. At this stage
of the proceedings Ho-ki fu hit a gong nine times,
and put the question to the meeting, when it was
carried unanimously, and the assemblage dis-
persed amid cries of “Yep ”
In the schools the kids are singing,
For the winter's cold has flsd ;
And the summer time is bringing
Curses less on Inglis’ head.
A menubar of the Evening Nooze staff has
been knocked down by a butcher's cart. When
we were on the Nooze we were so huogry that we
would have considered a butcher’s cart—if it had
run into us—a perfect god-send.
If you are well-connected you may rob,
A few months “ quod ” is all you have to fear;
But if you’re poor and you annex a bob,
Your dose is lad'ed to you by the year.
The Evening Noose has been wiped out.
No longer can it claim the champion belt of Mun-
chausen or Ananias. The Murrurundi Times has
gone one better than Alfred's snake and shark
marvels. It gives a detailed account of a bullock
whose eye was so sore that the owner drove it to a
veterinary surgeon, who, a'ter chloroforming the
beast, took cut the eye and discovered in the
socket a nest of bees busy making honey. The
eye is now all right, and so is the editor.
Dear Bulletin,— ln the Castlereagh dis-
trict the shearing ha 3 been carried on amicably
enough, because the squatters give the pound a
century, but some of them only give a pound a
week to hard-worked rpuseabouts. I have made
it my business to examine into the reason of the
difference of wages at the different sheds, and
just by chance struck on it to-day. I heard a
man, at leas': an image oi a Scotchman, actually
putting up the manager to the fact that a pound a
week was plenty, and that he was satisfied. On
inquiry, I found that this countryman of mine is
a dummy-lifer, and gets his note all the year
round, and, dog-i.n-the manger like, is annoyed at
temporary handy asking for more. What can we
perambient proletarians do ? Wo are afraid to
shoot the rubbish, and must have a pair of boots
and a drink nov a"d then. With a final curse
at 'ders,—l rem sin, yours, Scotty the
Wrinkler.
Hairy ’Eary, Fie ! For shame 1
Dash it all! Confusion ! Zounds 1
You are running with the game—
Also hunting with the hounds.
You are blowing cold and hot —
Working on a see-saw plan—
Mixing common sense and “ rot” ;
Get away ! You fickle man I
To preserve the British type
Free from taint, as you suggest,
It were not enough to wipe
Clean away the Chinkey pest;
Furriners of every sort
You must put beneath a ban —
Fr jnchmen would be out of Court,
Also Germans, silly man !
Hairy ’Enry, do not shrink
From a duty which is plain ;
Say exactly what you think—
Never seek excuses vain ;
Do you venture to asserb
“ John ” knows nothing of fan-tan,
Opium, villainy, or dirt ?
Fiddlesticks ! You naughty man !
Other “'types” than John are found
Here, as very well you know ;
You must really change your ground
Ere you order one to go.
’Twas against a “ social curse”
We the good crusade began—
You’d make Johnny out no worse
Than his neighbours. Foolish man !
Hairy ’Enry, Fie I For shame !
Divil take it! Demme 1 Dash !
Such a policy is lame—
Tommy nonsense —simple trash,
Darling, you aro growing old,
Time it is you cut and ran ;
Better—if the truth be told—
“ Chuck ” you with the Chinaman.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Henry George is 48 years old.
Mr. and Mrs. Henniker Heaton will pro-
bably stay inN.S.W. not more than a couple of
months.
Three natives of the City of the Plains
occupy, this yea-, the mayoral chairs of Dubbo,
Orange, and Bathurst.
Douglas Sladen is collecting Australian
poems. Heaven bo praised, he has apparently-
given up the attempt to write one.
Lindley Murray is now engaged in writing
letters to the Singapore Press on “ Diet." We
don’t think so very much of his English.
Mr. Longly, landlord of the Star Inn,
Dover, prides himself on being Her Majesty’s
weightiest subject. He is about 40 years of age
and weighs 40 stone.
John Farrell, remarks the Southport (Q.)
paper, “has reversed the time-honoured course
of journalistic progress. He has gone from the
brewery to the sanctum.”
The two sons of the Prince of Wales are
to be created Dukes. In honour of the event we
intend raising our bull-pup to the peerage under
the rame and style of Duke of Balmora 1 .
Mr. Byron Moore and Mr. J. E. Edwards,
of Melbourne, are each claiming the credit of
having introduced the telephone into Victoria.
Neither of them appears ever to have heard of a
person named Edison.
A prisoner brought before the Goulburn
bench the other day was booked as Henry Malmes
bury Courtenay, alias Henry William Johnson,
alias Henry Cutlett Wilson. From this we con-
clude that his ancestor came over with William
the Conqueror.
Dr. Cameron Lees, of Melbourne, claims
that of the “three black graces—law, physic, and
divinity ” —the last named has given the best
jokists to the world. How about Wendell Holmes,
L. L. Smith, and Creed; Gilbert, a’Beckett, and
Judges Cope and Dowling?
The will of the late Thomas Chirnside, of
Werribeo Park (Vie.), has b9en proved at £150,000.
And yet the unfortunate man committed suicide
under the impression tint h 9 was a pauper exist-
ing on the charity of his friends. Mr Chirnside,
who never married, lefc the whole of his property
to his brother, Andrew.
The Illustrated London News says :
“ A monument is shortly to be erected at Jena to
the memory of F.itz Reuter, the most original
humorist of modern Germany," If this is meant
for Reuter, the eminent cableman, he deserves
two statues—one for being the greatest modern
humorist and the other for being the greatest
modern liar.
In a letter to a Scotch paper, the Revd.
Cameron Lees says —“Oar countrymen have made
their mark among this class of colonists. They
st’ek to whisky and Presbyterianism.” The
reverend gentleman should have informed his
Scotch readers that the whisky in Victoria is not
half as strong as the Presbjterianism. Let emi-
grants have a chance.
Sir George B jwon is to be pensioned off.
He will now settle down somewhere near Ken-
sington and brag abeut his former grandeur. Sir
George will probably renew his acquaintance with
that floe old Tory, Berry—we don't mean the
British hangman, but the present hgent-Ganeral
of Victoria-and the two wi’l have many a laugh
over the consternation caused by the Black Wed-
nesday business.
Swinburne versus Whitman ;—“ Mr. Whit-
man's Eve is a drunken apple-woman, indecently
sprawling in the slush and garbage of the gutter
amid the rotten refuse of he: overturned fruit-
stall; and his Venus is a Hottentot wench under
the influence of cantharides and adulterated rum."
Hum! How often Satan reproves sin. Who was it
that wrote such poem 3 as “ Hermaphroditus,"
“ Dolores," and “ Laus Veneris ” ?
Almost every Calico Jemmy in the North
turned up at a meeting of the credito-s of a certain
illustrious person in Queensland the other day. The
interview between thegreat man and those who are
so fortunate as to hold his paper is described as
having been one of the funniest affairs on record
—the dumb and deferential helplessness of the
creditors on one side, the majestic blastedness and
artistic effrontery of the experienced debtor on the
other.
Ex demon Spofforbh is one of the many
who had reas in to be thankful for the remarkable
knowledge of anatomy possessed by the unregis-
tered Mr. Hutton, who died in England recently
through “drinking out of the wrong bottle.” At
the time Spoff had to stand out of the Australian
team owiog to an injured hand, it was Hutton
who eventually put the maimed member straight.
As a bone-setter for men, horses, or dog 3, H atton
had no superior.
Mr. Louis Brennan, of Melbourne,
the inventive genius whose torpedo has
been bought by the Imperial Government
for £lOO,OOO, Is a native of Castlebar, IreJ
land, and arrived in Victoria in 1802 when ten
years of age. The British Government have en-
gaged his services at £5OOO a year for five years.
Mr. Brennan’s father was for years inspec tor of the
Eastern Market, Melbourne, and two of his
brothers are in business at FPz oy.
Mr. W. B. Dixon tells us that he is about
to issue at Dubbo a new paper to be called the
Liberal.
Mr. James Robinson, who got a verdict of
£3OOO against “Jimmy” Tyson, the other day,
might as well deposit all his assets with the law-
yers of the fair city of Sydney right away. When
he has been before the Full Court and then before
another jury, then back to the Full Court and
home to the Privy Council, he will have a slight
suspicion of the fact that under our thrice-cursed
system of English law it is better even to endorse
pro.-not's for prominent statesmen than to gain a
verdict against a millionaire.
Dear Bulletin, —I read J. Armstrong’s
letter, and W. B. Dixon’s, in The Bulletin. I am
not on the Darling, bat I am completely “in
touch” with all travellers. I can certify that
not only this year but last year and the year
before a man in a billet has been considered lucky,
and there are “ whips" of travellers now looking
for job 3 where Chinkies are welcomed. Rouse-
abouts are only getting £1 a week here during
shearing, and many sheds r.re short of shearers
because the bosses are known too well. However,
my principal objection to Mr. Dixon’s letter is his
disi genuoasoess in nob sigaiDg himself “Sec.
Brurke Shearers’ Union,” cr “la f e ditto.”—
Yours, Hiram A biff.


POLITICAL
POINTS
The close season for Irish landl >rds ha
concluded.
Protection is bound to win in Queen laid.
The Brisbane Courier opposes it.
The originator of the N.S.W political
epithet, “ Calico Jemmy,” was the late Sir James
Martin.
Wanted to know—the cost of the fire in
the N.S.W. Minister for Education’s office during
the winter.
Sir George Bowen is tryiug to enter the
English Parliament as a Conservative oa Liberal-
Unionist principles.
A coincidence. Four of the principal
officers of the N.S. W. Good Templars and Local
Option League have been made J.’sP.
Sam. Giilott, the keen and prosperous
attorney, opposes the foot-balling Jack Gardiner
for Carlion constituency “ as io were.”
A country paper says that Tiger loglis is
suffering from a severe shaking. Teat’s whit’s
the matter with all the Parkes Ministry just now.
Two thousand Irish landlords sat in con-
ference last week in Dublin. What a splendid
opportunity for settling the land question in ore
act! , . ,
“ I never bartered my conscience tor a jy
consideration whatever.”—Parke 5- This ii pro-
bably true. Thero are many reasons wh/ it
Bhould be true.
The Southern Argus states that the cost
of conveying merchandise from Sydney t> G.ut-
bura is, in many cases, double that of impo. ting it
from Europe to Sydney.
In the matter of
political literature one of
the best things issued
for some time is the
pamphlet just published
in Sydney by C. O.
Waldon. His initials are
against him, but he is
not built the way they
would indicate. “ His
taste exact for faultless
fact amounts to a dis-
ease," and be remorse-
lessly rams heme the
moral of his theme,
which is the degression
prevailing in N.S.W. It
ia a blemish on our
political system that be
should be clerk in a dry-
goods store while a per-
son like C. J. Roberts is
Postmaster- Gen eral.
Mr. Tiger Inglis
lately saw that all the
objections mads against
the working of his de-
partment have been
raised “ for the most
part by persons who weie
formerly fellow-workers
of his on the Press.”
And then he gave him-
self away, 50 per cent,
under cost price, by
further declaring that he
cared nothing for this,
b c.use, “having b.en
a journalist himself, lie
knew with what facility
a bogus cry could be
raised. ’ Are we to un-
derstand from this that
Mr. log’is’ journalistic
speciality was raising
b'gus crie3 ?
We love the dear old mother country. The
Tasmanians, who are ‘more English than thi
English themselves,” a-e jumping with joy at the
failure of the British hop-crop.
Sir George Campbell, M.P., alleges that
Queensland is “ deeply dyed in slavery. The
poor nigger ! How the heart of the kind British
landlord yearns for his welfare !
Crouch, M.L.A., told his constituents that
he was forty eight consecutive hours in the House
without sleep. This is much longer than the Hon.
John Sutherland can keep awake.
A N.Z. parliamentary candidate was re
cently compelled to use stones in defending him-
self from the mob A N.B.W. M.l. wants t
know what was the matter with his tongue.
Harry Levien, M.P., cautions his Tam-
worth constituents against local self-government
When it obtains, the Tatnworthians won t require
a representative from Sydney, dontcherkno w.
The Victorian Government offer £l5O as
prizes for the best-mauagel farms in Victoria.
They don't offer anything like this in N.S.W.
Not even for the best managed lemon-squash fac-
tory. ~
During the first week of August the ex-
ports of N.S W. were valued at £39 ’ 44 °'
Imports for the same period were ; valued
£255,111 From the Cobden Club s point of vie sv,
this is most satisfactory. .
At the Government Printing Office, Fiji,
.they're taking on Hindoo compositors and sending
white Britishers adrift. Presently th ® 3 ' l p^' p l
poll-tax on whites over there. It really is time
for Victoria to annex Fiji.
Dr. Quick, M.L. A., objects to the whip-
ping clause in the Victorian Javenile Offenders
billf on the ground that “it would bra,ad the
Btatute-book with blood, and bring infinite dis-
credit on the youth of the colony.
Haynes, M.L.A., says that Protectionist
Victoria produces 2000 babies for 10.000 in
“ Freetrade” N.S.W. In Ireland, where poverty
and kids run together, Haynes’ won d be con-
sidered a rather babyish argument.
The Presbyterians of Victoria are peti-
tioning the Queen for protection from the French
in the New Hebrides. We believe that the
French have not yet made sufficient arrangements
to protect themselves from the Presbyterians.
Stern-visaged elector at Glen Innes, in-
terrupting Parkes : “ What about the deficit ?
Parkes : “ Which deficit ? ’ Elector (with a discon-
certed loot): “Why, are there two deficits?’
Parkes : “ /know of two!" And so say aU of u J .
Parkes says that the policy of KS W. is
modelled on that of the mother country. It looks
like It Only the other day the Trades’ Congress
of the latter were discussing the question of pro-
vidiog work for a portion—7oo,oo0 —of the national
unemployed.
The British Pension L : sb is a curious
thing. Mr. Edwin Chadwick retired on account
of ill-health in the year 1854. He retired on £lOOO
per jesr. He was then 65 years of age. He is
still alive-only 98 now, and willing to take
another pension we have no doubt.
Barrister Drake, of Brisbane, who unsuc-
cessfully contested Eaoggera against ex-Treasurer
Dickson, started colonial life in 1874 with the pick
and shovel, until he graduated into a storeman, a
Parliamentary reporter, aid finally a barrister.
He is a Protectionist, and in favour of the land-tax
“ Sir Henry Parkes was enthusiastically
received at Corowa. A petition for a line of rail-
way was presented to him.' paper.
The only defect in this epigrammatic message is
that it neglects to say how much of the enthu-
siasm centred in the railway, and how little en-
circled the Premier. -
Dr. Cortis, M.P. for Bathurst (N S W.),
attributes tho disasteis of the colony to the thrift-
lessness of the people. It is absurd to seek to go
into such researches as these. If electors are mad
enough to make members out of such productions
as Dr. Cortis, it is vain work looking for the
causes of local disaster.
Commodore Commande r Heusner has been
accused of deliberately picking a quarrel with the
niggers for the purpose of deposing Malietoa and
appointing Tamasese. Join Bull, being the in-
ventor and sole proprietor of this nefarious little
plan of annexation, is naturally riled to find it
copied and used against him.
Premier Parkes, in responding to a toast
at Adelaide, last week, asked, “ Why should wa
not be ene people in Australia?" Well, the
answer is easy. Because we have on hand a
bogusly venerable party named Parkes who keeps
himself in political power by making people chew
each other’s ears off over sectarian cries.
“ I exhort the Jew to sacrifice his sordid pursuits to the spiritual genius of his race.”—THEODORE FINK.
A Sydney man has made a cooking stove,
and the D.T. jubilates in half a column over what
it calls “Another Freetrade Industry.” Thats
about the fiashest name we ever heard for a gas
stove. And as this cooking stove is a‘' Freetrade
Industry,” the maker's confession that he lost
money by it, is natural, appropriate, and self-
evidently truthful.
Amongst other curiosities of the Victorian
Government it may be mentioned that since Gillies
has been in they have shown a tendency to drift
into monarchy. Duncan is Minister of almost
everything, an Acting Mini-ter does the s’ock
work for him, and in all non-routine affairs in half
the departments of the country’s business he
works his own sweet will.
Will Mr. J. P. Abbott exp’ain why it is
that the only persons in the Wentworth electorate
(N.S.W.) whom he recommended to be placed on
the Commission of the Peace are station-owners
or managers ? Does he wish it to be assumed that
the only eligible parsons in the electorate—which
extends from the boundary of Victoria to that of
Queensland—are squatters ?
Henniker Heaton, M.P., without the
slightest regard for the feelings of poor Pulsford,
says that Protection is gro ving wonderfully in
Great Britain ammg the people and their repre-
sentatives. Even Manchester is catching on, and
the adoption of a Protective policy in England -
whose fiscal policy Sir ’Enry declares he has
copied—is only a matter of a short time.
Freetrader Cortis says that the Bight
Hour system is the cause of the N.S.W. depres-
sion. He is about as near right as a man of his
calibre can be on political matters. Under Free-
trade, the Eight Hour system always will be a
cause of depression. As we have shown a hun-
dred time 3, the hours of local labour must be
lengthened unless our producers receive adequate
tariff protection.
Sir Sawmill Griffith is coquetting with
Protection, and, if he survives the now inevitable
general election, will probably go the whole hog.
Witness his reception of the sugar growers, when,
inter alia, he remarked that “Although some
people regarded a reciprocity treaty as a treason
and a heresy, I consider it a sensible plan for
securing the safety of our own interests.” Its only
the first step that costs.
Parkes possesses a very convenient
memory. In his speech at Adelaide last week he
indulge 1 in soon sound criticisms of the Federal
Council fizz'e, but he forgot 10 explain that the
draft bill ag eed to by the Intercolonial Convea
tion in 1881 was almost an exict copy of one
which he submitted to a conferencs that sat in
Sydney in 1881. So much for the consistency and
the prophetic wisdom of the G O.M of N.S. W.
“ Judicial Barbarity in China ” is the cap-
tion of an article in the Sydney Echo. Barbarous
judges are not slated by th t cautious journal
unless they are beyond the jurisdiction. Arid,
similarly, it may bo taken for a dead certaiaty
that there are in China grovelling little Echos
which laud every act of the barbarous judgss of
that land. A judge, is never without honour
within the territory over which his court exer-
cises jurisdiction.
When Sir William Manning was appointed
to the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench, it was con-
tended that his pension as So icitor-G-neral
merged into h : s judic'al sa'a-y, and this view was
acted upon. But now. Sir William being on the
eve of retirement, high legal authorities give it as
their opinion that the veteran (who, by the way,
has been 55 years in harness) is entitled to his
pension of £BOO a year as tx Solicitor-Genera 1 , in
addition to his judicial pension.
Mr. M. H. Davies, solicitor, will be the
new Victorian Speaker Bis qualifications for the
office so splendidly fi led by Mr. Lalor are nil.
He has had thi-ee years’ experience in Parliament
wi h rat showing any politic*l abi ity. He is part
proprietor cf the Sydney D T., and son-in-law of
Riv. Dr. Mercer Mr. Davies has made lots of
money in land-sDeculation. He gave £lO,OOO to
the charities at J ufcilee time, aid when he gets the
Speakership he will be made a K.C.M.G. Then
he will be happy.
It is somewhat unfortunate for the N.S.W,
Boy Politician, Mr. B E. Wise, that the Sydney
D.T, has lately acquired a fearfully low estimate
of his capacity as a Minister. It is strange that
a paper which arrogantly claims to have dictated
Garrett's land policy, and ac s a 3 abject idolater
and apologist for the Parkes party, in globo,
should turn to smite Mr. Ringnose Wise. The
D.T. might profitabiy remember that the NSW.
B.P. is politically clean, in which resp3Ct he is
almost singu ac and solitary a 9 far as the Cabinet
are concerned.
Sic ’Enery has boen suggesting that all the
tr sops in Australia shou’d be concentrated upon
whatever point might be threatened by an enemy.
The on’y difficulty is that the enemy might change
his mind and go somewhere else while the troops
were waiting for him. He might even politely
send a telegram to Sir 'Enery requesting an inter-
view at Sydney, and then faithlessly drop in at
Melbourne or Brisbane, cr anywhere, and 1 ava
the Grand Centennlalist in the lurch. Here is a
chance for some of the local Soudanese to propose
something that will go “ one better.”
“ Pas 3 it on.” The tale is told of a certain
publican, in a certain Western town, who for
many years past has bee a dffing business with one
certain brewer, nearly always purchasing hogs-
heads of ale said to coata'n 54 gallon?. Of late,
however, the excise tickets on these casks show
that the duty paid thereon was for 51 gallons,
although the cask 3 are of the same size as for-
merly, and the publ can has to pay for 54 gallons
stid. if this is true, the Government either lose
9d. per cask, or the publican has been “had” for
4s, on every cask for many yeara past.
Queenslanders want to know why they
can’t have their own Mint and tnrn out their own
sovereigns. The Sydney Mint authorities received
in 1886 from Queensland 329,357 ounces gold
(value £1,152,749); from N S W., 91,855 ounces ;
N.Z., 34,519 ounc s ; other places. 19,435 ounces,
Total, 475,166 ounces. The 1886 rec3ipt3 ware
53 000 ounces more than during any one of the
preceding ten years, although the N.S.W. yield
was then the smallest of any year. Victoria,
having a Mint of he? own, very properly protects
her own interest and keeps her treasure to herself.
Oa the eve of his retirement (with a good,
but well-earned, pension) from the Speakership of
the Victorian Assembly, old Peter Lalor has made
a wonderful discovery. He has found that, as
members are not allowed to write out their un-
spoken speeches at the table of the House of
Commons in order that they shall look nice in the
local papers, no more shall they be permitted to
do so in Australia Felix. He forgets the many
leading artioles manufactured at the Victorian
table for the Ballarat leading journal from time to
time—nay, almost any tim9 since the Eureka
Stockade.
Henry George has written a letter to the
Brisbane Courier, in which he sits down pretty
heavily on that journal for its exertions to
exempt the Queen-3treet landlords from the pro-
posed land-tax. The capitalised prairie value of
I the Queen street property is £1,600,000, and at an
interest of, say, 5 per cent, would yield an inccroe
of £73,334, which (as George says) is, every penny
of it, a tax on industry- He sajs lie argues on
the lines laid down in a book (“ Progress and
Poverty”) which, though tabo.ed now, will, at
no distant due, be bound in the hides of its
greatest deriders—the landlords.
Dr. Hearn, Q C., of Melbourne, is to be
consulted oa the subject of North Queensland
separation This is beet use the Professor is a
great Constitutional lawyer. He's a “ big wig "
in fact, he wears two big wig >, one when he's out
of court, and two when he's in it On the lat er
occasion, the outer one is of the usual horse-hair.
Hearn was the man who was defeated in East
Melbourne by Geo’ge Coppia when the Argus
whined that that constituency had ‘'preferred
the low comedian to the constitutional lawyer. ’
Professor Hearn is one of the alumni of the
Queen’s College, Galway, Iceland.
It is by no means certain that Premier
Gillies is destined to hold Lis innumerable port-
folios for ever. He ha 3 been engaged for the pa.t
twelve months in contending that certain public
officers are the only proper parsons to try cases in
which they are personally interested, and in which
their verdict c m only be one way unless they
choose to s ; gn their own warrants of dismissal.
The circumstances were published in the Age
and Melbourne Herald nine or ten mjnthsback
and never denied, and now they are corroborated
by an official letter from the Governor of Victoria
to one of tha parties concerned. It would be in-
teresting to kno w how much of Ihis goes on while
outiiders are falling down and worshipping at
Dun cun’s feet.
Referring to England, Parkes dec’ares
that ‘ she says to the wide world that she is pre
pared to hold out the right hand of fellowship to
receive their riches and to pour hers into
the r laps as the laws of Nature demand an in-
tereba-'ge.’ To show the nature of England’s
gooifel owsbip, let us quote a few lines from
Mulhall-an authority who is worshipped by all
Freetraders :
“ Under the plea of introducing Freetrade, Great Britain
has Been privileged to send British manufactures exempt
from Customs duties to India and elsewhere, while the pro-
ducts of India—.ice, tea, and sugar—continue liable to
Customs duties in British port'. An examination of the
annual accouott of Great Britain and India reveal significant
lapten from duty, and show great zeal for Freetrade abroad
and little concern for the same doctrine at home. The English
revenue from Customs is exactly ten times as large as the
Indian receipts from the same source.’’
Freetrade in Eng«
land has ruined Irish in-
dustry. Irish'butter goes
down before the produce
of France and Holland,
who in their turn tax all
English and Irish butter.
In like manner the beef
and flour trades of Ire-
land are being percep-
tibly crushed out of exis«
tance by the competition
of Protectionist America,
England is practically
the only market open to
Irish industry, as things
are at present, and per-
haps the next host thing
to Home Rule would be
to impose a slight protec-
tive duty in favour of
Irelan d’s staple products.
The South Australian
Assembly has in two
successive sessions passed
a Bill to impose a poll-
tax on Chinese landing in
the Northern Territory,
but the money-bags cf
the Upper House have
rejected it. The Govern-
ment have it in the n
power, under the Con-
stitution Act, to dis-
solve both Houses with
a view to an appea lto tho
electors on the question,
but in the present com-
plicated state of affairs
it is hardly likely that
they will adopt this
course. The N.T, wit'
be useless to S.A. until
measures are taken to
prevent invasion by bai -
barian hordes.
A Mr. Phillips has bean studying the
“politics of Shakespeare,” and in a lecture de
livered before a Melbourne literary society, a few
evenings ago, dec'ared his belief that the immorta
William wa3 a communist. He based his opinion
on the following speech delivered by Gonzales in
“The Tempest" :
“ In the Commonwealth, l would by contraries,
e xecute a 1 things; for no kind of traffic
Would I admit; no name of magistrate;
Letters should not be known ; riches, poverty,
And use of service, none ; contract, succession,
Baron, hound of land, tilth, vineyard, none.
No use of metal, corn, or wins, or oil,
No occupation; »11 man idle—all;
And woman too."
Even the S.M. Herald is commencing to
lose faith in old England’s passionate love for her
colonies la a recent sub leader on the mail con-
tracts the S.M H. “up”and says :
“ We heard a great deal at the Colonial Conference about
the regard which G-e *t Britain entertains for her colonies.
It is gratifying to be told that we stand so high in the affec-
tions • f people at home, but it is rather disappointing to
find, when we come to practical matters, that Great Britain
has one thought for her colonies and two thoughts for
herself.”
Of course it is very sad for the Herald to
find out how hollow its “Mother Country”
fetish is. When a paper has turned itself
inside out to prove how loving and generous
are England’s actions, it’s rather “ disappointing”
to find out suddenly what an awful pawnbroker
she is.
There are just six pensioners upon the
revenue of Victoria. They are, of course, apart
from the ordinary Civil Service one 3. First comes
Sir C. G. Duffy, with £lOOO a year, which he has
drawn to the great delight of the Southern colony
for ,j ust 24 years now. In other words, Victoria has
paid£24,ooo for the advantage of having Sir Charles
Duffy as Minister of Lunds for about two years
and a half! Lady Darling has drawn £lOOO a year
for 17A years, or £17,500 in all. Then there are
£866 13s. 4d. to the Hon. H. C. E. Childers, which
has to be paid to him when the G.O.M is in the
cold shades of opposition expounding the Home
Rule or other questions, and Childers is out in the
co’d, too. G W. Ru3dan gets £5OO a year, which
will help to pay Bryc ,’s verdict and casts. Sir
Andrew Clarke draws £BOO, in spite of being in
receipt of pay from the English Government; and
Mrs. Petrie’s little sum of £lOO a year winds up
the list. It was granted as long ago as 1851 for
the meritorious conduct of Captain Flinders,


SIB HENRY PARKER IN
ADELAIDE.
APBbaIDB, Tuesday — This evening Sit
Henry Parkes was baaquetted in the Town-hall
by a number of the leading residents, the chaie
being occupied by Ch'ef Justice Way.
Sir Hknbt Pauses, who was received' with
prolonged cheering, said : It is in no set form
of words that 1 express my gratitude for the
very "kind—the unexpectedly kind—manner in
which this distinguished company has drank
my health, i should be lets than X think I ant
if I did not feel very acutely this expressiofl of
your sympathy and kindly feeling at so remote
»distance from the sphere of my activity
It is now close on 50 years
since I landed a young and friendless man in the
port of Sydney. I was yobng and inexperienced,
and utterly without wbat the world calls
“ means" for several years. T
//efrtally q>-c O r/
CI pc? e /-
yt er/t.y ce<$ t 4 u./■ &e*'er
pic//~e, yeS- ore? e.
of cOayfi'V'S tOfcU- 7f*-
r 2 cZ 6e*!?S act-rpS /
, h
// &
X landed in Australia m a time oi
great distress—a greater distress than has corns
over South Australia during the list threo or
four years—when bread was, I.think, i)». Sd. the
41b. ioaf. And I well remember that most
persons could apt afford to eat wheaten bread.
1 suffered what
most maa in «ncn » auuaiion .after—the de-
spondency of a etraogei iu a strange land, and
with a constant yearning to re:urn to the plans
of m.y birth.
Those who think that I have
been boro a politician make a great mistake
Ao / a/c?/e 7/o<J. rfc 4/o*/*? *iccy / ar ?* J t'
6jc oto ?«/- /*“- cje> -« t***
cl j, c ? forf/fej? a /r/rf*- '_/>*> or
y*>- *•** ■
'i l uw h rtfc /r /
this day I think lam about the most solitary
man La Australia. I belong to do club and!
never apend my time m clubs. I mean.no
reproach to anyone. (Laughter.) If I M
away from the Lard, bnraen oi my daily life.
Uone DOW • ” y - Krf * test »jojn»ent is to b*
\) e/' » ii i arc. h r/~ c<. c* / of) e. //o (O So’O'J*
{7s*./- you/>*>-■> °j> a / £*■ p/ y^*'^
spe <ut)o)e &./> *4 *- "
a/ tfe /pony7a/yJ
(i oecu.i *y frteod b*, «tat*d, [ b»,n
MsPruid my own optoions. even tf I felt' I wa*
!b * minority of one 1 thmk now bat ! was
perfectly right in raising my voice against th*
Bond a a Romance ("Hear, hear."’)
.// <-ct2- r f/S // € J >-y , V 6 IV C( fd
Tn tbe colony of New Sooth
,T " have codesTcreo to carry out. H policy. in
for *» circumstances would ndrnit, on the policy
cl the parent Mite. I. (or one, do net best-
's'-e to declare myself « believer in the tn
Uehtened integrity apd the moral bravery of
England as- the groat civ!User of the world.
l, ft/*, Qoy 7*? } / /
s**.77 / /T^-s/ za //uj /><* /
»///-/&<, a^yt K>r4~t y c / c 7jf /
First Person Singular.


The Roman Catholic Missionary Movement in Australia.
“300,000 acres are to be given to the R. C. Missionaries in Australia as a grant to further the conversion of the aborigines." -Cabled Lie.
Here you have a portrait of the future Bishop of Budgeree-Budgeree as he will appear at the moment of uttering his hereafter-to-be-famous manifesto against eating
Chinamen after 12 o’clock on Thursday night.


Society
DELBECK
[?]LIMS
Mis. A, K Finlay, (the widotvel daughter
of Sir Hercules Robinson), will bring a handsome
jointure to Mr. Charles Durant, her new husband,
Glenormiston being one of the richest estates in
Austra’ia. The late Mr. A. K, Finlay was one of the
only two Australians who have contracted a matri-
monial alliance with vice-royalty, the other being
Mr. Charles Bright, who married a daughter of
Viscount Canterbury.
* # *
Mr. Rupert Clarice, our only baronet’s
heir-apparent, has been presented with a daughter
at Brighton (Eng.). The news was received with
considerable disappointment by our only Baronet,
who is anxious to see the “ direct succession ” as-
sured two generations deep. By the way, it
would be only fit and proper, yerknow, for these
interesting events to come off at the ancestral
home of the Clarkes. Our Gracious Queen always
retired to Windsor Castle at such times.
• * *
Lady Loch's “Queen’s Fund” continues
to meet with the scantiest kind of encouragement
from the loyal citizens of Victoria, although all
kinds of efforts are being made to secure subscrip-
tions. Miss Deakin—-a sister of the Hon. Aifred's
—has been appointed secretary to the fund, and is
conducting a house-to-house canvass, but she is
meeting with little more encouragement than if
she were a hook-agent.
•* • •
The Marquis and Marchioness of Drogheda
take only two servants with them on their Aus-
tralian tour. They don’t want any more. Two
are quite enough to inflict gratuitously on a
colonial governor’s quarters.
* *
“The knight of the rueful countenance,”
Sir James Lorimer, Victorian Minister of Defence,
returned to Australia by the Rome. The family
pew in Scots’ Church, and all the books it con-
tains, were duly branded “Sir Janns Lo-imsr”
as soon as it was announced by cablegram that
the worthy elder had been knighted.
* * *
The present Vice-regal regime of Tasmania
is somewhat economica l . The other d*y Lady
Hamilton traveled all tte way from Hobart to
Launceston, 120 miles, to have a consultation
with the local Jubilee people. Her ladyship on
arrival did not leave the railway station, and so
all parties had to wait upon her. Sbe had brought
sandwiches with her, and these shs quietly ate
while the members of her committee dtscu-sed
the desirableness of founding a Children's Hos-
pital. Having concluded the consultation, the
lady went into the Park opposite for a stretch,
and thereafter immediately took train back to
Hobart. The free pass on the line covered the
co3t of everything.
lb has just transpired that there is an
extra Knight of the Garter somewhere whom
nobody knew anything about. When a “ Garter ”
dies his badge is solemnly returned to Her
Gracious, and is passed on by her to somebody
else, which is only one more way cf getting into a
dead man’s clothes ; but when the Sultan Abdul
Aziz was sent out of existencs by the aid of a
pair of scissors he died amid much confusion,
and his garter never lurne d up. Probably it is
now in the possession of some lean and dirty
Moslem in Syria or Anatolia, who created himself
a Knight without asking Victoria’s permission,
and possibly some day, when a State function is in
progress, he may roll-up in his turban and blanket
and his two long brown legs and insist on taking
part. If he does, there will most likely be a row.
* * *
It is reported that two London jewellery
firms intend sending out £500,000 worth of
diamonds to the Melbourne Exhibition. If they do
the next thing will he two London firms groping
on all fours underneath the show-cases in search
of £250 worth of stones which the Victorian
burglar missed in his hurry. The original half-
million, if it ever leaves London, will leave it
never, never to return.
• « •
Sydney E. News says that a girl has been
roaming about in New Zealand with a dog-chain
round her wa’st under the impression that she
v as chained np and being starved, and then adds
pathetically : “ The unfortunate girl was adopted
by a lady.” If the act of adoption was anterior
to the wandering about, we know all about it, and
there is no particular dark and dreadsome mystery
involved.
• # *
The district of Inverell is, according to
Premier Parkes, “ one of inexhaustible resources.”
Which reminds us that during the last decade five
murders- exclusive of the Wyndham tragedy-
have been perpetrated in that favoured locality,
and it has a tolerably strong record in other de-
partments of crime as well. A special Commission
should he at once sent up to sample the Inverell
air—and whisky.
• * *
The result of the recent sensational elope-
ment from Sandhurst (Vic.) is a suit for divorce
instituted by Mrs. King, the wife of the “gay
Lothario.” The petitioner is 30, and Henry John
King, the respondent, is 32. The latter, in a
letter to his wife, says that he will place no diffi-
culties in the way of the divorce, and that when it
is granted he will immediately proceed to marry
Miss Margaret Charlton, the young heiress with
whom he ran away to Sydney. However, the
great problem is—Will Miss Charlton proceed to
marry this latest addition to the world's long roll
of giddy music-teachers ? Apropos of the frivolous-
ness of the guild in question there is the story
of the Parisian lady, who, when told about the
spotless innocence of the English Queen Elizabeth,
drily observed : * Ah, then she never could have
had a music-master.”
» » #
Apropos, Mr. King afore sail, in a letter
read in court during tl e trial, expressed a wish to
the effect that his wife should regard him as dead
and buried, with a duly-receipted utderfaker’s
bill pasted on hi 3 tombstone. But his lawful
spouse evidently intends to take a more practical
view of the matter than that. She claims main-
tenance.
• • *
A tremendous demand has arisen in
Hobart for arnica and Wizard Oil, while homes
are left mTidy, children uncared for, and dinners
uncooked. All this means that a skatiog rink
has been opened in that city which draws like a
soap-and sugar plaster. The mornings are de-
voted to ladies and children, consequently bruises
and aches are the principal topics of conversation
at o o’clock tea.
* * *
It Sydney now-a-days, the proper caper is
to give a skatiDg-party instead of a dance. It is
so much cheaper, you know ; one can give four
big skating parties for the cost of one small ball.
To say nothing of the fact that the kudos attach-
ing to four skating parties, each one of them re-
ported at full length in the dailies and fat week-
lies, is somethiag tremenjious.
Dear Bulletin.—
The recent homicidal
mania of a squatter has
just brought to m’nd an
argument that I had with
some ca'.ny Scotch folk
anenta “daft minister."
Probably you ramemb r
him, poor old S . I
contend that, a 3 soen as
a man becomes by com-
mon onsent, known to
the war Id as “cranky,
“fooly,” “loony,” ‘VaR,”
&c., then he should > e
under some sup rvision
or guarantee. Witness
a ycung gentleman wlo
was bearded with a far-
mer because he was soft
and had entered in h's
diary, “Today I killed
a little boy,” which®in
sooth he had done. Agai \
a labourer called Tom
Arnott took it into his
head that the Free Church
of Scotland had formed
a pi, t against him. The
outcome was that he
murdered a boy v i h a
road-hammer. In this
country “Cranky Teste.”
slew a little girl because
her father was a d d
Scotchman ; and so on ad
nauseam ad infinitum.
On the Rivers and in the
back-blocks there are
hundreds of peripatetic
cranks, and it is a dis-
graceful fact that they
are made the sport of
those who ought to know
better. This last sen-
tence is one for them and
two for your's tending
that way: Scotty the
Wrinkle®.
• * *
A religious lady up
South—not unknown to
pulpit fame receives
her monthly supply of
dairy produce from a
certain country district.
A little while ago she
wrote to the storekeeper
who supplies the butter,
&e , requesting permis-
sion t o occasionally send
small p ircels when re-
turning the supposed-to-
be empty basket, for the
banefi r . of a church
bazaa ’, as she “ consi-
dered it her duty to save
the Lord’s twopences
when practicable.” As
“empties” are con-
veyed by coach free,
while one shill ; ng is
charged for each parcel,
the said twopences are .
saved at the expense of the coach-proprietor.
Yet surely such a devout woman must have
read, “ Render unto Canar,” &c.
* • *
A well known Sydney solic t>r was re-
cently in correspondence with a brother luminary
in Belgium. Five letters we-e received by the
Sydney man. The first was addressed “Mr. -,
the next “Mrs. the next post brought one
addressed “ Mrs. R’chard ” ; again came
“Master and lastly, but certainly not
leastly, the Pitt-street notary-public was addressed
aa “si r ” Fact. Who shall now say that
rapid postal communication is not Anglicising the
French, or Frenchifying the English ?
* * *
Here is a pathetic tale of the British
nobility. One beautiful autumn evening a few
weeks ago, when the sun was sinking in the blue
waters of the English Channel, the Dowager Lady
Meux sat weeping on the Calais jetty. She was
reclining on a jewel-case containing diamonds
valued at £7OOO, and her feet were elevated on a
bonnet-box, and her maid, who was also weepiog,
was inclined to be hysterical, and drummed on
the planks with her feet. They had lost the boat,
and were all forlorn. At last the boo hooa of the
lady attracted the attention of a gentlemanly
stranger, who presented his card, and volunteered
to take charge of them and see them across by the
evening boat, and, in addition to this, he looked
after the luggage, and put up at the same hotel
with them and brought the lsdy an early cup of
tea before she was up, and otherwise officiated as
tame cat to the tearful female Next evening he
bowed himself out, and went about his own busi-
ness, and 48 hours later the peeress opened her
j ewel- case. Then arose a shriek which rang through
the listless hotel and the blase club next door—a
shriek that scudded down the tracks of the back-
yard, and scared the early piety out of the waiter.
The gentlemanly stranger who brought up the cup
of tea in the morning had gone with the diamonds,
and the lady was left insolvent.
Parkes told the Adelaideians the other
night that he was the most solitary man in Aus-
tralia. Has “ the Wanderer ” been enjoying the
blis j of solitude ever since that night when he
and Stella found themselves mantled in snow
“ six thousand feet above the sea, love ” ?
* * *
At a recent social shivoo, that particularly
nice young man, Mr. Frank Farnell, unblushingly
declared that he “looked forward to the time
when he would be able to speak of the many
excellent qualities of the ladies (pliral, if you
please) from experience.”
* * *
Forty four case 3 of liquor were seized ia
Chinese dens, little Bourke-street, Melbourne, last
week, by excise officers. Ydt pro Chinese philan-
thropists tell us that John doesn’t drink. John
does drink; bat it never goes to his head. Not
much. It runs to his pigtail.
* * *
Mayor Riley has been going it a little too
strong for the Cimpbelltown Herald’s fancy. At
the mayoral luncheon, Sir Alban unbosomed him-
self over the wine, and informed the assembled
guests that when he “ first thought of accepting
the office of Mayor of the gr. at city of Sydney
his wife cried, and did all she could to dissuade
him from taking the step.” Editor Webb states
that he was present at his Worship’s election, and
remembers well that so anxious was Mrs. Riley
over the contest that as soon as the newly-elected
Mayor emerged she threw her arms around him,
and gave him about the warmest kiss he ever had.
Details of this kind are harrowingly domestic.
* * *
Tee gory falsehood trotted out by the
Evening Nooze and the Echo to the effect that
Wyndham, the religious maniac, slaughtered
several brood mares and offered up a sacrifice of
wine prior to the tragedy, shows how eagerly
these morbid sensation-thirsty organs swallow
every rumour that panders to their taste. It is
about time that Alfred offered up some of his
prize pig 3— or prize bulls—to appease the gods for
all the outrages on eternal truth that his staff
have perpetrated.
# * *
The Down and Gumtree Jernil is an
enterprising paper. It offers prizes for stories the
merit of which will be decided by the readers
themselves. Consequently, the reader who buys
the mist Jernils and distributes the coupons ap-
proving of his own yarn among his friends with
instructions to forward same to the editor, will get
the prize, be his little “pitch” never so poor.
That’s how it’s done.
* * *
Miss Cleveland, sister of President Cleve-
land, has become sub-directress of a girls’ school
in New York. We don’t know exactly what a
sub-directress is, but if it is anything like
a lady superintendent, there will be trouble in
that school before the lovely spring time comes
again. #
Dr. Neild, who conducted the post mortem
on the unfortunate Miss Swain, stated that in all
his experience he never met such a flue figure of a
woman. As a veteran theatre-goer and dramatic
critic the doctor must have put his glasses on
plenty of female beauty, so his opinion is worth
something. 1 1 this connection we are pleased io
see that the Melbeurne Herald was able to con-
tradict “ a painful rumour that deceased was
buried without her haring been washed and
dressed ” Accerding to the Herald Dr. Neild
himself assisted to make Mis 3 Swain’s last earthly
toilet. Such details as that reflect credit on the
enterprising ghouls who dig them up for public
edification. Toe news that a poor girl’s co-pse
was oarefully washed will make sunshine in many
an Australian home.
* * *
He was a very eminent Australian citizen
down north, and she was the recognised wi'e of
his bosom—his official wi f e, in short. One night,
a week or two ago, he informed her—same old
story—that he had urgent business at the office,
and straightway departed thence. She, actuated
by a desire to go shopping, suddenly took a tram,
and while walking past an office heard a sound of
revelry by night borne upon the breezes. Recog.
nising the voice of He, she stopped before the door
and knocked. He, from within, enquired who it w. 8
that demanded aimibtanoe. She, from without*
said “Me.” He replied, *' Go hone. lam bu3y. j
[He wa».] But she refused to go, and waited. Then
she grew furious, and, with her umbrella handle,
smashed a pane in his office window, and dis-
covered He in company with another She. She
No. 1 then squeezed her way in at the door, which
he, terrified at the di ,turbance, had incautiously
half opened. Sundry bottles of fizz were on the
table, one of which she picked up and
with it half-brained She No. 2. A Homeric
battle ensued. He got bitten by the boss
She, who, after she had expended the
froth of her rage, hastily clutched and departed
with various disjecta membra of attire always
wanted on any voyage and with these fled into
the streets. The rest of the story is that when
the partner of He arrived at the office next morning
he was so convinced that a burglary had been com-
mitted that he placed the matter in the hands of
the detectives. Tno result of their enquiries is as
above. A stormy session may be looked for by
that honourable member.
♦ * *
What is considered a novelty in Paris is a
dre33-suit made in one piece. The waistcoat has
no back, the shirt consists of a front, the cuffs
are stitched into the coat-sleeves, and a s’ngle set
of buttons fixes the whole contrivance. There’s
nothing new ’neath the sun. The ‘' first part ”
dress-suits in a minstrel show are “ faked" in
precisely the same manner.
Warrnambool is starting a company to
distil whisky from potatoes. The coming joke
will be to watch the sixpenny-bar connoisseur
push back a glasß of genuine whisky in disgust as
he growls, “Gimme Robertson’s—none o'that
thrash for me,” and subsequently smacks his lips
as he swallows a nip of Warnambool “ spud-
juice."
* * *
Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings,
&o. This from the “ ever popular journal:
11 From a table of mortality statistics just published, it
appears that the death rate among public-house or hotel
servants is nearly four times as high as.that for clergymen or
ministers, who show the lowest rate of mortality.'’
We now give another specimen or two
" From uncompiled data it is shown that those who inter-
view J ames Hennessy have a higher rate of mortality th an
steady labouring men who do not drink or smoke.”
“ From the death rate of a well-known statistician it ap-
pears that men who are blasted by dynamite are more sub-
ject to inquests than prisoners in an easy gaol.”
“ The percentage of deaths on a battle-field during acti jn
is 4500 times more than that of the Sydney Lancers "
* * *
At a recent meeting in Sydney Town
Hall, Martin Gue3t, the blind park-orator, de-
clared that “ nlnepence out of every shilling con-
tributed to tbe blind institutions, so largely sup-
ported by the public, went to men who could
see.” Can this be true 1
* * *
Some well-meaning Christian has obviated
a reredo3 controversy in West Maitland by steal-
ing a wooden crois from the Anglican church.
* * *
Alderman Playfair says that there are 1000
offices to let between Circular Quay and the G.P.
Office, Sydney. This is cheering news to the
Association. If they get evicted from
their present quarters, their plan of campaign is
pretty clear.
There is a gaol in Queensland where the
lady boarders have quite a good time of it. One
of the fair creatures “is allowed at all hours into
the gaoler's house, where she plays the gaoler's
piano late at night and keeps the warders awake.”
Id another prison, at Townsville, one hard-labour
gentleman has learned to play chess, and has
worried through 700 games in three months, but
he speaks very unfavourably of the officials, who
actually refused (o allow him to go to Adelaide to
take part in the chess tournament, although he
was willing to pledge his word that he would re-
turn sometime or perhaps a little later. Gaol life
in Queensland, according to the recent Commis
sion, appears to be rather a rosy existence—if you
get into the proper sort of gaol. The Commis-
sion’s stories almost remind one of the state of
affairs at Darlinghurst prison 40 years ago, when
troopers who had to escort good looking women
from Sydney to Parramatta took three weeks in
travelling 14 miles.
* * *
Listen, also give ear : “ The meeting of
ladies; called by the Mayor of Kempsey, to take
some step 3 in assisting to raise money for the
Queen’s Jubilee Fund, was a failure, as no ladies
attended.” H’m. Wonder whether there were
any women there ?
* * *
The annual St. "V incant’s ball was held in
the Exhibition Building, Sydney, on the 14th inst.
The Governor and Lady Carington were present,
the latter being attired in a trained robe of pale
blue brocade, with diamond ornaments. Mrs.
Riley appeared in a handsome combination of
white satiD, with a blue brocaded train and
bodice. Among the other guests were Major
General and Mr?. Richardson, Mr. and Mrs
Henry Austin, Messrs. Slattery, J, H. Want, G
H. Reid, and John Gannon, Mr. and Mrs. Leopold
Yates, and many more—including every budding
politician who angles after the Irish vote.
* * *
The heavy father or stern parient of the
stage is likely to have a new part written for him
at last. A certain couple recently perpetrated a
runnaway marriage, and, in the fullness of time,
the hot-headed pair returned, and the bride,
kneeling at dear Papa’s feat, all blushes, bustle,
and briny tears, exclaimed, “Forgive, forgive me
dearest father, for the sake of my poor sainted
mother in heaven I ask you to forgive your erring
child.” “ Forgive yer ! ” shouted the old man ;
“why, gorstrooth, I’m only too glad t’ get rid of
yer; and I’d have helped you to go long since I
only you’re so confoundedly pig-headed that if I
had encouraged you- in the least you’d have
We were asked to look at her, the hat was blue with
anary coloured trimming, the gown pink with a blue flower
over it aud round the waist w»a a bright cardinal material
with plenty of it, at the back. Our thought turned from
this combination to that seen in the beautiful Nacrede-
Pearle g ass and we readilv voted that there are Artists and
Artists, To the refind in taste it is a real treat to carefully
examine the works of the Potter made for us« as well as
adornment which are to be seen at Bray Bros., 402 and
404 George-street, Sydney Artists might go and wear their
crown at once if support was to come fi om such patrons as
above referred to.| Glass Bows and Love Knots are now
extensively used to trim Hats and Bonnets.*
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrß. HoOatbik, 86 and 80 King-street.*
We would advise all smokers to visit J. Noakf. s new
establishment 177 Pitt-street. He has the 1 argest assortment
of smoking material to be seen in Sydney, and his prices are
very moderate. He tells us that J. B. Pace’s Tobacco,
Bangle Brand, is taking the cake jnst now.*


pitched th’ man o’ yer heart to the living jingo
years since. You were never worth your keep,
an’ your bad temper, extravagance, idleness, and
scandalous goings on with fellers here have made
you the plague o’ my life, and if you hadn’t gone
off soon I'd have had to drown myself. Take her,
young man—you’ve been the best friend I ever
had —take her right away to T erusalem, or Japan,
if you like —and be happy with her if you can.
The young man said nothing, but as he arose and
dusted his knees he looked like a party who could
do a vary great deal of thinking. . /
Miss Frances Gillam Holden has issued a
volume of verse, * Her Father’s Darling and other
Child Pictures," for which William Woolls,
Ph. D , F.L.S., has written an introduction, but
we hardly think the book will get hold of the
wools of the multifariously minded crowd, as the
lady author is a better advertiser tian poet. The
collection is dedicated to Mrs. Alban Riley, but
there is not much ii it. If the so-called poems
are intended for the nursery they will serve their
purpose fairly, and that is about all one can say of
them, though for the sake of f air nee s we annex a
sample
“ 'Oo tissel me, ’oo naugh’y uncle.
And I didn’t want to be tiseed.”
It is needless to say that the speaker is of the
feminine gender, and consequently relents with —
“I won’t never hit ’oo §o hard aden,
I will let ’oo tiss me n-n-o : o w-w !’’
This is very true of the sex; they talk plainer,
perhaps, but still in the same strain at 18, or, for
the matter of that, at 80 ; but, shade of Phil.
M Carroll, it isn’t poetry. There’s a lot of similar
jingle about “ puppies and kittens and babies ”
our triune abhorrence—the Queen’s Birthday,
kisses (children’s), “frank eyes,” “noisy chatter-
ings,” “silken tresses,” “woman’s deft and gentle
touch,” “ferny fronds,” “gentle moanings,”
“little gasps for breath,” admonitions to “pick
the dearie up” and put her “nice white nig’atey
on” —whatever that may mean —“ wee piggies,”
et hoc genus omne, but we’ve looked ia vain for a
s’ab of inspiration.
* * *
That large section of the paid cihcera of
the N.S.W. military forces who have very red
noses and air mattress legs are awaiting with
some interest not to say trepidation, the issue of
Major-General’s Schaw’s report The document,
it is said, will be of a nature c dculated to make
many gallant officers sit up and snort.
« * *
Madame Schiller, the \ ianiste, is related
to a Sydney legal luminary, with whose family she
has been staj ing.
* * •
The c-epuscu’ar and unsubstantial wraith
that gibbers and squirms along in the antipodal
dust under the delirious misnomer of “ Colonial
Sassi ty ”is a miserably flunkeyish and grovelling
imitation of the brand that passes current beneath
the remote effulgence of the Ursa Major, stamped
with the ball-mark of aristocratic approval and
gilded with a sheeny smile which ia a reflection of
Albert Edward's tawny bear!. Wales waltzes
round with a tinplate or a Royal dish cover and
collects “ dibbs ” for the Imperial Institute. He
exhibit his fleshy shoulders at football matches
and church bazaars on consideration of nailing
the coin for his pet insanity. Carington at
creation’s end, though not blessed with avoirdu-
pois or baldness, does his best in a similar fashion,
as well as he knows how, and attempts to realise
the “ thirguesj of the unhere” in woeful efforts
to All the honoured saucer of the Queen’s Fund—
the gubernatorial mode of committing charity.
This was admirably txemplefled by the advertise-
ments anent a recent grand fancy dress skating
carnival which, with brazen effroateryandunblush-
ing truthfulness, announced that the catch of the
night was no hoax ; “ Lord and Lady Car.'ngton
will posi'ively he pi cent. . . . One-third of
the proceeds to he devo’ed to the Queen’s Fund.”
After this the informat on that “ all skaters mutt
be in fancy dress, ” though “ a few will be allowed
in evening dress,” falls flat and lame like kerosene
on a whisky-tinctured pa’ate. But the affair did
not by any means prove the boom it was expected,
and now herculean efforts are being put forth by
the ladies’ committee to make the Queen’s Fund a
fashionable fad with somethiog “ dlstangy ’’
about it..
• * *
Bastles are now" defended on the ground
that no woman can he held responsible for what
goes on behind her back.
* * *
Our old friend Louis of Battenberg has,
by an act of gross corruption, been appointed cap-
tain of HM S. Dreadnought over the heads of
scores of his seniors. By the way, a certain
prince whom Louis knows will shortly have
another opportunity of paying his platonic re-
spects to the Melbourne lady whose husband
punched him in the eye.
4 * *
Some reverend thingammytite has spent
a night in a ballroom, and he proceeds to describe
what he saw, and particularly what he saw of that
sinful gyration, the waltz, in the columns of a re-
ligions publication called the Christian Intelli-
gencer, a paper which was originally founded to
supply intelligence to Christians who hadn’t any.
This is the way the holy men unwinds himself :
“ The ladies and gents stand face to face, the latter en‘
circling their partners’ waists with one arm. The gents are
vary eiest, but lean a little h ck, while the ladies lean for-
ward, then all wheel at.d whirl, cir. Is and curl. The feet
and luels of the geUs go rip rap, tippity tap. Ladies feet
go tippity tip. Th-n all go rippity, c.ippity, slippity, tip-
pity, bippity. skippity. hoppity, jumpity, bumpity, thump.
Ladies fly off by cehtrifsg-U momentum. Gents pull ladies
hard and close. 1 hey reel, swing, sdde. sling, look tender,
look silly, look dizz . Feet fly, dresses fly, skirts fly, all fly.
It looks tuggity, pullity, equetzity, rabbity rap. The men
look like a cros3 between a steelyards and limberjacks. The
maidens tuck dawn their chins very low, or raise them ex-
ceedingly high. Some s nile, some grin, some giggle, some
pout somes eer, and all perspire freely. The laoies faces
are brought against those of tne men, or into thtir bosoms,
breast against breast, nose against nos* 3 , toes against toes.
Now, they go in again making a s.und like Georgey, porgey,
dearey, pearey, coachey, poachy. This dance is not much,
but it is the extras I object to.”
Here shines the unctuous gospel flat as of old.
* * *
Miss Essie Jenyns and Mias Amy Sherwin
were among the guests at Lady Carington s At
Home ” on Thursday last.
• • *
Some time ago the ladies of Randwick
gave a dance to tne bachelors, and on the 13th
inst. the bachelors returned the compliment. It
i» more blessed to give than to receive. About
170 guests were present.
* * *
The most successful skating party of the
season was given on tne 13ch inst. bp Colonel and
Mrs Roberts, Lieut.-Colonel Murphy, Lieut -
Colonel and Mrs. Airey, Major and Mrs. H. P.
Airey, Captain Baynes, and several lieutenants
(this paper doesn’t take any stock of anybody less
important than a captain). Between 500 and 600
guests were present, hut there were hardly any
falls. The visitors began to roll up in their gilded
chariots about 3 o’clock, and handed their cards
to the principal flunkey by whom they were passed
to the inner flunkey, who mentioned the faot to
the duke inside, and he thereupon gave orders to
the inner flunkey to inform the outer bedizened
menial that they might come in. This kept the
concourse remarkably select, and a very agreeable
afternoon was spent.
/
/ There is a movement on foot in Sydney to
present the Princess of Wales with a souvenir on
her silver weddiDg day, next March.
» • •
Henry of Battenberg will again shortly be
a happy father.
* * *
The latest domestic infliction consists in the
rounding up of “ slaveys’’ to attend balls, socials,
&c , in aid of churches and sisterhoods, the mis-
t’ ess and the old man being left to wash the
dishes, mind the children, and otherwise mak)
themselves useful during their absence. Bridget
or Mary Ann invariably states that her religious
feelin’s will not allow her to shirk an entertain-
ment which has been got up for a purely
charitable purpose, and when she takes
up this position you couldn’t hold the
heavenly-minded creature with ropes, and
she won’t come back till after midnight. Or
if you should by any chance succeed in spoiling
her benevolent purpose she takes it out in being
slap-dashy and insolent, and ten to .one the
launches harself, quite accidentally, on the floor
as she is bringing in the dinner, and makes the
place swim in gravy. She also breaks a lot of
plates. Oa the whole, it is cheaper to let her go,
and then she gets in at the window in the small
houra of the morning, and is too tired to get up
and make the breakfast.
* * *
Baron Yon Mueller has a more biting
tongue than we would have thought possible in a
gentleman whose life was given to the pursuit of
such a mild science as botany. At the reception
given to ihe Rev. Mr. Chalmers, the New Guinea
missionary, in Melbourne, a short while ago, the
Baron “expressed his admiration of the work
accomplished by Mr. Chalmers, and said he hoped
he would continue to widen the great science of
geography!” The dash is ours. The Baron
seems to think that the discovery of, say (for we
are not botanists), one new species of the order of
cryptogami is the cause of more joy in tho civil-
ised part of Heaven than the conversion of seven-
teen dozen, or any other indefinite number, of
cannibals to the true faith. And possibly he is
right,
WYLIE, THE CHAMPION OF THE WORLD.
A Prahran (Yic ) woman has obtained an
order for maintenance from her husband who re-
fused to support her, although she was deaf and
dumb. There is no pleasing some husbands.
* • *
Australia is still safe from the foreign in-
vader. A few nights ago one of her gallant de-
fenders was put to a terrible test at Ballarat. He
heard a noise in his house, and naturally seized
upon his small eighteen chambered revolver and
crept down the stairs, gritting his teeth. The
seventh shot was successful in blowing away a
portion of his left hand. The goat escaped with a
severe fright—chiefly occasioned, it is said, by the
fear that Colonel Sleep might have hurt himself.
The goat was an old retainer of the family, and
was only taking the clothes in at the time. Mil-
lions would not induce us to tell the name of the
gallant soldier connected with this affair!
* * *
Certain persons, who probably would be
better employed in “minding their own knitting,”
state that Mr. A. T. Clark, M.L.A., Williamstown
(Vic.), owes a considerable amount of his elo-
quence to his wife. V hat if he does ? He is in
the situation of many men who are almost as
good, if not quite so hirsute. But it seems that
Mrs. Clark performed the ceremony of “turning
on the gas” at a new gasworks the other day.
Hence the jeers. By this simple act Mrs. Clark
has become a celebrity. If she had “ turned off"
her husband’s “gas” she would have been a
heroine.
# # *
We learn from a Queensland contemporary
that, on account of the small-pox which has
broken out at Port Darwin, “fears are entertained
that the dread disease will get among the blacks
in the Northern Territory." This would be a tre-
mendous pity. Goodness knows, the poor civil
servants and troopers up there have not such a
good time that they can afford to have their bast
game worried about and rendered incapable of a
good day’s run by exotic diseases of thi3 sort.
There is a considerable deal of popular indignation
in Port Darwin against small-pox, ani we do not
wonder at it—much. At the same time (if we
mu3t tell the unvarnished truth about the matter)
we have lived for a short period in Port Darwin
and would have welcomed with open arms any
visitor —even the cholera morbus. This, however,
has nothing to do with the prognosticated epi-
demic among the blackfellows. They should be
preserved. Are there no game-laws up there 1
# • ♦
A woman brought her husband before the
Melbourae Court the other day for maintenance.
In the course of her examination she said she bad
b:en “married to him for fourteen years, and
durirg the whole of that time he had not been
sober for any one month.” You know what his
profession was, of course! But you don’t. You
think he wa3 a journalist. He wasn’t. He was a
wharf-labourer. There, now ! Thera are worse
people than journalists. They are mostly dead, or
in the police force,
* * *
The only paper we have yet seen which
has the unblushing courage of its opinions is one
published in Brisbane. Its illustrations are,
almost entirely, of hotels. In the last number we
came across there was a spirited drawing of a
free-lunch bar. There is a fine strain of gratitude
in this.
* * *
While the saleof MadamaHizard’sbricka-
brackery was going oa in Melbourne lately the
aesthetic reporter of the Age, who was told off to
look after it, said: “ The exceptional oppor-
tunities Bhe enjoyed enabled her to gather an ex-
tensive colleotion of antiques of all descriptions,
to which she added considerably by her own pro-
ductions." Humph! We suppose that by this time
mo3t of them are sold, but it would give us a pen
sive pleasure to know which are the more antique
—those she collected or those she “ produced.”
* * *
The Rev. Mr. Chalmers must surely have
got—hem—eacentricised by his lorg sojourn
among the New Guinea swages. He said in a
lecture which he delivered in Melbourne lately
that “ the missionaries had adopted the plan of
not interfering with a native who had more than
one wife. It a native with two or three wives
wished to ba baptised he was not asked < o deprive
himself of any of his wives. The missionaries
acted on the principle that the Gospel of God was
not given to man to cause sorrow to any living
soul.” This prodigious statement brought forth a
burst of applause—which, weregrefc to say, seemed
to proceed principally from the bald-headed part
of the congregation. We would like to know
what John Knox would have to say about it.
“Tampering with the Bvil One,’ would have
been his mildest remark. The Jesuits did the
same For our own port, we have always had a
yearning to go to New Guinea. Now it has be-
came an absolute passion.
• * *
In the Ballarat suit of M‘Connochie v.
M'Connochie, the wife seeks l'udicial separation
chiefly on the alleged ground that her husband,
a doctor in good practice, unjustly accuses her of
improper familiarity with a number of Roman
Catholic priests.
• # •
A pert young miss has gob herself into
trouble for larceny at a church fair in Richmond
(Melb ) This case is not to create a precedent, we
presume.
* * •
He was the great Begum of a third-rate
Victorian town; a potent, grave, and learned
gentleman; a church warden, and a J.P. to boot.
He was held in high esteem by the majority of the
townspeople, but when, whilst driving home one
night, he ran the wheel of his trap against a tele-
graph-post, and, after surveying the obstacle for
some time, gravely borrowed an axe and started
to clear a way by hewing down the post, he
created an unpleasant public impression, in defer-
ence to which he subsequently resigned the secre-
taryship of the local Abstinence Society. This
par. is merely a d y statement of facts.
• « •
The following advertisement suggests a lot
of things It is from a South Australian paper :
“ YPOOLD any kind gentleman aiopS a big G./T, over
38; entirely given up. Address, ‘Rose,’this offic
What staggers us mod- iu connection with this
matter is the inhuman recklessness of the party
who is prej ared to entirely give up a big girl over
30. Wfiat is to become of her? Who is to hear
hsr say her prayers in the evening, and com-
fort her if she crie3 at 2 a.m under the impression
that the cis a bogeymanja the ro sm ? Who is to
look after her no3e and her pinny, and wa3h her
face? A mm can’t do tli-se ttinga, and this
“ ad.” is addressed to men only ; it takes a middle-
age I, motherly woman to a'ttr a girl over 30
and prevent her polling the cat’s tail, and gener-
ally to make her jo mg life a thing of sunshine,
Unless a woman comes to the rescue we don’t
know what will become of that g’rl.
* -X- -x-
The Melbourne Chinese are to erect a
gorgeous club house. Poo: John! When he rolls
home at 2 4 m. to his Ma'y Ann, and awakes late
next morning with ahead on him he will indeed
reaHse the joys of Western civilization,
* * *
The latest royal divorce is that of King
Pomaro of the Society Islands, who thinks a disso,
lution of partnership between him and Queen
Marau, indispensable to his peace of mind. Queen
Marau is a lovely brunette who learned how to
make love in Paris.
* * *
A Cook town (Q.) editor believes that the
white woman found living with the blacks was a
Scandinavian, captured wnen she was a child. No
Northern editor can be brought to believe in
white aboriginals, although Thady OKane has
discovered a genus he calls ‘‘ white Chinkies.”
* * *
The Queensland gaol c >mmissior.ers repoit
of Toowoomba gaol that ‘‘no woman can enter
that place without becoming degraded and losing
self-respect.” Dear, dear ! And yet many of the
Southern ladies whe have been in gaol are so ro-
ll aed and think eueh a lot of themselves. Too-
I woomba prison must indeed be a b.dly-conducted
institution.
# * *
I Public opinion is grievously divided in
Bega (ST.S. W.) just now over a slant eyed Chinese
sly-grog case. Some of the inhabitants allege
that the accused Bang Hi was miles away at the
time when the police Bwore he was selling
“ blandy. ’ The people who have to decide be-
tween a policeman and a Chinkie must be in an
hideous state of distraedm.
* * *
The Macleay Argus man wants to know if
Heaven is fitted up like a theatre. He asked the
question because a local parson has appointed a
sort of dre3S-circle and stalls arrangement in hid
church, where the Miss Do Joneses are separated
from “such trash” as the Joneses.
•
A word in your ear, Policeman X. It has
been observed that when a policeman charges a
man with drunkenness ‘ he was very dhrunk,
your worship—quite onseasible. ’ But it a poor
devil is charged with something else and pleads
liquor, the bobby avows, “He had dhrink taken,
your worship, but he knew what he was doing.”
* * *
Douglas Sladen has been commissioned to
compile a volume of exclusively Australian poetry
for Mr. Walter Scott's “ Canterbury Poets.”
What curse is there upon poor Australia that this
spineless, finicking, word-churner should be
shoved forward a 3 the compiler of our Australian
Anthology ? Tne everlasting Sladen is now in-
viting contributions from Australian songsters.
We recommend to Sladen the following gifted
sons of song in these Southern lands: —Bab.
Scott (the Xoozk), Henry Parkes, Henry Ilallo-
ran, C. M.G., the late Stilt Jinkins (“ the poet of
Geelong ”), the elegiac and epitaphical poets of
the Melbourne Age, Baird (the Melbourne man
who sticks you up at the corner of the street and
gives you a copy of his “ latest trifle ”), and sundry
others whom we can name.
* * *
We were in a swagger Sydney book-shop
the other day when one of two sweet creatures-
from Darlirg Point asked for a copy of Miss
Braddon’s latest boook, “ Mohawks.” Then the
other sweet creature said bhe thought she’d lake a
copy too, and presently we also invested two
shillings in Mohawks. M ; ss Braddon, we find, is
getting no better very fast; she has clearly made
up her mind not to be beaten even by
our dis’.irgnished countrywoman, Mr 3. Campbell
Praed. In Mohawks Mr. Topsparkle and the
Lady Judith are arrarging to elope :
“ Let not the thought of scandal stop you ” (says the
te copter).
"There are other reas ns” (replies the heroine). “ for one
I cannot run away without my clothes."
“ Cloth-s can be bought anywhere.”
“.Not mi). clothes,” answered Judith lightly. “Do you
supposs I could live in auy gown that was not made by Mrs.
Tempest? iSheteut me home a lutestring nightgown of the
sweetest sea-green only yesterday. I must take that with
me wherever I go. Vou don't know how well I look in it. ‘
” Incomparable,lore, I am assured; .ike Venus Anadyo-
mene with the green shining water rippling over her round
white limbs. Well, we will wait for tire lutestring night-
gown, if needs be, and h,lf-a-dozen pack-horse loads of
gowns and furbelows, if you wih; only let]our flight] be im-
mediate. I c,n live no longer without you.”
There now! People who read yellow-backs had
henceforth better cover them with brown paper.
* * *
From a Dublin paper we learn that “Mr.
John Wiliam O’Brien, 8.i., M. 8., Co. 8., cf
Trinity College, having been examined, was
admitted a Fellow of the Royal College of Sur-
geons.” We are pleased to record the sucoess cf
a yourg Australian in other lines of life than
cricket and rowing. Dr. O'Brien is a native of
Ballarat, and was educated as a civil engineer.
At 21 years of age he obtained certificates as a
licensed surveyor and mining engineer, and com-
menced active work. But having a penchant for
medicine he began studying it privately, reading
hard in his tent at night. Iu seven years he saved
enough money to be enabled to leave Australia
for Ireland and enter himself at Trinity College,
Dublin. At such an age it is not easy to afresh
commence grinding at Greek and Laths, but Dr.
O’Brien did so, took his Bachelor of Arcs degree,
and then walked the hospitals aid studied at the
College of Surgeons. Last year he took the gold
medal for surgery, and this year has gained his
fellowship. Such a record b ats that of our old
friend, Jacob. We understand that there is a
Rachel in this case who will accompany Dr.
O’Brien on his approaching return to Me bourne,
where he will commence practice. Advance
Australia.


Mr. CJibborn, the A.J.O. Secretary, haa
been earnestly requested to form another en-
closure at Hardwick racecourse—one with a
pretty high fence to it, and the Permanent Artil-
lery to guard the entrance. The fact is that some
of the young gentlemen with whom rests the
delightful task of issuing invitations for a certain
swell club ball have been so thoughtless as to
send tickets to various fair dames without in-
viting their husbands. Large numbers Of the
latter are prowling round with clubs—not Union
Clubs, dontcherknow—and guns, and so it is not
just now very safe for the offending bachelors to
be seen in their ordinary resorts at the race-
course.
* * *
There is much trouble in a certain firm up
West owing to the mysterious disappearance of
valuable portable stock. The services of the de-
tectives having been called in, one of the partners
and his colleagues are at variance over the
matter.
* * *
The other day a man went into the office
of a certain well-known “financier” and cashed a
solidly-endorsed bill for a few hundreds. A little
while after he had cleared out with the money in
his pocket a friend of the discounter’s, when made
aware of the transaction, remarked that he was
almost sure the ostensible endorser’s signature
wasn’t genuine as he had plenty money and had
never been known to “ get up behind.” Enquiries
were made, and the signature found to be a
forgery. The discounter gave his customer three
hours to pay back the money, which was re-
covered. If you only knew the name of the finan-
cier’s customer, you would hold your breath.
* * *
That Deniliquin affair constitutes the
biggest Australian scandal on record. The dead
man, who seems to have been driven by his
trouble into a course of reckless drinking and fits
of apoplectic rage, is deeply to be sympathised
with. It only remains to be seen what course will
be adopted by those chiefly interested in hushing
up the grave accusations made.
* * *
Mrs. Society : “ What a lovely baby that
is we just passed.” Mrs. Fashion : “ Yes, it is
mine.” “Indeed!” “Oh, I am sure of it; I
recognised the nurse.”
* * *
The girl who won first prize (£5O) in the
Toowoomba girl show was Miss A. D. Broadfoot.
A local misanthrope writes to say that the whole
competition was a disgusting farce, got up to give
a few old fossils a chance to paw round with other
people’s girls and make ancient jokes at their ex-
pense under pretence of putting them through
their facings. From which we presume that his
special girl didn’t get a prize.
* • *
N.S.W. people drink and smoke too much,
according to Dr. Cortis. What a lot a man learns
after he has been a little while in Parliament !
• * •
Another “society ” man has been putting
his foot into it—by sending invitations to the dead.
* # *
It is said that our friend Benzon, the
“ Jubilee Juggins,” lost £12,000 over pigeons at
Preston the other day, of which large sum one
“Chippy Norton" is reported to have landed
£7OOO. Fools and their money, &c.
* # *
More alleged seduction of girls by their
religious advisers. In Queensland, when in future
a shepherd talks of taking his little testimonial
and clearing out, people will think it advisable to
chercher la femme.
* * *
Lady Carington’s favourite flower is the
native rose. At least so Baron Bob told the
assembled fruit growers of the Cumberland dis-
trict at the recent junketing. We hope this
“ favourite flower ” will keep its place longer than
the last. Not so very long ago Her Excellency de-
clared that the actonotus —vulgarly flannel-flower
—washer chosen favourite, and all Potts Point hung
them in their buttonholes and decorated their
vases with them. It’s the native rose this season.
Truly vice regal favourites are soon deposed.
There’s a moral in this—right on the surface, too !
• * •
It has been officially announced that the
dance which was to have been given on board
the Nelson has been put off through the
unfortunate death of that good officer,
Major Robilliard, and not through that of the late
ordinary seaman, Measures. The explanation has
been found very consoling at Potts’ Point, where
they say that the idea of postponing a hop through
the decease of a common seaman would be quite
preposterous.
* * *
From the rabid manner in which the
Sydney D.T. ineited Miss Holden to fly in the face
of the Board of Management and the hon, medical
staff of the Hospital for Sick Children, no one was
astonished at seeing that revolving journal turn
round on her and ridicule her on the eve of her
case being determined by the ballot-box. Call
you this a backing of your friends 2
* * *
The Sydney Liedertafel gives a grand con
ccrt on 28th September at the Exhibition Build-
ing, Prince Alfred Park.
* * *
Lady Brassey is ill. Too much diary,
probably.
* # #
Sir William Manning, who is now a little
better, is about to finally retire from the N.S.W.
Bench. He will in all probability be succeeded as
Equity judge by the able Mr. Deffell, of the In-
solvency Court.
• * »
“A Bachelor” writes to the Sydney
papers suggesting that Government should take
steps to see that lodging-houses are kept clean.
The Bulletin concurs. It is a shame that a
man’s diggings should on the average be not half
as clean as his gaol,
* * *
At Band wick races, last Saturday, a little
incident occurred which took well and gave plea-
sure to all. The races were over, and the fours-in-
hand were taking their departure, watched by an
admiring crowd. The Governor’s turn-out got
away all right, then the Union Club in fine style,
tooting their horn. Meanwhile the Australian
Club drag, with its load of swells, stood as still as
a stone. One by one the drags rolled off; at last only
two, belonging to members of the committee, were
left, besides the Australian Club drag. Then this
latter began to start to commence to begin to go
home, and then the horrid truth came out
that they had a scratch team of jibs, and no
amount of pushing, coaxing, or flogging could
get them to pull the concern a yard. The
grooms tugged at their heads, the crowd laughed,
and there this galaxy of gloved, long-collared
long-hatted “chappies” sat, looking, oh 1 so
pleased. The driver, Mr. Maccabe, to give him
his due, was no novice with the ribbons, but he
couldn’t get the mongrel team he had to pull
pound. It was very evident why they had let the
other drags get away—they didn’t want to make
a more awful exhibition of themselves than they
could help. At last the horses thought it was
getting near tea-time, and scrambled off. If the
Australian Club really is so much the pure merino
as we are led to believe, they ought to take decent
horses in their drag when they go to Randwick.
• * *
What a curious difference there was in the
tenor of the speeches delivered by Primate Barry
and the Archdeacon of Cumberland respectively
at the meeting called to testimonialise that ill-
used gentleman, the Rev. H. H. Britten, of Ryde,
N.S W., on the occasion of his being acquitted of
the charge of arson brought against him ! From
the report in one of the dailies it is quite plain
that either the Primate or the Archdeacon should
have stayed away.
* * *
The many friends of Mr. Critchett Walker,
the N.S.W. Principal Under-Secretary, and of
his four not less popular brothers, will be sorry to
hear of the death of the venerable and benevolent
mother of those gentlemen, which took place last
week in Sydney. Mrs. Walker had attained the
ripe age of 89 years, but her faculties were un-
dimmed, and she retained her mental brightness
to the very last.
* * *
On the Blue Mountains, the other day,
we beheld a lovely sight. A young, long, lean,
mild-looking, clean-shaved curate had in his pos-
session seven girls, all between the ages of (say)
seventeen and twenty-two, and these he rounded
up into a first-class carriage compartment, in-
THE VAG. v.
PARSON-EDITOR (searching the Scriptures for consolation) : "'ALL MEN ABE LIARS.’
WHEW! WHAT A LUCKY MAN THE INSPIRED WRITER WAS NOT TO LIVE
IN THESE TIMES. HERE I HAVE CALLED ONLY ONE MAN A LIAR, AND IT
IS LIKELY TO COST ME £-!’”
tended to hold about six. After enquiring, “ May
I be permitted to procure for you some waratah ?”
he squoze himself into the compartment and off
they all went together. How delightfully close
that young curate must have sat to some of
those girls I
# * *
It turns out that Mrs. Langtry has become
an American citizen simply because aliens cannot
hold real estate in the United States.
* * *
They needn’t call out for women’s rights
in Sydney any more. Judging from the position in
which a well-known and clever lady placed herself
on Tuesday, her name has been added to the list
of members of the Legislative Council.
# * *
Says the Bat :
“ Although we are all heartily sick of Mrs. Lang worthy and
Hr. Lang-unworthy, the story of the deathof the latter's first
wife is woith recording. She was fond of drink, so fond,
indeed, that her medical adviser recommended her to take a
long sea voyage. Accordingly, she set out for Australia, her
cabin being considerately supplied by a devoted husband
with liquor of all sorts. And she died era route."
* * *
The Shah of Persia is again going to
England. So once more will arise the old query:
“ Have you seen the Shah ? ” The last time that
the Shah visited London the Court was very ner-
vous for fear he should bring his harem with him,
and the English Minister at Teheran was deputed
to make delicate inquiries. The gallant reply of
the Shah was, “ That in that, as in other matters,
he should throw himself on the hospitality of the
nation.” Chaos.
• * *
A Sydney solicitor says that he has in his
office eleven divorce cases which will all come on
for hearing immediately after the passing of the
new Act. The petitioner in every case is a lady.
How we do envy Judge Windeyer i
WOMAN ITEMS.
Qaeen Victoria kissed the black Queen ol
Hawaii on both cheeks.
The Jubilee-begging ladies in Mudgee are
called the “ Queen’s cadgers.”
A man was married last week in Mel-
bourne to a Miss Locke. A genuine case of wed-
lock.
1 Masherini ” is the new name for the
simpering young mademoiselle just emerging from
boarding-school.
Mary Gelling, a married woman at Char-
ters Towers (Q.), is awaiting trial for the larceny
of a perambulator.
A Sydney woman was, the other day,
brought up at the Brisbane Police Court, against
whom there were no less than 118 previous convic-
tions.
No man is a hero to his valet. A London
paper says that the Queen was almost “ bundled ”
into her carriage on a recent occasion by her
gillies.
There are three widows in Queensland
between the ages of 15 and 20. But do not be
deceived, stern reader. These are only their
census ages.
The principal of a “ ladies’ school ” in
Melbourne has just furnished a truant inspector
with a certificate of attendance commencing, “I
hearebye sertify.”
The General who last month had to confer
.he Legion of Honour on Sister Theresa, the
French nun, for 10 years’ hospital work,
after placing the sword on her shoulder gal-
lantly kissed her cheek.
From the S.M. Herald :
‘ 1 LEE r ia train, Friday night, bag (pair skates, No.
400 s). Kiadly return to address inside. Reward.
4003 ! What a toot!
Thady O'Kane says that he pities the
taste of the priest who fell in love with “ The
Escaped Nun.” After all it was a good job she
escaped—for the priest.
“ I’ll bet you a pound,” said Mrs. Carroll
in the Melbourne District Court, the other day
when the Bench had the temerity to doubt her
evidence. The Bench did not take her up, but a
policeman did.
Marriageable men are in the proportion of
two to one to the marriageable women in Queens-
land. The question, ‘' What shall we do with
our girls ?” is easily solved in Bananaland. Let
each girl annex two men.
A white woman has been discovered by
the Normanby (Q.) police, living in an outlandish
style with the blacks. The only English words
she knew were “ potatoes ” and “white Mary.”
Her dress was what is known as evening dress.
Mrs. Darcy, ibtat 90, lay in her bed, as her
bedridden daughter was hauled out by evictionists
in Ireland and “ deposited upon the bare stones in
the yard,” and recited a poem of her own com-
posing. They let the aged poetess alone after
this.
The latest startler is that a prudent father
with eight marriageable daughters advertised, as a
last resource, to get them off his hands. N ext day
he received a telegram to say: “Am a bachelor and
wealthy. Will gladly marry one of your daughters
Send a sample girl at once.”
Bridget Mephan was sentenced to death,
September 3, at Beechworth (Vic.), by Chief Jus-
tice Higinbotham, for the murder of her sister
Thero has been but one woman hanged in Vic-
toria, and it was for conspiring with two men to
murder her husband ever so many years ago
Bridget will probably escape the halter.
Mrs. Sodey, of Wollongabba (Brisbane),
aided and abetted by several neighbours’ sons
dislocated a bailiff's shoulder last week in carry
ing out her plan of campaign. Woman may hate
debt, as Major Dane declares, but she hates
bailiffs just as much as a man.
Grey, M.P., said in the Tasmanian As-
sembly the other day:—“ The judges must have
very capacious stomachs if they spend so much
for travelling expenses. They must be very fond
of what he was not fond of —a glass of port; al
though he had no objection to the judges making
presents to the chambermaids, particularly if they
happen to be young and pretty.”
“ When you marry, mind whom you
marry, and beware of a fiendish mother-in-law,”
were the last words of a young man at Manchester
who died last month. He wrote them on the
back of a letter and then hanged himself in the
drawing-room for the benefit of whom it might
concern. The verdict was “ temporary insanity,"
though “ death from permanent wifes mother”
would probably have been a lot nearer the mark.
At Adelaide, a “ man ” named Frank
Latter, 21 years old, committed felo cle se because
his girl grinned at some other fellow with more
honey to the square inch than she usually allotted
him. Upon which Frank shot himself :■*-
O, Frank! when she proved false— twas not
The time to take your life I
The time to go and buy the shot
Was —when she was your wife !
Mrs. James, of Richmond (Vic.), who was
pleased to die lately and will £lBO2 to her son, a
newspaper reporter—the first one, by the way,
ever known to possess such a sum— directed that,
as she was afraid of beiDg buried alive, her body
should be kept nine days above ground, also that
she should be carefully bled in various parts of the
body, and that all the household cats and dogs
should be drowned by one of the unemployed
who was to receive ten shillings for the job.
After all, there seems to be a good deal in
a name. The S.M.H., in a Melbourne wire anent
the colliding of the ships Persian Empire and
Victoria Regina, says:—“The Viotoria Regina,
after the collision, backed off and proceeded on
without stopping to make any inquiries." Which
is exactly what her regal namesake would have
done if a stoppage had cost her any money. But
then she would set herself right (with the unini-
tiated) by wiring a collect “ sympathy ” as soon as
she got on shore.
A few days ago, a venerable lady, who
ought to have known better, got on the outside of
Loo much square gin, and was trotted out before
the Ballarat police court. “Are you married ?’g
asked the magistrate, to which she replied, “Sure
I’ve been a widow for 11 years.” “ Well,” re
marked the magistrate, who, by the way, wa3
rather absent-minded, “where’s your husband ?"
Before she had time to reply, the kindly sergeant
reminded his Worship that she was a widow, and
thus saved further complications. As she left the
court she informed all whom it might concern
that: “If his Honor wanted to know where her
late husband was, she would tell him that he was
out of purgatory many a long year ago, and was
now living in the blessed Heaven with the holy
angels."
THE LIVER IN THE SPRING.
The liver, located on the right side, b elow the
right lung, its lower edge being directly under the
short ribs, and extending across to the le ft side, is
not only the largest gland of the body, but is one
of the most) complex in its workings, and, liue a
delicate piece of machinery, is easily thrown out
of order. Upon its proper action depends the
mental and physical welfare of the body. Any
one of the following symptoms indicates its de-
parture from health: —
Symptoms.—Headache, sallow complexion,
gradually increasing constipation, disinclination
to exertion, vertigo, dizziness, highly coloured
urine, a “splendid” feeling to-day, and a de-
pressed one to-morrow; pain under either
shoulder, and under ribs on the right side, neu-
ralgia, pain of chest, heartburn, indigestion, en-
largement of side below the ribs, dropsy of the
abdomen, dry mouth; brown, flabby tongue;
occasional chills, hot flushes, moth patches on
the face, yellowish eyeballs, sick headache, fre-
quent vomitiDg of bitter matter ; piles, earned by
congestion of the liver ; severe spasmodic pain in
upper part of abdomen, relieved by pressure,
hiccough, jaundice, claj -coloured stools, tour
stomach, variable appetite, irritability of temper,
diarrhoea, dy sen try, burning palms and feet, dry
cough, sleeplessness.
The diseases which are indicated by any of the
above symptoms are jaundice, gallstones, enlarge-
ment, contraction, congestion, inflammation,
abscess, tumors, h/datids, catarrh ot the ducts,
fatty accumulation, cancer, malaria, and la3t but
not least, biliousness, which is so common in this
country with both sexes.
History.—During winter, Nature wisely arranges
that we should live on foods containing much fat,
or, as they are known, hydro carbons, for the
purpose of supplying heat to the body; the
chemical operation necessary to transform
fat into heat is the exclusive work of the liver,
and so during the time stated it is constantly
congested. With the approach of warm weather
our diet changes to muscle-producing food, and
the work of the liver is much lessened. In the
majority of cases, however, it is unable to com-
pletely throw off the excess of bile, but remains
congested, causing that lazy, tired feeling which
many have in the spring months, when the
weather becomes warm. This is evidence of an
unhealthy condition, and though people appreciate
the necessity of an alterative at this period, the
common idea is to take drastic pills and produce a
cathartic effect, only to make matters worse.
The liver must be unloaded, and its proper action
restored before hot weather, if you wish to pre-
serve health, and if this distinct call of nature is
unheeded, serious results will occur. The blood
will become loaded with bile and lithic acid, and
as every drop of vital fluid passes through the
kidneys to be purified, they soon break down, and
Bre rendered unable to carry oat the deadly
poison.
'ireatment.—Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s
sa’e pills have not only a specific action on the
kidneys, but on the liver also. They thin the
thickened bile so that it will pass out through
its ducts, and so enable the glands to unload
themselves, act as a solvent on all biliary acids,
and, in a word, fit the liver for the season’s work,
preventing blood poisoning, inflammation, abscess,
and all affections to which it is so liable. As you
value the blessings of health, do not allow the
summer to approach without giving your system
a “general house-cleansing” with Warner's safe
remedies. “ To be forewarned Is to be fore*
armed.”


Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TOAUTHELEADWC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DAN I ELLS IMPERIAL HO
EL
RISBAN
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
m
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
I
£2
as. sc*
i/DIo
L
:: |
*
still
7/.
□
Cl
SB!l!!!®Kiiiii
DAN
ELI.
cX
*1
M
THREE MINUTE
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS Sc.
c,o
Private Suites with luggage Room attache! for the convenience of ladies, ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, ladies' and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, GOffllEfiClAl ROOM,
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Hearting, and Corresponding Room. All Getters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. e, h. KIVII.I t.
The Poet.
His thoughts are with the eagles,
Though his feet are limed with clay ;
He feels the flush of dawning
Ere others see the day.
He sees the Light Eternal
In sunset, and sunrise ;
He sees it shining softly
In innocent young eyes.
No scorn has he of small things—
Life's web of threads is spun ;
The sparkle in the dewdrop
May be some small world’s sun ;
The lowly violet weareth
The hue of heav’n above,
And tend’rest thoughts are highest,
As God Himself is Love.
His thought electric touches
God and worm at either pole ;
From the nadir to the zenith
Is the stature of his soul.
V.J.D.
The cry in the North now seems to be :
“ Hang cn, Haynes ! ” Why ?
Justice may be blind, but Judge Bigin-
botham isn't deaf. Ask Dakm.
Melbourne is a go-ahead place, and is not
falling behind The Age. It is The Age which
has fallen behind Melbourne.
Says a Sydney suburban paper: —“The
civil servants are to keep open in future until 1.40,
with three-qoalters, instead of one half-hour, for
lunch.”
According to official statistics a certain
amount of bacon is imported to N.S.W. from
Hong Kong. The Chinese have plenty pigs’ feed
There is a constant supply of dead lepers in the
Flowery Land.
While waiting patiently for the return of
the monstrous saurian which created such a
racket last year, the New Zealand press has
broken out into a hog that lived 47 days in a
snowdrift and came out quite cheerful.
The most popular storekeeper at Croydon
is Bill Kelly ; but for him some hundreds of
men would have had to clear during last wet
season. There was something like fonr thousand
pounds of “tick” given by Bill, and now
some of the men who call themselves diggers
want a Chinaman's store. Last wet season
“broke” pretty nearly all the stores up there,
and one cannot wonder that the charges are high.
An attempt is to be made to float the once
celebrated Queen’s Birthday Gold Mining Co.
(Dunolly, Vic.) on the London market. There are
two ways of getting a company over a poor time—
floating and sinking. It is libellous to say an
ordinary Company is “ sinking,” but not a mining
company. Some cf them float in order to sink,
and others only sink in order that they may be
able to float. The Queen’s is floating because it
wants to sink.
Mr. Long, of Croydon (Q.) is an awfully
.particular kind of person. The other day he fell
upon a man, and when he fell on the man the
man fell under a verandah, and then there was
an arrest and Mr. Long was brought up before the
court. He pleaded that he had received great
provocation, and whe ithe Bench demanded toknow
what the provocation consisted of, he explained;
“He didn’t call me Mister Long, your Worship. He
just called out ‘ Long,’ and then I got mad at
him.”
Heard forninst the beak in a Queensland
police court. Senior-Constable ( loq .) : “ Pathrick
Blayney, phwat is oor name?” Full-Private
Blaney: “ Patbrick Blayney, sorr.” S snior-Con-
stable : “Do oo remimborr the thorteenth of
Joblol?” Full-Private: “Oi do, sorr.” Senr.-
Const.: “Phwat day was that, Pathrick Blay-
ney ? ” Full-Private (solemnly) : “ Foive days
ako, sorr.” Senr.-Const. : “No-a, but phwat
day?” Full Priva’e (still more solemnly): “The
thorteenth of Jooloi, sorr ”
The Sydney D.T. writes :
11 If Mr. Bur js could have hia own way the second revision
of the tariff] would be submittsd to Parliament durine the
next session. So much can also be said of the Premier, the
Attorney-General, the Minister of Public Instruction, and
the Minister for Mines."
What is the influence possessed by Garrett,
Clarke, Roberts, and Sutherland, which is power-
ful enough to prevent Parke 3 and the remainder
of his colle:gues having their own way? Why is j
*t that Abigail, who in 1881 declared himself an
out-and-out Protectionist, is included in the list of
Ministers who are desirous of still further revising
the tariff in the direction of Freetrade ? Surely
this must be sarcasm !
Dear Bulletin, — You are the only one
who has ventured to agree with me about the
terrible Wyndham tragedy, and when I read
your paragraph last Saturday I felt impelled to
write and say how your idea coincided with
mine. I have always thought (but feared it was
impious) it was a most revolting thing of God to
a3k Abraham to kill his own son, and can quite
understand a religious maniac believing he heard
the Almighty demanding at his hands the lives of
those most dear to him. Do not all fanatics
believe only blood can appease their Deities ? And
the greater the anguish involved by such a sacri-
fice the greater, to the madman, would appear the
glory to be attained hereafter.—Yours truly, An
Admiring Bushwoman.— l3th September.
The Shearers’ Union— with Chinamen.—
Dear Bulletin,— l notice that the Seamen’s
Union have already offered valuable assistance to
the Shearers’ Union ; but if they are aware of the
fact that CL in amen are admitted as mem"
her 3 , I question if they (bearing in mind the origin
of their great strike) would offer any assistance to
an amalgamated union of Chinamen and Euro
peans. One of the Shearers’ Union rules is that
all shearer*’ cooks shall become members of the
Union, with, of course, light of voting. Now, I
am prepared to prove that many Mongoliar s are
admitted under this rule, and with your permis-
sion will narrate a case in poiat. lain emplcyed
at a shed in the vicinity of Balranal J. It is a
union shed, and the cook is a Chinaman. He is a
member of the Shearers’Union ; and when the
union representative called upon all to show
tickets of membeiship. Chinkie produced (trium-
phantly) evidenceof his right cf equality in the form
of a union ticket, and was duly elected, Johnny (sly
d"g) having taken the precaution to b:come a
member a month or two before the shearing.
Surely whitemen, knowing the number of white
men out of employment, even in this bii3y ceaion,
might give a whitemau a chance. They cannot
excuse their conduct upon the plea that John is
cleaner in his habits than one of their own colour.
If so. anyone acquainted with the habi’s of the
yellowskins either in this or their own country can
easily explain away that fallacy,— An Old Member
of Seamen’s Union.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman's Eucalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. fid. and 3s. fid. Take
no substitute.*
>* RAND INTERCOLONIAL CAVALRY
JT TOURNAMENT,
Under the Uuspices of the
SYDNEY LANCERS,
at
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS,
Moore Park, Sydney,
on
S ATURDAY, October Ist.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excelleacy
LORD CARRINGTON, G.C.M.G., P.C.
Twenty-one Events-including Cavalry, Artil-
lery, Infantry, and Naval Competitions, Mounted
Combats, Jumping Competitions, with and with-
out Sword and Lance, over Fences and Water ;
Tent Pegging, Lemon Cutting, &c.
ENTRIES CLOSE 19th inst.
Further Particulars on application to
“ SECRETARY,”
Cavalry Office,
Phillip-street.
TTENTION IS DRAWN TO THE
DISPLAY OF
A
HIGH ART FURNITURE,
ELEGANT OVERMANTLES, &c.,
(Specially selected by Mr. D. H. DAVIS, of
London) now on view at
I THE NEW AUCTION MART,
199 PITT STREET,
and for sale by PUBLIC AUCTION
by
Messrs. HARRIS AND ACKMAN,
ON FRIDAY, 23rd instant,
at
11 o’clock sharp.
Thkatrb royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
4th WEEK and
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY in
Pettit and Harris’s Great Military Drama,
HUMAN NATURE.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Kastway’s Hotel.
QRITKRION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
LAST 2 NIGHTS LAST 2 NIGHTS
of the
Young. Beautiful, and Accomplished Interpreter
of Shakespeare’s Master Creation, Juliet, -
Miss HSSIE JENYNS.
whose portrayal of the character must henceforth
he the standard by which all other Juliets
are to be judged.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
ROMEO and JULIET
with
E33IE JENYNS as JULIET,
and
W. J. HOLLOWAY as ROMEO.
Theßox Plan at Nicholson’s music wareho use.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors onen 7. ; Performance 7.45 ; Carriages 11,
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
Great and Triumphant Success of
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
in
HENRY V.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly Bports
each day at rates wiihln the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the scienoe of Belf-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ie you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE OITY.
C COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RINK,
J EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD CARRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RIDGELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening
and mornings for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
SELECT MUSIC.
USE MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Posted to all parts of the colonies free on receipt
of stamps.
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra.
COLBM \NE and SONS, Cootamundra, N.S.W.,
are manufacturers of the ONLY GENUINE
OIL in the colonies. All those
suffering from A 3thraa, Bronchitis, Consumption,
Pleuresy, Colds. Gravel Kidney Complaints,
Rheumatism, Toothache, and Neuralgia and
Fevers of all kinds, also for lowness of spirits and
over indulgence in spirituous liquors it has no
equal. Posted by us to any part of the colonies
on receipt of stamps. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per
Bottle; Ointment 2s. and 3s. 6d. per pot. Whole-
sale from Elliott Bros., Drug Company; aid
Iloffnung and Co,
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 20, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten!
ders are opened, and the name of the suocessfuj
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any temder.
sd
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN,N.S.W,
FIRST CLASS accrmmodation for commercial
gent e men and ot here. Private sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor. , ,


J> RtTI S I I NEW GUINEA.
Whether the contemplated “proclamation of
British sovereignty ” in Now Guinea will prove a
check on the Papuans’ desire to kill and eat white
men, remains to be seen. This trouble-producing
island was first annexed by Queensland through
the agency of a police magistrate and a union-jack
pocket handkerchief, Then Bismarck came along
and took a hand in the game by appropriating
aberat as much of the already annexed portion as
he thought he could do with, and a few months
after that Australia and England together annexed
What Bismarck had left. This appears to have
been a sufficient claim on the little property, until
the wily natives developed a too strongly marked
predilection for toasted rative teacher and grilled
sailor mac. And now; if the “proclamation of
British sovereignty” doesn’t put a stop to the
trouble, H. M. cruisers will have to go in fer some
more gun practice on the coroanut trees, and
land a storming party to capture some more empty
huts, f o Mach for the progress of civilisation in one
d'rection, In another it is much more gratifying.
Thanks to the good missionaries, the virtues of
St. Jacobs oil are growing apace in the estimation
of the gentle savagp. The master of the m's-
sionary schconer Ellangowan and the captain of
the Governor Cairns write of it in the most
enthusiastic terms ; and captain Li’jablad backs
up his testimony with a reference to the well-
known and popular “Tamate” (Rev. James
Chalmers). As a conqueror of pain it has no equal
in the world, and as a civilising agent it is far and
away superior to the Gatling gun or the Brennan
torpedo.
IN' O MORE HEADACHE.
NO MORE NEUR ALQIA.
NO MORE LOS 3 OF HAIR.
Dr. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH is an
honest remedy for all these troubles. It will pre-
vent Baldness, Dandruff, and Diseases of the
Scalp, make the hair grow long and glossy, arrest
premature greyness, and soothe the weary brain.
They are stamped with
THE WORLDS APPROVAL,
and sold in five sizes. No. 1, Is. 6d.; No. 2,6 s.
6d.; No. 3, Bs. 6d.; No. 4,10 s. Gd.; No. 5,12 s. 6d.
And if you cannot obtain them anywhere near
you we will send by post to any part of New'
South Wales on receipt of price named, with 6d.
added for postage.
m.
*'io'
H
They are very handsome toilet accessories, and
their efficacy as trarsnittors of a permanent
electro-magnetic current is guaranteed.
Also Dr. Scott’s widely and favourably known
Electric Belt, one of the most effective remedies
in existence for Spinal Complaints, Debility,
Nervousness, &c., &c. Price 15s , postage to any
part of New South Wale?, 6d. extra.
Orders should be addressed, and remittances
made payable, to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
56, Margaret-street.
P.O. Box 221.
Mr. C. F. Smith, lately of the Queens-
land National Hank, at lllaekall, made a cool
£2500 by one investment at the Croydon.
Mr. Macdermott elicited from a -witness in
the Melbourne Criminal Court a few days ago that
he could drink 14 glasses of rum “ without feeling
it.” The occupants of the front row of the gallery
gazed at this redoubtable swiper with mingled
feelings of admiration and envy.
We hear that the deepest level at Croydon
is 20(1 feet on the underlie at the Homeward
Bound. Beef better and bigger than ever ; on
the way down it got poor and narrow. There is
some chance for Croydon as a permanent field
after all, but nothing will be done till the leases
are granted in January next.
A Melbourne thief was captured the other
day with the cash bok of a Lonsdale- street publi-
can, containing £2O, which he violently distri-
buted in the mud. Zealous hands were soon at
work collecting the money of which the land-
lord received £0 10s. back. Then the crowd
slowly dispersed, commenting on the villainy and
wickedness of the robber just run in.
The cure of the souls of four hundred and
fifty human beings was recently put up to auction
in London. The souls were in Lincolnshire and
the pay of the caretaker £472. Only £l6OO was
bid, and the lot was withdrawn. This elegant
provision for a younger son was let slide. Think
of it! Miss ions are sent to convert the heathen,
and yet the biddings for this divine billet in
Christian England did not reach reserve price.
Parnell as he is represented
by the Tory Press.
Parnell as he really is.
There ia one admirable feature about a
wire fence. The patent medicine man can't paint
a legend on it in regard to his liver cure.
The crucifix is to be cut from the anti-
Madgwick reredos in St. Andrew's Cathedral,
Sydney, for fear some of the faithful may fall
down and worship it. We presume the Low
Church c’ergy will now proceed to sail the cross.
You bet they don't mean to carry it. The cross,
as an emblem of the modern Christian religion, is
played out. The lash and the gallows seem to be
the trade-mark of the pietists of N.S.W.
Sydney E. Nooze complains that it is
abominable that the Central Police Station should
be permitted to exist where it is. The Central,
you know, is so uncomfortably convenient to the
Noozk office. Or, perhaps, now we come to think
of it, the Central may be too far away from the
paper whose stock-in-trade is the drunk and in-
decent assault report. Possibly Alfred wants the
court shifted to hid office.
One of the best managed and largest hotels in Sydney is
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
New South Wales at the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition w s thoroughly ; epr«Featative and, Gold O is
and Qu .ttz attracted g-eat attention, especially when it was
known that the average er ton was far in excsss of that in
the other c -lonies Later news has shown that New South
Wales is likels to beco oe the “ Gold Field of the future."
Mr Freeman, the inventor of the Original and only Genuine
ehloroiyne, has lately sent outmany cases with those gentle
men who are intere-ted in the auriferous enterprise. Mr.
Freeman has reteivel numer ms flittering letters and visits
from New South Wales colonies who, ore and all, speak
of the incalculable value of his Colorodyne ia the treatment
of all the comim-ner diseases of lifs. and e pec'ahy in Cramp.
Colic, Diarrhoea. Dyrent.ery and Fevers so frequently met
with ia the Gold end Diam md Fields of Australia.—Sold
everywhete throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having
“ FreemanV only. Rej* ct substi utes, as tley are worth-
less. Trade mark «n Klephint.*
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2 000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided am ngst them.
Address—' Tattersall."
Care • f G Adams,
Tattersall's Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
iiJx-Justice Sir Robert Moleaworth, of
Victoria, devotes a deal of his spare time to read-
ing novels. He has had a lot of fact in his time,
and is now going in for fiction as a change.
N.Z. has acquired the fee simple of another
Volcano which carries on the usual eruption busi-
ness at Curtis Island, one of the Kermadec
Group, which Sir Julius Vogel has recently caused
to be annexed.
A tale of chivalry reaches us from that
howling, squatter-ridden wilderness of a colony,
W. A. A member of that respected cosmopolitan
family, the Browns, was wending his homeward
way to a Perth suburb, pondering on the proba-
bility of Mrs, Brown not having the evening pie
nicely done, when wild female screams from an
adjacent field pierced his windward ear and made
him wheel around in astonishment. There he saw
a sight that made him jump the fence. A large
and furious pig was chasing two lovely females.
Brown faced the savage beast with his walking-
stick under the impression that it would retreat.
Brown had to retreat instead. Then he had to
climb the fence in double-quick time. As he was
just congratulating himself on his narrow escape,
the porker inserted its teeth in that part of his
pants which is never mentioned in gubernatorial
drawing-rooms, and carried off a large square
piece of imported tweed. Brown got mad, and
walloped the raging beast with his stick—from
the top of the force. Then he gathered up
the remnants of his tattered garment,
and walked painfully homeward, while the
rescued ladies put their hands before their
eyes and looked through—we mean locked a little
to one side. Taking advantage of a deficiency in
the fence the irate pig charged down again upon
poor Brown, who, like a competitor in a sack-race,
scooted with considerable difficulty. In the
awful moment, just as he was resigning himself to
a horrible death, the owner of the enraged ani-
mal appeared, and diverted its attention suffi-
ciently to allow B own to climb a convenient tree.
Once more the gentleman or gentlewoman who
pays the rent laid siege against the tree while its
persecuted victim held on b/ his eyebrows. By
this time the gentle youth of the neighbourhood
had gathered in battle array armed withborrowed
long-handled shovels and bass brooms, with which
they drove the enemy into a fenced allotment,
where it turned its snout into a peaceful plough-
share, whilst Brown limped home with his hands
fully occupied in shielding himself from the oxy-
gen of heaven, and followed by certain small boys,
who desisted only when they arrived at the Brown
domicile and encountered the family bull-dog.
THE WORLD'S GREAT BREWERIES.
The greatest beer-producing countries in the
world are Germany and Austria. By the last
annual official statistical showing, the output in
the aggregate of the six leading breweries of
tnese countries, in 1860 amounted to a total of
1,670,561 barrels. But there will be some satisfac-
tion in learning that St Louis, Missouri, U.S.A.,
has the largest brewery in the world. The
Anheussr Bosch Brewing Association, in the
period covered by the official report quoted above,
manufactured and sold 13,120,000 gallons of
beer, equalling 410,000 barrels, an excess of more
than 10 per cent, above the production of the
Spaten Brewery, of Munich, the largest European
brewery.
How to Gain Flesh and Strength.— Take after each
meal about a tablespoonful of “Slott's Emulsion of
Pure Cod Liver Oil With Hypophosphites.” It is
almost as palatable as milk, and easily digested. The
rap’d ty wirh which del-cate children and sictly people
suffering from weakness and wasting diseases improve and
thrive upon this diet, is truly marvellous. As a remedy for
Consumption, Throat Affections and Bronchitis, it is un-
equalled by auy other preparation in the world. Use ic an t
try your weight. All chemists ssil large and small bottles.*
Summer ! Hockings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt ssieet.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
FIFTY LINES
AT
SPECIAL PRICES,
AT
LAWLER’S.
Drawing-room Suite of Circular-settee,
1 occasional Chairs, and 2 Easy-
chairs, upholstered in best manner,
and covered in tapestry and plush £l2 10 0
Drawing-room Suite of Ssttee-couch, 2
easy and 1 ordinary Chairs, all well
upholstered and covered in best
cretonne, gimped and corded. Com-
plete £8 19 0
Drawing-room Suite of Couch, 2 Easy-
chairs, and 6 small Chairs, uphol-
stered in best manner, and covered
in Etamped sage-coloured terry,
panel-backed chairs £lO 10 0
Solid Walnut Drawing-room Suites,
including immense double-end Sofa,
2 Easy-chairs and 6 regular Chairs,
upholstered in bett manner, and
covered in best all-wool rep, gimped
and corded, &3. Complete £l.l io 0
Notf,.— For all the colours—Blue, olive, sage-
green, marone, crimson.
Solid Walnut Drawing-room Suite, 9
Pieces, upholstered hair and covered
Oak Sideboards, £l7 10s. to £35.
Walnut Sideboards, £l7 1 Os. to £35.
Mahogany Sideboards, £l7 10?. to £35.
Dinner Waggons, 15s.
Dinner Waggons, 65a,
Extending Dining Tables, very massive, £6 10s.
Bedsteads, single, strong stumps, Be. 64.
Bedsteads, half-testers, 3ft. wide, &c., 16s,
17s. 61, 20s.
Bedsteads, “four-pcst,” 3ft., 225. od., 21s. 6d., 25s
Bedding in Flock. Bedding in Kapok.
Bedding in Fibre. Bedding in Hair.
Woven Wire Matresses, and in all the 7 qualities.
Prices, 153. to 18s. 6d., and 255. to 10s.
BOOTS and SHOES,
CLOTHING,
BOOTS and SHOES.
LAWLER’S^
608 George Street,
SYDNEY.


674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
is the Only Address of the
MUSICAL IRTMHR
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
IMPORTING RIRBCT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICKS,
In fact It la the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every description of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
m nu ns,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6,4/-, 4/6,
6/* and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 8d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. eaoh.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Base, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c,
o
iCCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
peolallty i Miniature Aooordeon, double bellows,
strong tone 21
„ Ditto, oak wood patent steel notes,
42/-
10/8, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Italian Violin, with oase (look and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
4/8, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key ... 35/-
Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key... 21/-
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Bapjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10a.
About 200 different sorts In stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
nigger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all Instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
f
■53
m*A
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
•fX-vc*
vfc
v/
Scrofula on Neck;
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, dimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
IjOss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiai
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bat!
wi'h Cuticura Soap and a single application 01
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years fcom Diseases of the Skin and Blood
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
■icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and go
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies
which have cured me, and left my skin and blooc
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVES. , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily .'permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
• throughout Australia, Tasmania,and Hew
'/tz .j. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
,'fL k iuTicußA Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Stiav-
ii*p- A p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
Prepared by the
Potter Crag St Chemical Co., Boston, H.B.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
la the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It la Infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions , no Pimples , no Blotches, no Boils , but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skm
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
anrl to those who are already afflicted with any akin disease, we say in all good faith try
iMb great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are In this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Publlo who desire this great Blood Purifier should be oareful to ask for Bristol’s
tIAW UK OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND BTORKKKEFKKB
RMP!
I '
MP.
1
inr
caiifafoqff'fo'
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
268 to 269 Kent-etreet,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, tor
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SDRIN and 00.8
Cognac.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edlnbnrgh Pale Ale.
Please Do Not Bead This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is NO excuse for any person of either
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, caused by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
&c., See. Superfluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour.
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward T. Hubbell,
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
0 N U M B N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing*.
Design* end Estimate* forwarded on reqna*
J. CUimUIGHAH,
MABIX-BIBUT, WYX WAB.D-BQU ARB, Br&XSV
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address :
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Quccns-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
E V SHOULD Y USK } PEMELL’S
KXTKA SUPERFINE
F L O TJ IB!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
ssi OnosM-HTitN*. Btokb?
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
ETRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
• hKMOVED to No. 8 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &o.
Full particulars free on application. Address :
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-at., Sydney.
sdf
of 'jSydneg*
JENOLAN CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS, fc
316 CEORCE ST :«tjwen Hunter ST*C.P,O*
CLAREMONT, Darlinghursfc Road, Sydney.—
A Private Medical and Surgical Home,
established by Dr. Tarrant, for the reception and
systematic treatment of patients of both sexes.
The residents, who are provided with separat
bedrooms, desire the great advantages of a con-
stant medical supervision with the care and atten-
tion of a trained nursing staff. For partic
apply to the Lady Superintend ant.
B
RADi&T, KBWTON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFOST3
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
v ■
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
(ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
st
m
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tlon, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. 43T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES In all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
s
WALNUT FAL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varf.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
ing Trays, Stationery Draw*
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Sprin
Streets.
□□
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
JOKNITUMB WAB BBOti SMCBH,
Importers of High-arl
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
df
£9 Cg K PIANOFORTE,
3&CND> guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
s
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O'Connell sts.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed
rooms. Now designs covered to order n
any material.
s
BLF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, f, r
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest.
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
Tl \
J
Bedsteads. aii sizer,
Nicfcel-platad and BSao*
and Brass. Sreat rarlety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and!
, LAMB,
Importers,
O r Connell and Spring Streets,
df
SPRING MATTRASSHB
Woven Wire, beat
make j also, Spiral Sprint •
Price, from lit, gao&>
■KUDUS] M twroir Ufl LAMR.
CHBA? FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13a. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 20s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.) Wardrobes, from
80s.) Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.) Cedar Side-
boards, from £Blos, | Clothes Horses, froir lOe. flfl,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s,
HRAOUeZ, BSBWTOK. and LAM%


Bismarck’s Samoan Pig-Sticking Policy.
The Germane in Samoa say they “can’t stand Malietoa’s weakness any longer,” so they have killed all his pigs, and have set up King Tamasese in his place.
JOHN BULL (to Bro. Jonathan: “ I SAY, HADN'T WE BETTER INTERFERE?” BRO, JONATHAN : "WAAL, AFTER ALL THEY AIN T JEST EXAC’LY OUR PIGS, ARE THEY?”


'( WaXtS&W MMiJiS., WX4&W Sk &&.,
mOMMOMamHB,
MACJtUJSfMUr MERCHANTS
61 1 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
o
o
<5
s
IRONMONGERS
512
<v
o
A
%
SPECIALITIES I
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Alho Carbon
Ligl
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
BAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft: WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, tea., ftc,
YOUR HEARTH!
AO A INST ALL RISKS!!
ItlSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA.
®°°d, Promotes-a Healthy Flow of the Secretions,
n<x fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
the best aperient for children.
-- ' - ■ t ■
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
*” E RIOE TO ALL OTHER
Medical Testimonial, Analysis, &c., accompanying each bottle).
®°ld in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
ONLY KRUSE’S
Stiet
ors : FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne.
sdf
f.
A
&
UAGIC LANTERNS!
V
>6'
T “ e P a i ar „
in„ jec turBn7 ge assortment of above, and have the following sets of Slides, complete with
to ? aeh set:
OK- w an ? Conquest, Paris, Highlanas of Scotland, Lowlands of Scotland, RL
. RohiR Lakes, Ireland, English Cathedrals, Pied Piper, Isle of Wight, Pompeii,
8 °> a i nS ° n rusoe > Dick Whittington, Holy Land.
ge Variety of' Comic Slides, in all prices, suitable for Children s Entertainments.
UCHTNER AND CO.,
° r 0GRAPH!C STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
Vt
AND OTHERS
HAS ON SALE
'- a «KS s 250 to 400 gallons ?
MISO,
latter l PONCHEOf 8,
Spirit Kegs, trot
upwards.
rp “naWH.
174 SUSSEX STREET
a&d Market Btreets.
S3u g
s
Study bconomy
and
Have ronr Umbrella Frame* re-
„ covered and your
raraioli re-lined and made ecjna
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
T , Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurat Streeti
*_»raiol» made to match 001
**»*• Repair* neatls exetuUf
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRI.AR PIPES,
Still maintains its P>estige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
oi-w,aar~t
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persona imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231, OLARENOE-STRKET.
GBD. GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches!
64 PITTSTREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cit'es
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Comn er
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
f- Drafts issued and Bills collected on most f avt ar-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prmce of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
EIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
cJm
vP
<2?
PATENT
g
LLS
PI
&
a
v*
*
sg
s®
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
mich as wind and pain
in. the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills,'and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doaes of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH A M’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ PACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have ths largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS,
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
epeedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Piles a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution-. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland.
THE above Is one of the'"oldesfc Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Price!
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gol» Meoai.B—
CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRAN GIP ANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPAPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor thair delight ful and lasting ©dour
Atkinson’s celebrated
E ATT DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Dealers, and a* the Manufacturers—
-3 & E. Xi’ICINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
. Trade Mark—“ White Hose” on“ Golden .
few Lyre.” A
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
» ' —=—— :——:—“
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE."
Marshall s tonic nervine
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/6.
fPrepared only by
MARSH At ill BROTHBRS,
Sydney, N.S.W.; London, England,
9
POSONOWSKI’S
DIRECT IMPORTJNG.CO.
sical limn
472 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Central Markets 5
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haymarkefc.
VTIOILIIISrS,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, &c
:
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O,
CO3STCE RTIHST-A.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
make, £4 10s.
ACCORD 30 NTS,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
CORNETS,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6
FLUTES,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/- each.
6-bey Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c„ in great variety,,
<ar PIANOS and ORGANS.
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
I
■asg>Jty»i
if
r —■
ftNSLAN?
3US
ASTHMA. BRONCHITIS, C0UGfa3||
'. ORC* BY
mi ;}\ & Ingham
_ pjwj**wuu
T HftW.'A*
r
\
y- RIDGE’S
FOOD
pR INFANTS ano INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale «n England*
|nd Ishnow being introduced Into th#
Colonics. |l
gveTy Storekeeper should get a supply*
•savory wise mother-will certainly
use it.
fJMJBDCDGE’S FOODMItM.
LONDON. ENGLAND.
w.
JOHNSON
COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED Q AUO JS,
II PHILLIP STREET, and at) CLEVELAND
JSTREET. SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Taiow
Casks, new and second-hand | also, Wine act
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«AV«ENG EN AH ITS BKAICHH,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Or AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUBBN STRKKT, BRISBANE,


ROYAL ?
,risi
35
»K
*4KIH c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
IMPORTER,
Family "'Wine and Spirit Merchant.
■"-■MI ■! ■■■
t'MCNTC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES. SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
“RANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
"*' The - SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDUEY.
WALLACE BROS.’
JSTBTW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
«0 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
j LLU9T RATED CATALOG ÜBS WITH PRIOR LIST, FRBB ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
SHBBT, and
WINDOW ® LA v 3 a B rniah eB,ftc.
White Lead, OUa,-OotoMJjJ
jATB,
White Lead, oua,- &o,
Paperhanglngs, Dadoes, ’ llet Gif**"
iuiraiLiis kiss
m GEORGE STREW
1 Go art B^
i ' BCIAL
the ,oove goods at a larg from
pr ~s. being the stock taken
Bo •no wick.
~~ Attend o®’ 0 ®’
, , (. ffth ■*'■• -00
C.DOL OB ARTS flailjj
3 Queensland.— Che abo^ e , Theatr® 0 Itfii
censed under the Q nee f iBo«|
Ivery Company fcra 7® U^f s L it h ° na SV
id Leitch, Thornton and J»‘ juf
aur, and Grattan »*» *. who * mil
aur, and Grattan W- who
acMahon’s Dramatic Comp J geaj
brilliant and succor, tvf o
onclnded a brilliant and sue Royal t*% it
ompany played in the Th. x re3 geB hi gall
go. and Mr. MacMahon expr
f ghly pleased with the_ ar at least _
Managers are requested to nn j n j > errtpt
tfore opening to » eca f n g oC retarf*
arms on application to tn —--*
THEATRE BOYAh-
bockhampt
IHK above is 6110 “folding
Rockhampton for be OD^
rnr Entertainments, a a
y term upon jjA
T a°s.
” n “ “*3S£.»sS***
E. D. MlhES.^,
MINING AND °° MS< ‘J 0 »
Mining Exch
CHARTERS TOWERS.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
PRY'S MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
J
if
PUOPTitfi*"
"AN ORDINARY OOP CJONTAINB MORB AGTTVB
THAN A PINT OP THB BHBT ALB OB POBJW
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, dso.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersroithlng, Blaoksmtthing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, "VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fto.
Bole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propeller*. Kxbaoat Pan Cowls, das Fires. Heaters.
. Warmers, A*.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TAND9 IACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
Full Particulars and Pbios on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squattera, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
K3T Private Suites for Families. TE*
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Boggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. R. STEWART, Proprietor.
jb Vue Hi
pposite Parliament Hons o®* 0 ®*
and Queensland
FIRST-CLASS
accommq datxo^
" - gteaf 01 ''
A Waiter M 3eta^® ver
Lett ra and telegram 8
prietor.
I,l**
<o>
s. #
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gums, and delight-
fuUy fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders aud acid washes
ftowland£
Odonto
herbi1 rl and !^»f^»nV?^ hlte f sElowder con ?E° Bed most recherch« ingredients of the Oriental
the teeth fr i m sny5 ny E n fty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preserves
pastes can possibly
non-gntty tooth powder: such ROWLANDS' ODONTO/M
No other'Odonto is gennine.
~f.?,MS S ; p SS A » OH- a—. . a—»
ROW! if aj vnno
J* V ‘ . ",, NM«- » u «n beautifies the complexion. eradicates all cntaneone
ana -f.-tort the Blau b v u. djuooln and delicate. Ask anvwhnm far Rnwi.A\rna>
defects, and
' ’i«s, of 9i
' T complexion, eradicates an cntaneonfl
l, BiaouLU and delicate. Aak anywhere for ROWI.AMny
*• - and avoid spurious and pernicious imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and K. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
the Bkm ......
< harden, London,
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
tjilu Wei Water He.,
IS CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
s. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
PALACE HOTEjI,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookainpton)
CONDUCTED on the same prlnoiple as the
great Melbourne t offee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows: —6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d,
,M.R 1 L * *
(late of the Deteotlve Force),
'' 'rlvate Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
v i* KOVAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
.os matters tad wife dewrters traced, and all kind* of
iiiSdentia' Inquiries instituted Eridenoe obtained in
jroe. libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
les-ilen and others. Copies af wills, certificates of birth,
•arritge, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kenlh and debts oollected. from R. M. R.’s long experience
m the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
*».-» Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
it -e he is in a position to conduct ail inquiries with oantioa ■
.a and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
:t si *t £ Vaari-J to ail bostaes* entrusted to h ca re.
The sci e n c*e of life,
Bv W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 jlpages'
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip
bions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vio,
Guinness’ ■
PiBH'r s -_ s;v -
g«S|®j
H
$8
~r»APt
ifj f|
BASS’
Bi
<
Vf
:4^>^
!A8b -
J301.K FT7^.j,iA»
,BA * iW i5®2>S
By 8pe° Ial ?
WIAI
By
$ h
LCHHH JOH
HOLBSA"
|Hl*
c aiuW f ” 0
' * fi J
V f
'«?£s?8^
si ** l i; «
i‘r-n?T>'
h-riere reof
dfsdfsd
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shokr ;
Also Manofeotoren of
The Finest Quality op Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-* t Sydney.
*OCS
Cig--.: Us
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
C ASTLKRK AG H STREET.
FITZRO*’
«r first-lass er & X
Plunge a» d s >t ,
Private Sitting B°°®’
