

The Bulletin
f:^CTj IjATTr>
UN GREATER than that of any weekly in the southern hemisphere.
WATCHES!
the marvels of the age.
Haymarket, Sydney, receives his consignments of Watches from the Manufacturers, Waltham, Massa-
es . 6 ° 0l: H handii they consequently reach the Australian public at only a trifle over manufacturers’ wholesale prices. There
Slll Au s tr a ] years’ printed guarantee given with each watch. A Waltham can now be sent per parcels post to any
Sla > and T. M. Alcock, the Waltham Agent, accepts all risk till the watch is safely delivered. i
rp «r SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET OF WATCHES, SPORTING TROPHIES, &c.
I s *4JL ALCOCK, JEWELLER, WALTHAM WATCH AGENT, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
%
barter.
CHA.TSWOOD IRRIGATED ~
5-ACRE "P" 1 A
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96 PITT STREET, S"2"3DiTE'2"-
PAMPHLET, PLAN, AND PARTICULARS FORWARDED FREE.
BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
The ]
"&W, gest - Cheapest, and Best-selected Stock of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
&c. 7 qjf fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
> x ’ Vi here find the Stock of Boots larger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ cheaper.
Action of the quality and comparison of the prices is specially invited.
boot palace
11,6 Mlie
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
are requested to note that John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
RTLEY BROTHERS.
W DRAPERS,
-ALT ID BATHI7EST STEEETS.
AND SEE US, WE ARE SELLING SOME WONDERFUL BARGAINS
Investment, Finance and Land Company, Limited.
() ®Uq}i] ~ .£500,000 | Subscribed Capital - £250.000 | Reserve Fund - £40,000.
: 163 Pi TT STREET, SYDNEY. j BANKERS : UNION BANK OP AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
L °he
Objects of the company.
Jj, Cc °ive Money on Deposit; To Make Advances on Freehold and Leasehold Securities :To Invest in Freehold and Leasehold Property.
RATES OF INTEREST.
> ’ without notice, 5 per cent. ; Deposits at 3 months, 6 per cent. ; Deposits at 6 months, 7 per cent. ; Deposits at 12 months, 7£ per cent.
" , CUKHKNT ACCOUNTS BEARING- INTEREST.
b&j also opened with trading firms and private persons, according to the usual practice of Bankers, but with the important exception that interest is allowed cm the daily
at che rate of FIVE PER CENT, per annum. These accounts are operated on by cheque-books, obtainable at the Office of the Company.
W IXJLiIiL M CLARK B f Manager,


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
W!
PROOF
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED JBY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Lum,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BROS., RIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
• ••
%
O
o
s
IRONMONGERS
512 X
|T—l ■ M
<•*
o
=8
v**
8
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
■
GAS COOKING STOVES j— LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &c,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
BUGGIES
men GRADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
rnnsH.
Bm by All the
ntni—r citiKM.
HCT bow cheap,
■UT HOW GOOD 1
&
£
FLEMING'S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
(or all purposes.
Call and Inspect
Hard MAH Bros.
A
/ Goldf/vSrßup
/ 4/V0 /
iRCACU if
RFfMffiS If.
/SfgfflO?
iiiiiiiMnntiiMiHHiHMiiimmiiHUimiiMH)
|H<OHIIIIH|IIIIII
03iMIOS[fQjIIS^'ras QSHOMLIi
s*r
?K
HCad Office & Factory. Newtow/v
BRANCH, CCORCE ST SYDNEY.
s\\\
v->
SINGER
and Co/s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHNDANKS,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGINGS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
SLABS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney.
HB
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
— fc -Ji
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much taster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-streeb.
ZCabinets
d
olH'
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
_ GENERA U\ IRONMONGERS
IRON,;HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCED
win ■ v'. Importers of nfAd u 2.'H
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD- WORKING MA
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEML£j i
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MAiw
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
MACHINERY^IRON YARD
11
II
3SS
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON; GALVANISED, rafam
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD 5 WjM
BRUSHWARE; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES-
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FIXED
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS p
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c. pnftT^
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and yp
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
Head Warehouse • • • ■ • 54 YORK STREET. .«]
Iron and Implement 'Yan, • • • HAY and ENGINE STRE® 0A
Bulk Stores- . fi HARBOUR STREET, DAKI^
London Office *
• 85 GRACECHURCH SI
DUGiOUSm
Ttmco IfORKI,
SYDNEY.
..,^01033113^30
#JU-a<rj.nO
'* IVHd“"
MOBOO
/s'sijwyj.a
flOaiivM,
f t l °33&
|l !fl)j3ni)NOO
JJ U ° m»s * m
NOSXIO
XS*
MOSAIC
ORGANS !
BOLE AGENTS FOR THE
C £
SMITH.
BRUCE &
PlAl'
ORGANS,
197 PITT-ST
MAP'
S'
THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
Charlotte-place and George-street.
K. HANNEY’S
; 1 DOZEN O-A-SIEJ
OF ASSORTED
WISES, SPIRITS, and HALT LIQUORS,
I DELIVERED ANY PART OP CITY PRISE.
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer. Order the ldoz case as
you please from the list of low prices as under, viz.
Robertson’s, Walker or Royal Blend Scotch Whiskies 4s
Dunville’a Shamrock and Burke’s XXX Irish do. 4s.
Brian Boru Whisky .. .. .. .. 3 a .
Henndfcsy’s * Cognac .. .. .. .. ss.
„ *** .. 6s.
Square Gin .. .. .. .. .. 4s.
Jamaica Rum .. .. .. .. ... 4s.
Rea Heart do. .. .. .. .. 4s.
Flasks Brandy aaa Whiskies .. .. Is. 6d. & 2s. 6d.
English Ales and Stout, best brands Is. or Ils. Gd. per dozen
Port Wine, for invalids .. .. .. .. 6s.
Port Wine and Sherry from .. .. .. 2s.
Best brands Whisky or Brandy from 20s. per gallon.
£3 CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY.
Marks's Ale, Porter, and Lager Beer.
Certificates of merit, of the first-class and silver medal
awarded at the Calcutta Exhibition, and patronised by his
Excellency the Govenor’s houseeold, Gd. per bottle. All
first-class Goods. One trial will prove the fact. Bottle De-
partment of the GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL, Corner
George.street and Charlotte-place. Orders by post solicited
Mrs. Hanney attends personally on lady patrons.
rjjH.BJ ’CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
'/■ .k,
vytkecl
f
gd
lAC
HINC^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
designs
WITH
NEWEST
AT
cos!
LOWEST
( v
;/
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, L**
ESTIMATED F O5,
11l
Sydney:
lilt PITT STREET.
jv<y
KIHC
M In MarWe-j^ L i*
Design*
MARGARET-STE,* JT.


The Bulletin
VoL 8-No. 874
SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 1887.
Price., 6d.
Iw F®
'WwW^
, V i***n
5 ;U fU ' eI L
flj
jp,off< c '° f ,
f s *• 1 j r
J * a
Ont- of tbt fool}
Yo^cffor Pa rfctr S
ci P/~et (Tret clt
W rn rh(- fiofie 7pcc t >t~
J Cdou/’P /naPf. AuS/
cb°oc/ _ Sornt-
-0010 or o/Acr
Pan, ' l '
V ? /: r W OP r^
be a
to afford t/7.5 aj it
tyorc rtanf/pected
fe W«? ; " b ■>»■•<« ■&-
'lsat date.
“The Bulletin” Calendar for April.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OSCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance).
Per annum - £X Os. Od,
Half-yearly - - - - 0 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - 0 6s. 0d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE,
By sending direct toTm Bulletin Offloe twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Poet Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony—you oan
bars The Bulletin posted regularly to you erery week for
a year.
This offer la nat open to residents of Sydney. In that olty
The Bulletin 1s not delivered by mail, but is entirely In
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fare.
THE bulletin:
SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 1887.
The Bulli Catastrophe.
It is not an easy task to speak of such an
awful calamity as the coal-mine explosion at
Bulli, New South Wales. The grief one
feel* is almost too poignant for unchoked
utterance —the exalted sentiment of pity is
wrought up by the piteous wails of widows
and orphans to the point where, as Words-
worth says. “ sobs alone do tell the heart’s
true tale.” Nigh a hundred human beings
have been sacrificed iu a burnt-offering to
Mammon. The business is horrible, heart-
rending, yet it is needful to consider the
practical side of this terrible affliction. It is
needful to debate, in the interests of labour,
the question raised by the great destruc
tion of life—to debate it in the interests of
the countless workmen still spread over the
land, whose fate to-morrow may be as sudden
and as dreadful as that of the Bulli victims.
It is noticeable that the first, most
general, and loudest outcry in response to
the moaDS of sorrow from Bulli was for
charitable contributions. Everybody was
prepared to do something on behalf of the
miserable widows and their fatherless chil-
dren. Governor Carington, the Mayor of
Sydney, Sir Henry Parkes, all the leading
men in politics and religion, and all, or
nearly all, the caterers for amusement or
pleasure, readily, and in gome cases demon-
stratively, offered their sympathy and aid
and material assistance. No doubt a large
fund will be accumulated, and it is eminently
satisfactory to think that at least ample tem-
porary provision at all events will be made
for the unfortunate women and children
But it occurs to us that the money is, in all
human probability, coming from a wrong
source and is being given with a wrong
object. Charity is doubtless a good thing in
its way, but charity, it must be remembered,
is a powerful instrument whereby Capital
may keep Labour in subjection. The legtl
representatives of the victims of the calamity
have unquestionably suffered a wr*ng, and
for that wrong there should be, and we sur-
mise is, a remedy. In the interests of
Labour that remedy ought to be applied,
for very plain and simple reasons. For,
firstly, the redress given would come as a
right ; secondly, it would be made by those
who ought to make it ; and, most important
consideration of all, the compelling of the
persons who ought to redress this wrong to
fulfil their duty would do infinitely more
than all the Government inspection in the
world to prevent recurrences of these col-
liery disasters. Let the fact be made known
that the colliery proprietors are responsible
at law for the loss occasioned by their neg-
lect or default, and no more will be heard of
explosions and their terrible consequences.
The advocates of the Employers’. Liability
Act in England have always laid stress on
this point. These “ accidents ” often arise
simply from a desire to save a few pounds.
The Kapunda horror the other day was
caused by the other ship having no lights—
her master was anxious to save a few pints
of oil, and hence some hundreds of souls
were hurried into eternity. And similarly
with mining. The manager who is “econo-
mical,” is valued and smiled upon; while he
who is constantly demanding funds where-
with to make things safe quickly has to
make way for another. That, we know, is
the prevalent rule, and it remains to be seen
whether there is an exception in the present
case.
* * •
Anyhow, the printa-faete case against the
proprietors of the Bulli Colliery is strong.
The Sydney Morning Herald is not gener-
ally opposed to the interests of Capital ; yet
this is the story narrated by its reporters at
Bulli :
“ THE CAUSE OF THE EXPLOSION.”
“As the work of recovering the bodies draws
towards a close and the painful excitement de-
creases, attention is being directed to the question
of the cause of the explosion, and to the reports of
experts after inspection, which will be made as
soon as practicable. It is useless to attempt in-
spection before access can be had to all parts of
the damaged workings, but several important
questions are now proposed without reference to
any details of the cause. It is beyond doubt that
there was an enormous body bf gas in the mine,
and the first question suggested is how such a
quantity accumulated without being discovered.
Does the law sufficiently provide for the, qiainten-
ance of methods and appliances which would ren-
der such a disaster impossible ? If the law does
this, have its provisions b cn prop rly carried out
by those whose duty it was to see it done? It
being impossible to prevent the accumulation of
gas in coal-mines it is a necessary part of their
economy that due warning of the presence of gas
must be given, and a system enforced to secure
safety. It has been reported how the Government
official and those belonging to the mine describe
their lately having visited certain portions of the
workings and found all safe. It was certainly
known that there was gas in the mine, but it was
stated to be so small tn quantity as to cause no
alarm. In connection with this part Of the subject
it must be stated that I endeavoured to ask some
questions of Mr. Koss, the colliery manager, but
he refused to answer any. Mr. Wallace, who
represents Messrs. Allen and Allen, the legal
advisers of the company, has specially forbidden
him to make any statement to the Press. The
mine's make very positive statements to the effect
that there were remarkable indications of the
presence of gas in the mine, and that only a small
proportion of safety lamps were in use, it being
the custom to use these lamps in the gas district.
The immediato cause of the explosion was a
naked light of some kind, and the men are
very emj ha tic at the absurdity of tending
safety lamps into a mine wi h a nakel
lamp alongside them, It has been stated that
the men working in the gassy bords were
using safety lamps that were locked. This is con-
tradicted by some of the men, and it is alleged
that lamps were taken in unlocked As to the
quantity of ga», it is reported that one of the men
lit it with a match on Tuesday. The explosion
occurred on Wednesday. As to both the quantity
of gas and the handling of the lamps, Mr. Nichol-
son, the Miners’ Union secretary, tells us of a
conversation he had with one of those who were
killed. It was a fortn , ghc ago to-night when J.
Westwood told him and some others that he had
struck a blower, and could hear her humming a
hundred yards away. Nicholson said, ‘lf that is
so, then it’s God help you one of these days.’ This
‘ blower ’ was in the Hi 1 Knd district, either in
the very heading where the explosion is supposed
to have occurred, or in close proximity. Nichol-
son was at the pit when Westwood’s body came
out He siys he got Westwood’s lamp, and
found it was unlocked. He very firmly adheres
to the statements frequently made by the miners
that the inspections are conducted in a perfunctory
manner, that the Government official-* are taken
only to the good places, and that a system of
favoritism ensures the various employes of the
company conniving at this practice. So far as
this concerns the mine s who are m >.t ' itally in-
terested in making known any suspicious occur
rence, it appears that they dare not aisert their
right, lest they should suffer for it as soon as oc
casion offered. They say that the com pan v has
succeeded only too well in its determination to
fight to the bitter end and crush the miners ; that
he company has such a sj stem of terrorism that
the men are afraid even to exercise the rights
given them by law. They only went back to
work to avoid pauperism, and they point to the
ru es issued by the company as bringing about a
state of things that would lead to utter demorali-
sation. In this case they distinctly say that if
they had their own check inspector, as the law
entitles them to, this disaster would never have
happened ; but because whoever moved for it
would be a marked man they have not ventured
to do so. The inspection of the wordings by ex-
perts may or may not reveal this important fact,
but it is certain that whatever inquiry is made
into the surrounding circumstances, there must-
be a sharp watch kept on the system which pre-
vails in this colliery, and upon the conduct of the
individuals concerned."
Now here is a circumstantial account
which plainly shows the course of action to
be taken. The New South Wales Em-
ployers’ Liability Act was passed to meet
cases of the present sort, and that beneficent
law ought most certainly be utilised to its
very last letter on this occasion. The inci-
dents of the late lock-out of the miners are
fresh in the memory of the public. Never,
we believe, in the whole history of labour
disputes did masters show such studied in-
difference to the rights of their men ; and
the down-treading spirit seems to have ex-
tended to the point of working them in a
poisonous and dangerous atmosphore in
violation of the law. Charity is not wanted
in this matter, but the sternest and most
inexorable justice is clearly demanded.
These hundreds of widows and orphans
must, if default can be brought home to the
colliery-owners in the Supreme Court, be
paid in full what the law ordains, namely,
three years of the pay that would have been
earned by their unfortunate husbands and
fathers. The duty cast on the public is to
see this done. Every shilling legally
screwed out of the proprietors as compensa-
tion for the loss of life will be like the
quality of mercy—twice blesied. It will
benefit the women and children, and it
assuredly will benefit the fat capitalists to
feel the sharpest justice. The compensation
required will amount to over £50,000. The
infliction of a penalty of such magnitude
would prove moat salutary. It would put
an immediate stop to bad ventilation in
mines. The terrors of Nature, which “ ex-
perts ” now declare to be beyond compre-
hension and control, will quickly disappear
under the benign influence of the counter-
terror of a money fine. For we all
know that these dangerous accumulations
of explosive gases in coal-mines are,
in nine hundred and ninety-nine cases
out of a thousand, attributable just to one
cause—to a pernicious system of manage-
ment. To save money on the output of coal
the typical “ good ” manager will ignore
choke-damp and fire-damp, and when the
day of horror comes will talk glibly of the
“ unknown ” workings of Nature. Hut the
Employers’ Liability Act, properly enforced,
will tend to throw a deal of light on the
“unknown.” A prospective fine of £7OO
for every man killed will soon make good
managers understand these incomprehensible
gases, and how to prevent their dangerous
accumulation.
As for Government inspection, that is a
proved failure. Yet whenever these awful
events occur there is an outcry for more or
better inspectors. The New South Wales
Coal Mines Regulation Act is, and always
wfll be, used by proprietors simply to sneak
out of responsibility. The rules laid down
may be strictly observed so far as inspectors
can judge, and yet the risks run may be
beyond measure. The Bulli mine was in
spected by the Examiner of Coal Mines him-
self only a few weeks ago, and pronounced
by him to be perfectly safe. Instead of
additional inspection the better plan would
be to abolish inspection altogether. Let the
coalmasters work their mines in their own
fashion, but lot them stand the consequences
of accident. John Stuart Mill, Herbert
Spencer, and a host of other high authori-
ties have argued that this is the only way to
put a stop to colliery explosions. The Em-
ployers’ Liability Act is the coal-hewers’
best protection. We will, after to-day,
give Mr. Abigail, the Minister of Mines, a
clean receipt for that £25 and accumu-
lated interest for having been instrumental
in obtaining this most just and liberal statu-
t >ry declaration. Let us hopB it will not be
permitted to remain a dead letter.
No time should be lost and no stone left
unturned in prosecuting this business. The
Legislature lias provided a perfectly just law,
and it is of national importanee to hare it
enforced. The master is amply protected
under the statute, and has no ground of
complaint whatsoever. If he can prove that
he is not in fault his liability vanishes. But
ho is responsible for the laches of his man-
agers and overmen, and is required to pay
for the consequences. The utmost am. mnt
recoverable is, as we have said, three years’
earnings. That means about £7OO for each
of the poor creatures destroyed. So as to
avoid any risk of defeat, notice of action had
better be given in respect of each case with
as little delay as possible. The 4th section
of the Act states that notice of injury must
be given within six weeks, and action com-
menced within six months. This, we may
fairly suppose, does not apply to instances
where legal personal representatives suo for
compensation for death ; but it is well to be
sure on the point. What we counsel those act-
ing on behalf of these suffering peojfle to do, is
to engage the services of an attorney at once
with the object of doing all that is necessary
in tho way of preliminary measures. And
what wo trust the public will do is raise a
fund—not to be given in charity to the
widows and children—but devoted to the
prosecution of the actions, right up to the
Privy Council, if nocessary. The relief im-
me iately required by the families of the
victims will be forthcoming from the Govern-
ment and from the money in tho hands of
the various Mayors. To allow the Employers’
Liability Act to remain in abeyance on this
occasion would be a crime, for it was to
meet a case of this kind that the law was
devised ; and it is because it would operate
as a cure for the negligence underlying dis-
asters of this sort, more than all else, that
the law has been advocated by tho greatest
thinkers of the age.
There is, of course, to be an official in-
vestigation ; but we for our part have no
confidence in such inquiries. The “ ex-
perts ’' employed are invariably biassed, un-
consciously, no doubt, but none tho less
strongly, in favour of the employers. The
local experts can scarcely be expected to be
Lee, as they all derive their incomes from
the coalmasters. If experts are imported
from other countries they will be masters’
men, too, for a certainty. Twelve good
honest jurymen are the proper tribunal
here. Restitution is demanded, that is
beyond doubt or question. To ask for sub-
scriptions from the public is to declare this ;
but subscriptions from the public can only
be legitimately asked for where there is no
legal method of obtaining redress. All the
assistance the public can in the first place
rightly be called upon to afford is that in the
shape of tho sinews of war to fight the
battle in the courts—except to the extent of
providing for the immediate wants of the
sufferers. We hope and believe the sugges-
tions here thrown out will be acted upon
with vigour and sagacity.
Foster and Fees.
The highly-respectable Mr. W. J. Foster is a
barrister ; he is also a lay member of the Anglican
Synod, President of Sydney Young Men’s Christian
Association, a cold-waterite and anti-tobaccoite,
and Attorney-General in the Parkes Government
A man with such a long catalogue of distinctive
virtues ought to be able to claim that he is honest
in the strictest sense of the word. Mr. Foster
is so thoroughly convinced that he is worthy of
the honourable distinction, that he asked the elec-
tors of Newtown to elect him on that ground, for,
said he, the question of Freetrade or Protection is
of minor importance compared with that of hav-
ing an honest Government in power “ and, thank
God, we have that now.” Who will say that Mr.
Foster’s actions do not accord with his profes-
sion 1 Did he not decline to have his name sub-
mitted for the Speakership for “ personal and
political reasons ? ” Who but an honest man
would sacrifloe the dignity and emoluments of
that office in order to protect the bleeding country
from the villainy of ruthless ruffians ? Whs but a
pure-minded patriot will decline a Judgeship
when it is in his own gift ? If any person had
been base enough to suppose that the saintly
Water-j ug was not moulded out of honest poli-
tical clay the unfounded supposition would have
been removed on the misguided individual hearing
the Water-jug pour forth its soul in the Assembly
last week on the delicate quest ion of the pocketing
of fees by public officers. The honest Government
submitted a sensible proposal that all fees re-
ceived by clerks of Petty Sessions should be paid
to the Government instead of being a perquisite
by which some of the clerks more than double
their salaries. Naturally enough some memffpvs ,
wanted to know why the Government did not
propose to apply the same principle to higher offi-
cials —for example, the Attorney-General and the
Crown Solicitor, who draw £lOOO a year each from
patent fees in addition to their salaries. It was
on this point that Mr. Foster unburdened hi
little soul and displayed the honesty of his nature.
Clerks of Courts, he said, ought not to be placed
in such a position that they would be under a
strong temptation to promote litigation, because
that was most undesirable in the interests of
society. Transcendent honesty, this—a lawyer
talking about discouraging litigation! He furthe
represented that the fees paid to clerks of Courts
are for services rendered to the public, and there-
fore they ought to be paid into the public Treasury,
but the fees paid to the Attorney-General and the
Crown Solicitor in connection with applications
for patents, are for services rendered to private
individuals, consequently those officials are fairly
entitled to pocket the fees. There is more Fog-
terian honesty in i hese proposii ions than reveals
itself on first thought. It is wrong to encourage
litigation by allowing public officers to collect fee
from persons seeking justice, but it is right to dis
courage the exercise of man’s inventive faculties
by allowirg two highly-paid functionaries to claim
fat fees from applicants for patents for doing
merely nominal work.
But there is yet more simple Fosterian
honesty to disclose. The work done by the
Attorney-General and the Crown Solicitor in deal-
ing with applications for patents is of such a
nature that it might well be done by private
lawyers, but in the early days it was thought
advisable that it should be done by the Crown
Law officers—of course, in the interests of the
poor applicants, who would assuredly be fleeoed if
they entrusted their business to lawyers unim-
pelled to honest dealing by reason of official
responsibility. Mr. Foster ' did not say all this,
but he left it to be implied, and some ignorant
member interposed the senseless interjeotion that
the Crown Law officers did the work in public
office hours. Mr. Foster waxed indignant, and
said that the Attorney-General was not supposed
to devote the whole of his time to the publio—it
was his right to earn whatever fees he could pro-
cure, and as for the Crown Solicitor, if he per-
formed his public duties satisfactorily, it was hig
own business if he chose to do private work, even
in office-hours ! This is a doctrine which must be
endorsed by all honest Civil servants who have
never heard anything about a regulation which
forbids them doing private work even after office-
hours. We are growing tired of writing in praise
of the “ Honest ’ New South Wales Government,
but wecannotallowtheopportunity to pass without
offering our little congratulation to the Parlia-
ment and the colony on their possession, in the
person of Attorney-General Foster, of such an
honest lawyer and honest politician.
Parkes’ Petticoated Politicians.
Thk logical sequence of woman-suffiage' is the
representation of women in Parliament by legisla
tors of their own sex. Let ns assume that Sir
Henry Parkes’ bid for popularity had become
concreted in practice, not alone in New South
Wales but in Victoria : what sort of men would
command the suffrages of the long-skirted politi-
cians? The silver-haired Hemperorof Botany Bay is
out of therunning from the start—even his thimble
bid for notoriety would not save him —there is
only one thing for him to do, and that is to get
shaved that he may renew his youth. Fancy Sir
Henry securing the vote and interest of some fair
enslaver by the presentation of an ottoman
cushion, beautifully worked in silk, and stuffed
with his own hair ! That would fetch her ! This
is his only chance of salvation with the women ;
he can’t keep in office on the purely paternal
ticket (ha<r thrown in), and, although women are
ruled through their ghostly advisers, even the old
Parliamentary Hand's adroit concurrence: in the
pious suggestion that the House should be opened
with prayer falls flat—especially on the women.
Why doesn’t the venerable Hknhk try something
a little more transparent?
Of course, different men would 15‘aVn different
methods of manipulating the little (parliamentary)
dears. We do suppose that Victoria’s “jllove of
Ararat" would catch a female smile or a female
vote quite in the manner of the (Vlaclcay Cupid
(Australian edition, registered, and all rights re-
served) : neither would the Adonises of the New
South Wales Assembly— William of Orange, nte
Ginger, and the Honorable (within the colony)
Lloyd —run a tilt against the superior charms of
the Victorian medicinal Hose (blooming, but alas,
not alone) or the petticoat-protector, StiAtiCELL,
from whom the great Parkes has yet to borrow
the notion of a tax on bachelors. d3ut wouldn’t
the rakish dogs go for the pretty girls—the
withered female reformer of 50 summers, or
winters, would be despised and rejected of men,
even as the proverbial wall-tiewer.
And woolen-legislators wauld^follow the lead of
only the good-looking and haw-haw men. The
most whimsical reasons would be advanced against
politicians not favoured in outward appearance, or
who were careless in the paramount particular of
dress. Dr. Lucy Wilkinson, Jack Purves, B.
It. Wise, Dr. Cortis, and Burdett Smith would,
in New South Wales, be the leaders of the future.
They are respectable enough to enlist the suffrages
of lady members—they all shake hands with the
curate, and wear - nice stand-up collars —and
Respectability goes almost as far with the sex as
good looks. The man who was a faoile flirt and
who wore fashionable attire, who had a “ lovely ”


moustache—like Jawbone Neild— and was not too
advanced in years to be out of the question in a
matrimonial eense, would carry all before him.
Men with unkempt beards, hard features, cloudy
linen, or trousers frayed at the heels, would be
entirely out of the running. Ladies would vote
against bills because they did not like the cut of
th%ir introducer’s coat, or because he chewed
tobacco, or because he had a large family. Each
day that brought the Victorian Premier nearer
his matrimonial fate would estrange from him his
lady supporters. At last on the eventful morning
there would be left of his fair following not one so
poor as to do him reverence. The final secession
would be signalled by the music of the weddiDg-
bell—
Hear it not, Duncan, ’tis the knell
Tnat summons thee—especially to hell.
And David Gaunson’s classic face and Parisian
beard would avail him little in the fierce light of
the fact that his own sweet girls grew daily older ;
not even the dauntless defender of the Kelly
Gang could stand in front of such damning evi-
dence as that furnished his fair friends by a fine
and flourishing family of little Gaunsons.
We wonder what sort of a political leader Sir
Chari es Dilke would make in Parkes’ glorious
female future ? There’s no doubt about his ability
to “fetch” the party of the distaff. We should
like to see Sir Charles as leader of the Opposition
badly “mashing” a lady Premier; we should
like to follow them an hour afterwards into the
billiard-room, whither they had retired to talk
over their political differences, and to find the
glorious maiden pillowing Dilke’s head upon her
lap and dropping grape 3 into his distended jaws,
a la Rose —Eden’s forbidden fruit were nothing
to it! Fancy Ginger Clarke looking for silver
threads amongst the gold, standing before a
mirror and examining his red door-mat for grey
hairs, and seeing in each withered capillary charm
a female vote lost to William of Orange.
• * •
But women are not to be caught with a beard
of gold ; the gold, minus the beard, is more in
their line, although there would always be a good
percentage of lady legislators with whom senti-
ment and good looks would go farther than rubies
and diamonds, and, with these latter, reforms
would take their complexion from the “ niceness ”
of the reformer. Freetrade or Protection, land
reform or the maintenance of the present abuses,
the removal of the tax on beer or local option,
would gather value in proportion to tho good
looks, the sweet attire, the irresistible breast-pins,
the fascinating waistcoats, or the charming watch-
chains of their respective advocates, and the lolly-
shop and Berlin-wool principle would be the touch-
stone of political existence.
Just imagine the piquancy which would be im-
parled to parliamentary persiflage by genuine
feminine spite. One might picture the hon. lady
member for the Upper Hunter, a mature maiden
of 50 summers, with blue no3e and corkscrew
curls, sitting on the Opposition benches, attacking
the policy or the character —which with women
amounts to nearly the same thing—of that artful
minx, the hon. lady member for Bathurst, a
staunch supporter of the Government. How the
hon. lady member for the Upper Hunter would
storm, and with what truly feminioe eloquence
would she attack the corrupt Ministry then in
office, maintaining that it was kept in power
solely by bribery of the most flagrant character;
demanding in hoarse and stridulent voice if any-
one throughout the length and breadth of the
land was ignorant that the hon. lady member for
Bathurst had sold her vote and her voice to the
Government for the hand of that deceitful man,
the hon. Treasurer, the chief prop of the abhorred
Ministry. Then, peradventure, the hon. lady
member for Bathurst would reply with the in-
sulting insinuation that the hon. lady member for
the Upper Hunter had laid man-traps and spring-
guns for the hon. Treasurer i n her own account,
but had failed through clumsiness, or want of at-
traction, or both. Then would thehan lady mem-
ber for the Upper Hunter deny the truth or the
relevancy of the charge, and roundly assert that
she could have had the Chief Secretary or ihe
Minister of Works, or even the hon. mem-
ber for the Macleay to husband had she
been venal or inclined to pay the price
—viz.: a vote for the government when it
brought in a bill to repeal the disabilities of
mature bachelors to vote on money bills, or when
it desired to extend the franchise to unmarried
men of over twenty-one years of age. The better
parliamentary half of the Treasurer might audibly
suggest that tho feminine falminator from the
Upper Hunter never received an olfer. To which
the irate maiden might retort that the statement
was a lie. That, moreover, the hon. lady member
for Bathurst was an unknown quantity in point of
age, and feline in reference to ppecies; that no one
w’ho knew her would have had her but that in-
vertebrate idiot, the hon. the Treasurer ; and that
even he would have declined, had she not, by her
vote on a railway bill, taken the cars up to his
very door. And, moreover, no one but a hideous
ojus old thing like the hon. lady member for
Bathurst would have had a man with so scraggy
a beard as was the hon. Treasurer’s, a man with
fourteen children to boot. The duel might con-
tinue, until the hon. lady member for Bathurst
appealed to the hon. Speakeress and demanded an
apology on the ground that the language of the
hon. lady member for the Upper Hunter was un-
parliamentary. But the Speakeress being also a
woman, and, item, an umarried one, might rule
that the language of the hon. lady member for
the Upper Hunter was perfectly in order. That
the hon. lady member for Bathurst should not
give herself airs and accumulate conserve of com-
pressed fruit because she managed to entrap a
Treasurer. To which, no doubt, the hon. lady
member for Bathurst, being also a woman, might
reply that the hon. the Speakeress would have
been glad of the much-maligned Treasurer, her-
self. Whereupon the indignant Speakeress would
have to remind the hon. lady member for Bathurst,
of the respect due to the chair, supplemented
with a hint of arrest and detention in durance
vile, and a threat to scratch her eyes out, etc., etc.
Or we might imagine the wife (non-parlia-
mentary) of the Minister for Works, demanding
of an usher, au audience with her husband. The
business m ght be of the most important character,
but the usher would remain adamant in refusing
admission. At last, in response to repeated en-
quiries on the part of the lady as to why she
could not see her husband, the usher would per-
haps inform her that the Minister for V orks was
at that moment engaged on busiuess of state with
the hon. the Chairwoman of Committees, with strict
orders not to be disturbed. The wife of the
Minister would be compelled to beat a retreat,
but muttering ominous threats foretelling damag-
ing manipulation of “that young cat’s” ocular
organs.
Or, mayhap, in that jubilant time the hon.
jady member for Tamworth might require a bridge
for her constituency, and the roguish Premier, who
for months may have languished in love’s enthral
ment—the lady member being both young and
pretty —might want a kiss, but still does not see
his way clear to the bridge Coaxingly the leader
of the State comes forward with flattering words
and love’s light in his eye, and pleads for one—
just one—only one—a little one ; one to cement
parties, to, as it w’ere, give an earnest of good un-
derstanding—stability to the Government. Closer
draws the great diplomatist, and calls her his own
dear—his Tamworth Jewel. Then the maiden,
rising superior in all her charms, and struggling
coquettishly in the enchanted Premier’s arms, de-
mands that bridge, and then —she would see. The
great man, of course, takes bis kiss, and if she
must have her bridge, why, she must have her
bridge, and there was an end on’t.
We might conjure up another scene of
more tragic character, and far more serious in its
direful consequences. The division-bell may have
rung, and the Government whip may have ap-
proached the Premier with concern strongly
marked upon his uneventful brow. The anxious
leader demands the cause of his anxiety. De-
clares the Bill must be put through. Aaks im-
peratively as to the whereabouts of the hon. lady
member for South Sydney, and receives the as-
tonishing reply that she is flirting with the Leader
of the Opposition, and drinking champagne with
him in the refreshment room. This would prove
too much for the virtuous Premier ; cursing the
times and d g the women, he would declare
that the Government was sold: that the Leader
of the Opposition ought to know hotter—a married
man and the father of a family of twelve grown-up
daughters.
* * *
But the foregoing is far too eerious and matter-
of-fact a view for the readers of The Bulletin.
Let us take a -more facetious aspect of the ques-
tion Women of education are the natural enemies
of Liberty. They love what is proper and cn
regie. They are the moral and intellectual slaves
of Mrs. Grundy. Respectability has more charms
for them than Virtue, the opinion of the world in
which they live —the world of other women—
more terrors for them than Vice, than the rack,
than Death, than Hell, for which latter mythical
locality they have, however, a very wholesome
respect. Women are Queen-worshippers, Prince-
worshippers, Priest-worshippers, Lord-worship-
pers, Parson-worshippers—or rather they worship
Fashion and everything that Fashion dictates an
object of fashionable w’orship.
Max Muller, in a recent volume, remarks
that if a man desires to effect any great religious
or political reform he has to fight all the young
men under 16 and all the old men over 60, all the
fools and all the bigots, all the rogues who have
anything to lose if the p e3ent state of things were
abolished, and all thQ rogue 3 who have anything
to gain by its retention ; and, finally, the block
opposition of all the vwmen. And the last-named
is the worst opposition of all, for the women,
through the influenoe of passion, take a lot of the
more honest-thinkiDg of the men with them.
Women are not meant for legislative duties.
Nature has proclaimed against it. Woman’s
sphere i 3 the domain of her own home—here she
should be supreme. Her office is maternal, and
she best fulfils tho object of Nature by the .dis-
charge of the sacred duties of wife and ra.ther.
If this be not her destiny, whence the difference
of sexes ? She must indeed be a poor specimen of
her sex who cannot secure adequate representa-
tion at the hands of man. We would not desire
that woman should be able even to protect hereelf
from a common assault in the public street, and i(
assaulted we should f el all the better pleased with
her if she should flee in trepidation to male protec-
tion.
* * *
Parkes pretends to sympathise with the Home
Rule movement for Ireland. Here’s a memo, for
Parkes : Ireland might now be enjoying all the
benefits of Home Rule but for the action of the
Tory dames of England. Women always take the
strong side in politics, the respectable side, the
well-dressed, the rich, the cultured side—the
Jenny Jeromes of the Republic ever figure
(given an opportunity) as the Lady Ran-
dolph Churchills of the Empire. And
the Tory party would never have held offics to
perpetuate the misrule of Ireland, but for the
assistance it received in the last election from the
ladies of the Primrose League. Napoleon was
once asked what woman was of greatest value to
her country ? The reply was awaited in anxieiy.
It was supposed the Corsican slaughterer would
have instanced Madame Roland. But he didn’t.
According to Napoleon the woman of greatest
value to her country was she who gave it most
sons. Aud this is wh *t the “ emancipated ’
woman reiuses to do. She rejects the maternal
office. In France, where she has obtained the
upper hand ; where she rules tne camp,
the court, the grove ; where she domin-
ates in business and ‘‘bosses” eternal creation,
she declines to fill the natural function of her sex.
Paramount in the wrong place—any place but
her home —population dwindles, the country de-
cays, and the men become enfeebled weaklings
dragging out a subjec'ive existence at their wives’
apron-striogs. A bonus i 3 now offered by the Frelich
Government for every seventh son, a free educa-
tion and an annual subsidy until he reaches the
age of twenty-one. But still Madame listens not to
the voice of the charmer.
In iron-ruled Germany, the land of stern mili-
tarism, the country in which the army constitutes
the step-ladder to po\frer, and the career of the
soldier stands first in the service of ihe state,
woman holds another and an entirely different
position. In Germany woman is the wife, not
the mistress of her husband, as in France. As a
natural consequence the prosperity of Germany is
a proverb ; her vigour is unquestioned ; her place
is among the first-rate powers of Europe ; she is
feared and respected ; and from her teeming popu-
lation she has supplied America, both North and
South, with no insignificant number of emigrants,
without apparent diminution of her resident in-
habitants. Even Russia, wracked and wrested by
internal dissension though she be, is still feared
abroad, and a pos s ible disastrous war with Russia
is the Scylla and Charbydis of the English states-
man. Even her internal quarrels are evidence of
tremendous national vigour and manly devotion
to a cause inconceivable as existing in men
“ bbssed ” by the weaker sex.
Honestly, we must give our vote against woman
suffrage. And we do this in no ungallant spirit.
In the domestic circle woman is an angel, a god-
dess, anything that hyperbole may faintly falter
over will not be con-idered beyond her merits, or
in the region of hyperbole by us. Woman as a
wife, a mother, fulfils the functions allotted by
Nature in a maimer (as the S. M. Herald would
say) that leaves nothing to be desired. And, in
talking of female suffrage, we must always recol-
lect that women never yet existed apart from
men —they are not a separate race. Women can*
not perpetuate their kind to the exclusion of
male*, notwithstanding countless myths of Ama
zonian tribes to the contrary ; and, depend upon
it, the chances of their evtr doing so are very
remote. At all events, the female politician is
hardly the woifian a man with an appreciation
of the exquisite womanliness of the true woman
would think of making his wife. Let women look
beautiful and be beautiful; let them cull the
flowers of life and leave to man its stern responsi-
ble duties ; or, if w’omen must bear a part of the
burden, let it be that part that has its truest
meaning in the word “ wife.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Blackfellow’s Soul.
The indifference of the Churches to the sin and
degradation by which they are immediately sur-
rounded is never more prominently and disgust-
ingly displayed than at the annual mee’iogs of
the New* South Wales Aborigines’ Protection
Association. This Society was formed by a few
lay philanthropists for the purpose of weaniDg the
blacks of the colony from their nomadic habits, and
trying to teach them some of the rudiments of
English civilisation, including dogmatic Chris-
tianity. Certain of the clergy have attended the
annual meetings of the Society, and delivered
strings of religious platitudes, but that is all the
interest either they or their brethren in th«? bonds
of the Gospel have taken in the unfortunate blaok-
fellow. Tens of thousands of pounds have been
raised in these colonies by four of the Protestant
denominations for the purpose of converting the
numerous and comparatively respectable tribes in
the South Sea Islands, but hardly a copper has
been subicribed to convey salvation to the local
nigger. At this moment a clergyman is stumpiDg
New South Wales to collect funds for carrying on
the “ good work” amongst the “ persecuted rem-
nant ” in the Friendly Islands; but whoever
heard of a clergyman of any denomination per-
forming a begging tour on behalf of the Austra-
lian blacks? A description of the filth and
savagery of the New Guinea natives by a re-
turned missionary who possesses imagination will
draw a £lOO collection from a Sydney Evan-
gelical audience ; but the strongest appeal that
could be delivered on behalf of the local blacks
would not produce a tenth of that amount. The
proof of this is to hand. Last week the annual
meeting of the Aborigines’ Protection Association
was held in Sydney, There was ‘ a large and re-
presentative ” audience. The meeting was pre-
sided over by the Governor. It was addressed by
the Minister of Education, by two clergymen, and
by a member of the Upper House, and yet the
collection realised only £7 2s. 5d ! What we would
ask the churches is this : Have the niggers of Aus-
tralia souls, or have they not ? If they have souls,
and those souls are in danger of “ Eternal Damna-
tion,” as the clergy presumably believed to be the
case, is it not. their duty to do their level best to
save them from beiDg everlastingly roasted ? It
is no reply to this question, to quote the nomad
habits and dull apprehension of the said niggers,
for if they are on the road to hell no difficulties
should be allowed to stand in the way of their
rescue, rather the greater the difficulties the
greater should be the aetermination to fcnatch
them from perdition. The clergy profess to believe
that our aborigines are as much in danger of ever-
lasting torment as the natives of Fiji, New
Guinea, or Tanna, and yet they manifest the ut-
most zeal to Bave the latter, but are utterly indif-
ferent regarding the former. To the clergy, and
to those who believe in tne clergy, a nigger is a
very interesting person so long as he is at a dis-
tance of a thousand miles irorn them, but if he is
close at hand he is regarded as a disagreeable ob-
ject for whose salvation it is really not worth
while to spend any coin or even olfer up any
prayers.
Perjmy or Murder !
Aleck Lee, who, in Trial Bay (New South Wales)
Gaol, stabbed a warder with a knife, was tried
last Friday at Sydney for “ attempting to murder”
—an offence for which, under the colonial oode,
the penalty is death—and escaped the gallows
through the disagreement of the iury. But no-
body doubts for a moment that he did “ attempt
to murder ” all the same. From first ti last the
evidence showed that he meant death, ana he
escaped simply because the people of New South
Wales are becomiog more and more disgusted
with the brutal laws jockeyed through the Legis-
lature, and with the ghastly irrational doctrine of
capital punishment. Consequen'ly verdicts in
cases of murder are difficult to obtain, and in
course of time the acquittal of priaoners charged
with any crime that carries the highest penalty of
the law will become a matter of course, and rape
and assassination will be offences which can be pei-
petrated with absolute impunity. Eteu now a large
proportion of offenders escape justice because
jurymen refuse to accept the responsibility of
judicial slaughter ; the revolting nature of the
punishment defeats its own end and the adminis-
trators of the law iefuse to have blood upon their
hands. The jurors, under the present system, are
placed ia a false position, and deserve devp com-
miseration. Whether they will or not they are
hustled into the box and sworn to give a ver-
dict according to the evidence and then they
are left to face the alternative of committing per-
jury or murder—they must either disregard the
clearest testimony against the accused and trans-
gress their oa'h by declaring a criminal ‘'not
guilty,” or they must follow the evidence and
leave the rest to the Executive and the haugman.
The monstrous doctFine of capital punishment has
still, it is true, abundant advocates, but its oppo-
nents are now so numerous that it is difficult to
find a jury which does not contain at least two or
three men whoie consciences compel them to
violate their mumbled pledge rather than consign
a fellow-creature to the gallows. And those men
who stonewall the verdic.s in murier trials base
one unanswerable argument in their favour.
Hardly a year passes without at least half-a-dozen
cases coming to light w r here men, who have been
condemned to death on what seems to be
the clearest evidence, are proved to have
been innocent. If life-long penal servitude had
been the extreme punishment of the law it would
have possible in many cases toe mpensate
these unfortunates to some extent for their suffer-
ings ; the insensate brutality of the law, however,
puts them beyond all redress, and while such
cases are perpetually arising, to show what a hap-
hazard thing is justice, even at its beat, iurors
are natura ly reluctant to play too deeply in that
tiagic game of cha«.ce and perjury which goes on
under the shadow of the law.
The New South Wales Postmaster General evi-
dently knows very little of wnat goes on in his
j department. A deputation from the Sydney
| Chamber of Commeroe waited upon him last
! Friday to urge the necessity for establishing a
parcels-post within the colony. Mr. C.M.G.,
P.M.G. Roberts replied there were legal diffi-
culties in the way, but the matter had his warmest
sympathy, and he would wrestle with it at an
early date. Strange to say, a writer in the
Clarence Examiner recently complained that
•addles are sometimes sent through the post. The
object in doing this is not very apparent, as the
steamer freight on a 141 b. saddle is only Is , while
the postage-rate on ihe same would be 4s. Bd.
The saddle postage bufiness reminds a Northern
man of the good old days when storekeepers were
postmasters, and often made parcel-delivery vans
of Her Majesty’s mails to oblige the favoured few
who owned private bags On one occasion a cer-
tain private-bag man asked a visitor who was
going to town to call on Mr. Postmaster and ask
him to send up some groceries. “How is he to
send them?’’ a9ked the visitor. “Ob, that’ll be
OK.,’’ said the other; “he’ll pop them in the
mail bag and I’ll get them by the return trip.”
The friend delicately hinted that this was against
the regulations, whereupon his host exclaimed,
d la Fritz, “ Oh, hang the regulations ; if I were
to send to old for a plough, or even a thresh*
irg machine, I believe he’d manage to squeeze it
into the mail bags.” Postmaster-General Roberts
should give that anecdote his warmest attention
also, as the saddle-postage is perhaps worked on a
similar principle.
It is remarkable that men who have been sud*
denly reprieved from the gallows can neither eat
nor sleep for a time, whereas the wretch who
knows he has to step out to the Great Unknown
next morning, invariably eats a hearty supper and
enjoys a sound sleep the night before his execu-
tion. Apropos to this, some little commotion was
recently caused in Brisbane court during the trial
for murder of an aborignal named Billy. When
the case had nearly closed the officials were
startled on finning that the prisoner had appar-
ent'y performed the vanishing trick, as the dock
was to all appearance empty. On investigation,
however, it was found that Billy was curled up
like a ’possum in a corner under the seat, where
he was sleeping as soundly as if he were a night
policeman told ofif for important duty. And yet
the Queensland authorities will insist on hanging
and flogging our aboriginal brother just as though
he knew as much about the white man’s law as
Judge Windeyer,
The N.S.W. Inspector-General of Police has a
keenly graduated sense of the relation between
offence and punishment. A Gundagai policeman
took an extra glass of beer when he should have
been watching for drunks, and he was dismissed
by telegram. The two constables charged with
assaulting a man in the lock-up were invited to
re ign. So it is a much greater crime for a police-
man to get drunk than to hammer a helpless
inebriate until his face resembles a map of the
Turkish Empire after an European war.
Gemima Kfzia Lavinia Phillips has made out a
strong case in favour of Sir Alfred Stephen’s
Divorce Bill. Las* week Gemima stood in the
dock at Melbourne Central Criminal Court charged
with bigamy. About 1860, or thereabouts,
Gemima married her Phillips for better or for
worse—generally worse. After 20 years of co-
habitation Phillips took to drink and other un-
charitableness, and finally took himself off
altogether. From 1881 to 1885 Gemima toiled and
moiled as only deserted wives can She acquired
a little money and a little property of her owd.
Then Otto Johnson came along, atd it occurred
to Gemima that she was sufficiently like a widow
to be justified in saying “ Yes” when Otto
opened out on the mat imonial question. Perhaps
she consulted her Church Service and found that
the purposes for which “marriage was ordained ”
demanded the substitution of Mr. Johnson for
Mr. Phillips. Perhaps she coneulted the Book
of Nature and discovered the same fact. Any-
how, she became Mrs. J. As a husband, Phillips
had been dead to Gemima for four years. With-
out a doubt she was morally entitled to form a
connection with the new wooer, and to her old
fashioned understanding it seemed proper and re-
spectable that they should go to church together
and be married. As Gemima, pale and careworn,
stood in the Criminal dock she was a convincing
petition for the passing of Sir Alfred’s Bill.
Apropos of Parkes’ hint the other night indica*
tive of his sympathy with woman-suffrage.
Women at present get the best possible political
representation at th i hands of men—their hue-
bands, fatfiera, and brothers. Should a disinclina-
tion to marry ever become so strong in men as to
drive a large section of women into isolated exist-
ence, giving them interests separate and peculiar
to the interests of the great mass of the com-
munity, wo man-suffrage or repreientation of
women by legislators of their own sex would not
be necessary. The existence of an Amazonian
castle would be but a matter of a generation. Not
procreating themselves the female colony would
disappear with effluxion of time.
It seems that in Victoria when a J.P. or ex-Mayor
goes mad with jubilee, and is found in the Yarra,
neither a post mortem nor an inquest is considered
necessary. Poor people who are similarly found
are promptly hacked about at a fee of £2 2s. for
the doc I .or. In the hospital the poor men and
women who die naturally (?) and whose bodies are
unclaimed, are handed over to the medical students
to carve at for weeks. There was lately an in-
stance in Melbourne where a man subsequently
confessed to a murder of a person on whom no
post-mortem had been held, and the jury had re-
turned a verdict of suicide. That case was J. B.
Slack’s, the litigant. It was the last case poor
J.B.S. ever had.
+
TnE Germans call the President of the Uniled
States “ the King in Dress-Coat,” and Lockwood
once wrote a bor>k on the abolition of the Presi-
dency. Moreover, Em rson once said that the
American eagle was very like a peacock some-
times. But Moncuke Conway, who not long ago
paid Australia a visit, has lately written a paper
in which he asserts that foreign wars have been
the work of Presidents : the Civil war was caused
by the election of a President., and there is no
political crime which has not been committed by
some President and always with impunity ! Lock-
wood even says that Americans are bow under a
form of Government abandoned in England nearly
200 years ago 1 Then Moncure adds: “The
regular nominee is som discovered to be ihe
Fountain of Living Waters. It is an element of
success if it can be shown that he once lived in a
log-cabin, or split rails, or travelled a tow-path.”
moncure D. Conway is evidently a dissatisfied
man who thinks he was overl .oked at the last
! election. Moreover, if Austral:a were a free
country we might say ourselves that we’d sooner
, five under a man v*ho had done an honest day’s
, work rail-spliting or on the tow-path instead of
1 under but stay 1 A visitor from “home.’*
5 Come in, please.


The Referee
Any politician who wishes to bring abou
a wholesome piece ot legislation, could not c
better than bring in a Bill Kr the suppression o
fcetting at Sheffield Handicaps. It is now th
correct thing in Sydney for lads who can rai
a half crown to put their “bit” on a ped. the
have iust received the “straight griffin" abou
The books—or rather, the rats—will lay anythioj
from “ half-a caser” upwards. The morality o:
the track may be judged from the fact that ther
is scarcely a heat during which some of the com
mittee do not meander down and watch a su
pected stiff-’un.
* * *
At the time of writing the constitution o
the N.S.W. intercolonial representative eight
not been Anally decided upon. Mr. Goodyear, i
the Balmain H.C., hss taken the place on th
Selection Committee made vacant by the ri signa
tion of Mr. Martin; and we are told that he wa
jnst looking over the practice-boat the other da
when he heard the coach ask of one of the me
proposed by the recent committee, “ Good Heaven
man, are you deformed ?" And people who hat
watched the practice don't wonder at the query.
Professional pedestrianism would wor
better in N.S.W. if the various promoters wer
“ playing chaneys," and disqualiAcation on on
ground meant disqualiAcation on the lot.
• * *
The N.S.W. Association wisely declinec
to join the M.C.C. in the venture of bringing ou
a team of Gentlemen players from England. Th
experience of the M.C.C. with their last team o
gentlemen was not a happy one.
* * »
Gaudaur, Teemer, Haitian, Hamm, anc
Ten Eyckare among the American scullers who ar
likely to invade the l’arramatta shortly.
* *
Connor, the wrestler who recently de
feated Cannon, in Melbourne, was tendered
beneAt at Foley’s on Saturday night. “ Young
Mitchell” and Costello, the Yankees, had thro
lively rounds. Costello, who is a powerfully
built man. stands with his legs far apart, more i
the style of the old-time pugilists, but of cours
no line could be taken from his playful bout wit
his sturdily-built little chum, as to how he shape
when “on the job.”
Some 5000 people witnessed the final run
ning for the Carington Electric Light Handiea
on Saturday night, the winner turning up in J
M. Malone, 15 yards, who was followed in by A
F. Brown, 17 yards, Samuels, the black crack,
yards, and Tom Collins, 16 yards. The time was
given as 11 seconds. Malone is a brother of T
M. Malone, the ex-Champion.
There has been a big fuss over the now
historic colt-hunt at North Shore, Sydney, but the
indignant ones are on the wrong track. Had thej
put forth that the horse is too noble an animal U
be put to such base uses, they would have hat
ground to work upon, but in the matter of actua
cruelty a colt-hunt is no worse than a high-tone<
hunt after a stag, which is rescued from the dogs
and carted home for a future day ; and not as bac
as a dingo-hunt, when the brute is usually hat
dead before the dogs are beaten off. The Shoie
has ever been the home of sport, and many a main
of cocks and many a pair of bulldogs have done
battle in its clastic environs.
.James Fleming, the friend of Donalc
Dinnie, who has just died in Victoria, won during
his career over 1400 prizes. In 1870, in a match ai
throwing a 161 b. hammer, fair stand. Dinnie
allowing all comers 13ft. start, Fleming succeeded
in throwing his best record, 12lit 4in. He also
threw a 561 b. weight (length, including ring, 14in.
25ft. lin. ; at tossing the caber he was second only
to Dinnie. and he ha 1 a high jump record of sfr.
7io. He was also a smart runner, a capital dancer,
and one of the foremost ploughmen in his native
land.
In the inter-University boat race rowed
last Saturday, Cambridge won by four lengths.
Oxford broke an oar, but the scanty cable does
not say how this affected the race.
* * *
Sir Edward was heavily backed for the
Prince of Wales Stakes at Canterbury on Satur-
day last, but he made such a poor show that his
owner offered him to a friend for a mere song,
without response. Sir Edward further dis-
gusted his owner by, later on, winning the Disposal
Stakes from a fair Aeld when thero was not a
B hilling of stable money on him.
The newly-constituted Selection Com-
mittee have picked the following eight to repre-
sent N.S.W. in the Ini ercolonial race :—Bros., the
Brothers Kennedy and Johnson from the S 11. C.,
Seale and Robertson fiom M. R.C., and Martin and
Fraser from the Balmain R.C. Wo hear that the
split up in the Arst Selection Committee was over
the exclusion of Seals and Robertson; and it
would now appear that the squabble was a waste
of time, as the couple who stood out for the ex-
clusion have now agresd to the M.R.C pair. The
crew, as now constituted, seems about the best
the harbor can produce.
In their farewell match against 15 of South
Australia the Englishmen put up an outsider,
Maurice Read, to bowl. To the surprise of the
locals Read took 7 wickets for 4‘J runs, Ave of
them being clean bowled. Such good bats as
Jarvis, Walter GiA'en, and Waldron suffered from
this unlooked-for visitation.
• * »
The irrepressible Donald Di nnie will wrestle
Harry Dunn in seven styles on April 9th. Each
side stakes £5O, and the match should bs suffi-
ciently interesting to enable the loser te “ get out”
nicely with his 40 per cent. “ga‘e-money.” Both
men are remarkably clever with their legs, but
take it altogether Father Time will assist Dunn in
putting Liniiie nicely through.
...
William Blaikie, the author of “ How to
Get Strong, and How to Stop so,” during the
course of a recent lecture, told the following story
of Hanian, by way of exemplifying the error most
athletes make of developing one set of muscles at
the expense of the others. “ Hanian, at the time
I speak of,” said the lecturer, “ had been pulling
all his life, and his pulling muscles were tremend-
ously developed I doubted if his pushing mus-
cles were as strong; so I asked him to try the
‘ dipping’ exercise." Here Mr. Blaikie brought
forward two chairs, and illustrated the “ dipping”
business, which simply consists in placing the
hands on the top rails of the chairs, lifting the feet
from the ground, and then lowering and ra'sing
the body by the aid of the arms alone. “ I did
t’.is exercise five or six times,” continued the
lecturer, “ and then asked Hanian to try.
How many times do you suppose that
big, muscular oarsman did it ? He got down
on his knee 3 between the chairs, and there he
stuck. “Get up," said I. “I can t,” says he.
“ Try hard," I urged. “I am trying as hard as I
can,” he protested Think of that for the then
champion oarsman of America. [ This would be
capital exercise for the police force, whose pushing
muscles are so frequently called into requisition,
and we commend it to the notice of Fosbery and
Chomley.—Ed. B.) There are few, if any, better
authorities on athletic training than William
Blaikie, and here are some cf his golden rule?: —
“One way to derive benefit from exer use istoknow
how to rest; fight shy of shower-baths—they
shock the “heart; v hat is the good of superfluous
flesh 1 In short, wbat is the good of anything
superfluous? Breathe through your nose when
running, and always run on your toes. A runner's
heels should never touch the ground ; bicycling is
good exercise until you come to racing ; deep
breathing will save you from many lung troubles
and build up your chest; six hours of mental
work, or eight at most, is enough for one day;
overwork in a gymnasium is dangerous.”
C. W. Bennett, the N.S.W. “ maker’s-
amateur ” cyclist, has been disqualified for all
races by the Melbourne cycling authorities for
having ’‘ made the pace” for Con. Dwyer (now
regarded in Victoria as a professional) in his mile
record-breaking.
A few months back The
Bulletin threw cold water on
Mr. Con. Dwyer’s one-mile bicycle
“ records,” by pointing out that
little value attached to any com-
parison between “times’’made
in England and Australia—on
different tracks and in different
climates. Last Saturday week
(19th) a few thousands of enthusi-
asts gathered at the Melbourne
Cricket Ground to see the great
Con. beat 2 Din. 51 sec., and pile
up yet another champion record.
The deed was accomplished, with
two seconds to spare, and a gang
of youthful idolaters humped Con.
in triumph across the ground.
When the dailies had duly crowed,
a cold-blooded surveyor went over
the “mile” track, and found it
to be exactly 37j feet short
weight. The backers of time are
asking for their money back over
this event, but it is pretty safe to
bet that there will be another trial
and another “record” shortly.
As long as the public continue to
vex their souls over fractions of
seconds, these farces will be per-
formed at regular intervals.
Myers and George, the
world’s champions, raced their
first Australian match, 1000 yards,
at Sydney Association Ground,
last Saturday, under most gloomy
auspices: the attendance was so
miserably small that the men
were for a time inclined to put
on their coats and at once take
passage back by the Ormuz. The
match between the Belvidere and
Carlton Cricket Clubs w r as played
during the afternoon, but in
point of public interest cricket
seems on its last legs in Sydney;
the play proved as tame as the
running. There was no enthu-
siasm when the men started, nor
was there any at the finish when
Myers, passing the done-up George
a couple of hundred yards from
home, trotted in the easiest of
winner* in the stated time of
2min. 18 4-ssec. Myers is a rum
un to go, but not much to look
at. He w eighs Bst. 41b. in “ nick,”
and would prove a grand ad-
vertisement for the proprietors
of anti-fat. George is a well-
built fellow, who weighs a few
pounds over list, and parts his
hair on the dead centre, but
Myers has by far the more taking
style of the two, George re-
minding one very much of the N.S.W, long-
distance amateur, Mr. G. D. Middleten. The show
was a most sorry one, and the growling of the few
who witnessed ir portends badly for the attendance
at future events.
“ Young Mitchell,” matched to box Hall
on Easter Monday night in Sydney, is a picture
of symmetry, and comes to Australia from the
States with a good record. He will need it all to
be successful against Hall. The latter, by the
way, is an Englishman, who has perfected his
boxing education in Sydney.
“ Professor ” Jackson, pugilistic cham-
pion of Australia, has given public—we mean
public-house—life best. Called to the bar some
time ago, he now transfers his genius to the rin
The Professor can fight, the Professor can spar,
And draw forth the claret the while,
But he can’t run a pub., or sit still in a bar,
Because he ain't built in that style.
In the Hutchens and Trinder race at New-
castle (130 yards, with Ijyds. start to Trinder),
the betting was not brisk. Odds were being
offered on Hutchens, but not taken freely.
Hutchens gained an advantage of a yard at the
start, and soon had his man settled, he winning
by two yards.
* • *
One of the easiest wins over sticks on re-
cord was scored by Prince Hubert, who recently
won the Hurdle Race at Bombala, N.S.W., without
being asked to jump a single hurdle. The other
I “ leppers’’ knocked down all the jumps, and the
Prince, who had been lying in the rear, had a
clear run all the way, and when the finish came
his dash of foot pulled him through.
It is rumoured that Mr. Weldon, second
son of Sir Anthony Weldon, Bart., of Itahenderry,
county Cork, Ireland, now on a visit to Melbourne,
is ti receive one of the A.D.C. ; ships to Sir Hemy
Loch, shortly to be made vacant by the departure
of their present distinguished holders for Europe.
A cable item :
‘ The Daily NfeWs, writing on the subject of the depres-
sion in Au*trali», siys it is doubtful whether the eolonies
can exist without borrowing largely.”
Yah ! And if Australia and other countries did
not borrow largely where could England get her
dividends. Baring would have to give his cash
to the poor for want of a profitable investment.
Wellington (N.Z.) is likely soon to have a
sensation of its own cn a large scale, the indivi-
duals involved are a judge, aprominent merchant,
and a lady, of course, and among the charges are
blackmailing, gross immorality, judicial corrup-
tion, perjuiy, and several other offences. This
will afford a little elevating amusement to the
Wellington people, who seldom have much fun,
barring earthquakes.
Mr. Maccabe, the gallant gentleman who
headed the party by whom the Bulli mine was ex-
plored after the explosion which caused the deatli
of 86 workers, is a mining-engineer by profession.
He is a native of N.S.W. and an old Sydney
Grammar School boy. A considerab'e time ago
he left the co'ony for the purpose of gaining ex-
perience in English mines, and, after a four years’
residence in the old country, returned to Aus-
tralia, when he was appointed to the managership
of one of the South Coast colliei'ies. Mr. Maccabe
is an otticer of the Bulli Artillery, to which many
of the men who met death in the explosion be-
longed ; he thus was prompted by a double in-
centive to his terrible task. No less noble were
the services of his colleague in danger, Mr. Evans.
The ninth part of the Picturesque Atlas
ok Australasia, issued last week, has for one of
its ostensibly strongest features, Mr. Schell’s illus-
trations of the Jenolan Caves These pictures,
while most artistic, and engraved not less well
than any of the woodcuts hitherto turned out by
the enterprising company, must he accounted
THE (N.S.W.) SPEAKER’S EYE.
somewhat of a failure in point of realism, which,
we take it, should be regarded as the raison d'etre
of the Atlas. We notice, likewise, that the
pictures in the copy forwarded to us lose much of
their effect by reason of the heaviness and dense-
ness rf the printing, which hitherto has been
almost faultless, even if viewed from the highest
European standpoint. All this we say without
any desire to be hypercritical in regard to a publi-
cation which is all round of such genuine excell-
ence as to deserve the enthusiastic support of
every lover of good work in the world.
Charles Wilson, aged 12, was playing on a
N.S.W. railway-line, and in the mischievousness
and thoughtlessness of extreme youth—one might
say infancy—planted a railway-chair thereon. He
heard a train coming and made a great effort to
clear the track, but failing, he grew frightened
and took to his heels. He was afterwards tried
before Temporary-Judge Stephen for having with
malice aforethought placed an obstacle in the
way of a certain engine, and “ with intent to
injure John Uonohoe, then being on a certain
engine,” and was sentenced to 12 months’
imprisonment in Darlinghurst Gaol. Now,
although too much severity can hardly be
used in punishing adult would-be or actual train-
wreckers, it is sheer nonsense to hold this boy-
prisoner legally responsible in the fuUe3t sense of
the word, and to immure him in the abode of
felons, until he shall have attained the mature
age of 13. Cannot Judge Stephen, or Governor
Carington, or somebody, manage to get the young
rascal put under Captain Neitenstein, of the
reformatory ship Vernon, for a couple of years i
THIS WICKED
WORLD
A min write* in a Western Australian
paper on “ How to choose a bull." “First catch
your Irishman.” The proportion of insane per-
sons in N.B.W. is lin 379, or 2’63 per 1000. The
proportion in England is 1 in 348 or 2 87 per 1000.
Bickford, now awaiting trial for murder at
Havenswood (N.Q.) is a gay assassin. He whistles
operas all day in gaol, his favourite air being
from the “ Mikado"—“ My object all sublime, I
shall achieve in time.” At Melbourne on St..
Patrick’s Day a lot of Irishmen employed by the.
Railway Department took a holiday without,
leave on St. Patrick’s Day. Next day they were,
dismissed and told to get a job from St. Patrick-
... . J. W. J. Robinson, architect, has, we readt
left Wellington for Dunedin for the purpose of
prosecuting the Evening Stsr of the latter city
for a £50.000 libel. Robinson ought to know per--
feotly well that there isn’t enough hard cash im
New Zealand to satisfy his little bill “ Reliable
authority” has informed the Perth (W.A.) In.
quirer that prisoners in the Pentridge Stockade
who may ntgleot to comply with the rules are
stripped naked, thrown down, and a powerful
galvanic battery applied to the soles of their feet
and other sensitive parts of the body until they
shriek and howl for mercy At the end of
1886 there were 2717 insine persons in,
New South Wales, exclusive of Salvation,
Army soldiers and Freetrade s There were
203,846 pupils enrolled in the N.S. W. public,
schools last year There are more insane in
N.S. W. in proportion to the population than in
England. There is also mors “ loyalty.” Strange
coincidence 1
• • •
A little figuring proves that a jam tart
suitable for Ba-rtholdi’s gigantic Goddess o
Liberty’s mouth would have to be 30 feet wide.
“ General ” Booth has been to America, and
declares he travelled 29 days of ten hours each
and saved 25,000 souls, or at the rate of one son \
and three-quarters every three minutes. The
quarter souls lost haven’t got much to be thankful
f° r The Philadelphia Ledger moves that no
American parson of less than 73 should be allowed
to kiss a girl over 10 under the pretence of im-
parting religious instruction. Nice sort of country
that Miss Matilda Johnson has just died in
London, aged 116. Her intended husband died
suddenly 89 years ago, and she pined for him.
“ Love killed her” is the inscription on her tomb-
stone.
On (lit that Admiral Tryon intends -.
giving a garden party and a ball before he leaves
Australia.
Matthew Burnett has returned to Victoria
and recommenced raking in the dollars with the ■
“ Temperance Trick.” Last week the Apostle of
Tea was on the war-path at Armadale (Melb.)—a.
sober little suburb which supports one public-
house. Here Matthew was able to hold forth on,
the Great Cause to a company of congenial souls.
The audience was teetotal, with one ghastly ex-
ception, and the exception found business so slow
that he rushed madly forth to the one public-
house and got drunk. Thus the good work pro-
gresses. One total abstainer tel Is a crowd of other
total abstainers a few yarns, and the crowd pro-
vide him with funds to travel round and repeat
the yarns to another batch of “ totes,” who take
up a fresh collection. If a chance boozer drops in
to scoff, the meeting slings him out.
Editor Bulletin, — Can you explain the
subjoined advertisement! You might give the town-
clerk of Sydney the position of puazle-editor to your
paper and so afford a chance to a less-talented in-
dividual to perform his duties.—X.
~1 EVISED "l A BLE of
AV WaTRF. SUPPLY 10 the luc&UUe<
f
Dlflncl
1
Od
1
a
>
5 W
1
£
1
W5
i
f
1
£
t:
L
4
-5
£
o
u»
WoOLLAh'KA RBSER
VOW
Aftodw.tk
WU'iUQfA utce>l Dcut u
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
tuy»
X
X
X
X
P*ddiogUiu < Upper>
X
X
X
X
X
Wnvi'iif)
itttStfR-
X
X
X
X
A
X
vuin
IlaltLjJo i
1
X
A
X
j:
X
Leu.-hh*rOt
iVUrsinu. ( North wt FUU-
X
X
X
X
X
Wf *T>
X
>
X
X
X
X
Newtirwu
PtlvrSLactj <'?<4iitb vi fUd
X
X
X
X
X
X
w»y>
X
X
X
X
X
As soon as the Nepean Water be restored the Full
Supply will be resumed immediately.
It is not anticipated that the iotermittency will
affect any other locality than the above-mentioned
ercept in case of accident
HENRY J. DANIELS.
Town Clerk pro. tem.
[We don’t know for certain what it means. As,
however, the advertisement contains a vast dis-
play of XXX, we can only conjecture that the
Town-hall authorities ask people, water being
scarce, to drink and wash in beer while the trouble
is on.— Ed. B.]


SUNDRY SHOWS
A great num-
ber of exciting
events have lately
occurred in private
circles, and the Sydney public,
having supped full of horrors,
have shown little interest in the
mimic bloodshed of the stage.
A well-known politician is re-
ported to have put some fresh
Pommade Hongroise on his
smellers with a view to making
them grow, and Jacob Brabwell, of Greymouth
(N.Z.), has had one leg burnt off. A number of
interesting dog-fights have taken place, and there
is an exciting rumour in circulation to the effect
that a small member of the N.S.W. Assembly
means to call a giant from the back-blocks a liar,
and then run for it. An old man has fallen down
dead somewhere or other, several junior-clerks
have gone off with the petty cash, and a gentle-
man who was once a N.S.W. Government sur-
veyor, has reach sd London on his return from an
exploring expedition in Central Africa, with his
nose slit and his face bashed in. These and other
thrilling incidents have served to reduce interest
in theatrical matters to the meanest kind of a
minimum.
#* * *
“ Lady Audley’s Secret” is a drama which
we have seen very often, and under a great
variety of circumstances. As a rule, there is
nothing the matter with it that can’t he cored
with a club, but last Saturday it was presented,
at Sydney Gaiety, in a totally new light. Unfor-
tunately, we had no bouquet to throw on the
stage, and when we asked the gentleman at the
door if he could lend us something solid and im-
perishable to use instead he said he was sorry,
but he never lent weapons to anyone who had that
sort of homicidal glare in his eye, so our attempt
was an abortive generosity. The part of Robert
Audley was taken by a gentleman who was
aocused in the bill of being Mr. Newton Griffiths,
and his performance was noteworthy, chiefly on
account of a pair of pants which formed a concer
tina on each leg, and a tall hat that looked like the
shadow of a buried crime. He reminded us to some
extent of a chaplain whom we once heard try ing
to whistle the book of Deuteronomy through a
key hole. Miss Helen Vivian took the character
of the graceful, winsome Lady Audley, and played
her part with a knock-down vigour that would
have sufficed to draw a dust-cart. When the cur-
tain came down on the scene in the burning ion it
fell across a table, and in the effort to clear the
way a quantity of bottles were shot out into a
woodland glade supposed to be several miles away.
Lady Audley dragged the hapless Phcebe through
this district and over the bottles in two-yard
jumps. Phoebe gave a yell each time she felt
herself bounding through the air, and every time
she yelled she was doubled up in afresh jump that
took her breath away. When Phoebe was on the
ground Lady Audley was generally in the air. and
she gave a sort of yelp as she came down
apparently to tell the public-housekeeper's wife
that it was her turn to go up. There was a lot of
energy in this part of the performance, and when
it was over Lady Audley wept down the back of
her late husband’s ghost and went up to dwell by
the jasper sea.
* » *
After the musicians had duly spanked the
tuneful lyre, “Checkmate” was produced as an
afterpiece, and the members of the company, or
rather one-half of them, fell over it as if it were a
wheelbarrow in a backyard. The story is founded
on the adventures of a lady and gentleman, who,
for no adequate reason except blank perversity,
changed places with their lady's-maid and groom
respectively. They did not make much of a
show in their new positions, and if the piece
had been a funeral instead of a comedy
the chances are—with the amount of brains
at their command—that they would have
spilt the treacle over the corpse. Mr. Arthur
Vivian got down on the four legs of his mind and
played the groom with limited success. His per-
formance as Moneypenny in the “Long Strike”
proved him to be a low comedian of very great
ability, but, in “Checkmate,” he relapsed into his
misguided fashion of wearing red hair and assum-
ing the peculiarities of the Cockney and the larri-
kin. His get-up was so fearfully and wonderfully
red that he only wanted a half-burned factory and
a fire-engine in the back ground to pass as a seri-
ous conflagration and a national calamity. Mr.
Frank Bateman made an excellent waiter, and the
rest of the characters, to judge from outward
symptoms, put their trust in Providence and went
ahead. The result showed that Providence was
otherwise engaged and couldn’t be bothered look-
ing after them.
** * *
“ Black-eyed Susan,” old as it is, still re-
tains a certain amount of popularity, and draws
well at Sydney Royal Standard. Mr. Dampier’s
representation of William was the chief feature
of the performance, and he acted the simple-
hearted, generous sailor to perfection. We have
long suspected that William partook of the nature
of a fraud, but there was pathos in the swindle
and deep feeling as well. Several of the other
characters could be acted with tolerable success
by anyone with bow legs, and this qualification
was not wanting. The performance wound up
with “ Seven Sins,” the eighth sin being busy
taking the tickets at the door.
#* * *
At Sydney Royal, “ Faust ” is not as well
mounted as it deserves, and in the detail this is
painfully noticeable, especially in the case of
“ Faust's ” transformation. Goethe can hardly
have intended his hero to throw off his weight of
years so much after the manner of a mountebank
going through a “ lightning change." If priority
is to be accorded to merit, we must, though we
risk our reputation for gallantry, award the palm
to Signor Buzzi. His rendition of Mephistopheles
gave evidence of careful study, and, although we
have heard many who could sing and a few who
could act, still his ability to present to us a true
delineation of the mocking fiend as an actor, and
support it by a well-trained voice, justifies us in
calling him an artist. Signora Tagliavia, although
technically correct, does not pourtray the ideal
Marguerite. One listens calmly to her grand
soprano, and as calmly criticises ; the head alone
applauds, the heart is never touched. She has
dramatic ability, but it would find better display
in Congreve’s Roxana than in Marguerite. As for
Lazzarini, he was at his best, and, although never
a great tenor, his Faust was a careful and con-
scientious presentation. His singing in the garden
scene and the “ Salve Dimora” was an agreeable
Surprise. Signorina Cavallieri is not properly cast
for Siebel. As Ulrica in "Un Ballo in Maschera,”
we applauded the artist ; as the page in “ Faust”
our minds reverted to Greek mythology, and we
admired the woman. Signor Ceme’s Valentine
was well done ; and Signor Benucci’s make-up
was superior to either his acting or his singing.
## # #
That old familiar play, “ The Ticket-of-
Leave Man,” has not made audiences muster very
strongly at Sydney Criterion, and, consequently,
the management have resolved to change the
programme and put on that damp and weeping
drama, “ East Lynne,” in which a wife runs away
from her husband and returns after long years
with blue spectacles and a bandage round her
ears, and one leg broken, and a number of bruises,
and the back of her head knocked almost out of
shape, to nurse her dying
child, and then finally
goes up along with that
euchred babe to join the
innumerable caravan
above.
In the “ Ticket-of-
Leave -Van,” as presen-
ted at the Criterion,
there is hardly a weak
point. Miss Myra Kemble
is an admirable May Ed-
wards, and Mr. Rainford
as Robert Brierly, Mr.
Craven who takes the
part of the tiger, Mr.
Joyce (Melter Moss), Mr.
Carey, Miss Virginia
Vivienne, and Miss Flora
Anstead have, in the
memorable words of the
Evening News, “ taken
well, and given pleasure
to all.”
• • *
Madame Franzini
and Onzola lend variety
to the scene. The for-
mer is a lady bicyclist
who rides side-saddle,
and also without any
saddle at all. Further-
more, she rides with
equal facility sitting,
standing, doubled-up,
stretched ont horizon-
tally, and every other
way. Onzalo’s strong
point is jumping from
the stage to the gallery
via the roof. If he ever
lets go at tho wrong
moment he will pulveiiee
somebody in the stalls,
and a high-class funeral
will be wanted at once.
** * *
The Variety Com-
pany at Sydney Academy
is patronised by a rather
thin crush every night ;
the attendance is hardly
so good as the company
deserves. Perhaps the
public are getting tired
of mixed entertainments;
possibly a revival meet-
ing would take better,
with Wainratta preach-
ing on his invisible
wire and the rest of the
company taking up the
collection. Wainratta
now walks Bightly across from the stage to the
gallery, seemingly on nothing, and the versatile
little Ida Heath is still improving. This knowing
babe takes her benefit on Friday, and it is to be
hoped she will get sufficient support to make it
worth her w hile to grow- up.
## # #
On Monday evening the Sydney Y.M.C.A.
Hal’, at the instigation of Lord and Lady Caring-
ton, bristled with fashion on the occasion of Mons.
and Madame Poussard’s concert. Mr. W. A.
Maolean and Herr Winkelmann perpetrated a
French “ Cradle Song ” of M. Poussard’s ; Mr.
Cyril di Valmency did something sweet, of which
Liszt was the original author ; Madame Poussard
warbled “Holy Maria,” “la Pavana,” and a
multitude of other things; Mr. Knight Aston
helped her to the best of his ability, which is not
small; and lash —we put him last because he is
greatest, not least—M. Poussard did more things
than we can remember, and did them all well.
The concert was a thorough success.
** # *
Carrie Swain makes anew start at Sydney
Criterion on April 11, in “ The Miner's Daughter ”
—an adaptation, we fancy, of Bret Harte’s
“ M’iiss.”
** * *
“ The Irish Detective” is running as be-
fore at Sydney Opera House, and this week 10 per
cent, of the takings are reserved for the benefit
of the widows and orphans at Bulli.
** * *
Signor Agrati’s benefit on Saturday after-
noon, at Sydney Royal, met with the usual fate of
matinee performances in Sydney. The principal
attractions were the mad-scene from “Lucia,”
and “ Handy Andy ’’—Grattan Riggs in the title
r6le of the latter. De Alba was decidedly not in
his usual voice, and Rebottaro only did herself
justice towards the end of the scene in the flute
obligato.
## * *
Nat Douglass, who is well known to Syd-
ney playgoers, in connection with Signor Majeroni,
is now in Sydney. We hope to soon see him in
one of his familiar r6les.
** # *
George Darrell, we are glad to hear, is
getting steadily better. The doctor says that he
now lets him read the S.M. Herald every morning.
George must be very well indeed if he can bear so
terrible a strain.
** * *
“ Professor ” Hartley, who traded on
Sydney gullibility for five months, has come to
grief in Melbourne. The Professor’s game was
selling an Omnipotent nostrum, called “ Prairie
Flower,” for what he could get, and pulling out
teeth with a pair of tongs for nothing at all.
Somehow the Professor’s luck was clean out after
he crossed the Murray. The Herald turned the
limelight on “ Prairie Flower,” and the Professor’s
lady-help made a false move with the instrument
of torture. One night last week a moaning old
female in a bandaged face climbed on the plat-
form and asked to have a tooth out. She escaped
with her life, but lost the wrong toeth and a slice
of her jaw. Then the Professor packed up the
“ Prairie Flower,” the lady-help, and the tongs,
and departed for some place where newspapers do
not corrupt, and jaws do not break through and
feel.
** * *
Ovr old friend, Bland Holt, opens at Mel-
bourne Royal on Easter Monday, in “A Run of
Luck.” The drama is “racing” and racy, and
ought to play up to its title.
** * *
“ The Forty Thieves” and “ Little Jack
Sheppard ” are going to work Adelaide for all it is
worth, leaving the “ Pickpocket ” to try his luck
at Melbourne Opera House. The comedy is billed
1 1 1
‘I'V
V V * E co^ toi/ < /
for Saturday, and a Mr. Lays—fro3h from London
—joins the festive throng. Now that a favourable
opportunity offers, ihe active Robert Brough w ill
rest his weary brain and legs, and recuperate to
slow music.
*# # #
Luscombe Searrelle’s solicitor, Mr.
“ Jack ” M‘i,augh!in, alleges that when his client
returns to Sydney there will be blue trouble in the
offices of the newspapers which have been saying
things about the absent composer. So far, how-
ever, Luscombe hasn't contrived to make much
out of law-suits. “Children's Festivals ” are more
in his line.
** * #
George Rignold has consideration for the
moral susceptibilities of a Melbourne audience.
We noticed that in the “ Tempest ” at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, the storm is specially made
loud to obscure one of the little jests of the great
William, which certainly could not be omitted
without striking out the whole of tetephano’s song
in Act 11.
Certain of the Sydney theatrical managers
are very much indebted to the Bulli colliery acci-
dent for a nice little ad. They announce that they
intend to give six performances “in the noble
cause of charity ”•—the charity being, apparently,
that they are to pocket 90 per cent, of the pro-
ceeds. How is it that the Sydney morning papers
allow this kind of thing to pass without comment ?
** # *
George Rignold’s Newfoundland dawg,
which played a non-speaking part in “ Romany
Rye," killed a mastiff the other day. It is due to
the dead mastiffs reputation to mention that
somebody tied him tight up to a fence before
the gory deed was accomplished, As a dawg-
flght, this was a one-sided affair.
** * #
A verdict of £6400 (balance of building-
coe tract for the Melbourne Alexandra) has been
given against Jules Joubert.
*# * #
Just at present Melbourne is bearing the
heat and burden of two minstrel shows. More in
sorrow than in anger we mention that Alf. Lawton
has started a “Crimson Circle” at St. George’s
Hall, as a counter-irritant to Frank Clark’s “ Silk
Stockings ” over at the Victoria. “ Crimson
Circle” is another burnt cork and beauty com-
bination, introducing jokes of undoubted anti-
quity, and "specialities” too numerous to men-
tion. Prices are moderate, and there is a ten
minutes’ interval between the two parts, by which
we mean to insinuate that you can get a good seat
for a “bob,” and get out gratis. Biz, is satis-
factory.
## # *
On Saturday (April 2) a great big matinee
performance at Melbourne Princess’s, to push
along the Hoskins’ Benefit Fund. A programme
as long as it is strong, an orchestra of 100, and a
'real deserving cause, ought to fill the handsome
house from carpeted floor to sliding dome. Henry
Irving will be present, in the spirit, with a £lO
cheque—and Sir Henry Loch will be present, in
the flesh, with his suite.
** # #
The St. Maur Comedy company is having
a long run of success in Brisbane with the
Candidate ” and other comedies of the mother-
in-law description.
## # #
The Pastoral Play and Evening Fete, in
aid of the Women’s Convalescent Home, given at
the residence of Colonel Sargood, was, in spite of
unpropitious weather, an unqualified success, and
one of the most brilliant and representative
“functions” ever given in Melbourne. Two
theatrical performances were given, one in the
open air and the other in the ballroom. Flock’s
band was in attendance, and at night the
beautiful grounds and lake were illumin-
ated, the effect being fairylike. Amongst
the visitors present were Lady Verdon,
Lady Nicholson, Lady SUwell and Miss Stawell,
Lady Clarke and Miss Clarke, Mrs. John Cum-
ming and the Misses Camming, Mrs. Malleson,
Mrs Ramsay, Mrs. Agnew, Mrs. Wilkie and the
Misses Wilkie, Mrs. and Miss Croaker, Mrs. and
the Misses Calder, Mrs. Baillie, Mrs. Price, Mrs.
Dickson, Mrs. Robert Power, Miss Ffrench, Miss
Webster, Miss Sievewright, the Misses Rowe, Miss
Colin Simson, Mieses Greig, Misses Matheson,
Misses Dickson, Mrs. and the Misses Wanliss,
Miss Osborne, Miss Macpherson, Miss Bunny,
Mrs. Landale ; and among the gentlemen were
Sir Arthur Nicholson, Bart., Hon. Robert Boyle,
Messrs. Baillie, Robert Baillie, Osborne, Verdon,
Percy Sargocd, Guthrie, Agnew, Cummiog, R. T.
Innes-Noad, Campbell M‘Kellar, J. A. Levey,
M‘Culloch, Thomas Fairburn, M'Kinnon, Raleigh’
Ralph Newton, &c.
## # #
Thus the Pall Mall on a recent royal
visit to the London Opera Comique :
" The P a »ty arrived very late and for some time
made not the smallest pretence of attending to the plar
The interest with which the public watched their moverr entg
seemed cordially reciprocated, for the Prince’s glass carefully
swept the stafis and circles time after time, while Prince
Albert Victor appeared equally desirous of learning to know
ma . ry a ® Possible of his future subjects. Little
by little the princely patrons of the drama awakened to the
th*fc Something was happening on the stage, and at last
Albert Victor evidently concentrated his whjlc mind upon
the task of discovering what the play was about Every now
and then his father wou’d attempt to explain one of the
jokes to him, clearly without succefs For a long time h
was as smileless as his ancestor Henry Beau lerc ; and
indeed the whole party seemed to see very little in She idan’
wit At last came a passage which broke the ice Sir Luciis
O Trigger dictates to Bob Acres a letter commencing thur—
To prevent the confusion that might arise from our both
addressing the same lady : ’ ai d the traditional ‘ gag
is for Acres to misunderstand Sir Lucius, and write ‘ un-
dressing’ instead of ‘ addressing.’ This struck the Royal
party as the very acme of wit. The Princess of Wales I
comd not see; she was hidden behind her bouquet; but the
two P/inces shook and writhed with prolonged laughter
The joke is too good not to be repeated, and its repetition
again convulsed the princely pair. One other saying, ard
only one, afforded them almost equal delight. This time it
was not a gag, but a genuine line of Sheridan's, though
scarcely, one would think, the wittiest in the play—no other
in fact, than Sir Anthony’s speech to Captain Absolute*
Are you my son or not ’ answer for your mother, jou dog
,f A?\ won me This is evidently one of those touches
of Nature which make the whole world kin, for the Princes
appreciated it quite as much as the gcds. These were the
only lines in the play which caused anything like hearty
merriment in the Royal box: and it is thus that princely
pationage elevates the stage
## # #
Verdi—not Signor Billygreeiio, but the
other fellow—has unearthed a new phenomenal
siDger, one Dr. Baldini, who for years past was
the leading lawyer in Rovigo. Tne spectacle of
Baldini’s debut is said to have been a strange one.
“So many judges and advocates,” says an Italian
contemporary, “ were probably never before col-
lected in one theatre at the same time, while the
galleries were full of rascals with ‘gallows’
written on their faces, whom Dr. Baldini's voice
had defended during his prosperous career as an
advocate.” A huge wreath was flung upon the
stage, and on the accompanying ribbon was in-
scribed, ‘ From One Whom You Rescued from
Gaol.” This has a teriible significance for Aus-
tralians. Who knows but Dawvid Buchanan is
now preparing for the operatic stage a la Bal-
dini? How the cattle-duffers and horee-planters
of the West whom he has saved from Berrima
would roll up to hear him warble “Gentilmari
de il Jurio ! "
** * #
A fashionable London parson, Rev.
Stewart Headlam, speaking at a meeting of the
London Dialectical Society the other day, said :
“ He supported the ballet, not in ipite of bis Christian
profession, but becaure he was a servant of Christ. Jesus
Christ made it clear that He wanted His follow,-is to live
ihe wide human life, not the ascetic; the sineers, and the
dancers, and all founts of joy were in Gcd. With regard to
the objections ts tbe ballet, people who dropped altogether
the theological part < f the question sometimes objected to
the short skirts, but the dre-s was most convenient and
proper for the pe-formance, just as a dress that was fit for a
ball-room was unfit for a muddy road. With regard to the
next objection, that the young ladies of the ballet had to be
out late at night, his experience—-and it had not been small
—led him to the belief that the ladies of the ballet were
quite on a level, morally, with other people who worked for
their living. Io mad-coloured London especially, with its
myriad of dull homes, the ballet w.s a thing of light and
beauty, and it brought summer into people s lives."
“The devil can cite scripture for his purpose!
“An evil soul producing holy witness is like a
villiin with a smiling cheek.” And what a smil-
ing cheek has Parson Headlam !
We recollect that ambitious barber who had re-
cent designs upon a south-western electorate of
N.S.W., and who backed up his freetrade utter-
ances by illustrations drawn from the ‘ ‘ hopium ’’
trade. But seriously, we think the Parkes
Government, in proposing to remove the ad
valorem duties on things which can be produced
in New South Wales, and quadrupling taxation
upon things which cannot, ought to remember the
long suffering and despondent would-be suicide,
who has been waiting for a cheap and impoited
method of shuffling off the mortal. Strychnine,
arsenic, prussic acid, laudanum, and morphia
should be exempt; there should be no duty upon
imported gunpowder, firearms, steel weapons of
any description, or rope. Let us smooth the
pillow of the dying suicide with the consoliig
thought that he is gently gliding away at a reason
able rate, and that his means of transit have been
procured, in accordance with sound economical
principles, in the cheapest market. And, af.er
all, as a freetrade policy is likely to drive eveiy
man in New South Wales, sooner or later, to a
suicide’s grave, it is only right that every assist-
ance should be given by the Government who
brought about the catastrophe. Of course far
more effective material for the taking of human
life can be manufactured on the spot. To the
man who is heartily tired of existence in ihe
glorious freetrade colony of N.S.W., we would
say, procure a ticket to the gallery of the ’Ouse
I when Jawbone Neild is set down to make a
I speech, and have four men and a stretcher in at-
tendance, Verb. sap.


Pepper
and
Salt
Fresh evidence comes to light every day
in support of the assertion that they didn’t know
everything down in Judoc. Especially they didn’t
know how to beg, and one result of their ignorance
on this point was that many an apostl», when it
was his day out to be eaten by the tigers at the
Coliseum, had to turn upin a loin-cloth and a pair
of undarned socks and take his chance, whereas
the modern bishop would be digested in his apron
and shovel-hat and gaiters and look respectable to
the very last. Getting money is now the earmark
of the humble Christian, and the Bishop of London,
especially, is a perfect daisy at this job. His
latest move is a kind of progressive begging. He
makes an appeal by circular to several thousand
good people in his diocese, asking them to sub-
scribe 3d. each ; also he wants each of them to
find four others who will give 3d., and who in
their turn will find four more apiece to give a
similar donation, and then pass the job on to four
other saints, and so on ad infinitum. A little cal-
culation will show that if one man alone started
this game, and the work were carried through
thirteen stages only, it would realise over £200,000,
but as the dear Bishop calls in a few thousand
people to come to the scratch, and keep it up till
he tells them to stop, he is virtually asking for
millions of millions and wants a mortgage on the
whole world, and the five great oceans as we l 1
and even when he gets that there will be a t“rriflc
shortage. Never since the universe began has
there been so much coin in it as this Bishop asks
for, and even if he sweeps the globe bare and
forecloses on every asset down to dry bones, fish,
and Polar bears it won’t fill the bill. Tile whole
solar system has got to go buDg or else this boss
pastor must avert the catastrophe by knocking a
considerable discount off his b 11.
Nature can make some infernally mean
things when she gets her back up, and to all ap-
pearanoe she had been interrupted in turning out
a job lot of worms when she constructed Thomas
and Frank Molony, of Melbourne. A few nights
ago Polioeman Simmons was wandering round
Brunswick, when he discovered a palliasse up-
ended on the pavement with a blanket over it to
form a tent, and underneath this Mrs. Johanna
Maloney, aged 80 years, wai doing a damp and
depressing snooze. Her husband Michael, aged
83, was shivering outside wailing his turn to oc-
cupy the tent, and was trying to pass away time
by wondering whether Hamlet was mad or not.
The pair were camped outside their son’s hr use, to it
was presumed that that active and efficient Samari-
tan had chucked out the palliasse a d blanket for
their benefit, and then left them. At the police
court next morniDg Thomas and Frank Maloney,
two full grown offspring, stated that they were
masons, could earn lls. a day, and would see the
old man and woman shivering before they would
lend them a cent. The case was obviously one
for spanking, but it is difficult to spank a stone-
mason who earns 1 Is. a day unless it is done by
steam-power, so the beak, after vainly trying to
impress on Thomas and Frank that they were
morally inferior to the beasts that perish, sent the
aged campers-out to gaol for 12 months to bs oat
of the way—
It was a lovely moonlight night in a little
mining township some 30 miles from the Queens-
land border, and romantic visions flitted through
the mind of the large, elderly, red headed widow
who acted as slavey in the local pub. She was
sitting at the door ef the policeman’s tent; his
arm was round her, his shock head was resting on
her shoulder, and his rakish-looking mouth poured
soft nothings into her capacious ear. She was
listening intently; her jaw had dropped in her
admiration of his eloquence, and the had for-
gotten to hoist it up again ; her feet, which were
built to denote firmness of character, were stacked
away under her stool and there were crumbs in
her hair and candle-grease on the back of her
neck. Then the policeman uttered a tearful yell
and said that his last hour had come and the re-
mains were ready for the njeho-t, that
he had been bitten on the arm bysSsoako, and
after making this statement he doubled up and
groaned. He was only a small officer, however,
and the red headed woman pinked him up in her
arms and fled screaming to the hotel. By the
time she arrived there he had assumed a pale,
ethereal, comatose aspect, but he was rapped on
the back with a walking-stick till he revived, and
then a whole bottle of brandy was poured into
him. Next, an energetic citizen treated the
wound with carbolic acid, but a kick from the
writhing functionary sent the fluid into his face
and eyes, and he rolled in anguish on the floor. The
oldest inhabitant, who said he knew exactly what
to do, tore the policeman's shirt into lags and
stood on his coat, and the habitual drunkard of
the neighbourhood was stopped just in time—a
second more and he would have split the con-
stable down the back with a razor, in order to
ease his breathing, he said. Just then a small,
red spider stepped out of the remains of the shirt
and started across the floor, and when it had
been squashed flat the meeting adjourned, and
the policeman went home by the back way.
* * *
If was just after the election. Psrkes,
who had come round casually blaspheming to tell
the electors that everybody who did not think and
shuffle as he did was a thrice-accursed boss-eyed
pelican from the bottomless pit, had gone home
again, and the Protectionist member had gone in
triumphantly. There was a local hog-show with
a dinner attached, and the district politicians met
and tried to look friendly, but as the chairman
read out a long list of apologies from Freetrade
gentlemen who “could not possibly attend,” it
dawned on the member's friends that there was
animosity somewhere and they assumed a vicious
aspect. A scraggy publican with a sinister eye
began to look especially uneasy, and when the list
of excuses was ended he rose and in a rasping
A TALKING SALAD.
DEAD-BEAT (to windward of howling swell): “FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE, GIMME A SHILLING
HAVEN’T EATEN ANYTHING FOR WEEKS.”
SWELL (whose nose is to leeward): “PAH! NOW TELL ME THE TRUTH, MY GOOD
MAN, HOW MANY ONIONS HAVE YOU EATEN THIS MORNING!”
DEAD-BEAT (hesitatingly): “WELL, SIR, TO TELL YE THE TRUTH, I DID EAT A
COUPLE.”
SWELL: “YES, I SHOULD THINK YOU DID. TALKING TO YOU IS LIKE TALKING
TO A SALAD.”
voice explained that Mr. Smith, of Wing Wing,
had also been detained. It wasn t much of a joke,
but it was only when the appearance of the name
in the local paper had set everybody enquiring
that Mr. Smith was identified. His front name
was Jacky, and he was the aboriginal who blacked
the boots in the sinister publican’s back yard. He
has been drunk ever since.
The lank and lonely cow that moons about
a suburban paddock with one horn grown into its
eye, and a whole jubilee of years weighing on its
head is the very last animal which would be ex-
pected to indulge in legerdemain or low comedy.
It is generally a weary-looking beast with its tail
cut short; it has an unhealthy appetite for old
clothes, mutton-bones, boots, and scraps of waste
paper ; and its duties are usually light. If it be-
longs to a dairyman the latter as a rule makes the
milk himself with chalk, wate -, and sundries, and
imparts a frothy aspect to the beverage by drop-
ping in a few Bnails, the cow being kept merely to
give an air of probability to the story, and if it
belongs to a private family it is useful chiefly on
account of its rural aspect and serves instead of a
change of air for the children. A Victorian
clergj ma>, until last month, owned one of these
animals, but he doesn’t own it now. Through
much hay and chaff diet it had acquired the mor- J
bid taste peculiar to many aged cows, and used to |
eat the family washing or the window curtains, or
even the Melbourne Teiegraph, with gusto. But
on Sb Patrick’s Day this beast signed its own
death-wirrant. B-idget had a day out cn that 1
occasion, and through a misconception on the part
of her master she w-as locked out at night and
left to shift for herself as best she could. As a
result of this the parson was roused up at 6 a.m.,
and in answer to the call he went downstairs to
admit Bridget. To fully describe the Btate that
damsel was in would wreck this invaluable illus-
trated sixpenny paper ; the parson himself never
speaks of what he saw, but his wife gives Bridget's
explanation ; “ Ye see, mum, I couldn't get home
till about 12, and, as the lights were all out, I
didn't like to disturb ye, so I lay down in the pad-
dock and went to sleep, but the cow, the baste,
she tuk a male off my clothes. She ate every-
thing she could, but the stays was too much for
her. I hope, mum, you’ll make it up to me.” The
story stops here.
We have just read an interesting account
of divine service as practised among the Moslems
in Algeria, and after reading it we are compelled
to Regard Pastor Jefferis and other ordinary
gospelisers of his stamp as extra one-hone and
terribly behind the times. The Arab clergyman,
instead of droning out a long sermon in a hot
church in fly season, holds his devotions in a
circus, and when he has worked up the fervour of
his congregation by a short and impassioned ad-
dress, ho fills his mouth with live scorpions and
bites them off in the middle. Next he runs
skewers into his eyes and nose, bites pieces out of
a glass bottle and chews them up, and has three
epileptic fits. When he recovers from the fits hesits
[ down in a pan of burning charcoal. Then he runs a
knife through his tongue, twists his ears upside
down, sticks his nose full of red-hot netdles, and,
impaling himself on a sword, spins round and
round like a top. From this brief description it
will be observed that the followers of the Prophet
I are a live crowd, and a little of this sort of thing,
it seems to us, would shake off a lot of the dull
| and hideous lethargy from the chloroformed per-
formances at Pitt-street Congregational church,
and other places of the same description.
Edwin Harrow, of Takapuna (N.Z.), and
his adopted son, Jeremiah, who screams ani wears
a long tail, are having a pleasant holiday in the
law courts. A fortnight ago a high-class concert
was held at Takapuna, and Mr. Harrow purchased
two tickets, one of which he was careful to state
was for “ Jeremiah Harrow." The two entered,
or tried to enter, arm-in-arm. Jeremiah wore
evening dress—a white tie, a glossy bell-tepper,
and irreproachable boots, but a hole had been cut
in the back of his pants, and a long tail, which
swished back and forward and coiled round the
ticket-taker’s legs, betrayed the fact that he was a
large monkey. The door keeper grew excited at
this, and swore that no dynamited ape should get
in ther~», and then Edwin and Jeremiah started to
force their way—the one red, bass, and infuriated,
the other nervous and shrill, and looking as if he
wished he were safely out of the trouble. Their
way was blocked, however, by the local caster-out
of evil spirits, and Edwin Harrow now sues all and
sundry for assau.t, breach of comract, and injury
done to his domestic feelings. The betting in the
looal market is against Mr. Harrow’s adopted son
Jeiemiah.
The Royal College of Surgeons wants to
iubilise —or jubilate, or jube, or whatever the
thing may be—by founding a school of vivisection.
Chopping up live cats and sawing dogs’ legs off is
a very nice way to celebrate the old lady, but
there is no accounting for taste. A sham Abra-
ham in N.Z. also suggests that Dante should be
translated into Maori for the benefit of the natives.
This suggests another idea : how would it do to
translate Isaiah Cohen, novelist, of Sydney, into
Hottentot and keen him there by the simple device
of hanging anyone who tries to translate him back
again ? That would be something like a jubilee.
Fitzgibbon, of Melbourne, too,- is still hammering
away at his proposal to present Her Gracious with
a golden crown decorated v ith 50 precious stones,
but a vile nigger who sells newspapers in the
-treot has risen up and declared that it was he
who started the idea, and that Fitzgibbon stole his
invention. This world is obviously growing old.
01 it’s nice to be a father,
When the boys upon jour knee
Half smother you with kisses
And laugh in childish glee ;
Then you bless the little urchins
For the sunshine that they bring,
And the wealth of their affection
Makes you rich as any king.
O the many cares and troubles
Which “ a family ” entails—
The anxious nightly watches
When a fair-haired angel ails —
They are nothing to the father,
Who looks forward to the day
When the kindness ef his children
Shall his kindnesses repay.
If ’tis nice to be a father
Language never yet express’t
All the feeling of a mother
With her first-born at her breast ;
Sweet tears bedew her pillow
As she prays to God above
That her earthly life be lengthened
To enjoy her darling's love.
May Heaven bless the children 1
(Ne’er a poet but has sung
The joy of being parents—
While the children still are young),
Deal gently with them ever,
And be happy in the thought
That when you are grown childish
They will love you as they ought.
But if, alas 1 it happens
That the darlings you have fed
And reared to sturdy manhood
Ever let you want for bread,
Then ’tis bad to be a father
And maternity's a curse—
But this aspect of the matter
Isn’t often put in verse.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Marchioness forlorn—Louise.
On dit that the heroine of “ Ouida’s ” next
novel is to be Mrs. i rawford.
William Ewart Gladstone doesn’t smoke.
We wonder what foible Mrs. W. K. G. fixes on
when she “ rows ” the G.O.M. ?
Mr. Justice Holroyd, of Victoria, had a
slight sunstroke the other day. A lot of judges
behave as though they have had sunstroke.
It is said that Captain H. P. Airey, of the
N.S.W. military forces, who recently volunteered
for service in Burmah, has been severely
wounded.
The enemies of Herr Most, the American
snarchist, say that when conducted to the Tombs
prison he was told that he would have to take a
bath. “ What ! ” shouted he, " A bath 1 and
I've not even been tried yet! 1 ”
Sir Robert Hamilton, the new Governor
of Tasmania, signified his sympathy- with Ould
Oireland by attending the St. Patrick's Day sports
at Hobart. If he go; Bon like that Salisbury will
call him home and send out a more enlightened
creature “of Lord Carington's Btamp.”
Mrs Hall, wife of the infamous N.Z. poi-
soner, is, after all, not the daughter of the late
f'aptain Cain. That gentleman was childless,
and adopted two little girls, one of whtm became
the wife of the man who achieved the unenviable
distincticn of being the basest criminal who ever
stood in a N Z. dock.
Hie fortune of £150,000 to which Sir
Charles Dilke has recently fallen heir, comes
rom a man bearing the vulgar name of Snooke.
In 1804, John Snooke married Dilke’s great-aunt
and this is the result. We expect next to hear
< hat Her Majesty has been bequeathed a fortune
by her long lost cousin Jinks.
Lb Soir (Paris) says that the whole secret
of John Brown’s constant attendance on Queen
Victoria lay in this—that when the Queen was
seized by an attack of the hereditary dementia of
the family, Brown and the Princess Beatrice were
the only persons whom Bhe would uncomplain-
ingly allow to be in her presence.
The new Marquis of Ailesbury has got
himself into disgrace for promoting private pigeon-
matches. As he has betn in disgrace for a lot of
worse things than that we can let his lordship’s
last indiscretion paB». Even if he shot at pigeons
on a Sunday, there is every reason to believe that
he promptly paid his lesses, doncherknow.
The boss broker of the world has just died
in England, and we need scarcely add he was “re-
spected by all who knew him." He went insol-
vent during his 68 years of life no less than eight
times—twice in England, once in New South
Wales, twice in Victoria, and three times in New
Zealand. We have, however, a few citizens still
left who are in a fair way to beat this record.
Bob Ingersoll, a barrister himself, rays
that the lawyer is “ merely a sort of intellectual
strumpet—a kind of burglar in the realms of men-
tality." “My ideal of a lawyer,” he remarks, “is
that great English attorney, who, having accu-
mulated a fortune of £1,000,000, left it all in a
will to make a home for idiots, declaring that he ,
wanted to give it back to the people from whom
he took it"
Prince Henry of Battenberg, the tamo,,
cat at Windsor Castle, who has been hired at £t a
week and his washing to be the husband of Psin
cess Beatrice, got away for a day last month to
represent the Queen at the funeral of Lord Iddes-
leigh. But Bat. improved the occasion aq4 went-
to Drury Lane Theatre one evening, aqd to the
circus the next—and perhaps to other places.
“The Queon,” Truth says, “ was. exceedingly
wroth," and Battenberg has been admonished tc ..
be content with his 16 stone of Beatrice and the
Windsor family hash, instead of the gay circus
ladies and the barmaids of Spiers and Pond.
Appropos to the recent appointment of a .
certain legal Tom Thumb,, to the Tasmanian
Bench, a correspondent writes to say that the new
judge bears a strong resemblance to a late Irish
Attorney-General who was a diminutive shrivelled-
up person, and of whom the following tale is told:—
Shortly before he died he purchased an estate in ,
Tipperary, and in order to inspect his property
was proceeding with hia agent through a “ boreen," ■
when he was cheered by hearing an old crone ex-
claim : “ Musha, glory t* God, 1 but is this our new
landlord—that dawny ti,t-biti av, a leprehaun 1-
Begorra, he’il'Aoi fn his bed, fur th’ blioys moight
as well be shootin’ at ajackshnipe as at him.”
The King of Tonga, whom the “Reverend”
Shirley Waldemar Baker has got so completely
under his thumb, is now 93 years of age, and has
lost his memory. Baker runs the whole of the
Tongan group on his own holy hook. He receives
all the revenue, and is Controller-General, Trea-
surer, Auditor General, Commissioner of Landß,
Commissioner of Customs, Premier, Minister of
Foreign Delations, and all the rest of it. He pays
the King and Queen and the Governors and
officials of the different islands their salaries, if
they happen, from a Bakerian standpoint, to be-
have themselves ; the balance he disposes tf for the
good of the nation. Baker, with his wife and
family, now reside in the King’s palace and call
that their house. The place is guarded day and
night by 200 armed natives, and when the Lord’s
representative walks abroad in daylight—just now
he daren’t venture out at night—he is attended by
four native “ police two in front of him with
drawn swords, and two behind him with repeating
carbines. Baker is said to be about the largest
hareholder n the Auckland register of the Bank,
f New Zealand.


POLITICAL
POINTS
M'Elhone—M’HeUown.
dhinese war-vessels will shortly visit
Queensland I;o diecover how Cninkies are trea'ed
there.
Tha.new N.S.W. Assembly is in full
swing. 'lt is feared, though, the ropes may
break.
By a majority of 1349 to 2(30 the Commons
have resolvbd to give Ireland another turn of coer-
cion.* We,shall be glad to see which way Air.
Hetfniker Hhatoh voted
Tho late’Premier of N.S.W. was a fish—a
jellyfish. This is probably the reason why Tas-
manians have elected a Fysh to their Premiership.
A fish is the best kind of premie’ - nr a freetrade
colony.
The Liverpool (Eng.) Municipality has a
deficit of £45,000 for 1880. As this in the result
of the Royal visit we should be thankful that
Albert Edward didn’t come to Australia. Even
Parkes would then have to go in for Protection.
The number of newspapers forwarded free
by post in N.S.W., last year, is estimated at over
£25,000,000, the weight being 1880 tons. Postage
of id. on each newspaper, which is the rate
charged ih Victoria, would return over £50,000.
A book containing biographies of the
members of the present N.Z. Parliament is in the
Press. Each member, it appears, has wiitten his
own life. We’d have liked to read the biogra-
phies if each member had written the other
fellow’s life.
Thocable, which is quite Tory, tells us
that: Chamberlain’s speech in opposition to Mr.
Gladstone’s late deliverance on the Irish question
has quite demolished the old man’s argument. To
give an appearance of impartiality, the cable says
that Gladstone’s speech was a “powerful" one.
The N.S.W. Constitution Act provides
that a person who holds an office of profit under
the Crown shall not be eligible for a seat in Par-
liament. Does not this provision apply to Mr.
Salomons, who holds a general retainer from the
Crown —an arrangement which the Premier says
is to be continued 1
The English War Office authorities are
waking up. A Cameron Highlander has just been
rewarded for deeds of valour performed in 1868.
NoW’s the time for the old crass-bow champions
and meat-axe pluggers who belted the seasoning
out of the Saracens in the Holy Land to hurry up
and claim their rights ere ail the plunder is
divided.
A mother and the babe al her breast were
found starved to death in a filthy hovel in the
London slums the other day. The child was half
devoured by rats. Had they lived a little longer,
they might have headed the jubilee procession in
honour of their Gracious Queen, who, it delights
us to hear, is just about to buy a lot of the French
'Crown jewels.
A Bathurst journal declares it is indebted
to the Hon. W. H. Suttor for the information that
Sir Henry Parkes was not invited by the Freetrade
Association to go to Bathurst the night before the
test election to lecture on Freetrade, but he was
aotually invited by a certain clique up there to
travel along and slangwhang lluir personal enemy,
Mr. F. B. Suttor.
Cooktown Courier advocates the estab-
lishment of a University in Brisbane. “ The gain
to the thinking power of the colony would be im-
mense,” says the paper. If the Courier will
count the names of the men who have actually
led the “ thinking,” and carried it into action in
the colonies, it will be found that the best of them,
queerly enough, never saw the inisde of a univer-
sity.
As showing how Civil servants’ salaries
in N.S.W. are inoreased by the multiplication of
©ffices the duties of which are in many ins ances
of a nominal character, it may be stated that the
Superintendent of Telegraphs receives over £l3OO
a year, the salary for his principal office being
£960- It Bin cases of this kind that retrench-
ment should be made, rather than in the dismissal
of officers who have small salaries and large
families. » *•-•-
Victoria is again “doing it grand” with the
salaries of the poor devils who are employed to
write Lavater's lucubrations about the coming
Centennial Exhibition. One clerk gets £2 a week
and free tickets for his family to see the seals at
the Aquarium, and the other highly paid officer
gets £1 a week and a bow from Lavater when
nobody is looking. All this time Mr. G. T. A.
Lavater is getting £l2OO a year, and is on leave
from the Railway Department.
It has transpired that there are clerks of
Petty Sessions in N.S. W. who derive as much as
£5OO from fees which they are allowed to pocket.
The Government propose that from the first of
July next the fees shall be paid into the Treasury.
Mr. Garvan proposed that the same principle
should be applied to all public officers, but the
Premier resented such “ dictation,” and the dumb
driven cattle of the Government were rounded up
and bellowed a decided “ No.”
The Speaker of the British House of
Commons has taken to suppressing profanity and
slang. When any vocal outrage is used, the words
are dotted down on tha Speaker’s little list and
are tabooed thenceforth, and members have now
to express their wrath in ladies’ boarding-school
dialect. They are not even allowed to yell
shame!” at each other, Mr. FultOD, however,
managed to squeeze through the other day, when
he called an enemy “ a national tapeworm.”
Duncan Gillies, the Victorian Premier,
has been pale and out of sorts lately. No
appetite for breakfast— singing noises in the head
and ears, dizziness, incapacity for mental exertion,
and all that sort of thing. In fact, the young man
has not felt well. So, at the earnest solicitation
of the- Victorian Ministry, poor Duncan contented
to take a holiday trip for the benefit of his health
and the good of the colony. The Commissioner of
Customs kindly placed a Government steamer at
Duncan’s disposal, and a batch of M.L. A.’s kindly
accompanied him on a junketting sail along the
Victorian co 1 9L. The steamer, presumably, was
victualled at Government expense, and the holiday
won’t cost Duncan the historical penny. A quiet
little job.
While colonial dirt eaters who want to
be C.M Gs, and colonial lickspittles who are
C.M.G.s arc un on their hind-legs howling
jubilee, a little item of English news, showing
how those who are nearest to and know most of the
h rase of Guelph favour a costly chavoo in honour
of these inucli-gilded Germans, is instructive,.
Here you are : -
” At a meefcingheld in Oldham, the Mayor’ presiding, a
motion to ignore the Queen’s jubilee was carried, whereupon
the Mayor said there w.re enough present in favdhr.ef ihe
celebration to warrant his going on with the preparations for
that event. A great uproar ensued, the Mayor being roundly
hissed and hooted.”
Oldham says : “ Not any on our plate, an’ it
please you,” and we fancy that Australians would
mutter “ ditto” had they to feed :an.d clothe the
royal legions and find them in pin money and
etceteras. " Dialance lends enchantment to the
view.”
Last year Parkes moved for a reduction in
the salaries of the N.S.W. Speaker and Chairman
of Committees, but his opponents, the “brutal”
Government, blocked the proposal. But now,
An accurate representation of the demeanour of Sir Henry Parkes on the memor-
able occasion upon which Mr. Alfred Allen, the Paddington Hottentot, after deliver-
ing his maiden Parliamentary speech, sat down alongside the Premier with the idea
of receiving the latter’s thanks and congratulations.
though all-round retrenchment is the alleged
order of the day, and Sir Henry is in power, one
hears nothing about reducing the salaries in ques-
tion. The explanation seems to be that the offices
are just now filled by two of the great statesman's
own creatures, one at least of whom is really dear
at the money.
That wonderful paper the Sydnc-y E.
News declares in a recent issue that the only way
in which a war can be avoided over the British
occupation of Egypt is for the English Govern-
ment to depose Ismail Pasha ! ” And it repeats
the information for the benefit of its readers again
in the same issue thus : “ France wants England
to depose Ismail Pasha. ’ And yet all the world
still believes that Ismail was deposed years ago in
favour of Tewfik, the miserable usurer’s’ bum-
bailiff now kept on the throne by British bayonets.
The N.S.W. Divorce Extension Bill,
which makes desertion, habitual drunkenness,
and imprisonment for crime grounds for divorce,
has been agreed to by the Assembly by a
large majority, and as it was agreed to last session
by the Council it is likely to become law. The
only obstacle in the way is getting the Queen’s
absent, which some of the opponents of the Bill
are in hopes will be withheld. By the way, won’t
the man who is wrongfully convicted have rather
a rough deal when he comes out of prison after a
year or two and finds his wife legally in the arms
of another man ?
The Rev. D. Y. Lucas [are not these ini-
tials of the Praise-God-Barebones sort ?] is the
latest teetotal importation into Victoria. He
comes from Canada, and, with the usual clerical
charity, opened out at hi 3 “welcome” on 21at
March against Rev. Charles Strong for laying the
foundation-stone of the new Australian Church
with a champagne-supper. “ Such a church,”
said the reverend D. V., “ would be like a kan-
garoo making a terrible leap—a terrible leap, but
it would be the last leap.” A church, a champagne-
supper, and a kangaroo 1
It has been arranged that this year the
Victorian military display shall take place at
Frankston, upon the shores of Port Phillip Bay.
Special arrangements have been made to
thoroughly beat the Russians this time. A survey
of every farmer’s house, shed (and orchard) has
been completed, and it has been agreed with M.
de Giers, General Kaulbars, and the Prince of
Mingrelia that the Russians shall land at Hastings
on Western Port Bay. Hastings is remarkable
for its mud. Probably one look at the place will
be enough for de Giers. If not, the Russians will
then take the coach to Frankston, and will be re-
ceived upon a hill where three large circular tanks
have been constructed, each capable of containing
7000 gallons of water —or even other liquor. The
battle field is being cleared of heath, furze, and
underwood with all celerity by the Victorian De-
partment, so that the warriors will be able to ex-
pire in the arms of victory without inconvenience.
The arrival on the glorious field, the battle, and
the return of the men to their homes covered with
honors and mosquito-bites will take fully a week.
The troops are to go under canvas on 7th April,
and on the 9th the first engagement with the
enemy is expected to come off.
BRIEF MENTION.
En-Ormuz !
Manly Beach—Our Bill.
“ Tummus ” is not now hon.
A.M.'P Sb’ciety'—A Mere Pension Society.
The Vesper curse—the Sydney Evening
Newsance:
A Chinese leper has been haw king cabbagee
at Rockhampton.
-Sydney 'Globe says : “ Our members of
Parliament come home with the milk.” So they
do ; and, with the rum, too.
There is in Brisbane a parson named
Whale. He is generally understood to be the
whale which swallowed Jonah.
It is authoritatively announced that John
Davies will not represent Cqok Ward at the forth-
coming Imperial Conference.
The unemployed are utilised in clearing
scrub. A scrub—and soap—could be utilised in
Clearing some of the unemployed.
Pastor JefFeris should be appointed to
open the N.S.W. Parliament with prayer. He
opened the Criterion bar without it.
At Maitland the mosquitoes have killed a
p ! g. They can bore through pigskin, but so far,
strange to eay, no aldermen are injured.
Somebpdy advertises in Melbourne for
Alexander Gamble —ladt heard of in 1875.”
Pooh ! Alex, is probably played out l°Dg before
this.
Victoria is erecting a new morgue. Now
is the time for Colonial Architect L'arnet to trade
off the figures of Sydney Post office upon the
touthern colony.
“ Honor thy father and thy mother that
thy days may be long in the Lands.” That’s all
very good, but from 9 to 5 is too doosid long,
dontcherk now.
The Star of Bethlehem will appear in
Qacen Victoria’s Jubilee year. This will give an
air of holiness to a spree which would otherw se
be distressingly secular.
Ah Pm got three months at Sydney Cen-
tral Police Court last week for stealing £5
from Ah On. Ah On was the first man who ever
rejoiced at sitting on Ah Pin.
A chance for any industrious Soudan
hero:
“ to sell, a good lodging-hous®, full of re-
spectable lodgers, and a good goat.’
The Inverell (N.S.W.) Argus, on Ken-
dall’s poetry:—‘ We always failed to see the
force of coupling unsavory black-gins and hnnks
of native bear with Helen of Troy. ”
A boy was fined for cutting his initials on
a Sydney Domain seat last week. He was just
starting to cut C.M.G. after them, when the
bobby thought it was time to interfere.
A partial strike of magistrates has taken
place in Melbourne, thus offering a grand oppor-
tunity of obtaining justice to any vnlgar plebeian
who may have a grievance against a lord.
They refuse admission to the general pub-
lic at Melbourne cemetery when a Salvation Army
funeral is on. And still many people would gladly
go to the Harmy’s funeral if they could got the
chance.
The last Chinese New Year’s Day was
celebrated in Townsville (Q ) with fire-crackei 8
and squibs. One explosion so terrified an old
woman that she j umped three feet in the air and
came down paralysed. She has died since—died
of too much new year.
An Age obituary ;
" Oh ! for the touch of a vanished hand,
Will ascend from the voice that is atiil.”
There must be a lot of grief compressed into these
two lines. There is no room left for sense.
“ There are many of the proceedings of
the Salvation Army which we do not agree with,”
remarks the Windsor (N.S.W.) Australian. The
writer was speaking about the local Field-Marshal
going to gaol instead of paying a fine. We quite
agree with him.
The Argus (Melb.) says in its report of
the local St. Patrick’s Day celebration: “Four
hours past noon, and there is nobody drunk at
all. This insult to one-fourth of the Victorians
will be duly appreciated. Certainly no one ever
heard of anyone ever getting drunk at an Argus
picnic—for very evident and economical reasons.
“No civilians allowed in this cawwiage ! ”
said a haughty captain of N.S.W. volunteers to a
reporter as the train returned from the review.
An hour later the warrior, adorned with a snow-
white apron, wa3 standing behind his own counter
distributing cartridges cf tea, and slashing h'B
martial sword through a cheese.
At Melbourne Criminal Court a Wesleyan
parson objected to take a Bible oath, upon grounds
of conscience.” He said an affirmation would
be equally binding, and we quite believe it For
solid value give us the Chinaman’s oath—“Me
Clistian ; blow-um out match, kiss-um book, cut-
urn cock’s head off—allee same/’
Says the Cumberland (N.S.W.) Times :
1 alking of dogs, can you imagine anything
more awful than this 1 A traveller, being in the
baekblocks, where he could find no provisions for
himself or dog, cut off the dog’s tail and boiled it
for his own supper, and then gave the dog the
bone. ’ We have known this dog intimately for
many years. He is now editing the Cumberland
Times.
At Geraldton (W.A.), John Williams,
while in a drunken delirium, cut his throat with
a razor and then, dipping his finger in the gu'hing
crim on, wrote on the whitewashed wall the ter-
ribly significant word Mad !” John did not die,
and on being asked why he wrote “ mad,” he ex-
plained that he did so to prevent anyone being
accused of murdering him. John seems cut out
to be the “ walking gentleman ” in a three-volume
'orror.
The husband of a New York sassiety lady
says he looks through the paper every morniDg to
see if his wife is in for any scandal yet. Most
Sydney citizens wait for the speshal edishun of
the Noose.
A Scotch story : —“A man from the
country applied lately to a respectable solicitor for
legal advice. After detailing the circumstances
of the case he was asked if he had stated the
facts exactly as they had occurred. ‘ Ow, ay,
sir,’ rejoined the applicant, ‘ 11height it was best
to tell you the plain truth : you can put the lees
till’t yersel.”
A N.Z. paper makes capital out of the
Southern Europe earthquakes by saying that it
will restore confidence in the “ comparative
safety ”of Maoriland. If there is comparative
safety in toying with a mere torpedo as compared
with an infernal machine, then we should like to
go and dream life away among the pink or white
terraces.
A navvy’s story. A Sydney working-
man’s suburb. The goed wife is baking scones and
she has her back to the door. Her very life has
been pestered out of her by hawkers of all sorts,
and she has made up her mind to treat them
differently in future. Ihe very day before, her
” old man ” had sold her by knocking at the door
when she was performing her ablutions, and now
(it beiDg just time for him to come home from his
work) when she hears a tap at the door behind
her, she never turns her head, but merely sings
out, thinking it is her hubby again teasing her,
“ Come in, damn ye, if yer feet’s clean ! ” As no
one comes in, she turns her head, just in time to
see—the departing figure of the Wesleyan minis-
ter I ” Neither she nor her husband go to that
chapel now.
A fearsome liar, who does not enjoy the
honour of our acquaintance, sends the following
yarn irom Greymouth (N.Z.) It was raining
heavily, and, consequently, when Jacob Brabwell
emerged from the public-house w T hich is cursed
with his patronage, and made a square run for
home, he was glad to get indoors. So was his
dog. But just at this moment about half the
mountain which stood behind Jacob Brabwell’s
premises caved down, and seven tons of loose rub-
bish slid through the wall. The dog was reduced
in a second to trod-upon-raspberry-tart condition,
and Jacob, who had fallen back several feet
towards the fireplace in a semi-comatose state,
found himself standing on top of the fire and
jammed there so firmly that he was unable to
move. With great presence of mind, however, he
nearly yelled his head off, and after a while his
next neighbour came across the valley to tell him
to up and not stand there howling like a
maniac. Brabwell is now recovering, but if it
had not occurred to him to call out there is every
chance that he might have perished.
Our Mat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It came from the prison this morning,
Close-twisted, neat-lettered, and flat
It lies the hall doorway adorning,
A very good style of a mat.
Prison-made ! how the spirit is moven
As we think of it* story of dread—
What wiles of the wicked are woven
And spun in its intricate thread !
The letters are new, neat and nobby,
Suggesting a masterly hand—
Was it Sikes, who half-murdered the bobby,
That put the neat D on the “ and ” ?
Some banker found guilty of laches
It’s always called laches , you know —
Had Holt any hand in those IPs?
Did Bertrand illumine that O ?
That T has a look of the gallows,
That A’s a triangle, I guess ;
Was it one of the Mount Rennie fellows
Who twisted the strands of the S?
Was it made by some “ highly-connected,”
Who is doing his spell “ on his head,”
Or some wretched woman detected
In stealing her children some bread ?
Does it speak of a bitter repentance
For the crime that so easily came ?
Of the wearisome length of the sentence,
Of the sin, and the sorrow, and shame ?
A mat 1 I should call it a sermon
On sin, to all sinners addressed ;
It would take a keen judge to determine
Whether writer or reader is best.
Though the doorway be hard as a pavestone,
I rather would use it than that—
I’d as soon wipe my boots on a gravestone
As I would on that DarliDghurst mat I
THE BANJO.


A Passage in the life of a
comic Artist
2. Solicitors • Important business I Can it be that the pork-
packing uncle in Ohic&go has died at last, and letl that long expected legacy { Ho ! A cab, and dash
the expense. To 9990 street, driver, at lull speed, and a shilling shall be your guerdon I
1. The other morning on arriving
at his studio a oomic artist fWljo!
shall be aameless) was met at th-
!<ioor by tir'd office boy in-
form id him that Mr. |
Biles tone of Bile- j
*tohe and Blathei- |
sk te, had called on b eyr mw .
v half of the firm, who,
I . said, wanted to see the
IpOconiic artist very par-""]
I /I tieula ly, would I
he call u on
them at once ! "
l The address, Mr. B’s,
r* card said, was
9999 street.
3, * * * Arrived at last at 9999 street. The horse dropped
dead at the door. The driver made the usual re-
mark of his class when anything goe« wrong—that
hia customer was “no gentleman." Deceased horse
, paid for. and reflection with-
drawn
6. * * * Mr. Blather-
-kit*- was announced At
last (after about I hours and a half), and our artist sprang like a
startled fawn to meet him. " Not your turn, mister, there'3 ten
before you,' said an < mbryotic so-
licitor No matter, he c »u!d wait.
/4. Ushered into the pre-
' senceofMr. Bilestone, tiio
Jai ter said ’ Ha. yea !
partner has a com mu-
" Elation to make of some
importance to yourself.
He will be here presently.
Will you wait? " It must
be the pork-packing
uncle. “ Dead for a
ducat,dead! ’’
7 piis turn came at last. “ Yes."
said Mr Blatherskite, " I have a communi-
cation to make that will interest you "
J“ My prophetic soul, mine uncle ! »
8. Having ushered the comic artist into a bacß private
office and looted the door, Mr. Blatherskite then proceeded t*
•' unfold his policy" as follows —“When rtdiiig down io tbo
flandwiok tram this morning a littlo circumstance occurred
which, on consulting with my partner, we both thought might
furnish you with the subject, of a sketch for Tm BoLLatia.”
(Here followed a long “
and tedious talc with no
point whatever )
0, “ And that was
J all I’’ He said to
/ himself,as he walked
tiome with the air of a
man in a dream
5. He was then given a seat in the waiting-room on a
hard bench, where he found others waiting also to see Mr.
Blatherskite, who, it would appear was expected in about
an hour and a half. The comic man would have ample
time to meditate upon his change of fortune, and lay plans
for the future
Eflbo answered " Yea ! ” “ that was all!"
10. Then he took up the burden of life
again having first bullied the office boy
within an inch of his lifej sighing only *• jft,
might have been."


Another Splendid Opportunity for the “Shirt-sleeved Ceesar.”
“Bismarck announces that the peace of Europe is assured, and that henceforth his policy is to be a pacific one."- Cable.
BISMARCK: "VELL HERR BLAINPILL, VOT YOU VANT MIT ME, HEY? IS IT ZAT YOU VANT TO FIGHT ME VAT HAS MADE BEACE MIT ALL THE WORLD"
PLAIN BILL: "WELL, EXACTLY-AT LEAST, NOT YET THE FACT IS, MY DEAR MR. BISMARCK, IT OCCURRED TO ME THAT A MAN OF YOUR VARIED MILITARY
EXPERIENCE MUST HAVE ACCUMULATED A VAST QUANLITY OF WAR MATERIAL WHICH, NOW THAT YOU ARE RETIRING FROM BUSINESS, YOU MIGHT WANT
TO SELL AT A BARGAIN AND I HAVE COME TO MAKE YOU AN OFFER ON MY OWN RESPONSIBILITY ON BEBALF OF NEW SOUTH WALES."


Society
Sir Henry Loch, Governor of Victoria, is
regarded as most unfortunate in his selection of
aides-de-camp, butlers, piivate secretaries, and
other flunkies, but his misfortunes are due, in a
large measure, to a greedy dollar hugging spirit.
The plebeian butlers were pretty well paid, and
should not have stolen Deerhurst’s brummagem
or his thirty-shilling gun ; but ho w different is tha
case of the young swells whose residence at
Government House, Melbourne, is but polite
expatriation ! Without education, maimers, or
intellect, but knowing just enough to ape the
vices of others : their parents could do nothing
with them but fit them out with letters of intro-
duction to Sir Henry Loch, and a modest bank-
draft or two, and let them loose upon Antipodean
society—and, it was no doubt hoped, the consoli-
dated revenue of the colonies. Sir Henry Loch
acts as a guardian to these youngsters, and gives
them no remuneration but the run of their teeth.
This generous treatment soon grows wearisome,
however, and the hupper flunkies begin to jearn
for some variety, so that, after a short fojoum,
when not worrying wittles, they are fighting
bookmakers, intriguing with married women,
young and old, marrying heiresses, or doing other
mischief. There is something to be said on the
side of the lords and captains, however shady they
may be.
It was generally stated that the Marquis of
Normanby saved some £43,00 ) from his ecrew
during his six years’office as Governor of Vic-
toria, and, barring the adulation of a few Jingo-
istic grovellers, he left the colony more after the
manner of a robber than after that of a revered
ex-ruler. It is whispered that even now Sir
Henry Loch is doing a good thing himself, and
that while he entertains more freely than his pre-
decessors the whole of ihe £lO,OOO a year is not
being mel:ed by a long way. His Excellency is
as careful of the siller as Donald Dinnie, but Lady
Loch is the one with an e} e to the main chance,
and she guards the coin as carefully es she “ regu-
lates ’ Sir Henry. There is an unders'andiDg
that when His Excellency is desired to extend his
patronage to anything, from a charitable demon-
stration to a minstrel-ehow or horse-race, the com-
munications on the subject are first submitted to
her Ladyship, who endorses, and th« n for war do
them to the Governor. In fact. Lady Loch wears
that portion of the male attire generally supposed
to indicate authority, and that the D the power
not only behind, but before and all round the
vice-regal throne, and is the actual Governor of
Victoria.
t • *
It may not be that Lord Cairns, flouted by
the fair sex of the aristocratic white population,
means to follow in New Guinea the example set
by Lord Stamford at the Cape. That noble peer is
wedded to a lady of colour, variously described as
a Caffre, a Hottentot, and an imported Fantee
from the Gold Coast, the only fact which is ascer-
tained with any certainty being that she is pure
black, and before her elevation to the Upper
House she wore nothing in particular excepting a
shark’s tooth and a pound of grease VVhethers he
lives up to the requirements of her new,station or
not is unknown ; probably her husband has
civilised her to some extent by this tifne, but if so
her muscles must have ached with the exertion.
Mild domestic discipline, as understood amorg
the Hottentot ladies, is heavier work for the he d
of the family than rolling a half-ton btulder up
hill, and even then the average African peerees
does not eeem to mind it much. However, if
Lady Stamford can get over 1 lie native habit of
climbing up trees and eat ng grubs &he may one
day cut a dash in London society, and her
daughter, who is also black, and who can shin
up a water spout when she is not too much en-
cumbered with clothes, will probably create a sen-
sation in the most cultured circles of Park-lane.
* * *
A love-lorn damsel, who faded and pah d
in the shadow of cold neglect, even in the calori-
fled and fervid atmosphere of Maryborough (Q ),
recently appeared before a frozen-hearted adminis;
trator of the law as plaintiff in a b each of pro-
mise suit. She claimed £3O damages. She was
awarded “ one bob.”
Captain Bickers, J.P., of Adelaide, has
got himself into a remarkably tight place. S*irey
Carter, a young housekeeper, was brought before
him afflicted with “ beer-staggers,” and her em-
ployer, who was called for the defence, said she
was the nicest girl who ever lived, and he was
going to marry her. Then a bright idea struck
the romantic beak, and he said, “ Now, it's this
way. If this gentleman will consent to marry
this lady (a “hie” of surprise from Sairey at
being called a lady) at once, I will dismiss the
case.” The gentleman consented right away, and
a policeman was told off to see that he carried out
his promise. It was not till tome time afterwards
that the gallant Captain discovered that hie in-
fatuation for the drunken Sairey had led him into
promoting bigamy. The charming female had a
husband already.
* * *
Judge Manning (locum tenens for the
meek and smiling Windejer) is having a high
old time of it in Sydney Divorci Court. It
was not congenial to his Honor’s taste at first, at
all, at all; but the fun is getting fast and furious,
and, like a wise man, the worthy judge is bending
to circumstances, and getting and affording what
fun he can out of his temporary occupation. On
a recent occasion he joked away with the Bar
about the impossibility of even the “ devii’s own ”
being able to serve a legal process on a dead man
who it was averred whilst in the flesh had loved
another man’s wife too well; and now the lovely
little adulteresses have taken to sending biUets
doux to his Honor —giving him the straight tip all
on the sly. One has deluged his letter-box with
50 of these—aye, and more, says the associate.
But lovely woman is full of other resources, and
so one Catholic lady gets her priest to ron e to her
assistance, and the rev. father writes to the
judge on behalf of “one of my people.” The
judge is wrothy at last. The lawyers won’t go aDy
further with the case on account of the interfer-
ence of “ his riverince,” and the majesty of the
law is thus maintained. Fire away, your rever-
ence, and if your action tends in any way to break
down the iniquitous-monopoly of what is callei
law by a few ravenous persons called “ lawyers,
you’ll get the blessing of The Bulletin.
Dear Bulletin, —An item in your issue
of the 12th ult., re the late Inspector O’Neil, o;
QueanheyaOr IwS.VV.. recalls.to my recollection an
anecdote in which hejjgnred as principal charac
ter. Years ago, was Chief Constable of
Queanbeyan, under the ancient rcjimeol the late
Inspector-General M'Leric, he obtained the necei
sary permission to take unto himself a wife. The
constabulary, in thoee days, wore the hideous
swallow-tailed coat with pewter but‘ons, the tunic
being invariably buttoned up to the throat : the
accoutrements consisted of the old ' Brown Bess."
with bayonet, waist-belt, k c., &c. On the morn-
ing of his wedding he gave certain instructions to
his subordinates, and you may imagine the as-
tonishment of the inhabitants when, upon emerg-
ing from the church at the conclusion of the cere-
mi ny, they found three constables, in full fig,
drawn up in two dines at the door (i.e. two on one
side, and one on the other) with fixed bayonets,
who presented arms to the bride and bridegroom
aj they issued forth from the sacred edifice. The
news of the affair created a bit of a stir at the
lime, blit whether it ever reached the ears of the
then Inspector-General of Police I know not;
probably the hint was hot lost at head quarters,
and as (he presenting of arms is due only to officers
of high rank, perhaps this was the reason why
Chief-Constable O'Neil was subsequently pro-
moted to the rank of Inspector. —C. B. W.
• • #
The Argus in Hugh George's time gave a
yearly dinner to its literary staff. That has now
been knocked off.
In Glasgow, a set of premature and
motherless triplets are being railed in an incuba-
tor A vast amount of {.rouble is being taken to
keep this trio alive, and yet the world in its pre-
sent state does not offer such a Jolly outlook for
them a'ter all. In after years they will probably
curse that incubator.
* "V * *
“ Mrs. Bishop Barry,” who is now with
the Primate on her way to England, writes that
SHE NEVER STOPPED.
HIS DIGNIFIED MAMMA: “TOMMY. YOU REALLY MUST NOT CHATTER SO, TILL
I STOP TALKING TO THE LADIES."
TOMMY: "HUT' YOU NEVER STOP!”
since leading Sydney she has much improved in
health. Travel appears to agree not less well
with the bishopesses than with the bishops.
In.a Sydney bookseller’s shop window we
noticed a gorgeout-ly bound and brilliantly-gilt
volume, entitled V Manners of the 4 ristocracy,”
by One of Them. «“Oho!” we ejaculated
in an’iciration <f something particularly
calorific and spicy, 4 we will, possess ourself
of this priceless gem/’ which we accord-
ingly did. We took the book home, wrapped it
carefully in link paper, and put it aside as a
morsel for future secret enjoyment. But it proved
a disappointing affair—a thorough fraud. Nothing
about the Duke of Marlborough, or Lady Colin
Campbell; not a word of Sr Charles Dilke, or
Lords Lorisdale, St. Leonards, Aylesford, or
Deerhurst; not even a hint of the Prince of Wales’
kind regard for the Jersey Lily. We have now
instituted a suit for recovery of damages for
obtaining money under false pretences.
* # *
Mr. and Mrs. Henniker Heaton are re-
turning to Austialia. Under the will of the late
Mrs. Samuel Bennett they succeeded to the Mun
darra Towers property conditionally upon “mak-
ing it their principal place of residence.”
* « *
The fashionable, fragile maiden who every
afternoon totters along the Sydney block carrying
under her arm a small Newfoundland dog is
understood to be lately from Hingerland, where in
good society just now Tyke carrying is the correc;
thing. However, the lady might just as well have
her dog washed now and then. It would be ever
so much less heavy after a good bath.
As a bridal party was driving into Hamil-
ton (Vic.) from Cavendish, the horse drawing the
buggy containing ihe bliohing twain Iripped and
fell, breaking the shaft. The lady turned a “ com-
plete somersault ” (!) and “ fell heavily," injuring
the back of her head, but not seriously. She soon
recovered, and thj party proceeded to church.
P.S. —When the first flush of nuptial joy has fled
like the fading aurora, that happy husband will
get wishing that the back of his bride’s head had
been a little softer. [N.B —A woman wrote this I
* • •
“ Stella," Parts correspondent of the S. M.
Herald, informs us that the Empress Eugenie
was born at the foot of a tree. Now, we were born
up a tree. This accounts for the difference be-
tween ourselves and Eugenie.
• • *
Overheard in Collins-street, She :
“ Gunsler’s is a nice refreshment-room, isn’t it?”
He (calmly) : “Yes.” They passed on. We
wondered if he had the price of it about him—
that’s all!
•
a
What is called “an extraordinary case of
perverted taste " has occurred at York (W. A.) A
married lady named Maria Hell, (fiat 19. deserted
her hubby and went to share the wallaby and
'possum of a tribe of ab riginals camped east of
York. For which little trifle she was arrested
and brought before the “ Binch.” which discharged
her upon conditions that she returned to her pale-
faced sposa. But, alas ! her taste for King Billy
was too pronounced to be forgotten at the order of
a mere magistrate. A week afterwards she Aid
aga n to the dingy camp, and at latest sd v ices was
still a nomad.
The Melbourne Shelley Society is dead,
after a comatose existence of four months. It was
started by one Mr. Scrivenor, late Secretary to
the local Shakespeare Society, who is an enthusi
astic Shelleyan. However, It was found that just
as one swallow does not manufacture a summer,
one enthusiast will not make a Shelley Society.
And then Percy Bysshe was hardly a young
gentleman whom the British Matron cares about
her daughters studying, either as regards his work
or his life. There are certain little matters in
the latter which, as Percy was only a baronet,
the B. M. will not stand. If he had been a lord
they might have been tolerated just as Deerhurst’s
little games are. The “ Cenci ” also is improper,
and is easily beaten by “ Ten Nights in a Bar-
room ” for morality. And thus, in spite of the
Shelley enthusiasts and other re*thetic females, the
Melbourne Society has duly deceased. Tnis is
our 44 In Memoriam ” notice.
* •
Ouida says in an article on “ Vulgarity,”
in last month’s number of the North American
Review :
“ To see a marriage at the Madeleine, or Bb. George's,
Hanover Square, or any other great church in any great city
of _ the world, is to see the vulgarity of modern life at its
h-.ight. The rape of the Sabines, or the rough bridle still in
favour with the Turc »mans and Tartars is modesty and
beauty beside the fashionable wedding of the Nineteenth
Century."
Madame de la Ramie’s bitterness against society
and her own sex seems to increase with age.
* * »
C. P. Villiers, the uncle of Lady Loch,
has, the Argus says, 44 sat for one borough in
Great Britain for more that 50 ysars.” Our
4 * uncle ” has been receiving part of our wardrobe
and family-plate in his shop for fully that period.
Judge Webb, in the Weeding-Rose ease,
in a loDg judgment decided that not even a rule
nisi for divorce or judicial separation could be
granted, because neither did the petitioner nor the
respondentcomeintocouit with clean hands. Weed-
ing is therefore tied to Mra W. for life. Il is all very
well to talk about the petitioning rty priming
with a e’ean rroord, but has it never struck our
legislatois tliat it is on the stupid principle that
two blacks make one white that such decisions
rest ?
• • •
Melbourne has got at least three of the
aristocracy stay ine there now, and more arc ex-
pected When the next lo_t arrive people will be
careful about bolting their itooiH and seeing thfe
windows are fastened at.ntghtt that’s all.
Tho Earl of Kenmare-the papa of Lori;
Castleroßte, late aide-de-camp To Sir HeDry Loch
has just had left to him by the Will of Lady Rokcj
wood Gage the Hengrave Estate, near Bury St
Kc mtmds, Suffolk. CasQerOßse wi 1, 01 course
succeed to it some day. How-Invariable is tlt
rule In this hfe that the good uiings of it are be
stowed upon the hard-working,'the sensible, am
the well-behaved ! . ' - ,1
* * •
A “ Lover of Justice,” who, “as ond
who has the honour to he A personal and I may
say intimate friend of both Lord Lome and the
Princess Louise.’’ bogs to assure the Melbourne
Herald that there is not the slightest ground for,
the report that the childless pair ate goirg to fol
low the lead of Lome’s brother into the Divorce.
Court. We are iDtimate chunre of the Cham of
Tartary, the Emperor of China, »nd the King of
Tonga apd we can feel how painful it is for a?
lortr of justice to hear Louise and Lome unjustly
“ rumoured ’’ about.
The penalty of riches. A Sydney man
who had only his culchaw to live upon, recently
wedded a equatter’s daughter. She had a pile of
money, but her table manners were not exactly
what they ought to have been, and she had a dis
agreeable habit of addressing men as “ Bill" on a
very shoit acquaintance. Consequently, when her
husband one day met another cultured swell in a
tram he tried to avoid introducing her; he had
p esented her on previous occasions, and she had
been mistaken for a female swogaman engaged in
knocking down a cheque. The little scheme,
however, did net work, for the lady presently
tapped him on the arm and exclaimed aloud, "I
say, Reginald, who's your joker t" A mutal ex-
planation follow ed, and the lady held out her hand
and told the stranger cordially to "put it there
though it weighed a ton." She and her husband
only glare at each other now—they don t con-
verse.
Some three years ago an active and able-
bodied malefactor, with a flower in his button-hole,
helped a pretty gill out of a Melbourne bus, and
they exchanged smiles which afterwards ended in
matrimony. The bridegroom was a Commercial
traveller, and as his employer’s cashier was in his
second childhood, and tho auditor was a Sunday-
school teacher, and s'ood in with the traveller, the
la'ter’s income was something handsome. The
young lady wrote gushing letters, home to her
aunt, and tent the bridegroom'e photo , and tho
aunt swelled up with i ride until her other rela-
tives were glad to stand aside lest they should get
hurt. But unluckily the old lady one day showed
the photo. t» a new acquaintance who had a hus-
hind in Australia, and this individual had only
time to ejaoulate that it was her Thomas allow-
ing t hat his name was Thomas—before she went
off In a dead faint with her head in the fireplaoe
and one foot on tho sofa. There was trouble after
this, but when the girl in Melbourne heard of it
sho sold all the furniture and started for some new
sphere of usefulness with the cash. She was get-
ting into a bus on her way to the railway station,
when her lord and master j ust returned from a
journey, loomed round the corner, and tried to get
her ear for a minute to explain—in fact, he got
her ears, one in each hand, and made her squeal.
Then another masher descended from th-s 'bus and
knocked the bagman down, and the grass widow
married him a few weeks afterwards. She hasn’t
had time yet to ascertain what he has been up to,
but when she does And him out it won’t take
her long to get another shirt-front to weep upon.
If you would know the character of a
people, study their songs. Somebody once wrote
—or didn’t write—something more or less like the
above. The philosopher m’ght have added that if
you would prognosticate the policy of a premier
you must read his verses No one who has
tackled “ The Beauteous Terrorist and other
Poems”—and lived to tell the tale—will be sur-
prised to find that Sir ' Enry is in favour of extend-
ing the suffrage to women. It wasn’t for nothing
that the girls smiled so sweetly at this affectionate
“ Wanderer ”of three-score-years-and ten. He
had his game to play and they had theirs. Who
can doubt that “Julia" and "Clara” and the
rest of ’em touched upon the suffrage question,
while they were hugging Sir ’Enry away on the
mountain tops l And is it likely that he “ kissed
my Stella through the night ” without promising
tho young lady a vote ? No. In the dayspf exile
our beauteous old Terrorist pledgod himsplf. to a
certain policy, and the little darlings wlltsbothit
it puts it through. We wish Sir ’E'nry’s “ Bill to
Provide for the Extension of the Franchise to
Stella ” every succesr.
Cabbageopolis is once more upended by
the vagaries of a married couple who some few
years ago swore to love and cherish each other
until death did them part, but who tried cn the
game before thay had fairly started on their
journey. Not wishing to make their troub’es
public, the twain arranged to quiet iy unpair, tho
husband agreeing to allow his spouse a weekly
stipend, and they accordingly separated without
exchanging a single kbs or sigh. Under different
circumstances both parties soon contracted new
acquaintances The wife met a fatherly old party
looking out for a steady, honest housekeeper. The
hu-band caught lovingly on to a sweet young
girly-girly sort of person in want of a comfortably
fixed, if rot brave, protector. He became her
shield and buckler, and was pleased to find he had
not lived in vain, but his wife came to hear of the
matter, and at once determined to make trouble
Strange to say, she did not find this quite as
simple a business sis she at Jlrst imagined. She
could not plead desertion, inasmuch as she re-
ligiously drew her allowance every week, and she
was legally instructed thv.t, although the fact of
her hubby having turned himself into the shield
and buckler could be proved still, without a
charge of cruelty, her chances of getting judicially
unhi ched were mighty slim. Ascertaining that
her quite too philanthropic lord was lodging In a
fashionable suburban boarding-house she trotted
out one fine Sabbath morn, iust as all religious
persons were donning their church garments,.


knocked at the door, and enquired for Mr.
Blanque. The servant, suspecting all was not
well, replied Mr. B. was not in, but the injured
wife guessed differently, skipped up the stairs and
at once discovered that there could be no mistake
about the shield and buckler part of the pro-
gramme whatever. A trio in B sharp was at
oace performed, and this was speedily followed by
the Hailstorm Chorus and a diorama of the Battle
of Waterloo, the finale to the whole thing being
that the real Mrs. Blanque was shot head first
down the stairs, with a smooth-bore candlestick in
one hand, and about soz. of long auburn hair in
the other, while her face and body bore enough
evidences of cruelty for a nullification of the
whole of the 8000 marriages celebrated by the
indefatigable Parson Kiosmin. Next day she
visited her solicitor who thoroughly agreed that
she had “ got all she wanted, now.” The divorce
proceeding were duly started, and the shield and
buckler party has left his auburn-haired protege
pro tem. in order to defend himself. As usual,
the married parties are well-known, and have
always carried a high head in religious circles.
The Victorian Government statist reports
that in 1886 there were “ 110 cases of twins ” in
Melbourne and suburbs. How many were in each
case ?
From a Townsville (Q.) papers :
A t Bell House, on March 9th, the wife of J B. Shep-
herd, Esq., of a son. Finest bo 7 in North Queens-
land. All’s well."
Judging from this we should say that the publi-
can who couldn’t lamb down the proud Shepherd
on March 9 in the evening, would be unfit to dis-
pense bad whisky. The married women of N.S. W.
and Victoria will please note that Mrs. Shepherd’s
boy has got to be licked, or the claims of the
South to the championship will suffer.
# * *
Sydney Evening News advertisement.
He must be a descendant of one of the Georges :
a BACHELOR, educated, 35, wants wife, Pro-
tentaut, fair, tal>, moderately plump, money
or ability."
Fat, fair, and forty, you know. Ha cuts above
the King, however, in re the “ money or ability.”
The Earl of Aberdeen haa came to Aus-
tralia on a visit to Governor Carington. The
Earl was Viceroy of Ireland in the last Gladstone
Government, and when he visited Killarney the
town band sat up all night learning how to play
“ God Save the Queen” in his honour. He is the
only Viceroy who ha 3 been sat up for in Ireland
during the laBt half-century, and he may loo's for
an enthusiastic reception from th) Irish colonists
in Australia.
. . *
Queen Victoria will have so many Aus-
tralian albums after this Jubilee year that she
will be able to give llattenbergastart in the boob-
agent line. Brisbane has prepared one of these
affairs. It contains views of Brisbane 20 years
ago and of the Brisbane of to-day. It is thought
that when Her Gracious views the Brisbane of 20
golden years ago she will feel so overcome that
she will order a cask of Pleystowe rum, 39J o p.,
at once as an antidote.
A smart married couple brought off a
unique event last week. They filed shovels
simultaneously in the Melbourne Insolvency
Court. He was but a Brunswick-blacking dealer,
and a hashhouse-keeper she. Liabilities, £560 and
£721 respectively.
• * *
Wellington, N.Z., is evidently working
up to the Sydney pitch of admiiation for gallows
performances. A little girl named Judd, of that
city, broke her arm by letting herself down too
suddenly from the branch of a tree. She was
playing at “ Caffrey and Penn," which is said to
be a very popular game amongst the children.
This is soothing and refreshing. Wellington goes
one better than teaching the young idea how to
shoot—it teaches the young idea how to hang.
We recommend the following new children's game
to parents and guardians : —“ Mount Rennie
Rennie Ro3ey, or five necks in a ring”; "Sea
Sores, or Caflfrey and Penn ” ; Fox and Gee3e, or
Hall and his Judges,” &c , &c.
* * *
A certain Melbourne millionaire draper
announces that he wants to buy a titled son in-
law. 4
Sir W. J. Clarke, Bart., gave a most in-
teresting speech at the supper of the Melbourne
Masonic Ball. After many shouts for Sir W., h j rose
and, looking up and down and all around, remarked :
) “ Brother Masons, my lords ( ) and guests
( ) I’m very pleased to see you here ( )to
see you all looking ( )so well. ( ) I like
Masons to look well. ( ) Gentlemen, ( ) I
give the toast of the Queen ( ) very good
woman ( ) the Queen, gentlemen." That was
about all.
. * *
The Hon. Horatio Nelson has secured a
clerkship in the London Chartered Bank, Mel-
bourne. This is the sort of nobleman that is really
appreciated in Victoria.
Now that Mr. Mortimer Franklyn is con-
nected by marriage with the families of Sir Ge srge
Bowen and Sir Salmon Wilson, there should be no
difficulty in his getting put on a good footing with
the Prince of Wales. Miss Vena Seal, sister of
Mrs. Mortimer, married recently Mr. Norman
Campbell, brother to Lady Wilson. He and Mr
Neil Campbell, the gentleman whom Miss Bowen
married, are sons of Mr. Robert Campbell, M.L C.,
■of Victoria.
* • *
Mr. and Mrs. R. Power will shortly leave
Melbourne on an extended tour through Europe.
• • •
There was a large and particularly swell
gathering at the Church of England at Frankston
last Monday to witness the nuptials of Mr E C.
Sturges3, Sir H. Loch’s popular A.D.C., with Miss
Rhoda Grice, youngest daughter of the late James
Grice, of Melbourne and Frankston. The bride,
who was accompanied by four bridesmaids, wore
a magnificent and costly ioilette of trained white
duchesse satin with sash of brocade, ths front
draped with priceless duch- ss point lace appliqued
with Brussels and caught up with exquisitely-
mounted orange flowers ; tho orthodox wreath
and veil was fastened with diamond stars and
butterflies. Her bridesmaids —Miss Addie Mathe-
son, Misses Edith and Evelyn Loch (daughters of
His’ Excellency Sir H. Loch), and Miss Maud
Currie (adopted daughter of John L Currie, St.
Kilda)—were all dressed alike in white Chinese
silk and deep cream lace, and hats relieved by a
■dash of crimson A special train took the guests
to Frankston at 9.30, returning at 6 p.m. Mr. and
Mrs. Sturgess leave for England by the Vaietta.
limongst the guests were His Excellency and Lady
,oeh, Lords Sandhurst, Dudley, and Deerhurst,
dr. Moncrieff, Sir W. J. and Lady Clarke,
ogether with a crowd of lesser celebrities
Among the coming marriages is one be-
,ween Mr. W. Matheson, son of the late, John
Vlathesoo, to Miss Todd, daughter of Mr. T. Todd,
WT dssr, Melbourne.
Everybody who is anybody was at the
Melbourne Convalescent Home FCte, That
festive young gentleman Murray Ross was
there, introducing his pretty fiancee, but the
observed of all observers was a lady who, utterly
regardless of Biblical considerations, had attired
herself in bright scarlet.
Let us see. What is the name of the
very sober swell, who, since the death of Captain
Standish. has acted as baby-jumper for the
Melbourne ClubJ?
Miss Eva Rainer, the pretty daughter of
old Tom Rainer, the father of Christy Minstrelsy
in Australia, was married last week at South
Yarra, to a Mr. Brunton, son of a Melbourne
miller. Truly a harmony in black and white.
HOW DID HE KNOW?
MR. ALEXANDER M'TAVISH: “HELLO, JOHN, YOU LIKES PORK?”
AH Y UNG: “YES, SANDY, ME LIKEE PORK."
MR. M'TAVISH (angrily): “HOW YOU KNOW MY NAME SANDY?”
AH YUNG: “HOW YOU KNOW MY NAME JOHN?”
The demon typhoid is busy among amateur
athletes in Victoria Mr. T. A. Keenan, a pro-
minent rowing man of Geelong, and Mr. Andrew
Christy, a well-known footballer of Ballarat, have
both succumbed to the fever within the last fort-
night. When typhoid provid“ntially removes a
few town councillors, something will be done to
prevent cows from placidly quenching their thirst
at open drains. Or, better still, something will be
done with the drains.
The Borough Council of Orange (N S. W.)
seems to be an amoozin incorporated CU33. Some
years ago the municipality received a liberal land
endowment in the shape of Wentworth Park, the
only condition attached to the gift being that the
ground was to be used for recreation purposes
only, and it is now proposed to turn the park into
a depot for sewage and nightsoil. Since this idea
was promulgated we have searched for prece-
dents right back to the days of Tyre and Sidon,
but so far as we can ascertain the Orange Borough
Council is the only body on record which regards
sewage as a recreation.
* * *
Since the Deerhurst episode the A.D.C.
who accompanies Sir Henry Loch is always name-
les3. # #
The Clarke “ push ” is a most exclusive
gang. It comprises the daughters of only four
lodging-house koepera.
Lord Deerhurst, we hear, has received his
conge from Sir Henry Loch, and will make his
escape from Australia in Earl Dudley's “ yot."
May favourable breezes blow him swiftly from
our shores 1
Last Thursday evening the friends of Mrs.
Goodman met at her house. 34 Alberto-terrace,
Darlinghurst, to wish her a speedy and enjoyable
trip to England by the steamer Valetta, which
takes away her and her two daughters on the Ist
of April. Dancing was indulged in till half-pa3t 2
on Friday morning.
A large number of fair creatures in Sydney
are awaiting with much eagerness the Anal pas-
sage of Sir Alfred Stephen’s Divorce Act, which,
in the ordinary course, will come into operation
just in time to give Judge Windeyer a full supply
of congenial work on his return. The number of
divorce petitions to be filed on the passing of the
Act will make the public stare.
We have received from Messrs. Tuttle and
Co., Sydney and Melbourne, a most artistic por-
trait of Earl Cairns, who, according to the New
Guinea savage by whom our religious column is
edited, looks pretty enough to eat.
WOMAN ITEMS
I For 30 places in the London Post and
Telegraph Office (at 10s. a week) there were 800
young women candidates. And yet society
wonders at female dishonesty, while the wages of
educated and industrious vir'ue are half-a-
sovereign a week.
Mrs. Sarah Ann Kennedy, of Mackay
(Q.), has a limitless love for other people’s co*s
She escaped conviction twice, but the law clutched
her at the third attempt la3t week, and now she
is waiting for 12 months to elapse to come forth
and eat the beef of freedom.
“ How Married Woman go to Sleep” is
the title of an article in the newspapers. It is not
modern enough, for we fail to see anything about
where she leaves the skeleton of her improver at
the room-door in order to trip the old man when
he comes home late from the lodge.
A poor old vagrant before Sydney Central
Court last week was given the option of going to
gaol or the Benevolent Asylum. He wanted the
Bench to guarantee that his wife should accom-
pany him. Where now is the fellow who said
that there was no man who would not rather go
to gaol than go anywhere with his wives ?
Hall-door scene. Voice, basso profundo,
from top of stairs: “ Maud Matilda ! has the
morning paper come yet ? ” Maud Matilda (who
has just began to say good bye to Percy Reginald):
“ What shall I answer, dear 1 ” Percy Reginald :
“ Oh, tell him that of course the paper hasn't
come yet, but we are just going to ‘ press ’ now."
T. H. Dorn, of Sydney, is again free,
after doing 28 months' gaol for contempt of court.
The Court ordered him to pay £l3 10s., wife-
maintenance, and he didn't do it. "N S.W. beiDg
a civilised country, men are not consigned to in
definite imprisonment for debt ; they are simply
ordered to pay off their debts and sent to gaol for
contempt if they fail to settle up. This, as the
enlightened reader cannot fail to comprehend, is
a very different thing from the other—very dif-
ferent indeed.
The North American Review has an
article, “ Should Women be Hanged ?" which
(being written by a woman) of course decides the
question in the affirmative. In an unlucky mo-
ment, and carried away by our feelings, we ex-
pressed our warm agreement with this conclusion
in its widest application in the hearing of one who is
truly our better half—in the sense that she is better
at fighting than we are. We now fiad that the
best thing for a person to do whose wife has slung
him out of the dining-room window, swept the
front verandah and passage with him, and deposited
him in the gas-stove while the dinner is being
cooked therein, is to sell the suit of clothes he had
on at the time of the occurrence to the second-
hand shop opposite, and not to read articles which
may lead to family disputes.
Poor old Potiphar's wife has again got into
trouble —this time in England, She was exhibited
on canvas, and created a great sensation until the
Leeds Vigilance Society came to the conclusion
that her evening dress was most unholy, and then
a prosecution ensued and the artist was called
upon to paint some more clothes on Madame.
Strangely enough, however, the witnesses for the
prosecution were all Quakers, and as one broad-
brimmed innocent after another rolled up to
testify that Potiphar’s wife shouldn’t be allowed
out without boots and stockings, it became evi-
dent that the Society of Friends had gone in a
body to visit the naughty Egyptian lady. The
judge, however, knocked the bottom out of the
prosecution by asking “if the witnesses were ex-
perts.” The b 'oad brims inquired in their guile-
lessness what kind of experts he meant, and when
he responded, “Experts in Obscenity,” they re-
plied with a shocked expression that the/ were
not, and wouldn’t know obscenity if they saw it.
The job cost the Vigilance Society some £5 in all,
and Prtiphar's wife still fi isks round in a mild
kind Ol evening dress that begins not too high up
and ends suddenly.
CORRESPONDENCE
liiE Bulletin will return all unsuitable MBS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ S.A.” (Pyrmont) : You “think” the letter
was signed “ Thorough Australian.” Now tell us—didn’t
you write it yourself? “E.M.": The words “war-tele-
gram ” in the Australian dailies are but “ lie” writ large
“Thoroughbred Australian”: Please mail us the letter....
J.8.”(0r something, Fiji): We would fain address you
but canrot decipher your signature “W. J.”: Your friend
probably addressed the Mayor as “ The Mare " because he
was ignorant of the profound Irish philosophical saying
that “ a man is more like a robber than a horse.”
We strongly recommend you not to invest in
tickets for any “consultation" wh.tsoever (2.) The pre-
sent Duke of Wellington is a Colonel Wellesley, but not the
one who married Kate Vaughan. As the present Duke has
children, the other Colonel isn't likely to wear the ducal
coronet. (3.) Can any reader inform our correspondent “ at
what theatre, under whose management, and in what year
the innovation was first introduced of playing one piece only
of an evening ?’....“ Boaz‘ (Whealbah) : We have noted
Parkes' fondness forfat-headed men. To be the shrill
boss of an apoplectic Cabinet just suits a man of his despotic
tendencies...." W. 8.5.” : Write to Sir Psalmyell Griffith....
“G.R.H.”: Thanks...“ My Country": Please call on editor...
" Lunatic Poet ”: (Hawthorne, Vic.): Caj’t quite get the
hang of your poem. Judging from your letter it seems to be
about two bishops and a divorce, but as far as internal evi-
dence goes it might as well be about two hawks and a brick-
bat ..“W.S.A.” (Rockhampton): Some of your verse
would be pretty nearly good enough if it were not for the
morbid Rockhampton melancholy that pervades it....‘ A
Constant Reader ” : He left Sydney with the Royal Comic
Opera Company, and we fancy he is now in N.Z
“ M.C.C.": It reminds us of the Jubilee address to Queen
Victoria by the Mayor and Aldermen of Sydney, which is
couched in the usual style of Alderman Snuffles of
Snuffleborough before receiving the honor of knighthood
from "Her Gracious.” “J. Elston": You can’t “have” us,
we know your fist...." S. Anderson (Sydney): A prayerful
study of the life insurance tables convinces us that human exis-
tence is too short for the job of correcting the Sydney D.T.’s
grammar “Miner (Tibooburra): Thanks for items.*.
“Alexander” (Ultimo): You are not a poet, Alexander;
leave literature alone. Some light billet in the ham-trade
would te better suited to the genius of a man who could
write this:
“ I looked at boots and heaved a sigh,
Said I. I must ye pollish
The blackin brushes were here by,
The mud I did abolish.”
Do you take us for a circus? “Inquirer” (Sydney): We
never came across any comments on the point you mention.
If Tennyson borrowed from Cowley, or if Cowley and
Tennyson both borrowed from someone else they on!y did
what almost every other poet has done. Even Byron
went on the “ cadge.”.. .“Jackdaw Chestnut...." Friend ’:
You will become a real poet by the time you have been fooled
by six more girls. We can’t print the whole of your soul's
outpourings, but are willing to let the universe sample you:—
...S.A.” (Pyrinont Bridge Road): Thanks. Please cal 1
“ 11.C.5.” : Thanks. But, tell us, what's wrong in the spell-
ing of “ libellous’ ?...C.J.” : No, simply because Gari-
baldi's first and second sets of children were all illegitimate.
“A Wavering Protectionist ” (Parramatta): The alleged
fact that the newspaper proprietor in question pays his com-
positors less than the current rate c>f wages, is no argument
in rt the theory of Protection. The Protectionist Age pays
the highest wages, and the Protectionist Bulletin has
been the direct means of raising compositors’ wages in
Sydney. Many a bad priest has preached a good sermon
“ Vindex” (Greymouth, N.Z ): Many thanks. The Bulle-
tin stood almost alone in the Australian Press in denouncing
the brutal and irrational Mount Rennie slaughter “ H.
Ab3olom ": Very good as a religious theory, but it's absurd
to say that nature’s handiwork could not be improved. Look
at man’s head, for instance. Don't you think it should have
been so adjusted as to revolve upon a pivot ? Under present
arrangements a Civil servant hurrying to his office and want-
ing to look back at a pretty girl has to turn the whole of him
self right round, stop, stare, and thereby make himself late.
,‘T.A.D.M. (Charters Towers): Will consider
“ Carpentaria’: Next week....“ A.J.R.": Its length out of
all proportion to its public interest “John Mundy”:
What are you driving at ? “My Country”: Next week
“ M.S.W. ’ The Bulli affair was not a strike ; it was a lock-
out. The men unsuccessfully exhausted every means to get
the matter settled by arbitration. At the rates offered, the
miners had to work in a vitiated atmosphere with the chance
of being blown up for about six shillings a day “Koh-i-
-noor” (Ballarat): Thanks, but we 11 have to verify the allega-
tions first “ J. Laurie”: Held over.
Indisposed —lnn-disposed.— Globe.
“ Trams stop here when hailed ” appears
on a board outside of the North Richmond Hotel
at Richmond, Melbourne. We imagine that the
proprietor would gladly alter the same to “ When
‘ shouted for’ trams will pull up here.”
A Mayor down South the other day enter-
tained the local fire-brigade at supper, but it was
just the usual bad luck that a fire broke out at
11 p.m. after the last toast (there were 16 of them,
of course) had been drunk. The efforts of that
fire-brigade during the next half-hour were im-
mense. Having found out with difficulty within
half-a-mile where the devouring element was at
work, they celebrated the discovery upon their
arrival at what a reporter would call the " scene
of conflagration ” by hosing well the burnt-out
family—a man, his wife, and five children, who
had seated themselves upon two armchairs, a
meat-safe, and a kerosene-tin between the fire-plug
and the fire An opposition brigade then arrived
and, of course, had to be routed before the work
of extinguishing the blaze could be properly taken
in hand.
FAREWELL FALSE ONE.
“ How to part I cannot tell
the part I love now to well
when you had left me for fair well
the sorrow and sighs had Come
Deor I now you love me as only one
Oho how true true to you I be
the love to you I will
your love May it be true let me Bee
for far well love
“ it, is tome body else in you loved long long ago
it is not angel from above
to her you love is true love her so
The love is true for thee
Never was entended for me
go and be happy so
With the one you loved so long ago
“ Once I had no hart Now a heart to lend
hoping if nothing elce I
remain your loving
“FRIND."


Politics knock the stuffing out of women.
At Melbourne, on 17th March, Dr. Louis
Henry was married to Alice, daughter of Mr.
Mark Mom. It is announced t hat Hon. Robert
Boyle, a son of the Earl of Cork, will, early in
April, marry Mies Edith Horsfall.
Mr. J. M. Smith, of Melbourne, one of
the trustees of the Benevolent Asylum, wants
that institution called “The Royal Benevolent
Asylum.” We see nothing in this to laugh at.
One of these days some of the less provident mem-
bers of the Royal Family may be applying for ad-
mission to that same Asylum. The time is coming.
And, after all, what better title could be found
foTthe Royal palaces in England?
Frederick ffoulks Swanwick, the sworn
enemy of the Brisbane Telegraph, and brother to
the lamented gentleman who nearly, but not quite,
shot Psalmyell Griffith, has recovered £lOO from
the above-mentioned paper for publishing a lost dog
advertisement, “no questions asked.” This, it
was held, was something like compounding a
felony, and now there is a real wild-looking mm
sitting in the Telegraph office and keeping his
eye on the dog-notices.
We give this story for what it is worth.
Some time ago a genial and highly-popular Sydney
undertaker died and was buried. The first night
of his residence in the cemetery the gho3ts got so
uproariously intoxicated that the caretaker had to
get up and read the Riot Act before they would
go back to tlieir graves again. We do not entirely
believe this ourselves, hut well he was a
tremendous fellow when he was alive, and he
must have made a lot of friends in the course of
business.
A housewife in Richmond (Vic.) got out
of concert with the lady next door, but instead of
relieving her wrath by throwing her stale cabbage-
leaves and “ tater’ parings into her yard, or
wringing her kids’ ears every time they showed
out as has been the tystem of sweet revenge fol-
lowed by house-wives these many years, she built
a grotesque effigy of the lady, and hung it out be-
fore the public, signed “ Big Fat Mag.” The lady
next door wouldn’t a minded, only her waist was
represented as big round as a circus-tent, and her
feet as long and broid as a mining-lease. Th
Bench agreed that the housewife of Richmond
should forfeit £7 25., or go into retirement for six
weeks. She forfeited.
The following little item is from the
Sydney Evening Noose :
" The onion is a vegetable which for usefulness and popu-
larity ranks second only to the potato ; and it has been
generally used by most civilised nations from the earliest
times. It is not rnly wholesome, nourishing, and stimulat-
ing, but has valuable diuretic properties. A historical ac-
count cf the onion from the time of Moses, appears in the
Town and Country Journal this week, ana is not only
instructive but amusing."
We can’t think of many easier ways of filling up
a paper than dealing with “the onion from the
time of Moses.”
Lord Tennyson has been advised by his
medical attendant to try a warmer climate for a
month or two. Probably the doctor had perused
the Baron’s latest poem, and couldn't control his
feelings. When a hollow-eyed bard glides Into
The Bulletin office and desires us to read his
manuscript, we usually advise him to go to Sheol
and try a warmer climate. Yes—
Confusion take the long-haired-tribe,
Who cost us many curaes 1
E’en yesterday we did prescribe
For one who brought some verses ;
When with hie screed we’d struggled hard
And could not get a rhyme at,
We up and told the blighted bard
To—try a warmer climate.
The valour of the cornstalk warrior has j
never yet shown conspicuously in the tented field,
but the cornstalk bailiff, when he is levying a dis-
tress warrant on the tented bed and the wash-
stand generally shows an amount of pluck which I
deserves recognition. Only a week ago Bailiff I
GOING ONE BETTER.
BOY (to other boy, disdainfully): “BOOH WE LIVE ’N A BETTER PLACE THAN YOU DO.
WE GOT A CIRCUS-ACTOR LIVIN’ NEXT DOOR TO US, WE HAVE."
OTHER BOY (with magnificent scorn): “GERROUT! WHAT’S THAT! MY FATHER
COMES HOME MAD-DRUNK EVERY NIGHT.”
Lewis, of Sydney, was assessing the spoons and
forks of one De Lissa, and got notice to quit at-
tended by “ one in the bread-basket.” He stood
his ground, however, and even when the debtor
made a tragic debut with an American axe, and
then offered to blow his brains out, he did not
move. Furthermore he sparred with De Lissa,
and it was only when he had seen half-a-score of
fresh comets, and been shot like a heap of garbage
into the gutter, that he let go his hold. And yet
nobody has offered to get up a testimonial for him,
or even proposed a vote of thanks. This is a cold
and unsympathetic world—for bailiffs.
“ It’s all up, boys,” said old Jimmy the
Corker, turning sadly away after seeing Wolseley's
shearing-machine reap off of clean wool
from a hand-shorn sheep ; “ it’s all up. That’s
sixpen’orth of wool more’n we get off. I tell you
our bloomin’ game is up.” And he rolled up his
swag and started off over the plains muttering
something like
Poor old Bill Robinson, of Maryborough
(Vic.), deserves a paragraph all to himself. Twenty
years ago William ran a stationery and newspaper
shop in the one-horse little town which claims him
. as an identity. The profits were considerable, and
the old ’un invested them in rum for his own pri-
vate consumption. Business went wrong. Wil]
liam took to vagrancy for a living, and ultimately
drifted into prison. From that time forth the old
man has found the air of freedom stifling and
unendurable. When time is up, and the prison-
gates ajar for William, he brings his perverted
intellect to bear upon some new scheme for get-
ting back to “ hominy” and happiness. The man
has wealthy friends in England. They have sent
out his passage-money and invited him home to
partake of the fatted calf. But Bill Robinson will
have none of such vanities. In quod he has been
I living, and in quod he has announced his deter-
mination to die. Only last week he so worked
upon the feelings of the local Bench that they gave
him 15 months for broaking the windows of the
police-station and having no visible means of sup-
port. William tripped awiyr to his dungeon cell
as happy as the sentence was long. Home
self-respect—even money—has the poor devil re-
nounced in favour of a gaol life. A queer story
of what drink may do for a man in Victoria.
The Sydney papers announced the other
day that the Honorable F. T. Brentnall, of
Queensland, was on the eve of departure fer Eng-
land, and that he was to be the bearer of some
photographic views as a present to the Queen.
Brentnall is a “ big pot” in Brisbane. He started
in there as a Methodist parson, but that didn’t
pay enough, so he took to newspaper biz. He
commenced by contributing to the Brisbane Tele-
graph, of which poor old George Hall, the
Bohemian, was then the editor. Hall allowed
Brentnall to fling in his twaddle ; and by and bye
Brentnall contrived to wedge Hall out and himself
in. He wrote up Sam Griffith—the man who
could not disobey a royal “ command ” to go on a
cheap excursion—and Sir Psalmyell made him an
M.L.C. Hence the ex-Methodist parson is now
the Hooorable F. T. Brentnall. But this title is
apparently not good enough for F. T. B. He is
goiDg “ one better.” He is travelling with a car-
pet-bag full of photos., which he intends to trade
off with Her Most Gracious for at least a C.M.G.*
ship. We had a look at these photographs the
other day. We reckon the lot would fetch at least
three half-crowns in Bradley, Newton, and Lamb’s
auction-mart any day ; and if Brentoall doesn’t
get branded C.M.G. or something or other as a re-
ward for his loyalty in scraping them out of the
Brisbane photographers’ baskets, we will think lie
is meanly treated.
Our friend Bailey, of Sunday journalism
celebrity, has on his staff a really good specimen
of the editor satirised by Dickens. The following
item from his last issue, evidently written in
all seriousness, is about a cork leg, but it con-
tains enough humour, blood, and fluff for a
Soudan Contingent:
“ Sydney Poverty —A Bailiff Levies on a Cork Leg.—
We have heard of heartless landlords and unsympathising
bailiffs ere now. We have read heartrending tales of dis-
traint for rent; but never have we heard of any proceeding
so thoroughly brutal as that of a landlord on Surry Hills
who, the other day, actually seized the cork leg which a poor
woman had laid aside for temporary relief. Theunfortun »te
cripple had probably no means of subsistence once she could
no longer move about in search of employment. The limb
with which science and either charitable friends or hardly-
earned savings had provide! for her, very likely meant for
her that daily bread which is even more urgent than pav-
ment of rent; but our Christian (!!) Shyiock cares not
for that. What matter if the woman pine away,
starve, and finally die of sheer destitution, the limb
which might have saved her has put a few extra
shillingslinto his pocket, and there will|be but one bad t nant
the less. We would fain give the name and address of this
inhuman brute. We would fain hold him up to public exe-
cration,—nay, we should not object to seeing Lynch law
suddenly administered to him; if we remain silent it is out
of consideration not for him but for ourselves. We have
learnt, alas ! that truth and Libel are synonymous terms ;
that though a man may distraint upon a cork leg with im-
punity, we dare not with impunity accuse him of the brutal
action; and, therefore, we are forced to leave this human
vampire to that Law of Retribution which occasionally over-
takes the guilty.—The landlord who distrained on the poor
woman’s cork leg is of the Christian order, and one who takes
an active part in Church affairs on Surry Hills, and probably
his social position will cover his sins, but had he been a
Jewish money-lender the howls of execration at his conduct
would have spread far aod wide. Ex Cathedra, however, the
Jews of Sydney are a far more liberal class in their dealings
with Christians than the whited sepulohres who revel in
muffin-worrys’.
His Last Stage.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
With steps that were limping and slow,
With feet that were weary and sore,
A sundowner tramped, with a sundowner’s swag
On his back, and a billy before —
Tramp, tramp, tramp,
From the dawn till the shadows of night
Crept out from the trees, like a thief from his
camp.
And never a station in sight.
His visage was wrinkled and sad,
His rig-out more spicy than neat,
A “ Condamine ” toga enveloped his pelt,
And greenhide enveloped his feet—
Drag, drag, drag,
Over miles that were dusty and drear,
He revelled in visions of limitless “ scrag,"
And bottomless pewters of beer.
His dog toddled on by his side,
He was wall eyed and mangy and old,
His voice, shrill and cracked, had been broken at
‘‘graft,’
In yelping the sheep to the fold—
Jog, jog, jog,
With his load on the sundowners’ course,
For sharers in labour were master and dog,
And sharers in damper and “ horse.”
The hair of his head stood erect,
In a manner peculiar and grim,
Through the top, where his cadie had parted its
crown,
And his “ flappers ” supported the rim—
Creep, creep, creep,
The dead-beat and dog on the track,
Over gullies and hills, that were rugged and
3teep;
Through the night, that was hither and black.
His old brain grew puzzled and queer,
Then he stopped for a moment or two,
And fell on Jiis knees at the side of his swag.
And rummaged the “ kit ” through and
through—
Slip, curse, lurch ;
His hand in each corner was thrust,
A shiveiing hand in a desperate search
For a plug hidden there, or a crust.
But, ah ! now his eye brightens up !
And he places his ear to the ground,
For plainly there comes through the storm of the
night,
A bullock-beh’s echoing sound—
On, on, on,
Still he rushes and tu rubles ahead,
But winds are now hushed, and the hunger is
gone,
And snugly he coils in his bed.
His bed at the foot of a cliff,
Where the rocks jutted down to the creek ;
How often he’d sat here, and yelled to his dog,
For a crown and his tucker a week
Caw, caw, caw,
Sang watchers attending the wake,
For crows were to him, as to hundreds before*
The only ones there for his sake.
J.P.B.
THE SHEANER'S LASTENT.
Yes, it’s forty long years since I clipped my first
sheep,
And I’m gettin’ too old now to plough or to reap,
It don’t matter nothin’, the old game won’t pay,
Though I’m game to run off my full ninety a day ;
Where ten men were wanted on stations I’ve seen,
One Chinaman now’ll do the lot by machine.
Gone, gone are the days of the sundowner’s pride
When we dumped down our swag at the water-
hole side,
And smoked as the damper turned brown in the
fire,
And yarned to see who was the toughest old liar;
No more shall I knock down such cheques as I’ve
seen —
They’ll go to some Chink with his blarsted
machine.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W.
The Unique Weekly, Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours —
Democracy as the Australian National Creed.
Payment of Members.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
Protection to Native Industries.
The Election by the Australian peoples of the
Governors of the Australian colonies.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers o
the day. It is only the other hulf that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
tarted seven years ago with no capital but brains,
8 and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin's inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form —printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has yet seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus
Lralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal wh .ch denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause o
half the misery which now devastates British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin's red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
At least ten copies of The Bulletin are sold in
Sydney to every one of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one man to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Ofllce
twenty shillings sterling IN advance —which you
may pay by Post-office order, one-pound note, or
stamps of any Australian colony—you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. Cheques and Orders payable to
J. M. HARDING.


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
tW Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
upplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
he Bulletin.
My Country.
We print the subjoined letter because it
is well-written and because it contains much
:hat is true as Gospel. However, the re-
marks of our correspondent only go to show
that no honest newspaper or honest man can
?ive undivided and unqualified support to
any N.S.W. government or prominent poli-
tician. The Bulletin despises the nerve-
less shilly-shallying of Abbott, and it quite
sees through the dodges of Lyne and Co ;
but it has also got the measure of the insin-
cere and tricky Parkes and his shameless
crew of tum-coats. Look at W. Clarke, one
day the foremost advocate of a Protectionist
corn-tax, and the next a Freetrade Minister.
Nature surely endowed him with a rufous
complexion that he might never blush for
his political apostacy. Look at Gin Roberts
(the Parkes-made C. M.G.), a recreant Pro-
tectionist whose god seems to be the British
aristocracy—is that the kind of person for
Parkes to consort with while working towards
Australian Independence ? Abigail, who ratted
from Protectionism, and now has the over-
whelming impudence to deny the truth of
unchallengeable facts; Garrett, whom Parkes
but a year or two ago denounced as corrupt ;
Salomons, who after hearing evidence on
oath, reported that Garrett was corrupt—
can The Bulletin reasonably be expected
to give its support to such a mob 1 Until
the advent of clean and independent politi-
cians who stick to principles and not to men,
and who look to Australia and not to Eng-
land, The Bulletin will generally be “agin”
the Government.
“ Editor Bulletin, —I write to you because I
believe The Bulletin is a potent factor in the
politics of New South Wales, and a not unim-
portant one in those of the whole nation. The
prospects of Australian nationality, as evidenced
by the daily telegrams from London, are in deadly
peril, and I ask you sub one who throughout has
staunchly supported the cause of Australian Inde-
pendence to bury the hatchet in your war against
Parkes if it can be shown that he is or may be-
come the pivot of our resistance to the wiles of
the Imperialists. I think this can be done. In
opposing Parkes you are making the game of such
men as Dibbs, Abbott, Lyne, and Copeland. Who
are these gods that you should labour to set them
up ? Let us take them seriatim. Dibbs is a man
who, whilst originally opposed to the Soudan
expedition, next tolerated that memorable
iniquity and ended by supporting it. He
proclaimed himself a Freetrader to the back-
bone and yet was the keystone of a semi-Pro-
tectionist Ministry; now he supports the partially-
protective ad valorem duties against a Govern-
ment whose existence is staked on a Freetrade
policy. He instigated ceaseless attacks on Parkes
on the plea that the latter’s sole object was place
and pay ; whilst at the same time he is
mad now that Jennings did not stick to
office and thus keep him al io in place and
pay, even at the cost of the entire abandon-
ment of the only cardinal principle he had pro-
claimed. Furthermore, failing Ministerial position
his hungry maw would take almost anything with
a good fat screw -be it a Hailway Commissioner-
ship, the Customs Collect orship, the Speakership,
the Agent-Generalship, or the Imperial delega-
tionship. Failing any of these, he is not above
twisting public accounts and committing a gross
political fraud in order to prolong his miserable
tenure of power. Next, Abbott. What principle
or theory does he represent ? Is he a Protectionist?
Yes ; he became a half-hearted one when he
thought that cause was coming in on a flood-tide.
He is the man who, on the housetops, proclaimed
his adherence to a policy of strict economy and
reform in the Civil Service, and who, meanwhile,
was crowding the Departments with a rabbit-pest
of nominees.—[This latter statement is utterly
incorrect.— Ed. B.] Of real belief or principle he
is as naked as a Jordan rock. As to Lyne. This
gentleman got into Parliament originally as a
radical land reformer in the interests of the free
selectors as opposed to the squatters. No sooner
was he safe over the election than he dropped his
ltadicalism like a hot brick, and has been from
then a strong pastoralist advocate. During his
tenure of the chair of Works his name was a by-
word in his Department as that of a tyrant and
a schemer. He started one train on Sunday for
Mount Victoria which he ought to have been per-
fectly aware would never pay anyone but the
political publican of Springwood. He had almost
completed the arrangements for another daily one
to Albury which would have suited no one but
the publicans of that city, and they, it is well
known, have a big say in the Hume electorate.
Though the consolidated revenue of N.S.W. is
already paylDg something like £50,000 a year to
carry newspapers free, the sole argument advanced
in favour of this latter gross job was that it would
facilitate the transmission of Sydney dailies
Lyne's strong point for the public to admire was
economy. He was great on that. So was the line
he proposed from Culcairn to the capital of the
Hume ; hut it was a cruel, mean proposition, in so
much as if it had been carried into effect,
the solitary teamster who in his fortnightly trips
sloes the trade between Germantown and Culcairn
would have been deprived of his livelihood. It
-was a good line no doubt for the political pur-
poses of the honorable member for the Hume,
but on the whole I hold it was a distinctly sneak-
ing line for the Minister. These are only a few
of the raisins extracted from Lyne’s political pud-
ding. Let us now to Copeland. This is the man
who once made a Republican speech in the As-
sembly ; then turned round and supported the
islobbering Soudan Expedition, and finally ups and
tells us we are traitors if we do not bow meekly
and even gratefully to every whim of Downing-
street. This, I say, is the man who gains the
support of soft-headed and soft-hearted Irishmen
by attending their banquets, and who takes
precious good care that he says nothing at them
which might not come from an old high-and-dry
Tory. Twelve months ago I heard him call him-
self a Freetrader. To-day he is Protectionist
Lastly, Copeland is the man who stonewalled
Parkes' Chinese Restriction Bill —a measure,
which if it had not been for Copeland and a few
such as he would by this time have made a Mon-
golian a rarity in N.S.W. Such, sir, are the
gods you would set up vice Parkes. I will
give my affirmative reasons in my next.”
The Queensland railways were partially
under water during the last floods. This, however,
is ever so much better than being under a syndi-
cate.
Parkes’ politics have been rubbed out by
a Queensland paper that defines its policy as “of
an advanced type of a Liberal-Coneervative
character. ’
Extraordinary efforts seem to have been
made by interested parties to square the news-
papers in re a certain “swagger" Sydney wife-
desertion case.
At Bundabcrg (Q.), a kanaka called at the
Poßt Office for “Mr. Government." He should
have come along to Sydney and asked for Parkes.
He's “ Mr. Government.”
Referring to a gang of 200 Cingalese
labourers who carry knives in his district, a
Queensland editor remarks :—“ We cannot for a
moment consider ourselves safe." This is another
way of saying that the editor is a white man.
A Charters Towers (Q.) paper wisely says
that “a dead goat if not buried at once is a
greater nuisanoe than a live one." Alas I we
know it. The cost of that Soudan goat, still un-
buried, is a great nuisance to even a P.C.
Mr. John Cecil Read, Governor of Dar-
linghurst Gaol, Sydney, is a passenger by the
Ormuz to London. Many of his former guests,
who are now living in gilded and dignified retire-
ment in the world’s metropolis, will no doubt be
glad to return the pleasant hospitality so ungrudg-
ingly extended to them in days of yore by the
genial chief of the “little brown Jug.”
In some parts of Queensland they’re not
over scrupulous as to what sort of clergyman
christens the babies. A proud father recently
brought his latest arrival to a R.C. clergyman and
asked him to christen it. He wanted to call the
boy “ Luther Calvin,” he said. After a pause his
reverence said : “I’ll baptise him, and you can go
home and call him what you like.” And the father
went home rejoicing.
This year Moruya (N.S.W.) Agricultural
Show was more than usually lively, the fun com-
mencing with a death-tussle between an Alderney
bull and a Durham ditto. The cause of the row is
not known, but it had probably something to do
with politics, which have occasioned no end of
trouble down South of late. Anyway, the Alder-
ney disputant, a splendid animal belonging to Mr.
L. Mort, was killed " fatally dead, as the News
would say, and the event cast a gloom ovor the
whole show. A more cheerful item was the prize
offered for the best-dressed black gin and black-
fellow. The lady who scooped the prize was fear-
fully and wondrously attired in a blue skirt, with
a straight half-mile of train ornamented with
ribbons, and set off by an improver as big as a
cockatoo cage, and a red plush bodice. A stylish
bonnet was jauntily perched on Mary Ann's
“ cobborah,” and, tell it not in Rose Bay, and
paste it not on the walls of Potts Point, her
understandings were adorned with blue hosen
and shoes to match. She was the cynosure of
every eye, but she marred the beauty of the spec-
tacle at times by ornamenting her mouth with a
short pipe about 76 degrees blacker than herself.
WHAT IS BRIGHT’S DISEASE?
So much has recently been said regarding
“Bright’s Disease” that we give our readers a
diagnosis of the disease expressly prepared by a
medical man:—
Bright's disease of the kidneys consists of such
a degeneration of the tissues of the kidney that it
loses its full power to separate the urea of urine
from the blood. The flow of blood through the
kidney s is retarded in the minute vessels, conges-
tion follows, and, instead of the urine only pass-
ing through the walls of these minute cells, the
albumen and flbrine “ the properties of the blood,”
escape, the poisons remaining. Erentually the
entire blood becomes thoroughly corrupted, and
ruins every organ in the system. There are
various names given to disorded conditions of the
kidneys, such as albuminuria, ureemia, nephritis,
fatty degeneration of the kidney, inflammation of
the kidneys, &c., &c , but they are all allied to
the dreaded Bright’s disease, and will eventually
terminate in that fearful malady. Indeed, many
persons are carried off by insidious kidney diseases
without really ever knowing what ailed them.
“ Bright’s disease has no symptoms of its own, but
has the symptoms of every other disease you can
think of.” Albumen and casts may or may not
be present, and the specific gravity is not an
absolute test. If a man breaks a limb he will
expect to feel pain in the injured member, but in
kidney disease he may chiefly suffer in the other
organs of the body. The secondary sjmptoms of
Bright's disease are among the commonest ail-
ments of humanity, and their ordinary occurence
disarms popular suspicion
“Oh,” exclaims the man of active life, who does
not feel as well as he used to, “I haven’t any
Bright’s disease ! ” Precisely 1 You do not feel
as well as formerly. Your head aches oftenerand
your eyesight suddenly proves faulty. The verdiot
of a celebrated authority on the subject is— ‘ 1 These
symptoms are a sure forerunner of Bright's
disease.” You have had a recent and mysterious
attack of asthma; you have a hard cold on your
lungs which yeu have been unable to dislodge—
you have spit bloody mucous ; you have felt a new
and singular sensation of heaviness in the region
of the heart ; you have a great depression of
spirits without any known cause ; you have found
it impossible to eat whatever and whenever you
wish; your stomach has been very sore, your
appetite feeble, your bowels irregular; a mysteri-
ous weariness comes upon you ; your muscular
system seems utterly helpless. The highest
authorities tell us that all these symptoms are
sure indications of Bright’s disease !
Whatever disease affects the kidneys produces
the same effect in the liver, and the purging of
blood, nausea, vomiting of bile and food, indiges-
tion, constipation, piles, dizziness, persistant
diarrhoea, coming on to a person who has always
been robust, are certain premonitions of Bright's
disease. Having made a tour of the body and
finding no other organs which it can destroy, then
I the disease returns to the kidneys ; the back aches
intolerably, the urine is dark, full of brickdust
deposit, and ropy; casts appear, albumen is
abundant; then come muscular relaxation and
nervous prostration ; puffs appear under the eyes,
the countenance is pale and wears an appearance
of fright, convulsions ensue, the fatal diarrhoea or
pneumonia sets in, and death is the end.
With some patients the disease runs slowly and
for years. With others it comes as a thief in the
night. Note these facts :
More adults are carried off in this country by chronic
kidney disease than by aDy other malady except consump-
tion.— Thompson.
Deaths from snch diseases are increasing at the rate of 250
per cent, a decade.— Edwards.
Bright’s disease has no symptoms of its own, and may long
exist without the knowledge of the patient or practitioner,
as no pain will be felt in the Kidneys or the:r vicinity—
Roberts.
In the fatal cases, and most cases have hitherto been
fatal—the symptoms of diseased kidneys will first appear
in extremely different organs of the body, as stated above.—
Thompson.
Only when the disease has reached its final and fatal stages
may tne usual sympto cs of albumen and casts arpear in the
water, and will great pain rack the diseased orgo.ni—Thomp-
son.
There is but one remedial agent in the world
which has ever cured a pronounced case of Bright s
disease, and has thus inspired the confidence of
the physician, the patient, and the public, and
that is Warner's safe cure.*
TO TBE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
I am again a Candidate for the office of Director,
and respectfully solicit your votes and interest. I
am as UTTERLY opposed to pensions as I am to
any IMPORTANT measure being carried out un-
less placed before and sanctioned by the members.
I, many years since, advocated, and was instru-
mental in obtaining, the abolition of the corrupt
mode of voting for directors by proxy ; the repeal-
ing the unjust suicidal clause, and instituting re-
forms beneficial to the institution. I stand in-
dependent of any recommendation. I seek your
votes solely on my own merits and past services
to the Society, and entirely outside the dangerous
electioneering tactic of “bunching” three can-
didates for the three vacant seats, for the first
time attempted in this Society.
Ivy Lodge, Pitt-street, Redfern. FREDK. LEE.
fg
Newest Invention'— Greatest Novelty •
THE Y
DIAGONAL
PATENT
SEAM
COESET.
Patented in England aDd on the Continent. Will not split in
the seams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Folltt says: — A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.
The Queen says: —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong, and the workmanship all that could be desired.” Caution. —Beware of worthless maitatic
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Patent Diagonal Seam Corset, No. lib, in oval.
Gold Medal. N&w Zealand Exhibition. 1882. Gold Medal. HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets. London
International Exhibition, 1884 LATEST AWARD ! Gold Medal, International Exhibition, Edin.
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why Buffer those excruciating Pains when one
Ibottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No ohange In diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
I his Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
tos agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faoulty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
a. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 Georsre-atreot onlv
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX XX
XX mo THE FAIR SEX. XX
XX ± XX
XX TO THE STERNER SEX. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN’S, IN PITT-STREET, XX
XX intend to XX
XX VERY SHORTLY CLOSE XX
XX their XX
XX Universally Popular XX
XX FIRE SALVAGE SALE IN PITT XX
XX STRMET. XX
XX XX
XX If you can’tcomethismorning, please XX
XX defer shopping till we re-open on Mon- XX
XX day. (% e close at 2of a Saturday.) XX
XX XX
XX There are not many Salvage Goods XX
XX left, and we shall be glad when the XX
XX sale is over and done with. We have XX
XX let our friends and customers have the XX
XX things at almost any price they liked, XX
XX as Fire Sales are not at all in our line. XX
XX We are Family Drapers. We just in- XX
XX sert this notice in case you want any XX
XX Fire Bargains before the sale closes. XX
XX N.B. —Ten thousand new Winter XX
XX Goods to he open on Thursday. XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX 211, Pitt-street. XX
XX XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXAXXXX
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 29, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see-
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the'
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless'
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Alterations to Pyrmont Bridge
Bridge over Cocketgedong
Creek, Road Deniliquin to
Urana
Bridge over Forest Creek, on
Road Deniliquin to Balranald
Supply of Coal, Wollongong
Harbour
Supply of Fencing Material,
Murrumbidgerie, G. W. R.
Supply of Locomotive Engines
(passenger and goods).
Repairs, &c., Lighthouse, Port
Stephens
Removal of Buildings, &c., near
Office of Inspector-General of
Police, Phillip-street
Supply of Railway Sleepers
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Ballina
Dates to whlo v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Tuesday,
April 5,
at 11 o’clock.-
Tuesday,
April 12,
at 11 o clock,.
Tuesday,
April 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Sydney Roller Coaster.
to
j.,
a
BELMORE PARK, every Afternoon and Evening;.
GREAT SUCCESS. Thousands riding every
day I Greatest scientific novelty of the'
age! Car travels up-hill without motive power..
Bring your family, and enjoy yourselves.
BELMORE PARK, Belmore Park. Beautifully-
illuminated with Electric Lights. Band Concert
each evening. Polite attendants; iced refresh-
ments. Single ticket. 3d.; or 5 tickets, Is.
R. H. DONNOLLY, Manager,
Everybody
should USE
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUE!,
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
a a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SSI Gboboe.stbctt. HvnVBT,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES & PRICES POST FREE-
flfc
V
■m
&
.W. H. PA LINO 8c(s u "'‘
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
fifliJo, Organ f Music Importers.
Largest stock and greatest Variety in Australia - living the
bublic the Widest possible choice.- PIANOS from£4o, ORGANS from £l2-
J PAYMENT 0Y MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SUIT ALL CUSTOMERS
YlVttUO & <s» PALING k Q> PULING it 0?
J. BILBERBERG <& CO.’
' 32 MARKET STREET, Corner of Clarence Street, Sydney,
IMPORTERS OF THE FAMOUS SILBERBERG SEWING MACHINES, and the DURKOPP
WHITE MACHINES, the best and cheapest in the market.
Agents wanted throughout the colonies.


Judge Forbes (to yellow witness at
Wagga, N.S.W.) : “ Now, Jemmy Ah Foo, have
you been made a Christian or are you still a
Chinaman 1" Yellow witneis :“Me no savee ;
me no Clistian ; me swear him long a match.”
An English military barracks has been
wrecked by a gas-explosion. A. serious leakage
was discovered by a private who reported it to
his corporal, and the latter informed the colour-
sergeant. This officer laid the matter before the
quartermaster sergeant, and by him it was passed
on to the quartermaster, who made a minute of it
and sent the minute to the colonel. The colonel
REFRESHING HIS HONORS MEMORY.
QUESTION by the Court): “HOW LONG HAVE YOU BEEN IN THIS COUNTRY!”
WITNESS: “WELL, YOUR HONOR. I HAVE BEEN HERE EVER SINCE YOUR HONOR
REIURNED FROM YOUR HONOR'S LAST TRIP 'OME. I WAS A STEWARD
OF THE SHIP AS YOUR HONOR VOYAGED ON; YOUR HONOR MAYN[?]T
REMEMBER ME, BUT I AM THE STEWARD AS HELPED YuUR HONOR TO
HIS BERTH THAT NIGHT YOUR HONOR”
THE COURT: “THAT WILL DO, STAND DOWN, SIR!”
initialled the minute, and despatched it to the
commissariat officer in charge, and he instructed
the barrack sergeant to place it in the hands of
the divisional officer of Engineers as duly pro-
vided by the military regulations, and then just as
the Engineer officer was going to instruct some-
body else to tell the other fellow to send for a
gas fitter the roof of the place came right off.
The eehoolmaster is abroad in Northern
N.S.W. During a recent City Council meeting
Alderman Y. excitedly declared he thanked Goa
he was no dunce like Alderman Z. was. ” What
was that word you used 1 ” enquired Alderman Z ;
as he struck a Foleyesque position. “ Dunce,”
shouted Alderman Y. defiantly back ; “ D-u-n-s-e,
dunce; that’s the word I used.” Yells of laughter
followed this declaration, and the loudest laugher
of all was Alderman Z , who frankly owned he
couldn’t feel angry with a man so densely ignor-
ant. When the fun cooled down, however, the
crushed councillor quietly asked, ” Well, if it
comes to that, Alderman Y., how do you spell the
word yourself ? ’’ “How do I spell it!” replied
Alderman Y., as his top lip curled with ’aughty
scorn ; “ Why I thought every fool in the land
knew that the proper way to spell dunce was
d-u n-t-8.” It was the same spelling-bee champion
who being asked on one occasion which was the
correct way to spell cannon, a weapon of war, and
canon a church dignitary, replied : “ Well, I'm
not quite sure just now whether the words begin
with a ‘ ch,’ or a ‘ k,’ but when I get home 111
consult the iogrify an’ let you know.”
A jury has decided that the Rev. H. 'I.
Britten, of Ryde, N.S.W., did not kerosene his
| own house and then torch the premises as at first
imagined. The police may take this as a hint
that now is the accepted time for finding the man
who really did the job.
The Queensland Temperance Record,
speaking of the use of tobacco, says;—
"It is UDpbyriologica), expemire, dirty, selfish, unmanly*
«nd disease-producing ; a waster of time and energy ; ard it
leadß to drinking, law-breaking, with loss of moperty, goods,
and lifes.”
That’s it. If Tarawera Mountain didn’t smoke so
much there would be no N.Z. earthquakes, and
we have strong suspicions that it was the dirty,
unphysiological habit of chewing on the part of
the ante-diluvians that caused the Deluge.
The Queensland National Association are
aching to have a Jubilee Exhibition. Thunder '
Why don’t they go up to Kockhampton 1 There
is always one in full swing there. We have been
told by a man who has just come down from that
pleasant town that—owing to the exertions of the
inhabitants for some years past—there is now a
splendid hiccup echo up there which is the pride
of the place ; on a calm day when the Sessions
are on, it can be heard for miles around.
Queen Hannah, of Kaikohe, New Zealand,
has been celebrating her jubilee. A base foreigner
named Murphy leased some land from Her Majesty
a while back, and ran up a tea, sugar, soap, and
salt repository thereon. Since this little trans-
action, Her Gracious has become acquainted with
a law which prohibits the pakeha from Irading in
landed estate with the dusky children of the soil
and the sovereign lady of Kaikohe, who is a w ily
old bird, immediately went back on her deal. She
sequestrated the estate of the man Murphy, and
ordered her minions to run the foreigner ’ out,
which they did. Then Queen Hannah locked her
Gracious person in the grocery warehouse, with
some pistols and fowling-pieces, and other arma-
ment, and swore to hold the fort against the
world whilst the sardines and ling-fish and
biscuits held out. When the mail left the local
policeman had her under siege, and she could be
seen through the key-hole luxuriating on York
ham and molasses
PIPS.
Ths “Old Masters” In the domain of Physio
were less reliable than their fellows in the realm
of Art.
Kill or cure remedies are even now frequently
introduced, when a bottle of St. Jacobs oil would
give speedier relief and more permanent benefit.
There is no skill and less sense in laying down
fixed rules for the diet of convalescent patients.
The stomach is a better judge than any theory,
and ita judgment admits of no appeal.
The whims of a patient should not be thwarted.
The system craves for and the digestive organs
readily assimilate articles not laid down in any
dietary scale.
The fossilised fathers in medicine thought they
knew better than Nature, but they didn’t.
If a patient yearns for bread and cheese and a
glass of Clausen’s beer, let him have it. It will
do actual good where “ slop ” food does only
harm.
And Clausen’s New York Champagne Lager
Beer is so pure and invigorating that any con-
valescent will derive rapid and fixed advantages
from it.
The representative men of the medical profes-
sion realise this, and order its use as soon as
circumstances will permit.
All sane and sound people drink it as a mati er
of course in preference to any other. It leaves no
bad taste in the mouth.
WIRE.
What the world would be like without wire is
a conundrum too vast to be solved by a single in-
tellect. From the humble but marvellously-
adaptable safety-pin to the wire which conveys
to us the news of our sudden accession to wealth,
or the unexpected arrival of
TWIN BLKSSING3
in our modest home, wire in some shape or another
appears lo be intimately identified with our
earthly pilgrimage between the cradle and the
grave. Without the simple wire hairpin of com-
merce, the domestic machinery of many a home
would come to a full stop. Without the wire dish-
cover or safe to protect the
COLD MEAT RELICS
of the week, hrw pointless would be the many
subtle jokes forged for the bombardment of hash-
houses? Then there is the wire netting fence
erected in hundred-mile stretches for the benefit
of contractors and for the fun of the festive rabbit,
who calmly estimates its value from afar, and
burrows beneath it when he wants to take up
country on the other side. There is also the
BARBED WIRE,
about which it is as well to say nothing, for fear
of hurting the feelings of a number of sensitive
people. And there is Wainratta, the king of the
wire, who can do all things save one on the wire
as well as most people can do them on the ground.
There are myriads of processes, too, connected
with wire and its applications to the Arts and
Sciences, not the least effective of which may be
observed
AT FIRST COST,
when the domestic atmosphere is rapidly banged
from “Set Fair” to “ Cyclone” by the wiring-in
of an aggrieved wife or mother who is unable to
take her share of this world’s troubles in the
spirit of St. Paul's tea<;hii gs. But with the word
wire is also associated one of the keenest delights
of modern days. It is—when tired, hot, and
thirsty, you devote your almost exhausted
energies to
PRIZING THE WIRE
off a bottle of Clausen's New York Champagne
Lager Beer, knowing full well that the contents
will bring you back to life and all its joys in less
time than it takes to explode a Sydney Harbor
Defence Torpedo, aDd at less cost than a front seatt
at a Sunday School picnic. It is not, perhaps, un-
til the moment of actual contact between the
parched lips and the creamy foam of the inestim-
able “ Clausen ” that the great sufferer realises the
value of the wire which has preserved his interests
so faithfully from the brewery to the pewter.
THE GRATITUDE OF NATIONS
is blended with the breaking of the wires which
encircle the necks of bottles bearing the familiar
brand of
CLAUSEN'S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER.
CLAUSEN'S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER
CLAUSENS NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER
CLAUSEN'S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
lager beer
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE-
LAGER BEER
CLAUSEN’S NEW YOUK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER
Is gocd in sickness and in health. Is better than
any other beer in the world. Is the best of all
drinks for the Australian climate. And it is in
every flrst-c ass hotel in the colonies. The whole-
sale Sydney agents are—Walker, Lemon, and Co.,
86, Margoret-street; and you can get it in any
quantity from the firms of Mason Brothers,
limited, Fesq and Co., Tooth and Co., Alltand Co.,
Burrows and Glee3on, Lucas Brothers, Comellion
and Co., R. Butcher and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey
and Co., Tidswell, Wilson, and A. Ihompson and
Co., C. Ba h and Co., Peate and Harcourt,
Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcy and Co., A.
Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co., and Stewart and
Co., and at all first-class hotels everywhere.
THE MAYOR AND THE JUBILEE YEAR,
The Mayor (Aid. A. J. Riley) has invited the
aldermen to assist him in drawing up an address
of congratulation to Her Majesty, on the occasion
of the 50th anniversary of her reign, and the
alderman have decided to leave the matter in the
hands of His Worship. We understand that,
during the preparations of the address, the Mayor
will give implicit instructions that the framers
shall drink nothing but the Anheuser famous
St. Louis Lager Beer. The Mayor’s a good iudge.
I.'o knows what is the best drink, and what keeps
his blood clear, and his ideas bright, when matters
of serious importance are under consideration.
Viva St. Louis Lager Beer, and nothing else !*
BETTER THAN DIAMONDS
And <f greater value than fine gold is a great tonic and
renovator like Dr. Beil s Bitters. It expels all poisonous
humors frm the blood, tones up the system, and by acting
directly on the most important organs of the body, stimulates
them to healthy action and restores health. It has effected
many marvellous cures, andfor all kidney and other kindred
troubles it is an invaluable remedy. *
Travellers, when arriving in Sydney, know not where to
sees accommodation, the knowing ones tell the cabman to
drive direct to the Great Northern Hotel, Genrge-sireet and
Charlotte-place, wherethey lindcoiofortaole accommodation
and the best meals supplied by any hotel in Sydney The
shilling luncheon theie is the talk of the town.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.
Is. 6d. Rigney, 111 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioes.
STOP RIGHT HERB I
JOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophono costa but 30s. and is a joy for ever
0(5
-
The Autophone ie a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the paits of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wnlch at present consists of ever
300 selections from hynsgsH, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, jlbpular songs, &o. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. tS- It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder tor convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS,
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870."
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes
Do. do. (key winder)
Elgin National Watch Co.'s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewel.,, patent pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-case ...
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world
We have not space here for further details
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-case
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in tt
world at £lO 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
£2 10
£2 0
£3 0
£3 10
£3 S
3 IS
£lO 0
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Soiencs. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
an! endurance of sterling Gold. A legi-
tint: use bus been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most eaquisite de-
signs. Xlie Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
coll at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
N: ono can detect the difference. Send for a.
I’riced Catalogue, or for oneofthsfol-
lcwing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches, 35.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant.) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, ?3. 6d.j Pair Earrings,
Plainss., Jewelled,7s.6d.j Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladles’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
send theseon approval. If they don’t
please, return nninjnred by the First
Mai 1, an d we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
farce's sent anywhere by post,


A A.DEBNEY & C?
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
shirt Makers.
If
sd
Av°”Jy
4*o' \T
R
0 BERT BUTCHER & CO.
■ i (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
Country Orders receive prompt attention."®
DR. O'CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters. Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
advertising, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
DR. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlereaoh Street,
Sydney.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the oomfort and amusement of his patrons. .
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ip you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
_ _ _ •- - ,
Tvtuiit Mitts—“TONlC SKRVISX,
VJ AIMHAU.B TONU
KHIIVINK
Promote* Apjfriite.
Improves Digestion.
Cur)« Nervous Debillt)-
all Chenttsu Storekoopoca- Prloe 1/8.
ItfiiarcU unij lij
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
j BvosßY, N.S.W.; lxuiuo*, Bm'Luh,
CilA
Jo Weak, Nervous Invalid*, and others
l seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,{S:^t°E.*i»nd.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently es&blished himself in Sydney,
aUd may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly Urge class of sufferers whose nervous
odmplainta can only be competently dealt with by
aa eiperieneed specialist. I Cure every cate un-
dertaken; When I say I cure, Ido not merely
sljop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
aDments, which are the result of negligence, a
dfe-long study, and ean safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
capes has brought about'a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almopt, every other disease, and the real
oause of this scarely ever being suspected, people
hjive been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private praotice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive OalvAnie Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-gt., Sydney.
DR. BELL’S
(KIDNEY AND LIVER)
BITTERS.
NEVER KNOWN TO FAIL.
CURES ALL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS,
LIVER, BLADDER,
AND URINARY ORGANS, DROPSY,
GRAVEL, DIABETES, BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
PAINS IN THE BACK,
LOINS, OR SIDE. NERVOUS DISEASE,
RETENTION OR NON-RETENTION OF URINE.
By the use of this REMEDY the stomach and
bowels speedily regain their strength, and the Blood
is purified.
It is pronounced hy hundreds of the best doctors to
be the ONLY CURE for all kinds of Kidney and Liver
Diseases.
It is purely vegetable, and cures when other medi-
oines fail.
It is prepared expressly for these diseases, and has
never been known to fail. One trial will convince
you of its value.
AFTER DINNER
Persons who suffer from Indigestion can arrest the
progress of that painful malady by the use of Dr.
Bell’* Bitters so composed that it will give tone to
the stomach prevent heartburn, rouse the liver to
healthful action, invigorate the kidneys, and thus,
through the activity of these organs, promote the
natural movement of the stomach and bowels. Dr.
Bell’s Bitters are so compounded that their action,
though mild, effectually produces the above results.
They, also, in curing Constipation, remove the cause
of Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Kidney Diseases,
Rheumatism, and many other serious ailments.
Noth.—Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, & AUSTRALIA.
Butcher, Fehon & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales & Queensland.
df
c
V
MANUFACTURERS
MgIPfRJ.ERS OF
HATS CAPS Jt
fcr 1 —?
&8 CEORC-E ST
•^YOKES'
0/y>oitti. Louie (Cera
A
&
$
$0
kv**
gd
9-^0
m s Y
LLAS
TUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasol* re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Farasol* made te match oo*
tome* Benaire neatly executed
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THURSDAY March 31,
FAUST.
FRIDA v, April 1,
RELISARIO.
Prices—Di ess Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls.
5e,; Stalls, 4s ; Family Circle. 2s.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street,' Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipf.
SURPRISING SUCCESS
. SURPRISING SUCCESS
EACIJ NIGHT. EACH NIGHT.
The great HOSE A EAsTON, Banjoist and
Comic Artißt. appears in.this hall, in.coniunotion
with Messrs. JOHNNY COWAN, SAM KEENAN,
the great Soprano Miss BEATRICE JAMES, and
the other members of the company, numbering
30 Artists.
Popular Prices : Orehestra Chairs, 2s j Stale,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Coneert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
Ti
maim
TREATMENT
Dr. K 0. West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, W aiefulness, Mental Depressi3n,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Ola Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. F,ach box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six BQXKS to curb any case.' With each order le-
oeived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
if sued only by
JOHN .0. WEST and CO.,
55 MARKET STREET, BTDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case Of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache indigestion, constipation or
coßtiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Lives
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is For *aleby
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN 0. WEST & CO.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps
W "W "W
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen .Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold all Chemists and Dealers..
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN 0. WEST & 00., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
AST L£ & SQtfs
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S V O N El v:
IMPORTERS OF AUTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited.
89
COLLINS STBEET 3EL, MELBOURNE.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches —Chapel-st., Prahran ; Brunswick-st., Fitzroy ; Bay-st , North Brighton; Dundas-pl., S.
Melbourne ; Burwood*rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office —20 & 22 COLEMAN ST., E.
-WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
n
SL>,
yv
Csvrte/ /<?p9
17CREMDN pi KC# / * /f? /
mbu rs
so/
„
rfo rni&.
ILLUSTRATION (In reduced stae) Of £\ Order to be found In tha
"LARGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
gRAD j&Y, NEWTON, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and f'CON NELL STREETS.
4
£»Qer PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Triohord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
sash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
®r
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, streng, and
hand y, 10s 6d.
trad ley, Newton, & Lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New>
ton, and Lamb.
■ vj
Full suites tor dining room.—sib®
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, ail
to match.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extendi
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
w
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
fg
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From 17s.
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
I\fOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
_l3l SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-Btreet.
~V\T ALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
df
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUKNITURB WABEHOUSBMHf
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
■J2
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs oovered to order In
any material.
RACKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
gd
Bedsteads, an blm*’
Nlokel-plated and Blaok
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BKADLET, NEWTON, and!
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Street*,
Him—
SPRING MATTRASSEg
Woven Wire, be*
make; also, Spiral Sprint*
Prloe, from Hr. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB,


Legal Rights, Not Charity, Demanded.


PEN! TO)
SALK CYL
4M
j exquisite
* Yr H£Pf?OPff/E TOR.
U/JriV/lled fb/f rrs/Mr i se/t/c
/Mo CL£A//sif/6 ffiOPERT/fS.
Mi
.MelhuisH Pharmaceutical Chemist
134 William ST, S YDNEY~"
TOTS
TOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.f)
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OU
S3OH
£5O
WARNING
KR& tt6rly ' vor thless imitation of that well-known preparation,
It or , E S is now being offered for sale, and
ter to deceive the
“ aece ive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
tioned S • 0n outside wrapper. The public are hereby cau-
imposture, and are advised that FIFTY
dence as ARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
thi s STI ea d the conviction ol the makers and vendors of
y ,P b UrioUs article. The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE’S
kbel ; F has a blue wrapper and large white directions
pr°p f i e to ! r l- band bearing the wor( ls “ Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
Ei
BELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne.”
S nsecticide ma y he had of all wholesale and retail
> &nd vendors of proprietary and patent medicines.
fg
m
lO
A*" -T»
Bv Special AproiNTvit^
df
Qo
*<?*
hio.*" 4
it**
f tUNCE OF
%
A "° Hia royal hw-
**£**». _«OTJI-ET CHAMPAGNE.
& elles, 54 Margaret-street, Agents for New South Wales.
LANCASTER,
CO/?A/ JO/A/
I
o
Oaj
fcCT
HOT WATER
Icylinder!
Ill i'/CTij
JUKINO
PAN
'Rough
f -A);
[MM.THONG Tv’O'J
broken
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
op England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&e., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.?
Reduced prick lists furnished’on application.
GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
flAv 11 Pl0(U ''
SfeURMILLS,
T SYDNEY.
SI?>it,77r~
® f cl, n rw ne Seconds Flonr,
Si al^ay 8 ’ Bran and p ol ,
Ver y besi- ha^ d ' A11 made
119 lo Vresf Procurable,
Prices.
SL^te
the
the n 1 L
« »>«ta6„®.'"8B'rlSa,“™jn
I\n v sln e8a friends, and Oeneral
Bn °y Office,
A 1 ‘^u lf r**e d e CAE>R * SYDNEY.
Q^d.^JttWJituS 1 tf aoed, and all kinds of
2'C«! tt dJl t <de* !1 > ?v Eviden ce obtained In
ofeWes of 2,f MeB - t0T legal pro-
'in‘a 8 ' certificate « of birth,
»h>et£- x FrornV 1 ;? P arfc ot the world
n a Lf? fc8 HriSv » ?* a long experience
W ale8, Victoria, and
t^icu}. 0 c ondy* eu oiea m all parts of the
*5 W.- »> »«? ali inquiries with caution
®'Oe»j #n V <kr >d tu faithfully and
"»tru F vd to h care.
0 RIDGE’S
FOOD
mo WANTS w INVALIDS
Has an enormous side in England s
mnd is now being introduced into the
Colonie^.
EveryStorekeepei should get* supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
0 use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND. **
gd
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL, I Little Collins
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
fg
K
RJLi "cs^nThe
land
iASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
_ PREPARED ONLY BY
[Thomas Ingham,
O C K H A M
)
\
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney ,
Hare on Sale —
Mackles & Co. celebrated Whlskle
K. Remy Martin & Co.'b Centaur Brandy, In
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vinoola del norte de Bspana, Rioja Claret b,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, fee., fco.
MASON BROTHERS,
XHIII
I
ar
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
.««*ORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
„. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIGH-OLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT & Co.
880 to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVB,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &0., &c., will
personally photograph each Bitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladles
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the e airly part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
Prices: C.D.V., 155.; Cabinets, 30s. per dozen.
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
or
HATS OAFS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
GRi GIN A?L
T H
tSAK JN
P
%
&
\\
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
o p. -s,:,
HiUHEST DECREE OF MERIT
- A>
t) ‘
* ♦
-.JsJLux
ISTHEBESTINTHEWORLD!
' NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH 5
RECE | VEDTHE »N TE R NAT 10 NA L
PRIZE MEDAL;
Manufactured' by James Channcn
Harbour. S t Sydney
* Sold by All Crocersand Storekeepers
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Millino.
Sole Agents t
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
647 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MERCANTILE BANK Of SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300, 000. Reserve Fund, £160,0001
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.O.
C. ReUeston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Mlanagbr : ■ Secretary
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern. Goaford, Nyn
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonara’Si Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 58 Leadenhall-street
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank Of
England.
«T THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offioes, 4 Park-st.
J. V. WARHEAM. Manager,
ft
A
l -, VVs~
V£i
■
i
r-
“Uiil!-.*i I*
“I Wanted a harmless, educational, and inexpensive hobby for my boy, to keep him from
rambling in an objectless way about the streets, so I took him down to LIOHTNtftt and CO., in
O’Connell-street. and bought him a learner’s set of Photographic Instruments.
“He is quite contented now, and gets some very pretty pictures occasionally. You might do
worsp than that for your lad.”
So spoke a father the other day to a friend whose son was afflicted with this not uncommon
weakness.
LICHTNER and CO have a first-rate assortment of Cameras, Lenses, and eveything required
in the professional or amateur practice of photography.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues post free on application.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
& ROBERTSON,
119 MARKET STREET, SVIPVET.
Large stock oAnew and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application, 'Books sento'by
mall to any part of Australia,


ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY'S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AW ORDINARY OUP CONTAINS MOHR AOTIVB PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THH BEST ALB OR PORTER."—Law CAT. '.j
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmith!ng, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Jfee.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Pricb on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T« -A.. dc- Co., Clm-cinnati
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines. 3
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send roa Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
18S7. IPIEtIISrCIE OP W-AJL-EIS HOTEL. 18S7-
IMPORTER OF WIN ES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINKS, SPIRITS,
BEBRS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure oases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
paokers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfern Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINHS and SPIRITS, containing the following i
S Bottlei BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM I Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS! 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINE I Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total IS.
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instanoe. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
P.O. Price Lists post free on application. Special reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods.
F. R. LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEOROE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
IiLLUSTRATKD CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
LEA &
rr
L.
RR I NS'SAUCE
SAtIC
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottli
bears their Signature thus —
withoui which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester / Crosse and
Blackwell, London, <5rV., &"c.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents t Montjwiorhs, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
GL.
&
dfgdfgdfgdfgdfgdf
( <yoT
SHOE dAIM\
20.: Geortff' "
ttnoL Ifa
OFFORD & CO.’S HA"
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, »nd «t 652 GEORGE;® 1 ®
|l*'
FROM TORRID CLIME TO FRIGID ZONE.
NOTICE CONCERNING OUTFITS.
THIS APPLIES TO PARTI EI ABOUT PRO-
CEEDING TO EUROPE.
DO not fail to call at LAWLER’S for
Overland Trunks, Hat Boxes
Deck Canvas Folding Chairs, at 5s 6d.
American Cane-seat and Cane-back Folding
Chairs, with leg rests.
Rattan Cane Chairs
Long Deck Lounges
Gladstone Bags, Hand Bags, Skin Rugs
Camphor-wood Trunks, &c.
Combs and Brushes, Glove and Button
Hooks, Shirts, Collars, Ties anl Cuffs.
OUTFITS! OUTFITS! OUTFITS!
in a regulation manner, at
:lawjl.er’s,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
B
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 Inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladles’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLER!
IRONMONGER 0
126 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
K&Shousi
fCONFEC
HOLES ALE MANUFACTURI
ONFECTIONER^/zSw 5
JANES STEDMAM
Stream works,Hint st niak Emmc£!
fiCUdJ+t+Q fab* oH'4&*+&. &U&MtnA
to o* oca- om tmonriST mem CB,
Govhtky 4 Smtrryc Orntmouk
WJ O H N s O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prloes.
GAUGING IN ALU ITS BRANCHES.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS,
G. STEEHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons |
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Ttahweau Kina and Market streets.
SoW ty SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDALS.
rj
l*Ol£S
HAIIT
a, sons
BOSIW
BOSTON, 1800.
VIENNA. 1870.
PHIJLA., 1670.
0
Iy'floiQSiu*
‘SJ3I|3I b S
ijCn ' BSofl „ s
tit -**
ftp* *
C.L.HAI
eai&jiaa
JTHAWAJf
Cougrefii fttf*®**
I mHE FRESH FOOD AND ICS
X (Limited),
have Opened »
BRANCH DKPO*
AI -jfjlfl*
No. 23 ROYAL A^ u
where they supP^
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, J 0 ®*'
light refreshment*
At this Branch, orders may
by their carts.
held*
They have also taken over , e( j 1*
“ KOUMISS." so highly reeomme®
narycemplalnte.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE o(j, \
Head Office ...
Stables ...
Factory ...
21
st/
Guinness’ Extra
FIRST
Ql'
BASS’ PALE A
SOLE PURVEYOI&J^jfiIr
nm at. iirn iTlrtiS
COLONIAL AND INDIA*
LONDON,
AGENTS IN NEW 8° ljT sn»l V
By Special APPO^-^
W. BALCHIN. JflHhSj^
Commercial Chambers, I* o ®,
mercial Chambers,
Try J
MUSICAL iNST^y
The Largest Assortsneatfh Aijjjtf''
706 GEOBGB 9J -
Llo c ‘
for Prio«
“ Technical College Laboratory, Sydney, 30th
October, 1880.—The Syphon /Krated Water Com-
pany.— Gentlemen, —Having seen the process of
JErated Water manufacture carried on by you,
and-having examined analytically your product,
I can bear witness i its purity, and thoro’.:gh
saturation with carbonic acid gc». Chemical
analysis shows that your system of water purifi-
cation is as near perfection as cm be —1 remain,
yours truly, Wiul, A. Dixon, F.1.C., F.C.S.”
f SYPHON IRATED WATER CO.,
1 15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
PRESERVE YOtfß
The Water made by °" r ,
families at each meal throat
and should be adopted heie
and refreshing beverage.
