

The Bulletin
CONTINUATION OF STEVENSON BROTHEBS' GltliAT
TEVENSON BROTHERS,
404 GEORGE STREET
OPPOSITE A TTHTW ATr A XT rniiTm 9
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK, AND NEXT
SYDNEY ARCADE.
/
STEVENSONBROM \\
I i
©I
ggp^giij
nrm
s
BROS
m
I
m
BROS.’ SHOP,
Kv, 3 ® 1 George Street,
® x t Sydney Arcade, Sydney.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S PRESENTS IN LARGE VARIETY.
Special Notice.— STEVENSON BROTHERS have decided to continue their GREAT
CLEARANCE SALE in Sydney of Watches, Jewellery, and Silver Plate-choice and first-class
goods will be sold at LOWER PRICE 3 than ever charged in Sydney or Australia. Goods almost
given away. All stock is fresh, and of the very latest description. Every article is marked i
large plain figures. n
CLOCKS.
Oiooks, Good Timekeepers—3ale price, 3s. Gd,; usual price, G?. Gi.
„ with Alarms—sale price, is. Gd, ; usual price, Bs. 6d.
~ in Large Ornamental Cases—sale price, 10s. 6d. ; usual price, 21s.
~ with Alarm, Patent Pendulum, and Striking Movement-sale price, 12s. Gd. : usual
price, 203.
Large Polished Cases, over 5-ft. long-salo price, £5 10s. ; usual
Larg3 striking (flocks, showing Day of Month and Wcok—salo price, <33 10s. ; usual
price, ku o?.
Marble Clocks almost Given away.
Every Clock in stock is marked down to Sale Price.
SILVER PLATE.
All Plate is Guarantee J.—No Common Plate kept in stock
Large Revolving Cruets, i botties-sale price, 10a. Gd. ; usual price, 21*, ~
+ to , _ 5 bottles—sale price, ll s . Gi.; usual price,’ 255.
Pickle Cruets —sale price, ss. Gi.usual price 12s, Gi
0 “ s ° r , ust P’ H°K*ed-8«l. price, 17a. Cd.; ueu.l price, 3 SI .
Napkin Rings— sale price, Is. 3i. ; usual price, 3s.
Childrens Mugs—sale pries, ss. Gd. ; usual pries, I2s. Gd.
??, Br S 2 "5 “ d 2 * ! »“ h « wid ß price. «I 0 10,.; usual price, ml,
mas of Superior Cruets and Electro plate of every dcoription marked
down to Sale Prices.
WATCHES.
English, Geneva & Waltham Watohes-Sllver and Gold-of every kind, to be
_ cleared at Sacrifice prices.
very Watch is Ticketed, and Patrons can judge value by examining stock. Watches
must be inspected to determine their value.
cr BWELLBRY.
Dia i°?cke(s Far d ri^ ai ß ’ and Q ° ld ' ,Dcludlng Rings, Brooches, Soarf Pins, Chains
ockets, Ear-rings, Bracelets, Bangles, etc., eto., In endless variety, all marked at Sale
Prices
The Diamond Brooches worth every penny of £250, will be sold for £l5O.
° 8 BOOd Wlth th 9 aale ot our very valuable Diammd Bracelets and Rings.
STEVENSON BROTHERS,
aleo, 2,6, and 20 Rundljd St., Adelaide*
WILLIAM M. STEVENSON,
Practical Watch, Clock, and Chronometer
Maker.
WALTER Hr STEVENSON,
Manufacturing Jeweller, Silversmith & Gold
Chain Maker.
REPAIRS AND ALL WORK: GUARANTEED.
Wo occupy Premises Larger than any other Jeweller in Australia, and conduct ono of the Largest
Trades in South Australia, Queensland, and New South W ales.
All Country Orders receive prompt attention, and are executed at lowi >st possible rates.
II
si
iKWRWtWr i:
II
\r' P "
HI
ll'-u
nTFiiiS
a
msißyßHnm
pOS. !
wi
warn
MHO lUM
m,.
4=4-.-
STEVENSON 8R03.’ SHOP,
20 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
p fai>: , U nced pne of the most Elegant Jewellery Shop
in Australia.
» .J
t ■>
s
\
IfcTote J^idzoss.
bl RCIAL NOTICE.—Wo will sparo no effort in securing the Largest Mlmuiacturing aiul Repairing
Trad© in Jfew South Wales,
Watches, Clucks, Chronometers, Musical Boxes, and Jewellery most carefully impaired at the LOWEST
PRICES in Sydney. All classes* of Jewellery designed and made to order.
NEW GOODS! NEW PRICES! NEW GOODS!


%
mxiJWKTZTxmKamfitm
\Y.H.PALINO&(s l “
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
MO.ORGANf MUSIC IMPORTERS.
st Stock ind §rea t e st^a ci et yu rvA u$ t r.a l laf tv tn | tto
wfdesrpoMibte choice:* tlftNOS fron\£.4o, OROANSfromffr-
PAYMEJff »V MONtUt'/ 3NSTACMENTS TOIVrLIU CUSTOMERS'
& PALING iQ ' PALING %tQ>
HARD MAN Baas.
ANUFACTURERS,
/
Gou>f#Srx*fj
Tft LAC ll
RFf/NLRS.
Y*oRj
k
7esro.
toss C
,03:
to rag iti mTrm i,
WAD OffICCkFACJCAs. ALUYTOWN
BRANCH. CCORGI SI SVDNCY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE :
0 )RNKR of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNKY.I
IHOORPORATKD BY ACT OF EXECUTIVE COUNCII,
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING,
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
. v BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
f lie Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
). F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
The dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders a the
last Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
• uu follows
Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate o 12J per cent,
per annum
Bonus paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per oent.)
ii ii 6 „ (1 per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
oarrent accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Be rarities.
Agencies in London and throughout the world.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.)
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowed i
At Call, 4 per cent.
8 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per oent.
12 Months, 7 per oent.
WISH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITSi&F
BIX AND TWELVE MONTHS
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
If portion of their deposits without notice.
The Share Register is still open, and intending
lhareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shares,
ke., fce.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIREOTORB
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY
THOS. BUUKLAND,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGIEf
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln |
~ „ Langland's Foundry Co,, MeibonrtKi Vis.
E. D. MILES,
mining and commission agent,
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
UMBR| LLAS
RECOVERED.
s
TUDT ECONOMY
and
Have four Umbrella frame* r«-
oovered and your
Paratoli re-lined and made eqna
to Newi at
J, SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Briokfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathorit Street!
Faraiola made to m<vtoh »oi
fen mci Repair* naatbr ezemiaf
WILLS' HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
SMwn reputation maintained.
JMPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
te of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
EF Flrst-olass Family and Commercial Hotel,
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings:—The “Western Cham-
pion" says i “ I can recommend the.Rookhampton
Masonic to my western friends.'
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Went,wood.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel,
USE -MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Posted to all parts of the cokmles free onlrecelpt
If itamps.
IfQONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra, N.S.W.L
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments,
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgJXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected In above
wn, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To a*Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic*
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why Buffer those exoruciatlng Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE POR BLIGHT
ROSE'S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to_be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared br toe Bole Proprietor,
9. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohemist,
681 Goorge-streefc only.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
296 Pitt-street,
Ommjv *u» fhteUnt*
996 Aft&r
*9ira no B9on&.rew
HE ORICIN
Baking p (
WAUGH'S
%
OBTAIN CO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
m
r>
Pw*-
*
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUCHS
RECEIVED THE INTERNATIONAL
P R I X E M ELD A L
Manufactured byJamesChannoh
Harbour S t SroHir
Sold by All Xrocens&nd sfprefce«pf rj
WwWy
XSO NASONS
BACCO WORKS.
" SYDNEY. <? '
DIXSON '& SONS’ CONQUEROR
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCU
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES T
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF
Into New South Wales, and hence the B reat
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tjobaooo.
Australia. »*PION
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHA
gold lGaf - T
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIA
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S Ncf 1 maohine ®
10,000 per hour, the choicest Vl r K inla .
and Paris rice tissue. Tr ”B B * ze B °^
retailers at 3d. per packet of c*S aret
ZMZO^TZET’S
NEW ZEAIANDJ
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Studentslfrom Sydney Hospital.
EVA““‘5‘S\V ,SES: 5 ”5‘\
uc\:“\\l§‘\\\§y\‘i ,
w» . . ‘
"1“," “'3' . T: :j\,:.;\ , .-
MONK’S
file mixture,
2a. 6d. per Bottle.
Aik (or it and take no enbatitate.
li an invaluable onre, See teitimoniala.
MONK’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A positive onre. Sold by all Chemists.
2a. od. per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents t
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
901 PITT STREET, SYDNEY |
41 Little Collins
AND
treet East,| Melbourne,
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room,
Rendezvous for all parties engaged In mining
business.
H. G. BAILE3, Proprietor,
COMMERCIAL hotel,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strlotly moderate. Wines and Bplrltß of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, June., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, [JL, Queensland.
G. S. CURTIS,
Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR, BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, whloh will henoeforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally Bltnated,
and facing the oelebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the oelebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel, Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
. ; Note the Address—
rM lOHABL BOLTON
the Firm of Lowry fc Bolton),
jTy B URST HOTEL,
BCftETI® MOUNT MORGAN.
HH
KMMIMOTOH
IIFEWRITER
B»*m labour, itatlonen, Mid lima, writing wuoh Inter
than expert pea-men, and aeadenaSng waiter to leu than
ana-hall the ipaee occupied bp pen writing. Beantlfnl
•opte* wap betaken in the mnal wanner in the letter-proof
wholeeale an* retail bp the role agent*,
WR ;t ft 00,1
m 111 Kent'MrMlbl
c
manufacturers^
* IMPORTERS OF
.IAI
HATS CAPS U
«8 CEORCE ST
•SYDNEY %
+&QZ2 ••'
/
iA?
T
O PERSONS RESIDING IN tSB
OR THE ADJOINING COIjON
If you want anything In Sydh©?’
If you want anything In »y aiio ' ’
R. GIBBINGS &X"
GKEIISrEIIEfcAXi .A-Cr^^
sT BEET-
-323
OF
GEORGE
SYDNEY.
qiCfSP
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRA-NS .
THE VERY LO
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QNEBN
the distinguished patronag e °l c conj®°
Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G- * JWj
aation ror 60 visitors. Two- storey b“
the balconies a splendid view can b al r
the celebrated mountain of gold, » na Pfl 39 ® D ; n d
minutes’ walk of the company’s wo* h „ m pto» fQ .
and mail coaches daily from j
Kibra railway-stations. W.
prltor, of the firm of Monokton and Co.
saw
.Co^j-
00^'
Custom House
bundaberg.
First-class Accommodation for SQh®'
mercial Travellers, and Oth
,fctB**'
do^
Pbivatb Smiths fob FAM
iU® 0,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
BUliaf* 8,
Buggy meets every steaih 0r *
proprf^
HARRY McCANN,
goi^’
THE GREAT NORTHERN ,
OHABLOTTE-PLAOE AND
K. HANNtt P
1 DOZEN -
OF ASSORTED r frtTTj)jj|
wins, spirits, and ng*gL,
DELIVERED ANY PAST OP ld°*J
Carriage free bp Rail or Steamer. Order ' jjj
pen pleaae from the list of low prloei »■ M
Robertson's, Walker or Ropal Blend SooW do- |i. J?
Danville's Shamrook and Burke’a XXX „ 5, V
Brian Born Whisky - - (•’Jj
Henneup*! * Oognao _
ii *** „ „
Bqnare Qln _ _
Jamaica Bnm
Red Heart do.
H
- W/Sdo*
Flasks Brandp and Whiskies ~ , „ril|. ***■" »•
BnglUh Alei and Stout, best brands la ® .* V
Port Wine tor oonnoisseurs and Invalid*
Poi __
Port Wlnt and Sherry from
Best brands '
na snerry from .. tT.. galloO*
Whlskp or Brandp from 20s. P
363 CASE ALSO A SPECIAL* e jjeP». pn*l«J
Superior ACCOMMODATION „ n trf- .B&'fhti
attention afforded to Visitors from the o<)nB‘ f jlrt-
rooms are oondnoted under the supervising _ r# nteL
late of Wellington (N.Z.), which will be a s'* gel?
Guests will reoeive everp attention. Th jfe*
Wines, Bpirlts, and Beers always on bat
papers kept on file.*
ﬂmtétfm % @ﬁé‘
cTwMSKS 1
machinery
ILAND
AND
[ffl&RIN E
ENGINES,
BOILERS
)<MMPS
LARGE STOCKS
: , , WITH ALL .3?
NEWEST DESIGNS
m —,
CRA^
Hourf
eNC'^
lA" 1 ®
UNOHEBS
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAU^ j;
ESTIMATED FOR COMF -
ROBERT COOPER
SOLE AGEN2
Sydney:
111, Pin STREET,
It, ICO


The Bulletin
▼o\ 8-No. 411
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1887.
Price 6d.
Wanted, a Change of Some Sort.
EDITOR WARD (toq.): “I THINK I’D BETTER GET A NEW MONKEY."
THE OTHER ONE: “AND HI THINK HI’D BETTER GET ANOTHER HOROAN."


“THE BULLETIN,”
Th.B National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors ! BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
THE
CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
*
TO AGENTS AND HEADERS.
The SPECIAL NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” for Christmas, 1887, will be
published on Thursday next, and will eclipse
anything yet produced in Australia at that so-
called festive season. The issue will be nearly twice
the usual dimensions, and unit contain a splen-
did collection of tales, verse, Ac., by the best
Australian authors, together with an immense
number of high-class illustrations. A special
feature will be an exquisite pictorial sup-
plement, printed at “The Bulletin ” Office
from a drawing by that well-known artist,
Mr. Phil. May—one of the best efforts
which his pencil has yet produced. Regarded
as a work of art and literary genius, the
CHRISTMAS “ BULLETIN ” will con-
fidently challenge comparison with any journal
in existence, and will yield precedence to
none.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1887.
Banghole Censorship.
The typical New South Wales taxpayer is a
compouud of patience and dunderheaded-
ness. Hia political character la mulish. He
plods along under his load, asking no ques-
tion?, and content to relieve his feelings now
and then with an insensate kick addressed to
all whom it may concern. It is the humane
man trying to detach some of the unneces-
sary burden from the mulish creature’s back
that generally gets thatcreature’shoof planted
fair in his political bread-basket.
* * *
The late elections afforded a striking ex-
ample of this. The mule felt h's burden begin-
ning to gall with unusual severity, but would
stand no meddling on the part of those who
thought it a shame to see him tortured. His
unscrupulous and insatiable taskmasters
kept at his head while he was goaded to run
amuck, hoofing his friends right and left.
The squatter and the Calic> Jimmy holding
the reins load him up as they please with
political wares for their own exclusive use
and benefit. Railways are built at the tax-
payers’ expense, and maintained at ruinous
cost, for the sole purpose of providing the
Western squatter with an alternative means
of transit for his wool when dry seasons ren-
der cheaper water-carriage by the inland
rivers unavailable. When there is a pay-
able trade to be done is just the time when
some of these lines are almost precluded
from doing any at all. The rivers are all
navigable, and monopolise the bulk of the
traffic both ways. When the rivers are not
navigable there is no traffic worth speaking of
for the railways. These line s involve a heavy
charge on the taxpayer, which is paid in the
shape of interest to a foreign capitalist, in
order that the squatter may have better
facilities for sending his wool to
Europe and getting his champagne and
things back in return for it. And the rates
of carriage on all the lines are differentiated
in such a way as to give the Sydney, mer-
chant a monopoly against w hich no inland
storekeeper can compete. The tax-payer
conveys on his patient back the squatter s
wool to Sydney for shipment and passes
back the luxuries for which he exchanges it
in Europe without a murmur. All this is
a dead- weight burden, but he patiently plods
along with it stolidly up and down from year
to year. Let any one go to relieve him by
adjusting taxation so as to make the squatter
' distribute the products of the land which he
monopolises amongst the community to
which it legitimately belongs, and the mule is
at once goaded by his drivers with a lash of
Sectarianism or some other “ ism to kick
out blindly and brain his own friends.
* * *
One of the most indefensible of all the
burdens piled upon the stupid New South
Wales taxpayer’s, however, is that which
he patiently humps for the wealthy
newspaper proprietors of Sydney. At enor-
mous labour he conveys every day tons of
paper for them free to all parts of the
colony. By means of differential railway-
rates the goods of the Calico Jimmies are
brought at the public expense into unfair
competition with those of inland stoie-
keepers, and by means of free postage the
big Sydney papers enjoy the same privilege
to the absolute ruin of provincial journalism.
We admit freely that The Bulletin is a
very considerable participant in this unfair
advantage. But the concession is one we
have not asked for, can do well without, and
have no wish to retain. It is not our fault
that the law refuses to let us pay for the
transit of our goods to our customers the
same as other people pay for theirs.
* * *
But the wealthy Freetrade journals of
Sydney all deliberately assert that the tax-
payer ought to be made carry their goods
for them. Their argument is that it is a
good thing for newpapers to be as widely dis-
tributed as possible, and that the cost of
carriage is simply money spent on the educa
tion of the people. If that is the case, then
the item ought to be charged to the expenses
of the Education Department. Let us con-
sider for a moment how it would read under
that head.
* * *
It must be borne in mind that the plea of
educational utility is the only argument by
which the principle of subsidising the news-
paper business with State money is ever
sought to be justified. Oa general grounds,
it is unquestionably a good thing to facilitate
the widest distribution of newspapers, bo
it is a good thing to facilitate the general
distribution of shirts, boots, collars, pots of
jam, bags of flour, musical Instruments,
cricket bats, and all sorts of things which
minister in any way to the necessities or
comforts of mankind. But it is not argued
that this should be done at the cost of the
State. The principle here is that every one
who wants anything carried for his own use
pays for it out of his own pocket This
ensures that nobody will have to pay for
what he does not himself get the use of. In
carrying newspapers, however, the principle
acted upon is totally different. Some men,
distinguished politicians and judges espe-
cially, “ never read the newspapers,” and all
these are taxed to cheapen the cost to those
who do read them. The reason furnished
for this is the same as that advanced for
taxing men without children to build schools
for the benefit of those who rear families.
The whole community, in both cases, is said
to benefit by the extension of education, and
that is why the whole community pays part
of the salary of the teacher and part of the
cost of producing the city newspaper. One
item, therefore, is as much expenditure,
under the head of Public Instruction, as the
other. Very well.
* * *
No w, the back-bone of the New S outh W ales
educational system is unsectarianism. No
thing in the way of denominational teaching
can be lawfully paid for with the taxpayer s
money. A great portion of the public
money spent on educating the people by
way of newspaper is, consequently, spent in
direct contravention of themostvital provision
which the N. S. W. Education Act contains. A
number of papers are published in Sydney for
the two combined purposes of recommending
the best forms of religion and the best
brands of rum. The objects of this sort of
journalism are twofold, first, to glorify God
in pious editorials, and next to rake in
shekels, which are the glory of the Devil,
from rum-sellers’ and quack-doctors adver-
tisements. To subsidize either of these ob-
jects with public money is distinctly forbid-
den by both the letter and the spirit of the
New South Wales education law. Where is
the difference between carrymg free fourteen
stone of denominational teacher on the box
of a mail-coach and a couple of hundred-
weight of his printed teachings in the boot 1
The Education Act distinctly forbids the
carrying of the former, what law expressly
authorises the carrying of the latter ? Again,
what difference of principle is there between
carrying a grog-manufacturer s traveller and
carrying his advertisement ? The purposes
for which the rum advertisement in
the columns of the religious paper stowed
away in the boot and the red-faced ‘ ‘ com-
mercial” on the box travel are identical.
Why make the animate traveller pay his
fare if the inanimate one, which often does
the most business, i 3 carried free ? The
denominational paper is an inanimate com-
mercial-traveller, neither more nor less, run-
ning as its principal lines religion and rum.
Now, if Mr. Michael M‘Girr wanted to go
round the country travelling for “ the thrue
faith” and Toohey’s brewery, this combina-
tion of businesses would entitle him to a
pass at the public cost by steamer, rail, or
mail-coach, just as fairly as his paper, the
Freeman’s Journal, is entitled to one. In
the same way, if Dr. Barry, of the Pro-
testant Standard, packs his carpet-bag
with the thirty-nine articles and samples of
patent medicine and English a’e he has
just as much claim to have his passage paid
as the Standard has. And if the rev. editor
of the Weekly Advocate wishes to go forth
in propria ppmonct to chant the praises of
Wesleyanism and whisky, what right has he
to be refused a pass if his paper is entitled to
one ?
• * *
In claiming the subsidy anomalously
granted to it by the N S. W. Postal Department
for assisting the school-teachers, the Press
degrades its own existence and abdicates its
very right to be free. A subsidized Press
has no business to call itself a free Press.
If the State pays it for the performance of
any duty then the State is fairly entitled to
insist upon the performance of that duty in such
manner as the State thinks best. In justice
to the taxpayer, therefore, besides acting as
Postmaster-General, Mr. C. J. Roberts, the
much gilded ex-publican, C.M.G., should
exercise a strict censorship over the Press
of New South Wales. It is his duty to see
that the educational services for which he
pays are duly and faithfully rendered. The
editor should have his work examined just
the same as the pupil-teacher has. And,
listen here, Editor Curnow and Editor
Ward —examined, tested, and appraised by
Bunghole Roberts, C.M.G. ! Tftat is the
logic of the position you both stand in with
regard to this question.
A Roundabout Paper.
The persistent attempts made of late to supply
the prisoners in Pentridge Gaol with the little
comforts they were accustomed to when they
breathed the pure air of freedom, should form a
fine subject for the style of moralist who is never
so happy as when he finds a jewel in the head of
the toad, and a solitary virtue—like a lily bloom-
ing amidst poison flowers —in the inind of the
mo3t abandoned criminal. There is much good
morality—to speak in the manner of Captain
Fluellen to be obtained from it. For it seems
that even the benighted beings who make Crime a
profession possess certa ! n virile virtues, compared
to which the Christianity of many a much-
respected church-member seems but a poor and
feeble thing at its best. It is hardly a reflection
upon the brotherly love of our fellow Christians
to say that there are not many among them who
would risk their lives to save the life of their
dearest friend. Yet here are men who are. sup-
posed to be dead to all sense of religion,
and past praying for, taking the chance
of violent death, time after time, not to
save the lives, or even to assist the escape, of their
imprisoned friends, but merely to provide them
with—tobacco ! Not long since a man was
brought before the Bench charged with this
charitable crime, and coolly admitted that he was
the person who was shot at by the warders in a
previous attempt, not many days before.. There
was the making of a hero in that man if. he had
been taken in hand in time, and his aspirations
had been directed to patriotism. It is only the
fault of his vulgar environment in youth that he
is now, in the prime of his life, compelled to eke
out a precarious and dangerous liviDg by cracking
the cribs of honest tradesmen, instead of boldly,
and in the light of day, dipping his arms to the
elbows in the coffers of the State. Society, is
answerable for this. If Society had taken him
out of his squalid surroundings and given him a
good commercial education, he might now have
been an ornament of the Treasury Benches.
* * *
But he is not altogether waste material even in
his present state. It has been discovered, by the
light of later science, that the worst and most
pestilence-breeding kind of inorganic refuse may
be utilised with benefit to the community at large.
Surely, then, the refuse of the highest class of
Organic matter —Mankind—should be disposed of
in a better way than by burying it in gaols, only
to let it loose after a time to pollute society in a
worse manner once more? When Charles VI.
of France was driven to his small wits’ end to
know what to do with the brigands and Free
Companies, who were eating him out of his king-
dom, Bertrand Du Guesclin solved the ques
tion in his decisive way by taking them into
Spain to fight—and leaving them there. This
heroic plan would hardly be practicable here un-
less we were at war with New Guinea, but it sug
gests another way out of the difficulty which does
not present such insurmountable obstacles, lhe
most dangerous section of our criminal class is
composed of beings combative and destructive
by nature. These are the qualities which go
to the making of the best soldiers, Some
of the finest regiments in the British
Army—the first to storm a breach or charge a
battery in the face of roaring death—regiments
whose tattered colours waved triumphantly in the
van of fifty fights—were, at one period, chiefly
made up of desperadoes who, in a time of peace,
would have been transported, or in gaol. They
found their proper place in the plan of things
when they became soldiers. Their ins tines had
free play. They could kill, burn, and destroy, as
much as they, pleased, without fear of any
officious peace-officer taking them to prison for
doing so. It an enemy were to land on our shores,
a regiment of such men would be worth more
than a brigade of volunteersor militia—whodo not,
as a rule, love fighting for its own sake—to throw
in his teeth. Would it not, on the whole, be
cheaper to enrol all criminals of the destructive
order in a regiment of this description, which
should be kept under strict discipline—a thing
quite practicable—than to do with them as is done
now ? It would, at least, be making use of them in
the way in which Nature seems to have intended
them to he used, and would be a considerable gain
to the people whose houses are most likely to be
broken into, besides being a welcome relief to the
police. They would then be a defence to society
instead of a danger. As civilisation advances
this truth will be appreciated and acted upon—
viz., that each individual should be placed in the
position in which his strongest (if not his highest)
qualities will have freest scope for exercise. Who
know 3 but in that far-off time the child who
shows signs of combativeness at an early age
will be trained up to be a soldier or a cross-
examining counsel, and fed with raw meat to
make him ferocious ; while the peaceful juvenile
will be marked out for a curate, or an agricultural
editor, and dieted on sago and milk to make him
milder? It is not impossible. Plato in his Ideal
Republic arranged matters in a manner not en-
tirely dissimilar. # #
There is another side to this subject which is
deserving of grave consideration. Next to the
recklessness of life displayed by the men who are
caught in attempts to supply comforts to their
friends in durance, what is the most striking
feature of the whole business? The enormous
quantity of tobacco comprised in the swags, of
course. In some of them a few odd articles of
grocery have been found, but these were as Fal-
staff's half-pennyworth of bread to his intoler-
able deal of sack compared to the amount of to-
bacco they contained, and were perhaps put in
more on account of some glimmering sense of dis-
proportion felt by the consignors in sending a
parcel of supplies consisting of only one kind of
article, than because their friends in gaol had any
real need for them—that is, the groceries. Prob-
ably, it -was for this reason that a piece of velvet
was inserted in one of the swags lately discovered.
What use could a prisoner have for velvet, unless
he wanted it to make watch-purses for the war-
ders, or a smoking-cap for, the governor of the
gaol? # #
There is a fine subject here for a debate between
smokers and anti-smokers. If men will continu-
ally risk their lives to provide their -imprisoned
‘ ‘ pals ” with tobacco, it follows that those “ pals ”
must have an extraordinary hunger for it. The
smoker might argue that this proves tobacco to be
a comfort and consolation in a time of trouble, in-
asmuch as it enables prisoners to pass their
period of confinement not altogether unhappily.
Also that it induces meditation, and favours the
formation of a calm method of placing ideas in
proper perspective ; thus causing the criminal to
review his position with regard to society, and the
odds that are against him if he should continue
his evil career. The most enthusiastic smoker
could say little more in defence of smoking than
this, if he kept strictly to the lines of the debate.
The anti-smoker would then have him in his
hands to do what he liked with him He would
crush him with one of two arguments—and let
him choose which he pleased. Thus : The fact of
there being such a demand for tobacco in gaol
proves that most criminals are smokers. If they ac-
quired this habit before they commenced their career
of crime— it was the nicotine in the tobacco they
smoked that drove them to that career; if after—
it was crime that drove them to tobacco. In
either case the advocate of smoking is impaled on
one or other of the horns of a very ugly dilemma.
At any rate it will be advisable for people who
carry much money about with them to keep a
watchful eye on persons who smoke assiduously
in public places. The apparently respectable
man sitting on a bench in Hyde Park or
the Domain, and smoking a pipe, may be a local
preacher planning the heads of his next sermon,
but he is far more likely to be a burglar thinking
out calmly, under the influence of the kalizoic
surroundings, the details of a scheme for robbing
a church. It will be the sa f est course to avoid
him. Finally, as smoking seems to either induoe
or develope active villainy, it will be well for timid
persons who do not smoke to observe the follow-
ing simple rules : —First.—lf compelled to travel
in a smoking carriage never play cards, and never
go too sound asleep. Second, —Never give a man
a match who asks you for one in a dark lane. By
bearing these two rule 3 in mind the mo3t un-
reasonable anti smoker may go through the world
and find it tolerably fair in spite of the increasing
consumption of bad cigars by the rising genera-
tion and the demand for tobaceo in Pantridge and
Darlinghurst.
A “Bulletin” Lay Sermon.
THE KING OF TERRORS.
There is not a potentate in Christendom possessed
of such a direful reputation as that monarch of
universal dominion commonly referred to -as the
King of Terrors. And yet no adequate reason
appears why death, as representing a natural law
and an essentially merciful operation, should in-
spire dread at its approach or grief for its effect.
Of course, when brought about by any painful or
untimely process death is always terrible in some
degree. Any outrage upon the laws of Nature
must bring in various form and extent disorder
and suffering as its consequence. But when death
appears as a natural relief to the burden of bodily
infirmities which invariably come upon old age,
it should be as welcome at the end of the present
life as the period of repose to a weary and toil-
worn traveller. The ancient Greeks and Romans
accustomed themselves to regard the cessation of
life a 3 something so absolutely required by the
worn-out condition of the mind’s old tenement,
that they felt no alarm at its arrival in a natural
and orderly course. These people had no preachers
and doctrinarians to worry and disturb them with
a thousand idle and conflicting stories of a world
to come. They had no one to harrass and perplex
their minds with pictures of everlasting happi-
ness or everlasting torment, and without any
intermediate condition. Neither were those
Greeks and Romans liable at death’s ap-
proach to be importuned for money to be
spent in ceremonial prayers and incantations,
whereby the dying man’s passage to perpetual en-
joyment should be fully assured to him. In
truth these pagan peoples had no anxiety about
death, so far as such feeling referred to any ideas
of a life hereafter, inasmuch as they considered
the subject of future existence to be one which
not a single'-human being could know anything
about. The inhabitants of the Polynesian Islands,
and other unchristianized territories, have also
awaited death at the naturally-appointed period,
quite undisturbed by speculations as to what was
to follow, and, like the ancient denizens of Rome
and Athens, could see nothing terrible in what
happened certainly to all, and came unto them as
rest to the weary. One of the most wonderfully
foolish usages of civilized humanity ha 3 appeared
in the costly treatment of dead bodies, and the
amount of display and attention lavished on the
mind-deserted tenement. In a few days after
death the human corpse, under average circum-
stances, becomes a mas 3 of corruption, and in a
few years will fall to dust and be in no way dis-
tinguishable from any like remains of a beast of
the field. In time this residuum will be resolved
into certain elements, and become incorporated
with surrounding matter or dissipated in gases.
If the body referred to is buried near a tree
its constituent elements, converted by the
alchemy of nature into a fertilizing agency,
may be absorbed in the vegetable growth
and contribute to produce fruit or foliage,
which again will wither and fall, but only
to reappear in other forms of auiihal or vegetable
life. The worn-out body is in fact no more to the
animating principle which has quitted the dead
man than his worn-out clothes. And yet the de<
composing remains are placed in an expensive
cofiin and conveyed to the burying ground with
ostentatious solemnity, followed by relatives and
acquaintances looking appropriately sorrowful
while contemplating what they consider a fresh
victim to the King of Terrors. There appears to
be pretty commonly an idea in people’s minds that
something has been done for the advantage of the
deceased person, or- some meritorious action per-
formed, when the corpse has been paraded to the
grave-yard with special cost and ceremony; Very
often these funeral displays originate with a wish
to demonstrate the superior social standing of the
deceased person, and thereby gain a sort of con-
tingent consequence and reflected respectability*


When a highly world-renowned man ia to be
buried there occurs a rare opportunity for self-
glorification under the strange pretext of rendering
honor to one who has passed beyond the reach of
all worldly distinction. Should the King of
Terrors visit the family of an ordinary citizen, and
remove a person of far advanced years and ex-
hausted vitality, the relatives and friends
of the departed put on mourning. In
this way the generally artificial and as-
sumed character of the grief is well represented—
it is something put on. It is, moreover, in such
cases the custom to darken the houses, wear a
look of affliction, and even garb the servants in
the livery of woe. In very superior society it is
also usual to define the period of this polite
mournfulness, and so there is a recognised in-
sincerity about this formal sorrow. And if ever
there arises with the bereaved ones any fear or
sadness of an unaffected" character, it is pretty
sure to proceed from being unpleasantly reminded
that tlm King of Terrors will one day claim them
for hio u.. n. The attendant mourners at a funeral
are generally supposed to believe that the de-
parted one has commenced a life of perfect and
perpetual happiness. The priest who “ performs”
the ceremony asserts that his dear brother, or
sister, has quitted this world in a “ sure and cer-
tain hope of eternal life ” —of course not a life of
torment. Do the friends of the deceased who
hear these words believe them true ? If so, why
should they be overwhelmed with grief because
the one they love is delivered from the sorrows
and sufferings of mundane existence, and trans-
lated to a new life of purity and peace, and joy
unspeakable ? All is hollow, vain, selfish, and
deceitful —of course in various degrees. What
we call death is but a sleep, a transformation and
renewal. Throughout Nature change is ceaseless—
constant motion is a law of the universe. As
night has been termed “ the death of each day’s
life,” so is the death of the body but a brief inter-
val of suspended animation between one life-time
of the mind and another. Death, in its peaceful
and natural order, ought to bring no terrors. Let
it be regarded, as it rightly should be, like a sweet
and gracious rest for the weary mind (as neces-
sary for the mental repose as the night’s slumber
for the refreshment of the body), and the “ King
of Terrors ” will have to abandon his charaoter,
and stand forth as an angel of beneficence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Debt of Gratitude.
The great debt which Australia owes to England
is a thing which is not likely to be forgotten so
loDg as one dull-brained Tory remains to uprear
his stupidity in the Upper House, or one third-
rate lawyer-shark survives to harangue the aggre-
gate drivel of a Primrose League. It was from
the kind old mother-land that New South Wales
borrowed her Governors, her gaols, and her gal-
lows, as well as a hanging-made-easy in the shape
of a legal code compiled in a barbarous age and
by a barbarous race, and to this day she clings to
these cherished souvenirs of her ancestors as ex-
ceedingly precious things. It was from England,
also, that she borrowed convicts to hang on the
borrowed gallows, to say nothing of ship-loads of
consumptives and other incurables, lords of shady
reputation, thieves, vagabonds, and pavement-
trotters, released from British prisons by kindly
magistrates on condition that they took their
unwholesome presence to the Antipodes, lunatics
and paupers, shoddy pants, and libraries of literary
abasement about the beauties of Imperialism.
Whatever England had to offer in the way of
vileness New South Wales has accepted, and
almost the only things which she has not borrowed
are those portions of the British code which re-
flect some faint gleam of justice and humanity.
The following extract from the latest-received
issue of Lloyd’s Newspaper shows how success-
fully, in some respects, New South Wales has
kept behind the country from which she ob-
tained the infamous half-cannibal code that now
disgraces her statute-book :
Juvenile Depravity at Uxbridge.—Seven boys, named
Arthur Groves, William Thorpe, Arthur;Jackman,
JositPH Peach Sadler, Henry West, George Hunt,
and James Sudbury, were charged with committing a
criminal assault on two girls, named Elizabeth Heather
and Frances Elizabeth Norris, girls under 13. The
evidence Bhowed a shocking state of juvenile de-
pravity. All the parties lived at Uxbridge. Sad-
ler was acquitted; Hunt was sentenced to two
months' hard labour; all the rest pleaded “ Guilty.” Groves
was sentenced to receive 12 strokes; Thorpe, 12 strokes ;
Jackman, to six weeks’ hard labour; West, to six weeks'
hard labour; and Sudbury, to 12 strokes. Mr. Justice
Stephen said it was to be regretted that the girls could not
also be p unished.
In New South Wales these boys would have been
hanged amid a wild burst of public anathema,
and the two soiled doves who were the partners
of their misdoing would have been covered with
maudlin sympathy and maudlin tears, and testi-
monialtsed and subscriptioned and prayed over
and provided with new clothes, and wou'd have
received 18 offers of marriage apiece from 18 be-
sotted fools in the last stage of mental atrophy.
Watery-headed parsons would have preached
sermons about them, and they would have had a
benefit at the theatre, and a tribe of washy fos-
sils would have made poetry about them, and
then, while the dead bodies of their victims were
still hardly cold, their chief witnesses would have
passed forged cheques, and they would them-
selves have gone back to their native gutter with a
whoop, and left a host of fat-headed drivellers to
weep at their falling away. In New South Wales
they haDg boys when they yield to the blan-
dishments of some dirty-minded siren in petticoats
and never wait to ask about the siren’s previous
character; and then, by way of maintaining
the character of the blood-stained land of Upside-
Down, they flog old men of 65 for quoting the
shady parts of Scripture in the public streets.
The English Stephen, unlike his New South
Wales namesake, recognises that the birch is a
fitter punishment for a school-boy criminal than
execution or life-long imprisonment, and that as a
childish punishment it is fib only for children ; but,
in Australia, it is almost entirely banished from the
public schools, and the law provides a gallows in
its stead. The new country has borrowed much
drivel and abasement from the old, and her loud-
mouthed loyalists are never tired of acknowledg-
ing the debt. If she would now coo sent to borrow
from an English judge a gleam of humanity and
common-sense, with which to enlighten the bar-
barous page of a code worthy of the dark ages of
the earth, Bhe would, for once, owe a d ibb of
gratitude to the land from which she has hitherto
received little to be thankful for.
♦
A Niggers’ Mission.
The Maloga blackfellows have been conducting a
mission in Ballarat. There is fine sarcasm in
this. It is only four or five years ago since the
plate was continually passing round in the
churches to pay for the conversion of these same
sooty apostles. Then they were revelling on ’pos-
sum, grubs, and other such delicacies, and getting
mad-drunk on rum whenever they could beg or
steal it. Now they come in the odour of sanotity
and fat mutton to preach godliness to the very
people who paid for their conversion. We are
glad of it. It has always been our opinion that
Christianity was never intended for blaokfellows.
Its higher doctrines they are incapable of under-
standing, and the result Is that they either turn
out oily-faced knaves with protuberant paunches
and one idea—to keep those paunches always
filled through the grace of the Loard— or poor,
spineless creatures with all the strength of sava-
gery taken out of them, and nothing but psalm-
singing and a belief in an eternal Hell put in its
place. We say they were better without Chris-
tianity. The indigenous religion of each race is
the one best suited to it, because that religion is
the result of the gradual mental growth of the
race. To thrusb any other upon it is as absurd as
it would be to pour Queensland rum into a Vene-
tian glass or a Cellini goblet. We say again, we
are glad. The parsons will find some day that
they will be in the position of the Australian
tradesman—without work. The niggers and the
Chinese they have converted will turn the tables
—or rather the pulpits—on them, and we shall be
invaded by a horde of missionaries of every colour
and smell, from dirty-yellow to sooty-black, and
from pig-perfume to dead-dog smell, who will tell
us all about Hell over again with picturesque
variations. Then the parsons will wish they
had left them in their benighted heathen
state and start a White Preachers’ Union
when it is too late. But the fun will begin
in earnest when they start. They will go In for
no half-measures. Such shibboleths as “ Down
with Chinese Cheap Preaching,” “No more
Shoddy Gospel,” “ Heaven and Australia for the
White man, Hell and anywhere else for the China •
man and the Nigger,” “ Rally Round Us, We
Are Starving I ” will be the mildest they will use.
We hope to live long enough to see this come to
pass. It will be better than whisky-and-milk
to us to see these smug-faced preachers who
prate about the brotherhood of man and lift their
voices in denunciation of any attempt to keep
our leprous brother from coming to our shores
and starving out the white and comparatively
clean-skinned brother of our blood—crying out for
poll-taxes on their black or yellow brother—es-
pecially if he be a Christian and a preacher. We
will watch with interest to see how the Christian
charity and brotherly love they talk so much of
now will stand that test. But we have said
enough. We will watch and pray and keep up
our spirits generally till that time comes.
+
A Military Partnership.
Victoria, according to Lord Carnarvon, has
undertaken a “ military partnership with Great
Britain," and “ a share cf the labours and the
dangers of the mpire,” and New South Wales is
fast drifting towards the same abyss. An alleged
statesman, who is too old to fight, and who has
no character to lose by running away, has entered
with a light heart on a mission which is to make
the co'ony a sharer in the troubles that spring up
in Europe whenever a despotic dipsomaniac issues
his ukase of slaughter, and Australia, after a long
period of practical neutrality, can now claim the
dubious privilege of being a partner in the war-
scares that daily arise in the old Continent. Con-
sequently, the news that a barbarous horde is
gathering in Russian Poland acquires an unwonted
interest in Melbourne and Sydney. On the border
of Gallicia the air is thick with Tartar lances, and
all that is wanted is a word from the crowned
drunkard at St. Petersburg to send them across
the imaginary line that separates two Empires,
A single order issued by a monarch, whom cease-
less terror has rendered irresponsible, a single tick
of the telegraph, and all continental Europe will
be ablaze ; and, should that order be issued, it is
probable that England, dragging Australia in its
train, will shortly be In the thick of the fight.
When Russia and France on the one side, Austria,
Germany, and Italy on the other, are fill-
ing Europe with slaughter, the unspeakable
Turk will probably avail himself of the
opportunity to look after his lost provinces in
Bulgaria and Egypt, and thus lead Britain into
another sanguinary struggle on behalf of the
rapacious bondholders who boss the land of the
ancient Pharaohs. Or, again, the Czar’s abject
follower and ally, the Persian Shah, may think
the opportunity a favourable one for sattliug old
scores with his old enemies of Afghanistan ; or,
leaving these risks out of tt e account, there still
remains the danger that England, ruled as it is
by Germans and German sympathisers, may take
a hand at the instance of its foreign Queen on be-
half of the sauer-kraut tribes beyond the Rhine.
Or, should she decline to help the Fatherland in
its hour of trouble, the Germans may afcerwards
revenge themselves on what they will probably
regard as a faithless friend by high-handed aggres-
sions in Greater Britain, similar to those which
they have so recently perpetrated in hapless
Samoa. The barbarous host now gathered in
Russian Poland carries with its banners a thou-
sand dangers to the mother-oountry, and Aus-
tralia, by an act of unparalleled insanity, dec’ares
to the world that she is ready and anxious to
take a share in them all. All over the wide
expanse of four continents British interests are
involved, and the smallest tribal skirmish may
carry in its train new complications and new
dangers, and Australia asks nothing better than
the privilege of being dragged into every
quarrel that may arise throughout the scat-
tered Empire whenever an inebriated Czar,
a semi-imbecile Sultan, or a pauper Bat-
tenberg breaks out into hostilities for the sake
of a general European lark. Inflated with the
glory whioh she won when her troops blundered
among the baggage-waggons in the Soudan, and
caught a glimpse of one bed-ridden Arab through
a telescope, New South Wales, by the mouth of
Parkes, tells Russia and all the rest of the world
to come on. To-day a new war seems to be loom-
ing, and amid a multitude of foreign complica-
tions it is just possible that the army of savages
gathered on the plains of Poland may carry with
it the answer to Parkes's challenge.
4
In 1886, according to Mr. Coghlan, the imports
of New South Wales amounted to £20,973,548,
and the exports to £15,556,21.3, which means that
the colony went in debt to the extent of more
than five millions in a single year. But the
Government statistician doesn’t put it that way.
For 30 years New South Wales has regularly
bought more than she has sold, but the result, it
seems, is merely due to the “ importation of loan
money for the development of the natural re-
sources of the country,” and shows—good heavens!
—the “great purchasing power of the people,”
On the whole, we like this way of putting it.
New South Wales, after a long spell of Freetrade,
finds herself compelled to buy almost all her
manufactured goods, and a vast quantity of
butter, grain, potatoes, timber, hay, and the like,
from foreign countries, and can’t raise enough to
pay for them, but when she purchases her food
with borrowed cash, she is merely “ importing
money for the development of the natural re-
sources of the country.” Sometimes, when we
have been very hard up, we have gone to the
Moses in the next street and imported money to
develope our own natural resources, and when he
had advanced us 30s. on our grandfather’s watch,
we manifested a purchasing power which sur-
prised people who had never known us before on
a cash basis. But we hadn’t Mr. Coghlan’s
powers of expression, and consequently we didn t
brag about the transaction in a book, and draw
up elaborate tables to show how much more we
spent than we earned, and how prosperous we
were in consequence. In fact, we never thought
of it, and a great chance was thus thrown away.
»
The New South Wales Government being deter-
mined on retrenchment, all the Ministers might
advantageously follow the example of the Minis-
ter of Education, Inglis, and make each officer,
be he big or little, pay his share of the expense of
cleaning and warming the premises wherein
he discharges his duties. “Tiger” Inglis com-
pels teachers, who3e salaries range from £3B to
£lOO per year, to pay for the cleaning of schools
used by others than themselves, and for firewood
to warm the shivering urchins of Monaro and
Kiandra. But, in the Southern districts, the Minis-
ter for Lands provides his white lambs with fire-
wood and a man to cut and carry it, and patent
stoves to burn it in. These same curled darlings
have also their offices cleaned and swept daily,
and a flower-garden cultivated for their special
delectation—all at Government expense. How is
thi a , Mr. Garrett? Are not your “gentlemen”
clerks, agents,inspectors,surveyors, and draughts-
men, with big salaries and “ makings,” as well
able to pay for cleaning and warming the offices
they work in as the poorly-paid provisional sohool-
teacher is for the like in her scholars’ sohool ?
The Bulletin has a radical and unanswerable
objection to urge against the Parkes National
Testimonial scheme. It asserts that no man
should acoept tip of any sort while holding office
as a Minister of the Crown. It is a rule of the
Civil service throughout Australia that a railway
porter may not accept gratuities from the public,
inasmuch as acceptance would lead not only to
undue preference being given to such railway pas-
sengers as paid tribute, but also to corresponding
disabilities beirg inflicted upon travellers who
might refuse to yield backsheesh. If this argu-
ment be held good as against a lowly, tip taking
State-paid railway-porter, does it not also hold
good as against a personage occupying the high
and mighty State paid office of Premier ? Suppose,
for example, that a man who had publicly sub-
scribed a large amount in aid of a testimonial of
the “ National Tribute ” order were under sen-
tence of death, is it not reasonable to suppose
(applying to the statesman the argument by
which the railway porter is bound) that the
statesman might be consciously or unconsciously
influenced in his vote at the Executive table by a
remembrance of the culprit’s liberality ? On the
' other hand, supposing that a man were in the
condemned cell who had ostentatiously and offen-
sively, and under circumstances calculated to
throw discredit on the testimonial scheme, refused
to subscribe thereto, might not the statesman’s
judgment in regard to his case be biassed by a re-
collection of the affront ? The Bulletin, *while
holding that, though it would be fair for a retiring
Minister to aocept a money-vote made by the
Legislature in a deliberate and constitutional way,
believes that this present testimonial business
strikes a deadly blow at the very foundation of
decent Government.
4
It is alleged by the Parkes' Tribute Fund Com-
mittee, in an advertisement, that the Honorable
Geoffrey Eagar has contributed £5 to the
Parkes’ “national” testimonial. Now, the
Honorable Geoffrey Eagar lately became bank-
rupt, and, contrary to the ordinary rule of the
service, he was allowed to retain his official posi-
tion. He has, so far as the public are aware, not
yet paid his creditors in full. Have not Mr.
Eagar’s creditors at least as much right to this
£5 as the (also insolvent) Sir Henry Parkes, and
is it a decent act for the Premier of New South
Wales to accept £5 from an official in Mr. Eagar s
circumstances ? Further, is it a decent act for
the permanent head of the New South Wales
Treasury to subscribe a not inconsiderable sum to
a political testimonial, and thus indirectly put the
screw upon junior officers with small salaries, who
may be most scrupulous with respect to the dis-
charge of their private obligations ? Will Premier
Parkes be so shameless as to accept the Honor-
able Geoffrey Eagar’s £5 ? However, there
is perhaps, after all, another way of looking
at this matter. “ Honour,” said Premier Parkes
on a now memorable occasion, “ does not consist
in paying 20s. in the £.” Example is even better
than precept,
♦
Last Thursday, a deputation from the Victorian
Presbyterian Assembly waited upon Lord Car-
narvon and drivelled about the unjust goings-on
of the French in the New Hebrides. In any case,
the idiocy of addressing a statesman out of office
on the policy of a great power, would be apparent
to any but a Presbyterian mind. But, in this case,
the situation was made especially ridiculous by
the snobbish way in which it was worked up
Lord Carnarvon was shown into the Governor s
private-room at the old Treasury building, and
stuck into the Governor’s official chair, sur-
mounted by a gilt crown, while Duncan Gillies
craved permission to introduce to him the holy
land-sharks who want to snavel the New Hebrides
in the name of the Loard. This is about a
best-on-record in the way of title-worship—
for a globe-trotting Earl of no present offi-
cial standing whatever to be waited upon
cap in hand, by the Premier of a colony which he
happens to be visiting. No paper in Australia has
lashed red tapeism with a heavier hand than has
The Bulletin, but to our mind there was a
miserable lack of official dignity about Duncan
Gillies' proceeding on Thursday. How idle to
talk about an Australian spirit of independance,
when the Premier of our most assertive colony
delights to prostrate himself before a British peer.
And such meaningless prostration 1 Lord Carnar-
von had nothing to say—what could he have ?
to his idolaters, and when he rose from his crown-
embellished chair the New Hebrides question re-
mained as unanswerable as ever.
♦ .
The 60-per cent, pawnshop, the Australian Bank-
ing Company,- directed by Hon. Francis Abigail,
New South Wales Minister for Mines, has found
a defender at last. John Haynes puts in a plea
on its behalf. The qualifications of such an ad-
vocate to hold a brief for such a client are un-
doubted. “ The institution,” we read in the Sun-
day sheet whioh Mr. Haynes edits, “ is in every
respect a people’s bank,” With some reservations,
we entirely agree with this statement. It is a
bank for the people with gold chains and hook
noses who receive the most of its profits ; it is a
bank for the people who like to pay, say, 30 per
cent., with a sliding-scale of commission added ;
it is a bank jest as any Jew pawnshop charging
sixty or two hundred and sixty per shent is a bank.
It is not a bank as far as the necessity of registering
statements of its position Is jconcerned, and it Is I
not a bank to the extent of Its business in loaning
at 60 per shent on the flat-irons and furniture of
the unfortunate. It trades on the pretence alleged
In its title, but it is as much a bank as a jew’s
harp is an orchestra or a fly-wheel is a locomotive.
Some day when we have time to fill a large con-
tract we intend to write an article on the beauties
and advantages of being an ass in New South
Wales, especially as instanced in the case of Mr.
Pruen of Bathurst, the embezzler with the in-
fluential father. When Dr. Cortis, M.P., led
Attorney-General Wise out into the back.,yard,
and propped that eminent lawyer against the
pump, and put the matter before him in various
lights, he represented this patient as a semi-
imbecile boy who, from the sheer stupidity of his
badly-manured intellect, took somebody else’s cash, •
and “ walked off along the road to Rackley,” but
it now transpires that the wailing infant was a
good pianist and singer, a remarkably cute card-
player, and generally a flash young man who was
six feet long and £4B shorb ; and that when he
made his famous retreat along the road to Rockley
he carried with him an assumed name and a
loaded revolver, and was prepared for bloodshed.
On the other hand Henry Lewis, of Sydney, who
also suffered from incoherence of the cash, was
smaller and younger and more imbecile than the
fortunate Fruen, and had no revolver, no in-
fluential father, no member to tell the Attorney-
General on the quiet what a fool he was, and
didn’t walk off anywhere, and yet he is in gaol
and nobody bothers about him. There are things
in this world which no fellah can understand,
+
It has been stated that Trafalgar-square is the
property of the Crown, and the Home Secretary
considers that the Board of Works has power to
close it. This beautifully exemplifies the differ-
ence between a Republican and an Imperial form
of government. In the latter, the people are not
the State. The State consists of those who rule.
They conserve what the people pay for. From
the taxes wrung from the lower orders properties
are acquired which they never enjoy. To one
section of the community is permitted the glorious
privilege of buying and ornamenting and beauti-
fying and keeping in magnificent repair ‘ ‘ the
finest square in Europe”—which, however, is
carefully closed to them when it suits the caste
interests of the other section which claims to re-
present the Crown. According to this doctrine,
as all the land of England is either private
property or the property of the Crown, the land-
less pauper has no right to put down the sole of
his foot for five minutes anywhere. In fact, it is
a genuine and remarkable kindness on the part of
the authorities to allow him even to walk over
the ground which he pays for, but which, when it
suits them, they claim as the property of thq
Crown. The landless pauper has nothing for it
but to jump into the sea. We sometimes, in this
so-called enlightened age, pretend that the Queen
no longer rules as a person. We talk about the
State being the people. Yet what do we mean
when we talk of the property of the Crown ? We
clearly do not mean the property of the State in
the sense of the People.
To England.
(From “ Songs of The Army of the Night."
I.
There was a time when all thy sons were proud
To speak thy name,
England, when Europe eohoed back aloud
Thy fearless fame—
When Spain reeled shattered, helpless, from thy
guns
And splendid ire :
When, from Canadian snows to Indian suns,
Pitt’s soul was Are !
0, that in fearless days, like these were, free
From shame and scorn,
Fate had allowed, benignly, pityingly,
That I was born !
O that, if struck, then struck with glorious
wounds,
I bore apart
(Not torn with fangs of leprous, coward hounds)
My bleeding heart 1
11.
We hate you ! Not because of cruel deeds
Staining a glorious effort. They who live
Learn in this earth to give and to forgive,
Where heart and soul are noble, and Fate's needs
Imperious. No ; nor yet that cruel seeds
Of power and wrong you’ve sown alternative,
We hate you, we,.your sons, who yet believe
That Truth and Justice are not empty creeds !
No, but because of greed and golden pay,
Wages of sin and death —because you smother
Your conscience, making cursed all the day.
Bible in one hand, bludgeon in the other,
Cain-like, you come upon and slay your
brother,
And, kneeling down, thank God for it, and pray!-
111.
I, whom you fed with shame and starved with
woe,
I wheel above you,
Your fatal vulture, for I hate you so,
I almost love you I
I smell your ruin out. I light and croak
My sombre lore,
As swaggering you go by, O Heart of Oak
Rotten to the core 1
Look westward! Ireland’s vengeful eyes are cast
On Freedom won.
Look eastward! India stirs from sleep at last.
You are undone!
Look southward, where Australia hears your
voice
And turns away.
O brutal hypocrite, she makes her choice
With the rising Day!
Foul Esau, you who sold your high birth-right
For gilded mud—
Who did the wrong and, priest-like, called it
right,
And swindled God—
The hour is gone of insult, pain, and patience!
The hour is come
When they arise, the faithful, mightier nations,
To drag you down !
FRANCIS ADAMS.


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAT.
The New South Wales Corps ruled the
colony either directly or indirectly from the de-
partnre of Phillip to tho deposition of Bligb.
Major Grose and Captain Patterson were lieu-
tenant-governors until the arrival of Hunter, in
1795. In tho?e three years the corps solidified its
position, until it became strong enough, in 1808, to
put*Bligh under arrest. Shortly afterwards the
oorps was drummed out of the colony in disgrace,
and ordered to England and thence to India a 3 a
“ condemned regiment.” But the officers did not
go to India. Having led their men into mischief
they deserted the colours, turned their backs on
their followers, and, on resigning the commis-
sions they had disgraced, remained behind in the
colony and founded our “ first families.”
* * *
We have said that the officers looked upon
the purchase of their commissions as a trade in-
vestment. They were nearly all keen men, but it
was with the keenness of the huckster. They saw
the misery about them, the degraded condition of
their victims, and tbe'r own great power ; and
they proceeded to use this last to make money out
of the other two. Not one soark of generous or
even common human sympathy with the state o
things they saw around t hem brightens their dark
and squalid record. With incredible callousness
to the most pitiable forms of misery they fattened
and prospered on the filth of the time as the
raven go ges itself on the carrion. It would ba
too Arcadian to expect any manly pretest from
such creatures rs these, against the iniquities of
the convict system. It was distinctly to their in-
terest, as tending to lessen the chances of com-
mercial competition, that these God-forsaken
people should he mercilessly ground down. The
writer who would attempt to candidly describe
the phenomenally sinister character of the officers
of this picked corps, would lay himself open to the
charge of aiming at the creation of a mere vulgar
sensation. It is safer, therefore, to let their acts
speak for themselves.
* • *
No one will be surprised to learn that the
chief article of trade with these uniformed
traders was rum. “ The rum-selling oorps is
the glorious title they have carried on the flam-
ing scroll of history. Few hietoric titles have
been earned so well. The settlement reeked with
ruffianism and rum.
Rum was a recog-
nized medium of ex-
change. Wages for
labour, the price of
farm produce, and
every other transac-
tion for 'tvhich money
usually serves, were
paid in rum. This
was a traffic quite
after the officers’ own
hearts. They entered
on it with enthusi-
asm, bought up all
the rum they could
lay their hands on,
and retailed it at
ruinous prices to the
settlement. Lawif ss -
ness and disorder en-
sued, and successive
Governors wrote
home for advice. In-
structions were issued
from Whitehall, forbidding all officers, civil
and military, from selling any spirituous
liquors to the convicts or settlers. But
the authorities might have saved their breath.
For the officers procured licenses for their non-
commissioned officers, for ex-convicts, and for
those of their own men who could be trusted.
Governor Hunter considered the trade as “highly
disgraceful to men who hold in their hands a com-
mission signed by His Majesty.” And so, no
doubt, it was. But everything was disgraceful,
and this was of a piece with the rest.
* * *
It would be a difficult thing to say who
did not sell rum in the settlement. The line can
only be drawn at those who were incapacitated
by drinking it. Dr. Balmain, whose duty it was
as a magistrate to sentence men to be cut to
pieces by the lash for absorbing too much rum—
and the records show that he did his duty-had at
one time, when a fitful effort was made to restrict
the officers’ traffic, upwards of 14,000 gallons of
spirits in his house ! There were also a few
chests of tea and some tale goods -truly a
plentiful lack of bread to such an intolerable deal
of sack ! Mr. D'Arcy Wentworth had 3000
gallons. They offered to sacrifice it in deference
to the new Order, at twenty shillings a gallon.
But the farcical nature of all attempts to stop the
lucrative traffic is shown by such instances as the
following One day a ship arrived from Manilla,
being described as carrying cattle to the settle-
ment. There were two head of stock on board.
But there were also 7203 gallons of spirits. The
Governor forwarded a copy of his Order to the
master, bidding him land his two cows and take
the spirits away. But this was entirely too infan-
tile a suggestion ; the master reported that his
vessel was unfit to put to sea; and, adds the
Governor, “ under the circumstances, and the un-
popularity of preventing the spirits from being
illicitly appropriated and consumed, I allowed of
Its being disposed of and distributed in the usual
manner ” For amazing artfulness, both in matter
and style, this minute excels anything ever pro-
jected by Captain Cuttle.
* *
It ia a fact that each officer had his per-
mission to land rum in quantities proportioned to
his rank. This wa3 sold up to £4 par gallon. A
farmer has been known to give an acre cf wheat,
which would maintain him a year, for two gallons
of spirits. When the officers sent their agents to
purchase wheat from the settlers they took, not
money, but rum. A bottle which cost the officer
half-a-crown, we are told, would buy two or
three bushels of wheat. The settlers began to
distil the most infernal intoxicants from wheat,
peaches, and other things. Barrington, the
famous pick-pocket, turned thief-catcher, ex-
plains that a bushel of wheat, which might be
worth ten stillings, would produce five gallons of
deleterious spirit at six shillings per gallon. The
chief constable of Sydney had a licence to sell
rum : and, as Dr. Lang puts it, “ the chief gaoler
although not exactly permitted to convert the gaol
into a grog-3hop, had a licensed house in which
he sold lum publicly on his own behalf, right op-
posite the gaol door.”
* * *
The officers, unblushing, made use of their
power for trade purposes, and to secure the com-
mand of the market they entered into an infamous
bond binding themselves to treat, through two of
their number, with the captains of vessels, for
the pui chase of their merchandise, to the exclu-
sion of any person outside their own riDg. They
had the privilege of being the first to board ves-
sels arriving in the harbour. But they knew each
other too well to trust to the mere word of honour
of such British officers as they were They insti-
tuted a £lOOO forfeit for anyone of their number
who might attempt to effect a purchase without
the connivance of his fellows. This flagrant con-
spiracy gave them the command of the buying
market, and left them at liberty to fix their own
retail prices. It might be thought that the
genßrous, free spirit of tlie British soldier would
have made a muddle of such closely-calculated
commercial arrangements. But these old tailors
and shoemakers, staymakers, and man-milliners
were not that kind of soldier. The outcry of the
inhabitants toon showed this. They were ever-
lastingly memorialising, petitioning, and remon-
stratirg with the Governor for allowing the day-
light robbery to go on. But, as a rule, the
Governors knew better than to interfere in any
serious mood. When one of their number did try
to make a stand the gentlemen of the New South
Wales Corp 3 arose in their indignation, created
what they called a great popular upheaval against
the horrid tyranny that oppressed the groaning
masses, and, rushing the Governor’s bedroom with
a horde of armed and drunken myrmidons, they
fuhed Bligh out from under a bed and summarily
locked him up 1
* * *
The thoroughly business-like principles on
which these officers fleeced the settlement may
be gathered from a few facts. When Hunter ar-
rived, after three years’ direct rule by the corps,
the Reverend Mr. Johnson, chaplain of the settle-
ment, preached a little sermon, in which he ex-
posed the government of the officers, “ Their
extortion, their despotism, their deoauchery, and
ruin of the colony, driving it almost to ruin by
the sale of goods at 1200 per cent, profit; he con-
gratulated the settlement on the abolition of the
military government.’ He might well do so, hut
it was not abolished yet. An extract from Holt s
Memoirs is worth quoting
“Captain Anthony Fenn Kemp, when a soldier
came to him for bis month's pay, would usually
accost him with, ‘ Well, what do you want ?’
“ ‘ I want to be paid, sir,’ the soldier would say.
“‘What will you have?’ was always Captain
Kemp's answer. ‘I have very good tobacco, ten
shillings the pound, and good tea at twenty shil-
lirgs the pound, prints at eight shillings a yard ’
and so or.
“If the poor soldier answered, Sir, Ido not
want any of your goods,’ the Captain’s comment
was, ‘ You don’t l you are a danr ned saucy rascal!
Perhaps then the soldier would say, ‘ Sir, if you
please, give me half money and half goods.’ But
this proposal was equally objectionable to Captain
Kemp, and generally led to bis thundering out,
‘ Begone, you damned mutiniu* scoundrel, rr 111
send you to the guard-house and have you flogged
for your impertinence to your officer.’ ”
“This was the manner,” summarises Holt, that
these people made their fortunes, by the oppres-
sion and extortion of the soldier, the settler, and
the poor.”
* * •
A select committee of the Commons on
transportation in 1812 brought out a mass of infor-
mation on oath which abundantly proves the
worst that has been said about the New South
Wales Corps. Such a picture of wanton rapacity,
unbridled greed, and barefaced robbery of pri-
soners by their gaolers—robbery under its most
repulsive form—was never disclosed on oath
before.
The muddle-headed bowelless British Tory of the
present day weeps bitterly as he sees the old land-
marks disappearing one by one, but the ancient
consecrated steal which is carried on under the
name of “perpetual pensions” has so far escaped
the vandal hand of the reformer, and, at a time
when more than a million of Britons are suffering
from actual starvation, a sum of £1,313,260 per
annum goes in annual gratuities to the rich.
Among the noble thieves who divide the plunder
are the representatives of the Dutchman, Schom-
berg, who was shot by his own soldiers at the
Boyne 200 years ago. He had a pension of £lOOO
a year, and he left no heirs. But some collateral
descendant of his grandmother scrambled for the
money, and the daughter of his second cousin s
husband’s wife by her first marriage sailed in, and
his remote half-uncle multiplied by a hundred
dozen showed up also, and finally the dead fraud s
pension was divided among them. Their de-
scendants axe drawing it yet! This is part of the
beautiful Imperial system which Parkes and
Gillies are so anxious to extend to Australia,
and which Tankerville Bennet, of the Prim-
rose League, spread himself so nobly to support,
until a dismal fate sent him away to aid in
spreading the Gospel among unwashed offsprings
with neglected noses and dubious pinnies in the
New South Wales back-blocks.
Sir John Robertson alleges that because
N.S.W. sent men, horses, guns, &c., to the
Soudan to fight against blackfellows, the colony
has a right to be called Australia. There is a
'slight error, Sir John. It was Dailey who sent
them. Therefore, Dailey should be re-named
Australia.
CORRESPONDENCE
An Admirer: Thanks. As you remark, the
existing social state would not be tolerated 24 hours were it
not for drink, ignorance, and superstition.... Walter 0.:
Pultford and Downing are both new chums. The mosquitoes
have not got at them yet... .E. Watson: It is very easy now
for each colony to consent to pay £35,000 a year towards the
Enilish navy, but by-and-bye, when we want to get rid of
the navy aforesaid, the withdrawal of the subsidy will be
regarded as aggression on our part.... Walter Morton : The
name of Australia is mortgaged four-deep already; Parkes
scheme to appropriate it for N.S.W. alone, therefore, e-
minds us of the Macnamara lease transaction. As to is
scheme for building a State House, in which neither wo d
nor iron is to be used, but only stone and granit ,
that looks to us like a plan for spending half-a-
million on his own tombstone....W.B.M.: Please ca 11....
W. E. Harcourt (Vic.l: “ Eastern Australia ” has already
been suggested... .C.J.S.: Afraid idea is too complex for
illustration Farmer John : There is nothing new under
the sun. "Estralia” is an old suggestion.... Victoria
" Con victoria " is a Bulletin notion—Walcha : If Hill
was not reprieved simply because he was related to a rich-
Sydney family, pray tell us for what special reason he, under
the circumstances, escaped the gallows?....A.W. : From
maudlin sentiment to the extremest cynicism......
W. Lee (Melb.): Parkes, in attempting to justify a political
burglary, adepts, in his memo, to Gillies, the tone of an im-
pudent magsman. An epistle in a similar strain, addressed
by one European potentate to another, would mean war....
A Sufferer : How can you expect the ignorant publio to be-
ware cf quack-doctors, when these latter are allowed to pub
lish in the Press testimonials received by them from judges
and even Governors?....W. (Sandhurst): The Bulletin
holdß that the newsboys should be permitted to sell news-
papers on Sunday, but not to disturb, by their cries, the Day
of Rest... .W. Saucy: The Bulletin has authority for
stating that telegrams sent to the Sydney daily papera, re
Parkes' Tribute meetings held in the country were deliberately
suppressed, simply because the meetings to which they related
were utter fiascos E. P. (Albury): Old su?g- stion
S.S.: At a time when thousands of able-bodied men are un-
employed, and thousands of those employed are working for
£5O or £75 per year, it is interesting to listen to the piteous
’p'aint of “One of the Injured" Civil servants, who says he
can't support a wife and two children on £5 a week,
jvf jj Perhaps he wabted his capital in purchasing a moun-
tain to love his "Stella” 0n....J.J.: He has as much
justification in changing N.S.W. to Australia as would the
Governor-General have in calling Bombay India. ...W.W.S.:
Then why should a daily newspaper send as its representative
to a Radical political meeting an ancient Tory who hee-haws
and giggles during the whole performance by way of showing
his contempt for everything Democratic 7 What sort of re-
port can be expected from such a chronicler ?... .A. Major:
As to Attorney-General Wise's allegation that he has lost
heavily by accepting effire, it is necessary to bear in mind
that a considerable portion cf the £3OOO a year, which be
was making at the bar, resulted from semi-political briefs (as
in the “ wool fraud cases’’)—briefs which he probably would
not have got but for his enthusiasm for Freetrade... .M
(Granville): Verses good, though we are not quite certain
about their suitability....Anti-Humbug (Millbrook): How
you perform wh«t some are pleased to term their devotions
doesn't matter a rush. Did prayer ever make a river run up-
hill?. .. .Habbigale: Has not The Bulletin persistently
and consistently advocated payment of members for years
past?. ...R. M‘G.: It was crowded out at the time, and we
are afraid'it is now too old to interest all our readers.
If any iniquity of like nature corns* beneath your
notice, send us a line A. (Murrumburrah): Is it
at all likely that the universe is going to stagger
on its eternal course and strike work because some school-
children called their teacher "ducky,” and he didn’t like it
Jehu Kinnivane: You had better write direct to Mr. J. P
Abbott: the information you seek it would be impossible for
us to furnish.... Student: Read Lawrence Gronlunds "Co-
operative Commonwealth,” Max Nordau’B “Conventional
Lies of our Civilisation," Wallace's “ Land Nationalisation, •
Hawthorne's “ Blithsdaleßomance," Henry George’s " Social
Problems " and " Progrers aid Poverty,” Buckle's “ History
of Civilisation,” More's “ Utopia,” Plato's ' Atlantis,” Cam.
panella’s " City of the Sun," Kaufmann's exhaustive
book on Socialism, Be con's "New Atlantis,” Plutarch s
“Licurgus,” and the works of Morelly, PrcudhOD, Louis
Blanc, Cabtt, Karl Marx, Robert Owen, Roadbertus Lasallt«
and St, Simon. When you have done so, you will know all
about Socialism.... J.J.H. (Rook wood): Many thanks....
H M. Cowdroy (Bega): We could judge better if you sent us
a specimen.... Rhyming Rab: Aren’t your verses rather too
thin ?. ...L A. (Auburn): Your poem is a spineless effusion ..
A Subscriber (Bathurst): Not good enough.... Auburn :In
what metre did you lucubrate about the “Lobo's” voyage?
Invisible: Next week.... Vulcan : You mean well and have
a good heart, but you can’t poetise worth a cent....
Miner (Charters Towers): Shall have our attention—
Percy F. Owen: Strangely enough, we don’t remember your
letters.... Subscriber (Brothers Home, Tas.): Have taken
the hint.... J. Wade: If it is infra dig. for Minister Abigail
any longer to hold office in the Australian Banking Co.,
must it not be also infra dig. for John Hurley, M.P. ? Or-
Heaven forbid the idea '.—has Abigail more dignity than
Hurley ?.,.. Suggestion : We don’t know what you are driv-
ing at, but we are quite sure you are right... .J.C. (Sheppar-
ton): Thanks Will read, and reply shortly.... J.F.R. (Vic.):
Thanks. Next week....Thos (Singleton): We don't
pan out much on church tea-meetings held at the other end
of nowhere. Of course, we know that "ample justice was
done to the refreshments,” and that the " board groaned,
&c We never knew a board that didn t groan. We are
bored, and we groan ...Refractory Ore (Ravenswood):
Philo-Chinkie nondescript has our attention. J.OC
(Albany): Your letter looks like a Chinese death-warrant.
The Sydney hotelkeepers are complaining
bitterly in the papers ot the unfair way in which
Government House competes with their business,
by giving free board from time to time to British
swells. Down in Melbourne they are complaining
that trade is slack at the gaols for the very same
reason.
A French poet has described interest as
“ the aroma of capital." This being so, the Aus-
tralian Banking Company, were it to take a walk
up King-street, Sydney, would leave behind it an
odour that would remind the passers-by of—well,
the much-patchoulid ladies one meets out very
late at night.
Mr. William Dymock, bookseller, of
Sydney, has just purchased in England Gould’s
rare and valuable book-“ The Birds of Aus
tralla for £250. He has also paid £5O for
“ Gould’s Australian Mammals.” The work first-
named is, perhaps, the most valuable book ever
imported to Australia.
The Sydney D.T. stated recently that Mr.
Dibbs, ex-Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales,
would not go into court “ because he knew
there was in existence documentary and other
evidence of his criminal manipulation ot the
colony’s finances." And now it seems Dibbs is
going into court—with a £20,000 libel action.
The Referee.
The Sydney team in the late cricket-
match consisted of eight players and three pas-
sengers.
• * *
“ Oar only two bowlers ” must not sacri-
fice pitch for spin. No matter how much a ball
may “ work,” ib is of no use without good length.
* * •
The Sydney Association Cricket Ground
is slowly, bub surely, descending into little better
than a gambling-hell. A notice prohibiting bet-
ting is posted in the pavilion, but it does not
appear to extend to the Grand-Stand Reserve,
which, at the big matches, is fairly infested with
betting-men, from the “ leviathans ” down to the
very smartest of the “ rats.” The wagering is nob
confined to the result of the matoh, or even indi-
vidual scores, for no sooner dr es the ball leave the
bat from a powerful hit than a babel of raven
cries goes up offering to bet it reaohes the fence, or
vice versa. And the authorities calmly look on
and make no sign.
# •
Surely we have now seen the last of
Burton behind the wickets? Personal friendship
should not influence the Selection Committees.
* • *
That Britisher rather gave himself away
when he stated, at Parramatta, that the Sydney
Association Ground had been tampered with for
their innings, for the Nooze man happened to be
within earshot. Only another phase of British
fair play.
* * •
The yachts Waibangi and Carina were
put up to auction in Sydney last week, but sales
were not effected. The Waitangi was passed in
at £675, and the Carina followed suit at £320.
• * •
The dailies still continue to give Australia
away to the world in speaking of Kemp as the
champion sculler. Is it not the height of ridicH-
larity, as Mrs, Partington would observe, to speak
in all seriousness or Kemp as “ Champion? ’
Beach’s action in trying to keep the plucky little
Hanlan out in the cold is a contemptible finish to
an honest rowing career, and has recoiled on him
by building up for the Canadian wide-spread sym-
pathy, and, st’ll more to the point, a big hatful of
sovereigns.
• • *
Hutchens went undor to Gent recently in
England, in a 120 yards match for the Champion-
ship and an alleged £2OO. The raca is spoken of
as being a genuine affair, Gent winning by three
quarters of a length, after a desperate struggle in
11| sec.
* * *
It was understood that Tel Evans was
picked in the team as a change bowler. This
oonld not have been the case, however, as he was
nob even tried. If Selection-Committees will in-
sist upon picking him, the “Fakir” should have
the good sense to stand out and give place to
younger and better-performed men.
* • •
The English skipper’s excellent display in
the second innings of the recent match came
rather as a surprise.
* * *
Percy M‘Donnell does not appear to have
yet dropped to the faob that Lehmann “ feeds "
him.
• # *
Preston appears to have completely mas-
tered Allen, clean bowling him both innings.
• * *
The catch with which Turner sent Reid to
the right-about was one of the beßt on record.
» • *
The glove-fight between Foley ard Burke,
“ the Irish Lad,” comes off in Sydney Exhibition
building on February 11. P. ices of admission,
£l, 10s , and S’. We are ready to bet that Foley
will not be ignominously knocked out. We shall
not be surprised even if Foley wins, as he has
commenced training by getting married. It would
hit N S.W. amour propre right in the bread-
basket were Larry to be licied.
# * *
Our old friend Benzon, (he “Jubilee
Juggins," was the original cause of Lord Ailes-
bury’s trouble. The “rorty” nobleman intended
to run his horse, Everitt, “fair and honest," but
found that Juggins had taken all the book* aboat
it. Then the jockey received orders to pull
Everitt, and his lordship commissioned certain
men to “go a-milking.” In the end, as every-
body knows, the horse wasn’t pulled sufficiently,
and Juggins won his beta. But it is noticeable
that Ailesbury was hauled over the coals for a
trick which some of his judges had played the
Yankee Walton, when that plunger was forestall-
ing them, some years ago. If any other swell had
made a similar arrangement for getting at an in-
terloping backer, the Jockey Club would have
voted it quite the thing. This Ailesbury incident
is probably accountable for Benzon’s expressed
determination to back only his own horses for tte
future.
• * *
The Yanks appear to have claimed Jack
Burke as their own, and he comes to us as the
“ famous American boxer.” Burke was born in
Ireland, and reared in England, where he re-
mained until four years ago. If Beach is Aus-
tralian then the new arrival is most distinctly as
Englishman.
• • •
The Bulletin was not very wide of the
mark in writing up the peculiar power of Shrews-
bury’s team to get any other eleven men out for a
moderate total on a batting wicket. And again
we say that therein lies the superiority of the best
English professional cricket. To talk of altering
the rules of the game so as to give bowlers a
better chance is pure bosh, while a first-class
eleven can be put through for 149 runs in fine
weather after winning the toss.
* * *
Shrewsbury is sorry to hear that Lord
Harris has proposed to alter the rule relating to
leg before wioket.
• * *
Eighteen juniors made a miserable show
in Melbourne against the M.C.C.’s Englishmen.
The youngsters were not selected with a strict
regard to merit, and the match was a financial
fizzle. The few hundreds who turned up on
Saturday amused themselves by jeering the field
and applauding Stoddart each time he was missed.
And they missed him, ye gods! with a monotony
that was truly comic.
• • •
Mr. Bugbear, of London, claims the cham
pionship of the world—for cheek, we suppose.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— “La Fille du Tambour Major '• _ p. 14.
Criterion Theatre.—" As You Like ifc"
Her Majestys Theatre.—“Siberia” ....... „
Opera House—AU Star Novelty Combination........ ~
Alhambra Music Hall— Sacred Concert .......... „
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy „
Domain— Pain's Fireworks ,<
Academy— Maccabe
The ladies, the men, and the music—the painting
of each pretty set;
The “fille," and each page on the glorified
stage,
Were as nice as they make them —you bet!
* * *
There was a dense crowd at Sydney Royal
on Saturday night, “ La Fille du Tambour Major”
being the attraction of the evening. After a vain
effort to sit down on a seat whioh wasn’t there
because somebody else was already sitting on it,
we were graciously permitted by the management
to hang on to the unreachable with both hands
ani make notes with our feet, while the wild pro-
cession of nuns and military passed before ns in
review. The pl*t of the opera hasn’t altered to any
appreciable extent since we helped to sit on its
head in the happy days of yore; the heroine
booms along just as she did in our infancy, and,
in years to come, when the present writer dies
and retires to his eternal re3t, he will probably
leave her still booming, and not growing any
older. Miss Colbourne-Baber, as Stella, jlays
laboriously well, and if her vocal cart-wheel were
greased ever so little —if her bark upon the sea of
melody were nob quite so hoarse —she would be
laboriously better. Miss Aggie Kelton, who has
really a pretty little voice, scooped the pool as
Griolet; our old friend of the erratic legs,
Bambini (W. H. Warner), and Captain Wobert (Mr.
Woodfield) were as aotive as two bags of cats ;
the myoptic Duke and the much-married Duchess
—though why a female Duke shouldn’t be a plain
Dukess we can’t imagine—prospered pretty well
In the hands of Mr. Benham and Miss Sophie
Harris, and Knight Aston was the same glorious
old fellow as before, and probably tbe beat of the
crowd. The ladies of the Royal company are
all beautiful and young—in fact, not one of them
is over 30, or has been over it any time during the
la3t 50 years, and probably 40 years hence the last
of them will die at the age of 28.
*# # #
There is a sound at Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
as if a gilt and painted cow were trying to geo
her hind foot out of the mud, and the Forty
Thieves were howling for a mutton-chop. A lot
of dreary old gags have been hashed together and
served up as a new drama amid a wilderness of
hippopotamus-blnsh scenery and a crowd of
people who couldn't have lived, even if they tried,
and who wouldn’thavebeenanyuseif they had. The
vicked squire who abducts the virtuous maiden
that is engaged to the yonng man of poor but
honest parentß, is the main feature of the story,
and the only difference is that the Squire is moved
into Russia and made a Governor, and the drama
is called “ Siberia.” A massacre of Jews in the
second acb and the awkward circumstance that the
young lover can’t get a cup of tea because the
kettle has capsized into the stove, and the stove
has overturned on the cat, and the oat has fled
with a swollen tail into the crockery, can hardly
ba termed redeeming features. Tne hero Ib a
Nihilist and a blower-up of things in general; and,
accompanied by a cook, who strikes for liberty
with a red-hot poker, he keeps 70 rioters at bay.
About the sixth act the narrative loses
its shoes and goes hopelessly off its
feed. Several escaped convicts die among the
snow, and the relentless pursuer comes up and puts
tobacco-juiee or something on their graves;
a conspirator goes off his head on a mountain-
peak and lies down with his cold feet against his
own back; Mr. J. Parkes plays “ Leuchtkaferln ”
softly in the orchestra, and the audience thank
Providence that he doesn’t play “ Bxghdkfbykz-
mnbgx ” or some other neck-breaking anthem as
well; then there ensues a scene at Odessa; a
Governor in disguise rushes about pardoning
everybody, promoting everybody to be a duke,
cursing everybody, aud putting everything squ are;
yells from the gallery, loud applause, screams,
policemen, beautiful scenery, noble sentiments
from George Rignold, hi-j ah! a-chew 1 and we
fall over a Chinaman in our efforts to get out.
We started for home at last in an omnibus, and
the wheel came off ere route. As we fell out we
grabbed hold of the prettiest girl in the vehicle
and told her we would see her home, but she
shook us off derisively, and we were left lying in
the road. Tne redeeming features of “ Siberia ”
consist of Messrs. Sterling Whyte, and Greville,
who are excellent in two somewhat ridiculous
characters: George Rignold, who plays a noble
and manly part, overlaid, thanks to the miserable
author, with the fraDtic heroism of a stage pirate,
and Miss Kate Bishop, who is oharmlng right
through, and who, fortunately, has less aged gags to
utter than the majority of her companions. A few
others who are not exactly redeeming features
may stand over till next week.
The ladies’ committee of the Sharkes
Tribute Fund have lately circularised the various
theatrical managers of Sydney, soliciting benefits
in aid of their scheme—the laBt and most indecent
move in an exceedingly indecent business. In
the past Parkes has treated the theatrical mana-
gers aDd lessees in a most arbitrary and uncertain
manner, and as he is at present the person in
whom the power of granting or withholding the-
atrical licenses is vested, and whose authority is
so extensive that he can close up any theatre at
five minutes’ notice, it follows —well, it follows
that the theatrical profession, remembering all
these things and being only human after all, will
respond much more liberally than they would
were the benefit on account of plain Henry
Sharkes, the distressed ex-member of Parliament
who could find no place save Tenterfleld to rest
his head. To cadge for benefics in aid of an
official who holds the theatrical manager in the
hollow of his hand is mean to the last degree.
Why don’t the Ladies’ Tribute Committee at
once invite the poor theatre-man to come and kiss
them, not under the Christmas mistletoe, but
under the sword of Damocles ? Suppose now that
a theatrical manager had a case depending in the
Supreme Court before Chief Justice Darley, and
suppose that Chief Justice Darley suddenly gob
hard up. Suppose further that a benefit were
baing organised for the C.J., and the managers
were asked to contribute—how would that look ?
Does anybody imagine for a single instant that
any judicial-minded person would accept a benefib
under such conditions? But then, bless you,
Parkes doesn’t know what the ladies of the com-
mittee are doing. He “never reads the news-
papers."
## # #
The bobtailed mediocrity of “ Leah ” has
been running all last week at Sydney Criterion, and
Miss Essie Jenyns, in a senes of paralysing attitudes
and a state of oonstant terror, is about at her
worst. If this is the real Miss Jenyns, and the
Miss Jenyns whom we have admired so often as
Rosalind, Beatrice, &0., is only a counterfeit, then
another bright vision has faded away, bub if the
divine Essie, who is now breaking herself up into
angles such as no man ever saw before, is not the
genuine charmer of our dreams, we can only ask
that she should becoms herself again as soon as
possible. If Bill Holloway would only invest in
a club and hib the sickly drama of “Leah" on
the head for good and all he would b 8 guilty of a
public benefaction. P.S.—Miss Jenyns takes a
farewell benefit on the 15 th insb.
## * #
The only Miccabe filled Sydney Academy
to the door on Saturday night. The chief novelty
of the evening was a wild and awful one-man
melodrama in which Mr. Maocabe represented
the heavy fiend of romance in a lovely fashion
that should make one or two sledge-hammer actors
we know of come outside and look at themselves.
It would do them a lot of good.
## * #
The enterprising proprietors of the Bondi
Aquarium announce that their gardens and skat-
ing-rink are now lit up by electricity, and add,
“ A perfect fairy land—a massive portrait of Sir
Henry Parkes,” Hem ! Titania and Bottom over
again, we presume. Grand concert on Wednes-
day in aid of the Sharke3 Fund 1 Live alligator I
## # *
At Sydney Gaiety, Mr. Dampier announces
the last nights of the present season. The “ Night
Birds ” have been moulting on the stage once
more, and “Ea9t Lynne” and “His Natural
Life” will fill the bill till Monday. The last-
named, in Mr. Dampier's hands, is always a re-
liable success. By the way, Mr. Dampier’s
talented daughter. Rose, who has a capital soprano
voice, and bids fair to become an accomplished
public singer, made a
most effective debut at
Madame Fabris’ pupils’
concert last week.
# * *
Johnny Cowan’s new
gag at Sydney Alhambra
brings down the house.
Paddy—we beg pardon—
Perry Ryan, in his song
“ Where have you bean ?”
put that question to each
of the company, receiving
some funny answers in
reply. When Johnny’s
turn came, he replied:
“ I have been acting like
a flat, going round with
the hat for Parkes’
tribute, bub got nothing
for that.” At which
wretched doggerel the
house yelled.
# * #
A sweltering multi-
tude filled Melbourne
Alexandra on Saturday
to hear Simonson’s com-
pany sing “Maritana ”’in
choice Italian. An opera
so well understanded
of the people would gee
in any language except
Chinese, and, so far as
the eternal fitness of
things is concerned,
there’s no reason why
the Ring of Spain and
his subjects shouldn’t
prefer the native tongue
of Garibaldi to that of
’Enery Parkes. Any-
how “Maritana” ap-
peared to give large satis-
faction in its novel form.
When nothing in particu-
lar was being warbled
the public mopped their
fevered brows with damp
handkerchiefs which they
waved into a dry state
again after each well-
known air. It is no figure
of speech to say that the
shilling pit (which is the
Alexandra’s very back-
-bone) rose at Lazzarini
after he expressed his
desire to fall like a sold ier.
Not that all warriors
fall in the Bame way, we
must remember. Some
fall with their faces to the
foe, especially when the
foe is all round ’em, but
instincD prompts most
men to expand their backs
for the ball if they sub-
pect the ball is travelling
in their direction. Sig-
nora Rebobtaro made a
melodious fair-haired gipsy, Pimazzoni and Buzzi
were in grand voice, and Don Jo3e and the King,
and Cavalleri’s Lazarillo were pleasant to hear, see,
and think about. Singing all round made amends
for a want of life in the action. Ic is the fashion
with us inanimate Anglo-Saxons to speak of
Southern Europeans as “ born actors.” We ac-
cept their shrugs and fiery gestures as flashes of
histrionic genius. Bub Saturday’s show made it
evident that an Italian company can’t flash much
born-acting into an opera which hasn’t been care-
fully rehearsed. “Ernani” Is given one night
this week, and on Saturday that giddy “ Traviata ”
puts in her first appearance.
*# # *
The Triumvirate, in their anxiety to pro-
mote high art of every description, have engaged
a couple of female Blondins to frolic on a wire
cable, fixed up somewhere near the roof of Mel-
bourne Royal. So, after the four-act drama,
“ First Class,” has run its awful course, Ella
Zuilla and Little Lulu do a lot of hoary business
whioh the famous Frenchman wore threadbare in
the long ago. Ella Zaila i 3 a fine figure of a mus-
cular lady and Little Lulu is a neat young thing,
and they are both fearfully clever, individually
and together. But as a netting stretched over
the stalls obviates the possibility of any sudden
death there isn't much enthusiasm slung about
after the intrepid females have been trot-
ting along in mid-air for ten minutes.
The show outlives wonderment, and seems
out of its element at the Royal. But ib
should go well with Pain's fireworks, whioh are
just now drawing their thousands elvery fine
night. “School for Scandal” finishes at the
Bijou this week, if it isn’t kept on for another six
nights in answer to numerous requests, yerknow.
“ Pinafore,” as presented at the Princess’s, strikes
one as being out of touch with the times. Ids
humour has ran to seed, and its airs sound
hymny. Miss Braham, recovered from her throat
attack, fails to help things along materially, and
altogether there is some long felt want for some-
thing or other at this toney establishment. Per-
haps Nellie Stewart could fill the vacuum. Cog-
hills aud Silk Stockings are likely as ever.
*# # #
For two years past N.Z. has been worried
with a saurian, whose dimensions vary from a
post-office upwards, and which has horns and
spikes and red glaring eye 3 averaging from the
size of a shilling up to that of eighteen-penee or
more, and this animal has lately been the subject
of a lark, which for latent fiendishness and aggre-
gate moral depravity has seldom been equalled.
About the middle of last month a small weak-
looking man with a shrill voice and a big head
and a pair of warped legs, stuck the town of
Hamilton, and plastered it all over with bills an-
nouncing that the saurian had been captured and
would be exhibited that night—admission, six-
pence. Evening came, and the inhabitants rolled
up. Another puffy-headed little man took the
money at the door, and when the house was filled
the proprietor of the show delivered a lecture, in
the course of which the gaping clowns
of Hamilton learned more about saurians
in general than anybody ever knew before
or was likely to know again. Then the
audience yelled for the “rag” to go up, and
it rose slowly to reveal the fact that they had paid
an aggregate total of £8 3s. 6d, to see the man-
giest, meanest-lookicg, commonest specimen of
desolation on four legs that ever an audience had
witnessed. Right in front of them was the torn,
blown-up, mangled, dashed-to-pieces carcase of
the most painfully ordinary cow that ever wore a
horn ; it was dead, and stuffed anyhow with straw
and chaff, and its hide, which looked as if it had
been wasted with fire and sword, was ornamented
with rude designs In red and blue paint. Ib was
shored up with curses and bits of old clothes-
prop, and its tail was starched and tied to the
THE MARQUIS OF DROGHEDA.
roof with a bit of string, while its head hunS
down at the end of its broken neck, and trailed
wearily on the floor. Beside it stood the lecturer,
and in his sublime infatuation he com-
menced to say, “ This remarkable animal,
gentlemen,” when a chair skimmed past
his head, and with a wild whoop the
audience rushed the platform ; and then he
bounded over the illustrated cow and made for
the window. He was caught before he got there
and thrown out on his head, and a hundred in-
furiated citizens fastened on the cow and whopped
the dead animal into shivers. The gas went out,
the furniture was smashed, and the puffy headed
man who had taken the money at the door was
chased into the next county. Next morning
the inspector of nuisances, etcetera, removed
a cow’s head in an advanced stage of
decomposition, which was all that remained of
the show, aud it is resolved that the next man
who exhibits a saurian at Hamilton shall be
lynched.
## # #
The Phil. Diy fund closes on the 19 bh,
and anyone wishing to help it along must
promptly signify the same to Mr. Mayne, trea-
surer of Melbourne Bijou.
** # #
An atrabilious Auckland (N.Z.) correspon-
dent writes
Dear Bulletin,— The Majeronis are playing here again
for a week and losing money; in fact, no good company
ever made anything to talk about in this town. The elite of
Auckland only affect Mohawk Minstrels and glove-fights.
A good dramatic company is nowhere,— Old Victorian.
## * #
The Theatre Royal, Adelaide, is closed
“Held by the Enemy ’ is, however, announced,
and msanwhile the undying Tommy Hudson
keeps the ball rolling at Garner’s Theatre, wnere
Miss Alice St. John warble 3 successfully. Miss
Amy Sherwin has been appearing in concerts at
the Exhibition, and “the Nightingale” has been
most enthusiastically received.
## # #
The fat girl in George-streefc, Sydney, Is
fatter than ever, and she is only li instead of 16,
as we supposed. From the artless, child-like as-
pect of her 26 stone we can readily believe this.
Sheridan, of ‘ Fun on the Bristol ” fame, has pro-
duced a piece called “ Bridget O Brien, Esq.” in
London. London is tired of the rowdy Irish-
woman, however, and Bridget is a frost.
“ Harbour Lights,” with George Leitch as Tom
Dossiter, and H. C Sidney as David Kingsley,
has carried Napier (N.Z.) by storm. Napier is a
place that most people break their legs in their
hurry to get out of. Miss Genevieve Ward has
been playing at Manchester in the presence of the
bishop, dean, and canons. Mrs. Langtry has in-
vested in a special railway-car, value £BOOO,
Buffalo Bill has cleared £70,000 with his
show in London, Maggie Knight, we
are glad to hear, is coming back to
Australia. She has scored a great success in
London in “ Held by the Ecemy,” but the climate
is too cold for her, and she is sneezing all over the
place. Shakespeare revised by a South Aus-
tralian M.L.A. :—“ He who takes my purse takes
rubbish, but he that takes from me my character
takes something that don’t do him no good and
makes me poor indeed.” The Cowboy furore has
not yet quite died out in London. At last advices a
big Indian known as “ Dirty Dog” was the popular
drawing-room favourite, snd the old bald hair-
trunk in which he keeps his correspondence was
overflowing with delicately scented billets ad-
dressed to “ Soiled Canine, Esq.” On Boxing
Night, Messrs. Brough and Boncicaulb start a
twelve-months’engagement at Sydney Criterion.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Times Eays that “ Charles
Warner, who is to take the place of Mr. Titheradge
with the great triumvirate, will, in some sort,
compensate for the loss of the beautiful Ameri-
can.” From which we gather (hat Titheradge is
a professional beauty of some kind or other,
Charles Warner, comedian, is coming to Mel-
bourne in February, under engagement to the
Triumvirate. Mary Anderson will also come if
her mother is well enough, but she won’t leave
the old lady behind. Fred. Leslie and Nellie
Farren are coming, quite irrespective of their
mothers. Alfred Cellier is also coming. Sara
Bernhardt isn’t. She says she can make £lOOO a
night in South America, and she isn’t going to
throw herself away for a miserable £250 a n'ght
in Australia. Nellie Stewart is coming, however,
which makes up—in fact, pretty nearly everybody
is comiDg, except Bismarck, the Pope, and Smith-
son, Duke of Northumberland.
London Graphic considers that it wou’d
be wiser for the English Government, instead of
spending £1,000,000 ou ironclads, to pack off some
of the unemployed to Australia and New Zea-
land. The Graphic is evident y ignorant of the
fact that all available sleeping accommodation on
the grass in Sydney Domain is already engaged.
MEN OF MARK.
Clergymen of whatever denomination are un-
doubtedly men of mark. Perhaps a'l do not
make their mark as preachers, yet at best preach-
ing is hut one of the many attributes which go to
make up a successful minister. But we use the
expression “Men of Mark ” in its broadest sense.
Clergymen are examples ; are virtually “ men of
mark ” in the community in which they minister.
The r acts are carefully noted, and their words
pondered on and believed. And it is right and
proper that this should b 8 so. A man who un-
selfishly devotes his life to doing good, and to the
dissemination of that wisdom which is first pure,
then peaceable, should have the confidence and
respect of his fellow men. The Rev. H. Pattin-
son, of Roches'er, Vic oria, a gentleman well and
favourably known, was recently very near to
death His remarkable escape, and the means
emplojed, is best told in his own words: “I
have suffered greatly at intervals during the laso
ihree years from kidney disease and stone in the
bladder. I tried various remedies, and got advice
from two or three doctors, but nothing I tried
gave me more than temporary relief. Frequently
when away from home attending to my pastoral
duties, have I suddenly been seized with a violent
pain in my b ck and right side, extending through
the groin and hip joints, which would almost
bring me double, and cruse the cold perspiraiion
to pour from my body These attacks were be-
coming more frequent and more severe each time.
I would have to pass through from 21 to 36 hours
of the most excruciating pain before I could get
any relief from the uss of bran poultices, hot
flannels, &and I would be left in such a weak
state, that before I gained a little strength I would
be seized with another attack. A day or two be-
fore these attacks the urine voided would be as
pale as clear water, but suddenly it would change
to a high colour, and after standing a little while
would be about one-third brickdust. At these
time 3 it was generally scanty, and was voided with
pain. My life was becoming one of misery, and I
thought serioudy of giving up the work of the
ministry. I became wretchedly thin, and to my
friends as well as myself it became evident that I
was not long for this world. I had heard a good
deal about Warner's safe care, but never made up
my mind to try it until advised by our chairman,
Rev. S. P. Webber, who wrote me a letter seating
what benefit he had received. I bought three
bottles and some pills and commenced taking
them according to direction'’. The first bottle
made me very ill ; I was not in much pain, but
pissed a large quantity of blood. This continued
at intervals for about a fortnight, when I passed
away a small and was greatly relieved.
From that time I recovered rapidly, and after
taking about 14 bottles of Warner's safe cure, and
six vials of Warner’s safe pills, I feel quite well
again ; work has become a pleasure, and I have
been able to conduct nine weeks of special ser-
vices, apart from my ordinary work. I used to
suffer from indigestion, and had a poor appetite.
1 can now sit up at table and enjoy a meal
thoroughly, and I feel none of the bad effects
afterwards as I used to do. All this has bßen
wrought since last Easter, and I trust it will be
permanent, as I have every reason to believe it
will. I feel it my bounden duty to recommend
Warner’s safe cure and Warner's safe pills to all
who may be suffering from the same complaint as
I have been.”
The following named colonial clergymen have
also endorsed Warner's safe cure over their signa-
ture Rev. Father Kiley, C.G., Yass, N.S.W.;
Rev. Henry Plume, M.A , Townsville, Q. ; Rev.
Thomas Brassington, Clermont, Q. ; Rev. Richard
Brown, Seymour, Yict. ; Rev. J. Wheatley,
Ipswich, Q.; Rev. Wm. Powell, Rockhampton’
Q. ; Rev. W. Poole, South Brisbane, Q. ; while
scores of clergymen in England, Canada, and ihe
United Sbates have borne testimony to the un-
rivalled virtues of the preparation under notice.


Pepper
And
Salt
As an example of inane and pompon s
weakness, New South Wales, just now, stands
pre-eminent. The mother-colony of Australia
has, at the present moment, a debt of £15,000,000,
an army and navy, a naval defence scheme, apian for
keeping out the Chinese, a revenue of 8h millions
per annum, and a great array of fortifications with
a strong and warlike population behind them,
and, with all this outward show, such is her totter-
ing feebleness that she is trodden underfoot by one
cow. Down at Manly, there lives an international
outrage with a crumpled horn, which persistently
enters the garden of a local sheik and dines upon
the choicest blossoms, and the insulted citizen
last week laid the matter before the Council and
asked if he might get up early in the morning,
before the break of day as it were, and assault
this animated enormity with a two-pronged fork.
And the Council, in the depths of its aggregate im-
becility, didn’t know. Some of the members thought
he might rush the aggravating beast under the
Superannuation Aotof 18Gl,buttheypresentlyfound
that measure had been repealed, and next they sug-
gested that he should read the Riot Act, and then
charge at his own risk and the cow’s, and when
the animal got outside he m’ght proceed against
it as a public enemy. But the Council would
take no responsibility, and the cow is still there.
There is no Act of Parliament large enough to
hold ib, and it remains in defiance of international
obligations, the teachings of the moral law, and
the old-established customs of civilised races.
New South Wales, even while claiming to be in
itself the whole continent of Australia, is trodden
underfoot by one lachrymose cow, and held up to
public derision on the point of its crumpled horn ;
the country which professed to fight the battles
of Britain in the Soudan is laughed to scorn by a
lank old heifer with a threadbare tail, and the
shadow of that ill-omened brute is cast across the
coming Centenary. Could human degradation go
further ? „
* * *
Ib was a summer morning in a pleasant
up-country township in N.S.W. The sun shone
brightly from a cloudless sky ; the dew sparkled
on the grass, the air was loaded with daisy-scents
and the sweet odour of the violet, and the glad-
some cornstalks swore in the gutter. A dead cat
lay in the middle of the roadway. It was a small
tortoiseshell animal, and when people looked at it
they felt sorry for its untimely fate. All that day
ib remained there, and towards evening a cart
went over its head and squashed it fiat. Then
somebody kicked it, and a horse stepped on its
tail. Nexb*morning a little girl found it, and
played with it for a while till her mother slapped
her little ear and threw the cat into the gutter.
A boy wrapped it up in paper, and left it at the
house of a policeman, who, when he found out
what was In the package, swore and threw it
back into the street where ib lay till nightfall.
Then somebody shied it in at an open bedroom-
window, and, a little later on, a sweet grey-eyed
girl in a night-dress took it up by the tail and
cast it forth with curses. It rose again on the
third day, when an omnibus stove it in,
and, as the sultry afternoon wore on, a lar-
rikin discharged a flattened, mutilated, evil-
smelling object into the local bank and hit the
accountant on the back of the head. The bill-
clerk chased him for half a mile, and the messen-
ger put the mouldy relic of the cat out in the
kennel by the aid of a pair of tongs. A drunken
man sat on it shortly afterwards, and had to be
disinfected before he could re-enter society.
There was a political meeting that night, and just
as an eloquent speaker demanded to know what
could be more corrupt than the policy of Protec-
tion, the cat landed on the desk in front of him,
a miserable wreck, with two legs, no head, and a
vanished tail. Then the Mayor, who was in the
chair, audibly ordered Policeman O’Rafferty to
take the beastly thing out and bury it, and his
order was attended to by the shuddering con-
stable. Or, at least, he said ib was, and Police-
man O Doolan backed him up, but next night the
Mayor had a party, and a hideous object, all claws
and decay, came down the chimney, and scattered
the fire in all directions, Ib was the cat. It was
thrown out for the twentieth time, and nothing
more was heard of it till one ear turned up in the
parson’s water-supply. And yet they say that
sanitary laws are carefully attended to in N.S.W.
The late floods at Goal burn (Vic.) washed
out quite a number of Mongolian settlements and
carri d them down to the briny deep. Patriarchal
stenches of great strength and low standing wore
tom out by the roots ; crazy furniture, slop-built
hovels, and the accumulated rottenness of years
were all borne away to the gladsome ocean, and
nothing but a few gaunt old cabbages, and the
corpse of an ancient dog tethered to a stump,
were left to mark the spot where the heathen had
encouraged the growth of the callot, the spling-
ooion, and the lettucee. The stub nosed Pagans
were washed out of their downy bunks during the
silent watches of the night, and climbing on their
roofs, looked out on a heaving waste of waters,
from the midst of which came the occasional wail
of a leper swept down upon the tide. Ooe
monkeyish old heathen, who straddled the Gothic
root of a tottering ruin, refused to be taken off
unless his pig, which was deftly poised on an
adjacent chimney, was also saved, and the rescue
party told him they would see him condemned
first, and left. Then the pig elevated his curly
tail to the blast and struck out for the shore, and
Ms owner breathed forth a curse and started
ia pursuit in a wash-tub. The race was
an exciting one. but the porker kept ahead,
and the Chow, being spilt out, was finally saved
by a party on a raft, who stuck a boat-hook in his
ear, and, lifting him out of the wet, stood him on
his head to leak When he recovered he lifted up
his voice and wept, and swore he would prosecute
everybody within ten miles if they did not save
his skedaddling pork, and then the rescue-party
swore at him and kicked him. At la6t, however,
all the Chlnkies were saved and landed safely
above high-water mark, but their beloved asso-
ciations, their pigs, their shantiss, and their
treasured and well-defined stinks —alas! Where
CELESTIAL FRATERNITY.
BISHOP BARRY: “IT IS OUR DUTY TO EMBRACE OUR CHINESE BRETHREN
IN THE HOLY CALLING OP RELIGION,” &c.
... “A monster of such frightful mein,
That, to be hated, needs but to be seen;
But, seen too oft,, familiar with its face,
We first enduro, then pity, then embrace.”
were they ?: Pratioally they were nowhere, and
in Goulburn there is a voice heard like unto that
of a Chinkie Rachel weeping for her children and
refusing to be comforted.
* * *
In this uncertain and treacherous world!,
when the thing which man contemplates has bust
like the worm of the earth which is here
to-day and to-morrow is cast into the oven —when
his tenderesb feelings have gone up the spout, and
the fondest desire of his heart has been rolled in
the dust, and all terrestrial joys have sloped, it is
customary to assert that a woman had something
to do with it. 3 The idyls of the dusty back-blocks
bear undying witness to the unreliability of the
female of our species, and the songs of the up-
country poet, when he isn’t singing about the
wattle, tell in mournful strain of how woman’s
love salts the human claim- Only a few days aaro,
in a lonely township on the Darling, a man was
sitting on a doorstep and thinking sadly of these
things. He was one of three who had spent the
treasure of the'r affections on the same lovely
maiden, and two of them had been left. The first
had been hanging around for a year and a half,
and at the end of that time tho girl voted him a
dreary bo-e and gave him the sack. The
second had spent all his cash in rings,
brooches, bracelet?, and finery, and when
he wa3 dead-broke the lady had gone back on
him just 18 hours before the wedding day,
I and had married another. The third was the
happy husband, a wily party with a red goatee,
and he had not only collared the girl, but all the
I presents besides. As we already mentioned, a man
[ was sitting on a doorstep. He was the second of
the three lovers, the one who had fooled away all
his assets in jewellery, and it was the girl’s door-
step he was sitting on. He had kicked 16 times
I at the portal of her marble halls, and then he sat
down to wait with a look of desperate resolve in
his eyes and a pair of large boots on his feet. He
asked through the keyhole if the old cat was at
home, but there was no response, and then he
called out that her hair wasn’t her own, and
where did she buy her teeth? That fetched her.
She opened the door, and, looking ather discarded
lover with an expression of tender reproach in
■ her eyes, said she woull sool the Hog oa to him
and he laughed and called her husband ‘ ‘ Carrots.
Then he explained in a cold and arrogant tone
that he would sit there all day and make re-
marks about her hair and teeth loud enough for
all the world to hear, unless she gave him back
his presents, and she retired, bathed in grief, and
threw all the expensive bric-a-brac out on the
pavement. He carefully piled them up in a heap
ia front of the house and jumped on them, and
having thus given expression to his feelings, he
set the pile on fire and sang comic songs while it
slowly resolved itself into ashes. When her hus-
band came round the corner with an axe-handle
half-an-hour later, all that remained of the sacri-
fice was a heap of ashes on the footpath, two
dirty boot-marks on the steps, a girl in hysterics
in the parlour, and no dinner ready, and when he
asked her what she was boo-hooing about she
went off again and said he was a brnte.
* * *
The Rev. A. M‘Vean, of Melbourne, says
119 is “ boiling and burning with indignation ”
because the Victorian It ill way Commissioners
propose to run trains on Christmas Day (Sunday).
Mr. M'Vean should put his head in hot Water and
his feet in cold. This would soon take the blood
from his brain dud send it up into his head.
You will require to read this carefully.
The biggest woman in the world is the
prioress of the Swiss Convent. She is nine feet
high and has a baard. No wonder she went into
a convent, and no wonder that she has become
the boss thereof. She has just gone to Rome to
kiss the Pope’s toe. We wouldn’t allow her to
kiss our toe.
There are nearly 1100 houses unoccupied
in Dunedin, N.Z., and suburbs. In Manse-street,
formerly one of the busiest thoroughfares, only
two buildings—a publio-house a/ud a pawn-shop
are tenanted. Even the Little Bethel is closed,
and the Howling Crowd doesn't march that way
now, for a publican and pawnbroker are harder
to save than a leprous agony.
The “ outrages ” on unprotected females
continue, and while J. S. Famell wants to protect
women by making them older and yet more' in •
nocent in the eyes of the law, the age of “ out-
raged " females is rapidly descending. At South
Me bourne last week a little miss of 11, who was
probably a “constant reader” of the Evenin
Herald, told the usual story about a Welshman
named David Evans. She swore positively to
poor Taffy, but, fortunately, Davy Evans, who is
a [kitchen-gardener, was at work all that day
growing leeks and things, and the outraged little
maid from school was bowled out this time. The
beak told Davy there was no stain on the name of
Evans
The N.S.W. Minister for Justice is re-
quested to note the fact that the District Court
presided over by a certain judge, is, if the
daily papers are to be believed, fast de-
generating into a Punch-and-Judy show the role
of Punch being enacted by his Honor. The public
don’t think much of the brand of law which is
ladled out by an official who is eternally straining
for washy jokes and talking at the reporters, and
who, during the progress of a case, stands up a
few dozen times, and petulantly yelps: “ Oh,
dear, dear, you will kill me yet; you will worry
me to death. Dear, dear, I don’t think I can go
on with this case—l feel very bad this morning.
Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear !" There are plenty of
lawyers good enough for District Court judges,
and it would be just as well if some of the fossils
were replaced by persons who are not gouty, and
who have not a mania for jokes such as are ordin-
arily uttered only by persons in the extremest
itagei Of nervous debility.
A PLAY UPON WORDS.
(FOR MEN ONLY.)
Mary Jones, she was a “ tart” —
The nicest bit of “jam”;
She nestled to my loving heart
As gentle as a lamb.
No fellow ever was more struck l
She seemed a little “treat,”
A “ daisy” girl, a perfect “ duck
Quite nice enough to eat.
But Mary’s tongue is awful tart
Since she was Mrs. Brown.
She “ puts on jam,” and, bless my heart!
Dalights to “lamb” me down.
No husband is more often struck;
Unless I stand her “ treat,”
My dazy head I have to duck —
She’s nice enough to heat.
Yes, though Love’s fire brightly burned,
And warm was my desire,
To-day, as far as I’m concerned,
She might be on the fire.
The mere effect of changing names,
By Benedict! was such
That if I saw my “ flame ” in flames,
I shouldn't worry much.
The girls are well enough to kiss,
Or write about in rhyme—
But ne'er disturb their single bliss,
And spoil your wild time.
Still let each darling do the Block
With wedlock in her head,
And, though you steal therefrom a lock,
Don’t also try the “ wed.”
* “ I know a bank where the wild thyme grows.”—Shake-
speare. That wild thyme ia the period of latchkeys, late
Euppe s, and freedom.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Jack Want is going to “ take silk.” An
old gime of his, by-the-way.
Brunton Stephens has jast written a
pretty libretto for d ooniic opera.
“Jimmy ” Thompson (Yic.), of Exhibition
notoriety, is in London floating mines.
Rowley Pickering (“ Nemo ” of the Sid-
ney Mail) has come in for some money.
“Debrett” says Sir Archibald Michiej
Q.C., lives at St: Kildare, near Melbourne.
Sir Charles Warren, the head of the
London polios Is a C.M.G. That lb oka pe ty badi
Salomons, Q.C., is going to England in a
fortnight. He wants to escape Parkes' oration at
the Centsnnlal.
Dickie Liagard’s husband, Dalziel, has
brought a libel action against the Duke of Marl-
borough for £5OOO.
Ib is now reported that Lord Dalhousie
blew his brains out. This is more than a certain
peer we know can do.
A publican in a N.S.W. up-country town
claims to be a nephew of Father Mathew, the
temperance reformer.
Mr. Ball, the barber in the N.S.W. Par-
liament, says he never sees a member take his
teat without feeling inclined to lather him.
It is cabled that the Prince of Wales has
been elected President of the Social Parity Society.
Thi3 news, however, requires confirmation.
It is not generally known that Mr.
Edmund Barton, the ex Speaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly, some time ago refused a knighthood.
Last week Beach gave a much-advertised
testimonial to a certain brand of cocoa : now he
gives one to a certain brand of pills. To what
base uses 1
It is a singular fact that while several of
the ladies of the Rothschild family have married
Christians, no male member of it has ever been
known to do so.
Mr. A. R. Butterworth is the new N.S.W,
Crown Prosecutor. He has entered on his duties
with the full conviction that the traditions of the
office shall not be hereditary.
Two gentlemen who recently one after the
other gave evidence before the South Australian
Vegetable Products Commission, were named
Henry Poett and William Swinburne.
Mind-reader Bishop has sued his wife for
divoroe, on the ground that she had a husband
living when he married hbr. Tt is plain that
Bishop can’t read the mind of a grass-widow.
Of the deceased Maori M.P., Wi Tako, a
N.Z. paper says “Wi Tako, who began life as
a little savage, has ended as a member of the Par-
liament.” From bad to worse, we suppose.
There is a German in Sydney (N S.W.)
whocamepoor, but is now extremely rich. He never
employs anyone bub Germans. His house is filled
with German furniture, and his faotory with Ger-
man machinery.
There is a monument in a quiet nook in
Gulgong cemetery to the memory of a son of the
sturdy old Dr. Lang. When the son was dying
the old man made the long journey to his bedside
and remained to the last.
Messrs. Ball (of N.S.W.) and Pearce (of
Melbourne) are not the only tonsorial artists who
have had seats in Parliament. A member of their
loquacious profession sat for Castlemaine in the
Victorian Assembly years ago.
“Her Majesty was shown a selected col-
lection of Queensland opals, and was graciously
pleased to accept some of the stones as a gift
Cable. Was pleased to accept! Bless her great,
motherly heart, how kind she is!
W. P. Morgan, the Charters Towers soli-
citor, it is cabled, has found a 25-foot quartz-reef,
giving 6oz. per ton, near Dolgelly, North Wales.
Mr. Morgan has now been in London for some
years in the Australian mining interest.
A terrace of houses occupied by disrepu-
table people in the lowest and grimiest pare of
Sussex-street, Sydney, is owned by the family of a
deadand-gone Governor of N.S.W., who care-
folly draw the rents while residing on the Con-
tinong.
The late Baron De Stern, of London, left
about six millions, two millions of which go to
his eldest son. His daughter, the wife of Sir
David Salomons, received a dowry of half a
million. His still unmarried daughter now re-
ceives about £BOO,OOO.
Judge Qainlan wanted to know the mean-
ing of “Konongwootong,” at Coleraine (Vic ), the
other day. Only one man in Court knew it, and
he informed his Honor that the translation would
shock the Bench. His Honor has now lost all
interest in the beautiful aboriginal language.
Judge Dowling, of Sydney, says that
when a man is in distress he becomes a commis-
sion-agent. Judging from certain of the judicial
jokes we see reported in the papers, we have come
to the conclusion that in some countries, when a
circus-down is ia distress he becomes a judge.
Whereat, of Tenterfield (N.S.W.), who
won fame by giving Parkes a seat in Parliament
when he was shut out from the political arena, is
keeping his name before the public by carrying on
a wordy combat with the editor of the local paper
on a question of world-wide importance—much. .
The painter of the picture “ A jax carrying
off Cassandra,” which was bought from the Gros-
venor Gallery for’ the Ballarat Art Gallery, the
other day, is Mr. Solomon Solomons. He is only
24 years of age. What a thundering lot of wisdom
he ought to have stored up by the time he is an
old man!
A Melbourne theatrical scribbler spaakaof
the author of “God and the Man” as “Bob"
Buchanan. Ye Gods ! A fellow like that would
have the audacity to call Parkes “Arry.” By
the way, we wonder if Stella took such a liberty
with the Beauteous Errorist when he was kissing
her through the night ?
There was a time when Sir Arthur Palmer
was the best boss of a woolshei in Queensland.
Many were the occasions when the champion-
nuisance shearer was requested to “Cum oat-
side," and returned, 15 minutes later, a sadder
and a wiser man. Now, Sir Arthur runs round
in a velvet coat and a pursy chain, and swears at
the servants.
We observe that the Duke of Cornwall.
alias the Prince of Wales, alias Albert Edward
Wettin, “ officiated at the opening of Truro
Cathedral on November 3." We shall n® xC
expect to hear that HR H will officiJt®


at the opening of the New Jerusalem, or, perhaps,
that he will be accommodated with a seat on the
bench of the “ General Judgment! ”
In the golden past, there were three law
clerks who plodded for the same Melbourne firm.
Their names were Davies, Donovan, and Blank.
The first is now Speaker of the Victorian
Assembly ; the second, Donovan, owns Dunlop,
winner of this j ear’s Melbourne Cup ; while
Blank awaits his trial for wife murder. All
three attained distinction last month.
We see it stated that, when Cardinal
Moran arrived in Brisbane, his health was “en-
thusiastically drunk.” Now, Cardinal Moran, when
Sydney, is an enthusiastic teetotaller. Are we
assume that at Brisbane his health wras drunk
in Souchong, or doe 3 his Eminence when abroad
end countenance to the Pagan custom of trying
to benefit another man’s health by ruining your
own with whisky 1
The disabled foot of our dear young friend,
Prince Albert Victor, is, we read in a Radical
paper, “ Significant of a constitutional weakness
which is beginning to manifest itself in the Heir-
Apparenfs eldest son. It was only of the very
slightest character, but the Prince lately has been
far from well, ard the medical men in attendance
upon him thought it advisable that he should lie-
up.” It'■is indeed sad to think that this poor
young main should be so weak at both ends.
Mr. , David Charteris McArthur, late
manager of the Bank of Australasia, Melbourne,
had no fads or crochets about tbe disposal of his
property. In 1812 hs made a last will and testa-
ment, bequeathing everything he was worth to
his wife. Probably he wasn't worth very much
at that time, but the £30,000 which Mr. McArthur
left behind him in November last reverted to his
widow on the authority of the straightforward
document drawn up 45 yesrs previously. Such a
venerable will is somewhat rare.
Mr. Henniker Heaton departed for Eng-
land by the Ormuz. We are sorry to hear that
duriDg his absence Canterbury has been steadily
going down hill in a spiritual sense. At the local
Cathedral the other Sunday the audienca con-
sisted of one sinner, who had probably assembled
to pray for Henniker’s conversion from Toryism.
This recalls the old story of the parson who, find-
ing that a crony of his was the only person who
had assembled to hear his sermon, addressed the
congregation as “ Dearly-beloved Roger.”
We read that “ the Prince of Wales, when
he took his morning draughts at the Homburg
SpriDgs, dazzled beholders with an amazing cos-
tume. It was made apparently out of a snuff-
coloured blanket, delicately set off by a red silk
handkerchief tied round his neck so as to show
above the collar a, thin red line. The striking
costume was based on tan leather shoes and
crowned by a light Tyrolean bat. A white Pomer-
anian dog followed at his htels. His invariable
salutation to his feminine acquaintances was, ‘Are
you drinkiug the watabs this morning ?’ ”
Marcus Clarke used to say that overy
Dublin man he met was a Trinity College man.
Nearly every Dublin man you meet in Australia
comes from an aristocratic portion of the city—in
fact no man ever saw a plebeian from the Liffey.
At a large hotel in the N. S W. back-blocks last
Easter six or seven of the guests were from the
Iri«h capital and most of them had a “ town
house” to boast of One silent individual, on
being asked what part he came from, made the
rest of the company somewhat uncomfortable by
declaring that he wa3 born in Pilllane, as all
Dublin men could not be aristocrats.
It is not generally known that his Honor
Sir George Innes, of the N.S.W. Supreme Court
bench, was (during the time of hia C.P.S.-ship at
Sofala) a very capable amateur jockey. There
were races at the rich goldfield at Tambaroora,
aud the C P.S. was to astonish the red-shirted
diggers with his feats in the pigskin. When
scaling before the race “ Sir Joe ” was found to be
"too light for his mount, and, as the locil racing
arrangements were of a very primitive order some
difficulty was experienced in finding material to
make weight- Happy thought 1 Any amount of
gold was in the'eamp, and “ Sir Joe ” rode iris race,
and won it too, encircled with a belt containing
several pounds of gold-dust!
The cabled announcement that the “ Pic-
turesque Atlas of Australasia” has obtained en-
thusiastic commendation from the London Times
is not surprising. Apart altogether from the un-
doubted excellence of this ambitious and compre-
hensive work, there is the fact that Dr. Garran,
who edits the “ Atlas,” was for many years Aus-
tralian correspondent of the Times. Toe veteran
Doctor's name, by the way, carries weight in
London, not only by reason of his having been for
many years editor of the Sydney Mornivg
Herald, but also on account of the fact that tbe
artic'e on Australia in the “ Encyclopedia Brit-
tanica” came from hi 3 pen, and bears his signa-
ture.
Yon Moltke has just celebrated his 87th
birthday. He married an Eoglish wife, who is
now dead, but wiih pathetio intensity of devotion
he has kept her memory green. On his birthday
he went, as usual, to his quiet country home, and
from morn till night never moved out of one room
—his wife's. This is a charming apartment
lighted by three lofty windows, and commands a
view of the spot where she lies at rest. Since her
death nothing ba3 been moved in the room, and
here, in communion with the past, and in thought
about the futurp, Germany’s captain of war keeps
his birthday. What a lot of poetry a butcher can
hold, to be sure ! This sublime reflection has
often occurred to us as we listene 1 to an oration
by Dan. O’Connor, M.P. "
Anecdotes of a “great man’s” infancy
are always interesting. Here is one which the
widow of a Queensland litterateur is wont to tell
of the days when the infant P £ almyell was a
gawky youth of 16. From the first, the household,
beginning from the Reverend Papa, and passing
down through the Irish cook to the cow and the
pig, were trained to look upon the infant P3almyell
as the hope and idol of the great name of Ap
Gryphitthe. On a certain occasion an evening
party was given, and this lady, then a sprightly
damsel, well aware of such sublunary actualities
as a healthy hunger and digestive apparatus, was
present. At about 9 o’clock there was an adjourn-
ment to an inner room for light refreshments, and
there the damsel happened to ca3t her eyes on a
plate of pleasant and dainty sugary cakes, It
occurred to her to wish for some. But what were
the decrees of an all-wise Providence in this
matter ? The infant Pealmyell was presently per-
ceived, seated in a corner, solemnly and deliber-
ately consuming the whole plateful! And the
Reverend Papa, beaming with piide and pleasure,
watched thewhole process out, and thanked Heaven
he had a son and heir like that! And ever since
then, in whatever he has done, Psalmyell has ful-
filled his youthful role and eaten up all the cakes.
But it is not given to all men to rpjo'ce at it, and
hence . . . Well, hence hce la r rimai!
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Governor of Australia —the Admiral
of the Fleet.
The Tories are going to deprive Irish poli-
tical offenders of the right of appeal against the
decisions of magistrates!
“ A Country Gaoler ” suggests that the
name of N.S.W. shall be altered to “Australia,
alias New South Wales.”
In six years, while the population of
N.S.W. ha 3 increased 3(5 per cent, that of Sydney
has advanced 57 per cent.!
The realisation of Responsible Govern-
ment in Western Australia kills the last Crown
colony in Australasia. We are seven.
“ The honourable gentleman let the cat
out of the bag and made it a stalking horse, which
he afterwards meanly cast overboard to lighten
the ship. ’ Choice flower of poetic allegory from
the N.Z. Legislature.
SINGULAR AND PLURAL
“THANK GOD, AUSTRALIA CAN STAND ALONE!"-PARKES.
“THANK HEAVEN, AUSTRALIA CAN STAND SEVERAL LOANS.”—BULLETIN.
Germany has lent China 100 officers to
re-organise her army. Thus do the “ Chinese of
Europe ” coalesce with the Chinese of Asia.
Unprejudiced persons, who have of late
travelled the N.S.W. country districts, say that
the Calico cruse has completely gone bung.
Dr. Corbis will, at next election, be de-
feated for Bathurst, should he stand. Politically,
Dr. Cortis is stupid enough to make the attempt.
In answer to a question at St. Leonards
hustings on 2nd February last Parkes said: “I
will be no party to an all-round reduction of Civil
service salaries.”
In the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly on
the night of Friday week there were five members
“close-up” dead-drunk. A large number of
others were partially sober'.
The designs for the N.S.W. State House
place the cost at £500,000. Parkes says he can
get it done for less than half that. He probably
means to build it on I O. U’s.
Joe Abbott hopes that if he remains in
public life for thirty years his record will be
cleaner than that of Sir Henry Parkes. Some
men have mighty poor aspirations.
Mr. John See, M.P., says that much of
the strong drink now sold in N.S.W. is worse
than “ Rough on Rats.” If this is true some hon.
members must be made of sterner stuff than rats
are.
Griffith, who was lifted into power and
remains in office solely because of his opposition
to cheap labour, bases his approval of the Naval
Defence Scheme on the employment of under-paid
seamen.
The scheme to re-name N.S.W. “Australia”
is not more original than Parkes' borrowed Public
Schools Act. Years ago, when Victoria separated,
a party, headed by Dr. Lang, mooted the same
proposal.
Some N.S.W. groveller writes to the
S.M. Herald to suggest that the name of the
colony be changed to “ Alberta, Alfceda, Leo-
poloia, or Caringtonia.” Why not add Batten-
bergia and Johnbrownia to the list ?
Premier Playford, of S.A., expects that
eight appointments to Legislative Council va-
cancies, which occur next March, will result in
the adoption of the Chinese poll-tax in the
Northern Morgol-plagued portion of the colony.
Lord Rosebery hopes that when James
Service returns to Victoria he will continue to
occupy (wrong expression) the prominent and
powerful position in the colony which he pre-
viously held. That’s up against Duncan Gillies,
Premier.
The 63 N.S.W. Government supporters
have managed to secure £11,124 for their parks ;
the 43 Opposition members could only scoop a
paltry £l5BB, “To the'victors belong the spoils.”
By this time the country should be full of
Park(e)s.
Queensland pays £7610 annually for its
Vice-regal ornament. The first Governor received
£2500, and was probably the ablest. Consequently,
the next old pensioner sent to Brisbane Govern-
ment House from England will have to accept a
reduced screw.
Mr. Minister Clarke gave himself away
rather cheaply at the N.S.W. Art Society banquet,
when he said. “ I always avoid making a speech,
either in Parliament or out of it.” Well, no one
ever expected him to make one. Men do not look
for figs on thistles, or ostrich-plumes on a razor-
back pig.
At the Chaffeys’ irrigation colony of Mil
dura, Victoria, 80,000 acres of land are ready for
immediate settlement. They expect before the
irrigation works are completed to have 5000
people settled in the place, to swell to 20,000 be-
fore the colony finally passes from the hands of its
promoters.
A young man has jnst been devoured by a
water-shark, and all the papers are full of the
“ horrible occurrence.” Whole families are eaten
up every day by the land-sharks, and no notice
whatever is taken except to run the sharks into
position and power, and observe that “ the bless-
ing of Heaven maketh rich.”
Vogel “ has evolved a scheme for reliev-
ing N.Z. from its difficulties, and ensuring the
immediate return of prosperity,” M'Gregor,
M.P., intends to ask the Government if they will
purchase the proprietary rights in said scheme for
the sum of £lO,OOO. Is there so much money left
in the land of the unredeemed ?
Parkes “ insists that the change of the
name of N.S.W. to ‘Australia’ meets with the
approval of the vast majority of the settled in-
habitants of the territory.” By settled inhabi-
tants he probably means the o’.d hands. There is
nothing very improbable in the notion that they
approve of the proposed burglary.
A stranger to Sydney, who visited the
N. S.W. Assembly durirg the naval defences dis-
cussion, noticed one of the members for Northum-
berland (Mr. Walker) rise some ten times to
“ catch the Speaker s eje,” but, strange to say,
Walker missed each time. It looked curious to
tbe visitor, but no doubt the Speaker is impartial.
Last year the English missions in Persia,
Palestine, Egypt, and Arabia, cost £11,804 9i. 6d ,
and the result was one convert. He was an aw -
fully expensive convert, and, on a rough estimate,
472 of the London poor could have been saved
from the horrors of 12 months of slow starvation
with the money that was frittered away in teach-
ing this one little nigger the beautiful s ory of
how Jonah swallowed the whale.
Says the S.M. Herald :—“ It is a matter
for congratulation that at a time when many per-
sons are unemployed, and when the profits of
trade and industry are small, the prices of the
leading articles of consumption are unusually
low.” Why, cert’n’ly. It Is a matter for congraj
tulation that, while Freetrade makes one or tv o
articles of food cheaper, it should, by leaving the
workman unemployed, prevent him from obtain-
ing any of them.
We rise to inquire ! Sydney D.T. ascribes
the Imperialism of Parkes (who is also called
Sharkes) to the poetical fibre in him. Shake-
speare, however (according to the D.T.) was a
poet, and yet he was ‘* mildly and sweetly
reasonable.” We are yearning for the connecting-
link here Now, one of the few authentic relics
of Shakespeare is a writ which he served in his
later years on a man who owed him £2 for wool.
Can it be that Parkes . . , that Shakespeare
. . . that . . . No; we give it up
Sir Alfred Stephen, G.C.M.G., Lieuten-
ant-Governor of N.S.W., &c., &c., is reported to
have said that Queen Victoria is “the most bene-
ficent and gracious woman and the greatest
sovereign who has filled the English throne.” To
what a Grand Cro3S ship and a pension will reduce
a man in his extreme old age! A V/ctorian
journal suggests that the reporter didn’t catch
correctly what the old gentleman said, and that,
possibly, what ha really stated was that Vic. was
“a most indifferent and rapacious woman, and
had the greatest number of sovereigns of anyone
that had filled the English throne.”
That eminent British peer, the Dake of
Richmond, has just so’d his Government pension
of £19,000 a year for a few hundreds of thousands
in hard ca3h. His ancestress was a French “ un-
married mother," and his ancestor was Charles
11., who promised, at his coronation, to be a
father to his people, and did his best to keep his
word. The original Duke of Richmond got a pen-
sion of £19,000 in recognition of his distinguished
services, rendered by being the son of his mother
when his father wasn’t married to her, and, in
the course of the last 200 years, Britain has paid
some £3,800,000 to his family in its efforts to wipe
off this eld score. Who says the mother country
is ungrateful ?
“ The Butter Trade, a Big Business with-
out Protection,” is the imposing heading of an
article in a recant issue of the Sydney News. On
reading it through, we learn that last summer 300
tons of butter were bought in Sydney for fi. per
lb., and sold in London as oil. This is, no doubt,
a big business, but we fail to reconcile it with the
recant establishment in Sydney of an oleomar-
garine factory, or to see where the eithusiasm
comes in. Is is also tha sorb of business that
grows up without Protection, but again we fail to
see what tbe row is all about. The Freetrader
who can get up an excitement over selling N.S. W.
butter at jjd. par lb. in London as oil must be an
aaa of no mean order.
As Premier, it would seem, from what we
read and hear, that Parkes has utterly lost
his grip. Politicians and pressmen have now
begun to quietly discuss the allotment of the
next batch of New South Wa’e3 Minis-
terial portfolios. There is a very strong proba-
bility that the coming administration (when it
does come) will be, flecally, a Ministry of com-
promise ; it may be heeded y Mr. Barton, or Mr.
G. II Reid, and contain Me -era. Abbott, Dibbs, and
Copeland. It is not probable that when a general
election eventuates either freetraders or protec-
tionists will secure a sweeping majority ; but it is
now pretty certain that Parke 3 will be wiped out
—this time, probably, never again to return to
office.
A nephew of the late Sir Alexander
Stuart’s, of N.S.W., Professor Stuart, M.P., has
been visiting Ireland. On his return he lectured in
the Shoreditch (London) Town Hall, and gavealong
and minute description of his experiences. This
is his opinion of the Irish political situation
They saw, as he had seen with his own eyes, on the one
hand, the Government of the country provoking the people
to violence and outrage—(shame)—and, on the other hand
the chosen leaders of the people restraining those people
within the limits of Constitutional agitation. (Hear, hear )
They saw, in fact, a picture absolutely the reverse of that which
their opponents endeavoured to paint. But there was one
safeguard in Ireland just now. The Government knew full
well that if they succeeded in driving the people to crime and
outrage the clock of Ireland’s progress would be stopped,
and the game of the Government would be played The
Irish peeple knew that they had at their back what they had
never had before—a great multitude of the people of England
Premier Sharkes “ expects that there will
yet be a noble federation of all the English-speak-
ing races of the world.” This is a large-sized
f-enti'ment, but where do the people who try to
speak Hinglibh, and can't manage P, coma in ?
What about the men who drop their haitches all
hover the floor of the ’Ouse, for hinstance*
Premier Sharkes himself doesn’t belong to an
English-speaking racs, or, if he does, ha is a dis-
grace to it. If war ever should break out in Aus-
tralia he is the sort of man who would get up in a
piratical uniform and issue orders to slay hall the
hinsurgents, but to spare the haged and hicno-
cent, and he can tha left alone in the same room
with an “h” unless the man who leaves him
there wants to find the pcor, unoffending letter
welteriDg in its gore. And this is the sort of in-
dividual who talks of the federation of the Eng-
lish-speaking races!
Last week, the cableman wired that Mr.
F. H. O’Donnell, M.P., had been entreated by the
Irish Nationalists to stay his libel-aotion against
the Times, the League being afraid of disclosures
should the ac ion he taken into court. It is
further alleged that Mr. O’Donnell has been
threatened with assassination in the event of pro-
ceeding further in the matter. Our opinion is
that this action of the much eye-glassed O'Don-
nell Is a bogus one, got up in the interests of tha
Times and Tories, with the view to discredit the
Irish National cause. Mr. O'Donnell, we remem-
ber, never worked cordially with the Parneliite
party, who, at last, had to deprive him of his seat
for Dungarvan. As he gets his living in the
capacity of foreign editor of the high Tory Morn-
ing Post, it is difficult to see how he can simul-
taneously serve Mickey O'Hoo’igan and John Bull
as rapresented by Sir Algernon Borthwick.


* £Jt'/~or oj ~*M
. , /VVja «. rf'S j
rfn S“/> -J
/S Sotye y'#s ' 'jdj
/,ose 0 O(^/
/*
/»
" /y
l ** «5"
* >e?
«•»“',/ ’ ,f f"’*7
C"*C‘,’>"’ i '“ y, l
"K f U *»* *t?> r
"‘••fir *. »//7'
<e-
«?£* C *
o.* ir’*-
..JL fobb'if Trolfey ,<,To ! j
/y ; j over fro *> ffa /Y/fcs 4"
b* i? C r cL ry d* A u e 9 A , / _
#« L _—, •/nj dV ,r Jk
«&■ , » 4m
fjo fe AVj "
l QaoFp
\ oo^
c/rf/i Tt'f/r/Cuffies
<T /? 7>/£jS?J {T> Guros j fon>*- OJ), you. Can JutyA
7$ 9, >e.&- of ~7£q_ CJ&y.
A c?cc tfLLy
77 0 nuc/> /yo/v£y -
//OT
beg‘9s
London, Sunday.—Luring the past year
the Liles mission have forwarded 105 dis-
charged prisoners to the Australian colo-
nies.
Things in General.


“The Queen's Statue—and the Queen.”
“Mr. Boehm’s statue of Her Majesty will be unveiled by lady Carington on Anniversary Day."— Sydney Daily Paper.
VICTORIA (loq.) “AH! WHAT A BEAUTIFULLY ACCURATE DELINEATION! HOW TRUTHFUL IN EVERY DETAIL! AIN’T IT, ALBERT EDWARDS ?"


Society
Miss Clarke, eldest daughter of the only Aus-
tralian-made baronet, committed matrimony with
Mr. C. F. M’Donald, of N.S.W., on Thursday las’’,
A special train-load of Victoria’s old nobility was
rattled down to Sunbury, to assist at this interest-
ing festival, and the township broke out in bunt-
ing very considerably. There were eight brides-
maids (each of whom received a diamond brooch
from the happy man, in return for her kindness in
seeing the bride put through), and what with
them, and their dresses, and the bride’s train, and
Lady Loch, Lady Clarke, immediate relatives, atd
the Governor, and the par Eon, the little church
was so chock-full that a number of invited guests
had to stay at Sir William’s house and nibble re-
freshments until the bridal troupe returned. The
bridegroom didn’t take up much valuable space
in church, but, anyway, he had to be there. But
why bridegrooms can’t be left outside in the
carriage, and fixed up on their affidavit, goodness
only knows. Stuck in front of the altar, with a
background of fashionable millinery, a bridegroom
looks like a naßty weed in a beautiful bed of
blossoms. But this is outside of sassiety report-
ing. To resume. After the distinguished com-
pany had severely punished a wedding-breakfast,
Mrs. M’Donald and her husband departed to enioy
la lune de miel (which is French) amid a shower
of rice, grains of which were subsequently dis-
covered by the happy pair in such strange places
you would scarcely imagine. Yes, and among
the presents was a silver salver from “ Ivo Bligh’s
'team of cricketers,” which was bought, presum-
ably, when one of that said team was reported to
be . But, no matter, it’s no use wasting a
silver salver.
The Melbourne Herald sent a spe-
cial reporter to Sunbury last week with
instructions to telegraph treacle about the
wedding of Miss Clarke. But somehow the
“special" didn’t rise to the subject as
might have been expected, and the principal
performers got shockingly bad notices, considering
their rank and station. The bride-a baronet's
daughter—was “ a young lady of pleasing counte-
nance,” while the bridegroom was “ 28 years of
age, medium heighb, and with a Scotch cast of
countenance.” The cloven-hoof of the police-court
reporter has left its indelible imprint upon those
two descriptions. They would do very well for
prosecutrix and prisoner in an “ attempted
murder ’ ease, but sassiety demands that a well-
dowered maiden in a bridal-wreath shall look
“exceedingly pretty,’’[doncherknow. And then,
to hitch her to a gentleman with a Scotch cast
of countenance, sandy eyelashes, and three coats
of freckles! It's just plain, hard, literary dough,
with no treacle on it at all.
# * *
The braw Soots of Melbourne put them-
selves outside a Caledonian Society dinner last
week, and wound up proceedings by blowing their
own little bagpipes, as Scotchmen love to blow.
Sir Henry Loch—carried away by the prospect of
his £6OOO grant from Government—mentioned a
few of the qualities which “made them (the
Macs) the greatest people in the world.” He
didn’t say what a roaring, lively world it would
be without Scotchmen —but, no matter. Then
Jimmy Munro spoke a few words about Edin-
burgh and “Empire Scotsmen ’ (whatever those
things are !), and Simon Fraser, immortalised by
Millais’ brush, said, “ They must fervently hope
that they would be enabled to do still more for
this part of the Empire.” Great Scott! this is too
much. Do these clannish, close-fisted, old fossils
want this part of the Empire to do more for them ?
It’s impossible. They have prayed together, saved
together, stuck together, and schemed together
until the whole country is groaning beneath the
dreary, Calvinistio yoke, and its motto ought to
be “ Save your soul and your saxpences.”
Jacob Garrard, M.P., like Mayor Riley,
never misses a meeting of the (Sydney) Queen’s
Fund Committee, whereof Lady Carington is
president. The Bulletin used rather to admire
Jacob Garrard when, while a member of Parlia-
ment, he attended one of the Government offices,
with his bag of tools slung over his back, for the
purpose of mending a lift. That looked like true
Democracy, and suggested the coming time when
men elected to serve the labour interest in Parlia-
ment will not deem it necessary to doff the garb of
labour, and attire themselves in parson’s black and
belltoppers before going to the House. Bat now
Jacob is becoming “beastly respectable”—nob to
say aristocratic—like all the other so-caUed labour
members. the stalwart Mr. llassall,
M.L.A , of N.S.W., promises to bead a revolt
against’the English black coat snd Pbilistinish
tile. At a recent swell race-meeting be appeared
dressed like a real Australian—in Queensland
busbman’s rig. We hope to see him turn out on
future occasions with a contingent of strapping
natives who will, by their good example, show
Australians how to accommodate themselves to
their climate instead of slavishly following in the
wake of the London stockbroker.
* * *
Any lady wanting Keristian togs, made on
a truly devout basis, also spiritual underclothing,
manufactured with an eye to Kingdom Come,
should study this little advertisement
TMPORTANT. —Christian Dressmaking Association,
1 the first established in London to meet the need of
all classes; moderate charges, punctuality; no ball-
dresses. .
No half-naked dancing sinner need apply at this
shop. # * *
Another relative of Queen Victoria has
turned up, a New York lady, who says she is the
eldest daughter of Her Gracious. According to
her story Albert the Good was encumbered with a
baby daughter when Victoria proposed to him,
and one day, when he was out wheel-
ing the perambulator in Windsor Park, and
thinking of nothing at all, the mother of the in-
fant came down on him with a screech, and told
him he must either consent to an exchange or she
wotrld go to the palace and tell all. The unpro-
tected male collapsed beneath the shock, and
brought back the wrong baby in the perambula-
tor ; while the royal princess went to be brought
up in a back street in New York. This looks a
very probable yarn.
• * •
“ But wouldn’t he leave his name?” de-
manded Miss Nellie of the new housemaid.
“ Always ask a gentleman to leave his name.”
“ So I did, miss, bub I can’t help it if he won’t.
Anyhow, I can soon show you, ’cause there’s
three cf his photjgraphs in your album, and
another in a plush frame on the top of the
pianner!”
An English sporting lady made a slighi
sensation lately on a French racecourse. She
appeared in evening dress for one thing, and, for
another, she bet £2 on the favourite, and when he
lost, Bhe kicked the jockey’s teeth in, and burst
herself all out of her clothes in the process. By
the time the police got her down and hustled her
into a cab, Bhe had been in about six fights, and
had very little on except a rag or two and her
boots.
* * *
A very swell new-chum, who wears checks
as big as 640-acre paddocks, and who is staying
at the Union Club, Sydney, says: “I must con-
fess I am rather afraid to walk about the Blue
Mountains, dontcherknow; I have read in the
papers that the locality is infested by very deadly
serpents.” “ Serpents” is good. So English, yer
know.
• * *
“A Nervous Patient” writes to The
Bulletin from Sydney Infirmary, inquiring
“why a big cockatoo, apparently belonging to
one of the officials, is allowed to screech on the
premises for hours at a stretch 1" We presume it
is for exactly the same reason that Pain’s bombs,
rockets, and other fireworks are allowed to be
exploded n’ghtly in the Park just behind the
Hospital.
* * #
At the first annual conference of the
Women’s Christian Temperance Union of Vic-
toria, held a few days ago, an essay was read on
“How best to Rouse the Women of Australia.”
A first-rate plan would be to drop a lively frog
down each lady’s back and let loose some mice,
but, in the case of married ladies, a golden hair
on their husband’s coat-collar, or a ballet girl’s
photo, in his pocket, will rouse them more effec*
tually than a kick from a N.Z, earthquake.
* * *
Young Mr. Gaylord takes his wife to the
table d'hote. Proprietor (effusively) : “ I see you
have your sister with you 1 How is your
cousin 1 ” Y.M.G. (with a fearful frown) : “ Oh,
he's all right.”
* * *
What is to become of the “ ancient aris-
tocratic race ? ” More than half of the wives of
the “ landed gentry of England ” arer goiDg into
trade to retrieve the fortunes lost to them by the
fall in rents. One of the fashionable beauties has
opened a shop in Berkeley-square for the sale of
decorative housework ; another equally attractive
has opened a dressmaking establishment; one of
the Lennoxes (Duke of Richmond family) presides
over the robe and dress department of a leading
house ; whilst the sister-in-law of Lord Dunraven
trades in bonnets and hats.
Dear Bulletin. —Shiels, of the Victorian
Assembly, though in favour of domestic option in
the matter of marriage and divorce, is dead
against local option in the grog-traffic He says,
“ If the licensed victuallers were attacked one
year, where was the security that the butchers
and the grocers would not be attacked next?”
Just so. If, as Primate Barry says, the immor-
ality of N.S.W. is “ all on account of the meat,”
why not make a raid on the butchers and license
them and subject them to local option ? There is
also a class of people in England—and Australia,
too—known as “ tea-drunkard*.” Why shouldn’t
they be saved from ruin and degradation ? Why
shouldn’t Smith, the grocer, be summoned for
selling more than one pound of tea a-month tc
the same woman, just as Murphy, the publican,
is pulled for giving more than twenty long besrt
at a sitting to one wharf-lumper ? If there is tc
be local option let it be all round. In Melbourne,
local option is being carried very far. The othei
day good old Dr. Singleton wanted to establish
on Collingwocd Flat, a night refuge for homeless
women, but the Flatites in the neighborhood o
the proposed Refuge rose en masse in their mighi
and petitioned the Municipal Council against th<
“nuisance.” There’s local option for youl-
VICTORIAN.
“ The Queen was quite intoxicated one
day last week." We got as far as that in an
opening paragraph of Modern Society, and then
stopped awhile to wipe away the welling tear.
Old memories of wicked tales we had heard, any
time these last 20 year?, fitted across our fevered
brain. Our sublime faith—first planted in us by
the Church of England Litany, and developed to
sturdy strength at complimen f ary banquets to
C.M.G.’s—in the monarchical institution was
shaken, like leaflets by the whirlwind. An itiner-
ant musician was playing the National Anthem
outside our cottage door ; we gave him twopence
to strike up the “ Marseillaise .” If a Nihilist
had dropped in at that awful time, we might have
banded him a trifle to he expended in the pur-
chase of nitro glycerine for European potentates.
Then we read on—“ with grief, when her
favourite dog Noble died at Balmoral Castle."
Pheughl the frenzy passed away, and we blushed
for our Republican sentiments. Her Gracious
was intoxicated with grief over the loss of her
dawg. Only one more proof of her womanly
sympathy with all classes of her subjects. We
fetched forth the rum-bottle and drank her royal
health until intoxication was no name for it.
* * *
Alas ! poor “ Dr.” Thomas. Crushed
again! This time beneath the wheels of a Southern
express railway-engine, near Moss Yale, N.S.W.
He was deaf, and so heard not the roar of the ap-
proaching machinery which mangled all that was
left of a man who had for years travelled the
wilds of Australia with patent medicines and
queer leotures. Fate was always against him. It
deprived him of hearing ere he attained to man-
hood ; it made him a vendor of nostrums and a
retailer of strange discourses to empty benches,
and, finally, it remorselessly crusl ed him to a grisly
mass of palpitating pulp. The “Doctor” was
onca lecturing at a town in Western N.S.W,, and,
to give the show a tone, prevailed on a local
solicitor to preside. The performance had not
long commenced when laughter ran riot. The
lecturer had, however, by this time warmed
to his subject, and, being deaf, and tolerably blind
also, was oblivious of the merriment below. The
president’s wife and heir were in the hall, and
no sooner did the youngster spot his dad upon the
platform than he cried to be with him. The
audience were soon heedless cf the Doctor, and
intent upon the boy. But on went the Doctor at
a Walkerlan rate, and up ran the hoy to his
pa. The lecturer here realised the state of
affairs only to intensify them by dragging the
infant from the father and confining his Cicero-
nian gestures to one hand. The more the boy
squealed for the chairman, his father, the louder
and more impassioned waxed the eloquence of the
lecturer, and the wilder grew the applause and
laughter below. The scene was a novel one, and
within the four walls of the building there was
but one who did not appreciate the situation —
this was the mother of the boy and wife of the
chairman. She capped that evening's show by
reaching the platform in three bounds, arresting
her boy, emptying the water-bottle in the face of
the “Doctor,” and fleeiDg from the building by a
side-door.
Some years ago, a mild sensation was
caused In Melbourne by a marriage, the parties to
which were the middle-aged Mr. John White-
man, legislator, blacksmith, and poet, on the one
Bide, and, on the other, a young and handeome
blonde, Miss Alice Cornwell, who, being now
separated from her husband, again calls herself
Miss Alice Cornwell. She is the daughter of a
well-known Melbourne contractor, and is an ad-
mirable mixture of the romantic and the practical,
The lady is now in London, where Bhe is known as
“ the Princess Midas” —this by reason of her con-
nection with the celebrated Midas goldmine, just
north of Ballarat. Some years ago Miss Cornwell
visited Europe; the studied mueio in Germany,
and published in London a somewhat curious
volume—“ The Australian Birthday Book,” by
Myra Marbron—containing extracts from various
alleged Australian poets, the works of Mr.
Patchett Martin not being overlooked. Then she
returned to Australia, and embarked in mining
speculation with wonderful success —
The lady was possessed of a small capital of her own, some
£2OOO, every shilling of which she invested in diamond bor-
ing over a tract of unprospected country near Ballarat. Her
money became exhausted just as the certainty of an El
Dorado beneath her feet was almost assured. It only
needed, as she believed, £5OO more to convert probability into
absolute proof. With much difficulty she succeeded in rais-
ing this sum. The tests applied showed that 100 feet below
the hard basalt to the north of Ballarat lay an alluvial water-
course, four feet in depth, which extended, as far as exa-
mined, for two miles. Commencing 78 feet from the sur-
face, with a width of 70 feet, it had a rapid fall to 114 feet at
300 feet, with a width of 200 feet, and at a mile and a-half the
width exoeeded a thousand feet. Here alone was a rich
auriferous deposit which it would take 20 or 30 years to exhaust.
The diamond-drill cut in all directions through auriferous
reefs, and absolute proof was obtained that the new district
was not only equal to Ballarat, but probably extended many
miles in a northedv direction. Possibly this old alluvial
water-course may flow on gold-laden till, like that other
“ shining river,” it reaches the watershed at Clunes. Miss
Cornwell had little difficulty now in getting the small funds
necessary to start the Midas Gold-Mining Company, which
so far has provided all the costs of its workingand machinery
to the tune of about £35,000, and from itwas lately extracted
by a Chinaman the wonderful Lady Loch nugget of 6170 z.
This nugget Miss Cornwell has on view in London,
at her elegant offices in Queen Victoria-street.
She is now up to her pretty little neck in com-
pany-mongering, and smiles adroitly on the Press
with an eye to business. The Midas claim is being
floated for £lBO,OOO.
When a Queensland major speaks disre-
spectfully of his colonel they don’t hang, draw,
and quarter him, but they treat him almost as
badly by writing a reprimand, and inserting it in
the Government Gazette close to those im-
pounding notices which tell people all about red
heifers branded on the off but we suppose we
mustn’t. This is the way Maior John Stevenson
has just been treated, though he is a fully-
fledged M.L.A., and one of the hardest hitters in
the Assembly. When the Government, to which
John is strongly opposed, wanted to increase the
salary of the Auditor-General, it was argued that,
had the officer in question remained in a bank
with which he had been connected, he would
probably have been promoted to the managership,
with a bigger screw than that proposed to give
him, whereupon the Major immediately cried,
“ You might as well say that if your Attorney-
General (Rutledge) had stuck to the Church,
instead of flinging it up because the law paid
better, he’d be a bishop by this time.” Rutledge
was present, and his face at once became as red
as that fire which he was wont to warn his con-
gregation against in the happy, though not pay-
able, past.
* * *
He (before the wedding): “ You are sure
you won’t be nervous at the altar?” She (four
times a widow): “ I never have been yet.”
• • *
Which recalls a venerable chestnut. She
(a few days before the event): “Adolphus,
dearest, I do hope you a*e not supers tit’ou3.”
“ And wherefore, my angel ?” And she clurg to
him, and murmured: “Becaose, Adolphus, you
are the 13th I've been engaged to, and mamma is
so aixious about it?”
Who says that every Irishman is a
humorist ? A Mr. Mundey got married in Lon-
don the other day, and among the bridesmaids on
the occasion were the Misses Brunehaut, Guine-
vere, and Gwendoline O'Murpby. Brunehaut
O’Murphy! Guinevere O’Murphy 1
* * *
We beg to call attention to the fact that
old man Quinn, aged 75, a free-born citizen of
Hamilton (Vic ), has been ordered to contribute
to the clothing and victualling of his 35 year-old
wife, notwithstanding several effusions which she
penned to “ My dearest pet, Willie,” and another
male whom she declared to be nobody’s darling
but her own. We fail to see that lovely woman
could be more favourably legislated for than this.
She can have lots of “ ownest own ” darlings,
while the old man must bear his sorrow in silence
lest she pull him for maintenance, in which case
he loses a stray slice of love and £1 a week. On
the other hand, if his luvin’ wife catches him
toying with the ringlets of a private barmaid, or
interviewing the pretty white-capped housemaid
on the staircase-landing when the gas gis out, she
flounces Into the Divorce Court, or sues him for
maintenance and leads him the life of a De Ben-
saude if she does neither. Marriage is a fearsome
responsibility.
• * •
A lesson for match-making mothers.
Ancient swell (who has just bought—“ bought ”
is here the right werd —and is About to marry a
young and pretty girl) to an ancient and trusted
domestic attached to the family qf his prospective
bride : “ Well, Bridget, what do you—haw—think
of Lucy's choice” (this with a smug smile of self-
satisfaction) —“now that you have seen him?”
Bridget (decisively) : “Well, I think you’re too
old, sorr.” Extinct Volcano (much disconcerted
by this unexpected candour) : “ Too old I You
don’t know what you are talking about, my good
woman!” Straightening himself : “Why—haw—
lam just In my prime! ” Bridget : “ Yes, sorr ;
but when Miss Lucy gets in her prime, where’ll
you be then ? ”
* * *
The Sydney Town and Country Journal,
in commenting on a recent fashionable Sydney
marriage, remarked : “The bride on this occasion
looked charming.” “On this occasion” is ex-
cellent.
* * #
A few weeks ago The Bulletin mentioned
that there are now two lady undertakers in
Sydney, and one of. them has since got riled at
the harmless compliment and writes that she
wants (we shudder here) to “run the rule over
the whole staff” without waiting till they are
dead. Such is woman’s gratitude.
The maintenance case, Mennell v.
Mennell, heard at an Echuca Police Court, a few
days back, has many points of interest to young
men who are struggling to keep out of matrimony
and other evil courses. ,Mr. Mennell is a growing
boy of eighteen, with a weak chest and sandy
blonde hair, and Mrs Mennell ii a lady bordering
on 30 She charged her hubby with desertion,
and being a bad boy generally, dirtying his pinny,
and such. She had been married before, and
knew how to manage children, having had a few
of her own, but than husband of hers was the per-
versest of boys. It transpired in evidence that
Mr. Mennell cried to be hushed off to sleep of
nights, and was wont to rush home to his ma
when he was vexed, although his fond wife tried
to reassure him by promising to tear out his liver
and other important sections of his works. Mrs.
Mennell did not know exactly what she wanted
done to her lord, but seemed to think five years
in a reformatory with regular doses of cat would
improve him considerably. Case postponed to
allow the husband time to grow.
* * *
Dear, gentle woman is of a double-distilled
angelic nature down about Hay, N.S.W. The
other day, a charming creature had her husband
up before the local J.sP., and this is how she
described, in her own sweet language, the winning
ways in which she sought to bring her wayward
partner back to love and duty :
“I was lying down on nay sister’s 'bed," said she, “ when he
came into the bedroom. I exclaimed, ‘ Hullo I what do you
want here?' He then said, ‘lf you aren’t coming out of this
house, lam come to give you a good hiding.’ I said, 'No,
you don t,’ and got off the bed and seined him by the neck. I
threw him back on the bed, got a handkerchief that was on
the bed, and tied his two hands behind him. I took a strap
and a piece of rope that was on the floor and tied his feet to
his hands. I then told him to take off his clothes, but he
said he would not, for me to take them off. I took him at
his word, and took his clothes off. I then got an old shirt of
my brother-in-law s without sleeves, and a petticoat of my
own, and put them on him. I then got a tin containing red
paint and a brush, and painted his face at d head all over. I
then dragged him outside, and thrashed him with the piece
of rope. I thought that did not hurt him enough, and I got
a whip and thrashed him with it till he cried out murder.
One of Mr. Haines' blacksmiths came round, and my hus-
band walked into the house and put on his trousers, shirt,
and coat, and came out at the door. I then thrashed him
through the gate with a whip, and I did not see him again
till now.”
Angus Cameron, Chairman of Committees
of the N.S.W. Assembly, now invariably wears a
dress-suit in the Housa, and is the only member
constantly thus attired. C ameron’s dress suit, it
appears, came about in this way. The elegant
Mr. R. Burde t Smith, M.P., who has invariably
acted as Mr. Cameron s proposer for the
Chairmanship, recently visited England, and
found that the Chairman of Committees in
the Commons always sported war-paint. Hor-
rified at the idea that he had for years
acted as sponsor for a Chairman who didn’t
wear a dress-suit, Mr. Smith, on his return to the
colony, expostulated with Mr. Cameron. Result
as above.
• * *
Two women grinding at one mill is said
to be one of the reliable signs of the near approach
of the crack of doom, and one of them shall be
taken and the other left, and what is to become
of the one that is left is not stated, but we pre-
sume she will grind single-handed till somebody
comes back for her. Two white women eloping
simultaneously with one Chinaman is also a sign
of something, but we are not quite certain what
—probably a symbol that when their husband s
get up with the flying party the Mongol will be
involved in several mills and ground considerably
small. At present, however, the Chinaman is
still ahead, and the two ladies who left comfort-
able homes to become the harem of an absconding
cabbagee man have kept in front of the wrath to
come. The event took place in Canada, and the
Celestial, at latest advices, was straining every
nerve to get back to his native ash-heap in the
Central Flowery Land, via the Pacific Railway.
If he ever reaches his childhood’s home alive two
badly knocked-about Englishwomen will probably
have time to repent in an opium-smelling back-
slum of Canton.
♦ * *
Three girls escaped from the reformatory
Coburg (Vic.), last week. The first place to which
the matron rushed, seeking them, was a local
shop, where bustles were retailed. That matron
is a cute woman.
• * *
The Melbourne Herald’s own special
physiognomist and physiologist, who is contribu-
ting articles on “ Husbands ; how to select them ;
how to manage them, and how to keep them ” —as
if anything were the matter with the girls’ fathers
that they cannot keep their daughters’ hubbie3 as
has been their wont—says that angular men should
marry good-tempered, cushiony kind of wives*
This lets him out, you know. Was there ever a
wife, good-tempered, or otherwise, who would
submit to being sat upon ? No, sir, not since the
introduction of the light portable flat-iron.
A facetious young man has just pasted the
printed words, Cave canem, on the hash-tureen
at our boarding-house.
# # *
Baronet Clarke provided bis eldest
daughter, w:o was married the other day, with a
■With the approach of the Christmas season, the sending
of momentos to those having a relationship, or friendship
claim presses itself upon us. The difficulty of choic- is
lessened if the mind is made up for a useful one, and it will
be further lightened if you seek the aid of Bray Bros., the
Art China and Glass Importers, 402 and 404 George-street.
Nothing prettier nor more desirable for presents can be
jourd than the v ry choice stock cf Tea Sets, Dinner Sets,
ntre Pieces, etc., there to be found.*
FRITCKMEBANE an infalllible cure for Freckles, Tan,
Sunburn, and every description of Ephelis and Lentigo, and
effects a cure by chemically changing the coloring matter
deposited under the epidermis or scarf skin, which is re-
absorbed into the system and carried off by the natura
excretory channels. Frecklebane does not injure the skin or
complexion. Sold by all chemists. Special city agents:
W. H. Soul and Co., Pitt-street. Price 2-. lOd , post free,
fromF. M. Chemist, Newtown, N.S.W.
J. B. Pace’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco
he most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
connoisseur* to be the most delicate in flavour. Prepared so
that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to the last
partijle with a pur<> white ash. Try it.


wedding-cake six feet high and weighing six
hundredweight. That was a pretty tall cake, but
no heavier than ordinary.
* . *
One of those stories of harrowing outrage,
Which go a long why towards convincing us that
oilr civilisation i 3 a ghastly failure, has just
arrived from Kapunda (S. A,). A frisky young
man of 45 stritck that town the other day, accom
panied by a number of ladies, one of whom, a
“jwiddy,” of about his own age, he had promised
to ndarry, wetting Ms finger and solemnly striking
his breast as evidence of good faith. The party
made for th 9 nearest jeweller's, and, whilst the
widow was inside selecting a ring, her swain
became suddenly impressed with the deep gravity
df the step he was about to take, and funked.
Pressing a ten-pound note into the hand of the
widow’s sister, he signified his intention of re-
signing the position be held in the undertaking,
and promptly fled. When the bride as was to be
came out she had a ring but no man, and she
swooned away in three acts. We think she ought
to be satisfied : ten pounds ia a big price for such
a poor kind of man.
# * *
Are the old English nobility in the habit
when in “ Hinglaud’’ of washing their faces out
of drink’ng-tumblers at their own dinner-tables, or
has this method of fac3 ablution been specially
invented for use at tablts d'hote in this beastly
country of Australia ?
* * *
The old Methodist ministers in Mel-
bourne say that the young Methodist ministers
must not marry until the young ladies they have
chosen have undergone “ a strict examination ”
by the elders of the church. Hum ! Is there not
a story somewhere about Susanna ?
* * •
This is touching. The Victorian Commis-
sioner of Titles, and the whole of his staff,
“ down to the youngest junior,” have contributed
one day’s pay to that delightful Queen's Fund,
inaugurated by dear Lady Loch. If a Fund hear-
ing the revered name of Her Majesty doesn't find
favour in the Titles Office, where on earih should
It ? We have it on the best authority that the
youngest juilor is about to devote another day’s
pay to this good work, not so much for the sake
of the Fund itself, as for tin purpose of affording
hi 3 b 033 another outlet for loyalty.
Big feathers, thicked-
soled-boots, immense red
hats, and red costumes
are the fashion this year
in England, and, in ad-
dition to these, ladies
are going in for gaiters—
commonly denominated
“ spats.” A loud, clump-
ing creature in carrotty
tints is the Bweet British
girl of 1887.
* * *
Over in Wellington
(N.Z.) a poor little beg-
gar of a clerk blew the
ton of his head off, the
other day, and is now
in the land of Forever-
more. He sent letters
to some of his relatives
telling them that he was
going to suicide in two
hours, and then sat
down and waited for
them to arrive in great
haste and stop him. But,
unluckily, they were all
very busy, and when the
two hours were up, and
no one had come along to
implore him to live, be
blew himself up in dis-
gust.
* * *
The Marquis and
Marchioness (Drily Tes-
ter) of Aylesbury medi-
tate a trip to Australia.
We wonder if they'll
“put up” at Coving-
ment ’Ouse—or, rather,
if Govingment ’Ouse will
put up with them ?
This Is the sort of rot which is printed by
Melbourne Argus in the interests of the local
Grosvenor Gallery “Itisto be hoped that your
correspondent will not stop with Holman
Hunt’s painting, but will, in the case of some
others, also rf the more profound and mystical
works in the Grosvenor collection, help the duller
ones among us to catch these delicate harmonies
which at first are perceived only by the initiated.”
Beautiful! The best means of getting to under-
stand those pictures is to buttonhole Buckingham-
shire and request the noble lord to explain what
the dickens they mean. Mo3t people pays their
money and takes their choice. It's quite a com-
mon thing to hear a languid sassiety girl raving
about the subtle foliages of something that’s in-
tended to be a mountaia goat Oae of the most
popular pictures in the while show represents a
crowd of naked Bacchantes chasing a bare.. The
wretched animal is at top speed, but the girls are
just trotting it down as easy as kiss your hand.
Yankee Myers couldn’t take 50 yards in a hundred
from a Grosvenor Gallery Bacchante, not if she
were fairly wound up.
* *
Shrewsbury isn’t likely to run up many
big scores this trip, simply because he is contem-
plating matrimony with a Victorian girl. The
batsman in lova is no great shades in a general
way. The bright eyes of his darling engage his
thoughts when he ought to be concentrating em
on how to hit a lump of leather with a stick, and
just as he gets a “ curly one ” he’s bound to hear
her sweet voioe naar him whispering low—and
down goes his wicket. It wa3 ever thus, Billy
Murdoch’s form was considerably impaired by the
fire of love. Spofforth's bowling lost all its old
“devil'’ directly dear little Cupid took hm in
hand. They said his wrist was sprained, while the
Fifth Australian Eleven were dropping those
historic ashes on British soil, but Spof. s heart
was the real seat of trouble, When he brought
back a charming bride his poor average was ac-
counted for. And if Bonnor had only married and
settled down he might now be the first batsman
in the world, as he most certainly has the longest
reach. But Bonner is always—or nearly always -
in love.
* * *
The Lord loveth the cheerful giver— but
why do generously-disposed persons send cheques
to editors of newspapers, asking them to distri-
bute the proceeds among 20 specified charities,
instead of posting cheques to the secretaries of
the several charities and getting their receipts
privately I The inevitable paragraph makes the
donora’ left hands acquainted with what their
right hands are doing, dontcherknow. No labour
is saved —nothing is gained except bold adver-
tisement for the kind-hearted gentlemen. Pshaw 1
Editors have quite enough work and troub’e
without being subjected to the temptation of
embezzlement.
* * *
It is hinted that, inorder not to offend the
tender susceptibilities of the “ unco guid,” his
Excellency the Governor of Victoria will in future
attend Melbourne races incog., i.e., as plain Mr.
Loeh, colonial agent for the firm of Guelph, Salis-
bury, and Co., Unlimited.
• • *
From the Age:— “We have received in
aid of a case of diitress at Ferntree Gully 5 3.”
Ferntrae Gully is where the Sunday-school picnics
are held. Poor girl! We wonder how she lo3t
it—the bustle we mean.
* * *
Captain Traill, aide-de-camp to Sir Henry
Loch, didn’t dream away much time in honey-
mooning, for he and his brand new bride are back
in Melbourne. To curtail the period of blissful
seclusion Is good form and good sense.
• » *
Is there any place in the habitable globe,
saving only N.S.W. and Sydney, where a shipping
company will be allowed to moor their ships
alongside the premier city quay b/ driving chains
through the asphalt of the path, and keeping them
there month after month?
• « •
The blessed city of Adelaide only raises a
row now and then, but occasionally the godly
get blue-moulded and then it sounds as if a cart-
load of monkeys had got loose. For instance, the
Mayoress, a lady named Mrs. Smith —wife of
plain Smith—gave a fancy ball, and when it svas
over a number of her guests proceeded to the
railway station to catch the last train for Glenelg.
They were tired and sleepy; Oliver Cromwell
was stretched on a bench, and the others were
loafing about and shivering, when suddenly an
Intoxicated lawyer bore down on them, and
saluting the stipendiary magistrate, who was of
the party,’said feebly, “H9II lo olemanzhat-
you?" The magistrate, in his character of Charles
the First, shook him off with an air of unspeak-
able loathing, and In another instant the lawyer
“’OLD ’ARD, SIR'; WE’RE HONLY C'LECTIN FOR THE PARKES' FUNDI”
had struck the headless monarch in the eye and
rolled him over. Hair and skin and shrieks flew
through the air ; Charles was disposed of in two
rounds; Oliver Cromwell was dished in two
more ; the Spanish cavalier was grabbed with one
hand and the Roman soldier with the other, and
their head 3 were knocked together! Rosalind
and Little Red Riding Hood were chased
across a fence; the S wlss Peasant Girl
fainted, and Guy Fawke3 had his clothes torn ;
and the atmosphere was filled with screams of
“ Pieece ! ” The peaceful city of Adelaide was
shaken up as it had never been shaken before,
and next morning society was scandalised by the
vision of a beak presiding on the bench with his
hair torn out and a black eye, while a lawyer with
a squashed nose and an uncertain aspect appeared
before him on behalf of two dcunks and an ob-
scene language. The magistrate felt half inclined
to give him into custody, but he couldn't quite
swear to him, and so the subject was reluctantly
allowed to drop.
* * *
After a hard scramble between two well-
gilded men without any genius in particular,
Alderman John Harris has been elected Mayor of
Sydney. The billet of Mayor is one which seems
hardly worth the row that is made about it, but
as Alderman Burdekin, the defeated candidate,
who wa3 seriously ill, was conveyed to the scene
of action on a shutter, accompanied by a doctor,
we presume that he sets a considerable value on
the position. Mr. Bnrdekin, however, wouldn’t
have been there on the shutter had not Mr. Harris
unchivalrously refused to pair with him, and it
was ia consequence of this ill-natured conduct
that he (having the exact measure of his brother
alderman) got out of bed to vote for himself and
look after.his own interests generally. Ex-Mayor
Riley, meanwhile, has escaped from office without
being made a C.M.G , and with less damage to his
private character than might have been expected
on which we cordially congratulate him. Up to
the Bth inst, when the popular ex-Mayoress gave
her last reception, nothing very bad had been
found out concerning Mr. Riley.
A late issue of a Melbourne weekly con-
tains the in’eresting announcement that “our
cooks now find the onion an invaluable accessory
in concocting numerous dishes, and over the leaf
there is a long article on “ The Strengthening of
the Police Force.” The onion will account for the
strengthening no doubt.
CYNICISMS.
[MOSTLY ORIGINAL.]
A woman who has money is like a fly in
amber. The insect is valued, matrimonially, for
the sake of the setting.
* * •
If Solon lived in the 19 bh century would
he wear lemon-kid gloves and an eye-glass ?
[Pooh 1 Solon wasn't the wisest of men. Solomon
was ju3t as wise as Solon, and nearly every man
we know named Solomon wears gold-rimmed
nose-glasses and a belltopper.
# * *
Never write to yoar wife. Your spalling
and handwriting may one day be flippantly criti-
cised by her second husband.
* * *
Never give up your seat in a ’bus to a
woman, unless you des'ra to pique all the other
women sitting there.
* • #
Women, like some poisons, are harmless,
taken homceopathically. One woman is an angel.
* * *
Never speak evil of any woman. You
never know whom you may one day have to
marry.
• • *
Neverallowyourselftobe photographed with
a man. He may afterwards become your bitterest
enemy. Never be photographed with your wife.
There is a divorce-law.
* # *
Men attire themselves in black when they
attend a funeral or a dinner. This is a logical
recognition that the dinner is usually the prepara-
tive for the funeral.
* * *
A woman always sin s without meaning to.
With man it is quite the reverse.
* * *
A mother is always fond of her baby
when in the presence of childless mar ried women.
* * *
Will a mother desert her offspring ? Cer-
tainly, if it comes not into the world under the
auspices of the clergyman and beneath the oegis
of the certifioate furnished by the family doctor.
♦ * *
A politician always lies when he says :
“ I will,” a woman when she says “ I won’t.”
• * *
D o not omit to insure your life. It will
save your wife from worrying about the where-
withal for the next trousseau.
* • *
Never borrow money from yonr friend.
It is as disenchanting as marrying the woman
whom you love.
• * *
We never enter a Sydney theatre. The
atmosphere is even worse than that of Sydney.
* * *
Abolish drink and life would no longer be
worth living—to E. J. H. Knapp, who writes the
local-option letters in the Sydney D.T.
* * - •
For obvious reasons, never be impertinent
to a man old enough to be yonr father.
’Tis said no man will willingly write him-
self down a rogue or an as 3, yet people can be
always found right glad to put M.P, after their
name, or Rev. before it.
They have a nice cancer story in the
Sydney Echo, It is filthy enough to make a
Chinaman ill.
We have received from London the first
number of a new journal called Baby. We are
afraid it will b 3 found to have besn still-born.
A new “ calf-lymph cultivator ” has been
appointed for Easb Melbourne. As his district
includes Parliament House, there ought to be
plenty of material to work upon.
Up to the end of 1886, New Sonth Wales
had raised £36,469,138 worth of gold ; nearly
£600,000 of silver; over £lB 000,000 of coal;
£1,000,000 of shale ; £7,500,000 of tin; and
£5,000,000 of copper.
Rose Terry, the poetess —now prosaic
Mrs Crooke—advises young American women to
wear flannel night-gowns, carry jugs of hot water
to bed with them, wear boneless waists and take
the heels off their shces. Now, Mrs. Crooke
should honestly add that a husband Is preferable
to an earthenware-jug any day, and that whale-
bones in a waist are absolutely necessary as a pro-
tection when a youDg woman is being hugged,
“ Hasn’t Lord Carington a benevolent
smile ?” “ Yes, a most benevolent smile.” “ A
benign smile ? ” “ Ye 3, a benign smile.” “ Yes,
a six-by-nine smile.” And then we left.
Melbourne Daily Telegraph says :
“ Stonewalling is about the poorest, the most
absolutely ignoble and brainless occupation in
which grown men can Indulge.” Not quite. They
might write leaders for the Daily Telegraph.
We hear that Melbourne Presbytery in-
tend setting apart the Ist April next as a day of
special prayer to the Loard, that He will be
graciously pleased to resurrect John Calvin, in
order that they may appoint the latter to the pas-
torate of Scots’ Church.
From New Zealand we hear that the gift
of the Roman Catholic bishop and clergy of
Dunedin to the Pope, on the occasion of his
Sacerdotal Jubilee, will consist of a “ full set of
the Catholic organ.” By this we understand the
local paper is meant. And this sets us thinking.
If Cardinal Moran were to send to the Pope a
volume of The Express as a Jubilee gift—well
His Holiness would probably send a receipt and
an excommunication.
Messrs, Warner and Co., of “ Safe Care ”
fame, were burnt out lately in London ; damage,
£50,000, Among the items which go to make up
ibis los3 was the great picture of “Niagara in
Winter,” painted by Peter Cameron and pur-
chased by Mr. Warner for £OOOO. The artist who
sketches in the Niagara gorge in the icy season
does so at the hazard of frost-bite, broken limbs,
and other troubles, and so far only one has made
the attempt. It is not likely to be soon repeated.
The Australasian Building Societies
and Mortgage Companies’ Gazette of Ist
December has this paragraph
We are mformed by Mr. Abigail that after thorough
inquiry into the working of the company with which his
name has lately been very prominently associated, he finds
himself able to retain his position on the board. Messrs.
Davenport and Miles, accountants, of Moore street, have
been appointed to examine the books of the company, arid
their report will be published shortly.
It must he a strangely lopsided conscience which
won’t permit Abigail to boss a pawnshop, and yet
allows him to be a colleague of Parkes.
Some years ago,
when the Government of
the day did away with
retiring pensions to
N.S.W. Civil servants,
a well-known officer of
the Lands Department,
since dead, threatened to
parade thestreets of Syd-
ney with a violin, on
which he was an accom-
plished performer, with a
label on his breast ex-
plaining that he had been
40 years in the Service
and was thrnst on the
streets, pennilets, in his
old age.
TheS.M. Herald’s
cableman says that “ Mr.
Parnell is staying at
Bromley, in Kent, under
an assumed name.'
Well, what of that ?
Can’t an “ uncrowned
king ” travel incog, as
well es a crowned queen?
How often has Her Gra-
cious travelled and stayed
at various places abroad
“under an assumed
name ” —the Countess of
Something or Other?
Most likely Parnell would
attract more attention,
and have more people
calling on him at Brom-
ley than Her Gracious
would at Mentone.
This story is told of
a prosperous young Syd-
neyite, son of a N.S.W.
millionaire. He visited
Fiji lately, and, on
leaving the wharf at
Suva on his return, he
bought from a nigger, after a Jong haggle, a
bunch of bananas to take home with him. The
bargain struck, the gilded youth deducted from
the nigger’s money the “ usual discount for
prompt cash, doncherknow." This shows the
force of heredity and habit. It is good to edu-
cate the unsophisticated heathen.
The contrast between Griffith and
MTlwraith, the secretiveness and suspiciousness
of the one and the openness—not to say reckless-
ness of the other—were well shown in their atti-
tude to the reporters who accompanied them on
their progresses through the country. When
MTlwraih rec eived his batch of telegrams at any
place he tore them open on the spot, and his ener-
getic language soon made public their contents.
Psalmyell, on the other hand, if ever he opened
one in a reporter’s presence, eyed him askance, as
if he feared he might read something over his
shoulder, but generally he retired to his own
room, and when he came out he left no tail be-
hind him. .And he has always treated his col-
leagues as he treated the reporters, and that’s
why he has not a real friend in the whole colony,
Mr. Joseph Winter—the gifted Winter
of tradition—proprietor of the Melbourne Advo-
cate, is being subjected to many petty annoy-
ances through the vulgar cutioaty of several
ill-bred persons. It appears that when the
Redmond brothers were out here £13,000 was
raised in Victoria and sent home to the National
League in Dublin. At least that was the way in
which the entry appeared in the books of Mr. Win-
ter, who seems to have been treasurer of the Fund.
But, some months after, a letter came from the sec-
retary of the League acknowledging the receipt of
£ll,OOO only. The conundrum that troubled a
lot of people then was—where had the other £2OOO
gone ? Mr. Winter appeared to think it was
not his business to throw any light on the
matter. It was allowed to slide, and possibly
nothing more might have been heard of it if
Archbishop Carr had not suggested the raising of
a fund to afford relief to the evicted tenants in
Ireland. Now it has been resurrected by the
aforesaid ill-bred people, and the gifted Winter Is
having rather a nasty time. One evil-minded
miscreant writes a letter to the Age about the
affair, winding up with this cruel sentence “If
money is collected for the evicted tenantry of Ire-
land, let it not be squandered in paying salaries to
profe sional patriots." Dastardly, isn’t it ?


Jem Mace intends visiting Australia six
months hence.
More than the usual amount of drivel has
been written about George Fordham and his
epitaph—selected by himself—“ ’Tis the pace that
kills.” That the dead jockey intended the line to
point a human moral is pretty clear, but writers
of obituary notices have tdld such tarradiddles
about Fordham’s strictly temperate habits, and so
forth, that his epitaph is made to appear a mere
racing truism instead cf a sentimental reflec ion
on his own weakness for “going it.” A Mel-
bourne sporting scribe, taking his cue from Lon-
don papers to hand, says that “‘’Tis the pace
that kills ’ may seem somewhat incongruous as
applied to a man who lived an exceptionally
temperate life.” Alas! Fordham was a par-
ticularly straightforward man, as jockeys go, ard
not so besotted as many members of his profes
sion—but that’s all. When the news of his death
was cabled, The Bulletin stated that the be-
slavered horseman was blind drunk on the night
before he rode Sabinus for the Cambridgeshire
and that he subsequently drank himself into such
a nervous condition that for two years he was
afraid to get on a horse’s back. The writer of
this has heard Fordham bewail the miserable con-
dition he had brought himself to at that time, and
knows what the fallen hero of two thousand races
meant by “ ’Tis the pace that kills.”
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
L A STARTLING and HUGE SUCCESS of the
New and Romantic Play,
SIBERIA SIBERIA
SIBERIA SIBERIA.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Ib.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal
Under the Dlreotlon of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrore.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
To-night THURSDAY, at a quarter to 8 precisely,
The Last Production of the Present Season,
LA FILLS DU TAMBOUR MAJOR
LA FILLS DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Prices as usual.
Tloketsfor all parts of the house at Eastway’BHotel.
Academy of music.
Lesse and Manager ... F. E. Hiscocks.
UNBOUNDED SUCCESS
of the great and only MACCABE.
VISITED NIGHTLY by the ELITE OF SYDNEY.
TONIGHT. TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
Another Budget of Novelties, includirg the entirely
Original, Moral, Melancholy, Mellow Drama,
entitled
VANQUISHED VILLAINY.
Box plan open at Nicholson s.
Manager for Mr. Maccabe, F. H. POLLOCK.
QBITIBION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15,
MISS ESSIE JENYNS’S
FAREWELL BENEFIT,
when she will make her final appearance
as
ROSALIND,
in Shakespeare’s
AS YOU LIKE IT,
for which the BOX PLAN 13 NOW OPEN.
FRIDAY. DECEMBER 16,
SHAKESPEARE’S MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Portia Mis 9 MSSIE JENYnS.
Shylock W. J. HOLLOWAY.
The Box Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE. Manager.
E
OPERA HOUS
Corner of York and King Streets.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17.
The one and only event of the year worthy of
record in the amusement world- the Advent of
FRANK M. CLARKS
ALL STAR NOVELTY COMBINATION.
Specially engaged in America for a Colonial Tour.
OUDA, ihe Parisian Wonder.
JOHN F. FIELDS \ America’s representative
CHARLHS HANSON / Musical Artists.
Mile. GARETfA, with her bevy of Performing
Pigeons.
Miss. MAY CAMERON, the Human Serpent.
V CAMERON } Grotesque Comedians.
And a number of other Speciality Artists.
Full particulars later.
MARTIN HAGaN ... .. Stage Manager.
Business Manager ... MONTY BROWNE.
AIN’ S FIREWORKS.
P
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS NEXT
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS GRAND
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS DISPLAY
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS Thursday,
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS December 15.
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS December 15.
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DO WAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOM aIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
Pains
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’3
FIREWORKS
JAMES PAIN.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation tor Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
Alhambra music hall.
George-streeb, Haymarkeb.
Propriebor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR.
NIGHTLY CROWDED.
SURPRISING and SURPASSING ALL OTHER
EFFORTS IN THIS ART.
Popular Prices:
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
“AUSTRALIA’S” GRAND CONSULTATION.
SUMMER CUP, Monday, December 26, 1888.
3000 subs, at £1 eaoh. First Horse, £l6OO :
Sect nd Horse, £6OO ; Third Horse, 300 ; Starters,
£300; Non-Starters, £3OO. To be divided amongst
them.
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP, January 26, 1888.
6000 subs, at £1 each. First Horse, £2500 ;
Second Horse, £1000; Third Horse, £5OO. Starters,
£500; Non Starters, £5OO. To be divided amongst
them. Subscribers are requested to apply early
that the fortunate drawers of horses may have
time to hedge. Persons making application for
Tickets are requested to register all letters to en-
sure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes for reply and result.
Address : “ Australia,” care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconist, Victoria Cigar
Divan, George-street, Sydney.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amnsement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reaoh of all who
desire a knowledge of the solenoe of Belf-defenoe,
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you mibs Foley'b you
Have not been the oity.
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands aB
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231, OLARENOE-STREET.
GBD. GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipmen coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33- ETTGKEIsriErS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
As the moat central and well appointed of any in
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPIOYIEST AGENCY.
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable In-
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street,
' BRISBANE.
.....
...
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Or AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
‘K&YssiHH *iasai,s Naants w
JUST IMPORTED,
500 CRICKET BATS,
lA|« pcmh Best and Cheapest
lU|U CdUi, in the Market.
All-cane spliced Handles in 16 pieces,
TENNIS RACQUETS, BALLS, &c,
Equally Cheap and Good.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George r t. Punter St, ''ydney.
Alhambba music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
A Blessing in every Family
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxfobd-st., London.
tSF Purchassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
of-jSydneg*
J£NOLAN^CAVCSr&LU£±MOUNrAINSA
BIffiBEORCEi jS2£nsraHffuSTt*s:*cm
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency,—John Bros., 17 Cußtom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phcsnix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Ashfield recreation grounds and
GARDEN PALACE.
Manager ... Alfred Wyburd.
SUMMER HILL BICYCLE CLUB.
First Annual Race Meeting—Saturday, Dec.
17. To be held by Electrio Light. Com-
mencing at 7 p.m.
PROGRAMME.
(Under the sanction of the N.S.W. Cyclists' Union.)
One Mile Maiden Bicycle Race (to be ridden on
roadsters, minimum weight 351 b). —First prize,
value 5 guineas ; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas.
One Mile Open Handicap.—lst prize, value 7
guineas ; 2nd, 5 guineas ; 3rd, 3 guineas. Half-
mile 2nd class Scratch Race.—lst prize, value 5
guineas ; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. One
Mile Club Handicap (open to members of Summer
Hill B.C. only).—lst prize, 5 guineas: 2nd, 3
guineas ; 3rd, 2 guineas. 440yds. Foot Race (open
to all amateurs).—lst prize, value 5 guineas ; 2nd
3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. Entrance Fee for each
event, 2s. 6d. E. NICHOLLS, Hon. Sec.
MOTTITT UVEOIRONIN'..
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL HOTEL.
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprietress.
Loss and Gain.
CHAPTER I.
1 1 was taken sick a year ago
With bilous fever.’
“My doctor pronounced me cured, but I got
sick again, with terrible pains in my back and sides,
and I got so bad I
Could not move 1
I shrunk t
From 2281b5. to 120! I had been doctoring for
my liver, but it did me no good. I did not expect
to live more than three months I began to use
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. Directly my
appetite returned my pains left me, my entire
system seemed renewed as if by magic and after
using several bottles, I am not only as sound as a
sovereign, but weigh more than I did before. To
Hop Bitters I owe my life.”
Dublin, June 6, ’B6. R. Fitzpatrick.
CHAPTER H.
“ Malden, Mass., Feb. 1,1886. Gentlemen—
I have suff red with attacks of sick headache,”
Neuralgia, female trouble, for years in the most
terrible and excruciating manner.
ho medicine or doctor could give me relief or
cure, until I used Lr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
“The first bottle
Nearly cured me ; ”
The second made me as well and strong as when
a child,
“And I have been so this day."
My husband was an invalid for twenty years
with a serious
“Kidney, liver and urinary complaint,
“ Pronounced by Boston's best physicians—
“ Incurable ! ”
Seven bottles of your Bitters cured him and I
know of the
“ Lives of eight persons ”
In my neighborhood that have been saved by
your Bitters,
And many more are using them with great
benefit.
“They almost
Do miracles ? " —Mrs. E. D. Slack,
How to Get Sick.— Expose yourself day and night; eat
too much without exercise; work too hard without rest;
doctor all the time ; take all the vile nostrums advertised,
atd then you will want to know how to get well, which is
answered in a few words—Take Dr. Soule's American Hop
Bitters.
4V None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
the bottle. Beware of all the vilepolaonoue stuff
made to Imitate the above.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medioinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS' FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the Quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row's Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England,
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21,1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
, “ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
ows
-EMBROCATION
w
/
4 everywhere!
3/6
U'EPHSOYS OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article a 3 JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of tin colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal cf which is the EUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
W«0 WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relievo you ?
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much r, lief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &c.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROWS
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
“I, GEORGifi HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water,
and I hope others suffering from the same com-
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, before
me,
I ‘‘(Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.”
Then try them, and ask for ROW S STEANE’S
BITTER-*, prepared solely by
EUW. ROW and COMPANY.


Centrally
situated
« and
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEAOIHC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
E
m
m
//////'
m
oO>
=x.
w,.
S 3
a
ISH'lSMiHiiiii
DAN
cX
Ll
m
is
H
SOUTH
OFTHE r
EQUATOR
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE*
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Bentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. fjgr COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. B. DAMELL.
>3
m
SAUC
EAIpfRRIH
In consequence &f Imitations sf THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which an calculated M demos the Public, Lea and Pernm
have to request that Purchasers m that the L&kl m every faith
hears their Sigmtti&vs thm^
without which m faith of ths original WOMCESTEMSHSME
SA S7CE is gmmm .
Ask for LEA and PERRINS Same, and see Msme <m Wmffiep, La&el, JBM@ md
Stopper A' Wholesale and fov Expart by. She Proprietors, Worcester; Cross* m 4
Blackwell, London, mnd by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore Joseph & C 0. ,: David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
SMOKE AND CHEW
MI AND NAVI TOBACCO.
lb
PKT
09lXt/
MIXTURE
<•>
m
ft
ft sietcu/ /
qZo
no
680
*j y,c//?w
TO OUR TOWN AND COUNTRY FRIENDS.
On receipt of P. 0.0. for £1 Is. we will forward you 31b. of our celebrated VULCAN MIXTURE in
Jib packets, which we can highly recommend as being the best in the market ; with this a SILVER
MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE and a first class TOBACCO POUCH.
For 6d. you can buy the LARGEST and BEST
PLUG of choice TOBACCO sold in the Australian
colonies, made from the PUREST and BEST
AMERICAN LEAF.
The attention of squatters and storekeepers In
the country is particularly drawn to the ARMY
and NAVY brand of Tobacco, which we can sup-
ply wholesale at price which defies competition.
AMERICAN LONG-CUT RUBY.
Ditto ROUGH-CUT RUBY.
Is. 6d. per. Jib. PACKETS, our own cutting
om best AMERICAN GOLD BLOCKS.
Guaranteed the Purest American Tobacco.
Our CELEBRATED VULCAN MIXTURE in
Jib. PACKETS, a successful blending of the
finest American Tobaccos, producing one of the
best smokes extant.
Is. Per PACKET of Jib. FULL WEIGHT.
All kinds of Sterling Silver mounted BRIARS
and MEERCHAUMS always on hand. The Cele-
brated VULCAN BRIARS, CHERRYWOOD
PIPES, etc.
VULCAN, RUBY, AROMATIC TWIST, and
POCKET PIECES are the finest quality of Ameri-
can Aromatic Tobaccos imported. One trial will
suffice to prove their superiority to all other brands
of Aromatic Tobaccos in’the market.
6d. and Is. Per PLUG.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
680, 682, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Depot for Camerons, T: C. Williams, and all the Best
Imported and Other Tobaccos.
NOTICE.
WILL Mrs. E. BRUNTON, late news-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
jountant at The Bulletin offic*, if in Sydney.
rpo JOBBING PRINTERS, &C.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-street.
READ
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“ Australian Land Nationaliser.”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
TOHH FAEEELL.
IT is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Waleß. Its
object is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great seteme of Land Reform—to do
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more Wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get it, and induce others to do so.
THE SUBSCRIPTION 13-123. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
BEACIKSFIEi-D HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melboitkne.
‘ii irri—T_i _— is
iii «$3 i:—.;:::_.-——:-_—*ii==:f
iii—33?: "ﬂ ﬁ [Ev * -
iii—z: 1‘} : , : ,. \___‘-i—'E,is
ii a, ; LsLsLLsLLLELLL’L31%LiﬂLﬁ-j @ﬁlﬁmﬁ
i :i« L ,LLi'lLiﬂilz'WLLLletsfﬁﬁiggﬁgggﬂmgtwn ii:
=vi 9-,; :er —: " ” “Tag—ii .. h:—
‘ ML!“ ‘7 7mm“
WWW "l "-*--'?“L?LILM L I'IJ: L L L Lu]
,-, - :i: %' sins "‘
“3‘37::‘:ii‘=§"— ;i&———_~i—_i‘~i_W—fz~i?::z;ti
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney. Q
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the rrrst modem principles.
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Bast of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydrai 1 \Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
Proprietor
This]BEEß
awarded [at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition First
Prize Gold Medal.
Cooper & RScLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
IE ZD I NBURGH.
R. CUNYNGHAMB, Bond-street, Sydney.
In balk
and ease.
Best BEER
in the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE EEIGHTOIsr OF 3ST.S.W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &c , are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors comfort able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANL


THE WALERBURY
"THE BEST THING FO ALL FOR A CHRISTMAS BOX"
A BUSH SCHOOLBOY.
ATTEMPTS TO BRIBE A NEWSPAPER.
lhe following letter, written for publication in
the columns of an esteemed contemporary, re-
quires no introductory comments ; but its perusal
is recommended to all fathers in all parts of the
colony who are anxious to give their sons a fair
- tart in life and a fueling of independence whioh
is in itself alone a big handicap in their favour
Sorlongabinjy Station,
November 25, 1887.
The Editor Sorlongabinjy Watchman,
Dear Mr. Newspaper,—
This day month is going to be
Christmas day, and I’ve just come home for my
holidays, and I’m going to leave altogether next
half because father wants me to tail weaners and
keep the store books, and I am just going down
to the Shearer’s Arms (that's a public house about
two miles off) where our mail bag gets dropped
out of the ’ooach, and I thought I'd write to you
just to ask you to give the tip to a lot of our boys’
fathers about Christmas. Last Christmas I had a
heap of fun at home, beoau3e I've got a whole
drafting yard full of little brothers and sisters
that believe in Santa Claus coming along in the
night and jamming things into their stockings
what they hang up on the bed. I know who puts
the things there, but they don’t, and mother said
I was never to let on, and father said he
supposed I thought I was awful smart, but he’d
give me a Christmas-box anyhow if I’d take the
grey colt and go over to Dawson’s place before break-
fast with a letter, and run the milker’s mob into the
lower paddock as I came back, and get home before
10 o’clock so as I could look after the irons while him
and Jim was branding. And I did too, and when
Christmas came I went in with father to the town-
ship in the spring-cart and brought out all the
Santa Claus things from the store, and you’d have
laughed if you’d seen them when the kids woke
up and turned all the things out of the stockings
they had hung up ; only poor little Joe, he got
sick because he would suck all the paint off a
spotted white and black animal the man said was
a horse, only you never saw such a fiddle-headed,
ewe-necked screw in your life. And there was no
present for me that I could see, only when father
says he'll do a thing he always does I know, for
sometimes he says he’ll knock seven bells out of
me, and he always dees the knocking if he don’t
get the bells ; but all the same, when I went in-
to breakfast there was something in paper on my
plate, and when I opened it it was a Waterbury
watch in a beautiful blue silk box ; and I was
proud, I can tell you, and I’ve worn it ever since
and everybody always asks me the time, because
they know I’ve always got it right. And after the
holidays there was only another boy had one t like
it, and my word didn’t they go together like two
twins all the time, and so when I was leaving I
told all the other boys I’d write to you so that you
could tell their fathers that a Waterbuty watch
was the best thing they wanted for a Christmas
present, because you can keep on winding it up
and you can’t hurt it, and it always keeps better
time than the schoolhouse clock, and you can
time the boys when they are racing or swimming
in the creek, and it makes any boy feel good to
have it; and father has taken your paper ever
since I was born, and if you put this letter in all
the boys will be able to show it to their fathers,
and some of them will most likely get Water-
burys too, and some of them won't, and it will be
all the better for you, because the next time you
lose your mare I know where she gets to up in the
ridges at the head of the yellow water hole creek,
and I’ll run her in for you, and you wouldn’t find
her if you looked from now till next mustering.
So that’s a bargain, and I must go down the
paddock now and get my horse, or I’ll bs late
with the mail. So good bye, Mr. Newspaper,
from your obedient,
GEORGE BOXER.
There’s a Sydney suburban alderman who,
whenever he attends a deputation, addresses the
Minister as if he were writing a letter to him.
Thus:—“Hon. Mr. Sutherland, sir, &c.” A
fellow alderman who jumped at the idea that this
was the correct thing, but meant to improve on it
by shoving in the date as well, thus commenced
his “few remarks” to the Minister of Lands, last
week “ Fifteen, eleven, eighty-seven, Hon. Mr.
Garrett, sir.” By-and bye some suburban Mayor
will drop in something of this sort: —“A 129-
1292,” or, “ In your reply refer to this number.”
Mr. Edward Ellis, editor of the Sydney
Sunday Times, writes to the Press warmly deny-
ing the truth of an allegation made by a member
THE N.S.W. OENTENNIAL TWOPENNY STAMP.
of the N, S.W. Parliament, to the effect that he
was some time ago charged with, and committed
for trial, for an offence in Victoria Mr. Ellis
“ solemnly declares that he has never at any time,
or in any place whatever, been charged with any
offence of any description, and that he has in
these colonies, in America, and in his whole pre-
vious life in Great Britain preserved a perfectly
unblemished and honourable reputation.” It is
within the recollection of the writer of this para-
graph that Mr. Ellis, when his private character
was attacked in the columns of a Colac paper,
brought an action against the publisher of the
libel, and recovered heavy dame gap. It is said
to be Mr. Ellis’s intention to proceed for libel
against the publisher of a Parramatta paper
which, a week or two since grossly libelled him.
He was in a tram-car, when a lady, bur-
dened with muoh avoirdupois, entered. He was
on his feet in an instant, but the space he left
was, comparatively speaking, woefully small.
“ I am very much obliged to you,” said the lady,
as she balanced herself on the edge of the seat.
“ Don’t mention it," replied he, gallantly ; “I am
only sorry there isn’t more of it.” This is what we
call real politeness.
The Anglican clergy of Melbourne, having
heard that the German Crown Prince’s malady is
not really cancer, have started to pray for him —
their idea, no doubt, being that they may here-
after gain credit for his recovery. If they heard
he had tetanu*, or a big aneurism of the aorta, or
glanders, cr hydrophobia, they’d not pray. They
never pray for anybody whom they know to have
malignant disease of the glands cf the throat, for
instance.
A young man in Coonamble has invented
a new industry. He pals with all the “ boczers,”
and finds out which of them can carry on in talk
and walk, and still have no recollection next
morning. Next time he catches such an one he
taps him with “I suppose you remember that
crown (pound, half-quid, &0., according to status)
I lent you last night ? ’ Some say yes, some no,
but they all pay or acknowledge the debt. The
latter class pay up and “ shout,” and offer a
loan at the next meeting. The Natives forever 1
THE GREATEST BLESSING.
A simple, pure and harmless remedy, that cures every
time, and prevents disease by keeping the blood pure.
Btomrch regular, kidneys and liver active, is the greatest
Messing ever conferred upon man Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters is that remedy, and its proprietors are being
blessed by thousands who have been saved and cured by it.
Will you try it? See another column. Eagle.
The " Moldacot.” The sales of this wonderful pocket lock
stitch Sewing machine, have been enormous, since their
introduction in this colony, and no wonder for such a per-
fect mechanism. Call and see it, next Paling’s George-
slreet.*
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica and
other analogous affections should tiy Freeman's Original
Chlorodyne, a medicine that has, since its introduction in
1841, been employed on a very large scale both by the
Medical Profession and the Public ia every part of the
habitable Globe, with unvaried succss. Since its introduc-
tion into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman’s
Chlorodyne has been considerably enhanced, and is now re-
garded as the.inost cfficient and valuable medicine that has
ever bean introduced into the Colony. The Profession pre-
scribe it ; Missionaries prefer and use Freeman’s Chlorodyne,
and people leaving any of the principal ports for the interior
invariably take a sufficient supply to last them a twelve-
month.—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist
upon having “Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes as they
are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant ’
One of the best managed and largest hotel* In Sydney s
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find 1 the cosiest plaoe in Sydney. The shilling lnnoheon
Tattersall’s Monster Consultations.—Rosehill Handicap,
run November 12, 2000 subs, at 205.; also, Sir Joseph Banks
13th Grand Handicap, 5000 subs, at 20s. each, now open, and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-
street.*
A PRETTY BARMAID.
How beautiful she was ! How wild!
Pure as the water plant this child.
Grown tall in shadow ; b?autiful ear
To hear them call for St. Louis Beer.
Etop still, my friend, and do not stir ;
Stand close to me and think of her.
My friend saDg sweeter, for her face,
Her lifted eyes were like a grace,
The rippled rivers of her hair
Make every thought you now despair,
That ran in wondrous waves somehow,
Flowed down divided by her brow,
And mantled her within its care.
The St. Louis Beer was always there.
At her bar you all must know
St. Louis Beer is all the go.
Many peop’e refuse to take Cod Liver Oil on account of its
unpleasant taste This difficulty has been overcome in
“ Scott s Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Hypophos-
phites. It being as palatable as milk and the r»>ost valuable
remedy known for the treatment of Consumption, Scrofula
and Bronchitis has caused Physicians in all p'rts of the
world to use it. “ I have found ‘Scott’s Emulsion’ of
great benefit in the treatment of phthisical and s rofulous
Diseases. It is extremely palatable and does not upset the
stomach, thus removing the difficulty experienced in
the administration of the plain Oil.
D. P. Kenna, L.R 0.5.,
Surgeon, St. Vincents Hospital, Dublin
Large and small bottleß at all Chemists.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
GIVEN UP BY THE DOCTORS.
“Tsit possible that Mr. Godfrey is up and at work, and
cured by so simple a remedy ?’’
“I assure you that he is entirely cured, and with nothing
but Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters; and only ten days
ago his doctors gave him up and said he must die ! ”
“Well-a-day! This is remarkable!” I will go this day
and get some for my poor George. I know hops are good.
Pott.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee,
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Lav
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms,
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel ow under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by oareful atten
tlon to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.
THEY’LL BE LIVELY
PRETTY SOON.
+
MOSQUITO CURTAINS
and
MOSQUITO NET
at present occupies the attention of all who
object to the tuneful “ buz’ of the playful skeeter.
Hence our
REMARKABLE PRICE LIST.
'
Remember, please, that all
LAWLER’S NET CURTAINS
arejmade from 120 in. Net, no other width allow-
ing for shrinking.
BUY ONLY
LAWLER’S LONG NET CURTAINS
MADE FROM 120 in. NET.
Ladies in town or suburb need only drop a
post card or memo., and the Net or the Curtains
will be despatched the same day.
1000 SETS MADE UP AND READY IN
ALL SIZES.
Ladies in the country have only to send down
their money-order and away goes the Curtains
and Net.
If you are in the bush, and have only a stump
or a French Beds’cad, and are troubled with mos-
quitoes, send to Lawler’s for his Net Curtains,
which are made upon a circle of cane, and can ba
suspended to a hook or a pin overhead ; nothing
easier than to suspend them from tent-top or roof
of shanty. Prices 9d, extra to those quoted for
Half •Testers.
The Net 120 in.
The Net 120 in.
The Net 120 in.
The Net 120 in.
The Net 1201 n.
The Net 1201 n.
can be had 1/2,1/3,1/4,1/6, yard.
„ „ 1/2,1/3, 1/4,1/6, „
„ „ 1/2, 1/3, 1/4,1/6, „
„ „ 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/6, „
~ „ 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/6, „
„ „ 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/6, „
And great as the bargains in these NUT CUR-
TAINS and NET undoubtedly are, they but voice
the bargains so general in
L AWLER’S
BOOT DEPARTMENT.
LAWLER’S
CLOTHING DEPARTMENT.
HAT and MERCERY DEPARTMENT.
LAWLER’S
BEDSTEAD DEPARTMENT.
LAWLER’S
FURNITURE and CARPET DEPARTMENT.
LAWLER’S
IRONMONGERY DEPARTMENT.
CALL or WRITE.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
LAWLER’S
608 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.


X3=a.portaaa.t I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE ONLY 1
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the publio
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
o
B^o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to .86,
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
~ Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
/6, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 26/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/-
„ „ steel notes 50/-
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
{,/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality! Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/., 15/-, up to £7 100.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality! S-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10b.
Sole Agents in Australia
■■or
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
Bill YU STUB,
Which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. eaoh.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Base, Harp,
Mar, to,. Sc,
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout,
nigger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SIDNEY!
Cilticura
'// mm
1
JEczem* on Sczlp.
A POSITIVE CORE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V/
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sore*, and every specie* of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Lo»* of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cure* and Beautifiers, externally..
Itching and Earning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
•icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
a* pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Town* & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVER , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cnticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cnticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
3Tor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Eeulaud. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$l.OO : Cuticuha Soap, 25 cents; Cutioura Shav-
ing Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug A Chemical Co., Boston, P.S.A.
4t my - at]
M ~
N, ‘ ' “‘1“
r... #39 I,
--,;-g V ~./
\m V; ‘
N- «v u x
\t
‘5 ‘ ._':\'%23/\:\\ -._.:‘:A:~: . ,-
‘wﬁé‘wéw \ 1
The
‘POTSHOT*
- - - • ■ ' • - •
Camera,
.J‘JT ﬂ’ , 4’ ./ ‘q‘
‘fFf-1-ﬂw'1. 5.5;" ~ M _ 9.3% . . z
‘p 5‘>.\ “.1 "'_ i" .14.. :77 ‘ p"; —" 7.1
Q («W/«9" :53 "—1
#5151?” gym; ! 31a; EV» ‘-.
’4 491—" ’ ~=’=~:.«:LJ _,r 53* ~ :
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can he taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridioule every
Incident included within the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “ DETECTIVE ” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general publio.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
mil
(isnan«‘
LIMITED,
203 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, tor
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
▲itd
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO. S
Cognac.
«. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
0 N D M E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing!.
Dailgni and Ultimate! forwarded on raauai
J. CUJfMIM«HAia,
BSABBE’SIBan, Wtitwakd-bqbam, Byokes
WE oan recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobaooo and olgars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Qneena-street, A, COOPER, Proprietor,
BECOITSFIELD HOTEL
(West Beach),
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
THE above beautifully-situated hotel hag re-
cently been greatly altered and improved,
and Is now ready for the reception of guests.
Situated immediately on the shores of the Bay,
yet it is within five minutes’ walk of the St.
Kilda Railway Station, so that visitors, while
enjoying the luxury of a sea-side residence, can,
within 20 minutes, be in the busy centre of Mel-
bourne. Convenient access has been made to the
extensive promenade on the roof, from which
magnificent views can be obtained of the Bay
and Shipping, Government House and Albert
Park Lake, Mounts Macedon, You Yang, and
Dandenong Ranges.
E. A. COOPER, Proprietress.
PERCY GIBBS, Manager.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a speoial study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor,
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men, 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip]
tlons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Dootor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, VlOi
BKAfl.il/T. WVWTQM, ft LAMB
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
W AREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURBRS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPR NG and C’CONNBLL STRBBT
Full suites for dining-room.—siuh
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
bo matoh.
Self-adjusting hammock chair
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. AST We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-,
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. 6d.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up
holstered, at all prioes.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c.
.'~.\
5‘; 2‘3;
‘ E “1!; g
, M: 2:111 T:
WALNUT FAIL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DBSKS, of vari
ons sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ru er and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg*
ing or diminishing the space when required. T,nnir ß
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Libraiy
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
3M
D
RAWING ROOM GABI
NETS,
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MOSX CELEBRATED MAKERS.
”1:; 9 I
FEW viii";
AUSTRIAN CHAIPg
In'
GREAT VARIETY.
And a complete asaor
menfi of Bent W c
Furniture the best make
only.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlonr, Library, or Bet •
rooms. New designs covered to order la
any material,
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING easy CHAIRS, elegant and rest
fnl, a specialty,
. 5 n— ,
I '
~,-\ ‘
. I r‘
“‘— TI 1-33:
“Lama: 12" ,
- 9:: ---' .-
. '. b " Qg
fi_® BDBTKADB, all Blau
Nickel-plated and Blank
and Braaa, Sreat racletfi
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest catea.
-_,._._- M ~j”
SPRING MATTRASSBI
Woren Wlra, bait
maka | also, Spiral Sprint.
Pricß. from Ids, aaob.
Cheap furniture.—pine Tables, i£>m
13b. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 20b. j Kitchen
Dresaers, from 27b. 6d.; Washatands, from 12s. 6d i
Cheats of Drawers, from dOs.} Wardrobes, from
80s.| Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar side,
boards, from £3 lOn. | Clothes Horses, from 10s. fid
Writing Tables, with drawers from 50s, '
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAM~b7’
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFALIOftY
SPRING & O'CONNELL STREETS


BRIEF MENTION.
Not a Cent ’Enery Parkes.
Sir James Service —Dinner-service.
Treasurer Bums proposes that the name
of New South Wales shall be changed to “ N.S.F."
Wonders will never cease. A Brisbane
woman has hanged herself for telling false stories.
J. P. Abbott proposes to call N.S.W.
“ The World," What a proud man it would make
The Case as it Stands.
PARKES: ‘HI CAN’T SEE HANY MORE HAPPROPRIATE WAY OF CELEBRATING THIS ERE CENTENARY THAN BY A BURGLARY!"
of the police) : “HI SAY! GET AWAY FROM THIS! THE HACTION OF HANYONE WHO WILL BINTERFERE WITH ME AT THE PRESENT MOMENT WILL
R[?] HUTTERLV PUNWARRANTED, AND CALCULATED TO DISTURB THE FRIENDLY RELATIONS WHICH SHOULD HEVER HEXIST BETWEEN THE BURGLAR.
AND HIS WICTIMS.
Parkes! He would then have creditors in all
parts of the world.
This Is the season when we hear the
angels singing every night. And don’t the angels
bite!
“Boozicans” is the E. News’ name for
“drunks.” A parallel invention would be
“ Noozicans ” for liars.
A man named Parkeß hung himself in
S.A. recently. Poor fellow, he figured it out,
and discovered that a funeral would come cheaper
than a change of name.
The Qnpen’s calf is seventeen and a-half
inches rouLd. We always did hear that Tummy
wa rather corpulent.
A witness in a Melbourne Court last week
could not tell the uses of ink. He is supposed to
be an up-country editor.
Is it by Inadvertence that the new Syd-
ney evening newspaper makes the Orange five-
pointed star do duty in its heading ?
An advertiser in the Nooze offers a reward
for a cow branded J. P. This is not the J.P.
which MoElhone, M.P.. says cost £2-50,
t lnce William Shakespeare entered the
Waiiemata (N.Z.) Council he has learned to con-
clude his old familliar ejaculation, “ Go to."
A while back a young lady of St. Amaud
(Vie.), was bitten by a fly, blood and poisoning en-
sued. It is presumed that the fly had just been
foraging on a Chinaman.
N.Z Times, Wellington :—“ We have to-
day seen some lovely- executed Xmas cards.”
This reads as though it had been written at
Government House, Sydney.
A settler near Nagambie (Vic.), owns a
horse which is nearly 28 years old. It is well
known and much respected in the district, but
cannot be Induced to put up for Parliament.
An appreciative audience of twenty persons
rolled up the other day to hear Primate Barry
preach on the penance of Theodosius. The
average Sydney Christian seems to neglect Theo-
dosius for Parkes.
A Sydney jury has found John Jamieson
not guilty of inflicting grievous bodily harm.
James Hennessy and John Robertson are also
acquitted every time. There is nothing like
having strong influence in Court.
A glaring piece of effrontery occurs in the
case of a refreshment-man in King-street, Sydney,
who announces that “The milk you get here
comes from the Nepean"— the source, as the
world knows, of Sydney’s water-supply.
In regretfully recording the 4< sad death
of an old local resident, Mr. Joseph M'Cullough,
the Walgett (N.S.W.) News remarks: “One by
one the prisoners of the district are passing
away, and are leaving behind them their foot-
prints in our history.” Probably the editor meant
“pioneers;" but then the country compositor
never sticks at a trifle.
From the Bathurst (N.8.W.) Westebs
Advocate :—“ An important printer’s error mars
the effect of G.M.V.K.’s poem published in our
last issue. The title and last line of each verse
reads—‘La fen ne vant pas la chandelle’—an
obvious mistake. It, of course, should read— ‘ La
jen ne vant pas la chandelle.’”
There is at present in America a party of
the name of Miller, who should be able to take
on our Professor at the weight-lifting business.
Mr. Sebastian Miller is a Bavarian by birth, and
capable of bolding 3001bs. of iron at arm’s length
above his head. The Professor can’t do anything
so useful as that.
Gerald Kennedy won the Mail Challenge
Uup at the Association Regatta on Saturday, and
may now be looked upon as the champion amateur
of N. S. Wales, Brett having forfeited his right to
amateur stakes by training Hanlan. The Sydney
Rowing Club made a clean sweep of all the races
open to them on Saturday, winning the Single
Sculls and Eights, and Junior and Maiden Fours.
In the Senior Eights W. Johnson, bow, broke his
oar, and the Sydney crew rowed home winners
with seven oars.


McLBAM 3MOS*, BIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
tit GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
IRONMONGERS
512
X
V
REG?
Qt.
H
S
Dull’ Kevins Machine, Asbestos flic-proof Faint, ilbo Carbon Light
ELECTROPLATED WARS, CDTLBRY, TOOLS.
BAB COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS As WALKER'S ]
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, fcC., tec,
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS! !t
BY TAKING
DUSE'S FLUID M4SIESIJ.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
tVPEBIOS TO ALL OTEES
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each bottle ),
TAKE ONLY ERUSE’S.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and Bs. fid. each.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & GO., Melbourne.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gums, and delight-
fully fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
and using daily
or Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most rocherche ingredients of the Oriental
herbal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preserves
the teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and gives a
£ leasing fragrance to the hreath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise a
ighly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes or
pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
nod-gritty toot! powder: such HOWLANDS’ ODONTOJras always proved itself.
<* No other'Odonto is genuine.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL is now sold In a golden colour for
fair and golden-haired people and children,
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneou*
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for HOWLANDS’
■ of no Tin-ton Garden, London, and avoid spurious and pernicious imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bbob., and E. Fbobsbb &fCo., Sydney,
TS
T. WILLIAMS * 00.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes
Alio Mftnufkotureri of
The Finest Quality or Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
NOE
OE
genuine soda water.
i T'EIE]
spi Mi Water Co,
11 Church hill, Sydney.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
t agents wanted
Qur f*Bt selling lines. Special Induce-
to red to first-class salesmen.
particulars on application to
S. TOUES,
x -^_^HRIDGE-STREET t SYDNEY.
«JUCK’S LABOUR BUEEAU,
RRIDOR, TATTER3ALL’S buildings,
° Nt ®R and castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
0w' v « Hotelkeepers/Stations, supplied
for ONE GUINEA, A Com-
Siting Room,
PHPP
rlfilX
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed, for six penny
stamps. Address—
8. WARD ft CO„
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
MARSHALL'S
• - -v
TONIC NERVINE
Tbadk Mark— 41 TONIC NERVINE."
MARSHALL'S TONIC NBRVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Bold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Prioe 4/8.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.B.W. i London, England,
mHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
JL Sydney Branches i
04 PITT-STREET, and 638 6EOROE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital .„ ... £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... m M 600,000
The Bank has Agents in ail the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Sfi
&
m
PATENT
PILLS
33
as
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Boi for bilious
and nerrous disorders,
each as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costire-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nerrous and trembling
sensations, Ac, The first
dose will girt relief in
SWQffiiif aataates. This is no fiction, for tfiev have
tat* it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
iOßassMy incited to try on# box of thes# Pills, and
tksy will b# acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable!
sc & few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
®jp»sa all obstructions, and bring about all that is
apprised. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEKCHAM’S
for removing any obstruction or irregularity
this system. If taken according to the directions
given mth each box they will soon restore females of
*ll ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will he found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whols muscular system, restore the
10Eg“fost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the BOSEBTTD
of health the whole physical energy of th® human
frame. These are “ PACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and on© of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECH AM’S MAGIC COUGH FILLS.
At. a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Bioftrseness, and Oppression of the Chest, They
spsedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
cf breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
ected with the above distressing and, when neg-
jd, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Basonur**
CtowM Pirns a trial.
Th® moet violent Cough will in a short tone he
amoved.
CAtmoir.—The publdo are requested to notice that
th® words “ Beeoham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St, Helens,
ILanoashire, England, in boxes at Is. l|fd. and 2s. 9d.
sach.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
©esilers throughout the Colonies.
KJB. —Full directions are given with eask box,
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THB above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony, Prloei
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Gold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNB, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
gurpagses all others for,its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tann Gold Medils—
PARIS.IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre eminent excellence of quality,
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
EEMW?
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor thair delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It Is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Dealers, and Q r the Manufacturers —
J. & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, Lon-don
Trade Mark—“'White Hose" on“ Golden
* Lyre,"
ms jjgy
Everybody \
SHOULD USKJ
prMrr T’Q
JL £j JJI. Jul JLi 1J O
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUEI
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
Nkw Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
111 Gsoaoß-STHn. Sydmsy,
Belie Vue Hotel,
BRISBANEL
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical BuAiit,
and Queensland Club!
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTBL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR Bt.
A Waiter Maeta Every Steamer.
letters and
prietor,
telegram! pleaee addrui Ptf-
8, Mi OOLLINf,
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY;
§
iHi
*adf
i
BASS’ PALE ALE.
80LB PURVEYORS to tkd
COIOKLU AHD IKDIAH IXBSBHBiBi
LONDON,
By Special Appcintmet t,
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN. JOHNSTON ft CO.,
CtaamcrrlsJ (bamltri, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale —
WINK CASKS. BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS. CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c,
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W,
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor,
Good Sample Rooms.
IpOBERT BUTCHER & CO,
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORQE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out 0*
.Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockamptoa),
CONDUCTED on the Bame principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prloes as follows i—6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d,
E
ft!
(7 nTHE
ASTHMA.BRONSHIT IS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFBECTIONS
Ingham
m as
o c
i
i
i
I
THE MOST WELCOME DISCOVERY
of Modern Times. A Cure for Pulmonary
CONSUMPTION.
TO the Consumptive, and all who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, hHemorr-
hage, and all affections of the lungs, indigestion,
and diseases of the liver and kidneys, this notice
is of vital importance, for this remedy is genuine,
having cured, and is curing, the most stubborn
cases of the above diseases. A _s
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this notice as the ordinary advertisement
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copious expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomaoh to digest and assimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers. References and every satisfaction con-
cerning it given on application.
The Consumption Cure sent all over the colonies.
Also ST. VITUS’ DANCE perfectly cured within
eighty-four hours.
The above remedies are obtainable only from
Wili iam Ford and Company. Office, 4 Australia-
street, Newtown, Sydney.
T RIDGE’S
FOOD
ion INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sal* «n England,
gfort UMjoW'be/ftg introduced Into tfcs
(Oionlcf-
use 4t.
ORjfTm&E’S nOYAL FOODliCtfita*
LO NDO N .JE NG L A N D.
dfd
s BOOT
T
B
a^EQUALLED
EITHER FOR
RICE or QHALIT Y
0-4
CEORCE S
REMOVED TO 408|; NEXT DOOR.


ROYAL MWiif
CI)YZ<
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
tnufflns, and all kinds of cake without tha a'd of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
M caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains its full
Strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powdeb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W..
p. R. IiAKKIN,
WHLOE3ALE AND RETAIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS <63 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS
3 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Pors Wine
3 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Ram
1 Bottle Cld Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3.
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPP3 STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT Bill, 780 Georgb-street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIITsiNGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
ITEIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
Am
60 CLABENCE STBEET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITS PRIOR LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VENI, f'IDl VIOL
Fop Artistic Posing and Eflteotive W*
combining softness and brill! anOT,
Photographs of ,
OMLEHIINT ft s■>
ROYAL ARCADE,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALOgjh-
GO THOU AND DO LIKEWISE I
SUMMER, with its heat, dnst and
effects, is on us, and one of the greatea
we may enjoy [is a delightfully cool an “, . (t J o nOf*
bath, made more luxurious by the » a ,| re ctiOßl
little “Sea Foam Shampoo.” Follow the be# itS'
and you will find It a most beneficial a® ■ 9 jhl
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will o ~ia h titlW
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them d . tb*
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm,®
head, and has the endorsement of.™. yo#tf
medical anthorities. The words
Shampoo” are registered, and any cO“ m
imitation of same will be prosecuted _ *ga
extent of the law. Sold by all 0 f OB®
dealers In toilet articles at the low P“ ffl
shilling per packet. Please try one paox»s
will never regret it
THEATRE ROYAL
ROCKHAMPTON.
nnaan
THE above la the only kloensofl tj
Rockhampton foe holding The* j m
other Entertainments, and can bo eM
any term upon application to _. a sa .
CHARLES
The Wonfler o! tire AS O,
COLEMAN and Sons, Cootamo»^*’ B jiirtJ;
awarded First Prize at the Ad® 1 *
tionfor their PURE VOLATILE »“
OIL. The only known cure for Asth“
affections of the chest. We have m ° r ® psblMj
testimonials than any medicine before a ddr®J*
This is a genuine article. Posted to *“* % Sl
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d. , al i lrn g Qo<
Agents, Hoffnung & Co. ; Elliott Bros.
ASK TOUR QROCJHR FOR
FRYS MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AH ORDINARY GOT 00NTAIN3 EfQKB AOTIYB FROPaRXIRH OF
THAN A PI ME OP THH BBS'S! ALB OR POEXBR."-IAWOBa
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
Braaa and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmlthln*, Blackamlthlng, Plumbing,
Qaßfltttng, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatdo Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fto.
■ole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Van Cowls, Sas Vires, Beaters,
Warmers, At,
BON ACCORD WORKS,'7aND~9 lACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
FULL PAKXIOULAM AKD PXIOX as AmiOAIIOV*
ALFRED
LAWRENCE and C O,
130 COLLINS'STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT-STKBET,
Sydney.
B
HEWERS and TErated Water Makers Machinery and Applianoes. Books on Brewing
making. Dr. Griefendorffs Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. GriefendorfFs Bohemian P
•iofondorffs Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griofendorffsi Gninino Wine. TTt.iea and MO®. r.
Dr. Griefendorff s Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorffs Quinine Wine. Utica and
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignczote for J; G rOo c f 9l
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saccharometers, jjjtW 1 ’
onia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, DW
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of qpffs
“ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND o
TRADE REVIEW.”
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE."
GRAND BOOKS FOR PRESENTS AND SCHOOL
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS. ALL THE NOVELTIES OF THE SEASON NOW ON VIEW.
BEAUTIFUL photo, and scrap albums, work boxes, writing cases, FANS, SCREENS, &c. t
MUSlC—Newest Pieces, Songs, Dances, Glees, Christmas Carols, Anthems, Part Music, and Presentation Volumes.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET.
a/
Q C9
0\
91-3
away. ‘
ﬁfth" '
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY.
BIIiLIABD CUSHIONS, &c., MADE ON THE PREMISES.
Old. Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS,CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, H.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON.
FITSHOT- MOTEL,
HAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY JBOTSL,
Plunge and Slower Bath,
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation,
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
ClgretT XD&Traaa.
(Next Royal Stan lard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco,,, Cigars and Pipes.
R. GLIFP’ORD,
CASTLEREA'SH STREET,
COMMERCIAL HOTEI7GOULBURM^w!
I/IIRST-CLASS aooonimodatlon for commeroial
JJ? gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
anple rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
p ic , KILBY
(late of the DeteobhrelForoe),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
II ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Abnonden and wife deierten traced, and all kind! of
lonfidential Inqolrie* lnitltnted. Hvidenoe obtained In
llvoroe, libel, fraud, and inoendlary oaiei, for the legal pro*
leuion and other*. Oopie* of will*, oertifloate* of blrthi
Marriage, or death, obtained in an* part of the world
Kent* and debta oolleoted. From R. M. «.'» long experience
Sihe Detective Force of New Booth Wale*, Victoria, and
iw Zealand, and eitabliahed agenoie* in all part* of ths
glob*, be l* In a poaition to conduct all tnqulrlei with oantioa
wpctatStn and itrioteit leoreiy, and to and
prompt.* attend to all bmineia entrnited to li oare.
AFTEH ftEFORfi MOUSttChO »&& WMSkWfI.
■EFORS * FTEtI
i Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, i
■aj«l will do it on either bald "
fhtad or bare fate- Forces ,
heavy Moustache in from 2 to J
» 4 weeks and never fails. 20,000*
Copyrighted . young men already Wear full Copyrighted .
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, 2*. tSd. each, Zfor 3s. 6d., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation . Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Box 730. a. P. 0., Sydney, N 8. W.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED If* LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE Col^ Y ‘
T. F. WIESENER, 334 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATCHES, Jewellery, Instruments for Christmas presents. Watches for ladies, gentlemen, and boys, at all prices. Jewellery, the latest styles and designs in g°J^
at very low prices indeed (quality being in all oases guaranteed). Opera and Field Glasses, Drawing-room Clocks, Thermometers and Barometers. For professioi
men, Microscopes, Mathematical Instruments in presentation cases, Telescopes, &c. For Boys studiously inclined, similar instruments at moderate prices (always in
capital present, and lead tueir tastes into good, and keep them out of bad channels. Buy frotn the Manufacturer and direct Importer, and save middlemen’s profit-
established name is sufficient guarantee fofi quality and good value. Please remember WIE ZENER’S Steam Factory and Shop—
-334= GHEIOKGEEI BTIREIEIT, ST£ iDISrETZ*.,
>
-J^4,
