

The Bulletin
greater than that of any weekly in the southern hemisphere.
Xv
M THE MARVELS OF THE AGE.
« Agent, Haymarket, Sydney receives his consignments of Watches from the Manufacturers, Waltham, Massa-
ls ßo Se con 1 l anc [ they consequently reach the Australian public at only a trifle over manufacturers’ wholesale prices. There
ac Wfes s c handling. Three years’ printed guarantee given with each watch. A Waltham can now be sent per parcels post to any
Australasia, and T. M. Alcock, the Waltham Agent, accepts all risk till the watch is safely delivered.
T
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET OF WATCHES, SPORTING TROPHIES, &c.
T. M. ALCOCK, JEWELLER, WALTHAM WATCH AGENT, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
£5
OOD irrigated
q-aCRE A "R^K/T^
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
SS PITT ST
PAMPHLET, PLAN, AND PARTICULARS FORWARDED FREE
NTER'S BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS,
n; I , 1 Tsle Largest, Cheapest, and Best-selected Stock of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
Quality Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
&c., w pi here find the Stock of Boots krger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ cheaper.
w Inspection of the quality and comparison of the prices is specially invited.
HUITTEP’S SOOT PALACE,
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Public are requested to note that John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
"■SB
BROTHERS’ 22 nd GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE OF DRAPERY AND CLOTHING
commenced at the New Premises, GEORGE and BATHURST STREETS, and at OXFORD STREET.
SEMI-ANNUAL SALES at KILEY BROTHERS are a fact. They are the regular half-yearly result of the
a \ B y s t e iu whioh has built up the phenomenal business of this firm. Every half year Riley Brothers re-stock their various
WjJ O6 is e | Nv hat i s disposed of at the half-yearly sales are not old goods but the residuum of the previous stock, and the whole
of at manufacturers’ prices. The Half-yearly Sale now commenced will give every householder in Sydney a rare oppor-
money The stock for sale includes Calicoes, Sheetings. Dress Materials, Mantles, Millinery, Underclothing, Laces,
L ° Ves > Hosiery, Damasks, Prints, Men’s and Boys’ Clothing. RILEY BROTHERS have never before offered such
6 Heh department.
RILEY BROTHERS.
tio-Australian Investment, Finance and Land Company, Limited.
- £500,000 | Subscribed Capital
: 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
V
‘fi..
- - £250.000 | Reserve Fund - - - £40,000.
| BANKERS : UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
To Receive Money on Deposit ; To Make Advances on Freehold and Leasehold Securities: To Invest in Freehold and Leasehold Property.
I) RATES OF INTEREST.
P° s its at without notice, 5 per cent. ; Deposits at 3 months, 6 per cent. ; Deposits at G months, 7 per cent. ; Deposits at 12 months, 7| per cent.
CURRENT ACCOUNTS BEARING INTEREST.
Cc ounts are also opened with trading firms and private persons, according to the usual practice of Bankers, bub with the important exception that interest is allowed on the daily
balance at the rate of FIVE PER CENT, per annum. These accounts are operated on by cheque-books, obtainable at the Ofllce of the Company.
WILLIAM CLAHEB, Manager.


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
Wire
PROOF
fcDE
W,
PROOF
E\
ON
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED [BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BEOS., EIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
5
2
X
-5
SPECIALITIES »
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &C.
WIT.T.TAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
gICT.TAPT/H:
BUGGIES
rXKST G-RADE
STYLE,
QUALITY,
and
FINISH,
UMO by Axx the
ftMuUms CttlKens.
PC* HOW CHEAP,
BUT HOW GOOD 1
r
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs,
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
Cali and Inspect
ARDMAN
y^ni'ltnunMiMiLiiniVhnimnimiiuniniitiin
"2525,
syjv/jjy
il lIIIIIHIM
ojs-j
jjivjy/
OA/tr
i imuUMuiir«>f«Hunnu
Jf/MASA/JCnO I )
gd
HUD OfflCC & FACT Off Y. fl/EWTOWH
Branch, croffcf ST Sydney.
fg
df
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN BANKS,
863 PITT STRBET, SYDNEY.
PAPER H A NGIN QS
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATIONS.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILYERER, BEYELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney.
EE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
*33
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and-condensing matter to less than
the space oocupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies zaay be taken in the usual m anner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
*lO Kent-streeb.
ZCglnnets
halcßitfi
on
&
to
78
ROMmf/A
S'
M
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
(J. A, ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANT
Importers of - VA
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
A
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and Yh&t
i
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC ; TINPLATES ; PIG IRON and LEAD ; OILS, PA£ g , j m
BRUSHWARE ; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, BUILDE*VrjC£
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FIXED ENGINES,
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING,
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c.
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLELpjjIP
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
k Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application,
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO**
Head Warehouse
Iron ahd Implement Yard-
Bulk Stores- ■ 5
London Office 3
54 YORK STREET.
• HAY and ENGINE STREETS. ttaß
• • HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HA*
S-STXD3STH]-3r>
- 85 GRACECHURCH STREET
DUGiOKxSQMS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
on SOW A SO#S
CONQUERO° „
YANKEE DOOP 1 '
SIRROGEfU
"1 A SONS rM,e
N AILROD
OIXS
S*X&QN A SONS
SOLS ON A SONS .1
CHAMPION
HIXSON A SONS AAAiMMA
G (1 T,l|\ TJo*
r.c.ruby.orientalm*%
CIGARETTE GOLD LEAF 4 **
ORGANS 1
boEE AGEMB FOR THE
SMITH.”
MAS!
BRUCE &
ifi^hstoS,
ORGANS, M
197 PITT-ST., s
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
‘Doloheux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
jWhy suffer those excruciating Pains when one
i/.,,. {bottle of fc "s.
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATICTPILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
Ihls Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl. A. ROSE, PharmacBdiioal Chemist,
631 George-street only.
CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
e-lec/ -le-Mii //zc
g
dfg
MACHINERY
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COST!
c/
(»/
iTy
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, L-
ESTIMATED FOB COM?
d
Sydney:
HI, PITT STREET.
KING
22,
MO N U M B vte
In Granite, Marble, and » gl
Iron Tomb 0 red A
Design* and Estimates forward®?
J. CTOfHItaiA» | * I#>) ®
MARaA»*x-BTajc*x, ffvNW\iiJ>W’'


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 870.
SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 1887.
Prioe., (ML
IVe RATHER WANT To F/GHT.
and 3Y Jingo if we-do.
IVeVe qot the men weVeqct the,
WEVfqoT THE- 77/AT /J LYS CAN SOR-
ROW v/erfowey >swM
Drat the Boy!
It is said that while acting as Premier, in 1885, the Hon. W. B. Dailey, on his own responsibility, ordered £250,000 worth of military stores. The goods will be landed
shortly.” —Daily Paper.
MRS. NEW SOUTH WALES: "YOU LITTE SCAMP! FILLING THE PLACE UP WITH WHAT RUBBISHING STUFF. HOW I AM EVER TO PAY FOR IT I DON’T KNOW.”


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STBEET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d.
All money orders, oheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders tor the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direot to Th k Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—whioh you may pay by Poet Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH o, 1887.
The Price of Military Glory.
Another natural consequenc3 of the era oi
Soudan delirium with which New South
Wales was two years ago afflicted has at
length, under circumstances of inexplicable
shame, been revealed to a repentant com-
munity. The Hon. W. B. Dalley, while
his brain was still overmastered with the
wild passion that induced the ghastly
blunder of despatching that Contingent,
followed up h : s mock-heroic action by order-
ing huge quantities of useless war material
from English manufacturers. The evidence
already published connecting him with the
blunder, corroborated by the evidence of
his own silence, supplies strong proof of his
own and unique responsibility in this affair.
He had made the people of New South
Wales a nation of military marauders,
and with what must at the moment
have seemed to be admirable foresight,
he took of the people’s credit enough
to buy the munitions of war for many future
foreign plundering expeditions. Or per-
haps it was that he anticipated an attack
upon peaceful Australian homes as a just
retribution for brutal military murder and
cruel invasion committed by Australians
abroad. He may have remembered that tho
Soudanese had given to us no cause of
offence, no justification of attack—out of
pure wantonness and brutality tbe Contin-
gent came into existence ; and perhaps he
feared that such a crime would not go for
long without a deserved and bitter punish-
ment ; as we had assaulted peaceful patriots
so he reflected that expiation by the attack
of peaceful Australians might be required
and effected by the arms of a people whom
we had never offended, and to guard against
the ditaster of so righteous a judgment he
ordered arms and military supplies enough
for a nation of brigands.
Thisact, badasitwas, represents only a ti* lie
of Mr. Dalley’s political offence The blunder
might easily, especially in that era of adora-
tion of the popular hero, have been forgiven,
if a candid confession had been made. Yet
even up to the present time of writing
this confession has not been made.
With timidity strangely at variance with
the rash and reckless and defiant bravery to
which he was then inciting the community,
Mr. Dalley seems to have purposely with-
held the knowledge of his foolish error from
those whom it most concerned. Urging on
others to offer their lives a shameful sacrifice
in a worse than contemptible cause, he him-
self refrained from doing anything that would
have theslightest tendency to dull the glow of
the meretricious glory with which he was
haloed. In his hour of sickness we are loath
to criticise hardly, or even justly, one who
doubtless admits his error and condemns his
weakness with all due sorrow and hu-
mility ; but his public conduct is a pub-
lic matter, and his political reputation
is the concern of every citizen, therefore
this matter must be threshed out and sifted,
whatever may be the measure of his present
and regretable indisposition. Therefore it
must be told that whilst he sat at gorgeous
banquets and listened to enthusiastic ap-
plause at every mention of his name : while
lie was conscious of being eagerly regarded
in the public street ; and as he read the ex-
travagant newspaper panegyrics on his mili-
tary achievements, he must have felt that if
the people knew that which in all honour he
was bound to tell them their transports
would be suddenly limited, their admiration
be restricted or even withheld. He ac-
cepted the laudations given by the people
in their ignorance ; lie reserved from
them knowledge of an error that even
in those March days of madness would not
have passed without deep condemnation.
And now tho last stage of sorrowful return
to reason has come to the people of the com-
munity. Long ago they decided that what
they once held to be an act of national hero-
ism was nothing more than a national crime,
but they still cherished the idea that the
man of March was a statesman and a hero ;
now they find that he was neither the one
nor the other. They were deceived, and he
whom they worshipped was a reckless breaker
of the Constitution, and—despite his illness,
it must be written—a coward.
Even now, when the offence has been
dragged into the light of day, who is there
that can blame its author ? Mr. Dalley’s
wrongdoing in the inception of this recently-
discovered affair was two-fold : he erred
in allowing his emotion to lead him to
the perpetration of such an act of folly,
and he sinned in breaking the Consti-
tution which, as a Minister of the Crown,
he was sworn to uphold. But both
the offences were in like manner, and to a
greater degree, committed when the offer of
the Contingent was made, yet all the daily
papers and the majority of the people ap-
plauded the folly of despatching that band
as an act of heroism, and lauded the reckless
breach of the Constitution as an act of the
highest statesmanship. And having thus
glorified Mr. Dalley for offending against
the Constitution and common-sense in start-
ing the Contingent, the same glory should
be accorded him by the same authorities for
similar offences involved in the order of these
military toys. Like judgment must be
awarded in each instance. Therefore, the
daily Press mustagain appear as Mr. Dalley’s
apologists ; they must strive now to prove as
they did in the latter days of February, 1885,
that for a Minister to load the people with
large expenditure without their constitution-
ally expressed consent is heroic statesman-
ship, and that to commit the colony to a
military policy is a signal and highly meri-
torious exploit. When the curtain was rung
up on the Soudan farce Mr. Dalley had no
critics on the daily press ; they were all
sycophants, and toadies ; they entered into
the spiritof his clowning, they heaped adula-
tion on his every act. To turn round now
and denounce the hitherto unseen afterpiece
and censure the actor, would be to cover
themselves with the shame tiny would heap
on Mr. Dalley. To acknowledge that they
have returned to reason would be to confess
their former madness. They shared his
foolishness in the past, they must take their
share of his shame now. Had the daily
press preserved its reason in those mad days
Dalley would not have committed this
political crime ; but they were as bad or
worse than he, and carried away by their
plaudits he did that which will make New
South Wales the jibe and jeer of the world.
In the time of his ‘'glory” the Sydney
dailies and Dalley were together : in the
time of his tribulation, in his hour of appro-
brium, they must not be divided. They to-
gether advocated deeds of national and con-
stitutional lawlessness in 1885 : in 1887 they
must be equally, and together, bound with
the chains of public indignation.
A Constitutional Defect.
The recently discovered fact that a New
South Wales Cabinet Minister two year
ago committed the community to a wors
than wasteful expenditure of over £200,00'
for useless war material, once more demon
strates a weak spot in the colonial constitu
tion. The act itself was a gross breach o
the plainest principles of representativ
Government ; such a thing in such a way
despot or dictator might do, but it is inter!
beyond the power of a responsible Minister
and a flagrant violation of the very code
from which a Minister derives his authorit;
and position. But although such an act 1
subversive of all constitutional law, the
law has no power of punishing the
offtndei. The erring Minister, while he re
tains office, may be called upon to make an
explanation, and if this be unsatisfactory
may be compelled to resign, but this depri
ration of office is an absurdly inadequate
of the constitutional crimes
which every Minister has the power of com-
mitting. Expulsion from the Assembly may
also ensue, but this is the merest pretence oi
punishment. The member expelled may
appeal to his constituency and again be re-
turned, and the deliberate decision of the
assembled representatives of the whole com-
munity will then possibly be over-ridden at
the will of a mere majority of a small body
of electors. Thus the fact remains that the
wide area of political crime is covered by no
tangible and deterrent penalty. We use
these words advisedly. Theoretically it is
asserted that there is a remedy by impeach-
ment. But impeachment has become ob-
solete in England, and to impeach a colonial
politician or to obtain the dismissal of a
colonial j udge it would be necessary for the
local Assembly and Council to charge the
oft'ender before the Imperial House of Lords.
The impossibility of using such a process is
abundantly evident ; therefore we are justi-
fied in saying that there is no adequate
means of punishing political wrongdoing.
* * *
Proof of these facts is to be seen on
many dark pages of the past history of New
South Wales. Take as an instance the well-
known case of Mr. Ezekiel Alexander
Baker. Ho was charged with serious mis-
conduct in his dual capacity of director of
the Milburn Creek Mine and member of
Parliament. The charge was investigated
by Mr. J. E. Salomons, and on the strength
of his exhaustive report Mr. Baker was ex-
pelled from the Assembly, only two mem-
bers voting against the motion. Yet he was
a candidate for the vacancy which his own
expulsion had created, and although de-
feated then, was returned shortly after-
wards, the vote of electors who may hav
been his personal friends or dependent
negativing the vote of representatives of the
whole community. Mr. Garrett chargee
with misconduct in the same affair was more
lucky, a mean majority of two member
being in his favour ; but if he hac
been expelled it is almost a certainty tha
he would have again been returned within
two months. The case of Mr. G. R. I'ibb
is also germane to our argument. He, whil
still a Minister, was charged by Mr. Jame
Thomson, accountant to the Treasury, with
having altered the carefully-prepared esti
mates of revenue for 1880, so as to make the
statement appear more attractive to the
members and the country. This charge may
be entirely fa'se, but Mr. Dibbs does no
seem to have ventured upon a refutation or
to have attempted to make Mr. Thompson
answerable for libel in the Supreme
Court. But while the charge stil
shadows his reputation a constituency
has re-elected him to Parliament, am
whether the accusation be disproved or not
Mr. Dibbs may again be a Minister within
few weeks. Even if the matter be discussec
in the House and the alleged delinquent be
expelled, there is no power in the State, save
the voices of the Murrumbidgee, or other elec-
tors which can prevent his again appearing in
his place in the Assembly. A Ministry num-
bering Messrs. Garrett, Baker, Dibbs,
Wright, and Dalley among its members is
not absolutely impossible in the future. Thai
it should be impossible is a self-evident and
undeniable proposition.
There are many ways more or less simple
of providing a complete remedy for this dis-
astrous defect in the colonial constitutional
system. If the New South Wales Upper
House were not, in the creation of its mem-
bers, blemished with jobbery, and in the charac-
ter of most of those members disgraced by
prejudice, self-interest, and stupidity, the
adoption of a modified process of attainder
would best suit the circumstances of the
country. In default of this means of cure
for the existing evil the criminal law st ould
be extended to the punishment of Ministerial
breaches of trust, or else the judges should
be empowered to decide upon the case of
members accused of misconduct by their fel-
lows, and in cases of proved guilt to issue a
decree naming a penalty for the transgres-
sion, or pi ospectively nullifying any nomina-
tion of such offenders should they again sub-
mit themselves to the franchise of the
electors. Yet one other very important
reform should precede such an one as this.
The judges would have to be removed from
the political influence imposed by their ap-
pointment ; politicians would not then be
permitted to nominate judges, whose grati-
tude to their political party might possibly
tend to overpowtr their sense of justice and
right.
P[?]ot. [?]ion and Wages.
Post hoc ergo propter hoc —this is the line of
argument usually adopted in any discussions con-
cerning the influence of Protection on wages.
“Wages,” say the Freetraders, “are lower in
protected .America than in New South Wales,
and lower still in Belgium and Germany, both
heavily protected countries : therefore, 1 rolectic
lowers wagc3 ” The over-zealous Protectionis
on the other hand, points to the starvation wage
paid to labourers in England. ‘ See,” he saye
“how Freetrade has cut down the rates prevai
ing there; the triumph of Bright and Cobden
has been the ruin of English workmen.” As
matter of fact, each imputation is widely errone
ous. Protection is best understood and can bes
be supported when its direct effect upon the pro
duction of wealth is regarded ; that it has a strong
indirect influence on the distribution of the profit
of production, assisting the labourer to assert hi
share of such profits in the form of wages, i
demonstrable ; but the conditions determining th
rate of wages vary so much in different countrie
that no direct deduction regarding the influence
of the national policy can on the post hoc ergo
propter hoc principle be drawn.
To understand in what way, and to wha
extent, the opposed policies indirectly affect the
current’rate of wages in any country, it is neces
sary first to observe the main causes by which
wages are directly determined. Political econo
mists of the old school aver that what they term
the “ Wage Futd ” is alone to be regarded, and
that it must be taken in conjunction with the
number of men who are to be sharers in it. But
this theory is surrounded with some notable disad
vantages. In the first place no means have yet
been discovered of accurately defining its Jimi
tations, and further it is liable to enormous,
rapid, and unaccountable fluctuations, which
greatly detract from the alleged usefulness of
asserting such a fund at all. These important
qualifications had not at all accurately been ascer-
tained when Henry George put the Archimedean
lever of lruth under the fanciful fabric, and grace-
fully up-ended it, his contention broadly stated
being that Labour and Capital are partners, and
that the former is not the actual dependent of the
latter, as had been asserted. Following and ex-
tending his method we may fairly define
the conditions determining the rate of wages to
be, “ The amount of profit arising from produc-
tion, and the power of Labour to assert its claim in
thedivisionofthisprofit.” Itwillbs atonceadmitted
that, under ordinary circumstances, unless there
is a profit awaiting the employment of Labour,
there will be no employment and consequently no
wages. The prospect of profit is a condition pre-
cedent to the investment of Capital and applica-
tion of Labour. And the larger the profit actually
realised the greater will be the shares justly du
to the two parties—those who lend their wealt
and those who give their labour. But as iustic
unless backed up by legal or other force does no
avail much in commercial circles, the amoum
rightly due will not be nece3saiily paid. Labou
weakened by competition of its members may b
utterly defenceless as in England, Belgium, an
Germany, and Capital tyrannical and unscrupt
lous. In Euch a cate the current wage will b
measured by the necessity of the labourer. Bu
in countries as Australia, where competition
many departments of industry is limited mainl
by the action of trades-unions, and where th
comparative cheapness of the land fixes amoderat
minimum wage to workers, Labour can compe
Capital to make ah equable division of profits
Thus our definition is verified by fact. Taking
Belgium and Australia as the extremes as far a
the rate of wages is concerned, it will be admit tec
that the prostration of Labour, and small rate o
profi , on production in the former country, anc
the organised strength of Labour and high rate o
profit in our own land, furnish reasons which do
much to account for the divergent rates of re
muneration to the worker.
Freetrade atfectsindirectly both of the conditions
determining the rate of wages paid, for it is evi
dent that foreign imports may absolutely banish
all profit from a particular inluftry. With the
departure of the hope of profit, investment 01
capital and employment of labour in that industry
will cense altogether, whatever be the power o'
Labour to enforce a fair distribution of profits
earned. But if instead of abolishing all profits
these are by the competition of foreign labour
under Freetrade merely reduced, the tendency
will certainly be to reduce wages also. Capita
will not be invested below a certain mini-
mum rate, and that rate must neceeearily be a
first charge on the gross return. The reducec
net profit alone is available for distribution be
tween the employer and employed. This is the first
indirect effect, but there is a second no less certain
and but little less important. Consequent upon
reduction of profit there must be limitation ol
enterprise, and therefore less demand for labour
And the decreate of employment must either lead
to a reduction of wages, cr else, as is the case in
Sydney at the present time, must reduce the num-
ber of men able to earn wages at ail. Either the
number of unemployed and therefore unproduc-
tive consumers increases, or else the trades-unions
give way. There were many persons in New
South Wales during, the severest periods of de-
pression who prophesied, and do still prophesy,
that “ wages must come down,” but the firmness
of labour organisations have hitherto prevented
more than a partial fulfilment of the anticipation
* * *
The indirect effects of Protection on the rate
of wages ae in each case diametrically
opposed to the foregoing influences of Free-
trade. But, as regards the rate of wages i n
some protected countries, it is necessary to notice
that the conditions as defined are “factors,” and
unless there be power in both the result will be
nil. If there is no profit, it matters not that the
labourers are able by their united strength to
insist upon a fair division ; and although on the
other hand the profits may be enormous, their
vastness will bs of no concern to the labourer
unless he can assert his claim in their distribution
Multiply 0 by 2, or 2 by 0, and the result will be
nothing in each case. In no part of the world has
the intelligence of the labouring classes permitted
them to use their strength so well as in Australia,
and hitherto profits have been comparatively high
and employment fairly commensurate with the
number of its claimants. A moderate stimulus by
protective duties will increase the demand for
labour by affording the promise of reasonable pro-
fit ; continuance of Freetrade will engender stag-
nation disastrous to the working classes and ruin-
ous to their employers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Modern Demetrius.
The speech of Mr. M'Miilan, at Sydney Im
porters' Chamber of Commerce, is superior in its
windy pomposity and political cant to anythin*
that has hitherto been produced. A pteon of
1 reetrade triumph furnished him with an intro-
duction to his oration, and then followed an ex-
hortation to still higher effort in the cause of
Commercial freedom," an effort which should
raise up a wealthy and complete organisation
similar to. but more powerful than, the Freetrade
Association, as a means of fastening firmly and
for ever a Revenue Tariff on the unfortunate
people of the colony The political snutlie espe-
cialiy came in when he remarked on the fact that
the danger of the contest had aroused personal
effort and brought out financial support from many
who never interestedthemseivesbefore in anything
outside their own routine occupation.” The de-
sired inference is that a spirit of patriotism
suddenly prevailed among these, until then, sordid
and apathetic persons, and induced them to make
a peisonal sacrifice i this is a very Dleasanf litHo
theory, bat it wtm’t stand analysis, the actual and
evident fact being that this sudden accession of
public spirit was with most of the pursey patriots
merely anewer and deeper development of the selfish
instinct that had formerly made them attend to the
business of money-grubbing to the exclusion of
aught else. The inspiring “danger of the
contest was to such interested enthusiasts merely
the danger of losing the profits of their present
monopoly. Like Demetrius of Ephesus! who
roused up his fellow-craftsmen to overwhelm
Paul by showing that not only was their craft
i? D d i“r of b I t £ lß , “ ew doctrine, but also that
Diana of the Ephesians was in danger of con-
tempt, so the call was made months ago on the
Demetrwses of the importing trade, and seeing
their craft m danger by reason of this advancing
pohtica l faith of Protection, the whole body of
Calico Jimmies with one accord rose up and
yelled Great is the Freetrade of and
once more the craft was made secure in its
monopoly. Theplausible cry has prevailed this time
but even Mr M Millan fears the community
will not be so deluded again. He says: “ If the


day should come when we must bow to the will of
the people exercising its sovereign authority ,”
and so on. Mr. M‘Millan, being only
a “ weaner ” in politics, shows his hand
too plainly, for the above italicised words
show that “ we, the importers,” have
direct interests conflicting with the interests. of
the community ; that “ we, the importers ” have
managed this time to work politics for their own
especial benefit; and also that “ the will of the
people exercising its sovereign authority ” will
one day refuse to join in the parrot-cry, “ Great
is the Freetrade of Parkes,” and then the gospel
of patriotic Protection will prevail to the discom-
fiture of Demetrius the importer and his selfish
and sordid clan. Open confession of this sort may
be good for the soul, bat it ruins such a cause as
that which is upheld by McMillan, Street,
Joseph and Co.
Parkes Rt proving Protection Sin.
When Sir Henry Parkes spoke at Deniliquin
“as an elector of the Murray,” he followed his
customary practice of firing off a farrago of abuse,
the hero of the attack on this occasion being Mr.
Barbour. We freely admit that the latter is not
by several leagues a perfect politician, but it was
rather as an opponent and a Protectionist than as
a politician with a record that Sir Henry re-
garded him. At Mr. Barbour’s advocacy of
what Sir Henry in 1887 considers fiscal heresy,
he remorselessly hammered, and this was one of his
blows:
“ One of their candidates (Mr. Barbour) had said that he
advocated Protection only for such articles a% could be as
easily and as beneficially produced here «s elsewhere. What
a supremely abmrd proposition ! (Interruption ) If articles
could be produced here as easily and as well as elsewhere,
obvi iusly they did not need Protection. This showed that
Mr. Baroour did not understand what he was talking about.”
And then, with fierce sarcasm, Parkes continued :
“ One of the most curious features of this crisis was the
number of gentlemen who had too suddenly turned their
coats.”
Bearing these quotations in mind, we turn to the
newspapers of the 21st December, 1860, and from
Mr. Parkes’ speech on the question of ad valorem
duties, we extiact these remarkable sentences :
“ He had bee a accused of having expressed views in
favour of Protection, and he would take this opportunity
of making some remarks upon that accu°ation. What-
ever his views were six yea s ago, a? expressed in bring-
ing uo the report of the c >mmi r tee of inquiry respecting
the condition of the working classes, and whatever in-
terpretation had been put upon those views, he still eutei-
taiuei them. He maintained that if there was any new
product or manufacture by the pursuits in connexion with
which a large number of persons would find employment
and the colony be largely benefited, the fos'ering of that pro-
duct for a time would be perfectly justifiable. These ad
valorem duties would not c nfer any benefit; of that kind
but they would be a source of great annoyance and loss
to those who had embarked thsir capital in commerci tl
pursuits.
If the italic .sed port .on did not amount to an
advocacy of discriminating, patriotic Protection
then has the meaning of words altered since that
data. But Barbour, who now advocates no
more of Protection than Mr. Parkes did then, is
held up to public execration for propounding “ the
supremely absurd proposition ” which he might
e/en have borrowed totidim verbis from the
orations of his reprover. And this denouncer of
inconsistency is himself the most conspicuous
turnooat in the crowd. From his own quoted
admission in ’65 it will be seen that members then
in the House twitted him with renouncing part
of the faith in Protection that six years before he
had held, and yet when he had renounced so much
of the creed that men branded him as an
aoostate and turncoat, he still was as strong a
Protectionist a 3 the man whom he last week so
bitterly abused. Which Parkes is the more
worthy of credence. The vigorous man who in
1865 advocated discriminating erotection, or the
Parke 3 of 1887, whose mind is soured by a recent
effort at his expulsion from the Assembly, and by
other nameless and innumerable indignities and
disappointments, and who now goe3 through the
country wildly advocating Fxeetrade and abusing
opponents in the fashion of fish-fags, and in terms
familiar and appropriate to a birgee? The
Parkes of to-day abuse 3 the Parkes of 20
years ago in every sentence that reflects upon
the political views of his present opponents.
Parkes then was not a “ withered tarantula,” or
“ mole-eyed,” or “ noodle headed,” but he was a
more ardent Protectionist than any of the men
whom he now loads with vulgar invective and coarse
sarcasm. Let tne Freetrade Parkes be answered
by quotations from the speeches of the Protec-
tionist Parkes. and then this man who has both
advocated and denounced every clause in the
political programme will be rightly adjudged a
noisy apoitate whose aim on every change of
front is to try by the vehemence of his protesta-
tions to prevent men from remembering that he
is a traitor to the cause he formerly championed.
Render unto Cse3ar.
So far no steps seem to have been taken to realise
the large asset of the New South Wales Govern-
ment now in the hands of Messrs. Wright,
Heaton, and Co. At the trial of members of this
firm for conspiracy it will be remembered that the
Crown produced documents, showing that in
several stated cases the firm had paid less for the
carriage of certain goods than was legally de-
mandable. We do not insinuate that there wa3
any fraudulent act or wrongful intention on the
part of the firm mentioned ; this, although
alleged, was not proved, and probably never will
be proved : we assume—if indeed any assumption
be necessary—that the firm were entirely inno-
cent, but the fact still remains that from the evi-
dence tendered by the prosecution and not denied
by the defendants, it was manifest that the defi-
ciency of freights paid amounted to a large aggre-
gate, and it has been admitted by competent
authority that the shortages quoted formed but a
small portion of the total rightfully due to the
State. Although Messrs. Wright, Heaton, and
Co. have been criminally prosecuted, there is
no reason whatever why they should not be called
to account for their admitted liability as Crown deb-
tors; even if the criminal proceedings had resulted
in a verdict adverse to the defendants there would
even then have been no bar to civil action. And
in a civil suit against these parties the Crown
would not require the evidence of Mr. Sievenson,
whose sudden taste for emigration blocked pro-
ceedings in the Criminal Court; all the proof re-
quired is ready to hand; if the Crown lawyers
deem it sufficient to ensure a verdict, Messrs.
Wright, Heaton, and Co. should be forced to
square up their account; if it be not sufficient, or
if it has been found that the Crown allegations
were false, the firm deserve public admission of
the fact, for as matters stand now there is a very
general impression abroad that Wright, Heaton,
and Co are Crown debtors to the extent of many
thousands, and the public wonder is that no effort
has been made to enforce payment of this long out-
standing debt.
♦
Falsa Pretences.
A solicitor is an officer of the Supreme Courts
and is a gentleman by Act of Parliament. He is
supposed to have a special knowledge of the law,
and to be at least decently honest. Yet evidently
he is not above resorting to measures of gain for
which ordinary men would stand a good show of
being sent to prison. Here is an instance of what
is done by lawyers of repute every day. A poor
woman owed a man a small sum of money, under
£2. The creditor went to a highly respectable
firm of solicitors in Sydney, and procured them to
write a letter demanding immediate payment of
the amount due, together with one guinea—their
costs. The woman obtained the whole sum deman-
ded, and paid it to the solicitors. Afterwards she dis-
covered that the respectable firm had no right
whatever to charge her a guinea or any other sum
for writing the letter of demand. She had not
employed the gentlemen (by Act of Parliament),
and even if she had employed them their legal fee
would not have amounted to a sixth part of what
they deliberately received from her. “ Then I
will ask them to refund tbe overcharge,” she said,
and on the following day she did ask for a refund.
** My dear Madam,” one of the gentlemen (by
Act of Parliament) replied, “I admit that you
were not legally bound to pay our cos s in this
matter, but since you have paid them I cannot
entertain your application for a refund. Your
proper course was to have refused to pay the
costs at the time of settlement.” The poor woman
expostulated to the effect that she never thought
a respectable firm of solicitors would make an
illegal demand upon her slender purse ; but the
gentleman (by Act of Parliament) only smiled at
her innocence, and she had to depart without re-
dress. Nor can she obtain redress by any procsss,
it appears. If a grocer or butcher overcharges
you, and you pay him under the impression that
his charge is correct, the law insists on his return-
ing the sum he received in excess. solicitors
may extort money under menace of “ immediate
process,” at pleasure, and against them there is no
recourse. The pretence that the charge made
against this woman was legally payable was
clearly false, and ought to bring the “ respectable
firm ” within the pale of that awfully comprehen-
sive enactment yclept the Criminal Law Amend-
ment Act.
Parkes and. His Paper.
When Mr. Dibbs proposed to co7er the deficit,
then amounting to a little over a million, by the
issue of Treasury bills, the Daily Telegraph
was not unjustly filled with rage and despair. The
credit of New South Wales would be ruined.
How could more money be borrowed in London
for reproductive works whilst such a method
of raising the wind ia Sydney to make
good a deficiency in th 9 ordinary revenue was
adopted ? The idea was ab-urd and monstrous.
Yet the same paper announced the other day that
Sir Henry Parkes contemplated 7 issuing
£2,000.000 worth of Treasury bills to re-
duce the present deficit, and added that the
scheme would give general satisfaction. The an-
nouncement, like a great many of the D.T.’s
stories, was founded on a purely fictitious baeir.
Sir Henry Parkes did not intend to do what his
mouthpiece averred, and this organ had to print his
contradiction of its statement. But that is
nothing. The point is that the D.T. approved of
an issue of bonds by Parkes to the amount
of £2,000,000 while Dibbs, who only required one
million, was driven out of office for proposing
the same expedient. Is there anything special
about Parkes that a proposal made by him is
good, though one identically the same in kind
made by another politician is unutterably bad ?
The D.T. evidently perceives something in the
man which renders every ore of his actions in
esse and in posse , in the highest degree admirab’e ;
and it would perform a signal service to the public
if it condescended to disclose ju ; .t in what that
unique point of difference betwixt him and ordin-
ary men consists. Sir Henry Parkes can-
non live for ever, and it would be horrible for the
country if the secret of his preternatural ability
to transmute badness into goodness died with him.
Already an ignorant people are beginning to re-
view and appraise Parkes’ actions and proposals
on their merits, whereas the enlightened D.T,,
soaring in the realms o' exalted kn>wledge, can
perceive in those actions and proposals a quintes-
sent al something that places them above and be-
yond human criticism. Unfortunately, there are
persons in this stiff-necked generation who refuse
to swallow all Parkes' ideas, even when dressed
up and endorsed by the gifted journal in question,
unless the ideas seem tolerably commendable in
themselves; and Parkes and his paper ought to
remember this, and discover to the world exactly
the point of view in which to see only beauty and
perfection.
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society.
The action of the directors of this huge institu-
tion, ia donating to the retiring actuary and
secretary very liberal retiring allowances, hay
naturally eaough excited a great deal of hostile
criticism and indignation. Yet it is only in keep-
ing with the general tenor of the directors’ line of
conduct. The Board has become so accustomed
to deal with ihe vast sums of money under its
control without consulting the wishes of the mem-
bers to whom that money belongs that the ebulli-
tion of disapprobafei n over this pensioning project
must have taken it quite by surprise. The action
of the members, indeed, seems to have been wholly
unexpected. If the extent and intensity of the
opposition had been gauged beforehand, doubt’ess
a stronger party favourable to the scheme would
have been rallied up to the meeting last week.
As things were, the opponents of the arrangement
whereby some £27,000 for that is about the capi-
talised value of the annuities proposed to b 3 given
to the two officials in question—was to bs de-
ducted from the funds of the policy-holders had it
all their own way ; and not only carried a resolu-
tion negativing the schemes, but another calling
on the directors to resign. The case of Mr.
Ralston, the retired secretary, according to the
judgment of the chairman, will not be affected by
the decision of the meeting. “ Mr. Ralston has
retired under an agreement that he is to re-
ceive a pension of £I2OO a year, so that
matter is settled,” was the cool ipse dixit
of Mr. Goodlet. The idea that the mak-
ing of such an agreement might be
ultra vires on the part of the board does not
seem to have occurred to the chairman or any of
his oolleague3. Yet Mr. Heydon, in the course
of an able and convincing speech, clearly demon-
strated that the appropriation of the society’s
funds for the purpose named was beyond the
scope of the powers vested in the directorate ;
and we imagine if the law is invoked Mr. Good-
lei’s valuable judgment will hardly b 9 sustained.
But the matter of these pensions is c-f small im-
portance as compared with the constitutional de-
fects of the society rendered so conspicuous by
these unauthorised grants. The board and the
officials have for many years been a very happy
family. Mr Ralston appears to have been
especially felicitous in his relations with the
directors. He was in receipt of £2OOO a year
salary, with an occasional douceur in the shape
of a £SOO cheque, and occasional leave of absence
on full pay. There is food for eminently pleasant
reflection in, the spectacle of the amity that has
always existed between this gentleman and his
board. But sometimes a little friction between
the directorate and the secretary of a concern
like the A M. P. Society is not an unmixed e vi'. The
i ecretary is the employe of the society, not of the
Board. The nature of the reform suggested
by the facts brought to light is in making the
Board a representative body. It is preposterous
to suppose that five residents of Sydaey, elected
for the most part by policy-holders who are like
wise residents of Sydney, can represent the inter-
ests of a considerable section of the inhabitants of
seven more or less populous countries. a mutual
provident institution is not like a bank or othei
proprietary business, the directors of which have
a large stake in it themselves. The A.M.P
directors are merely policy-holders, and their fe >s
of office often more than cover the amount they
pay in premiums. The remedy clearly demanded
consists in allowing the members in each colony
to elect directors in proportion to the value or
their policies. The Board would then be much
larger and more costly ; but it would be more
effluent, and, in the long run, very much cheaper.
“ The Bunny Industry.”
Mr. B. R. Wise, the President of the Freetrade
Association, claims that New South Wales pos-
sesses as many bona fide industries as Victoria.
He might have gone further and said that New
South Wales excels Victoria in one bunny-fi.de in
dustry as, according to the report of the New
South Wales Government Inspector there wert.
in 1886, 2285 men employed in the work of
destroying rabbits in the colony, and during the
year they killed 852,739 bunnies, or an average of
373 per man. The inspector states “ that the
majority of the men engaged as rabbiters make a
very high rate of wages, and a number of skilled
tradesmen have abandoned their ordinary pur-
sui s and taken to rabbiting a 3 a more lucrative
employment. 1 ’ Assuming that each man earned
£2 per week—which would not be a high rate of
wage 3 for skilled tradesmen —the total cost of th
work for the year would be £237,610, or about
ss. 6d. per each rabbit killed. If we were to add
to this the expense of the raboit department, in
which highly-paid officers are as plentiful as rab
bits in a warren, the avei age cost per rabbit would
be very largely increased. Who will say that the
rabbit pest is an unmixed evil, considering that it
gives profitable employment to about 2300 men,
exc usive of Government officials? Add tha
number to the unemployed who parade the streets
of Sydney and ask in vain for work from the
Government, and we have some idea of
the deplorable condition to which the labouring
classes are exposed by reason of our adherence to
the policy of ‘light and liberty” which has pre-
vented the establishment of legitimate industries
However distressing it must be t > squatters to
fiad their land invaded by, to them, profitless
rabbits, it must be consoling to the men engaged
in the work of extermination to learn that, “ not-
withstanding the immense number of rabbits that
a r e at pre.ent being killed . . . the prospects o
eradicating the pest seem to be as remote as ever.”
“A Six-Shilling Minimum.”
Mr. M’Corm ack, one o [ the Sydney unemployed, ha 3
declared that the unemployed have decided upon
taking no work at less than six shillings a day.
This is the bald announcement which is put for-
ward as a kind of lurid joke by some of the leading
dailies. “ Six shillings a day, indeed,” say they ;
“'the pampered, over-fed ruffians! let them take
what we choose to give them and be thankful ’
But before going into the question of the amount,
let us first inquire into the facts which make a
declaration of that kind necessary. The theory of
Malthcs is that population constantly presses
upon the limits of subsistence, and that therefore
wage 3 are always tending to the lowest point at
which life can be supported. Henry George
derides the theory and says that under proper
conditions there would bo ample subsistence for
all; but, without accepting the dictum of either
writer, we can draw our own conclusions as we
go info the matter. Bisant, in his new book,
which, by the way, starts “strong” and ends
lamentably “ weak,” devotes a lot of space to
“the theory of elevenpence ha'penny.” This, he
states, is the recogni<ed minimum at which temp-
tresses wilT consent to live and work—not repro-
duce, mind you, they won’t do that on the figu-e,
but they can live. Now the first question is: “In
a new country, undeveloped, unpopulated, almost
unexplored, is it right, or is it a neces-
sary consequence of any supposed univer al law
such as Malthus puts forwa d that the wages of
the labourer should tend lo a minimum?” The
Malthusian theory says things are right as they
are—conditions are equally fair to a I—and it is
merely because of an universal law that wages
tend downwards ; and that law is th «|%myulation
always presses on sub istence But in this coun-
try it is manifest that population does not press on
the means of subsistence; we could support
double, treble, or quadruple our present popula-
tion in this colony ; no one could for a moment
argue the contrary ; so we are thrown back on the
reason that conditions are not fair to all; that,
owing to some undiscovered cause, whether it be
the fiscal policy, the land policy, or anything else,
there is no proper access for labour to natural
opportunities. This appears to us almost a crush-
ing argument against the correctness of the Mal-
thusian theory, viz , we have arrived in this
country at such a state that men are talking of
fixing a minimum wage ; and this is. what he says
is produced by the pressure of population ; but
that is certainly not the cause here. God
made the world big enough to support its
population under proper conditions. It rests
therefore with our statesmen save the
mark! fi-hfags, drunkards, insolvents, swindlers,
we should have said—to discover wherein
is the flaw in the conditions of life. As
we have again and again pointed out any man
having learnt a trade shou:d be able in a new
country like this to command such wages as will
enable him during his years of labour to keep a
family, go in for such rational amusements as he
may desire, and save a little for the future.
Whereas the state of the case is that men are fix-
ing the minimum wage : and respectable overfed
journals like the Sydney Echo say that they are
fixing it too high. Now as to this amount—ls it a
fair wage for a man working eight hours a day,
keeping a wife and children, and desiring to live a
somewhat higher and more refined life than the
brute beasts, or suppose we say—the English agri-
cultural labourer, in comparison with whom the
beasts have the best of it ? We say unhesitatingly
that so far from being too high it is too low, and
that no man should be asked to work at less thin
eight shillings a day. But it is no use attempting
to keep the wages up by artificial means. The
problem now is how are we going to so reform our
lows as to enable all men to get a fair chance to
earn a living. That is the question for you to
solve, gentlemen of the Legislative Assembly;
and we leave it to you with, well say a sickening
feeling that it could not well be in worse hands.
“ Habigle on Had valorem s.”
List to the wavering voice of the Hon. Frawncis
Habigale, the Minister for Education—we mean.
Mines in the Administration which promises to
wipe off the ad valorem duties as soon as Parlia-
ment meets. This is what he said on the 16th
February, 1886, while slating the financial state-
ment of his present colleague, Mr. Burns :
“ If the hon. gentleman had proposed a 5 per cent, 'ad
valorem duty that w mid have been so di®tributed
amoDgst the people that no one would have felt it. We have
ihe machinery ready to collect it. and we should have at
? Q ce been reaping the beoefit of it ivithout the necessity to
issue greenbacks. . . I submit that it is a legitimate way to
raise revenue without going into the question Freetrade
versus Protection. . . . Whether the Government like it
or not they will have to go to the Custom House for a portion
of the additional revenue required.”
His opinion on the 29th April, while slating the
statement of Sir Patrick Jennings, was ;
“Ad valorem duties will give rise to a very great amount
of criminal proceedings on the part of many of our commer-
cial men.”
And on the 20th May he said :
‘•I have my opposition at this stage on the fixed
and ad valorem duties proposed by the Government. . .
Are tne merchants selling their goods now at the same Tprice
as before the duties were collected? (Mr. Forsyth: Some
articles) Not an article.”
As we write we are assured that he considers
ad valorem du.ies a device of the evil one—or
what is to him the same thing—Mr. Dibbs. What
his opinion will be when the issue appears we
know not. But, after all, Frawncis is wise to
change his mind frequently—it is impossible that
he can lose anything by the swop.
The Revd. Charles Strong is a moderately elo-
quent parson, who has contrived to acquire for
himself bold and lucrative advertisements in Mel-
bourne. As the founder of a yet unbuilt “ Aus-
tralian Church,” and the apostle of a mongrel
Presbyterianism which stops half way between
bigotry and common sense, the Revd. Charles
wields more influence than the average Evangel-
ist. His followers are pleased to be called
“ Strongites,” and their particular complaint is
“ broad Christianit/.” They have blown th Q
little trumpet of their mo3t respectable pastor
and master until the outside public of Victoria
have come to accept Charles Strong as being
just about the “broadest” member they've got.
Hence the necessity for saying a word about tha
miserably narrow character of Mr. Strong's latest
“ movement.” He has started a Charity Organi-
sation Society, which shall “ not only combine all
the aid willing to go to the relief of deserving
cases, but direct its distribution and bestow whera
it is mo3t needed.” Wichou: i i aay way insinuat-
ing that the Revd. Cfl irle3 aspires to be Chief
Charity Organiser, it is well to point out that any
sort of autocracy, however well meaning, is mis-
chievous in its results The London outcasts have
long writhed under a despotism such as i 3 now
proposed in Melbourne. The soft hearted man,
about to put his hand into his pocket for the bene-
fit of some po jr devil who appears io be in a bad
way, is reminded tnat there is a Society which
“ looks into these cases.” He is warned by cir-
cular against the dangers of indiscriminate
charity, cautioned against imposture, and exhorted
to steel his individual soul against mankind iu
general and only do good by proxy. Even soft-
hearted men lixe to avail themselves of respect-
able, orthodox excuses for holding their
spec e, and so it happens that the “ or-
ganisation ” catchword make 3 many an in-
tending Samaritan sneak by on the other
side. Some subscribe to the Society, and
others are satisfied with remembering that iu
exists. One thing is ceitain —the genuine or
spurious pauper population gains nothin* by hav-
ing its charity filtered through the C.O.S. sponge.
A certain amouut remains in the sponge and
steadily evaporates. It is absurd to talk of any
socitty combining “all the aid willing to go to
deserving cases.” Everyday chaiity is impulsive
if left to itself. It is open to relieve any number
of deserving cases coming under its direct notice,
provided that no:ody throws cold-water on the
impulses. And it is better that charity should be
occasionally lavished on -imdeserving cases than
that it should be restricted to one annual sub
scription to nobody in particular. The Rev.
Charles Strong is a practical Christian and all
that sort of thing, but he has been brought up and
trained to think that the “cheerful giver ” is the
man who planks down a cheque for the “great
work ” which somebody else is to do. This is the
clerical notion of what ought to be But to see
waves of careless generosity impeded in their
s* ell by the cold rock of professional philanthropy
is saddening. Among the noisy, frothy breakers of
chiri able organisation, honest —as well as pirati-
cal—craft come to grief. We don’t want to see
our “ brokers” among these breakers. It is better
that Australian chanty should suffer long—and
keep kind.
The Protectionist minority in the N.S.W. Parlia
ment. are not, Mr. M ‘Millan aver 4, to be treated
with contempt. The importers view with alarm
the strength of the numerically weaker party, and
they are determined that if money can do it the
growth of the “ Acorn ” party shall be coecked.
At the annual meeting cf the Chamber of Com-
merce, the President, after complimenting the
members of that body on their personal efforts ai d
the financial support w'hich they gave during the
elections, went on to say :
“ Let us not let thia spirit die, bit fan it into a continuous
and permanent force, which will enable those who ha e
borne the burden and the heat to continue their work of
unselfish labour in educating the people in the true principles
of political and commercial freedom. Let us now lay the
foundation of some organisation, not, as formerly, spas-
m -die, »nd working f<om ‘hand to mouth,’ but so endowed
*i»h regular reliable resources that our security in the future
will rest not only on the justice of our cause, but in our
capacity at any moment to evoke a machinery which, by the
power of logic and reason, will be able to defend that cause
against noisy and unprincipled agitation.”
Tnis is so outspoken, so unlike anything that we
might expect from a canny Scotchman that com-
ment on it would be superfluous. Although the
last sentence quoted is slightly mixed, it is suffi-
ciemly plain to indicate that the “ machinery ’
which is to be worked by “ the power of logic and
reason ” is—money ! —and unqutstionably the
M‘Millions of commerce will disgorge that most
freely to maintain their cause. However, uriless
there is a sudden disapoea r aoce of the adversity
from which the colony has been suffering for so long,
the meicantile monopolists will find that reason
will be guided by iomething more potent than
the display of wealth. The S'ght of thousands of
penniless, h.meless, unemployed workmen, with
their stsrviug families, walki. g about the streets,
must “ evoke a machinery” which will be as fatal
to M‘Million- ism as that cau3e is to the ad
vancement of New South Wales.


The Referee
The long pending match between the
phenomenal feather weight Murphy, and “ Brum”
Fuller, Queenabery rules, as arranged for endur-
ance, cime off before a packed audience at Foley's
Hall on Wednesday evening, 2;ird February. It was
thought that Murphy’s prolonged effort on Satur-
day night with Burgess would have taken some
thing out of him, but he appeared fresh as paint
and Fuller showed that he had gone through a
careful preparation. Murphy as per usual gave
away a lot of weight, but what there is of him is
muscle and sinew. Fuller commenced to make
play but was shorl in his leads, and Murphy con-
tented himself with getting away and now and
then popping in an ugly one with his left. Affairs
grew monotonous till tho eleventh round, when
the men warmed up and came together, Fuller
getting all the worst of the punishment. In the
twelfth round Murphy served it out hot and
strong, until Fuller, tired of standing a
mere chopping block, tried rushing tactics,
but he had no show at this game with Murphy,
who steadily fought him on the retreat, jobbing
him severely with the left in the front of the
head until time was c lied So soon as the men
toed the scratch for the thirteenth round, Murphy
went to work, and knocked Fuller off his legs, a
performance which he repeated five or six times,
when Fuller's second cariied his man to his
corner and “ threw up the spoDge.” Murphy
showed himself a great “ general ” in the matter
of ring tactics. Slight and light as he is, he hits
with the force one would look for in a twelve-
stone man, and certain it is there is not in the
colonies—if in the world—a man within pounds of
his weight who can “ put him in the pack.”
This is a genuine sporting item. It comes
front Queensland, and it is given on the
authority of an old pioneer whose taste exact for
faultless fact amounts to a disease, and a pretty
bad disease, too. This horsey Barabbas under
took to ride a fine-looking grey at a hurdle race
in the Far North, and he made the pace as only a
Queensland pioneer with a blazing thirst for lies
can do—until the two forelegs of his moke
dropped off at the knees. He was far ahead of
the field, however, and he came in an easy winner
on two legs and two stumps. An examination
was then made and it was found that the horse's
legs had been eaten through by white ants; he
had caught them when he struck against a hurdle
in the early part of the race and they had settled
on his knees and chawed up the bones. Then
they had apparently tried to <limb up, and as
they had a firm hold of the detached limbs with
their hind legs and were grabbing the upper part
cf the animal with their tore ones, they had held
him together until they were forced to let go from
sheer weariness. We don’t wish to comment on
this item. It is one of those facts which speak
for themselves.
The much-postponed Glebe Rowing Club
ltegatta has been fixed for Saturday next, to
come off on the usual course ia Johnson's Bay.
Foley’s Hall, Sydney, was largely attended
on Saturday night last, when six bouts were gone
through, the wind up being a light set-to between
ex-champion Larry Foley and his pupil Slaven.
, Both Slaven and Mick Dooley a’-e in strict train-
iDg for their meeting on 17th March, the former,
with Molloy as a companion, staying at the Bcndi I
Club, the property recently purchased by Larry
Foley and Jack Thompson ; while Dooley is in good
hands in the vicinity of Moore Park. Dooley is
the more scienced of the pair, but Slaven is a
heavier and stronger man, and the bout should
prove a more equal one than is generally seen
amongst the heavy-weights.
“Young Mitchell” and Costello, the
American boxers, were billed at Foley’s on Satur-
day evening, but failed to appear, and offered a
very scant apology for their absence. The Yankees
have received “a benefit” and good treatment at
the hands of Sydney sports which they do not
seem to appreciate.
On 12th February the Magic and Waitangi
started the last race of the season in connection
with the Koyal Sydney Yacht Squadron, but
owing to the Waitangi carrying away her mast
the skipper of the Magic declined to sail over the
course. On Saturday last the race was sailed over
a course round boat off Long Reef in a light east-
north-east breeze, when the Waitangi won by
nearly a minute without her time allowance of
2min. fOsec. The Mag’C, with Mr. Williams at
the tiller, was in something like her old form, and
outsailed her opponent on a wind, but with a free
sheet she had no show with the Waitangi.
For the third or fourth time we beg to
bring under Mr. Fosbery’s notice the race consul-
tation swindle carried on by a gentleman who has
a box at the General Post-office, Sydney, where
year after year he scoops in the yellow-boys from
his confiding “ constituents.” From all parts of
Australia The Bui.letin receives queries as to
the genuineness of this particular sweep, and the
sweep who runs it.
Harry Dunn, the American champion in
the “ Coomberland ” style of wrestle, took on
Blackburn and Thomas—one down t’other coom
oop—at Melbourne Bijou, on Friday. One
“ down” was quite enough for Thomas, who then
ret ired on an injured side and left Blackburn to
see the fun out. The thickset little Englishman
made a fair show, but Dunn scored the required
five falls in eight bouts, and gasped out a little
speech about his willingness to wrestle “ any man
in the world Coomberland style, and any man in
Australia five styles.” The audience, which con-
sisted mainly of empty seats, applauded this
oration and made good its retreat.
• • •
There is likely to be a further split be-
tween the Cricket Ground Trustees and the Sydney
Association. The trouble this time is the pro-
posed visit of a team of pros, under the auspices
of the Trustees.
Samuels, the aboriginal runner, finding no
more worlds to conquer, returns shortly to stock-
riding after the Jimbour (Q ) jumbucks. The
Clarke party will not meet him on any account.
It is almost certain that the last has been
seen of Sardius on the turf, as he went very
wrong in the shoulder last week and was scratched
for all engagements. The horse was a real g )id
one when he won the Caulfield Guineas in 1883,
and subsequently ran fourth for the Melbourne
Cap to Martini-Henry Sardius was considerably
knocked about in tha Caulfield Cup accident, and
has never been thoroughly trained since.
The latost about Hanlan is that he sails
for Australia in September. Not so long ago the
shifty Canuck stated that he intended to be with
us in May in order to get cool weather for his
training. That sounded like biz., which the new
cablegram certainly doesn’t. R ading between
the lines we fancy that Hanlan has been tried and
found wanting, and doesn't intend to make the
trip at all, at all.
The new feature of batting introduced by
the Britishers of playing Turner and Ferris with
their legs, though fn'r according to the strict
rules of the game, is the meanest style of play
ever invonted, and if persi-tei in must lead to
THE CRITICS OF PARKES.
MICK: “WELL PAT, AND DID YE HEAR PAR-R-RKES SHPAKE.”
PAT: “SHPAKIN’ D’YE CALL IT?”
MICK: “YIS, IN COURSE, AND WHAT ELSE WOULD YOU CALL IT.”
PAT: “SHNORTIN’ AT A MAN LIKE A WILD HOG—THAT’S WHAT ID CALL IT.”
an alteration of the rule laid down for leg-before-
wicket It is a question, however, whether they
would dare to adopt the same tactics in a match
at which the gentle, fair-play loving Yorkies
formed the audience.
* * *
The Parramatta Club played 12 of the
Coates family on Saturday. The “ family ” were
all bowled in exactly 25 minutes for 25 runs, while
the local team scored 123. This wa3 a “ family
jar.”
The team representing— or rather said to
represent—” All Australia ” was by no means an
improvement on the New South Wales eleven,
more especially in the absence of Jones. Why
MR. [?]. TURNER.
Midwinter should have been brought from Mel
bourne is a mTstery. It takes Mid. all his time
to get into a Victorian eleven, let alone a repre-
sentative Australian team. Midwinter's day
pissed long since.
* * *
The Englishmen have presented Shrews-
bury with a pair of miniature gold specs.—for his
performance in the match against New South
Wales, and “ for his inability to play Turner.”
* • •
Some genius appears to have been unfold-
ing a tale of last Melbourne Cup to the London
Spouting Times. That journal informs us tha.
“Arsenal started at 50 to 1, and everyone of th
fielders lost. Mr. Joseph Thompson laid th
owner 20 monkeys in a bet on condition that he
should have the market for a while ; but at the
firs- show of a commission he jumped to 100 to 8
so that, instead of going for him as ho intended
the layer in question turned round and had a ful
book against him. After arriving in Melbourne
Arsenal we t off his feed and would not look a .
water This state of things continued for a week
and so much importance was attached to the cir
cumstance that he step by step receded to 50 to 1
at which figure, of course, Mr. Thompson migh ,
hive turned his wager to immense profit, as every
one wanted to lav . On the other hand, the owner
wis in a way tied up in a knot and bad to win his
money against his will, as also against- his
judgment.” That's the sort of stuff which
is mailed home as Australian sportiDg ii
telligence. .arsenal 8 a-ted for the Melbourne
Cup at 100 to 0 and 100 to 5. The horse wasn't at
Iflemington for a week before the race. His
owner timed him to do a wonderful gallop early
on the Sunday morning atd considered he had a
real certainty. So much for that yarn. The
Sporting Times goes on to say : “lam assured
by one who knows thoroughly the ins and outs of
Australian racing that if it were discovered by the
stew-ards that a horse had run in a flat race with
shoes, or, as we call them, plates, the great pro-
bability is that owner and trainer would be warned
off for life ” There now. It is the idiot who
knows the “ins and outs of Australian racing '
that ought to be warned off for life. On second
thoughts, we would like to do with the wretch as
Joe Thompson intended to do with Arsenal—go
for him.
* * *
The Australian queen of the two-year-old
track, llortense, made small goods of her oppo-
nents in the Ascot Vale Stakes at Flemington on
Saturday last, although a furlong from home she
had appeared to be in trouble with Sumatra.
Sumatra, who carried equal weights with Hortense,
ran remarkably well, and her meeting with Hor-
tense as a three-year-old will be looked forward to
with whole heaps of interest. Bedouin was full of
it at five furlongs, and Huntingtower showed his
contempt for the starter by wheeling round and
galloping the reverse way directly the flag fell.
A field of 25 competed for the Newmarket
Handicap. Up to this part of the day s proceed-
ings the punters wore ahead of the bookmakers,
consequently there was no lack of wagering on
the big sprint race The outsider, St. Leonards,
was the first to leave the scratch, and led for
four and a half furlongs, with Abner, Honora,
Blairgowrie, Satyr, and Lando in close attend-
ance. Then Honora forged to the front for a few
lengths, only to be supplanted by Abner. A fur-
long from home it looked all Bourke-street to a
dead Chinaman on Mr. Long’s colt, while a pair
of blankets would have covered some 14 others.
Abner’s victory was proclaimed from all parts of
the course, when suddenly Clifford and Ricketson
put in an appearance on Locbiel and Lando ; and,
to the immense surprise of nine-tenths of those
present, victory was awarded to Lochiel, with
Abner second, and Lando third. Lando finished
close on the outside, and immediately under the
judge’s box, which structure, owing to its being
well above the horses, prevents the judge from
seeing anything that finishes right under his eyes.
Lochiel occupied a position that brought him in
direct contact with the judge; that is, assuming
that the course is 40 yards wide, he was JlO
yards away from the judge, while Abner was on
the rails 40 yards away from the judge, who, as in
the case of Lando, owing to the defective con-
struction of his rostrum, could not possibly see
both Lochiel and Abner at the same time without
raisiDg his head. It is most probable that Mr.
Wakley did not raise his head—hence the de-
cision. A rush was made on The Telegram for
the Hopeful stakes to such an extent that, she saw
level money, but backers were in the wrong this
time, the winner turning up in Boz, an evenly-
made brown colt by Bos worth from Hypatia, and
trained by James Wilson, junior. 411 interest in
the Brunswick Stakes was spoilt by a heavy down-
pour of rain prior to the start. The race was
eventually run through a sheet of water, in some
places over the horses’ fetlocks, and won very
easily by Mr. W. Long's colt, Yellow Jacket.
Flemington racecourse is an unfortunate
one for Abner. As a two-year-old he competed in
the Nursery Handicap, finishing to all appear
ances a decided winner, but the race wai given t
Sunny Days As long as the present box is mad
to do duty, mistakes will continue to hapten
Why not lower it.
* * *
Mr. Charles Turner, whose portrait ap
pears above, is known chiefly as a cricketer, anc
wh le the present cricket mania lasts he ca
afford to rest on the reputation he has made ii
the field. In the three matches between Shaw’
team and N. S. W. he took 35 wickets for 193 runs
in the two intercolonial matches he took 18 fo
155; when playing with the Combined Team
against the Englishmen he secured 8 for 08 ; anc
in the Intercolonial match his record is 11 wickets
for 38. This makes an all round average of li ;
runs per wicket, and as Turner is always strict!
on the job when playing ho is a dangerouo anta
gomst. He hails from Bathurst, and when nc
cricketing is an A. J. S. Bank Clerk.
* * *
The wild excitement induced by interi a
tional cricket matches in Sydney now stands
fair show of subsiding Nearly all possible
changes have been rung, and the noble sport, as
far as Anglo-Colonial test matches are concerned
is distinctly lacking in novelty Neither of the
teams in the last match of this kind, which endec
on Tuesday in a win for the Englishmen by 67
runs, have very much to brag about in the wav
of laurels, the honours being pretty freely disti l
buted. The agony begins again in Melbourne on
Fr.day, the 4th inst.
Anyone who wants to wallow in the so-
ciety of champion sprinteri should not allow Frank
Smith's Botany grounds, now open to offer, to go
under a million. 312 sprinters are in for the next
handicap, and the chance of getting an introduc-
tion to them is worth a peer's patrimony. A
peer s patrimony, we may venture to add, is al-
ways hopelessly mortgaged.
If there is any mortal use for stale fish,
eggs that have gone wro-g, and cats which have
surrendered the ghost, they should be resurrected
now. A respectable old gentleman in Woolloo-
mooloo hunted up a pastor on Monday night and
wanted to be joined in holy matrimony to a girl of
12 and, though the presiding shepherd of Christ
Church ordered the venerable dawg lo take his re-
tailorder elsewhere.itisreported thathe ultimately
managed to get the knot tied. There will be
another engaging young widow about when that
old party shovels off this mortal coil.
The reverend but commonplace small-bore
who runs the Kerristian Colonist (Adelaide)
has struck on a new solution of the unemployed
difficulty. He wants to have the hungry multi-
tude organised as a baud of murderers, and trained
to manufacture corpses. This isn’t so bad for a
clergyman. Of course he calls the murderers
militia, but that doesn’t make much diff- rence •
he may call a horse a cow if he pleases, but the
animal isn t altered to any appreciable extent bv
the chaDge of name. *
One or two ingenious criminals in Pent-
ridge succeeded lately in overcoming the bitterest
tnal in prison life, the lack of alcoholic stimu-
lants. They were told off to compile bread for
the other boarders, but, under their manipulation
the toby soon got so heavy that an ordinary loaf
had to be lifted with a screw-jack The authori-
ties investigated, and discovered that iheir im
promptu doughies were manufacturing beer out of
the yeast, and holding high revels over the cheer-
ing beverage. Those prisoners have been awarded
extra punishment for running an illicit still.
Walgett (N.S.W.) wants a parson, and
has solicited churchmen to meet and subscribe
A neighbouring squatter promlies £5 aye ,r to be
increased to £lO if the clergyman will promise
never to vmt or interfere with the station. It is
an open secret that when Walgett had a C E as
well as a Presbyterian evangelist, they raced 40
miles to snap a christening (2s. 6d.) The latter
won by a neck, and the Episcopalian called him
no gentleman." A soft answer turneth away
wrath, so the Presbyterian replied “No - onlv a
clergyman.” 1


SUNDRY
SHOWS
If it were not
for that rock of
faith and landmark
of Christian secu-
rity, the Shorter Catechism—the
Scotch one, the same which com-
forted Pastor Dods in his associa-
tion with clergymen who swal-
lowed their knives —we would
feel inclined to take up the par-
able of the Shepherd and declare
that all things theatrical was
“wanity.” Either there should be a close time
for theatres, or else in the mosquito season
every citizen, when he sees two actors together,
should be permitted to shoot one and chase
\he other away. It surely can’t pay to keep
shows open at this tropical period, and we would
implore the managers each to get out his
gleaming chariot and fix up his gilded menial
in the back seat and go away for the good of his
health. We are not exorbitant in our demands.
We only want to be permitted to perspire in the
gloaming of our own back-yard till Fahrenheit’s
hollow lie—which registers 102 deg. in place of
100200 deg., which is about the correct figure—
will come down from its present elevation. In
the name of Diana of the Ephesians, we ask for a
peaceful show to get cool.
#* # #
“ Le Cloches de Corneville,” now running
at Sydney Criterion, is still fresh in its old age
and it is brightened up by gags, some of which the
author, if he were to hear them, would gladly
swop for a bunion or some other equally agreeable
barometer. The scenery is splendid, the cliffs of
Calvadoj in the first act being especially attrac-
tive. Signor Verdi takes the pa tof the Marquis
de Corneville, but his interest in that fishy French
peer seems to be below zero. On Saturday night
he had a really good audience, yet he was as cold
as a frozen lamb all through, and slouched around
like a policeman eating pie at a street corner.
Even hissinging wa:>done with that calmness which
characterises a pla’e of cold hash, and he wore
the same kind of pants which have been identified
with his name eve: since he first showed his hair
and h ; s fixed whiskers a", the Criterion. This
bifurcated garment appears to have been cut out
of the jacket which he sported as Buckingham in
“ Nell G wynne,” and though we don’t like to in-
sinuate that Verdi’a mother makes up his old
clo hes over again for him, we would respectfully
hint that *ve are very weary of thrse familiar
togs. Miss Fanny Liddiard, as Serpolette, has
struck oil beyond a doub% her singing and acting
being alike excellent, and cot’p red to her per-
formance that of Miss Colb mrne-Baber, who
sings angelically, but takes out the rest in walk-
ing, must occupy a tecond p’ace.
Mr. Kelly, as Father Gaspare!, is distin-
guished chiefly by an ungrea<ed vocal cartwheel
wmch he passei off a 3 a lau*h. Tne Bailie (Mr.
Forde), tells him he ought ‘' to get something for
1 hat war cry,” and we are inclined to think so
r s). Mr. Allan bowls Gobi along fjr all he is
worth ; his acting has a tendency to be good, and
hi* get-up suggests a spider drawn out long and
split up the middle. Last, but far from leasr,, Mr.
Armes Beaumont humps about that degraded son
of the briny deep, Grenicheux. II s performance
hai nothing very startling about it, but he keeps a
firm hold of the liar whom he has in custody, aid
does not allow him to fall asleep standing, »s the
Marquis has such a tendency to do, and—another
very important feature —he has not Signor Verdi’s
horrible soul-destroying sameness about the
pants. We don’t like to rec rso often to the same
subject, but we implore the Signor to appear next
time in a petticoat or a Roman toga, or a blanket,
or a bell-topper—in fact, in anything that will im-
part variety to the scene.
## * #
A shocking blow out is now in progress at
Sydney Gaiety, where it passes under the name
of “ His Natural Life.” This mw kind of sbivai.es
purports to be a “ howerful Drama isation ” of the
original novel, committed ‘by W. South, Esq.,”
and we can only say that we would rather have
hypochondria, corns, anl ague, and get drunk cm
keiosene, and becoxie a Wesleyan deacon or a
Ku-Klux-Klan, and live on cat-fish for a week,
(than be W. South, Esq., under these painful ,cir-
cumstance 3. We would strongly urge that gentle-
man, if he is liable to be often attacked that way,
to take something for it whenever he feels it
-comiog on ; if he fails to do so it may becoipe
•chronic. We once knew a man who suffe r ed frorp
a similar complaint, and he ultimately became
a solicitor on the highway, and hamstrung a
Sunday-school teacher who was out taking
a walk and perusing a dog-eared hymn-book,
and after that he went from bad to worse
•until he was corpsed by a policeman. If he
•had taken some suitable remedy in time —say
(three black draughts and a hor3e-blister—he
might have been making a respectable living in
the rag, bone, and bottle trade to this day. Mr.
South’s sin, however, seems to l e not so much in
anything original he has done as in the energy he
has displayed in seizing upon what other people
have done, and squashing it out like a trodden-on
meat pie. His version of Marcus Clarke’s lurid
yarn, as far as we can see, is practically the same
as that perpetrated last year by Mr. Dampier, ex-
oept that whenever the brains were too prominent
Mr. South has knocked them out with his little
hatchet, and he has carefully clubbed the drama
fiat. A hundred bull-voiced prophets could not
put the breath of life into the poor squelched rag
after the way it has been treated.
A frenzied desire to say something agree-
able leads us to suggest that the scenery should be
hung up in a morgue in order to depress the
spirits of the corpses. As for the “ Mechanical
Wonders” —we quote from the bill—we would
desire to be let loose on them with a spade just
once—we don’t ask for anything more. The
“ Limelight Effects ” are perhaps a little better—
an axe would about meet their case if we were
close behind it and had room for a running jump.
As another improvement we would suggest that
when Sylvia writes “Good Mr. Danes’' on the
sand at Sarah Island she should not do her pen-
manship from right to left as if she were an
ignorant old Hebrew cattle-raiser dressed in a
blanket. And we don’t like to hear John Rex
talk persistently of his “ retired enforcement”
—when we are getting out of the road of a credi-
tor whose beak is like the pelican of the wilder-
ness, we generally call it an “ enforced retire-
ment,” and that is the term commonly used in
poli e society. Furthermore the Rev. James
North need not give that little shaky hop in the
air so often when he is talking—it would look like
high action in a rooster, but a drunken parson in
a gaol does not generally carry on that way, and a
few clean shaves scattered loosely over the company
wouldgohigh. “ Frere’s Palatial Residence," too
again we quote from our old enemy Ihe bill—
would look quite as well if it were not repre-
sented by a female cavorting in front of a
hencoop, and Frere himself need not get up to
look so unnecessarily short and grim and ferocious.
The best scenes in the drama are in Act 11, when
a pair of hungry-looking wretches are discovered
sewing a patch on to a hog trough—they call this
building a boat— and a blood-stained ape chases
an old woman with an axe ; and again in Act IV.,
where a swell homicide lie 3 down and knocks his
head against a table, while a woman in a man’s
hat grovels on the floor. Another female mean-
time lies on a sofa, or a bathing machine,
or something, and a soldier in the door,
way points haughtily at a larrikin in the
gallery. These are the only bright spots in
the drama ; the rest is as solemn as a rise in the
price of brer. In the early part of the perform-
ance we would have thankfully taken fourpence
to go away, but that humble stack of coppers was
not forthcoming ; later on we felt inclined to hew
our way out through the back wall with an axe,
but we did not care to wreck the hind legs of the
theatre, so we forebore. Possibly we may not be
so particular next time.
** * *
“ Hide and Seek,” at Sydney Opera House
has, so far, been only a doubtful buccess (that ex-
pression, by the way, is hardly expressive enough,
but let it pass). The comedy consists chiefly of an
insane Jones divided into two yelps and an idiot,
and when the martial form of the case-hardened
Bulletin man upreared itself on ihe premises he
ascertained that the se ne was laid somewhere in
the Grand Hotel at Scarborough. That eminent
beer shop is fair swamped out by Joneses. The
first is a recent!, -licked, green school cub who has
eloped and is doing his wedding-tour in a mortal
funk ; his wife is also fresh to the last degree,
and until the day before had been improv-
ing her mind with “ M'Snuffey’s Fifth Reader."
This Jones, however, is bogus, and so is the
next one, a third rate hard-drinking pirate, ac-
companied by another man’s wife whom he is
going to bring out on the stage. Thirdly, there is
a real Jones-a slimy, bald pill-grinder with a
wart on his nose ; he is in charge of a ha-mless
blonde idiot who has been advertising for a wife
and a black baby to nurse. Jrnes with
the wart is chased by his wife a lady who ampu-
tated his tail in early life and whom he hal after-
wards deserted ; Jones the pirate is being hunted
down by til infuriated Caledonian husband ; Jones
from school, a lank insipid youth who badly re
quires a spanking to brace him up, is wanted by
his wife’s uncle who desires him to explain why
he has taken the young lady out of short dresses
without his perm ssion ; and last of all the sham
TYPICAL HUSTINGS “HECHLEKS."
Their Questions:
1. Are you in favour of opening the public-houses on Sunday ?
2. Are you in favour of the Establishment of Thate Bankth?
3. Would you vote for the increase of salaries of intelligent Civil Servants?
aqd idiotic Jones who walks about on all fours
and plays marbles, is harried by a young lady to
whpnjhehas written 1.3.5 letters of the ducky-
darling description. There is the old fiend with
the pitch-fork to pay among all these Joneses.
Tlje Caledonian husband walks into the
Jone; menagerie like a rhinoceros walking into
a yellow dog. He doesn't wait for .explanations
but throttles the quack with the .excrescence with
one hand and nja treats the marble-playing idiot
with the "ther. He puts the pirate to flight and
makes him wish hi 3 parents had neyer met; he
intimidates the newly married child of nature
with a fist as large as an elephant-,chop, and he
calls on -the manager to bring out mal e -tones;-*
that be may chase them roti.nl the town. Jut;
the full moon of his crinkled countenance is oyer
.east by the advent of an fcalian with firearm; ;
who takes him for the quadrupedal idiot and *
throws him all over the shop, and ultimately the !
whole crowd spend the night in gaol without any-
thing to cat, the maniac alone escaping, aod he
has a high old time among >he girls while his bear-
leader is pining in the jag. Next morning they are
too depressed and hungry to fight any more, and
when each bogus Jones in succession finds a black
baby fathered on him he only weeps and deposits
it in somebody else’s room —excepting a sea cap
tain, who sits on the infant Ham and flattens it
out.
Mr. Walter Craven, as the Scotchman, is
exceedingly good ; the same may be said of Mr.
Hesford, as Jones, with the excrescence, Miss
Ethel Gray, who is in pursuit of the idiot, and
Miss M. A- Melville. Mr, Newton Griffiths plays
the spotted and unwholesome-looking pirate, but
we liked this gentleman much better when we
saw him in “ Neck for Neck ’’ at the Gaiety. We
preferred him then because he was hanged and
had his throat cut; we are always prepared to
comment favourably on any piece in which Mr.
Newton Griffiths is hanged.
** * *
“ An English Lass ” is still running suc-
cessfully at Sydney Royal Standard. Mis;
Dampier, as hefore, represents the beautiful and
lamented ancestor of an eminent Australian
lawyer, and she keeps on improving ; Mr. Dampier
plays the male hero, and the energetic Mr.
Gunther collars the samples and mops his per-
spiring brow at the door.
** # *
The prevailing fashion at Sydney Alham-
bra is to put all the female girls of the crowd up
on swings above the stage. We don’t know
whether this is a 'cute way of assisting them to
get their high notes, but it helps to hide the
“ flats ” on the stage and to exhilarate those in
the hall, and therefore to that extent is a success
There are so many in the Alhambra Company now
that a fellow has to go at least twice before he can
fix a name on to any of them, and having been
I there only once we pass anything in the way of
criticism this week. Regarding the performance
as a whole, it may be safely said that it is
eminently inspiriting, and not more than a dozen
of the gags are calculated to puzzle the guileless
mind of modest maidenhood.
** * *
We lay our humble tribute at the feet of
the departing “ Tomboy." We like Miss Carrie
Swain, though we don’t like her drama, and,
moreover, she has been raking in the coin during
her stay in Sydney, and our deep-rooted regard
for anyone who owns money would be sufficient in
itself to make us regret her departure. More-
over, the present writer doesn’t altogether share
the public jubilation about the Italian opera
which is to follow at the Royal, for the sufficient
reason that his own acquaintance with the noble
language is limited to two Roman swears. Italian
may be only Latin squeezed out flat, but he pre-
fers to take the dialect of the ancient Kikero neat.
*# * #
Signor Agrati’s New European Speciality
Company at Sydney Academy is one that can
wipe the dust with most of the variety shows
which have recently haunted this city. There are
one or two very weak points in it, but Wainratta,
Ida Heath, and in a less degree Banjo Clarke
make up for these shortcomings. Wainratta
himself is the soul of the show, and his gyrations
on an invisible wire are something wonderful.
He does little tricks on his thread-like bridge
which half the respectable denizens of N.S.W.
could not perform on the solid earth when sober,
and which the other half certainly could not
do anywhere when tight, and even when
the wire is swaying violently back and forward
his balance is as safe as that of Parkes sitting on
a rail. Little Ida Heath is almost as e'ever in her
own way, and the home rose as one lunatic to
express its approoation. Mr. Clarke got a lot of
brilliant music out of the hackneyed banjo, and
T illie and William Heath in their stilt dance did
the balance of the fun.
Ai-Af.-V-AL
'A' 'A' *7V“ TT
Mr. Simonsen’s Italian Opera crowd opens
at Sydney Royal on Saturday with good prospects.
The leading members of the orchestra and chorus
have served 11 weeks under Conductor Hazon at
Melbourne, and the principals will be at hom9 in
their parts. “II Trovatore ”is a pretty safe card
to ead off with, and such a quartette as Ciuti,
Cavallieii, Lazzarini, and Pimazzoni are bound to
make ag od imnresdon By the way, it is as
well to remind M-. Simonsen that the Melbourne
people g-ew restive during some of ihe long waits
between acts This wants looking to Nobody
could get drunk on the premises at the Alexandra
Theatre, because a grandmotherly Victorian
Licensing Bill stands between the lessee and the
rum barrel. Bui at Sydney Royal any industrious
man ,c.n see snakes hefore the .curtain fqlls on q
fiv.e-act opera, which embraces four int.ervaL of
20 minutes each.
** * *
S'Jr. Fireworks Pain announces for Thurs-
day next something in commemoration of the
Scudan sham, the goat, the donkey, and the p r ,e3-
ent £200,p09 bill being carefully left out. Also he
will show Beach-Hanlaa boutra.ee m' nus toe
cro;\vd (ft larrikins and blacklegs on tjie rive.r
bank. We had a note of the imposing sum which
Mr. Pain ha now donated to local charities' but
the memo tv- nf astray. The writer, b ow ever,
de.voutly wis - e * he were a charity.
#* * *
Mr. Q rattan Riggs is putting in a very
thriving fortnight at Melbourne Bijou. It is late
in the day to say anything fresh about “ The Irish
Detective ” in his 365 or so different disguises,
but judging from the'crowds which rolled up to
see th t remarkable work last week, we should
think it would stand reviving at intervals for
about another centnry. However, Minnie Palmer
and “ The Scboqlmistress ” demand that Grattan
shah gather up his shekels and slither from the
B jou after March 5. An epidemic of novelties
has broke;) out at some of the other houses. Last
Saturday the Triumvirate started “ Harbour
Lights h at the Princess’s, and Brough and Bouci-
cault set loose their “ Forty Thieves ” to pillage a
gentle public. Shakespeare has put in his classic
oar, too. Mr. George Rignold and “ The Tempest”
are billed to rage together at the Royal on March
2. A few words on these matters in next week’s
issue.
*# # #
A festive thoatrical item is promised for
Easter week in Melbourne. The students of
Trinity College will produce an airy Latin cemedy
by Plautus, with the special attraction of beard-
less boys in the women parts, Poor Plautus died
and turned to clay in the 3rd century b.c. without
quite finishing his comedy, or else some of the
original manuscript has been crusted over by the
dust of ages. But this won’t matter, because
Professor Tucker has overhauled the other great
man’s work, and kindly tacked on a fifth act
of his own composition. If the Professor lays on
plenty of local colour, and chucks in a topical
Latin sODg, there is no earthly reason why this
show should be duller than a funeral on a wet
day. It is a pity that Plautus will not be able to
assist at the revival, but it is satisfactory to learn
that Sir Henry Loeh has promised to lend his
vice-regal presence.
** * #
Mrs. Langtry, it seems, arranged with
Morris Greenwall to visit Australia, but cried off
becanee he assigned the contract to Messrs. Wil-
liamson, Garner, and Musgrove, “ under whose
management she was unwilling to act.” Morris
Greenwall has deaded in the meantime, but his
ghost is about to sue Mrs. Langtry for damages
in an American court. The Triumvirate ought to
be able to get damages for that nasty jar. Prob-
ably the disappointed Jeffreys-Lewis •‘whispered”
the Lily to the firm’s disadvantage.
** * *
Sims Reeves will give concerts in Austra-
lia before the end of this year, health permitting.
Sims Peeves is only just turned 61, and although
he was almost inaudible when we tried to hear
him in London six years ago he moved his mouth
in the same finished style a 3 of old.
During the performance of a pantomiuie
at Sheffield one of the 'mummers was knocked
senseless by the falling of an iron rod. Instead of
accepting the mishap as a sign of Heaven’s wrath
he “ insisted on resuming his part.” Moses and
the prophets might appeal in vain to a man like
this. He wouldn't be warned though one rose from
the dead.
** * *
Mary Anderson advises young women not
to have anything to do with amateur theatricals,
as they are “ a tremendous strain on the nerves.”
Whose nerves, we wonder ? Dion Boueicault is
in Canada with the Jilt." The piece has an
ominous name, but so long as it rakes in the
“gilt” Dion will be content to live on In
Philadelphia Sardou's tragedy “ Theodora ” was
recently received with shouts of laughter The
Chicago cities assert that Patti has seen her best
days Isabel Mooris, a clever American actress,
is en route for Australia; as also is a horse-show
engineered by W. C. Coup Louise Pomeroy is
doing Sunday lectures in Massachusetts
Genevieve Ward and W, 11. Vernon are winning
golden praise, and plunder in America Madame
Patti has not washed her face for 15 years. Water,
she imagines, induces wrinkles, so she merely
covers her ixpressive countenance with cold
cream, and then wipes it off with a towel
Referring to Minnie Palmer, an Adelaide corres-
pondent informs us that she has obtained the ser-
vices of three charming English actresses for her
forthcoming piece, “ The Schoolmistress.” One
of them is not unknown to fame, having won her
laure’s on the London stage. The others are
debutantes , and are said to possess all the quali-
ties, which, taken together, constitute the philo-
sopher’s stone of stage success All rumours to
the contrary notwithstanding, Miss G-acie Plaisted
and Mr. Charles Harding did not go to America
by the Alameda last week.
BRIEF MENTION.
4. Rose by any other name would be as
gay.
The “ Peauteous Terrorist ’’-.- Sir Henry
Parkes.
More Jubilee Celebrations. A big earth-
quake in the South of Europe.
George Perry lost £4O at Gloucester. A
nice thing to happen to a sober man.
“Jubilee sausages ” are now for sale in
London. Of course they are German.
Parting is such bitter sorrow, as the young
man observed when he settled up with his tailor.
The S.M. Herald claims that Australia is
eminently rich in snakes Anyone would guess
that by reading the Sydney dailies.
A frightful calamity has overtaken Mary-
borough (Q ). The rum-retailers have raised the
price of brandy-and-soda to ninepence.
From the Brisbane Courier : “ B ithamley,
< n the 13th February, at Southport, Mr. W. 11.
Botha nley of a daughter.” W.e sincerely hope
that the gentieman is “ doing nicely.”
“ Disgusted ” writes to a Melbourne paper
complaining that the gallery boys at 1 lie Theatre
ftoy»l expectorate op the heads of people in the
stalls. Serves hiip right for going to the theatre
without his umbrella.
The Christian Chronicle compares the
reporters of Sydney evening joiun'ls rushing
round for divorce case copy, to jockeys competing
in a big ra,ce. The comparison is needlessly in-
sulting to the jockeys.
From a RLverina paper
"To Rotors -Wanted, for a station, an elderly man to
teach three boys, and do some gardening. Apply
What, next? “ Wanted a curate who can ring-
bark and wash shifts,’-’ we presume.
“ Remarkable Recovery of old manu-
scripts,” is tjie caption of a par in the Melbourne
Herald. We haven’t read that par, but suppose
the documents were found in boa’ ding house hash.
[There would be nothing remarkable in that
Ed. B ]
The Melbourne D.T. in taking a census to
discover how many people actually attend worship
in that city on the “ Sawbath ” day, includes Jos.
Syme’s Godless congregation in its little list. We
wonder it didn’t supplement its total by adding
the worshippers of Bacchus.
A New Zealand paper wants the public to
return a setter-pup to its owner. It says.:—“ If
he has strayed away, it is to bt hoped that per-
sons into w’hose hands it has falleD will return it
to its owner at once.” Just so, but if it was
stolen eve wonder what it requires them to do.
Mr. O’Malley Clarke, S.M., of Sydney,
has solemnly expressed his disapproval of the
practice of stoning Chinamen. We agree with
Mr. Clarke. To waste time and blue-metal ston-
ing Chinamen while American axes can be bought
for 3s. 6d. is a foolish and reprehensible occu-
pation.
A writer in a Yass paper gives his im-
pression of- the Salvation Army thus “ After
listening to them for a quarter of an hour I feel as
if I could swop my chance of heaven away for a
dog—and then shoot the dog.” It is clear that
there is at least one man who is capable of im-
provement by the ministrations of the Harmy.
And one dog.
The scene was laid in a surveyor’s tept on
the coast near Mackay (Q.) It wqs night (a
column of poetic dogwash about the moon is here
struck out), and eight men were fast a leep with
eight pairs of pants .carefully fastened to the sidefl
of the tent to give them a chance to dry. A squall
came on and the tent departed out to sea leaving
the eight men behind, but taking the pants. That
was all.
The North Queensland separationists are
not poets—at least their poetry is too hard.
Here’s a specimen from a Towers paper
° Wanted, your money, brains, and hearts,
Fall in, and nobly play jour parts;
No child’s game this, but conflict real,
’Gainst Brisbane greed and Brisbane 4 steal.’ ”
But Brisbaneites are not sinful enough to covot
the talents of Towers poets.


Peper
and
Salt
The laborious rot of the protests issued by
the Melbourne Wesleyans against Zola’s novels is
making the book business down there as active as
a free-lunch. The various Methodist flocks have
now bought up almost all the nude photos, to be
found in Victoria ; they have also cleaned out the
whole consignment of Zola’s works, and that emi-
nent litterateur is writing by horse-power in order
to keep pace with the sudden Victorian demand
for his productions. In view of this painful state
of things the Wesleyan Conference have called on
the editor of their organ, the Spectator, to make
it more interesting, so that people may read it in
preference to Zola, but unless the pious man
starts to run his sheet on “ Called
Back ” principles, and slings in blonde
highwaymen and pirates and young
ladies who poison their mothers and
dark conspirators in masks, we don’t
see how the thing is to be done. We
are keeping our bright blue eye on the
Spectator now, and if the next issue
comes out with a picture of a British
sailor standing on a rock with a lovely
femaleslung over his shoulder, andkeep-
ing back a gang of assassins by means of
a pistol in each hand and a torch in his
mouth we will understand that the
editor is 'trying to make the production
gee. But the chances are ten to one
that he will wobble along on his old
Wesleyan lines, and fill up with Jones
Bpeech at the tea-meeting and that
worn out little poem by the Rev.
Nahum Bowldout about a little girl
who died young, and finish with a
stick-in-the-ditch article about the
inner workings of faith in the case of
the man who tipped Jezebel out of the
window. The Wesleyan never gets
beyond this sort of thing, and he never
will, and as the editor of the Spectator
has been at it all his life, it sounds like
apiece of wild Wesleyan sarcasm to ask
him to start right off and wip' out Zola
in one act.
* * *
The saints of South Australia
look forward with a bloodshot eye and
a clear conscience to the long talked
of Russian invasion. Their troors are
ready for war, and when the emergency
comes the land will be covered with
blood and tatters and blown-up hu-
man bones The only difficulty at
present lies in the want of discipline
among the unpaid volunteers, who
can’t shamble a mile under a hot sun
without rising in mutiny, but this
will doubtless be got over in time —or
if it isn’t got over in time it may be in
eternity. The trouble arises chiefly from
the fact that captains of companies
are in all cases elected by the men, and
the privates, having made them what
they are, are always wanting to know
what they mean by giving themselves
such thundering airs. One officer, for
example, is a counter-jumper and his
boss is in the ranks. He tried to order
the old man round the other day on
parade, and the purveyor of towels
and baby-rags got mad, and solemnly
laying down his rifle he counted out the
captain's wages and sacked him on the
spot. Another captain, who is in a
similar humble position in the grocery
trade, wanted his employer to “ stand
at ease,” and was ordered to “ shut up
and go to the shop and pack up them
candles.” Next time, probably, just
as dtill is commencing, he’ll be sent
off at a'run to pick a hair out of the
butter, and the whole squad will be
kept waiting till he comes back. This
sort of thing is fast demoralising the
South Australian officers, and one or
two of them" have" even been heard to
unreservedly condemn the service and
the Government and everything connected there-
with.
A Melbourne Civil servant is said to have
died recently of concussion of the brain. Hold
us up while we warble : i
They often speak of wonders nine
Which startle minds of men,
And many oft and oft repine
Wishing that there were ten.
At last then these their tenth have found
(U printer ! print it plain !)
A Civil Serv’s. gone underground
Who really had a brain !
* * .
Black Jack township, near Charters
Towers (Q.), according to the reports in the local
papers, seems to be in a lively ttate, and when a
straDger arrives there it seldom takes him more
than an hour or so to comprehend the deep in-
wardness of the little games that are in progress.
There are no policemen in the place, so everybody
has to hustle round for himrelf. If the visitor
arrives in a buggy the comic inhabitants throw a
tomahawk at his head and break two saucers and
a jug over the horse, and when he reaches the
hotel and dismounts he has to shout for all hands
or else everybody throws a gob of mud at him.
He is generally asked if he is Orange or anti
Chinese, or something, and if he isn’t he is smote
on the nose with a pewter pot. In the evening,
when the peaceful inhabitants have knocked off
work, they get blind drunk ; the air is full of rags
and hair and foam, and dishes, blue-metal, and
paving-stones fly around till far in the night. On
Saturdays the miner’s rule is always to hit a head
when he sees it —and he sees it very often ; if he
sights the same head twice he hits it each time.
It is proposed now to send a constable to Black
Jack township, but we fear the unhappy dark
horse who gets the job will die young.
Mr. William Suttie of New York has
quarrelled with his wife because she always
played the piano when he was “ examining his
conscience.” He was in the habit of doing this
job for an hour every evening, but whenever he
grabbed the cog-wheel of his inner consciousness
for the purpose of getting the pious machine to
turn round, the lady began to pound out a jig, and
then his conscience would start to the tune of
“ When Johnny comes marching home agaiD.” It
was with a view of alleviating this domestic
trouble that William blackened bis wife's eye wi h
a shoe brush and cut off her hair, and when she
asked him to put a mustard plaster on her chest
it was also for her spiritual good rhat he imposed
on her by wrapping her in her best petticoat
soaked in turpentine. Mrs. Su .tie then skedaddled
with a gay young spark, but her husband met the
pair at the railway station and talked religion to
the erring bachelor until they both wept, while
the lady danced a polka round them in derision.
Thsre has been a separation since then, and the
law awards Mrs, Suttie £3 a week.
“ The Board of Inquiry appointed by the
Victorian Employers’ Union and the Seamen's
Union e f Victoria to inquire into and report upon
certain differences arising from a disturbance
which took place on board the s.s. Mangana ”
has reported a sad state of things. We learn
“that Thomas Gilmour, A.B. on board the said
vessel on the occasion in question, was, in his
language and demeanour, guilty of conduct
towards his superior officer which the board con-
sider offensive and reprehensible.” We also learn
“ that Robert White, secondj,officer on board the
POULTRY AND POLITICS.
said vessel, in using the language he did, was
guilty of conduct which the board consider objec-
tionable and unbecoming.” Fortunately, such in-
stances of that splendid fellow—the British sea-
man-forgetting himself, are exceedingly rare.
There is a small boy, aged seven, in Man-
chester (EDg.), who will die rich and respected if
we mistake not the bent of his character. He has
been in the habit of learning round the suburb in
a deplorable state of neglect, pitching to the sym-
pathetic publ'c a woeful little yarn about pa being
down with the gout, and ma slaving at the wash-
tub to seep a family of 11 tottering on the verge
of starvation. The sympathetic public looked
into his big tearful eyes and promptly subscribed
to his relief fund. But a sceptical peeler, whohad
had an eye on the youthful mendicant for some
time, took him in tow the ether day and charged
him with being a waif and stray. When he was
brought before the Court his father was there to
swear he never had the gout, and his mother
hadn’t to slave at the wash Tub ; and, moreover,
that boy was dressed up every morning a perfect
dude and sent to school, but he wagged it and
made up like a miserable pauper so ns people
would sorrow at his hard lot and assist him with
cash which he and his pals squandered on lollies,
apples, shooting-galleries, and other luxuries
What an acquisition to a poor church the dear
li.tle fellow will be in years to come !
“News came from Cannes, where the
Prince of Wales has been staying for some time
past. It sta'es that shocks of earthquake were
experienced there with astounding severity, and
much damage has been done. The Prince escaped
without injury.”—(Daily. I The perspiration rolled
off our loyal carcase till we got to that last sen-
tence. Then we swooned and lay insensible in the
waste paper basket for hours. ’Twas the cold
tongue of the office dog licking our fevered brow
which brought us round.
The “brutal outrage” lie which has now
been fairly worn to tbe bone inN.S.W. has started
afresh in N.Z. At Wanganui, a dreary idiot-
factory built on a shifting Eand ridge, a certain, or
rather a very uncertain lady named Pope called’on
a doctor and asked him for some horrid fluid to
pour down her neck, she being afflicted with a
gnawing at the vi ale. Next day the medico
found himself wanti d for criminal assault, and
the odour attached to his name smelt worse' than
the bottle of slush he had bestowed on his inter-
resting patient. The case collapsed however,
Mrs. Pope, as it transpired, being, like all her
fellow heroines in Australia, a lady of elastic
virtue who seldom made any personal use of the
truth. In future she m y tuffer from gout, dts-
temper, cattle-plague, and foot-and-mouth disease
before any doctor is likely to iun the risk of at-
tending her in Wanganui.
The most appalling feature of last week’s
Fire Brigade demonstration in Melbourne was the
music. Strong men who have listened unmoved
to the strains of a barrel-orgaD, a jew’s harp, a
concertina, or a boarding-school p ane, turned and
fled from the Fire Brigade bands. And they were
everywhere. When duty didn’t call them to
procesh those mad musicians performed on their
wretched instruments of torture for the mere sake
of giving fellow-creatures pain. Somewhere
about 5 p m. on Thursday four monsters in human
shape and shabby uniforms became suddenly pos-
sessed of devils in the busy neighbourhood of
Swanstou-street, and started on the same racket.
The whole town heard and was sore afraid. The
cries of dying soldiers on a gory battlefield are
dulcet compared with the weird noises prodneed
by those flremtn We note these facts more in
sorrow than in anger. Victorian firemen are
brave and dauntless fellows—mostly. But they
are sad squanderers of the water supply if they
only knew it. No brigade needs a hose to play
on a Are when it has a brass band to play to the
devouring element Ten minutes of “ Home,
Sweet Home,” with brigade variations, would ex
tinguish every flame that can be produced above
the surface of this earth.
It was nigh to where the waters
of the Lachlan in gentle ripple flow in
the solemn silent wilds on the run of
‘ Scraggy Simon ” ; there, exempt from
the sins and strife of civilisation, and
the rude intrusion of the rent-collector,
lived the happy, uncultured station-
hands. Amongst them were three of
especial interest—Bridget Cody, general
rouse-about, “ Biddy ” for short and
sweetnesr, a child of nature, with a red
head ; Ah Cat, the cook, an unsophis-
ticated Chow, whose smile was lop-
-sided, and whose countenance ap-
peared to hive run like that of a wax-
doll before a bush fire ; and Teddy
Kelly, the boundary-rider. Teddy was
a Tip., a foine, strappin’ young Irish 3
man, wid a brogue that ’ud do yer ’arts
good to be hearin’, and a nice little sum
in gould so Vi reigns ’av his own, stowed
away. Yah ! he was the great masher
was eddy, and along with every other
youth within a ten-mile radius had
sworn to win and wed the beauteous
Biddy Cody ; for Biddy was an angel
in her own right, and couldn’t get a
minute’s peace for the lovers she had.
A splendid lump of a guril, this Miss
Biddy, and she ju3t, wound the boys
round her finger like the cruel ooquette
she was. Even Ah Cat had laid his
heart and fortune at her feet The
Celestial was a wheedling, persistent
suitor, making love with a gentle
grace, and lisping his tender senti-
ments in siDg-song, pigeon-Englisb.
His amorous attentions teemed quite
to have touched the lovely Biddy, and,
at las , the other wooers regretfully
acknowledged that the contest lay be .
tween Teddy and the haythen, and the
odds were freely offered on Ah Cat’s
chance; but Edward Kelly laughed
the pretensions of the Mongolian to
rcorn, and frequently, when in a
humorous mood, he would wipe the
floor with his rival's yellow carcase,
or trim his almond-eyes with a fringe
of mourning, just to show Biddy he was
tie better man by far and away. Ah
Cat received these humiliations with
becoming meekness, and it was only
when his love turned from him entirely
that he betrayed any smotion, and,
upon hearing that the had accepted
Teddy’s offer of marriage, he broke
down, and cried piteously before all
hands. But Teddy was proud Arrah 1
He waltzed round with airy gladness,
and sat his prad with a loftier mien,
and grew as uppish as a white ’pos-
sum ; while Ah Cat waxed sallower,
fell away from his tucker, and mooned
round like a broody fowl; you never
saw a man so put about over a love
affair. The night after the wedding
there was riot and revelry, and Edward
lorded it over the poor Chow, and
teemed down the station rum, swearing
again and again he was the happiest
man from home. That night Ah Cat
was caught attempting to hang him-
self with a waist-belt ; he was remon-
strated with and pacified with rum.
The new-wed couple agreed to keep their old
positions on the station, and, for the time being,
all was calm and bright, but returning lale from a
lorg ride round, after about two weeks of wedded
bliss, Teddy w..s shocked to find his wife missing.
She had fled, Ah Cat had fled, and the bag of gold
sovereigns had fled also. Pinned to the door mat
was the following little note:—“Me husbend I
hev left yez. The love uv me heart was Ah Cat;
he sez I had best marry yez first to find where
thim sovrins was hid. We’ve helloped, tri an
ferget yer— Biddy.” Perhaps Teddy was mad;
he rode two horses to death hunting the fugitives’
and carried a shot gun charged with six pounds of
slugs, but he never saw his Biddy any more, and
he developed into a moody misanthrope with a
special antipathy against the heathen Chinee.
The faith-healing Pastor Dowie, who is
still on the warpath in New Zealand, seems to be
a particularly sultry cove when anybody doesn’t
admire him. A Christchurch doctor offered to
diagnose cases for him gratis, and also to examine
his patients after treatment, and give a certificate
when acure was accomplished, but Dowie explained
That he didn’t carry on his mission in that w»y.
He further added that the New Zealand Press —
which has been rather larky at his expense-was
the most scurrilous and libellous on record, and
then he tackled the Melbourne ink-slingers like a
full-powered bull-dog. The editor of the Age, he
said, was a direct descendant of Ananias, while
the Argus was run by the progeny of the left-
hand thief, and he couldn’t find a genealogy bad
enough to lit the overflowing cussedness of the
Telegraph. The Auckland Cbserver has got
wild at this, and says that faith-healers should be
divide t into two squads, one being smt to an idiot
asylum and the other to a gaol.
If there is anywhere in Australia a com-
pany which has a solid right to promote a breach
of the peace it is the Hepburn Estate syndicate
of Kingston (Vic ) That association holds a large
area, of tbe outer [husk of th s planet, and they
got it carefully pro. pected by means of the dia-
mond-drill. The officer in charge of the machine
reported washdirt at a depth of 420 fe.t a: d his
dictum was accepted as unquestioningly ai if he
T[?]BILLOW.
The bluff British tar is now quite comme i!
faut
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow,
He is loath to indulge in a word that is low
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow;
For our feelirgs are shocked and we shudder
aghas',
If the bluff British tar says “ dimnition 1 ” or
“ b'’*cl”
Oh! the days of tall swearing are vanished and
past
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow.
This improvement in morals is pleasant to note,
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow ;
From the bold burly captain who bosses the boat
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow.
To the officers, bo'sun, and gentle A.B.’s,
They take and give orders with “ Thank you ”
and “ Please,”
And other civilit-'es ,ike unto these,
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow.
Thomas Gilmour was tar on the MaDgana ship
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow,
And a vulg«r expression he, fomehow, let slip
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow ;
His remark was addressed to the officer White,
Who, most unaccountably, lost his head quite,
And replied to that curse with a word impolite
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow.
Now, a beard was appointed to look into this,
Singing willow, titwillow, titwi.'low,
And it had to report there was something amiss
On the billow, titbillow, titbillow ;
The A.B. and officer both were to blame,
The oaths that they bvore were exactly the
same—
Oh 1 the whole of the service is weeping with
shame.
Willow, titwillow, titwillow.
Joy!
Hurrah ! a weight is off our mind,
Again we dance and sing—
For Providence, so good and kind,
Preserved our future king ;
It guided him at every turn,
His royal course it shaped—
Oh 1 all will be rejoiced to learn
Our Prince, thank God ! escaped.
Perchance, if Providence had willed
(The notion makes us wince),
That someone should he really killed,
It might have been our Prince ;
In suits and trappings, then, of woe
Our bodies would be draped;
But shall we go a-mourning ? No —
Our Pr’nce, thank God 1 escaped.
So chirrup out a hymn of praise,
Because he wasn't hurt;
A monument we ought to raise,
Of msrble, unto Bert. ;
We’ll gladly give tbe golden hoard,
For which we’ve toiled and scraped,
As our subscription—Thank the Lord !
Our precious Prince escaped


had been the “ outrage” man of a Sydney even-
ing newspaper—an individual who, as everybody
knows, couldn’t tell a lie if he tried. lie even
added a few details about a drift of fine sand
succeeded by quartz boulders, in order, perhaps, to
give an air of verisimilitude to an otherwise bald
and unconvincing narrative, and on ihe strength
of this the company spent £20,000 in siokiDg, only
to land at last in a place as solid as Dod’s Presby-
terian doctrine. There wasn't a trace of sand,
and a blind beggar could have eaten all the quartz-
boulders in the district Under these circum-
stances the company put a sample of the country
in its nose-bag, and took it down to the Mining
Department, which made a minute of its sym-
pathy, but could offer no explanation fit to give
to a dog. The washdirt wa) absolu ely nowhere ;
so was the £20,000 spent in sinking for it, and the
brilliant square hole, which was tne only result of
the speculation, promises to remain empty and
barren till the day of j udgment.
Mr. Richard Perks is a corruscating star,
and a pillar in the temple of the Primitive Metho-
dists at Beaconsficld (Tas.) He is a virtuous and
a holy man ; his lowly righteousness and his zeal
in the cause of truth marked him out as just the
elder to represent Beaconsfield in the Conference
of Primitive Methodists held in Melbourne lately,
and Richard wa3 sent off, with a prayer and a
blessing, to tell the congregated brethren that
their sect at Beaconsfield is fighting the good fight
for all it knows how. But when the Conference
conferred, Brother Perks was not among the holy
men to speak his testimony; on the contrary, he
was lifting up his voice in the Police Court against
two children of wrath and iniquity who had robbed
him of his board money and all the other coin of
the realm he possessed. It is alleged that Mr. Perks,
who is yet youngand innocent, and inexperienced in
the wiles of the wicked, being only 63 last birthday,
Bhortly after his arrival in the Cabbageopolis wa3
beguiled into a house of giddy repute situated in a
salubrious locality called Juliet Lane by a wan-
derer in the mire and clay whose pet name is
Piggy, and whose face is like a wax-works planter-
cast. The lady of the house straightway took a
great fancy to Richard and embraced him fondly,
taking advantage of the opportunity to borrow
nine sovereigns from his pistol pocket when his
back was turned. Then Piggy maltreated the
man of grace, and sent him forth to beat his
breast and groan i 1 bitterness of sp : rP. By arad
bye, Brother Perks introduced a limb of the law
into that house of corruption, and behold thusly
it came about that the delegate from Beaconsfield
(Tas.) was not among the assembled elders of the
Church of Primitive Methodism at the appointed
hour !
* * •
Mr. Potts is a patriot, and as a matter of
course, a politician. When business happens to
be slack in these honorable professions he turns
his attention to little odd job 3 of horse-stealing,
and he was putting in a two years’ stretch at the
Queanbeyan (tJ. S. W.) gaol in consequence of an
interesting episode connected with the latter
enterpr'se when he w r as startled by hearing that
the local election fun was in full blast. This
roused all the patriotism and politics that Potts
possessed, and he swore a mighty oath, that rather
than allow himself to be deprived of the glorious
privilege of manhood suffrage by the grinding
tyranny of a despotic and cruel law he'd "leave
the bloomin’ gaol flr3t.” And he lefc. There was
nothing ostentatious about his mode of departure,
however, but he simply skipped over the wall on
the polling morn and until political excitement
subsided nothing more was heard of Potts the
patriot.
At a meeting of the Victorian Bankers’
Institute, Mr. Turner “ denounced the writers of
undecipherable signatures.” We have often in-
tended to denounce them ourselves, but never got
any furthur than Da—a gigantic De :
The flat-iron season has set in strongly in
Victoria. Lovely woman, through long practice,
is becoming a dead-shot with a bnll-dog and a
brick, and the pilgrim through this va'.e of tears
had better look out. For instance, here is a
solemn warning extracted from a Victorian
paper :
“ Notice.—Farm advertised by C. Smith shall not be sold
or let. He advertised it for sale without my knowledge, and
therefore anybody that cares for his life need not apply for
any farther particulars on the farm to C. Smith. Feb. 14,
1887.—Mrs. Smith.”
No doubt Mrs. Smith was once a cooing agricul'
. tural dove, but that was in the sweet long ago.
Things are changed a bit, and now if a man visits
Smith’s farm with a view to purchase, the lady
will tuck up her skirt and canter forth
rafter the speculater, and then if he
values his life he will spread himself out like an
obtuse angle gone mad in his efforts to beat all
previous efforts down the road. If she catches
him he will probably feel in about five minutes as
if he had been interviewed by the Marquis of
Queensbery and two coalheavers. Mrs. Smith is
evidently not the sort of melting creature who
would go down on her solid knees and implora
her husband not to sell that farm ; she doesn’t
believe in salting the old man’s claim with
tears of refined sensibility—not much.
Two curiosities of literature from a Cook-
town (Q.) paper: “Wanted a small boy to read
papers at night and feed pigs. Apply A. Cuthbert,
Alligator Creek.’’ Also: “Wanted three men to
sample pumpkins and clear ground free of weeds
for English potato sowing. Ten shillings a week
and the run of his dover. Apply A. Cuthbert,
Alligator Creek.” Strange varieties of employ-
ment there must be at Alligator Creek. Strange
people too; one of them once wired us to send
four pairs of corsets No. 19 size by first steamer.
Up to date we have not sent them. They are not
sold in Sydney lhat size.
The3e signatures we can’t make out,
They turn our tres3es grey—
We twist our letters round about,
And read ’em every way ;
Held this side up the name is “Brown ”
To eyesight strong and keen
We turn the letter upside down,
And then the name is “ Green.”
Inspected by a certain light
The signature is “ Black ” ;
But, ere we sit us down to write
A pleasant answer back,
We give the thing another turn,
And, sure enough, therewith
We’re really overjoyed to learn
The letter comes from “ Smith.”
Those signatures one can’t make out,
They turn our tresses grey—
They All our mind with growing doubt
With each returning day ;
Ten little heaps of kind invites
Before us lie in rows,
But who the deuce it is that writes
The dickens only knows.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Tne Right Hon. W. B. Dailey is ill. The
community feels that way too, since i he bill came in
for the Plain One’s military fireworks.
It is a significant fact that four of Parkes’
recent nominees to the N.S.W. Upper House are
members of the committee of the Chamber of
Commerce.
The Sydney D.T. congratulates Sir Henry
Parkes on a recent change of policy. We don’t
kcow what the change was, but it must inevitably
be an improvement.
It is now said that the reason why a pro-
minent Parkesite alcoholically stimulates is to
cure a, cold. He had better let the cold alone.
It can’t be so bad ash ehumoshershings.
Lord Salisbury, it is cabled, is determined
to try the firm execution of the law as a remedy
for Ireland’s evils. The message is too metaphori
cal. A firm execution of the Irish is what the
Tories really intend.
Sir Henry Parkes at Moama declared that
he had “ always taken a great interest in the
border districts of N.S.W.” That was so, espe-
cially in 1882, when ruthlessly ejected by East
Sydney, he had to go to Tenterfleld for a seat.
The average of assets in insolvent estates
in England is 33 per cent., or nearly 7s. in the £ ;
but in N.S.W. “ the moment an estate gets into
the Insolvency Court there seems to be no assets
Occasionally a dividend of 11 l-16th of a penny is
ABIGAIL’S £25. -
Up to date The Bulletin has not succeeded in collecting from the Hon. Francis Abigail the
£25 which he offered to anyone who could prove that he had ever uttered a single word which
could be construed as an argument in favour of Protection.” The Bulletin accepted the chal-
lenge and printed the required proof on Feb. 12, but now Mr. Abigail refuses to send round the
good gold. As the amount will be handed to the Public Charities upon receipt, it is only the
square thing to charge moderate interest at 60 per cent, till the sum is paid. We are sorry that
Frawncis has not yet stumped up, as there are a lot of destitute persons in Sydney now who
would benefit immensely by the donations. If he will only take the sum round himself, to, say,
the Soup Kitchen, and show us a clean receipt for principal and interest, we will dir continue our
just demand. But not till them, Frawncis, not till then.
paid.” This on the authority.of a member of the
Sydney Chamber of Commerce. Freetrade and
commercial morality!
Mr. McMiJlion, the East Sydney pet, says
that “ the unadult rated doctrine of Freetrade is
not understood bv many of those who are loudest
in proclaiming themselves Freetraders.” Thus
always does the truly modest speaker refer to him-
self in general and impersonal terms.
Mr. D. Pyne, returning officer for Gren-
fell (N.S W.) regrets that a serious difference be-
tween himself and a nominator occurred at the
hustings. But the candidate regrets still more
sincerely that a serious difference between himself
and most of the electors occurred at the ballot-
box.
It is reported that the old political war-
horse, Sir John .Robertson, wants ..to show his
admirers that he has still a kick left in him and
that he is to be nominated to the Upper House
where he will represent the Government as Vice-
President of the Executive Council pending the
probable retirement of one at least of the members
of the Government, when he will have the advan-
tage of pay attached to the honor of office. How
long is it since that £lO,OOO grant was voted ?
Lord Brabazon, heir to tho barony of
Chaworth, has an idea, and, strange to say, it’s
worth something. His notion is to introduce a
motion in the British Parliament to the
effect that the House of Lords should exclude
from their deliberations “all members of the
House who had proved themselves unworthy of
their position by such breach of criminal or moral
law as would entail ostracism from the society of
gentlemen.” If “should” were substituted for
‘ would” in Lord Brabjzon’s motion its adoption
would leave the House of Lords without a quorum.
For the true dignity of journalism the
English Tory pre3S has ever been renowned. The
following excerpt from Vanity* Fair is a proof of
the unvarying rule to which we allude
“ A Nationalist member of Parliament, one named Quinn,
fell out of his trap a few days ago in the city of Dublin, but,
alas ! did not b.eak Lis neck. It is a great pity th it all the
Irish Nationalist representatives cannot be taken out for a
picnic, and all their necks broken simultaneously by the up-
setting of the conveyance.’‘
Such cultured language could scarce find an equal
in the columns of Texas journals, or in the recent
electioneering speeches of Sir Henry Parke 3.
As a sidelight on the recent Freetrade
victory in Sydney, the following circular will be
perused with much interest:—
“ Grand Lodge Office, Protestant Hall, Castlereagh-street.
Sydney, February 2, 1887.—The Grand Lodge has decided to
recommtDd to the support of the Institution candidates as
under Sydney E. : M'Millan, Reid, Burdekin, Street.
Sydney W. ; Abigail, Kethel, G. Men iman. Sydney S.:
Riley, Wise. Glebe : Wilkinson, Chapman. Redfern :
Sutherland, Stephen, Schey, Farnell. Paddington: Neild,
Alf. Allen. Balmain : Garrard, Hawthorne. Central Cum-
berland: V. Parkes, M'Cullocn, F. Farnell. Canterbury:
Not yet decided. The G.L. has resolved not to recommend
Bro. John Davies to the brethren, being unworthy of the sup-
port of the Institution.—l am, dear sir and brother, yours
liaternally, W. Robson, D.G.S.”
Poor Bro. Jno. Davies!
Sir Henry on the ’igh ’orse at Deniliquin :
—“ There was no Assembly that dare expel him.
If they expelled him they would hate expelled
the moat historical character in the House. Had
the Assembly expelled him the people of the
country would have risen almost to insurrec-
tion.” Somehow the country did not seem to be
vehemently agitated when Sir Henry’s expulsion
was projected in October last, and only averted by
the action of Mr. J. P. Abbott, an opponent of the
present Premier. But there is another insurrection
that will overwhelm Parkes before many years—the
insurrection of members and electora against a
, tyrant whose language is borrowed from the fish-
j markets, and whose policy is taken from the
j pages of Hansard in proportions calculated to
1 soothe supporters.
When Mr. B. It. Wise indignantly denied
that the Sydney Chamber of Commerce had con-
tributed £25,000 towards the election expenses of
the N. S. W. Freetrade Association, The Bulletin
challenged Mr. Wise to say that the funds of the
Association had not been augmented by donations
from commercial men, members of that chamber.
No such denial has ever been made, and the ad-
mission of silence on the part of the member for
South Sydney is now confirmed by the words of
Mr. M 'Millan, M. P., who last week told the mem-
bers of the Chamber of Commerce that—
“ The danger and excitement of this contest (the recent,
elections) have aroused personal effort and brought out
: financial support from many who never interested themselves
before in anything outside their routine occupation.”
It is about time Mr. Wise revised his ingenious
denial.
Freetrade had a magnificent advocate in
Mr. Reynolds, defeated candidate for Mnrrum-
bidgee. He is a political genius of peculiar at-
tainments, and he succeeded in evolving some en-
tirely new points in opposition to the policy of
which he is an alleged advocate. One of his argu-
ments is superior to aaything yet urged by anyone
on either side, and in order that it may lose
nothing of its native fragrance we produce it in
his own woras and style, as follows :
A pore fcunfortnit woman'ad a cancered tongue, and
formerly P ‘ l( * 6d per ounce for hopium, but under the
duties ad to pay 11s. 6d. The chemist s aid it could not
be sold at a cheaper rate with profit t j the seller.”
There is a crusher for Protection. Or at least
would be if the duty on opium were not a Free ;
trade duty, and opium itself a thing with which
no local industry is, or ever has been, concerned.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
Them min in dock your Warship,” said
a “ peeler ” up North, “ are called respectably
Thomas Smith and William Jones.” A long
long felt want has been filled at Ipswich (Q.).
It is a brewery ‘‘Major” Wright, of the
Harmy, got as far as Rockhampton (Q.) on a re-
cruiting tour, but decomposed bananas were there
hurled at his gory-hued guernsey, and he retreated f
They don’t want to be saved in Rockhampton
they are too hot there already to be sensible of
either hope or fear 219 Chinese are working
on Clermont gold-field. Yet only 64 miners’
rights have been issued this year A Mr. Law-
gall, of Casino (N.S. W.), claims to have invented
a perpetual motion machine. It is made of
craDks, levers, tin drums, &c., and the
local paper says it is good for pumpiDg purposes
The Queen’s Jubilee will be fittingly celebrated in
Melbourne by the erection of a big Salvation
barracks and the completion of the underground
sewerage Judge Miller told a Winton (Q )
jury that they could have a small bottle of water
or ale at luncheon at the expense of—themselves.
The Attorney-General would only pay for tea
A new Chinese Joss-house has been consecrated
with many crackers and much gin at Cairns (Q).
• The Forbes (N.S.W.) volunteers are so blue-
moulded for want of a beating that the local
newspaper scribe recommends them to put cam-
phor on the uniforms to defeat the moths’ machi-
nations An involuntary act of cremation took
place in a Melbourne suburb last week The
dead body of a woman which lay awaiting burial
was burnt with the house. “ Ashes to ashes.”
Sir Julius Vogel is endeavouring to introduce
womanhood suffrage into New Zealand For a
billet worth £75 a year no less than 232 applica-
tions were recently forwarded from Sydney to
Braid wood. And yet David Buchanan says no
man who chooses to work need be out of a billet in
Australia Sir Frederick Broome, Governor ol!
Western Australia, has been slanging one c.f the
Government officials, and then asking him to ac-
cept the big, big D.’s in a Pickwickian sense
Miss Bary Jade Hicks, of Mount Rennie celebrity,
is now in New Zealand. Smith, one of her prin-
cipal witnesses, is also in New Zealand. That
colony should prosper marvellously.
“ Mrs. Cleveland (the Presidentess) always
dresses quietly at the theatre,” remarks the
Washington Post. Sydney ladies put on all the
they wear at the theatre (which sometimes
don’t amount to much) at home Buffalo (U.S.)
has got a crematory, and a cockney has been
placed in charge. He explained the working of
the arrangements to a bereaved widow thus :
“’Ere, mum, is where we turns the bodies into
hash, and then the hash is collected and put into a
hum,”......A Yankee c*aily which spent a small
fortune in getting Tennyson’s new poem cabled
out, and then found with disgust that the laureate
was actually inferior in his old age to Smith across
the road, says : —“ Unless Lord Tennyson braces
up his muse we must really decline to publish any
more of his poetry whether he encloses stamps for
return or not He isn’t capable now of writing
epitaphs”... . “To dream of eggs,” says a pro-
fessor of signs, “indicates thatjou are going to
get money ” Dees it ? We always thought it a sign
of comingcandidaturefortheelectorate of Balmain.
A London sporting paper laments “ the pre-
sent absence” of well-bred hacks. “Present
absence ” is about as neat a phrase as the lan
guage can produce Barbed wire fencing has
been declared by the English courts to be an un-
justifiable infraction of private rights An En-
glish parson in a letter to the Times alludes to the
“ supposed distress” of the London poor. “Sup-
posed distress ”of the destitute ! Supposed piety
of the parsons From Reynold’s Newspaper :
“ It is becoming not only a national, but an inter-
national scandal, to see so many of the Archbishop
of Canterbury’s colleagues, and other ministers of
religion, in the criminal dock from week to week.’
We don't see why they should make such a fuss
about trifles. Plenty of these persons are as useful
in the dock a 3 anywhere else, and a whole heap
more interesting A woman’s heart is exhibited
in alcohol in a Philadelphia Museum. We don’t
see that it can be such a wonderful curiosity. We
believe that several Australian women have
hearts From an American paper Little
Dot—“ I like my papa best. Don’t you your’s ? ”
Little Dick —“ No, I don’t. My papa spanks me.”
“Mine dont me; my mamma does, though.’
“My mamma hardly ever spanks. Wouldn’t it
be nice if my"mamma and your papa should get
married ?” A Nottingham (Eng.) man mourn-
fully identified a drowned woman as his wife, and
paid for the funeral. His old woman turned up a
few days afterwards from a visit to her grand-
aunt. He is vainly endeavouring to recover
funeral exes It may not be generally known
that the lamented Albert the Good, who got in all
£630,000 for being good, and would have had
nearly £2,000,000 if he had lived, was once poked
in the ribs at his own royal table. He had been
asking a certain French general for an actress’s
address, and the Frenchman, who didn’t know
how good his Royal Highness was, and thought
he had some little game in view, gave him a dig
in the side, and told the lamented Prince, with
the Queen sitting by, that he was a gay dawg and
should be ashamed of himself....A hideous-looking
man, “in many respects resembling an elephant,”
is now an inmate of a London hospital The
Bulgarians haven’t got their new Prince yet.
When they do get him, however, they mean to
plant him on the throne and gum him down A
recent English baby was born without a tongue.
His heaven-inspired destiny is to be a Sydney
society swell.




“The Beauteous Terrorist."
The Aged Bard, Sir Henry Parkes, at Deniliquin, touched hie harp gently aDd warbled
these pathetic lines :
The Minister’s dog was Barbour named,
He was collared and muzzled and properly tamed,
He went where the Minister bade him go,
At times barked “ Yah,” at times barked “ No,” —
Just as his bark was wanted, you know.
To this Last Lay of the Minstrel we would add an enoore verse as follows: —
The Hemperor’s dog was Habigle named,
He was collared and muzzled and properly tamed,
He » ent wherever the Hemperor bade,
At times yelled “ Purtection ” at times “ Freetrade,”
Just as was best for the tune Parkes played.


Society
Judge Manning has solemnly declared that
never under any conceivable circumstances
will he take the N S. W. Divorce business again.
Whereat the evening newspapers rejoice CJn-
sumedly, for Judge Manning, spurning the prece-
dent of the Colin Campbell case, has decided that
so long as he presides there the unpleasant odour
of the business transacted shall not pervade news-
paper columns for the delectation of a simple-
minded public. Therefore the chief dependence
of the vespernal rags in future must be those
“ outrages ” which since the slaughter of the
Mount Rennie quartette have become as common
as Sundays. It is straDge how tastes differ. We
know plenty of people who would gladly do for
nothing the work which millions wouldn’t tempt
Sir William Manning to resume. He doesn’t
seem to have any perception of the wholesome
fun of the Divorce Court.
« * #
“ Nym Crinkle/’ in the New York World,
remorselessly negatives the popular opinion to the
effect that the society seraphs who go to seaside
resorts are devoted to bathing in the breakers.
He explains why the fashionable bsile is not a
whale on bathing as follows :
“ It would take her at least two hours and a half to dress
for the beach, the i two hours at least to dress for the water,
and three hours to redress for the walk to the hotel, and two
hours and a half to get back to hotel costume. That would
be ten hours—nearly one-half of the 24. It’s a pretty fable,
and it’s a pity to destroy it, but it's a fab.'e A lady of
society cannot ba*he any more than she can play a trombone
or open oysters.”
But it must be distinctly understood that this only
refers to surf-bathing. No imputation is intended
regarding the shower or plunge bath of civilisa-
tion
Another aristocratic divorce case is brew-
ing in England, and unless it is choked off in time
there will be high words and larks. It is now
about two years since an aged peer took to himself
a young and lovely spare rib —a golden-haired
darling, with a slender figure, a No. 1 boot, a face
like an angel, and a rosebud of a mouth, and at
first all went well. The lady used to perch her-
self on his knee, and putting her snowy arms
round his neck—which looked like the middle
section of a lean, yellow cat —would smooth down
the remains of his fluff and address the maudlin
old guy with some such formula as “ Tiss oo ittle
wifey,” and then a dreary smile would spread
over the vacant expanse of his countenance and
there would be rapture But all this is past. The
angel now pour 3 brandy into her rosebud mouth,
and her aged husband seldom sees her golden
head unless when she is butting it into his
chest and violently concussing the dry toast and
milk which the poor, octogenarian dyspeptic takes
for breakfast, She prospects for his bunion and
puts her No. 1 boot on it, and he falls over her
slender form in all sorts of unexpected places, for
she drinks like a bear and then lies about in the
coal-hole or anywhere, and wakes up to call him a
bald-headed old beast, fche is also a dead shot
with a jug, and can pour more milk and slops over
him in the course of one meal than three cows
could give in a week. Finally she has followed
him to his own club and thrashed him there with
his own walking stick, and she “ lovey-dovies”
another man before his face. The old peer there-
for thinks he had better get put asunder.
There is a certain dash of novelty about
this little ad., which is clipped from the New York
Herald :
“ Whereas, I have left my wife and her board; whereas, I
have become attached to another and more attrac-ive
woman. I hereby give warning to the public that I will in
future pay my own bills without any assistance from her
whatever.—Adolphus B. Jefferies.”
Nice sort of young man Adolphus must be.
Miss Greig, of Melbourne, whose marriage
is announced to take place next month, sent to
London to Madame Antonie, of Bond-street, for
her dress, which is to be pure white faille, with
long train set into a bodice of the same, with pleats
and panel on the latter. A fleurde lysisembroiderd
on one side in seed pearl and silver. A drapery
of tulle is arranged for the other side, and shows
rich silver filagree, with hanging drops and pearl
flowers, The front of the dres9 is composed of
rows of Malines lace, and the bodice, Medicis
collar, embroidered to correspond with the skirt.
The veil is to match the lace on the skirt, and
long sprays of orange-blossom are to fall over it.
Upon one shoulder will be placed plumes of
white feathers. Miss Greig s bridesmaids are to
wear costume 3 of the reign of Charle3 IT., all
being made of white China silk, with chartreuse
green sashes and velvet yoke* en suite Hats
cavalier shape, with green feather 3.
An afternoon Sydney Liedertafel concert
ia the la'eat novelty at Neutral Bay, It will be in
aid of the Cnurch of England which is beiog built
by the residents for the Rev. Mr. North Ash.
Some time next month is the projected date,
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Purve3, of Sydney,
leave for England some time next month.
* * *
The engagement of Miss Kate Suttor,
daughter of Mr. F. B. Suttor and Mr. Consett
Stephen is announced ; and it is also reported that
the daughter ot a late well and widely-known
Sydney millionaire and Mr. Edward Stephen have
acceded to a similar contract.
During the past week the Hon. S. J.
Way, Chief Justice of South Australia, has been
paying a flying visit to Sydney. He was accom-
panied by his secretary. Major Beach, Mr. C. B.
Balfour, and Mr. Roderick Mackenzie.
An engagement is announced between
Miss Grace Josephson (who is at present travelling
in Europe) and Mr. Chalmers.
• * *
Mr. and Mrs. Marks, of Elystan, Edge-
cliffe Road, Woollahra, gave a very successful
dance at their residence on Wednesday evening,
the 23rd. About 60 guests present.
A marriage Is announced In Melbourne of
Mis 3 J. K. Osborne. second daughter of Mr. P.
Hill Osborne, of Currandooley, N.S.W., and Mr.
C. DeCourcy Hamilton, K, A , eldest son of Major-
General T. De Courcy Hamilton, V.C.
Last Saturday’s cricket, as usual, attractec
“ a large and fashionable audience” to Sydney
Association Ground. The very-faehionable con -
tingent preferred to maintain that excmsivenes
which the right of high birth and a season-ticke
confers. In feminine grandeur the “ton” o
Potts Point-citm Woolloomooloo sat apart, and no
man seemed to trouble them. But beyond were
placed those remarkably-knowing gentlemen who
see in a season-ticket the true method of “ locit
ing ” at a safe distance the wives and daughter
of their bosoms. His Excellency the Governor wa
more conspicuous by his absence than usual, the
empty vice regal box filling the hearts of the tuft
hunters with sorrow and dismay. In fact, we may
on behalf of Sydney’s aristocracy, safely assure
his Excellency that he is somewhat overdoing the
rural business. But, in spite of these little draw
backs, the day passed pleasantly enough, and the
ladies who had the good sense to walk the lawn
did so to their own satisfaction and ours. Many
of the dresses worn were tasteful in the extreme,
not strikingly novel, but quiet and lady-like. Mrs
Knipe (Grenfell) looked charming in a tailor-made
gown of dark-green cloth, dark-green bonnet, with
white trimmings ; Mrs. Wyatt wore black satin,
plentifully covered with bright yellow flowers ;
Mrs. M'Millan, pink merveilleux, draped with
pink gauze, pink bonnet to match ; Mrs. Hogg,
cream satin and gauze costume, with pearl-
worked waistcoat, small cream bonnet ; Mrs.
Thorn, pale-bluo crepe cloth, with pink stripes :
Mrs. M'Quade, a handsome black dre33, with
white bonnet.
The marriage of Miss M. Halliday, of
Brookong, and Mr. P. Riddle was celebrated in
Scots’ Church Melbourne, on 22nd February.
Sir Patrick and Lady Jennings, Sir James and
Lady M’Bain, and many society stars were among
the guests.
At Marrickville (N.S.W.), on 23rd Feb-
ruary, Mr. Harold Manning, son of Mr. Henry
Manning, of the same agreeable suburb, and
nephew of Sir William Manning, went to I he altar
with Miss Martha Jane Nugent, daughter of Mr.
POLITICS AND PRAYER.
LITTLE FREDDIE: “FATHER, AREN’T YOU A FREETRADER?”
810 FREDDIE: “ YES, CERTAINLY.”
LITTL E FREDDIR; "THEN WHY DID YOU PRAY JUST NOW FOR 'PROTECTION
THIS NIGHT'
Walter Nugent, of Kangaroo Valley. The cere
mony was performed by the Rev. Jo3eph Barnier,
uncle of the bride.
• * »
The opening day of the Tasmanian Club’s
summer meeting, which took place at Elwick on
the 9th inst, was a great success, the attendance
being unusually large. Acting-Governor Sir Lam-
bert Dobson was present, and some officers from
H.M S Nelson helped to make things lively. The
ladies’ dresses were particularly quiet—in many
cases mean and paltry—the bookmakers wives,
who generally out dress the natives, being con-
spicuously absent. The prettiest costumes were
worn by : Mrs. W. Degraves, black mervellleux
and lace, gold and black bonnet; Mrs. R. P.
Adams, all white dress, black and buttercup
bonnet; Mrs. Stourton, all slate colour ; Mrs A.
M‘Gregor, seal-brown, with rich panel brown pas-
sementerie, bonnet and sunshade to m*tch ; Mrs.
C. Harbottle (Mayoress), grey silk with steel
beads ; Mrs. J. Harbottle, dark brown silk ; and
Mrs. Dobson (Melbourne), white muslin dress, blue
bonnet, crimson parasol.
* * #
Scarcely standing room was obtainable at
the parish church, Both well (Tas ), on the Ist
inst., the attraction being the marriage of Miss
Minnie Reid, of Ratho, to Mr. Arthur J. Mande-
ville, manager of the Dennistoun estate (repre-
sentative of one of Tasmania’s absentee landlords,
Mr. Dennistoun Woods). The bride wore a hand-
some costume of erfime satin and lace, with re-
markably pretty wreath and veil. She was
attended by four bridesmaids, dressed in helio-
trope and white, each wearing a gold bangle, th
gift of the bridegroom. Honeymoon In Victoria,
(xiddy Mrs. Weeding, heroine of the
Melbourne cause cclebre, was on one occasion ob
served dropping grapes into Hr. Marmy Co-rc
spondent Rose’s little mouth—
She popped the grapes into his mouth,
And, oh ! he found ’em flavoured sweetly—
Fruit ripened in this Sunny South
Tempts men to eat too indiscreetly.
The Prince of Wales must have been ter-
ribly by the recent earthquake “ ’rup-
tions." He rushed home to his wife immediately
after the first rumble. There are quite a number
of wives in Sydney who think that a “ quake ” or
two might have a beneficial effect on local society.
From the English Daily Telegraph the
following gem is culled “ Life-sized oil painting
°f Venus (female) for sale by foreign artist; price,
£100.” We have telegraphed to the proprietors to
say we are purchasers of this picture if the adver-
tiser can procure us a life-sized oil paintiog of
Venus (male) as a companion,
English sons-in-’aw are very mixed bless-
ings to Australian parents. In the Cabbage Garden
an irate father-in-law gave his daughter’s husband
£2OO and a hint to vacate the colony within 24
hours. The hint was taken, but now he is return-
ing—perhaps in the hope of a golden oppo. tunity
of clearing again.
* * .
An English court circular announces a
marriage between Hon. Robert Boyle, second son
of Lord Cork, and Miss Edith Horsfall, eldest
daughter of the Melbourne millionaire, Mr. J. S.
Horsfall. By this it’s evident the impecunious
noble has got over the indignity offered him by a
rela ivs of the lady who refused to sanction the
marrage unless the young man had some appoint-
ment given him no ma ter how smallt he paymight
be. For some time matters between the families
have not been awfillly pleasant, but the nob'e lord
has evidently stooped to concur.
Since 1775 over a million Russians have
baen sent to penal servitude in Siberia. Over
150,000 have been despatched thither during the
present reign.
From tho Water Police Court. Magistrate
to prisoner : What is your name?” Prisoner to
constable : “ Sergeant, what name did I give you
at the lockup ? ” Sergeant: “ Robert Jackson.”
Prisoner : “ Right you are—Robert Jackson, yer
worship.” Case proceeds.
The mouthpiece of the Sydney Chamber
of Commerce uttered a solemn truth the other
day when he said :—“ The great danger in this
conflict is that the pure, simple, unadulterated
doctrine of Preetrade is little understood by those
who are loude3t in proclaiming themselves Free-
traders ” It may safely be said that a large num-
ber of the so-called Freetraders in the N.S.W.
Parliament know more about the two L.O L’s than
they do about Freetrade or anything else.
Some harmless excitement was caused in
Bridge-street, Sydney, last week by the appear-
ance, about 3 p.m., of a female—stout, short, and
well-developed, in fact, differing from the average
run of women one see 3 in the streets only in the
fact that she had absolutely nothing whatever on
in the shape of clothing except a pair of boots.
She walked along with a proud consciousness of
the sensation she was creating, and the people
scattered at her approach, “ fled belted earls and
noble knights before her,” in fact; then three
“ traps appeared on the scene, and headed her
into a bye-street and surrounded her, two of them
taking off their coats to form substitutes for the
garments she had discarded. Their blushes dur-
ing the operation set the verandah-posts on fire ;
then they ran her in, just to show they were the
bold you know.
More jubilee ! The Mayor of Fitzroy (Mel.)
intends celebrating Victoria’s jubilee by a bun
struggle to 6000 little innocents from the State
schools, and “ each child will be presented with a
jubilee medal, now being specially made.” The
struggle will come off on March 18 (before the
“ honours ” are doled out, dontyersee), and if this
medalling groveller doesn’t get his C.M G. along
with the rest of them, we shall just as Jr her’
Gracious Majesty the reason why. She'll have
the length of our tongue if Mr. Mayor of Fitzroy
doesn’t get back the price of them there buns and
medals in a “ honner.”
In the Ranges.—A Fragment.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Oh, say ! Were you ever away in the ranges,
1 hat upward and up ward their bleak summits
rear ?
Far away from the town and the crowd that
estranges,
Our natures from Nature ? Were you ever
there ?
’Tis a strange fascination around them that
lingers,
The cloud-mantled summit, the haze-covered
gorge,
The exquisite fancies of summer’s deft fiDgers,
With masse 8 of clinkers from Vulcan’s stone
forge.
Here a deep chasm cleaving the granite asunder,
Far into the heart of the huge mass beyond ;
No sound penetrates it, save echoes of thunder,
Around it no feathered fern flutters its frond.
A silence oppressive, complete, and unbroken,
Has re'gned in the gulch since the dawning of
time ;
And words are but whispered as wonder is spoken,
And footstep 3 fall lightly as onward we climb.
The huge rounded rocks on still larger ones
poising,
At intervals scattered, like giants on guard,
Defending the numberless beings, rejoicing
In fearless seourity man has not marred.
Away and away stretching to the horizon,
That sinks to the earth like a haze on the plain
A limitless landscape the senses imprison,
The mountains roll on like a billowy main.
And through them a tortuous silver streak
winding,
The bright thread that strays through life’s
darkest decree ;
The silver-gilt, monotone weary page binding,
This fog enwrapped river that rolls to the sea.
What sameness there seems in mankind’s habi-
tations,
The hovel and palace, the brougham and bier,
Our meanest resemble our proudest creations,
And insects alike are the pauper and peer.
How plainly we see, there where thousands are
moiling
Through summer and winter, through hope and
despair ;
’Tis foolish persistence, for vain is their toiling,
When winds of Time level each sandhill they
rear.
Tis true from the tops of the mountains the
vision
Our personal vanity scarce will inflate ;
But there, if we shrink from Atheist derision,
We smile at the cleric’s creations of hate.
But plainly again, when we’re once more des
cended,
The line again shows ’twixt the poor and the
proud;
This city is reached, and the vision is ended,
We roll in the waters, and follow the crowd.
J.F.R.
The Deficit Demon—A Political
Ballad.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was the lunatic poet escaped from the local
asylum,
Loudly he twanged on his banjo and sang with his
voice like a saw-mill,
While as with fervour he sang the-e wa3 borne
o'er the shuddering wild wood,
Borne on the breath of the poet a flavour of rum
and of onions.
He sang of the Deficit Demon that dwelt in the
Treasury Mountains, •
How it was small in its youth and a champion was
smt to destroy it :
Dibbs he was called, and he boasted, “ Soon will I
wipe out the Monster,”
But while he was boasting and bragging the
monster grew larger and larger.
One day as Dibbs bragged of his prowess in daylight
the Deficit met him,
Settled his hash in one act and made him to all
men a byword,
Sent him, a raving ex-Premier, to dwell in the
shades of oblivion,
And the people put forward a champion known as
Sir Patrick the Portly.
As in the midnight the tom-cat who seeketh his
love on the house top,
Llfteth his voice up in song and is struck by the
fast whizzing brick-bat,
Drops to the ground in a swoon and glides to the
silent hereafter,
So fell Sir Patrick the Portly at the stroke of the
Deficit Demon.
Then were the people amazed and they called for
the champion of champions
Known as Sir ’Enry the Fishfag unequalled in
vilification.
He is the man, said the people, to wipe out the
deficit monster.
If nothing else fetches him through he can at the
least talk its head off
So he sharpened his lance of Freetrade and he
practised in loud-mouthed abusing,
“ Poodlehead,’’ “ Craven,” and “ Mole-eyes ” were
things that he purposed to call it,
He went to the fight full of valour and all men are
waitiDg the issue,
Though they know not his armour nor weapons
excepting his power of abusing.
Loud saDg the lunatic poet his song of the cham-
pions of valour
Until he was sighted and captured by fleet-footed
keepers pursuing,
To whom he remarked with a smile as they ran
him off back to the madhouse.
“If you want to back Parkes I’m your man—-
here’s a cool three to one on the Deficit.”
THE BANJO.


CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desii e
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSB.
“Simon M Guffln” : We don't place much de-
pendence on Malthusian doctrines. The true remedy for
many of the evils you catalogue is in the overthrow of pre-
sent abuses of land ownership. The Victorian land-tax has
failed of full effect because it is based cn col dieting prin-
ciples. It is a tax on “land,” not on “land values.”....
“Novice”: You say the lines contain “the first and only
poems you have ever written.” Don’t make a mistake, young
man. You have not written any poems yet....“ Crow”:
Your dog-perjury ends, “No one who did not see it would
ever believe it.” Permit us to point out that we did not see
it “J. Smallbrain": You have a vigorous taste for libel.
“T. Traddles” : Assisted emigration toN.S.W. is stopped
for the present.,..“ R W.": Sorry that we cannot fall in
with your arrangement. C.S., whoever he may be, offtnds
you in some way, supplants you in the affections of the cook
mest likely: then you want us to libel him for your benefit-,
and stand the exes, of so doing. This does not seem to us a
fair deal. Besides for all we know to the contrary, you and
C.S. may be trying to work this libel racket on shares
“ Coll ” : You say you are one of those who returned from
the Soudan. We knew it. You are the goat
“ H.R.A." : No we don’t believe that the N.S.W. member
alluded to “ abandoned his the sake of office.”
How can anyone abandon what he has not got, nor ever had ?
....“ Arthur B.”: Keep right on w th the ringbarking and
dam-sinking; don’t stop to wri-e poetry for us. We will
manage to pull through semehow “ Alfred Jingle”: Flat
as mud—no point—old gag—very “ S.ll C.” : What points
the Argyle electors can see about Holhorow has alwajs been
to us as big a wonder as “ Bill” Teece’s return for Goulburn.
Are there no fossil remains in your district that could be
painted yellow and run for Parliament so as to give these
two worthies a much needed rett? “ F. Randle” : Send it
to S>dney Evening News. They have a monoply cf the
six-leg jed calf and two-headed chicken intelligence busi-
ness “ Ricardo”: Subjects already treated. All copy sent
will be judged on its merits “A Stewart” (Wellington,
N.Z.): Thanks. Items will have our attention “ Sports-
man” (Maitland): We have he id a lot about that Pony
Race. The matter should be easily settled. We suppose
the pony can be measured, and if the f icts are as alleged, the
parties who are aggrieved have a twofold remedy immedi-
ately available....“ X.”: Thanks; items useful. We presume
from your pen-name that you are a J.P ‘ W. Manson” :
Sorry that we cannot find space for your interesting letter.
The Bulletin excerpt referring to cabinet-making was
quoted from London Echo, and showed the miseries of the
“ sweating ” system. We receive the exchange named
“ Vindex”: Of no use to us, save for gas-lighting purposes...
“G. Bolger”: Not either wildly exciting or deeply interest-
ing “ H.B Your anecdote is the only reliable cure ex
tant for insomnia “Radical” (Sdverton): Have already*
commented on thj excerpt “ Reformer ” : We will gladly
keep your article on science and Scripture. It will come in
handy rs a kdlick when the office-boy's uncle goes out fish-
ing. ..." Panurge ”: Somewhat lacking in substance and
point “D. M. Innes" : Unable to allot space to portrait
or article....“ W. M Jackson”: Re Protection League, ad-
dress to its secretary, Mr. T. Rose, 'Jathurst-street, Sydney
Why the N.S.W. elections should spread themselves over a
month is one of those things that can only be explain d on
the supposition that Sir Henry Parkes intended from the
first to make the colony from Balmain to Moama ring with
abusive Billingsgate “F.G.A.”: Cinn»t possibly insert...
“ Semper Paratus” (Condobolin): Who, or rather which, are
you? The “aristocratic stranger” who was firpd out of the
pub., or the “gentlemanly constable” in whose absence
ructions always prevail?....“ A Blonde” : There are only two
reliable recipes for removing freckles. One way is to cut off
your head; this removes the freckle 3 instantaneously We
forget the other way “ F.W.B.’ (Arara.c): Thanks for
letter, but as it isn’t either an “ outrage," or a grievance, ora
joke, wa can’t make much use of it. If you have anything
bright to write about—say, the annual meeting of the Vener-
able Grandmo her’s Tea and Toast Association—we’ll be
glad to hear from you The contributions of “Maori,’
‘ A O’ Keefe,” and?very many others must wait for answers
until next wetk.
Down South recently a young man was
riding across a swollen errek, and he and his
horse got swept down the stream for about fifteen
yards, when the gee-gee, with a big effort, re-
covered himself, and gained the opposite bank.
Finding his horse comp’ettly knocked up l y his
struggle in the water the young man decided to
walk some distance and lead the animal. He had
scarcely trudged a hundred yai ds when he was
met by a man on horseback. “ How fresh is your
horse ?” he was asked. ‘ About blown.” “Well,
by the lord Harry, you had better not go on till he
is fresh, for the road in front of you is bossed by
two wild cattle, and it took my horse all he knew
to leave them behind. Ta ta ! ” He did not
“ push on.”
Pierre Jenot, sarcastically described as an
ingenious Swiss, has just invented an electric
floggiDg apparatus, and amongst other joys he
claims for his invention that it will “inflict the
necessary pain without leaving those unpleasant
weals which are so wont to prove such lasting
and unpleasant souvenirs to the castigated.”
What kind of an idiot must he be not to know
that it is upon the length, breadth, depth and
lasting qualities of the weals that the fun of a
real good N.S.W. flogging depends. Flcggers
have degenerated a great deal since the
“good old times,” but have still quite enough
©t the old spirit left bo object mo3t emphatically
against new-fangled effeminate fads which tend to
take the vim out of a grand and cherished insti"
tution.
“Australian Anthologies”
I guano and bonedust of his genius over the field of
intelligence after such a fashion te is not filliDg
the bill in the widest sense of the term. Neither
is he doing much better in the followirg, entitled
Y arramussa, which deals with Hanlan’s attempt
to show our William the way down Parramatta :
“ Wallop him, ha;
No he come pattarah
He not Y*rraman,
Sydanah teach it him vanquisher.”
We made some verbatim notes once outside a
lunatic asylum when a refractory patient was
under the pump and uttering remarks, and for
ihyme, metre, and poetic fervour, we would back
the pumped on crank to beat the abcve in one act.
But the verse just quoted is Homeric in its force
compared to such as the follow'Dg which seems to
have been written in those early years when the
author was drivelling about in a bib and pinafore:
“ Hoo! hoo ! hoo ! it has fallen, ha ! ha !
Don’t cry, dearie, here's your luscious jar,
Again it i* held, a bro* dig cigar
No2zle tries first then the label, hoo ! hoo ! ”
It is just possible, of course, that “Australian
Anthologies’ may reach a second edition, pro
“ Australian Anthologies, by Tripod,” is jnst
the sort of book which, under ordinary circum-
stances, we should pass in solemn silence, but the
author's preface renders this course impossible.
He says that “if these first efforts gain the
approval of the reading public he designs another
edition to follow, and with prescient gaze sees a
third looming in the vista of years,” and it is our
duty to knock that “gaze” into splinters at any
cost. The prospect of even a second edition being
shot on to the surface of this dark terrestrial ball
is awful to contemplate, for, viewed as poetry,
“Australian Anthologies” is heavier than John
Lucas and blanker than chaos, and, even regarded
as a horse-blister, the volume is woefully below
the mark. The author has wisely hidden himself
behind a three-legged nom de plume, but if we
were he we would willingly change places with
Plain Bill and have our military bills protested
and £200,000 worth of war material stacked in our
back yard into Jthe bargain rather than blaze forth
on the world as the perpetrator of this little effort.
It is difficult in this instance to pick out any one
“poem” as being better than another, but it is
easy to pick out any number which seem to be
worse than all the rest put together. The follow-
ing lines will explain about one-tenth of what we
feel:—
“ This hamstrung fact remains intact that proudly
Describing here I do and cheer right loudly.”
This is part of a hode on the lean parto f a pig, and
it shows the author to advantage in one of his
lighter moments. But hi 3 muse is not tied down
with catgut to pork and such mean themes ; he is
equal to much higher flights, as shown by a little
thing which he has dashed off on a sticky brat. It
is entitled “ Uncledom,” and the second verse
reads thus: —
“ *Tis hard to say how much the child's delightful,
With sturdy ways and cheery crow inviteful,
To dare him to w a k
And teach him to talk,
He’s certainly awkward to nurse.”
There is nothing in this which could bring a blush
to the fairest cheek, but we respectfully submit
that the mission of the poet is to elevate the
human mind, and when “Tripod” spreads the
THE DEAD-BEAT’S LOGIC.
MR. YELLOWBOISE (severel f): “NOW WHY DON’T YOU [?] AND WORK INSTEAD
OF BEGGING—HAVE YOU NO INDUSTRY?”
SYDNEY DEAD-BET (argumentatively) : “OF COURSE I HAVE NO INDUSTRY. MILL
PROVES THAT ‘INDUSTRY IS LIMITED BY CAPITAL’-I HAVE NO CAPITAL,
THEBEFOBE I CAN’T HAVE ANY INDUSTRY (setto voce)- NOT SO LONG AS
THE GOV’MENT SOUP KITCBEN KEEPS OPEN, ANYHOW.”
vided the author will revise the work carefully
and get some one to write it all over again, but it
will hardly do so otherwise. The rhyme is bad in
three shots out of every four, and when it is good
it only makes things worse, for it removes the
element of comic stupidity which might other-
wise keep the reader from bothering about the
sense of the “ poem.” The metre, tco, is wprse
than the rhyme, and the ideas are three times as
bad as both the other things put together. Also
most of the time there are no ideas at all. If
“ Tripod ” seriously contemplates a second edition
we would strongly urge him to correct the defects
we have pointed out ; if he neglects to do so we
fear the world will rfgard his writings as crude
and immature, and, despite the brilliance of his
hook—when put in the fire —will set him down as
one of these fitful geniuses who require to be
boiled down for tallow,
* “ Australian Anthologies,” by Tripod. Sydney : John
Sands, printer, 374, George street.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Queen Victoria has 31 grandchildren—or
at least had when the mail left.
“ The Vagabond ”is in Sydney. He is
just in time to see the others in Parliament-,
Henry of Batfcenberg is now known at the
British Court as the “Stalled Ox.” Luckily Bat.
knows no Scripture.
Cardinal Manning has rapidly declined in
vigour of late years. As he is very nearly 80 the
fact of this decline is not marvellous. He is still a
thorough ascetic.
Sir Henry Loch’s young son sailed for
England hy the Parramatta, to be licked into
shape at one of the public schools. Papa went
with the boy as far as Adelaide.
A lot of Tasmanian girl? who laboured
early and late ti marry Sir George Strahan wh le
he was Governor of the Island, hare decided that
his comparatively early death served him right.
They say that a feminine tiff had something
to do with ihe split between Randolph Churchill
and Lord Salisbury. The Marchioness of Salis-
bury is the least bit starchy and Lady Randolph
is a go-ahead Amurrikan girl.
Sir Julius Vogel has got the paralysis
taken out or his kinky legs at last, and is able to
stand up. He has hitherto been compelled to look
after the New Zealand finances in a doubled-up
position, and the exchequer has perhaps, in conse-
quence, become doubled up and twisted in'o
several nasty knots.
A young man named Brook, , residing in
the marshy region of Hotham (Melb ), chucked his
little wifey-pifey out of doors because he couldn’t
put up with her tantrums. She was nice enough
before marriage, the young man explained to the
Bench, but since he converted her into a Brook
she has “ gone on ” for ever.
At Deniliquin Sir Henry Parkes quoted
tome trashy lines from “ one of our poets.” Inter-
nal evidence arouses suspicion amounting to cer
tainty that Sir Henry himself, the apostle of a new
style of yum-yum in verse, was the author. But
no one save Parkes has ever accused Parkes of
being “ one of our pcets.”
The Argus speaks of the Marchesa as the
specially-equipped and appointed little craft in
which the Earl of Dudley and his lady mother
cruise around the world. By the way, the noble
Earl’s alleged lady aunt —Lizzie Munro —is cruis-
ing around Melbourne in bedraggled skirts and a
battered bonnet. Sne’s a neat little cralt, if you
like.
Vanderbilt, the millionaire, used to com-
plain that the trouble of his life was the frenzied
anxiety of people to make him rich. Almost
every day somebody would com e along with a
scheme by which the Golden Bell could easily
make a few hundreds of thousands, and he grew
t In with anxiety and grief as he refused one for-
tune after another. There are a good many
people about who would like a chance to grow at-
tenuated under similar circumstances.
Sydney ffoulkes Swanwick (the deceased
would turn in his grave if that middle
name were not spelt with two small "fs")
has been drowned at Port Douglas (Q.) He
was only a commission agent, but he came i earer
on one occasion to achieving greatness than any
Bananalander now living. He didn't know it was
loaded, you see, and when it went off unexpectedly
Sydney found that he had just escaped by 12
inches from being the man who shot Sam Griffith.
The custom of speaking well of the dead
was duly honoured at the grave of Mr. Aaron
Waxman, whose cent, per cent, career was cut
short by a buggy accident in Melbourne. The
Rabbi snivelled over the “ unostentatious
charity” of Aaron, and defined him as “one
whose hand and heart were at all times open to
assist those who were distressed.” Perhaps there
were cases in which Airon distressed ’em first and
assisted 'em afterwards. No matter—Aaron
Waxman is dead Let us sprinkle his memory
with some of the sugar he extractod from suffer-
ing Gentiles.
That fiery old humorist and ex-convict,
iullivan, the New Zealand murderer, like Morti-
mer-Frankljn (with a hyphen, please observe 1)
has turned up in London as a typical colonist, and
Ike Mortimer has taken to literature. His book
of letters, however, is not dedicated to Princes
but to good-natured charitable old ladies with
whom he pleads the cause of the widows and
orphans. As a man of letters his life will be
short, as cotland Yard is anxious to obtain the
servlets of a distinguished colonist whose mental
faculties are as bright as ever nothwithstanding
Ins 79 years of age and 40 of colonial experience.
Dear Sir Henry Loch is playing it down
pretty low, doncherkaow. Last week he prose-
cuted two footmen for bolting from the guber-
natorial service without giving warning—Or
drawing their wage 3. In lieu of popping Jeames
and Ghawles into a dungeon cell for three days,
Sir Henry's aide pleaded that the ruffians might be
let off with the loss of their wages, so the wily
Governor made a £5-note out of his vengeance.
This is what the Americans call good enough.
We have no sympathy with Jeames and Chawles
in this affair. Their particular grievance .was
that they were told to “dust china.” Now, if
They had been ordered to dust His Excellency we
could have understood their precipitate flight..
Who can tell after all where genius ends
and insanity begins? Dr. Horan of Charters
Towers (Q.), was regarded until recently as a
genius, and if anyone chanced to see him scooting
through the town with a smell of turpentine in
his breath and the mere fragment of a disjointed
and discouraged hat on his head it was taken for
granted that he was off to see a patient, aDd - his
crushed condition was set down to haste and ab-
sence of mind. But when he went and stayed
out in the bush for a couple of days
and then re-appeared without a hat at all
and also without any boots or pants he was
straightway set do wn as a lunatic. Probably he
wa3 only in a greater hurry than usual, but the
people of Charters Towers were not charitable
enough to give him the benefit of the doubt.
The arrival of the Earl of Dudley and his
“ yot ” at Melbourne has set the great heart of
ihe Argus twittering with lively joy. In its
superior hysteria that high-toned journal rambled
on thuswise : —“ We like to see earls and coun-
tesses and dukes and duchesses here with, all the
luxurious appointments of their refined and cul-
tured life ; we have a lot to learn from them.
. . . They have all the gentleness and graces
of a thousand years of breeding to Impart to us.
We have a broad and rich and glorious country
wherein they may plant all the seeds and slips of
goodly life they have to spare.” Hallelujah!
We are joyful with the hope that the Duke of Marl-
borough, the Earl of Lonsdale, Lady Colin Camp-
bell, the Marqiiis of Queensberry, and company
will soon come over to join Lord St. Leonards in
planting slips.
There is woe among the mournful mem-
bers of the Y.M.C.A., Melbourne. Their guide,
philosopher, and friend, Dr. Marmaduke Rose,
has been weighed in baker Weeding’s scales and
found wanting. He is ordered t 6 stump up a £lOO
damages. He wa3 so very winning that now he
has lost all. Heigho! but the bit ter tears will
flow, and we are passing sorry for Dr. Marmaduke
Rose. Circumstances have handicapped him
heavily in the race of life. As a preacher, social
purist, ladies’ doctor, and M.L. A., the unhappy
man was bound to finish up as a co-respondent.
Having sunk thus far, we are afraid he will die a
C.M.G. Pass the harp -
A doctor and a lady fair
(Now, prithee, do not coldly harden
Your heart against the giddy pair)
Together dwelt in Nature’s garden.
She loved to tend the blushing Rose,
No other flower or blossom heeding—
The Doctor , though, was one of those
Who concentrate their thoughts on Weeding.
The ghost of that ingenious “ crittur,” the
“Escaped Nun,” Eeems to be walking in N.Z.
The Rev. Mr. Chapman, who hangs out over there,
announced recently that he was prepared to re-
ceive subscriptions on behalf of Father Damien,
the R.C. priest, who has for 13 years carried on a
mission among the lepers of Hawaii until he has
himself contracted their hideous disease and is
dying by inches even amid his labours This
statement brought out a party named M’Clure,
who whoops up the Protestant ganginN.Z.—a
gentleman whose religion seems to be largely
comprised in the well-known sentence: “Toh 1
with the Pope ’’—and who declared himself as
tonished that Mr. Chapman should “ express
sympathy for an idolatrous priest of that abomin-
able system against which he is pledged to
labour.” Furthermore, this hard baked Boanerges
staled his conviction that Father Damien as the
priest of Antichrist could do nothing but make his
proselytes twofold more the children of h-11
(M’Clure used the unrevised verson) than he is
himself. We would like to have a look at
M’Clure. He seems to be a gay sprite with a cul-
tivated taste in cursing.
The Imperial Plain Bill of Germany is
freshening up again, and in spite of his extreme
I old age he is gorging with the energy of a six foot
crab with a boiler-metal stomach. He is |parti-
eularly fond of hot lobste! wilh rich sauce, and
washed down with a bottle and a half of wine,
and next to this he admires a certain Russian
soup which is made principally of beer, eider,
rancid herrings, and salt cucumbers. When he
gets this placed before him in his golden bucket,
and gobbles it down with a shovel, his crown
tipped on one side and himself up to the ears and
hair in grease the old man is a sight for the gods.
The Russians can make soup out of Any inmate of
a menagerie, from a dirty wet dog or a wolf down
to a monkey boiled in slops, and old WilPam will
eat anything that is unique in its nastiness. He
is strong on pork and nutmeg and crayfish soup,
and after he has filled himself up with a dozen
scaly things with claws he will wade into a large
sponge-cake steeped in rum and have a glance at
a ho .-buttered crab. No wonder the old swell
gets laid up cow and then.


THE POET PARKES—AGAIN.
YUM YUM:
%tsy.
HE Sydney Daily
Telegraph in a recent
issue remarked of Mr.
Alfred Allen, M.L.A.,
that “ unlike Sir Henry
Parkes ” he had not been
able to relinquish poetry.
This is only one more
proof how little the world
knows of its greatest men.
It is now some 30 years
since Mr. Henry Parkes
published his “ Murmurs
of the Stream,” and
“Stolen Moments”
many of the latter, we
believe, were borrowed,
not stolen, but this is only
by the way—and in one
of the Murmurs or the
Moments—we are not
quite certain which—he
mixed up the moon, and
an opossum in such an in-
extricable knot that it re-
mains to this day a secret
dark as the cemetery of Moses which of them—pale
Cynthia or poor ringtailed Joey—was shot. Parkes
wept over the “ wounded creature.” but whether
it was the moon or the ’possum no living man can
tell. But if the N.S.W. Premier had chosen to
whisper his secrets into the capacious, flapping ear
of the D.T., that journal would have known that
he is a poet still—that even in his old age he con-
tinues
" To cluck the eyes of Sentiment
And dock the tail of Rhyme.”
We have now before us a little volume, “ The
Beauteous Terrorist and other Poems,” by A
Wanderer,” published by Geo. Robertson in 1885,
and sent to all the Australian papers for review.
Up to the present moment the public have not
had the slightest inkling as to the name of the
author of the “Terrorist”; and, truth to tell,
the affair was not so wonderful a success that
many people cared to inquire. However, when it
is alleged that the present N.S.W, Premier and
the unknown bard are identical, and that we have
ia our midst a politically distinguished septua-
genarian writer of love-ditties, there will no doubt
be a general rush which will eventuate in the
clearing of George Robertson’s shelves.
* * *
In noticing the little volume at the time
of its publication, Tiik Bulletin remarked that,
“Whenever a line or two had a streak of valu-
able meaning one is reminded of someone.” In
this respect Sir Henry’s halting verse and Sir
Henry himself are one and the same. W hen in
the course of a political oration, Sir Henry speaks
of his great New Souih Wales Heducation Hact,
we are reminded of the Victorian Act—without
the Haitch —from which his measure was copied.
Whenever he speaks of his—well, after all, he
hasn’t anything else to spe *k of. In his poetry
his intentions, as we remarked in our previous
review, are evidently honorable, but he hasn't
carried them out. His ver. e 3 are the
effusions of a promising young man, but a
promising young man of 70 is of rather small
account, and he commences by competing with a
poet who doesn’t run well in double-harnes3 with
Parkes. In writing “ The Beauteous Terrorist ”
(the heroine whereof is Sophia Perovskaia, the
lovely Russian girl who helped Ivan Roussakoff
to kill the Czar) the Man of Hair treads on a sub-
ject which has already been treated by Joaquin
Miller, the Singer of the Sierras, and as Miller is
first in the field the poet Parkes has sent a cow to
overtake a race-horse. The following is a speci-
men of the thin, blue fluid squeezed from Sir
’Enry’s heifer: —
• " She stood beneath the felon rope—
Her beauty felt the hangman’s hand ;
x .\ But. steadfast In her life-long hope,
She only saw ‘ the promised land f
" The promised land of Truth and Right—
The holy cause of Freedom won !
She only saw the far-off Light,
And heard the People marching on!
“ The scaffold had its radiant prey,
The Despot’s minions breathed secure—
The proud and haughty went their way,
. - , Spurning the dead so young and pure.
" But souls like her’s survive the fate
Which tyrants in their might decree,
And ever live to animate
The nations struggling to be free.
" Purged of the dross of earth, the fire
Of one great spirit’s holocaust
Will thfc usands wake to patriot ire—
Will raise to life a patriot host !”
M The Silver Wedding Day,” which follows, is a
string of solid and unexceptionable platitudes, but
following this we find the bard “ Bounding over
the Summer Sea,” and winding up his watery hop
with a pretty little touch of curate-like pathos
thus :
“ BOUNDING O'ER THE SUMMER SEA.
“ Bounding o er the summer sea,
Breezes blow, breezes .blow !
Happy thoughts and fancies free,
Come and go, come and go !
“ Happy thoughts of Love’s surprise,
Breezes blow, breezes blow !
Fancies of the loved one's eyes,
Beaming so, beaming so !
“ Bounding like a joyous spright,
Through the foam, through the foam !
Like a bird before the night,
Winging home, wiDging home !
“ Will they meet us, child and wife,
Bud and rose, bud and rose ?
He who counts the sands of life
Only knows, only knows !”
“Seventy” is the veteran himself, and when he ,
says—
“ Three score and ten—the weight of years,
Scarce seems to touch the tireless brain,”
we are reminded of his now historic phrase :
“ There’s a kick in the old dog yet.” “ Solitude,”
which follows, is livelier and has a touch of pro-
phecy about it. Sir Henry was evidently looking
forward to the recent N.S.W. electioneering
campaign when he wrote this verse :
“ Oh, for some awakening cause,
Where we face eternal laws,
Where we dare not turn aside,
Where the souls of men are tried—
Something of the nobler strife
Which consumes the dross of life,
To unite to truer aim,
To exalt to loftier fame !
Leave behind the bats and balls,
Leave the racers in the stalls,
Leave the cards forever shuffled,’
Leave the yacht on seas unruffled,
Leave the haunts of pampered ease.
Leave your dull festivities !
Better far the savage glen,
Fitter school for earnest men !’*
He was tired even then of Beach and Trickett, of
the Melbourne Cup where the doubles never will
come off, of Murdoch and Spofforth, of euchre and
seven-up : he wanted a new inspiration, a new
war-whoop, no matter of what kind, and he got it
at last in the shape of Freetrade. After this,
however, we find Parkes in his lighter and more
“My Stella kiss d me through the night.”
interesting aspects. According to Matrimony, a
little Sydney paper devoted to phrenology and
various other things, Sir Henry admires the fair
sex and owns a bump of love as big as a frying-
pan. In “Inez” (the lyrical name of one out of
about twelve of the fair and no doubt purely
imaginary creatures upon whom the gay old bard
seems to have had a very heavy mortgage during
his trip to Europe via America “ on business ”) we
find him kissing a girl:—
“ What is it love— I cannot tell
Those honeyed Jips, those passioned eyes,
I ki«s because I knew so well
The heart that to my heart replies.”
From the la°t two lines it will be observed that
Henry knows the girl well, and doesn’t kiss on a
short acquaintance. “ The Daughter of Toil ”is
really good, though the lines—
“ He had stooped to woo a maiden,
P oudly owning Labour's grade ’’ —
make us think of Bret Harte’s picture of a Judge
who did that same thing, and his description of
the wedding :
“ And on the day that they were mated
Maud’s brother, Bob, was intoxicated,
And Maud’s relations, twelve in all,
Were very drunk in the Judge’s hall.”
" What a night for out of doors!"
In “ Stella,’ the bard spends a cold night 8000 feet
above the sea-level, and a girl kisses him (merely
in the spirit, we presume) for about twelve solid
hours straight ahead, thusly :
“ But on the Rocky Mountain’s height,
Eight thousand feet above the sea. lore,
My Stella kiss'd me through the night—
Yes, darling, thou wert still with me, love.”
Parkes, dear boy, we are shocked. But this is
not the worst. The gay old warrior makes love to
yet another girl, at Sacramento, in this atrocious
fashion :
" TO ARABELLA. G., OF SACRAMENTO.
“You ask me why I love you, Sweet!
G >, ask the silly moth that flies
Into the burning flame, to meet
A death unpitied, why he dies ?
Since mother Eve first ask’d the reason,
What lover ever yet could tell?
But love, like fruit when out of season,
Is sweet without a reason, Belle 1
I love you, Sweet! because ’tis nice
To cheiish thoughts we can’t disclose,
[You bet it is.—Ed. B.]
Because the sunbeams melt the ice,
Because the bee will rob the rose,
Because the lark will seek the sky,
Because the water finds the well;
I know no better reason why
I love you, but I love you, Belle !”
How is that for an elderly gentleman temporarily
away from his adopted land ? “Minnie” comes
next :
“ Minnie, darling, think of me,
When the summer days decline
Think how soon the time will be
When my eyes shall feast on thine,
When my lips shall press thy lips,
When my arms shall hold thee fast—”
Yum ! Yum ! We are too much staggered to go
on. Parkes, it will be observed, makes an ap-
pointment to kiss the visionary Minnie in the
autumn. Now he must have done his night on the
Rocky Mountains with Stella in the open-air
of the summer—he couldn’t do it at any
other season without being found next morn-
ing frozen stiff and with his hair congealed to
such an extent that it couldn’t have been trimmed
except with an axe. The inference, therefore, is that
he w as booked full of engagements to kiss for weeks
in advance and could only give Minnie a date in
the autumn. We must next give “ Nellie ” a
fchow:—
NELLIE.
“ When all is silent, far and near,
And midnight’s mantle o’er me falls,
I hear a voice none else can hear—
My Nellie through the darkness calls.
“ The morning breaks ! I gaze upon
Old Father Missi sipi’s tide;
I tread the shore, hut not alone—
My Nellie’s form is at uy side.
“ B\it in Chicago’s haLte of trade,
Where Mammon leaves no mortal free,
Where fortunes in a day are made,
My Nellie’s voice is calling me.
“ Thou shalt not call in vain, my Sweet !
Oh, so>n I’ll come across the sea ;
And, Nellie darling, when we meet
How lost in bliss we two shall be ! ”
He doesn’t kiss anybody here. He’s only “ lost in
bliss.” So is she, though why in thunder she should
weean’t even guess. “ The Patriot” is the poet him-
self, though it is difficult to trace the resemblance.
Even here the bard with the largely-developed
bump of affection must needs shove in something
about “ fair women.’ Henry will introduce that
item, though he should have to harness a bullock
to his muse to drag it in :
“ THE PATRIOT.
“ Fair women cast sweet flowers before his ffcet ;
From all the housetops ’kerchiefs gaily waved:
Ten thousand voices hail'd him in the street;
In blear-eyed joy the monster Rabble raved.
“ The town was mad with triumph where he passed,
The very flags flew out as wild with glee;
The few who dared dissent fell back aghast,
Like weeds washed past by that tumultuous sea.
“ A year !—and jibe, and jeer, and savage yell
Salute his ears ; and missiles rank and foul
Fall thick about him where the garlands fell;
No cheer breaks through the monster Rabble’s howl.
“ And yet it is the same unswerving soul!
He only kept his faith when others changed,
And heeded not in scorn the ominous roll
Of jarring threats, from foes, and friends estranged.
“ He only kept his onward path, when they,
Who could not see the grandeur of his aim,
Turned to the new-fledged creatures of the day,
And drank their slanders, feeling not the shame.
“ So ever rise the Feeble ’gainst the Fit;
So ever first the noblest blood is shed;
So urged the hungry waters round De Witt;
So tortured France was robbed of Danton’s head.
The other pieces arc less characteristic. In “Life
on the Mountains ” the poet describes the rain :
“ Stamping with hobgoblin tread
On the iron roof overhead
and then drops into inane stupidity with this
awful anti-climax—
“ How it drenches, drives, and pours—
What a night for out of doors !”
We forgive tflie Parkes who wrote that, but we
can never forgive the other Parkes—the Parkes
who—not actually, but only poetically, dontcher-
know—spent the night kissing a girl on a ridge
8000 feet high among the Rocky Mountains, and
immediately afterwards went and made a contract
to hug another girl in his dreams in the autumn.
Yum-Yum ! What a time he’ll have when Parlia
ment meets.
We would particularly like to know what
is going to happen to the £2O which Minnie Palmer
donated to the Stanley Fund. Mayor Riley has laid
an embargo on the cash, and if the hero is not to
have it we would suggest that Minnie should get
her money back and thus have an opportunity of
giving it to some honest individual. The other
few shillings are not worth bothering about, but
the £2O is what Parkes would call a “ hitem.”
During the course of his Wagga oration,
Mr. Candidate R. H. Reynolds first declared that
the present generation should leave some of its
indebtedness to be paid by posterity, and with his
next breath he proudly boasted of nine healthy
boys. This looks as if the happy nine will enjoy
rather a novel sort of legacy. And, by the way,
a Northern candidate went one better still, and
declared he was the proud ‘ • parient ” of ten.
Several branches of the Australian Natives
Association are anxious for a “regalia.” At pre-
sent the young Natives’ interest in this extra-
ordinary Association largui-hts somewhat. It
provides him with nothing to enthuse over,
long before Australia is rich in tomfoolish tradi-
tions and so forth, Australian society will have
become one great association of natives, in which
new-chums will be relatively scarcer than Ger-
mans in London. But in the meantime the
aggressive young patriots who manage the A.N.A.
intend to rig out their fellow country youths in a
“ regalia." By their blue sash, copper medal, and
tin shield we shall know them, probably. Well,
it will be good for photographers.
It was on the last wet day in Sydney, and
the rain was dropping with the solemn regularity
of Habigle’s “h’s” when he tries to read a
“Hessay hon the ’abits of the’og.” A masher
under an umbrella was looking round for some-
body to mash when he saw a lady ahead who was
getting her daisy of a bonnet utterly ruined. He
took a firm grip of his toadstool and started to run.
When he got alongside he smiled insinuatingly,
and his victim proving youDg and pretty he com-
menced : “ Madame, permit me to offer you the
use . He didn t get any further, however,
for the lady merely said, “ Oh, thank you ever so
much,” and, taking the umbrella from his hand,
she skipped across two yards of mud in the gutter
and disappeared round the corner. He couldn’t
jump after her, his garments were too tight, so he
spent the rest of that miserable afternoon shelter-
ing in a doorway.
A Scotch parson has discovered that there
is a Scriptural authority for the institution of
bazaars. “He imagined,” he says, “ that 3500
years ago, when the tabernacle was built, a
bazaar was held in the wilderness. The whole of
the people contributed to it. They brought of
their substance and their silver, send the women
wove gorgeous fabrics for the hangings and the'
curtains of the tabernacle.” We are inclined to
doubt whether this really was a bazaar, for after
careful study of the passage we can find nothing
to lead to the supposition that raffles and flirta-
tion were part of the bu-iness. A bazaar without
these accessories would be as incomplete as a
church without a collection-box or a suburban
pub. on Sunday without a back entrance. We
always thought the first mention of bazaars to-
have been that passage which tells how certain
money-changers were “biffed” out of the temple of
Jerusalem.
Three or four weeks ago The Bulletin
had something to say about the refusal of the-
Melbourne University Council to admit ladies to
their School of Medicine. Fortunately the policy
of that learned body is as elastic as Habigle's, and
last week a motion “ that the Council approve of
the admission of ladies to degrees in medicine and
refer the question of the scheme to be adopted to
the faculty of medicine,” was carried by 10 votes
to 3. The aforesaid faculty will pull a long face.
when it, comes to discuss that wholesome pill.
“ Ladies’doctors ” must make hay before their
sun sets. The husband of the future won’t return-
home unexpectedly to find his poor invalid wife-
“consulting" Mr. Squcezehand, M.R C.S., in the
back drawing-room with the curtains drawn. She
will be in the front room with Dr. Sarah Lancet,.
M.D.. the gifted specialist in women’s complaints
and the door will not be locked.
It was Voltaire who called the world a-
war, and Europe certainly seems to have fulfilled!
the cynic’s description. M. Leroy Beaulieu,
a French writer of note, having some little time
and a heap of chalk on hand, has figured out the
facts connected with the wars waged in Europe -
during the last 400 years, and he files the bill as
follows. These wars number 286, and are divided
as follows 44 were waged to obtain an increase-
of territory (land grabbing is the plain English for
it), and 22 sprang from the raising of taxes.
Through reprisals made, 24 wars originated ; 8-
only were fought for honorary prerogatives, 6 for
territorial contests, 41 through pretensions to a
crown, 30 to assist an ally, 23 through rivalry of
influence, 5 for commercial quarrels, and there
were 55 civil and 28 religious wars as well. What
the next row will be over is a matter for curious-
speculation, but judging from the unsettled state
OrSvopean affairs just now the taste for the game-


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
*3T Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
upplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
The Bulletin.
Mortimer Franklyn on Federation.
KAifiEft as an indignant protest than for the pur-
poses of Eerious consideration do we notice Mr.
Franklyn’s weak, trashy, grovelling, and preten-
tious “ Solution of the Federation Problem.”
Victorian readers do not need to be warned
agaiDSt a too ready acceptance of his writings ;
the record of his singular career as outlined in the
Melbourne Court of Insolvency is too striking and
touch too recent to permit his ipse dixit to pass
Without crucial test, and even a very slight test
is sufficient to prove the fatal inaccuracies of Mr.
Ffanklyn’s demonstrations and the utter fallacious-
ness of nearly all his inferences. His book is
entirely wanting in design and lacking in con-
tinuity ; it is rather a chance compilation of
quotation and argument bearing more or less upon
the question of Federation, than what it purports
to be—a new revelation of the gospel of Imperial
Unity. Looieness of language was to have been
expected from such a writer expatiating on such
a theme ; on the very title of the book there is a
glaring specimen of this fault, for Mr. Franklyn
calls the Imperial Institute itself the “ Unit” of
Federation. New Fouth Wales would be a
“unit” in the Federal system, as would each
other colony, but that’s not what Mortimer in-
tends ; he apparently calls the Institute the
“ unit,” because he thinks it will “ unite ” the
Empire : for similar reasons Mortimer m*ght call
himself a “writ” because he can “write.”
Another instance of careless expression is ob-
servable in his remarks concerning England.
“ For centuries,” he avers, “she had (sic) stood
first among her peers and now she bids fair to
become peerless ” ; yet on the next page he writes
of the “ overshadowing preponderance of neigh-
bouring powers.” Asthe oracle censures “people—
with some exceptions of course—who are not in the
habit of thinking” (sic) for talking glibly about
granting autonomy to Ireland, and lightly dis-
misses the opinion of Mr. B. E. Wise, of Sydney,
as “ the crude ruminations of a small minority,”
he himself might fairly be expected to aim at
accuracy. In his favor it is only fair to Mr. Franklyn
to say that this present work is about as lucid and
accurate as anything else that he has ever pub-
lished.
We have somewhat rashly ventured on the
assertion that the book is lacking in design ; the
criticism is true enough as far as Federation
is concerned, but the design to prove that there is
only one Wales and that Mortimer is his prophet
stands out as high as a shot-tower. One para-
graph illustrative of the manner in which Morti-
mer applauds his Prince will save all further
necessity for dealing with the alleged arguments
which the book contains. And the lines selected
may be taken to be a fair specimen of the author's
style throughout. Our excerpt is from page 7, as
follows: —
” Whether or not His Royal Highness has pondered his
much-admired project sufficiently to realise 'hat. amongst
its other advantages, it possesses the inestimable one of re-
vealing the unit of Imperial Federation, does not appear. It
is possible that the perfect taste, which is the invariable con-
comitant of his public actions, may have rt strained the
Prince of Wales from expressing his full convictions on the
subject. Anxious, perhaps, not to raise the hopes of bis
future subjects too high, in connection with a solution of the
most difficult, if, indeed, not the most important question of
the day, the Prince of Wales launches his offspring with a
modesty which so strips it of ambitious pretensions, that
its paramount potentiality passes unobserved in the sirup]
city of the language which gives it the light.”
There is a sublimity of drivel about this whic
defies solid criticism. If Wales did not know
the use of his “much-admired project,” it i
surely too much to credit his sagacity with
scheme whose use he bad not up to date realised
Considering, too, that the Imperial Institute pro
posal has hitherto met with a teverely Arcti
reception, it is difficult to see where the excessiv
admiration bus'ness comes in. And, further, a
the Institute can in no case be the Unit of Federa
tion any more than Wales is the children o:
Israel, the revelation alluded to must still be re
garded as unrevealed.
Without descending to criticise, we ina;
yet venture to allude to the conception of Morti
mer and Wales. The former says that the Ineti
tute “will be a Congress of Delegates or Plenipo
tentiaries from every portion of the British
Empire,” met to di-cuss “ the largest question
of Diplomacy—the Foreign Policy of the Nation,’
but a few pages further on the question of charg
ing the public for admission to the Institute is
noticed, and, being disposed of, the Institute is
foreshadowed in the words: —
“ There should be certain days reserved for the free admis
sion of the people; and others again for the transaction o:
the business of the nation.”
This magnificent Institute, according to Mr.
F ranklyn, is to be a meeting of woi Id-rulers on
(say) Monday, and a soft-goods show on Tuesday.
To bring the idea in all its fulness home to the
colonial mind it is only necessary to suppose a
second-storey put cn to Paddy’s Market to enable
the Australian Premiers to meet there and enact
universal laws for all the colonies.
The weakest chapter in this weak com-
pilation is that which deals with India That
country always has presented an insuperable diffi-
culty to Imperial Federation. If representation
in a Federal Council is to be based upon the popu-
lation represented, then India will swallow up all
the power belonging to the future Council; but,
as the Indian races are ruled by despotism, not by
constitutional means, the difficulty of allotting
them constitutional power without freeing them
from their present subjection, has so far proved in-
superable. Mr. Franklyn affords no solution of
this difficulty, nor does he show how the tariff
question can he satisfactorily settled. This is the
second impossibility in the way of a complete Im-
perial Union ; if the effect of such union is to bring
English pauper labour into open competition
with the less dependent labour of the colonies,
Australians will never be brought to look favour-
abty on the scheme, and so far no avoidance of
this evil has been proposed.
While we cannot see that Mr. Franklyn
has done anything to make Imperial Federation
more attractive to the colonists, he has succeeded
in adding force to one objection that we have
always urged against the proposal. The c°rtainty
that decayed, distressed, discredited and broken-
down politicians would be the most powerful of
colonia 1 ‘ ‘ representatives ” in London, has ever been
one condemnation of this foreign union ; and Mr.
Franklyn in urging that a seat in the Insti-
tute Council should be an honor to be conferred
on “ distinguished colonists,” to be followed in
time by “a Peerage and Governorship ’ adds
fresh force to the objection. The class of toadies,
traitors, grovellers, and adventurers who in Lon-
don pass for “difctinguished colonists” is too
well-known to require description. Among the
members of this class now in London —or on the
way thither —are fe4r Patrick Jennings, Sir Graham
Beiry, Robert Wisdom, Henniker Heaton, and
Mortimer Franklyn. These are the men upon
whom the honour of seats in the Imperial Council
would,by Mr. Franklyn’s plan, be conferred; these
men would be our rulers under Imperial Federa-
tion. Mortimer Franklyn an Imperial Councillor !
Mortimer Franklyn a future peer—a future
Governor of Victoria ! ! We cannot further com-
ment on this prospect without profanity, and pro-
fanity won’t print. Therefore, we leave Mr.
Franklyn and his book in the fervent hope of never
hearing or seeing aught again of him or of it.
Dr. Cortis, of Bathurst, will be quite at
home in the N.S.W. Parliament. He saw some
practice in Bedlam.
Mr. Willis was unsworn member for
Bourke a few weeks ago. And now he has been
licked by a Wilson of the Sir Salmon family, after
bearing the expense of a second election ere he
had time to see the inside of the anti-Jefferis
structure.
The powder factory at Eaglehawk (Vic.)
has fizzed up and concussed the reighbourheod.
It was located in a secluded gully which was
Darned after a patriarch who hung out in
the land of Uz, and as the ■ locality was
a very quiet one the damage was less
than might have been expected. Eight persons
in all went up in the air and stayed there sonw
time ; owing to the suddenness with which tiiey
started, and the rapidity -with which they came
back, most of them were found afterwards in a
seriously dead condition, and the others were
taken to the hospital to be sorted out and nailed
together.
Somewhere not veryfarfrom Croajingalong
(N.S.W.) there is a perfect grandfather of a row
going on. The doctor down there is a jovial
individual who can draw a cork and an inference
at the same time, and when he goes round on his
great corpee-preventiDg mission he is generally
gay with beer, and as frisky as the original ser-
pent. In one of his lucid moments lately he pro-
nounced a patient to be dangerouiiy ill; when he
rolled up next day to view the situation, how-
ever, he was in a state of glorious joy and smelt
of every light refreshment known lo science, and
he stumbled into the sick room, grabbed the
patient’s wrist, looked at his watch, and
observed solemnly : “ fife—much worse—Arc—
nothing but brandy and water—Are—keep him
up.” The patient had been dead about two hours.
A WoolJahra (N.S.W.) resident recently
buried his wife at Rookwood. As she was the
onJy wife he had and was wholly ui insured, he
naturally felt his loss greatly ; so much so, in
fact, that his friends thought it advisable to keep
a sharp watch on him for fear he might catch the
suicidal craze which has been so preva ent of late.
All the funeral arrangements passed off quietly
however, and the earth was being beared on the
dark coffin lid when the afflicted husband was
‘ seen to be absent,” as the Ballynamuck reportei
of the Nooze would say. Search being made, his
friends were horror-stricken to find him standing
behind a vault draining the contents of a medicine
bottle, which he threw away when emptied. The
dreadful thought that he had taken poison at once
seized his friends, and they seized him, carried
him to the sialien, and were forcing him to
swallow an emetic to “ bring it up,” as they told
him, when he observed in a tone of supreme dis-
gust, “ Bring what up ? Cuss your ancient optics,
that was Walker's whisky !” Then they smelt the
bottle and found it was so, and they at once re-
solved that their bereaved friend could sw allow a
jar of dynamite aDd kick himself afterwards,
before they would ever interfere with his fun
again.
How Robert Bunlett beat the favourite.
Two or three hundre d electors were assembled in
the Pert Macquarie (N.“.W.) Courthouse when a
pale but determined-looking man rose and said
“ In the interest of tlrs great and glorious district
t is now required that every person present takes
an ironclad oath to vote for Mr. R. B. Smith-with-
out mental reservation or aDy purpose of evasion
whatever. Otherwise the candidate himself, who
is in an adjoining room, will be turned loose
among you to make a speech.” A tumultuous
stampede was at once made for the door, but it
had been nailed shut. The chairman laughed
sardonica ly, and continued: “I will give you
five m nutes to decide.” The entrapped voters
glanced at each other in wild difmay. Strong
men trembled, weak ones wept, and a baldheaded
editor fainted right away. At last, after a brief
consultation with those around, a white-haired
elector rose and asked : “ Have you no mercy?”
“ None,” said the chairman, sternly. “We harm
no time to monkey about with you fellows. In
less than two minutes Robert Burdett will be un-
chained and brought in.” “Is Mr. Smith really
on hand ? ” asked a shivering shoemaker. “ He
is,” said the chairman. “ And does he intend to
work off that same old speech about what Lord
Salisbury said to him, and how the dooks and
duchesses wanted him to stay with them for ever,
and about all the distinguished gentlemen who
asked him. out to dinner?” “He does,” said the
chairman, grimly. “ Then we surrender,” re-
plied the elector. “Courage is one thing, but
suicide is another.” So they took the oath, and
the only Smith was duly elected.
* “The Unit of Imperial Federation”: Swan, Sonnen-
chein, Lowrey, and Co., London, Publishers.
INSOMNIA.
One of the chief maladies of the age is Insomnia,
and from this terrible nerve disturbance spring
the most painful and hopeless diseases. “If I
sleep to-night I will spend to-morrow (Sunday)
morning with you. If you don’t see me you will
know what is tho matter.” Such notes as these
were quite frequently received by the writer from
an old friend, one of the most brilliant men of his
time. He was an indefatigable business man, and
always on the top wave of prosperity. His suc-
cess he attributed to his untiring industry. This
was undoubtedly correct. No department of his
vast interests was ever neglected, and with all
this labor he managed to keep abreast of his time
in all scientific Bnd literary matters. But for
years he was not able to sleep, and, strange to re-
late, with all his intelligence, this fact wts utterly
inexplicable to him. He disregarded all warnings,
laughed at the predictions of the - wise, and grew
weaker and more irritable as the days rolled by.
This gentleman had not a single bad habit. He
never touched spirituous liquors, nor did he use
tobacco in any form. His only excesses were
intellectual excesses. His arch enemy was ambi-
tion, and it wrecked him quite as thoroughly and
tragically as intemperance in a less refined form
mighthave done. Sleep is nature’s great restorer,
without it insanity and death ensue. To the
weary brain to which sleep is a stranger, breaking
down under the pressure of business, or stress of
household cares, we offer with entire confidence
a brain tonic aDd re. torer tried and found reliable
in three eontir ents, which is both harmless and
effective. It contains no opium, coeoaine, or
other harmful drug to create a morbid appetite,
and leave its victim infinitely worse than before,
rendering him totally unfit for business or pleasure,
and morally and spiritually blasted, but is com-
posed of ingredients harmless as water, and sooth-
ing and beneficial in its effects. Such a remedy is
Warner’s Safe Nervine now put on the Aus-
tralasian market for the first time, although well-
known in England, the United States, and Canada.
It is for sale in two sizes, at 2s. 6d. and ss. per
bottle, the ss. size holding 18 ounces, the same as
Warner’s safe cure. “Through the avenue of
Insomnia, a man is pretty sure to travel one of
three houses,” Charles Lamb once told a friend,
“ to the mad house, the poor house, or the house
of refuge. If he passes these he will b-ing up at
a hospital public or private, and this place to my
mind, is almost as bad as the others.” This was
the conclusion of the brilliant “Elia,” and it is
none the less true to day. If you find you are not
sleeping well you are in danger. It Is a danger
not to be trifled Wit h. Avoid it at once by pur-
suing the path we have pointed out, and secure
that blessed boon - Sleep, that
” Barrier't #ixt day and day,
Mother of fresh thoughts and joyous health.”
PAIN’S FIREWORKS and ILLUMINATIONS,
IN THE DOMAIN,
Ik aid of the LOCAL CHARITIES,
TO-NIGHT. TO-NlGHT.—March 3.
TO COMMEMORATE THE SOUDAN.
HEALTHIEST
and
GRANDEST AMUSEMENT
IN SYDNEY.
Department of Publio Work*,
Sydney, March 1, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. Fer full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten*
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature ot Works and Supplies.
Supply of Turret Clock. Post
Office, Cootamundra
Erection of Bridge over Wool-
goo.’ga Creek, road Moonee
Creek, via Woolgoolga, to
Corindi
Erection of Bridge over Corindi
Creek, road Moonee Creek, via
Woolgoolga to Corindi
Erection of Bridge over Hunt's
Gully, road Inverell to Goon-
diwindi
Erection of Station Buildings at
Gosford
Extension of Iron Footbridge
and Brick Abutment Home-
bush Railway Station
Additions, &c., to Post and Tele-
graph Office, Balranald
Taking down and re-building
Macquarie-street front Free
Public Library
Erection of Bridge over Bowan
Creek, Road Cargo to Cudal
Construction and Supply of two
Equilibrium Ball Valves,&c.—
Water Supply, Newcastle
Erection of Bridge over Piora
Creek, Road Casino to Tabu-
lam
Alteration and Additions, Post |
and Telegraph Office, Narrabri |
Supply of Locomotive Engines
(passenger and goods).
Dates to whlo v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Tuesday,
March 8, '
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday,
March 15,
at 11 o'clock.
Tuesday,
March 29,
at 11 o’clock.
*
I Tuesday,
April 12,
at 11 o clock.
•gMT'iHgHins NHor
Equitable Co-Operative Society
(limited),
89 COLLINS STREET E-, MELBOURNE.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches—Chapel-st., Prahran ; Brunswick-st., Fitzroy ; Bay-st, North Brighton; Dundas-pl., S
Melbourne ; Burwcod-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray,
London Office—2o &22 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR
AND
REDUCE HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS.
BEDSTEADS A.3STXD BE3DI3X3SrC3-.
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
. J ■ rc=u.-. «r >
rfTTTTIBI Aiv> A VO-.Gik £, i-VA '.of
*PT
OOQ
0 /%
m
&
-lH i
tT?
E^r? 0 :
ii
>’l y; >. _-<,,
75; «*'C> °_7
*•• i‘>.
MsvAM
r *
=©3
5®
mm it i
*sT
JU
f*
ii*
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
3ST E -A. R
HUNTER
STREET-
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.


r£!BE VERDICT OF TRUT
Fair Truth, who lives—so the legends say—
At the bottom of a well,
Came to the surface the other day
To search for facts as a goddess may,
When she has a doubt to quell.
She'd read all fhe advertising lore
Touching difFrent kinds of beer,
And knew that some of the traders swore
And looked and felt uncommonly sore
About one they'd cause to fear.
So she gather'd opinions all around
And put them all to test;
And none can question her judgment sound,
For the more she searoh’d the more she found
That Clausen’s Lager was best.
And the lovely eyes of the goddess gleam’d
As she spoke in her own good name ;
Let this my verdict be rightly deem’d
Let the voice of Truth be well esteem’d;
Hand the “Phoenix ” brand to fame.
Let it be Truth’s ; ’ Tis the only one
That’s worthy my name to bear ;
Let Clausen’s Lager henceforth be known
As the one that stands by itself alone ;
For, like Truth itself, ’tis rare.
r£|HE LEADING BRAND
THIS SEASON
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
„ Backed by
THE DECISIONS OF EXPERTS,
THE APPROVAL OF THE MEDICAL
PROFESSION,
THE GREAT PUBLIC DEMAND,
. AND BY THE VERDICT OF TRUTH,
CLAUSEN’S
NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
maintains its bright color and effervesence, and is
free from sediment for an unlimited length o
time
As a beverage for the convalescing and for
those whose digestion is impaired, it has no
equal.
EVERYBODY HAS A GOOD WORD FOR IT.
IT IS SO PORE,
SO INVIGjRATING.
SUCH A SPLENDID TONIC.
Medical men recommend it to the most delicate
invalids, and convalescents are loud in their
praises of the strengthening qualities of this far-
famed beer. It has none of the deleterious pro-
perties with wh'ch heavy, heady, beers are
credited. It is essentially a soothing, not an
irritating drink. It would be physically and
mentally impossible for any consumer of
CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER.
to “get ’em again,” either in the shape of rats in
his boots or snakes in his bed.
It is absolutely and all round the most bvre-
ficial beverage for a hot c'imate. It has taken
leading honors all over the world, and the ONLY
FIRST PRIZE BEER at the Philadelphia Exhi-
bition in 1878.
QOMPRESSED NOTICES
WHAT THE? ALL SAY ABOUT IT.
LAWYER.—Have had more cases than I coult
attend to ever since I first tasted it.
MERCHANT.—The most humanisiog influence
of any article in the market.
BUSHMAN.—Don’t catch you in the throat
like the stuff out of “ The Shearer's Keg,” but
does you a darn sight more good
AUCTIONEER—Makes people bid quicker
than anything else ; brightens up their wits, so
to speak.
REPORTER.—A fresh bottle, my dear, and fill
’em up again.
SAILOR, shutting one eye, merely says “ Ship-
met, you and me and the brewer.”
SOLDIER.—If we’d had that in the Soudan,
England would have had another glory.
EDITOR—Mr. Facile, be good enough to write
that up for all you’r e worth.
SALVATIONIST.—“ Beer and fire,” and there’s
no beer like it
DOCTOR. —The very best drink for a healthy
man or a convalescent patient I ever met with.
PARSON.—Says nothing—but drinks it.
DRUMMER. —Best line in the market even if
you have to drink it out of an old boot.
POLICEMAN.—Sure yez needn’t fret about
losing y’r licence while yez keep dhrink like that
in the hous9. It’s meeselfll never lay infor-
mation.
BURGLAR.—When I ’as a job on ’and I says,
no ’ard tack for me thank you, for keep straight I
must, and that partic’Hr biand is all I drinks.
BANKER.—Since the directors ordered the
first cask we have never made one big loss.
ALD'aRMAN.—There has been no typhoid and
no trouble since the fancy for that beer set in ;
and at all our meetings the aldermen behave like
gentlemen.
JUDGE. —Darlinghurst would always be half
empty if people drank nothing else.
M.L.A. —I’ve voted straight right through the
session, and I’ve never touched any other drink
My constituents are delighted—but puzzled.
CIVIL SERVANT. —I consider it quite equal
to a rise in screw of £5O a year.
DOMAIN ORATOR.—Yes, my friends, most
bottles has a snake into ’em, but this has none.
It’s a temperanee drink, and you couldn’t put a
color not in a baby’s nose with a whole cask of it.
CHORUS of LORD 3 and LADIES, KNIGHTS,
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, STOREKEEPERS,
and EVERYBODY.
The unanimity of opinion about this
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER
is really wonderful. It would be quite a relief to
hear some one abuse it! ECHO: “ Use it.”
It can be obtained from Messrs. Mason Brothers,
limited, Fesq and Co., Tooth and Co., Allt and
Co., Burrows and Gleeson, Lucas Boothera, Cor-
nellion and Co., R. Butcher and Co , J. T. and J.
Toohey and Co., Tidsweli, Wilson, and A. Thomp-
son and Co., C. Bath and Co., Peate and Har-
court, Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcy slid Co.,
A. Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co., and Stewart
and Co., and at all first-class hotels every-
where.*
“ Tommy ” Hales, the jockey, has given
£2O to the building fund of Trinity Church, Ken
sington, Victoria. The next idea will be “Ye
Olde Englishe Race Meetynge” as a profane
means to a holy end.
One Colledge, formerly British Consul at
Kertch, has been having a pleasant little picnic
in the English law courts, a whole crowd of local
newspapers providing for the enterta nment.
Some evil genius prompted one of the?e journals
to print a libe'lous par. about Mr. Colledge. and
it was immediately copied into something under a
hundred other papers. Then Mr. Colledge started
THE HIGHEST TEST OF LOVE,
(ALLOW DUDE: “HULLO, OLD CHAIPIE, WHAT’S THE TROUBLE
MATURER DUDE: “WELL, DONTCHERICNOW, ITS THIS WAY. THAT NORTH
SHORE GIRL I WAS ALWAYS SO STRUCK ON SAYS THAT IF I WILL DARK
TO CROSS OVER BY THE FERRY-BOAT SHE WILL REALLY BELIEVE MY
DEVOTION, AND ALL THAT. I'M GOING, BUT IT'S A DOOSIDNASTY THING
FELLER HAS TO SCREW HIS COURAGE UP A LOT BEFORE HE STARTS”
on the war-path. He obtained £lOOO from one
newspaper, £5OO from another, and £lOO each
from 16 others, costs going with the verdict in
every case. This would have satisfied mo3t n en,
but the reputation of the ex-consul was worth more
than all these verdicts, so actions against 17 other
papers were initiated. This was a pleasant prospect
tothe lawyers, whoseemedto seea pile in theenter-
prise, but their hopes were brutally up-ended by
Baron Huddlestone, who decided that 16 of the
causes should be stayed until the plaintiff had
decided which action he would make a test, the
verdict in that case to go as against each sever-
ally. Even at this it would seem that if there is
one man in the wide, wide world who should
venerate the laws —especially the libel laws—of
England, it is Mr. Colledge, formerly Consul at
Kertch.
Diarrhcea Dysentery, and Coltc. —lt ought
to be more generally known throughout N.d.W.
that Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne
is a specific for these prevalent Co’onial Maladies.
Many years ago Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired
a very high reputation for arresting and curing
these diseases. It is easy to understand, there-
fore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now regarded
by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most
inexperienced men can t dmini3ter it with perfect
confidence. Freeman’s Chlorodyte, if given when
the earliest symptoms of these maladies manifest
themselves, at once arrests their furtl er progress.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
marr, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.*
EVERY WOMAN IN THE LAND
Owes it to herse’f and her family to take of h r health.
When she r’ndsher health failing, and debility and weak-
ness undermines htr strength, her urest and best remedy
is Dr. Bell’s Bitters. It builds up the general health, keeps
the secretory system in perfect ord r, regulates the kidneys
and bowels, and enables these important organs to perform
their natural functions in throwing off the accumulated im-
purities of the body. v
A cattle insurance company wound up in
Sngland very recently under circumstances of a
depressing character. It was a big affair with
offices and branch offices, and a prospectus as
loag a? Parked flow of “h”-less Billingsgate,
ard a brass platelike a panoratnaon the frontdoor,
butwiihin it was only a whited sepulchre. It looked
prosperous till near the end, and then a goat that
was insured in the concern fell into bad health and
slo w'y pined away. The goat’s illness was not neces-
sarily mortal, but its heartless owner turned it
out to slog with the el°ments, and it died. When
the claim was sent in the company put up its
simpers.
John Palmer, of London, has died with
solemn texts issuing from his head to the very
last. He had grown tired of slowly sliding down
the road to the hereafter, and with a view to in-
creasing the velocity he swallowed laudanum and
taking the last live steps on the eternal staircase,
with a jump he landed on top of the stove. At
least we presume he must have dropped on the
stove, for he left the following letter gummed to
his dickey and it seems to point that way
‘‘ Dear Sister Sharlotte,—l ham no more. I shall wait
untrl you eome. I shall meet you below. God bless you.
(>ood fcn, S iarlotte. I shall wait till you come.”
It was polite of John to wait for his sister, but he
needn’t have been so confoundedly particular in
explaining that he was “ below.”
THE IN3IPID LIAR.
“ Yes, I am in need of a reporter,” said a Sydney
editor, replying to a man who had entered the
office and applied for a position, “ but I want a
startling sensation writer, a man who can make
news; in other words, I want a man who is not
afraid to tell a lie.” “I think lam the man."
“ Tllat ™ay be, but you must understand they are
plausible lies I want written, those that have
every phase of the truth ; in fact I want an ori-
ginal liar, not an imitation.” “I still say lam
the man. “ Have you ever done any newspaper
work?” “No.” “ Then how do you know you
can write plausible lies 1” ‘• Because I have been
employed to write articles in opposition to the
famous St Louis Lager Beer.” “Then you have
liedabout it?” “Yes.” “ Did the public believe
them? I think so.” “But you are not cer-
tain?” “No.” “Then you are not the man I
want.”*
Premier ball-room deoorators of New South Wales Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60$ Hunter-street
Sydney. *
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is
Is. 6d. Rignev, 111 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
STOP RIGHT HERE!
JOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
/'//
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrumenl
which, while it weighs less than three pounds ha
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and execute
its music with absolute precision and perfec
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. Or
it a child can correctly play, without instruction
any of its music, wmch at present consists of ove
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. I
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits ai
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe
cuting very lively pieces, tif It is pitched, for th
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for countr;
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, am
also for dancing. The music is compact, and fa
cheaper than that which is made for any organette
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three times given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watehes are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the tVatch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 13,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Noth:. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... £2 0 0
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal faoe, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, piteut pinion, &c. ... £3 6 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case ... ... 315 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world q q
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing the enact lustre, heauty
and endurance of sterling Sold. A 1 egi-
timata use has boon found far this nobis metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most enqnlsite do-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sellat a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
Ho cns can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,ss.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant.) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, is. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plainss., Jewelled,7s.6d.; Locket
ss. .Jewelled, 1 Os.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
If e send theseon approval. If they don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE (MENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.


Cynthia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw thee first, my peerless one,
’Neath soft Italian skies,
What time the glow of summer sun
On Alpine summits dies ;
The light shone o’er your golden hair,
Yon stood the vines among,
While every bird that lingered there,
Sweet,'echoed batk thy tong —
Come to me here in the tvs flight,
Lever, from over the sea ;
Come, for thy coming is sunlight,
Sent by the angels to me.
I see thee now, my peerless one,
Though soft Italian skies,
Or golden lights of summer sun
No more may greet my eyes ;
Nay, ’tis a fancy, nothing more,
You sleep the vines among,
Yet, like a voice from Heaven’s shore,
I hear thy low, sweet song—
I come to thee in life’s twilight,
Lover, from over the sea ;
I come from the realms of the sunlight,
Sent by the angels for thee.
KENNEH MACKAY.
From the Sydney Hebald :
“ RANTED, a smart *ouog man, strike and improve
himself. Apply,” &c.
This is about the first instance on record ot any-
one being requested to administer his own
bsneflcial correction.
Heppner (U S.A.) Gazette : *' Office of
the Heppner Gazette, de tier in births, marriages,
death 3, scandals, sermons, ando‘heryarns, wicked
and worldly. Borrowed by the neighbours, con-
demned by tha clergy. Fine for bustles, also for
liDing cabins. J. W. Redingtcn, editor and pro-
prietor, also devil.” We have yet to find a cham-
pion to lick Bedington
Amongst late mining items we read:
“The Mount Britton Company, near Nebo, has
been floated in Eng and with a capital of £140,000,
of which £115,000 represents purchase money
payable to the present proprietors ” This seems
to be a very fair deal for the “ present proprie-
tors,” Anyway, there is what the Hon. Harold
Finch-Hatton, one of the original discoverers of
the mine, says in his Munchausen rivalling work,
“ Advance Australia ” “The price paid by the
Victorian syndicate (query, present proprietors ?)
to my brother and myself for the Mount Britton
mines was £ll,OOO, and a fourth share in the com-
pany in fully paid-up shares. After paying the
remaining original shareholders for their shares,
and deducting the cost of the mill, this did not
leave a farthing of profit.” If the Hon. F. H.
couldn't mine any better than he can write it is
small wonder he came out at the little end of the
horn, but now that the mines are to be worked
agaio, perhaps the divs. will land him in limitless
affluence
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLBY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his pati ons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future annour cements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ip you mis 3 Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY
df
Trade Mark —“TONIC NERVINE.”
Marshalls tonic nervine
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeeper—Price 4/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W. ; London, England,
Newest Invention’— Greatest Novelty.
THE
Y s N
PATENT
DIAGONAL SEA M
COBSET.
Patented In England aDd on the Continent. wjil not snlit, in
the seams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Follet says: — A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.”
The Queen says: —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
, the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
ana strong, ana the workmanship all that could b 6 desired.” Caution. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Patent Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition. 1882. Gold Medal. HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets. London
fcternatmnalExhitution, 1884 LATEST AWARD! Gold Medal, International Exhibition, Edin
sold by all Drapers and Ladies Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
gd
WATCH
JFJIE KIDNEY^.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes dis-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow :
Headache, Weakness, Pain in the Small of back and
loins, flushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. You can thoroughly protect the Kidneys
by Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them by this best of all medicines for the Kidneys—
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among thi many symptoms of Dyspepsia or Indi-
f'estion the most prominent are: —Variable appetite ;
aint, gnawing feeling at pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food ; heartburn, feeling of
weight and wind in the stomach, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low spirit*, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none so
peculiar to the high-living and rapid-eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia;
also bad air, rapid eating, Ac. Dr. Bell’s Bitters will
cure the worst case by regulating the bowels and
toning up the digestive organs. Sold everywhere.
Noth. —Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, ®r Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, ft AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON k CO., SYDNEY
New South Wales ft Queensland,
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
tS" Country Orders receive prompt attention. "5-A
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
2A Vl ol * SRAUA.
TREATM
ENT
Dr. E. 0. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, t>
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order te-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cur*. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN 0. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN 0. WEST & CO.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.S*W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2b. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Solb Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO
Theatric royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Gamer, and Mnsgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS
of
CARRIE SWAIN in THE TOMBOY.
Prices as usual.
LHAM B R A MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shiff.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR,
Charm and Bewitch the Audience
EVERY EVENING.
Messrs. COWAN, WARNER, and Mr. EDWIN
ROGERS, the Comic Acrobat and Champion
Dancer of the World, his First Week in this Hall.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
I LAS
TJ
S 1
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to matoh 001
tames Rena in neatlv
sV
V
Ay
r s il
fg
df
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPSAc
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY %
0/rpou 'te JLaiseC&na '
&
>6s
4
m
gd
ft*
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhem
Colonies or New Zealand, maybe made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
00K AST LE & SOt/$
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And yUKICW STRKBT, BKISBaNK.
ill
17CREMN
ILLUSTRATION (In rednoed size) tf £, l Order to be found In the
“ LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
J£RAD liRY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
fg
rtQr PIANOFORTE
jbOO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con
nell-street.
dfg
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many §uite new
designs.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites tor dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and np to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
df
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From a 7 s.
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
g
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
■'VTOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
J3I SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
dfg
df
Drawing room cabi-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fubnituhe Warehousemen,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON; and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
gd
Bedsteads, aii aisea
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brans. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
fg
SPRING MATTRASSEB
Woven Wire, b€B
make; also, Spiral Sprir j
Price, from lie. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and LAMB.


SOME CANDIDATES FOR THE N.S.W. SPEAKERSHIP.
gd
I ■' C^olD]\X r
i Foif J*
k 'Hi;
\
J
~i a m
ug
\ 'rp % sW <
JAvy/Jotff jJIJLQ
J M ( fr^OKtl
11- 1 »*i I
\ If f>e yio-
AMyfcfrfc ,
'/ t i v OY y.
f
\ *AT ll< Ijt fi
landatTrW /
A A [Ol OF ,/ I
VATrtKHuN'^fcJ
Dibbs y
k it /
I | caju aaak\
Mak/ bukW
I fHERG.AK/IKH
MIIVILU
I would aL^o
Like to i/ndlrTaj(e
' HoLGOtfOW
I KtVef? 5 PtA< *rW-0
SO I OWfTo Q>£ MM>£ A
sACj TAyLOfy
'I capsize/
\ThE LASf
\ SPEAKS/
tea
[Mm/
sk
yovtLtcrtft*
> W
Tl ‘
f#


PEN(TO)
&ALICYU
exquisite
Br THE PR OPR IE TOR.
fg
f
gf
TOOTHPASTE
' l/fJßftyu ed FDf{ rrsfififnsifnc
/Ho CLSA/5//D f>ROPERT/£S.
Jfc*
.Melhuish
134 W/LL/AM
Pharmaceutical Chemist
SYDNEY ~
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
SIOH
£5O
WARNING!
Rt? utter b r worthless imitation of that well-known preparation,
in INSECTICIDE, is now being offered for sale, and
tt J 3l c^er to deceive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
tioned
on the outside wrapper. The public are hereby cau-
ugainst this imposture, and are advised that FIFTY
s REWARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
pornb 5
11. ce as will lead to the conviction ot the makers and vendors of
furious article. The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
iNSfr* 6 distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE’S
has a blue wrapper and large white directions
> With red band bearing the words “Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
°P ri etors, FELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne."
lnsecticide may be had of all wholesale and retail
lst s, and vendors of proprietary and patent medicines.
g
b - r wv wwi J? to
Y Special AppointME^
fg
*"<> M„ royal
#^ oeof s
#tfe*Ty r##
OOUX.BT CHAMPAGNE.
H-App & ELLES, 54 Margaret-street, Agents for New Soutn Wales.
Henry Lancaster,
7VW/V.
VA/V/^JZ.O
Q
i«W
I
■o-
■O?
CART,
No-r
HOT WfITE
■ 111 I, lllHllltW
iCYLINDER
ft PPECT
V,/ E AT HE
1M
If
'ROUCH
EROKeTnI!
FOR MANY YEARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool’
washers, and station-
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. s.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &c.
Estimates cheerfully given.
Hour! Flour! Flour! |
Li on flour mills, j
SENT ST., SYDNEY. j
M'hltes, Fine Seconds Flour,
Iflrd Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
frorn M^ Ways on band. All made
9hd ai- fu v , ery best wheat procurable,
the lowest prices.
i a 601 the Detective Force!,
Missing Friends, and General
42 p usmep 9 Agency Office,
YAL ARCADE . SYDNEY.
} ?quirW B .' i ® a ® rter ? traced, and all kinds of
CJS l J“ Bbl tuted. Evidence obtained in
7, others’ • lr ! cen diary cases, for the legal pro-
fii th *nd death of wills, certificates of birth,
O^U B in any part of the world
%ult?! v e Force nf'v Pro ? R - M - R ’ s lon!? experience
a&S®* • Wales '- Victoria ’ and
j poB 't loa tn on: ;■
111 a Poaiti“n«?‘i Ur,l ,a , a^e "‘' J,eß in all parts of the
a*., a M strict \° 00n< 4uct all inquiries with oaution
to all if *■ Beeres J , i »nd to faithfully and
u onemeaa entrusted to h care. ■>
REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED _ON APPLICATION.
° r^s: 65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
0“ RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS mb INVALIDS
Has am enormous sale In England;,
%m<3 Is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
E very Storekeeper should get a supply „
as every wise mother will certainly
0 use it.
Lit, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOB MILLS;
LONDON, ENGLAND. *•
f
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry 1 Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL. 1 Little Collins
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
g
1
JST
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
■ PftE.PA.REJj ONLY BY <
J Thomas Ingham.
o c kham pton.
i
BCORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Maokies & Co. oelebrated Whistle
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, fee., &o.
MASON BROTHERS
rxHiinw
IP
LIMITED,
263 to 26© Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
■aORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIG-H-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladles
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
Prices: C.D.T., 155.; Cabinets, 30s. per dozen.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
f
a "°H'/u7Hhs
OBTAINED A
■ fit ST C LATiS AWAHD
f ■ 0*- M'OT’
D r
he
Y ' S . .
v •• •
•: i
ISTHEBESTINTHEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT v'
gf
If A RUF A CTU ft ED IP Y J A M E S CHAHRON
Hamouii S t Sv oh* t
S*M by All Croctrttßd Stonknpirt
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling,
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TIE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital. £300,000. Reserve Fund, £160,0001
Director#
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G.. Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Blanches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfem, Gosford, Nya
gas, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta. St Leonard's, Newcastle
and Brisbane. cun*
London BbaJtohTiSSLeadenha 11-street.
London Bankjckm The National Provincial Bank of
Bngland,
MT THB NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
GENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices, i Park-sc.
J. V. WARWWAM. Manager
tw
kJ"
Vi
m
m
Neat, Compact, and admirab’y adapted for practical use, are the
INDIES’ CAMERAS,
which are now becoming so popular.
They are beautifully made, and perfect in every respect; and they leave little to be wondered at
in contemplating the rapid strides made by photography of late in the public favour.
When the preparation of plates made it a dirty, messy, and expensive amusement, it was left
almost entire'y to the men; now, with the aid of these attractive little instruments, their sisters, their
cousins, and their aunts are, in many cases, more than a match for them.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL, STREET, SYDNEY.
AND 37 COLLINS STREET EAST. MELBOURNE,
have just opened a recent shipment carrying all the latest improvements.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
Catalogues post free on application.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS."
ANGUS <fc ROBERTSON.
11* MARKET STREET, STDXET.
Large stock of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. [Books sent by
mall to any part of Australia,


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <feo.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, «ftc.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TAND9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL ,MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T. -A.. Fay dz> Co., Cincin.ra.stti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines.’
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
1887. FIRXISrCE OF WALES HOTEL. 1887.
3?_ 3ES.
IMPORTER OE WINES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to oope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure cases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
packers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfern Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINKS and SPIRITS, containing the following
3 Bottles BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY I Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM 1 Bottle WOLFIO’S SCHNAPPS! 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINK I Bottle SHERRY WINK
Total 18.
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are all guaranteed of the beat quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
P.O. Price Lists post free on application. Special reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods.
F. B. LUKIN, Wholesale and Retail Vine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
IILLUafRATKD CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
LEAS;PERRINS SAUCE
AUG
S/'CpSrWS
!*' «rr »**-*!*:
Ik consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name cm Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London , dr ‘c., drV. ; and by Grocers and. Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents t Montetiobk, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
gf
gfgf
jP&zte
HOE BaZ.
.. George S
an3r /Tcurcourb*.
OFFORD & CO.’S HATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEOEGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
FREETRADERS AND PROTECTIONISTS,
Voters, wherever ye be, bear one principle in
mind, and that is that wherever ye find one who
may safely claim to be a public benefactor stand
by hijr.
608 GEORGE STREET la the address,
LAWLER’S THE FIRM.
Value the power and the secret spell.
Furniture, Bedsteads, Glasses, Chairs, and
Bedding, at extraordinary low rates.
Ironmonger, Glassware, and China. Kitchen
and Household Utensils, at prices that compel ye
to buy.
And several lines of White Shirts at from 3/11
to 9/- each, which simply astounds those who
view.
Note.— There is ONLY ONE LAWLER.’S,
and that at
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
B
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Cheek and Serge, 40 and 44 Inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, -Ladles’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and afl kinds of
lronmongery, Bc o.
WHOLESALE' \
& CO
AND SADDLERS
>NflTf!pp
J 26 SpPNEY^
MANUFACTURI
JAMES STEDMAH
SrxAirVbms.KcwT ircM Dii^TMc
.cuaJXmtaA
a*t>tn .0* #»
3
23S
a***** fomrrvt/mtKm
WJ O H' N SON
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET .and at CLEVELAND
STREET, (SIDNEY:
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces andAKfegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; i-also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
6AD«Hfi IN ALL ITS 'BRANCHBS,
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons |
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit I«sgs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Kivu* avid Mantras
Sold by SHOE DEALERS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
PRIZE MEDALS.
mi
W- V-‘
few
5^,-4
Ltttf
UtHiwM
<fic «■ SON*
BOSTON
BOSjTON, 1809.
VIENNA. 1878.
PH l LA,, 187 Q.
HAUTHAWAfS
OLD
A necessity Mjj
family.
polishes UPt
Children's BMjj
Shoes, Hubbers
Satchels,
brushing. * ,w,r
"SSStf
“THE STANDARD
dirt
C. L. HAUTHAWAV
33 LA. 233 Congress Street,
ma e3» v '
The fresh food AND ICB
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AROAO® 1
No. 23 ROYAL
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa,
light refreshment*.
At this Branch, orders may be left lot *
by their carts.
They have also taken over the A*
“ KOUMISS.” so highly recommended *“
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00.,
Head Office .
Stables Livery-
Factory MittagoW^/
Liverpool
Guinness’ Extra
FIRST QUAfc* I*' 1 *'
BASS’ PALE At®’
SOLE! PURVEYORS to t&«
COLONIAL AND IN II lAN EX IK**® 1 *
LONDON,
By Special Appointment. g ,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH Vf -jj ()
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON
Commercial Chambers,
Try POGONOWS# 1
MUSICAL INSTRUM®^
The Largest Assortment In
706 GEORGE STBB0 T *
Send for Price List. \
FRY'S MALTED COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AM ORDINARY OOP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.”— LanobT.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
DERATED WATERS
CORDIALS, and BITTERS.
E. ROWLANDS
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY. J
ONLY ,
GOLD MED^
CALCUTTA
Exhibition-
