

The Bulletin
Dandelion Bitters,
and healthiest Tonic made in Australia. These Bitters taken two or three times a day will give speedy relief in severe
Voils Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Cutaneous Affections, and all disorders arising from an affected Liver, which is the
l&r* e than two-thirds of the ills that flesh is heir to. These Bitters (the principal drug of which is Dandelion) act directly
iija lV^ r a nd Kidneys, removing all impure secretions and rendering the Liver healthy and active, thus deriving health and hap-
°f melancholia, that vile disease which makes life a burden and not worth the living. These Bitters are tie best and
h Liver and Kidney Medicine known in Australia, and we cheerfully submit a few of the testimonials we have received.
e convinced.
Li Row and Company, of Sydney, have submitted to nae samples of their Dandelion Bitters, which they claim to be
1011 root only, save such necessary additions as are required to preserve them and make them agreeable to take. I have
Bitters' and conclude that they have been faithfully compounded, and that they really contain the constituents from
Sa id made. Dandelion is famous as a remedy for Liver and Kidney Complaints, and at the present time is largely
to le ine. In the present instance, being judiciously combined with aromatics, the remedy is agreeable to take and more con-
e stomach than the raw medicine
(Signed) WM. JOHNSON.
HHAD TTrTIS HBPOET.'
From WM. JOHNSON, Analytical Chemist to the Government of Victoria.
Melbourne, May 28tb, 1886.
k °w and Co.
Technical College Laboratory, May Bth, 1886.
piemen,—l have examined the sample marked Dandelion Bitters, and find that it is composed of the active principles of
aG< * °ther herbs, with the addition of sufficient spirit to make the preparation keep
fx t to be as Vood as any and better than most of the preparations sold as Bitters, both in composition and flavour.
b Yours truly, (Signed) WILL, A. DIXON.
Sydney, 13 | 10 |lBB7.
((Go., Sydney. . . ...
iV 8 tiv a simply my duty to let you know the marvellous effect your Row’s Dandelion Bitters have had upon my wife ; for a long time she was suffering from compli-
Vfhe a nd Kidneys, which, as a natural consequence, affected very much her general health, producing that wretched feeling of languor and general distaste for food, not
y ofc her well-known symptoms. American Hop Bitters were recommended, but did no good whatever. Fortunately we heard of your Dandelion Bitters, and
Ve lB ~£>hasful after each meal was simply magical ere the first bottle was finished the languor and weariness had disappeared, the appetite increased considerably, and
improved. Several friends have proved the Dandelion Bitters to be a splendid antidote for sea-sickness, and where formerly dreading a sea voyage they
. lo one with pleasure, thanks to your very palatable preparation. Feeling confident your Row’s Dandelion Bitters will very soon be looked upon as the best cf all
lcal faculty,
I remain, Dear Sirs,
Yours faithfully,
L
ij D. D.
e &e en at E. Rowe and Co’s. Office.
r ' . Post-ofhce, Homebueli, Oct. 12, 1887.
Ca *i testify to the wpnderful effect your ROW’S DANDELION - BITTERS have had on me. Being recommended by a friend to try them, I did so, for less of appe-
« * I took a wineglaasful of the BITTERS after every meal f r a wtel*, which I ann thankful to say has bad the dt&ued efftet. 1 had a relation apeLclirig a fortnight
it* lA °t eat without continually vomiting ; being very distressing 1 gave her DANDELION BITTERS aittr meals, and to her surprise the second day she was quite
a l&o a splendid cure for Indigestion, and can thoroughly recommend ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS to all who havd the above ailings,
Yours sincerely,
C. S. A. DOUTTY,
<S, n Postmaster.
j W arx<i Co. Sydney.
i. Je tter received by E. Row and Co. : _
“Melbourne, September 30, 1887.
i >as sage over, thanks to ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS, although I thought at first I was going to be very sick. My friend was as sick as a dog, so I took the
a M gave him a dose, which gave him relief at once. Others on board also took Row’s Dandelion Bitters, with great benefit.
“HENRY BRIDGEMAN.”
i j “ September 27, 1887.
aVIn S suffered for many years from affection of the liver, and having tried many different remedies without <
\b J? Bittors - lam glad to say that the benefit I have derived from them has far exceeded anything I have t;
e)1 a midwife for the past 23 years.
effect, I was induced by seeing your
advertisement to
taken before lam well-known among the medical pro-
“ (Signed) ELIZABETH WATSON, 37, Dixon-street.”
K Crrlsr tlxe
WARD ROW AND COMPANY.
9


murrcTVTEPtffTAareuE* rpwcErmrmE -
.W.H.PALING&O"
I 356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY. 1
. . r iAiio, Organ f Music Importers,
_ largest stoclind SreatestYariety m Australia - the
)ftt)Jl&£he WfdestFpossible choice from OROANS from £l2-
* PAYMENT 8Y tfONtHIV TO Sl/IT-AU. CUSTOMERS
tKRttO & PALING &(5 PALING it 0?
Hardman Bros.
/ GoiPfurSnurr,
Tft CAC l£ //
RfE/HfRS
PIM
trsro
mm
MiTiHWGiTiORS
Z
mAD Office t factory, newt own
BRANCH. CEORCf S? SYDNEY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
CORNER Of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY, cm*'"'
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING,
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
She Bon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
■ w i W ■
The fliridend declared and paid to tie Shareholders a the
fault Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
*Y)ividendpaid to Shareholders at the rate of 12£ per cent,
per »mmm P-. • fc-—— -mcwd
Bonus paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent.)
„ || 6 m U per cent)
The transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
Agencies'ln London and throughout the world.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITB
OF DEEDS.)
Deposits Received,
Interest Allowed t
At Call, 4 per cent. L
8 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONDS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS 01 Q
BIX AND TWELVE MONTHS *
■— f~ 3»CH<*rEialvn t iff <
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
•r portion of their deposits without notice, and
will be allowed current interest for the period of
fIOPOBit.
The Share Register Is still open, and Intending
Shareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shares,
fcc., &0.
BY ORDER OE THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY*
THOS. BUUKLAND,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENEBAL AGIB9
Charters Towers.
Agent for Rohey and Co., Engineer*, Lincoln)
„ „ Langland'a Eoundiy Co.i Melbcmnti VU.
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange,
charters towers, qoeenbiahb,
UMBRSLLAS
RECOVERED-
STUDY ECONOMY
Mid
Have f our Umbrella Frame* re
covered and your
Paraiola re-lined and made eqaa
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Btreet,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurit Street*
Paraioli made to matoh eoi
Imu Bepalri neatle exeentaf
w
ILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
\M„PERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
te of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
MT First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings i—The “ Western Cham-
■lon" says i ** I can recommend theJßockhampton
y.nnnin to my western friends.’ | ‘
LEICHHARDT
HOTEL,*;
ROCKHAMPTON. '
Proprietress — Mrs. J. GIBBS, §«
(Late of Westwood. I
First-class Family and CommerciallHotel. ~
USE 'MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED. ,u,|
— 0 '"a -.j n/.
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Posted to all parts of the colonies free on,receipt
If stamps. . rsr^-^r^JrJ
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra, N.S.W.^.
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
"PIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected In above
wn, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To a,:' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why Buffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safeßt Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faoulty tolbe the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
1, i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 George-street only.
WALDER, Tent, Tarp aulin, Oilskin Maker
296 Pitt-street.
7>vw* TaRP/u/u* Ohjju# rau> Firc Abutt*
Q 96 A.rif
Marquees on Hire.
i GINA l
P
ttN
m
c;
"'^UCIISOWW
OBTAINED A
flj|ST CLASS AWABQ
OR
HicjitST DEGREE OF MERIT
■ \
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!'.
HOWE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RECEIVE DTH E INTERN ATI GNAW
pfeIZEMEDAI
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold ty AH Crocers And StoreKwper*
w
TOJSS\
DUXSON^SOMS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY*
T-WIXSON :& SONS’ CONQUEROR *
JJ not only manufacture, »B
THAN ANY OTHER, but COJN
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LBi
into New South Wales, and hence th
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than an
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODC®
gold leaf. .
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTA
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 „„
10,000 per hour, the choices
and Paris rice tissue. && 81
retailers at 3d. p&r P ac^
NEW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
StudentSifrom Sydney Hospital,
1\
$533,: ’ ~
'ﬂﬁwﬁw \ -
ﬂaw. .1x3m
éﬁﬁg €532:
$3
_ " 215E225
,"""‘—A _ 3%., 5
-'v”" ' >rr;:‘ _— 935a
”’4‘ J %;
’EJY'N‘ \\, ‘ -‘ 1&1?»._.;.~‘;;:\
V W 2.4-7, gm 7 ~53. ;
~ \\\ ‘ ~<=4"" -ﬁ=.:c~;‘1\;>-x K
\\\7\:‘:7. ; 3;” _‘ - ; (MR
*7“; I ~ 3'3 ;., s-51‘4Wm5
“ 156-: ,
MONK’S
pile mixture.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for It and take no substitute.
U an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
Monsrnsz’e
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A positive cnre. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
ii Little Collins treet Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GTMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Centra r Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged In mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be oarrled on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING! for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY WHOM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address —
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry it Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL
MOUNT MOROAN.
HK
KRMINQTON
TYPE-WRITER
Bare* labour, itallonerv, end tine, writing much farter
uan expert pen-men, and eendenilng matter to leii than
one-half the ipaoe oeonpied b» pen writing. Beautiful
eopleii map be taken In the ninal manner in the letter- pren
& Bold wholeiale and retail bv the eole agent*,
IMKAY It OOiJ
CIO Kentatxeet,
c
-A.
tpv
KIA«UnrtTU«£RS"
UMPORTERSOf
HATSCAPSj*
438 CEORCEST
&YDNEY
*.zx:
IS
ft
(ft*
BUNDABBR 0 -
Under New Man* 0 ®* 1
' tN To®
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM
—• g^XiJW'
PLUNGE AND] SHOW8 p
Roxes tot ****
Good Stabling, and Loose
■^Tfob^
DRAWING-BOOM F Ml
. jaCJ® 0
Haying engaged a flrafc ‘ C fl^fc-ol» 00
to cater for the public In a -
ALF. P^TBO^i^
RUSTON PBOCT’OB &C °'
""“XSTSgt**
"TRIUMPH" THBASHIN
——' — «ry)l T *
Simon’s Roller Syste*^ o*' 0 *'
Sole Agen* B ' a, 00"
E. O. g f
STBS® 1 ’
54T KENT
THE GREAT
OHAKLOTTK-PLAOK
K® XJU ,..
WISES, SPIRITS,
(DELIVERED AN*?*. V> «ti
HA^v
Brian Born Whisky
Henneuy'i * Oognao
Square Gin
Jamaioa Rum
Red Heart do.
Bed Heart do. .. ~ _ o t *• **
Flaiki Brandy and Whiskies . o( ja I**«-
English Ales and Stout, bee * invali A
Port Wine for connoisseurs a pet I* *4s
Port Wint and Sherry from uqXCI 30* Yjf * W
Beit brand! Whisky or Br«adX
£3 CASE ALSO A (0 r ’ W|. TO
ACCOMMODATION fctje oo gi »U
'orded to Visitora n er yiH" {
Superior
Gueiti wiU reoeive every ofl
Wine*. Spirits, and Beers »‘ w "
papers kept on file."
s
*
v
V
STOCKS
LARGE
ALL
WITH
DESIGNS
IgrS*
At
cost
LOWEST
STEP
WE?
COOPER
ROBERT
til
CrS
A
OLE
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
A
Ko<
v
Sydney:
II!, PITT STREET.
S* 0 *; sTH
%


The Bulletin
rr\\ H - NT 3 407
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1J), 188 r.
Price, Qd.
MR. YARDSTICK (the universal provider): "A COFFIN OR A COSTUME, MADAM?”


“THE BULLETIN,”
The National Australian Newspaper,
PROPRIETORS! BULLETIN NEWSPAPER C
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-strest, Svdjev, New South^Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, die., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1887.
Australia’s Destiny.
Australia is a land of unlimited poten-
tialities. Not alone in the finite space of
human interest which industry and commerce
can measure, but in the matter also of those
higher and nobler objects in which the abso-
lute happiness and relative freedom of the
human family are comprised. Every news-
paper contains glib forecastings of the com-
mercial greatness soon to distinguish this
continent; every post-prandial chatterer can
say something of the future statistical pro-
gress of these colonies ; such sordid poten-
tialities are acknowledged ad nauseam , but
of our national possibilities in other avenues
of progress nothing is ever published or
spoken. In commerce and money-grabbing
Australia is rightly expected to adopt ways
and means peculiar to herself and suited
her conditions ; but in all matters of politics,
social relationships, and religion it is ap-
parently expected that she should, and be-
lieved that she ought to, follow meekly and
slavishly in the path along which England
has painfully and perilously staggered for
the last eight centuries. Conservatism—the
instinct of dull brains, and the weapon of
social tyrants—however obviously out of
place in a new country, opposes its full
strength in preventing the adoption of any
new systems or new methods although these
may be dictated by reason and supported by
every humane sentiment. To Australia’s
power to work out the social salvation of
mankind in this quarter of the world,
this force of generally corrupt, usually
bigoted, and always stupid, Conservatism
is ever steadfastly opposed. There is
afforded to our legislators and people
the oppportunity of breaking through
all the class tyrannies and social wrongs
which class-made law has fettered upon the
British people. But far other has been the
aim of those entrusted with the responsibili-
ties of legislation ; their constant effort has
been to reproduce all the repulsive features
as well as the more admirable attributes of
the British system in these antipodean lands.
As they have transported hither British pests
such as the briar, the thistle, the rabbit, and
the sparrow, to say nothing of the British
bell-topper and the British frock-coat,
so also have they transplanted British
distress for rent laws, the extortions
and abuses of the English legal system, the
Imperial bi-cameral legislative method, and
are daily striving to rivet yet more firmly on
these colonies the class-rule which has op-
pressed England since the Conquest.
« * *
Sometimes the strong commonsense of the
people has successfully rebelled against the
policy of the dominant class, and has left
noble trophies of revolt upon the Statute-
books of the various colonies. Vote by
ballot was here established decades before it
was made optional in England ; manhood
suffrage is the firmly fixed law in Australia,
while in Britain the oppressed masses are
without that boon ; real property transfer
has been here simplified to an extent un-
known in the United Kingdom ; the religion
of a sect has in no part of Australasia yet
degraded into a State institution ; education
hero occupies a position in national economy
beneath the Southern Cross marvellous to
our Imperial brethren, and so with other
matters of national concern. In the cases
cited, Australia has gone far beyond the
Imperial pattern, and this in spite of the
obstructive power of local Toryism. And
there is not one of such large advances along
new paths, which has not been productive
of unlimited good to the masses of the
people. And yet not one such progressive
measure has been passed without bringing
down upon its authors the maledictions of
those who love English errors, and British
wrongs, more than wisdom and the right.
As Wise fco-day pleads the cause of distraint,
because it has been endured in England for
eight hundred years, so dull Torias were
found to oppose Torrens’ Act, State Educa-
tion, manhood suffrage, and vote by ballot,
and they used the very line of argument
which the Attorney General so readily and
fervently adopts. He is in this matter
merely an imitator of the dullards who op-
posed the patriotic Radicalism of Went-
worth, Robertson, and Parses.
• • «
? Strange as the assertion may seem, it is
certainly true that it is in Australia that the
most sweeping and usefnl measures of re-
form should originate. For here the vested
interests of wealth and caste are less potent
than in any other older and wealthier
countries. There are but few and weak
traditions to fetter the minds of men, and
precedents—such as they are— have not yet
become petrified. The will of the people
can be more quickly declared in law than
in older countries ; in a month legislative
changes may be wrought for which a year in
England would not suffice. And every
national problem is here presented in a
simple, not in a complex form as in older
States. First principles are not obstructed
by wrongs changed, in common acceptation,
by the tradition of ages into statutory rights.
And, besides all this, it is demonstrable that
the intellect of the people is freer, stronger,
and more original than in the age-old states
of Europe, and even of America. To solve
the problems over which the oppressed
masses of Northern rations are now poring
in vain is the destiny of Australia : a vigor-
ous and thoughtful Radicalism the only in-
telligible creed for her political rulers.
* * *
In fulfilling this destiny, “the common-
sense of most ” can be the electors’ only
guide. The fact that a certain wrong has
prevailed in England for centuries should
have no more weight than the fact that foot-
squashing has been fashionable in China for
three thousand years. The one considera-
tion has just as much to do with any ques-
tion of right or wrong as the other, and
should be just as little regarded. England
has not been, and is not now, so brilliant a
success as a nation, as to endow her system
with any respect. It is to escape from the
oppression and misery which burdens the
huge majority of Britons that most of Aus-
tralia’s immigrants have come hither. Then
why, having escaped such misery in the Old
World, should they wish to reproduce in the
New the causes whose effect's made England
intolerable for them ? Right reason can
give no countenance to such a work. But !
these immigrants, especially those of the B.
R. Wise type, are the slaves of tradition —
merely crossing the seas cannot accustom
their minds to the full measure of freedom
which Australia can afford. As their bodies
writhe beneath the stronger heat of our sun,
so their slavish thought cowers beneath the
shade of trans-oceanic tradition.
• # •
The question as to where Australian re-
forms should begin is easy to supply ; the
question where they should end is not now
discernible. First of all, the disastrous clog
of an Upper House of senile nominees of
Wealth must be removed, then the path of
national progress—the progress of the
people—will be comparatively clear. Then
the great work of Land Nationalisation can
be undertaken. While the owners and the
mortgagees of laud monopolise the second
Chamber any decided move in the way of
making land pay its rightful toll to the State
is hideously remote. The money-bag House
will sanctify with their wheezy approval
any tax upon food, property, intellect, or
industry, for all such taxes fall upon the
producers of the community, but they will
never approve of any proposal which would
give to the State the unearned increment of
land-values, or of effective Reforms which
would prevent a Q.C. from robbing his
clients by pouching their fees and neglect-
ing their work—reforms which would pre-
vent a junior barrister from robbing the
widow and orphans by playing the empty
farce of moving for previously-granted pro-
bate ; reforms which would serve to pre-
vent money from being omnipotent in every
department of “ justice ” as it is at present.
Every institution and every custom would be
challenged as to its operation under a
vigorous Radical regime, and the paltry ex-
cuse, “ It’s English and eight hundred years
o’d,” would not then be of feather-weight in
the scale of public judgment. If such an
excuse is to prevail the class misery and
class robberies of England must exist in
full force beneath the Southern Cross ; if it
be not allowed to influence legislation and
restrain reform, then Australia may take the
place indicated by every local circumstance
and condition as the political and social
model and teacher of the tradition-bound
nations of every other quarter of the globe.
"Religious Liberalism."
A popularity of the easy and greasy sort is
always to be won by any metropolitan parson
who will enunciate a little religious liberalism.
Three-fourths of the people who go to church go
there because it is a recognised institution, one
of the several recognised institutions which make
up the present iniquitous organisation of society
into “classes” and “masses.” The Church, in
all ages and all climes, has always been ready to
pander to the sins and vices of the secular power,
if the secular power would only return the
compliment. Every advance in liberality of
thought and conduct since tha end of the last
century has been secular. So-called Christianity
has done nothing but tinker up its old kettle
sufficiently to meet the requirements of the rear-
guard of popular intelligence, Well, the parson
who first accepts some fact of science or history
or general knowledge which everyone, except
this rear-guard, has accepted in the metem-
psychosis shape of their fathers or grand-
fathers, is likely to become a sort of re-
ligious hero—till the rear-guard gets up to
him again. Ward Beecher suddenly declared
he did not believe in Hell, and all the religious
noodles “ra'sed Cain” about it. As if anyone,
not 50 years behind the time, did believe in Hell,
and as if it mattered a brass farthing what Ward
Beecher and his noodles thought about it, any-
how 1
* * *
Pastor Jefferis is the prime religious tinker of
New South Wales. He has neither high culture
nor high intelligence (except it be in the ranks of
religious tinkers), and, as the Daily Telegraph
people are in a similar intellectual condition,
they shake hands all round on the common
ground of the united efforts of the shoddy
bourgeoisie and the shoddy clericalism to
support things as at present constituted
with a iudicious profession of Liberalism. If
Pastor Jefferis were to die to-morrow, in four
or five years no one would remember his name,
and if anyone read his sermons and speeches, ai
reported in the D.T., they would wonder why on
earth twaddle like this was reported—twaddle
which, in three or four years (if not sooner) every
parson will have as his regular stock-in-trade.
The amount of nonsense that Pastor Jefferis
gave vent to in his “ great ” speech at the Con-
gregational Unio", whenever he left tho beaten
track of accepted fact and tried to speak a little
on his own account, was amazing. Nonsense is
usually the result of ignorance, and that seems to
have certainly been the case here. Take the fol-
lowing as a fine sample of the tenth-rate sort of
thing which goes down in a president of an Aus-
tralian Congregational Union as the ‘ philosophy of
history.” Says the Pastor :
“ It were an insult to human nature to say that in Antioch
or Corinth or Rome there were none before Christ who
sought to rescue the vicious, who endeavoured to relieve the
poor. But there was no prevailing sentiment as now in
favour of virtue and charity. Neither idolatry cor philoso-
phy inspired men with piety and self-sacrifice.”
Would any audience of so-called educated men,
except one composed of purblind religionists, re-
ceive such a statement with anything but a hurst
of laughter ? Firstly, notice that the poor man
takes “ Antioch or Corinth or Rome ” (it must be
one of them) as the home of “philosophy!”
Every school-boy knows that neither Socrates
ror Plato nor Aristotle came from any of these
places, and if these men are not “ the fathers of
philosophy,” in heaven’s name, who are ? Pass
that, however ; a parson who only knows his
Bible, does not know that, and so can he forgiven
for not being aware that the Fourth Gospel is as
full of Platonism as an egg is of meat, and Plato
did not come from Antioch, or Corinth, or even
Rome. Let us look to the fact stated. Does not
the poor man pitifully drivel in saying that
“neither idolatry nor philosophy inspired men
with piety and self-sacrifice?” Nobody but a
silly christo-maniac ever took the worship of
heathen nations, through figures of stone, to be
any more “idolatry” than the reverence of
Catholics for their statues and paintings, or of
Protestants for their perhaps more hideous but
identic mummivi and thummim, But if “ piety ”
is shown in what is usually called the “monu-
ments” of it, what Christian cathedrals or
churches can be placed beside the colossal ruins of
Assyrian temples—beside Baalbec—beside the
Pyramids—beside the Buddhist temples of Java,
of India, of Japan ? Or if “ piety ”isto be sought
in the army of saints and martyrs, wherein
does the Mahommedan or Buddhistic calendar
fall short of that of the Christians? Were the
Moslem fanatic?, who opposed the Christian
fanatics in the Crusades, less bigoted, reckless,
sure of salvation, through the murdering sword ?
Was not “ self-sacrifice,” by every admission,
carried, both then and now, to as absurd an extent
by them as by the alleged Christians ?
* * *
But turn from the excess of these qualities to
their more moderate and beneficent forms. Was
the self-sacrifice of Jesus, who gave up the hovel
of an obscure ultra-provincial peasant for the
notoriety and fame of a popular preacher, greater
than that of the mighty Gautama, who surren-
dered an empire, a wife and children he adored,
to become an anchorite and then a wandering
preacher, the chief word of whose gospel (which
even Pastor Jefferis may have heard)— nirvdna
—means just that “self-sacrifice,” the annihila-
tion of self in the purpose and will of God as a
blown-out candle in the atmosphere ? Pass then to
Greece. If Socrates’ chief doctrine (and, through
him, Plato’s) was not self-sacrifice, would Pastor
Jefferis first read Jowett’s translation of the
Dialogues, and then tell us what it was ? If the
whole idea of Greek civilisation was not the idea
of self-sacrifice—of the utter subordination of self
to the city, the state, the race—would Pastor
Jefferis first read (say) Grote’s “History of
Greece,” and then tell us what it was ? There is
one typical instance, however, which even Pastor
Jefferis may have heard of. A Greek poet called
Simonides wrote this inscription over the Spar-
tans who perished at Thermopylae“ O passer-
by, tell to the Lacedemonians that we are lying
here, in obedience to what they told us ! ”
* * #
If the lesson of Leonidas in the pass, of Hora-
tius Cocles on the bridge, is not that of “ self-
sacrifice,” and, if that lesson was not taught by
Paganism, by what was it taught ? The Pastor
does well to tell his hearers that
“ It almost provokes a smile to think of challenging the sys
terns which are paraded as the latest offspring of human
wisdom. They may do for platform declamation; they may
win the applause of the theatre; but where are they in the
true work of life? Christianity alone can furnish the motive
power to make Australian citizenship wbat it ought to be
and what it surely will be."
The “idolatry” and “philosophy" of Buddhism
sent out nogreasy ship loads of christianizing crows
to besot and degrade the lower races. Its missionary
work, spreading from Java to Japan, founded
great civilisations which have left memorials such
as bogus Christian civilisations can never leave
The “ idolatry ” and “philosophy ” of Greece never
saddled humanity with Inquisitions and Persecu-
tions, with a crew of priest-caste-mongers who
have been the foe of all liberty and light from the
days of Galileo to those of Darwin, and will tie,
so long as they have a rotten tooth left in their
jaws to bite with ; but this “ idolatry ” and this
“ philosophy” erected states where all were free,
and the landowner and capitalist were as un-
known as the starving prostitute and the demoniac
convict, and that is surely something. Let Pastor
Jefferis, and those like him, learn to sit at the
feeti of such men as Gautama and Socrates, and
purge away some of that ignorance which can be
the only excuse for such God-spat-out nonsense
as prevailed in the “ great" speech of the Presi-
dent of the Australian Congregational Union,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Europe’s Arbiter—A Surgeon!
The armed millions of Europe are awaiting the
issue of a surgical operation. If the doctor’s skill
works a cure, peace may compass the nations for
a few years more; if the operator’s instrument
should fail, all Europe may be at war
within a few weeks of the patient’s death.
Marvellous, that in this age when men deem
themselves civilised, the life or death of one
man should determine the fate of millions who
never saw, and scarcely ever heard of him ! Yet
such is the present situation. If the Crown Prince
of Germany recovers, the ensuing stability of the
German realm and his own strong desire for peace
may defer for some time the disasters of war ; if
he dies, his bloodthirsty son may, and almost cer-
tainly will, drag a teeming continent into fierce
and fearful war. No more repulsive satire on the
monarchical system could possibly be conceived,
It seems incomprehensible that an ordinary surgi.
cal operation should determine whether peasants
in all the country from the Ural to the Atlantic
are to begin the work of wholesale slaughter. Yet
this is not the first time that ihe fortunes and lives
of millions of peace loving men have rested upon
the life of one of whom they have known little and
for whom they have cared nothing at all. Had
that wretched old gibberer, George 111., reigned
10 years only instead of 60, the sanguinary
battles of the American War of Independence
need never have been known ; had Napoleon
Bonaparte never emerged from obscurity, bleach-
ing bones would not have whitened Russian plains,
and a great part of the terrible death roll of 1798-
1815 need not have been recorded to thedisgrace and
disaster of humanity. War in defence of a grand
principle—war in defence of the rights of man-
kind, may be invested with a crown of national
glory ! but wars undertak- n te soothe the vanity
or assuage the blood-thirst of a man no better and
generally a great deal worse than hundreds of
thousands of those who are slaughtered at his
bidding are a foul blot upon the intelligence of
the age. Under the monarchical or even the
aristocratic system of misrule the latter class of
infamous wars must ever be counted as disas-
trous possibilities. When the will of one man is
the nation’s guide, it is always probable that his
despotic mind may decree a deluge of blood as a
relief to his ennui, a balm for his wounded pride,
or a feast for his sanguinary and brutal appetite
for destruction.
Wanted, a Dynamiter.
The Sydney Improvement Board paraded in state
last week, and solemnly condemned 51 stinking
dens inhabited chiefly by Chinese. Then the
Board vent home proudly complacent with its
work. But do the members of that body believe
that those houses which are tenanted by Chinese
will be pulled down within six months, or even
within six years ? The Board is an Angora if it
does. We know better. Years ago a George-
street rookery wag condemned. The owner or
tenant managed to avert the doom until a new
Mayor assumed office, and then the building was
condemned again. Then the lawyers were set to
work, and they appealed against the deoree, but
in vain. They appealed again on some more
points, but were defeated again, and peremptory
notice to clear was served on the tenant, a Euro
peau tradesman. He left just before the final day
named, and some Chinese promptly succeeded
him. In complete- defiance of all the statutes
made and provided, the new tenants set about
making alterations in the tenement. They built
wooden walls, put a new front to the shop, and
then calmly started a wholesale fan-tan sheol,
which is still running gaily to good business.
What official was “ got at ” remains at present a
mystery, but the proof that corruption prevailed
and still prevails over someone is clear as day-
light, and is manifested by the fact that the
quadruply-condemned hovel stands erect in spite
of the hollow decrees of the City of Sydney Im-
provement Board. When these 51 dwellings,
“ inhabited chiefly by Chinese,” were recently
condemned, the Improvement Board rejoiced be-
cause they knew they had done good work; the
public rejoiced because they thought the city
would be improved ; but the joy of these was as
nothing compared to the ecstacy of the official
who gleefully counted in advance the huge
revenues he would derive by defeating the inten-
tions of the Board. A new tax has been laid upon
some Chinese, a new outlet has been afforded to
the profitably corrupt energies of an unknown
official, and that is all the good that will ever re-
sult from the condemnation of a majority of these
buildings “ chiefly inhabited by Chinese.” When
the Sydney Improvement Board next travel round
the slums they should take a good and well-
practised dynamitard or incendiary with them to
give immediate effect to their decisions. To go
on in the present style is mere folly.
Land.
Editor Bulletin,— Sir,—The N.S.W. squatters
are up in arms demanding a reduction of rent.
Here in Warialda a squatters’ meeting has been
held to protest against the action of the Minister
for Lands in raising their rents. I am no advo-
cate for exorbitant rents, but viewing the whole
subject, I fail to see any cause of complaint on the
squatters’ part. As a crucial test, let us see how
many will throw up their runs through the action
of the Minister. Here is a class of men who have
paid no increased rent whatever for the last two
years, while the selector had to pay inmany instances
double the rate put on the squatter, and that in
advance. The Land Act of 1881 was pre-eminendy
a squatters’ act; they were quite jubilant over
this enactment, and well satisfied to pay an en
hanced value in the form of rent, for the security
of tenure which is guaranteed them. Again, the
squatters have crow-picked their runs over
and over, by auction sales, volunteer land-
orders, and wholesale dummying, for the past
20 years. Finally, when the division of runs
took place under the present Act, the squat-
ters divided their runs snake-fashion, taking
in all the good land and leaving out for the public
the sand banks, mountains, and scrnb-lands.
Having thus annexed the cream of the country, it
is quite in keeping with squatter policy to com-
plain of the rent fixed by the Government which
has been a too indulgent creditor to them, to the
loss of revenue—making the rest of the community
carry their burden for them. Read this admission
in the manifesto of the Commercial, Pastoral, and
Agricultural Association, page 28 :
11 Under the old law, the practice of over loading land with
sham and useless constructions made with the object of
resisting selection had been practised to an enormous extent,
with marked connivance and interested aid supplied both by
members of the Assembly and the Lands Department.'’
AgaiD, I say, let the squatters surrender their
leaseholds and I’ll warrant there will be ten appli-
cations for each holding from men who will be
only too glad to pay the advanced rental for
them. The squatters now command nine-tenths
of the water of the colony, and nearly all the good


and of the country. They hold Immense trac
of land, but give little or no employment to labo
having robbed the poor man of his land they no
refuse to give him employment on it. The
staple product, wool, possesses immunity fro
competition in the colonial market, and is ther
fore virtually protected, but when an M.P. is to
elected they throw all their influence with t
freetraders so as to save their pockets in stati
supplies, and knowing that freetrade throws t
land into their hands. Landlordism, with
train of evils, is looming in the distance —it is t
cloud that darkens our social and political horizo
Our land system, the whole Australian land sy
tern, is fraught with danger and trouble in t
near future. Large holdings seem to be nothin
short of ruinous to the country, and equally
to the holders. In proof—the selectors or sma
holders, paid their rents, & c., punctual
in advance, while a sum of £2,000,000 is still d
from the squatters who complain of not bein
able to pay up. But their alleged inability to pa;
may be traced to their insatiable greed of lane
involving them in usury, mortgages, ban
interest, &c. Had I any influence with t
Minister for Lands, I would impress upon him
necessity of limiting the areas of pastoral leas
holds, and could point out the many advantag
of small or moderate holdings instead. The ne
Land Bill which is now before the country is b
a poor improvement on its predecessors; the
may be a certain amount of political cunning ant
ingenuity in it, but nothiag statesmanlike or com
prehensive—notably there is no provision or eifo
made to settle the poor man on the soil, as
Government of New Zealand Is doing now.
Yours, Old Subscriber.
Last week a “ married lady,” travelling alone, wa
brutally assaulted in a Parramatta railway carriag
by a male savage who at once evaporated so com
pletely as to utterly upset the old-fashioned theor
about the indestructibility of matter. He steppe
out of the oarriage—which, by the way, no on
but the married lady ever saw him enter—anc
with one bound ho was at the uttermost limits
the mysterious Forevermore. A few days ago,
Goulburn (N.S.W.) police court, sweet, innocen
little Gerty Theobald, aged something under 1
faced the throne of justice and said Edwar
Howell, carpenter, had criminally assaulted he
For a bad quarter of an hour Edward seemed
be on a short read to the gallows. Then on r
examination Gerty wasn’t quite sure; the
she said she wouldn’t swear to him;
minute later she began to wish sh
hadn’t sworn to him at ail; presently she
with all the generousness of her artless, untutorec
nature, offered to swear to somebody else insteac
next she weakened on the other man, and wan tec
to say no more about it, and, above all things, sh
wanted to get out of there ; and, finally, she ac
knowledged that it was all a lie —boolioo—an
she had never even seen the man she accused o
the night when the assault was said to have bee
committed, and the case wa3 dismissed. Th
police magistrate said that he had never befor
seen such a case of prevarication and immoralit
on the part of any girl, from which we gathe
that his experience must be very short, for girl
have been committing perjury and attempting t
commit murder in this way all over New South
Wales for nine months past, and not on
of them has even been arrested for he
villainy. Too many of the world’s present genera
tion of girls seem to be “romantio” and unre
liable. Even that well-adv *rtised heroine Mis
Cass, the little London dressmaker, who con
vulsed three kingdoms just as the spotless Mis
Bary Jade Hicks convulsed one colony, appear
to small advantage under the microscope. It i
cabled that she admitted in the witness-box at th
trial of Policeman Endacott, arraigned to
wrongfully swearing that she had misconducted
herself in a London street, that she was not alto
together the immaculate little creature she hac
affected to be—in fact, she confessed that she hac
been “ indiscreet.” So ends another romance.
At the inquest on the woman Sanders, who wa
murdered by her husband at Carlton (Vic.)
little while ago, the jury was very reluctant t
bring in a capital verdict against the prisoner
although they had not the slightest doubt that h
had committed the deed, he having confessed hi
guilt, and the evidence being too strong agains
him to admit of question. At flrsb the good men
and true returned into Court with a verdict whicl
practically amounted to a finding of not guilty
but the coroner refusing to accept it, a verdict o
wilful murder was substituted with considerab’e
reluctance. This is another strong indication o
the irend of public feeling w'hich must eventually
lead to the abolition of the gallows. So long as
juries feel that perhaps the life or death of a pos
sible lunatic is at stake, so long will they shrink
from returning verdicts compatible with evidence
and so long will there remain a loophole through
which the murderer may absolutely escape from
justice. The powers that be are lethargic anc
obtuse, but after the acquittal of the Richmonc
wife-murderer, and in the face of the opinions 01
jurors in more recent caee3, the fact that the
gallows defeats its aims must ere long burst upon
them with the force of a falling steeple.
♦
An obviously inspired paragraph is going the
journalistic wallaby—we have even seen it in the
Argus and S.M.H.—concerning the all too-
ravishing relict of Frank Leslie, the American
newspaper man. We are told that Mrs. Frank
“ still looks quite young, only somewhere about
thirty, and is an extremely elegant and thoroughly
‘ feminine ’ woman. She wears always either
white or black ; does her brown and abundant
hair all at one side of the top of her head, with a
high comb in the other side ; and in evenings has
on a splendid pair of diamond solitaire earrings,
each stone as big as a hazel nut.” In other words,
Mrs. F. L. is a society belle and likes society better
than newspapers. To credit her with wonderful
“ business capacity ”is absurd. Notwithstanding
able hired management, her taste for the glare
and glitter of drawing-rooms is fast lowering the
style and influence of a paper which in poor
Frank Leslie’s days had few peers in the
States. It is the “ extremely elegant ”
woman with the " brown abundant hair ”
and the diamonds as big as hazel-nuts that
‘fetches” the male journalists who are still un-
mamed and who yearn after such a business as
Frank Leslie's Weekly could again be made.
But let them make no mistake about it; all the
above gush is thrown away on the elegant woman
with the “brown abundant hair.” She is looking
round for a wealthy society man sufficiently beau-
tiful to match the diamonds, with a lovely “ mus-
tiyey” and a gorgeous establishment. An English
aristocrat might do—“ a markis or a hearl ” —but
a journalist, never; Mrs. F. has tried one
already. As far as we are concerned, they are
welcome to the lady “ somewhere about thirty,”
which is too delightfully vague to tempt us from
; he path of single blessedness. Again, it is a
rather unsatisfactory game glorifying the mines
°c a dead man, by running a paper with his name
In the head-line. If we did marry Mr 3. Frank,
and took over her journal, we should call it
Frank Leslie's Wife’s Husband’s Weekly.
There now I
4.
There are in Forbes (N.S.W.) a lot of brainy in-
dividuals, if we can judge from the fact that
there has been established a local club pledged to
carryout the land reforms sketched by Henry
George, the St. Paul of Land Nationalisation.
Sydney has no Henry George Club; in fact, in spite
of the material advantages the N.S.W. metropolis
erjoys, the outcome of Freetrade and Centralisa-
tion, it has very little of a progressive character
at all. Perhaps, people cannot think amid the
rattle of ’busses, the roar of trams, and the blatant
twaddle of Freetrade newspapers. A man must
reside in the country if he wishes to form opinions,
away from the madding crowd’s ignoble strife,
Most men who have left a number 19 footmark on
the sands of time have hailed from the wilds.
The patriots of Switzerland and the Tyrol were
herdsmen, and the warrior kings of the Bast were
shepherds also. In the city men are puny and
small limbed and high-shouldered from want of
fr6sh air and exercise and frcm bending over dreary
desks. They are pale and nervous, and lack iron
in the blood. The robust fellows who come up to
the city, a week’s remove from the plough and
next of kin to the cart-horse, soon brush aside in
the struggle for existence the eager, sallow men
with the feverish haste and the feverish headache,
but no muscle, no frame, no cartilage, no sinew.
In the city men are all the time mentally as well
as physically doctored, They are legislated for
and supervised from the cradle to the grave
Parsons doctor them on Sunday, and newspapers
chop up mental meals of ready-made opinions for
them all the week. They have no time to think,
and very soon have precious little inclination to
do so. They look for their feed of intellectual
pap at the appointed hour, and grumble if they do
not get it boiled soft enough. In the country men
are left very much to themselves, and the solitude
doe 3 them no harm. Their legs are strong,
because they never walked with crutohes, their
eyes are bright because they never used glasses,
their minds, like their bodies, are sturdy with
exercise and the being compelled to rely upon
themselves instead of relying upon others.
-4.
The following palpable lie, which is palmed offby
the Springfield Republican (Murkan print), and
copied with sweet approval by a Sydney daily
paper, is a very good sample of the sort of argu-
ments employed by the opposers of land-nationali-
sation :
“Henry George ‘Stuck.’—Henry George was
asked to enlighten the pupils of Packard Institute in New
York City as to his doctrines, and got some posers, especially
from the girls. One of them asked: ‘ Did I understand you
to say that all land was God-given for the benefit of all man-
kind?' ‘ Certainly,'replied Mr. George. 'Who made he
Netherlands, then?' pursued his querist ‘ Was not the
land at the bottom of the sea before the Dutch dyked it in
and brought it under cultivation? Were not they, and not the
rest of mankind, entitled to the labour of their hands ? Was
this land God-given or man-rescued?’ The new prophet
made only two converts out of 200 students."
This is sheer lunacy. George has never yet
stated as his opinion that man should not receive
the full reward of his labour. But it is a very
different thing to “reclaim” land and to “make”
land. No man can do the latter. Again, sup-
pose that on account of a man reclaiming land he
is allowed the use of it for the term of his natural
life, that does not permit him to leave that land
hampered by conditions to other men who did not
reclaim it. Even the reclaimer’s own son would
have no “pre-emptive” right to the land re
claimed, entitling him to exoluslve possession of it
to the disadvantage of his fellow-man. Man can-
not make anything the constituents of which do
not exist already in nature : hence the word
“ land ” must be taken to mean in its broad sense
the earth. George challenges monopoly of all
kinds, not alone monopoly of a single element.
When a man can add a piece to the earth, then
his claim to fee-simple may be acknowledged, but
not before.
4.
Some time ago, at Redfem, Sydney, a labourer
beat his wife and was prosecuted. When the
case came to Court the wife wished to withdraw
the charge, but was not allowed to do so, and her
husband was sent to gaol for six months. The
very same week a nephew of a Supreme Court
judge was arrested on a charge of having forcibly
violated a girl whom he was stated to have taken
out in a boat on Sydney harbour. The girl’s evi-
dence and the medical evidence made it clear that
the case was one of savage rape. The case was
remanded, and when next the girl appeared in
Court she said that in consequence of a conversa-
tion she had had with someone she had decided to
proceed no further with the charge. Whereupon
the accused was set free, though it was open to
the prosecution to have her bound over to
appear and give evidence at the Criminal
Court! Another judge’s relative was being
brought down by a mountain train in bhe
custody of a policeman whose revolver he
snatched; then he wounded the officer—a capital
offence—but in the nick of time it was providen-
teally discovered that he was insane. He was
committed to an asylum, from which he promptly
escaped; now he is living happily and sanely in
Queensland, and no effort is made to recapture
him. The change of climate has worked wonders
in his mental condition. Still another judge’s
relative was short in his trust funds to the extent
of a few scores of thousands; now he is in an
asylum, but it is very doubtful indeed whether
the peculiar and systematic form of aberration
with which he is afflicted would have been suffi-
cient if exhibited by a poor wretch in moleskins
to have saved its subject from alleged justice.
We have known a good many madmen to be
hanged in N.S.W,, and we have seen more than
one cold-blooded swindler profit by the provisions
of the Lunacy Aot.
♦
A wild and frantic disoussion has been making
the hair of Victorian professors stand on end.
They have been inventing a lot of complicated
ways to vote, because at present if A., B. and C.,
stand for a place with only one seat, two of the
candidates may divide between them a greater
number of votes than the third, and yet the third
have a majority over each of them, whilst he may
really be the most unpopular of all, and would, if
one or other of them had not stood, have been re-
jected. So the professors propose to have each
voter describe his order of preference for A . B.
and C. But how is this to be done in the crush
and hurry of an election ? Why, even on what
looks the only plan of getting at the measure of
preference, allotting each elector as many votes
as there are candidates, so that he can give them
one each, or two to A. and one to 8., or all three
to A., unless he had opposition votes as well to
denote his measure of objection, the same thing
would come to pass, and the latter plan would be
too lengthy and elaborate to prove correot in
such a distraotlng time. Therefore we suggest
that every man should be at liberty to strike out
or to leave whomsoever he pleases, irrespective of
the number of seats, so that no voter should en-
danger his side by striking out one of its represen-
tativea in favour of the other, unless he had solid
grounds for the rejection. By this means the
party majority would prevail, and the most popu-
lar man of that party be returned. Still there
might be a limited temptation to strike out a
favoured candidate on behalf of one personally
more favoured, but it would not influence a large
number of voters who are now compelled to risk
such a selection, and it could be met (if necegsarj)
by a supplementary statement to be filled up on
the coupon : “ In the event only of one o:
the above preferred candidates having a majority
over those rejected by me, I select him absolute r
over any other preferred candidate.” This ii •
deed would cover the whole ground, and secur
all the benefits aimed at by the most complicates
system, with far greater accuracy on account
its ease and extreme ei upliclty.
,
It will be as well to say a few words here upo
the vexed question of France and the New
Hebrides. If the French diplomatists regard, a
they seem to regard, every means, fair or unfai
as admissible for the purpose of annoying ant
hampering England, it must also be borne i
mind that the English Royal Court has through
out hern guiliy of repeated insults to the Frenc
Republic as a Republic, and that official recogm
tion of the French commemorative exhibitio
was refused, on the ground that it was contrar
to the dignity of a sovereignty to take part in r c
joicings which went to memorialize the overthrow
of a dynasty and the institution of a democracy
With the French experiences of monarchy, it ca
hardly be wondered at if this should caus
jealousy and mistrust, and a desire to restric
and belittle the great “kingdom” in ever
possible way. And as the French idea of thes
Australian countries can scarcely be more ex
tended than that which prevails in England, th
epithet of “yelpings,” applied by some of th
French papers to the Australian remonstrances
may well proceed from the idea that the voice i
that of a few ruling scions of the alleged uppe
classes of England, without any conception of it
real nature as the outcry of a comparatively fre
nation. A truer knowledge of what Australi
really is would probably lead to a nune friendl
feeling on the part of France, irrespective of he
attitude towards the sovereign country ; but o
the other hand so long as the connection exists th
relations towards England on the one hand anc
Australia on the other cannot well be differen
tiated. One thing is clear, that if we are free o
the taint of the English aristocratic system in ou
own home?, it is capable of doing us plenty ti
harm abroad in our position as regards the variou
nations with whom the prejudices of a few unre
presentative demag- goes can reverse our natura
relations, either of friendship—as would assuredly
otherwise soon be the case with France, many o
whose interests are identical with our own—or o
antagonism, as with China, which threatens t
appeal to English authority to compel us to ceas
our measures of self-protection against its herd
of opium sodden paupers. What we require is
be more independent of a country that is alread
in many respects a century or two behind us in
the march of enlightenment and progress.
On the morning of 28th October, when Bourk
and Collins streets were alive with holiday
makers, a gruesome drama was being enactec
within the central quadrangle of Melbourne Gaol
A hideous-lookiog masked figure stood by
newly-erected triangle lovingly combing the
thongs of a heavy whip through its knuckly
fingers. This was Jones, the public executioner
and flagellator, waiting for his victim, who wa
presently dragged in by two stalwart warders
Grouped in a corner was a small knot of official
—the governor, surgeon, chief warder, and hos
pital dispenser. No. 1909 (known in the world as
Duncan M’Donald) was a crooked minded old
wretch whose 60 odd years’ experience of Chris
tian precept and example had failed to curb the
oblique sensualism of his nature, and he had been
convicted of an abominable offence. For this he
had been sentenced by a wise and merciful
judge to a lengthened term of imprisonment
and two floggings of 12 lashes each. He
had taken his first punishment pluokily, noli
to say defiantly, but he was cowed enough
now. “If we cannot reform these fel-
lows,” says the humane Anglo Saxon prison
authority, “we will break their spirit.” No.
4901 was a living example of the triumph of this
system. Breaking away from the warders, the
wretched creature threw himself at the flagella-
tor’s feet and begged for mercy. Mercy from
him ! Mercy from the administrator of heaven-
born justice ! Of course the bare idea of the
thing was absurd, but you will please to remem-
ber that No. 1904 knew no better. “ Strap him
up 1 ” said the Governor, and in a trice he was
bound to the triangle a writhing, shrieking,
blaspheming, shattered wreck of humanity. “At
the eleventh stroke prisoner fainted, but was
brought round with strong ammonia, and,” says
a local paper, ‘ ‘ warned that it was no good hav-
ing any nonsense.” And this is the country which
is about to celebrate its centenary !
♦
Judge Faucett, of Sydney, had a very level-
headedjury to deal with last week. After having
retired they returned to enquire what the costs in
the action would amount to: they wanted to
know that before they gave their verdict. Natur-
ally the judge couldn’t find the answer to this
conundrum. Then they considered once more
and assessed the plaintiff's anguished mind at £5,
but as the judge sternly refused to certify for
costs, the plaintiff will be about £2OO poorer than
the compassionate jurors intended. They evi-
dently thought that costs followed the verdict,
But they were singularly wise in considering the
question of legal “ exes.” in connection with their
vqrdiet. They grasped the big butt-end of the
everlasting truth that litigants only consider the
question of damages in the first stages of a suit;
afterwards the only thought of the parlies is as to
payment of the costs.
“It is understood that the Chinese residents of
N.3.W. are taking active steps in connection with
contributing towards the Sir Henry Pakkes’
Fund.” We shouldn’t wonder. Parkes has
been a good friend to everything yellow, and a
deucedly bad creditor to every one who had
green in the white of his eye. Anyhow, the
Chinese ought to be a little grateful to him.
Judging from his latest schedule of liabilities,
Ah Parkes owes no money either to Bung Hi or
Chew Yah.
«.
“In regard to the school children, I believe my
hon. colleague refused that anything should be
done in regard to the matter" (of the Parkes’
testimonial fund).- So said Parkes in the New
South Wales Assembly, yet we have a not very
dim recollection of a lady—the wife of a Parkesian
M.L. A.—having been publicly thanked for having
distributed the subsc tip tion lists (printed at her
own cost) amongst the State schools. Was that
done in defiance of the New South Wales M inister
for Public Instruction, or were the paper’s surrep-
titiously introduced to the scholars 1 We don’t
expect a reply. The solemn fact, of course, is
that recent revelations have absolutely disgustec
New South Wales with Parkes, whose few re
maining admirers have been milked dry. Las
week only about £l3O was paid or promised to the
testimonial fund, and several localities appealed
to have flatly negatived resolutions submitted in
favour of helping the movement, which is now
entirely being carried on among the coercible and
more unsuspecting portions of the community—
the Civil Servants, Ihe women, the children, and
the Chinamen. We shan’t be astonished to hear
shortly that subscription-lists have been sent to the
aboriginal settlements and to Darlinghurst Gaol.
♦
Again we must sorrowfully protest against the
manner in which Australian Banking Company
advertisements are placed before a trustful public.
For instance, in the daily papers we see that the
company claims to have a “ Reserve” of £36,718.
As a matter of fact, it has no such reserve. The
figures may represent the uncalled capital
on allot ted shares, but it is not a “reserve ” in any
ordinary sense of the term. And it is remarkable
that th's same amount was advertised months ago
as being so much “ Reserve Capital.” Assuming
that the amounts are identical, we are grieved to
notice thit they cannot in both instances be ma-
thematically accurate. For if this is really the
balance of uncalled but allotted shares, it is clear—
unless there is here the most marvellous coinci-
dence on record —that no shares have been taken
up sines, say, September, and such we are in-
formed on sufficient authority is not the case.
This may seem a small matter, but it is not so in
reality, for there arc lots of “ gullible dolts” who
would regard this “ Reserve” with an amount of
confidence equalled only by the trustful anticipa-
tion with which Young Australia waits to behold
William Beach, Esquire, showing the gifted
Canadian the road down the pure and pearly
waters of the Nepean.
——4.
It is not nics to say rough things about so highly
efficient an officer as the New South Wales Crown
Solicitor, but being the slaves of public duty we
are impelled to point out that guinea fees charged
by his Department for certifying to the legality of
selection transfers—when the transfer is the result
of testacy, intestacy, insolvency, or is made under
power of attorney—are extortions of Shylockian
although, perhaps, strictly legal nature. Say a
widow is entitled to her husband’s selection at his
death. If he left a will she has to employ a
la wyer and a member of the junior bar to unite
their energies in obtaining probate; if there is no
will the lawyer and barrister must be subsidised
to obtain letters of administration. This Sapreme
Court authority having been secured the Crown
Solicitor or his subordinate must certify to the
transfer at a cost of one guinea, before
it can bo made effective. Over freehold
estates the C.S. has no claim, but for every trum-
pery selection he is paid that guinea in tne cases
we have mentioned for declaring that the Supreme
Court has done the square thing in the matter.
While amendment of the Land Act of 85 is oc-
cupying the time of the legislature it would be as
well if the widow and the orphan, the purchaser
from an insolvent, and the transferee under power
of attorney, were relieved from the necessity of
testifying their admiration of the Crown Solici-
tor's Department at the rate of one guinea per
transfer. Why need the fat kine continue to
devour the lean kine thus ?
4,
Editor Bulletin,— Sir—Re your article, “ The
Abolition of Juries,” I have something to propose.
Judge Hayne states that a “judge who passes
opinion on the law is competent to pass opinion
on the facts.” Now I have assisted at many a
tribunal in which I believe justice and law were
exhibited, and where there was the minimum of
prejudice. I refer to Courts-martial. Again, I
have assisted (passively) in New South Wales at
Courts where the incompetency, and, perhaps, the
“religious convictions” mentioned by Judge
Seephen and Q.C. Salomons, respectively, were
painfully evident. In a Court-martial the presi-
dent and members are judge and jury combined,
and are guided by the law (military) and by
honour. Allowing our judges to be honourable
men, my proposal would be to reverse their posi-
tion with the jury. Let the judge find the ver-
dict and instruct the jury in the law of sentence,
pointing out the maximum, minimum, and cusj
;omary punishments. Sentences would not then
be influenced by the acuteness of an attack of
gout in one limb, and it is improbable that even a
Majority of twelve should be gouty, dyspeptic, or
“coppery” atone and the same time.—Yours,
See., Hiram Abtff.
In an affiliation case at Newcastle (N.S. W.),
last week, Mr. J. A. Gorrick, the defendant’s
attorney, spoke of “ embraces ’neath the clematis
and honeysuckle in the golden moonlight of our
summer evenings."
Tin has run up from £7O per ton three
years ago to £l3O now. And that is why there
are more public-houses to the square mile at
Cairns and Herberton (N.Q.) than there are in any
other part of Australia.
The following items may not have any
apparent connection, but it is worth noticing that
they appear in this order in a London sooiety
paper: —
"bast week, at a meeting of the Fulham Vestry, the time-
worn matter of Mrs. Jefferies and her disorderly house cropped
up again."
" Last week the King of the Belgians paid a hurried visit
to London.”
Dear Bulletin,— lf the sapient N.S.W.
Attorney-General saw, as I saw, what happened
to the late Justice Fellows one day whilst sitting
in Banco with Sir W. F. Stawell and the
late Judge Stephen in Melbourne, I think
he might alter his views about forcing
newly-appointed Judge 3 to hear appeals in cases
whore they had recently been retained as counsel.
The appellant was the inevitable litigant, Slack,
who was conducting his own case, which, strange
to say, he eventually won. However, he was in-
terrupted in one of his arguments by Judge Fel-
lows, who said : “Really, Mr. Slack, I can’t sea
it in that light.” “ Can’t you ? ” asked Slack, add-
ing : “You saw it clearly enough when you were
thrusting my guineas down your breeches pocket
befo:etheymadeajudsreofyou.” Notasyllablewaa
said about contempt of Court—though Slack was
on a subsequent occasion committed by Sir Red-
mond Barry but Judge Fellows rose with a face
as red as a brick and apologised to Slack for not
having remembered that he had been retained by
him. Had he done so, he said, he would not have
occupied the Bench, and he was leaving it when
he was actually pulled back into his seat by the
Chief Justice and Justice Stephen, but he seemed
to take no further part in the matter. Mr. Wise is
very fond of telling us what they do “in England,
you know,” but Fellows, who was a long time
Chitty’s right-hand man, knew a trifle about the
old country, too.— Demos.


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY
When Henry Kingsley wrote his book
about Australia for British readers, he told them
of a great, lone, melancholy island in the pleasant
Southern seas—the largest and possibly the
grandest island in the world. The land of lorely
rivers and level gray plains, he called it; the land
of wool and corn, incalculable to the human mind ;
the land of gold and jewels. “ Who were to have
this wondrous land?” he asks, “which lay fer
thousands of years asleep in a summer sea, war-
ing for its owners.”- With all the purblind
saponaceouenes3 that even good men exhibit
when writing about Australia, he gives the
answer : “ Providence designed that country
for us !"
An early English discoverer.
If the Australian people of the near future
know anything about that matter, Providence de-
signed nothing of the kind. It is only the smug
Englishman of the type that sung “Britons never
shall be slaves,” while not one man in one
thousand had a vote or a voice in public affairs—
who fought the battles of England abroad to take
his attention off his own domestic miseries at
home, that could answer for the designs of Provi-
dence in this flippant and familiar manner. The
John Bull of the past, who looked on the great
world-system of waters as a British lake, and on
Divine Providence itself as a vulgar British insti-
tution, alone could fall into such an egregious
error as that. If Providence had any design in
the matter at all, it was that the great Australian
continent should belong to a great Australian
people, ruling itself under its own laws, and free
as Providence possibly intended every man
and every nation to be. We can imagine
Providence designing that a great people
Should grow up here, with all the mistakes of old-
world legislation and class-traditions for its warn-
ing, and with all the preventible old-world
miseries, poverty, and ignorance that those tradi-
tions and that legislation have developed into
rank growth, for its beacons of quicksands to be
avoided. So much for Mr. Henry Kingsley and
his rapidly-expiring class.
* * *
Away back at the beginning of the ter-
tiary period, Australia was joined to China
by a broad land-belt. Presently a convulsion
of nature occurred. The land-belt disap-
peared and water flowed in its place. Aus-
tralia “ cut the painter” and floated away, as it
were, on its own career of independence. Wal-
lace’s Line on the map marks where the rupture
took place. Had it not occurred, we might have
been all Chinese to-day, with Australia twirling
its pig-tail for the Brother of the Sun instead of
throwing up its hat for the lady who is pre-
eminent in grief and in wealth ; and sitting at the
feet of the wise Confuoius Instead of burning in-
cense to our Old Man of the Sea.
* * *
But our Chinese cousins had another
chance, and missed it. Long after paleolithic
man had passed away, a Chinese junk burst into
these silent seas, with youth at the prow and plea-
sure at the helm, to the sound of the inspiring
tom-tom. Old legends tell how the grisly appari-
tion of these adventurous children of the Sun
affrighted our “ peaceful southern ocean ” like a
nightmare, as it passed on its mysterious way.
We said just now that the Chinese had their
chance, and missed it. That was a rash assertion.
The enterprising navigator of that pre-historic
junk, scanning the future with dim prophetic eye,
saw that Australia had better be left for some
other active persons to do the rough work of
Later Chinese discoveries.
colonisation, and after that his bland and patient
celestial descendants might come along without
ruffling an eye-lash, aud scoop the whole institu-
tion like the merest fan tan pool. He knew who
Providence designed the “ pot” for.
* * *
The Chinese sharp-shooter sailed away.
He was our pre-historic ancestor, and doubtless
his statue will occupy a vacantpedestalby and bye,
when those of Victoria Wettin and Albert the Good
are melted down into copper coin, to compensate
the holders of great freehold estates which will
have been confiscated for the benefit of the Aus-
tralian people. When rur ancestor faded away
over the horzon. the “great, lone, melancholy
island ’ had a rest for a time ; and, by the way,
wii *n lie reader digests this history he won’t
wonder any more why it was “melancholy ” Two
hundred and eighty two years ago a picturesque
Spanish freebooter named De Quiros paid it a
visit. He also went awav. The Dutch looked in
about the same time. They also left—but in a
hurry this time. The unanimity our early visi-
tors showed in going away is striking, But to do
these Dutchmen bare justice, they got good rea-
son for their action. Their reception, it appears,
was not altogether hospitable. The aboriginal in-
habitants began to hatch a quaint suspicion that
Providence designed the great lone, melancholy
island for th&m. So they fell upon the crew of the
An early discoverer penetrating into the
interior.
Dutch yacht Dnyfhen, killed a few of the number,
and picnicked airily on the remains. The unpro-
nounceable name of the vessel is their best
apology. It muft be confessed that their no
tion about the designs of Providence was a crudely
practical one,
* * *
But if the pure Chinese strain wasn’t
crossed with Dutch blood —if we don’t all wear
wide knickerbockers and pig-tails to-day and
smoke big pipes and play the tom-tom—it is
largely owing to the patriotic action of these im-
pulsive aboriginals, and the hazy nature of their
theological views. For the Dutch certainly left
Australian soil in some precipitation before De
Quiros’ lieutenant struck Cape York and named
Torres Straits. Iu all probability both expedi-
tions imagined that Providence designed this
country for them. Dirk Hartog, another Dutch-
man, touched at Eudraght’s Land ten years later.
Quite a locust-flight of flying Dutchmen found
Australia in the next decade, from Zeachen down
to Pi9ter Nayts. Tasman’s visit was in 1642.
He wrote his sweetheart’s name all over the
Australian map, and made it historical. This
was the only touch of tender human senti-
ment the Island now called after him was destined
to see for many a long day. In later times, after
the horror of our hietory had held its saiurnalian
orgie—when each blade of grass had its horrible
story and every woodland nook reeked with the
strong flavour of bloody reminiscences—it was
found advisable to destroy a goad deal of poor
Tasman’s lover's romance, and change the name
of Maria Van Diemen’s father for one with some-
what less pungent associations. So we called the
island Tasmania—at d complacently allowed the
rank growth of old institutions to flourish, while
the name of Vandemonia that recalled them too
keenly became a thing of the past. But though
Tasman made several voyages there, Providence
does not appear to have designed any part of the
country for him.
A Dutch discoverer.
ss * *
The buccaneer Dampier, of Virginia, was
engaged in a piratical expedition against some
Spanish traders when he struck the North-West
coast of Australia. Eleven years after, the Eng-
lish Admiralty authorities sent him out on a
voyage of discovery. He held several theological
controversies with the aboriginal inhabitants
about the designs of Providence, and after his
expedition nothing more is recordel on that sub-
ject until 1770. In the meantime the Spanish De
Quires had called the continent “Australia,”
while the Dutch named it “ New Holland.” For-
tunately the Spanish name was the one eventually
retained. Dampier came in 1688. Io is well
to remark that persons engaged in piratical expe-
ditions have neon striking the Australian coast
very violently ever since.
* * *
It is a distressing but characteristic fact
that the disoovery of the eastern coast of Aus-
tralia was reserved for a person with the unro-
mantic name of Cook. We have always bEen un-
happy in our nomenclature. No one with an
inspiriting name of his own vou!d have thoufeht
of calling his discovery by such an uncouth
designation as “ New South Wales.” And no
people that did not glory in its disgrace would
have retained the name and its dismal associa-
tions so long. But the trail of the serpent, as it
were, is over all we do. Do we soar into senti-
ment ? Oar airy flight is impeded by the dead-
weight of the Past that hangs litre plummets on
our nobler parts s »that we have to t acrifice the
delicate flower of romance in the story of Maria
Van Diemen to the necessity of getting rid of the
associate n the name calls up. Do we, like Mr.
Silas Wevg, drop into poetry ? Every bnshman
in this afflicted land scou ges our ears with damn-
able iteration of platitudinous phrases about the
balmy fragrance of the yellow wattle-blooms,
until that Australian vegetable has come to have
no more romantic sentiment in association with
its name than the fatuous cabbage or the hypo-
critical onion,
• # *
Cook decided the question that had per-
plexed so many explorers without a moment’s
hesitation, and handed the country over to “my
Sovereign, George the Third,” whose royal pro-
geny—the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York,
uncles of Her Gracious —used to tie their royal
parent to the post of the royal bedstead and play
“ bait the bear ” with him in his dotage, and then
go down to their club and tell what fun
they had with the old man. Greville tells the
story in his Memoirs; and also how the Commons
voted the Duke of York a pension for his fl.ial
piaty in visiting his demented progenitor on these
occasions. But what has this to do with Botany
Bay? you ask. Well, nearly everything. We are
coming to it now.
* * *
It is time to revert to Henry Kingsley :
“ At about this time (1787) the British Govern-
ment was baginnirg to find out that hanging men
for petty iheft was a large mistake. Anyhow,
hanging did ro good. Transportation was tried,
and the great dominion of Australia f ounded.”
This is crisply put, but its accord with the
“ designs of Providence ” theory is not ap-
parent at a glance. The simple fact of the
matter is that the penal laws of England
at the time, and for fifty years after, were a
black disgrace to civilisation. Women and
children were hanged for shop-lifting to the value
of a pocket-handkerchief. Black Monday oppo-
site the Debtor’s Door at Newgate will not hear
description. One writer has this on a quite recent
aspect of the subject:—“A public execution in
London was a scene to fill an observer with some-
thing like loathing for the whole human race.
Through all the long night before the execution
the precincts of the prison became a bivouac
ground for the ruffianism of the metropolis. The
roughs, the harlots, the professional robbers, and
the prospective murderers held high festival
there. The air reeked with the smell of strong
drink, with filthy jokes and oaths and blasphemy.
The moral effect of the scene was about as great
as the moral effect of a cock-fight. The soul took
its flight as if it were a trapeze performer in a
circus.” The Government began to think it just
as well if some of them took their flight to New
South Wales. The American colonies, having
just got their independence, refused any more
white labour. A philanthropic proposal to hand
criminals over to the slave-dealers of Morocco was
made in a Christian country, and rejected. Con-
s'gnmenta were sent to the fever-coast of Africa,
where they died off like sheep, under the lash. So
New South Wales was founded.
“D.”
Poor Wales missed Doncaster races this
year for the first time, and it now transpires that
he was frozen out and had the key of the street.
There are two lords, a duke, and a couple of
once wealthy members of Parliament In the
vicinity of Doncaster, and the Prince has patron-
ised them turn-about, and once a year he and his
gang have turned the premises upside-down and
scoffed late suppers and expensive drinks all over
the place, till the two lords got tired of it and
reso ved to pass. Next the faithful duke fell off,
and then Wales and his friends hung on to Christo-
pher Sykes, M P., till they ate that gentleman’s
income from £15,000 down to £BOO a year, and
then he went away to vegetate at a cheap pub. iu
Germany. Mr. Chaplin, a red headed man with
an eye glass and a Punch-like profile, was
then the only resource left, and by dint of
vigorously following Wales’s straight tips and
otherwise makirg himself agreeable, he lost
£150,000 in 12 months, when he found himself
with considerably over £2 a week to call his own.
He still hung out at his family mansion, however,
till he saw a notice in the paper that Wales and
about 40 roystering friends were coming down to
stay with him for the Leger, and then knowing
that he had hardly even a ham-bone to offer them,
he also fled to Germany and took refuge in the
cheap pub. where Christopher Sykes was already
located. So poor Wales never saw the raoes this
year, and passed his time instead among a crowd
of stone-deaf relations at Copenhagen. It was a
woeful falling-off.
Away in the early sixties there stood—
and may still for all we know—a three-storied red
brick building next door to the butchering estab
lishment of a well-known sport of those days—
Jimmy Graham. This was known to Melbourne
arbizans, saving domestics, and thrifty “ bobbies”
as the “ Provident Institute.” It was bossed by a
fat gentleman named Porter, and had a “ Board of
Directors,” among whom were a solicitor, a
trading ship’s captain, and a retired shopkeeper
or two ; but, directors or not, Porter was boss. The
“ institute ” received sums in any amount—large
or small—on deposit, and into this: he artizms,
servants, and bobbies of the good old days of Mel-
bourne, dazzled by the large interest allowed,
u;ed to put their weekly savings. The usual
half yearly balance sheets were produced with re-
ligious punctuality, and the wage-earning classes
believed tna r in the ‘‘Provident” Institute they
had a safe and profitable investment. However,
one morning, in ihe midst of a terrific “ bric« -
fielder,” an ugly, uncomfortable rumour went
forth that the institute doors had not
been opened. Half the artizans in Melbourne
dropped their tools and undid their apronstrings,
the girls tidied up \hMr back hair and got leave
for an our, the placid bobby saw the sargint, and
“for God s i ake ” g t lave, and by noon a crowd of
some thousands had assembled out side the building
clamorously demiid ng their hard-earned coin.
One of the clerks—the only official who had the
courage to face the crowd—announced that the
manager, Porter, was nowhere to be found, and
that not a coin was in the coffers of the institute.
It was apparent that the whole of the assets were
made away with, chat for years the balance sheets
had been ‘faked.” the large interest paid and
dividends declared had all come out of the de-
posits, a-id that Mr. Porter had gone to Ca lao —
at that time the refuge for all absconding s windleis.
Certain of the directors were put upon trial and
suffered imprisonment, although we believe their
crime lay in placing faith in Porter. It ia many
years since this occurred, and we rake it up now
that it may serve as a timely warning,
CORRESPONDENCE
‘LS.-T.’: Prove to us that Dibbs ever advo
cated Chinese labour and we 11 give you an order on Abigail
for £25 1 Arcade A. Bard : Get your brain taken cut and
caret oily scraped. One of the qo ck doctors who pr yon
the public per m-dium of the E. Ivews will be glad to do the
work ~‘A.M.M. : Yes, Belladonna is not a bad drink
wherewith to assuage a thirst for notoriety ..‘Victim,
Antonio ’: Glad to have your testimony as to the opera'iocs
of the Australian Banking Company. We do not think it
necessary to publsh your evidence at present 1 F. p.
Smythe': You want to degrade us to the level of a bailiff ~.
E. Mason’: The Sydney .T. was former 1; a Protectionist
paper. Is will y.t te on* again, no doubt....
N.S.W.' (Wileannia) : Excellent ideas Little
Heathen ; Thanks. ...‘ E.P.B.’: There are 10,000 Chinese in
Queensland. Only 56 of them are women....'Drover
Next week....‘W.T.M.’: A reform in the character and man
ners of the N.S.W. Assembly would be a good way in which
to celebrate the centenary. Supposing a hill were brought in
providing that no man should be eligible for election who
could not produce a character from his last employer?...,
‘F.L.W.’: Cutting“B” cannot possibly be used in this lawyer
blasted land. Its very incomprehensibility is a protection to
the responsible parties. Your information re the Australian
Banking Co.’s operations we will store up for future use....
‘J. Taylor 1 : You seem to think that “depreciation in the
price of land” is a nice respectable reason for insolvency,
But iB gambling in land a bit more virtuous than any other
kind of gambling ? iTo our mind, the above-named excuse is
no more valid, and certainly less humorous, than that of the
sportsman who honestly answered, in his schedule, “ wrong
horse coming in first.”..,.‘Alice B.’: If we are to have rail-
way carriages for women only, we must, to he logical, also
have railway-carriages for men only. The history of the
police-courts incontestably proves that on the average male
travellers have even more to fear from designing! women
than female travellers have to fear from designing men....
‘ A Yan Tiemen ’: Nonsense ‘E. Marston’: Why should
not stipendiary magistrates be compelled to witness the
floggings they inflict on victims of mental disorder?..,,
1 British, &c.’: England with a dead loss of six millions a
year in her landed propel ty to begin with, to say nothing of
her loss in not-earned profit, and decay or disappearance of
her agricultural population. Ireland with a census reduced
to 4,000,000, and rapidly falling to 4000, when only will land-
lords be content. Scotland beicg turned into deer forests
for the monarch and the aristocracy. What more would
you have?... .‘Bong Bong’: “When a man wants to bribe a
member of Parliament does he go to him and offer him a
certain sum?” That all depends on whether the member
hasn t already called on him and fixed his own price... .‘ W.
Wy ’ : No man includes his own wife and daughters in social
schemes founded on free love. Similarly no man likes to hear
his neighbour s piano or his neighbour’s dog. The bark of
his own cur or the jingle of his own music-box never dis-
tresses him....' M. Caster’: How on earth can he “lack the
actual necessaries of life ” while he has £2OOO a year salary
aB Colonial Secretary ?—‘T. C.’ (Bourke): Your allegation
that other big companies likewise fatten on the proceeds of
usury only amounts to an insinuation that two blacks make
one white. The Bulletin s views are not influenced by
the advertisements which appear in its columns, and The
Bulletin, though it may from time to time be deceived,
will never willingly publish advertisements bolstering up
swindles It has refused hundreds of such advertisements,
from quack doctors and others. We are sorry for your loss,
but we are still more sorry to find that there is in Australia
one poor man prepared in any way to palliate the actions of
those who make money out of the usury of labour
‘W. Mason’: Please give us-the name of any represen
tative N.S.W Freetrader who ever publicly said he was in
favour of land-nationalisation....‘Subscriber’: It is not
legal, when Christmas Day falls upon Sunday, to open a
public-house ‘J.T.D.’: All about Parkes. Don’t you
think people are tired of Parkes?....‘Walter Ward’: The
judge who sentenced the man to life-imprisonment and flog-
gings must be an unreasoning savage ‘W. Joyce’: The
real object of the N.S.W. Land Bill is to give the squatters,
for a mere trifle, something very like the fee simple of their
enormous holdings.... ‘ Clontarf: A mere Mud-geophagist
—a dirt-eater from Mudgee ‘Walter Meredith’: The
voice of the people is ultimately the voice of God....‘ L.L,’
John Bright has got fat and lost his intellect—he ha s pro-
bably eaten it. Experience counts for nothing in the man
whose political principles share the fatty degeneration of
his liver. Gladstone’s mind and body are still healthy....
‘ Home Ruler ’ (Me.bourne): The Argus is anti-liberal and
the Age is anti-Irish; hence Home Rule comes off rather
badly between them. As to the compliment you pay The
Bulletin in re its attitude on the Irish question, it requires
less courage than many people suppose to tell the tiuth....
‘T.H.M.’ (Singleton): Thanks; will give your tea-fight a
good Bhow ‘ Honi': We must erase the name of Parkes
from our vocabulary....‘Susan’: Item good; will probably
print ‘Camera’: Your epic is a tremendous atom—too
much grit for table use, and not enough grit for building
purposes ‘K.M.’ (Wallenbeen): Will write ‘E.W.
(Howlong): The Bulletin, being an all-Australian paper,
doesn’t print items of merely local interest ‘Young Aus.
tralia’: May print at right time.,..*R.J.B.': Thanks . :
‘N.S.W.’ (Wilcannia): There is no objection to an Aus-
tralian being born in any part of the world, except China,
neither is there any special merit iu anyone being born id
Australia. It is one of those things you can hardly help.
The Australian Natives' Association is not democratic, any-
how—it panders to Victorian Governor Loch. Any man, not
a Chinaman or a kanaka, who comes to Australia and turns
his back on the old world, is an Australian. 2. Of course,
there is no necessity for the colony’s new name to end in ia.
In view of recent events, iou would be not inappropriate....
‘No. 2 Poet’: Your threatened resignation brings no woe
to u5....‘ O.ster Johnnie’: You ought to leave your items
out in the air to cool down ...‘Gough’: You will hear
further from us.H.E P. M‘D.' (Queanbeyan): Your poem
is not fit for publication, but it is nevertheless very good ; its
defects are those of metrs or rhythm... .'Francis Martin
Aroint thee. Geo M, You are an “abnormally exiit-
abie man." Therefore you sh >u.d bs a teetotaller . .‘S.F.’
(Q.): Right you are ...| OXany communications held orer.
The following additional subjcriptions
have been received in aid of the William Roy
FundWeilmoringhi shearers, £1 3s. ; J. F.
Fulton, 10s.
Parkes now has the impudence to deny
that he ever attempted to influence any Civil ser-
vants on the eve of an election. After this, he
would deny anything. As a matter of fact, he,
knowing his seat to be shaky, on the eve of the
Bast Sydney election of 1883, sent for the heads of
the N.S.W. Civil service and told them a oocE-
and-b ill story about having received an anonym-
ous letter enquiring what he purposed doing for
tne Civil servants; he “ .ook tne opportu-
nity” of giving the C.S, magnates certain assur-
ances of his goodwill and esteem, and then bowed
them out. Tne name of the obliging person who
sent this mysterious “anonymous” letter at so
critical a juncture has never transpired. In all
human probability the epistle was spirit-written
, —by the Kiama Ghost.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Shuatr* Royal—’ "The Red Lamp P-15
Criterion Theatre.—" Gjmbeline "
Alhambra Music Hall —Sacred Concert
Alhambra Music Hall.— Minstrelsy
Domain —Pain’s Fireworks <■
Y M.C. A. Hall —Amy Sherwin . - n
Her Majesty s Theatre.— " Held by the Enemy „
“ The Red Lamp ” commenced to shine
at Sydney Royal on Saturday in the presence of a
full house. It is a touching story of a band of
energetic conspirators who started to blow up a
Czar—and failed. That is where the pathos
comes in. They failed. They had everything
ready for blasting the monarch into hash, and
had nothing to do but lead him softly by the
coat-tails to where their mine was laid, and then
touch a button aind send the frizzled Emperor
into space, btlt at the last moment an editor in
evening dress Linked on the programme and
began to whang with his umbrella at the door
of the palace and yell for mercy. This sort of
thing has spoiled many a good conspiracy. The
average plot is divided now a days into three
parts—the man who gets it up, the party
who digs the hole, and the fellow who
gives the scheme away and gets kicked all
round for his idiocy, and is then officially
scalped and sent to Siberia. The author of the
“ Red Lamp,” makes a terrible misuse of
bis opportunities. All through he is filled with
a frantic anxiety to save the Czar from being
blown up, and he fills his drama with worshippers
of that hard-drinking barbarian, and employs a
crowd of smooth, smiling, lying, sleepy-looking
police spies to pick the man traps out of the Im-
perial coffee and the infernal machines out of the
pickle bottle. Even the democratic Yankee of
the first act becomes an admirer of Asiatic
savagery in the third, and refuses to shake
hands with a Nihil is 1 -, who is washed quite as
clean as he is himself ; and the fourth act
is devoted to a scene of repentance, in which the
murdering Czar escapes his fate, and the
mo3t enthusiastic of the conspirators dies
with a fork stuck in his back “for God atd for
Russia,” The “Red Lamp” is a wel'.-written
essay on the beauties of tyranny, and, viewed as a
moral les3on, it is a disgrace to the stage of a
democratic land. As regards the acting, it is
first-class all through. Mr. G. W. Anson takes
the laurel crown as the wiliest and slimiest police-
agent who ever trod the surface of the earth ; and
next to him in order cf merit come Mr. H. H.
Vincent as the gruesome editor, Zazgulie, Mr.
Herbert Flemming as the democratic American
who won’t Bhake hands with a Nihilist, and Mr.
Philip Beck, who, the girls think, “ looks
lovely.” Captain de Burgh is chiefly notice-
able through the circumstance of his being a cap-
tain. Miss Isabel Morris scores a glittering
triumph in the part of the bloodthirsty Princess
Claudia ; but Miss Pattie Brown, as her daughter,
is more interesting, because le3s murderous in her
tendencies.
JL «V» AL AL
•71* W TT W
“ Night B’rds,” at Sydney Gaiety, de
serves honorable mention among melodramas on
account of one startling novelty. As a rule, the
great difficulty with which the stage murderer
has to contend ia that of finding some place in
which to stow away the body, and Mr. G. L,
Gordon's bell-toppered assassin solves the prob’em
by putting the corpse into the safe. Then he goes
about drawing fancy pictures of the dead man
turning green and slimy on top of the cash-book,
and decaying among the bills, and his business
goes to wreck because he dare not open the iron
door for fear of a slippery, slushy “something”
falling Into his arms and Btaring him in the face.
The victim, meanwhile, is not dead at all, and is
let out in time for tea by a nervous little burglar.
His soj aura in the safe, however, works a change in
his character, and he comes out like a raging lion
seeking whom he might chaw. Being of a
muddle-headed disposition, however, he is of very
little UEe, ard “Night Birds,” which is rather a
good piece with him in it, would be almost as
satisfactory if he were left out. Mr. George L.
Gordon, the author, plays very well as ’Aery
’Awkins, but ’Any ia halmost habsolutely hun-
necessary (the haspirates are put in here to keep
things square) to the progress of the story. Mr.
1 eston a John Hawkins and Miss Lily Dampier’s
deceptive American widow are probably the best
delineations in the piece.
Ai. AL AL AL
'7V' 'A' 'A' '/V*
A very successful amateur performance of
“ New Men and Old Acres” was given last Fxi-
day at Sydney Gaiety, the proceeds being devoted
to the funds of the National Shipwreck Relief
Society cf N.S.W. Governor Carington and a
party from Government House lent enchantment
to the view, and thus encouraged, the funds rolled
in freely till tbe ticket-taker and the noble figure
■of Mr. Gunther, manager, were bathed in perspira-
tion. The theatre, which was kindly lent for the
occasion by Messrs. Foley and Dampier, was
crowded in all parts, and the performance proved
to be considerably above the ordinary amateur
standard. The cast was as follows:—Benjamin
Bunter, Mr. E. W. Wallington ; Birsenbalg,
Colonel E. Bingham ; Vavasour, Mr. A. Forbes-
Angus; Brown, Mr. A. W. Robinson; Seeker,
Mr. A. Hutton ; Bertie, Mr. C. Billyard ; Gautrey
and Montmorency, Captain Mill ward. R.A.; Lady
Vavasour, Mrs. Fritby; Lilian, Mr. Forbes-
Angus; Mrs-'. Bunter, Miss Joseph; Fanny
Bunter, Mrs. Pieydell Bouverle. The N.S.W.
Artillery string band discoursed sweet music be-
tween the acts.
* * # *
There are eo particular points about Mr.
Frank Smith's Alhambra show this week which
are calculated to excite enthusiasm in a
tired scribe. Mr. Smith’s latest specu-
lation is the Parramatta theatre, and Walsh and
King’s Standard Minstrels are advertised to open
in that dead-alive settlement on Wednesday the
16 th inst.
# # # *
The theatrical managers of Sydney have
been shaken up this week by a rather rough
report from the Colonial Architect’s department
as regards the security of the various places of
amusement in case of fire. Among them all the
Gaiety is apparently the safest in the event of a
panic, and it also seemingly takes the lead in the
matter of ventilation. Her Majesty’s is well
Ventilated, but hampered in places with winding
stairs; the Criterion is tolerably safe, but smells
of disinfectants; the Opera House is described
as dangerous in parts and dilapidated all
over; the Royal comes in for a hearty,
all round anathema; the Academy of Music
is old and seedy ; the Alhambra is overcrowded
with seats, and the Standard receives modified
approval only. Most of the theatrical lessees
have since written, stating that the Department
doesn’t know what it is talking about, and there,
for the present, the matter rests. Sydney has
certainly never yet come into the possession of
the ideal theatre, as it is understood for instance,
in Italy, where the buildings are required, among
other things, to be fireproof throughout, and to
open into a wide clear space or street on every
side.
* # # *
A concert in aid of the Leichhardt “Home
for the Aged Poor ” will be held in the Sydney
Y.M.C.A. Hall on the 17th, under the patronage
of Governor and Lady Carington and tlia Kyar-
dinal.
# # # #
“ Held by the Enemy ” is doing its fourth
week with great success at Her Majesty’s. Also
Bill Holloway continues to rake in a gratifying
pile with “ Cymbeline” at the Criterion. Further-
more, Mr. Pain announces another display
of fireworks in the Domain on Saturday next, and
Mies Amy Shevwin gives two mere farewell con-
certs at the Y.M.C.A. Hall under gubernatorial
patronage.
* * # *
Mr. J. Grant took a large and healthy-
looking benefit at Sydney Riyal Standard on
Wales’ muddy birthday.
# # # #
Embellished with a new act-drop and
smiled upon by the Governor and all his angels,
the Melbourne Bijou revival of “School for
Scandal ” made a toney start last Saturday night
as ever was. The drop was decidedly cheering,
the Gov. looked extremely pretty in his most
becoming b9ard, and the performance had much
to recommend it to favourable notice. Age (i 10
years) has nob withered Sheridan’s comedy any-
thing worth speaking about, and it remains a
popular work on account of its easy morality.
Brough and Bouoicault’s company produce
a harmonious picture devoid of any bits
of broad effect. They have, somehow, re-
duced the comedy in size until the prin-
cipals are able to fill out their parts. Mr.
Brough’s Sir Peter Teazle, Miss Romer s Candour,
Mr. Royce’s Oliver Surface, and Miss Trevelyan’s
Lady Teazle, are satisfactory, but shrunken. The
two young Surfaces evidently gob mixed in the
nursery. Sprightly Mr. Cecil Ward (whose sweet
lip-ticklers have been sacrificed to the barber in the
intern ts of art) is too light for Joseph Mr. Tithi r-
adge is not reckless|]?nough for the festive Charlc s.
If each were the other, bo'h would benefit by the
exchange. Mr. Boucicault, in the assumed voice
of a former character, makes a likely Backbite,
and there is life in the Crabtree of Mr. Cathcart.
The small part of Careless is dressed and played
in superior style by Mr. Laye It only remains to
say that Miss Boucicault’s Marla looks like a
dainty cutting from a “ Kate Greenaway” Christ-
mas card. There i 3 not much for her to do beyond
appearing lovely and unsopliiBtisated, and Miss
B. does that lot perfectly. It is even observable
that simp’e Maria is hardly at home in a minuet
which brings down the curtain on the fi 'at act,
but how a minuet come 3 to he danced in Lady
Sneerwell’s boudoir before dinner, H°aven only
knows. “ The School for Scandal ” will be talked
about, and ought to run for a bit.
There was huge business at all the other
Melbourne houses on Saturday. “ La Gioconda,’
the last rose of the Italian season, filled tne Royal
circle as full as a bey at a bun struggle.
“ Mikado,” with Miss Branam and ihe other new-
chums back from Atefii-de, induced a wild rush
to the Princess’s. And the Opera House “ Com-
bination” started their third week with such
symptoms of vitality that it was necessary to
sling out the superfluous multitudes, and return
their prices of admission by main force. A drama
of well flavoured interest fetched ’em freely at
the little Nugget, where the new management is
now established on a firm basis. The two nigger
halls, a oircus, and a few other trifles were look-
ing strong and well. This general prosperity at
the temples of sin is disheartening for the parsons,
who are beginning to complain of Sunday bufi-
ness. Wet Saturdays and weak shows are beat for
the collection-bag, dear ferends. Mr. timonsen’s
Opera Company give him a big benefit concert at
the Town Hall on the 19tb, when the songsters
leave the Royal to George Darrell and the
“ Sunny South. ’
# # # #
The London Eba recently blossomed cut
into the following “ ad ,” which requires a lot cf
thinking over :
“ It has been stated in a certain newspaper that I have
lost ray leg and substituted a wooden cne. I read this with
amazement and pain, and beg to inform tie theatrical world
through you that it is wholly untrue. It has been reprinted,
and becomes serious. I have taken legal advice on the
mitter, and shall shortly take means to prove to the general
public that there is neither any truth ia, nor any pretence
for, this cruel statement.—l am, sir, yours faithfully, Emily
Kennion."
Now, what we want to know is—how n Emily
going “ to prove to the general public” that her
leg is genuine ? It seems to be rather a delicate
matter to enter upon, and, as the British public is
prone to scepticism, we hardly see how the mat-
ter can be arranged unless she allows a represen-
tative aud'ence to inspect her feet. If they ar
tbe correct thing we presume the leg will be taken
for granted.
# # # #
Violet Cameron will be driven yet to do
something desperate to rid herself of that tanta-
lising, hard-up Greek, David de Bensande. Many
times has she sat on him with varying success,
and when ultimately Lord Lonsdale paid him
£750, he formally withdrew all claim upon her
affections, and at the same time perpetrated the
vaulting bluff of declaring her more spotless than
the winter snow. Now, however, he has started
fooling round his little pansy-blossam once more,
and when Lonsdale calls at the house he hangs on
to the bell and raises Sheol ! Consequently
more divorce case is looming.
# # # #
Kyrle Beliew, the now celebrated London
actor —one of the best and most preventable
Romeos ever seen on the stage—who has played
with Mrs. Langtry and other swells, male and
female, was, 11 years ago, police-court reporter
for a Melbourne paper. One day he had the
audacity to pitch into the city beaks (amoDg
whom was one of his own bosses) for
a certain decision. The next day Beliew
had to appear before the Full Court at the office.
“ Yon know,” said the Chief Justice, “ it wasn’t
the correct thing to do, considering that a man
from whom you were getting your bread was on
the bench.” “ Yes,” replied the gentle Kyrle,
“ and only bread," Bellew’s screw was not raised,
but he wrote no more metrical reports for that
paper, and the Melbourne D.T. presently secured
his brilliant services. Beliew was a clever ver-
sifier, but sometimes his effusions were rather
Frenchy in style, and on one occasion, when his
paper was defendant in a libel action, a report of a
robbery in a house in Lonsdale-street, given in
12 Spenserian stanzas, was read to the jury to
negative the supposition that the paper was
entitled to play the part of censor morum. Beliew
is son of the late Rev. J. C. Beliew, the celebrated
preacher and elocutionist, and the news of his
father’s death arrived by wire in Melbourne
while a Press performance was being given in the
Athenseum for his benefit, after he had just re-
covered from a long and dangerous illness.
Madame Lucy Chambers, Garnet Walch, Bob
Whitworth, and a lot of other well-known people
took part in the entertainment. Beliew was not
told cf his father’s death till the close of the per-
formance. Kyrle had previously to this been
almost everything from a needle to an anchor,
lecturer for a panorama, newspaper reporter, and
goodness knows what else, and he closed his career
in Australia by shipping as third mate of a vessel
going to London, although he knew no more
about navigation or seafaring than he did of
cracking up a blundering beak because he hap-
pened to get bread for brains from him. Bellew’s
Christian names in Melbourne were Harold
Dominick—either of which is quite as good and
well-looking as Kyrle. H. D. B. was once the
hero of a little romance which occurred, above all
other places' on earth, in an asylum for fallen
women. The daughter of old O’Keefe, the Sand-
hurst cheese-maker was being received as a
nun at the Convent of the Good Shepherd at
Abbotsford (Melb.), and a large and fashionable
audience had assembled in the convent chapel.
Beliew was there in his reportorial capacity, and
by the exigencies of the occasion was obliged to
stand all the time in a very prominent position.
He was young, exceedingly handsome —a real live
Romeo—and dressed as only Beliew could dress.
Amongst the audience was the lively and ac
complished daughter of a London bigwig,
who was smitten by the sparkliDg per-
son of the gay Beliew, and after the service de-
manded an introduction. But to her dis-
may, she was warned that the handsome young
gentleman had only a short time before led to the
altar a French actress well-known on the Mel:
bourne stage, and that, therefore, his heart and
hand were engaged beyond re cal, Rut even that
didn’t qui'e cure her of her fascination.
*# * *
The latest malapropisms manufactured by
our managerial muddler are arc.followp. SpeakiDg
of a certain actor, he said : “ That young man is a
perfect ‘enema’ to me.” He meant enigma.
He also once remarked, with reference to the
failure of a piece, that, “ It was not a ‘ finanical ’
success, because it wa3 too ‘ montonlous ’ for the
audience.
## * #
Mrs. Bernard Beere, the London actress,
graduated at the beere engine. From three-star
to single star.
In ordering Sullivan, M P., proprietor of
the Irish Nation, to be re-tried on a charge of
which he had been acquitted, the benign Salisbury
Government virtually say to the Bence, “ There’s
no compulsion, but you must”—commit him or
convict him. A clear ca3e of foregone conclusion.
It’s very hard to get out of the old groove.
In a recent brief “discourse” (in leading article
type) in Sydney D.T. on (he evils resulting from
carrying “too much camas” in N S. W. as well
as in N.Z , no less than six sentences commenced
with tne word “And,’ one with the Bibbed
“ Bug, ’and yet another with a “ Tnen,” used in
the sense of a copulative conjunction.
Why don’t they have a reh-arsil ? In
withdrawing the N.S.W. Land Bill Parkes said it
would speedily be re introduced because “if the
question were settled its settlement would unlock
capital and open sources of employment, and in-
duce a large measure of prosperity to the country
while the grandest point made out by the D.T. for
Garrett and the squatters was that the latter had
already broken their backs by borrowing too much
money and paying interest on the same 1
The remote wilds of North Queensland
are gay with sujar-c \ne and pi idy with kanakas,
atd the kanaka inspector is walking through the
land at tremendous expense, and poking up the
towzled nigger just to see him jump. There are
a good many kinds of kanaka inspectors in the
North, but most of them are Brisbane dude 3 who
were sent up to see if charge of air wou’d save
them from sinking into idiocy. When the e
gentlemen get officially ini Gated they are very
wild, and one of them recently suffered serious in-
juries through overbalancing himself while trying
to pound the hinder part of a kanaka with a
walking stick. When a Brisbane dude is not
available or ne t stupid enough, the jcb is generally
given to a collapsed planter who voted straight at
the last election, and in one Northern town the
present protector of the pore cullud brudder was
fined 16 times during his planting career for
exercising his inalienable right ai a white man to
whop his own nigg r. He has reformed, however,
since then, and. though he occasionally wallops a
brown-skinned pagan just to keep his hand in, he
prosecutes every planter who swears at a kanaka
when he finds him raging drunk among the sugar-
cane, instead of taking him into the parlour and
leaving him to recover ia an arm-chair.
Dear Bulletin, — I have not the cacoethes
scribendi ton’ght (my mate says that must mesa
“ got ’em again ”), but I must be heard. Yon are
on the Drink question once mere, and I have no
reison to alter my opinion that it was criminal
neglect, or peihaps intentional fraud, (hat pre-
vented the Commission from examining experts.
I leave the town boomers to be regulated by Barry,
Moran, and Mackellar, whe pretend they know all
about it, but when it comes to bush swiping I
pas 3 to none as an adept and professional. It is
not drink that hyrts. It is the want of it. Ir
a min gets hie nip, nobbier, ball, wine, peg,
shot, tot, o: whatever yon call it, as in all other
countries , when he wqnts it, the odds are
ten to ore that that man is seldom drunk—and
still the trade would not muen suffer. Bet whil e
the Commission (which I help to pay) are fiddling
wth Bish p 3 and teetotalie s, I am seeking res ,
and refreshment in a country town after spliitirg
posts for three months. Do I get rest ? Not in a
pub. Do I get refreshment ? Not from doctor, d
grog. The want in pubs, is sitliig r loro,
or lounging room. You can’t do anything but
slog it in, when jammed in a stuff/ bar fall of
town (bush-town) loafers. Here I remark that a
bush-town loafer is a more contemptible skunk
than any city beer-eater—and most of them are
young or middle-aged. If the Legislature
would enact that plenty of public sitting
space, not to be used as a meal-table
were supplied in every hotel, my mates and
I could avoid the red-necktie mob ; and to carry
the matter farther the Town Councils should
ply benches away from pubs , so that we could
rest and suffer our recoveries in peace instead of
returning to the pub. or humping the drum to the
bend. There is one thing beyond all dispute, and
that is : No license should be renewed for a pub-
lican who allows local sharks to loaf on his cus-
tomers, or in whose house a local larrikin has
more than once attacked a drunken man. The
remnant of the Drink Commission is welcome to
my remarks : “I" don't see no pints about that
’ere Commission to justify any of them in draw-
ing their screw.—Yours in vino, Scotty the
Wrinkler. [This is very Australian, hut still
very low towned literature. —Kn. B.]
BRIEF MENTION.
No moah about Psalmoa.
A Cook relic—A hair in the gravy.
Foster, junior, is Crown water Jugger.
Tfte cleverest Crown Prosecutor cannot
serve two bars. Legal maxim.
The N.S.W. Prosecutors too often have a
brief in one hand and a jug in the other.
Parkeß’ greatest successes are his failures.
That’s an old joke, but it fits like an eel’s skin.
A Victorian missionary to the Pacific
I<land heathen is named Tile. Send round the
hat.
The case of the Queen against John Brown
for theft was heard last week at Bungendore,
N.S.W.
Positive, Wise ; comparative, Wiser ;
superlative, Salomons. We have Scriptural
authority for this.
Two items from Sydney Evening News :
“The Parkes Fund now £1137.”—“ The Bank of
England reserve, £12,310,000.”
Extract from a Y.M.C.A. picnic advertise-
ment in a Goulburn (N.S.W.) paper : “ There will
be quiet walks and pleasant talks for loving I'jlks ’
According to the E. News, Edith O’Gor-
man is “ the Priest’s Terror.” As usual, Alfred is
wrong. Edith is the terror of the accident-ward
surgeons.
A Melbourne health advocate suggests the
disinfection of bank notes. In N.S.W. political
circles the same precaution will have to be used
against I. O. U.s.
“ Cheating the Hangman” is the caption
of a Sydney News par. On perusing the same we
are pleased to find that it has no reference to His
Honor Mr. J ustice .
Dr. Rose, M.P., has in hand a bill pro-
viding for the inspection of machinery. He is
probably under the impression that Baker Weed*
ing’s machinery needs examination.
William Clancy, who received 20 lashes
at Pentrldge last week, threatened to kill some-
body while the operation was proceeding. This
speaks volumes for the “ Cat ’’ as a regenerating
agent.
From the E, News:— “An Audacious
Robbery.—One of the most daring robberies that
has taken,” &c. . . . “Still, these cowardly
thieves are allowed to escape.” Daring and
cowardly !
Ah Gun, a Cairns (Q.) Chinkie, charged
with attempted suicide, was discharged. This i 3
as it should be. N o obstacle ought to he placed
in the way of any well meant effort to rid the
country of the Mongolian.
Messrs Cli ck Yu and Ah Gum, market-
gaideners and wholesale manure-mongers, went
bung recently in Dunedin (N.Z ) Liabilities,
£531 ss, lid. ; assets, live acres of vegetables,
had a cartload of fertiliser, and a ledger written
in Chinese, May Confucius bo blessed for ever-
more 1
Advertisement ftotn Albury (N.S.W.)
Banner
“ J^OTICE. —Any person's stock found trespassing on
my Irnd, Jonathin's Gullv, Rosewood, will be
sued fir damages. Jeremiah O Keeffe. Rosewood,
November 30, 1886,"
A Melbourne bank-clerk gone wrong.
Cause—Dunlop.
Mr. Joseph Syme, of the Age, has taken
his fair bride for a honeymoon trip to Europe, and
won't be back for a year.
HEADACHE.
Headache la an exceedingly troublesome as well
as very prevalent affection, and in most cases is
of a nervous character, or results from some
nervous cause. In many cases the pain will be in
the forehead over and between the eyes, while in
o hers cases it will be a dull, heavy and oppressed
h eling rather than a pain. Often the pain will
be in one or both temples, attended at times with
a throbbing which the slightest motion aggravates
or increases. The top of the head is frequently
the seat of the trouble, and the pain and disagree-
able sensations are very annoying.
Without doubt the most serious headache, and
one if allowed to prograts and become more and
more frequent in its attacks, will rrsult in some
alarming nervous affection like cerebro spinal
mei ingitis. paralysis or epilepsy, is that of the back
of the hexd or upper portion of the spine.
In such cases the pain i3 generally of the
character of a du'l ache, with more or less stiffness
in the neck, or a feeling as if the head were partly
disjointed from the spine. This form of headache,
while not so frequent as the others, i3 much more
dangerous, and demands immediate attention.
Another kind of head iche, and one productive
of the most intolerable suffering, is the so-called
sick headache. This, like the others nsmed, is a
purely nervous headache, but there is added to the
anguish of the head a sickness at ths stomach,
which makes the disease doubly difficultto baar.
The headache popularly called “nervous head-
ache" is not confined to any particular spot or
portion of the head, but the head seems to ache all
over. The sick headache is in reality the same
affection, there simply beiog an extension of the
disease until it involves the pm umogastric nerves,
or nerves which go direct f, om the base of the
brain to the stoma c'o.
A1 the above forms of headache are of a nervous
character, and are caused by a weakness,
irrigation or disease of the brain tissues or nerves
of the head, and in order to re ieve or Cure such
cases, it is absolutely sec ssary to use a nerve
remedy, which, by aetiag directly upon the
affected portions of the nervous system, restores
their natural and healthy condition.
Now, having explained the cause of headaches,
the next thing necessary is its treatment and cure.
This has for some lime been a disputed question
even among physicians, but we believe at present
that it is acknowledged by all that Warner’s safe
nervine is the best possible remedy for these
painful affections. At least, it is conceded by all
that this medicine is the most certain of all known
preparations for the cure of headaches, and we
have never seen or heard of a case which it will
not cure. This remedy is purely vegetable, and
being perfectly harmless, can be used freely
in all cases of headache, and with an absolute
certainty of beneficial results. We most emphati-
cally advise against the use of poisonous drugs in
such cases, as not only are they useless as far as
a cure is concerned, but they are always injurious
to the system. This is another reason why we so
strongly recommend Warner's safe nervine as it
can do no possible harm, and its U3e always
relieves and cures the disease.


Pepper
And
Salt
“ An Abstainer ” writes to the Melbourne
Herald touching the difficulty of finding salva-
tion in an odour of onions. He says that the
practice which some people make of “attending
church after eating vegetables of this kind ” is
calculated to destroy in other worshippers that
blessed spirit of love and charity which should
prevail during service. Here we have a real
grievance. Many a miserable sinner may traoe
his downfall to an evel-smelling “Amen’ dis-
turbing his devotions, and provoking him to curse
in churoh-r-
The iron-hoofed legendary pa who treads
flown the sweet flowers of affection as they blos-
som on his daughter's soul, and lets the dog loose
on her lover at the front gate, has pretty nearly
become a myth, if, indeed, he ever had any exis-
tence at all. The path of love is now strewn with
victuals and drink instead of being paved with
bricks, dogs, boots, and hot, hot curses, and the
pa of to-day nearly breaks his back bowing to any
promising youth who is willing to pay his
daughter’s board and washing for evermore. But
there are exceptions. Some parents are can-
tankerous. and one, a boot builder at Egertcn
<Vic). has lately given way to what might he
called violence. He had a down on his daughter s
young man, somehow, and used to throw rakes
at him and harass him with an axe-handle, so the
lovers had to meet at the back of the farm-yard,
and utter soft nothings among the pigs. But one
moonless night they sat down on a log and talked
happily of the future, and then the log keeled over
and sat on them while they screamed their heads
off and yelled for help. They had been sitting on
the old mamma pig, and she had struck. Their
cries brought out the old man, and when he had
dragged the pig away by its little curly tail, he
fell oa the youth and pounded him till his head
looked like a raw pudding that had beea kicked
by a horse. The rest of the story shows how ter-
ribly the fighting parent of ancient legend has
degenerated. The lover was in bed for a week,
and when he recovered he gave the old man the
choice of either going to gaol or bestowing his
blessing upon their union. He knocked under
and gave the blessing, and they are married now.
* * *
Alfred Dcakin says that the present Pre-
mier of Victoria is “one of the most _ consistent
politicians that Australia has ever had ’ —
Here is an item of Court' news, sent us
from Melbourne by Lord Carnarvon, or Bomebcdj.
Her Gracious is reported to be pegging away at
more “ Journal in the Highlands,and other
literary labours, and there is a souna of Batten-
berg cursing in kilts on the grey hillsides of Bal-
moral. Victoria rises early on these damp, cold
mornings, and sits most of the day m fireless
rooms with the window open, which makes the
Court sneeze its head off. She spends the fore-
noon mostly in wading through Prince Leopold’s
speeches, and the effusions of that ricketty youth,
who wa3 of weak intellect and subject to epileptic
fits, are shortly to be inflicted once more upon a suf-
fering country. This labourgoes on tiUHer Majesty
can distinctly hear the attendant maids of honour
going mad, and then she sheds a few tears over
the bust of Albert the Good, and luncheon ensues.
In the afternoon the Queen goe3 out and pounds
through the slush with some unhappy followers,
and presently sits down on a damp stone to
admire a tomb, while the Court closes tbe window
and tries to get the shivers out of its back. Then
there is a heavy dinner, and the sodden household
drowns i s sorrow by emptying hash into its coun-
tenance, and the rest of the evening Her Majesty
dozas in an arm chair, and wakes up now aad
then to make some cheerful remark about the
ever-lamented. During the day Batteaberg seeks
relief by wildly flogging his gee-gee over the hills,
and after dinner he sits and regards his mother-in-
law with a fishy stare, and blushingly hauls down
his kills Occasionally, by way of lending .an
aspect of festivity to the landscape, a Presbyterian
minister is invited to the royal table, and by
special permission expounds his views on hell, but
this dissipation only takes place at long intervals,
and the rest of the time is spent in solemn lan-
guishing.
A MONGOLIAN REBUKE.
CUSTOMER: “AH, JOHN, ME WANTEE UMBRELLA., YOU GOT CHINA SLIPPER,
TOO?”
JOHN: “AH! YOU CHINA MAN?”
The old hen-convention of Sydney teeto-
tallers are growing bloodthirsty, and their row is
like unto one boiler-making establishment, one
Parliamentary discussion, and 6000 midnight
cats. One Knapp got hold o£ a gory legend of
how the Sultai of Morocci was asked by an
American parson to use h’s “ influence ” to abolish
beer and tobacco in his dominions, and how that
thundering Moor used his influence accordingly,
and what came of it, Morocco, it seems, was re-
formed in one day. Early in the morning the
royal saved boozer issued his ukase ordering all
tobacconists to burn their goods in the great
Bquare of the city, and all the rum-sellers to pour
their stocks into the river, and when they had
obeyed he had the whole crowd cf them flogged
within an inch of their lives, and rotten-egged,
and dead-catted, and drenched with water, and
pelted with mud, bricks, rats, and snakes, and
thrown to a raging mob which chased them about
seven miles, and Anally they were banished, and
the cause of teetotalism triumphed. Morocco has
since then been run on local op don principles—
that is to say, the local liquor-seller has the option
of being beheaded or suffocated with ancient eggs.
This story appears in the form of an advertise
ment in the 3.M Herald, and following it comes
this moral reflection
•i p.g, —Who would have thought that a fewwords uttered
by the above American min'ster to the Sultan of Morocco
would have accomplished what it did ? . . . The power of
persuasion is sometimes very great."
Yes, dear teetotal friends, the power of “ per-
suasion” is remarkably great at times. If we
had such powers of “persuasion” at command,
for instance, we could make every teetotaller in
Sydney get quite drunk and tear round the Domain
mit nodings on, cursing the Queen’s Fund, and
the Parkes Fund, and the mysteries cf M'Namara’s
lease, and other sacred things. There is much to
be effected by persuasion.
* * *
Down South they have just gathered up
the remains of a parson in a jug, and poured him
into a bed of suffering where moth and rust doth
corrupt, &0., and the bruised and miserable sin-
smiter says he will probably be crippled for life.
An unsanctified young man has shivered his gas-
light and burst his crust, and this, dear friends,
was why and how he did it. The week before last
the afflicted devil-hunter received a visit from a
colonist who was evidently suffering from tem
porary insanity, and who said he wanted to be
‘ 1 hitched ’’—that was the term he used. And he
was hitched accordingly. The bride measured
five feet eleven in her stockings, which were red
with blue stripes, and was a hefty creature all
round, and as he joined them the weak and
humble wessel felt glad that he was not the bride-
groom instead of the other man. But the other
man somehow fancied from his looks that the
squasher of iniquity had fallen in love with
his tremendous girl, and he was filled
with the gall of malignity, and proceeded to
put up a game on him He took him aside and
told him that his neighbour Duncan McKim was
also going to be married in a day or two,
and that he ought to get the job, and he
altogether neglected to mention that his own
comprehensive darling had been engaged to
McKim, and had only jilted him a week pre-
viously. So when the paraor wrote to Duncan
and told him that he was prepared to put him
through cheaper than any other paralyser of the
ungodly, and referred to the job he had ju3t com-
pleted as proof of his abilities, McKim gave way
to evil passions, and came along and sent in his
card. The servant showed him up just as the
shepherd was browsing over his evening meal,
and he came in with a Sioux war- whoop and
drove the good man’s head into the plate of chops.
Then he poured the milk down his back, and the
battle raged in earnest. The air was filled with
flying tea-things, oaths, hair, skin, gore, bits
of clergyman, curses, whiskers, and sulphurous
exclamations. At one moment the parson would
be driven into the mantel-piece ornaments and
asked what he meant by it, and a second later h9
would be lifted up and brought down with a
whop on the butter, and told to take that. Then
his feet would be shoved through the window,
and the next instant he wonld be jammed under
the grase, or squashed into ihe piano, or brought
down with a sounding smite on top of the hot
teapot. It was the cheerfullest five minutes the
skirmisher in the good fight ever experienced, and
his enemy only gave up when he could no longer
find a clean place to hit him on. And when it
was all over tho victim took his bruised and
wretched way to b8d, and lay there groaning and
wondering what it was all about. If this should
chance to meet his eye, it may possibly shed a
light on the matter.
* * •
The great Centenary is close at hand, and
all New South Wales is to curse and pray and
drink. Australia i3 to be filled with the sound of
swallowing, and there is to be a new issue of
post age stamps to be licked by a loyal genera ion.
The mother colony is to shout for ail the distin-
guished men of Australasia till they are red-nosed
with, bolting hoo coffee, and ghastly with pie and
pork, and Papkes is to hand out buns to all-comers.
A sum of £7000 is to be invested in a show of carrots
and horned catde, and there is to be a boat race for
‘ * The Hundred Years Cup,” and—well, thatis about
all. The Centenary is to be the largest biliousness
on record and nothing more. A voluble citizen
signing himself “Edward P. Swain” lately wrote
to the D T. suggesting that a great fleet should be
hired, and all the prominent men of N.S.W.
should go ashore in leg-irons at Botany Bay by
way of reproducing the scene of Captain Phillip's
landing, but nobody took any notice ef him. He
also wanted a great corroboree, did Edward P.
Swain, but Parkes’ majority did not see the fun
of taking off all their clothes and painting them-
selves black, and dancing, howling, and waving
clubs on a muddy beach, and this also fell
through. Furthermore, it was recommended that
a great procession should be formed consist ing of
the surviving “direct descendants of the
first settlers,” but the tottering sons of the
original colonists did not com? forward to do
honour to their much-spanked parents, and the
scheme by which Parkes was to be carried to
“some fit spot” on a shutter, and there make a
speech, was also frozen out. In fact, everything
has been frozen out pretty much ; even tire great
plan by which the whole population was to carry
bricks to the Dead-house Park and heave them
down in a heap far the girls of the future to sit
upon with their young men has gone to pot, and
the idea of killing all the rest of the niggers has
burst, and the inspiration by which everybody
was to get into anything he liked, from a train
down to a cab, and go anywhere he liked
without paying a cent, has caved in, and
nothing is left but the new stamps and
the prospect of a haggard multitude scoffing pies.
When the long-looked for week of rejo’cing even-
tuates strangers will ba gathered in from the ends
of the earth that they may watch a great nation
getting tight, and long before the fifth day arrives
Parkes and Abigail will be chased through the
streets by a vast multitude all seeing snakes, and
will be forced to swarm up a tree in the Domain
and rojst there till the clouds roll by. These
things make us feel sad. We will go to bed and
not gat up any more till the Centenary is over.
The snrprise-party is now afloat at Mel-
bourne. The other night 22 gibbering aristocrats
who keep butlers, coats of-arms, crests, and other
marks of ancient descent, loaded up a buggy and
a tip-dray with unctuous pastry, bulgy cake,
cooked fowls, and liquors, and rushed the house
of a merchant prince out in Toorak They entered
warbling an operatic ditty, and the string-band
which came behind them scraped joyous melody j
The owner of the premises proved to be absent at
the office or something, but they pervaded the
house all the same. They put the bulgy cake on
the piano, and the unctuous pastry on the plush
drawing-room suite; they planted toothsom
dishes on the mantelpiece, and lfquors on the
ottomans, and laid great bags of fruic on the floor
and then stepped on them. They t ffd the mis-
tress of the establishment to make herself at
home, and scared the baby into convulsions, and
sent the cat, with a swollen and congested tail,
up the chimney; they made -the melancholy
watch dog awa v e and bay the moon, they played
sweat music, and they also turned the furniture
endways and spilt gravy on the carpet, and trod
on the curtains, and the eleven ladles of the party
all “whished” simultaneously at the horrified
infant to sooth its fears. Then, suddenly, there
came a pause in the revelry. A voice in the pas-
sage sang :
“ Tish the las-s-s roo-o-o-Bh of— hie shummah,
Leff bloo-00-00-ming—whoo-oop dammit.”
The master of the house had arrived from the
office. His face wa3 red and his eyes bulged out
till you could have hung your hat on them. There
was liquor and mud on his shirt front; his coat
had only one (all, and his hat looked as if it bad
been run over by a t'action engine. He glared at
the company and sang again :
“ When the fa-e’n lan’ o'—hie—Vo—hie
Washshrod by zhe -yah I Oh, Mosesh !”
He stopped then. The music stopped, so did the
feeding. The harassed mistress of the establish-
ment fill limp and crushed against the opposite
wall, and the irate husband sat down on a blanc-
mange and asked if thish wash the way —hie —way
sh'J went on while he wash straggling to make
both ends — hi:—oo ? Had she fallen sho low ash
to bring a doshen men into the housh while he
was away labouring to— hie ? He would fight the
whole crow-owd for shaven an’ shix and the gate-
money. And with that he hit one man on the
ear and tipped him over an ottoman, and took
aim at a lady with the pastry and the surprised
party accomplished the promptest flea on record.
The head of the family spent the next day debat-
ing whether he would g c round and kick all his
la s t night’s visitors or hang himself to a rafter iu
the hen-house. Case still proceeding.
S. Williams, of Daboo (N.S.W.), sheared
202 full-fleeced ewes, the other day, in eight and
a hilf hours ! Tfce work wa3 satisfactorily per-
io.med, and Wolsele,) s machine may take a back
seal as far as S. Williams, of Daboo, is concerned.
A N.S.W. country crank some years ago
left to a bush hospital property worth £l5O per
annum, consisting of a public-house in a large
city. The hospital draws the rent regularly and
as religiously draws an equal amount as Govern-
ment subsidy under the £ for £ regulations, bat
the grave of the donor is unmarked save by a
plentiful crop of thistles and wild briars. Tnere
13 no. trashy sentiment about the c mm'ut.e of that
VILE VIOLETS.
A POETIC PROTEST.
The perfume of the rose
It is pleasure to our nose
(Though by any other name ’twould smell as
sweet).
Our best girl’s Sunday dresses—
Her face, her hands, her tresses —
Their fragrance makes her nice enough to eat.
The breezy ocean brine,
The luscious ruddy wine
(Not to mention half-a-dozen other drinks),
As it issues from the bottle
And that everlasting wattle
Have certain subtle virtues in their stinks.
Or, the honey-suckle bloom,
Can make sweet a sitting-room,
And we musn’t leave the lilac in the lurch ;
But who can stand the scent
Of an onion-breathing gent.
As he offers up his little prayer in church ?
There is one vio let
Poets can’t abear, you bet
(Some say it gives a flavour to the steak),
Though it telleth of the spring,
It is not at all the thing
Which a Christian’s pew-companion ought to
take.
Charity, we bear in mind,
Long endureth and is kind ;
But the holiest of flesh is rather weak,
And oftentimes a saint
Cometh over sick and faint
In an atmosphere of onions, so to speak.
Then is it right and meet
That a worshipper should eat
Suoh vegetables on the Sabbath Day ?
How can his brother kneel
Through the Litany and feel
That he’s putting all impurities away ?
Six days the onion’s good
As an article of food,
But the Seventh Day it ought to have a rest
With the ass and patient ox,
For its pungent odour mocks
At piety the truest and the best.
Good Duncan Gillies, whose historic smile
Hath wizard power alike to charm or rue
In thee a man consistent we behold.
With reputation bright as virgm gold ;
Fearless of waking friend or foeman s wrath
Thou keepest e’er in Duty’s narrow path;
The “ waiter's penny,” thy departing girt,
Is framed as proof of thy consistent thri t ,
Though woman’s smile hath lighted ofc thy life,
Constantly thou scorn st to choose a wife ;
The Freetrade principles of old profess t,
Were not consistent with thy interest,
So now we see the? sitting with a crowd
Of staunch Protectionists. Thy country s proud
Of Duncan Gillies—ne’er did Nature p an
A more (in some respec s) consistent man.
* *
Joe Bragg is in trouble again
Alack-a-day 1 Joe Bragg,
Did you reform in vain—
And has the ’verted lag
Returned to sin again ?
How weak is erring man 1
’Twas but the other day
That you, J. 8., began
To walk the narrow way.
You wept for the misdeeds
Of many bygone years,
For true repentence needs
To vent itself in tears.
A simple child of grace
Yourself you then avowed,
Your interesting case
Gave pleasure to the crowd.
Yes, everyone was glad
To see the sudden change,
And murmured : “ Well, begad !
By Jingo! but how strange.”
“ His history so odd
A moral plain imparts—
'Tls wonderful how quod
Can purify their hearts."
Alack-a-day ! Joe Bragg,
We fancy that the while
You merely were a wag—
A humourist in guile.
You chuckled in your sleeve,
And turned away to grin ;
We really do believe
You gloried in your sin.
You never left the track
That easy is and broad—
You never changed your tack,
And never loved the Board.
A lot of the old leaven
Is left in Joseph still;
You’ll never get to Heaven—
You know you never will.
Unless you drop in time
These old familiar tricks,
The profits of all crime
Are, in the end, but Nick's.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Long live the Prince of Wales—as such !
Lord Loftus has, in Parkes-fashion, squared
with his creditors.
The late Mr. F. E. Beaver, of Victoria,
left £112,000 behind him.
A daughter of Sir Rowland Hill has j jined
the Irish National League.
Thadeus O’Kane is being sued for libel by
a high priest of Venus Oloaoena.
Prior Butler, tlie eminent R.C. preacher,
of Melbou>ne, is just now in Sydney.
The gay old Marquis of Normanby is on
his way to Australia again —to be married,
Melbourne Age alleges that the Czar
suffers frequently from delirium tremens.
Sydney D.T. says that appearances are
against Parkes. That’s nothing. Wait) till he’s
shaved.
AtMackay(Q.) the warmest advocate of
coloured labour is named Black, and his stoutest
opponent, White.
Ooonamble (N.S.W.) possesses a J.P.
named Fog. In the back-blocks they call things
by their right names.
Archibald Forbes is said to be dying of
consumption. When in Sydney he was treated for
severe kidney-disease.
Robert Wilkins, miner, of Ballarat, has,
by the death of an obliging East Indian uncle,
succeeded to £210,000.
A Queensland paper describes Secretary
Pulsford’s manner as “ a combination of that of
the dominie and parson.”
Mr. G. Neville Griffiths has petitioned for
the sequestration of the estate of Mr. John
Haynes, M.L.A. for Mud gee.
It is now recollected that murderer Sulli-
van, of Maungatapu, was seen on Bermagui when
Lamont Young and party disappeared.
Mr. Dailey is hopelessly ill —so ill that
the doctors have not the slightest expectation of
his ever being able to leave his house again.
It is cabled that the Duke of Northumber-
land is ill. Well, suppose he is! He is an
obscure person, and his name is Smithson.
Dr. Madden, the Melbourne barrister,
is said to have dreamt that Dunlop would win
the Cup. He took up the brief and won £lOO.
Little Jimmy Mirams claimed his return
to Parliament for Williamstown (Vic.) on the
ground that he was the father of fourteen children.
A London Conservative paper calls Cap-
tain Selwyn a coward for not allowing himself to
be riddled by his sister’s seducer. Action for libel
has been taken.
Miss Violet Cameron’s baby, to which the
Earl of Lonsdale pleads guilty, was christened
Lydia Lowther, after its noble papa and Violet's
aunt—Lydia Thompson.
Mr. Purves’ brief in the Parkes case
arising out of the Windsor (Vic.) railway collision
was marked 200 guineas, and his daily refreshers
were fixed at 50 guineas.
Our old friend, Sir Arthur Hamilton
Gordon, G.C.M.G., has vacated the Governorship
Of Ceylon. The local papers say Sir Arthur “ will
be little regretted.” As usual.
Grand Old Man Gladstone has an interest
in the “ Cabbage Garden.” He is a partner in
squatting property with the representatives of the
late Neil Black, of Glenormiston.
Edward Delbridge, J.P., who shot him-
self in Fitzroy (Melb.) last week, had been married
four times —which may have been either the cause
or the effect of his unhappy mental condition.
Dr. George Le Fevre, who has just de-
feated Mr. A. T. Clarke in the North Yarra (Vic.)
Province election, was for many years a clerk at
Gordon and Gotoh’s before he took to studying
medicine.
Months ago The Bulletin announced, on
the authority of a French medical paper, that the
German Crown Prince was suffering from laryn-
geal cancer. This diagnosis, it is cabled, has been
confirmed.
Benzon, the Jubilee Plunger, alleges that
he only received £lOOO for a bill of £5OOO in Aus-
tralia. Next time he visits our hospitable shores,
we recommend him to try Abigail’s bank for more
liberal terms.
Old Johnny Fawkner, of the Victorian
Legislative Council, during the discussion of a
new Postal Act, endeavoured to make it punish-
able to affix a stamp upside-down. Johnny was
terribly loyal.
“ Thus the “ Vagabond ” : “I don’t know
Lord Carington; there are circumstances in his
career which naturally prejudice me against
him.” After this lofty snub Mr. Smith will please
take a back seat.
There’s a certain N.S.W. member of
Parliament who is better than a clock to the
messengers. “What’s the time?” “Look at
and see if he’s drunk ; if he ain’t, it can’t
be much after 11."
A N.S.W. politician—not Parkes, but a
very hard-drinking friend of his—just now doesn’t
quite know whether it would be good policy to
threaten a huge libel-action against a certain
Sydney weekly paper.
Mr. Longstaffe—of “ Breaking-the-News”
fame —drew his first artistic portrait with white
chalk on a roll of black merino when he was em-
ployed in Colonel Sargood’s warehouse. The por-
trait was of the cjlonel.
At least one old Harrovian could truth-
fully plead that he was “ unavoidably precluded
from attending” the recent dinner of Harrow
boys at Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne. He is doing
six months “ on the vag.”
It may not be generally known — nor is it
of much consequence, after all—that George
Milner Stephen, whose faith in red flannel has
passed into a proverb, was at one time Acting-
Governor of South Australia.
The travelling expenses of Sir James
Lorimer and Alfred Daakin, the Victorian dele-
gates to the late Imperial Conference, amounted
to £1205 18a. 2d. The odd 2d. was probably a
gratuity to the night-porter at the Langham.
A brother of Edward Dwyer Gray, pro-
prietor of the Dublin Freeman’s Journal, died
recently in Sydney, where he was a private in the
N.S.W. Permanent Artillery. He was but 29
years of age, and had been educated as a surgeon.
A recently-executed French murderer,
admitting that he might flinch on the
scaffold, added, that “ what would upset him most
in the execution would be his inability to rub his
nose if the sawdust in the basket made him
sneeze.”
The Central Australian (Bourke)
brutally says :—“TheParkes’ Fund is a tribute
to the genius of a man who spends £2OOO a year,
a lob of it on ornamental knick-knacks, lives like
a lord on credit, borrows from everyone, and pays
nobody.”
The cheerful Ninian Melville is not the
only undertaker who has had a seat in an Aus-
tralian Parliament. One John Cathie, a most
melancholy legislator, sat for Ballarat once in the
Victorian Assembly, He was, like Melville, a
cold-water man.
The duties of an Australian M.P. are
multifarious. The other day the member for a
district not a hundred miles from the Bogan re-
ceived the following wire from a constituent :
“For God's sake send ns a sober barber ; ours is
on the drunk, and we haven’t had a decent shave
for over a week.”
A correspondent writing to the editor of
Melbourne Argus, says : —“I sincerely trust, sir,
you will throw your weight into the scale in
favour of the good cause,” The last time Editor
Haddon put a penny in the slob and threw his
weight into the scale at Hobson’s Bay station
he turned just 16 stun.
As we are approaching our Centennial it
may interest many to know that the first baker in
Australia—one Bond, of Sydney—died in Mel-
bourne in 1839, aged 110 years He came out ia
the first fleet and was the last man of that much-
ironed crowd. Whether free or bond, excspting
in name, history saith not.
John Robb, the railway-contractor (who
has never made a mess of a job for 25 years), will
for the next three years he engaged on that one-
in-fifty mountain line from Cairns (N.Q.) to the
Barron Falls. The work may be described as a
zig-zag with curves instead of corners. Fifteen
miles will cost a quarter of a million.
Much fuss is being made by the Victorian
Press about the recent eccentric behaviour of a
Sydney Crown Prosecutor; but when a leading
Melbourne barrister made his appearance at the
Criminal Court a few months ago in a very
advanced state of obfuscation, not one of the
local papers had a word to say about it.
AN EX-OFFICIO INVITATION.
ALGERNON DE POTTSPOINT: “I THINK, MY DEAR, WE’LL ASK THE SHERIFF
TO OUR LITTLE DINNER DOOMED AMUSING FELLOW, THE SHERIFF”
MRS. DE POTTSPOINT: “BUT, ALGY, DEAR, WE’VE ASKED AS MANY AS WE CAN
SEAT ALREADY."
ALGERNON: “YES, MY DEAR, BUT IF WE ASK THE SHERIFF THERE’LL BE NO
CHANCE OE A BAILIFF COMING IN DURING THE DINNER, AS HAPPENED
LAST YEAR.” [Asked accordingly, nem. con.]
Francis Adams has a new volume of
poems in the press called “ Songs of the Army of
the Night.” They are a series of pictures of
London, Australian, and Eastern life, illustra-
tive of the horrible contrasts of misery and mil-
lionairism in modern civilisation, and cf the
Socialistic propagaudism underneath it.
A country editor without hair or the fear
of a hereafter rises to comment on a N.S. W. politi-
cian in these words : “We under-estimated the
powers of malignity of Brute Me- , the black-
mouthed, blatant boss of ihe Parliamentary black-
guards.” And yet there are men who assert that
the Press is being overtaken with mental paralysis.
Still they come ! A Yorkshireman has
just unearthed a few more cartloads of relic 3 of
Captain Cook. They include a fly-flap made from
the bone of a nigger chief’s arm, also a quantity of
rust-eaten fish-hooks, “ and other articles too
numerous to mention. ’ This last observation
gives the enterprising and inventive auctioneer
clean away.
Boehm, the scalptor of the new Queen’s
Statue for Sydney, is the man who designed the
Jubilee coinage. Boehm’s failure is the subject of
intense jubilation among English sculptors, who
were exceedingly irate when the choice fell upon
one who i 9 looked upon as an alien intruder, and
they contond that the result lias amply justified
their wrath.
John Dixon, Church of England minister
at Wickham, Newcastle (NT.S.W.), now removing
to Balmain, is a self-made man. He commenced
life amongst the black diamonds as coal-weigher,
and worked his way up. He made a mistake,
though, in the road he travelled. He should have
been a politician, and might have been of much
more service to his country.
An Irish publican in a large western town
in N.S.W. had a real live artist boarding with
him for some weeks. He recently disappeared
with the night mail. The publican says he was
the most regular, consistent, and methodical
boarder he ever had. He never missed a meal,
and never paid a shilling. He declines, however,
anything so regular in the future.
The Recorder of Cork, who affirmed the
sentence of three months’ imprisonment passed on
Mr. William O’Brien, M.P., is J. P. Hamilton,
Q.C., brother-in-law of Dr. Brownless, Chancellor
of Melbourne University, and uncle of Acting-
Judge E. B. Hamilton, of Victoria—the gentleman
who presided at a meeting to welcome Edith
O’Gorman, the Escaped Nun, to Melbourne.
Sir Alfred Stephen retired from the
N.S.W. Bench in 1873, old age being the assigned
cause. He lives still, and carefully draws a big
pension. Of the Judges then on the bench, two —
Hargrave and Cheeke—are dead. His immediate
successor, Sir James Martin, is dead. Of the 27
barristers who attended his final lev6e, seven, all
younger men, have gone to the grave, but the old
man lives on.
A London paper unblushingly asserts that
the reason why Battenberg is not popular with
the British princesses is that he has the reputation
of hardly ever taking a bath. Bat. is a delicate youth,
and on cold mornings he thinks it sufficient to soap
his countenance, and then give it a souse and a
polish, leaving the rest of him in an unirrigated
condition. Consequently—well, we don’t think
we’ll travel beyond the “consequently.”
A little Northern town not many hundred
miles from Sydney contains a modern Lot—a bad
lot —who has beaten the high toned record of the
English Colonel Hughes-Hallett by seducing his
bona fide step daughter. The “ gaF Lothario,”
who is, by the way, old enough to be a church
deacon or an angel, has been chased over three
countries by the male relatives of the fair aban-
donee, but being a good horseman the game has
hitherto escaped.
Thus the N.Y. Mirror, on Mrs. Brown-
Potter’s patron, “Wales” :—“ It is not believed
here that his favour, which is about equally dis-
tributed between shopkeepers and good-100 ling
amateurs, is of any intrinsic value whatever from
an art point of view. It is not even known here
that his personal reputaion is of that kind which,
aside from his accidental position, can confer any
advantage other than a damaging one upon a
chaste American lady.”
Mr. James Mirams, who has just been re-
turned by Williamstown to the Victorian Legisla-
tive Assembly, has a brother so like him that his
most intimate friends have a difficulty in distin-
guishing the one from the other. The brother,
who is postmaster at Fitzroy, has the same bald
head, the identical snub nose, the precise patriar-
chal beard which form the personal characteris-
ties of the lilliputian financier, and they both
measure (in their shoes) exactly 4ft. llfin. It is
because of this remarkable resemblance that the
politician invariably carries an umbrella in de-
fault of being branded or ear-marked.
Ninian Melville says his father—who was
also named Ninian—built the Speaker’s chair of
the NS. W. Assembly. The chair occupied by
the Speaker of the Victorian House is that in
which sat —fifty years ago—Charles Manners-
Sntton as Speaker of the English House of Com-
mons. It was presented to the Victorian House
by his son, Viscount Canterbury, when Governo.'
of the Southern colony. The Governor's grand-
father was the Archbishop of Canterbury, and
when his son Charles resigned the Speakership
and went, as the rule was, to the House of Lords,
he fixed upon the Pilgrim City as the one from
which he would take his title.
Poor Turner, who practised for a quarter
of a century at Melbourne City Police Court as an
attorney, and died not long since, was a barrister
of the Inner Temple, who through ill-luck got into
the groove of a police-court practitioner of the
lower branch of the profession. He was an ac-
complished scholar and good-hearted man. He
frequently gave his services as interpreter of
continental languages in cases of emergency. It
was no uncommon thing for Turner to come be-
fore the bench as “ No. 15 pleads guilty, your
Worship,” and after paying his fine to take his
place at the lawyers’ table and say, “If your
Worship pleases I appear for No. 16.” But some-
body prevailed on Turner to become a teetotaller
—and then he died.
While J. S. Butters, an ex-Mayor of
Melbourne, and once Prime Minister to King
Cakobau, of the Cannibal Islands, was visitiDg
London lately, a botchy cablegram to the Mel-
bourne press announced “ Butters dead"—which
was taken to mean J. S. Butters, As a conse-
quence, the Newcastle (N.S.W,) Herald, and
other colonial papers, published buttery obituary
notices. By and bye, however, it transpired that
it was not J. S. Butters, but a Reverend Mr.
Butters who had pegged out, so the papers had to
take back all they had said. The surviving But-
ters wired a message to the above-named paper as
follows From Victorian Exchange,—Just re-
turned. Climate too hot. Your friends are all
well, and expect you soon. Please send me a
copy of my obituary notice. —J. S. Butters,”
Miss Grace, sister of the cricketer, re
cent’y scored 217 runs against the bowling of fou
men.
Some interesting experiments will doubt
less be tried by King Humbert on that Abyssinia
bishop he lately discharged from prison. Ou
astute bush constables almost invariably make
blackfellow cut a load or two of firewood befor
informing him that the blind Goddess of Justic
has decided in his favour.
Thus an old veteran on “ Billy ” Caffyn
bar Grace the best batsman England could boas
of, and who resided in Sydney for many years :
“It was a treat to stand behind the net an
watch him bat. I learned more watching Bill
than in all the practice I could ever get.” Th
practice of watching might well be followed t
advantage by many of our rising batsmen.
Three-and-sixpence had been thrown on
the big drum at the Newcastle (N.S.W.) Salvatio
Harmy parade the other night, and the captai
was exhorting his hearers to “ make it four bob,
when a dirty aboriginal mutely grasped him b
the hand. The oaptain, overcome by this additio
to the saved, announced the joyful fact of th
blackfellow’s conversion to the public, when
suspicious move of the convert towards the big
drum and the money raised some doubts as to th
reality of the repentance. Thereupon the black
fellow muttered something about rum, and re
turned again to the ways of the unregenerate.
Scene : Certain Australian Court. Smal
boy from merchant’s office presents a claim in th
estate of John Brown. His Honor : “ Who pre
sents this claim?" Small boy (in a state o
quiver): “I do, your Honor.” His Honor (to
small boy): “This claim is—ha, hum—void ai
initio. Kihil obstat that it can be—hum—filed
but non constat that it—ha, hum—can be re
ceived. The —ah—mattah will—ha, hum—have
to be—ah —dealt with de cursu. You—aw—maj
begin de novo and—ha, hum —come here totie
quoties. But pray—hum—be nimble, my gooc
lad, be nimble.” Exit small boy, in a condition o;
profuse perspiration.
A Forbes J.P. tells the following little
yarn of bribery and corruption. While J.P. at a
certain one-horse town in Australia, an “indivi
dual ” wrote to him on two separate occasions
asking him to use his influence to get his name
placed on the commission, and each time offered
a “bonus ” of twenty pounds if it could be done.
The luminary refused on both occasions. When
the new magisterial list was published the other
day, the Forbes law-giver saw the name of his
corrupt correspondent conspicuously figuring!
Query : who was the other J.P who got the twenty
pounds ? Also, how does the first one feel when
he reflects on the reckless way in which he sacri-
ficed the cash ?
Daring one of Sir Psalmyell Griffith’s trips
to the Far North he got benighted, and had to ac-
cept the hospitality of a bark humpy owned by a
crank lost in the wilderness. This individ al had
just received a blackfellow’s mummy done up i. a
bag. and had put ic for safety unc.er the pil ow,
and he forgot to mention this circumstance before
the great visitor went to bed. But in the morn-
ing he put his head in at the door and enquired,
“ Did your honor see a corpse in here last night?”
“Good gracious, no!” gasped the politician.
“Well, there teas one under the pillow, and I
forgot to take it away. P’raps it’s there yet.”
Then Sir Psalmyell sat up and searched. It was
there all right. He found it. “ Thank you,” said
the owner, as he hauled it out by the legs.
Dear Bulletin, —I never read the word
“ Welsher ” without calling to mind the piteous
spectacle of a poor devil hounded by a furious
mob, chucked over the rails, and running for dear
life in torn clothes down the run-in at Alexandra
Park, near London. He was pulled by the police
from under a hansom, and i in the look-up
for safety. The Saturday Review bad an article
on it, beginning: “The business of welshing is
easily performed. Yon give a man a sovereign ;
he gives you a piece of paste' , *rd, and, so far as
you are concerned, the transaction is at an end.”
And now, concerning a colonial welsher, one
Brummy. B. held * e stuff at Geelong, and the
favourite won. B- B. “ couldn’t abear to part,”
so he repudiated ins debts, and was set on. He
then lay down, using the most abominable, filthy
language. Ore man remarked, “ He’ll get lum-
bered.” “Just what he wants,” said another.
So he was quodded, protected, and fined a fiver.
But he was all (minus £5) to the good, and I said
in my heart that the wicked prosper.—Yours
HIRAM ABIFF.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1887.
JZ>£T7-A //-<£> 0/ r c 7s. A l Slim'S MAR 1C
/&7?cf 7se.
f7 jr yCut-7fer^ut7/C ut&rs /^<yu/r<^
£>ixfip " A


I r\o^
< l? m
7k 1
joutji I
e
\V) P ,c^y 'Wa.t'
Paly's cl SCd J '
A , $h rki \n^ 4
' ptj I’J l/r^
dooy'' a- liP —
"The Authorities have resolved to put down the Shark and Seal tights which now take piece on Sundays at the A guariutn."-Sydney Paper.


Society
1 The Sydney Lancers have, in one respect,
taken the place of the recent Moses, for the pub-
lic want to know where they were when the
light went out. When Governor Carmgton
returned from Melbourne last week it was under-
stood that this ferocious corps were, as usual,
to be howling for blood outside the railway
station, and one officer actually was present
drawn up in a hollow square. But the privates,
alas ! where were they ? The reason of the un-
happy commander tottered upon its throne when
he saw a single Lancer come round the corner.
Did he thank that Lancer ? Did he fall upon his
neck and shed tears of ioy to think that one
military sheep had got back from the wilderness ?
Not much. He told him to slide. “ For God’s
sake clear out,” he said. “ Disappear ! Fly 1
Get home the back way ! Do anything you like,
but get out! D’ye think I want to show
up here like an old hen with one chicken?
D’ye s’posa I’m going to figure as dry-nurse
to an orphan Lancer ? Don’t stand there
and bleat! Get out, blank you, get out! ’ And he
went. The Sydney Lancers now consist of 15
officers and one man with a long spike, and a
smudgy circular has been sent round to the miser-
able absentees calling on them to send in Govern-
ment property consisting of a sword, a lance, two
buckets, one pair goloshes, a bottle of milk, a
Bath bun, and a lot of other sundries, among
which may be mentioned a “neck rope”—pro-
vided, we presume, by a thoughtful Government
in case a Laacer should want to hang himself.
When they have returned these properties they
are to consider themselves a bounced regiment.
The corps are now going to sell oft' their uniforms
for use during the forthcoming pantomime season,
and the warlike trappings which should have
shone in the van of the battle, when the Lancers
charged with the invading enemy in front and the
bread-waggons in the rear, will come in handy
for “ Mother Goose and the Golden Egg.” How
are the mighty fallen, and the salt of the earth
knocked into a cocked hat which shall return
after many days !
# * *
A malignant desire to annihilate the old
man has brought lots of women to grief. Hun-
dreds of wives are now homeless upon the face of
the earth because they couldn’t let things slide
when the male motive of the establishment came
home with long hairs on his coat, and explained
that he had got them off a dog while sitting in the
parlour of a bachelor friend writing a poem, and
now one more victim is added to the list. The
other day a stranded female from Brisbane applied
to a London magistrate for means to pay her pas-
sage back to Queensland. Sae was married, she
explained, to a colonist, and in the course of a
patient overhaul of his letters when he
was out she had been led to the con-
clusion that he had another wife in England.
Consequently, she had come over to find the
horrid, nasty cat, and seize her by the hair of the
head, and, after spending all her money, she
ascertained that her husband’s other wife had
been dead for years. What she wanted, there-
fore, was some assistance to enable her to return
to the bosom of her supposed bigamist, and, as
the assistance was not forthcoming, the lady still
wanders through the streets of L jadon and has no
place to go. Sometimes, as she sits on a doorstep
and weeps, she almost wishes she had stayed with
the old fogey at Brisbane, and not been so par-
ticular.
* # *
Lord Carington has been presented with
a Jubilee medal by the Queen. It now remains
for Her Gracious to forward a nice Jubilee mug to
Parkes’ latest creditors.
# * *
A Melbourne paper says that that much-
beloved institution of our boyhood, Guy Fawkes’
Day, is fast becoming obsolete, and the crackers,
squibs, and rockets are now reserved to celebrate
the birthday of Tummy, Prince of Wales. In the
face of this it is not a wild conjecture to presume
that ere long the small boys will be trundling a
grotesque, lopsided effigy of H.R.H. round in a
barrow, and soliciting a penny from householders
In return for the privilege of beholding the guy.
“ Give a movement a bad name,” &c.
Well, the Sydney people wanted no “ Queen's
Fund,” and so, as we confidently expacted, the
Mayoress’ fdte in aid thereof was an unqualified
“frost.”
* * *
Thus the S.M. Herald, in a rational
moment: —
“ On Wednesday, just before the opening of the Mayoress's
f@te, a poor but respectable old widow woman, with her little
granddaughter, might have been seen eagerly scanning the
gaily-decorated stalls.' 1
“ Poor but respectable ” is excellent. In the
Herald’s opinion wealth is always reputable and
poverty completely vicious. The only respect-
ability the Herald really takes on trust is the
sort that attends the “levvys” and is drawn
about by two horses.
. #■ •
According to the Imperial Conference
Blue Book the Australian Naval Station is bounded
on the north by the parallel of 12' N. latitude, on
tbe west by the meridian of 95' E. longitude, on
the east by the meridian of 160' W. longitude,
and on the south by the Antarctic circle. This is
startling news. Hitherto we were under the
vague imprarsion that the what-you-may-c ill-it
was bounded on the north by Brisbane Govern-
ment House, on the south by Melbourne Cup, tn
the east by Potts Point, and on the west —well
not very west —well, let’s say by the Adelaide
Exhibition.
* * *
There is a registrar of squeals, croaks, and
wails—or births, deaths, and marriages, which
are just the same—in a small Victorian township.
He is a widower and a giddy old masher. He
fixed his eye on a young widow with plenty of
“ sugar ” and other sweetness, and she encouraged
his dalliance, even to promising him that he
should marry her. He carried on his recording
business, and chuckled to himself with glee at the
prospect of shortly owning the widow and regis-
tering his own marriage. As he sat in his office
one afternoon the widow entered on the
arm of a local chalk-and-water distiller. The
registrar hopped round and wa3 as gracious as he
could be. The dairyman cut him short by saying,
“ Look slippy, old man, we're going to getspllced,
and want you to post the notic3S.” The registrar
sat down on the floor as an ordinary chair did not
seem to fit him just then. “But, Mrs. Blank,”
he gurgled, “you promised 1” “So I did,”
answered the widow, but I never said to whom,
doncherkaow." “Yes,” continued the dairyman,
“you shall marry her—to me.” “ May Ibe
frizzled, &c., &c., &c,, if I do,” yelled the regis-
trar. Nor did he, for he reached for a chair, sat
down, and wrote out his resignation.
* * *
Since the announcement that Lady Car-
ington is suffering from an inflamed knee, it has
been noticed that many of the “bc3t people” in
Sydney are apparently afflicted in a similar way.
The inflammation, however, cannot arise either
from praying or from scrubbing. One can only
conjecture that “ housemaid’s knee ” is an heredi-
tary complaint.
* * •
Constable Burke, of Sydney, who last
week chased and stopped a runaway cab, think-
ing that it contained a pretty girl, found that,
after all, he had only rescued an Insolvency
Judge—who, there being a compensation for all
things, gave him ten guineas and obtained for
him instant promotion. There is in this a mighty
moral. When you see the gaol-van bolting, don’t
forget to remember Constable Burke and his
Honor Judge Deffel,
* * •
" The other day the Anglican parsonage at
Toorak (Melb.) was burgled, and a lot of things,
including a lovely wringing-machine, stolen from
the laundry. The robbery was reported to the
Prahran police, and Senior-Constable O’Flaherty
was sent up to the parsonage to make enquiries
and examine the premises. He had an interview
DESIGN FOR FANCY COSTUME
"AUSTRALIA"
with his countrywoman, Bridget, the laundress,
who gave him a lot of information, and a bit of
her mind as to how the things were got at and
carried off. “ Yis, that's all very well,” says
O’Flaherty, “but what bothers me is how the
divil they got into the belfry.” “Oh, what the
dickens ’d take them there ?” rejoined Bridget.
“ They’d get no more there than a church mouse,
and divil resave the much that is." “Oh, be
jabers, they got the ringin' machine," replied
the astute Michael.
* * *
It was in a tram-car, and the only passen-
gers were Parkins of the Civil Service, and five
ladies. Parkins was arrayed in a new ready-made
suit, and he contemplated them and his tight boots
with joyous satisfaction till he noticed a thread
hanging to one leg of his lovely trousers. He
took a chance when the ladies were looking the
other way and nulled. Ab out a yard of thread
came out. and Parkins gave a gasp. He hauled
on it again and brought out two yards more, and
then he grew desperate and dragged out six yards
altogether, when the line bro&e off. “ Thank
heaven 1 ” he muttered faintly as he dropped his
leg, and as he drooped it the whole pant came
open from the foot right up to the pooket.
For one awful moment Parkins and the ladies
were paralysed but at last one blushing little girl
offered him a pin, and the miserable object hitched
himself together and got out. The only place of
refuge he could see within miles was a milliner’s
shop and on payment of an extravagant bonus he
was allowed the use of an upstairs back room,
where he took the clothe 3 off and shied them out
of the window to a girl waiting in the yard, fche
went off to run them through the machine, and
the other girls stood rouid under the window and
made remarks, and when the damage wa3 re-
paired they all took a hand at throwing the gar-
ment back through the casement. They landed
it amid great excitement at the thirteenth shot,
and then they stood in the passage —22 of them—
and tittered as Parkins came out, and while he
wa3 settling up, the old lady in the shop gave him
her card, and told him to run in any time he
wanted some repairs done. He said he would.
The Earl of Carnarvon, daring his stay in
Sydney, will “be entertained at dinner by the
members of both Houses of Parliament.’ We are
sorry for the Earl of Carnarvon. P.S. —Burdett
Smith will, no doubt, be there, and so will S. A.
Joseph. Likewise J. J Calvert.
• » »
Poor Wales has not yet fully recovered
from a shock he received some months ago, and it
is doubtful if he will ever be quite himself again.
It was at Sandringham that the cataclysm oc-
curred. Sir Frederick Johnstone got “ off”—woe-
fully “ off”—at dinner, but by a superhuman effort
he held himself together until the ladies were
gone, and then he concussed into a chair by the
fire and closed his eyes. Wales viewed his pal for
a few moments in sorrow rather than in anger,
and then he strolled up to him and said in
solemn gutturals: “I say, F-r-r-r-edy, your-r-r
ver-r-r-y dr-r r-unk.” If the heir-apparent had
been kicked in the eye he could not have been
more staggered when the answer came back:
“ P raps ; but, I say, Tummy, you’re very fat.”
The house door opened shortly afterwards, and a
baronet was fired out.
* * *
The Parkes Tribute people have got hold
of the £6B surplus remaining from the late N.S.W,
railway demonstration. It has gone to that fund
which is so carefully protected from Parkes’
numerous and deserving creditors, and as it was
universally understood that it was to be handed
over to some hospi-
tal or other cha-
rity, the subscri-
bers are beginning
to kick when it is
too late. But, some-
how, charities all
go the same road
in N.S.W, The
next exoiteme n t
will be when the
Bulli subscriptions
are handed over to
swell that far-reach-
e ing, loud, impor-
tunate cadge—the “Qaen’s” Fund, and are
devoted to the pensioning off of ladies “who
have once held high positions.”
» * #
A travelling teetotaller who sought a drink
of water at Rook wood railway station was told to
put his mouth under the tap of the tank at the
back. This is a tempting instance of what may
happen to a temperance-man in N.S. Wales.
* * *
An anecdote of the late Lady Brassey.
When she was plain Mrs. Brassey, a few years
ago, she went into a London upholsterer’s and
there saw a large carved ivory chair. “ How
much ?” she asked. “ Four hundred and sixty
guineas, Madame. Very few people care about
giving so much for a chair.” “ Hum !” ejaculated
Mrs. Brassey, “ send me a dozen, please.”
* * *
A clergyman at Dunolly (Vic.), finding
one Sunday too short for his sermon, continues it
from week to week. There are a good many
sermons that we know of that would not suffer by
being treated in this manner. Besides, it must be
a novelty, as well as a pleasure, for the congrega-
tion to hear the worthy man pass from “ Forty-
ninthly, brethren, as you know, these eternal
torments are ” to “To be continued in our
next.”
# * *
The Argus, in an unlooked-for glimmer of
lurid and republican common-sense, lightens like
thunder in favour of a radical reform in the
divorce laws. But we are so used to saeing the
Argus advocating only such measures as will
principally convenience its own particular set that
one is inclined to ask for whom it is pleading in
this special instance. Perhaps there is some use
in having a Toorak aristocracy, after all.
* * *
A writer of society items in a Melbourne
weekly, speaking of a young bride at a recent ball,
says incidentally that she was “ covered with
blushes.” What refreshing modesty ! We hail
with delight the introduction of a covering for the
ladies in a ball-room.
* * *
The death of the Irish peer, Viscount
Guillamore, was recently announced. The de-
ceased lord had a little colonial history. He was
one of nature’s gentlemen, and when in the
colonies did not hang about Government House,
or make multy bets with bookmakers. He was
shepherding on a back run in Victoria in 1860
when he picked up a portion of a colonial news-
paper which contained the announcement of the
death of his brother and invited him home to
the ancestral halls.
» * *
Parer and Barbeta, the great Spanish
caterers, are apparently bidding for a monopoly of
the Melbourne restaurant-trade. Their latest
purchase is Ho3ie’s cafe, for £85,000 cash.
• * *
S. M. Herald advt. :
“ MAGlCAL.—Assistant wanted, sine vel cum dip.;
antecedents must bear inquiry, especially in re-
lation to temperance. State age, salary, and whether
experienced in yachting. M.D , Post-office, Croydon."
The M.D. who expects to get an assistant ex-
perienced in temperance and yet addioted to
yachting must be a humorist of the very first
water.
* * *
Quite the sweetest little thing in photo-
graphs at present is a two-shilling article with
the foot-note, “ The Princess of Wales assisted in
her study of the Bible by the Bishop of Sr,
Albans.” The Princess is studying the Bible in
evening dress—if she were a man it might be
supposed that she had wrestled with the Scrip-
tures until she was compelled to take something
off to cool herself—while the Bishop is tackliDg
the Word with all his clothes on. This photo, has
caused a great religious revival among the upper
classes, and ladies of all descriptions now invite
bishops, vicars, high-church parsons, local-
preachers, and Salvation Army captains to call
and assist them in studsing the Bible. It is also
suggested that a portrait of “ The Princess of
Wales praying at her bedside” might do a lot to
boost the neglected subject of private devotions,
and another two shilling photo, will probably ap-
pear shortly, with a view of inducing duchesses and
others to offer up a petition before going to rest.
* B *
The Earl of Buckingham was present at
Joe Thompson’s ball the other night.
* * *
Mr. Smith and Miss Jones were married
in Sydney last week.
* * *
The latest from the Nooze :
lntroductions. Contracts ar-
ranged. Cadies with means wanted. Apply
Madame Litoff, 223 Blank -street."
How artless 1
* *
Sweet are the uses of advertisement, and
the following is a very tasty specimen thereof. It
is English, of coarse
“ £9O —Priest of private means who could accent so
small stipend might find congenial sphere. Ve3t.-
ments ; Sisters ; bracing ; Midlands; Gregorian
Hiereus, Chtjkch Times Office.’’
Vestments 1 Sisters ! Bracing ! Small screw !
Prie3t of private means ! Congenial sphere
among the sisters ! Great Scott! Holy Moses !
Hi-Yah I Good Heavens !
* * *
A Hallelujah lass died a few days ago at
Narrabrl (N.S.W.), and the local paper, in its
frenzied desire to say something nice, remarked :
“ This funeral is noticeable as the first Salva-
tionist one that has occurred in this town. Let tin
hope it will not be the last." And the thick-
headed race who bang the big drum took it for a
compliment.
* * *
Surpliced female choristers are a Church of
England fad in Melbourne. This is probably a
dodge to decrease the female surplus in the
churches.
* * *
The aristocratic suburbs of South Yarra
and Toorak (Melb.) are agitating for separation
from Prahran, and the perennial Dr. Wooldridge,
of South Yarra, is at the head of the movement.
The doctor is a gay young sport of 80. A few
years ago an Age reporter went out to South
Yarra to ask him how his patient, the late Were,
C.M.G., was getting on. “Badly," replied the
doctor. “ Well, he’s an old man,” remarked the
reporter. “Only seventy-five,” rejoined young
Wooldridge. “You don’t call that old l I’m
seventy-five.” The doctor became a bridegroom
not long ago.
* * *
The hypocritical daily press of Sydney
holds up its paws in holy horror because a shark-
and-seal fight took place at Manly aquarium
the other day. Yet when a poor, irresponsible
half-witted human wreck was legally flagged into
rigidity a few days ago at Woolloomooloo lockup
the same “humane" humbugs were silent as a
dead Chinaman.
* # *
A Carcoar correspondent enquires how it
is that at a bazaar in aid of the local R,C. Church
the police allow throwing with dice, rouge et noir,
and raffling pound-notes ?
* * *
Dr. Bevan, the Independent parson, of
Melbourne, says he doesn't object to sixpenny
points at cards. There’s a Sydney parson who is
known to have lost £6O at a sitting, and it wasn't
run up in sixpences either.
# * *
Poor Lord Caringbon isn’t the draw he
used to be. So much, in fact, has he depreciated
that when he attended a recent concert in Sydney
Masonic Hall there were only 17 persona present,
including himself and his staff. The show was
postponed. All these things are vanity.
* * *
At Cooktown, a pair of magistrates have
evolved from their inner chucklehaadedness a
law by which all the local publicans exeept two are
prohibited from engaging domestics at the Immi-
gration Depot without a special permit. This is
good for the two publicans, but how about the
other eighteen ?
* * *
John Farrell, who as a poet and a brewer
ought to know, says that it is the unfermented sugar
and not the salt in colonial beer that produces
thirst. In other words, the more sugar a man
taken the more he wants to drink.
The white man who would grovel to a
Chinaman is lower than the ancient cat-worship-
per of Egypt, and meaner than the heathen who
used to bow down before an onion. Tixe latter
abased himself before a chan vegetable, while the
man who bows to the Chinkie does reverence to
the object which dirties the vegetable by heaving
sewage on it. Consequently we do not share in
the enthusiasm which led the inhabitants of some
place in Victoria to assemble together and present
Chin Chew with a testimonial on the occasion of
his departure for a short excursion to Leper Land.
The affair came off in the local hotel, and
thB company made speeches, and drank
toasts, and expressed a hope that Chew would
speedly return with the glow of health in his
yellow countenance and joy in his fishy eye, and
as the local paper puts it, “ Mr. Chin Chew suit-
ably responded.” This is probably something like
what he said, “Clistian pleachy man he makee
me heap sick. Me live in Victolia thilty year,
sell good cabbagee, olange, callot, and lallikin, he
th'tow stones all the time. Me go back to China,
get away from goly lallikin. Bymby me come
back, sell good cabbagee, olange, callot, allege
same.” Then Chin Chew’s health was drunk
again, and the heathen slouched out on his road
to Shanghai. And this is what the white man
has come to. We feel half inclined to go out and
offer up a short prayer to our dog in the yard,
There is a window full of novelties at Brays Bros’, 402
and 404 George-street. Ornaments and Vases in new styles
and shapes, Busts and Figures in Parian, B/onz ■, Terra
Cotta, plain, tinted and oil-jainted. Sets for Tea, Break
fast and Dessert, new Glass and etc T e two life-sized
figures wearing eye-glasses and the old ju<lge ani c jmpanion
being particularly striking. '
FBCCKIGBAKE is an infallible cure for Freckles, Tan
Sunburn, and every description of Ephelis and Lentigo, and
effects a cure by chemically changing the coloring matte
deposited under the epidermis or scarf skin, which is re
absorbed into the system and carried off by the natural
excretory channels. Frecklebane does not injure the skin or
complexion. Sold by all chemists Special city agents: W.
H. Sul and Co., Pitt-street Wholesale: Clements,
Chemist, Newtown N.S. W.
Ladlei would do well to attend the great lale of the aeaion
now on at the London and Farli Outfitting Eatabliihmenl
Hn, KadATHT*. 88 and 90 Klng-itreet.*
J. B. Pace's and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco ie
he most delicious smoke in the world, ackaowledged by all
connoisseurs to be the most delicate in flivour. Prepared so
that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to the last
partiole with a pure white ash. Try it *


POLITICAL
POINTS
The Soudan Expedition cost N.S.W. over
£500,000!
Judge Holroyd, of Victoria, alludes to
N.S.W, as “ a foreign country.”
They are asking in Queensland if Samue
Walker Griffith’s cams will be Walker after nex
elect icn.
The name of the N.S.W. Fraetrade Asso
ciation is to be changed to “ Tbs Foreigners’ Pro
tection Association.”
London Times places Australian cable
grams under the head of “ Foreign News.’
Nothing like candour.
The Victorian Government is approaching
the beginning of the end. Both Argus and Age
advise an early dissolution.
Cumberland Times alleges that McElhone’s
imagination cannot rise to the political aspect of
the Centennial Corpse House.
The N.S.W. Ministry will not have a
deficit. No fear. The Ministry are all right.
Their bleeding country will have the shortage.
The Irish National League has been con-
verted into a football-club. Captain Boycott will
probably be president, and the goal, Home Rule.
It is cabled that “the Financial News
denounces a gang of N.Z. politicians, who, it says,
‘ are living on I. O. U.s ’” New Zealand, politicians I
A brutal London paper, which seems to
ignore Secretary Pulsford, asserts that Goschen
is preparing a Protective tariff scheme for
England.
Premier Griffith proposes to call a certain
new Queensland electorate “ Woothakata.”
Samuel likes the aboriginal language. It reminds
him so of Welsh.
Kiama (N.S.W.) has lost faith in the man
who immortalised it by the aid of that historic
ghost. Last week the local Parkes relief meeting
was a severe frost.
In poor Protected Victoria the revenue
for the four months ended October was £2,262,464,
being an increase of £176,944 on the corresponding
period of the previous year.
The Australian dailies all speak of William
O'Brien as Mr. William O Brian. A few years
ago, ere The Bulletin started, it would have
bBen “ the convict O’Brien.”
Two men and a woman armed with a
poker, resisted 280 armed policemen at a Limerick
eviction. The strargest part of it wad that the
police failed to shoot the woman.
Parkes says he “represents a great and
living principal of £60,000! His colleague,
Habigle, on the other hand, represents a great
and living interest—at the rate of 120 per shent.
New South Wales now loses about £lOO,OOO
annually on the Hay-Junee railway—a line built
solely to wrest the local trade from its natural
channel running Victoria- wards ! Such is Aus-
tralian statesmanship.
Primate Barry has been ordered by his
Synod to cable home to the Quean and influence
her against the N.S.W. Divorce Bill. Should his
Lordship succeed N.S.W. will probably want a di-
vorce from Her Gracious.
Unhappy little, slow- going Tasmania —whose
fertile lands are all locked up in the grip of a
handful of monopolists—can only afford £3OO to
show up at Melbourne Exhibition, and conse-
quently she has decided to stand out.
When, the other night, in the Victorian
Assembly, Gaunson spoke of Berry as “ a miser-
able old counterfeit, a white-haired political rogue,
and a bandy-legged schemer,” not a voice was
raised in protest. So dies the renegade.
Says the Wide Bay News (Q ): — “ We
confess that we neper read or knew of a more
shameless instance of the absence of political
morality than that afforded by the pre-
sentation which is about to be made to Sir Henry
Parkes.”
Mr. F. Abigail presided at a lecture on
Henry George last week, entitled “ Progress and
Pawnshops.” Abigail said on the occasion that he
"owed much to debating societies and such or’
ganisations.” How much per shent do they
charge, we wonder!
Mr. Stead, of the Pall Mall Gazette,
has, it is cabled, urged the London unemployed to
meet in Trafalgar Square in spite cf the police.
If he wrote thu3 in Ireland he would be pub in
prison. So that there is one la w for the Irish,
another for the English.
The row between Sydney auctioneers,
when the evidence of the Circular Quay Mystery
Inquiry is published, is confidently guaranteed as
of 24-carat quality and 301 b. to the square inch
vehemence. Then will an inquisitive public learn
what a lot of money there Is in estate agency.
Imperial Federation, which alleges that
Australian national feotiment only finds a mouth-
piece in the Age, p eposes “that Australasia
should fn-nish some permanent troops for the gar-
rison of India.” It takes Australasia all her timS
to garrison London drawing-rooms with recreant
democrats.
A Bulletin correspondent suggests that
on the anniversary of the foundation of
N.S.W. all the military forces maintained at
the expense of the colonies should be sworn in
under colonial authority instead of under Queen
Victoria, as is at present done in all British de-
pendencies.
Ireland’s degradation is said to be largely
due to the fact that the men who ought to run
the country are run into gaol. The degradation
of New South Wales is caused by the reverse of
this practice. At Botany Bay the men who run
the country are too often the men who ought to be
run into gaol.
In the matter of Home Rule, it will be
interesting to enquire of the Melbourne Argus at
this jureon re what is the difference between
Western Australia and Ireland? And also to re-
flect what the difference will be when there is as
much English held capital in the one part of the
world, proportionately, as in the other.
No wonder that the Age sneers at what it
is-pleased to call the “impracticable” theories of
Henry George. Mr. David Syme owns an estate
of 7000 acres in one block, near Lily dale ; and is
besides an extensive holder of city property. It
is probably for the same reason that the Age ob-
jects to the direct representation of labour in
Parliament.
The sham-radical Age again turned on the
Republican tap on Prince of Wales’ birthday
“It does not require a philosopher to foresee that
in the order of events the abolition of the Mon-
archy will be preceded by the abolition of the Peer-
age, and the dissolution of Church and .State;
and in the natural course of things these two
catastrophes (sic) cannot be vary much longer
delayed.”
Reading a standard treatise on common
law the other day, we came across the following
profoundly solemn and serious maxim:—“ The
people means the governing power of any com-
munity ” There is a latent beauty in this authori-
tiva dictum that teaches us how sadly unpatriotic
any reform movement must be, and ho w constancy
solicitous some Conservative Ministers and Mem
ALL TWINS.
BILL SMITH (to Bill Jones): “THEM CHINESE IS WONDERFUL LIKE EACH OTHER.
THEY LOOKS AS IF THEY WAS ALL TWINS.”
bers of Parliament really are for the welfare of
—the people.
“ A law of party expediency has been
manufactured for the benefit of Premier Parkes,
so as to make his political services screen him
from the consequences of his social sins, and his
claims to the alms of the benevolent have been
paraded with a peculiar wail which it is fashion-
ab’e to import into all embellished versions of the
short and simple annals of the poor.”— Tamworth
News.
TheMudgee Geophagist, who was bred on the
homely Papistical potato, publicly abjured Roman-
ism and swallowed the succulent orange at the
L.O L. meeting at Clontaif last week —this as a
part of the political discipline of the Parke 3 party.
The geophagist, if left to himself, would in all
probability have taken the lemon of negation in
preference to either of the talismanic vegetables
above-named, but needs must where Parkes or
the Devil drives.
Mr. John Sutherland, the decrepit old
gentleman who was made a N.S.W. Minister
part’y because he had the influence of the E.
News, and notwithstanding that Premier Parkes
owed him £2OO, now compares his peculiar posi
tion in the Works Department, in which he is
completely bossed by the Premier, to that of one
suffering the “ pains of Purgatory.” How comes
a colleague of Three-ball Abigail, L.O L,, to be-
lieve in Purgatory 2
From ‘ 1 Hazell’s Annual Cyclopaedia
(1887):—Heaton, J. Henniker, Conservative ”
(that’s because he is a representative Australian,
and married to the money of a “ Democratic ”
newspaper), “ landowner, Australia, author Im-
perial Penny Postage Scheme.” Family connec-
tion : Not a word about Alfred Bennett. And he
“ supports specially W.S ,” which means Woman
Suffrage, We wonder whether Henniker, who
specially supports Woman Suffrage, also specially
supports straight-out manhood suffrage, in Great
Britain 1
Says the Sydney correspondent of the
Western Ada ocate (Orange)For example,
on Tuesday last an hon. member obtained a count
out of the Assembly solely to prevent attention
being formal - : y dircoted to the fact that an officer
of the House was in a state of intoxication. On
the following evening the person was in his place
in the House, and he was more drunk than he
was on Tuesday. But not a word about his dis-
graceful conduct appeared in the papers, although
the reporters were fully cognisant of the state of
the individual.”
To show how desperate are the efforts
made to whip up money for Parkes it is only
necessary to quote the following circular, now
being sent round :
I O.G.T.—Mr. A. Hutchison, M P., G W.0.T., has kindly
given the Hon. Secretaries to the Parkes Fund permission to
circulate this letter amongst the Temperance Bodies through
out the Colony —S. Bup.dekin, J. M. Dunn, Hon. Secs.
Parkes Fund.”
“ 252 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, October 28,1887.—Gentle-
men,—I herewith hand the Firm's cheque, also my own, for
small sums towards the Parkes Fund. My own I send more
as a Temperance man than a Political follower. Sir Henry
Parkes I think has done and said more for that cause than
any other man in a like position, and somehow I expect
more from him It therefore appears to me he has some
sort of claim upon those of us who can afford it, and see as
.1 see in this hour of trial. Ido hope such a sum will be got
as we may all be proud of, and the old man placed outside care
Yours faithfully, A Hutchison."
The Argus considers that “ the inaugural
dinner given by the Mayor of Melbourne i 3 de-
prived by circumstances of much of the political
importance whioh attaches to the entertainment
at which, on the same evening, the Lord Mayor
of London inaugurates his year of office.” That’s
a long-winded way of insinuating that Duncan
Gillies is a cut below the Grand Old Man, or Lord
Salisbury, and a molest admission that Victoria
is not yet one of the Great Powers. All of which
is true enough. There’s the same difference be-
tween the two feeds that there is between the
Argus and the Times, One is heavy, but im-
portant ; the other is heavier—but not important.
A N.S.W. alderman and J.P., who lives
in a little town S W. by W. half E. from Sydney,
attended the last meeting of the Bor. ugh Council
in a condition of hie, and after sleeping for an
hour or so he arose and took off his clothes in the
p e sence of the Mayor. He then held on to the
council-chamber to keep it from going round.
According to clause 211 of the N S.W.
Criminal Law Amending Act, *' Whosoever
maliciously kills maims or wounds any cattle shall
be liable to penal servitude for ten years.” That
may be all very well; but clause 221 of the same
Act says: “ Whomever maliciously and cruelly
wounds or tortures any cattle whether his own
property or that of another ehall be guilty of a
misdemeanour and be liable to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding twelve months or to a fine not
exceeding £100.” In other words, if a man shoots
his neighbour s calf dead, at once, he is liable to
be imprisoned for ten years ; but if he takes his
own, or anyone else’s, cow, smears her over with
kerosene and sets her alight, the greatest punish-
ment that can be inflicted on him is a twelve
months’ seclusion. As Judge Docker says, this
Act is ‘‘a most idiotic piece of law-making.”
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—A Private Medi
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms
derive the great advantages of a constant medical super
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff.
Per particulars apply to the Rady Superintendent.*
WOMAN ITEMS.
One out of every 10 marriages in N.S.W.
is performed by registrar.
Mis3 Mary L. Booth, editress of Harper's
Bazar, receives £1,000 per annum.
A lady at Young, (N.S.W.) who drew
Silvermine in cup sweep, scooped £2000.
Another physiological crank in the States.
A woman of 60 years has given birth to twins.
The first wife of a Birmingham (Eng.)
bigamist said he gave her fourteen black eyes°in
nine months.
A horrible outrage is reported in the Vic-
torian papers. A woman teas gauged. Just
think of that!
Mr. John Waring and Miss Jane Warr
were married lately at Fitzroy (Vi 0 .) Similia
similibns curantur .
An intelligent Melbourne policeman, who
arrested a woman in the act of attempting suicide
charged her with insulting behaviour.
J he latest novelty in “ In Memoriam ” ad-
a ertieing was published in Melbourne latelv “He
lives with God in the memory of his widow.”
From the Napier (N.Z.) Telegraph:’—
“ M RS - motley hag rooms to let (or fcl
with fireplaces. Terms on application.
Things are getting no better very fast in
Sydney E. News advertising columns. The very
babfes! 8 a WOman WaDt8 t0 disp08e of twi “
The wild white woman captured from the
Normanby (Q.) blacks used to rub herself with fat
othergJns 08,1 t0 make her body black Iik e the
A sweet creature advertises in a Svdnev
paper for a billet as barmaid, and ingenuously
keep them.’ 6 8 h ° W t0 S6t CU8t “
ir-G„ T i“pV Bhti To, ” my -ss
“Ah, Adolphus!” she murmured, “I
fear I am not worthy of you. You are so good ”
Never mind, darling,” he said, tenderly ; “ wait
till we’re married.” J ’ waic
A Goulburn, N.S.W., young lady, who is
only 1J years old and dances well, weighs 2‘i
stone. When she stands on her pkrSs corn
her weight Is about two tons.
T,™7s “" CSp0 ”‘ lent of the Coonamble
1
»1'0 is «0 years of age and large
and flabby, wears her hair flying loose nn<r
coloured decollette dresses. She is engaged on a
new novel which is also rather decollettef
Out of 299 marriages celebrated in New
castle, N.S.W., in one year, 99 were performed
y regiBimr. One out of every 11 marriages cele-
brated (brought the colony is performed civilly.
-Let the fair enslaver who gives us the
wif t0 . hol . d jusfc when we don’t want to be
“ d ™ tb that little mortal listen and
At Phrladelphia a woman has been com-
mitted for trial for listening at a keyhole.
Bereaved wife (a very nice looking
: ‘ 0h - sir, you were always so good to
■p. * You 11 come to the funeral to-morrow ?”
L>eceas ed husband's employer: “I don’t know
about to-morrow. I might come the day after.”
Sweet “ad.’’from Sjdney E. News :
“ F»™CH Doctor's young Widow, desires to meet
P.O., SS?' comfortable circumstances. Maud,
che only yearns to meet kind husband. Heaven
help her if kind husband’s wife meets her.
Little Girl Number One : “ Our family is
a more aristocratic family than yours ” Little
Girl Number Two: “ No it isn’t. My mother can
boast of her forefathers for the past two centuries ”
Little Girl Number One : “ Oh that's nothing.
My mother can boast of four husbands in the last
two years.
On the Macleay (N.S.W.) they are going
to hold a flower-show and give a prize to the
prettiest girl. Anyone who pays sixpence will be
allowed to vote. As the ugliest girl has generally
the most sixpences the prize will probably be
taken by a red-haired young person with a nutr-
nose and yellow boots.
“A young lady, on being asked by her
father how she would like a nice, respectable
husband of oO answered by saying that she would
rather have two of 25 each.” That is the kind of
b ir S Mr. Phrenologist Fraser is treating the
youthful readers of the Melbourne Herald to in a
series of papers entitled “Husbands."
One of Australia’s dusky daughters, whose
fighting-weight is 3cwt., is now on show at Ade-
laide. This is one more proof of the resistless
march of civilisation. Fifty yeais ago a girl of
that size would have been eaten in her prime • it
would have been regarded as rank insanity’ to
allow such a mars of valuable meat to run about
loose.
Only one female was ever hanged in Vic-
toria, and th it was away back in Governor
Darling a time. She and her paramour induced
an American black, while in a state of intoxication,
to shoat her husband. She would not have been
executed but for the fact that to respite her the
Governor would also have hid to respite the men
which he could not see his way to do.
A l ale of mesmeric influence at Newcastle
N.S W. A mesmeric lady came to the town, and
in the course of business mesmerised a youth and
that youth fell in love with her. He followed her
about all day, and at night would camp at her
doorstep, heedless of the policeman’s “ move on ’
One morning when rosy dawn gleamed redly o'er
Bullock Island he went out ar d shot himself.
The London Scientific Journal is whoop-
ing over the recent discovery of a substance which
is 300 times as sweet as sugar.” This news is
staler to us than the eggs of the geese that saved
Ancient Home. We discovered the “substance”
ourselves ever so long ago. It was about 18
years of age, and we used to sweeten our tea by
stirring it round with the “substance’s” little
finger.
A funny accident happened at Hobart
skating rink the other day. When the small boy
who waits on the ladies was assisting a gushing,
high-toned young creature to remove her skates’
a little extra force carried the boot away with
the skate, and disclosed a foot nearly b ire. Skating
is evidently too important to be neglected for such
a trifle as darning. This malicious item was sent
us by a woman.


Mary Nerney, the defendant in a will case
jmb heard in Sydney, seems to have had a
glorious time of it before her lamented pegged
out. He used to take 30 or 40 nobblers a day, and
under these circumstances he, on one occasion,
took a large quantity of hair out of her head,
which hair, she slated, “ she had kept, as she
thought of having ij made up in a plait.” It
isn’t every woman who could calmly gather her
torn-out thatch from the floor under such painful
conditions, but probably Mary had got used to it.
When Nerney was on his last legs the “ praste ”
came to see him, and Mary says she heard him re-
mark that it was a pity the patient “ couldn’t
leave a little to the church at Waverley.” Such
are the realities of life. The wife gets her hair
torn out, and the priest wears his cut so short that
no one can get a hold of it.
The " Moldacot" Sewing Machine is a marvel of in-
genuity and a wonder to those who have used it. A perfect
Sewing Machine, complete in all details. Not larger than an
ordinary pipe and the price 17s. 6d. Without precedent. See
' it and he convinced.*
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPiOVMESf AGENCY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable in-
formation.
79 E izabeth-etreet,
BRISBANE.
rr HE sum of £5 will ba given to any person
1 sending in the three most appropriate
Shakespearian quotations re
“SIR HESRY PARKE 3,”
Full particulars as to whereabouts of quotation
must accompany each List. Any recognised edi-
tion allowed.
All Lists to be in not later than the 2G ;h in3t.
Address, enclosing 2s. 61., to “Shakesperian
Student," G P. 0., Sydney.
T ;e name and address of the successful compe-
ti or will be published on December 3.
BOURKE, loth September, 1887.
LN November, 1885, my family were residin? ia
Nyngae, and my wife and I were apprehended
on the aharge of having damaged the bellows of a
neUhbeucing blacksmith, but the esse waa ulti-
ma'ely disi i3sed. On our committal for trial our
two boys, aged respectively 10 and 8 years,
boarding at an hotel at the time, were taken pos-
res -ion of by the pWe. and senb away to Sydney,
be ng plared on h. u.-J of the Vernon traming
ship At the time oc oar misfortune the childr n
were being educated at the Convent ia NyngaD,
and I hold certificates from the Sisters as to pay-
ment of fees and na'u e of the instruction im-
parted. After the children v ere sent to the
VernoD, the younger was removed and placed in
the hands of Maxted and Green, of the Children's
Relief Department, PaddiDgton. Mr. Ryan,
solicitor, applied to the Government while both
vtere on the Vernon, but could not get (ham on
account of the adverse report of the Nyngan
police. I applied personally to Dr. Renwick for
The elder boy on the Vernon and to Maxted and
Green for the younger. I have been over
30 years in Riverine, travelling the country
or working in the towns as a saddler 1
and had my head-quarters in Nyngan for eleven
months, my family residing there while 1 was
working at my trade on the scations in the district.
Maxted and Greea demanded payment from me
by letter for the support of the younger boy in
1886, and early this year, ge ting from me in all
three payments of £2 10s. each. Oa farther
anpl'cat'oa for money they were referred to my
legal adviser, sine 3 which time they have not
troubled me with aDy farther demands. The
first letter I got from Green, who stated that the
ru’e of his department was to pay five shillings
per week for each child for six months, then the
child would be returned to his paren's provided
they had a hom9 to put him In. I urged Green to
school the child properly, and he promised to do
so, but Mrs. Hogan's interview with the toy led
her to believe that this matter had almost totally
heen negleeted, ard on advertising for the child
littly to find out his whereabouts, I having be-
come acquainted with full particulars of the bad
treatment he received when sent or let out to per-
sons by the Relit f Department, can entertain little
hopes of his havirg received any instruction
whatever. Mrs. Hogan lately went to Sydney
and applied to Mr. Inglis, Dr. Renwlck’s succes-
sor, but was by him threatened with the police
and refused admisdon to the Vernon to see the
elder boy. Maxted adopted another course, when
she applied to him for the younger boy, first tell-
ing her to get from ihe Bourke police a character
for herself and husband for the past twelve
months, after procuring which he referred her to
the Vernon to get the elder boy first, then he
would hand over the younger to her. Without
great influence she could not poesibly get the boy
from the training ship, and well Maxted knew
this, hence, in all probability, this shuffling policy.
Tae Relief Department has been letting out the
child to several parties, and among others to a
farmt r at Wollongong, who was prosecu ed for
ill treating him, having beaten him on the naked
breast with nettles and crippled one of his hands.
Mrs Hogan was also put cfT with flimsy excuses
on each of her visits to the Relief Department,
Maxted telling her at one time that the child
would be handed over to her, aid at another time
that there was no possibility of his being
given up to h'r. On one occasion he let
hir know very plainly that he did not .like the
lather's having advertised for the child in the
Evening News. Seeing it useless to remain in
Sydney any lorger, she returned home to Bourke,
and now the matter is to be brought before Parlia-
ment at the next sitting. My case is a very hard
one, as the elder boy was, at ih9 time of removal
tn the Vernon, receiving a better educa'ion at the
C i vent than he would be at all likely to get rn
the i-tip ; he had also partaken for the first time
of the sacrament as a Catholic, and was in every
way getting on to the entire satisfaction of his
teachers. This can be proven at any time, and
all letters received from the Relief Department
have been carefully put on one side for proiucti-n
in evidence when required. Not wishing to say
more than I am able to prove, I place this state-
ment before the public, and all who read it can
draw their own inferences.
MICHAEL HOGAN,
Saddler, Bourke.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 15, 1887.
T HINDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whloh Is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
dars are opened, and the name of the snccessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are striotly complied with,
The Government does not bind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Sapply AwniDgs, Salle, Tents, j
&c. i
Sapp'y Anchors and Chains I
Annual Contract, 1888.
Colonial Architect s Department.
Construction of Wharf, &c., |
King’s Creek, Clarence River |
Construction, &c., of Iron Road- |
way Bridge across Bye Wash
from Prospect Reservoir
Additions to Courthouse, Mur- I
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
mil! til MTT
TOBACCO.
The Finest in Australia for
Smoking or Chewing.
a
A R&M y
NAvY
E
mwMfctl
I t
N
'10
f’.’
3.
H
s:
a
9-!
Fcr 63. you cm buy ihe La RGE3T and BEST
PLUG of choice TOBACCO sold in the Australian
colonies, irade from the PUREST and BEST
AMERICAN LEAF.
Our CELEBRATED VULCAN MIXTURES in
£lb. PACKETS, a successful blending of the
finest American Tobaccos, producing one of the
best smokes extant.
Is. Per PACKET of Jib. FULL WEIGHT.
VULCAN, RUBY, AROMATIC TWIST, and
POCKtT PIECES are the finest quality of Ameri-
can Aromatic Tobaccos imported. Oae trial will
suffice to prove its superiority to all otter brands
of Aromatic Tobacco in the market.
6d. and Is. Per PLUG.
AMERICAN LONG-CUT RUBY.
Ditto ROUGH-CUT ditto.
Is. 61. per. Jib. PACKETS, our own cutting
from best AMERICAN GOLD BLOCK.
Guaranteed the Purest American Tobacco.
CRAIG and AITKEN are direct Importers of
all the leading brands of Tobacco and Cigarettes,
and have always in stock and are prepared to
supply at the lowest wholesale rates the under
mentioned lines
ARMY and NAVY TOBACCO.
VULCAN MIXTURE, Jib. Packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH-CU T RUBY, Jib. Packets.
Ditto LONG-CUT „ „ „
VULCAN RUBY, Finest Aromatic.
tt ,» P*P. 119., 118.
ARMY and NAVY CIGARETTES.
MY SWEETHEART CIGARETTES
Red Lion, Conqueror, T. C. Williams, Victory
Janus, Imperial Ruby Twist, Barret’s Twist, Two
Seas, Raven Twist, Nailrod, Signet, Best Ameri-
can Cut Tobaccos, White Cak Mixture, Raven,
Gold Flake, Long-cut Eagle, Shag, Birdseye, &c.
All kinds of Sterling S lver-mounted BRIARS
and MEERCHAUMS always on hand. The Cele.
brated VULCAN BRIARS, CHERRYWCOD
PIPES, etc.
The attention of squatters and stoorekeepers in
the country is particularly drawn to the ARMY
and NAV Y brand of Tobacco, which we can sup-
ply wholesale at prices which defy competition.
mu aiT aitkes,
080, 682, GMMREIT,
SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Army and Navy Tobacco.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the Quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dindelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent;, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen,—l great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several 3 ears with Liver complaint,
and bean under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J P.
Tam worth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds fcr affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S D\N DELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
Ihe excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
DOWS
lAEMBRO CATION
\SOLD
EVERY.WHERE
Row’s Steane’s Wine
is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
tike
Row’s £ teane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It’s
only a pure Tonic. Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURI i'Y.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW’S
‘STEANE'S’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak dige&ti n, being perfectly free from any in-
jurious chemicals, tio often used in such prepara-
tions They should become a favorite drink in
these warm c imates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, analyst.
“Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row’s Steane’s Wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM,
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSOKTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE'S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU'LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSOKTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 45, 47, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,


Centrally
situated
> AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO Ail THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELLS IMPERIAL HOTEL
ISBAN
E
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
OKH
SOUTH
OFTHE
*N EQUATOR
II
£3
ml
ant
i/W^
*s
=£.
a
Q T F u
| ! l
U I—l
i
!£!!maiiii
rd
22
cM
Is
imn
-
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH ALL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKSk.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, ®ir COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. H. DAMTELL.
HALL.
Alhambra music
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
VOILA,
THE SURPRISE OF ALL.
WALSH and KING’S MINSTRELS.
OUR THIRD YEAR OUR THIRD YEAR.
And Nightly Packed.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR.
Abroluteiy and Beyond all Doubt
THE GREAT LAUGH-CREATOR OF MODERN
TIMES.
Master Comedians,
and the Biggest Success on Record.
Mi QStrel Shows Come and Go, but we Go On for
Ever.
Popular Prices :
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorship of Mr, Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3 30.
GRAND SACRED AND CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
AIN’S FIREWORKS.
MAMMOTH DISPLAY,
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 19.
DOMAIN
IN THE
DOMAIN
IN THE
DOMAIN
IN THE
DOMAIN
IN THE
DOMAIN
IN THE
DOM*IN
IN THE
DOMAIN
IN THE
DOMAIN
IN THE
DOMAIN
IN THE
JOMAIN
NOVELTIES
for the
FOURTH
GRAND DISPLAY
SATURDAY,
November 19.
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAINS
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PaIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN'S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
Y
M. C. A. HALL.
Under the hr mediate patronage of His
Excellency Lord Carrirgton and Lady
Can ingtOD.
FRIDAY, 18th NOVEMBER
FRIDAY, 18th NOVEMBER
FRID IY, 18th NOVEMBER.
LAST APPEARANCE
of
AMY SHERWJN
AMY SH ERWIN
AMY SHERWJN
AMY SHERWJN
Australia’s
Queen
of
Sorg,
prior to her departure from this Colony.
Special Engagement
of
M. HENRY KOWALSKI
M. HENRY KOWALSKI.
GRAND POPULAR PROGRAMME.
Box plan at Paliogs.
Admission : Reserved Seats, 55.; Galleries, 3s.
w'lm HUGO GORLITZ, Manager.
RITE It lON THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Shakespeare’s Majestic Play,
CYMBELINE CYMBELINE
CYMBELINE CYMBELINE.
The Principals
RECALLED EVERY ACT,
THIS GREAT PRODUCTION
is the theme of universal admiration.
MISS ESSIE JBNYNS
as
IMOGEN, PRINCES 3 of BRITAIN.
W. J. HOLLOWAY
LEONATUS POSTHUMOUS.
The Box Plan at Nioholson s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
A Great Problem.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines ,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all the Ague, Fever, and bilious
specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
—Take all the Great health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all these
and the — best
— Qualities of all the best medicines in the
world, and you will find that—Dr. Soule's Ameri-
can Hop Bitters have the best curative qualities
and powers of all— concentrated in them.
—And that they will cure when any or all of
these, singly or— combined. Fail ill!
—A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
(Harilcnerl Liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has ivorked a miracle in my case ; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morey, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering.
“ I was dragged down with debt.'poverty and suffering for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, uutil one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced using D r. Soules American
Hop Bitters, and in one month we were all well, and none
of us nave seen a sick day since, and I want to say to all
poor men, you ran keep your families well a year with Dr
Soule's American Hop Bitters for less than one Cost rs
visit will cost. I know it.”,
A WOE.KIXGMAN,
IS" None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown n
the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous stuff
made to imitate the above.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7.; Performance 8 ; Carriages 10.30
THE GREAT PLAY OF THE YEAR 1887,
entitled,
HELD BY THE ENEMY
HELD BY THE ENEMY.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Thkatrb royal
Under the Direofelon of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee. Mr. Sam. Lazar.
PRONOUNCED SUCCESS
cf the
NEW SOCIETY DRAMA
THE RED LAMP.
Prices as usual.
Tlokets for all parts of the house at Eastway's Hotel.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
18. ZEUrSTG-EnsriEUS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
As the most central and well appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORKS.
French and English Perfumery, l'oilet Requisites.
Note tiik Address
76 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.O ),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
A Bleating in every Family.
Hi LLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healiDg virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
&3T Rurchassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had ab
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
bhe comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sporbß
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now oper.
When in Sydney, ir you miss Foley’s you
VE NOT SEEN THE CITY,
M
of jSydiey.
JENOLAN CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS,&
316 GEORGE. ST jjctween HuNTEftSTiC.P.O*
Q.TJEEIsrSL.A.ISriD.
Millar carter, and co.,
Shipping and Fcrwardirg
STOCK AND STATION A GENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Yeung, Phoenix
Chambers Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Q mens'and.
WILL Mrs. E. BRUNTON, late resre-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney, 'j
This new and magniiicent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each flier. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.]
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition First
Prize Gold Medal.
Cooper & fl cLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
E 331 CSJ BURGH.
In bulk
and case.
B?st BEIiR
in the Market,
drawn l y all
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sjdney. leading Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OF 2ST.S.W.
HAYING been thoroughly renovated this Favourite Summer Resort is now replete with all con-
veniences, and prepared to receive Families for the season Special Rooms for single Gents.
Elegant Suites snd Single Rooms with either Piirate Table or 'lable cle Hole. Transient visitors will
receive every attention. The Table is supplied with the Best the Market affords. The Cellars stocked
with the Best Wines and Liquors procurable. Large Commodious Dining Room, suitable for Private
Suppers and Dancing. For Terms and Particulars apply
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,


THIS ATHLETIC AGE.
The following expressions of athletic gratitude
are taken from a recent issue of the Manchester
Athletic News
Mr. E. F. Painter (of London Athletic Club and
Rantlagh Harriers), 55, Finsboro’ road, South
Kensirgton, writes I have been suffering from
a sprained tendon for the past three months and
have tried every remedy l could think of, but none
have done me any good. About a month ago I
was recommended by a fellow athlete to try St.
Jacobs oil, which I applied at once, and it did me
so much gocd that I shall in a few days commence
runnmg again. Shall recommend it to all my fal-
low athletes as being the best remedy I have ever
tried.”
Mr. G. Smith (of Handsworth Friary Football
Club), 18, Carlyle road, Handsworth, Birmingham
says : - “ Not long ago I received a severe sprain
in my ankle whilst on the football field, which
wholly disabled me from walking. The ankle was
much swoollen and very painful. Learning of the
virtue of St. Jacob3 oil in such cases, I procured
a bottle and applied the contents regularly for one
week to the ankle, by which time the swelling and
pain had wholly disappeared, and I was able to
walk. I have also found the oil a most excellent
reiredy for toothache and headache. I have,
therefore, no hesitation in recommendirg the oil
to football players, as well as all persons suffering
from pain.”
Mr. Thomas Charles Pullinger, the well-known
bicycle rider, of 1(1, High-street, Lewisham, not
only knows how to ride a bicycle, but he knows
the right sort of a embrocation to use after hard
riding. He says, in referring to a strained leg : “ I
have found St. Jacobs oil has done my leg a power
of good. I shall continue to recommend your
valuable embrocation to my fellow cyclists, as I
consider it a rplendid article for rubbing down
with while training.” The Bicycling News,
April 23, 1887, also says : “ Mr. Pullirger, of the
Catford, asks U3 to thank the gentleman who re-
commended St. Jacobs oil to him.”
The fire brigade of the city of Birnr'ngbam has
reached an excellent state of efficiency. The men
are exposed to many dangers, and their arduous
work often brings about physical suffering. Chief-
Engineer John Bellhouse, and firemen Josiah Ben-
nett, Thomas Fidoe, Wm. Maese, Wm. Shaw, and
John Brittill, write that they received great bene-
fit from the use of St. Jacobs oil in cases of severe
pains in the back and knees, also tender feet and
other ailments. The wives of several members of
the department also say that in their case a few
applications of the oil, cured tooth and face-ache.
The late Dick Ireland, Q.C., of Victoria,
was a master of arts in dealing with a jury. Not
long before his death he defended a woman in the
Supreme Court on a charge of arson. When
the Crown case had concluded, he looked
with affected amazement at the Crown Pro-
secutor. “Do you mane,” said he, “that
A DEAD BEAT’S DILEMMA.
This deadbeat is in a fix. He has just washed his hands in the drinking-fountain
in the Park. He has no towel. He sees us coming along, and doesn’t know whether
to wipe his wet hands on his coat-tails or dry them in his pockets.
that s your cise?’’ The C.P. nodded assent.
“Then, gintlemen,” said Dick to the iury, without
rising from his seat, “ I won’t insult your intelli-
gence or take up your time by addressing you !”
It was a bold stroke, but the jury acquitted the
woman without leaving the box.
Wash your hair every day in lukewarm
water with a dash of hartshorn in it, and for a
year you will have silky tresses of gorgeous glossi-
ness. At the end of that time, however, what
little remains of the hair has become as coarse as
a kitchen broom. However, if a girl gets a rich
husband in the interval she needn't care. A good
many chestnut-maned darlings have got married
in Sydney on the strength of this recipe, and now
they get their hair washed and dried and combed
in the back yard, till the place looks like the
wigwam of a more than usually bloodthirsty
Apache warrior.
The cup of joy
THE CUP OF SORROW
THE CUP OF WRATH
THE CUP OF INIQUITY and
THE MELBOURNE CUP
All have their uses. Bub the best cup for every-
body at this time of year is a cup of CLAUSEN’S
NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER just
off the ice. Secure conviction at the first oppor-
tunity by ordering it. There is
NOTHING MORE DELICIOUS
NOTHING MORE INVIGORATING
NOTHING MORE WHOLESOME,
And you can get it in any quantity by ordering it
from
Messrs. Mason Bros., Limited, Fesq and Co.,
Tooth and Co., Allt and Co,, Burrows and
Gleeson, Lucas Bros., R Butcher and Co., J.
T. and J. Toohey and Co , Tidswell. Wilson, and
A. Thompson and Co., C. Bath and Co., Cooper.
Nathan, and Co., Darcy and Co , A. Rowan ' and
Co , Tucker and Co . Steward and Co.
i
(C
m
rtve
tiWCiAE%
niHB WONDERFUL WATERBURY WATCH
is manufactured at the rate of 2000 DAILY,
at the Factory, Waterbury, Conn.
WATERBURY WATCHES THE WORLD 1
WHY DOES Waterbury WATCH the World?
BECAUSE the World needs well Watching
And “ The Waterbury” is the best watch of all! 1
The Waterbury
Is a PERFECT TIME KEEPING WATCH which
RUNS 28 HOURS WITH ONE WINDING,
REGULATES TO A MINUTE A MONTH,
RARELY GETS OUT OF ORDER,
NEVER COSTS MORE THAN 2s. Od. TO
REPAIR.
The Grand Secret is—Simplicity.
Whereas an ordinary watch contains 163
parts, the Waterbury contains but 57 parts all
told, and the Waterbury Watch Co’s. Factory
manufactures them at the rate cf 2000 complete,
and perfect watches per day all the year round.
PEES OP DOCTORS.
The fee of doctors is an item that very many persons are
interested in just at present. We believe the schedule for
visits is $3.00, which would tax a man comiaed to his bed for
a year, and in need of a daily visit, over $l,OOO a year for
medical attendance alone! And one single bottle of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitttrr taken in time would save the
$l,OOO and all the year’s sickness. "Post.”
New South Wales, —This colony at the present time
assists a larger number <f Emigrants from Great Britain
than all the rest of Australia put together. The climate be-
ing hotter than in other parts, disease here assumes a sub-
tropical character and we find Pevers of all kinds, Diarrhoea,
Dssentery, Cholerine and Cholera p erail at certain periods
The Chines e'in New South Wales have long since learnt,
thanks to a kind-hearted nobleman who employs many
hundred Celestials, that the easiest and most successful
method of cutting short and curing these diseases, is at once
to take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne which in the majority
of cases arrests the further progress of the malady, or to con-
tinue it according to the directions until the disease is cured.
—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
having “Freeman’s ’’only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.*
One of the best managed and largest hotels In Sydney s
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney, The shilling luncheon
there nse.*
Tattersall's Monster Consultations.—Rosehill Handicap,
run November 12, 5000 subs, at 205.; also, Sir Joseph Banks
13th Grand Handicap, 5000 subs, at 203. each, now open, and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-
street.*
’Consumption, Bronchitis and General Debility
will yield quicker to the regular use of “Scott s Emulsion
of Cod Liver oil with Hypophosphite s," than any
other remedy known to Medical science. Read the following:
“I have prescribed ’Scott's Emulsion’ and have also taken
it myself, and can fully endorse the opinion that it is both
palatable and efficient, and can be tolerated by almost any
one, especially where Cod Liver Oil itself cannot be borne.
Martin Miles, M D , &c.
Stantonbury, Bucks, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.
A LAND-GRABBER FRIGHTENED.
A man stopped at Bourke a few days age and
tb.ua addressed an old fellow who stood with his
arms resting on a fence! ‘Do you live here?”
“Don’t see me dying, do you?” “Ah, you are one
of the funny men I have heard about in this
neighborhood. I want to know the names of
several people. Where is J. 8. Honeysuckle?”
“Dead.” “Ah, what was the matter with him”
“Sick." “What kind of sickness?” “Dry fever.”
“Let’ssee” (consulting a scrap of paper). “ where
is T. W. Snicker?” “ Dead What did he die
of?” “Dryfever.” “Humph! Where can I And Sim
Smdgras3?” “In the graveyard,” “Dry fever?”
“Ye 3.” “Do you know anything about Bill
Slivers?” ‘ Just laid him out.” “ What was the
matter with him?” “Dry fever.” “My friend
I came into this neigborhood to buy land.” “We've
got the finest country on earth. Yes right here.
I’ve got 800 a. that I’ll let you have cheap.” “How
does it shape?” “Al.” ‘How is the water?”
“Best in the world.” “Land rich?” “Yes.”
“Can you get any St. Louis Lager Beer in the
place?” “Any quantity. Some just landing.”
“ How is the neighborhood in the way of health?”
“Finest you ever saw.” “No chills?” “Not
one. In early days there was just one case ; he
shook himself to death. He lies ftwo and a half
miles above any burying ground.” “ What about
those fellows that died with dry fevers ?” “ Oh,
them fellows; why, you see we had a terrible dry
spell here the past three years, and it was time
they did die.” “I don’ want any land this time.
Come and join me in a glass of that famous St.
Louis Lager Beer. I leave by the next train.”
Summer ! Hookings and 00., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt-street.*
A CROSS BABY.
Nothing is so conducive to a man's remaining a bachelor
as stopping for one night at the house of a married friend
and being kept awake for five or six hours by the crying of a
cross baby. All cross and crying bibies need only Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters to make them well and smiling.
Young man remember this. “Traveller”
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee,
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic ofiice in Hotel.
The Hotel ow ur.de- entirely new management, and the p-esent proprietor trusts by eareful atten
tion to bosinee.. to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.
JT’S A LANG CRY TAE LOCH AWE
There are auld farran sayings in almost every
language, and in single sentences some of them
are found to be pregnant of remarkable humor
and vast philosophic force. But we may, with-
out jealousy, yield the palm to Scotland and
Ireland and to those rattling old counties in
England—Lancashire and Yorkshire to wit—for
the oddest, briefest, explanatory and most con-
vincing of all Scotland, has some choice ones,
and the gifted but glorious Burns-prince of poets
and king of fellows —did much towards retaining
for them a prominent position in the daily thoughts
of all Scotchmen.
That quaint old antiquarian, abided in mair
thirgs than auld siller (especially whame guid
whisky is aboot), deolared there was more to be
learned of “Burns” in one hour than in London
society in an age.
And so with Scotch sayirgs. In them you can
learn and feel a lot. You will disarm your
opponent “wieawee wipe oot” bit o’ a yarnie
mair nor wie a hale moontain o' argument,
FOR INSTANCE, if you want to explain that
something is DIFFICULT of ACHIEVEMENT,
what simpler than to remind your questioner or
hearer that “ It's a Lang Cry tae Loch Awe ? ”
And, readers, please bear this in mind—that far
awa a cry as tae Loch Awe in the good old days
of kilted chiefs it had used tae be considered
(there were few Argyles wie their Lunnon ways
in them days), jet it fades into utter insignificance
when ompared with the cry that has gone forth
far and wide proc aiming, in trumpet tones, of
LAWLER'S Bchievemmt in the BOOTS and
SHOES and CLOTHING and MERCERY DE-
PARTMENTS at the GREAT CENTRAL EM-
PORIUM, 608 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY, and
as a proof of the statement just read the following
prices:—
CLOTHING FOR MEN, YOUTHS and BOYS
Ex Gulf of Venice, Thames, &c.
We have j nst opened 33 cases Best and Newest
Patterns in Clothing.
To day we will not advertise cheap goods, or,
rather, NOT COMMON or MEDIUM STUFF,
but really best and newest goods at prices that
simply play skittles and make small beer of any-
thing attempted in the market.
MEN’S SAC SUITS in fancy tweeds,
18s. 64., 205., 225, 6d,
But for extra super, real swell things, read as
under —Gents' Sac Suits, in grey and brown,
fancy small check pattern, real West of
England tweeds, tailor-made and finished,
250 suits, 27s 6i. each, worth 375. 6d.
Gents’ Sac Suits, in newest summer patterns—
real tiptop things, and no one could tell
them from £5 ss. suits, made to order—2so
suits, 323. 6d. each, worth 153.
Gents’ real all black Worsted Suits, a superfine
twill throughout A handsome, gentle-
manly and becoming suit, 150 suits, 555.
each, worth 100 3.
CLOTHING FOR BOYS.
It is well known that we hold neat knicker suits
at I’. 9d., Is, lid., 53. 6d,, 58. lid,
But light and dark grey Tweed Knicker Suits,
neatly braided, worked buttonholes and
superior finish, 150 suits, 63. lid., worth
10s. 6d.
Very handsome gold-braided Boys' Sailor Serge
Saits, ribbon bows, &c., &c., 270 salts, 9s.
6d., worth 12s. 6d.
The Elton Boys’ Fancy Tweed Knicker Suits, all
lined, braided and finished in superior style,
100 suits, 9s. 6d., worth 12s. 6d.
CLOTHING FOR YOUTHS,
Full long Trousers Tweed Suit, 300 suits, 17s. 6d.
But superior long Trousers fancy West of England
Tweed Suits, tailor make and finish, all
fancy check and stripe patterns, 270 suits,
16s, 6d., worth 255.
Best Sunday Suit, in superior West of England
fancy pattern tweeds, summer patterns, 170
suits, 21s. 6d,, worth 10s.
Cannot fail to make selection, and are bound to
recsive every satisfaction with these remarkable
lines.
nit takes “Fire Sales.” It takes “Bankrupt
Sales.” It take 3 an ingenuity almost puzzling to
get up sales and offer goods like L AWLER’S at
the Emporium's noted extraordinary low prices.
Note. —A splendid line of TWEED TROUSERS
and VESTS, 10s. 6d.
Another old Scotch saying has it that it “ takes
a lang squin to sup kail wie the deil,” and those
who buy their Boots and Shoes at LAWLER’S,
those who read these prices, will readily admit
that there’s a “dell" of a job before those who
seek to hold their own in leather when LAWLER’S
about.
BOOTS.—This we 3k we are advertising “BESTS”
only.
It is well known we have them from
Is. to 255.
BUT Gents’ Lace-up Boots, goloshed and toe-
capped with roan linings, rare value, 11s.
i6d,, worth 16s. 6d.
Ditto Ditto, paaked or straight) toe cap, full
mashers, 10s. 6d., worth 163. 6d.
Gents, Calif, blocked front, E.S,, sewn, Bs. 6d,,
worth 12s. 6d.
Ladies’ Highdeg Primus Lace and button Boots, a
real novelty, at 10s. 6d. and 11s, 6d,, worth
16s. 6d,
Ditto Lace-up Boots, Glace Kid, extraordinary
value, 7s. 9d., worth' 10s. 6d.
Ditto High-leg Glace Kid E. S., with vamp or
seam to toe—Vamp 7s 6d., worth 10s 6d. ;
seam to toe, 63. lid., worth 10s 6d.
Maids’ High-leg Glace Button Boots, 6s. 6d.,
worth 9s. 6d.
Ditto Glace Lace Oxford Shoe, ss. lid., worth Bs.
6d.
Girls’ Levant E. -side Boots, for school wear, from
3s. 6d
Infants’ Shoes and Boots from 9d.
Ladies’ Lasting House Boots, any price at all.
FURNITURE.—We needn’t. Who gets such
share ?
CARPETS. —We are not greedy. We cry thanks*
and we ought to
IRONMONGERY. Could not do more if we got
it.
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING.—This advertise
ment is LAWLER’S. Isn’t that enough ?
Call or write.
608 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1860.


132Q.p0rta.33-t I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OISTEVT
MW IISTEUKEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
©74
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 3Cth; they will sell
3HEAPER THAN EVER!
o
o'- o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
m Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
/0, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 26/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German ... ... 35/-
„ „ steel notes 50/-
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow,
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
6/-, 7/0, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/0, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality I 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
MU Till (DM,
which can be sent post; free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones In proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d,, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Doable Base, Harp,
Mar, &c,, &c.
Brass and Drum'and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEYi
(Ilticura
fhJk\
//
4f
5#
Eczema on Scalp.
for even form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
tt
m
Scrofula on Neck,
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, x’imply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Bnrning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,.
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
•icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Town* A Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVER , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re*
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin,,
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun*
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
jure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
dmji’fdfits throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$l. *2. Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ino icvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per TwitJe.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug * Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Hwy/I; .‘
z“
fl“ \\
\ Wm \‘::.:T?-’f"1:é3':i*i.: :3:
M4191 "72/
m- \' ....{:-‘":¢=::._ “‘25:.
\
‘."-,':"'2;;\ ~ \__ A
The
-‘Z
‘POTSHOT"
Camera,
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up, and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridioule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “ DETECTIVE ” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOORAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
(ft®.
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO. 8
Oognao.
*. T. GAYEN’S
Sohnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
ONUM B N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing).
Deilgni and Bitimatei forwarded on reqnsi
j. ctnonidHAH,
MA*K4IRMTi WyXWAED-SQCTAM, BYDWBY
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobaooo and oigars of the best brands. Address :
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Qdeena-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor,
Everybody IPPMITT T 1 0
SHOULD USE/ 1 U ill UU U ft
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTJE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
811 Oioui-min. Byombv.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in doth, and contains over 100 prescript
tions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases Bhould send at onoe for this
valuable work. Address i Dootor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, oorner Bourke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
BKAD&K7
(i
ft LAMB
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREET
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match.
Self-adjusting hammock
Patented.
CHAIR
4'
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body
and gives the occupant entire rest. K 3 We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, wtfch
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
Packinjin canvas, if required 2s.
6d.
D
jRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Ud
holstered, at all prioes.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in JtLmbridery, Plush, &c.
3
Walnut fall
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
‘ .49-!ﬁ.‘ .
"’JREI‘W ﬂy.
" DU ‘mnulmmmflg an,
Ill ’3'“ I!
_.; a I- %
Jim Im ll 3!?-
m ~a n W
D
RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS,
EARLY EN GLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
LARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by the-
MOST CELEBRATED MAKERS.
r 1;:
(6'?) “\EWEZ‘} ’1
Rx" X “. a k5". Jﬂ‘buv/(c
AU& r J CHAIRS
in
GRBAT VARIETY.
And a complete assor j
ment of Bent Wo
Furniture the best make
only.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlonr, Library, or Bet«
rooms. New designs covered to order la
any material.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, fcr
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rsst>
ful, a specialty.
-;?—’x_ ‘
l
' .- { my“
.g'm. '-. ,1» '12-. a
.' "n ' b 7‘ “£1
™DSTKADS. all Bines
Niokel-plafced and Black
and Brasa. ffireat variety,
Bedding;,-—All descriptions i b
lowest; rates.
dfd
SPRING MATTR ASSES
Woven Wire, bait
make j also, Spiral Sprint*
Price, from lie. aaeb,
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. 5 Dining Tables, from 20s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.) Wardrobes, from
80s. | Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s.| Cedar Side*
boards, from 41310i<| Clothes Horses, frpm 10s, flfl.
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 90s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS,


The Referee
The champion, and only , Sydney referee,
Jack Thompson, officiated at Foley’s on Saturday
night, when the £50 middle-weight competition
was continued. Jack Fuller seemed nonplussed
with the right-hand-in front Nelson, and although
having a deal of weight in hand he allowed Nelson
to do all the fighting. Nelson has a poor idea of the
game, and Fuller won on points. In the second
round, Fuller was drawn against Burgess, and Mea-
dows v. M’Carthy. Fuller and Burgess faced the
music, the former for five rounds merely dodging
Burgess’ round-armera, which he did very cleverly,
MISS W. A.: “NOW, BULL, TAKE THIS AWFUL MOKE—I’M GOING TO WALK.”
and in the sixth he landed a couple of stingers on
Burgess with the left. The bout was awarded to
Burgess. Had Fuller stood up from the beginning
of the last round and fought Burgess, taking his
chance of a knock-out blow, his cleverness should
have kept him out of a deal of danger, and he
would have had a good show of winning on
points. Meadows, Burgess, and M’Carthy now
remain in the finals, which will be fought off on
Saturday night week.
* * *
W. G. George, the English runner, did
not find Australians quite such “ mugs ” as he
expected. He says the trip co3t him a thousand,
and that the Australians are no sportsmen. We
saw George, fat as a porpoise, waddle home after
Myers on Sydney Association Ground. If this is
“ sport ” George is right. We are no sportsmen,
* * *
Yorkshire batting has knocked Lancashire
bowling sky high. In two inning the Yorkshires
scored 1004 runs.
• * *
Champion W. G. Grace headed the bat-
ting-list with 2062 runs.
* * *
In continuation of our paragraph of last
week re the “ consultation” craze, it is significant
that at least two Civil Servants who are now
doing terms in gaol were possessed of half a
drawerful each of Tatt’s sweep tickets. We never
heard of any of “Barb’s” half-sov. tickets being
lighted upon, and yet the police hunted him
down straight away. As a matter of fact, the
present law has protected “ Tattersall” by hound-
ing down all other sweep-makers. “ Tattersall ”
has now been prosecuted, not because there is
any suspicion of unfairness attaching to him, but
simply because the N. S. W. Government, instead
of boldly facing the gambling question as it has
been faced in other countries, choose to deal with
it in the spasmodic, illogical, temporising style in
which it deals with the “ social evil ” and the
Chinese fan-tan curse.
* * *
Turner and Ferris proved too much for
the British team in Sydney, Turner taking six
wickeds for 23 runs in the second inning*, an
average which would have been improved upon if
the chan cesgiven off hisbowl nsrhad all been taken.
A feature of the match was the tidy and cricket-
like appearance of the Eneii -hmen compared with
the slovenly every-man-f< r-himself style of the
cornstalks. But let us not snarl. The neat shirt
maketh not the cricketer, after all.
* # *
Shrewsbury did not approve of the deci-
sion of leg before-wicket given against him in the
second innings, although his general play is with
his leg in front of the wicket.
# * *
Bonnor is found ! London Echo says :
“ It is stated that Mr. J. G. Bonnor, although he
will remain in England for at least another year,
will not identify himself actively with the Aus-
tralian team that will visit this country next
summer. Mr. H. J. H. Scott contemplatesjre-
turning to Australia shortly before Christmas.”
* * *
Mr. Peter Sullivan has at this very late
date come forward with the statement that he—
and not Joe Donnelly—was the builder of Beach’s
historical wager boat, the “ Jack Smith.” Don-
nelly, however, claims the credit of the work,
and openly alleges that he performed it at Beach’s
special request. Sullivan is no doubt a good
workman ; Donnelly is known to be a genius as a
boat-builder. He was the first who departed from
the pinched-up, narrow-tucked open boat, his first
creations in the broad-tucked boats, the 19 and 22-
foot skiffs for Mr. S. H. Hyam, known amongst
boating men as the “Flatiron” and the “Big
I Skiff,” playing such havoc amongst their classes
that the style has been universally adopted amongst
the Sydney builders. Donnelly’s last effort in the
sailing line, a 22-footer for Mr. N. Johnson, looks
much as if she will beat the for-years-past crack,
the Rosetta, also built by Donnelly, and Beach
will row his race with Hanlan in a boat built by
“ Joe ” specially for the fresh waters of the
Nepean. If Sullivan was the builder of Beach’s
pet boat, the Jack Smith,” it is strange the cham-
pion did not give him an order on the present oc-
casion. Oarsmen in general would like to see this
qacs’ionof “authorship” between Messrs. Don-
nelly and Sullivan thoroughly cleared up.
* * *
“Kangaroo” Charley Armstrong, late of
Queensland, had no difficulty In riding “ Buffalo
Bill’s " wildest buckiumper in London, Charles
stuck to him like a postage-stamp, much to the
chagrin of the cowboys.
* * *
Our old friend Benzon must be finding the
pace a cracker in England. It is stated he has
sworn off all games of chance, and for the future
will only back his own horses.
* * *
There is no sweeter sight on this sin-be-
smirched universe than a good man labouring on
behalf of the griefsome widow and desolate
orphan. Which brief exordium may fitly preface
tbe statement that on the morning of the fateful
Cup a parson, in strictly orthodox garb, walked
into a byd c tobacconist's shoo. “I am told,”
be said, “* hat you have h re au ap aratm into
which people put money, and so n- ti no - rec >ve
much nrnney in return, Now, th> ra ss a po r
widow in my parish who wants money sad y.
I think, therefore, that I will put in a half-crown
for her, praying that it may return many half
crowns. I think that I will put it on Cranbrook
—White always runs straight. And I will also
place a half-crown in the name of Thunderbolt —
nothing like backing an outsider in these totali-
sators—for a poor orphan who is eadly lacking in
this world’s goods.” And, clutching his tickets
he shoved them deep down in his hymn book
pocket, and resumed the pious aspect which lie
always wears in the sinful city. His good works
shall follow him, but when he heard that Cran-
brook and Thunderbolt had followed Dunlop and
some others past the winning-post, his anger was
akin to the fury of Etna, and his language was
that of the eloquent, but impatient and vehement,
bullock-driver of the sun-seared regions of the Far
West.
* * *
Sergeant Corbett, who was dismissed from
the Victorian police force some months ago, in rc a
little affaire d'amour, is now a full-blown book-
maker.
* * *
The sporting reporter of the godly Mel-
bourne Daily Telegraph was the only Victorian
tipster who placed Dunlop for the Cup. Hallelu-
jah ! Are you listening, Pastor Fitchett ?
* * *
The ancient taunt that a policeman can
never be found when wanted has been wiped out
at last. Policeman Jones was oa the spot with
his racing-lottery ticket the very moment George
Adams wanted to hand him over that £4500
cheque for the win of Dunlop.
• * *
Each of Shrewsbury’s previous teams was
twice beaten on the Sydney ground, while at Mel-
bourne they were never really extended. The
present team has been chawed up again on the
same ground in what appeared a perfectly natural
and easy manner. If this form were true—a fair
test of skill under the best possible conditions—
then it would be a mere farce to arrange matches
between N.S.W. and Victoria, for the English-
men can beat the latter till the cows come home.
So one is forced to conclude that the long-suffer-
ing Sydney ground is as unreliable as a bad billiard-
table, and though a “bowlers’ wicket" may be de-
sirable from a bowlers’ point of view, there are the
elements of batting and fielding to be con-
sidered in a game of cricket. Only on
true wickets can the best batsmen show
their superiority, and only when the ball
is knocked around, can fielders affect the score
to any considerable extent. It is pretty evident
that Turner and Ferris, or even Giffen and Spof-
forth, can dispose of any English eleven on a
treacherous wicket in quicker time than any Eng-
lish professional could do the job. But they, in
turn, can always dispose of the Australians for a
fairly moderate total on true ground. We ven-
ture to think that the victors of last Saturday
would not sta* d a 10 m 1 nuance of vetoing 300
against a> d Co. is fi >e w athe - and
si ; tiiC Melbourne gr -und And -w w<i hi rake 4
1 tfia he jo . did 300 «a,i. -> sfi «* t
b All g in A r~. , u de s in r C-ni atto , .
No-v why is all tfuo thus ?
* * #
Next Saturday night the crack wrestlers,
Cannon and Connor, mret at Foley's for the big
money prize and cap offered by the enterprising
Larry, So far, the in-and out business has dis-
gusted the Sydneyites, and the sport has not taken
root. The stranglers have now a show of picking
up arrears, and a fair, manly bout may do wonders
in ihat direction. One more “ hippodrome ” and
the wrestlers’ occupation is gone for ten years in
N.S.W.
* * *
Balmain Regatta Committee of 1886 hold
some £200 from their regatta, which they r. fused
to hand over to this year's committee, unless w
the written authority of every member of the ’
committee. “ A Subscriber ” writes to us asking
if this money is placed at fixed deposit in a bank,
or if, in the event of one of the committee having
gone to Timbuctoo—or elsewhere—the hon. trea-
surer will have the handling of this money until
the committee-man’s return. “Subscriber” had
better “ ask us something easy."
* * *
The English cricketers brought out by the
Melbourne C.C. have been requested to slog thei r
hardest with a view to pleasing the public. Play-
ing against Victoria last week, Stoddart and Pee 1
put on 100 runs in an hour, which was almost
more than the public apoeared to wish for. On
an easy wicket the young amateur is all there
and the one-innings victory of the Englishmen
was a very, very sultry event for this great
country.
* * *
Only the other day a * learned Australian
judge laid down the’extraordinary dictum that
“ gullible dolts ” deserved to 1036 their money.
Why didn’t the confidence-trick men sent :o gaol
last week plead His Honor’s ruling ? Can hi have
been because they weren’t lawyers ?
* * *
Juventas has thrown a foal to Oatcake.
This is Oatcake’s first-born, and it remains to be
seen if Australia will regret Oatcake’s exile to
California. What sort of a name would Johnny
Cake make for the filly, or, better still, name her
after the bushman’s renowned —on-the-coals ?


f MoLBAN BMOB., BIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Hi ÜBUKMH STREET, SYDNEY,
L 4
r
o
c
<3
s
IRONMONGERS
512
<p
o.
%
REG?
%
ta
SPECIALITIES j
Dhli' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, ilbo Carbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
HAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER’S !
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fto., ftO,
MSTMIIH TEASI FOVDEB
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE' FOR YEAST.
Jj HIM
BREAD, TE4-C&ZEB, PASTRY, &e ,
ABE
light, wholesome, and digestible,^
iIWHffiVjMADK .•
Williams’ Australian least Powder,
*-1 1 M
SIFOB/ iTHE TOWN, :THE BUSH, j£AND &THE,? SEA. Z^~^ 7 L
. win / . *• •V'
BEWARE OF/.WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF POUN D.”
fs>wlaiid£ „
MaeaAAarCil
h*» been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver, restorer u.<d beautifier of
the human hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, of v Inch most hair
restorers are composed and which ruin the health (ride Medioai papers), will keep fresh and
•weet in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses; it prevents hair
falling off or turning grey, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandriff, and renders the
hair soft, silky, curly and glossy; it also stimulates the growth of whiskers and moustaches:
it is especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, and
can also be had In a
GOLDEN COLOUR.
Which, after great time and trouble, has been es;ieciallv prepared for the use f chlen-haired
children and fair or grey-haired adults. Sizes 3s. 6d.; 75.; family bottles, equal to four small,
10s. 6d.; and double that size, 21s.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a healing and refreshing preparation tor
the face, hands and arms: it eradicate, freckles, tan, sunburn eczema redness and rough ness
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautif r *nd delicate
Complexion.
ROWLANDS ODONTO whitens the teeth, proven* - ami arrests <Lcay,
Strengthens »f, e g umB> and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath anvwhete for
WLANI)>* articles, of 20. Hatton Garden London, and avoid spurious imitations unde**
•Jmilar narnoo.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser &'Co., Sydney.
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & 00..
IMPORTERS Of
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alio Mmnfaotureri of
The Finest Quality oe Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
BOH
now
genuine soda water.
I T"E3:ei
'pi Iratid Watsr Ci.
°HURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
Mil WATCH.
A HANDSOME
GOLD WATCH
GIVEN AWAY.
This is a genuine
oifer, and no humbug.
lor full particulars to
R. B. JONES,
P.O. Box 570, Sydney.
.J£un LABOUR BUREAU,
H Df J DOR . TATTERSALL’S buildings,
t «r and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Hotelkeepers, Stations, supplied
for ONE GUINEA. A Com-
Hoorn,
siting
CD EE PRESCRIPTIONS are to
■ IBkb be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copr of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney,
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Tbadk Mark—"tonic NgRVINE."
IVT ARSHALLS NERVINKJ if ll4
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cores Nervous Debility.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/8.
I Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Stone*, N.S.W. i London, England,
The bane; of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches!
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... „. 600,000
The Bank has Agents in ail the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
dal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAIVPS PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerrous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
eensations, Ac, The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. Thlß is no fiction, for they have
dene it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
nmitlr inrited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Vor females of all ages these Pills are iin valuables
M ft tow doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that in
required. No female should be without them. There
ie no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’ 8
for removing any obstruction or irregularity
•2 the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
*ll ages to sound and robust health.
for ft weak stomach, impaired digestKm and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
fo w doses will be found to work wonders upon th®
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
Wigdost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
.appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
o 1 health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medioine in the world.
lIECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
Aa a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, lightness
and Oppression of the Chest., Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring undei
my of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest, They
Speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
• breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest,
fffaey give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg
lacted, dangerous complaints. Lef any person troubled
with any of the above complaint* 'give B**cha.m’»
Offuo-H Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in * short time he
ramoved.
CiUTioir. —The public are requested to notice thar
3he words “ Beeoham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills
St not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens
JLsncashire, England, in boxes at Is. IJd, and 2s. 9d,
a*ch.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N„B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THK above la one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the oolony, Prioci
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths,
Mrs. W. GOMPIGNE, Proprietress,
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY|
surpasses all other* for Its lotting and natural ’
I fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
SPUING- FLOWERS
I JOCKEY CLUB
HELIOTROPE
JASMIN
MAGNOLIA
Atkinson’s renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDLR WATER
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
I equalled lor their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE.
Unrivalled for eleanslng, beautifying, and
preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealer!, and of the Manufacturer!—
J. & E. ATXINBON,
31, Old Bond Sraswr, London.
a Trade Mark—"'White Rose” on" Golden .
ik Lyre.” U
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alll persons Imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
231, OLARENOE-STREET.
OBD. GtBD.
We hare Large Shipment, of this BRAND OF BRIAR
WHOLESALE ONLY ReifuIM Bw » m enU coming lot ward
Guinness’ Extra Sto%&.
FIRST QUALITY,
r AAOir
B 8
BASS’ PALI ALE.
SOUS PURVEYORS to «h»
GOMRLU AND INDIAN BXIIE18?tBi
LONDON,
By Special Appointment*,
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTON I GO.,
Oewerrfa! Cbamlbera, Bond>*tr«eii
Q. feTEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W.
~ First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train.
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor,
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out 0*
;Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A verp
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows6s. per diem, All meals Is. 60.
——WMMWWi
wiiiillliiliiiiimi! | ui i, . i i I t'E R A, .■
El i l '* ' iii'iiiiil
I 'WM' 1
The most welcome discovery of
MODERN TIMES.
A CURE for ‘PULMONARY CONSUMPTION.
To the consumptive, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affections of the lungs, this notice is of
vital importance, for this remedy will effect a
perfeot cure of the most stubborn cases.
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers.
On application for reference we will send the
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
it has cured.
The Consumptive Cure can be obtained from the
office of William Fokd and Company, No. 4
Australia-street, opposite Courthouse, NewtownJ
Sydney. Sent to any part of the Colonies. Pricef
7s. 6d. per bottle. And where may be also
tained The Cube op St. Vitus’ Dance, by ex-
ternal application, which disease it will cure
within eighty-four hours.
* RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS AND INVALIDS
a# an enormous sale in England,
iij la iniroiluce<J into tn#
Colonic*.
ini
* u*e It.
n Q-Y A L FOOD Ml Eli
N .JEN CM*. AND.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And fttCQUBBN STRUT, BRISBANE,


s^M-wcie^
ROYAL 18 Wilt
MS«...T— ytaS <
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with rapunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royae Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
P. R. LARKIN,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PCNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR. ’
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE" ’
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT Is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.’
ISTHTW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London,
luLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH FBIOB LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALL A Off BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI FICL
For Artistic Posing and Effective
combining softness and brilliancy.
Photographs of,
GHARLEM9NT & &
ROYAL ARCADE,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY Alggj-
GO THOU AND DO LIKEWISE I
SUMMER, with its host, dost
effects, is onus, and one of thegreate . reß iJjig
we may enjoyjisa delightfully cool an< \ ...jon <rf®
bath, made more luxurious by the a j, reC ti(JGß
little “Sea Foam Shampoo.” Follow tn jj o altb‘
and you will find it a most beneficial a gg tie
givmg adjunct to the toilet It will
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them tb®
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm,® ' gh®* 6
head, and has the endorsement ° r (( ia {foa®
medical authorities. The words
Shampoo” are registered, and any c° faU
imitation of same will be ..jg 80“
extent of the law. Sold by all cue fl n«
dealers in toilet articles at the low P fl> fO u
shilling per packet. Please try one pao
will never regret it.
THEATRE ROYAR
ROCKHAMPTON.
THK above ia the only Licensed It
Rockhampton for holding J* b nS .ggt& ***
other Entertainments, and can b® 6
any term upon application to
CHARtBS NA Le*» e, ‘
•The Wonder of the Ago«
COLEMAN and Sons,
awarded First Prize at the -A-tle T
tionfor their PURE VOLATILE aß d» a
OIL. The only known cure for Ast
affections of the ohest. We have ®° ,j_ o pub*'
testimonials than any medicine b ef, ° ro v
This is a genuine article. Posted to ' 23. 6
on receipc of stamps. Price, Is. 6® i “’ nr
Agents, Hoffnung & Co. ; Elliott
ASK YOUR Q-ROOER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY OUF CONTAINS MORN AOTIVH PROPBBTI>a OP
THAN A PINT OP THfl BEST AM OR PQR2HR.”~IAKC**»
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS Of
Dicing Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Fig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <fec.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Gopperamlthlng, Blaoksmithlng, Plumbing,
©asfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE," and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &o.
Sale Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, flu Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, die,
BON ACCORD WORKS,TAND9 lACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
Full Pabticcxaeb and Pkiob on Application,
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
Mt Private Suites for Families, lyj
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
Belle Vue HoM
. BRISBANE-
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanic**
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOT^
ACCOMMODATION FOB flo,
A Waiter Maefcs Every Steam**'
( ft*'
Letters and telegrams please *
Prl6tor ’ S M.
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS,
. 9
. @ V \0 ®
5%
@‘féwg
was
3‘35'6‘19 CE:
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY.
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &c., .MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Sobo Square, LONDON.
FITZROY HOTEL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
*T FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
Clgr&x XDlTraaa.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
It. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN,N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
M . RSI*
(jlato of the Detective Force;,
rtivace Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
41 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY
&otoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
uafldentlal Inquiries instituted. Eridenoe obtained in
iiworoe, libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies ef wills, certificates of birth,
>namage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
•®}R and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
SB Iho Detective Force of New South Wales, Viotoria, and
-Zealand, and established agencies in ail parts of the
{lOvft co li in a position to oonduot all inquirieft with caution
iapsufitl-H and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
wflssjpr-jr attend to all business entrusted to h ears. .
APTen oEFORg iiotiGtacho and Whisiors.
iEFOn2 APIEH
2
Copyrighted.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this
ytnd toill do it on either bald
head or bare face Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 m
4 weeks and never fails, 20,000'
youny men already wear full
Copyrighted.
beards, having used Ito lipkts. A o injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is (id. each. 3 for 3*. Gd., pout paid, sent under
cover,.free from obs -w at ion. Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Aaent.
Wfammi P-O.Mdney. N S. u\
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE o°^
fc WIESENER’S WATCHES. ..
NO amount ot competiti m reduces the demand. Their reputation for reliability is unassailable
niioll 4"tt nAnQTTa nnr] A rvt Aninnvt Vl'f« 1„l ( t ~ , . _
r ior reuaoiuty is unassailable. Keduction in price witbou^
quality. Geneva, English, and American Watcher, of proved qualities and results, in sterling cases from £& *
isrram. Crests, Inscriptions engraved. Countrv orders nromnEtr foH-uf„n„ , P ,> 1 , ,^ot (
WIESENER’S WATCff^
r rAliahnir.tr i. Keduction in price
~ x n ± t • i.- j n auu results, in sterlmo’ cases from so*
Monogram, Crests, Inscriptions engraved. Country orders promptly and faithfully executed, well packed° and nested free
Estimates and prices by return post. > ’ v
334: G-HSOZRGrEI STBE ST, SYTnsr'Blv
