

The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 889.
SATURDAY, JULY 11% 1887.
Pf lon., '’iL
y-/oA
Joseph’s View.
PARKES: "I SAY JOE, DON’T BE DI A HURRY. IT LOOKS RATHER GREEN YET. WAIT TILL IT’S RIPF.’
JOE: “YES, AND THEN, JUST AS LIKELY AS NOT, SOME OTHER FELLOW W'LL GET IT WHAT I SAY IS, GIVE ME GREEN FRUIT RATHER THAN NONE
AT ALL.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
AT 24 TT-STBEET, SYNEEY. N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only!.
Per annum - - - -£1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
to the proprietors,
“The Bulletin” Newspaper Company ((Limited)
tJ whom orders lor the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By lending direct to Thx Bulletin Office twenty shilling i
iteriing—which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or itampa of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to yon every week for
a year.
This offer is n=>t open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY. JULY 16. 1887.
Barry’s “New Enslands of the
South.”
That “oily man of God,” the Anglican
Primate of Australasia, has been improving
the shining hour. A Bishop who had not a
“ mission ” on his hands, or some other
excuse for begging funds, would probably be
regarded as lacking in no unimportant re-
spect the outward pind visib'e signs of the
true apostolic succession ; so nobody will be
surprised that Dr. Barry should seizs the
opportunity of being in London to send
round the hat on behalf of an Australian
Church of England mission to New Guinea,
In his speech to the ladies of King’s College,
London, in aid of this mission, the right
reverend gentleman mentioned incidentally
that there esists a terrible amount of pauper-
ism and semi-starvation in England. Yet he
did not hesitate to beseech the people, with
such abundant scope for the exercise of
their disposition and power to give for
the relief of misery at their very doors,
to pay out moneys towards the support of
missionaries among barbarians whose tem-
poral condition at all events is eminently satis-
factory. The inhabitants of New Guinea
are well-fed, well-housed, and sufficiently
clad ; they are fat, sleek, and happy—and
thus present a striking contrast to a vast
proportion of the working classes of Britain.
Nor is their spiritual status much inferior to
that of large numbers of men and women
living under the shadows of Christian churches
in the great metropolis. But Bishop Barry
belongs to a class of persons who habitually
concern themselves touching the salvation
of the souls of niggers, to the comparative
exclusion of consideration for the welfare
here and hereafter of the hateful “ lower
orders ” around them. Teaching Papuans
to sing hymns and despatching moral pocket-
handkerchiefs to the natives of Borrioboola-
Gha are to these good Christians works of
rare excellence, calculated to enormously in-
crease the performers’ chances of eternal
enjoyment ; while to assuage the pangs of
hunger suffered by their vulgar, poverty-
stricken fellow-citizens, is to these exalted
beings inconsequential in the point of view
which takes in the value of works as a
means towards securing a glorious resur-
rection.
* ♦ *
But what we have to say of Bishop
Barry’s performance has to do simply with
the utterance he delivered as a preliminary
to the collection for his Mission. He enter-
tained his audience with an account of “ the
New Englandsof the South, their Prospects
and Duties,” and in the course of his
harangue he said some very curious things
about Australians, and expressed some re-
markable opinions. He had, of course, a
deal to say about the preternatural loyalty
of Australians to the Throne, and their
burning desire to preserve the connection
with Britain. The naming of the Queen
had recently called forth hoots and hisses at
a meeting in London, and such disloyal
manifestations as these he declared would be
impossible in Sydney or Melbourne. Yet if
the loyal newspapers of Sydney are to be
trusted, three important gatherings of citizens
recently were by no means backwards in ex-
pressing similar dislike for her Majesty and
the monarchical system in general. How-
ever, his lordship is quite convinced that the
sentiments of the colonists towards the
Throne and Person are all that can be de-
sired ; but he is not so satisfied at the
absence of an Established Church in Aus-
tralia. It was quite shocking to his mind to
contemplate the fact that the Garden Palace
show was opened without prayer, and still
more horrifying to remember that the
Anglican Church clergy in the colonies en-
joyed no State endowment. Things would
be much pleasanter, he explained, if the
emoluments of bishops and parsons were
regularly paid by Government, instead of
being somewhat irregularly paid by the
church members. Indeed, according to Dr.
Barry :
The great fault of the Colonial Church was the
voluntary system. Of course the voluntary
system, if properly worked, if every Christian felt
it a duty to make an offering towards the work of
the Church without any personal consideration,
and without making money the means of acquir-
ing power, would be the system most in accord
with the true spirit of the Church. But in actual
practice it was found that the voluntary system,
in the absence of a central endowmeat or a great
central fund for the maintenance of the dergy,
militated against the independence of the
ministry. It tended to introduce, not the power
of the laity as such, but the power of the purse.
It tended to create a plutocracy in the Church,
and above all things that was a great evil.
♦ ♦ *
No doubt the judgments of this prelate
on Church matters are valuable, and we
shall not attempt to controvert his views
touching the advantages of State endow-
ment. If wo were a bishop we should
likely enough crave for Government aid
just as Barry does; and nobody will be
much disturbed in mind because he has ad-
vanced arguments in favour of re establish-
ing a state of things long since abrogated
as inimical to the social welfare of the Aus
tralian communities. But the right reverend
magnate ventured upon topics on which he
can scarcely claim to bo an authority. He
set himself up against the Trades and
Labour Councils of Australia on the labour
question, sneered at John Norton as one
“ calling himself a New South Wales labour
delegate,” and assured the ladies of King’s
College that Australia is the working man’s
paradise—with “ eight hours to work, eight
hours to play, eight hours to sleep, and eight
shillings a day.”
“ The kinds of people who ought to go out to
Australia—he was speaking at least as far as New
South Wales was concerned—were good manual
labourers, good mechanics, good workmen, and
those who could handle the pick and shovel. For
these, if they would only go up-country and not
hang about the great towns, as too many of them
did, there was abundance of lucrative employ-
ment, for the land was crying out for cultivation.
When people in England heard or read about the
unemployed in New South Wales or Victoria, they
might depend upon it that the labourers were un-
employed simply because they would persist in
hanging about the {-streets of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and would not go up-country where they
were wanted. An ordinary labouring man could
always command 7s, 6d. per day, which was about
three times what he could earn in England.
Skilled mechanics earned from 10s. to Its. a day
for eight hours’ work.”
Now, surely this Bishop ought to know that
the foregoing is an atrociously false state
ment of the case. He must know that the
vast multitudes of unemployed at Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane are com-
posed for the most part of men driven in
from the country districts owing to the lack
of employment there ; and that the story
about there being “ plenty of work up coun-
try ” is pure moonshine. If he does not
know this, then it is audacious effrontery for
him to attempt to teach the people of Eng-
land on the subject. As for the theory that
there is plenty of room in Australia for
“good manual labourers, good mechanics,
good workmen, and those who handle the
pick and shovel,” the man who deceives the
working men of Britain with such venerable
yarns in the face of the circumstance that
thousands of workmen are living on the
bounty of the colonial Governments,
assuredly merits severe reprobation and
punishment.
* # *
Bishop Barry evidently doesn’t know
anything in particular about the labour
question in Australia, but his consummate
ignorance is no excuse for his ex cathedra
summing up of the situation. Ignorance
per se is not ar crime ; but ignorance coupled
with a pretension to knowledge is certainly
flagitious, especially when the culprit holds
a position calculated to give weight to his
utterances. Nor is it by any means plain
that Dr. Barry got on the track of truth
when he entered upon another phase of Aus-
tralian life:—
“ In respect to moral and spiritual progress the
colonies had to fight against the same evils as pre-
vailed in England, he averred. Drunkenness was
rather worse in New South Wales than at home;
but there was less of it amongst the purely work-
ing classes, and it prevailed rather in other strata
of society. Then there was what might be called
the evil of sensuality, which was more marked
than in England. In some measure this was, per-
haps, due to the habits of overfeeding of the
people. There was also more of the spirit of
recklessness and lawlessness, want of discipline,
domestic and otherwise, than was the case at
home.”
The main cause of “ the evil of sensuality,”
the bishop explained, was over-feeding. The
people of Australia eat too much—at least
that is Dr. Barry’s experience. Of course
he may be perfectly correct as regards the
persons with whom he is usually brought in
contact in his diocese. indeed, judging
from appearances, we should say that many
of the dignitaries of the Church in Austra-
lia do over-feed themselves. The Bishop
himself is not a bad trencherman, and one or
two of the wearers of shovel-hats and
gaiters, well known in colonial society, are ob-
viously good livers. But to assume from this
fact that the people of Australia as a whole
are larger eaters than the people of Englar d
is the height of nonsense, and is, moreover,
to run counter to all extra-episcopal ex-
perience. The people of Australia don’t
live any better than the people of England,
nor nearly so well. The vast majority of
the men and women of England go in for
four heavy meals a day, the finale being, as
a rule, a more sumptuous repast ilian the
average Australian sits down to the whole
day. The very poor in England, to be sure,
are more than half-starved. That is part of
the system of which the Established Church
is the ap Q x. But taking in only those in
both countries who can afford to buy food in
plenty, beyond all doubt or question the
Australians are the more frugal. And wo
do not hesitate to declare them to be less
sensual. Bishop Barry no doubt was
thinking of the Mount Rennie horror when
he alluded to sensuality. Yet even taking
the version of that business dear to
the hearts of Judge Windeyer and
Lord Carington, it is paralleled by in-
cidents of frequent occurrence in England,
which are passed over in silence by the
Press, and the Anglo-Atrocity-mongers
venture into distant realms for their pabu-
lum. Only the other day a scene worse
than the man Stanley described as having
been enacted at Mount Rennie, was the sub-
ject of a trial in Kent; and the culprits
were not hanged, but only sent to gaol on an
average for 12 months. Whatever excesses
the Australians are guilty of, the hard,
bitter, relentless cruelty of the exponents of
“law and order ” is decidedly the most con-
spicuous, yet Bishop Barry had not a word
to say about this symptom of brutality—
because, perhaps, the “law and order”
demons form the “plutocracy in the Church,”
and the good Apostle insensibly remembered
on which side his bread was buttered.
* * #
We are told by this ecclesiastic, inter alia ,
that the Australians love and venerate any-
thing and anybody coming from the old
country. It is to be feared that he errs here
too, and that his mistaken notion is involv-
ing him in difficulties. When Bishop Barry
came to Australia he was received with
candour and a desire to appreciate his
merits. If he had come from any other
country in the world outside of China, he
would have been treated in much the same
way. It was not because he came from Eng-
land that he was well greeted and atten-
tively listened to. But when a compara-
tively new corner among Australians makes
off again and spins a yarn untruthful in
every point of view about the people among
whom he has been dwelling, Australians are
apt to be indignant and resentful; as doubt-
less the Primate will perceive when he gets
back to his flock. Nobody cares much
about his lordship’s New Guinea Mission,
nor how he raises the wind to carry on the
business, provided always he does not essay
to scrape in the coin by entertaining ladies
with fictions about the New Englands of the
South.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Intercolonial Freetrade.
All the Protectionists of New South Wales do not
consider it a gain to the cause that the dairy
duties were re-imposed. Some men are Aus-
tralians first and Protectionists afterwards Such
are inclined to consider duties on farm produce of
all kinds as an evil. r J he price of labour, the con-
ditions of life, and the productive powers of the
land are fairly equal among all the Australian
colonies, and the farmers of any one should not
require, and should not be allowed, tariff protec-
tion against those of any other. That some have
these advantages is a shame and a reproach ; but
certainly is no excuse for the extension of the
wrong. There should be a fixed determination
that the wrong should be righted, not extended.
Things cannot go on as they are going. Victoria
is but a part of our common country, in addition
to being bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh.
She must be plainly told that it is grossly unfair
that her farmers should have a free market in
Sydney while those of N.S. W. are practically prohi-
bited from Melbourne. The remonstrance should be
as kindly and brotherly as firm. If it fails ; if
patriotism be impotent in the presence of a
short-sighted selfishness, then after a fixed date
all Victorian produce should be absolutely pro-
hibited from New South Wales, This would be a
just and righteous retaliation. It would strike
home. Selfishness would again triumph where
patriotism had failed, but this time in the oppo-
site direction, and thus a fair bargain would be
made by which absolute intercolonial Freetrade
would be attained. It may, however, be fondly
hoped that fellow countrymen south of the Murray
would listen to the dictates of reason and fair
play without the necessity of the use of justifiable
d efensi ve measures on the par t of N. S. W. Selfishness
is a powerful motive, but the Victorians are daily
taught to love Australia as a whole, and it might
well be hoped that a sense of justice sanctifieu by
the holy spirit of patriotism would bring about a
disposition in the majority of their citizens to ac-
cord to N.SW. the same privileges of trading to
the south of the Murray as N.S.W. is willing to
allow them in regard to the country lying to the
north. The Australian party in New South Wales
should ever keep these considerations before them.
There are men in N.S.W. who are Protectionists
first, Imperialists second, but never Australians, and
who regard intercolonial Freetrade as something
worse than heresy. These are the worst foes our
Australians have to encounter, in so much as that
they can appeal to a short-sighted and narrowly-
selfish spirit, which will, nevertheless, command
powerful support, and when Freetrade is utterly
crushed—as it will be as certainly as the sun will
rise to-morrow —this party will receive the indi-
vidual support of the Sydney Morning Herald
and Sir John Robertson faction, and for these rea-
sons it is force which is not to be despised. Fore-
warned is forearmed. We must vanquish the spirit
of selfishness by the spirit of patriotism ; we must
confront the provincial mind with the Australian
mind, and we must prove to our producers that a
competitive market in the whole of our country
is better, in the long run, than a walled-in one in
a part. These are tasks not to be finished in a
day. Their achievement will need the work tof
many brains and much labour, and their triumph
will not be the spoils of office to the victorj. He
who takes up the cross in such a cause should ex-
pect no material reward. It should suffice that
he has laid his brick on the National Edifice ;
that he has done what in him lay to level the
barriers by which man, not God, has sought to
separate our common country into a series of in-
dependent states, and that he has helped to cement
them into one nation—the home of one people.
This is the reward, and to“gain it Australia ex-
pecs every man to do his duty.
*.
Roguery or Polly ?
The somewhat ostentatiously honest Habigle
boasted in the last New South Wales Parliament
that he had secret sources of information from
Government departments, and thus it was that he
was always to the fore in exposing anything which
had the appearance of a job. Professions of
honesty and wisdom when a man is cut of office
are perfectly natural coming from an undisguised
office-seeker, but wise actions in office seem to be
quite unnatural. It is certain Habigle out of
office promised a trifle too much. He commenced
his career as a Minister by a peculiar display of
“ honesty” in refusing to pay The Bulletin ac-
count of £2.5, and now\we have him the leading
figure in a transaction which, if it is not a huge
job, is an inexcusable blunder. The Bulletin
joined Habigle in denouncing the transparent,
fraud which was about to be perpetrated when a.
few greedy land-grabbers tried to get leases of all
the available foreshores of Sydney harbour under the
pretence that they were going in for oyster culture
on a large scale. It would have been well for
Habigle if he had adhered to the opinions which
he expressed at that time, but he has ignored
them, as what he has recently recommended has
been the absolute alienation not of the mud
deposit between high and low water mark, but of
the 100 feet reservation above high water mark
at Robertson’s Point, or, as it is commonly called,
Cremorne. The only justification for the con-
struction of the branch railway from Pearce’s
Correr, on the Homebush-Waratah line to North
Shore, is that by the erection of wharves on the
northern side of the harbour the suburban
passenger li_e will be relieved of the
heavy coal traffic, and engineering ex-
perts have declared that the most suit-
able position for the terminus of the line is
Cremorne. The syndicate who own the land
which abuts on the Government reserve evidently
recognise the great prospective value of the water
frontage, and toe pertinacity which they have
shown in their endeavour to secure it ought to
have been sufficient to indicate to any man of
cemnionsense that the game which was being
clayed was for a very heavy stake. Previous
Governments, which Habigle and his colleagues
said were corrupt to the core, positively refused
to dispose of the reserved land on any conditions
whatever, andit remained for the present “honest”
Government to accede to the land-grabbers’ de-
mand. the transaction bears on the face of it;
every evidence of a job, and if Ministers havej
been unwittingly made a party to it they deserve
to be ignominiously removed from office. The
magnanimity of the syndicate is only equalled by
the stupidity of Abigail and Garbett—assum-
ing the perfect honesty of those personages. How
plausibly the case for the smdicate and the
Government is put! In exchange for six acres of
land the syndicate are to give Ihe Government
fourteen acres! On that bare statement the
transaction would appear to be a highly advanta-
geous one for the public. But what are the facts
which are kept in the back-ground? Itgoes without
saying that the water frontage is the most valuable
part of the land. The real test of the fairness of
the transaction is in the concessions which the
syndicate are prepared to make. The statement
that tney are to give the Government 14 acres is a
barefaced misrepresentation. The actual area of
their property which they propose to transfer to
the Government is six acres, and the syndicate
protect themselves from competition by stipulat-
ing that this land is to be dedicated for the purpose ■
of a park. Competent authorities state thattomake.
it of any use as a park the Government will have
to spend as much money as the land is worth. Of
course the syndicate say nothing about the in-
creased value which will be given to the adjoining
land by the formation of the park 1 The balance
of the 14 acres consists of the area embraced in
reads through the syndicate’s land and wharf sites :
on the land which is now included in the Govern*.
ment reserve. Tnese statements, which were made
with a view to delude the public, have not even
the merit of ingenuity, and finding themselves,
fairiy cornered, the syndicate, through one of their
number, Mr. Pile— who, by the way, is a.,
leading light of the Freetrade Association, andi
an out and-out supporter of the Government—-
take up the absurd ground that in equity Mr.
Milson the original grantee of the land was en*
titled to the 100 feat reservation because—we
i-mila as we write it—in other grants issued at the
same time no such reservation was made! Could
humbug go further than this ? No fault is to be
found with the syndicate for endeavouring to get
possession of this valuable water-frontage, be-
came it seems to be generally understood that
anyone who can succeed in over-reaching the
Government in business may fairly do so. The per-
sons who are blameworthy are Ministers—whose
duty it is to protect the public interest—who are
pliable or foolish enough to yield to the persua-
sions of the “smarties.” What The Bulletin
wan's to know is : Ist How did the application
come to be resuscitated after having been buried
for over twelve months in the Lands Office? 2nd.
How did it come before Habigle, considering
that the transaction is one with which his depart-
ment has nothing to do ? 3rd. Is there any mem-
ber of Parliament who is a sleeping partner
in the syndicate? Pending explanations on
these points, we withhold our judgment
as to the honesty of the transaction. As
to the unwisdom of it there cannot be two
opinions, and if, as the result of the inevitable in-
vestigations, Ministers are not branded as dis-
honest, they will be branded as the most arrant
of fools.
The Spalding Election,
The cabled result of the election just decided for
the Spalding division of Lincolnshire is a cheering
augury to the friends of political progress. The
Hon. 6. E M. Finch-Hatton, who vacated the
seat on his succession to the earldom of Winchll-
sea, is a Tory ot the Tories. He was returned at
the last general election as a supporter of the
Tory-Unionist combination and an opponent of
Gladstone and Home Rule. The reaction has
now come, and the electors of Spalding have re-
versed their then decision and declared for Glad-
stone by returning Mr. Halley Stewart, his
supporter, by a majori y of 745 votes. And so
it has teen wi'h almost every bye-election since
the Salisbury-cit. v.-H artington amalgamation
started to run the empire on the common basis of
hatred of Gladstone and all bis works, Burnley,
for instance, was won by the Liberal-Unionists at
the general election by a majority of 43, At the
subsequent election last February the seat was
won for Gladstone by a majority of 545. No
leas significant was the bye-election for the Ex-
change Division of Liverpool, which the money-
bags and influence of failed to shake
from its allegiance to justice and the G.O.M,
Ilkeston division of Derbyshire returned a Glad-
stonian by 828 of a majority at the general
election, which vas increased to 1332 at thq


subsequent election held some weeks ago.
And in North Antrim, the country in Ire-
land which is supposed to be the most hostile to
Home Rule on account of its population being
descendants of the old “ planters,” the majority
against Home Rule has been reduced by 1197
votes since the general election, the Gladstonian
candidate being identical at the bye-election in
February last with the contestant at the general
election. And in one or two constituencies,
where Tories have succeeded in winning the
seat, their majorities have been considerably de-
creased. These signs of returning commonsense
among the people afford every hope that the
present Unionist majority will on the first oppor-
tunity be converted into a majority that will
recognise the claim of the Irish people to ad-
minister their own affairs, and leave the people of
England, Scotland, and Wales to receive the un-
divided attention of their legislature, instead of
having it as at present, a mere machine for exas-
perating the people of the sister isle. And the
settlement of the Irish trouble will open the way
towards the abolition of many and many a hoary
British abuse.
♦
The Queen is Pleased I
Last week the submarine cable—the patient in-
strument which carries so much lying and drivel
and stupidity and unmanly adulation—brought
to New South Wales a message from her Majesty,
from which we learn that the Queen is pleased.
Why she is pleased and what she is pleased about
will appear in her own Gracious words :
“ Referring to your telegram June 16, Her Majesty the
Queen commands me to acquaint ysu that she has heard with
pleasure of the loyalty to the Throne and Constitution ex-
pressed at the Sydney meeting, and she congratulates the
Premier on the great success of the splendid demonstra-
tion.”
Look at that, now. Australia has already re-
ceived a good many telegrams similar to the above
—enough, we should fancy, to paper anew sheol
in Woolloomooloo when the colonies decide to setup
a freshly-upholstered perdition for the “ upper
classes,” but none of them have been earned with
so much toil and lies and misery as this, and it
deserves special notice accordingly. By one of
the glorious fictions of the British Constitution
the Sovereign is supposed to know nothing which
is not brought directly under her notice by her
Ministers. Her people may be maddened by hun-
ger or filled with disaffection, but unless the cir-
cumstance is officially placed before her she is not
aware of it; in fact, apart from the information
which is imparted to her through one particular
channel, she is understood to be blind and deaf
and dumb and imbecile and steeped in
ignorance. Consequently, when Premier H.
Barks, of New South Wales, or any
similar individual telegraphs that the people of
the city where he reigns have broken out in a
spontaneous outburst of loyalty, the Queen, in
the depths of her official ignorance, is pleased.
She is not supposed to know, unless Premier
Barks informs her officially that the so-called
“ loyal ” resolutions were crushed at two succes-
sive meetings, and were not carried at the third,
in spite of the presence of 3000 hired bullies with
sticks and heavy boots and mutton fists, and con-
sequently she is imposed on—officially—just as an
infant or a black fellow, or a paralysed pauper, or
a lunatic might be imposed upon by anyone mean
enough to make the attempt. The royal preroga-
tive has been cut down to such a degree of
late years that there is now no recognised
means by which the Queen can state, offi-
cially, that anyone is a liar, even if she wished
to do so, which, of course, she doesn’t, for such
a statement wouldn’t be true, and British Jingo-
ism follows in the footsteps of the Sovereign who
is not allowed to know anything, and accepts in
the depths of its miserable servility the outpour-
ings of the police and Orangemen and prize-
fighters and footballers of New South Wales as
the voice of the people, and pretends to recognise
in a loud-voiced person with check trousers
and a cast-iron cheek the spokesman of
the Australian nation. The Queen is pleased,
however, and Parkes and Dallby and
Stephen are triumphant; similarly, if they in a
charitable moment were to bestow a leaden token
on a blind beggar and inform him that it was a
sovereign the mendicant would be pleased—and
the action would no doubt be written down to
their credit in letters of gold in the ledger of the
Everlasting Subsequent.
♦
“Lord” Brassey has been good enough to sig-
nify his aristocratic approbation of the manner in
which the “ Archimejean lever” is wielded
generally in Australia, and has singled out the
Argus and S.M. Herald for an especial em-
plastrum of lordly marmalade. Quite so. Of
course. Exactly. And when his yachtship has
been taken back to the place from whence he
came he will allude to the Argus and Herald as
“ the voice of the Australian people”—simply be-
cause they cost twopence each instead of a penny.
We don’t care the fifth portion of an imprecation
what Brassey says, inasmuch as lots of the
Sydney contractors who gave him a picnic the
other day have considerably more brains than he
possesses, even if they have less lucre, and we are
not in the habit of hanging upon their words.
While Australians submit to the patronage of
itinerant so-called aristocrats and kow-tow to an
Imperial bagman, they deserve to be misrepre-
sented because they misrepresent themselves.
The Hon. Julian E. Salomons has sacrificed all
his cherished principles in one act. Along with
II other gentlemen, ranging from Mr. Piddington
and Leopold Pane De Salis down to John
Smith, he has signed an emphatic protest against
the action of the majority which passed the New
South Wales Divorce Extension Bill, a measure
which he objects to as being contrary to the senti-
ments of the British people. The same lofty con-
tempt for detail which led Mr. Mantalini to
“ dem the halfpenny ” prevented “ this miserable
and contemptible minority ” from going into par-
ticulars as to the views entertained by the Chinese,
Peruvians, and other foreigners on the subject,
but they hang on firmly to the one fact that the
inhabitants of a little island 16,000 miles away,
may be shocked when they hear of these goings-
on. This, however, is trivial and beside the
question. The real point is that Mr. Salomons
and all his followers, according to his own show-
ing, have got to be “ stamped out.” They hold
opinions “ odious to the majority,” and, by the
language of their protest, they “revile our free
institutions ” and “ attempt to break down laws,”
and consequently they require to be “thrust back
into the obscurity from which they are not en-
titled by position, intelligence, or conduct, to
emerge.” In short, they have done everything
which, when it was alleged to have been done by
somebody else, evoked from Mr. Salomons
such awful blasts of rage in the cool
security of a back room at Sydney Town
Hall, and, according to his own dictum on that
memorable occasion, they have ‘ 1 dared to outrage
the sense of everyone in the city.” Minorities,
the ex-Chief Justice and all his friends then con-
tended, have no rights and deserve no notice, and
when Mr. Salomons is voted out in the Legisla-
tive Council it is his duty, according to his own
showing, to be seen and not heard. Even in al-
lowing him to be seen his opponents extend to-
wards him a toleration which he declines to grant
to anyone else. Asa majority they have a right
to “stamp him out,” or to insist that he shall
shut up on Sundays, or even to bring in a bill to
prevent him “ disseminating doctrines which are
odious to the people of this country,” and if they
do not take any such measures then Mr. Salo-
mons—instead of issuing protests calculated to
“ drag everything down to his own level ” —should
be deeply grateful for their forbearance. Prece-
dents little more than three weeks old would even
justify the majority in running him out by the
collar, and then holding an indignant and abusive
meeting in the refreshment room and voting him
a disgrace to the colony, but so far nothing of the
kind seems to have been done. He has been
ignored instead of being bounced out, and he does
not appear to be grateful for it.
+
Our respected correspondent, Mr. A. Robinson,
once more addresses us on the subject of promo-
tion from the ranks in the British army :
" Dear Bulletin, —Your comments on my letter re the
promotion in the service are most unfair. I still maintain
my original assertion that commissions are easy to obtain
if the man behaves well, and has good education. It is the
want of the latter that keeps so many men back. You
cannot surely expect a man who can hardly read or write to
be pitchforked into a commission. Poor men who have
education get Quartermasterships and Riding-masterships
where the pay is double that of a sub-lieutenant, but well-to-
do men with education get the subaltern rank simply be-
cause they have means to support their position, and are
well educated and behaved also. Every riding-master and
quartermaster in the service is a ranker with 9s. a day in
either position, whereas a lieutenant’s pay is but ss. 3d. The
latter ainount would not meet a man’s mess-bills, so poor
men without coin cannot accept their commissions.—A.
Robinson.”
Now let Mr. R. look us square in the eye and tell
us what in all the land of Goshen he is driving at.
In his last letter he said that “ any well-educated
steady man can obtain his commission in the
British army,” and then he went on to speak of
generals, colonels, and majors, who have risen
from the ranks. Yet now it appears that the
very first step towards any such promotion in-
volves the poor man from the ranks in utter in-
solvency, so that even if a commission is offered
to him he is compelled to decline it. From which
even setting aside the favouritism which
the British House of Commons itself admits to
exist —we gather that the prospects of the ordin-
ary private soldier are about as blank as they
ever were—a good deal blanker, in fact. In the
old times he never got the offer of a commission ;
under the improved regulations he gets the offer
now and then, but as every one concerned knows
that he can’t accept it, the offer is an insult, and
not a cash insult at that. The promotion which
takes place from the ranks nowadays benefits
only the class of “gentlemen’s sons” who enlist
with a view to obtaining a commission—by in-
fluence or otherwise —and the private who gets a
commission is just the same man who used to get
it without being a private. Mr. Robinson, him-
self, shows clearly that the poor private’s promo-
tion is a sham; consequently, we would like to
know what that gentleman’s troubles are all
about.
♦
The grimaces which the Argus (Melbourne)
makes while jubilating over the success and safe
return of Alfred Deakin are comic in the ex-
treme. But then of course for a true blue Tory
paper to learn to praise a Radical politician is a
sort of acquired taste which takes some time to
pick up thoroughly. Of course it is the Argus's
cue to support everything the Coalition Ministry
does, but it does seem awkward for the Radical
Deakin to get all the praise while lazy Gillies
and slow-coach Lorimer are hardly spoken of
except by Deakin himself, and in a fashion of a
man going through a duty-dance. The Argus
says :—“ Mr. Gillies was not ambitious of return-
ing like Sir J. Lorimer to find that his Ministry
had been wrecked in his absence.” This is very
cold comfort for the Coalition, isn’t it ?
+
At latest dates Sir George Campbell had given
notice that he would call the attention of the
House of Commons to some Jingo ravings of
Bishop Moorhouse. According to that godly
snaveller of £SOOO per annum, ‘ 1 England stands
face to face with the great powers.” Russia is
about to strike at Herat, Germany is menacing
Australia from New Guinea, and America is think-
ing of chawing up Canada on account of a fisheries
dispute. All this is very distressing to Moor-
house, who wants to know how England is to
maintain her present position. The old boy’s
anxiety is understandable when we remember
that Church and State work together. He is
merely asking how he can maintain his own posi-
tion. If any troops require a blessing on their
arms before they embark to fight for his £SOOO,
paid quarterly, Moorhouse will be there.
+
We have before us a pamphlet entitled a “ Report
of the twenty-third Annual Meeting of the Church
Society of the Diocese of Goulburn,” which is
bound up with a sermon preached in St. Saviour’s
Cathedral, Goulburn, on behalf of the Church
Society, by the Most Rev. the Lord Bishop of
Sydney, Metropolitan. The production is
supplemented by the report of the committee,
their financial account, and a list of subscribers,
and it is published at the office of the Society:
Diocesan Depot, Goulburn. So we assume that it
must be pretty genuine. Turning over the pages,
we find, in what is headed as “Notice by the
Committee,” the following is a sample “Form of
Bequest of a Legacy”:—
“I direct that a sufficient part of such of my personal
estate as I can lawfully bequeath to charitable uses, shall,
before any other payment thereout, be applied in payment of
this Legacy."
And, in another portion of this delectable page,
the reader is advised, under the head of “Form
of Bequest of a Residue,” to direct that such part
of his pergonal estate as he cannot lawfully be-
queath, shall be the primary fund for the pay-
ment of his debts and legacies, other than the
charitable bequests thereby made, so far as may
be necessary “/or securing the payment in full of
the charitable bequests thereby made." In other
words, the church legacy, or bequest, is to take
priority of bequests to relations, friends, servants,
&c., all debts having to be paid out of such latter
bequests, in order that the church’s share may be
clutched in full by the itching palms of the clergy.
Now, here are unparalleled impudence and grasp-
ing greed and utter selfishness displayed, in the
publication of the forms of bequest of legacy and
residue from which we have quoted above, that
bear upon their face conclusive evidence of their
concoction in a clerical mind. The genuine eccle-
siastic has a genius for finance that would be in-
valuable in the holder of the Treasurer’s portfolio.
It is plainly to be seen from his utter incom-
petence that Mr. Cocky Burns never wagged his
pow in a pulpit.
[ In Queensland politics Sir Psalmybll Griffith
pretends to be a thorough Liberal, but when
Liberalism interferes with his chances of power
or toady distinctions he out-Tories the Tories, and
like all other colonial politicians who have failed
to toe the Democratic mark his day of reckoning
is at hand. His reception in Brisbane was any-
thing but jubilant, the Bananalanders who do
not believe in the coloured labour policy of
M‘llwraith, showing unmistakable signs of
being sick of Griffith. Primed with the
Jingoism of the London clubs and the Foreign
Office, he let off his ideas on the Irish Coercion
Bill to a San Francisco interviewer on his return
trip from the Imperial Conference. He said
. “ Gladstone is in the wrong lam a Liberal in polities,
but the lory Administration is pursuing the right policy in
Ireland. If one of your States was in such a rebellious con-
dition as Ii eland is tc-day, the United States Government
would assume the same attitude towards the State as the
Tory party has towards Ireland. The Coercion Bill is
the right remedy for the existing state of affairs, and I hope
it will pass—in fact there is very little doubt but what it will ”
Whether this is Sir Psalmyell’s real opinion or
not it is certainly not that of the great majority
of the people of Queensland. Such an expression
from the opponent of North Queensland Separa-
tion is a valuable argument in favour of Home
Rule for the Northerners.
The new Bishop of Melbourne, Field Flowers
Goe, is rapidly developing into a failure of the
deepest dye. Asa preacher, he is commonplace
in style and narrow in doctrine. Asa man, he is
physically insignificant, and socially unloveable—
a non-smoking, non-drinking mediocrity. Asa
clerical administrator, Bishop Goe promises to
make more mischief than ten old maids at a five
o clock tea. He has set the ball rolling by shoving
a Low Church pet into a living at Castlemaine in
preference to the popular local candidate. In
other directions he is displaying the preliminary
symptoms of that aggressive spirit which prompts
evangelicals to make themselves generally un-
pleasant for the sake of the Lord. Goe is a mix-
ture of meek assertiveness, intolerant humility,
truculent morality, and educated bigotry. Nature
intended him to wear a blue ribbon and prea< h «t
street corners on aunday nights. Fortune en-
dowed him with good private means, and the
private means have at least indirectly helped to
provide him with a bishopric. But Providence
finds a beneficent use for the smallest things of
this world. Within two years Goe will have
shown that Bishops are institutions to be dis-
pensed with in a young democratic country.
Originally created to serve as connecting-links
between the King and the Almighty, Bishops are
a farce in Australia, which neither had, has, nor
ever will have a King—or a Queen.
*
The blue-blooded denizens of Toorak (Melb.) are
watched over by a mayor after their own hearts.
By; way of emphasising a local jubilee grovel of
surpassing greasiness this magnate has succeeded
in identifying Her Gracious with the district,
without any further expenditure of public money
worth mentioning. In a word, the Williams’
Road is to be known henceforth and forever, as
Queen’s Avenue, and planted with British oaks on
both sides. This is a sweet idea entirely. A
Queen’s Avenue shaded by British oaks will pro-
vide a congenial promenade for the Imperial
Federationists of Toorak The Mayor (bless him!)
deserves a double meed of praise for bringing his
scheme to a successful igsue ; because his casting
vote decided the matter. When it came to voting.
Williams and Her Majesty polled equally. A
gentleman, rejoicing in the grand old English
name of Muntz, vainly exhorted the Williams
“push” to “Be loyal!” They were loyal—to
Williams. Then the mayor, with an imperial
gesture of sovereign contempt for his adversaries,
brought Her Gracious in (this is merely metaphor I)
on his shoulders. The loyalists are so taken with
their new variety of grove), that they intend to
petition Parliament to enlarge the name of the
colony to “ Victoria, By the Grace of God.”
♦
Said Parkes the other night in speaking on his
New South Wales Centennial scheme :
“ The imagination is an element of so much importance,
even in the manner of human affairs, that it may be doubted
if there ever was a man worthy of the name of statesman
who had not, with a practical grasp of affairs, the poet's
imagination also.”
Imagination is certainly responsible for many re-
markable vagaries. Nero imagined he was as
sweet a singer as Orpheus, and yet he hadn t
voice enough to cry “ fish.” England’s drivelling
George imagined he won Waterloo, and now we
find poor Parkes imagines he’s a poet. That he
possesses an immense fund of imagination of a
certain sort cannot be denied, but it is the ima-
gination of a man who, having found a bootlace,
at once imagines he is the sole proprietory of a
whole tannery.
At the opening of the People’s Palace in London,
our gracious Soverign Lady knighted one
Jennings in the florid Elizabethan style. She
tapped him on the shoulder with a sword, and
told him to “arise Sir John Jennings.” It was
a royal act. Jennings is Master of the Drapers’
Company which voted £20,000 to the Palace,
because it can’t consume the whole of the Com-
pany’s revenue in dinners and the promoting of
bogus Tory meetings. G. R. Sims, speaking of
Jennings, says, “ Why was he selected for this
special honour.? Because he was the head of a
rich Company that had given away £20,000 of the
public’s money,” Exactly 1 That’s our good
Queen’s notion of a useful “representative” man
—a type of loyal subject worth cultivating.
♦ ——
Judge a'Beckett, who appears to be. from a
mental standpoint, the Fat Boy of the Victorian
Bench, states that “ it would be a deplorable thing
if free men in Australia were not at liberty to say
that Gordon was murdered by Mr. Gladstone ■”
Yes, Judge, it would. The foreign politics of the
Melbourne Tories consists in saying that Glad-
stone is a murderer, and Parnell another, and
that Irish disaffection must be suppressed by
bayonets, and three cheers for William of Orange
and to hell with the Pope, and as every man has a
right to his own opinion, of course it is allowable
to call the Grand Old Man an assassin, or any-
thing else. Similarly it would be a deplorable
state of things if free men in Australia were not
at liberty to call Judge a’Beckett a tenth-rate
pettifogger who, politically speaking, was in his
best day not qualified to carry thistles to an ass,
because he wouldn’t have known which end of
the animal to offer them to; and yet we are afraid
the man who did it would bo well-advised if he
straightway fled for his life. There are some
things which a free man may do in Australia, but
there are an awful lot which he may not.
♦
Dear Bulletin,— The heart of every Australian
who dreams of and works for a United Australia
must have responded with an expanding delight
to the tone of your recent leaders. “Australia
for the Australians ” must be made the dominant
of the varied chords expressive of current political
emotion, for only so will the present prove the
prelude to a harmonious and ideal future. But I
think you will agree with me that Australians,
while they should seek in their own natural con-
ditions the formative influences of their distinc-
tive nationality, should not overlook the fact that
there is scarcely a difficulty that can face them in
questions to come that has not already presented
itself to and been surmounted by the United
States. The most crucial problems in industrial
relations, the myriad complicities of international
administration, and the awful crisis of civil war
and subsequent reconstruction have, in the States
century of constitutional history, nearly all found
solution, disentanglement, and remedy. Let Aus-
tralians, therefore, prepare themselves for the
moment it may come soon—when they will be
called upon to accept national responsibilities by
familiarising themselves with the inner history of
the great manifestations of the American national
spirit. Let the period from 1770 to 1787 particu-
larly be studied in such works as Bancroft’s and
liskb s. Then, the years of which the Webster
and Hayne debate formed the central episode,
for, in those years it became apparent that the
crux of “States’ Eights”—which will sooner or
later be created here by the Federal movement—
would have co be solved by the gauntleted hand
of the soldier. And, finally, the period beginning
with the “ Bred Scott ” case, and ending with
the maturing of the “ reconstructive ” idea. These
mutually-dependent epochs are all fertile in les-
sons for us. The difficulties of the States were all
complicated by slavery. Here, thank God, we
can never be confronted by that trouble. But,
with that great exception, and a few trifling ones,
it will be plain to every careful student that the
national movement in the States and the tenden-
cies which will by and bye developo into a national
movement in these Southern lands, will travel
in parallel lines. The Makers and Reconstructors
of the American Republic may well be taken
already for our exemplars.—W.H , July :1, 1887.
BRIEF MENTION.
Same Old Tom.
Lord Lansdown and Rentsup.
Exploded.—The N.S.W. Minister for
Mines.
Water-Logged.— The N.S.W. Minister for
Lands.
There is grief in certain sculling circles,
someone having “ gone upon a tear.”
“ A man’s a man for a’ that,” as Burns
said when he found it was only a C.M.G.-ship. -
Eternity is a thing that was made to en-
able the authorities to hold an inquest on a rail-
way accident.
Bowraville (N.S.W.) is without a lockup,
and every prisoner is handcuffed and sits by the
police kitchen Are and tells yarns all night.
The undertaking profession will be glad to
hear that a travelling doctor, advertising in a
Queensland paper, puts nineteen letters after his
name.
In pulling down an ancient house in
Sydney the other day the workmen came across
an old shirt bearing the initials “ C C.” It is sup
posed to have belonged to Captain Cook.
In Adelaide you can travel third-class by
rail. But nobody does. With a curious unani-
mity Adelaidians take third-class tickets and
travel first. They are a wonderful people for
economy.
The Tamworth paper describes the points
of a good cow. It is unnecessary to illustrate the
points of a bad cow. They are known to every-
body who was ever assisted across a high fence
by a pair of horns.
Gold is stated to act medicinally as a cure
for delirium tremens. Example—a millionaire
suicideth under the influence of whisky, and the
veracious Argus records the cause of death as
genteel melancholia.
An American parson has succeeded in
getting seven years for horse-stealing, swindling,
and forgery. In Wales the established clergy
have no necessity to do such things. The tithes
save them the trouble.
At (N.Q.) Divisional Board meet-
ing Chairman (to clerk) : “ Have you mut-h cor-
respondence to bring before us to-day ?” “Ye’, a
hell of a lot.’’ replied the clerk, glowering at the
pile before him. Such is Northern officialdom.
A man thus notifies the public (or publi-
cans?) in the S. M. Herald : “ I hereby caution
the public not to give any credit in my name.” A
Melbourne man once put the thing more definitely :
“ I, John Smith, will not be responsible for any
debts contracted by me after this date.”
The press of Charters Towers. Q., stands
no nonsense. A local telegraph man who was
alleged not to be up to the editorial brand of
efficiency is thus referred to If he put some
tare around his neck, tied one end to the balcony
and then fell over, lots of people would be joy-
ful.”
“ The Papacy has been the great conser-
vator of the world’s learning,” said Dr. Carr
when he bad the ear of Governor Loch at St.
Patrick's College, the other da<% On hearing
this the shade of Galileo remarked to the shade of
Bruno : “ Quite true, they made a conserve of you,
like fruit jam, over a fire,”
The Hastie bequest to Melbourne Univer-
sity is being slowly settled.
At a N.Z. municipal deputation to Sir
Julius Vogel, a civic dignitary objected to square
telephone posts on the ground that if a man ran
against one of the posts he would break his nose.
Sir Julius pointed out that round pests were iust
as liable to do the same damage. How some men
do give themselves away!
When a white man falls sick and wishes to
go to the hospital at Cairns, Q , he can procure a
ticket of admission from Billy Tanna. a kanaka,
who is a subscriber to the hospital. We know of
nothing more calculated to prolong a white man’s
life than the joy of being admitted to hospital on
the strength of a blackfellow’s signature. But
this is a free country.
“ Offering to fight his brethren ” is the way
the Scriptural reporter of the S.M. Herald put it
last week, when a man was brought up at a
Sydney Police Court for threatening to pound the
other son of his mother into a vision of brains and
gore and dish-rags. The Herald is evidently the
only paper left now which speaks pure New South
Welsh with fluency and despatch.


The Referee
Sprinting in New South Wa’es has ad-
vanced a step or two since Johnny Patrick's time.
3 a Patrick’s day bare feet were considered the cor-
j ect thmg, and he was rather amused when one
Gorman came out to lua him IQO yards on a
Macadamised road, ‘‘dolled up” in a pair of the
i hen new fangled sprinting-shoes. Johnny won
1 y a bare half yard, at the loss of all the skin off
Ms feet and his prejudice against runni' g-shoes.
3 i 1817 Johnny beat the “Flying Tailor” for a
• entury in Hyde Park when there was only a two-
) ail fence round it, and he had a big run of luck
until a darkey at Goulburn took him dow r n.
* * *
So far, Sydney has decidedly the best of
the deal in the selection of the rival teams to visit
t he colonies, Lilly vhite having secured all the
best professionals, notwithstanding the gentlemen
] layers objected to Lilly white’s action in forming
the team,
* # *
Mr. Spofforth was not happy in the fixing
up of his imposts for the sixth Newcastle Sprint
Handicap. Upwards of half a hundred peds pro-
tested against it, and the event has since fallen
through.
* * *
If the weights Kemp rowed in England
and Australia are correctly given, it can scarcely
1 e wondered that he upset his friends’ calcula-
tions in the old country, For a man who can
3 ow strong and well at 11 stone and a couple of
1 ounds, as Kemp did the other day with Malter-
i on, to row at 12st. 41b., the weight he stripped in
jingland, w ould account at once for his bursting-
i p after a mile had been covered at top pace,
3 ow that his “ trim ” has been ascertained, Kemp
; hould take a lot of beating from any but the very
Jirst flight.
* « «
Eloyd has received first-class entries for
his skiff handicap to be rowed next Saturday. F.
I’ower, with 601 b., should make things go merry.
* * *
The Melbourne Gun Club’s slaughter for
the year was 25,068 pigeons, at a cost, for birds
alone, of £1767.
* •8- *
England and America go in heavily for
records, why not Australia ? It is doubtful if
Sydney ernnot claim the record for a fight with
i bo longest odds—a gamecock and an elephant.
When Prince Alfred was here his elephant was
let ashore on Cockatoo Island, and a gamecock
went for the intruder. Once Jumbo got him in his
i rank and picked him up, but he managed to slip
i hrough, and had to be carried away to save his
life. That bird was a terror to fight, and was
known to win five battles in one day. The Duke
3 equested his owner to give him the bird, but the
fowl-fancier declined to part.
* * *
The untimely death of “ Jacko” M‘Shane,
the vice-captain of the Geelong twenty, has
created a gap in the ranks of Victorian footoalleis
which it will be difficult to fill. M Shane was only
24 years of age, and he was distinguished for his
( xcellent temper no less than his biiiliant play.
His death was the result of neglecting a severe
cold caught on the Melbourne ground on the 20th
June when playing with his own team against
Hotham.
* * *
A member ©f the Carlton[(Melh.) fcctlad
club, while on a visit to Adelaide, took a sheep
from a butcher’s shop and ran off with it “for a
lark.” He was duly collared, and charged with
theep stealing, hut the butcher, who had had
some ‘larks” himself in his time, failed to pro-
secute, and the youth was discharged, after very
nearly scoring a gaol.
» * *
At Gamigton Grounds, Sydney, one day
last week, C. W. Carpenter, a boy of 12, wbo
threatens to become a splendid lorg-distance pid ,
ran four and a half miles in just about half an
hour, although sufferer g severely from cold.
• * *
An inspired par. in a Sydney daily gives
a long list of intending starters at (he Suburban
Bicycle Club meetings, hut it is very unlikely that
more than a couple will race out of the lot.
Bennett is included, ia face of the fact that he
has stated, in the Press and otherwise, that he
has retired from the racing track
• * *
The unusual event of a ten-mile race drew
some 700 people to the Caringtcn Grounds, Sydney,
on Saturday las% when Livingstone tried to con-
cede 300 yards ea h in 10 miles to the Melbourne
runners, Stevens and Fosse. At a little over the
fifth mile Livingstone passed his men, hut he was
finable to hold hit a Wantage, and Fosse eventually
won in 57mie. 45sec. Stevens up. Living-
stone's time for the full distance was 58min.
Vised,
* * *
The Messrs. Mfiler, who always run their
horses straight, but don’t have the best of luck,
won three races at last Moonee Valley (Vic.)
mcc'irg.
< ♦ *
This is how a comic opera man is criticised
in the Argus : “His performance is still open to
improvement in the way of more introspective
elaboration of the latent humour of the part.” We
can picture the unhap;y victim buttonh-Ting the
perfesb. and plaintively enquiring, “PHthee,
what in introspective elaboration of he latent ?’’
Victorian footballers are having a bright
time of it this season. Dozens of them are laid up
with fractured limbs.
• * *
The stranglers were up to their necks in
“ sport” atSt. George’s Hall, Melbourne,last Satur-
day night. Tom Cannon and Harry Dunn met to
viHit'e five'siyles for a bona fide stake, and from
the outset it was evident that the big ’on meant
to “do ” his man. There has been no love lost
between them since Dunn blew on the recent
Cannon-Connor affair, and stirred up strife among
the fraternity. Hence Saturday’s exhibition is
explained. Before starting Cannon proposed that
all the takings should go to the winner. Dunn
acquiesced. The “ champion” objected to sturdy
Captain Cowan officiating as referee, and chose
somebody else. Dunn was agreeable again, and
the trouh’e commenced. It was soon over.
Starting with Cumberland style. Dunn threw the
big un as easily as he would have thrown him at
“side-hold” and “ collar-ardelbow” if some-
thing hadn’t happened For the second bout
Cannon named Giseoo-Roman s yle, and a game—
which seems to have been anticipated by those in
the know —was played on the unfortunate Dunn.
Instead o' securing a fall by comparatively harm-
less expedients, Cannon proceeded to disable his
lighter opponent, first by chucking him about, and
subsequently by die kit g him into a state
of insensibility. In lets than ninety se-
conds Dann was so nearly dead that
several people left the ball for fear of being
run in as “ accessories before the fact. ’ His
friends on the platform a? kid Cannon not to kill
him outright, and finally his sca-ed second found
enough press nee of mind to ‘ ‘ give ” the fall.
Poor Dunn was then foaming at the mouth like a
mad deg. His larnyx had been flattened and his
throat so swollen that he could scarcely vomit the
blood w hich was suffocating him. Under these
circumstances it appeared that Cannon had won
the match fair and honest. The conditions of
Grseco-R .man wrestling allow any license to the
stronger man short of chopping off his opponent’s
head wilh a meat-axe. And it is a pity that can’t
be allowed, for, with a few honourable excep-
tions, the whole crowd of professional wrestlers
might be profitably engaged in a war of exter-
mination among their own sweet selves.
MR. FREDERICK PINKSTONE.
Editor of the Cootamundra (N.S.W.) HERALD.
The ‘‘mixed” cricketing team coming out
under engagement to the Melbourne Club, pro-
mises t> be a rather second-rate combination.
Tie Hoo. Hawke was never a flyer, T. C. O Brien
is not the bat he was when he won a match for
Oxford ag-.inst Murdoch’s fourth Eleven, and the
professional b jw'cra are moderate. Unless some
flrsDciass men are engaged to make up the full
complement, “Hawke’s Eleven” will only score
heavily in a saisiely way. It will interest the
g juris to hear that Mr. O’Brien is heir to a
baronetcy. But wo area t quite sure that he isn’t
already married. A team captained bythe younger
sonof anEarl and inc udiog a future baronetought
to make a success ia the gilded halls of Melbourne’s
nativ e aristi c: acy.
* * *
On July 28, the Charters Toweis Miners’
Union hold a day’s athletic sports. One item on
tbe programme is :
“An event for farters, member! of [the Miners’
Uni Hi- —A portrait in oil of the winner's child. Post entry
2s. 6d.”
I. i= a condition of entry that “All performances
must accompany nominations under penalty of
disqualification.”
* * •
The following actually occurred at Rand-
wick. A horse belong in g to an owner who is
honorably known as never having yet run a “ stiff
’un, ’ went out first favourite. The animal in-
dulged in tome antics at the post aod th ew the
boy, who was too much hurt to ride again. The
owner did not appear much put out, and languidly
smiled in a pleased manner. A well-meaning
frieid lushed up: “You d better hmry up and
get another boy. The public have backed your
hone.” “Oh, the public have backed my hoise,
hayo they V tail 'he owner; ‘Hen the blessed
public tan hurry up aid get auoth r boy. 1 wont.”
And he d.dn’ .
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —When I was a child and
in the flesh I associated with some persons who
would now be stigmatised as unclean by the Holy
Joes, although Royalty has patronistd the fra-
ternity. I refer totheP.R. Now, one of them
cane to my mind instanter when I heard that Sir
Henry Parkes was nonplus;ed for a d sgois-o. If
ever the Premier wLhes to atUnd a fancj -dress
ball let h'ru put cotton in hU ears and go as
“ Deaf Burt e.“ I neter saw features so much
alike, and the deaf 'ua, who was areal white man
though he ivas a pug., was just as highly honoured
and respected, and almost as much oougtt a ! ter as
any K.C.M.G.—Yours, Scotty the Wrinkler.
* * *
The Melbourne papers, one and all, are
howling against ihepnj-cted “money-making”
visit of Shaw and Smewsbury’s crickaing team.
We are told that the local M.C.C. is upholdicg
the d gnity of the game ia inviting a party of
gentlemen amateurs, who wi.l be just nicely
“leavened” by a few pro.’essionals engaged at
stated sums for the tour. Tire hatelul gate-
money element is to bo nowhere at all in games
played by such a healthy combination—and so
forth. S de by side w.th these gushings we read
that Mr. W. W, Read will receive £BOO and ex-
penses, as “compensation,” while that other
gentleman amateur, W. G Grace, ia tempted
with a bait of £l5OO. Five professionals are to be
paid about £230 each, and nobody else will re-
ceive mere than bare expenses. Thoiefore, pre-
suming that Grace arranges to c.me out and
display his amateur talent, ihe M.C.C, must hand
over £3150 to a crowd not nearly so strong as
Shrewsbury would be glad to captain on the same
terms. What matters it that five or six of Mr.
Vernon’s party will play for “love”? The fact
remains that the high-minded M.C, r '. is prepared
to pay £3450 to one lot of men in order to spoil
the purely “professional ’ visit of another lot of
men. What rot this is! If there was such an
objection to “gate-money tactics,” why not
engage Shrewsbury’s lot to play for exhibition,
the Club taking all risks? £2300 would buy ten
first-class pros,, leaving £1150 balance for Shaw,
Shrewsbury, and Lillywhite to cut up among
themselves, more than which they can scarcely
hope to make out of their next spec.
The Case of William Roy.
William Roy, the soldier whose gallant services
at Rorke's Drift were gratefully acknowledged by
his Queen with a cheap medal and an autograph
Bible, and whose helplessness has since been
solaced by the permission, so cheeifully accorded
him by a N.S.W. charity, to die as quickly as he
could in a cold yard, is still lingering. The
Bulletin has twice drawn attention to his case,
and two kind-hearted readers having forwarded
£1 each to be expended on his behalf, it now
appeals for subscriptions in the hope of raising a
sufficient amount to enable this worn-out soldier
to die in some more comfortable retreat than that
den of misery of which he is now an occupant.
All that is desired is a moderate sum to provide
him with suitable lodging and attendance in his
last days. If each reader of The Bulletin will
forward to the cilice a donation, however small,
this desired result will speedily be accomplished.
Mr. Frederick Pinkstone,
Mr, Frederick Pinkstone, of the Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) Herald is a native of Sydney, where
he was born in 1847. He was apprenticed to the
printing trade at the age of 13, and at 20 joined
the staff of the Kiama Independent, where he
remained for nine years. He then took a position
as reporter on the Goulburn Herald, and a year
later joined in establishing the Cootamundra
Herald, which first appeared in January, 1877.
For nearly six years he struggled along as printer
and printer's devil, repoiter, editor, leader-writer,
&c , all combined, and ultimately had the plea-
sure of seeing the new journal well established.
Mr. Pinkstone has since run twice for Parliamen
without success, and he now boast s that his paper
is almost the only one in Australia which doesn’t
care a cent for Bismarck or the Eastern question
or the rows got up by Slavs with crackjaw names
in faraway Bulgaria.
Mr. George O. Johnson.
Mr. George C. Johnson, editor of the Hawkes-
bury Chronicle, published at Windsor (N.S W,),
was born at Hurst (Eng.) in 1839, and skipped
from home at an early age on a"count of his step-
mother. He commenced his active career on
board cf a training ship at Spithead, and after-
wards served an apprenticeship on a merchant
vessel and knocked about the seas for a number
of years. Arriving in Sydney by the “Phoeni-
cian,” he took to a digger s life, and ioined in the
unprofitable rush to Port Curt s (Q.), after which
he returned to N.S.W, and spent some years in
sluicing with small results. He joined in the
rushes to the “Snowy,” Lambing Flat, and the
Lachlan, and in the course of his wanderings
became secretary to the Miners’ Protection
League at Sofala, where he started the Illus-
trated Sofala Times— the illustrations being
in charcoal and raddle. He shortly aban-
doned this venture, took turns at mining, store-
keeping, building, and newspaper work, and ulti
mately, about 1883, be was effaced and accepted
the editorship of the Hawkesbury Chronicle,
which he has run on Republican principles ever
since. The portrait attached shows all that ii
left of a man who has been more different things
in a shorter time than the majority of his
countrymen.
On the night of Saturday, July 9, a swarm
of excited Frenchmen enthused over General
Boulanger as he rode through Paris. And on
Sunday, July 10, the Argus correspondent tele' 3
graphs from London—“ the Government (French
are greatly disquieted at the
In offering their readers “ news” of this descrip
tion the dailies give themselves clean away. Bald
particulars of Boulanger’s triumphal procession
would be received at Reuter’s agency late on
Saturday evening and wired to Australia early on
Sunday morning. How the dickens is anyone to
know what effect it produced, in the meantime,
upon twenty different men, most of them prob-
ably miles away from the scene of action ? One
is asked to understand that the French Govern-
ment all live together in one Paris house, and
that they expressed their “disquiet” during the
silent watches of the night. It can’t be too often
impressed upon the public that the “ special cor-
respondents ” of Australian daily papers live on
the premises, but retire to the little pub. around
the ccrcer when they want to telegraph that
“ Mr. Gladstone’s policy is universally con-
demned,” “ Her Majesty was received with bound-
le:s enthusiasm,” or “the Government are greatly
disquieted at the demonstration."
MR. GEORGE C. JOHNSON.
Editor of the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) CHRONICLE.
Mrs. Argles (widow of the late Theodore
Emile Argles, journalist, better known as “ Harold
Grey”) informs ns that several unauthorised per-
sons who have received subscriptions intended by
the ’donors for her benefit, have omitted to hand
them over to her. Anyone who has subscribed
will oblige by forwarding particulars to Mrs.
Argles, caie of the manager, Bulletin office.
CORRESPONDENCE
Xhjc Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
Moo.
“W.S.L.” (Melbourne): Any individual who
says ‘ he owns " Tub Bulletin is—we.l, romancing. The
Bulletin is the preparty of a duly registered lim'led lia-
bility company, and not that of any individual...,
“ Eacobito " (Cobar): Thanks for Oobar grovel with
comments “A. Eobinson ” (Woollahra) : Oh !...,
“ J.OK.": Glad to have paragraphs on such subjects....
“Payaandre”: You can easily see him by calling. Go the
last occasion upon which one of your sort called he turned
himself into a 5im00m...." W.L.S."; Act valorem duties are
duties levied according to the value of the article taxed
“ J. 0.": We don't guarantee the bona-fide! of any adver-
tiser. We take all reasonable precautions, and thats
all any paper can do. Do you think Alfred Bennett
guarantees the character, say, of every man who
advertises in the Noozb that he wants a wife?..,.
“The Tasteful Frenchman”: To hand,...“H. Lacey”:
Why not write to Turner and Henderson, Sydney, for a copy
of Mr. Farrell's collected verses ? “W. Swaiuson”; The
Bulletin has the strongest reason for believing that Eead,
who was hanged, was absolutely innocent. Donnellan, the
worst of the lot, was reprieved....“ L Me." : We have quite
fallen in love with your handwriting, but are in some doubt
about your verse. Thanks for the marmalade, anyhow.
"L.L.”; Ask the eminent plagiarist “C. Seismann”:
Besides St. George's engagement with the Dragon—which is
mythical, of course—all that we know of him is that he wag,
tradition hath it, an army-contractor and sold bad pork to
an army invading his native country. The pork settled the
invading army and the invasion in one act, of course, and
George became a saint—“W.J.J.”: Instead of sending an
expert to the Milan Eailway Congress, why not send all the
guards, pointsmen, and people who have caused accidents
during the past three months ? It might do them some
good “ Wando ” : Mere “loyalty” tremens....“Constant,"
&o. : The yarn about the “ prisoner, aged 35, who wanted to
correspond with a lady with a view to marrying her after his
discharge,” is pretty old and has gone the round of the
country papers. But anyhow it is better for a woman to
marry a man alter he has baen in gaol than before he has
been in gaol—if he is a fellow likely to go there iath i 1 ong run
~“J.A."(Adelaide): Good ‘ T.S.K." : You don’t hear of
itfimplybecause meetingsofthe ProtestantHimeEale Asso-
ciation in the North of Ireland are suppressed bySalisbury
"J.J.”: You say that the mail steamer captains “never
have anything to do but stroll about and talk to the ladies.'
Well, isn’t that hard enough work for you? “Vic.”: The
stomach, as everyone knows, is the seat of the affections.
Had you broken your heart you would be mere cold meat... .
“ Largo”: The gushing writer did not overmuch compliment
the amiable lady whom she dubbed “ the Queen cf Beauty.”
The courtiers of the Elizabethan era gave that title to the
Queen, who is described as " a thin faced woman with red
hair. ..“L.”: Out of the 27,003 who signed the petition
against the opening of the theatres on Sunday how many
had ever attended one of the lectures complained 0f?....
“Mrs.—(Carooar) : We have been compelled to leave
out not only Bridget's address but Bridget herself “ 0.
Duffy”: You’ll probably find, on going to court, that you
have signed a cast-iron contract without deliberately reading
it. They would have to summon you in your own district.
“ E W.H.” : Thanks “ A Sufferer “: Will enquire.
Next we;k, probably “Yarpo’ :If the E. News says
that “ a man can’t sleep after going to bed with an empty
stomach,” and the T. and O. Jbrnil says that “ a man who
eats a heavy supper is almost bound to keep awake,” the only
alternative possible is to go to bed without your stomach....
“M.” (Hobart): Thanks .;.“E. Flowers” (Surry Hills):
What you term your “scetoh ’ is to hand and is bsiog
thought over —by the offiie d0g....“ Squeams” (Tamworth)
Can’t afford to publish such a statement... .“D. A.”: You
are a nice person. What a lovely uccl i you’d have been to
the Babes in the Wood !....“ Camera ’’: A howling criminal
libel. Have you ever been iu gaol? Wehave “E.N.S.’
(Melb ): When forwarding sooh matter as that insolvency
item you should mail the printed extract on which your com
ments are founded...Bushwoman ”; Your verses are some-
what incoherent. For instance, “Tis Nature's sweet duty
to bless thee with beauty, and make thee mid islands a star
and a queen,” is dark and mysterious ia the extreme; and
‘Hope's placid anhea’ing ” passeth the meaning cf words,
....“Invicta” (Caulfield, Melb.): Thanks for extract; we
agree with you—it's a shame “Tamworth”; Take our
advice, and never attempt verse until you can call criticism
by some other name than “ unpredudiced." Your “menof
passion strong who swept our old world seas along," certainly
beat that Mrs. Partington who fai’ed with her immortal mop
to bear back the mighty ocean flood. .“E. C, Griffith ’ (Water-
loo): There are things which cost too much, even if they cm
I be had for nothing—monarchical rule is one of these; don't
i call it “monarchal.” The citizens of the LTni.ed States owe
1 £6 per head of the national debt, while every B. itonowes
£22. The President, U.S., receives £lO.OOO per annum
against the Queen's £619.379; Ihe Vice-President U.S,, re-
ceives £lBOO, the Prince and Princess of Wales £120,000;
74 U.S. senators and 325 U.S. representatives receive £lOOO
each, making a total of £399.000, against £121,000 received
by other members of the Eoyal family ; hence, total amount
of U.S. Government Salary-Bill, £410.800, against £870,375
for Eoyal salaries in England. Moreover, it must be remem-
bered that the Eepublio pays every official who renders ser-
vice; English legis’ators give their services for nothing. If
you want to know more, read Carnegie's “ Triumphant
Democracy.” “Biff’: Held over fir illustration....
“E. Hansen” (Waterloo): Many thanks ! " P.C.” (Three
Oaks): It is no discredit to a man to have taught himself
what little he knows—far otherwise " Jackarandih”
(Ulmarra): Fifty cantos! This is too much! Have yon,
| too, been afflicted with the Jubilee fever? “Nona’'; Your
! last verse is torgeous’y inconsequential; what do you mean!
i * Eailway’ : Will painfully consider “ K.W M-’
. (Belmont, Q.): Will read “Alexanders Feast”: Now,
| haven t you been leading Mark Twain's account cf the Aebsi-
! sination of Julius Ctesar? “ A.E.” ; Anoint thee, fiend-
“ M.” : Quite true. The S.M. Herald the other day re-
viewed Lewis Morris' new poems, and wrs very rough upon
the poet for saying “ that the writer is well aware that" ; and
immediately after the critic perpetrates this lovely thing:
“There have betn also the poet of the poets.”... ."Critic
U I.” (Blackman's Swamp); Thanks “EB."; Still pon-
dering,....“ Eacobite ” : Esoeived.. ..“PJ.O Driscoll"
Your letter was not published simply because of pressure on
our space “D.T.D.” :1. The euccetsion to thethioneof
Great Britain follows the ordinary law of primogeniture. 2.
Bis right; if a widow with two daughters married a v.idoff« r
with two daughters the girls of the one family wcu.d not be
related in any manner to the girls cf the other; any furth®
female issue would, of course, be rtep-slsters or half-sister*
to either family, being the daughters of the father of one
family and the daughters of the mother of the other family-
The terms step-sister or half-sister are synonymous; and if
you come here with any more conundrums we 11 &c., ■■
“0.G.H.” : Thanks “E. Klein": If Australians see that
the classes who at the present moment rule England cam-Ot
he trusted to do by Ireland what is fair, where is the induce-
ment hr us to “draw closer,” & to the “dear old mo'.nu
country ” ?


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatrblßoyal—“ A Run of Luck ”...., p. 14.
Criterion Theatre.—" Kindred Souls “
Opera House—“ Sentenced to Death” ,
Gaiety Theatre—" Les C.ochei de Oorneville” .... ~
Alhambra Music Haul—Minstrelsy
Exhibition Building.— Roller Skating Rink
Having breathed on our boots and chalked
ths end of our spirituous nose, we presented a
gorgeous aspect at Sydney Opera House on Satur-
day night, when “ Sentenced to Death ” formed
the bill of fare. The title of this drama reveals
the fact that Pettitt and Conquest, those poor
white trash and sons of blood and brains, are
again on the rampage in Jones’s ancestral halls,
but for once they have produced a moderately
decent drama, consisting of four acts and a pauper
failing off a church roof. In fact, “ Sentenced to
Death ” is almost a pretty story, with a dog in it,
and a giddy fowl clucking in the first act, and a
sheep which smells at the footlights, and a lout
named Giles who falls head first into a pigstye,
and comes out wading and covered with hog’s
nourishment and other accessories. In begins
well, too, for in the very first scene a fiendish
lawyer gives a farmer's bride a dig in the spine
with his umbrella and asks her to fly with him
across the heaving foam, and spend the rest of her
life in sunny Italy, where the blinded heathen kiss
the Pope’s corn, and unshod beggars eat garlic, and
just because the lady turns round and reviles him
ejects her husband into the mul, and makes him
insolvent. But the frenzied carro>raiser in his
retreat carries with him a short-legged undressed
babe belonging to his enemy, and leaves in its
place his own sprawling infant—an arrangement
which Hoyley Snayle, an unctuous ruin whose
feet point in opposite directions, takes a hand.
After this there is a pause 20 years long, at
the end of which Snayle stamps on the lawyer's
head and hits him on the ear with a
club and embezzles his ready cash. The
undressed, short-legged babe is sentenced to
death for this crime, but at a critical moment in
Hoyley Snayle falls off a church roof and receives
fatal injuries, partly through being shot and
partly through concussing against a tombstone
sacred to the memory of Sarah Jane Smith of this
parish, who died at an advanced age, of such is
the kingdom of heaven, and then the lawyer re-
pents and furnishes a more than imbecile wind-up
to the story. For in real life a lawyer never
repents ; he keeps the machine grinding to the
very last, and dies in a desperate effort to take
six-and-eightpence away with him, and then he
goes to Sheol, which is a large, square, hot place
with four doors, all of whioi open outwards—a
wife precaution on the part of Ihe architect who
foresaw what a hideous rush there would be in
case of fire. “ Sentenced to Death ’’ is run almost
entirely by three characters —Mr. B. N. Jones as
the unctuous Snayle, a crawling pauper of the
deepest dye ; Mr. H. C. Sidney, and Miss Alice
Norton, and on Saturday night they all spread
themselves in good style, though Snayle, when he
told the story of his lost daughter, degenerated
into bathos. Mrs, B. N. Jones made her first
appearance as Dolly, but the part was too small a
one to give any reliable test of her abilities.
** * *
According to the bill that clings t,> the
mouldering wall “ Kindred Souls,” at Sydney
Criterion, is “ one of the funniest and best
comedies that ever grased the stage,” and it cer-
tainly contains one item of novelty which we
never saw in a comedy before, for the hero loses
his only suit of clothes by nine o'clock, and plays
out an act and a half in a table cloth, a lady’s
ball dress, a dressing gown, a dish-cloth, and any-
thing else that comes handy. The leading
characters are a toothsmith in low water who is
so hard up that he is almost tempted to embezzle
the gold plate from the roof of a lady customer's
mouth, and Polly Drake, who in her husband’s
absence is looking for a kindred soul. The hero
has evidently acquired the manners of polite
society, for he addresses this lady with a screech
of “ Polly want a cracker, Polly want a biscuit,
pretty Polly.” Polly’s husband unsuccessfully
hangs himself on the bell-rope later on, and swings
back and forward for 10 minutes, aiming kicks at
the spiritualist who stands beside his dangling
figure making love to his wife, and these items
use up about all that is fresh in “ Kindred Souls.”
The rest consi?ts of the usual scene in which a
lady has three male friends dining with her when
her husband comes home, and naturally the old
man wants to know if he or some other person is
to boss this blessed cowshed, and waving the
carving-knife and salt-spoon, and holding the
tongs in his mouth, he calls on her to “ pr-r-ro-
dooce the bowelless miscreant,” or words to that
effect, and give this bloodthirsty bird of carrion a
chance to gnaw his vitals. Then he asks if
these are the feet of the loathsome hyaena that
are sticking one from under the table,
and swooping down on them he drags
out two hoots and some articles of male attire
which his wife tells him faintly belong to
the spirits. He responds that he reckons one
spirit will have to go home that night half-dressed,
and then, sighting a head sticking out of a door,
he demands if this is another brute bent
on destroying his domestic happiness, and rushes
at him with a view to cutting his throat, while an
oily, drunken hypocrite with blue goggles takes
the chance to escape without any supper, his huge
knees shaking with terror as he goes. “Kindred
Souls” is not likely to flag for want of action, but
the bill that hangs on the mouldering wall over-
rates it a good deal. As regards the acting, Mr.
John Gourlay is immense as the dentist whose feet
stick out beneath the table; Mr. Warner is an
“amoozin’ cuss” ; Mr. George Forbes is a slightly
“amoozln’ cuss”; and Miss Julia Esmond, as
Polly, has improved a good deal since we saw her
last, or else looks batter through being in better
company. Maggie Oliver doesn’t get the ghost of
a show, and is consequently eclipsed by her tem-
porary dramatic husband, a remarkable party
earned Brown,
#
•Jr ‘Tv* tv* *7r
If there is anything new to be said about
“Les Cloches de Corneviile” we would like to
know what it is. Pretty nearly every appropriate
sentiment that can be begged, or borrowed, or
cadged, or worked into new shape under the
stimulating influence of gin, hop bitters, opium,
belladonna, cigars, hairwash and porous p aster
on the back ot the head, has been used up over
and over again, and the critic’s aesthetic page has
been adorned with epithets borrowed from every
known language from Eskimo down to plain
colonial all jammed in anyhow in places where their
own mothers wouldn’t know them. Consequently,
We won’t attempt to say anything very new about
the production now running at Sydney Gaiety.
Signor Yerdi’s well-known whiskers bloom to ad-
vantage in the part of the Marquis ; his voice is in
floe condition, and his acting does not incite any-
body to throw anything at him ; Mr. Edward
Allen is good all round, as he generally is, in the
Part of that cur from the briny deep, yclept
Grenioheux ; Mr. Arthur Farley does the Bailie
in a nigger minstrel fashion, and Mina Fischer
plays Germaine and looks very pretty. This same
strikingly original remark also applies to Miss
Harcourt as Serpolette. Mr, Lester bursts up
Father Gaspard in the very first round, and the
old miser never looks up again. He is reduced to
a wreck, and doesn’t get a chance afterwards
The scenery is a special feature, and is more
beautiful than the Bondi Jubilee show.
** * *
Our soul abhorreth hash, and a whole
week of it, in one shape and another, is announced
at Sydney Royal Scandard, “ Never too Late to
Mend ” was produced on Monday and Tues-
day, when M'\ Dampier and his company
made one of their best efforts, and Mr.
Sam Poole, as Jackey-Jackey, depicted an
evening-dress aborginal who was worth remem-
bering. The waterfall scene was too beautiful for
earth, at least we never saw one like ic. Follow
ing this comes that saddening production of a lost
soul with a broken head, called “ East Lynne,’
a drama on which much talent has been wasted,
and which in point of morals is very tangled.
Friday is devoted to the “ Merchant of Venice,”
when Shylock will make another desperate at-
tempt to get his monish ; and on Saturday ‘ ‘ Rags
and Bones,” wnich is said to be a great London
melodrama with a donkey in it, will be produced
for the first time. This i eems about enough for
the present; four pieces in one week involve an
amount of activity which the present scribe
whose great ambitioa is to go to bd and not be
called for a week—views with absolute horror.
#* * *
“A Run of Luck” is sti 1 running at
Sydney Roya l , but the fate of 29 out of its 30
characters is still a dark and selemn mystery.
Not that it matters much, dontchewknow. We
would have been glad, however, to give some of
the performers a little further encouragement it
we could only have ascertained what it is all
about.
Some years ago a
certain dramatic com-
pa My was on tour through
the country towns of
Victoria. Among the
number was a player of
the “juvenile” parts, a
comedian, and a sou-
brette. The former end
the latter hadnot thought
the ceremony of matri-
mony worthy of their
consideration, so coha-
bited, Now the come-
dian secretly loved the
comedienne, and she had
grown tired of her tem-
porary mate, and in-
clined towards the come ■
dian. Matters were
amicably adjusted by the
male “ mummers ” play-
ing a game of euchre
with the scubrette for
the stake, and the come-
dian ■winning took ever
the sweet creature and
lawfully married her.
AT* AT* AT*
WWW
It will do no damage
now that the piquante
Miss Carrie Swain has
polka?d over to the Cab-
bage Garden, to inform
despairing admirers that
in professional circ’es she
is known as Mrs. Frank
Gardner, having ma-ried
her fascinating agent.
Frank’s grey ‘ nail-keg ”
and drooping moustache
were enough to mash the
Sphinx.
AT* AT* AT*
'A* tv* 'Tv*
At Melbourne Royal
the Williamsons continue
to sway admiring multi-
tudes with their Anglo-
Dutch eloquence.
‘ ’ Struck Oil ” attracts
pilgrims from the utter-
most parts of Victoria ;
they come up to town act
uated by a stern sense of
duty, see, for the tenth
time, the only play they
ever saw or ever mean
to see, and return to their
native jungle in a condi-
tion of calm content-
ment. Considering that
Mr. Williamson is a more
popular institution than
any Exhibition, and that
Miss Maggie knocks the
Melbourne Cup silly, it
would bean actof kindness to run “Struck Oil” ex-
cursion trains at reducedfares. Perhaps therailway
people will attend to this long felt want next time
the drama is revived. But on Saturday the
Stofels appear in new characters. Having created
a better impression than ever, and drawn full
houses for three weeks, they are about to reculer
pour mieuxsauter at some future time. “Shadows
of a Great City/’ (revised) on the 16th.
*Af» AT* AT*
'TV* -TV* Tr
That bewitching combination of beauty,
genius, and agility, Miss Carrie Swain, has
brought back long-banished sunshine to the Alex-
andra. Since the Italian opera era things had
been going slow at the big house until “ The
Miner’s Daughter ” came along. They go quickly
enough now. In another week or two the whole
city will be rolling up to a show which is offered
at reduced prices when it would be dirt cheap at
a large advance. Critically regarded, “ The
Miner’s Daughter ” is not the finest play in the
English language, but then nothing in the play is
critically regarded except Miss Carrie, and there
is no finer girl in the language than that same.
You are lifted off your feet when she shakes her
golden tresses, a delicious stupor overcomes you
as she dances, and when she sings you get a
glimpse of Paradise.—
If the dead years could but return,
And give us youth again,
Or the merry time of our manhood’s prime
Ere our charms began to wane,
When the maidens fair from our whispered
prayer
Turned not in cold disdain,
Then, O ye gods ! we’d take slight odds
That we would be Carrie’s swain.
#* * *
The four-act drama epidemic is rapidly
subsiding in Melbourne. The funny half of the
Brough and Boucicault company has “ Turned
Up ” again at the Opera House, and the other
half comes on to Sydney shortly. Miss Grade
Plaiated, Mr, Chas. Harding, and a somewhat
debilitated support, are doing comic operas at the
Bijou in a style that doesn’t command success and
doesn’t get it. The show was badly frost-bitten
in its first week, and we fear that managerial
mortification will set in when “Princess Ida”
starts at the Princess’s on the 16th. Sassiety is
girding up its loins for this bright particular
event. It is our pleasing duty to announce the
departure of one nigger troupe and the decease of
another. Hudson’s Surprise Party has left St.
George’s Hall, and the ill-fated Nugget is a skat-
ing rink. Even at that the place won't pay.
Horace Bene and a lot of other people are still
with the “ Silk Stockings ” at Victoria Hall, and
Mr. Frank Clark’s bank account is swelling with
monotonous regularity.
** # *
At latest, theatrical matters in Adelaide
were rather quiet, notwithstanding the number of
visitors at present in the city. Wybert Reeve, at
the Royal, was only doing second-rate busine s
with “The Woman in White,” and “ The Pac-
ing Regiment.’ “Dark Days” is announced fi r
his last week The Fisk Jubilee Singers have
been drawing very good houses, and the Japane e
Village at Garner's Theatre has been well at-
tended, Lyon’s Amateur Opera Company are pro-
ducing “Patience,” “ Girofle Girofla,” and
“ Mantana,” at the Albert Hall.
** * *
The Jubilee Musical Festival at Mel-
bourne Exhibition Building has turned out to be
a very neat j )b. The takings realised the hand-
some sum of £7OO, but as the expeases amount to
£llOO, there is a deficit of £lOO to be made up
from the Consolidated Revenue The management
all through was characterised by the most wanton
extravagance. Although the festival was sup-
posed to he a national undertaking for charitable
purposes, the promoter s took every sort of care
that any charity there was should begin and
end with them and their friends. The conductors
■fc m see:
wE come ouf
Cjvtf,"
A ]V/\V/y- qArfo^
THE “SUNBEAM’S” SKIPPER.
of the Philharmonic Society and the Melbourne
and Metropolitan Liedertafels received £23 each
for the services, their secretaries £2O, Miss Amy
Sherwin and Madame Boema £5O, Mr. Armes
Beaumont £25, Mr. Gee (from Newcastle, N.S.W.)
£3O, and the professional members of the orche tra
about £lO a piece. The programmes alone cost
£125, lO.OOOJoeing printed at a cost of 3d. each !
£l5 15s. was paid for a single advertisement in
Melbourne Punch, and all the other expenses
were on the same reckless scale. Talk about the
wildness of the Kensington gang !
#* * *
The friends of the late William Hoskins,
the veteran actor (headed, be it noted, by two
Anglican clergymen, the Revs. C. S. Perry and J.
F. Stretch), have bought a house at Richmond
(Melb.) for his widow.
AT* AT- AT- AT*
'7V' *7v* *7v* "TV*
They were at the burlesque. “Why,
that’s a new girl on the O.P side,” said De Jones,
“ I’ve never seen her before,” said Montraorenci
Smith, ‘' and what a little beauty she is !” “ I’ll
barsk you two gents not to make personal hallu-
sions to that there lady,” interrupted a man in
the pit. “ Why, what business is it of yours ?
“ What has she got to do with you 1” “ She’s my
mother.”
4i. J/. JL
W *7f* 'A' 'A'
J. C. Williamson says that he and Maggie
have played “ Struck Oil ” nearly 2000 times in
various parts of the world, and in climates rang-
ing from 25 degrees below zero to 118 degrees in
the shade, and that no one in the cast ever failed
to show up. He concludes that “ Struck Oil” is
therefore “a healthy play.” This explanation
was elicited by a statement that Deacon Skinners
always died.
AT* AT*
'A' TV' 'A' 'A'
Mr. Hewitt, who defeated Henry George
for the mayoralty of New York, is rather humor-
ous—for a bloated capitalist, Some of the sancti-
monious Sabbatarians propounded a conundrum
to him inviting his opinion as to whether Sunday
oratorio would conduce to weaken or aid the
cause of Sunday morality in New York. To.
which he replied :
“ 4 S aJ- am no t an ex P in music I ought not to have been
f d tins question ; but I should say on general principles,
that it depended upon the character of the audience. If ihe
mu ic were bad and the audience intelligent. I should think
n • conduc e to morality on the p *rt of the audier ce.
It the music were good and the audience bad, I fancy the®
would be awfully bored by the performance, 1 ’
*# # *
Ernest Hutchinson, “ the Australian
Mozart,” has gone through his first year at the
Leipzig Conservatorium in brilliant style. He is.
now 16 years of age.
** # #
A certain travelling variety-show tried to
enliven the dullness of a N.S.W. country tou ?;
but they only succeeded in making a frost. Tie
local publican at whose house the troupe
stapped was asked the other day whether the
financial part of his business with the troupe hrd
been satisfactory. “D'jemean to ask if they
paid?’he exclaimed. “Wei), no, they didn’t;
how could they ? ” But thsy acted like real grn-
tlemen,” added , Boniface. “They said they’d
give me another turn when they were round next
time."
•TV W 'A'
A certain Sydney manager is in the habife
of jingling the sovereigns in his pockets, and
when any of his artists happen to ask him for an
advance he will drop the coins noisily down in
his pockets, and reply, “My dear boy. I haven’t
got a penny.”
** * %
Two or three colonial theatrical managers
are renowned for their Malapropisms. One of
tham spea’ss of the “ prospectus ” in the paintiag
of a scene when he means the “perspective."
Another has been known to speak of the “ cos.
tive ’’properties of a theatre when he should have
said “ acoustic and a third has been heard to
talk about “discussion of the brain,” “fertile”
attempts, and being ‘ mutilated” in £2OO
damages.
** # *
Little Christie Fuller, the Melbourne con-
tralto—a trump pupil of Miss Christian—has been
singing in London before countesses and duchesses
with great success. Nellie Stewart is working
hard at the R A.M., and has refused to sing in
London and Berlin.
** * *
That poor little bashed Greek, He Ben-
saude, has recovered £390 from Lo-d Lonsdale
for libel. Lonsdale is about “ broke ” now, and
has retired from the show business ; consequently
he and Violet Cameron are not the friends they
used io he.
*# # #
Messrs. Alexander and Brown are doing
New Zealand with “Ali,” a mechanical statue,
wh ! ch evidently knows a heap. Among other
things “Ali” can read the Koran and offer up
prayer, can shoot, do the sword exercise, lift
heavy weights, play cards, tell fortune*, perform
jogging tricks, play tte tambourine, take snuff,
acd. in short, can do almost everything except
call another statue a liar and ask it to come out>
side. This show will visit N.S.W. shortly.
The Melbourne Age has the following
startling item of news “On Thursday morning
the body of a newly-born infant was found in a
fire in a back yard of a boarding house known as
’S Dining Rooms."
The cabled defeat of the Grladstonian
candidate for Ncrlh Paddington and the retention
of the seat for the Conservatives, by a reduced
majority, is another victory for the cause of true
Liberalism as advocated by the G.OM. Cohen
the late Conservative member, won the seat at
last general election by 2300 votes to 1389 polled
by the Home Ruler, 'that majority of 911 is now
reduced to 118, which, in such a stronghold of
Toryism, is signiflo .ut of the direction in which
the political wind is blowing at present in Eng.
land.
Townsend M‘Dermott, Sir B, O’Loghleu,
Dr. Madden, Hood, and Hodges have all refused
“silk” for “ private reasons.” Of course there
are a thousand thir gs bringing in the guas. to
those learned gentlemen, which the etiquette of
the bar would debar them from doing if they were
Q C.’s. For example, they couldn’t appear any-
where without a junior (which would be extra
expense to the client), couldn’t “ draw pleadings,”
couldn’t appear in judges’ chambers at all. and so
forth. Tne mere offer, however, is an honour to
Hodges, who rose with a bound after he was
admitted. Henry Edward -Agincourt is the junior
of all the others. He used to be tutor in the
family of ex-Chief Justice Stawell, then he went
for the church, and ultimately gravitated to the
bar, of which he is now deservedly a shining
light.
The S. M. Herald couldn’t very well say
that the demonstration in favour of Home Rule
for Ireland, held in Sydney last week, was any-
thing short of a marked success ; so that disen-
genuous print went in for discounting the import-
ance of public meetings in general.
“ Whether meetings of tbia kind can affect the policy of
the Empire is very doubtful," a-gues this paper, “ because
they caunot be taken as expressions of public opinion in the
colony ; those who are favourable to the movement attend,
those who are unfavourable to it stay away. So far as we
can remember no meeting in this colony in favour of Home
Rule has ever been disturbed; the sympathisers have been
allowed the freest expression of their feelings, but it would
be a great mistake to infer from this that became those who
d ffer from them do not patronise riot, they are conscious of
being in a minority.”
The gentlemen who boss the Herald take a
variety of views touching the importance of
public meetings, according to the objects sought
to be furthered. A meeting of loyalists is to these
gentry always of the vastest significance, as is
also any little hole-and-corner gathering of per-
sons “In authority over us.” But when a public
hall is filled to overflowing with the advocates cf
a Liberal policy the ex-reverend leader-writers
begin to preach about the “ absent majority,” as
though it were possible to tell what the opinions are
of persons scattered over the country, and who
make no move towards enlightening us on the
subject. Jennings was not wrong the other day
when he declared that Australians were in favour
of Home Rule for Ireland ; but he was wrong,
and must have known he was, in adding as a
reason for the feeling that it is due to a belief
that Home Rule would strengthen the Empire.
Australians don’t care particularly about strength-
ening the causeof Imperialism; but they are deeply
concerned in endeavouring to see that a nation suf
fering under the wretched misgovernment of aliens
shall be allowed the same privileges of controlling
its affairs as they themselves enjoy. If Australia
was polled from end to end on the Irish question
there would doubtless be found a majo l ity of
three to one for Home Rule.


Pepper
And
Salt
“ Lord Carington has received a cable-
gram expressing the pleasure of her Majesty at
the loyalty to the Throne and Constitution ex-
pressed at the monster meeting held in the Sydney
Exhibition Building on the 16 th June, and con-
gratulating the Premier on the success of the
splendid demonstration.”—Melbourne Paper.
An esteemed correspondent out West, who
is connected with the drapery, writes to ask us if
we can induce the white chokerist brotherhood to
offer up petitions for dry weather. He points out
that they prayed down the rain, or at all events,
that they claim to have done so, and therefore
they are the proper individuals to pray it up
again. He has not had dry feet for a fortnight,
and his boss has given him notice that, unless
that squashy sound in his boots ceases, he will
have to give up living in a damp suburb and camp
in the fowl-house behind the premises. We
sympathise with this drapery man in his affliction,
but we don’t really see what we can do in the
matter. The parsons, so far as we can gather,
don’t run the weather table, and when the storm
came down many a lanky howler was taken
unawares and was wildly surprised at the sudden-
ness of the answer to his petitions. More than
one of the fraternity leaped from his bed on that
dark June morning, thinking, as he heard the
swish of rain on the window panes, that seven
demons had entered into the cat and that the cat
had crawled into the beer-barrel; and quite a
number of shepherds put their heads out of the
window and got a whole pint of answer to suppli-
cation slopped down their consecrated spines be-
fore they could believe it was true, and then some
of them swore at their ill-luck in getting the
response before they had time to get their clothes
on and their umbrellas up. A pair of watertight
boots and a weatherbound mother-in-law are about
the onlv reliable forms of player for fine weather
with which we are acquainted.
* * *
We read that one Ambrose Re that ge has
devoted the best years of his life to the working
out of a new burial system. Ambrose has the
same yearning for post-mortem honours as an
undertaker or a C.M G., but the ambition soars
above the average. In a will, 10 pages long, this
egotist directs that his remains are to be burnt,
the ashes bottled and put aboard a German
steamer. Out in mid-ocean someone (the
man thinks there will be a rush for the job) is to
climb up a mast and cast these nasty ashes to the
“ four winds of Heaven.” A fellow who can sit
down in cold blood and deliberately heap such
accumulated insults on his own corpse deserves
to be let in by his executors. They ought to give
Ambrose to the cat—
“ The proceedings generally passed off
with complete success, and there was no hitch of
any kind.” Such is honest Reuter’s summing up
of the precious Imperial Institute ceremony
“ The arrangements, however, were very badly
ordered, and formed the subject of many com-
plaints. The Agents-General and other prominent
colonists, who had been invited to witness the
ceremony, were placed in very unfavourable posi-
tions. The Queen, too, Was not punctual in ar-
riving, and the smooth running of the proceedings
was disturbed by several hitches.” That is what
the “ own correspondent” of the Age has to say
about the show. O! how happy could we be
with either were t’other dear liar away—
Wine and women, cards, usurers, ana
eels all are slippery—particularly eels, and the
man who pins his fortunes to anyone of them
generally spends his closing years in carrying
A HORSEY NOTION
FIRST SYDNEY CITIZEN (contemplating “ Black-Maria,” the gaol van): “THEM THERE
GOV’MENT HOSSES IS THE BEST I EVER SEEN.”
SECOND DITTO: “POOH! YOU TELL THAT TO JOHN TAIT OR WHITE!”
FIRST S. C.: “S’ELP MS! THEM HOSSES ’ULL TAKE YER IN ARE AN HOUR SO
FAR THAT IT’LL TAKE YER SEVEN YEARS TO GET BACK AGAIN.”
bricks up a ladder with broken boots and a bashed
hat. Down in Victoria three children of Nature
recently bought the right to all the eels in a huge
swamp which was in process of drainage, and
paid cash for them. Then they erected eel-traps
in the cuttings, and sent one of their party to
reside in a swell hotel in Melbourne that he might
be on hand to dispose of consignments, and having
made these arrangements they figured up their
profits with the calm confidence which marks a
man when he has invested one-half his fortune in
backing a horse with four broken legs and a cough
that shakes his stable, and put up the rest in a
company for extracting oily gammon out of old
boots. But weeks rolled on, and the drainage
was completed without even a baby eel coming
into the traps. The snaky varmints remained
quietly in the mud and wet grass, and the depair-
ing syndicate concluded they would have to wade
for them and take them by hand. The chief
capitalist himself went in twice in a tail-coat,
bell-topper, and cuffs, and on the second trip he
captured one frog, after which he took rheumatic
fever and raved in bed for five weeks. Next a
man, who had been engaged at great expense,
hunted through the mud for nearly a month—re-
sults, one eel. He took to lemonade after this.
Another member of the firm was lost in the
swamp, but a search party fished for him with a
pound of old cheese and a bottle of whisky tied on
a line, and at length got a bite and hauled him
out. Operations are at present suspended, the
company having stopped as short as if it had been
hit by a brick.
HOOROO!
Now all ye gallant constables,
Ye pugs, and chuckers-out,
Ye sailor lads and undergrads,
Throw up your hats and shout ;
Sojwell you packed that meeting
i hat the Queen (whom Heaven bless !)
Sends your masters gracious greeting
And is pleased at your success.
Ye breathed a little password
Ere entering at the doors;
Like pirates bold in days of old,
Or grim conspira-tors,
Crept into caves at night-fall,
So entered ye, we guess,
Till the edifice was quite full—
’Twas a wonderful success !
Ye carried resolutions
With a fervour cut and dried,
For all the “ Noes” who wouldjopposa
Were kept on the outside ;
There was no expressed derision,
Not to speak of, w r e confess :
As the “foorce” had made provision
For a wonderful success.
Yes, shout ye gallant constables,
Ye chuckers-out, and pugs.,
Ye “ loyal” fools, poor simple tools
Of bigger social bugs.
The trick ye played was shady,
Mean, dirty, nothing less—
But your 'rracious Sovereign Lady
Is so j pleased at your success.
Ambrose Retharge, does it matter a curse
If you’re fixed in a coffin, for better or worse,
Or burnt into cinders and scattered at sea!
Tooral lilooral, lilooral lilee.
O, bother your ashes and drat your remains !
Why should you take such a darned lot of pains
To worry the world with the private affairs
Of a commonplace corpse, for which nobody cares ?
A dead ’un’s a dead 'un the universe o’er,
Be it dropped in the briny or buried on shore ;
Of dust we were made and to dust we must come
Rumty titumty titumtyticum.
For ourselves we would like to be laid at the root
Of a gooseberry b ush, for the good of the froot,
Then the children would visit our grave every
day—
Whack foldeloldy deloldylilay.
But, Ambrose Retharge, it don’t matter a curse
If one’s planted, cremated, or borne in a hearse
To a family vault, and consumed by a ghoul—
You can’t make a will to dispose of your soul.
One account’s true and the other s all lies.
How is the reader to know which is which 2
What Reuter affirms “ our own special ” denies—
Now, did the proceedings pass off without
hitch 2
Is it a fact that a muddle was made
In the seating of Samuel, and Wisdom, and
sich2
Was the arrival of Yickey delayed,
Or did those proceedings pass off without
hitch 2
’Tis rough when the papers themselves disagree.
And yarns so conflicting don’t scruple to pitch—
But, all things considered, we think you’ll agree
That in back-scratching functions thre should
be an itch.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Aaron Waxman, it is now said, only left
£120,267.
At the Brassey banquet, Purves, Q.C.,
spoke of Members of Parliament as “ the crawlers
of society.”
John Woods, M.L.A. (Vic.), says that
Deakin’s voice trembles now whenever he names
the Prince of Wales.
A gentleman who lost three teeth in a
recent railway collision is suing the Government
for £550. They cost £5 before.
A great grandfather named Bad man died
at Unley, S.A., last week, leaving a progeny of
125 persons to mourn their loss.
That lively pressman, Mr. J. L. Parsons,
has become editor and proprietor of the Central
Australian (Bourke, N.S.W.).
Ad, from the Melbourne Age : “ Hotel-
keeper, Carlton (lady), took charge of watch for
elderly gentleman, communicate, &c.”
There is now in Australia a man who
charges a thousand guineas for reporting on a
gold-mine—and gets it almost every time.
The latest number of Truth states that
seven or eight weeks ago the Queen drove through
the mist and cold to lay a wreath on T h Brown’s
grave.
\Vhat's in a name? A Melbourne publi-
can, called Bones, was fined the other day for
permitting gambling on his licensed premises.
The N.S.W. Government have purchased
the late Sir James Martin’s library for the
Supreme Comt. The price given was 2000
guineas.
Jim Moloney, the Melbourne attorney,
has been asked by the Melbourne Athenaeum to
lecture on “Books.” Why not request Joe
Thompson, Esq. ?
A Balaclava hero named John Emery has
just died in Invercargill, N.Z. John said he was
one of the Six Hundred. He will find his claim
jumped up above.
Sir Henry Tichbome, Bart., the youth
whom the Wagga batcher was anxious to super-
sede, has come of age, and can now dispose of his
£24,000 a-year income.
Of nine Consuls invited to take part in the
jubilation at Christchurch, N.Z , five refused.
They had never been recognised until people were ■
wanted to celebrate the Jubilee.
Murderer Maxwell is to be hanged in
August. He was convicted nearly two years ago,
but then in America the law prefers being sure
before, instead of sorry afterwards.
The courtly Sir Redmond Barry, of Vic-
toria, never used the word “ Chinaman”— he
said there was no such word known to the Eng-
lish language. He always called a Mongol a
“ Chinese.”
Mr, Pattison, M. L. A., of Rockhampton, Q.,
says that the dividends from Mount Morgan field
will be such as were never paid by any mine on
earth when the new plant is erected.
Chief Justice Higinbotham, of Victoria,
says he doesn’t believe that Mr. Gladstone mur
dered General Gordon at Khartoum, and he isn’t
sure that Gordon ever got to Khartoum.
Francis Ormond, the Victorian millionaire,
has dropped the Royal name of Leopold from the
title to his Working Men’s College at Melbourne.
The Radicals of Collingwood wouldn’t have it.
The Bulletin much regrets to hear that
the talented Mr. Thomas Bracken (author of
“Lays of the Land of, the Maori and Moa”) has
found it necessary to declare himself bankrupt.
Peter Lalor, the Speaker of the Victorian
Assembly, and the hero of the Battle of Eureka in
1851, is added to the list of independent Austra-
lians who have refused the bauble of knighthood.
The late Marcus Clarke used to tell how
his 18 months’ son laboured for a week to get up
two flights of stairs with the kitten in his arms,
and when he had succeeded, threw the infant cat
out of the window.
J. L, Tuxford, of the Sportsman Hotel,
Adelaide, who died recently, arrived in South
Australia, by the ship Bardaster, in 1838, and was
the first citizen in Adelaide to pay Corporation
rates. Ho was born in Lincolnshire, England, in
1812.
An Age leader states that “ Keats, Byron,
and Shelley had done their work and were dead
and buried before they had either reached or com-
pleted their third decade.” Bosh ! Byron never
decayed until he was 36. Another mistake in the
Age.
The President of the Australian Natives’
Association (Victoria) is a Mr. Jefferson Connelly.
This name has a stubborn Republican ring about
it which must be anything but reassuring to the
Victorian branch of the Imperial Federation
League.
One of the most lucky of the Victorian
mining speculators of to-day is a handsome lady
whose matrimonial troubles caused much talk in
Melbourne (and a little in London) some few
years ago. Almost everything she touches “turns
to gold.”
Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, excused his
absence from the Imperial Federation dinner by
writing that “he never goes out on the day before
Sunday.” Field Flowers misses a lot by this rule.
He never sees a murderous football match or a
gory melodrama.
We must remonstrate with the Adelaide
Evening Journal. Although the late N.S.W.
Master in Equity, Mr. Arthur Todd Holroyd,
was at times a somewhat acid old gentleman, that
was no reason why his name should be spitefully
distorted into “ Mr. Arthur Tood, of Holyrood.”
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy has four children
by his third marriage. Thus Sir Charles is the
father of three distinct families, all surviving.
Mr. J. G. Duffy, of the Victorian Assembly, is
the eldest of all. “Jack” Duffy married Mias
Callan, a niece of the second Mrs. (and first Lady)
Duffy.
The S.M. Herald admits that Tennyson’s
Jubilee Ode was “ a dismal failure.” The Herald
however, belauds Halloran’s Jubilee rubbish dedi-
cated to Lady Carington. Ergo , as a Jubilee poet
Halloran is superior to Tennyson. We take it
that Carington will have a K put before Halloran’s
C.M.G.
One reason of Sir William Robinson’s un-
popularity in South Australia is that he rides
about in the horse-trams like any ordinary person.
The Adelaidians think that vice-royalty ought
not to travel about in anything under a six-horsed
gold chariot, and they find they cannot respeoc a
Governor who cheerfully parts his little twopence
to a tram guard.
A bankrupt named Main told Judge
Worthington at Melbourne last week that he
couldn’t remember in what year his marriage took
place. There are some things it is just as well to
forget, and there are large numbers of much-
married persons to be seen at the city cafes who
evidently quite fail to remember that they ever
faced the wedding-march.
From Alfred’s agony column of Friday
last: —
“IF Robert Henry t-doea not turn up within
21 days, I will be married again. Sarah .
There’s a vim, a determination, about these few
short, sharp sixpenny words which lead us to
strongly suspect that Robert Henry will “ turn
up ” within the limit allowed.
That clever journalist George Arthur
Walstab went one day to Fraser, the phrenologist,
in Bourke-street, to have his bumps read, for a
lark. “ Might I ask, sir,” said the Professor
deferentially, “ what your profession or occupation
is 3” “Aw,” replied George, “I have been a
soldiah and I am an authaw.” “Have never
heard of you,” moodily rejoined the phrenologist.
The Sydney Lanceahs made one firm
friend in Melbourne, and he was a publican.
‘ Gimme Lancers,” he said, “ and you can have
the cricketers if you like. Lancers drink twice
as much and don’t make such a Sheol of a row,
and if they break anything they pay for it.’
From which it will be seen that the bank-clerk
mounted on the butcher’s steed has one good
quality, anyhow.
According to the London correspondent
of the E. News, Primate Barry, of Sydney, will
probably soon return to England ; for he has a
very poor opinion of the colonies, where he con-
siders himself thrown away. He is in favour
with Lord Salisbury, and hopes soon to get a good
English billet. It will at once occur that anybody
who is “ in favour with Lord Salisbury” is not
j wanted in a Democratic country.
The Charters Towers (Q.) brokers threaten
Thadeus O’Kane with a libel action for stating in
the Northern Miner that “ all the mining
brokers have gone into racing and turned book-
makers.” One broker wrote next day, and said
he did not even bet on any race. To which the
undaunted Thadeus adroitly replies :—“ If there
are any more of the brokers who have not gone
into racing we shall be glad to publish their
names.”
Louis Kitz, who died in Scotland of sun-
stroke (!) the other day, had been a Victorian
colonist since 1832. He was connected with the
early history of Geelong, and was the first man
in Victoria to startavineyardanda woollen factory.
He also claimed to be the first Victorian volunteer.
He sold some of the best Victorian wine to be
obtained in Melbourne at his Bourke-street shop,
and was a genial old fellow always ready to swap
experiences and manufacture history.
C. E. Jones, M.P. for Ballarat, says he
“ would not mind being made a marquis, or an
earl, or such like, if he had a patent pill, or a new


brand of hair-wash to push, and wanted to get the
bulge on some other man in the same line.” Hear,
hear, C.E. ; but there are other advantages in
being a fragment of old nobility: for instance,
when a man has got a court-case or a courtship to
push, and wants to get the bulge on another fellow,
a title is worth more than the best lawyer or pa’s
consent.
Glenelg (S.A.) has a Town Hall, and the
foundation stone until lately bore an inscription
setting forth that;,it was laid by Sir Henry Ayers
a good many years ago. Lately the mortgagee
threatened to foreclose on the hollow slab of
vanity, and Sir Henry declined to give a donation
towards averting the catastrophe. His name has
since been chiselled out, and in place of it appears
“W. F. Stock, Mayor, 1887.” From this we
gather that a live dog—etcetera. We speak Pick-
wickianly.
Lord Augustus Loftus, ex-Governor of
N.S.W., is now the absent defendant in an action
for £1684, the amount of three promissory notes
which H.E. is unable to pay, and his creditor ap-
plies for authority to sell 4150 shares standing in
his name to "square the debt. If New South
Wales wishes to do the old lord a good turn it
might raise enough testimonial to keep his little
property from being sold up. This would do him
more good than 15,000 busts and statues in Parkes
Centennial dead-house.
Lord Brassey looks like a good-natured
farmer. He would pass for a brother of Dr.
Crooke, the Melbourne surgeon. By-the-way,
i this is how the shave and courteous Purves, Q.C.,
of Melbourne, spoke at his Imperial Federation
dinner of the guest of the evening : “ Lord Brassey
was not a man who would go a yard unless he had
some personal object to serve. They might de-
pend that Lord Brassey did not come to Australia
to give them anything. His Lordship had come
here for his own advantage.”
Aren’t we getting just a little too much
■Brassey? We have already had Brassey on Aus-
tralian women and Australian architecture, Brassey
■on education, De Breast on naval defences, and
Brass on the Volunteer movement, which latter is
rather like bacon on pork, seeing that Brassey is
a Volunteer himself and a shining light in that
particular line. What we want now is De Bressi
on catsmeat, and Brassey on the boiler plated
Kelly Gang that came in with the Conqueror, and
then the course Will be about finished.
The Rev. Charles Clark is about to re-
visit Australia on a lecturing tour under the
auspices of his old friend, Mr. R. S. Smythe. Mr.
Clark’s once slim and elegant figure has grown
rotund ; his wavy brown locks are plashed with
gray; and diamonds no longer glisten on his
snowy shirt-front or his lily-white fingers. But
the silvery accents of his voice are melodious as
ever, the charm of his style has lost none of its
old fascination, and, in the expressive language of
the Much-Travelled, “ There’s lots of money in
him yet.’
A Melbourne barrister, fond of a nobbier
and often without the price of one, went the other
day to Pennefather, the Shakesperian scholarly
associate of Mr. Justice A’Beckett, at Melbourne,
bade him good-day, asked him how the chicks
were, and wound up thusly : —“ Pennefather —fine
Irish name—gave two eminent judges to the Irish
bench —good old Protestant name (1 like to give
those Papists a turn when I can). Lend me a
shilling.” He got the bob, and went round to
Menzies’Hotel. The point of the story is that
Pennefather is a devout R.C.
Poor Henry Morin-Humphreys, author of
“Boot and Saddle,” and well known as a
journalist and actor, who died some time ago in
Melbourne, unknown to and away from his
numerous friends, has been buried iu the Mel-
bourne General Cemetery, in the family grave of
Ms friend Bob Whitworth, the story-writer, poet,
and journalist. Poor Humphreys (a gentleman
all over) was never the same mm since he lost
Ms wife a few years ago. He married her at the
Cape of Good Hope, when he held a captaincy in
ithe Mounted Rifles there. He had no children.
Mrs. Jessie Stringer, of Surry Hills,
Sydney, is in a woefully tight place. For some
six years past this lady acted as housekeeper to
the ancient Gregory Board, who is worth £400,000,
and whose family could only get a chance to see
him by climbing over the gate. Naturally ihey
did not like this—nobody likes to be locked out
by a father worth £400,000, and apparently they
did not like Mrs. Stringer, either. Two Sundays
ago, however, the ill-feeling got worse than ever,
for when Alfred Board straddled over the gate he
seems to have been shot at three times with a re ■
volver. Mrs. Stringer (suggestive name) is alleged
to have been behind the revolver when it went
off, and it is further alleged that shortly before
the thing exploded she put her fist in Board’s face
and said she would do for him. These two items
of circumstantial evidence have brought Mrs.
Stringer—widow, aged 42—into a scrape.
Dear Bulletin, —In J ustice to a dead man
I crave a line or two. In an editorial note ad-
dressed to Parson Jefferis, you infer that he is
your clergyman, and therefore, I, claiming to be
an apostle of right and truth, take him to task for
the following expression in his (to me) ill-judged
lecture on “Fibs and Falsehoods.” I cut this
from Tribune, 24th June :
“It had been asked ‘ What is truth?’ Pilate asked the
question and got no answer, probably because he had sunk
so low as not to be able to understand it.”
In the gospels I find no indications of lowness
in the character of General Pontius Pilate. He
was at least a brave, distinguished Roman officer,
a man in whom Caesar placed confidence. His
question is still unanswered, his problem still
unsolved. Dr. Beattie wrote a book on
“ Truth," and its perusal leaves one in a
hopeless quagmire of nescience. But Pilate
had no choice; ihe custom which is dis-
tinctly stated to have become law was to release
the chosen felon and—Barabbas, C.M.G. was let
loose. I know a case of more recent date, where
an alien Governor had the power to save a man or
two—a man or two about whom there is still
much doubt from a Judas-death. If the
reverend (I object to that word) gentleman
(I object still more to that one; I’ve heaid of a
Man of God, but not of a gentleman of
on, I’ll begin a new sentence. If Jefferis OLricus
wishes a good example of an acted “ Fib and
Falsehood ” let him eliminate it from what I am
about to write. A family can live well in Sydney
on ten shillings a week each for food and five
shillings for clotMng if they take a house and
keep no servants. I have done it. Now, anyone
who teaches that example is better than precept,
that the Son of Man had not where to lay His
head, that He was meek and lowly, that He
exhorted His followers to copy Him, &c,, &c., ad
infin.— anyone who teaches all that and then does
not follow it must know what a —well, fib he is.
I do not mean to be personal. “ Qui se sent
morveux qu’il se mouche /’’—Yours, as usual,
Hiram Abiff,
POLITICAL
POINTS
M’Elhone to the frontage.
Water-reserves are not in Garrett’s line.
The Tory Try-on at Spalding was no use.
The S. M. Herald refers to the Jubilee
as *■ this now wearying subject.”
When in Rome you must do as the Romans
do, but in New York do as Father M’Glynn does.
At Llauwemg (Wales) people take their
pleasure sadly. They subscribed for a public
hearse in honour of the Jubilee.
WANING ENTHUSIASM.
BUSH PERSON (who has enthusiastically consented to pose to more or less distinguished
artist): “LOOK A HERB, MATE, HOW MUCH LONGER ARE YOU GOING TO
KEEP ME SFANOIN’ ON THIS BLOOMIN’ HANT’S NEST? THEY’RE ALL A
CRAWLIN’ UP ME LEGS, AND I’M JUST ABOUT FULL UP, I AM.”
In India last year 11,823 persons were
destroyed by wild beasts. Tne peasantry are not
allowed arms by their benevolent rulers.
The Sydney Irish seem inclined to boycott
the Pope. This season’s Peter’s Pence from
the city of the Beautiful Harbour won’t weigh
much.
Secretary Pulsford, of the Freetrade Asso-
ciation, declared lately that N.S.W. had but two
distilleries. Wrong again. He overlooked the
private stills.
In Sydney, now, when you tay that a man
has joined the Great Majority you don’t mean that
he has died. You mean that he has became a
Protectionist.
We are afraid that Queen Yictoria cannot
count on the support of the Bungaree (Vic)
“savages.” They burnt her in alleged effigy on
Jubilee night.
The Sydney Express publishes under the
brutal heading of “ Parliamentary Hacks,” the
biography of Mr. Jonathan Charles Billing Pocker-
age Seaver, M.L.A.
In the Yictorian Assembly.—Gann son (to
M’Lellan, the Dove of Ararat): “ You’re friendly
to the Ministry.” M’Lellan : “I am friendly to
nobody.” (Sensation).
Unionist public meetings in England are
scenes of great disunion and uproar. When Lord
Carington returns he will be able to show them
the password-and-petticoat trick.
In the N.S.W. Parliament, Tiger-slayer
Inglis accused M’Elhone of being a gentleman.
“ Gentleman John ” showed how well merited was
the accusation by retorting “ You’re a liar!”
I irson Buchanan, of Melbourne, says that
the Irish question can only be settled by giving
the people the Bible. Why, Certn’ly. For does
not the Bible say that the earth is the lord’s ?
Jack Woods, of the Victorian Assembly,
truthfully says that the Colonial Conference was
composed of Freetraders and Jingoes, and its
proceedings were a mere conspiracy against Pro-
tection.
Judge Williams has decided at Dunedin
that the publication of “fair and honest com-
ments ” on bankrupts’ statements are privileged.
This does not refer to bankrupts after,they have
entered Parliament.
Yictoria is not going to send a representa
tive to the International Railway Conference a
Milan, because “an officer of the Railway Depart
ment cannot be spared.” We would.have thought
John Anderson could be spared.
The Irish Press urges the tenants not to
trouble about the Coercion Act when it is passed.
This will force the Government to imprison all the
tenants who band together against rack-rents.
Belter to be in gaol than evicted.
The Public Service in Yictoria groans
under the rule of Templeton, Irving, and Couch-
man, which is regarded as a sort of T.1.C.-
doulereux. The officers also say that the proper
place for a Board is the floor, and they would like
to put it there and walk on it.
Leaving out the other descriptions of
money altogether, the amount of sovereigns anl
bullion in the Sydney banks and Sydney Mint now
totals nearly £5,000,000. Shade of Blucher!
“ What a splendid city for sacking!” And how
ea-ily the job could be performed.
Jack Wood?, member for Stawell in the
Victorian Assembly, says that Deakin spent all
his time in London with his legs under Lord Tom
Noddy’s mahogany instead of going, say, to Liver-
pool and seeing the human skeletons who work 16
hours a day at chain-making for 2s. a week.
Mr. M‘Farlane, Member for the Clarence
(N.S. W.) fired off rather a neat little Parliamentary
pun d arin g the “ Centennial ’' debate by remarking :
“ I look upon parks as a public necessity." If it
comes to that, however, some people look upoi.
the floisher of the law in precisely the same light.
The Melbourne Argus wants the British
flag to be out in the cold in Jubilee year. It urges
that the Antarctic Expedition, upon which Jack
Duffy, M.L.A., has so much set his heart, ought to
“plant the British flag on the eternal ice” in
honour of Her Gracious’s Jubilee before the year
is out.
“ The transparently honest conduct of my
hon. colleague ” This is a remark which Parkes
applied to Garrett the other night. “ That vote is
a red-hot brand of shame ” was the remark which
he made a few years ago, when, by a majority of
only two the Assembly refused to declare with
him that Garrett’s conduct was not transparently
honest.
The N.S. W. Premier is of opinion that a
Civil servant in receipt of £2 weekly shouldn’t
waste his substance in riotous living, nor drink
champagne, nor eat oysters every evening. At
the same time he was not prepared to say that a
Civil servant should be debarred entirely from the
privileges of a gentleman, and did not consider he
should be prevented from going insolvent occa-
sionally.
The Payment of Members Bill has been
agreed to by the N.S.W. Assembly, and as we
write is being dealt with by the Upper House.
Among the members of the Assembly who voted
against the third reading of the Bill were Gibbes,
Hawthorne, Hurley, and Frank Smith, who repre-
sent constituencies in which the working classes
are largely represented. This fact should be borne
in mind at the next election. Perhaps, however,
they so voted because of then- modesty. Not one
of them is himself worth paying—except perhaps
Hurley.
Salomons said, in the N.S.W. Upper
House, the other day, that the profession of a
barrister was the most honorable in the world
because “ it touched mankind wherever it was
worth coming in contact with.” A high-flown
sentiment, which —unintentionally, no doubt
conveys a genuine truth. The breeches-pocket is
the part of mankind which the typical barrister
thinks is most worthy of being “ touched.”
Dr. Field Flowers Goe, Anglican Bishop
of Melbourne, has defeated Mr. James Lambie,
M.A., journalist, in the election for the Univer-
sity Council, the state of the poll being: Goe,
156; Lambie, 94. Dr. Goe, of course, had the
entire clerical and Conservative vote on his side.
Mr. Lambie, who is a young and comparatively
Unknown man, had committed an unpardonable
sin in the eyes of the majority by forsaking the
Presbyterian pulpit for the press.
None of the Melbourne morning papers
breathed a sj liable concerning the " Repubfict n
Union” meeting held in Sydney. They.can sp o re
columns for Hrassey's drivellings, which not ci e
reader out of twenty cares twopence about, whi.e
on certain matters of large public interest
about the signs if the lima —they
remain as silent as the grave. It is about time
that toe term “newspaper,” as applied to the
average morning print, were changed to " viexa
paper.”
Speaking on the N.S.W. National Dead"
house debate, the patriotic Parkes fairly lifted his
myrmidons a foot high as he indignantly thun-
dered out: “ VVhat could be more precious to us.
if we had it now, than the flag which was H. st
planted on the soil of this country ? If we had it
now, would you sell it for a million sterling 1 Tl e
man would be a traitor and a coward who would
part with it at any price.” Pooh! a fig for su.h
sentiment. Why, we’ve seen a big bjo« full < £
the begged autographs of illustrious friends sold
for an old song.
Here is the forged Parnell letter inverted.
See how it reads as from the editor of the
Times :
„ _ „ T . “ 15th July, 1887.
Leak bin, —I am not surprised at your 1. ienu a auger,
but he and you should know that to denounce Parnell ar d
the Home Rule party was the only course open to us. To eo
that promptly and thoroughly is plainly our best policy f r
we have to please our bigoted, stupid Tory readers. But yt u
can tell him that, though I regret we cannot prove the letter
to be genuine, I cannot refuse to assert that as we disgusted
all decent people by publishing a forgery, we only got our
deserts. You are not at liberty toshow this, as we would in t
like it known except to yourself. You can write to Printing
House Square.
“ Yours very truly,
" Buckle.”
The editor of the Coke Ensign thus
winds up his leader on the closing of the N.Z.
Parliament :
“ Lit the day perish in which it was born, and the uigl t
in wnich it was said : • The H"use has met.’ Lefcdarktuss
and the shadow of death stain it. Let no joyful voice come
therein. Let it not be joined unto the days of the year let
it not come into the number of the months ; Vocause it shut
not up t.be doors of the House, uor hid contempt, from cur
eyes. For then should it have been where the wicked cease
f om troubling, and we where the weary are at rest."
The man who can write this kind of thing— how
he would be welcomed to the S.M. Herald
office!
Ex-Chief Justice Salomons declares that
the assumption that “common law is common
sense ” is a mere fiction, as in 99 cases out of 100 a
man would clearly define the law if he were to say
that it was the antithesis of jeason and equity.
Being confirmed in this belief. Salomons says lhat
h« intends to prepare a bill which will remove the
cobwebs of antiquity that enshroud the procedure
of the courts, and then he hopes that “common
law is common sense ” will be a truism. A heavy
order to undertake, but Salomons has industry and
intelligence enough to accomplish it. If he sue
ceeds there will be cause for congratulation on his
having relinquished a position in which he would
have been fairly meshed in tae cobwebs.
The reception of the Queen by the
Londoners on her Jubilee march to Westminster
was, according to private correspondence and the
independent papers, a sorry, broken-down, dismal
affair, although the dailies described the scene ns
“ enthusiastic” and the cheeiing as “tremendous.’
One most significant sign, perhaps, was that when
the Queen passed few hats were lifted and few
cheers raised. Instead of the applause “rolli g
along in unbroken waves,” it was w. ak and inter-
mittent, The real facts are better got at through
the medium of papers orditarily devoid of political
colour than by perusal of the dailies. The non
political press is singularly unanimous as to the
utter failure of the affair as a pro Monarchical
demonstration.
Parkes was resolved, if possible, to get
Cook’s old dry-ro'ted “Endeavour” out for the
Centenary. Sir’Enry has been sold so often, how-
ever, over articles of vtrtv, that the chances ate
he will be had this time also, and N. S. W. will fit d
itself saddled with some aged junk which has
never before quitted the Thames. Then, vep. c ■
sume, the Premier will pass a new Treason
Felony Act, making it a capilal offence tothiow
doubt on his costly tub. and when a new Govern
ment comes in, the relic will be broken up for
school firewood by the successor of Tiger
Inglis. The “Endeavour,” by (he way,
is said to have been broken up in 1868, but the
ship on which Cook served his apprenticeship, and
on which he was walloped about the head with a
capstan bar, is still running, and she would be
better than nothing.
A yarn from, the Western country. At
theßourke (N. S. W, ) pastoral show dinner, Thomas
Gumming, M.L.C. (Victoria) was responding to
the toast of “ The Judges.” He said it was his
flret visit to the Darling, and he was fairly stag-
gered at the splendid description and condition of
the shi ep bred in the district. He also referred
to the fact that a ram born and bred on the Dar-
ling had taken the championship against a ram
bred by M’Caughey at Coonong, and wound up
by remarking thnt Victorians had no idea that
such splendid country as he had seen existed in
Western N.S.W. This was too much for Jimmy
Wilson, of Dunlop, who was occupying the vice-
chair, so he exclaimed; “ Shut up, mon; shut
up, for God’s sake; we’re a’ supposed to be
ruined,” and then with a pull at the Hon. T.C.’a
coattails, be added: “If Garrett was to hear
you, mon, he’d raise our rentals ! ”
Mr. J. P. Abbott, who is regarded by
some foolish people as the future Liberal leader of
N.S.W., is fast developingParkesianpeculiarities.
As head of a department he is pronounced by the
officials who have worked under him as a most
conceited and domineering personage. The other
day in a sanctimonious strain, after the style of
the Pastor Jefferis’young man, he lauded Parkes
for stopping lectures which were adverse to the
doctrines of Christianity—to be consistent he
ought to agitate for the closing of the Jewish
Synagogue—and last week he solemnly protested
against the name of the new park being changed
from the “Queen’s” park to “the Centennial”
park, on the ground that as the word “ Queen’s”
was in the bill it would be “ bad taste ” to strike
it out. At the same time he said that “ The Cen-
tennial Park” was the more appropriate name.
This sort of thing strikes one as being incompatibl
with Literalism.
At Lake Cowral station (N.S.W.), there is
a girl who is a dab at snake-killing. She lately
clutched a tiger snake by its tail, as it was dis
appearing down a hole, but it refused to be pulled
out until the heroine suddenly put all her strength
into the job, and “his snakeship” parted amid-
ships, sending her into an unpremeditated back
somersault with the half snake clutched in her
hand. She now lies on a soft verandah-chair all
daylong.


ţ
ik /
/ i.i '*\})[
A Banquet of Dirt Pie.
Salomons (in the back-room of Sydney Town Hall): “These persons must be struck down with a ringing blow. Within a few weeks there will be placed upon the
statute-book of the colony a law which will thrust these people back into the obscurity from which they are not entitled by position, intelligence, or conduct, to
emerge.”
SALOMONS (in the N.S.W. Legislative Council): “It has taken ages to win the right of free expression of opinion, and a great wrong might be done to the institutions
of the country, and to the spirit that pervades modern legislation, were the Govornment, moved by the indignation that naturally influences any man who
reflects on the language used with regard to the Queen, without duo and calm and serious reflection, to attempt to prevent by this means the free expression of
opinion.”


//o_/
[?]arkes’ Folly: or a Peep into the Future.
ANTIQUARIAN OF NEVER SC MANY C. NTURIES HENCE (referminp to catologue): “‘No. 1.-SUPPOSED STATUE OF THE FOUNDER OF THIS ECCE NTRIC,'
WELL, WHY THEY EVER GAVE HIM THE CLAWS AND TAIL OF A LION INSTEAD OF LONG BARS AND HOOFS IS MORE THAN I CAN UNDERSTAND—
UNLESS HE HAD IT DONE AT HIS OWN EXPENSE —WHICH I THISK EXTREMELY IMPROBABLE.”


They are both nice and pretty, and 2s. buys one and 03. d.
the other. The former is a Cap and Saucer (Cup stands on
feet and is ia 3 patterns) and the latter a ss boat for
flowers (in 2 shapes) on plush mounted mirror tand. These
are at Bray Bros., 402 and 404 George-str et,*
Always something new coming forward to those live peop’e
Bray Bros. This week a choice little lot of very useful
a tides in a new kind of ware of Fawn Colour, Call and see
and get one of their Souvenirs gratis. *
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment.
Mrs, MoCathie, 86 and 90 King-street.*
begt selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sydney
and at a reasonable price, far less than London or Paris,'. I
at dual’s Boot Emporium, 408 George-street corner of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low heelst or oon»-
fort; to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody Come
and see for yourself .*
Society
Governor Musgrave, of Queensland, paid
a visit recently to Barcaldine, where a ball was
given in honour of the occasion. Sir Anthony
made a nice speech, but the Chinese residents let
off a thousand crackers outside just at that inop-
portune moment and blew the oration to shivers.
Thirteen mothers brought their children to the
ball, and eleven of the infants took fright at the
fireworks and squalled till a late hour. One pain-
fully local nob held out his hand to his Excellency
and said, “Hello, Governor then he waited for Sir
Anthony to respond “Hello, Smith,” but the
answer didn’t come.
* * *
That irrepressible Melbourne phrenologist
—whose forte is feelingj the bumps of men he
never saw and putting
his impressions into print
—has just recorded an
extraordinary circum-
stance which might have
taken place, only it didn’t.
It has struck him that if
Napoleon the First had
happened to take the
then new-born baby, Ris-
marck, in his arms, “it
would have been true
that the two great men
of the nineteenth cen-
tury, the only two who
have dominated in
Europe, in a period of
90 years, had looked into
each other’s eyes.” A
long vista of possibility
here opens to our gaze.
Why, if Lord Caringion
and Julius Caesar rede in
a hansom-cab together,
it would then be a fact
that the first conqueror
of Britain and the pre-
sent Governor of New
South Wales had rubbed
against one another’s
shoulders ! This is the
kind of writing we dote
upon. It reminds us of
a beautiful passage we
read in the London
Sporting Life many,
many years ago. Speak-
ing of Pretender (who
won the Derby in 1869),
the S.L. reporter said,
“as he cantered down
the course any man who
had never seen a
thoroughbred horse be-
fore was then able to
look upon one for the
first time.” The phreno-
logist’s “style” carries
back our memory 18
jears.
* * *
The other day Lady
Loch visited the Mel-
bourne law courts. The
superb Bartrop (Clerk of
the Peace, captain, &c ,
&c.), was at lunch at
the time, and her Lady-
ship was shown round
by the sheriff. It is
said that when the ex-
quisite Bartrop heard of
what he had missed he
tore his hair and went
home in a cab.
* *
Archdeacon Julius,
of Ballarat, is a pulpit
humorist. In a recent
sermon at Melbourne he
enunciated some wise
saws : “ Clergymen ex-
pect to get at the natures
of their parishioners by
pulling long faces, put-
ting'on side, and becom-
ing regular humbugs.
People give three parts
of their life to the Devil
and the fag-end to God.
There are many who
think they have a right
to be considered “ unco
guid” by giving up a
few things they like, put-
ting anoccasional three-
penny-bit into the plate on Sunday, grinding cut a
prayer now and again, and sending just in time for
the minister to sneak them into Heaven. If men
displayed no more earnestness (and the same in-
decision and indifference) in business matters than
they do in religious concerns they would be in the
bankruptcy court in less than a month. Men
and women, like cats, object to step over a few
puddles to c‘me to church.” If Archdeacon
Julius goes on like this he will do very nicely.
* » *
The Victorian Railway Commissioners are
settling claims arising out of the Windsor acci-
dent very quietly but very liberally. Like wise
men, they have no liking for law-costs, preferring
that all the money they pay—save doctors’ ex-
penses—shall go into the pocket of the injured
person. Mr. Speight, the chairman, who got a
severe shaking, does not desire any compensation.
Well, for £3OOO a year we would not mind a shak-
ing or two now and then ourselves.
* * *
Bridget doesn’t have her “Sunday out”
now, but refers to her “ At Home.”
* * *
In railway carriage en route from the city
of the Unpopular Governor. He : “ And how did
you enjoy Adelaide?” She: “Oh, immensely—
we had a really splendid time.” He: “Saw all
the lions, I suppose ?” She : “ Lions ! Why, are
there any in Adelaide ? I didn’t see them at the
Zoo.” This is verbatim. And yet she wore such
a lovely dress.
• * *
The mere mention of a surprise party in
the gilded saloons of the aristocracy of Gunnedah
(N.S.W.), is sufficient to cast a deep gloom over
the company. The trouble occured thus: A
young lady, newly arrived from Hingland, who
was on a visit to a lady relative, was seized with
an inspiration to initiate the yokels into the latest
sassiety fad. Accordingly she pressed the local
civil service masher into her service, and bet we ?n
them the whisper was passed amongst the elite.
Having taken care to lure their unsuspecting victim
from her home by a spurious message, the merry
party of jokers trooped into her drawing-room,
some of whom staggered under weighty hampers,
whilst others of a more frugal mind carried their
contributions towards the supper in many-coloured
handkerchiefs. All went well until the victim
returned with fury in her breast at having been
sent on a fruitless errand. Her wrath was still
greater when she found her house ablate with
light and about a dozen couples waiting for her
to open the ball. When informed of the joke by
her artless relative, the infuriated lady opened the
ball by retiring to her bedroom to weep,
after turning out the lamps and locking
the piano. The surprised party groped their
way out of the house and returned sadly home
cursing the latest fashion in parties. Another
surprise was in store for them in the morning,
A LETTER OF INTRODUCTION.
SMITH : “Hallo, Jones, going to Melbourne, eh?
Well, here’s a letter of introduction to my friend,
BROWN —a devilish good fellow.”
The letter presented: “My dear Brown, this will
introduce to you my friend Jones. That him just
as you would me. Yours, &c., SMITH.”
<cf
/Is jt IR AN Cf (“
•
BROWN: Treat you just as I would Smith. Well, then, here goes.” [Only it was not exactly the sort of
treatment Jones expected. Smith and Brown must have quarrelled by telegraph.]
when a solemn individual in a spring cart came
round and delivered the packages which they had
left behind in their hurried flight. The distribu-
tion was carried out in a strictly impartial manner,
and the most surprised party of all was the man
who, having humped round a hamper of cold
fowls and etceteras on the previous night, had a
cold sheep’s head returned to him in the morning.
* * *
That dreary Conservative organ, London
Life, has started to discourse on ‘' The Secret of
Beauty,” and its solemn pages are now filled with
bear’s grease, hair dye, and whale-fat for the
complexion. Sallow, angular, and knobby ladies
are taken to pieces and repaired, yellow maidens
are bleached, and wrinkled girls are seized and
dragged out smooth. This latter result is not
achieved by one feminine doctor taking the
patient’s feet and the other her head, and hauling
in opposite directions, but by the simpler process
of straightening the cracks in the human surface
with sticking-plaster. Instructions are also given
for toning down flushed and bulgy females, and
for elaborately fattening skinny matrons whose
bones draw too much attention. Crumbling ruins
are a speciality, also ladies who have been out in
the sun—the latter being recommended to tie
slices of veal over their faces at night; and violent
ladies with dry [skins are also looked after, the
treatment suited to their cases being of an entirely
different character from that prescribed for easy-
going ladies with oily hides. Females whose
faces have become spotted like a carriage-dog are
laid down fiat and plastered with a compound of
strawberries, raspberries, milk, and benzoine-
powder, mashed together into a ghastly slush,
and after undergoing this treatment several
hours every day for a wtek, they are re-
ported to entirely recover from their speckle.
White bread-crumbs, rose-water, yolk of egg,
and cream, on the other hand, are better
for neglected ladies who sit up late and weep
while their husbands are having oyster-suppers in
town. This compound is not meant for food as
some people might imagine, but is to be carefully
mixed up as a poultice, and then a skilful lady’s-
maid is to rush at the patient and daub her with it.
By a judicious application of fresh cucumber-
juice, it is stated, ladies may preserve their youth
and freshness up to the age of 75, but this cos-
metic, unhappily, has no effect whatever on the
feet; consequently, the sweet girl-grandmother
blooms at one end only. Maidens with low fore
heads are also provided for by a very simple pro-
cess. The ma of the young creature has only to
take her daughter's head under her arm and drag
out the hair where it grows low down on the
brow, and the miserable victim will acquire an
aspect of intelligence which will greatly improve
her appearance. Brandy and white of egg are
recommended for wrinkles on the dome of
thought, and these straighten out the head
when applied externally in the same way
as they ttraighten out the interior when used
in the customary manner. But the secret
of beauty is too vast a subject to be
dealt with in extcnso. The system of treatment
seems to consist of two branches— one embracing
a class of remedies which had better not be
applied unless the lady to be beautified has been
previously tied up, while the other is applicable to
less extreme cases in which it might possibly be
safe to go ahead without this precaution, merely
adopting the simp’er measure of sitting on the
patient when she begins to kick. But these
drawbacks are hardly worth mentioning when we
remember that we can send along a shrivelled and
venomous mother-in-law to Dr. Flora Thingamy,
of London, and get her back a blushing child with
a peachblow complexion and an artless smile ; or
forward a maiden aunt, long, thin, and vinegary,
and have her turned into a vision of loveliness.
The result is all we want, and so long as that is
guaranteed we don’t care how much our relative
may be knocked about in the process.
* » *
There was an informal loyalist meeting in
the Mayor’s room of the Brunswick (Yic.) Town
Hall on Jubilee evening, and all the aldermen
made speeches. The Press was not admitted, but
the local reporter strained his ears at the keyhole
and this was what he heard, uttered in a husky
voice that sounded like a mouthful of shrimps and
six bottles of old port: “ I'm the oldest and
reliablest white native in Victoria, gentlemen, I
am, and I once had the honour and glory of enter-
taining his Royal Highness the Dook of Edin-
burgh at my house for two days, I did, and when
his Royal Highness left he said he had enjoyed
hisself very well; and a few days ago Sir 'Enry
Loch came to my house, and his Excellency said,
‘ Well, pon my soul, you’ve the cleanest back
yard I’ve seen in Australia.’ And I’ve halways
shoved my way through the world honourable, and
respected the British Constitootion, and
But here a municipal official led the reporter
away by the coat-tail, and the rest of the oration
was never published.
» * *
Melbourne society has sustained a severe
loss in the death of Captain Mandeville, R.N., a
gallant proficient in the art of doing nothing in
particular and doing it very well. The captain
retired from the Imperial service, on half pay,
before he was 30 years of age, and came out to
Australia with the intention of going in for
squatting. Fortune enabled him to fascinate
Graham Berry and get pitchforked into the com-
mand of the Victorian naval force?. After
luxuriating in this billet for 4 or 5 years—a happy
pleasant pic nicky time it was !—the necessity for
superseding Mandeville became apparent.
Graham Berry remained true to his protege, and
anew position was specially manufactured for
him. Henceforth the Captain slaved for the
colony in the capacity of Inspector of Fisheries,
drawing his salary regularly and earning the
affectionate regard of finny denizens of the deep.
Now, at forty years of age, poor Mandeville has
fallen in the service of society. He caught a
cold at the Jubilee Levee and settled it on hia
lungs while waiting for a cab to bear him away
from the Lochs’ Fancy Dress Ball.
* * *
Mezzofanti, junr., writes : “ Apropos to
your par., re Pastor Jefferis, on the ultra-frequent
use of ‘ Mon Dieu ’ by the French, I fancy that if
this divine had any real knowledge of the subject
he would have found ample grounds to cavil at
certain matters much nearer home. I am told
that while, speaking of the Peat’s Ferry catas-
trophe to a friend, Pastor Jefferis, himself re-
marked : ‘ Dear me, what fearful accidents have
happened of late.’ Now, it may be news to
Jefferis’ congregation, if not to himself, to know
that the exclamation, * dear me,’ is merely the
Anglicised form of the Celtic * dia mi ’—pro-
nounced dee a me—‘ My God I ’ and, by the way,
ic some ladies knew that their ‘ Oh, dear me ! ’ is
merely a translation of * Oh, my God,’ they would
not use it quite as often as they do. Further-
more, the word ‘ Jingo ’ is really an old British or
Celtic oath of great force when first started, and
is derived from ‘ Dian’—pronounced Jian —ven-
geance and ‘ gaoth ’—pronounced ‘ go’—or ‘ gu,’
a blast, or breath, and really means ‘ the blast of
vengeance,’ an oath which is more generally used
by the average larrikin who yells out, * Blast yerl’
whenever one incommodes him. The objection-
able word ‘ bloody ’ comes from the old Shakes-
perian expression. * By’r lady,’ and so it would be
well for Pastor Jefferis to remember the adage,
‘ People who live in glass-houses should pull down
the blinds.’ ”
* * *
Tne Dogberries of Cobar (N.S.W.) are
evidently yearning to be written down a profane,
wooden, drivelling, thrice-sodden ass if the fol-
lowing Jubilee address is any criterion :
“ His Excellency, the Right Honourable Charles Robert
B’ron (Lrington, Government House, Sydney. ‘We, the
Cobar Bench of magistrates desire to convey to, and through
your Excellency, our true allegiance to the throne and per-
son of Her Most Gracious Majesty, on this Her Jubilse, and
we rejoice that the Almighty has vouchsafed Her health and
strength, and humbly pray he may still continue to prolong
and strengthen her prosperous reign for many (jenwatiom.' ”
There's drivel for you; there’s eloquence and
knock-kneed, broken-backed slush such as no
slush yet created can compare to. And when it
was finished, and the “i’a” were all carefully
dotted, and the scribe had licked off the
blots, the authors probably sat regarding it with
a swivel eye and a fatuous smile apiece, and said
to each other : “Bless you, we dashed off that
little thing without a heffort.” It is nothing to
them that Victoria’s pronoun has got a capital
“ t H ” while the Lord’s pronoun has only a small
one, or that they humbly Bray that a lady of t 8
may still live “for many generations.” Oh, no !
The Cobar bench, if the idea were but to occur to
it, would get up and pray that Her Gracious
might reign for ever with three legs, and an eye
in the back or her head, or that Wales' bald scalp
might bob round among the “Totties” of the
ballet for 666 years. And yet these same Dog-
berries, because they are “ loyal ” and are pre-
pared to go out on a cold winter day and hurrah
for the Queen, are held by such men as Darley
and Salomons to be infinitely better than the
greatest Republican philosopher alive. The band
will now proceed to pound out the National Jig.
* * *
Here is a nice predicament to be in when
your feet are aching and your temper is not of the
best after a gubernatorial fancy dress ball. As
Governor Loch’s effort in this direction was draw-
ing to a close, the usual rush for cabs, of course,
took place, but on a larger scale and producing
more impatience among the guests than usual. A
gentleman and hia daughters who lived at
Brighton, in the hurry got into a waggonette
which had been hired by people residing at Kew,
just four miles in the opposite direction—and
Brighton is eight miles from Melbourne. Without
a word cabby started off, and the occupants of
the vehicle were too much occupied with talking
over the events of the evening to notice that they
were being conveyed to that very picturesque
suburb, Kew, while their domicile was in the
seaside borough. At last the horrible fact was
made known, but with what a result? Cabby
protested that his horse was “deadbeat,” and
that it was impossible to convey his load of fancy-
dress revellers to their home in consequence.
There were no other cabs to be had and no trains,
of course, were running in the dead of night. So the
only thing was to go to the cabman’s coach-house
and sit in the cab until the first train started in
the morning. Now to go home in fancy dress in a
workman's or any other train, however many
shawls, wraps, and overcoats one has, is a feat
of courage. But they got home at last, and
will not forget their Jubilee joy in a hurry.
What became of the other party—the Kew people
who were probably carted to Brighton—history
knoweth not. But the male portion of that party
also must have objurgated.
* * *
The quickest “ sober up ” on record hap-
pened to a man who got home on Jubilee morn
about 2.30, full of loyalty and something else that
wore a decidedly brewery flavour. Some scrim-
maging going on at the front door, his wife opened
the up-stairs window and shouted “ Who’s there I


We are pleased to see that some of the leading Tobacco
nists have taken up J. B. Pace’s Tobaccos, so that all lovers
of the weed have a treat in store, as it is the finest tobacco
smoked in America.*
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Cough Emulsion is such as to render it the best-known
remedy in the world for Coughs, Colds Asthma, or Bron-
chitis. It can be obtained direct fromW. 91. Ro wlk Y.iOhemist,
Bonrke-street, Bast Melbourne. Price 3s. 6d. per bottle, and
boa all chemists.*
Dr. Fb.bdeb.iok Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, brings with him ail that
is new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Besumed Practice, and
may be consulted at Kidman’s Buildings, corner Ghorge and
Market streets. Take Lift.* jjj sar i > 1
Go away at once, or I’ll send for the police 1” To
which the patriotic party below replied : “ Shorl
ri, M’rier. Ish me m’ dear ; shus gor ’ome from
off’s.” “Who are you?” “Why I’m your hus-
ban’, o’ course, come an’ lesh’s in. “ My hus-
band ! Why, you shameful impostor, my husband
came home four hours ago, and is now in bed,
here, fast asleep.” “ Wash ’at you say, m’ dear ?”
“My husband is here asleep, I tell you.” Then
there was an interval of five seconds after which
the voice of an excited, but thoroughly sober
man on the footpath called out, “ For heaven's
sake, Maria, don’t make a noise ! That scoundrel
is a burglar. Creep down stairs sofi ly, and I’ll
bring a constable, and have the wretch arrested
on the spot. My gracious! this is terrible. I’ll
never touch the infernal stuff again, even if I
live for a thousand years.” And then Maria
brought a great joy to the heart of at least one
man that night, as she turned the street door key,
and sweetly said: “ Now that you are a trifle
more sober I’ll let you in, but let this be a whole-
some lesson for you my good man.”
* * *
Lord Brassey has written a gushing, girly-
girly letter to the Mayor of Melbourne saying
in effect how uncommonly pleased he is that they
didn’t hustle him out of the Cabbage Garden. Con-
cludes his lordship effusively :
"We came from England in the hope of making friends in
Australia, and we have been privileged far beyond our highest
hopes. Yours sincerely, always, Brassey.”
“ Yours sincerely—always, is what dear things
with 18-inch corsets and a golden bang invariably
sign at the foot of scented, pink, cocked-hat
billets-doux. What a giddy gusher “Tom” is!
* * *
A quantity of rice was observed on the
steps of a Sydney R.C. Church the other morning.
It is supposed that some Chinese vagrants slept
there during the night and breakfasted before
leaving.
* # •
The following appeared in an English
ritualistic organ;—
“ A colonial priest, diocese of Grafton and Armidale, seek-
ing a year’s rest and change in a visit to Europe, is anxious
to meet h ith a bachelor priest to act as locum tenens. Views
Catholic. Climate delightful, near coast. Parsonage, ser-
vant, horse, and slight remuneration.”
The last two words explain the necessity for ad-
vertising in England.
• * *
How did it come to pass that when the
N.S.W, contractors picnicked Lord Brassey the
other day, the health of his lordship was proposed
by Mr. Dailey, who was himself a gutst ? Was it
because the contractors themselves are all work
and no talk, or did they really recognise Plain
Bill as a professional brother of theirs by reason of
his once having taken a contract to clear the goats
out of the Soudan ?
The wedding-cake—the bridegroom.
• * •
A Melbourne genius has invented a
machine for turning over the leaves of music.
This will enable the masher to take both arms to
his girl in future.
* *
The following little reminder was sent
recently by a would-be fashionable N.S.W. par-
son to a choral lamb of his flock. It made the
mutton rear up on end and use language :—
“ Mr. . Dear Sir,—Your voice has deteriorated so
much of late that I beg to inform y >u your services will no
longer be required. I cannot risk the popularity of ray
church by employing a soloist of second-rate talent.—
Yours, &c. ”
From which we gather that the high-class pastor
is only the ticket-taker of a swell Sunday concert
after all, and all that is wanted to complete the
illusion is for the choir to wear tights. And,
judging from present signs, we don’t think the
tights are very far off, either.
* * *
“ I like Australian women and children,
and believe them to be beyond the average in
culture. As to the men, they have struck me as
being especially powerful, and capable of saying
something worth listening to, and of doing some-
thing worth doing.”—Lady Brassey.
But an honest straight tale of a manly endeavour
To shape a new land towards industrious ease,
With an angry contempt for pretenders whenever
We find them attempting to vaunt us thus clever
To weaken our knees!
* * *
A Paris cabman has committed suicide for
the gratification of a mere idle whim. He wanted
to discover if cabmen “drive differently in the
other world.” We hope they do. When we hire
a hansom for ourself and Maria, in the Realms
Above, we do hope that the cabby won’t keep
peering through the little trap-door to see if her
head’s on our shoulder.
* * *
At the Jubilee festival at Melboure
Exhibition Building, Sir Henry Loch stopped to
admire the fine show at one of the halls. “ It was
the very prettiest in the place—the things were
lovely.” “ But,” pathetically added the fair stall-
holder, “he didn’t spend sixpence.”
♦ * *
The sins of the father are not always
visited upon the children. Sometimes the “mis-
sus ” drops in for it. Nemesis—in the guise of a
gentle lady named Mullen—walked into the bed-
room of the Mayoress of Hobart and whacked
her with an umbrella, because “the Mayor had
been spending the people’s money on illumina-
tions.” For this original act of retributive jus-
tice poor Mullen was fined forty. They said she
was of unsound mind. Which reminds us that
anyone who protests against Jubilee is— from a
Jingo point of view—mad, drunk, or dangerous,
especially dangerous.
* * *
A certain French lady, a very fashion-
able Melbourne dressmaker, has been un-
bosoming herself to his Honor of the Insolvency
Court, Her profits, she said, amounted to 10 per
cent, when she got paid, which was sometimes,
and she often charged as much as six guineas for
a silk corset. She had never learned dressmaking,
but she got on all the same, and she was also a
patron of the turf, and had once won a double at
Geelong. In happier days she lived in Paris, and
possessed a fortune of 100,000 francs, which she
lost (this amid sobs) by ze bust of ze Union
Generate.
* * ♦
There is an opening for a large and com-
modious lunatic-asylum in one of the colonies, and
it is all through Lord Brassey, descendant of the
De Bressi, who came over with William the
Conkerer. When the “Sunbeam’ arrived
the Mayor and Corporation of a certain
town situated in latitude 2 quarts 1 pint and
longitude £1 2s. 2d.—in the present state of the
libel law it doesn’t do to be too particular—re-
solved to call on the De Bressi and do a grovel,
and with that end in view they agreed to meet
in the Town Hall at 2 p.m. When the hour came,
however, the Mayor wasn’t there, but a small
boy with rather a neglected nose brought a mes-
sage from his Washup asking them to wait. He
was having a bath, and he was in bed, and out
on business, and would be along directly. So
they waited, and talked to pass away the time.
They discussed Brassey till that subject was used
up, and then they talked about the mayor and
what a larky old fool he was, and Councillor Job-
kins said he was awful mean in private, and Job-
ling, the town clerk, said he hadn’t enough sense
to pound steax .n a sixpenny hash emporium,
and Stiggins mentioned in strict confidence that
the Mayor’s wife was bald, and that in early life
she had been a tailoress—and still the chief magis-
trate didn’t come. At 5 o'clock the corporation
gave it up as a bad iob, and it was not till next
morning that they learned how the Mayor had
gone down by an early train, and had spent all
the afternoon with Brassey, and after dining with
him had come home by a late special with his feet
ticking out of the window of a first cla?s carriage
FALL OF THE ARISTOCRACY [NO WONDER DEAKIN REFUSED
KNIGHTHOOD]!!!
YOUNGSTER: “PLEASE, MOTHER CAN’T COME TO WASH TODAY, SHE’S GOT THE
BLIGHT—IF YOU LET ME TAKE THEM HOME TO WASH, SHE’LL GET A
LADY TO DO THEM FOR YOU.”
singing “ F’r he’s zholly g’ f l’r ” all by himself,
and that they had been done out of a grovel that
would never—never-nei er return any more.
And their anguish and frenzy at the mean trick
played upon them brings us back to the original
point about that commodious asylum which is so
much wanted.
* * *
There is a cobbler in one of the suburbs
of Melbourne who lives opposite the Registry-
office and makes more coin by acting as witness
to hasty marriages than by taking the foolish
advice of the old Roman and sticking to his last.
Whenever a “ pair of souls ” come to be made one
and to have their wounded hearts “ healed," the
registrar comes to the door and beckons to the
cobbler, who is working at his window, to come
across. The snob doesn’t agree with Don Csesar
that “ attention to costume” is necessary on such
occasions, and therefore he appears before the
altar—or deal table rather —with his shirt sleeves
turned up and his leather apron before him,
sometimes with a hammer in his hand, as it to
clench the union. His fee is half-a-crown ; terms
cash at the fall of the hammer.
* * *
“ Inez ” writes asking what, in our
opinion, would be the “ nicest and most useful
wedding-present for a gentleman ?” We beg to
suggest a corkscrew or a boot-jack. The fact of
the matter is that last night our slumbers were
much troubled, not only by the incessant bleatings
of the goats belonging to the washer-lady who re-
sides near our ancestral halls, but also by the
singing of the cats of the locality, and by the
continuous talking of the ducks and geese now
being fattened for purposes of religious cere-
monies by old Shent per Shent. who lives in the
gorgeous mansion two doors off. We are perfect
martyrs to this kind of thing, and often do we
awake at midnight with a snort and an objurga-
tion : “Curse it! There’s old Shylock’s dinner
blathering again! Why the deuce don’t these
gluttons invent a chicken-muzzle ! ” But, Allah
be praised—we are good Mahommedans ourselves
—there is in Nature a compensation for everything.
How sweet is the early morning calm, how lively
the tranquillity, which goeth after the Oriental
holiday ? How deadly is the silence which pro-
ceedeth from Mr. Abraham Snylock’s hen-coop on
the night following the day of Yom Kippur, when,
gaily bedight in silks and flounces, the well-
nourished Misses Shylock sail out of the stately
home of their dignified father, the banker (capital
£1,000,000 ; head office, Lombard-street, London ;
advances made with the utmost secrecy), en route
for the Synagogue, whence they return only to make
of their snowy breasts the tombs of ducks un-
numbered. Yes, “Inez,” get him a corkscrew
and a bootjack. He will often need to get up at
night and chase cats, and take a drink, if he lives
any way near our place.
* * *
The epitaph of an old bachelor:—“To
Hymen enemy hot,” Can’t reverse the sentiment
if you try. It reads the same both ways.
* * *
We are sorry for Lord Brassey. We also
I drop a tear for Lady Brassey. It is this way.
They were invited to Government House the other
night to a dinner-party, and amongst the guests
was Mr. . That’s all, at present.
* * *
A female, speaking at a recent Woman
Suffrage meeting held at the Bourke-street Coffee
Palace, Melbourne, said, inter alia : “ Common
sense revolted at the cry that politics are too cor
rupt for women to deal with.” Bah ! dear agita-
tor ! Nothing is too corrupt for some women to
deal with. In fact with tome the more corrupt a
thing is the better they like it. The way Eve
goes for the evening newspaper when there is a
big divorce case on gives the lie direct to such
statements.
* * *
Nathaniel Kinsman, the Melbourne auc-
tioneer and performer of marriages, is a keen
advertiser. He inserts in the “Marriage”
columns of the daily papers an advertisement of
each ceremony he performs—sends it himself
Nathaniel varies the style of each advertisement
as cleverly as a skilled reporter alters a “ faked ”
paragraph.
* * *
Australian morals are looking up, judging
from a wail which reaches us from up South. There
was a pastoral show recently in a back town ship, and
the judges had waded patiently through the cor-
pulent hog department and duly assessed the bald-
headed calves, until at last they came to an item
about ladies’ hacks—prize to be given to the best
equestrienne. This event was won by a stranger,
a dainty little creature in a beautifully-fitting
grey habit, but just as the trophy was being
awarded it was ascertained that the horse-woman
was the new barmaid at the Pastoral Hotel.
Then Chump, J.P., said it was simply “ offal,”
and Dryhash, the banker, declared that it would
be an immoral act to give the medal to a sinful
creature who dispensed beer, and all the women
present said it was like her impudence, the
hussy, and finally it was decided to send them
round again. This time also the barmaid was the
winner, but Chump declared his conscience would
not let him sleep if he encouraged the trade in
strong drink, and finally the prize was awarded
to a middle-aged lady with coin who rode like a
sack of flour.
The very latest fad belongs to Miss Bridget
O’Brien, our cook. Bridget has abbreviated her
name and calls herself “Bride.” No doubt she'd
like to be that same, bsdad.
* * *
The Sydney papers called that gorgeous
wedding “ an imposing ceremony” at the time it
came off. The tailors, butchers, bakers, and es-
pecially the drapers, now say that it was a very
imposing ceremony indeed.
* # *
At a recent ’Murkan Fourth of July ball
held down South one peculiarly fetching young
damsel decided to go in the fancy character of
“Liberty.” The dress was very pretty indeed,
but the wearer, in a weak moment, decided to
paint that word expressive of freedom on her
floating sash-ends. She, however, got hazy about
the orthography of the word and calmly spelt it
“ Libbity.” That’s all.
* * *
Two dear things were gossiping in a Rand-
wick tram, the other day, and one of their re-
marks contained the greatest satire on the modern
marriage we have ever heard. Said one : “ And
so Louise is married. Was there a wedding ?”
“Oh, no,” replied No. 2 instanter, “there wasn’t
any wedding—only a ceremony at the church.”
* * *
A certain very fascinating Australian
actress, who has slain her hundreds and thou-
sands, is going for a decree nisi. And doesn’t she
wish she may get it!
* * *
“ England,” said Lord Tommy B., speak-
ing on Australian topics, “ must remain the centre
of the cultured, courtly, and refined life of the
Empire.” Hem! Let us see. There’s Dilke,
Colin Campbell, “Violet” Lonsdale, Albert
Edward, Lady Monckton, Dr. Bird, Captain
Shaw, “Arab” Campbell—all so tie s the tic and
shrinking and eccentric in their fastidiousness,
dontcherknow.
* * *
How trivial are the words employed in
dealing a withering, blighting curse ! How paltry
are the sounds that convey intelligence that saps
the young man’s strength and levels the bent grey
head ! All this is induced by an innocent little
line of print in a recent issue of the S.M. Herald
anent Lady Brassey. It is her ladyship’s inten-
tion to write a book on this Australian cruise. More
misrepresentation—more bosh about the loyalty
of our future Republic—more fairy tales about
the rose strewn path of labour in the colonies—
that's what a book by Lady Brassey means. She
will do as all other ‘' distinguished literati ” have
done before her —write about Potts Point and
Toorak and let all the rest go hatg. Only the
other evening Lord Tom declined an invitation to
be present at a meeting of the Sydney unemployed.
* * *
The lady (aged 19), who commented on
Governor Loch’s fancy dress ball at Melbourne by
observing sadly that “ men never look well out
of their clothes ” may now take a back seat. A
giddy American gusher has left her absolutely
nowhere in one brief sentence as follows ; “ Some
of the tip top in society say that the low-necked
dress must go! They will please say which way
it is to go, in time to warn those who wish to take
to the woods before it goes lower,”
* * *
The S.M, Herald on Brassey :—
“ Lord Brassey comes of a very ancient f amilv of the name
of De Bressy, whose English representative held lands in
Wilts and Cheshire during the time of William I. His father
was an eminent engineer and contractor, Mr. Thomas
Brassey, who was well-known and popular all over Europe.”
This, of course, settles the question of the great
man’s pedigree. The Herald goes bald-headed
over a blank space of 800 years, but the ancestor
who came in with the Conqueror is an unassail-
able fact, and the rest of the links are left to
imagination. We once read in a wicked English
paper that the present lineal representative of the
old original De Bressi was not undescended from
an illustrious gentleman who, a few generations
ago, amused himself by selling cat’s-meat in Lon-
don. This obscure purveyor of horse probably
never dreamt that he had a Norman ancestor.
Somehow or other it is always possible to hunt up
TO A VISITOR.
Be well. Lady Brassey, wherever thou goest ;
Thy heart is so simple, thy mind is so young ;
Thou knowest us not, as thou very well knowest,
But trustest to “ blowers,” and therefore thou
blowest
With heart and with tongue.
Our men are so brave that thy soul bubbles over,
Thou splashest the heads of our women as well!
Now, what dost thou know of us—husband or
lover
Or mother or girl ? A lackey-wrought cover,
As other times, fell
From a point in the zenith as s<mn as thou earnest,
And girt thee around and, as it to a tent
Where a gipsy spun marvels, the dreariest, lamest,
The sickliest, sorriest, flabbiest, tamest
Of citizens went.
Such tent thine Australia 1 Indeed had thy
dwelling
Been fixed for a time where brown mountains
bear gold,
Or down in low vales where green homesteads are
swelling,
Thine eyes would have seen, and thy tongue been
heard telling
Not what sycophants told,
ADORE IS TO DAISY.
(BY HER BANK CLERK)
Daisy, dear, look up and smile ;
Your pa, shall in a little while,
Conduct you down the centre aisle,
Your train-_k rt or ried
By little pages gaily clad,
Attended by six maidens glad—
My treasure ! never look so sad,
We’ll soon be married.
Methinks I see the bridal wreath
Upon your brow—bright eyes beneath,
Flashing like “ something in its sheath,”
Through tears that glisten ;
Ah, me 1 When all is calm and still,
In solitude I muse until
To your half-murmured, shy “ I will”
I seem to listen.
Daisy, patience 1 All things come
To them that wait, and surely some
Fine day we 11 hear the gentle hum,
Outside our cottage,
Of bees that circle through the air,
While I, at ease in cosy chair.
Discourse on Love as you prepare
Our mess of pottage.
O ! blessed time that is to be 1
When romping babe upon your knee
Shall twine its little hands in glee
Among your ringlets;
0 ! blessed time ! O I endless ioy !
01 dream of bliss without alloy—
To watch you nurse the rosy boy,
And darn my singlets !
Daisy, dearest, dry your tears !
Beyond the intervening years
A vision of the Church appears—
That train—those pages ;
Live in the future, e'en as I
Delight to live, and never sigh—
We’ll wedded be when, by and bye,
They raise my wages.


The New Name of the Colony —Sir Alfred Stephen is
condemning the name of New South Wales, but gives utt eran ce
to the voice of the people. Just lately a great many foolish
and vulgar nomenclatures have been suggested as substi-
tutes, yet there is one word which, for euphony and applic-
ability, cannot be surpassed, viz., “ Celtanglia," as it em-
braces in one term the two great races from which this
vigorous colony sprung, viz., the Celtic and Anglian. How-
ever, in order to judge more soberly as to this great question,
turn over a new leaf, drink less, and attend to your business
more. Visit Marshall Brothers’ new City Drug Emporium,
and obtain one bottle of Marshall’s “ Tonic Nervine" which
speedily braces the relaxed nervos and brightens the olouded
brain. Note the address.—Marshall Brothers, chemists, 410
George-street, 3 doors from King-street Arcade, and 106
Market-street, City.*
TO THE SPORTING PUBLIC.
HOW TO MAKE A FORTUNE.
Consult the greatest of all sporting writers and
turf advisers,
“PREMIER,”
who is patronised by all the leading backers and
horse-owners in Australia, who guarantees to
forward to every patron immediately on receipt of
letter or wire any information he may require on
ANY SPORTING TOPIC, or about any horse in
Australia, and to keen them well posted in the
doings of all horses training in this or the adjoin-
ing colonies, and to advise faithfully what is worth
backing in the forthcoming spring events. I have
sent to over 20 newspapers the following : Stanley,
Autumn Hawkesbury Handicap; Frisco, Sydney
Cup; Straightsho*i and Honeydew, Flying and
Winter Stake*. I know “ a rod in pickle ” for the
HAWKESBURY HANDICAP andMEI'ROP, that
w.ll surprise everybody except my patrons and the
owner; also something in the Melbourne Derby and
Cup that will prove the greatest “BOIL OVER”
ever known. My fee is £1 Is. per season, com-
mencing at any time. All letters, &c., to be ad-
dressed to—“PREMIER,” Box 1166 G.P.C.,
Sydney. All letters containing money or P.O.O.
must be registered, a stamp for reply to accompany
each.
ffi H K A T K it R O * A A.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
IMMEDIATE acd EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Drury Lane Sporting Drama,
A RUN OF LUCK.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at East way’s Hole 1
LBAMBBA MUSIC HALL
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
CROWDED HOUSES
EVERY EVENING to see this
NT.W EPOCH in the MINSTREL WORLD,
BRITANNIA’S BOWER,
CONGRESS OF NATIONS.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
George-street, Haymarket.
THIRD YEAR.
THIRD YEAR.
or
Q RITKRION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
TO-NIGHT, at 8. TO-NIGHT, at 8.
KINDRED SOULS.
The Herald says:—“The performance proved a
great popular success- Playgoers always have an
appetite for pure, unsophisticated fun, and the
audience laughed most heartily at the comic in-
cidents and amusing situations which abound in
this farcical piece. The author has in this merry
trifle relied to a certain extent upon the Palais
Royal motive of peccant husbands; but he has
I been careful not to allow any suggestiveness to
creep into his stage fable.”
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 3s ; Upper Circle, 25.;
Galley Is,; Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Robert Gourlay—Representative for Mr. John
Gourlay.
W. J WILSON, Manager.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE INCLEMENT
WEATHER, the OPERA HOUSE was AGAIN
CROWDED in the POPULAR PARTS to witness
the production of
SENTENCED TO DEATH.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee ... Mr. John Solomon.
Director and Proprietor... Signor G. Verdi.
Manager for Sig. Verdi... Mr. J. S. Smith.
Stage Manager ... ... Mr. George Dean.
GRAND SEASON OF COMIC OPERA.
PEOPLES PRICES, 35., 25., Is.
Special engagement of the charming young Piima
Donna Miss ANNETTE IVANOVA
The Company numbers 60 performers, and includes
the best
OPERATIC ARTISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY,
and every Evening until further notice,
LE3 CLOCHES DE CORNKVILLE; or THE
CHIMES OF NORMANDY.
THREE SHILLINGS, TWO SHILLINGS, and
ONE SHILLINGS.
Box plan is now open at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse, King and George streets.
gYDNEY EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
jyj'BßC AN TILE ROWING CLUB.
Patron :
His Excellency Baron CAhRINGTON, G.C M.G.,
P.C.
President :
The Hon. J. B. WAIT. M.L.C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that their
TWELFTH ANNUAL BALL,
under the patronage of the
Worshipful the MAYOR (Alban J. Riley, Esq.),
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised
to be present,
will be held in the
TOWN HALL
on WEDNESDAY, JULY 13,
and that the number of guests will positively be
limited to 300.
Tickets are now obtainable from the following
members of the Committee and the undersigned
ONLY Messrs. T. M. Alccck, F. J. Bull, F.
Boulton, J. Blackman, S J. Fotheringham, T. W.
Freeman, M. J. Fitzgerald, K. Gittinan F. R.
Isler, F. Ives, R. A. Keddie, S. A. Kemp, J. Lord,
J. Mannix, S. H. Martin, J. H. Smart, P. Thorpe,
and J. Young.
W. A. BLACKSTONB, Hon. Sec.
Telegraph Department.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Glasses now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY,
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, Rockhampton,
Queensland.— The above Hall is duly
licensed under the Queensland Theatres’ Act.
Every Company travelling through Rockhampton
for the past 18 months has (with one exception)
occupied this Hall, including Messrs, MacMahon
and Leitch, Thornton and Harrison, Harry St 1
Maur, and Grattan Riggs, with Mr. Chas.
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company, who have just
concluded a brilliant and successful season. This
Company played in the Theatre Royal two years
ago, and Mr. MacMahon expresses himself as
highly pleased with the arrangements in this Hall.
Managers are requested to book at least 11 days
before opening to secure uninterrupted dates.
Terms on application to the Secietary.
a pedigree for a gilded swell, even if there is cat’s
meat rampant on his coat of-arms, while a poor
man can’t getp-ovided with ancestors anyhow. We
wonder how often we would have to impress on
the Herald that our name is Crump, and that
our great grandfather fell off a roof and was killed
while in pursuit of his calling, before that journal
would ascertain that we ware descended from
Lord De Cram, who fought at Hastings.
• * *
She ; “ And so you were at the dinner the
other night? Well, and how were the ladies
dressed?” He (unthinkingly): “Pon my soul I
it never occured to me to look under the table ! ”
* * *
Lady Caringbon will be offered up as a
sacrifice on the 14th and 28 h instants at 3 p m.
precisely. In other words her Excellency will be
“tu hum” to chose occasions. We tender to
her ladyship our sincerest sympathy.
* * *
Anew experience in Malbeurne—the
RC. Archbishop going about preaching. The
lati poor James Alipiis seldom addressed his
people in church during the last 20 years of his
life, and when he did it was from the sanctuary
railing whence only a few could hear him He
seemed to have an objection to pulpits. Dr. Carr
has commenced a preaching excursion *t St.
Bridget’s, North Fitzroy. People would like to
hearths holy father of that church preach one
of his comic sermons before the Archbishop. Dr.
Carr looks like a maa who could see a j oke.
* * ♦
The pretty Mr. Shiels, the learned mem-
ber for Normanby in the Victorian Asn nblv, is
tackling the marriage subject a {am. AEcer al mg
and almost hopeless baohelorhooi, Willi m
married n it long ago, and ever since has been very
kind to the ladies He now wants to extend
divorce law in Victoria in the same direetton as
old Sir Alfred has succeeded in pushing it in
N.S. W. But then i .’s not every one who marries
as pleasantly as Mr. S He was guardian of an
Adelaide heiress and won both the lady and her
gold.
* *
Deep Lead (Yic ) went in for several differ-
ent kinds of entertainment in honour o* the
Jubilee. Among other things there was a b ill
with one fiddle by way of music, and when that
instrument broke down the performer tried to
whistle the waltzes, and might have succeeded if
ha had had any front teeth The belle of the
evening was a young lady in crimson velvet
whose volatile spirits kept everyone in grod
humour, except a dude whose foot she stepped
upon. He will give his opinion when ha ge:s out
of the hospital, which will be in about six weeks
provided it is not necessary to amputate his toes
Another young lady looke 1 very attrac ive, and
had it not been for a pair of bright-coloured stay,
which showed through the bursted seams of her
dress, she would have completely eclipsed the
dreamy-eyed, golden-haired angel whose shoo
came off and revealed a huge hole in her stocking.
A girlish vision of joy eat down on her partner and
squashed him into unconsciousness, an 1-hersister,
who looked lovely, dropped her sixteenth jam-tart
down the front of her frock before 10 p>m., where-
upon she said “Oi, my 1” and fainted. Her
mother whopped her next day for destroying her
clothes, and she is allowed to go out now
Miss Somebody-or-other talked very wildly and
irrationally after her twelfth cup of coffee, and
had to be taken home. She said there was some-
thing in the coffee, and the empty cup having been
smelt by the committee, the lady’s name was
struck off the list of fashionable society. A ycuog
Swell held the saucer for his lady-love while she
drank her coffee, and all went well until he said
Something funny which made her choke, and then
he said he had to catch a train. A yellow dog
got in towards the close of the entertainment and
stayed to see it out.
* * *
A Glasgow paper says that “ Buffalo
Bill’s” Indians sit their horses w ! th the grace of
an English rider! t Let us see. What was the
name of his lordship who was so heartily laughed
at when he rode a horse at certain Austialian
races ?
* * *
Independence Day was this year officially
celebrated at Melbourne in a manner which by
certain newspaper people was regarded as even
more mournful than usual. Last year the gallant
Consul Morgan regaled his visitors with claret
and coffee, at South Yarra, and this year, in
Colonel Morgan’s absence, Vice-Cr nsul Smith
held a chillingly formal reception at the Murkan
Consulate, where, alas, there was neither claret
nor coffee. The Yanks, as yet, are evidently un-
aware that there is but one cement with which
nations can be soldered together. We allude to
whisky. But maybe they don’t want to solder.
The elegant lunch given by Mrs. Andrew Newell,
of Chaumout, St. Kilda, to a few of the leading
American residents, was a great success.
* • *
A Melbourne man went off recently on a
three weeks’ visit to Adelaide, but was recalled on
business before three days had passed. He made a
temporary stoppage at a station ou the return trip,
and was staggered to sea his wife driving in a
hansom-cab along with an old admirer of hers,
her glossy head resting on the other fellows
shoulder, and her little hand in his. The husband
afterwards discovered that rooms had been taken
at an hotel for a young lady and her brother newly
arrived from Europe, and now a once hippy
home is in gloom.
* * *
On Wednesday, July 6th, a most eujiy-
able dance was given at Nithsdale by the laiies
of the Rand wick Assembly. Ammgst those
present were Mrs. Aarons in a beauiful
trained costume of sage green merveilleux over a
petticoat of light brocade; Mrs. Ritenberg in a
simple white tulle frock: Mrs. Carson in white
tulle with trails of flowers : Mrs. Butcher a long
trained gown of deep mauve velvet; Miss Aarons
In pretty cream spotted tulle, and many others.
* * *
A fashionable wedding was solemnised at
St. George’s Presbyterian Church, St. Kilda
(Melb.), on June 30, when Miss Marion Turnbull,
of Alma-road, St. Kilda, was married to Mr. R,
T. Simson, son of Mr. John Simson, of Leura,
Toorak. The bride was attired in rich white
satin, with long train, and trimmed with beauti-
ful old lace, and wore a long tulle veil fastened
with a diamond star.
* # *
A somewhat “ swagger” wedding is fixed
for Sydney Synagogue, 2nd August, when Mr.
Edward Cohen will espouse the pretty Miss
Minnie Cohen.
* * *
On Tuesday evening, the sth inst., the
Governor and Lady Carington gave a dinner party
to Lord and Lady Brassey. Among the other
guests were Miss Brassey, the Mayor and Mrs.
Riley, Colonels Sb. Quentin and Wardrop, Com-
modore Heusner, Capt. Clayton, Mai or Gascoigne,
Commander Allen, Capt.-Lieut. YonHoltzendorff,
Mr. Wallington, Lord Bertie, and a few
others. Sir Henry Parkes and Miss Parkes,
Major-General and Mrs. Richardson, Sir George
and Lady Innes, and a number of other guests
arrived after dinner.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. John Hardie give a dance
at their residence, Louisville, Darlinghurst Road,
Tuesday. July 19.
* * *
The latest idea in Melbourne is a skating
carnival at the Columbia Elite Rolling Rink. All
present are obliged to wear fancy costumes or
OLD GENTLEMAN WHO HAS TAKEN A SHORT CUT TO BE IN TIME
FOR HIS LAST TRAM.
evening dress, and prizes are to be awarded for
the handsomest costumes, the most original, and
the best sustained character.
* * *
The Lancers will hold a tournament at
Sydney Agricultural Ground on 27th August.
* * *
On Friday, the Bh, Lord and lady
Brassey entertained at lunch Lord and Lady
Caiington, Mr, E. W. Wallington, and a few
others.
* * *
Lord Caringbon intends leaving Sydney
for Adelaide on 11th inst.
* * *
Lady Caringt m v ill be at home to day
(Thursday,)
• * ♦
The fourth of the series of reunion pri-
vate assembles whs held at Nithsdale on July 5,
and parsed off very successfully. About 120
guests we e present. The fifth of the series takes
place on the 26 h.
♦ * *
On Wednesday, July 0, Governor and
Lady Caiington, Lord atd 1 ady Brassey, three
Misses Brassey, and several eminent members
of the millinery profession and others were pre-
sent at Miss Minnie Palmers performance of
“ Pert" at Sydney Opera House.
« * •
The return ball to the Mayor of Sydney
will probably take place on August 10.
* * *
Last Tue-day Lady Brassey was at
“home” on board the Sunbeam. As there was
no ch-rge for admission, many of her ladyship’s
“friends” were only too glad to go and see her
(and save their little half-crowns).
♦ * «
‘ Your harbour is certainly very beauti-
ful,” as Lady B. remarked, the other day, when
the yacht got stuck on a sand-bank and the beastly
democratic rain came down pelting pups and
kittens.
It is a sign of the times that the N.S. W.
Orangemen have bean seriously debating in the
recesses of their lodges whether the moment has
not arrived when it will be well, if they mean to
keep their hold on the country, to let Freetrade
slide. It shows two things—first, that they know
Protection is the coming power; and, secondly,
taat they are men unfit for the right exercise of
the franchise, seeing that they vote for Freetrade
or Protection as it may suit the exigencies of their
Order. If Freetrade will keep Orangeism in
power, then they will vote in block for it; but
when Freetrade can no longer play the Orange
game, they will go in a mass for Protection. Yet
these are the men who reproach others for block-
voting !


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, July 12, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TE NDKRS are Invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offlce in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the suooessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Fencing, See., Police Build-
ings, Cobborah
Painting Hospital for Insane
Parramatta
Additions, Gaol at Yass
Supply at Bullock Island, Dyke
Wharf, of 6000 Sleepers |
Supply of Pipes, &c., Contract
4a, Lismore Water Supply I
Carriage of Railway Stores I
Supply of 20,000 Bricks, Tam-
worth or Fast Tamworth Sta-
tion
Supply of 3000 Railway Sleepers
at Narribri, Tarrawan, or Bog-
gabri Stations
Dates to whio v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Tuesday,
July 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Jump Up Creek, at
Belford
Painting, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Redfern
Alterations, &c , for Gaol Pur-
poses, Biloela
Passenger Station, St. Mary’s,
Great Western Line
Tuesday,
July 26,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf, &c.,
Tatham, Richmond River
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Pilliga
Fencing, &c., Courthouse, Bur-
rowa
Supply of 1000 Cubic Yards
Sandstone Ballast at Melong
Station
Supply of 1000 Cubic Yards
Sandstone Ballast at Cargo
Road or Berenore Station
Erection of Bridge, Fell Timber
Creek, Road Mandurama to
Gully Swamp
Erection of Bridge, Wyong
Creek, Road Bumble s Hill to
Murray’s Run
Erection of Bridge, Cedar Brush
Creek, Road Bumbl s’a Hill to
Murray’s Run
Erection of Bridge, Tenterfleld
Creek, Molesworth-street,
Tenterfleld (exclusive of sup-
ply of Ironwork)
Erection of Bridge, Mullet
Creek, South Coast Road (ex-
clusive of supply cf Ironwork)
Tuesday,
August 2,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Engine and
Boiler House, &c., Contract
1, Lismore Water Supply
Construction of Covered Reser-
voir, Contract 2, Lismore
Water Supply
Supply of Ironwork and Erec-
tion of Iron Bridge over Mur-
ray River at Mulwala
Additions Lockup, Camperdown |
Erect s on of Footbridge, Plum- j
bago Creek, Fairfleid I
Erection of Bridge, Little B 11a- I
bong Creek, Road Little Billa- I
bong to Tumberomba
Tuesday,
August 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction, & c.. Engine,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, &c, of Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract 4, Lis-
more Water Supply
Tuesday,
September 6,
at 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
CHAS. B BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sittirg
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
Masonic hotel, east-strerit, Rock-
hampton.—-t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings;—The “Western Cham-
pion” says : “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends.'’
XCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
ir
Second Buck Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor,
B. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
kno wn reputation maintained.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will he held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next. „
J, WILKES,
297 George-street. Hon. Sso
“ AUSTRALIAN” NEWSPAPER COMPANY,
Limited
(to be registered under the Companies’ Act),
to be established- in Sydney in the interests of
PROTECTION.
CAPITAL : £40,000, in 40,000 SHARES of £1 each,
payable Two Shillings on Allotment, and the
balance in calls not exceeding One Shilling per
share, at intervals of not leas than one month'!
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
Mr. J. P. Wright
J. T. Toohey
W. J. Lyne, M.L.A.
A. Cameron (of
Cameron Bros.)
H. S. S. Bond
F. B. Fieehill
J. Ward
James Fletcher,
M.L.A.
W. M. Burns (Mayor
of Balmain)
Mr. T.T. Ewing, M.L.A.
•\ W. Watkin
W. H. Traill
John Norton
J. P. Garvsn, M.L.A.
J. Butte Held
J. P. Abbott, M.L.A.
A. D. Kclscn
J. Ross
T. Saywell
J. Y. Wiley
The fact that nearly one-half of the population
of the colony hold Protectic nist views—as was
proved by analysis of the votes recorded at the
last general election—sufficiently demonstiatea
that a newspaper which sha'l advocate those
principles should find abundant support. It will
be requisite, however, not merely that such a
journal should express the sentiments of adherents
to a particular fiscal system, but that it shall
furnish the news of the day in a complete and at-
tractive form, and, in those respects, suffer no dis-
advantage from comparison with existing news-
papers. At the present time the sentiments of
Protectionists have no channel for expression in
the metropolitan daily press. On the contrary,
the views of that numerous and increasing sec-
tion of the community are subjected to constant
and unremitting misrepresentation and distortion
by every one of the metropolitan journals. This
unanimity of misrepresentation has an indirect
but powerful influence upon the country press,
and altogether, is most prejudicial to the cause of
encouragement to local industries, and the growth |
of an Australian national sentiment.
Under these circumstances, the Promoters have 1
determined to take the initiatory steps to create a
vigorous daily newspaper, which shad start upon
a financial basis amply sufficient to permit, from
the outset, of the production of a journal first-
rate in every department. The best available
ta’ent will be secured, so that the readers of the
“Australian” shall have reason to be content
with their paper, whether regarded as an exponent
and defender of their principles, or as a purveyor
of current news and general information.
It is intended to make arrangements, in due
course, for a special cable service from Europe,
distinct from than at present provided by the
metropolitan press. By this means the readers of
the “ Australian ” will be supplied with a correc-
tive to the partial versions of occurrences too
often presented to the public by the existing
agencies.
The capital of the Company will, in the opinion
of experts whom the provisional directors have
consulted, be ample for every contingency, and
has been decided upon in full view of the absolute
necessity of issuing a thoroughly satisfactory
journal, strong and reliable in every department.
The provisional directors have calculated that,
with fair encouragement from the reading public,
of whom so large a proportion is in sympathy
with the main objects of the “ Australian,” not
more than half the nominal capital may be ac-
tually required to establish the paper upon a self-
supporting basis.
They are determined, however, to leave nothing
to chance which prevision can secure, and will not
commence operations until at least 30,000 shares
shall have been subscribed.
They desire to draw the attention of intending
shareholders to the financial success that has at-
tended existing metropolitan papers, and to point
out that no paper yet published in Australia has
had a better field offered it than the “ Australian.”
Application for shares to be addressed to
W. W. BILLY A RD, Esq., Solicitor,
34, Castlereagh-street.
Forms of application may be had from any of
the Provisional Directors, or at the office of 'he
Protection Union, 121 Batlmrst-street, which
office will be open daily frcm 9 till 5, and in the
evening from 7 till 9, for the receipt of applica-
tions.
Applications for shares may also be made to the
undersigned Hon. Secre f aries of the various
branches of the Protection Union :
Mr. E. A. Mullins, Bathurst
Mr. J. J. Purcell, Cootamundra
Mr. S. H, Cohen, Nowra
Mr. H. K. Bloxham, Bourke
Mr. G. M. Quilt, Wcllongoi g
Mr. W. D ew, Armidale
Mr. P. M'Shane, Goulburn
Mr. David Jones, Litbgow
Mr. Eugene Rudder, Grafton
Mr. H. J. West, Riverstone
Mr. M. M'Namara, Newtown
Mr. E. C. Brecht, Muswehbrook
Mr. John Bergan, Granville
Mr. E. M. Walsh, Redfern
Mr. J. Eathorn, Balmain
Mr. Edgar Swane, Parramatta
Mr. Thomas Williams, Paddington
Mr. W. H. Burne, Annandale
Mr. A. S. Fietcher, Affifield
Mr. T. Garton, Botany
Mr. S. A. Byne, Darlington
Mr. Thomas M‘Grath. Glebe
Mr. R. C. Luscombe, Nithsdale-street
Mr. J. Treadgold, Leichhardt
Intending shareholders please note that no re-
mittance Is required on application.
JOHN S. SKEET,
Secretary Protection Union.
FITZROIT HOTEL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
tST FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
LEICHHARDT HOTEIT
ROCKHAMPTON,
Proprietor—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westport.)
THOS. BUCKLED,
MUSING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT,
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Cx, Engineers, Lincoln;
„ „ Langland's Foundry Co , Melbourne, Vic.
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
FOR
ml limit
472 GrOKOE STRETT,
O p si c the Ceatral Markets;
arc! at
705 GEORGE STREET,
O; p -i o An! hot y II ,id rn’s, Tlaymarktt.
7/6 I£,C 12/6, 15-. 20/, 25/-, with Bow.
V olins in ci 3O/-, 35/-, 50/,
Vi Oii.p, in casts ( upprioj), 70/- lo £5, inc'ndirg
Tuto-, llsbi ’, Serb gs, &c
Spcc'nlity ;
01 i Vidius, £3 £io, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3C.
Concertinas,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6 8/6 to £25/-,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lacbenal. £L 17s. 61. ,
20-key A.nglo G irman, by Lacbeaa', ste 4 notes
best make, £4 ss.
22 k’y Angl -German by Li'-he-al, steel notes,
bes m ke, £1 10).
dccordeons,
in grea 1 viric'y, 7/3, to 70/- ea h.
Scec al i ine—Ste. 1 oi<-, wi h wotd case,
£1 17 i 61.
Cornets ,
50/-, 70/-, 84/ . £5 155., £lO 10s , to £l6 16s.
Flutes ,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/- each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c., in great variety.
P.O. Orders will be promptly attetded to.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others forks lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PAIIIS, 1B78; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIP ANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANGr YLANG
OPAPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor lh(*ir delightful and lasting ©dour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed far its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Otp Bond Stiieet, Londi
k Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“
T.vre.”
Golden ,
A
IMPERIAL. HOTEL,
BHISBANE.
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and fire-proof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Ohef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite cf rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every fluor. Large banquetlr g
•oom. Sample : ocm.
C. 11. D J.NIKLLS. ocrletor
OOK IN PRIZES
Xl/CO IN PRIZES Xl/Cu
“NATIVES' PLUCK.’
GRAND A N.A. WORD COMPETITION.
First Prize, £l5; Second, £5 ; Third,
£2 10s; Fourth, 80s; Fifth, 20s.
The above prize i will be given by the BUILD-
ING COMMITTEE of the ST. ARNAUD AUS-
TRALIAN NATIVES, to the competitor who can
form the greatest number of n odern English
words but rf the letters comprised in “Natives’
Pluck.” No obsolete words, or historical, geo-
graphical, or proper names will be allowed. No
letter to be used twice in one word. Competitors
must enclose list of words, with name and address,
and state number of words on each list in a sealed
envelope, together with a postal note, money
order, or stamps, of the value of two shillings,
addressed to the undersigned. Such lists will be
received up to 6 o’clock p.m., on WEDNESDAY,
AUGUST 3rd, 1887, and opened the following day
ia the presence of the Committee of the St.
Arnaud Branch of the A.N A. The names of the
winners will be published in the Australasian,
Sydney Bulletin, and local papers,
WILLI AM O’DONNELL,
Hon. Sec.
Listen to Your Wife,
The Manchester Guardian. June Bth, 1883, says
At cne of the
“ Windows
Looking on the Woodland ways! With clumps
of rhododendrons and great masses of May
blossoms !!! The-e was an interesting group.
Ic included one who had been a “ Cotton
spinner,” but was now so
Para l yzed ! ! !
That he could only bear to lie in a reclining
position.
This refers to my case.
I was first Attacked twelve years ago with
“Locomotor Ataxy ”
(A paralytic ditease (f -trve e raiely ever cured)
ai d was for several years barely able to get "bout.
At d f rth last Five years no" able to attend to
my business, al h ugh
Mary thiugs have been done for me.
1 he 1 :st experiment being nerve stretching, ■>
Two yea: s ago I was voted into the
Home Lr Incurables! Near Manchester, in May,
1882. ‘
lam no “Advocate”! “For anything in the
sha e of Date t” Medicine-?
And mid! many objections to my dear wife’s
conduit urging to t y Hop Bit*era, but finally to
pad y her
Censerted ! !
I had i.o: quite fin idled the first bo* tie when
felt a change come over me This was Saturday,
Novem tr 3"d On S i-d ly mirnirg I felt so
• tre g I said to my room compani n.s, ‘1 was sure
I ocu'd
Walk i
So tar ed across the floor and b ic v .
I har iv kn w ovtocoit in my elf. I was all over the
h-«ss Ia n g i i,.g si.-pa„th e ich day. and can walk quite
■< fe with n*. any
‘ S iok !'■
O' - Sut p )rt *
lammw as y cwn house, and hope soon to be able to
earn my own living again, I h ive been a member of the
Mar cheater
“ R yal Exchange”
Far n arly thir'-y years, a-d was most heartily congratulated
on going in the roo u on Tnurs lay last. Very gratefully
yours. John Blackburn
Manchester, (Eng.) Dec. 24,1881,
Two yens later am p rfeetly well.
Prosecute tlie Swindlers J!
If when yin call for American Hop Bitters ( see green twig
of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule s name blown in the
hittle, ih* vendor hands out anything but American Hop
B.t s refuse it and shun that veudor as you would a viper;
a <i if he has taken ycur money for anything else indict him
f ir he frard and sue him tor damages for the swindle, and
we a ill pay you lihera’ly f « the conviction.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
* i EMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-sellicg Subscription Books, &c., &c.
Fall particulars free on application. Address :
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
¥
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
238 to 260 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINKS, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
'>,nd general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SIRIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACK A. Y.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and familie’.
FIRST-CL ASS CHEF. I
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON.
Proprietor.
DR. O’CONNE 1 L has Removed frem his old
quarters. Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation, to 10 am till 230 pm. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
advertia'ng, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address —
Dk. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Casti.erkagh Street,
Sydney.
The science of life,
By W. Knux Parker M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages
b und in clotb, aid contains over 100 prescrip
lions. Price, past p vid, 3s 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suite)ing frt m Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Adlress: Doc’or W, K.
Parker Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILKE HANDICAP, run May 21st.
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000;
2nd, £300; 3rd, £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£3OO, dividtd amongst them. Cash Awards—
-5 at £5O, 10 at £25, 20 at £lO, 20 at £5. 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, at d
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “ BARB,” care of T. G. Green,.
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melbome Cup, 1887, now open, 20,000 subscribers'
each 30s. First heese £lO,OOO.


T housands die annually from some form of kidney disease
that might have bten prevented by a timely use of Hop
Bitters.
Tatter sail, s Monster Consultation, Bank Handicap, run
August 1, at Canterbury; and the Spring Handicap, run
Randwick, ' ugust 27; ea f h 2000 subs , 20s. now open and
filling rapi.i y. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams. Pitt-street.
If the Sufferers from Consumption, Scrofula,
BBONCHIX.S AND GENERAL DEBILITY WILL TRY SCOTT’S
Emulsion with Hypophosphitbs they will find imme-
oi te relief and a permanent benefit. The Medical Profes-
sion in various countries of the world, universally decide it
a remedy of the greatest value; and as it is very palatable,
it can be readily taken by the most sensitive stomach ani
will never fail to give the sufferer relief and comfort.
Large and small bottles at all ehemists.
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rionby, late Mitchell,
King-street.
A young lady just from the High School married
a Sydney masher a few days ago. The masher
bought a very nice cottage in one of the beautiful
suburbs surrounded by a large paddock. The
young couple moved into it yesterday. As she
looked out on the lonesome paddock she seemed
sad, and psked her husband to buy her a cow,
which he did, and hired a man to milk it. As she
raised the first glass of fresh and pure milk to her
mouth she remarked : “ Oh, Willie, will you buy
another cow, not one that gives milk ? ” “ What
sort of a cow do you want ? ” said Willie. One
that gives the famous St. Louis Lager Beer.”*
The best periodical for ladies to take monthly and from
which they will receive the greatest benefit Is American Hop
Bitters,
NOTICE !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hookings
high-class selected old vintages, for invalids. 43 Pitt-
street. *
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney i g
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices
CHAIRS.
PIER GLASSES.
COUCHES.
SPARE
JBKDROOM.
SPARE
BEDROOM.
BEDROOM
SUITES.
CHESTS
DRAWERS, &c.
A W L E '
GREAT CENTRAL EMPOR UM
and
STEAM CABINET and UPHOI -ATERY
FACTORIES,
Sydney.
Entrance at 608 George-street.
Lawler’s Factories have held the trade of the
colonies for upwards of 26 years.
Parties FURNISHING will receive the very
best make of goods at the lowest prices at whic
sound and substantial Furniture can be sold.
Almost everyone in the colonies requires chair,
occasionally. We advise them to purchase at
LAWLER’S.
Austrian Chairs of the celebrated “Thonef
and “Turpes” make —and a guarantee with the
chairs that they will be put together in a thorough
and tradesmanlike manner:—
Austrian Chairs, 4s. 3d., 4s. 6d., ss. 6d., 7s. 6d.
American Chairs, 2s. 6d., 2s. 9d., 35., 3s. 6d.
Child’s High Rocker. Table and Perambulator
Chairs, 255.
Child’s High Table Austrian Chairs, 12s, 6d.
Large American Arm Rocking Chairs. Us. 6d.
How often at the outstart of house furnishing
does the young couple, forced to economise,
neglect that essential to every room—a neat and
ornamental Pier Glass. Surely one can save
enough by the practice of economy for a few weeks
to purchase one whilst at the following prices:—
All Gilt Pier Glass, cottage size, 255.
Ditto ditto larger size, 395.
Ditto ditto extra large 605., 80s.
Black and Gold Overmantel, 60s.
Ditto ditto with Brackets, 70s.
Walnut Overmantel, with brackets, 60s.
Ditto ditto very handsome, 70s.
Ditto ditto fit for mansion, 90s.
An assortment of Overmantles in Oak, Walnut,
and Mahogany, at prices ranging from £6
to £lB.
After the cares of a hard or a busy day’s work,
when home has been reached, and the dinner been
eaten, what more enjoyable than to puff a cloud
upon a comfortable Couch. And whilst the most
luxurious couch ever made is the glorious spring
Stuffed Eugene~a line LAWLER sells at £3 19s,
and not to be had under £5 ss. in any establish-
ment outside of London—still the fact is borne in
mind that cheaper couches are required by many.
Let price not bar the way.
All Spring-set Best Upholstered Couches, in
Cretonne, 275. 6d.
Ditto ditto, very superior and castored, 355.
Ditto ditto, extra strong and covered in
Crockett’s leather, 355.
Ditto ditto, in best hair cloth, 475. 6d.
The glorious Eugene, full size, 795.
Bedroom Box Ottomans, 405,, 505., 655.
Never before was such value offered. Never
before was legitimate and BEST UPHOLSTERED
WORK so within the reach of all.
You cannot have “ hair ” or “ Ceylon fibre ” or
“ kapok” properly cleaned and prepared unless by
steam machinery. The foreman at LAWLER’S
will willingly show the public the machines at
work.
Spare bedrooms are convenient only when the
few necessaries are in. Now, LAWLER’S can
supply
Cedar Washstand, with towel-rails attached
Set of Fancy Toilet Ware
Toilet Table and Toilet Glass
The Suite complete for 275. 6d.
Does a geutleman with a sweet and snug income
want anything better than that suite of LAW-
LER’S named “The thing itself,” and which is
capitally suited for spare or young ladies’ rooms.
Duchess Dressing Chest, with glass fixed
Marble-top Washstands
Set Handsome White and Gold Toilet ware
Towel-rail and two Cane Chairs
The Suite complete £4 15s.
And then, when suites proper, with glass-door
wardrobes, and all that’s required in the bedroom
combination are wanted, why LAWLEK’S, by all
means, if you want a first-class article at a very
low figure.
Bedroom Suites in Woods japanned, Oak,
Siberian Fir, Bird s-eye Maple, Pitch Pine,
&c.; Wardrobe, Marble Washstand, Dress-
ing-table, Glass (fixed), Towel rail, and two
Chairs, £9 10s.
Ditto, with Bevel Plate-glass Wardrobe,
Marble Washstand, Chest Drawers, Bevel
Plate-glass Dressing-table, Towel-rail, and
two Chairs, £l2 10s.
In Ash, £l7 10s., £22., £28., £37 10s.,
In Walnut, £25., £30., £38., £45.
This list would be incomplete were we not to
place those ordinary and useful articles of every-
day sale before the readers of this paper :
That large-sized Chest of Drawers at 525. 6d.
Note.—This is sold at 655. by other houses.
It has seven drawers and is in cedar, with
pine linings.
The College Chest of Drawers, 25s
The Cedar Chiffoiner Safes, 20s.
The Handsome Chiffoiner Sideboards, 50s.
The Shaped-front ditto, 555.
Dining Tables, 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d., 255.
355., 40s.
Kitchen Tables, 7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 155., 20s.
Kitchen Safes, 10s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d.
Sideboards and Dinner Waggons next engage
attention, and it is no hackneyed flgure|of speech
to say they beggar description and paralyse com
petitition. £lOOO lies waiting a turnover in side
boards and in Oak, W alnut. Mahogany, and Cedar,
you can have your choice. It is not usual to quote
sideboards, as an inspection is necessary, but a
few prices may be named as a guide—£7 10s.,
£9 10s., £l2 155., £l5 10s., £l7 10s„ £24, £2B 10s.,
£35.
Drawing-room Suites and Dining room Suites in
newest styles, and in English and Continental
coverings are with LAWLER as much of a
speciality as Bedsteads and Bedding, and that is
putting comparisons as far as they can be put.
L
CARPETS,
FLOORCLOTHS
and
LINOLEUMS.
One immense Showroom
devoted to Carpets and Mat
tings alone. Ground is too
valuable in George-street to
give that space to a single de-
partment unless prices were
cut low to admit of business.
LAWLER’S.
608 GEORGE STREET,
STDNST,
A POLICE SECRET.
‘"Well boys I don’t mind sayin’ that I'm tired
out on this lay. I’ve watched the red-headed little
out-law for hours, and followed him all over the
city, but I never could catch him at his lit tie game ’
“Och ! Sargint dear, it was the wrong man yez
were shadowin’. Shure the villain was fornenst
me the other night wid the chalk in his flsht, and a
fine intilligent looking’ man he was, wid a gift of
spaich like the Praymeer, barrin’ that he had a red
nose,”
“ Well, then, I believe ye’re both wrong, for
from information received I’m told on good
authority that he‘s an honest man, who was
brought up for the Church, and lost his way, and
got to be a newspaper reporter, and then he got
the rheumatics sitting up all night when the
stonewalling was on, and got cured with St.
Jacobs oil, and this is only his way of advertising
it out of gratitude, for he says it saved him an
‘ eternity ’of suffering. But here comes the in-
spector.”
“ Now men. I’m very soiry to have to speak
to you again on the subject, but the fact is it’s a
disgrace to the city and to the force. This chalk
scribbler on the walls has had a pretty long
jubilee of his own now, and you don’t appear to be
able either to stop him or“catch him. The public
buildings, the banks, the places of worship, and
even the newspaper ofticss are defaced by this
snuftiebusting ruffian. His gratitude to St
Jacobs oil for the cure of his disease may burst
him and scatter his ashes to the winds for all I
care, but you must see that he tat es some other
way of showing it than by chalking hog-wash all
over the walls and giving the place the look of a
lunatic assylum in the eyes of our visitors. Now.
you hear me, and if you don’t see to this at once
I’ll make some of you sit up before the week is
out.”
And as the inspector disappeared in the thick
fog which enveloped the city on that evening, a
body of determined men sallied forth to capture
the insect whose gratitude for his recovery from
rheumatism through the agency of St. Jacobs oil
has caused him to adopt such an anusual method
f impressing its virtues on his fellow sufferers.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF LADIES
ONLY.
CUT THIS OUT AND TAKE CARE OF IT.
Dr. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET is a gentle
and pleasant support, encircling the waist with
neat and accurate fit, and aiding by the vitr lising
properties of e 1 ectricity the functions of the
nervous organisation Worn by the ladies of the
principal Royal Families of Europe, by the elite
of American and Continental Society, they are
daily endorsed by tens of thousands, and as they
do not exceed in cost the ordinary goods of other
makers, without the electricity or therapeutic
value of any kind, who will refuse to give tt em a
trial ?
The mind becomes active, the nerves and
sluggish circulation are stimulated, and all the old-
time health and good-feeling come back. They
are constructed on scientific principles, imparting
an exhilarating, health giving current to the
whole system. Professional men assert that there
is hardly a disease which Electricity or Magnetism
may not benefit or cure, and they daily practise
the same, as your own physician will inform you.
The Corsets no not differ in appearance from
those usually worn, as we substitute our flat steel
magnitods in place of the ordinary corset steel s.
Thev are all equally charged, differing only in
quality and design. They are elegant in shape
and finish, made after the best French pattern,
and warranted satisfactory in every respect.
Those who have tried them say they will wear no
others.
The persistent use of these Corsets will banish
the most dissressing cases o f Hysteria, Cutaneous
Disease, Nervousness. Back-ache, Indigestion,
Palpitation, &c.
They are sent out in a handsome box
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get lh- m in your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland upon receipt of price
named, with Is. fid. added; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamps] to cover full
postage.
In ordering, kindly state exact size of Corset
usually worn ; or where the size is not known,
take a measurement of the waist over the linen.
This can be done with a piece of common string,
which send with your order.
NEW STOCK JUST RECEIVED.
PRICES.
s. d.
No. 1 Corset 6 6
No, 2 Corset 8 6
No 3 Corset 10 6
No. 5 Corset 15 0
Electric Belts ••• 15 0
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION, 56,
MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
The invaluable Waterbary would not be the
cheapest watch in the world if it could not be re
paired at a low cost. But if anything goes wrong
with it the owner has only to take or send it to
the offices of the Waterbury Watch Company at
54, Margaret-street, where it can be repaired
at'a cost according to its requirements, but in no
case exceeding 2s. 6d. unless by mutual consent.
The cost of transmission by post or parcel delivery
on watches sent from the old country must be pre-
paid, and a sufficient amount to cover return
charges and cost of repair forwarded at the same
Hitia- If sent in the box in which the Waterbury
ta sold, the postage fee is 3d. each way.
All the life-assurance offices have heavily
reduced their premiums since the introduction of
Marie Brizard’s brandies to the Australian market.
Those who drink them never die.
Adelaide is a city of churches. That is no
doubt the reason why a peculiarly indecent full
length picture of a young lady, which was inter-
dicted at Melbourne as being too tropical for any-
thing but a bagnio, finds a welcome and prominent
place in the Adelaide Art Gallery.
The shipping record, named after its pros-
perous and worthy prototype of San Francisco,
the Guide, has recently assumed an air of greater
importance. It has been enlarged to an eight-
paged paper, and is filled up with the right kind
of shipping news. It is in the right hands to
succeed.
A PM. JOKE.
“Waiter, I’ll give you a shilling if you bring me my coffee without slopping it over
into the saucer.”
[The Waiter, an ingenious person, as will he seen, earned his shilling. This joke is labelled
“P.M.,"-post-mortem, we presume.]
The Colonies and India, an idiotic
weekly published for the gratification of colonials
who go “home” to loaf round the throne, or as
near as they can get thereto, announces that
“ Alligators have lately been seen on the Queens-
land coast.” Which reminds us that there are
milestones on the Dover road, or at all events
there used to be.
The James Kellys are getting into trouble
in Melbourne. One is up for (as alleged) defraud-
ing the Customs, and another on a charge of
diddling the railway authorities. Thus the Kellys
would appear to be thoroughly “ agin the Govern-
ment.” Kelly and whisky are names not unlikely
to be associated, and one of the J.K’s. —who was
employed as a watchman at the Spencer-street
goods sheds—is said to have annexed two quarts
of old malt. James is reported to have been
found provided with all the implements necessary
to securing the comfort of poor watchmen out of
a cowld nigbt—a chisel, gimlet, pincers, and,
though last not least useful, a corkscrew.
A man advertises in the S.M. Herald :
“I, , caution all persons who spread re-
ports about that I am a married man.” If it is
libel ous to say a man is married, we presume that
the more he’s married the greater the libel.
Kinsman, the champion marrying parson
(and auctioneer) of Collingwood, told a reporter
recently that once he married a couple
for charity, and his wife fossicked up a
ring in the auction room which she gave to the
bride. We have never heard of a man marrying
his fellow-creatures for “ charity,” but we have
heard of a man who married people for revenge.
The Rev. Tenison-Woods, who has been
travelling in savage parts up in the East, is exer-
cised in his mind as to how Chinamen and tigers
make an honest livelihood in some places where
there is no Parkes Government to look after the
unemployed. He says, in the S.M. Herald,
“But it has always seemed an extraordinary
puzzle to me how a tiger can make a living where
a nhinnmnn can not.” Why, of course, because a
tiger must he more industrious than a Chinaman,
The almond-eyed labourers are “tigers” at wash-
ing, but the tigers are the champion manglers.
Sir Archibald Michie, Q. 0., of Melbourne,
tells a yarn about the early days of East St.
Kilda, when he first settled down there. The
place was then bush and slush and there were
few and widely-separated houses. Mr. Michie
was out late dining one night and couldn’t find
his way home. He tapped at the door of a cottage
where he saw light and asked the man who came
to the door to kindly inform him where was Mr.
Michie’s house. The man looked at him incredul-
ously and said, “ Why, you’re Mr. Michie him
self.” “Oh, I know I’m Mr. Michie,” replied
Archie, “ but I want his house.”


674
■GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD KILL, SYDNEY,
i , mu jim n-uu
ia the Only Address of the
DIRECT SUPPLY
IMPORTING EIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
in fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every pescription of
■Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanams
CELEBRATED
mu mi
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
o/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
Am erican Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c.
m
fJL.
ism
U _
o
ACCORDBONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
„ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality; Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-,
~ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
„ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
4/6, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £ISL
, Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/-
, Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
-«/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-. 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
.674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
HEAD OFFICE =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £3i,661 4s. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 44 per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
t
C 5«
manufacturers
h IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS &c
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY
//
h\
Lr
tA?
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABBRGK
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
, M . RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
'4B ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kind* of
infidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
ivoroe. libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
vision and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
-carriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
tents and debts collected. From K. M. R.’s long experience
i the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
tew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
lebe, be Is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
cpsulti ,u and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
- ‘or .r attend to all business entrusted to b care
a
tlCU
m
im
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
wlo
V/
Scrofula on Keck*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Bores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cdticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story; I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the' best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and go |
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies
which have cured me, and left nay skin and blood 1
as pure as a child’s. Send for dur sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puti-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly fox external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
3for Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
Oi throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
‘iz ■i.'/ud. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
fi.D, Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
i>r;- <cvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
or- ’■...• .'le.
Prepared bt the
Polfpv ' ' mg & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
undean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches , no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are in this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
B
RADj & Y. NB W T ON, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFOKTB
WARKHOUSKMBN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.— side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
(ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
EIL
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tlon, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. £2T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up.
bolstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
V-4. V..
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
mi
Drawing boom cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUBNIIUBB WABBHOUSBMBir,
Importers, of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ţ
i*«P PIANOFORTE,
d&OO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
ť
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sts.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street,
ŧ
EDSTEADS, all situ
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Gonnell and Spring Streets,
4
SPRING MATTRASSEB
Woven Wire, bet t
make s also, Spiral Sprint ■
Price, from Us. each.
S?RAT?T,IBT. KSOTOV «n* T.AUP.
CHKAP FUKNITUKK.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from I2s. 6d.)
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.) Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side-
boards, from S3los,| Clothes Horses. frnrv !oa. fld,
wrltfnf Tahirs, with drawers, from 6iia.
wwato.pt. and ukb,


Thanktul for Small Mercies.
GOVERNOR CARING TON (log.): “GENTLEMEN, I AM COMMANDED BY HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY TO CONVEY TO YOU HER THANKS FOR THE GREAT SUCCESS ACHIEVED AT OUR SPLENDID MEETING.”
IpEP
