

The Bulltetin
WHOEVER, WHATEVER, WHEREVER YOU ARE,
IT IS TO YOUR ADVANTAGE TO READ THIS.
* °cery
Fkw Choice Links.
‘.&C
tin
:
KS& 1 " ■:
::
Sfi&S*:::
X?'' lin° , qt *
■ JfcSfei/ite'sjt
12 fUv uu ” 11111
« r£ Urs > bottle
bot i®’ 10d and is.
J oB ’ each...
£***’ *«*, l b . tin
iSSt? 5 "
kNw’> ’Landis. 8c
::: -
and 10d -
lK^ y tin -
•-
•••
K« *">«•. iibt
I:
N}^
Tin ::
Q' ?’ V 8 IQer Pc
::
I’lf'C* 8, 6 h*
iVt 1 '
to/;* <*>,,
wics*
SK* 1 ?
£ b. d.
0 10
0 0 9
0 0 6
0 13
0 0 4
0 0 8
0 0 6
0 l 0
0 0 6
0 10
0 0 7
0 18
0 10
0 0 8
0 13
0 2 0
0 1 0
0 2 3
0 19
0 2 '9
0 4 6
0 0 9
0 2 3
0 0 9
0 10
0 0 10
0 10
0 2 6
0 0 3
0 13
0 12
0 0 6
0 10
0 12
0 0 10
0 2 0
0 0 10
0 0 9
0 0 9
0 3 3
0 0 6
0 2 0
0 0 10
0 2 6
0 2 6
0 12
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 14
0 16
0 1 0
0 0 9
0 3 6
0 0 6
0 0 8
0 10
0 16
0 2 6
0 16
0 2 6
0 0 3
0 0 10
0 16
0 13
0 13
0 0 2
0 10
0 0 8
0 0 10
0 0 8
0 16
0 16
0 0 9
0 16
0 18
df
Musical Instruments.— Continued.
Flutes-Is. 6d., 3s. 6d., os. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. fid.,
10a., 155., to £lO.
Comets—loa , 50a., 755., 1055., 130 s. to £lB.
Drums— £3" to £5.
Harmoniums (in Walnut or Black and Gold), from
£9.
Pianos (w a i nu t, Rosewood, Ebonized), £35, £45,
£5O, £55.
Organs—£l3 10s., £lB, £22, £25, £3O.
Dominoes, per box. Is. and Is. 3d.
Diamond Djes. all colours, dye your clothes or
make best inks, packet, 6d.
Garden Pump, Fire Engine, and Lawn Sprinkler
combined, 10a.
Lawn Mowers, 40a.
Sewing Machines, fitted on inlaid walnut polished
table, with cover, 1265.
Tents, Tarpaulins, «Scc-
Tents, each 12a. to 28s. 6d.
Fiys, each 6s 6d to 20s.
Oiled Covers, per square yard, Is. 9d,
Tarpaulins, all sizes. 12a. to 110 s.
Horse Covers, each 6s. 3d. and 9s.
Water Hags, each 2a 6d and 3s
Verandah Buckets, each ss. and os. 9d.
Oilskin Clothing, lowest prices.
Verandah Blinds, bamboo, 7s. to 17s. 6d.
Water Filters, from Bs. 6d.
Water Filters for Taps, reversible, self-cleansing,
sizes in stock f, f, and one inch, price each
3s. 6d.
Paperhangings, per roll, 3|d. to 3s.
“ North Star " Washboards, solid zinc, last a life*
time, each 2s. 6d.
Agricultural—Garden and Flower
Seeds.
Our 10s. 6i. Collection includes 27 packets of
Vegetable and 6 packers of Flower Seed
Our 21a Collection includes 44 packets of Vege-
table and 12 packets of Flower Seeds.
Collection of Flower Seeds, 12 varieties, for 2s. 6d.
and 5s
Complete Price List for Trees, Plants, Shrubs, and
Nursery Stock, post free.
Tanks, water, from 100 to 1000 gallons, fitted
comple e, from 2jd per gallon.
Tanks, iron, 200 and 400 gallons, 40s. and 70s.
each.
Beer Engines, 1,2, and 4 pull, £2 10s., £lO 10s. and
£l6.
Champa me Stands, for bar counters, 355. each.
Ice Che*rs, 35a , £4, and £5 ss.
Ice-cr<*am Freezars, 155., 18s., 215., 245., 275. 6d. t
32a.
Garden or Verandah Seats, 325. 6d., 35a., 375. 6d.,
405., 425. 6d., 45*.
Saus-ige Macaines, Ba. 6d., 10s. 6d., 11s., 14s.
each.
Sausage Skins, per lb., Is. 6i.
Wringing Machines, 17s. fid. and 18s. 6d.
-Pumps, suction, 155., 15s fid . 16s. fid., 205., 255.
Pump , suction and force. 475. fid., 55* , 625. 6d.
Safes, meat, 10s. Ci., 13* fid , 155., 16*. 6d.
Spades, garden, fis , 6*. 64., and 7s. fid.
Tools, grafting, 4s. and 4a. fid set.
Watches, Waterhury, 13s. fid each.
Ha'vey’s Patent Lamps. 18s., 205., 30*.. 375. 6d.
Hitchcock's Atmospheric Letups, 275. 6d. each.
Climax Lamps 15s.
Toilet Services, 6 pieces, 10s., 12s. fid., 16s. 6d.,
17s. fid., 20s.
Toilet Services, 5 pieces, 75., 95., 11s., 13s. fid.,
14s. fid.
Tea Services. 40 pieces, 12s. fid., 19s. 6d., 235,,
27». fid. 32*. 61., 375. fid.
Cups and Saucers, white and gold, largest size,
dozen, ss. fid.
Cups and Saucers, common, dozen, 4s.
Basins, dozen 35., 3s. 6d., 4s.
Teapots, biown lOd. to 2*. 6d.
Plates, large, medium, small, dozen, 3s , 45., sa.
Tumblers, 35., 3*. fid., 3a. 9d., 4s. 3d., 4a. fid
dozen.
Wineglasses, 3s. Gd., is., 5a.. Gs., to 13s. Gd.
Claret or Hock Glasses, is. 9d. dozen
Milk Testers, pints, 3s. each.
Water Bottles, hand painted, red, each 6s.
Butter Coolers, hand painted, red, each 7s.
Flower per dozen Is 3d. to As.
Saucers, pBr dozen Is 3d to 9s.
Bread Pans, per gal. 2s.
Boots and Shoes.
(Direct from Factory.)
Men’s Bluchers, ss. 9d., 65., 7s. 6<L
Men's Shooting Boots, 11s. 3d. and 12s. 6d.
Men’s 8.5., 6s. Gd., Bs., Bs. 6d., 9s.
Youths’ Balmorals, 7s. 3d.
Youths’ E.S , 6s.
Youths' Bluchers, Is Gd., is. 9d.
Boys’ Bluchers, 4s. 3d.
Boys’ Balmorals, ss. 3d.
Boys’ K.S., 4s. 9d.
Women’s Balmorals, ss. Gd., 7s. 3d., Bs.
Women’s E.S , ss. 9d., 7s. 3d.
Girls' Balmorals, 4s. 3d., ss. 3d., ss. 9d.
Girls’ E.S., 4s. 9d , ss. 6d.. 6s. 3d.
Children’s Balmorals, 4s. 6d., ss.
Children’s E S., 35., 3s. Gd., 3s 9d., 4s. 3d.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers.
Gun, 5.8., 8.L., from £4 to £8 10s.
Gun, D.B , 8.L., from £4 15a. to £45.
Gun, 5.8., M.L , from £1 15s. to £9.
Gun, D. 8., M.L., from £2 to £lO.
Rifle, Saloon, from £1 to £4.
Rifles, Sporting, £4 to £lO.
Revolvers from 10s. to £5 10s.
Colt’s New Lightening Rifles, 1G shots—the most
perfect weapon ever introduced, £6 6s.
Air Guns, £1 10s. to £2 10s.
Sportsman’s Requisites; all kinds.
Athletic Sports,
Cricket Bats, All Cane Handles, 15s. 6d. 16s. 6d.
17s 6d., 18s., 205., 215., 255. ’ *
Bats, Single Cane, 12s. 6d., 13s. Gd.
Bats, Double Cane, 15s. 6d., 16s. Gd.
Youths’ Bats, Bs. 6d to 13s. 6d.
Matting Wicket £3 to £6
Balls, Duke’s, 6a. Gd., 7s 6d., Bs. Gd.
Leg Guards, per pair, 10a. Gd., 12s. Gd., 13s. 6d.
Gloves, Wicket, 10s. Gd., 12a. Gd., 13s 6d. perpair,
Globes, Batting, Ba. Gd., 10s perpair.
Stumps, per set, 75., 10s. Gd , 12a. Gd., 13s. 6d.
Full List of Cricketer’s Requisites on application,
Foo balls, 6s to 17s. 6d.
Lawn Tennis Sets, Complete, £3 35., £4 4s. £4
15a., £8 10s.
Rackets, 155., 17s. Gd
Balls, per dozen, 7s. Gd., Bs. 6d., 12a., 155., 16s. 6d
Croquet Bets Complete, for 8 players, 30s. to £4 IQs
Fencing Foils, Bs. Gd., 10s. Gd., 12s. 6d.
Dumb Bills. Is. to 7s 6d. per pair.
Indian C.ubs, Ba.. Ba. Gd , 95.. 10s., 11s., 12s. pair,
Skittles, per set, complete, £3 os'.
Cheese for Skittles, x B . 9d.
Horiz mtal Bars, 30 s.
Trap-ze Bars, 10s Gd.
Boxing G'oves, per pair. lOef.'Gd., 12s. Gd., 15s. Gd.
17s. 6d , 20s , 22 s. Gd
Bicycles, from £9 10s. to £2O.
Tricycles, Two Track £2O.
Tricjcles, Tandem. £27.
Childrens’ Tricycles and Bicycles, £6 each.
Bagatelle Tables, £32
Bdliard Tables, £44 to £l2O.
Billiard Room Furniture and Sundries at Sydne
liot prices.
Saddlery .and Harness.
English Buggy Harness, 90s. to 2305. the set.
Yankee Bum gy Harness, GOs. to 140 s. the set.
Colonial Spring Cart Harness, 84s. the Set.
Clothing Hi rse Linen, 28s. suit.
Prince’s Check, 525. Gd. suit.
Kersey, GOs suit.
Collars, P. ft. Buggy, 13s. Gd. each.
„ Yankee Buggy, 16s 6d. each.
~ Cart, 11 s. and 12s Gd. each.
~ Spring Cart, 12s. each.
Saddles —English—Riding.
Gents’, 50s to 120 s. each.
Ladies, 84s. to 140 s each.
Racing. 60s. and 70s. each. &c., & 0 . &o.
kinds of Drapery, Clothi g, Tinware, Iron, Ironmongery, Oils, Paints, Colors, Varnishes and Painting Sundries,
Bottles. Bottling and Mineral Water Manufacturing Requisites, India Rubber Goods, Watches, Clocks
r /> Carts Waggons, Dr*ys, Buggies, Express Waggons, Ploughs, Harrows, Cornsnelltrs. Churns, Butchers’
and Blacksmiths’ Requisites, etc, etc.., will be sent post free on application.
1
R 80 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
and IMPORTERS’ FORWARDING AGENTS,
*
***• INQUIRIES regarding goods or prices quoted should be addressed.
KST GOODS SHIPPED TO ALL PARTS OF THE COLONIES.


dfg
m
W.H.PALINC&eH
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
_ Organ f Music Importers,
largest stock and Veatest Variety in Australia -ftvtng the
HtdiLJthe Widest^possible choice.-PIANOS from £4o, ORGANS from £l2-
* PAYMENT BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SIHT ALL CUSTOMERS
tmUOSlfe PALING 3,0 PULING & &
Ward man'Bros.
&
eniM/iiia
»nmnuibninnlm>»uuMiiMMM»u*
/<
Gou>f*Sr*t>f
AA»
Trcacu
RfftNffiS
SDK
WCiTiDiHS
*uu> Office i Factory. Newtown
BRANCH, CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
LOAN,
THE AUSTRALIAN
DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
HEAD OFFICE] =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
w SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 Is. STERLING.
AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUN AND PIN AN
BE AUSTRALIAN c^oMp^ N y. limited,
OVERDRAFTS AGAINST DEPOSITS
OP DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 44 per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS. H
Dfinoiitofs can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
IpSJto d.B08lte“ without notice, and will be allowed current
limit for the period of depoiit.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS. vg£
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
CAUTION.
I!HE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the Uuited Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
'‘Globe’’ nails, and which are exported from
Bwmany.
The in question are made of inferior metal,
Mid are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.B-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
pare that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. 8. HASSEON, Secretary.
115 Caxmon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
w
ILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Trayellers and Families will And the old well-
mown reputation maintained.
IMPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE,
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
IV First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings The “Western Cham-
pion" says i “ I can recommend the Rockhampto*
Masonic to my western friends.”
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westport.)
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilate d
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected In above
town, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To a, 1 Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dcloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
W hy suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion 1b the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
H, i, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohcmlst,
681 Qoorge-atreat only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at aIL His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. O’CONNELL,
|Edgar House
Comer Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY,
w
£ ORIGINAL
5A KINC
P
%
0
WAUGHS
OBTAINED A
ri|ST class awarq
OR
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!'
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUG H’S
RECC IVF.DTHE JNTF ON4U
PR I X E MED At
Manufactured b yJamesChanhon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Crocers and store&«cj)crs
w
JE*:
SON*S
: I
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
iv£o^r^:’s
NKW ZEAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hoapita
Corps; also from eminent Dootors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital.
■im
TAWHIA®.
MONK'S«
PILE MIXTURE.
2e. 6d. per Bottle.
(’Ask (or it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
nVEOISTIKI’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bott e.
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE, 5
2s. 6d. per bottle, 1
Sole Agents:
MATH'S Y, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
41 Littlk Collins trekt East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMEKCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Hiad Office: Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. S. CUKTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to inform the nnmeroue
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take eharge ol
tho SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of tho Hotel. Coaoheb
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry Sc Bolton),
SHUNBURST HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN.
HE
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITEI
B”? 11 . ‘*»* |one ryi «nd time, writing mnoh taste
tn»n expert pan-men, end eondemlng matter to lei* tha
„ .L h L ? , 00 ° u P le ' 1 bp pen writing. Beautift)
eoplei map be taken in the usual manner in the letter, preu
void wholesale and retail bp the sole agents,
IMRAY ft 00.,
410 Kent-street,
ATI 0103 31MV0D
sSssssr
nMtf £ROS 9 UOSXLQ.
"‘MOidWVHO^,
fIOHTIVM^
qiflooa 33)1 KVA
J l U U JlfOS * RCSttO
■wOHafI&NOO
u w 6J?O 5 » ND?rta
c
MANUFACTURERS
»importers of
HATS CAPS U
438 C EO RCEST
SYDNEY %
p
VA
i
H 0& 1
GRAND
BUNDABER 0,
Under New Manag®^
- tH s^
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM W
PLUNGE AND SHOW® b
—'“l reß fo rß9ofl
Good Stabling, and Loose do
'
DRAWING-ROOM ff o Jiji
Having engaged a flrs6 ' c l^f't-cla 08 9t^ 0 '
to cater for the public in ®
ALF.
RUSTON PKOCTOK & "
“ TRIUMPH ” ppr
" n - Fto 17 *
Simon's Roller System 0
Soie Age®*' a ($»
E. O. ELLIO^
54T KENT
THE GREAT
Charlotte
nort
K.
H A K * }>
DOZ Ssr2®
- - ’OF ASSO»‘"j,J llli''-
WIIIS, SPIRITS,
you please from the Uat o/ ' aScoffib 11 M
Robertson's, Walker or Ro*»>»!, %%* *. '« ft
Dunvllle's Shamrock and Burw
Brian Bora Whisky
Hennessy’s * Oognao
n-a
• " sf
. F jj ji
" «
, P 6 «*•
IW%- (<
Square Oin ..
Jamaloa Rum
Red Heart do. .. ,•• .. 0 r
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies o( js
English Ales and Stout, best or lflf »lio«
Port Wine for connoisseurs ana J
Bnperio,
late of Wellington (N.Z.), w fv* e atit a ’
Quests will receive every “, wft yg nr
Wines, Spirits, and Beers an*
papers kept on file.*
df
HI
NCPi'
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
LARGE
luN&
NEWESTDE
\0
HIGHEST
at
COST
lowest
>
LOCOMOTIVES,
estimated
ill
Sydney:
111, Pin STREET-
0


The Bulltetin
Vol. B—No. 897.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1887.
Price., od.
la BEggßiM . l c_ r _
IMAGINE THE FEELINGS OF SIR HENRY.
"Caesar, Thou Art Mighty Yet."
Mr. Garrett told the people of Cudal (in the presence of Sir Henry Parkes!) that he was preparing h[?] new Land Bill under the advice of Sir John Robertson.


“THE BULLETIN”
(Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co.,
Limited.)
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT’ STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 os. Od.
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12s. Ocl.
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques, Drafts, <tc., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F, Archibald.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not icish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1887.
The Barristers’ Monopoly.
Althotjgh as a community New South Wales
has just reason to pride herself on the general
consistency of her institutions with pure
demociatic ideas, there still exist a few
effate remnants of old conservative traditions
which remain untouched by the billows of
the on-rushing democracy. Sofar as these are
concerned their existence is due solely to the
fact that they play no vital part of opposition
to the true spirit of the colony. In a
general sense the country’s path is still on-
ward to the fuller democratic ideal. We say
in a general sense because in New South
Wales there is one profession so barred about
by monopoly and fenced in by privilege as
to form an evil and striking exception. We
allude, of course, to the legal profession.
There are many crying anomalies in con-
nection with the lower branch of the pro-
fession, but it is with some of the strange
and impudent assumptions of the so-called
upper branch, as they are indicated in the
rules for admission to the New South Wales
Bar, that we now propose to deal.
* * *
Some ten years ago the first Barristers’
Admission Board, consisting of Martin,
Faucett, Manning, Dalley, Darley, and
Foster formulated, under an act of Parlia-
ment, certain rules for the admission of
barristers. These rules may be considered
as framed in a tolerably fair spirit, if we
except three provisions they contained. The
first of these objectionable provisoes related
to the examination fees exacted from the can-
didates. These, in the aggregate, amounted,
and still amount, to £so—an exorbitant sum
for the State to extort from a man on his
entrance into the profession by which he
expects to subsist. How many non-lawyers
are there, great and honoured in English
history for their intellectual achievements,
who never had such a sum of money in their
possession at any one time, and who would,
consequently, have be en prevented from reach-
ing the Bar of New South Wales had they
lived in this favoured clime under the dis-
pensation at present existing ? Bad as this
is, it was surpassed by a second disability
which provided that when the aspirant to
the Bar passed his initial examination he
had to undergo a novitiate ranging from
twelve months to three years before admis-
sion to his second or final examination.
Having been charged in money, the
candidate was now to be charged in
time. No reason was advanced for this,
simply because no reason existed. In other
countries the examinations in the various
subjects are simultaneous, and by this means
the operation is considerably shortened.
Tfiere can be no reason why a man should
not be admitted to the Bar as soon as he is
fit to go to it but the very sinister one that,
having, a good fat monopoly in their hands,
the Barristers’ Admission Board, and through
them the Bar itself, wish to make the way
as difficult as possible to those who desire to
share in the plunder. The harassing effect
of this disabling provision was heightened by
a thiid rule to the effect that during this
period of probation the embryo barrister
should pursue no occupation besides study-
ing for his profession other than in the
nature of a literary pursuit. As there are
very few men at, or aspiring to, the Bar who
could make a decent living at literary work,
it followed that tne rule practically amounted
to a provision enacting that during his novi-
tiate the candidate should be a gentleman at
large, with at least sufficient means to keep
him in idleness for 12 months.
* * ft
This latter provision needs no comment.
Taken in conjunction with those preceding,
it plainly indicated the intention of keeping
the Bar for the sons of the wealthy. The
concession allowing candidates to follow a
liteiary pursuit was perhaps a sop to the
power of the Press ; but more probably it
arose from some lingering feelings of respect
which Martin and Dalley felt for the pro-
fession they had themselves not unsuccess-
fully followed in their younger and more
vigorous days. It might be imagined that
these rules were restrictive enough even for
so conservative a profession as the Bar
notoriously has ever been. The assumption
of the power to say what a man’s occupa-
tion shall or shall not be is one of the most
arbitrary imaginable. If a man spent bis
time burning bones, or came, like Cincin-
natus, fresh from the plough, with the
scent of the newly-turned soil hanging to
his clothes, what would that have to do with
his qualification for the Bar if only his head
were crammed with its quips and quibbles to
the extent deemed necessary.
• * *
With the disappearance of Dalley from
the Board, the death of Martin, and the
accession of Darley to the Chief Justice-
ship came a new departure. The present
Roman-faced Chief Justice has always been
as great a Conservative as if the bluest
blood of the biggest Norman butcher who
came over to England with William the
Bastard coursed through his veins. The
rules were not Conservative enough for him
in the state above described, and new re-
gulations were promptly made, extend-
ing the term of probation to three
years, and striking out the provision
allowing the candidate to support him-
self by literary labour. .As the rules
now stand, the aspirant to the Bar must
pay his fee of fifty guineas to the
examiners, and remain for a period of three
years dependant on his private fortune.
This summarily disposes of any ambitious
man of limited means who dares to fix his
eye on the Bar of New South Wales, and
hands that profession over finally to the
curled darlings of fortune whose sires possess
fat banking accounts and mansions near Sir
Frederick Darley’s at Edgecliffe Road, or
in some equally aristocratic location. The
provision excluding law students from fol-
lowing a literary pu> suit whilst reading for
the Btir is a curious one. It is needless to
say that it docs not exist in England or Ire-
land, or France, and, as far as we know, New
South Wales is the only country in the world
where such a rule is enforced. Had it been
the case “ at home ” some of the brightest
ornaments of the English and Irish Bar
would never have become lawyers. Some
of these are men who would have left a per-
manent imprint upon the literature of their
country had they adhered to a literary occu-
pation, and whose traces even now are far
from faint. Many law students and young
barristers, both in England and Ireland,
have been glad and proud to supplement
incomes by writing for the Press, and per-
haps even the masterful Sir Frederick him-
self, when he was a sucking barrister hanging
about the Four Courts of Dublin, would have
been very glad to do the same. The will to
write an article for the Press must, however,
be backed up by something more—the power
—and we trust that no early failures in this
direction have embittered the Chief Justice
against the liteiary profession. Of Mr. Jus-
tice Innes no such thing as sympathy with
the literary profession could be expected,
and it is highly satisfactory to that profes-
sion that ho has displayed none. He has
now at least the credit of being sincere.
Judge Faucett has done many better things
in his career than assenting to these new
rules, and his conduct is - a disappointment.
Obstinate and irrational as the late Chief
Justice was in many of his views regarding
the Press, no such tule would have passed
in his lifetime. He knew too well, and
was indeed himself a striking example of the
remarkable efficacy of a training on the
Press for the legal profession. The habits
of clear, logical, and systematic thought, ex-
pressed in concise and lucid phraseology,
with the faculties of perception and order for
which, as an advocate and a judge, he was so
remarkable, are essential qualifications
in every good leader-writer; and if
every member of the New ibouth Walts
Bar possessed these powers, the business of
the Courts would be transacted much more
speedily, and the addresses of advocates
shorn of much of their useless verbosity. It
is not our intention to slight the literary
profession by instituting a comparison be-
tween it and that of law, and we presume
that even the self-assurance of Mr. Justice
Innes is unequal to the assertion that there
is anything mentally deteriorating in a
literary pursuit. Why then are students-at-
law debarred from following such a pursuit ?
M-ny barristers are glad to follow it and
augment their professional incomes by con-
tributing to the columns of the Sydney Press
whenever opportunity offers. By what
peculiar force of reasoning is that made
right and decorous for a man who has already
a highly protected means of livelihood, and
forbidden to him who is merely struggling
to gain that profession ? We think the
cause rests in that miserable spirit of Con-
servatism which marks the action of at least
Chief Justice Darley and one of his col-
leagues. It is the spirit of the miser who,
the more gold he has stowed away in his
chest, the greater grows his lust for an
increase. Beyond all right, beyond all
reason, the Bar was protected previously,
and it wanted but this straw to break
down the long-suffering of the people who
have so patiently submitted to this bloated
monopoly for such a lengthened period.
The iniquity of the rules for admission to
the Bar are increased by the reflection that
lisping nonentities from England and Ire-
land may and do come to Australia in
flocks, and are admitted without question
or difficulty, while it may be that men of
high character and sterling intellectual
powers, because they are natives of the
colony, are shut out by the gang of lawyers
from other countries, who hold the chief
positions here and use their power to plot
politically and otherwise against the native-
born Australian. Not only are Australians
not encouraged, but bs will be seen by what
we have pointed out they are actually pro-
hibited, while shoals of incompetents from
other places are encouraged to come here
and usurp the positions, properly the prize
of tfc e Australian —a noble instance, surely, of
Freetrade ! Parliament will not do its duty
if a single session is allowed to pas 3 before
some means are taken to rectify this dis-
graceful anomaly ; and if, when the mono-
poly of the legal profession is attacked, the
blow levelled at the root of the tree should be
a vengeful one, those only will be to blame
who forced the insolence of monopoly past
the bounds of human patience.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Prospectors’ Reward.
They have a fine old Conservative dislike towards
prospectors for gold in the region around Moree,
N.S W. Up that way, of course, anybody not a
sheep or cattle grazier is looked upon as a
pariah, fit only to be cast out of the d strict into
the “less happier lands” where squatterdom
does not reign supreme. A squatter in that part
discovered, the ether day, a trio of enterprising
argonauts industriously raking the gullies hereto-
fore sacred to his flocks and herds in search of the
precious. He scented danger to his intere 1 ts from
afar off, and, haviDg certain suspicions, set
earnestly to work with the object of ridding his
station of the invaders. The, hut of the diggers
was searched, and 151 b. of salted meat found in
a cask. Some distance off the skull of a calf was
discovered. This was enough. The upfortupate
men were dragged into Moree and charged with
havii g meat in their possession fpp which they
could not yield a satisfactory account. The
butcher who supplied the diggers came forward
and made a plain statement to the effect that the
meat in question was part, of what he had sold to
the accused a week or, so previously, but the
squatter's men said they had missed a calf, and
accordingly the bench fined the diggers £7O and
costs, with the option of four months hard labour.
Not having the £7O, and tbe c6sts, which, aggre-
gated about £lO more, the poor devils ha(l to go
off to gaol. The Moree people are not a little in
dignant at the result. The diggers, they say, are
remarkably honest men, natives of that
part of the country, aLd favourably known
to many as industrious and plodding and deserving
men. They talk of appealing to Attorney-General
Wise, and all that sort of thing. But surely they
must be not much superior intellectually to Jus-
tice Jnnes’ “gullible dolts,” if they suppose there
is any chance of redress in appealing to the Crown
Law Department. About the time* these victims
of justices’ justice have performed their four,,
months in prisoD, an answer will be forthcoming
from the Attorney-General or his successor to
the effect that the matter will be duly investi-
gated and reported cn, and a few months after
the men have completed their term they
will doubtless be informed that they ape
“pardoned” for an oflVnca they never com-
mitter 1 , A fine country, N.B. Whales, fpr gold,pro-
spectors. Like all other native industries, the
search for mineral wealth is being warmly en-
couraged by Parkes, Burns, and Wise. If
things go on much more in the direction of
developing the resources of the land under the
Freetrade methods, no doubt by and by we shall
have counties! gold-diggers—in the asylums for
the destitute or the gaols. As fer having any at
work, that is a condition outside the desiderata
the Freetrade gang have set themselves to pro-
duce. Give t,hem squatters and calico jimmies in
fair numbers, and they are content for the rest
with a strong body of police and a few hired
magistrates.
The Wealth of New South Wales.
We have kept this item waiting for, nearly three
weeks, so that Parkes might enjoy his holiday at,
Adelaide undisturbed, but the time has come
when he must either explain himself or go to.
grass. As he has never yet been known to explain
himself on any subject, from the beauty of truth
down to the purchase of the A.S.N. wharf —other-
wise than by calling the man who wants the
explanation a mole eyed deg stealer—the prospect
is not a brilliant one, and the chances aie that the
grand old mistake will merely retort by saying
that somebody told him we set fire to our grand-
mother out in Siam, but still we lay our case
before the Kiama Ghost in a friendly fpirit, and
await developments. In the course of his racent
anti-DiBBS oration at Glen Inne3, Sir Henry un-
burdened his soul of the following remarkable
utterances
“ He would now tell them how well we could afford to pay
this debt and pay this interest, and how capable we were of
constructing more railways Bhould we decide upon doing it.
The public wealth i f this country—the real solid assets of the
Gov. rmneDt in the shap« of railways, public works, and
public lands—amounted to £170,160.000. The municipalities
had an addition to the public works which might fairly be
estimated at £4,968,000. This showed that we had the
wealth in the country quite equal to our necessity. We need
not therefore be restrained by any timidity; nor need we
fear any disastrous consequences in undertaking public
works so long as our position was thus solid. (Cheers )
Now, in regard to the private wealth of our million of people.
They had ascertained that the value of the lands and hous.es
within and outside the municipal districts, of iive stock,
growing crops, furniture and personal effects, machinery,
coin and bullion, merchandise and thipping, owned in the
colony was £346,250,000 So that the public and private
wealth of the colony was £521,00,0000, or £520 19j. 4cj. for
every man, woman, and child in the country. (Cheers.) ”
The national wealth of New South Wales, ac-
cording to Parkes, is thus £520 19s. per inhabi-
tant. On the principle of Mr. Mantalini, we
dem the four pence. And yet when we turn
to Pulsford’s pamphlet, “Freedom in New
South W ales v. Oppression in Victoria,” we learn
that in 1882 the total was exactly £241 per head,
and we ask in all humility whether Parkes is
prepared to bet his little brown petticoat that it
has more than doubled in tbe course of five years
If it has, then New South Wales has been advanc-
ing, in spite of the apparent stagnation of trade,
as no country has ever advanced before; and if
the next 35 years are accompanied by the same
outward symbols of poverty, the result will be
that every man, woman, and child in the land
will be worth £64,000. Consequently our next-
door neighbour, whose family numbers seven in
all and whom only visible assets are a tortoise-
shell kitten and a picture of the raising of
L.izarus, can count confidently on £448,000 as
his share, and with this-in view, he needn't get up
to split the wood so early in the morning. But if,
on the other hand, Sir Henry is not prepared to
prove that New South Wales is advancing ac this
tearit gpace, he might kindly explain wr a- he is
drivir g at. Either somebody is a stupendous liar,
trading on garbled figures and discorttd facts, or
eke N.S.W. will shortly be possessed of mere
wealth than the world has ever seen, and will hold
a hill of sale over the whole earth. Unless Parkes
eases up, in short, he will consign the whole of
four continents to insolvency, while Australia
will break its back in its efforts to carry its own
wealth. Perhaps, on the whole, he had better
ease up. We do not value wealth for its own
sake, and if he will knock even £lOO off that
£520 19s. 4d. he will thereby considerably diminish
the oppressive celerity of our progress, and let
other nat’ons down a good deal easier. As mat-
ters stand Parkes’ ostentatious rashness bids fair'
to involve New South Walea in utter ruin. When !
Hezekiah, then newly recovered from his boil,
showed his riches to the ambassadors from Baby-
lon he brought down a swarm of enemies to pluu
dtr the fair land of Judah, and yet even he was
not mad enough to assure his visitors and the 1
public generally that his defenceless subjects had-
£s2o 19s. 4d. a-piece. But then, of course, they
hadn’t got it, and for that matter the people of'
New South Wales haven’t got it either.
+
The D.T» and Abigail.
The Sydney D.T. pretends to occupy a high moral 1
standpoint in its criticisms of public men and
public affairs. For prevarication and double-
dealing it professes the utmost abhorrence and the-
profoundest contempt. For even the milder
forms of tergiversation it habitually expresses un-
bounded condemnation, and is satisfied with>
nothing short of absolute rectitude and candour
on the part of politicians and publicists. It Is*
noticeable, however, that the D T.s morality
fizzles out to the point of exhaustion when the 1
conduct it criticises happens to be that of"
a renegade Protectionist. For Dibbs, who»
hss abandoned the Freetrade monomaniacs,,
the D.T. has no mercy. He must conform
to the highest principles of right conduct
in all matters, minor or major, or be made Do 1
smart under the editorial lash. Jennings mustt
not even “suppress” a meaningless, not to say
idiotic, sentence of a despatch. Garvan, Abbott,
and Fletcher are gibbeted in leading articles iff
they deviate a hair’s breadth from the spirit of tha»
code of honour so dear to the D.x.’s sanctified l
heart. But when a Freetrader—especially one)’
who for “ reasons ” which will not stand the light?’
of day, has suddenly become such—indulges in’
eccentricities which argue excessive moral obll*-
quity, the D T, is either silent or explanatory,-
Last week the journal named favoured the public l
with a flue illustration of its peculiarity. It had l
printed a paragraph, evidently inspired by the-
Mines Department, to the effect that the
five Pound Abigail had completed the drafting?
of a bill dealing wilh mining, on private property 4,
which measure, the paragraph affirmed; was far''
more suitable to the requirements of New’ South l
Wales than the one Mir. Garland has on two 1
occasiors submitted to Parliament. Garland l
hereupon wrote to Abigail asking if the latter or
his officials h.ad inspired the par. To this Abigail
vouchsafed the subjoined reply :
"My dear Mr. Garland, —The paragraph certainly was 1 -
Dot inspired by me Alt I did was, in reply to inquiry, state
that you had introduced a bid; but in some particulars my
bill was different, and I.asked that no comments might be'
made. You may.be sure that whenever I iutronuce tbe"
measure a proper .word of praise will be given to you for the •
treat in'eresfc you have taken in the question. I would l
counsel care and judgment in any reply you make, or the-
(treat object you have at.heart may be injured.—Yours, F.At
31st August, 188JS.”
Garland, then wrote a loDg letter to the D.T.
with the object of showing that his bill could not l
well be improved upon ; and to this letter the>
D.T appended a note 88 follows
“ The paragraph objected to contains no comment of ours.
It is simply the gist of a conversation between the Minister
for Mi es ano our,reporter. It should be obvious to both l
Mr. Garland and Mr. Abigail tnat if the Mints Depart-
ment co sidered Mr. GARLAND s bill ‘stumble’ to the
colony, the trouble of preparing another would not be in- -
curred. We have merely reported the Department's reason l
for its intended action.—ED. D.T.” -
Evidently, therefore, either Abigail or the D.T.’
is guilty of a mean and deliberate falsehood, none l
the lees culpable because it is ostensibly gratui-
tous. But the D.T. did not pursue its usual l
course of following up an exposure of vioious-con--
duct with severe castigations in its leading?
columns. On the contrary, it began to make dis-
coveries to the effect that Abigail is a very smart'
administrator and a valuable servant of the pub-
lic;, and now we are virtually asked to put our
faith in a man who is capable cf denying the-
truth when it suits his purpose —because he is ac-
tive ip the destruction of rabbits 1
The Resurrection of Land-sharkinsv
Vainglory and bravado, or else recklessness and-
folly, have led the Hon. Thomas Garrett to re
veal the sum of his designs regarding laud legisla-
tion in New South Wales. He has declared his-
intention of subverting the whole system recently
introduced, and.of bringing back the Abandoned l
and abolished)systems of 1861 and 1875, Keen
casuist as he is-, ha could not, on declaring this-
intention, suggest a< single advantage obtainable l
by this mad reversion to, the errors of the past.
On his ipse dixit alone he asked support for his*
extraordinary proposal, Sir John Robertson
will assist in this work of annihilating the Act of
1884, and, judging by their past efforts of land l
legislation, it may fairly be admitted that a mea-
sure drafted by these geniuses will be worse than 1
could be draw n by any other six men in the colony.
That Mr. Milburncreekdarltngharbour Gar-
rett has determined to abolich the principlesnow
embodied in law is no more than might have been 1
expected. The Act of 1884 deprived land-agents'
of half their plunderous profits by introducing
the prnciple of decentralisation. Mr. GarretT'
is, or was, a land-agent, therefore the Bill meant
personal financial deprivation to him; a return to
the former law would mean the recovery of their
former princely incomes to land-agents and land-
sharks ; therefore these clever practitioners will
hail the Forbes declaration with immense joy. To
them it means certain thousands yearly where
they now only receive uncertain hundreds. When
the Act of 1884' was being discussed, the votes of
squatters were fruitlessly objected to on the
ground that they were personally interested in
the question ; with ten times greater force could
the objection be urged against the votes of land-
agents, yet at present there is a land-agent occu-
pied in drafting the veiy species of law which
will directly tend to the benefit of his class. The
only consolation is that there is not the smallest
fear that he will succeed in his attempts.
Sir Henry Parkes has not a sufficiently
servile following to make the repeal of
the existing Act even a remote possibility.
When, in December, 1882, the Parker Robertson
Ministry asked electors to perpetuate the system
of corruption that then prevailed, the ballot box
gai ean emphatic negative to the proposal. Of
the Parkeßi'es who “ went to the country” all but


six stayed there, M’Eliione securing more votes
than the defeated and disgraced Parkes at East
Sydney. And the devoted opposition of that time
to Robertsonian land-laws has now graduated
from a sentiment to an instinct. The mass of the
people would not surrender the increased rentals
now obtained from pastoral areas ; the squatters
will not give up their present security of tenure ;
and no electors of any sort or description will
consent to permit the Hon. Thomas Garrett,
land-agent by profession, to briDg back the era of
trickery, and disaster abolished with a unani-
mous comprehensive electoral curse by the voters
of December, 1883,
4 ■—
The Case of Henry Borsboom.
Instead of being committed to tbe care of the
warder and the silence of the condemned cell,
Henry Borsboom has been acquitted amid the
congratulations of friends, and his acquittal has
been followed by the strangely inconsistent com-
ments cf a sensationalistic press. Mr. Borsboom
is a lucky man! The verdiet of the jury has
conditionally acquitted him of the charge of
murder on the grounds of insufficient evidence,
without giving as a necessary alternative the
oau-e of Mrs. Borsboom's death as the result of
self attempted mui der. There is very little
imagination on the part of the public in regard to
these cases. The possibility of the deed being
committed by any third party is stolidly over-
looked, but now that Mr. Borsboom has been
acquitted the police must find the guilty third
party. We do not personally yearn for this
individual’s apprehension simply because we are
not enamoured of our present civilised mode of
punishment, and we consider that the harm to the
community resulting from unpunished crime is
less than that resulting from brutalising execu-
tions. Similarly, supposing Borsboom to have
really killed his wife, which in the face of his
acquittal is not a fair assumption, we doubt
very much if public morality would be advanced
in any measure by hanging him. Whatever of
harm accrues from this Castlereagh-street tragedy
springs from the publication in sensational news-
papers of the account of the crime. Some few
hysterical women may find in the circumstances
of the case antecedent example for suicide. Mr.
Borsboom's acquittal simply obviates duplicating
a tale of horror, and what cf deterring effect is
needed has already been afforded in the detention
of the suspect, the agony of mind, the nervous
affliction and horror of suspense he has endured.
Not that the gallows deters. Far from it Chris-
tians who fear alike God and the Devil, who
yearn for the joys of heaven, and tremble in anti-
cipation at the prospective horrors of hell, when
urged by revenge or pecuniary interest frequently
commit crimes of blood. If the fear of the
flames of Tophet fails, will the fear of
a wooden modern fetich, a simple tie-beam
and its pendant noose operate?—we think not
Mr. Borsboom is a lucky man ! He has escaped
a hideous doom, and the public has escaped a
hideously sensational press report which would go
further in the manufacture of crime than the pos-
sible escape of a criminal. The sigh of relief
breathed forth by the various Sydney newspapers
is, however, somewhat absurd considering the
consistent blood-howliDg in which they indulged
during the Mount Rennie and Johns trials, and
seems to point to the superior comparative re-
spectability of Henry Borsboom as a reaEon for
gratulation in his case that sufficient evidence was
not forthcoming to consign him to the tender
mercies of Howard the philanthropist.
4.
When the child-like and bland Consul U. Tsing
and General Wong Ho were in these parts they
were never tired of bluffing off all complaints
against their countrymen by the remark, “ The
Chinese are a law-abiding race. You have your
laws—why do you not enforce them ? We do in
China, and there the Chinese give no trouble.”
That’s a fact. Notwithstanding the enormous
population of China, the people “ give no trou-
ble or, at least, if they do it does not last long.
An officer of the French Legation at Pekin has ex-
plained how this is worked. Order is secured by
means of the secret police, and the rigorous ap-
plication of the law by those who are responsible
for its maintenance. The Emperor looks to the
grand mandarin for the preservation of order, the
grand mandarin looks to his subordinate for the
same, this subordinate keeps his eagle on on the
mandarin of the second-class, who looks sharply
after the officer of the third-clas3, and this official,
expects the father of every family to answer with
his head for the conduct of his children. On the
other hand, the father has the power of life or
death over his children; and the mandarin has
the same power over all the inhabitants of
his district. The result is that the slant-
eyed Paterfamilies, fearful of losing his own
shaven pall, sacrifices his children the mo-
ment he considers them guilty; and, in
the cases of orphans, the mandarin takes
particular care to act the Roman father. to
them. Such a thing as a revolution in China
would be impossible, for, before it could reach the.
Imperial Palace, all the members of the Minis-
terial hierarchy would require to be up to their
necks in it, and thereby place the said necks
’under the knife. In the way of taxation a similar
beautiful system is worked. The Sovereign says
'to his Premier, or grand mandarin : “I require so
much money from your Government.” Tne grand
mandarin at once sends for his subordinate, and
■says: “I require so much money from your pro-
vince,” but, just to keep on the safe side, he
doubles the amount the Emperor asked for. The
subordinate calls the mandarin of the third class
up and repeats the command, with the exception
that he doubles the amount he was asked to
‘collect, and so this admirable system runs from
one to the other. It is a woful pity Premier
Parkes did not return with Messrs. Tsing and
Ho If he had done so, he would discover that, al-
though we have nothingto learn from England, we
1 could learn a deal from Cnina —and much of it
would be exactly suited to his own peculiar taste
and policy.
4
-About the coolest piece of domineering tyranny
on record is the proposal of the Tasmanian
‘Government to tax the individual means of liveli-
'hoed, and refuse a man the liberty to earn his
'bread until he has paid five or ten pounds for the
privilege of possessing anything at all; and a
pound or so more for the leave of having a place
to ply his calling in, into the bargain. They
make a base attempt to curry favour with tne
physical toiler, fearing the result of his bodily
vigour as opposed to their rapacity, and therefore
promise him a complete immunity, but propose to
inflict these astounding penalties for being alive
upon the unfortunate clerks and shopmen who
are so unlucky as to have a “billet’ instead of
going from job to job— though they may earn
scarcely half as much as the labourer can when
•he is not crowded down by an artificial influx, and
‘have to maintain an appearance besides. It is, at
all events, to be hoped that the working men will not
foa bamboozled by any such promiees into allowing
these infamous impositions to pass unchallenged.
It is the most uDjust scheme that was ever for-
mulated in any country, not even excepting
Russia. A young man is, in fact, to be prohibited
from entering a profession, and anybody from
rising above the position of a cleik or labourer,
unless he or his relatives can afford to pay for the
license to live, and the only consequence can be
that everything worth havirg will pass as a herit-
age to the sods of the moneyed classes, and the lower
ranks of livelihood will bs crowded into a state of
pauperism. This direct embargo upon the exis-
tence cf local population would quire warrant the
nation it is sought to stifle in making a clean sweep
of the M'ni-ury who have theimpudence to propo e
such a thing—even by means a good deal less
peaceable than any we should generally advo-
cate.
Neither the Church of England nor that of Rome
took any very surpassing interest in the fate of
the blackfellow a short time sgi, and now they
are running amuck at each other for the privilege
of teaching him. Have they suddenly discovered
that King Billy is ignorant of the way to eternal
salvation, and are they accordingly burning with
zeal to rescue his soul in time ? No, sonny, they
have just got wind of an offer of 300,000 acres of
land to anyone who will undertake to civilise the
aborigine. Tney will pump Bible into him with
one hand, and pay several parsons fat salaries out
of the proceeds of his labour with the other. Then
they will proceed to erect public houses on part of
the improved land, and let the rest of it to im-
poverished immigrants at a high rental after
wards, and evict them as soon as they dare to
vote for opening libraries or museums on Sunday,
or directly they fall into temporary straits and
ask for time to pay the rent, which will be in-
creased whenever the land is improved by the
tenants. That is how salvation is done nowa-
days.
♦
The good people who complain of the shocking
consequences of not having the Bible grained into
the heads of the rising generation have scored a
spier, did win. A squatter, Wadiiam Wyndham,
a devout student of the Bible, has been followin g
the good examples of A iiraham and Jkphthah,
thereby proving the potent iofiaence of the sacred
volume upon those who become thoroughly im-
bued with it. Those people who shiink, a r d per-
haps ut’.er a dainty shriek of horror, as they read
of the unhappy Wyndham’s wholesale torture and
slaughter of his family, do ndt take quite the same
view of faith as they affect when they praise
Abraham for his “confident obedience to the
Lord ’’ in leading Isaac to the slaughter-place.
But then Wyndham lived in the latter days, and
God, the clergy will tell you, perhaps, does not
work in the same mysterious fashion as he did
then. Indeed, looking at matters fairly and
squarely all round, He would appear to have be-
come obsolete. If not, we fail to see any
difference between the cases, nor is there any-
thing at all in the Scriptures to go against the
supposition that God made such a command to
Wyndham as he is recorded to have previously
done to Abraham and the rest. Isn’t this logical?
If not, why not ?
An old, old face looms out once more from the
leading columns of the Sydney D.T. In days gone
by, when that wilted journal hoisted the flag of
Protection half-mast high, the outpourings of its
leader-writing bogey scared its readers into a
belief in Freetrade, and now, when it bows before
the Freetrade fetish, it is fast scaring them back
again to Protection. The Telegraph is the
bursting gun of the Freetrade party, and it
answers as many purposes as the wax-work figure
of Mary, Queen of Scots, which passes one day as
a monarch, and the next is invested with pants
and whiskers and a few blood stains and a meat-
axe and is then bent over and ticketed as a hump-
backed murderer. At present it is the D.T. with
the broken-back and the axe which speaks :
“ Sneaking at the public banquet tendered to the Ministers,
Mr. Lakeman, one of the representatives of the district,
advocated a line from Hay to Deniliquin, with the view of
bringing the district into closer connection with the Mel-
bourne market. . . . Hay is closer to Melbourne than it
is to Sydney, and, other things equal, the nearest centre of
commercial gravity will e xert the most powerful attraction.
. . . If this line were constructed, Mr. Lakeman argued
that squatters would be able to ‘ make fortunes where they
are now obliged to content themselves with a bare living.'
Instead of having to run their stock into Sydney and sell it
for what it would bring they would have the same option of
the two markets and by that means would always be in a
position to command better prices. So Mr. Lakeman, this
protectionist friend of the working man, is anxious to create
a condition of things which would compel the general New
South Wales public to nay a higher pri e for their beef and
mutton in order that the squatter, instead of earning a liv-
ing, may make a fortune. Why should not the Sydney cn-
sumer of beef and mutton be allowed to avail himself of the
natural fluctuations of the market in his favour as well as the
back-country producer ?'
And this, ye gods, is Freetrade! The people of
Hay want permission to construct a private rail-
way to enable them to export fre3ly to Melbourne
in the hope that they will there obtain better
prices, and thus bring more money into N S. W.,
and the Telegraph, in the sacred name of Free
trade, urges that this privilege should be refuse!
for the protection of the Sydney consumer of beef
and mutton. Ia other words, it fears that the
farmers and squatters of the south-west, if pro
vided with facilities for Ihe sale of their produce
in another part of Australia, will buy goods of
Australian manufacture in return, instead of pur-
chasing from the Sydney importers as hitherto !
The Freetrade of the Telegraph consists in ham-
pering intercolonial trade lest it should interfere
with foreign importation ; the Protection of The
Bulletin consists in giving every facility
for internal commerce, and thus welding the dis
jointed colonies Of Australia into one powerful
and prosperous nation, while restricting in all
possible ways the ruinous competition of the white
slaves of Europe and the dusky tribes of Asia.
The resolution recently passed by the Victorbn
Legislature in favour of absolute intercolonial
Freetrade proves that this policy is perfectly prac-
ticable, and in taking this initiatory step towards
the establishment of an Australian national policy,
the Protectionists have already proved themselves
more liberal by far than the boastful Cobdenites
of New South Wales.
4.
Another stipendiary magistrate—Mr. W. John-
son—has been commissioned to report on a dis-
pute in connection with what is virtually a public
institution. We refer to the Glebe Children's
Hospital. On the last occasion when a stipendiary
magistrate was similarly appointed, in conjunc-
tion with two experienced officials, to report upon
the conduct of the asylums, the result of the in
vestigation proved so unsavoury to the ‘ ‘ good
government” that a further inquiry—a sham one
—was instituted in order to soften down the hard
facts elicited against the officials whom the report
clearly convicted of gross neglect and cruelty
towards the helpless inmates. The snub to the
Commission was as direct and gross as it was pos-
sible to he. To avoid a repetition of this, Mr.
Johnson should have carefully ascertained if the
parties concerned are remotely connected with
any member of the Ministry or their friends, also
the direction in which the sympathies of the
Ministry tend. Failing this, the report will pro-
bably be chucked to one side while Premier
Parkbs undertakes a trip to the institution in the
disguise of a nurse, accompanied by a not too dis-
interested witness.
In the Victorian Legislative Assembly, Mr. Zox
has been advocating flogging for immoral offences
against women and children. Apropos of this,
wa have only to remark that nearly all stout
old gentlemen with crooked political vision, when
they get past fifty, usually become savagely
virtuous in their notions—espec ! ally if they
happen to have been indoctrinated with the
Mosaic code. Zox will please give us an oiiginal
idea iastead of raking up the played out blood
thirsty systems of the horrid beastly old kings of
Israel, and trying to cram them down our throats
as specifics calcu'ated to cure all the ills of the
body corporate. Zo::, judging from his latest utter
ance3, is a good spec men of the dull Tory-minded
bourgeois class, one of the articles of whose creed
is that the lash is good logic when applied to the
sensualist. As a matter of fact the lash is pre-
scribed by the code law of N.S. W. for a dozen or
two of offences, the mere committal of which
shows that the culprit is suffering from mental
disease,
An intelligent Western farmer, who has been a
loyal Freetrader all his life, now admits to the
Orange (N.S, W. ) Advocate that he must turn his
thaory up, as he sees no hope for himself or his
fellow-farmers except in Protection. He says :
“We can sell nothing that we grow at a fur price, and wo
grow a great many things we cannot sell at all. He experi-
ences great difficulty in selling his bacon at even 6d a pound
in Orange, though it was farm-fed and well cured. He Isays
there is really no local market, while the Sydney market is
swamped with New Zealand, Tasmanian, and Victorian, &c ,
produce ; that successive Governments have shown that they
care nothing about the farmers or their interests, and have
never kept a single promise made them. They were promised
reduced freights on agricultural produce, they were promised
a Minister for Agricultu e, they were promised model farms
and agricultural schools, and that was all. He said he wou'd
go for Protection at the next election, straight, for if it did
not improve things it could not possibly rn ike them worse
than they were at the present time, and that, as far as he
could see, bottom had not been touched yet.”
“ William of Orange ” is likely to have anything
but a kiss-in-the-ring time of it daring the next
election unless the “good Government” goes over
to Protection before the struggle comes off.
-+
Melbourne public opinion is fairly divided on
the local “contempt of court” trouble. Chief
Justice Higinbotham runs a business in the Law
Courts, and Thomas Dakin runs his business in a
yard adjoining. The one wishes to hear counsel
and collect his thought'', while the other desires
to manufacture auctioneers’ notice boards. Peace
and quietness are essential to Higinbotham, and
Dakin's fortunes are most in the ascendant when
his vassals make most row. The principals can’t
both work at the same time—so much is clear.
Therefore it happened that when Dakin refused
to leave off hammering, the Justice lined him 20
shillings for “contempt.” Of the two sufferers
moat sympathy is felt for the liberal-minded auto-
crat of accident, forced into a painful position by
the petty agency of a carpenter’s hammer. He
has nothing to gain in the struggle between legal
might and legal i ight, except a cessation of head-
aches. Whereas it is pretty certain that Mr.
Dakin’s cheap martyrdom will be terminated by
Government paying him to clear out. Amid all
our anxiety for the liberty of the subject Dakin,
it is well to remember that Chief-Justice Higin-
botham is also a subiect, a man, and a brother.
as such he ought to bo permitted to take the only
possible measures (he couldn’t shift the Law
Courts) to protect himself against an insufferable
nuisance. Our verdict is for both sides, with
damages against neither.
♦
The Juvenile Offenders’ Bill brought up a lot of
discussion in the Victorian Assembly last week on
the subject of that barbarous and inhuman mode
of punishment—solitary confinement. Even a
case-hardened gaoler like Mr. Brett, Inspector-
General of Penal Establishments in Victoria, is
dead against the “indiscriminate” way in which
the judges have been ordering “ solitary.” Brett
says that the punishment affscts the minds of
many prisoners. G. D. Carter, M.L.A., de-
clared he would rather see the rack and thumb-
screw revived than the punishment of “ solitary ”
extended by placing it in the hands of magistrates.
Patterson and Dr. Quick “ put the casa against
solitary conficement, and told of its horrors and
the insanity which followed it.” The late Justice
Sir Redmoxd Barry, who devoted great atten-
tion to dealing with criminals, stated in public on
one occasion that he could not understand how a
man with a scrap of mind underwent a consider-
able term of solitary confinement without becom-
ing insane.
The value attached to membership of
Melbourne Stock Exchange may be gauged by the
fact that Mr. Thomas StQddaru, of Ballarat, has
just paid £BOO for the seat vacated by Mr. D.
Molhado.
Francis Adams has put together a shilling
dreadful, which Kemp and Boyce, of Melbourne,
are just about to publish. The edition is 10,000,
and that is surely saying something for the enter-
prise of the publishers. The title, however, is we
fear, too severely classical for Australian readers.
It is “ Madeline Brown’s Murder.”
That Black Wednesday business was the
best thing that ever happened to some, of the
Civil servants of Victoria who were its victims,
just as “lagging” was the “making” of many a
big Australian colonist. Amongst the Black
Wednesday men who have signally prospered ever
since, three are conspicuous—namely, Mr. William
Templeton, Mr. Byron Moore, and Mr. Walter
Madden. Mr. Templeton, when he was removed
from the position of P.M- in the Melbourne
suburbs, founded the Trustees, Executors and
Agency Company, for years past a most flourish-
ing concern, and of which he i 3 managing director.
Mr. Byron Moore s Exchange is the finest institu-
tion of its kind in these colonies, and besides this
he has the secretaryship of the V.R.C. Mr.
Madden, after being turned out of the Crown
Lands Office, returned to it as Minister, and
he has now an extensive private practice as a
surveyor and civil engineer. Many other victims
of Graham Berry’s despotism have also been far
more successful than if they had been allowed to
remain in the Government service. Some of them
were given the opportunity to return to the ser-
vice but declined to do so. It is not generally
known that the title of “ Black Wednesday ” was
given to the day upon which, the wholesale dis-
missals took place by Mr. Jajne3 Service. And a
few short years afterwards he took Berry to his
bosom, sat with him in the same Cabinet, and
ultimately made him Agent-General for Victoria
in London.
The Case of William Roy.
The Bulletin has so far acknowledged subscrip-
tions to the amount of £63 9s. 3d. received by it
on behalf of William Roy, the soldier who now
lies blind and paralysed in Parramatta Asylum.
As already stated, Roy wears the distinguished
conduct medal, awarded him for his gallant con-
duct at Rorke’s Drift, where, though at the time
an invalid, he rushed through the flames during
the fight to save the sick from the burning hospi-
tal. He subsequently received from the hands of
the Queen, an autograph Bible, and his portrait is
to be seen in the celebrated painting by De Neu-
ville now in the New South Wales National
Gallery. The unfortunate man, who, since his
admission to the wretched asylum that is now his
home, has. according to the report of the gentle-
men appointed to enquire into the management of
the N.S.W. Government charities, been treated
with wanton neglect and cruelty, is in a hopeless
condition of health, and will, while he lingers, be
utterly dependent on the good offices of those who
may wish to make a substantial protest against
the hollow-hearted system which, while it spends
lavishly to commemorate triumphs .gained chiefly
at the cost and never for the benefit of the class
from which the common soldier is drawn, cal-
lously permits a brave private to die in misery.
The Bulletin hopes to collect a considerable
sum for Roy, and undertakes to see that he is
directly benefited by its expenditure. The follow-
ing additional donations are now thankfully
acknowledged:—
F. R. Macpheraon, 103. Collected by J. Wealands and
Alex. Paul—Joseph Wealands, Is ; James E. Wealand, Is. ;
George, Is. ; Fred, Is.; A. Paul, 2a. 6d.: J. Jepson, 2s. 6d,;
H Nolan, la.; M Conuell, 2a ; L. S., 55.; the son of a
soldier, £1 la. ; Unknown, 2s. 6d.; J. T. and J. Toohey, Esq.
(Standard Br°wery), £5. Peais Ferry Subscriptions to The
Bulletin Fund for 'William Roy, Collected by P. H.
Kelly:—P. H. Kelly. 5s ;C. Dominick, 5a.; C. Ferguasou,
03. ; Friend, 53.; J. B. Wi'son, 5a.: E. Hayward, 3a. ; F.
Henderson, 3s ; J. Matthews, 2s. 6d.; W. M'Cree, 2s. 6d. :
H. Gallagher, 2s. 6d.; G. Chisholm, 2a. 6d.; J. Mettan, 2a'
Gi. ; R. Smith, 2*. 61 : W. G. O. 2s 6d. ; J. Isles, 2s. 6d. ;
J. Cornwall, 2s. 61 ; J. Welsh, 2s. 6d. ; J. Munro, 2s. 6d. ;
G. Pemberton, 2s. 6d. ; A. Johnson, 2a.; R. Douglas, 2s. ;
F. Williamson, 2s. ; P. Matthews, 2s. ; W. Mooney, 2s. ; A.
Davidson, 2j. ; J. Harding, 2s. ; R. BrennaD, 2?. ; W. H.
Hancock, 2s. ; W. Dick, 2s : T. Cotton, 23. ; H. La Brise,
Is. ; J. Brennan, Is. ; H. RohaD, Is. ; A. McKye, ss. ; B.
Murphy, 55.; 1 Leoland, 2s. ; J. McFarland, 2’. ; J. Fitz-
simmons, 2s. ; E. J. Weine, 2s. 6d. ; A. Brimner, Is. ; J.
Thomson, Is. : W. Wilson, Is. ; E Hobson, Is. ; J. Baker,
Is. ; U. Bate, Is. ; W. Dow, Is. ; G. Thomson, Is. ; W.
Brown, Is : C. Kafto, Is. ; J. T. Bradford, Is. ; R Good-
man, Is. : L. McLennon, Is. ; A. Hutchinson, Is ; E. Miller,
Is ; R. Smith, Is. ; Amigo, Is ; A. Gurney, Is.; C. Johnson,
2s.—Total to date, £6 4s. 61 J. R. Robert-on, £1 ; Georg#
Hargrave, £1; Linlithgow, ss; Steamer “Cintra,” collected
by W. A Martin, £9 10*. 3d ; R. Davies, ss.
“ Why is Parkes like the moon ?” Be-
cause he never shines except with a borrowed
light ?
Mr. Grresley Lukin, says a Rockhampton
paper, has made arrangements for the transport
of chilled meat from Central Queensland to Syd-
ney and Melbourne.
A sturdy but somewhat ungrammatical
correspondent sends us this poser :—“ Has travel-
ling Police Magistrates the power to make J.P.s,
because wherever the P.M. gets free quarters the
host is soon made a J.P.— Publican.”
Justice in England appears to have one
of her ej e 3 bunged up. An ex-Mayor of Stockton
has been sentenced to twelve months’ hard labour
for embezzling £ll,OOO. A young feilow who
pleaded guilty to s eating two small sums from
letters got five years penal servitude.
We are in receipt of the first number of
the Spectator, a new weekly published at Manly
under the joint editorship of Messrs. Harold W.
H. Stephen and our talented friend, Joseph
O’Byrne. The Spectator contains a lot of excel*
lent reading, including a set of verses by Mr.
O’Byrne, who, we may whisper, is identical with
no less a personage than the “E. Lowe” who
from time to time has contributed so much real
poetry to this paper.
A batch of Gippsland fishermen have been
arrested for illegal netting in Lake Tyers, the fish
of which are preserved in ‘the interests of the
blacks. Among the degenerate successors of
Andrew and Peter were two members of the
Harmy, presumably poaching for the Loard. A
wily D. purchased the full rig of a Harmy
‘ oaptirg,” and collared his men in the middle of
a bogus Hallelujah meeting. To such base uses
may the blesied uniform be brought.
The municipal deadlock at Roma (Q ) has
ended. The mayor, in his capacity as a trades-
man and a citizen was legally punished for Sunday
transgressions against the law of the realm, and
his virtuous brother aldermen thereupon refused
to be associated wi- h one who had brought such
dire disgrace on the high office. At this juncture
someone suggested that the ratepayers’ opinion
should be obtained. This was done, and the free
and independent declared their confidence in his
worship b 7 a majority of sixteen votes. The
mayor is now puzzied whether to resign or net.
He is not quite certain about the interpretation of
that vote.
The Victorian Assembly is thinkirg cf
wasting some more public money in ventilating
the House. A few hundreds are voted for ven-
tilation every year, but all experiments have been
unsuccessful up to now. The members can ven-
tilate their opinions right enough, while they
themselves sit and perspire in an atmosphere of
jobbery. The manager of the Victorian
Atmospheric Refrigerating Company claims
that his patent system would keep the car-
cases of members fresh and sweet through
an all night sitting. It he gets the ventilation
contraot we hope he won't freeze Victoria’s hopes
and pride and sell ’em by the pound.
The origin of the Hawaiian revolution has
been bottomed at last. Our dear old friend,
Osmond Day, the howler, late of Sydney Domain,
has been causing trouble in the sea-girt kingdom
of Queen Kapiolani He started in business over
there as a lecturer and a loyalist to King Kala-
kana, and when he had borrowed 300 dollars from
the king and given him an I O U. for tte amount,
the pair fell out and Osmond attacked the poor old
potentate in his bitterest Inner Domain invective,
alleging that his Majesty was “be spotted with
snuff, besotted with gin, and possessed of no more
brains than a galvanised frog.” Then old KalaJ
kaua, whose wife was doing the grand among the
Jubilee royalties in London, sent a flag of truce
and a bag of money to induce the Sydney revolu-
tionist to return to his stump in the City of the
Beautiful Harbour, but the offer, so Day says,
was rejected with contumely. Then with
a red handkerchief and an armed crowd Day
stormed the palace gates, on the outside of which
he halted and harangued his sans culottes under
the electric light. A more respectable party that
had been waiting for something to turn up j umped
his claim, took possession of the Government, and
squashed the revolution, and the ex-Domain
orator was once more sat upon, not, however,
until he had cost the worll something in cable-
grams and startl-d h-r sable Majesty out of
England,


The Decadence of “ Religion "
A correspondent of a Sydney newspaper draw
attention to the data supplied by the New South
Wales Statistical Department under the head o:
“ Attendance at Church." The figures show tha
while the population of the colony in 188(5 had in
creased 141,222 as compared with the population
in 1883, the number of persons attending church
had decreased in the same period by 19,800 ! The
Protestant denomirations had suffered a lcs3 in
attendance to the number of no fewer than 21,472
the Homan Catholics reducing the gross loss by an
increase of 1672. It would appear from the
figures that the Romanists are hardly maintaining
their ground, while the Church of England, Pres
byterians, Weeley ans, Baptists, and Congregational
ists are all rapidly losing their hold on the people
We are disposed to regard the facts here disclosed
as a healthy sigh. The people are evidently out-
growing the intellectual condition which under-
lies more than half the mischief that oppresses
mankind. They are perceiving with constantly
increasing clearness that dealers in theology and
religion, in all ages and all countries, produce one
great result, whatever smaller ones their opera-
tions yield. In the past they have caused endless
bloodshed, and even in these days of their decay
they contrive to keep alive a vast sentiment of
hatred between sections of the human race. They
pit nation against nation, and divide every com-
munity imo which they .manage to push them-
selves into more or lesi bitterly hostile camps.
A correspondent at Auburn, near Parramatta,
writes to the effect that that locality
was comparable to Goldsmith's “loveliest village
of the plain” until ihe parsons invaded it
“ Now,” he declares, “ ihe residents are engaged
in endless quarrels as to the relative merits of
Parson Colvin and Pan on O’Connor, and where
formerly all wa3 amity and goodwill, nothing
save enmity and hatred, dividing even families, is
to be found. It would b 9 better,” he irreverently
adds, “ if some enterprising publicans would buy
up the churches and convert them into drink-
shops." Without goiDg eo far as that, we cer-
tainly think the public interests would be sub-
served if a few of the religious edifices in Sydney
were transformed into music-talk-. Dicant
music never yet did man harm ; but the most
notable outcome, political and social, of the
teachings vouchsafed by a majority of
the parsons extant is assuredly bad in every point
of view. The data furnished by the statistician
prove that the people generally are not blind to
the facts stated. They are rapidly leaving the
parsons in the lurch, and going in for rational and
humanising recreations on the day of rest. If
Parkes only waits a few jears, he will doubtless
be able to buy up St.'Andrew’s Cathedral, reredos
and all, and thus secure a first-rate and centrally
located National Dead-house on cheap principlep.
Haynes’ Triumphs!
The misrepresentations of the Freetrade papers of
New South Wales have been amusingly illustrated
by their record of the wanderings—wanderings is
a good word, by the way—of Mud J. Haynes.
According to these journals, the tour of this roar-
ing renegade and “ denominational savage ” has
been one series of triumphs from Lithgow to
Dubbo, and from Newcastle to Glen Innes. The
local papers, however, put an entirely different
complexion on the matter. No one doubts that
the fanatical members of the L O.L. and
that section of the community who are
aroused to enthusiasm when they see a
clown grin through a horss’s collar, have
applauded Jack, but the more sober and intelli-
gent portion of the public appear to have given
him the cold shoulder. Though Haynes had for
a long time boasted of Ills intention to smash the
Protectionists into atoms, he was knocked out in
the first round at Lithgow by Caulfield, the Boy
Politician. AtOraDge he m et wit h similar tre a t men t,
for the Liberal tells us that the B.P. “brought
Haynes, after his servile adulation of the Premier,
face to face with a scathing and abusive para-
graph-resurrected by The Bulletin— written
by Hay'nes against Parkes only a couple of years
ago, and those amongst the audience who were
capable of reflection had a somewhat restless
night after hearing what the lecturer once
thought of their political demigod.” At Bathurst
the Record tells us that “ Haynes’ audience
consisted of 25 men and four boys,” yet this was
telegraphed as a tremendous triumph for Free-
trade ! This paper has a very poor opinion of
Haynes, whom it describes thusly: “As a
speaker, Haynes is a dead failure. His voice is
as wretched as his brains. His gestures are low
and vulgar.” At Dubbo about 150 persons
assembled in the street to hear Haynes, and he
got an exceedingly warm reception from them,
though in the telegram the dit-approbation was
said to have been shown at David Buchanan
On the latter pointing out the mendacious charac
ter of the telegrams to the editor of a Sydne
daily, he was naively told : “ Oh, it must he true
Mr Haynes sent it himself." This lets the ca
out of the bag, and plainly shows that Haynes
so-called triumph exists but in the very live!
imagination of the sender of the telegrams.
Governor Carington, Bishop Barry, and othe
newchum authorities are perpetually talking t
or at the Australian people touching the surpris
iug loyalty prevalent in the colonies. According
to these gentry the Australians are filled with un
bounded love and admiration for, not alone th
throne and person of our Gracious Sovereign
Lady, but also for England and everything Eng
lisb. There is some truth in the latter doctrine
The people here do esteem and respect the English
who fought for and realised liberty of though ;
and speech—for the English who would tolerate
no form of Government that wai not essentially
self-government. But what Australian can enter
tain a feeling other tban disgust and contempt
for the England of to-day, which refuses
autonomy to the Irish, and puts down public
meetings of that people by force of arms! If the
proceedings at Ennis last Sunday express, in any
considerable measure, the current opinion of
England, then we say with confidence that Aus-
tr ilians, to a man, will instinctively repudiate
that country’s right to he regarded otherwise than
with loathing. But we do not for a moment sup-
pose that the high handed measures taken by
Salisbury and his gang of fossils have the ap-
proval of any Englishman outside of the narrow
minority that has for years struggled hard to
foster a reactionary sentiment among the people.
The people of England cannot sympathise with
government by bayonet and truncheon ; and it
is certain as anything in the future can be
that whenever the ballot-boxes are passed
round again the people of England will drive the
Tories cwm-Unionists from power, and into the
outer darkness from whence they came. And the
sooner the British people have a say in the matter
the better for the well-being of the nation.
That great principle of freetrade which tends to
fix wages all the world over, according to the
scale paid In the cheapest country on earth is
getting Into full BWing in these colonies. At a
meeting of South Australian stockholders, a few
days ago, it was resolved that, as shearing costs
only 6s. per hundred in Mexico, a fraction less in
South America where it is performed by women,
and—thanks to the cheapness of the half-nakec
Caffre— ss. per hundred at the Cape of Gooc.
Hope, it is now time to make a great reduction in
the rates paid in Australia, and if the white
shearers should object to this measure, it is pro
posed to form an association and import Caffres to
do the work. Of course the Australian shearer will
object. The dull, ignorant, suj erstitious, unclean
Mexican mongrel may work, if he pleases,
for just enough to buy gaudy clothes and dit t in a
land of extraordinary cheapness, but that is no
reason why the Cornstalk should ; and the Caffre,
lower and cheaper still, also dirtier, oilier, and
more ignorant even than the Mexican, may also
follow his own bent. Hat according to Freetrade
doctrines, the fact that these far-away strangers
are willing to labour for a pittance is sufficient
reason why the Australian should do likewise.
According to the doctrines of grasping, bnralised
selff-hness, because the Caffre is low the Aus-
tralian must go down to his level, and
if some lower, cheaper, meaner savage should
afterwards be disovered, the Caffre and the Aus-
tralian will alike be expected to descend to his
standard. The proposal to import African
shearers is only another step in this process of
levelling downwards, and unices every white
working man in Australia will boycott alike the
employers of black labour, the ships that carry on
this new slave trade, and the shipowners who
lend their vessels to such a traffic, a time will
come when human scum from the end of the earth
will be imported into Australia, and their direct
competition will force wages down to the vanishing
point of cheapness. To a certain class of capi-
talists the fact that some naked barbarian can
live for a given sum is sufficient reason why
a white [man should do the same, and on
such men as these, legal force is the
only argument which is not thrown away.
The white workmen of Australia, seeing that a
great fight with coloured labour looms ahead, are
anxious to have the row over, and are perfectly
willing that the first gun of the struggle shall be
fired by those British capitalists and their agents
—we will not say squatters—who wou’d import to
this country cheap nigger shearers, even as
Parkes imported cheap nigger compositors in the
long ago. One year the Caffre chews up a line-
regiment or two of beardless British boys led to
the slaughter by a set of “aristocratic ” noodles
satirically termed military commanders ; a year or
two afterwards the same Caffre is turned loose in
Australia to reduce to obedience the recalcitrant
bushman who wants to be paid for his labour.
This, dear friends, is a glimpse of the working of
Imnerial Federation. We sincerely hope the
Caffre shearers will come along. When they do,
they will be bundled into the Paoific together
with our brother subject the lerer from Hong-
kong and our brother subject the rabbit-legged
coolie from the ‘ b ightest jewel in the British
crown.” And then we shall have done with the
subject for ever.
+
Haynes, as a political economist, is rather a
failure. In his Freetrade paper, Haynes’
Weekly, he once said :
“It should be noted that the employment of women, boys,
and girls is one of the results of the American Protectionist
system Every human agency is pressed into the work of
production.
Yet Freetraders are always inveighing e gainst
Protection because it ever results in over produc-
tion and consequent want of employment. Ac-
cording to the man from Mudgee, em-
ployment in Protectionist countries is of so flour-
ishing a character (hat there are not enough
workmen to meet its demand. Women and
children are compelled to fall to, and “every
human agency is pressed into the work of produc-
tion.” It isn’t like that in N S.W. with her 6000
unemployed.
A permanent institution—The deficit of
the Sydney Freetrade Association.
Messrs. Moses Moss and Co., of Sydney,
have spent over £50,000 in advertising Wolfe’s
schnapps.
We have received the following answers
to our conundrum, “ Why is the Evening News
like a liar?' 1 Mr. A, Foozlebery, “ Bacause it
always wa3 C.M 6., “Benuse it cin’fc help
it. Mr. Orpheus Kadoovah, “Because it pays.”
Mr. Jonadab Fluffem, “ Because it s the policy of
the paper. Mr. Geo. Porgie, “Because it is a
Freetrade ergap.” Mr. G. Honey, “Because it’s
inspired by Abigail. ' Mr. A. V. Aqubone, The
Archep, Petersham (-bridge), “Because it is built
that way.” Mr. Ring Ncsewise, “ Because some
ot the editing is done by the printei’s devil.” A ll
these answers are incorrect. The correct answer
should b», Because it is.”
The administrative capacity of Frawncis
Habigle can never be questioned by any who have
noticed the marvellous skill with which the erst-
while political scandal-monger has shielded that
marvel of official incompetency, Inspector M‘Ken-
zie. In March last nothing less than Mr. M Kenzie’s
head on a charger was required by a rageously
mournful public, who blamed him for alleged
gross negligence, and laughed at his famous
explosion-of■ dynamite theory, which so far has
never found a supporter on the earth below, or in
the coalmines that are under the earth. But by
delays and dodgery, Frawncis has rescued his
darling Inspector from the lions of public opinion
and unless Melville breaks out again there does
not seem to be the least probability that the
worthy official will have to part company with
his billet. And this reminds us that the Court of
Equity has not yet published its judgment in that
suit, which, if he won it, was to cost the dynamise
™ is P° si ' loD - A man with rhe luck of
Mr. M Kenzie may laugh at the thunderbolts of
tne gods.
Sitting down to rest on a tram-track when
the murderous midnight motor abounds is mildly
dangerous, but it is perfect safety compared to
riding m a coach which carries a Parkesian
Minister from one “ bingie-buster ” to another.
Ihat none of the members of the Cabinet have
yet strewn the roadside with cold meat and gore
is only to be explained on the assumption that the
elderly patron of their crowd, in accordance with
ms usual practice, “ takes care of his own ” The
Hon. Frawncis was bolted with for miles by a
usually quiet team of Silverton horses, the gentle
mokes being overcome with madness at the
thought of their being employed to transport such
a politician. Then the Hon. Sutherland got cao-
sh.zed over Oxford Hill in an entirely un account-
able kind of mannersh, and the Hon. Inglis dis-
covered that chicken, sodawater, and a severe
shaking are apt to become a trinity of evils What
sort of unaccountable accident will happen to
Parkes on his next visit to the country we cannot
undertake to prophesy, but as it seems a part of the
Ministerial policy to make coach accidents a means
of cheap advertising, his country tours can hardly
ELSm a 8 “ ispitohedoutoa
heap of blue metal somewhere.
CORRESPONDENCE
'Mariton’: Thanks ‘J. S.’ (Armidale) :
Thanks, but we’ve had it before....’ W.C.W.’: What air you
driving at '!... J.H.G.P.’: Too airy, isn’t it‘ Hang Hi’
(Liddy Buck street): By-and-bye... .• W.T.B.' (B-isbane).
Will you guarantee the originality of the idea:...
‘J. Spoaduiix’ (Port Augusta): Not half so wonderful as
eone such advos—‘E. L.’: Mr. Dav.d Gaunion's an-
tipathy to Judge Wintfeyer is no mare “ pabry eballitioa ol
epite,” but is founded on a principle well worth fighting for
’J.W.W.': M l 7 yet work up in another form... .‘ Unit’.
Thanks....'J P.’(W Sydney): Thinks, but it really doesn't
much matter. The story fits Moorhouse ever so much
hotter than t fits Goe, who doesi’t look as if he could punch
worth a cent....‘Bulletinist' (Silverton): We can't e ractly
make out the obj ct of your letter, but have no doubt it is
of a strictly moral character , ,‘Daca’ (Launceston): We
might do with such pars, but we would prefer something
with more desperate ferocity ard awful rage in it. Can’t
you make yourself feel like a tearing madman, and then
s-.art to write 113 something ‘W. Green': Your ex;o-i-
-ences are too much of the “Bid Boy’s Diary" over again,
Billgreeno, and your spelling is so bad that you ought to
joio a mutual improvement class ‘ H.C.S.’: Lovely....
‘O F M.’ : Didn’t reach office till too late...’ ED.’ (Croydon,
N.Q ): Many thanks. By and bye.,Jac': Addrees secre-
tary N.S.W. Protectionist Union ‘ W.KB,’: All right
‘ P.J B.'(Tovnsville): “The writer," you say, “ is an ad-
mirer and a subscriber to your papor for the past twelve
years." Now how do you reconcile this statement with
the fact that The Bulletin is less than eight years old ?...
‘Daca’ (Launceston): Thanks, pleate write again
‘lndignant Bachelor 1 (Timaru, NZ.): Not always":
woman " bossed” man has had occasionally a little show.
The following is an unrepealed law of New Jersey, passed
while the Stale was a British colony That all women, of
whatever age, rank, profession, or degree, whether virgins,
maids, or widows, who shall after this act impose upon,
seduce, or betray into matrimony any of His Majesty’s sub-
jects by virtue of scents, cosmetics, washes, paints, artificial
teeth, false hair, or high-heeled shoes, shall incur the penalty
of the law now in force against witchcraft and like mis-
demeanours.” This is, of course, as it should be... .‘J.R.’
(Goulburn): Certainly not; write direct to the publisher..
1 Democrat’ (Yass Plains): The President of the Swiss Re-
publ c is paid only £6OO per annum, probably the smallest
amount that the ruler of any civilised nation receives
for his official services. The state expenditure of
Switzerland is correspondingly low all round, the
Confederation disbursing only something like £2O 000
1 Anti-Chin kie *: General Wung Yung Ho, the Imperial
Chinese advance emigration agent, certainly stated
in Melbourne that China would be represented at the Cen.
tennial Exhibition to beheld in that city next year.R
Lemon’: (1) Read “The Present Depression in Trade - its
Cause and Remedy,” by C. O. Waldow; it deals more with
principles than with figures, which are always misleading
(2) No; Pulsford’s statistics are very careful y selected, and
his facts touch neither Freetrade or Protection : conditions
ard differentiating circumstances must always be taken into
account in economic philosophising,F. E. S. Hewison’ -
The proposed Medical Bill would certainly not crush out any
system or systems of treatment in favour of allopathy, or any
other “ pathy.” The medical man's method of treatment is
his own affair, provided he is duly qualified, and provided
also that he commits no act of well-known absurdity
or insanity in his mode of treatment; where doubtful
he could claim his mode of killing as the best
‘Protectionist’ (South Yarra) : Thanks for clipping""
‘ F.eetrade-Run-Mad’ (Burra, S.A.) : Will consider.."
‘ J.N.’ (Toowoomba): Some future issue....‘ Gaffney’:
Many-thanks. We will enqmre into that business....
‘ Vindex ’: Certainly ; your notion is a good one. Tax the
Chinese, tax the ships that bring them ar.d the rubbish
shooters that land them; tax their employers, tax the im-
plements they use ; tax the food they eat-only it’s a hard
job to collect on a hen-roost at midnight-tax their pigtails
tax their mouths, making an assessment according to grin
acreage; yes, tax everything that touches a chunk of yellow
ness from Leperland....‘ Jules’: Will read.Semper
Fidelia’: Simply the consent of a girl under 14 is null and
void, and in no way palliates the offence....‘ W.R.B ’
What darksome revenge are you takiog, and for what
Why should you continue to torture U 3 by compelling our
frenzied eye to glare at jour “ pootry?”.... <Constant
Reader (Hornsby) : The summons is issued in the district
in which the debt was contracted ; it does not matter that
you live in soma other district. According to the new pro-
cedure you must file information that you intend to defend
otherwise judgment is entered up by the police court official
without the case coming before a P.M....' James Grogan':
Thanks....‘C.L.B.’: The quotation, “There ia a tide in the
affairs of men,” is to he found in Shakespeare’s tragedy of
Julius Ciesar, scene 3, act 4; the words are put in the mouth
of Brutus...." Axil”: We wish the bard had been broken as
well as the axle....«J. Caesar’: We will talk with you anon.
....’ Unit’: Many thanks for clippings; the query re George
can be readily arswered —see future is3ue....‘M. M
Emanuel: Not final, perhaps next week ..‘Whistler’ -
(Forbej): Will look your MS. up....' Cautious Republican >•
Cannot read your signature... Silk and Hemp’: Thank you'
very much; will carefully consider ‘ W.J.’: Thanks for
offer....■ Cockney ’: Yes, we are in solemn earnest Parkes
really did wiite and publish that verse-and lots more suck-
m a volume entitled “ The Beauteous Terrorist," issued by
George Robertson a couple of years since. S.S.C.’; Why
don't the Sydney trams pay ?” Because there is co board of
directors to look for dividends....‘E. Marks' (Ballarat):
When a man’s name is Murphy, and he is a member of Parlia-
ment, how can you reasonably expect him tb refrain from
fighting?....’ Lancashire Lad’: One or two of your items
only are serviceable ..’F. Marston’: Borsboom was pos-
sibly the victim of circumstances, just as you or any other
man may be. He got a fair trial from the judge, he was
prcsecut. d"i a fair spirit, and be was well defended. The
jury have found him not guilty, and so the question of his
guilt is no longer legally arguable.
Benjamin Cribb, P.M., of Mount Morgan
casecHehrity, will bethe new P. M . at CroX
d w-u - readyamved - An °tber new arrival
is Mr. Wilkinson, of NT S W and w Q qbq!. .
to his Honor Justine Harding,’ of Queensland He
has had a year m Bowen and got tired.
On Thursday last Mr. Solicitor W J
Hill complimented the Penrith Bench on the
absence of crime in that district. Which reminds
ns that we have heard the sweet low voice of the
undertaker as he asked after our very good
health, and we once saw a rat raise a smile as he
left his tail on the wrong side of a steel-trap.
The Tasmanian Parliament has done a
lnn« I nf l^r be 3 hy Poll-taxing to the
tune of £2o amece commercial travellers who re-
present foreign firms. If the N.S.W. Parliament
s“irsr» ,3 t L b? rr“",? m •»«*.£££
Vj™ th Callco Jimmies of Sydney—
nffl dr . ummers of foreign firms-the Great
Deficit Bird might take unto itself wings and fly
N ?w e | 10 r 8 0f the Far Far Distant. But the
Slfie asthX” 6Ver doe 3 thin « 3 half so sen
Referee
On Saturday last the Yankees-, Costello,
and Mitchell, brought off their fights with Slavin
and Boland respectively, at a spot about a mile
from Albury, N.S.W. “Raw ’uas” were the
Older of the day, and Slavin, going straight for
Ccstello from the start, knocked the Yankee out
in nine roueds. Mitchell and Boland’s fight
proved a desperate affair, and it was not until in
rounds had been disputed that a draw was de
clared. Mitchell, a 3 per usual, was cut to pieces
and it was only the little ’un’s indomitable pluck
that carried him through. Something farther
will now be probably heard of a return match
between Slavin and Mick Dooley.
* • *
Btxer Tom Lees has, in England, gone
under to Britisher W. Cl >ode. Goode is looked
upon as a good “trial horse,’' and if Lees was
beaten upon his merits he is not good enough to
pay for his oats. Past experiences go to show
that for Jem Macs to take a man up is a pretty -
good guarantee of his not turning up trumps.
* * *
It is said that Mr. J. P. Jost’s filly
Fidelity, which was on board the Keilawarra
under poor Teddy M'Grade’s ca-e when the
steamer sank, has turned up in one of the coast
districts of this cjlony. It was stated by the sur-
vivors of the disaster that Fidelity swam about
and made desperate attempts to get into the ■
Helen Nichol, and as the shore was no great dis-
tance away, it is just possible that the filly may -
have struck out and effected a landing. Fidelity
was half sister to Folly, and much was expected
from her. '
* * *
Con. Dwyer, we are sorry to hear, is;
suffering from congestion of the lungs.
* * *
Despite the terrible dust-storm of Satur-
day, the Sydney Bicycle Club had no reason to
complain of the attendance at their annual meet-
ing held on the Association Ground. C. R. Wood,
was the hero of the day, carrying off both the one
and ten miles’ scratch races. Kuhnell, the speedy
South Australian, won the two miles Millbrook
Cup from Jenkins, but, owing to his severe fall at
the recent Suburban sports, the Sydney bikeist was
not up to his usual form,
• * *
Our old friend Barnes has regained the
use of the hand which he damaged in Sydney.
1 laying for Nottinghamshire against Sussex, the
long, wiry veteran scored 160 runs in one innings.
Shrewsbury j ust turned his erntury in the same
match.
* * *
An extraordinary coincidence cropped up
at last Moonee Valley (Vic.) coursing meeting,
three successive courses for Her Majesty’a Stakes
were won by three sisters. The sire and dam re-
sponsible for this unique “ hat trick ” are Holling-
worth and Miss Lizzie, imported dogs both
* *
A little son of Tom Cannon is making a
reputation as an English light-weight iockey.
The youngster was christened Morningtou Can-
non, after a horse which won some important
handicaps at Goodwood just previous to the in-
tsresting event. This reminds us that Melbourne
papers announce the death of a three-year-old
gi 'l Henrietta Martini. As civilisation advances
it is becoming the fashion to name offspring after
racehorses instead of after Her Gracious and the
Royal family. Maddellna sounds softer than Vic-
a-Dd i-, a , b Y h ,° sfcarts life a 3 Malua Le
Al"rtEd“rd f . e thB oM °' *“ th »
* * *
Says the Melbourne Herald :
whic°h U wa s Ba t d o "h 1 Jwf 6t , t 0 cambiued match
♦his evremuß between Prof. SaWM'lfaw
It will be observed that the Herat d reo-rete not-
>e»; buStoStlS,*
ma ch has been postponed.
mIi eld .S 0 ,r r 8 (!oe ’ * s * n business as a
mSh.H?Sf onr "v' haS tccorae bathing-machine-
£*£”**"* race - He washed a China-
uhf day and christened him Cornelius.
rvl!r wu fore th . at was Ah Why, so now he is
him afterTw Bl ? hop Goe * we presume, named
m r anCient Homan lady who was the
fhSwr 6 H ft f ° r of the sort.
Our office Latinist, however, is out at dinner.
On the collapse of the “ Tammany Ring ”
reported that some of the
OR ~t hat famoua bod J r of jobbers and
™ dler ® had escaped justice by flying to foreign
« K^ 81 r whereabouts to this day is said to be
in -nr •v. Judging from the scientific manner
a certain oracles are now being worked
U8 > we should not be at all surprised to
N S W hat a few of their number are residents of
Edward Murphy, of Parramatta, N.S.W.,
a f tr f ak ° f bad luck last week. He was
a f, s ' d ® nt of Benevolent Asylum, which was
H en< ?ngh to blast liis character for common-
SAdU 111 ? that . be mi « ht have thrown a
intn ffAr a P°Htician and got comfortably
wna f a 1 i nst Bad ; and On top of this disaster he
hALwI W 'A an *nward pain, and began to
telwT aady ’ Painkiller, pig’s-feet-anything,
in short, that would quench his agony. The
management, however, was equal to the occa-
Hinf off o f der ?d bim to “ dry up," or words to
„ bat , e sf ct - Being unable to do this he went out
t . f ? ller f d aI J night in the yard so as not to die-
h ~® other inmates, and at daybreak, when he
oegan to feel absolutely parched with his vocal
™“ 8 ' „ he was ejected on a charge of im-
bellowing on the premises, and of having
P ,f a m A . Btomac h in the yard at forbidden
, . a ’ 18 now in the district hospital where
ne is allowed to have pains all day if he likes.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ Human Nature" ..p. 15
Criterion Theatre. —“ Romeo and Juliet ’’ „
Opera House—“ Amy Sherwin ” „
Exhibition Building.—Roller Skating Rink „
We stationed ourself on a back seat at
Sydney Royal Standard, on Saturday night, and
cast out four anchors and prayed for day. “ The
Wreck of the Dunbar a shabby, weary, weep-
ing little screed, sadder than a midnight goat, and
filled with bile and ignominy—was the alleged
amusement of an evening which ought to be
wiped out of the annals of this great nation, and
for two solid hours we cruised round the stoke-
hole of this so-called drama, till the petrifying in-
fluence of the author hocussed us into slumber.
Possibly there may be an idea of some kind hidden
away in the Sahara of the prologue or the gritty
waste of the four succeeding acts, but if so may
a curse light on the head of the man who first in-
vented ideas, and may he come down with a dull
thud that will echo over the whole earth for forty
days. The opening scene cf the “ Wreck ’’ is laid
at South Head, but the Dunbar herself is not
visible. A number of men, however, look over
the cliff and state that a pronounced imbecile is
washing about in the sea beneath, and after a lot
of gallant exertion a hook is stuck in his ignorance
and he is hauled up. He is no particular good
after he is hauled up, and apparently he has only
been saved so that his sweetheart may tell him,
with her hair hanging down, that she can never be
his, as she has plight ed her troth to the sailor who
signed a bill for his stepmother as a matter of
form, just after the slavey broke the window. A
shirking individual who has saved £7 is thrown
into the drama about here, and in spite of his best
efforts to get out he remains in till the end. In the
second act we began to hope that the individual
who was hauled up the cliff had finally disap-
peared, but he suddenly turns up again and once
more knocks his elbow into the gastric region of
the narrative. He takes up a collection, ana he and
his friends rush about aimlessly, buying furniture,
kissing the old woman who gave the £lOO bill,
hurrahing on the slightest provocation, tipping a
sleepy old man on top of a baby, dancing, and
hiding in dus’y corners, from which they emerge
to invest in more furniture and hurrah again.
They pay £l2O cash for six chairs and one lop-
sided picture and go round in a state of fatuous
joy at their bargain. The moral sentiments that
the hero doesn’t utter in this and the next aot it
would be a sinful waste of time to hunt up, but
when he comes back from a whaling voyage and
finds his wife in the act of marrying the man who
was saved by means of the hook stuck in his
ignorance his language changes to curses with
nine joints, and frenzied observations that he has
to sit down to utter properly. His wife, however,
follows him to the jetty and explains the matter,
' and he ends by blessing her and her new husband
and then takes a do>e of something warranted to
remove human beings out of tho gangway. His
end is peaceful but ridiculous, and the curtain
falls just as he is wiping his feet on the grass of
the New, Jerusalem. There is very little fault
to be found with the acting, but being desirous of
letting tlis company down ea-y we will pursue the
subject no further.
#Af- A/- -X
*A* W W
“ Romeo and Juliet ” opened on Saturday
at Sydney Criterion with a lot of eclat and a
small amount of the other fellow. Mr. W. J.
Holloway executed Romeo, and barring the fact
that he was stouter and hoarser than of old, and
had a bush of yellowish hair, and shouted loudly,
and that the tarpaulin in which he disguised him-
self in the first act gave him a piratical and hod-
carrying aspect, he was all our fancy painted him.
We took a rough sketch of him, but in our haste
we forgot to delineate tho central part of his
frame and joined his logs on to his head, so we
have reluctantly suppressed the object. Mr.
Robert Inman, whom Nature apparently intended
for the Romeo of this company, was cast for
Friar Laurence, and perpetrated that shepherd
with his wonted ability ; and Mr. Hodson
played Capulet. Mr. Dobson appeared as
Esoalus, and Mr. R, Stewart dropped on to
Mercutio with considerable success. Mi«a
Eisie Jenyns’ Juliet was even better and prettier
than in the past, and, on the whole, we are in-
clined to prefer the actress to the character. If
Juliet’s parents had only turned a hydrant on her
at the age of 17 and washed a quantity of the
poetry out of her, she might, providing she were
blessed with the conspicuous toughness of Romeo,
have been living to this day, but their neglect of
this simple precaution led to a harrowing scene
which people have not yet fully got over.
#* # *
There are une or two sinners at Sydney
Alhambra who will one day be cut off like the
grass that perisheth. Death will shy a bad egg
at them, and they will peacefully fall asleep,
Johnny Cowan is one of them. According to the
bill he is the lost fiend who wrote “ The Ball is
Going On,” and apparently he couldn’t write it
without inserting jokes that a Chinaman’s horse
would revolt at, and he makes the “ Bucket
Girl ” the accomplice of his depraved taste in
literature,
X X AL. AA.
*7l* Tr *7? '7v*
“Human Nature,” the great Arab night-
mare and Mahdi-smashing panorama, will con-
tinue to raise the public hair at Sydney Royal
until further notice. The full blessedness of this
spectacle can only be appreciated by those who
have seen it, and the return of the Guards in par-
ticular serves to illustrate the utter mutton-
headedness of those who oppose the advance of
British civilisation. Our own interest in Egyptian
affairs, however, has long since worn down to a
stump.
#* * *
The proprietors of Her Majesty’s Theatre
having resolved not to open until they are dry,
the troubles of “ Henry V.” will not commence
till Saturday, 10th September. If Henry can hold
out till then, we presume all will be well.
Af» «V- -V-
-•7V* 'A* *7V* ■7T"
Miss Amy Sherwin has now moved her
camp to Sydney Opera House, and that building is
filled with her liquid notes of gladness. If it is
not quite filled by the audience also it is only
because money is now so woefully tight in Sydney
that people can’t afford to be happy, and yet even
m the present state of things, if the siDger would
consent to swop tickets for bellows, flat irons,
Kmc, and other merchandise, she would probably
nod the premises crammed to suffocation. Each
concert now concludes with an act from some
Popular opera, the demoniac story of “Faust”
being the last ou the list.
qfc qp JL JL
TT TV TP TP
It is extremely probable that Larry Foley
will bring about a new order of things when, in
conjunction with Mr. Dampier, he fairly enters
theatrical management. We can imagine Larry
Erecting a rehearsal of “Hamlet." “ See here,
Dampier, when the blooming Ghost comes on,
don’t be frightened of him and throw off your
overcoat unless you mean fight. If a ghost was
to show himself before me I d prop him straight
off, ask George Hill if I wouldn’t. And don’t you
stand any of Laertes’s slack in the graveyard
scene. . 'Ave it out at once ; don’t wait for any
foil rot in the last act. The boys'll all roll up to
see a good set-to with the gloves. You can cut
out all the ‘ mag ’ the Priest bloke has to ‘ crack ’
so as I can come on for the part, and then act as
referee, dye see?” Mr. Dampier will probably
consult Dawvid Buchanan in re Larry's proposed
innovations. They smack of novelty, at all events.
A£- AT- AT- AT*
*7V* Tv* W *7f*
Speaking of the recent Dampier produc-
tion of “ His Natural Life,” a modest Melbourne
critic says : “ It is surprising how a play dealing
with crime ca’ches on in Sydney.” Exactly.
And it is equally surprising how a play dealing
with virtue alone catches on in Melbourne. But,
barring “Jack Sheppard'’ and “Tambour
Major.” and the like, how many of these moral
plays are written ?
## # #
This is the snuffle and whine of the Chad-
band who runs the Tasmanian Day Star as he
spewks of Amy Stierwin :
“Her career has been highly creditable to herself all
through. But is she doing right ? Should not that charming
gift of song be consecrated to Him from Whom it came ?
Alas ! this applause that rings in her ears to-day, what com-
fort will it bring when the dying hour has come ? There will
be sweeter voices Yonder than Amy Sherwin’s now. What
if she finds herself out of tune, and unable to join in the
melody of Heaven
If there are sweeter voices than Amy’s “ Yonder,”
we 11 be glad to go “ Yonder ” and hear them; and
our pleasure will be increased by knowing that
there will be no danger of our being disgusted by
the presence of the canting muckworm of the
Star, as he will be toasting on his own little spit
in front of the everlasting bonfire. Also “if she
finds herself out of tune and unable to join
in the melodies of heaven ” Amy will take a
reserved seat and smile at the vocal murder being
perpetrated by the singers until they deputa-
tionise her with angels and ask her for a stave of
that lovely piece she used to warble below in
Australia.
## # *
Thursday, September 8, is fixed for Major
Dane’s last appearance in Sydney, when, we
trust, at least one genuine white man will receive
all the support he deserves.
## # *
Miss Ida Osborne, whom we all favour-
ably remember as Pitti Sing in “The Mikado,” is
engaged to be married, yum-yum, to a gentleman
which his front name is Amos, who shines in Mel-
bourne sassiety. The fetching Ida will marry at
the conclusion of her present engagement.
## # *
MacMahon advertises in Melbourne that
he wants for his Queensland season “six bass
singers (without colds).”
## # *
Madame Jeanne Andiee, the French
actress who visited Melbourne in Exhibition year,
is now in a Parisian lunatic asylum, but may re-
cover. She had bean playing at the Odbon, and
intended re-visiting Melbourne next year with a
small French company. She had much talent as
a sculptor.
## # *
That sterling actor in high comedy, Mr.
11. N. Douglas, is the latest Dizzle of “ London
Assurance ” that Melbourne playgoers have
seen Those who have witnessed many Dazzles
in their time in the Victorian capital, and arc
fond of making comparisons, will not forgot the
sparkling personation of that character given just
twice within the last twenty years by Mr. George
Arthur Walstab, the clever Melbourne journalist.
In May, 1886, members of the Melbourne press
gave an amateur dramatic performance in the Old
Princess Theatre of that city in aid of the G. Y.
Brooke Memorial Fund. The piece selected for
performance was “London Assurance," and
Walstab took the part of Dazzle. G. A. had just
returned from India where he had been soldiering
in Richardson’s Horse, and editing the Calcutta
Englishman, atd the part fitted the tall,
handsome, dashirg George like a glove.
Amongst those who took part in the per-
formance were the late Henry Collier, then
of the Age, the late Gilbert C. W. Roberts of the
same pa tier, D. D. Wneeler, then of the Argus
now of Victorian Hansard, and others who have
since been scattered; Miss Rose Edouia (now
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis) was the Lady Gay Spanker.
An address on the genius of Brooke was read
during the evening by Mr. Charles Bright, who
was then a member of the reporting staff of the
Argus, and an epilogua, written by Mr. James
Smith of the Argus (or Dr. Neild), was deliciously
delivered by Miss Edouin. The late John
Edwards, junr., the solicitor, and M. B. Stark
(then of the Melbourne Herald, now clerk in the
Melbourne City Police Court), with others,
played in an after-piece. The result of that and
other performances was the fine marble bust of
G. V. Brooke, by Summers, which is now in the
Victorian National Gallery. Tae bust was pre-
sented to the late Sir Redmond Barry and the
other trustees by the laie Mr. G. P. Smith, then
Attorney-General (an old pressman), on behalf of,
and in tne presence of members of the Melbourne
Press, six or seven years ago Walstab re-ap-
peared as Dazzle at the Biiou Theatre, on the
occasion of some benefit.
## * #
The market is now being flooded with
“ Harbour Lights” and “Human Nature ” vestas,
which an H nglish match-manufacturer has turned
out in compliment to his friend, Mr. George
Leitch.
AL aL AL Ah
•7T IP 'Tv *7v
Theatrical business must be looking up in
Sandhurst (Vic.). The doorkeeper of the Princess
Royal Theatre in that town had his nose broken
the other night in trying to keep the orowd out.
It is, however, only fair to state that they wanted
* 4j|\((j£ Wt iy^
av)£ oHrdifjQilt'
o y n/, /;
to come in without paying Still, even this was a
sign that the show was popular. We knew a
manager once who had to pay deadheads to go
into his show, and we remember seeing one of
them come tottering out at the end of the first
act and offering the manager his coin back if he
would let him off the contract. “ I’m a poor man,
but my life’s worth more to me than the money,’
he whispered hoarsely, and disappeared.
## # »
The acting of Mr. Elton in “Dorothy,”
at the Melbourne Princess’s, suggests that he
would achieve an even greater success a 3 an ava-
lanche, or a hodful of bricks dropped from the
top of a six-story house on the head of a parsing
policeman. He does a number of things very
well, and is mildly applauded, but it is not till he
falls down a flight of stairs, bumping heavily on
every step, and arrives at the bottom an amor-
phous wreck, that the house lashes itself into
what might be called a boiling foam of enthusiasm.
Then they yell for him to do it over again / We
should consider that applause of this kind
would bo apt to cloy io time. He should hire a
book-agent or a life-insurance canvasser to do this
part of his "business ” in his place. They arc
used to descending stairs abruptly.
## # *
We hear that George Augustus Sala has
been lending the light of his countenance to Nellie
Stewart in London. Augustus—like the galiant
old boy that he is—declares our own particular
goddess to be quite too much nicer than most of
the English “ stars.” If anyone can show any
cause or just impediment why we shouldn’t second
that resolution we’d like to take it out of him with
a hatchet.
*# # #
It is a strange fact, but nevertheless trae,
that many actors who have impersonated cele-
brated historical personages, after a time become
imbued with the idea that they are indeed the
very persons themselves. Gomersal, who repre-
sented Napoleon in a spectacle at Astley’s ; Ellis-
ton, who figured as George IV. in a pageantry
production; an American actor named Blake,
who bore a striking resemblance to George
Washington, and in American theatres personated
that hero in various tableaux—all these were
striking proofs of this peculiar belief. Latterly
we have an actor among us who has playact one of
the Plantagenets so often that he almost regards
his fellow-actors as his lieges and subjects.
#* # #
Recipe for concocting a modern melo-
drama. First choose your subject, it need not be
new, any old stock will do. Add one or two
murders, some hairbreadth escapes, an abduction,
and season well with a villain, an übiquitous
hero, a persecuted maiden, a buffoon, and other
ingredients. Boil for two hours and a half, then
simmer. The whole to be served not.
## # #
Unless Melbourne has had enough of
Italian opera, Mr. Simonsen win reap profit and
honour from his flatter at the Royal. In most res-
pects there is a marked improvement on the
Alexandra performances of six months ago.
Operas are put on more lib&rally, and played with
a finish previously lacking, while the orchestra
is as good as ever, and prices snow no signs of
wear and tear. If the musical public don t roll
up as before ir will be because their enthusiasm
has leaked into some fresh chan.,el. But these
are only bilious speculations. ‘' Rigoletto” fetched
a big house last Saturday, and the dose should be
repeated tuis Saturday with “La Sonnambula.”
A shilling pit is still anxiously enquired after,
## # #
Offing to circumstances over which we
have no control, Melbourne Bijou has been closed
since Friday. Miss Emilio Melville’s comedy
season petered out in a blaze of sadness after an
interesting career of twelve nights. Miss Mel-
ville gives managerial “complications” as the
reason for this unpremeditated bust-up. Our own
opinion is that Nemesis waited on that gushing
creature of impulse, Mr. Hanson, for boycoitiDg
The Bulletin. His show was beslavered by the
Melbourne papers, without exception, until The
Bulletin described it as a melancholy con-
glomeration of misdirected effort, and then it was
‘ 1 slated ” all round. If they had solemnly
warned the old gentleman, in the first
instance, he might have been spared much
anxiety of mind. But enough cf these
sad memories. Brough and Boucicault have
taken a lease of the Bijou, and on Saturday they
putt up “Held by the Enemy,” a successful play
of Amurrikan interest. New talent appears in
this. “Dorothy” is bowling along at the Prin-
cess's, in accordance with the eternal fitness of
things. But that an attenuated atom of imbe-
cility like “ Dick ” should have lingered on for
five whole weeks, at the Opera House, is a
crusher for the Darwinian theory. Variety busi-
ness keeps brisk at Victoria Hall, although Frank
Clarke haß a jealous oye on the Coghill s over at
St. George’s. Those artful blackniggers are mak-
ing money faster than a patent medicine, and
their show is a pleasant refuge in this time of
trouble.
dL A/, Ah AJ.
*7v* "A* TP TP
A second Frankenstein has come over
from Europe, bringing his monster with him. The
cuss is named Ali, and they’ve set him up at
Melbourne Wax Works, half way between the
Royal family and the Chamber or Horrors. Here
he fills a iong-ielt want at present. Ali draws the
breath of life from 26,000 feet of wire and an
electric battery ; when the battery is turned off
at the meter he becomes juso as dead as Barab-
bas. Mow, Barabbas was a robber, but there is
nothing to be said against thi3 gentlemen except
that he can't swear. The divine gift of speech is
the one thing which the Monster wants, other-
wise he is better business than a C.M.G. He can
blow his nose, say his prayers, kiss his hand to the
girls and write things on a slate at the bidding of
a sprightly masher who conducts the patter por-
tion of the entertainment. When Ali is finally
stripped and lighted up it becomes apparent, from
his birdcage interior, that Frankenstein hasn’t
rigged him out with an immortal soul. Would
that we were even as this happy Monster. The
Great Hereafter doesn’t trouble Ali, and he never
has colic in those 26,000 feet of intestines.
AL AL. AL. A£-
“TV Tv TP *7v
Oar Brisbane correspondent writes that
the local residents, having got over their disap.
pointment at the uninteresting nature of the
comedy in which Miss Essie Jenyna chose to ap-
pear upon the occasion of her benefit, are now
rolling up in force to see George Leitch in “ Har-
bour Lights” at the Royal. Grattan Riggs is
doing “ First Class ” at the Gaiety, and on Monday
night opens with the ‘ Octaroon ” Mr. St. Maur’s
company, which is at present in Toowoomba, begin
their season about the middle of the month.
J/. X X
*7Y* W *A* *7V*
J. B. Steel, the well-known actor—hus-
band of the accomplished and favourite actress,
Miss Adelaide Bowring—is at present in Sydney.
Mr. and Mrs. Steele were brought out from Eng-
land by Mr. George Coppin, of Melbourne, to sup-
port G. V. Brooke during that contemplated visit
to the colonies in 1866, which was prevented by
the dire calamity cf the loss of the London with
Brooke and nearly all hands on board, including
Captain Martia. Mr. and Mrs. Steele sailed for
Melbourne on the 7th December, 1885, from
Liverpool in the ship Western Otean. This
was a very large and heavily laden sailing
vessel, and the voyage, though delightful
as far as the weather was concerned, was ex-
tremely long—extending over 112 days. The
Steeles expected to find the London and Brooke
in Melbourne before them, great things in the way
of swiftness being anticipated of that vessel,
which was a new steamship. At all events, it
would have been easy to beat the Western Ocean
with a very commonplace steamship, or even a
fast sailing vessel. But when the pilot boarded
the Western Ocean outside Port Phillip Heads the
first news he communicated to those on board was
the loss of the London and of poor Brooke. Mr,
Steele is a sterling and versatile actor—in fact,
quite “the man for Galway”—where, by-l.hu-byo,
he first appeared on this worldly stage. A good
deal of his time in these colonies has boon spent
in New Zealand.
#* # *
-T. E. Kitts, of Melbourne, tho veteran
operatic and theatrical manager, and popular
operatic vocalist of a quarter of a century ago, i»
now in the confect ionery line. “ .Jim ”is member
of a partnership for the manufacture and sale of a
certain delicious Murkan confection. Kitts is a
Chicago man. In the colonial operatic pro-
grammes of fivc-and-twenty years ago the name
of “ Mr. J. E. Kitts” occurs with those of nenry
Squires, Lucy Escott, Farquharson, and other stars
of the lyric firmament. Kitts’s last appearance
on the stage was as the judge in “ Trial by
Jury,” at Melbourr o Opera House, a few years
ago.


PEPP
Salt
Another globe-trotting Daniel has come to
judgment and kindly undertaken to translate the
writing on the wall. Mr. M'Coan, a British
politician (out of work since the last general
election) took the Melbourne Herald interviewer
into his confidence on the subiect of “ policy.” It
is clear as mud to M'Coan that “ the question of
Freetrade v. Protection has been settled, beyond
argument, by more than 40 years' of home experi-
ence. Protection means merely class monopoly,
the subsidising of the few at the cost of the many.
When the working men of Victoria come to
understand this, they will make short work of the
fiscal quacks who now mislead and tax them in
the interest of the manufactnrer.” Just so. In
the meantime this monument of blue mouldy
wisdom may feel thankful that the workingmen
of Victoria don’t make short work of him. We
are in doubt concerning the correct pronunciation
of Mr. M'Coan’s world-renowned name, but, any-
THE SIDNEY PAUPER.
BADLY COVERED DURING LIFE.
AND NO GREAT IMPROVEMENT AFTER DEATH.
how, licenee Mi*. ,h e preßumpti.n that
it rhymes with trombone. Fetch that instru-
ment—
■
You can’t have any fun worth mentioning
in the British House of Commons. It seems that
Mr. Tim Healey was suspended for merely asking
another honorable member to come outside and
get his head broken. For doing more than that
Tim might be made a Cabinet Minister—in New
South Wales.
Says the London correspondent of the
S.M. Herald: —“The Marquis and Marchioness
of Drogheda sail for Sydney on the 6th of Sep-
tember.”
Hallelujah 1 also hcoray ! Com in Egypt!
Balm in Gilead ! Pass the whisky, also the hell-
fire and the music. The Melbourne Argus an-
nounces through the medium of its own Hezekiah
or Ananias, or whatever his name may be, that
the Federation League is in difficulties, and unless
some misguided mortal whose aunt has left him a
fortune doesn’t know any better than to guarantee
£IOOO a year it must rush to its doom and wind
up. This is the best news we have heard since
our dog ate up the book-agent, and we rejoice, for
the time seems near when that outpouring of
cow-headed sludge yclept Imperial Federation
will worry us no more, and we will eDjoy peace
which passeth all understanding. And yet £1000
a year is a miserably small sum to avert so great a
collapse. £1000 a year is all that even we want,
and yet our ambition does not extend to the
federation of an empire ; if we can only federate
wi f h our boarding-house keeper on a basis that
will prevent her leaving a chair right in the
middle of the hall for us to fall over when we
come home late, and establish some kind of
entente cordialc on the subject of breakfast chops
with the cheap butcher who cuts up all the old
stags, we will be content.
* * *
If there is one thing in particular that we
admire with holy joy it is the cheek of the lovin’
Christian. The following, from a paper in the
Western district of Victoria, shows that this par-
ticular brand of saint is still in a pretty healthy
state “ Wanted, by a pious young man, board
and lodging in a family where Christian example
will be considered an equivalent. Apply,” &c
We boarded with a pious young man once. He
was always eating. He would get up in the early
dawn, and forage out some food to keep him up
till breakfast time, and between breakfast and
lunch he invariably experienced a sinking which
could only be appeased by a snack. Also, he
would cruise round the kitchen about four o’clock
and taste things to support him till dinner, and at
8.30 p.m. he would go out and finish the day with
a meat pie. And, on top of all this, he kept eat-
ables in a hat-box under his bed. We know by
experience what the pious young man is like, and
we can confidently assert that an elephant couldn t
set an example large enough to set-off against his
board.
A sanguinary skirmish between a bailiff
and a man named Stubbs, residing at Wellington
(N.Z.), has ended in bloodshed. Stubbs was be-
hind with his rent, and the bloated monopolist
who owned tbe premises thereupon hied him unto
a bow-legged sheriff s officer, and told him to col-
lect the arrears out of the furniture. But Stubbs
was on the alert, and thougn his enemy rolled up
time after time, now as a flower-hawker and then
as a baker’s boy, and a little later as a man who
was collecting for the Jubilee, and though he also
came t inspect the meter and to take the census,
it was nearly a week before he found admittance.
At last he managed to get in by yelling “ Fire 1”
but at the same moment Stubbs came out also
yelling “Fire 1” and they concussed in the door-
way with a force that sent the bailiff into the
street, and he was promptly locked out. He
picked himself up with a broken head, but next
morning he came back in another disguise to lay
siege to the house and sat down on the doorstep.
But Stubbs had thoughtfully covered the
step with broken glass, and with a shriek the
bailiff skirmished round into the back yard, and
proceeded to pick enough splinters to make a
good-sized bottle out of his anatomy, in the shed.
Then Stubbs hailed a policeman from the window
and told him that an escaped lunatic had un-
dressed himself in the coal-house, and it cost the
bailiff half-a-sovereign to square the vigilant
officer. When he got round again to the front
of the hoflse the door was open and he entered
the hall in triumph. But all the doors opening
from it were locked except one, and when the
officer burst in here he found himself in a bath-
room, and Stubb3’ Irish slavey was just getting
under the shower. She wasn’t a party to the con-
spiracy, but Stubbs had taken the chance on the
sime principle which animated the Romans, when
they used to turn a tiger and an early Christian
into the same enclosure and await results. There
was one weird and awful shriek and then the
bailiff fled for his life into the next street, and the
curtain dropped. The bailiff resigned after this,
and the landlord took proceedings against his
tenant, and would have got a verdict, only Stubbs
proved that the house had been taken in his wife’s
name, and it was necessary to serve a writ on her
inste id. Then there was anew trial, but evidence
was brought to prove that the new writ had been
served on Stubbs’ wife's sister by mistake, and
then there was a third writ and a third trial,
which might’ have been conclusive but for a
medical certificate that the defendant had fallen
downstairs and broken her leg. Ultimately
Stubbs relented and gave a cheque which was
dishonoured, and then he disputed the signature
and sued the landlord for giving him an un-
stamped receipt, and while the case was beiDg
heard another bailiff got in at the instance of
another creditor and seized the furniture. At
latest advices, however, it transpired that the
sticks were only hired, and the furniture-dealer
who supplied them now talks of taking the matter
first to the Supreme Court and then to the Privy
Council and busting Stubbs’ for good and all with
the costs.
Bishop Corbett, of Sale, declares he never
cared to be a “ popular ” priest. He says that a
“ popular priest” is generally one who doesn’t do
his duty.
The Broken Hill (N.S.W.) Proprietary
mine yields £IO,OOO worth of bullion per week, and
the amount of proved silver ore visible is esti-
mated at fifteen millions sterling.
The Chinaman who found the 151 b. gold
nugget at LoDg's Creek, (N.S.W.) was on his way
to a hotel for a bottle of Old Tom when he kicked
his foot against the nugget. Old Tom has sifice
become immensely popular in that locality.
The Croydon miners can’t see why they
should put extra labour on reward areas granted
to prospeotors. When a man can’t crush for six
months, it’s a shame to make him spend another
£8 a week for two men. Better not such gifts
under the circumstances. And it’B not in the
regulations, Warden Towner.
Two men were committed for trial from
the Central Police Court, Sydney, last week for
attempting to steal one shilling. The previous
week a man who annexed over £IOO was
summarily dealt with, and sentenced to a few
months’ imprisonment. The former were only
roughs, the latter was well-connected:—
When the Q. Postmaster General was first
asked to provide a branch telegraph to Croydon
from Creen Creek, 15 miles away, he waited for
months, and then refused. Now the looal Post-
master has to work for 18 hours at a stretch, and
last wet season he did so with a stream of water
flowing knee-deep through his office.
Says the S.M. Herald’s London correi-
pondent: - The Jubilee half-sovereigns are being
rapidly withdrawn from circulation. There are
to be no more £2 pieces struck, as a flaw in the
shape of a tear on the Queen’s cheek has been
discovered in the die.” Humph! The ‘‘flaw in
the shape of a tear ” has no doubt some connection
with the Bulli (“ collect”) message of sympathy.
Croydon goldfield is threatened with »
Chinkie invasion, and orders have been given to
the police to carefully protect the squint-eyed
heathens from Leper Land against the wrath of
the white diggers The field is turning out
gold at the rate of 36,0000 z. per annum-average
value, about £3 per ounce. The permanency of
the diggings will be a debatable matter for the
next three years, as no claim is yet down over
100 ft. vertical A correspondent writes that
there are absolutely no sanitary regulations en-
forced in the township, and that next wet season
will see a typhoidal plague. The diggers have
petitioned that Dr. K. I. O’Doherty be appointed
health officer.
Mister M'Coan,
Leave us alone,
"-SaSS.'SSS' 0!
At ’Knery Parkes —
He will say “ ditto ” to you.
Mister M'Coan,
Wiser we've grown,
And repent the mistakes of our youth ;
What have toe made
Out of Freetrade ?
A, splendid deficit, forsooth 1
Mister M'Coan,
Foolish your tone
When you dilate on our case ;
The teachings of Bright
Are possibly right,
When taught in a different place.
Mister M'Coan,
Had you but known
e OUr COB '
Like y *s a „
Y ™'l come that is lost
touching a g •
Mister M'Coan,
Strangers are prone
T 0 P ?m™ e are SST
T?pm a wav ouick !
And attend to your private affairs.
4nd attend to your prn ate ana.rs.
Mister M'Coan,
Take yourself home
(That doesn’t rhyme, we admit;
Yet the advice
Is plain and precise)—
Pack your portmanteau and git! ’
OTHER CLIMES—OTHER MANNERS.
At Sydney, angry Brutus “goes”
For brother sena-tor,
And plugs the other fellow’s nose
Out in the corridor ;
Yea, plugs it till the ruby flows
(Tapped freely by repeated blows)
In streams upon the floor.
Do we suspend the fiery foes
Who thus engage in war,
Or trouble how the row arose
When members shed their gore?
Egad! as everybody knows,
We lore to see a couple close,
And honour them the more.
O, Marquis ! well, we know why you
Sail o’er the deep and briny blue
To our poor Austral nation :
You’re sent by your, fat, “ grieving” Gov.,
A kind of “ advance agent ” of
Imperial Federation.
We know your old, familiar tricks,
With our “ best— snobs—your wife will mix,
You’ll “ how d’ye ” every lout.
Yet Young Australia —sick of “ peers ”
Will spurn your worn-out baits with jeers,
And want to kick you out!
MR. DAKIN.
WITH KIND REGARDS TO PROFESSOR AYTOUN.]
Mr. Dakin, a Melbourne woodyard man,
was brought before the Supreme Court the other
day charged with disturbing the proceedings by
hammering in his yard. He was —but you will
see
They brought him to the felon’s dock
It was their wicked plan
As though they held a lion there,
And not a ’fenceless woodyard man.
They placed him high within that dock,
The Ee geant sat below ;
He folded his arms behind his back,
And wiped his noble brow,
But as he stood there pale and wan,
He looked so stern and high—
So festive was his manly “front,”
So calm his cob webbed eye,
The legal rout forbore to “ shout,”
And each reporter held his strong breath,
As though they knew the hero there
Was face to face with—Judge Higlnbotham.
There was soap-lustre on his forehead,
In his optics light was found ;
And he never looked more proud'y
Than when going to be fined a pound.
[The conclusion of this interesting ballad seems to
I have been written by a cockroach. —Ed. B ]


PERSONAL ITEMS
We much regret to hear of the very serious
illnesi of Mr. Carl Feilberg, editor of the Bris-
bane Courier.
Here is an impertinent question : What
has become of the money raised for the Peat’s
Ferry pointsman, Proctor ?
The De Bressi has given £15,000 to build
a School of Arts and Library at Hastings (Eng.)
0C0—120,000 half-crowns 1
John L. Dow, the funny man of the Vic-
torian Assembly, is a Scotchman. This is true,
but we are aware that this sounds very like a lie.
In a private letter Sir Robert Wisdom
vs he intends to visit. Ireland and Scotland.
We only hope he has no designs on John Jamieson
or John Robertson.
A N.S.W. country J.P. recently fell
asleep on the bench during the hearing of a
Chinese case. The charitable public put it down
to the prevailing aroma of opium.
Bismarck can libel anyone without fear of
being helped to disgorge damages. He is irre-
sponsible save to a military tiibunal. This is the
only thing that would make us join the army.
It is stated as a fact that every member of
the Irish National party in the House of Commons
is a total abstainer. This is the sort of fact
which we feel inclined to speak of as an alleged
fact.
The imposing-looking Itaynes W. Dickson
—of the firm of Ktingender, Charsley, and Dick-
son, solicitors, Melbourne—who pulled through
Mr.’ Malpas’ divorce suit for him, is at present in
Sydney.
Mr. Alfred Bennett, of Sydney, we read,
purchased several prize pigs last week at Adelaide.
At last we know that the taste for pork is respon-
sible for the horrible visions nightly conjured up
by the Nooze.
A writer in a London journal says that his
Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury would look
more like a genuine successor of the apostle if he
dispensed with a flunkey in attendance on him
during his rides in the park.
Mr. James Campbell, the late Postmaster-
General of Victoria, has lately travelled from
Vladivostock right across Siberia to Moscow. Mr.
John Woods, M.L A., will henceforth be nowhere
as an authority on Russian affairs.
Hall, the Timaru poisoner, constantly
receives letters in gaol from his wife and mother.
We have many examples, apart from the instance
of Nancy and Bill Sykes, of women remaining
faithful to the most inhuman monsters.
James Stanley, a master of arts, a doctor
of Jaw, and a barrister by profession, was brought
before the Melbourne Police Court last week on a
charge of vagrancy. It was stated that he had
been an inmate of every gaol in the colony.
Our young friend, Mr. Beiizm, is firmly
established as a racing notoriety in England On
the notice-board at one of the meeting! was a
letter addressed, “Mr. Bens in, The Plunger,
Kempt ot Park, near London.’’ This is fame !
An Evening News cablegram says that
the remains of the late Emperor Napoleon have
been removed to th. 3 site at Chiselhurst selected
by the late Empress Eogenie. These News people
are sc very precise and nave such good memories.
Major Chisholm—of the Scottish Volun-
teers—lately appointed Police Magistrate at Yass
(N.S.W.), is the son of that Mrs. Chisholm who,
some forty years ag", took a leading part in assist-
ing persons in Great Britain to emigrate to Aus-
tralia.
Bishop Barry is anxious to religiously
celebrate the centenary of N.S.W. How times
are changed since a parson could sit on the bench
at Parramatta and flog confessions out of pri-
soners ! Such were the religious convictions of a
century ago.
William Sharp, editor of the pretty bijou
“ Canterbury Poets,” apropos of a proposed
edition, says that he “ thinks very little of Gordon
is worth publishing.” The English stupidity
about our civilised conditions is naturally extended
to out poets. Rule, Britannia !
“P. Hanna,” of the Victorian Upper
House, who can't endure a discordant note, says
that Dakin's hammering outside the Criminal
Court was “ a premeditated affair.” Hanna him-
self is a Justice and thinks it only right to stick
up for the dignity of the coort, you know.
President Cleveland discourteously refused
to receive the fine paintirg lent from Sydney for
Mrs. Cleveland. The painting arrived at a bad
time. Cleveland is now at that stage in married
life when the romance has fled to parts unknown,
and wife and rheumatiz have soured his temper.
Eleven prisoners for Maitland gaol, who
were to proceed by the same train as Premier
Parkes from Newcastle, were kept back for a
later train. This extra care was taken to pre-
vent accidents. Also for fear the enthusiastic
Freetraders along the route might make mistakes.
A blue-blooded beggar, Henry Finch Hat-
ton, has been sent to Melbourne Gaol for a month.
We take a tender interest in the Fincb-Hattons
since one of t hem wrote a book on Australia, and
declared there was more real wit in The Bulletin
than in all the English society papers put
together.
The latest story told of the late Sir Red-
mond Barry is that he resolutely prohibited the
purchase of Thackeray’s works for the Melbourne
Public Library. The alleged reason is that in
“Barry Lyndon ” the great English satirist held
one of Sir Redmond’s ancestors up to deserved ap-
probrium.
Dr. Cameron Lees delivered a lecture on
“Clerical Humorists,” at Brighton (Vic.), re-
cently, and cited Sterne and Swifc as notable
examples. With true Scottish caution, however,
the Doctor refrained from quoting extensively
from the works of either of those distinguished
ornaments of the Church.
Some people think it’s very hard that
Dakin can’t hammer as he likes in the hearing of
Chief Justice Higinbotham, but it's a fact that
you can’t sneeze in the presence of Mu Justice
Williams, of Victoria He has been known to
interrupt his charge to a jury in order to tell a
man in the gallery to “ sneeze outside.”
Dr. Stanton, Bishop of North Queensland,
who is more like a real Christian than most mag-
nates in gaiters, got £l3O at Croydon in one evening.
He walks about the dusty street— doesn’t even sport
a horse— and adopts a style of lecturing which sur-
prises and pleases the diggers, who, we are told,
“ would do almost anything for him."
Two articles by Francis Adams, one on
the poetry of Arthur Clough, the other on “ Aus*
tralia as a Health Resort,” have been accepted by
Knowles for the Nineteenth Century, and will
appear in due course. Matthew Arnold, writing
on the subject, expresses his pleasure at the
author of the “Australian Essays ” having found
this opening.
Archbishop Carr means to reside at St.
Kilda- the most aristocratic, next to Toorak, of
the Melbourne suburbs. He is, no doubt, going
out there to mortify himself. We can recommend
the mussels on the piles of the pier. A little irre-
levancy will do this paragraph good. Christ did
not live in the fashionable quarter of Jerusalem.
The rents were too high.
During the trial of murderer Pranzini, the
Judge exclaimed, addressing the prisoner :
"Th-ef, cheat, bully! Your miserable prevarications now
prove the cowardice of jour nature. You trembl , Pran-
zini.” iSensatioD.)
We have never heard a colonial j udge openly say
things quite so brutal as that. But we have seen
a judge who looked them.
It is rumoured in Melbourne that H. H.
Hayter—we really don’t like to call him C.M.G.—
Government Statist, will retire from active service
at the end of the present year. Mr, Hayter is 65
years of age, and has £BOO a year. He
has been one of the very best and keenest of Aus-
tralian official, and we trust that when sitting
beneath his own fig tree in his honorable old age
he will refrain as far as possible from the vicious
habit of writing poetry.
The two Ballarat town councillors who
fought for the privilege of sitting next to the
Mayor, are classed in the heavy-weight division.
The victorious Walker stands 6ft. tin. and rides
18 stone or thereabout. Mangled Murphy
measures sft. 7in. in height and Lord knows what
round the tummy. Some of Murphy s too, too
solid flesh is melting under the trying ordeal of a
broken leg. When he gets back to Parliament
(Murphy helps to make laws for the suppression
of larrikins, yer know) he intends to introduce a
Bill for the Removal of Walker from the Seat of
Honour.
Sam Weller, again! The late genial
Richard Driver, M.L A., attorney, solicitor and
proctor, and good fellow, was engaged in a case
at Sydney Water Police Court. Amor gat th
witnesses was a little girl of ten summerp, who
“ Mr. Inglis made a brief speech, and in-
troduced the Rev. Mr. Carruthers, who
read an address from the United Temper-
ance Societies. Sir Henry Parkes briefly
replied. As so an as the Good Templars
could persuade their fellows to abstain
from drinking casks of whisky ard barrels
of ‘tanglefoot’ and turn them into the sea,
he would be at hand to throw over the last bottle”
The question is: Would that last bottle be an empty one ?—which would make all
the difference.
gave her evidence so methodically that Dicky
suspected she had been tutored. With his most
insinuating manner he asked if her mother bad
told her anything before coming to coart. She
had! Ah !he thought so ? “ Well, tell us ?” “ She
told me if any of the gentlemen asked me any
questions I was to tell the truth!” Dicky col
lapsed.
Mr. Phil. Gullett was presented with a
purse of sovereigns last week on the occasion of
his resigning the editorship of the Suburban
Times (Redfern, Sydney) to assume the conduct
of the Lancefibld Gazette (Victoria), which he
has recently purchased. Mr. Gullett almost re-
gards Lancefield as his native place. He was
born in Fitzroy (Melbourne), but taken to Lance-
field when he was two years old. Mr. G. is
brother of Mr. Henry Gullett, of the Sydney D.T.
He is a barrister by profession, and an LL.B. of
Melbourne University. While he leaves Redfern
in tears, Philip’s hosts of friends will receive him
back with open arms.
All good Yorkshiremen will be glad to
hear that “ Sam” Lister declined the offer of a
Jubilee baronetcy without troubling to give his
reasons for so doing. Mr. Lister, by his inventive
genius and keen business ability, has accomplished
wonders for the English manufacturing trade in
woollen and silk goods. The plushes that cover
the frames of fair women and drawing-room
chairs were first introduced by Sam. From his
acres of mills at Bradford—where weavers are
paid a respectable wage, as times go —is turned
out stuff cheaper than that produced by Germans
who live on two sour apples per diem. A wonder-
ful man is Sam. Years ago the Bradford citizens
erected a statue of him at the entrance to Lister
Park. And he wouldn't disgrace that marble
figure by making it a baronet,
POLITICAL
POINT
“ Why is Parkes like the moon ?" Because
he shines most when he is full.
Naturalised Chinamen are eligible for
seats on boards and councils in Queensland.
The new Victorian Electoral Act will pro-
vide for single-member constituencies throughout
the colony.
Sydney police have now to drill twice a
week. This, we presume, Is in view of a policy of
“ stamping out.”
One out of every 34 persons in England
and Wale 3 is in receipt of parish relief. Let us
stick to Freetrade.
Sydney D. T . is getting ready to turn dog
on Parkes. Signs of the approaching right-about-
L.ce are discernible in every issue.
If the Evening Noose wants an additional
reason why Parkes is like a full moon, we suggest
that it may be because he is not exactly square.
Copeland, M.L.A., says that we are to
have a mining boom in N.S.W. This, we pre-
sume, will also neoesßitate a boom in railway
bunks.
A N.Z. paper asserts that the Chinese on
the Russell River are making from 20s. to 30s. a
day each. Which will all ba shipped to Leper
Land.
Parkes says that “ decentralisation is a
word that falls very glibly from the lips of thought-
less persons.” This is his quiet way of thanking
John Haynes.
In ten years there were 12,350 illegi-
timate births in N.S.W., as against 11,237 in Vic-
toria during the same decade. The moral aspect
of Freetrade again.
The “purely Freetrade” N.S.W. Minis-
try intend to make imported produce pay 20 per
cent, more trainage than that oharged on produce
grown in the colony.
The Evening News asks : “ Why is Sir
Henry Parkes like a full moon?” Listen atten-
tively, Alfred, and we will tell you. It is because
he is not the cheese.
There were 31,493 convictions for drunken-
ness last year in N.S.W. We do not doubt
that this has something to do with the “ moral
aspect” of Freetrade.
A little nut for the Pulsford to crack.
Sydney Stock Exchange list, Friday last: “ Hud-
son Brothers, Limited, paid up, 17s. 6d. ; buyers,
Is. 6d. ; sellers, 2s. 61.”
Dibbs heard Griffith deliver his protection-
ist financial statement the other day, and no
doubt derived much encouragement from the
Queensland Premier’s speech.
In the resolution in favour of responsible
Government forwarded to the Secretary for the
Colonies by W. A, provision is made for the future
possible division of the colony.
Ernest Dodd, of Armidale (N.S.W.) has
obtained an award for horseshoes at the Adelaide
Exhibition. Ernest, we presume, runs one of
Pulsford’s Free-trade factories.
Messrs. Chaffey are raising a capital of
£600,000 in New York, with which to work their
irrigation colony in Victoria. Skilled farmers and
labourers are to be imported from California,
In Victoria, a man (if he’a a criminal) wi 1
be arrested for coming into the colony; in Queen «
land, a man (if he’s a Government immigrant)
will be run in for trying to leave the colony.
Bishop Barry opposes dismemberment of
the Empire in regard to Ireland, We thought his
lordship objected to beef. Why then does he
want to put the Irish under Bull—John Bull?
When the Hon. “Tommy ’’Garrett wis
canvassing his electorate in February last, he
specially advocated “ sober legislation.” Latterly
he has ceased to urge this desideratum. Why ?
Service returns to Australia in April. He
will at once seek re-election to Parliament with a
view to resuming the Conserva' ive leadership, A
re organisation of the Ministry is expected to fob
low,
Cardinal Manning has taken upon himself
to contradict all the misstatements of the Times
about himself and Home Rule. Manning has
little time for anything else, Bince he togan to do
this.
The political situation in New South Wales
just now is embodied in these two demands j
“ Give U 3 markets,” say the Freetrade importer?,
“ Give us bread,” say the starving unemployed
workmen.
The Northern Star (Lismore) says Cut
the Sydney Press is mainly n'-d and wiitten by
new chum editors and clergyn from England
and elsewhere, who exist only for Sydney and it a
prophet, Parkes.
The Bourke (N.S.W.) paper pertinently
asks:-’‘ls the Bar of New South Wales to be
kept a close corporation for the sole benefit of a
few legal families such as the Stephens’ and
others of that kidney ?’’ No, not if The Bulletin
can help it.
One of the tithe-raiders in Wales is a
member of the governing body of Christ Church
College, Oxford. Thus the farmers and agricul-
tural labourers are ground down in order that the
sons of the privileged classes may be educated in
an atmosphere of Toryism.
The Parkes Ministry say that the Local
Government Bill will provide for the maintenance
by each district of its own lunatics and pauper?.
Members of Parliament, when they fail to get re-
e ected, will thus have to stay in the asylums be*
longing to their own constituencies.
The consumption of liquor last year in
N S.W. was £4 19s. 6d. per head of the popula-
tion. In England the consumption was £3 7s Bd,
per head As liquor is much dearer in N.S.W,
than in England the consumption in N.S.W. is
thus much larger than in the old country,
Separation is making strong progress at
Croydon. The miners see that if Separation
comes on they will form the bulk of the electors
in the North. Fe lid berg, of the Courier, once
thought so, and said so—when he was up North.
He's down South now, and that’s all the differ-
ence.
Lord Denb : gh, the most anti-Home Rule
Catholic peer in the Lords now that the brilliancy
of the Duke of Norfolk is temporarily eclipsed by
family affliction, lately announced that “the Pope
never interfered in party politics.” No ? Not after
Leo’s transactions with Bismarck, and Persico’s
mission?
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy is biding his time
for the opening of the Irish Parliament, when he
expects to become Speaker. Sir Charles is doomed
to disappointment. The Irish despise and do not
care a straw for him That K.C.M.G. after his
name is enough to secure his defeat in any Irish
electorate.
On the Press of North- Western N.S.W,
there have been but two writers who hwo con-
sistently advocated Protection and thB downfall
of Parkes, and sympathised with the Republican
movement. We refer to Mr, J. L. Parsons, of
Bourke, and Mr. Howard, of the Nyngan
Mercury.
Russia can now bring into the field in case
of need 2,425,577 soldiers. In addition she has
2,160,000 militia liable to serve, and if the term of
service were reduced from five to three years, the
State would in a short time be able to have
4,000,000 regular troops without having recourse
to the militia reserves.
The late Billy Miles, Queensland Minister
for Works, was a generous and honest man and a
thorough Liberal who never sat on a rail. For a
politician of the old school, his views were demo-
cratic and in striking contrast to those of the time-
serving old fogies who have climbed into place and
power in N.S.W. during the fame period.
In a paragraph in the always logical and
truthful Evening News we read that at Mud J.
Haynes’s meeting at Tamworth one-third of the
meeting was very hostile, notwithstanding which
a Freetrade resolution was carried with only four
dissentients. From this we conclude that only
four people were present. John himself, no
doubt, constituted the remaining two-thirds.
Isn’t this a beautiful thing for a “ whole-
hog-o-none ” Freetrade journal to say, and yet
that howling fiscal lunatic, the Sydney D.T. says
it: —
“ Whatever we do, let us not give the wheat-importers an
advantage over the local grower by any lack of legitimate
enterprise in the management of our railways. That would
be tantamount to subsid,sing a monopoly, and a monopoly
in its worst form. . . . Better to give our farmers the
arotection of a tariff than our importers the deliberate pro-
tection of an 1 obsolete' railway system. For either the con-
sumer would in the long run have to pay.”
Sydney D.T. in reviewing the issues to te
placed before the Queenslanders at the coming
general election omits all mention of the question
of protection and freetrade which is one of the
most prominent just now in the northern colony.
Advocacy of protection was supposed to be the
trump held by MTlwraith, but now that Griffith
has declared himself a protectionist, there is little
fear that Queensland's tariff will not be ad-
justed in accordance with what Parkes terms tie
“ old worn-out principles ’’ of protection. Then
the “ mother” colony will have no option but to
swallow the lesson which her younger daughter as
well as her elder were fated to teach her.
A correspondent writes to the Melbourne
Herald to know whether the sphinx was mascu-
line or feminine. The Herald, of course, copied
some stuff out of a blue-mouldy dictionary in
reply. The great European sphinx is calied B!s-
-marck, and is very much masculine. The Vic-
torian sphinx is called Duncan Gillies—gender un-
certain, but generally believed to be neuter.
It is calculated that Broken Hill silver
mine contains mineral amounting to 4,158,000 tons
worth £12,474,000. This does not make allowance
for the possibility of the lode being much deeper
than at present imagined. A new manager at
£4OOO a year is being brought from America with
the latest improvements in machinery. The
principal shareholders come from poor Protectienist
Yictoria,


Return of the Survivors o f the Ministerial Junketing Contingent.
“WEVE HAD AH— OF A TIME ’— EARLY ENGLISH MADRIGAL.


Gladstone as he is now being depicted by the Tory Press.
“Eighty English Liberal Members have joined the Irish National League as a protest against its proclamation." -Cablegram .


Soiety
Mr. W. Fittler, artist, best known for his
works in black and white, but also quite at home
when dealing with colours, departed for America
the ocher day by the Alameda. Before leaving he
was entertained at dinner at Paris House by a
number of friends, the company consisting chiefly
of artists, literary men. and others of that ilk. Mr.
W. Macleod took the chair, and a most pleasant
evening was spent.
• * *
The murdered wife of the religio-maniac,
Wyndham, is described as having been a most
handsome and engaging young lady. It is said
that she married him much against her own in-
clination, being persuaded to the step by certain
of her “friends.”
* * *
That engaging animal the Buffalo an-
nounces a ball and banquet at the Temperance
Hall, Penrith, on September 7. We trust the
working bullock may enjoy himself.
* * *
A very successful entertainment was held
in the New Masonic Hall, Sydney, on September 2.
The object was to raise funds with which to con-
struct a gymnasium for the benefit of the N.S.W.
Artillery, and thanks to good music and other
things to match, a very considerable raise was
accomplished.
* * *
A plain and fancy dance in honour of the
local doctor was held at Murrurundi (N.SW,)
School ot Arts, the other evening. Our corres-
pondent has omitted to explain why he wanted a
ball or what good it did him, hut we presume he
had been recommended to take it in water before
going to bed. AmoDg 150 radiantin make up, were
a Zingara, a Finnish lady, Patience, Carmen,
and the inevitable Spanish Girl, who were all too
beautiful for anything.
# * *
An exceedingly “swagger’’dramatic enter-
tainment in aid of the Mount Macedon Anglican
Church will be held in the Freemasons’ Hall, Mel-
bourne, on the 20th Inst. As the vice regal
household take their little revelation in the Mount
Macedon place of worship in the summer months
that tabernacle has become rather “ toney,” and no-
body is to perform at this spree except “ ladies
and gentlemen whose names appear in the Govern-
ment House visiting list.” Even the scene-
shifter, we presume, will be a duke.
* * *
A “ Social Bee” was held at Randwick
Town Hall, on the Ist September. It was a small
bee—not one of the bumble description— and was
a tolerable success.
* # *
A plain and fancy dress ball in aid of the
local hospital came off at Moree (N.S.W.), under
wet and muggy circumstances on the 31st ult.
There were present Highland girls, Spanish girls,
gipsy girls, Jubilee girls, and the girl we left behind
us, also sailors, cricketers, bicyclists, and one
clown. While the dancing was going on
some obsequious person mixed up Ihe hats
and bootsin the ante-room, andraised trouble among
the umbrellas.
• * *
It is now the correct thing to go to Mel-
bourne with brown hair and come back with
yellow. This remarkable result is ascribed to the
climate.
• * #
The annual ball in aid of the Sb. Vincent’s
Hospital will take place at the Exhibition Build-
ing on September 14.
* * *
Lady Carington will be “at home” on
Thursday (15th), it being the hired girl’s day out.
* * *
Invitations are out for a hall at Govern-
ment House, Sydney, on 16th September. Also
for a similar affair on September 30.
* * *
The Sydney Liederfcafel give one of their
popular concerts on Wednesday, September 28.
* * *
Mr. W. H. Needs of Nithsdale, Sydney,
has now blossomed into a Professor, having ob-
tained a diploma from the Society of Professors of
Dancing at New York. He ie the only Australian
who holds the distinction, and he seems to feel
better now that he has got it.
* * •
The Woollahra Private Assembly held
their last monthly dance for the season at Niths-
dale on Friday last. A number of elegant cos-
tumes were present, but the refreshments weren’t
a success.
* * *
Rinking in Sydney is going ahead on a
large scale. On Monday, 29 th August, the
Columbia Rink was engaged by a number of ladms
-who entertained 100 of the silver-tailed inhabi-
tants, and had a real good time. On Friday, Sep-
tember 2, a similar entertainment was given.
Lady Darley, Lady Manning, and several other
adies being the hostesses.
• * *
The Sydney Private Assembly had a dance
at Needs’ Rooms on Tuesday, 30th August.
Among those present were the Hon. \Y. Hallioay,
the Mieses Halliday, Mrs. and the Misses Batt,
Dr. and Miss Faithful, and many more.
* * *
It appears that the present style of English
bishopric was only established a century back.
There were bishops before those days (warm
members, too!), but of a less blessed species than
flourishes under Our Sovereign Lady. Time was
when bishops led troops to battle, wore camel’s
hair under-garments, and got grilled at the stake.
But the lawn-sleeved, aproned, gaitered article
didn’t come into use till a hundred years ago.
Whether he ever did, or ever will, come into
much use, is quite beside the question. We have
Bishop Me bourne Goe s authority for the opening
line of this paragraph. Goe held a centennial
service last month, under the appropriate patron-
age of dear Lady Loch. And at that service Goe
preached from the parable of the small grain of
mustard seed, which grew into such a nice tree
that the fowls of the air lodged in the branches
thereof. A pretty simile, dear friends! That
first bishopric took root, grew, and cast forth
many branches. Goe lodges on the Melbourne
branch. It costs £2OOO a year to provide that
particular fowl of the air with his little nest. Let
us hope he will soon have a satisfactory nest-egg
to show for the money. The usual collection will
conclude our service.
* * *
It is reported that croquet will shortly
come into favour again, and that tennis will then
be voted low.
Archbishop Carr, of
Melbourne, told a con-
gregation the other day
that if Mr. Shiels’ Divorce
Bill were adopted it
would “ soon lead to
Mormonism.” A Pro
testant prelate would
never have made such a
statement, because a Pro-
testant prelate would
have spoken from the
standpoint of a married
man. He would not have
implied that because a
way is found for casting
one dev—we mean wife
—out of—that is to say
out of the house of a
man, that man is going
to be such a rampant
lunatic as to straightway
take seven others in.
And if tne Archbishop
happened to be a single
woman (which he is not,
and, probably, never will
be), he would know that
it is becoming a more
heart-breaking struggle
every year to gat bache-
lors to marry, let alone
widowers who know all
about what they will
have to face if they put
their necks in the noose
again. Mr. Shield’ Di-
vorce Bill is more likely
to lead to general celi-
bacy and a rapid decline
of the census.
* * *
All the girls we ever
met, who haven’t a rich
pa, long very much for
the shekels and filthy
lucre of the god Mam-
mon Yet we doubt if
one of them would wel-
como a “forchin” be-
queathed under the con-
ditions which an English
girl had to accept the
other day. It was her
aunt Mary whodied and
left the money to her
neice on condition that
she should never wear
clothes of any other cut
tnan those worn by her
aunt, and as aunt went
about in a coal-scuttle
bonnet and a crinoline —
not to mention the heel-
less prunella shoes and
the reticule —the niece
must almost weep at the
idea of her wealth. For
what earthly comfort is
there to a pretty girl in
the possession of so many
thousands and yet to see
eighty-button gloves and
a sealskin j acket fade slowly away and give place
to mittens and a paisley shawl ?
• *
The well-known Mr. QuongTartgave aswell
reception last Thursday at Huntingtower,
Waverley. The guests numbered several hun-
dred, and, excepting for the presence of a large
number of the M.L.A. fraternity, the company
was painfully select. Miss Vine Tart was the
great attraction of the evening.
• * #
Mr. Panton, Police Magistrate of Mel-
bourne, has generously offered to paint a picture
for the Sandhurst Art Gallery. The offer is noted
in the Melbourne papers. This was probably the
first intimation most peoplB had that the gentle-
man with red side whiskers who told them that it
was “ five shillings or forty-eight hours,” was an
artist. By the way, Mr. Panton was the magis-
trate who sentenced Bookmaker Sutton to II
days’ imprisonment for tapping Lord Beerthir3t on
the shoulder, and who had to eat his own sentence
afterwards. We would suggest this scene to him
as a flue subject for a picture, if we thought it
would not be contempt of court.
* * *
The Sydney chess-players are immeasur-
ably wrathful over the victory of Charlick and
Ksling at Adelaide. At a Sydney chess-gathering,
the other evening, an innocent player suggested
that congratulations be sent to the winners.
Whereupon the Sydney cracks sat up! They
seemed to regard Charlick as a base scion of
Beelzebub for not letting Gossip and Heiman lick
him.
* * •
A tip-top show accompanied the tying of
the irrevocable knot between Miss Minnie Home,
of Warialda (N.S.W.), to Mr. W. H. Newman,
manager of the looal Bank of N.S.W. The bride
was elegantly attired in cream silk, while the
three maids looked nice enough to eat in white
and red. The festivities concluded with a ball in
the local school of arts, which lapped over into
to-morrow morning. Honeymoon at Waverley
(Sydney) amongst the groom’s relations.
“A Visitor” writes somewhat savagely
complaining of a certain lady, who, he says,
slammed the door in the face of some ladies at
the women’s concert held recently in Sydney
| University hall, saying as she did so, “I won’t
allow people to leave before the concert is over.”
One question which must be answered before a
I decision is given in the matter is this ■ How much
noise did the outgoing ladles make in their exit ?
* * *
Miss Fanny Purves, youngest daughter of
} the late Mr. James Purves, of Melbourne, is
shortly to be married in London to Mr. Louis
Fagan, of the department of Prints and Drawings,
British Museum. "
« * *
Marriage is a lottery, and the greater part
of the time you can’t pretty much most always
tell how it is going to turn out sometimes. Con-
sequently the short and simple annals of this
great country are filled with tales of difficulties
that have arisen between husbands and wives and
other people’s wives, until it seems as if the Aus-
tralian coat of-arms should be altered to a
kangaroo with a black eye and a badly smashed
tail, accompanied by a razor flying through the
air, ana the motto, “ Come out and I’ll wipe the
floor with yez.” Down in the peaceful settlement
of Hay (N.S.W.), for instance, there live a couple
who some time ago took each other for worse. It
was all in vain that the fond wife salted her hus-
band s claim with the tear of sensibility; he
merely told her to go to Gehenna. He would
come home at night in a state of drivelling
drunkenness, and in a voice that resembled the
tearing of a rag he would whoop out remarks
that sounded like a small boy towing a saucepan
along by a string. At last he whaled the patient,
trusting female, contrary to the usages of polite
society, and then briefly remarking that he was
a hunky boy, he quitted the scene. But she stayed
on. Sooner or later she knew her wandering
partner would return, and each succeeding night
she fancied in her dreams that she heard him fall-
ing into the old mud-hole by the garden gate, and
crawling out with toe old remark that he always
made on these occasions. And at last he came.
There was a lurch and a roar, and something
fell into that peaceful home—something that
smelt like a dirty wet dog and a hogshead, mixed
wilh cold pigs’ cheek and taturs, and which rolled
on the floor and said it had come to kill some-
body. It was the hunky boy returned. Then the
fond wife fell on his neck and wept. Did she ?
Not much. No, she tied (behind his back) the
hands of the man who bad smacked her, and then
she dragged his clothes mostly off him, and
walked into him a perfect hurricane with a rope,
and rolled him over and welted the other side of
him, and then she finished him off with a dog-
whip, while the miserable victim tried vainly to
claw up the floor and hide himself in the deprhs
of the earth. With a noble moderation the lady
resisted the temptation to scald him for a finale,
but, instead of adopting this extreme measure,
she painted him red-probably with some of the
paint that he bad been using to paint the town red
and theD, standing him up, she flicked him
about the legs until he fled from the scene. He
didn’t gird up his loins or anything of that kind,
he simply -went as he was : he struck out for the
setting sun with a shriek, and bounded over every-
thing smaller than a Baptist church that came in
his way. Like the vanishing of a broken bubble
he was visible one moment and gone the next,
and all that remained was an optical illusion of a
red citizen spinning 150 feet in the air, and kick-
ing himself as he went to make him travel faster.
Thus, those whom the church had joined wera
finally put asunder, and the summer idyll of two
lives comes to an untimely end.
* * *
A little romance attached to the last will
and testament of Master in Equity Holroyd. It
was only a fortnight p-evious >o his dear.h (unex-
pected at that time) that the Justice iuvited a
visit from his fair Victorian granddaughrer, Miss
Gwendoline Patton. They h*d never met before,
and the young lady s c' arms so impressed grandpa
that he cod* oiled her half nis fortune insteao of a
£5OO legacy originally dotted down on the impor-
tant piece of parchment. According to all ac-
counts Miss Gwendoline is a fresh, smiling daisy,
possessing exceptional rinking abilities. Her
mother is the accomplished Mrs Patton, well
known in Melbourne as a teacher of music and
singing on a system of her own.
* * *
The latest argument in favour of Shiels’
Divorce Bill comes from Paris. A high born
Count, after divorcing his volatile wife, has taken
her under his “protection.” In the early days of
innocence the ex-Countess had to go into hysterics
over a paltry milliner’s bill before it was settled
by the boss. And now he loves her to the exten
of £2OO a month pocket-money. How singularly
appropriate are Swinburne's lines :
“ Lawful wives, who wear langours and lilies,
Big swells never find very nice
As compared with the same little fillies
In the roses and raptures of vice.”
Several British lords of high degree have
been doing California of late, and the argonaut
proceeds to size them up in a bitter spirit. As a
whole they seem to have been an ordinary lot, and
of very small account. The Duke of Blank was
noted chiefly for a horsey, doggy smell, which
clung to him closer than a brother. He came in a
yacht, and brought with him a lady who was not
his wife. She was tall, gaunt, red faced, and
bony ; but society did not take kindly to her, so
the duke swore a little at the insolence of these
“blawsled American people,” and joyously sailed
away in his old greasy suit. Lord Sandys was
chiefly noted for the fact that he sat for 15 hours
straight ahead in a restaurant imbibing beers,
with three inches of his trousers turned up at the
feet. He looked like the Pickwickian fat boy in
his calmer moments, but whatever bis mental
state his trousers were always turned up at the
feet. He married a pretty American girl at last,
and then he wheezed in his own calmly corpulent
way over the horizon, and was lost to view. Vis-
count Mandeville was a young man with an erup-
tion on his face and a go-to-blazes manner, but he
would sit and glower amiably at a pug for hours,
and he was popular with the bruising fraternity.
The American pugilists a’l agreed that “it wouldn't
do to stoush the poor little cove 'cos of his legs,"
which were of the kinky and bowed-down descrip
tion, and consequently the viscount, though he
was cheeky at times, was always tolerated. But
the Argonaut's list of lords is a long one, and as
there is nothing original about the rest, they may
be passed over. They were mostly bowed down
and of bull-pup habits, and the one tbicg which
amazed them was to find that the world was not
all one everlasting dog-show.
* * «
John Taylor, the Mormon prophet, has
handed in his checks, and is now sunning himself
and kicking up his heels on the grassy slopes of
Paradise. We are sorry for Mrs, J. T.—all of her,
for the saint quintupled his blessedness and leaves
behind him a No. 5 widow. The Sydney D.T.
vaguely advances as a cause for his demise, a life
led during the past two years in seclusion, but we,
who have been married once, know better.
When John came home from the club with an
insane desire to put his walk ing-3tick in the key-
hole, and crawled upstairs with his boots in his
coat-tail pockets and the candlestick in his mouth,
Mrs. Taylor opened oat at him with a volley of
bad language from five tongues. When one of
the young Taylors cried in the silent watches of
the night, and John was compelled to take the
floor, four other infantine Mormons waked the
echoes of the tabernacle and demanded fraternal
perambulations. The prophet doesn’t recollect
the time when he was rot lulled to slumber by
the vigorous curtain lecture, pitched in various
keys of soprano, ,of Mrs. T. with an incessant
chatter of five strong. Ten icy cold feet were
planted in the prophet’s back and decupled the
agonies of chronic lumbago, and when he bought
a section of his blushing bride a new bonnet, four-
fifths of her glared jealously with venom in her eye.
A baby’s rattle placated only a small part of his
flourishing offspring, and aggravated a consider-
able quantum of the charming creature who bore
the sacred name of wife, 't hese troubles broke
down the prophet's health, and he fell at an early
age the victim of too much matrimony. As
nobody seems inclined to annex his widow in the
bulk, it has been decided by a Parliamentary syn-
dicate to effect a subdivision of the relict and
offer her to enterprising speculators in five subur-
ban lots.
# * #
This is a little Kanaka romance of the
deepest dye. A party of coffee-coloured brethren
were about to embark at Cairns (Q.) for their
island homes, when one Jimmie stood up like the
famous George Washington and his hatchet, and
said he couldn’t accompany them because his
heart was in the highlands a-chasing the deer and
following the roe. In other words, his mahogany-
coloured Mary had still four months to serve, and
Jimmie was going to wait for her, and then they
would get married and settle down and have a
cottage with three cane-bottomed chairs in the
parlour. Then he went off to lay himself and his
fortune of £lB at Mary’s feet; but, alas 1 she had
skipped. She had gone off with a brown brother
named Sambo, and Sambo had left an insulting
message with Jumbo to the effect that he could
knock the dust out of Jimmie's loin cloth with a
three-inch plank any time he wished to. And
this was the reason why Jimmie went back to
Cairns and expended his £lB in vanity, and gazes
on the coffee coloured female nevermore. But he
hopes, if the words of the white fellow’s preachy
man are not the baseless fabric of a dream, that
he may one day meet his Mary again in another
world, and find Qut if she instigated Sambo to
leave that message with Jumbo, or if she was
betrayed, like himself, by Sambo’s fathomless
guile.
« * •
The Melbourne Argus consoles poor Mr.
Dakin for all the trouble and expense he has been
put to in connection with the thumping case of
contempt by assuring him that he will for all time
be the hero of a “leading case ” in the law-books.
The Argus says that “ Dakin’s case ” will be
cited in the Courts when Higinbotham, Dakin,
and a lot more have long passed away. This is'
very much like the cheerful information given by
Ko-ko to Narki-Pco as to what will take place
after the Mikado's son has been snickersnee’d
“ There will be great festivity, and fireworks in
the evening ; you won’t see them, but they'll take
The wild flowers a-e now out to perfection, and many busy
hands are employed in gathering and arrangirg them for
stows. Some very pretty Glass S.ands, with a central tuba
with 2 and 3 branches, plain and coloured, at 12s 6d. and
15s each tre marvels cf beauty and chearners They ore at
Bray Bros , 402 and 404 George-street, and are just what is
required at present, and f„r ro3ts when they arrive. Have
you seen the Bijou Fern Pots and Stands.*
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs. McOathix, 86 and SO King-street,*
We would advise all smokers to visit J. Noake's new
establishment 177 Pxtt street. He has the largest assoriment
of smoking material to be seen in Sidney, and his prices are
very moderate. He tel's us that J. B. Pace’s Tobacco,
Bangle Brand, is taking the cake just now,'


place all the same.” Poor Dakin’s case wil j
become as famous as “ the case of Sir Colman J
O’Loghlen, your Honor.” Poor Sir Colman
(brother of Sir Bryan) had the ill luck to get into
the Bankruptcy Court in Ireland, and a decision
was given in a matter which cropped up in his
case that has ever since furnished an eternal
precedent Sometimes when Sir Bryan is in an
insolvency case his opponent finds “ the case of
Sir Colman O’Lcghlen on all fours, your Honor,
with this.”
* * *
A certain fashionable society doctor con-
sulted the papa of the girl he loved, with a view
tomarriage. “ You shall have her on one condition,”
said the stern parent. “Name it,” said he. “It
is that when she’s ill you don't doctor her your-
self. She’s my only daughter, you know."
* * *
There have been three suicides in the same
block in Gertrude-street, Fitroy (Vic,), within a
few weeks.
* * *
The next yachtsman we may expect to see
is William Vanderbilt, who staited on a world
cruise Ist July. His yacht is called the Alba.
The Duke of Man-
chester leaves his ances-
tral halls and sails for
poor groaning Australia
on October 21st. We are
sorry to inform “Hum-
ming Bee” that the
Duchess lias no intention
of accompanying His
Grace, for - ahem 1
reasons well known in
aristocratic circles.
# *
During the Jubilee
royal parade to Wt st-
minster when her Pre-
eminence-in-grief return-
ed thanks for the regu-
larity with which the
British taxpayer “ anted
up” her salary, etcetra,
a number of women,
fainting and almost
crushed to death, who
were rescued by the am-
bulance men, were re-
fused temporary admis-
sion to St. Stephen's (Con-
servative) Club by the
sub-committee, and had
to he laid on the pave-
ment until they recovered
and the crowd had passe i
Westminster Bridge.
This disgraceful, in-
human snobbery is
worthy of the Tories ar d
of “charity” ol the
Jubilee order.
• * •
Mr. J. G. Knight,
who holds a S.A. Go-
vernment appointment
at Port Darwin, says
that from what he knows
of the Japanese women
in his “ public ” rapacity
their manners are most
ladylike and their general
behaviour faultless
“ They never drink, kn p
themselves exceedingly
select, and their general
manner is in s riking
contrast to many who
affect to be more virtu-
ous.’ In fact, the Japan-
ese beauties of tbe
North, although not over
particular in morals, are
much more refined than
their white sisters.
Their amours are con-
ducted on strict prin-
ciples of etiquette.
• • *
Chief Justice Darley
points out that the mere
granting of relief to a
divorced wife is not suffi-
cient. A husband should
be liable to six months’
gaol if it were proved in
court that he ill treated
his wife, lived on her or
her relatives, and de-
serted her. A word ia
your little| pink shell like
ear, Sir Frederick, We
notice that you have said
nothing about the wife
wlo ill-treats her hus-
band—who not only lives
upon him, as she has a
right to do, but brings
her mother-in-law and
other relations to help
him into an early grave.
Having been there our-
selves in a former state
of existence, we are of
opinion that twelve
months wouldn’t fully
meet this latter case.
WATER-JUG FOSTER (the Iconoclast): “THE REREDOS ‘MUST GO,’ IN SPITE OF THE BISHOP.”
No Mayor of Melbourne has yet been
knighted, though several of them, on special
occasions, have striven hard for the “honour.”
The late John Thomas Smilh—who was Mayor
seven times, and used to be called the Melbourne
Whittington—was sent home 25 years ago by the
Corporation to present an address to her Majesty
on the occasion of Wales’ marriage. Smith, who
was an ex-publican and ex theatrical manager,
took home with him as “chaplain ’ the Rev. C.
T-. Perks, of St. Stephen’s Church of England,
Richmond. Melbourne Punch, which was then a
comic paper, had a cartoon representing John
Thomas dreaming sweetly “ a knightly dream ”
which, however, was baseless as most dreams are.
Then J. S. Butters, who was Mayor when Edin-
burgh visited Melbourne, expected to be made
“Sir James," but that didn’t come off, either.
Veares, who was Mayor when the International
Exhibition of 1880 1 was opened, got the beggarly
title of C.M.G, and we don’t hear that “Cain,”
the present Mayor, who, J. D. Carter says, is also
an “ able ” man, is going to get any Jubilee “ dis-
tinction."
• • •
At Melbourne, William Rock received six
months’ gaol for trickery and fraud. William was
wont to go in the still small hours of the night in
meagre attire, with blanched face and storm-
tossed hair, waking respectable citizens by
clamouring at their doors for brandy to adminis-
ter to his sick wife or child. Tender-hearted
people, who happened to have a drop by them,
humanely responded to his earnest appeal, and
William slid behind the next corner to pour the
contribution down his neck on top of various
others, out of the reach of the law. Mr. Rock
would then pass in his pannikin a little further
up the street. By these means he managed to get
drunk every night, till the police interfered and
turned off his little tap.
* * •
Father Cahill, of Melbourne, objects to
Shiels’ Divorce Bill, on the ground that its adop-
| tion would lead to Mormonism. This is a strange
! objection from a priest, when we consider how
j well weddings pay. Mormon mor-money, your
i reverence.
# • *
London has gone cowboy mad ever since
Buffalo Bill brought his wild Western show across
j the Atlantic, and accordingly Bill’s rowdy gang
are living in an atmosphere of luxury which no
cowboy ever breathed before. The characteristics
|of a cowboy are few and painfully strong. He is
a foul-mouthed, whisky-scented, unwashed ruffian,
who never learned to read or write or do anything
hut loaf about with squaws, Indians, and half-
castes, and round up cattle, who uses six garish
oaths and sundry anatomical expressions in each
sentence, who regards murder as a weakness and
beastly, hideous intoxication as the only manly
amusement of any account. When his nightly
perfoimance is over he lounges over a fifth-rate
bar and blanks the eyes of the tenth-rate barmaid
in attendance ; he also spits freely, and buries his
bloodshot countenance and garbage-laden breath
in bowls of rum, and he talks in a dialect of his
own, which is a strange and awful mixture of
blasphemy, ignorance, impudence, and malapro-
pism. And yet for the time being the cowboy is
the fashion, just as the “representative Aus-
tralian” was before him, but in a much greater
degree. He is to be seen, and, worse still, smelt
at garden parties, picnics, and balls; he spits
at conversaziones, and gets maudlin drunk at
supper parties, and swears everywhere, and
he flirts in his heavy cowboy fashion with
the prettiest girls and for that matter with
| the prettiest married women as well. Ladies
of good position visit Buffalo Bill’s circus,
and sit conversing with these grimy, lying herds-
men in their tents over afternoon tea, and then
pay the bill and depart, for the cowboy never
“ shouts.” At least two burly, dingy, blasphem-
ous members of this Indian circus are now en-
gaged to be married to young ladies of good
pcsition and large fortune, hut whether they in-
tend settling in England or whether they are
going to take their brides to their dirty huts on
the prairies is yet uncerta’n. There was a
romantic English lady once who went out to that
land of the setting sun as the bride of a converted
Indian, and when she reached his wigwam she
discovered that he had two wives already, but as
accommodation was scanty he kindly strangled
one. The young wife lived here and slept with
the dog for four years, and then she escaped, but
her husband captured her, tore all her clothes off,
and, tying a rope round her waist, made her run
for ten miles alongside his horse. When he got
home he switched her with a strip of hide till he
thought she was dead, but another Indian fancied
she might come round and took her in exchange
for a sore-footed dog. The cowboys’ brides are
not likely to have so bad an experience as this,
but still a husband who at the dinner-table dines
on a roast fowl, which he holds in his hands, and
then wipes his paws on his own hair —or probably
his wife’s—is hardly calculated to make home
happy. Yet it is difficult, after all, to say which
is the more degraded and contemptible—the cow-
boy or the British swell (male or fema’e) who
associates with and pets the foul-mouthed and
malodorous barbarian. Sooiety, after a long
l course of grovelling before a sovereign, has now
come down to grovelling before a mere animal.
The cowboy, on the other hand, has retained his
place in the social scale, All along he was pre-
pared to kick a lady or a king with perfect im-
partiality, and if an emperor gave him any cheek
he would probably gouge his eyes out. And he
remains just where he was, for he is open to
gouge the eyes out of that emperor to-day.
* * *
Some Jubilee Tommy-rot from that good
old-fashioned organ, the Sydney Mail :
“No child can obtain one of these medals except by at-
tending on every occasion on which the school has been
open. Florence Dunn has, therefore, never missed a single
attendance for seven years Her Majesty graciously spoke
a few words of congratulation to the. girl, v>ho was brought to
the side of the carriage, and then handed her one of the me-
morial Jubilee mugs. There was a blast of trumpets and a
flag-signal given by the Union Jack called forth the singing
of two verses of the ‘ Old Hundredth ’ by the assembled
children. At a similar flag-signal,* Rule Britannia’ was
commenced, and the singing continued untii her Majesty
had driven out of the Park.”
“A Jubilee mug”—and then “a blast of
trumpets.” Blast! What humorists ! What a
cilmax !
* *
Unlike the majority of Civil servants, the
late David Seth Hicks, Inspector of Public Schools,
Bathurst District, was a slave to duty. He got
up from a sick bed in Bathurst to inspect schools
in Orange and never returned alive. He was
most conscientious man, and performed his
allotted task without fear, favour, or affection.
The teachers of his district were not afraid of any
outside influence or favouritism interfering with
their just rights while David S. Hicks was about.
He rose from the ranks, having entered Fort-st»eet
school as a pupil teacher. He married a daughter
of the late John Wright, principal of the Training
Institute, who died some three months ago. Mr.
Hicks was only II years of age.
* » #
Ten shillings admission was charged for
the privilege of witnessing the consecration of the
new Roman Catholic Bishop of Sale, Gipps-
land, at J3t. Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne,
The house was crowded in every part, and the
gate-money must have been considerable. So
that the Bishop for Sale realised well.
* * *
The QuBen has presented Jubilee medals
of gold to the Royal Family, silver to the house-
hold, and bronze to the servants. C M.G.’s are
not mentioned, but we presume they rank next
with leather. It will be noticed thas her Gracious
has presented her poor relations with an article
extremely convenient to pawn.
Thera ii great sor-
row in Wagga Wagga
anent the local bone-
yard. It seems that an
aUlLcted widower went
to visit the violet-strewn
mound of Maud Matilda
and weep a little before
he went home and sha-
ved himself for Saturday
night. When he opened
the rustic gate, however,
and planted the beer
bottle behind another
tombstone, he heard a
sound between a squeal
and a hiccough, and go-
ing toward the grave saw
an oteae and patriarchal
hog prospecting for the
root of the headstone with
his snout, while a leaD,
misshapen sow sniffed in
a half hearted manner at
the inscription which
detailed Maud Matilda’s
many virtues. A numer-
ous family of pigs were
rioting amongst the adja-
cent vaults, and scratch-
ing themselves on the
vases and crosses, and
the whole aspect of the
place was as busy as an
electi'n. The widower
has complained of these
things, and now Wagga
Wagga takes its catapult
along when going to lach-
rymose ever i's maiden
aunt.
# * *
There were few more
familiar figures in the
Melbourne Law Courts
than Maurice Ellis, who
has just filed an appear-
ance at a tribunal from
which there can be no
appeal. Ellis, who, by
the way, once wielded a
fluent quill on the press,
used to carry a wonder,
fuldeal of law and native
shrewdness stewed away
unde r his mean and shab
by exterior. Bis special-
ity was divorces, and he
was probably instrumen-
tal in cutting more hy-
meneal bonds than any
other man in Aus ralia.
Quite a different kind of
man is his surviving
brother, Sheriff Ellis, of
the North Eastern Bailli-
wick.
* « *
We are glad to learn
that Wales has been
made an Admiral. Prac-
tically he doesn’t know
any more about naval
tactics than the large,
red-headed girl who drops
her golden tresses into
the hash at our boarding-
house, but it was con-
sidered necessary to do
something to keep him
from getting blue-mouldy
in the year of his mother's
jubilee, and when the
Queen asked Salisbury
what he could do for the
poor, dear boy, all he
could suggest was, “Oh !
d—n it, make him an
archbishop ” Her Ma-
jesty got terribly excited
over this levity, and
went off all in a heap
and made Wales an Ad-
miral in hysterics.
The first snake story of the season ! A
shearer out on the Darling rushed breathlessly
to the boss, exclaiming that one of his mates had
been bitten by a snake, and that he wanted brandy.
“How much?” Oh! four bottles, big snake.”
He overshot the mark and did not get any.
* *
At Dunolly (Vic,) a clergyman persisted in
increasing the length of his sermons till they
measured 35 minutes, when about half the con-
gregation “ struck,” and the church presented
rather a desolated appearance for two or three
Sundays, until the repentant sinner returned unto
the affections of his flock and the limits of their
patience. We publish the anecdote as a warning
to the office chaplain.
• * *
There were two newspaper men on view
in the Melbourne Criminal Court lately in addition
to the reporters. One was Chief Justice Higin-
botham, who was formerly editor of the Argus,
and the other an unfortunate formerly on the
same journal, who had been forging. The Chief
gave him a light sentence. The whirligig of time
has brought its revenge since the Chief sat in his
editorial sanctum and penned articles on the
judges. Now the newspaper men, and especially
the Argus writers, keep a vigilant eye on the


Judge in order to slate him if he only gives them
half a show. Although the Chief is as firm as a
rock when he takes an idea into his head, he is
the mildest mannered man alive, and interviewers
and others who come in contact with him, say that
his politeness and courtesy are quite embarrassing,
especially to junior reporters.
* * *
The bogus “ Queen’s Fund ” is a dead-
letter in the Young (N.S. W.) district, the meeting
called by the Mayor having lapsed for want of
attendance. Here, by the way, is a copy of the
circular issued by the central authorities at
Sydney:—
" Queen’s Fund.—los Pitt-street, Sydney, lath Augusta
1887. —The Teacher, Dear Sir, —We send you by book-post a
Subscription-list and circular that have been issued by the
President, Lady Carington, in connection with the above
Fund, and as it is one the promoters are desirous shall
assume a national character, we would ask you to use your
personal influence in obtaining from the children and their
relatives and friends donations towards it.—Yours very
truly, John It. Street, Jacob Garrard, Hon. Secre-
taries. Please return your list and amount collected to
Lady Carington, President; or to A. J. Riley, M.P.
Mayor ef Sydney; Hon. S. A. Joseph, M.L.C., T. M.
Slattery, M.P., Hon. Treasurers.”
Was ever anything more pitiable than this dun-
ning of little children in aid of a political dodge 1
What a monstrous fraud on morals is involved in
the holding up of Queen Victoria to the children
of Australia as a model of charity and benevo-
lence !
* * *
In the library of Madame Hazard, the ec-
centric old Russian lady who lately died in East
Melbourne, were a Decameron (1585) and several
rare Basilia editions. Madame Hazard had long
ived in Rome.
* * •
Many quiet and inoffensive residents of
Waterloo (Sydney) have of late been startled by
receiving from a local tea-vendor a circular, at the
foot whereof is the appalling announcement: —
“ Families waited on for orders and promptly
executed."
* * *
The N.S.W. Government offer £25,000
for a scheme to annihilate rabbits. If they only
gave him time enough, the Governor of Tasmania
would do the job for nothing. His scheme would
be a simple one, too. He would eat the rabbits off
the land. He has pretty well cleaned them out
of his own colony, where a grateful people have be-
stowed on him the proud title of “ Wild Rabbits,”
in consequence.
* * *
At the religious part of the wedding of
Miss Martin, one of the nieces of the late Chief
Justice Martin (we say religious in contra dis-
tinction to the civil ceremony at the French
Consulate, which occurred previously), to the
doctor of the Messageries boat Salazie, at the R.C.
Church, Waverley, on the 31st ult., the bride
wore an elegant costume of white velvet, the train
being supported by two fairy-like little girls. The
happy groom looked as miserable as every man
does on his wedding-day, but of course his looks
belied his feelings. Honeymoon at romantic
Coogee until Saturday, when the happy pair wing
away per Salazie to la belle France.
* * *
The English of the S.M. Herald is daily
getting worse and worse. The Herald’s Mel-
bourne man says that “ the South Melbourne
crowd has suddenly turned again Mr. Niinmo.”
Why not contract it further and make it “ agin ” 2
• * *
There are only two courts at the new
Law Courts buildings in Melbourne that can be
disturbed by Dakin’s incessant hammering—
namely, the Insolvency Court and the Criminal
Court, both of which are on the east side of the
pile of buildings and separated from Dakin’s yard
and workshops only by a narrow walk belonging
to the Courts and a low brick wall. The late
Judge Noel, of the Insolvency Court, put up with
the continual noises from Dakin’s place without
having ever once made even a complaint. C. J.
Higlnbotham, however, seems to have ears more
delicately attuned.
by Mr. J. Macdonald Cameron, M.P., which
justify the belief that a continuation of the Mount
Morgan deposits will be found on the leaseholds
acquired by this Company. By reference to the
map it will be seen that Mundic Creek, referred
to so frequently in Mr. Macdonald Cameron’s Re-
port, comes within the Company’s ground, and the
reasonableness of the large prospective value
which the Directors have considered themselves
justified in placing upon the property becomes ap-
parent. The passages italicised are those bearing
specially upon the leases belonging to this Com-
pany :
Strike and Dip of the Auriferous Zone of Mount
Morgan Proper .
It has been already noticed that the extent of
the metamorphism has made it almost impossible
to determine the exact strike and dip of the ori-
ginal mundic lodes, to which I believe most of the
gold of Mount Morgan is due, and that once
traversed the slatey rocks previous to their altered
condition: but I have come to the conclusion that
THE MUNDIC LODE NOW TRAVERSING THE BED OF
MUNDIC CREEK MAY BE TAKEN, IN THE ABSENCE
OF MORE COMPLETE EVIDENCE, AS ILLUSTRATIVE
OF THE DIRECTION OF THE STRIKE AND DIP OF THE
MINERAL ZONE OF MOUNT MORGAN PROPER.
Direction of the Strike and Dip of Mundic Creek
Lode.
Roughly speaking, this lode strikes north-east
and south-west, and dips to the south-east.
Auriferous Outcrop of Quartz on the Consoli-
dated Claims.
About a quarter of a mile west of Mount Morgan
proper there is an auriferous zone on a elaim be'
longing to the Mount Morgan Company, known
as the “ Consolidated,” Its area amounts to
about thirty acres’ Like those metamorphised
rocks that comprise Mount Morgan proper, it is
largely impregnated at the surface with oxide of
iron, and is, likewise, traversed by a network of
quartz veins. This I presume to be the “over-
flow" rock of Mr. Jack’s report. It certainly ap-
pears auriferous, and Mr. Lisle, the manager, in-
formed me that samples taken from its western
boundary assayed 1 oz. of gold per ton. This por-
tion of the property I shall again refer to, when
describing the extent and aim of the present
mining operations the gold, and
TO SOME feXTENT THE IRON, MAY HAVE BEEN DIS-
SOLVED OUT OF THE IRON PYRITES OF SUCH REEFS
AS THE MUNDIC REEF SEEN IN MUNDIC CREEK, the
gold possibly by chlorine produced by the contact
of hydrochloric acid, derived from the decomposi-
tion of chlorides with manganese which occurs
sparingly in the form of pyrolusite along with the
ironstone of Mount Morgan.
Character of the Sugar Loaf Mount.
If, as Mr. Jack remarks, the silicious sinter
could only be produced in the open air, how is it
that about a quarter of a mile to the west of
Mount Morgan proper it has been found in the
bottom of what is known as the “ Sugar Loaf
shaft," at a depth of about 250 feet from the sum-
mit of the mountain, immediately underlying a
black lustrous quartz, similar in appearance to
that found in the central zone of the Mount?
Either the Sugar Loaf Mount was itself a separ-
ate thermal spring, as it has been suggested
Callan’s Knob is, that vomited forth its aurifer-
ous contents fitfully for a time in the open air,
and becoming quiescent, owing to a cessation of
the forces that gave rise to it, was ultimately
superimposed by a mass of rock of different com-
position to the so-called sintery mass found at the
depths alluded to, or it is in age, character, and
method of formation part and parcel of the iron-
bound clayey sandstone which is found to the east
and west of Mount Morgan proper. I must con-
fess that my observations incline me to adopt the
latter theory, though I shall certainly differ from
Mr. Jack as to the nature of the method of forma-
tion.
The intrusions and upheavals that have resulted
in the formation of Mount Morgan proper, have
not by any means been confined to its immediate
neighbourhood ; yet it does not follow that exactly
similar auriferous results will be obtained where
these intrusions and upheavals exist. Previous
to the upheavals by the igneous disturbances that
have also metamorphosed the once stratified rocks
of the district, I picture to myself group after
group of quartz veins of auriferous mundic, vary-
ing in width an richness, traversing and inter-
secting their regular lines of stratification.
Causes that have led to the Metamorphism of the
Rocks of Mount Morgan.
Igneous disturbances follow that distort and up-
heave their once regular masses with abrupt cliffs
and prominences, Their sandstones are converted
into quartzites; their soft argillo-arenaceous
slates, with their auriferous veins of mundic-
charged quartz, are converted into more crystal-
line and compact rocks, from which every trace
of stratification has been eliminated. Even the
quartz itself becomes more crystalline, and the
sulphur of its contained mundic is partially, and
in some cases wholly oxidised—the extent of this
oxidation being lesser or greater in proportion as
the mass of igneous matter was intrusive or erup-
tive. If the former —-and my theory on further
examination of the district be found correct-
then the sulphurous condition will continue to
‘' make ” the further we recede from the meta-
morphic, until the original mundic lode group is
reached; but if the latter, the metamorphism of
the lode stuff may continue, even to an unwork-
able depth, which would be a matter for congratu-
lation rather than regret, as, in this case, natural
forces will have continued to do for the auriferous
ore of Mount Morgan what would otherwise re-
quire the skill of the chemist, with a consequent
increased cost of treatment.
Mundic Lode in Mundic Creek.
Due west from the shaft of the Sugar Loaf
Mount, there is Mundic Creek, in the bed of which
the mundic lode so often mentioned in this paper
is plainly visible. The direction of its strike
suggests the probability of its yet being cut in the
sugar loaf ground, but up to the present it does
not seem to have been met with.
The Auriferous Zone of the Consolidated Claim.
A shaft known as No. 1 Mundic Creek Shaft has
been sunk here to a depth of Ilf feet and at a
distance of about 200 feet from the outcrop in the
creek; but so far as the operations went, up to
the date of my visit no gold had been discovered.
At page 10 I alluded to an auriferous zone
passing through the consolidated claim striking
in a similar direction to that of the Mundic
Creek lode and the auriferous material of the
Mount. It appears to dip at an angle of about
30 to the east of south.
No. 2 Mundic Creek Shaft.
On the western side of the outcrop, a shaft
known as No. 2 Mundic Creek Shaft has been
sunk to a depth of 70 feet, but at a depth of
from 35 to 40 feet the auriferous stone was passed
through, and a grey slatey grit encountered.
Both here and in the Sugar Loaf Shaft the several
lodes and zones dip at very low angles, owing,
doubtless, to the dislocations so often alluded to.
Mundic Greek Tunnel.
Besides this shaft a tunnel, known as the Mundic
Creek Tunnel, has been driven a distance of 200
feet to the N.E, parallel to the strike of this
auriferous zone, but no gold has been encountered
in it. This, I pointed out to the manager, was
due to the tunnel having been driven in the
quartzite country rock to the west, and not in the
auriferous zone itself as ought to have been the
case.
I have now, I think, fully considered the data
collected by me in the short period of time at my
disposal, relative to what I may justly term this
phenomenal gold-yielding property . After con-
siderable and varied experience in almost every
part of the world, I can conscientiously say that I
have not seen its equal for the extent and richness
of its auriferous ores. That when the vast zones
of gold-bearing ore that are even now exposed in
the several terraces and “ drives” of the Mount
are considered, our minds are apt to wander into
the realms of imagination for apxrallel; for truly
within the realms of fact no parallel has yet, so
far as lam aware, been met with. Whatever
difference of opinion there may exist among scien-
tific and practical men as to the causes that have
produced so large, so varied in character, and so
rich a mass of auriferous material, about the
enormous quantity, the richness and the extra-
ordinary natural advantages offered for the
manipulation of its ores, there is but one un-
divided opinion.
The vastness of the mas 3 even new exposed is
absurdly beyond even approximate computation ;
but are we justified in thinking that this state of
things will continue ? So far as my observations
went I could see no limits; though doubtless
there is one in the same sense as there is a limit
to all things ; and in this connection I may again
quote the Government Geologist: “But the
amount of auriferous stone at present in sight is
enormous, and there is no rashness in believing
that it extends over a large area, and to a con-
siderable depth.” With this quotation, in which
I need hardly say I entirely concur, I conclude for
the present what, from a scientific, as well as a
practical, standpoint, has been to me a most
interesting, a most instructive, and a thoroughly
enjoyable work.
(Signed) J. MACDONALD CAMERON.
Mining Expert, &c.
Fellow of the Geological Society of London; of
the Chemical Society of London ; and of the
Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and
Ireland.
In the London Mining Journal of. June 4th,
1887, appears under the head of “Original Cor-
respondence ” an article on the “ Golden Quartz
Reefs of Australia," and in a paragraph on
“ Mount Morgan,” Mr. Wm Nicholas, F.G.S ,
says—“ Mundic reef itself is really a master lode
over 60ft. in thickness, according to my pacing ; it
extended further, but the thick undergrowth
stopped my seeing its southern bounding wall.
This lode outcrops in the Mundic Creek, and there
are nearly solid seams of mundic (iron pyrites)
within it, as much as five feet in thickness, and
some a few inches only. But they are sufficiently
numerous to prove this to be of a laminated
character, like the most established or most per-
manent quartz reefs in Australia.”
The vendors to the Mount Morgan Extended
Gold Mining Company, Limited, are a private co-
partnery formed under the name of the “ Mount
Morgan Leasehold Prospecting Association,”
to acquire the leases purchased by the Company.
The members of the Prospecting Association are :
Sir Thomas M'llwraith, K.C.M.G.; Hon. P. Per-
kins ; Hon. William Graham, M.L.C. ; John
Stevenson, Esq., M.L.A.; John Donaldson, Ksq.,
M.L. A. ; Messrs. M. D. M'Eacharn, Edward Grif-
fith, James M‘Ghie, J. E. Lampard, Ernest
Goertz, John Potts, Edward 'Taylor, Ohas. H. F.
Yeo, H. May, Alexander M'Micking, William
Allan, De Burgh Persse, and others.
By desire of the members of the Association,
the Hon. P. Perkins visited the leaseholds, and at
a meeting of the members held on tho 24th
August, 1887, in opening the meeting Mr. Perkins
said:
Gentlemen,— By a concensus of opinion among your-
selves I was selected to proceed to Rockhampton, to view
and inspect the leases acquired by this Association, which
are adjacent to the Mount Morgan Gold Mine. I did so at very
gieat inconvenience to myself. On arriving at Rockhampton
after a most disagreeable voyage; I received a telegram from
a very old friend, placing at my disposal a trap and four
horses under the guidance of one of the best drivers it has
been my lot to travel with.
We reached Mount Morgan in due time, and I may tell
you that of all the surprises experienced by me, my visit to
Mount Morgan is the greatest. In place of it being a Mount
by itself it is only one in the chain of ridges, and is no more
a “ mount ” than the surrounding ones.
Very early in the morning we started on foot for the leass-
holds, aloßg Linda Creek, and by a by-path arrived at Dal-
ian's Knob, and visited the different places where work has
been carried on. At Mundic Creek, on the boundary of the
leaees, I saw a lode which is I believe about 132 feet wide.
I took bearings of the surroundings, carefully noted the in-
dications, and returning to the Mount by a circuitous route
I surveyed the situation again.
At Mount Morgan I discussed matters with the manager,
Mr Lisle, who is a mest intelligent man and knows his
business thoroughly. In reply to my query as to what he
was doing on the south-west portion of the Mount Morgan
leases, he said that everything they were working was gob g
in the direction of Callan’s Knob.
I went through the tunnels with Mr. Lisle and came across
three dykes, one of which is about 132 feet thick. An assay
has been made at every few feet of this dyke, and the
average has proved about six (6) ounces of gold per ton
right through.
This lode, is, in my opinion, the lode in Mundic Creek
previously referred to, and I have wondered how it is nobody
took it up. Mr. Lisle agreed with me in my views, but for
a scientific confirmation of them I refer you to Mr. Macdonald
Cameron's report: and I unhesitatingly say that while
Mount Morgan is a very great thing, I believe the Associa-
tion’s leaseholds come next to it.
I will admit that all my theories of mining, which work
I began when quite a youth, are gone to the wind. I never
saw gold in such stuff before. Mount Morgan with other
mines is as an elephant compared to a mouse, and the next
thing to Mount Morgan compared with mines in Victoria and
elsewhere with which I am acquainted, are the leaseholds of
which we are going to assume the proprietorship.
I shall be glad to answer any questions the members con-
sider necessary, and will ask Mr. Callaghan to read a report
on the leases written under my direction.
[COPY.]
Report on Mineral Leases, Crocodile Creek,
Rockhampton.
“ At the request of several of the gentlemen
forming this syndicate, I have proceeded to Mount
Morgan to inspect the gold mining leases Nos.
75, 77, 84, 85, and 86, Crocodile Creek, Rock-
hampton District, containing an area of 72 acres
or thereabouts, adjoining the property of the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Company, Limited,
as shown by the accompanying map, and situated
south-west of Mount Morgan proper.
On arriving at Mount Morgan, I proceeded on
foot up Linda Creek (in company with Mr. R. W.
Wilson) to the base of the mount known as Cal-
lan’s Knob, and, after a careful examination of
the strata, I am of opinion that a continuation of
the Mount Morgan deposits will be found in the
leaseholds above mentioned. lam led to this be-
lief after thoroughly examining the lode in
Mundic Creek (measuring about 132 feet in width)
so frequently referred to in Mr. J. Macdonald
Cameron’s report on Mount Morgan, and which,
in my opinion, traverses the whole of this pro-
perty ; lam strengthened in this belief after a
full inspection of the course and dip of the gold
bearing lodes of Mount Morgan, having availed
myself, when there, of the opportunity of inspect-
ing the whole of their workings.
I cannot agree with Mr. Jack that the Mount
Morgan was of itself a separate thermal spring,
and from personal observations I concur with Mr.
Cameron’s opinions that the deposit is of an age,
character, and method of formation, part and
parcel of the iron-bound clayey sandstone,
which is found in the east and we3t of Mount
Morgan. In conclusion, I may say that lam
convinced that the mundic lodes exposed in
Mundic Creek, and which form part of this pro-
perty, are the same gold bearing lode 3 now being
worked with such enormous results by the Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Company, Limited, and I
have no hesitation in saying that by the judicious
outlay of a few thousand pounds in actual pros"
pecting, this property will at no distant date be
equally valuable to that of the far-famed Mount
Morgan.”
(Signed)
~ P- Perkins.
■i/fth August 188'/.
In reply to Mr. Donaldson as to what was to be
done for the future working Mr. Perkins said :
As an economical man, he would get a boring machine.
The exemptions for the leases would expire on the 4th Sep-
tember, but Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Wxison had been to the
Mines Office and got a conditional p.-omise that the ex-
emption of six months which was first asked for would be
granted, so that the leases would be really exempt from
work until the 4th November, by which time the new Com-
pany could complete all arrangements, and so avoid the
useless expense that would be incurred if work had to be re
sumed on the 4lh proximo He would recommend that a
diamond drill should be sent up to the leasehold to teat the
formation.
A number of resolutions necessary to the for-
mation of the new company were then put and
passed.
In offering for sale the Mount Morgan Extended
Gold Mining Company, Limited, the Directors
wish it to be clearly and distinctly understood
that the Company at the present time is in the
nature of a prospecting venture, and not an estab
lished gold miniDg property. From the situation
of the leaseholds in relation to Mount Morgan—
in the event of payable gold being found —there
can be little doubt of their immense value. At the
present time the selling price of the shares of the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Company, Limited,
is about £6 per share or a capital value of
£G,OOO 000 I What then must be the value of the
nearest adjoining property, in the event of satis-
factory results attending the prospecting ?
The vendors to the present Company are the
Mount Morgan Leasehold Prospecting Associa-
tion, who receive no cash f rom, the Company, and
who, in addition to conveying the titles to the
leases, will place to the credit of the Company,
with their bankers, the sum of £5OOO to continue
the operations.
Pending the formation of the Company, exemp-
tion from work has been obtained under the
mining laws of the Colony of Queensland.
In offering the shares to the public it may be
pointed out that they arc invited to subscribe
shares in an existing registered Company, which
will carry on operations with moneys already pro-
vided, as far as they go, whether a single share be
subscribed or not.
Dividends will be paid on all shares in the Com-
pany in equal ratio irrespective of the amounts
for the time being paid up on suoh shares.
The £5OOO at the credit of the Company will be
utilised until moneys begin to be available from
contributing shareholders, and in the event of the
Company going into liquidation or dividing its
assets amongst the members, it is expressly pro-
vided that the uncalled balance of the contribut-
ing shares shall not be called up for the purpose
of such division.
Leases 75, 77, and 84 were formerly the property
of the Callan’s Knob Mining Company, Ltd., and.
some surface work has been done by that Com-
pany, who were compelled to give up from want
of funds to carry on. Rather more than two-
fifths of the shares in the present Company are
held by old shareholders in the Callan’s Khob
Mining Company, Limited, which evinces their
confidence in the result of further prospecting.
Mr. Robert L. Jack, Governmenl Geologist for the
colony of Queensland, has given it as his opinion
that Callan’s Knob affords a very good “ show,”
and in an official report on the “ Mount Morgan
Gold Deposits,” prepared for Parliament (pages!
and 5), Mr. Jack at some length explains his
reasons for thinking that some portions of the
gold deposits may be found in Callan’s Knob.
The 500,000 unissued shares will be held for
future issue until it is ascertained that the Mount
Morgan gold deposits exist in the Company’s
leases, when such portion of them as may be
arranged will be sold, and the proceeds applied
in the erection of the most approved modern ma-
chinery, or distributed pro rata amongst the
existing shareholders as may be resolved in
general meeting.
Copies of the Company’s Memorandum and
Articles of Association, and the agreement men-
tioned in clause 3 of the Articles, may be in-
spected at the office of the Company’s Solicitors.
Dated, Brisbane, sth September, 1887.
Application for Shares, accompanied by
Gd. per share deposit, may be made on the sub-
joined Application Form through any of ihe
Brokers whose names appear on this Proseectus,
or to'the Secretary direct. The subscription list
will open on Friday, the 9th September instant,
and close at 12 noon on Wednesday, the 14th
instant.
Mount Morgan extended gold
MINING COMPANY,
Limited.
(Registered Under The Companies’ Act, 1863.)
Capital, £1,000,000 in 1,000,000 shares of £1 each,
FIRST ISSUE, £500,000,
Of which 100,000 shares paid up to 15s. per share
are offered for subscription at 6d. per share on
application, 6d. on allotment, and the balance
in calls not exceeding 6d. per share at inter-
vals of not less chan one month. The remain-
ing 100,000 shares are deemed to be fully paid-
up, and are reserved for the vendors, as the
purchase money of the leases, beyond which
amount no cash or promotion money is paid
to any person.
Directors:
Hon. P. PERKINS, Brisbane, Chairman.
Sir THOMAS M’ILWRAITH, K.C.M.G., Bris-
bane.
JOHN STEPHENSON, Esq., M.L.A. (of Messrs.
B. D. Morehead & Co.), Brisbane.
EDWARD TAYLOR, Esq. (of Messrs. Berkley,
Taylor, & Co.), Brisbane.
JAMES McGHIE, Esq. (late of Messrs. McGhie,
Luya, and Co ), Brisbane.
Bankers:
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED, Brisbane and Mount Morgan.
Solicitors :
Messrs. HART & FLOWER, Brisbane.
Secretary (pro tem.):
CHAS. JAMES ROSS.
Registered Office :
MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
Brokers:
Messrs. BROWNLOW COLB & CO.
„ CORRIE & CO.
Mr. J. F. O’BRIEN
„ E. G. GOERTZ
„ T. F. GROOM
„ JOHN CALLAGHAN
„ JOHN WILSON
Brisbane 1
Messrs. CLARKE & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. CLARKE & CO., Melbourne.
The objects of this Company are contained in
the Memorandum of Association, which is en-
dorsed on this prospectus.
The leases acquired by the Company are gold
mining leases Nos. 75, 77, 84, 85 and 86, Crocodile
Creek Gold Field, Rockhampton district, contain-
ing an aggregate area of about 7 2 acres. These
leases adjoin the property of the celebrated Mount
Morgan Gold Mining Company, Limited, and, as
shown by the accompanying map, are situated to
the south-west of the Mount.
The following are extracts from an exhaustive
report on the gold mines of Mount Morgan made
THE MOUNT MORGAN EXTENDED GOLD
MINING COMPANY
Limited.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors of
MOUNT MORGAN EXTENDED GOLD MINING
COMPANY LIMITED.
Gentlemen, —
I hereby request you will alio
me Shares in th
above Company, and enclose you the sum of
being sixpence deposit upon
application on Shares,
and I agree (subject to the terms of the Pro-
spectus) to accept the same or any less amount
that may be allotted to me, and sign the Articles
and Memorandum of Association when called
upon to do so.
Dated at this day of 1887.
Name in Full
Full Postal Address
Occupation
Signature
RECEIPT FOR APPLICATION MONEY".
THE MOUNT MORGAN EXTENDED GOLD MINING
COMPANY LIMITED.
Brisbane .1887.
Received from.,
the sum of being application
money at the rate of sixpence per Share on
Shares applied for by
in the above Company.
£.
Secretary to the Company,


N.S.W. Parliament will re-open on the
day fixed for the Randwick races.
A Maitland man has got four years’ gaol
for marrying a minor. Some husbands have all
t he luck.
The Lithgow Enterprise, speaking of a
local political meeting, says that the “ Boy Poli-
tician”—editor, by-the-way, of the rival paper —
electrified the audience by an able display of abso-
lute silence.”
A country exchange libels a certain Aus-
tralian Parliament thus: “The Lower House is
divided into three classes—(l) insolvents with
certificates, (2) insolvents without certificates, (3)
those about to become insolvent.”
A Maitland Chinkee, who pleaded guilty
the other day to maliciously wounding a white
woman, was acquitted of the charge. The jury
branded John as an unmitigated liar. They knew
no Chinaman could tell the truth, so they refused
to believe him. Hi lah !
Haul out the thumb-screw, oil the rack,
and pile up the faggots for the bonfire ! Rank
treason has been committed at Casino. Not a
single—not even a married lady—not even a
black gin attended the meeting convened by the
Mayor of that place to help along the Queen’s
Fund !
The 20,000 women and girls of N.S.W.
who signed that Jubilee address will be glad to
learn that the Queen has, with the greatest diffi-
culty, been persuaded from spending the £70,000
of the English Women’s Offering subscribed for
charitable purposes, on a pearl necklace for
herself.
Bailey’s Sunday News reels off a plaintive
wail over the inevitable advent of Protection, and
lays the blame on the “ soft-goods puppets, the
creatures of the muttonocracy, and the antipodean
absentees who constitute the Government that
have broken the trust reposed in them by the
country.”
The other day the Jesuits at Richmond
(Melb.) got a case of water from the “ miraculous
grotto” of Lourdes (France) sent out to them. At
the Melbourne Custom House the Customs offi-
cers opened the case, examined the bottles, tasted
the contents, and then didn’t know what the devil
to make of it.
From Melbourne Herald : — “ Arthur
Dowall, a lad aged 15, who resides in Carlton-
street, Prahran, was admitted by T)r. Boyd with a
broken leg.” We would have given something
say a Jubilee medal—to have seen Dr. Boyd
admitting him with a broken leg. No wonder
people complain about the Melbourne Hospital
when the surgical staff open the doors with
broken legs.
Clipped from the Sydney D.T. :
“ The first snake-bite' of the season occurred to a woman
named Butt, at Albury, yesterday, who was bitten on one of
her legs. The part was exorcised, and the patient is now
doing well."
Now, we want to know what was “ exorcised ”
the leg, the bite, or the snake ; or did the writer
really mean “ excoriated” ? Spirits can be “ ex-
orcised,” and perhaps the writer had been exor-
cising some.
“ Samuel Blank was fined £2 4s. lOd. at
the Central Police Court for having used bad
language,” says a Sydney paper. Now, where
does the odd 4s. lOd. come in ? If the beaks at
the Central have a sliding scale of fines, according
to the strength and length of the “language,”
they ought to publish their tariff so that, before
he lets fly, an offender may be able to make up
his mind whether he’ll indulge in tenpenn’orth of
“language” or recklessly go inforhalf-a-sovereign’s
worth.
In the visitor’s book, Tenterfield (N.S.W.)
gaol, Mr. Police Superintendent Orridge has made
the following highly significant entry :
*• u 0 religious service conducted for more than two years
and a half.”
And in another page he has written :
■< i do nit observe that the gaol is ever visited by any
ministers of religion, so far as the book shows, which is to
be regretted.”
Now there are four “registered’ ministers of
religion in the Tenterfield district. Other entries
show that Captain Rundle, of the Salvation
Army, has held nine services, and it is just pos-
sible that the quartette of clergymen consider that
“ sufficient for the day is the evil thereof” and
that the unfortunate prisoners have already been
amply punished by the Harmy. Prisoners, by the
way, are essentially dead-heads, contributing
nothing whatever to the church stipends fund.
Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADING
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
RRP
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
H oT£[
SOUTH
OFTHE
-EQUATOR
1
sw
'jl'JUlu'Mw
//in iiii
am
!r::l™22s=l
7^A.
rfs—
Jl
m
SSHilliiiniiii
DAN
CJH
LL
Us
g3i
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TAT]ON
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH ALL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Smoking, Hearting, ;m,l Corresponding Boom. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments wl receive prompt attention. c. 11. DANIELL.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman's Eucalyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable.
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. Gd. and 3s. 6d. Take
no substitute.*
Thbatrk royal.
Under the Direotion of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
To night and every Evening until Further Notice,
at a quarter to eight precisely,
THE ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Great Drury Lane Military Spectaole,
HUMAN NATURE.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Kastway's Hote 1 .
QRITKRION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Pronounced and positive success of
W. J. HOLLO WAY’S
Production of Shakespeare’s
ROMEO, - ROMEO, ROMEO,
and and and
JULIET, JULIET, JULIET.
Mr. JOHN SOLOMON
has spared no expense in the presentation of
THI-? SERIES OF MAGNIFICENT SCENES,
which have been designed and executed by
Mr. ALFRED CLINT,
and which form an especial feature in this great
production, under (he sole direction of
W. J. HOLLOWAY.
The Box Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse,
King and George streets, where seats can be
secured six days in advance.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RINK,
J EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD C »RRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RID3ELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening;
and mornings for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
SELECT MUSIC.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING,
SECOND GRAND SKATING RACK, FRIDAY,
September 9th, at 9 O’CLOCK.
RAND MASONIC BALL.
LODGE, SYDNEY TARBOLTON, 377 S.C.
will hold their fourth
ANNUAL GRAND MASONIC BALT,
at Leigh House Academy, 251Castlereagh-st.,
on
THURSDAY, the 22nd September, 1887.
Tickets—Double, 21s. ; Gent’s single, 12s. 6d.;
Lady’s single, 10s., may be obtained from Messrs.
J. M. Ellercamp, Hunter-Street; C. Westbrook,
311 George-Street; E. H. Knight, 99 King-street;
P. Belfleld, 105 Liverpool-street; G. Thomas,
Pitt and Market-streets ; H. Davis, Oriental
Hotel, Circular Quay ; and
H. MURItOW, Secretary,
20 Jamieson-street, Sydney.
'I RAND INTERCOLONIAL CAVALRY
JT TOURNAMENT,
Under the Uuspices of the
SYDNEY LANCERS,
at
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS,
Moore Park, Sydney,
on
SATURDAY, October Ist.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excellency
LORD CARRINGTON, G.C.M.G., P.C.
Twenty-one Events—including Cavalry, Artil-
lery, Infantry, and Naval Competitions, Mounted
Combats, Jumping Competitions, with and with-
out Sword and Lance, over Fences and Water;
Tent Pegging, Lemon Cutting, &c.
ENTRIES CLOSE 19th inst.
Further Particulars on application to
“ SECRETARY,”
Cavalry Office,
Phillip-street.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN,N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms.
Sample rooms, J AMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
N
K W
OPERA
HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
The finest performance of the character ever
seen in Sydney.
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, 9th September.
FAUST AMY FAUST
FAUST SHERWIN FAUST
FAUST as FAUST
FAUST MARGARET. FAUST
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King Of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Freetraders, protectionists,
PATRIOTS ! Read :
THE PRESENT DEPRESSION IN TRADE,
Its Cause and Remedy,
by
C. O. WALDOW.
Just published, price 6d., all Booksellers.
MR. ROBERT KENNEDY
(the Scottish Vocalist)
will give his new Entertainments,
“A NICHT Wl’ THE JABOBITES’’
and
“A NICHT Wl’ BURNS, 1
for the first time in Sydney,
PROTESTANT HALL
MONDAY & TUESDAY, September 12 and 13.
THURSDAY & FRIDAY, September 15 and 16.
THE BANKERS’ INSTITUTE OF AUSTRAL-
ASIA, MELBOURNE.
Members are invited to compete for Sir William
Clarke’s prize of Ten Guineas for BEST ESSAY
on “The Advantages of Theoretical as well as
Practical Training for Bankers.”
Members who have been 10 years in banking
service are eligible for the Parchment Diploma of
the Institute and Rank of Associate—if applica-
tion be made before Ist November. Rate of sub-
scription unaltered.
The Monthly Journal of the Institute, contain-
ing articles on banking and cognate subjects, is
sent gratis to all members.
Books are forwarded from the Library to
meinbers in any part of New South Wales, or the
other colonies, post free.
Full subscription : Half a Guinea per annum.
The Hon. Secretary, in Sydney during the next
fortnight, will be pleased to furnish fuller
particulars-
Address:—
C. H. DAVIS, Hon Secretary,
Tenby House, Wynyard-sqiare North, Sydney.
KIKC'SVPs
ofjSydnetj,
” JENOLAN ''CAVES.’BLUE MOUNTAINS,k.
316jGE0RCE, Sv 'between Hunter STaC.P.O*
CLAREMONT, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—
A Private Medical and Surgical Home,
established by Dr. Tarrant, for the reception and
systematic treatment of patients of both sexes.
The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, desire the great advantages of a con-
stant medical supervision with the care and atten-
tion of a trained nursing staff. For particulars
apply to the Lady Superintend ant.
Department of P n bllo Works,
Sydney, September 6, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which la kept at
every post-office In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the Ten 1
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strlotly complied with.
The Government does not bind Itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whic*
Tenders
can be received
at this offloe
Erection of Waiting Shed, &c ,
Unanderra, and Station Build-
ings, &c., Dapto
Supply of Coke for Newcastle-
Plattsburg Tramway
Additions, See., Courthouse,
Warren
Additions, &c., Gaol, Yass
Construction of Verandah, &c.,
Post-office, Moruya
Construction of Water Closets,
&c., Courthouse, Gosford
Erection of Bridge over Wil-
liams River at Munni Crossing
(exclusive of supply of Iron-
work)
Painting, &c., Colohial Secre-
tary’s Office
Supply of Coal for Great South-
ern and Western Railways,
1888, 1880, 1890
Supply of Gravel, Great South 1
ern Railway, at 26m. 15ch.
Tuesday,
September 13,
at 11 o’olock
Additions, &c., Lock-up, Wagga
Wagga
Construction of Tank, Court-
house, Cooma
Fencing, &c., Courthouse, Lia-
more
Erection of Stable, &c., Court-
house, Collector
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
Brewarrina
Erection of Quarters for Gaoler,
Wollongong
Supply of Sleepers at Cootamun-
dra and Old Junee
Tuesday,
September 20,
at 11 o’clock.
Completion of New Lands Office,
Sydney
Erection of Wharf, &c., Green
Point, Brisbane Water
Tuesday,
September 2?,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Courthouse, Eastern
Suburbs
Construction, &c., Engine Dri-
ver’s Quar ers, and other
Buildings, Nyngan
Tuesday,
October 4,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Cooper’s Creek,
road Bexhill to Williams
Tuesday*
October 11*
at 11 o'clock*
Manufacture, &o., of Single
Ladder Steam Dredge, for
Sydney Harbor
Tuesday,
October 18,
at 11 o’clock
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 31st August, 1887.
EXTERMINATION OF RABBITS.
IT is hereby notified that the Government of
New South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000
to any person or persons who will make known
and demonstrate at his or their own expense any
method or process not previously known in the
Colony for the effectual extermination of rabbits,
subject to the following conditions, viz. : —
1. That such method or process shall, after ex-
periment for a period of twelve months, receive
the approval of a Board appointed for that pur-
pose by the Governor with the advice of the Exe-
cutive Council.
2. That such method or process shall, in the
opinion of the said Board, not be injurious, and
shall not involve the use of any matter, animal
or thing, which may be noxious to horses, cattle,
sheep, camels, goats, swine, or dogs.
3. The Board shall be bound not to disclose the
particulars of any method or process, unless such
Board shall decide to give such method or process
a trial.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL.


TREASURES are like poppies spread :
You seize the flower, its bloom is shed ;
Or, like the snowfall in the river,
A moment white, then melts forever ;
Or, like the borealis race,
That flit ’ere you can point their place.
But pains and ache 3 for ever tell
There i 3 bat one all-conquering spell;
Before St. Jacobs oil they fly,
And that, the poorest man can buy.
rjIHE BRUSH OB’ BRUSHES.
Owing to the unprecedented success which has
attended the sale and use of Dr. Scott’s Electric
Brushes in Europe, America, and Australia, as
shown by the accumulated mass of unsought testi-
mony to their value, we are now in a position to
offer them to the public at the prices named :
‘'lD'.
ri
These brushes are all made of pure bristles, not
wire ; the brush handle is made of a new odorless
composition resembling ebony, a combination of
substances producing a permanent electro mag-
netic current, which acts immediately, and the
strength of which can be tested at any time by
small compass supplied with eich brush.
The hair brushes will positively cure nervous or
bilious headaches in five minutes, neutralise he
distressing agony of neuralgia, prove it filling
hair and baldness, dandruff, and disiasas of the
scalp. They will make the hair grow long and
glo.'sy, arrest premature greyness,. and soothe
the weary brain.
The flesh-brush is said, by the Sursical
Gazette, to be “ better than all liniments and
embro iations ” It keeps the skin healthy, b jauti-
fie3 the complexion, and imp arts vigor and energy
to ihe whole body.
The bath-brush is one of those contorting de-
velopments of modern science, the value of which
caa only be appreciated by uflng it. It speedily
cires a'l pains and aches resulting from colds,
impure blood, and impaired circulation.
The Royal Dmtal Society of London testify in
the s rongest terms as to the great benefits which
speedi’y follow the use of Dr. Scott’s Electric-
Tooth Brush, and many experts in dentistry de-
clare it to be the greatest invention in dental ap-
pliances since the manufacture of artificial ceeth.
Any or all of these brushes are handsome
toilet accessories, and very durable.
Is you cannot purchase them in your immediate
neighbourhood we will send by post to any part of
New South Wales, on receipt of price named, with
6d. add*d for postage.
Orders to be addressed and remittances made
payable to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
56, Margaret-street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 221.
Even a dinner of herbs where love is, is not to be
sneezed at, but any kind of a dinner is made
toothsome and joyous by the addition of Clausen’s
New York Champagne Lager Bear.
Nothing lovelier can be found in woman than
to study household good. C. Gilbert's Corn Flour
is a great help in the pursuit of such knowledge.
He jests at scars who never was thrown out of
a buggy through using kitchen refuse in place of
Dixon’s Axle Grease.
WHAT MOSES SAW.
And Moses stretched forth his arm over the sea,
and saw the Waterbury—Pharoah and all his
host.
The latest strike is at St. Peter’s, Rome,
where the choir boys and acolytes have struck for
an increase of salary. In the eternal fitness of
th, T . D, M'Glyno should bo culled upon to
arbltrate -
A gentleman tried to stand on his head on
the side-path in Bourke street, Melbourne, the
other day. He probably wanted to see how the
world looked from that point of view. He lost
his equilibrium. Aud fell through a plate glass
NECESSITY THE MOTHER OF INVENTION.
window. And was given in charge. And was
fined. And is now satisfied. And soner. No
more Jubilee for him.
Wonderful are the ways of fowls. John
Curry, who was charged at a Sydney police court,
the other day, with the theft of a fowl, said that
the fowl flew into his arms on the tramcar where
he sat. and that he was taking care of it when a
policeman ran him in.
The Long Tunnel Company, Walhalla
(Vic.), is just upon the eve of declaring its 200th
dividend of £1 per share. These shares are paid
up to £5, and are worth £7O. Over four million
pounds worth of gold have gone through the Long
Tunnel s stampers since the mine was started. As
to Walhalla, the Long Tanuel is Walhalla,
Steps are being taken by the hon. s?c. of the Bankets’
Institute of Australasia—whose headquarters are in Mel-
bourne—to form a branch in Sydney. Twelve principal
Australasian banks are represented on the governing body-
A complete bink'ng library and a monthly journal for the
use of members form a valuable attraction. The society has
a large membersh : p.*
How to Gain Flesh and Strength.—Take after each
meal about a tablesDoonful of "Scott's Emulsion of
Poke Cod Liver Otl With Hvpophospiiites.” It is
almost, as palatable as milk, and easily digested. The
rap d ty with which del cate children and sickly people
suffering from weakness and wasting diseases improve and
thrive upon this diet, is truly marvellous. As a remedy for
Consumption, Throat Affections and Bronchitis, it is un-
equalled by any oth-r preparation in the world. Use it and
try your weight. All chemists sell large and small bottles.*
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s. each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2.000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £1,003, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided am ngso them.
Address —‘ -.Tattersall.’’
Care i f G Adams,
Tattersall's Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, ABthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rignevt, late Mitchell,
King-etree
The attention of our readers is called to the List of Goods
on the outside cover of this issue. Askew and Co., the
popular providers, of Oxford-street, well known for their
prompt execution and delivery of orders, wh'ch has won for
them the large and extensive trade they now enjoy. W e
commend our readers to their advertisement.*
The Progress of New South Wales —At present
f'rre are 1,407 miles of railway in operation; there are
11 639 miles o» telegraph wire; 425 State Schools, with 1,161
Teachers. These statistics, though of a miscellaneous
character, t.e tify to the growth and vigour of this youthful
colony. It is easy to understand amid so many worjsmg
classes and gr wiog children, how valuable and useful a
medicine is which posses'es the property of checking and cur
ing those diseas> 8 peculiar to New South Wales itself or in-
cidental to life generally. This howsver is the characteristic
of F--reman g Original Ohl rodyne. and has secured for it in
New South Wal- s a reputation of the highest character. No
other medicine has obtained a similar posi. ion in any other
colony and no colonists have spoken in higher p aisa of the
virtue of Freeman’s ohlorodyne than the residents, ihe
manufacturers, the shepherds, ani the miners of New
Zealand. Its value in the Nurser? and in Fema’e Com-
plaints can scareely ba estimated.—Sold everywhere through-
out the Colonies. Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only.
Reject substitutes as they ate worthless. Trade Mark an
Elephant.*
One of the best managed and 1 t hotels in Sydney is
jhe Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices
THE fourth chapter, and end of our self-imposed
task. It has been a duty undertaken on
account of those who have so long encouraged us
with their support. It was last Saturday we com-
menced the essay, and we pledged our reputation
to continue it, chapter by chapter, until we had
thoroughly exhausted the subject. We thought
three chapters would have sufficed, but find it
takes four.
Last Saturday’s issue saw the first part of our
essay upon HOW AND WHERE TO FURNISH
THORO UGHLY, S AFE L Y and K CONO MIC ALL Y;
and in that issue, as the result of serious study
and careful deliberation we gave our readers a
the Carpet and Floorcloth floors upon
the sth storey of the Great Central Emporium,
Sydney.
We omitted giving the address in the first issue,
but do so now, viz., LAWLER’S, 608 George-
street, Sydney. An old-established house, es-
tablished as long ago as 1860, and situate in the
centre of the city right between Liverpool and
Bathurst streets. A commanding and imposing
edifice, and stocked from floor to ceiling
Monday’s issue treated of the extraordinary
stock of bedsteads, wire-mattresses and bedding,
upon the floor of the 4th s.orey; and Wednesday’s
issue dealt exclusively with the Bedroom Furniture
upon the floors of the 3rd storey. And now we
have to treat of the Dining and Drawing room
furniture and Library and Office appointments
upon the floors of the 2nd storey.
This last chapter is the one that claims the at*
tention of our readers, and we will be as brief but
explanatory as possible. LAWLER'S Suites differ
from most suites met with in Sydney houses, and
remind us on account of their solidity and fulness
of upholstery of the suites made before the age for
slop upholstery became general.
We have had our attention called to a magnifi-
cent soliu walnut diningroom suite with misletoe
carvings and carved and moulded legs set with
best coppered wire springs, upholstered throughout
in curled horsehair, and covered in the best
Russian dressed real morocco, finished with
morocco binding and morocco-covered studs. Tho
suite was made for one of our well-known mer-
chant princes and was sold to him for £65. It
looked all out well worth 90 guineas, a figure one
of the furnishing salesmen declared he had re-
peatedly sold the suites at in London, Leeds and
Edinburgh. There is another Suite just being
completed in the factory, the couch and a few
chair,- of which we were shown, and we have no
hesitation in declai ing it to be the best upholstered
suite we have ever seen. No one with money
could resist it. It is a glorious suite, splendidly
finished and boldly conceived, and only £6O. It
would be cheap at £BO. We felt bound to admit
that it was stupid purchasing at auction sales
when LAWLER’S celebrated light oak or walnut
or real mahagony specialty—the Emporium
Leather Suite at £27 10s., could be had direct
from the factories In Union-lane. There are
Diningroom Suites all made and upholstered upon
the premises in oak, walnut or Mahogany, and in
crimson or olive Utrecht velvets at £24 10s. and
£t7 10s. And there are mahogany and cedar
Diningroom Suites in the best English made hair-
cloth, or in Cockett’s maroon or green-colored
leather-cloth at £l2 iOs., £l4 10s. and £l7. LAW*
LER’S set their face against turning out suites in
hair-cloth at anything less than £l2 10s., saying
they would only have to resort to common German-
made seating if they were to manufacture hair-
cloth suites at a penny less than £l2 10s.
Our readers ought all to bear in mind the im-
portant fact that they can select their frames at
LAWLER’S and choose whatever covering they
think fit, and can call round at any time and see
the work in the upholsterer's hands.
We would remind those who prefer the Austrian
Suites to upholstered Suites that they can have
one of those grand and luxurious Couches, the
Eugenie, at £3 195., and capitally suited for an
after-dinner smoke or nap they are. Long and
broad —a perfect nest of spiral springs, the head as
well as the Beat being so upholstered.
This Eugenie Couch of LAWLER'S, at £3 19s.
a perfect marvel of value, and to show the esteem
in whloh it is held we have only to remark that
since LAWLER reduced the price from £5 ss. to
to £3 19s , the present low price—since he reduced
the Eugenies to £3 19s. he has sold 200 and odd of
them, or an average of five a week.
We have no intention of referring to Sideboards
or Dinner Waggons; nor were we inclined to take
up much of our important Saturday’s space with
Extending and Telescopic Dining Tables, buthaving
been shown a few very special lines we think it
our duty to name them.
Frst there is the Hotel Sideboard, 6ft. long, with
glass back, bracket shelf, enclosed cupboards and
drawers, all solid cedar, price £8 10s. Then there
is the Cottage Sideboard, with large glass back,
cellarette cupboard and drawer enclosed, brackets
for ornaments, &c., &c., £ll 10s. and £l2 103
There are Cottage Sideboards at £3 15s. and £5
ss. And for mansions a range of best made Side-
boards in walnut, oak and mahogany at £1? 10s ,
£25, £27 10s., £35. Thera are massive Sideboards
in pollard oak with all the latest improvements,
of bold design, faithfully built, with immense
bevelled glass back, cellarettes, &c., &c., at £45.
Bookcases and Cylinder Writing Desks in oak,
walnut and mahogany. Dinner Waggons, in the
same woods.
A grand stock of elegaht Pierglasses and Over-
mantels.
But what surprised us most was the quantity
of Drawingroom Furniture, Suites, Cabinets
Brackets, Tables &c, turned out by LAWLER’S.
The turn-over of the establishment with its
different departments, its wonderful Boot and
Snoe floor, the Furniture, Carpet 3 and Bedsteads,
the Ironmongery and Glass and China, the Drapery
and Clothing and Hats and Caps must be some-
thing extraordinary.
Upwards of 400 Drawingroom Suites turned
out in 12 months, and ranging in quality, style
and price from the simple but serviceable Repp
Suites at £lO 10s. to the prettiest and mosj
effective Occasional and Harlequin Suites
Parisian tapestries or plushes at £45.
As in Diningroom Suites, LAWLER'S will not
turn out anything under £l2 10s. so with
Drawingroom Suites, they will not touch any-
thing under £lO 10s. LAWLER’S hold that the
customer who pays more than £65 for the pro-
duction of the best of Morocco Dining-room Suites,
or above £5O for the loveliest and most charming
of delighful special things in Drawingroom Suites
deserves to be declared a “Tittlebat Titmouse’
and fit prey for high-toned but unprincipled
furnishing ‘ Oily Gammons.” And we think so
too.
Time and space—that is newspaper space—i
pretty much like time and tide, will wait for
none; so that, although we would like to refer
to Cabinets. Whatnots, Music Canterburys and
a thousand other articles, we are compelled to end
our essay by repeating at its close the words with
which we commenced —viz., that the place at
which to furnish safely, surely, thoroughly,
economically and well is
LAWLER’S
608 GEORGE-STREET SYDNEY.


674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Is the Only Address of the
mm ISSMMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
*in fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
■of Musical Instruments and every description of
JFittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
Mil 11
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 6/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for tho
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c,, &c.
Q
ACCORDEONB, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
peciallby i Miniature Accordeon, double bellows
strong tone, 21/-
n Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, an
instruction book, 35/-.
» Italian Violin, with case (lock and key
Bow, Tutor, and extra set <
strings, £2 10s.
‘4/6, 5/8, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
! Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 3'
Splendid Organ-toned Conoertina,
in box with key 2]
4/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjc
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the oolonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY*
Oitlcura
5g
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE GORE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
Joi]
'V/,
Scrofula on I^eck.
PI M PLES to SCROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura- Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, aud Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and gO'
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVE!, , the new Blood Puri-
tier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jeiiy for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re
stores the H 'lr, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiliers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail, chemists and wholesale
throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
>5: :i. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, largo boxes,
S;.C. Cuticura Soai*, 25 cents; Cuticura Siiav-
ir:r- <<„7P, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pr> Me.
Prepared by the
Pot lev n rug; & Chemical Co., Boston, TT.S.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It Is Infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are In this market numerous Inferior so-called Sarsaparlllas’ the
Publio who desire tbl< great Blood Purifier should be oareful to ask for Bristol’s
GAN JR* OBTAINED FROM ALL DHBMIBTB AND STORKKKKPFKB
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
MASON BROTHERS,
IIJCWGf
LIMITED,
283 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognao,
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Please Do Not Bead This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is no excuse for any person of either
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, caused by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
&c., &c. Superfluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour.
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward T. Hubbeix,
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Everybody \
SHOULD USE/
PEIELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOI7E!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
RBI btkset gynirsv
SCHOOL OP ART HOTEL,
MAOKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
n
S TUDY
ECONOMY
and
Kara roar Umbrella Framei re-
oovered and roar
Paraioli re-lined and made eqna
to Newt at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathnrit Street!
Paraioli made to match 001
Hmln neatl* itiamli'
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
• PEMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &c.
Full particulars free on application. Addre 1
R. B, JONES, 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
MO N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railingi.
Baaigna and Eattmatea forwarded on ratines
J. cmnmvGHAM,
mßiMntii, WY*wARD-sau4»i, BTown?
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address !
Temple Building. George street, s'x doors from
Queens-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
jgKAB aLY, iWBWTQN, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
3WLL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
(ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
/ Patented.
CHAIR
<T;
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tlon, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. O’ We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWING - ROOM - SUITES^ - Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
rail
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
Otis sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid
ing Trays, Stationery Draw
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
earn
□
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
VUBNIIUBI WABKHOCSBMBK,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
g
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celesbe Pedal, bril' ant
bone, In handsome case.
Free ab rail or wharveß for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS
M
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring Sc O’Connell stos,
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered bo order in
any materia!.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, fo
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newtoa. and
Lamb, O’Connell-sbreeb.
dfg
Bedsteads, &11 slur,
„T // ’'ted and Black
and B 'riefcjr,
Beddl options at
»»• <jefl.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and l
LAMB,
toperbera,
O Connell and Spring Sbreetii
df
SPRING MATTRASSBB
Woven Wire, beat
make j also, Spiral Sprin*.
Frioe, from lia. each.
WKADUR; * “W-mv UUR.
CUKAP FURNITURE. —Pino Tables, from
13s. 6d. } Dining Tables, from 20s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.j Washstands, from 12s. 6d.i
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side>
boards, from #810s»| Clothes Horses, from IQs, m.
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s,
bOU.lihZ'S, KKWEOH. and tun,


TiiiS m]<,n< -fo «
1 kfcHtn
f
y
V'
3fc/
|
"A, /
- One SKA<£
Pleas e.
56, Margare
T>
Mlir
iislf
Occi/rAl',ON r
A H Pa^S £ *
yr€ Sct rr nti/ m
s 9l/ \
'U rf fa
»* ltt
T 1“ ffm
Scdf.!
fi/fy SvA 1 "/
X r <<
y i '//fSy'
4-r-rMPf


wfjtLMT rntmcpm*, mimm m 00.,
IROJTMO; tTGMXUg,
MLACHUNWRYT MERCHANTS,
«* GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o .
o
IRONMONGERS
512
p
<v
o
REG?
NT:
s
v?
SPECIALITIES |
Dart’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, ilbo Garbon Light
ELECTRO- PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
BAB COOKING STOYES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, ftp., ftC,
NEVER'TRAVEL without it.
JTJV JH <T? U
g
EFFECTUALLY
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS,
r S FUES BEETLES MOSaUITOES.
Co CKROACHES <^ < :*V. < r AND IS
* T THE same time QUITE
AR MLESSTO BIRDS
animals
mm
0 s
8
dfgdfgdfgdfg
sqit>: I
■Pin tins!!
PrrAIICHEMIST?
AND STORLKEfcKRV
—holes on .
FELTON-CRIMWADEVC?
- MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
fo r KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
r il
LANTERNS!
\t - ~ -—— ::
»s »• 'above and;’have the following sets o t Slides, complete with
y ® set 2
. h 8 * Paris, Highlands of Scotland, Lowlands of Scotland, River
’ kakes, Ireland, English Cathedrals, Pied Piper, Isle of Wight, Pompeii,
' '-' t UBoe, Dick Whittington, Holy Land.
ri ®ty of Comic Slides, in all prices, suitable for Children s Entertainments.
,^HT
*h AND CO.,
Graphic stock warehouse,
O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
The bane of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT-STREKT, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... £1,000.060
Reserve fund ... M 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITHD STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
elal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A.A.BEBNEY & C?
IS HUNTER STREET,SYONEY.
SHIRT MAKERS?
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
h \a
&
Q)
PATENT
8
w
LLS
PI
!®7
3*
£
5K
(ffi
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
th e s kin ,d i sturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
don© it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
■samestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they win be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digest,,..u and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon th®
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pill* have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Buchxh's
Corro-H Pirns a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the p ,, ororietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d,
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with saoh box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
HE above is one of the. .oldest Family aaf
Squatting Hotels in the oolony. Price)
reasonable. Sample Room. '!'**
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNK, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
strpaiKi *ll others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Taxis Gold Minina—
PARIS. 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
fbr pea-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ BE COLOGNE.
Is unequalled far its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINOSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others lor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
rery lasting in use
Of all Sealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J A E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Stieit, London
Trade Mark—“WhiteHose" on" Golden .
fes. Lyre.” i
t*
FOBQVOVSKrS
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
FOR
nrasm,
472 GFOfcGE STREET,
Opposite the Central Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haymarketk
VIOLIN'S,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, &c,
Speciality:
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O.
COISTCB B TIHSTA. 3,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 10s.
ACCORD SONS,
In great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
CORNETS,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6 16s.
FLUTES,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/- each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
!
Banjoes, Guitars, &c., in great variety,,
tar PIANOS and ORGANS.
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
JE
BRQMCHITI3. COUGHS
ASTH
s
m
A
AAEi>
AM
AS
y RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS MO INVALIDS
Ha* an enormous sale ,n England*
J into tn#
and la-now being introduced
“ole
Colonics.
GvetrStoreKeeper should get a supply*
a* Wary wise mother will certainly
use it.
DiuaDCE’s n o
LONDON, ENGLAND.
O IT
WJ O H N S
ol SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUOJRt
Ii:PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
<o ,v, STREET. SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, TaJfff
Casks, new and second-hand | also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING HI JtU ITS BRANCHES,
TOE SATIAL Fin BUHII LAID ME DOUBT SJEEir,
350 FITT STREET.
k. ' " ~ ~
k . e Fosits received at best Current Bates, 0 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
- 0 this Society has increased fourfold in two years* Shareholders reoeive 14 per cent, per annum dividend*
JAMES A. TODD.


ROYALMCWSI
fu*S
£)d& $
*3 UK 4
*4KIH c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid oi
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
tiie Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains Its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powdkr Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
9
Family
rc.
IMPORTER,
Wine and Spirit Merchant.
t —:
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L still sella the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY 111 THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'S
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &c., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.’
TSTHTW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AWD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ijLLUSTRATKD CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
AAIAAAAAAAA4
qFmsr. -«
WINDOW
Whits Laid. Oils, 0° loa ”;, fco.
Pipsrhinglngs, Didoes, f 3 ’[iajBl®
l TJTaiLIIE ULIS3 03 W 51 '*
m GEORGE STBBB
-—- go. ar® B^
SPECIAL go oao6
iis above goods »6 a Of®*
j floes, being the stock c
tarcnwlofc. _
s
nqal-le
—■ ■ TT roo&^I
CnOOL OF ARTS jjl J
to-sraru- rr'^n
Every Company traveling on® ® jj»
for the past 18 months h es sr3.
occupied this Hall, inC 11 , w 0 [0
and Leitch, Thornton and
Maur, and Grattan pan y,
MacMahon’s Dramatic fZ O f
cdneluded a brilliant an tr e B°^ a hjnjs*}J m
Company played in the o%V Te3seß tn^ui
ago, and Mr. MacMabon
highly pleased with the i w at' 1
Managers are requested J
before opening to * eC h 0 g o creW
Terms on application to __—
lOf^
THE 4&£»
—"~.y I' lo0 ’ 1
mHE above Is the' “mHW.
■ Rockhampton f° r
A Rockhampton oa n °°
other Entertainments,
any term upon appli° at
TSOS.
it Ar'HTVERV, A. _« ,
E. D.
ning and
Minins Bx c
charters TOWERj^,
ASK YOUR, GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
1 AN
ORDINARY CTTP CONTAINS MORII ACTIVB
THAN A PINT OP THE BEST AM OB POB»®
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERB and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <s*c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, RionitHmitihing, Plumbing,
Oaafltdng, Tank and Qlrder Building, Electric and Pneumatdo Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER.
«. WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
■•le Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propeller*. Exhaust Fan Cowls, Bas Figgs, Heaters,
Warmers, do,
BON ACCORD WORKS,~BAND9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY,
Full Particulars and Prior on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABKRQ.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
WT Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HoTEL7Gympie.
First-olass Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. K. STEWART. Proprietor.
w
Belle V«e
Bo'
Opposite Parliament B - C iob.
“ ~*#*
FIRST-CLASS FA3tfl
accomm^ da
A Waiter Ms ots
txoK
fOP
Lett r 3 and
prietor,
fj' l '
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
Spwlancy
MoceaAAarOil
has beeD known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserrer, restorer and beautifier of
the human hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, of which most hair
restorers are composed and which ruin the health (vide Medicai papers), will keep fresh and
aweet in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses; it prevents hair
falling off or turning grey, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandrin, and renders the
hair soft, silky, curly and glossy; it also stimulates the growth of whiskers and moustaches:
it is especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, ana
can also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
which, after great time and trouble, lias been especially prepared for the use of golden-haired
'"i'j® ll ttn| i fft ir or grey-haired adults. Sizes 3s. 6d.; 75.; family bottles, equal to four small,
10s. 6d.; and double That, size. 21«.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a healing and refreshing preparation for
tne race, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
fiJvSRr l e V s K'uns, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
ROWLANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations wide*-
•imilar names.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros,, and E. Pbossbr & Co., Sydney.
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THH
Sj’ln M Wattr Hi.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
FREE
PRESO RIPTIONS are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
a WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
PALACE HUTIIL,
TOWNSVTLLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockampton)
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
greet Melbourne t otfee Palace. A very
large Bi'liard Room.
Prices as follows:—6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d,
> »i . ft i h # y
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
SM ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absoonders and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
mfldential inquiries instituted Evidence obtained In
iivorce. libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
vision and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
•arrises, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Sent* and debts coileoted. From R. M. R.‘s long experience
n the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, aud
®ew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
'lobe, he it In a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
xpKdtlja and strictest tecresy, and to faithfully and
•ossp « attend to ali business entrusted to h nare.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages l
bound In cloth, and contains over 100 presorip
blons. Price, post paid, Bs. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion 'and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic,
fIOTS
00TS
T. WILLIAMS & 00..
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alio Manufacturer! of
Thb Finest Quality or Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HSU s
*OCS
Cigra-x Divan
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CABTLKRKAGH STREET.
Guinness
FIRST
:,v?
■
Q
raw
AM
ml
m
fiADt
EA^'
»W"“ ‘' , lo ! ' ,l 2 A
WH
BALCh'*
~r.l»l '"■’ '-
