

The Bulletin
VoL 8-No. 376
SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 1887.
Prlo®., 6<L
Those Treasury Bills.
Parke's utilises his Private Experience in Public Finance.
Mr. MICAWBER PARKES: "THANK GOD, THAT LITTLE BILL SETTLE[?]."


THE BULLETIN.
rCBURHED 08C1 A WEEK,
At 24 Prrr- street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - £\ Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - 0 12s. Od
Quarterly ------ - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Offloe twenty shillings
Sterling —which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony— you can
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you erery week for
a year.
This offer Is net open to realdenta of Sydney. In that dty
The Bulletin 1s not delirered by mall, but Is entirely In
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 1887.
Parkes’ Policy.
Sir Good-Government Parkes and hia
lieutenant, Mr. Cocky Burns, have now
disclosed the whole of their scheme o
finance to the public. It is undeniably
rank political fraud, worthy of the crew who
have climbed into office by false pretences
When Parkes and his friends were voci
ferously demanding the dissolution of the
last New South Wales Parliament, the key
note of their howl was to the effect that in
the previous general elections the voters
had been told nothing about the imposition
of ad valorem duties, and that such duties
ought not to be levied without an appeal to
the country. The fault of the Jennings
Dibbs party was, at the worst, merely a
negative fault. But the fault of the Parkes
and Burns set is the fault-positive—a clear
breach of promise—a barefaced cheating ol
the constituencies. If there was one thing
promised the colony during the last elec-
tions, it was plainly and distinctly that Pro-
perty was in some way to be made to bear a
just share of the burden of taxation. Every-
one of the Ministers stated this, and it was
caught up and reiterated by all the Freetrade
papers and by everyone of the Freetrade
candidates. The load was to be taken ofl
the poor man’s shoulders—his food and
clothing and other necessaries were to be
free—and the fat property-owners, the Bur-
dekins of the land, were to be compelled,
for the first time, to yield a fair amount
towards the support of the State. With one
or two exceptions, all the Ministerial sup-
porters elected for metropolitan consti-
tuencies advocated a special tax on
the property of absentees, in addi-
tion to a common tax on property. On
the strength of these promises the Govern-
ment were accorded the great majority that
now follows them. But where is the fulfil-
ment! Now Parkes and Burns have made
themselves comfortable in office they have
discovered that no tax on the wealthy classes
to whose undivided support they owe their
accession to power, is required at all. Ad-
ditional income is wanted, but this may be
squeezed out of the beer and tobacco of the
working man. The N.S. W. millionaires
who live in London and Paris may sip rare
vintages and smoke rare cigars with the
serene reflection that they are thereby con-
tributing not a penny towards the Govern,
ment of the vulgar country whence their
wealth is derived. But, admirable contrast i
the workman in the colony, whose labour
forms the basis of those millionaires’ wealth
must needs pay 25 per cent, on the value of
his small beer, and nigh a hundred p er cent,
on the value of his tobacco.
The scheme is, in a word, not alone in
violation of distinct promises, but is bad
beyond all power of description per se. If
it be in any respect or degree a Freetrade
programme, then Freetrade is infinitely
worse than even the O’Sullivan ever could
have conceived it to be. It is a taxation
upon every form of solid industry, and a
letting off of the mere fripperies of life.
The small tax of 5 per cent, on the gown
and ribbons of fashionable ladies is to 1 s
r epealed. The gew-gaws with which tne
rich amuse themselves are to be free. The
trappings and fixings of good society are to
pay no dues. But nearly all the necessaries
of life, and the one or two small
luxuries of the working classes, are to
be pounced upon at every point by Custom
House officers and excisemen. The
additional duty of threepence par pound on
colonial-manufactured tobacco, is simply in-
famous. The effect of it will be to shut up
all the small tobacco factories throughout the
colony, and thus give the few large manu-
facturers the power to squeeze the public on
the one hand and the growers of tobacco-leaf
on the other. We have it on the most
reliable authority that, if the duty be passed,
in a short while the price of tobacco will be
increased to the public at least one shilling
per pound whilst the industry of tobacco-
eultivation will be well-nigh destroyed. We
fancy Mr. Cocky Burns will have to try
back on at least this feature of his policy. As
for the beer-tax, thatis assuredly open to simi-
lar condemnation. The article here proposed
to be operated upon is again one of consump-
tion among the working classes only. The
man in moleskins patronises Tooth and
Toohey ; the man in broadcloth drinks
Foster. Mr. Burns has discovered that
fully 13,000,000 gallons of colonial beer is
consumed in N.S. Wales. Who drinks this
beverage ? It is not on tap in the Parliamen-
tary refreshment-room, nor is it to be seen
on the tables of the denizens of Potts Point.
A “gentleman” and a “ long-sleever ” are
antithetical terms. A fine lady would as lief
smell of gin as of “sheoak.” The locally-
brewed beer is peculiarly the drink of the
poor and lowly. And without going so far
as to endorse Mr. Gladstone's theory that
ale is next in point of excellence to the nectar
of the gods—for Gladstone wasn’t talking
about colonial ale—we must say that it seems
to be regarded by at least British scientists
as decidedly the most wholesome medium
for conveying alcohol into the human system.
The effect of the tax will be either to increase
thepriceof the liquor,or to furtherdeteriorate
its quality—or perhaps to do both these
wretched things. In any case the consumers
will be the sufferers. Furthermore, the
tax will shut up nearly all the small
breweries, and give the few plethoric brewers
a greater monopoly of the trade than they
now enjoy. In every point of view the pro-
posal is stupid to the degree of idiocy. Colonial
beer is now sold by the brewers at one and
fourpence a gallon. The tax will bring it up
to one and eightpenca. You can import
English beer for one and tenpenc ■, or under.
How will colonial ale fare in competition
with English ale which—as the Honour Able
C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., will no doubt be
able to testify—can be drawn to the last drop
in the cuk, and which, a 3 it contains much
more alcohol, is worth at least 30 per cent,
more over the publican’s counter ?
Like remarks apply to the increased duty
on spirits. Surely even the siupid man who
has somehow gotten himself to the head of
the New South Wales Treasury must knoiv
that the increased duty on brandy, whisky,
gin, and rum will yield little or no more
revenue, but simply more adulteration. Any
school-boy could tell him that. The publi-
cans must perforce sell the same quantity of
rum for threepence, but they will have
to water it more and doctor it more, so
as to make the cask run out in such a way as
to obviate the necessity of making a tour up
King-street. This tax, too, will fall with
great effect upon the working classes. And
it will have an even worse outcome. It will
still further fill the gaols and lunatic asylums,
and will tend to re-establish a now extinct
offence—that, namely, of illicit distillation.
OfcoursetheGovernmentmaytell usthat they
propose to indulge in methods whereby these
evils may be prevented. They will doubt-
less propose to meet adulteration and illicit
distillation by increased inspection. But
how does this chime in with a policy of re-
trenchment ? The plan of action of the New
South Wales Government has been too much
that of making work for itself. It has
created numerous evils, and has then set
itself industriously to work to cure them.
But never before has it gone so far as in this
present case. If the sole object of Sir Good-
Government Parkes had been to bring
about a necessity for more police, more gaols,
and more asylums for the insane and desti-
tute, he certainly could not have devised a
more direct method of achieving his end than
by imposing these increased duties on aloo-
holic drinks. The case is proved by the
illustration given by Mr. Burns himself.
He mentioned that South Australia imposed
a duty of fourteen shillings a gallon on im-
ported spirits, and a corresponding excise on
domestic spirits. Well, what has been the
result in South Australia ? Not an increase,
but an enormous falling off, in the revenue
derivable from these duties. Yet crime,
lunacy, destitution, all the social evils attri-
butable to drink, have increased in a ratio
not pleasant to contemplate. The state of
things in South Australia is indeed a fine
commentary on the policy of Sir G. G.
Parkes and the verbose little person he has
placed in charge of the finances. The des-
truction of these creatures must be schemed
by the gods. In the meantime, however,
the country must suffer for their insanity.
For doubtless they will be kept in office, and
their insensate programme carried out by
virtue of the big majority they wield in the
Assembly.
* • *
As for the expectations of the Budget, the
veriest tyro in finance could show them to
be without solid basis. Burns anticipates a
surplus of over £900,000 at the end of the
year, and this is how he gets at that desir-
able result :
REVENUE.
Taxation ... ... ... ... £3,008,700
Land Re venue—Sales, £1,150,003; an-
nual revenue, £1,394,700 ... 2,544 701
Receipts for services renlered ... 3,363,250
General miscellaneous receipts ... 270,300
Total ... ... ... £9,186,950
EXPENDITURE.
Special appropriations ... ... £2,038,693
Schedules to the Constitution Act ... 44,677
Executive and Legislative ... ... 28 227
The Colonial Secretary ... ... 830,335
Tne Treasurer and Secreta T y for
Finance and Trade ... ... 516,168
Minister of Public Instruction ... 673,817
Minister of Justice... ... ... 265,988
The Attorney-General ... ... 40 321
The Secretary f®r Lands ... 461,268
The Secretary for Public Works—
Public works generally ... ... 875,548
Railways ... ... ... 1,685,384
The Postmaster-General ... ... 641,120
The Secretary for Mines ... ... 178,057
8,276,603
Estimated surplus ... ... ... 910,347
Total ... ... ... £9,186,950
The estimates of expenditure have been cut
down to the lowest, and no provision has
been made for Supplementary Estimates
and unforeseen expenditure. But let that
pass. The point is that under nearly every
head the revenue expectations have been
overcalculated. In the sales of lands alone
there is an obvious over-estimation of at
least a quarter of a million, and probably of
twice that amount. The “services”—that
is, for the most part, the railways, are not
likely to produce within £200,000 of the
sum reckoned upon. Taxation wdl un-
doubtedly yield less than the estimate by
some £300,000 ; while at least the odd tens
of thousands and hundreds may be deducted
from the miscellaneous receipts and yet
leave more than an extremely optimist
Treasurer ought to expect from that source
Thus, on a fair basis of anticipation, we find
the surplus of £910,347 reduced at once to
about £90,000. And with this narrow
margin Parkes and Burns propose to face
the inevitable supplementary expenditure—
usually amounting to over £300,000 - of the
year. It is always the unexpected that
happens, and we are not given to prophecy ;
but here we feel assured that the proposals
and prospects of the Government as
enounced by Parkes and Burns mean a
further deficiency of at loast £300,000 at the
end of December. The existing deficit of
over two .millions and a half—which Burns
coolly proposes to wipe off in the manner for
suggesting which Dibbs was kicked out of
office, that is, by flying Treasury kites —will
in all probability be increased to three
millions. What sort of finance is this ? Is
it worthy of a South American Republic, or
even of the Sublime Porte ?
It is,not surprising therefore that the
whilom most thorough-going supporters of
Sir Henry Parkes are now turning against
him by the hundred. If this policy had been
announced on the hustings, the probabilities
are that PARKBsand the Freetrade gangwould
have suffered defeat all along the line. And
the fact of this policy being radically different
from the one on which Parkes and his party
were elected, shows, on the argument so
constantly and vigorously employed in the last
Parliament by the Premier himself, that the
Opposition ought to use every means at its
disposal to prevent the adoption of the
policy. The present Opposition is quite as
strong numerically as that led by Parkes in
the previous House, and intellectually it is in-
finitely stronger. Furthermore, there can
be no doubt it more truly represents the
country to day than the Ministerial party.
The meetings that have been held and that
are about to be held in condemnation of the
fiscal proposals of the Government prove,
and will add fresh proof of this. Surely,
therefore, the Ministry will not be allowed
to rush their schemes to a vote without hind-
rances. A firm stand taken by the Opposi-
tion must produce the statutary effect of
converting Ministerialists, not from their
political opinions, for those opinions, as ex-
pressed during the elections, are decidedly
against the Government already—but from
the insane belief that they have been re-
turned to blindly follow Parkes. And if
the Opposition’s plans are well conceived
and sagaciously carried out the Parkes-
Burns policy will assuredly be accorded
small mercy ; and thus the colony will be
saved the injustice of throwing the whole
burden of the State on the workers, and the
ignominy before the world of perpetuating a
deficit with a tendency to grow larger year
by year.
Polypito Progress.
The constructive ratiocination of the Sydney
Freeman’s Journal is like, only more so, Mark
Twain’s “ gifted contemporary” whose logic re-.
sembled the peace of God on account of a reason
which will be instantly suggested to the minds of
such of our readers who occasionally study Holy
Writ.
We choose to put the matter in our own un-
varnished vernacular and to re er to the Weekly
Mickey for illustrations afterwards. For some
few thousand years mankind has been rather
effectively ’*bossed” by bludgeons and by
bayonets, but now the “ bosses” royal are begin-
ning to discover that they require the aid of ber’
rettas and benisons, bulls and Bibles, bishops and
breviaries, banns and burses, and the Church
militant is invoked to the aid of the State arra
gant. What is called Society that is, the
senile coterie of interested land-thieves and life-
thieves who make altogether but an infinitesimal
fraction of the world’s total inhabitants—is in a
very perilous position. I ynamite is a new factor
in political reform, and cannon being powerless
against it, the curled and coddled creatures of
Caste and Custom have called to their succour
the anti-anarchist flame 3 of hell-fire. Providence
never made provision in the creation of the uni-
verse for a Republican. The Devil, too, is auto-
cratic in his sympathie', and being an elder
brother of the Czar, the favourite weapon of
Nicholas Antique is readily enlisted against the
cause of the Red Cap. Since the days of Con-
stantine the State has rested on the Church, and
taxes have been levied in the sacred name of
Christ. Truly, the wielder 3 of the sword have
now and again parted company and Quarrelled
over the spoils with the wielders of the crozier.
But that is now evidently at an end. “ They’re
thicker now than any brithers.” Mutua
interest may bring about a bargain be-
tween the lion and the ox, and in this
case it has apparently done so. The Sydney
Freeman's Journal becomes rapturously jubi-
lant about the way the nations are hurrying back-
ward to tha moral and intellectual condition of
their old polype great-grandfathers, and it mouths
with mellifluous unction over the resort of the
naughty German Chancellor, that bold bad man
of blood and iron, to Holy Papa when he wanted
to do a civil thing without sacrificing his dignity.
“ Whirrao I ’ yells the inebriated Weekly Mickey,
“ Faugh a ballagh ! Erin go bragh 1 and Cead
mille failthe ! Seventy years ago the Holy See was,
perhaps, at its lowest ebb. The Pope was a
prisoner, the Church was almost swept away by
the violence of the revolution and the greed of
Napoleon’s legions. . . But Europe of 1870 is
not Europe of 1887. Tin spectre of Communism
raised by that spirit of revolution to which France
gave birth, and which England fostered, has
frightened society and has forced men to respect
yie only Power that can deal with it. The Sylla-
bus warned them of the danger, but men laughed.
The danger has come, and it is to the Holy See
that men look now for the safety of sooiety. This,
we think, is the true explanation of the change."
* * *
Right you are, Father O’Hooligan ; you’ve hit
it right on the head, sure ! The men who “ boss ”
society—who are interested in maintaining the
present iniquitous state of things—find that they
cannot do it without working upon the supersti-
tions of the governed classes, and as the Free-
man’s Journal naively remarks, the fear of losing
their grasp of the foremost place “ has forced men
to respect the only Power that can deal with it."
But it says deuced little for the society which, in
order >o maintain its reign, has to enlist a power that
governs only through the night-side of man’s
nature—his fears, his superstitions, his base terro
of a punishment he could never deserve, or his
crawling covetousness of a reward he could never
hope to earn. But low and poor, mean and
servile as it is, modern society rests upon this so-
called religious principle in man’s nature (which
must not be confounded with the true religious
principle), and the Tammany rings that run the
shows in all the high places the wide world over
have enlisted that Power sacerdotal, described by
Henry George to be centuries arear in ideas and
thousands of miles distant in space, and whose
recent coup d'cglise, in suspending Dr. M Glynn
at the dictation of a ring of anti-democratic politi-
cal wire-pullers, has covered the Roman Catholic
Church—in English-speaking countries, at least—
with shame; the action of the Pope and Arch-
bishop Corrigan being by no one more strongly
condemned than by the liberal-minded Catholics
of America. But, of course, the priestly neophyte
who exercises his caligraphy and learns spelling
while chalking articles for the Freeman’s Jour
nal on a slab of bark under his native gum-tree
(reminiscential of his own paternal hedge) is not
the sort of man to progress in any other direction
than back to his jelly-fish origin. We feel for
him, but the cart-grease for the wheels of the car
of Progress is the ultimate residual of the car-
“Thank You!”
Parkes 1 threatened “ ensuffragement ” of woman
lovely woman ! occasions in our massive brains
some rather perturbed cogitations of the future
rights and social status of the softer sex. While
ever ready to seize upon every possible advantage
peculiar to the male, and to wrest from the relax-
ing grasp of unhappy man, one by one, all the
privileges associated with a beard and a pair of
trousers, woman is by no means equally prepared
to surrender those little attentions which have
hitherto been paid her in acknowledgment of her
sex’s weakness. Indeed, these gallantries have
been in circulation for so long a period that woman
is under the erroneous impression, like kings in
reference to the privileges of their position, that
they are hers by right divine. She claims, as a
member of the human family, all the privileges
enjoyed by the strongest and most generously en-
dowed, while, as a woman, she claims certain
exemptions from various duties and responsibili-
ties not in harmony with her masculine preten-
sions—George Sand, in blouse and breeches,
frequenting cafes and the society of male
Bohemians, demanding the polite attentions and
considerations proper to Madame Reoamier, of
She salon.
' * ♦ *4
We have often remarked the rapacious avidity
with which the female tram-pirate or the
panniered desecrator of the holy calm of a ’bus-
interior, pounces on a gouty man’s knee, wedges
her improver into a male neighbour’s ossa in-
nominata, wrests sitting accommodation for a
fourteenth from a seat intended to accommodate
only twelve, and then disturbs the equanimity of
the eternal universe with frantic efforts to jab an
irresponsible but perverse parasol into an adjacent
eye. We all know her ! Sour, aggressive, fierce-
eyed, Itoman-nosed, with a vicious glare lurking
in a disclosed molar, she bursts into a ’bus like an
earthquake, and proceeds to deal out promiscuous
devastation like a cyclone or one of David


Gaunson's or Dan. O'Connor’s “ spaiches.”
Some weak-minded male glances furtively and
helplessly around, and then, allowing his better
feelings to be overcome by a rank injustice, rises,
offers the itinerant female harpy a seat—for which,
by the bye, she never says “ Thank you”—and then
gets out to walk through the halycon dust of a
Sydney or Melbourne thoroughfare, or, perad-
venture, he remains in the ’bus standing with the
atlas of his vertebral oflumn poundiog against the
roof and damaging the brilliancy of a “ transfer ”
advertisement setting forth the glories of somepain-
ipaint or other—of which he will be somewhat in
need by the time he strikes his own peculiar joy-
'bin.
* * *
While men weakly surrender in this manner,
•even the pariahs of the opposite sex will
luxuriantly wallow in considerate male attentions
intended only for the best of women at the best of
times. Well do we remember a wild wet night
when wind and rain seemed to be having a pitched
battle on the roof of a Forest Lodge ’bus The
’bus was fl'led, save one seat, and that had been
apparently dedicated to the rain drops that poured
from a baptised mackintosh deposited thereon.
We had with us a friend of bashful address and
unselfish gallantry. The ’bus stops ; the repetition
of a faint hail is heard ; a male head surmounted
with a dripping she: ny belltopper, is thrust in the
doorway, and a cavernous voice croaks lugubri-
ously, “ Will any gentleman ride outside to oblige
a lady ?” Oar friend of the bashful address and
unselfish gallantry rushes to the aid of the fair—
or the fare—and the latter enters. Ye gods ! we
recognise that plump, papulous face, that artifi-
cially-constructed figure, and that silken finery,
albeit wringing wet. The “lady” for whom our
friend was courting consumption, rheumatism,
and ills unnumbered in the dank and deadly dark-
ness of a box-seat, was a famed and flaming
favourite of that queer half of the world that lives
outside the world and yet in it and controlling it.
But this, of course, is referable to a chapter of
accidents, and does not particularly influence the
matter one way or the other.
From the foregoing, however, we can deduce
this much by way of corollary : If men are com-
pelled to get out of ’buses and surrender 'heir
seats in deference to an antiquated piece of idiotic
etiquet'e to women who insist upon having their
rights, their fare should be returned. It is mani-
festly unjust that ’bus compan es should be
allowed to make a profit, by calmly attempting to
carry over their number, out of a social obser-
vance which to say the leas: of i', dcesa't yoke on
altogether satisfactorily with Parkes’ latest bid
for popularity—which, in itself, was the mere out-
come of the want on tho part of the Government
of a policy to put before the people. So, you see,
we always manage, somehow or other, to fasten it
on to the poor old Hemperor of Botany Bay.
The Same old Jubilee.
The Bulletin has not, te the best of its know-
ledge, shown itself in the past hysterically in love
with the Royal Family, yet we would be les than
human if we did not sincerely sympathise with
the Queen in her present year of Jubilee affliction
It is useless now to say anything further about
the many miseries being stored up for her by her
loyal subjects in Australia. But a gloomier,
ghastlier sorrow, which will cast all the others
iato shade, is loomiog up on the horizon A
Mayor of one of the suburbs of Melbourne has —as
a Jubilee gift—decided to send to Her Unhappy
Majesty an album containing full length portraits
of himself and his councillors in their robes. If
this does not make her abdicate, the Socialists
may as well make up their minds to wait till she
dies.
Yes, the Queen is to be pitied, but the Jubilee
lunatics are more so. Before this fatal year
began, they were apparen'ly as reasonable
and much less excited than those who smile at
them now. They were calm, cool, phlegmatic—
not to go so far as to say pigheaded—persons as
far removed from any expression of emotion as a
bed of oysters. Now they are worse than a cage-
ful of drunken chimpanzees. And why ? Merely
because a stout old lady—gocd and gracious, no
doubt, but still so very human that about the
highest emotion of which her nature is capable is
a fit of delirious joy on the subject of a
pap-bottle or the cutting of a tooth by the
youngest of a countless horde cf German-speak-
ing grandohildren—ha3 punctually drawn her
salary of £350,000 (not to mention pickings) from
the Exchequer for forty-nine years, aod is about
to do so for the fiftieth time this year! Surely
this fact, although deserving of the reßpect that a
steady adherence to principle should always com-
mand, need not be the cause of an epidemic of
convulsions? Yet quite a number of hitherto
decent and orderly people have inverted them-
selves and let all their blood run into their heads
on account of it. They are more like a let of
mad Hindoo devotee*, slashing themselves with
knives in honour of their idols, than the sober,
self-contained Britons they were last year. A
section of the Press encourages this madness in-
stead of ridiculing it That solemn ass of a
paper, the Melbourne Daily Telegraph, has
made itself most conspicuous of all by its hoarse
braying for something to be done to celebrate the
Jubilee. Some time ago it published—with evi-
dent approval—a letter from some wombat in the
wilderness who said: “ We ought to, and must
have, a statue of the most illustrious, noble,
Christian, and devoted monarch who ever pre-
sided over the destinies of a kingdom.” Shades
of the canonised royal dead, can you s f and this
without smashing your harps and dancing on your
haloes ? Further on, this whole-souled lunatic
said: “A monument of Queen Vicioria on a
high pedastal (that was his jubiles way of spelling
it), suoh as Lord Nelson in Trafalgar-square,
London, or in Sackville-street, Dublin, would be a
continual lesson in all the virtues.” It would
certainly be a sermon in stone upon Thrift.
What has Queen Victoria done to rouse up this
frenzy of enthusiasm ? She has drawn, Heaven and
herself, and perhaps a few others yet living, alone
know how much money from Ihe taxpayers of the
British Empire for forty-nine Bolid years, during
the whole of which time she has - mirabile dictu !
—bebaved herself like a decent woman. That is
just what it amounts to. She has not even shown
herself a generous woman. She never gave to the
alleviation of distress even a fractional proportion
of her means ; but whenever she did give any-
thing the ends of the earth were made acquainted
of the fact and the dwellers in the desert of Gobi
not left in ignorance.
• * *
The Queen might have been Ihe Lady Bounti-
ful of her age, the dispensing angel of charity
to the poor and the distressed of her
realm, but she has preferred to save out of
her salary some £11,000,000. We do not believe
that what she has spent in relieving distress dur-
ing the whole of her reign would, if added up,
amount to the sum she draws every quarter. She
has steadily and perseveringly gone on “making
her pile ” for fifty years in order to leave it to a
family too well-provided for by the British nation
already. Never, perhaps, had monarch suchachance
before of doing good and—missed it. When she is
called upon to render an account of her steward-
ship to the Power that presides over monarchs and
beggars, the frenzied and fulsome laudation of
which she was made the object in this year of
Jubilee, will bs cold comfort to her. Think of it!
Because the Queen has been a good mother —as
far as seeing that her children were well provided
for in life : the British tax-payer has reason to
know that she has been all that—and has not been
guilty of any conspicuous sin, wa are expected to
fall down in the dust and worship her. Certainly
she has lived a cleaner life than is common to the
maiority of monarchs, but no cleaner than that of
most washerwomen. Yet, if she had been only a
washerwoman nobody would have seen anything
in her conduct to make them whoop themselves
into fits over. And it must be borne in mind that
a Queen in the e days has to keep fairly respect-
able if she wishes to keep her throne Why then
all this frantic rejoicing because Queen Victoria
has done that which was of vital interest to her to
do ?
• • «
Her reign has been a pretty glorious era, but not
because she, in particular, sat upon the Throne.
It would probably have been just as glorious if a
king with the name of Mike had swayed the
sceptre. Science and art would not have suffered for
herwantof patronage, and we doubteren ifpoetry
—which is said to be a characteristic product of
the Victorian era—would have been anything the
worse, Lord Tennyson notwithstanding. To
attach the credit of the progress of civilisation in
the British Empire for the last 50 years to Mrs.
Victoria Wettin is just as reasonable as to
praise the figurehead of a vessel for the vessel's
speed. During all the talk and the myiiadsof
suggestions concerning the best way in which to
celebrate the Jubilee, nobody seem 3 to havo
thought of asking tie Queen what form she her-
self would prefer the celebiation to take. We
conscientiously believe that if some eminent Aus-
tralian — Burdett Smith, of the Mocleay, for
instance—were to cable home to her the simple
message, “ How will you have it T' she would (if
she dared to speak her real mind) reply, “In
Gold." Oh, you may be sure her Royal head is
screwed on her Royal shoulders in the most
scientific fashion. Still, we doubt if we would
change place* wi'h her this year for all her salary
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Treasury Bids Scheme.
The number of Pa refs’ infatuated friends is
rapidly dwindling, yet the Sydney D.T. still firmly
believes that exploded w,ndnag to be incapable of
erring. When Dibbs proposed to put off the day
of facing the deficit —then less than half its pre-
sent dimensions—by issuing Treasury bills, the
D.T. very properly condemned the project as one
opposed to every principle of sourd finance, and
therefore calculated to rain the ertdit of New
South Wales in London. And the I>.T. was
jubilant when the Assembly refused to listen to
DIBB3 scheme, and kicked him out of office. Yet
the IJ.T. announced, a few weeks ago, that
ParkoS had stolen Dibbs' c’othes Tins was
evidently put forward as a feeler; but it didn’t
seem to meet with any favour, so Pakkes himself
gave the announcement a flat contrad ction. The
Government, he said, had no intention w hat over
of issuing Treasury bonds, a method of dealing
with the financial difficulty too glaringly empirical
and thriftless to ba worthy of a moment's con-
sideration. No, the deficit must be wiped off by
additional taxation and greater economy in the
administration of affairs, It is remarkable that
the D.T. approved of the "rumour in well
informed ciroles ” which forecasted the Treasury
bills scheme, approved of PARkss’ contradiction
of that rumour, and now approves of the policy
which is a confirmation of the rumour and a
falsification of Parkes' con ra diction Th-'s
backing and filling i 3 without question the most
contemptible piece of shuffling in the whole h‘s-
tory of journalism. We are less concerned to
censure Parkes for first of all condemning Dibbs
for proposing to float Treasury bonds, thenorginat
ing a rumour to find out how such a plan would
“ take ” if suggested by himself, then deny-
ing the truth of the rumour, and finally
giving the lie to his own denial : than
to flagellate the wretched print that has so
disgraced journalism as to follow Parkes esp-in-
hand, and with a slavish smile on its face ali
through his twistiDgsand windings and evasions in
respect to lis Treasury Bill arrangements. So
long as the Press of a country is intelligent,
courageous, and independent, there is some hope
of securing tolerably honest and efficient manage-
ment of her public affairs ; but, with a Press run
on the lines of the D.T., political demoralisation
is inevitable. As f,r the scheme itself, put for-
ward as it is without any provision being made
for the retirement of the bills as they fall due, it
cm only bs described in language culled from the
speeches of Parkes during the last elections
Even beggarly Turkey would be ashamed to go in
for such a kite-flying programme ; and when the
details of the measure and of the Budget gener-
ally are known in London, undoubtedly there will
be a serious fall in New South Wales tecurit’es
What might fittingly have been done in the cir-
cumstances is clear. A tax might have been put
on incomes, and the prooeeds specially set apart to
pay off these bills, with the understanding that as
soon as ths debt was liquidated the tax would
terminate. That would be honest and business-
like. As the projeot stands it is nothing more or
less than an attempt to tide over the difficulties of
to-day by throwing them upon to-morrow.
“ Shut Up 1”
We like that expression of the New South Wales
Prime Minister —“ Shut up.” It may not be
exactly parliamentary, but that is nothing We
don’t think there is any precedent lor it in the
annals of the House of Commons. But what of
that 1 It has a refreshing sound, and evidently
comes from a broad and cultured intellect and a
noble heart. There is no small amount of euphony
in the expression, when you come to think of it.
When Sir Good-Government Parkes snarled it
out at Toohey, M.L.A., the other evening it cer-
tainly reminded one somewhat of a bargee giving
the re ort vehement to a controversialist not
otherwise to be put down. But if Parkes will
enly practise he will soon make the phrase sound
nice. The full beauty of the expression is only
to be drawn out by a peculiar yet easily-acquired
modulation of the voice, and we think Parkes
will be able to master the art in six by no means
difficult lessons. A Prime Minister who gratui-
tously tells another member of the House to
“shut up” should be careful to emphasise
the hissing sound of the initial S, and also
the abrupt terminal sounds of the final
consonants. Thus, ho should express it as
though the phrase were spelt “ Ssshuttupp !” At
the earae time he should glare at the other honour-
able gentleman like abytena at a sickly lamb, and
if he can at the same time clench his fists and
make a gesture indicative of an intention to en-
force obedience to his authoritative command if
need be, so much the better. There is a fitting
addendum to the phrase, which might also be
employed. The full phrase is, we believe, ‘ Shut
up, or I’ll punch your blanky head.” Parkes
omitted the latter, and really the most telling part
of the expression, in addressing Toohey. He evi-
dently didn’t know how to follow on. Yet some
people still disbelieve in compulsory education!
Parkes is a good natural Billingsgatist, taking
him all round, but he fails in th*t capacity occa-
sionally, owing to the neglect of his early educa-
tion Just as he has never yet been able to
overcome the difficulties involved in the proper
use of the aspirate, so he oftenest falls into error
as to the right time and place whereat to squeak
forth his vulgar slang. “ Does your mother know
you’re out?” is doubtless a very proper interroga-
tion at times : but we are afraid our slaDger
doesn’t quite appreciate the eternal fitcees of
things. For a Prime Minister to ask an elector
such a question at a political meeting seems at
variance with a nice sense of the proprieties and
amenities of civilisation. But Parkes is improv-
ing. “ Shut up 1 ” in the Assembly is much
better than “ Does your mother know you’re out?”
in a public ball. The Grand Old Man is getting
on—in fact, we imagine he is bidding for a dook-
ship.
The Australian GO M.
We all remember Sir H i nry Parkes’ perfidy to
Sir John Robertson ; we all carry in our memories
a recollection of the Billingsgate brutality of his
attack upon a gt mleman who had previously been
his very dear friend —the late member for Bathurst.
We consider that if Australia were stumped from
Adelaide to Port Darwin, from Derby to Brisbane,
a man more the absolute and complete antithesis
of Mr. Gladstone than Sir Henry Parkes it
would be indeed hard to find. And yet, there are
in our midst self-deluded fools who attempt to in-
sult and degrade England's greatest statesman
and the Democracy’s foremost champion by insti-
tuting a compar son between him and the Orange
Lodge politician, Parkes, by dubbiDg the latter
Austra ia’s (or New Sou.h Wales’ —it matters little
which) G.O M. Could lunacy be carried further?
Coulu gratuitous insolence to Mr. Gladstone be
more impudently expressed or more satiri-
cally conveyed ? Yet we have the astound-
ing fact of these same detractors o; Mr.
Gladstone’s— by the transference of his own
jecuUar tide to the Emperor of Botany Bay—
being his most sincere admirers. We suppose
they err only in ignorance. Here is something
wh ch may en ighten them somewhat. They may
be perfectly sure of the utter impossibiliiy
of the following ever being recorded of their
deity, Parkes. Some one recently gent Eng-
land’s Neitor a letter criticisirg John Bright’s
attitude on the Irish question. The reply is
characteristic of Gladstone. Hell itself would
gape benevolence at the remote probability of
such a reply being characteristic of our hirsute
“statesman” : “I remain silent on it for one reason
only—that after my former relations with that
distinguished man, and the kind and loyal aid he
has so often given me, I do not mean, if I can
help it. to write or speak one word which can
possibly give him pain.” Try and fancy Parkes,
if you can, writirg thus in his famed Diary of
his old friend, Sir JonN Robertson —try and
faocy Parkes, if you can, speakieg thus at the
famed Bathurst meeting of his old friend Mr. F.
B. Suitor.
The Proletariat’s Patron.
An American paper, the New York Daily
Tribune, of a recent date, indulges in a little
abno r mal and genuinely capitalistic patronage of
Labour, but, like Sir Joseph Bowley in Dickens’
*’ Chimes,” the paper in question has no patience
with any reform or amelioration of the condition
of the labourer save that proposed by iu>elf. And
because the workman does not see his best inter-
ests in the same light as the Tribune, he is
accused of repaying “ kindness with base suspicion
or black ingratitude,” of abus’ng “the privileges”
extended to him, &c., &c. He is furthermore
obarged with not wanting “ to be better off in a
sanitary way,” of not wanting “ wholesome food,”
of not wanting 4 to submit to the discipline which
can alone make co-operation successful ” In other
words, the Tribune considers that working men
should grasp the situation with the aid of instinct
only, where, in similar cases, educated reason is
frequently in fault. More, the Tribune is in-
clined to delay the work of reform and bring
things progressive to perpetual standstill until the
men will allow ihemselves to be made good, whole-
some and happy in the Tribune s own peculiar
and enlightened fashion In other words : soldiers
should not be allowed to handle a rifle until they
can hit a bull's-eye, or schoolboys should not be
allowed to go into the water until they have
learnt to swim, or-asoending higher —men should
not be enfranchised and presented with a ballot-
box until they have mastered »he principles of
political economy as laid down by Ricardo,
Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill, M‘Culloch,
M‘Mii lion, B. R. Wise, or Frawnc.s Habigale.
But this is absurd Why, the whole world is pro-
gressive. Rome was not built in a day ; the
l resent N S.W. Minister for Mines made boots
long weary years before he got a chance to cobble
laws ; and even Sir Henry Parkes, himself, has
slowly developed during these latter decades
through the entire gamut of the business of poli-
tics —he was a Chartist before he wa<* an Auto-
crat. Parkes again, always at Parkes !
Hereditary Respectability.
Mr. Temporary- Judge Stephen, of Now South
Wales, is a gentleman who has evidently a keen
appreciation of the difference between rich and
poor, as will be seen from the following memor-
able utterance on the case of Charles Wilson,
aged 12, who was tried before him the other day
for obstructing a railway line :
“ It had been suggested that he should have ordered the
boy to be flogged, but he had very great reluctance to inflict
such a punishment on respectable boys and boys of respect-
able parentage.”
The temporary judge's dictum deserves to be carved
in enduring brass for the benefit of future genera-
tions. He would not flog “ respectable boys and
boys of respectable parentage.” But if Charles
Wilson merited the 12 months’ sentence passed
upon him there could be nothing particularly
respectable about him personally. The respect-
able boy, it is evident, is simply the young, train-
wrecking rascal with respectable parents ; he must
be gauged by his parents’ character, and not by
his own ; and the father whose reflected virtues
are to save his son’s hide is gauged in turn by the
split-tailed coat which he wears in court. If he
turns up in moleskins it is tolerably certain that
the yoirng hopeful will get it hot. The respect-
able man U simply a man whose money
enables him to hold a certain position in society,
and while that money holds out Mr. Tempo-
rary-Judge Stephen will seemingly not flog his
offspring, lie distinctly refrains from committing
himself, however, with regard to the son of the
vagrant—who is often a once “ respectable” man,
whose money has taken wings—and when he takes
to planting obstacles in front of railway trains the
error of his ways will probably be pointed out to
him very forcibly by a six-foot warder armed with
a cat. The Temporary Stephen evidently com-
prehends the difference between rich and poor in
the fullest sense, and if he keeps his grip on the
science of Respectability wc have no doubt that he
will be a permanent judge some day Flogging,
as Tfe Bulletin has always maintained, is an
aristocratic institution—that is to say, it is one of
the institutions which aristocrats have established
exclusively for the benefit of ihe poor, and it is
certain that no r.eh man and no rich man’s near
relative has been floggeiforthe lafet 50 years in
New South Wales. If this Supreme Court pro-
nouncement is to stand, then Australia is about
ripe for a hereditary nobility—the chief privilege
of a hereditary nobility being that it is qualified to
lie, swindle, and steal, and do as it darned like?,
without fear of the extiemest penalties cf the law.
Temporary-Judge .Stephen has paved the way by
claiming immunity from degrading punishment for
the ‘respectable ” classes, and when once this pre-
cedent is fairly establßhed, the beauties of aristo-
cratic government will be lully understood in I*ew
South Wales.
A Working Man’s Opinion.
The Sydney D T. has fished out a “ working nan"
who approves of the Parkes-Burns financial
measures. The man is evidently no more a
working man than Wales or Carington, but has
adopted the nom de plume as a “blind.” This so-
called “ working man * begins by attacking Dibbs,
who, he say?, is endeavouring to “pose” as a
champion of the labouring classes. This is now he
proceed?:—
“ Admitting from his [Mr. Dibbs 1 standpoint that six
quarts of colonial beer, one pint of proof rum, and Alb. to-
bacco is a fair weekly allowance per man, the extra tax will
ameui't to 10M. per week Against thi3 put the saving
which our thiifty little wives wilt eecure for their households
and children under the new tariff. I will fcive a few items to
try and convince ihis self-appointed champion of tur rights
that he is * barking up the wrong tree.’ Listen, a saving
every week of duty on 21b of candles, Id.; 2lb bacon, 4d. ;
21b cheese, 4d.; condiments, pickles, mustard, &c , at least
6d ; hops for home-brew beer, £lb., 3d ; clothing and bootp,
say 10a. ; ad valorem, 6b: oatmejl, groa's, and laundry re-
quirements, quite 2d. Total, 2s. 2d per week. The paving
of 26 pence as against a seltian expenditure of 10Ad. w.ll show
that our families will benefit by the new tariff, ana I regret
that Mr. Dibbs, in his efforts to help thebieweis, should
have so taken our name in vain. 1 '
We don’t think this writer can be a working man,
because we cannot conceive a workmg man so
egregiously foolish as to talk puch nonsense. In
ihe first place, on the consumption of articles
subject to the new duties given, it is evident that
the extra sum taken out of the pocket of the
working man will be considerably more than iO.>d.
per week, for although that is the sum tie Stale
will receive, clearly the manufacturers and middle-
men will extorc a profit on the amount. At least
Is. 3d. will be extracted on an average from the
purse of every working man per week. And the
saviDg he will effect by the removal cf other
duties will not foot up anything like Is. 3d. per
week. But the point is that even if the
working man dees save 2?. 2d. per week in re
spect of the goods on the free list, his wealthy
neighbour in many cases will save twenty times
that amount from the same cause, and yet pay
nothing whatever in the shape of new taxes. The
writer reckons that a wo. king man spends cn an
average 10s. a week in clo hing and shoeing him-
self and family. On this item, therefore, he will
save say 3d. weekly. But your fine lady of Potts
Point —who disports herself on the llandwick
lawn in a dress made by Worth at a cost of a
hundred guineas or so, and whose expenses for
gloves and fripperies and gewgaws would keep a
working man’s family—and her husband, who is
clad in broadcloth and fine linen, will probably
save £2 a week under this head alone ; while in
the matter of housekeeping the savirg to the rich,
who have many dependents, will be correspond-
ingly large. What the new tariff means is a re-
moval of the burden from the rich, and placing it
on the already overladen backs of the poor. Every
item in the free list is essentially the rich man’s
commodity, and the only articles upon which pew
taxes are levied are essentially the poor man’s
commodities. If the working classes of New
South Wales cannot perceive this patent fact ihey
deserve to be mulct to the heart’s con ei t of
Parkes for their stupidity.
How the Spirit Duties Operate
A leading New South Wales bank official
lately put up at a country “ hotel ** and
ordered a glass of dark brandy. The bar-
keeper, it appears, knew the official, and, in a
friendly way, advised him not to drink the stuff,
adding : “ The fact is—l don’t mind telling you
I only made it myself »his very morning.” “ Why
don’t you keep good grog?’ enquired ihe thh-3 y
traveller. The answer of the barkeeper is worthy
of careful attention iu view of ihe increased duty
on spirits. “Because,” ho said, “it doesn’t pay
in these out-of-the-way places—nobody cau afford
to sell pure liquor in a roadside inn at sixpence a
glass.” No doubt there is reason in the explana-
tion. The more the pri. e of spirits is artificially
rasied the more will their quality be deteriorated
by the addition of poisonous drugs to coinpcneaie
for tho water with which they are diluted. And
the increased duties will assuredly cause in-
creased adulteration. The cost of prtducii g
spirits is very smal l , Ihe pr.ee to the
consumer being nearly all duty. G cd rum
can be purchased in Sydney in bond at less than
2s. per proof gallon. The duty on this is now
145., or 700 per cent. The only spirits drunk by
the working class's in the bush will undoubtedly
be adulterated in the future to an extent calcu-
lated to a national danger. The “ fine cld
Jamaica,” which is the only rum drunk by
“ gentle-folk,” is worth in bond about as much as
the duty, eo that those who have weal'h will only
pay 100 per cent, on the value of whst they con-
sume in the shape of ruin, while ihe common
people will pay 700 per cent. This in itself is the
height of injustice, but when the atrocious cir-
cumstance is added, thit by this over taxation
adu’teration is made compulsory—for that is
really the effect of the Ministerial policy—the
case seems one that ought to move the whole
public.
♦
Once more we ask, in the inter, s sof justice, that
Sir Alfred Stephen and Mayor Kjlky' will tell
the public all they know about the circumstances
attendant on the absolute die appearance of Mr.
Victoria Cross Stanley, on whose identifleatory
evidence the four Mount Rennie boys were
hanged? Why have the committee of the fund
raised as a testimonial in recognition of Mr.
Stanley’s heroism and vi tue refrained from
handing over to Mr. Stanley, sforesaid, ih? re-
ward due to his unexampled valour ? It is the


The numerous correspondents who have
correctly solved the pictorial conundrum in This
Bulletin of last week are requested to call at
the office for their money on the 31st April, at
11.45 p.m.
duty of these functionaries either to defend the
now much-aspersed character of the creature they
but a week or two ago so loudly praised, or to frankly
tell the public that the four youths handed over to
the haDgman after a so-called “ trial,” which from
its indecent and unnecessary haste, and for fifty
other reasons, was a disgrace to Australia and to
humanity, were convicted upon what now is
proved up to the hilt to have been the meanest, most
unsatisfactory, and apparently the least reliable
evidence on which the life of anything formed
after the likeness cf God Almighty was ever
taken away. We want to hear whether Governor
Carington is now as well satisfied about the
matter as he was on the day when “ without
fear” he sent the wretches to their doom ? We
repeat our interrogation : will Mayor Riley and
Sir Alfred Stephen explain 1 Or mult the
damning facts now known to the authorities con-
cerning the prosecutrix and certain other wit-
nesses be wrenched forth by means of questions in
the Assembly ?
About the meanest thing done in New South
Wales since Parson Fulton, J.P., of Parramatta,
sat on the bench and ordered accused persons to
be flogged until they confessed, is the issue of the
following circular, which Tiie Bulletin is almost
ashamed to print:—
" Department of Public Instruction, Sydney, 31st March,
1867.—Memorandum for the Information of Teachers. —In
view of the necessity for retrenchment in the expenditure of
public funds, the Minister of Public Instruction desires me
to state that the allowances towards the cost of providing
fuel for sc 1 ools under this Department will be discontinued
forthwith, and that the following allowances will also be dis-
continued from and after the 30th June next:—l. Allow-
ances on account of rent hitherto granted to unmarried
teachers in charge of public schools, and to mistresses of
departments. 2. Allowances towards the expense of elean-
ing schools.—G. Millbr, Acting Under secretary,’’
In other words, the ‘ ‘ Honest ” Government
calmly write to the miserable woman who keeps
a State school in the forest, saying :
” Madam, —During the coming winter you will have to
pay out of your own slender purse for the tire required to
keep your scholars warm. In order that we may allow our
chief foll-'Werß, the fat vroprrty owners, the Sydney impor-
ters, and the wealthy classes generally, to go practically wn-
tsxed, we have decided to m»ke you sacrifice, on the altar of
the Calico Jemmies, the small rent-allowance you have
hitherto remind. And as a further contribution to the_ ex-
pense of keeping us in billets we have made up our miods
that if you want your school cleaned you will
have to go down on your own marrow-bones. This you
now should have little hesitation in doing, inasmuch as we
have lately (without sacrificing any part of our own screws)
effe ted a material reduction in your salaries—which diminu-
tion, coupled wiih the indignities to which you are subjected
toy the present ukase, should have a tendency to eliminate
from your character the false pride generated bv the absurd
indulgence with which you have been treated by previous
administrations.—Jar. Inolis, Tiger slayer. P.3.—God
bless ta Tuxe of Argylo ! ’’
Cardinal Moran's idea of charity is like unto
the slidiDg-scale proposed by the New South
Wales Coal Owners' Association to the unfor
tunate Illawarra miners—it slides to his own side.
His hundred sovereigns to the “ Patriotic ” Fund
(for butchering black patriot*) dwindles down to
ten where the cry of the children and of the
widows calls for help. His Eminence thinks it
ten times more requisite to assist widows who
might be created by the death of volunteer
butchers of a people “rightly struggling to be
free,” than to assist the actual widows and orphans
of those men who had just gone through a pro-
tracted lock out, and only returned to the pit
when hunger compelled them, and then to meet a
sudden and awful death. The Democratic idea of
charity differs from that of Cardinal Moran’s.
Mr. James Inglis, New South Wales Minister of
Public Instruction, has issued a circular to school-
teachers and children re the Bulli catastrophe.
It commences as follows :
” When the ear heard me then it blessed me ; and when
the eye saw me, it gave witness to me ; because I delivered
the poor that cried, and tbe fatherless, and him that had
none to help him. The blessing of him that was ready to
perish came upon me ; and I caused the widow's heart te
siug for joy."
This is Scripture, and remarkably good Scripture,
too, but a circular that commences by stating that
“ I caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy," and
ends with the signature “ James Inglis,” is a solid
piece of cheek that even the great “Hi Ham ”
could hardly rival. And, moreover, seeing that
Parkes says he started the secular education
system of N.S.W., and that Inglis is Parkes’
shadow, this bit of Bible seems woefully out of
place. Supposing the official administering a
“ secular ” Education Act had headed a circular
with a slab from the Koran, or the Talmud, or the
Book of Mormon, Instead of with a huDk of Bible,
what a fuss there would have been to he sure !
The secret of the New South Wales tariff pro-
posals seems to have been kept inviolate ; not one
brewer or merchant in Sydney will make or lose a
shilling by the duties otherwise than accidentally.
This is as it should be ; but right here we would
like to call attention to the grave danger of abuse
of Ministerial functions that is incurred by the
election of so many impecunious men to the Legis-
lative Assembly. The proportion of members who
have unsatisfied judgments actually recorded
against them, or are well known to be in financial
troubles, is something that would astonish the
public. And to everyone of those hard-up pro-
fessional politicians may come at any time this
great temptation of being put in possession of
State seorets, worth to him many thousand
pounds in hard cash. For this reason, if no other,
we should discourage the “ professional politi-
cian.” But these remarks have happily no appli-
cation to the present case, for the secret was kept,
as we have said, with singular fidelity. P.S.—Tke
subjoined, in small type, is an extract from the
Ministerial organ, the Sydney D.T.: —
” It is now confidently stated that the nacre important of
the Treasurer’s proposals were known only to Mr. Burks
and Sir Henry Parkes. The remaining Ministers pos-
sessed no reliable knowledge of what Mr. Burns intended
to do with the tariff until they were informed in Cabinet a
few hours before the meetiog of the House.”
What a Ministry I Neither trusted nor consulted
by their own colleagues ! N.B.—They probably
didn’t expect to be when they took their billets.
The visiting surgeon at Goulburn (N.S.W.) Gaol
has passed a resolution that E. B. Holt, the bank
defaulter, will beoome permanently deranged if
required to serve his whole term of four years,
and he has consequently recommended his release.
The Minister for Justice is considering the matter.
There a e plenty of poor and friendless men fast
becoming deranged in N.S.W. gaols, but they are
kept locked up till they become mad in real
earnest, and then they are sent to end their days
in an asylum. Sometimes they are kept in gaol
some time after they are mad, and then they
attempt to kill a warder, and even when they
don’t succeed they are hanged. Or els* they
become cranky and mutinous, and are sentenced to
do a spell of bread and water and “solitary,” or
they are brushed up with the cat, or they get six
months tagged on to their sentences, or something
else equally interesting happens to them If
Holt’s reason is really giving way, in the name
of Heaven let him be released, but at the same
time let the prisoner who has no friends in high
places to procure reports as to his mental state re-
ceive equal consideration.
Beaumarchais tells of a certain man,
“ one of those ambitious politicians without talent,
who, unable to become some one, obstinately
endeavoured to become some thing.” And, with-
out being able to explain the why and wherefore,
this reminds us that Mr. Sammy Lees, M P. for
Penrith, New South Wales, is “doiDg splendid.”
So far, he has remained as silent in the House as
a fried oyster, hut that he is a man of mighty
deeds, not wasteful words, is very evident from
the fact that hardly a week elapses without his
obtaining some priceless boon for his grateful con-
stituency. Last Saturday the local paper con-
vsjed the joyfnl tidings to the Penrith public that
Mr Less had sent along a copy of the following
letter
“ Sir, —I have the honour, by direction of the Minister of
Justice, to state, for your information, that a copy of’. Wil-
kinson a Australian Magistrate' has been forw.rded to
Penrith for the use of the Bench of Magistrates at that
place. I have the honour to be. kc.. A. C. Plunkett,
Under Secretary.—B. E. Lees, Esq., M.P."
Next week Sammy will compel the Under Secre-
tary to have the honour to inform him that a
shilling grammar and a second-hand dictionary
have been forwarded for the use of the Sydney
City Couneil, and then he will devote his power-
ful interest to the securing of a basket of boiled
prawn bait for the use of the poor settlers along
the Nepean. This being achieved we may expect
to find him worrying the Minister for Education
to donate a pair of green goggles for the use of
the Penrith schoolmaster, and a new pint-pot for
the use of the scholars ; and these matters having
been satisfactorily arranged the Irrepressible
Samivbl will round np the Postmaster-General to
supply the Penrith Post Office with a three-legged
stool and a sixpenny jar of gum. A coat of
whitewash for the local lock-up, a tin candlestick
for the hospital, and a pair of bell-bottomed
winter pants for the railway-station master, will
follow, in due course, and so, little by little,
Penrith will at last become a sort of first flower
yYe. “7US
vv? COM?: Oifif wrfrf-
oi/($ ci*f. *
But to be “Frank” and give it [?]ee
again. —Borneo and Juliet.
of the earth, first gem of the sea, and all this joy
will be dne to great Sammy Lees Which last
sentence reads something like poetry. But we
can’t help it.
From the Sydney Evening News, on the
Bulli enquiry:—
” The coroner is evidently painstaking and careful to the
verge of tediousness, and fully seized of the responsibilities of
the case. Yet not one of the gentlemen who are sworn to
deal with the evidence seems really competent to grapple
with the important questions before them. During yester-
day it was fully apparent that the jury was the least in-
terested section of the audience, and at very frequent inter-
vals an unsuppressed yawn denoted their weariness of the
whole business already. To what state their physical and
mental condition will ba reduced in the course of a n eek's
session had perhaps better be left to the imagin .tion.”
That’s nothing. Only a few weeks ago 11 men
were on trial for their lives in Sydney, and several
jurymen were dozing in the Court. Four of the
men were hanged on their verdict, too. If anyone
in high authority thinks it worth while to contro-
vert this allegation, The Bulletin is ready with
its proof,
Thb Daily Telegraph (Melb.) denies the asser-
tion that Christ, if he came on earth again,
would be found among the Socialists. By this is
meant, we suppose, that He would be found to be
a temperance-lecturer, or a preacher editing a
daily newspaper with a special leaning to detailed
narratives of CoLiN-CAMPBELL-isms. Parson Fit-
Chett need not be uneasy. lie'll keep his billet
without being interfered with by celestial com-
petition of any sort, we’ll wager.
The Argus did good work for the public in the
Rocke-Tomspitt libel case. But it crows too
much oyer the victory. The leader-writer “re-
flects with pride upon the circumstance that for
JO years at least the juries in every libel-case in
which we have been concerned have held the
Argus blameless.” This is poor English for two
guineas a column. And the editor says nothing
about the actions which have been “squared.'’
The A*ous has been a big journal and a power in
the land, it has spoken out plainly on many sub-
jects in a manner which has brought it under the
Obnoxious iibel-law. The policy advised by the
jfcte Mr. Hugh George, when general manager
was to fight any case in which public interest
would be aroused, and to settle ail the smaller
and doubtful ones. The Argus has ‘ ‘ squared ”
as many cases as it has fought. The Sydney
Morning Herald, on the other hand, would
rarely fight a case, but then who ever heard of the
S.M.H. taking up any public matter in a train
wh'ch would arouse the sympathies of the jury
and the public ?
Poor John M. Smith— the effulgent genius who
moved that Her Gracious be humbly prayed to be
pleased to graciously permit that the word
“ Royal ” may be a jubilee prefix to Benevolent
Asjlum of Victoria—has been considerably morti-
fied in spirit. It seem 3 that the worms who
fondled him in the first instance have turned. In
his hour of triumph a fellow-trustee wrung the
hand of Smith and called him “Sir John” in
honour of the title yet to come. Now this same—
this false— fellow is for holding back the address,
and “ chousing” Smith out of his “ handle.” The
poor gentleman bewailed this ingratitude at the
last board meeting. “ I fee, to my disgust, that
those who were with us—those who shook hands
with me in anticipation of a title that I might
well deserve —have turned about and jumped Jim
Chow.” No matter. Smith has triumphed over
his enemies, and the address is to be forwarded.
We like hie straightforward assertion that he well
deserves a title, and admire his resolution to use
the paralytic inmates of that Asylum as stepping-
stones to glory. Already, in imagination, we can
hear the nonagenarian ’ ‘ benevolents ” wheezing
out, “No, Sir John,” and “Yes, Sir John,” be-
tween their toothless gums. We object to Smith
remaining “ Plain Jack,” for strong personal rea-
sons Jack is the name of our dog.
BRIEF MENTION.
A man of great Assurance—Sir Henry.
In Sydney last week one W. Bestly was
fined for being drunk He must have been bestly
drunk.
Short and neat. From
a Southern paper:—“The
latest news from ,Tonga re-
ports that all is quiet there ;
all the Wesleyans have been
exte-minated.”
“ A sudden accession
of candour has induoed the
N. S. W. Minister of Lands to
publish the report of the
board,” says The Globe. We never heard It
called candour before.
“ Accommodation opened for respectable
young Men as Boarders.”—>orthern Miner.
(Q.) Looks as if accommodation were a tinned
fish.
The N.S.W. Premier says he’s always “cur*
teous. ’ As he tells people in Parliament to “ f hut
up ’ and asks “ Does your mother know you’re
out ?” he probably does spell the word in that
way.
A Melbourne religious paper delivers itself
of this profound remark :—“ The resurrection of
the dead is a great mystery.” We have often
thought so ourselves—at the time of a general
election.
One of the ministers of the Bible Christian
Church in Melbourne is called Amos Uglow !
O Amos Uplow—Gabriel, what a name !
To fill your speaking-trump of future fame !
Byron ! your health !
“I have the honour to report that Captain
Cadell, of Sydney, has been murdered,” wired an
individual from Normanton to the Colonial Secre
tary. We wieh somebody had the honour of tell-
ing turn what an ass he must be.
A N.S.W. District Court judge asked a
policeman to briDg him “ ltoscoe”—meaning the
text-book on evidence. Constable Flannigan at
once proceeded down town and hauled up honest
Johnnie Roscce, the local publican.
An judge has decided that the
word “ Jubilee ” cannot be registered as a legiti-
mate trade-mark. It is a thousand pities it can’t,
for if only one man were allowed to use the term,
the other ten million fools would have to shut np.
We saw a Chinaman in a cab to-day, and
the last time we came over from Melbourne one
of the berths in the sleeping-car was occupied by
a Mongolian swell. Shade of Bill Nje ! Is our
civilisation a failure, or is the Caucasian played
out ?
In Melbourne recently a married woman
pawned her husband’s singlet. When he came
home he missed the garment and boxed his wife’s
ears, on which she went out and incontinently
drowned herself. This comes of pawning a singlet
when you are a doublet.
The Even’ Noose announces restored
diplomatic relations between Mozambique and
Zanzibar. This is reassuring, but we note with
alarm the strained relations at present existing
between the natives of the Sow and Pigs and
Bullock Island. Where’s Dan ?
Rockhampton must indeed be a beggarly
hole. A miserable wretch was compelled to pawn
his teeth to procure a dinner and then to borrow
a neighbour’s set to “ chaw ” it—the dinner. But
that s nothing. Vi e have to borrow two sets
whenever we face the roast mutton at a Sydney
hash foundry.
The mother country—as Sirenry once re-
marked, when full of chicken and champagne—
cannot teach us much. Last year the total num-
ber of men killed by explosions in all the mines of
Great Britain was 116. N.S, W. can blow up nearly
as many as that in one blast But then our mines
are built that way.
In a little South Australian town the other
day a man going into a public-house saw another
seemingly fast asleep with a glass of beer in front
of him. The visitor was hard-up and dry, so he
sneaked across to the stranger and swallowed his
liquor. Just then a corpse fell against him. The
owner of the beer was def unct—had died suddenly.
From the Melbourne Age :
“ M AN > young, wants employment for self and £2O:
open for one week. Address, Sailor, Age Office."
There is no vacancy for you within the offioe here,
We can’t employ you, dear young man, that much
is very cleat.
Yet bend you while we whisper low (now, do as
you are bid 1)
We'll find a situation for that little twenty quid !
The ’! Sydney Daily Telegraph."
We proceed to wipe the floor with the Sydney
Daily Telegraph. In view of that paper’s
present fulsome adulation of Sir Henry
Parkes, it is interesting to read its opinion
of that “Statesman” a year ago. Sub-
joined is a clipping from our valued contem-
porary anent the obstructive attitude as-
sumed by Parkes and Robertson towards
the then idols of the D.T., the Dibbs Go-
vernment The italics are ours :
“ It is a comparatively trivial matter that the
Opposition should be divided and reduced to im-
potency by the rival ambitions of two selfish and
unscrupulous politicians, neither of whom will
surrender the leadership to the other. The cir-
cumstance has no doubt its inconvenience, chiefly
as helping to protract the life of an Administra-
tion from which it is pretty evident that not much
public benefit is to be anticipated. But compared
with the loss and the disgrace the colony has sus-
tained in past years from the factious rivalry of
these two men, aDypresentdifticulty they may cause
to us becomes very insignificant. When we reflect
that for years the political life of New South Wales
was nothing but a prize-ring for these two
‘bruisers' to knock themselves about in, they
meanwhile pocketing stakes and gate-money con-
tributed by the credulous public, we become able
to realise the comparative unimportance of the
obstacles they now interpose to our political pro-
gress. There is, indeed, an apt consistency in the
act that after degrading our public life for many
years by their rivalry and greed and unscrupul-
ous ambition, now, v hen they have apparently
become impossible as heads of a stable Govern-
ment, they still fight out their wretched vendetta
in the cold shades of opposition. If either of them
had the generous public spit it to render the only
service possible at their hands by really and
finally retiring, we feel that the consistency of
their lives would be marred, and we should be
puzzled to explain where the patriotic impulse
could have come from. The case shows that we
are not likely to be puzzled in any such manner.
Our yesterday’s narrative exhibited the two men
in their “customary attitude,” and in perfect
harmony with their whole past, snarling and
fighting over one miserable bone, or rather what
they regard as such, though it is but its shadow.
In all this we recognise the Sir Henry Parkes and
the Sir John Robertson we have so long known,
with their se’fishness, their disregeerd of any in-
terest but their own, and their all-absorbing
egotism all unchanged. ’
There now ! Was ever newspaper, since the
days of Caxton, so disgraced and humiliated
by itself !
Invercargill (N.Z.) now boasts of a Portu-
guese leper. This unfortunate is the second
leprous white man who has turned up in South-
land within a few months, and it is broadly hinted
by one writer that he ought to be killed lest he
should pass the disease on. Perhaps, however,
the best scheme would be to elevate him to the
Upper House-or he might be sent to represent
N.Z. at the Jubilee Conference.
The life of a tram-conductor is not all beer
and skittles. Not long ago one of the fraternity
picked up a well-filled purse and promptly handed
it over to the owner, an old man, who was travel-
ing with his vinegar-faced wife. The old man
merely gave him a grunt of thanks, but the old
lady spoke up and gladdened the conductor’s
heart to the centre seed by saying, “It was a
precious good thing someone seen you pick that
up, young man, or I don’t suppose we’d hev ever
clapped our eyes on it again.” The young man
bowed his thanks, and stood on one leg medita-
tively for the balance of the journey.
The N.S.W. Premier wishes to draw at-
tention to the fact that when he gave way to his
larrikin propensities in the Assembly last week,
and yelled “ Shut up” at Toohey, M.P., he made
the remark in a strictly good-humoured manner.
When Toohey, M.P., repeated it, however, he did
it in a derisive manner which was highly repre-
hensible. With a view to proving that he was
speaking good- humouredly, Henry farther draws
attention to the fact that he wore an imbecile
grin at the moment in question, while Toohey, on
the other hand, had a scowl beneath his hat and a
sinister wrinkle in his alabaster brow.
At Hobart (Tas.) Henry Morgan has been
sentenced to end his noble labours somewhere
where the reporters can see him hang. He was
convicted of committing a criminal assault on a
little girl. When he was not assaulting little girls
he was a devout Baptist and spent his leisure in
reading his Bible and distributing tracts. He had
two trials; in the first the Solicitor-General
laboured to prove him guilty, but the jury dis-
agreed and the case was postponed. When the
second hearing came on, however, the same
Solicitor-General was sitting on the benoh in the
capacity of Judge, and in that eleva ed position
he was more successful. From this it will be seen
that it is easier to sit on the Bench and order a
man to be hanged, than to argue the case and
prove that he deserves to be.
The Holy Joe who acts as Colonial Secre-
tary in Queensland has ismed an edict that all
fruit-shops are to be closed on Sunday. As this
means that the honest man who has tuppence in
his pocket mustn’t in future buy apples for his
children during their Sunday afternoon walk, and
that perishable articles are to be allowed to go
bad, and the shopkeeper must bear the loss a
monster meeting was held to. protest. Out of
1000 people the only dissentients were two parsons
who rose turn about to state that the other 998
were going to—ahem—perdition, and when they
bobbed up to mention this fact for the seventh
time or so they were howled down, and the reso-
lutions passed before they could collect their ideas
again. Somehow or other parsons are nearly
always for God and against the common people.
Mr. Levy, of Wellington, N.Z , who re-
turned after several months’ disappearance, and
said he had been insensible all the time, now
thinks that he was carried off by the vile publi-
cans of his city, who adopted this mean device in
order to shift the ear of the Abstinence Cause
According to a paragraph now circulating exten-
sively in New Zealand, there is somewhere in
Sydney an infamous den where temperance
martyrs, escaped nuns, skedaddled monks and
other holy sufferers are locked up, having' first
been abducted by the gang of ruffians attached to
the establishment, and now that Mr. Levy’s friends
have heard of this they remember that he had a
faint recollection of being there. Under these
circumstances we are inclined to think the pub-
licans of New Zealand are a smart crowd. It takes
no ordinary amount of intelligence to carry a
stupefied teetotaller of Hebrew extraction some
1300 miles or so by sea. At the same time we
would like to have the address of that den


SUNDRY SHOWS
We have lately
been much bother-
ed by idiots, acting
Idiots, singing
idiots, praying, printing, preach-
irg, and jubilee idiots, and we
have grown decidedly weary of
them. We wish therefore to
mention, with sincere gratitude,
that as regards the first-named
class of inflictions we have met
with fewer than usual in the
course of our theatrical rounds this week. One
especially, whose noted ignorance of his art made
us feel exhausted, has disappeared from the
Sydney stage for the time at all events. We don’t
know what has become of him, but he used to
breathe so hard that it is just possible he may
have been sold to a blast furnace. If he has there
is at least one blast furnace in Australia that will
be in a bad way before the end of 1887.
** * *
“ t The Queen's Shilling,” at Sydney
Criterion, is a comedy which consists of one very
good act, sandwiched in between two rather bad
ones, and in this respect it reminds us of an angel
with a hog on either side The story is charming
in its simplicity, and shows how a frequent bor-
rower of other people’s pecuniary effects gets
lifted out by his parent and straightway enlists.
The life, however, doesn’t agree with him, and he
finds it about as difficult to be a soldier as it is for
a lone, rheumatic widow to rub oil into the small
of her back. Consequently, he relieves the mono-
tony of things by cheeking the colonel’s gorgon
sister—a stony lady who keeps up discipline in the
regiment by looking after the morals of the rank
and file ; also he disguises himself and cuts out
the officer with his best girl, an angel in white
clothes, nice hair, a smile, and good principles,
and with an enquiring blood-thirsty grin he asks
the officer to come outside. The officer comes,
and the row that ensues is like that of
two pigs under a gate. Next day the colonel
naturally finds out that it was one of
his own privates who had spent the even-
ing tickling him in the ribs and making
him look as small as a boiled winkle,
and the breezy, exhilarating flogging he stores up
for the future benefit of his active follower is
worth making a note of. But somehow this ex-
citement is postponed sine die, and the story ends
in the enraged military pair swearing eternal
friendship. Our view of the reconciliation was
blocked by the ears of the man in front of us, but
we are informed that it was very affecting.
* * *
Miss Myra Kemble, as the Colonel’s lost
sweetheart, was as pretty as the man who pays
the salaries in this office, and he, owing to his
financial position, is regarded by all who know
him as the best type of Caucasian beauty extant.
Also she played her part admirably. Messrs.
Craven, Carey, and Duff, and Miss Flora Anstead
may toss up for next place. There is not a really
tad individual anywhere in the company, and
comparisons therefore become odorous. Moreover,
the quality of the refreshments down below cast
a rich, mellow glow over the programme which
every broad-minded individual must appreciate.
## * #
“ Shin Fane,” which has succeeded the
“ Irish Detective,” at Sydney Opera House, has a
marked advantage over that addle-headed melo-
drama, inasmuch as it is a series of events that
might have happened in real life without bursting
a blood-vessel, while the other hair raising tale
would inevitably have started all its buttons off
before it was half through. The dramatis personal
consist ot a loving husband, who talks as though
his mouth were full of shrimps; a comic Irishman,
a heavy-footed, lame idiot, who has come out
to get some buttermilk ; an escaped villain from
the chamber of horrors, several attractive girls, a
bull voiced female demon who runs a boarding-
house, an infant, a fat sea-sick mother, sundry
sailors, larrikins, and policemen, and a comic
peasant who is wallowing on the bosom of the
heaving beastly sea.
• *
Mr. Grattan Riggs plays four characters,
and makes quite as striking a success as he did
when he was six men and a woman in the “ Irish
Detective.” That dashing ex-Mikado, Mr. Den-
bigh Newton, also distinguishes himself, and Miss
Blanche Lewis and Miss Ada Lee further excite
the admiration of the giddy throng of baldheads
in the stalls. “ Kerry Gow ”is to fee produced cm
Easter Monday.
*# * *
“Belisario,” as presented on Friday even-
ing last, was, in lhe superlative degree, a bad per-
formance. The Sydney public was promised a
grand spectacular opera, rehearsed with care, and
rendered by the management’s best artists, but
it was given instead a poorly mounted piece sup-
ported by a company that most managers would
have had back for a week’s rehearsal. Signora
Ciuti, who proved to us, in “II Trovatore," that
she can sing, flattened audibly in her first solo.
Signorina Cavallieri, although eminently suited to
the r6le she sustained, was unable to do either
herself or her part justice, through illness. Her
acting was excellent, particularly in the duo with
Belisario in the latter part of the second act; but
her singing was painful to a sympathetic listener.
Signor Pimazzoni’s performance showed study,
but an inability to comprehend the part he played ;
his duo with Signor Santinelli was one of the
features of the evening. This fact, however, was
due more to Santinelli than himself. The Utter,
with the slight drawback of an occasional gasp-
ing, was, tinging and acting, in good form.
Signor Buzzi, whose acting is usually the best in
the troupe, did badly, and seemed out of place.
As for the choruses, they were wretched. The
performance must have been a great disappoint-
ment to Signor Hazon, who had previously con-
ducted the opera in Italy with great success, and
whose ability as a leader and musician is unques-
tioned.
## # #
Speaking of hogs reminds us that the
troubles of that cruelly ill-judged monarch,
Richard 111 , have lately formed the subject of
discussion at Sydney Royal Standard. Richard is
not so well-known in this country as he deserves,
but it is sufficient to remark concerning him that
he was born in the year 1450 during the unavoid-
able absence of both his parents with a broken
back (N.B. —It was Richard, not the parents,
who had the broken back). He murdered so many
people that a man had to come behind him to
shovel up the corpses, but ultimately he died at
Bosworth, and was found lying about without any
clothes on. In his last words he asked somebody
(not specified) for the loan of a horse. Mr.
Dampier had to double himself up to a great ex-
tent to play the part of this tragic hero, but his
rendering of the character was the best we have
seen for a long time. Richard 111. was a small
and damaged man, but if he were going upstairs
to bed with a candle in his hand and met an
alligator coming down he would stop and quarrel
with the beast instead of clearing out of theroad,
and this trait in his character was well worked
out. Miss Dampier was more successful than
usual as the Queen of Edward IV.—the “mur-
dered Edward IV." as the historical perverter of
the Globe calls him—and Mr. Holloway played
Richmond. He looked the character well—in
fact if the present writer could look it so well he
would be quite content to die shortly afterwards.
“ Never too Late to Mend ” is the new piece at
the Standard, and the “ King of Diamonds,”
which is said to be something wonderful, is to
follow.
** * #
The concert given at Manly Aquarium on
30th March in aid ot the Bulli Bufferers was a
success as an exhibition of Christian charity ;
otherwise, it was mostly a blank failure. Mr.
Knight Aston’s splendid tenor was in good order,
and considering his abilities both as a singer and
an actor, he ought to be on the operatic stage
along with a lot of mu-h worse men that we could
mention. The rest of the performance reminded
us of a fugue perpetrated
by a hot cat walking up
hill. Some of the lady
vocalists, however, were
very pretty, and in the
case of one, at all events,
there was so much of her
visible that the audience
were well qualified to
judge of her attractions.
Coghill Brothers’
Minstrel and Burlesque
Company are filling
Sydney Gaiety as it never
has been filled since the
old cow died —we mean
no disrespect to the “Fun
on the Bristol ” combina-
tion in thu3 alluding to
it as a cow r —and the en-
thusiasm of the chokiDg,
stifling audience never
seems to flag. The s 4 age,
which has long been so
desolate, has been fur-
nished up and is as bright
as paint, varnish, pretty
costumes, and feminine
smiles can make It, and
the dead and buried or-
chestra has come to life
again. Charles Coghill,
as tambo, is a whole bul-
lock-team of comedy.
*# # #
The Newtown (Syd-
ney) Theatre of Varieties
now runs on Saturdays
and Mondays, with con-
cert on Sunday evenings
thrown in, and it is
generally well filled. We
intend, if time permits,
to lay for this combina-
tion and give it a more
detailed notice next
week.
*# # *
The Lynch Bell-
rin gers are back in Sydney
taking a spell prior to
giving the inhabitants of
the South Pole a dose
of the sounds that have
brought us to our present state of drivelling im-
becility. Happy family, these Lynches. Clean
collars every day, and to see the brothers settle
down in a parlour “ counting out the money,” is
enough to make a man leave the legitimate “ per-
fesh” and start out with an auctioneer’s bell.
Their up-country tour was a paying one, and we
are naturally revolving a little scheme of our own
(keep quiet) to get Harry’s name on the back of a
piece of harmless paper, which Isaac Ben Abra-
hams says is only a matter of form, r ot necessarily
for publication, but as a guarantee of good faith.
#* * #
George Darrell is still getting better. The
doctors say that there is every chance of his
making an excellent recovery if he will only
refrain from reading the Sydney D.T. leaders.
## * *
Hiscocks’ New Federal Minstrels, with
the able-bodied prophet Samneil as manager, an-
nounce that they will open at Sydney Academy
on Saturday, 9th April.
** # *
Conceits, sacred and otherwise, are an-
nounced for the night of Good Friday at Sydney
Royal, Criterion, Royal Standard, and Optra
House.
#* # *
We are glad to be able to state that be-
tween £4O and £5O will be handed to the Bulli Re-
lief Fund in the shape of 10 per cent, of the receipts
of six performances at Sydney Opera House by Mr.
Grattan Riggs. A subscription-list has also been
opened by the management, which is likely to
realise a considerable sum.
** # *
Maggie Moore returns to Sydney per
s.s. Zealandia from 'Frisco this week.
** * *
In the touching words of the advertise-
ment, “ Still ‘ The Harbour Lights ’ gleam forth
with undiminished splendour” at Melbourne
Princess’s. For a wonder the advertisement
doesn’t lie a little bit.
## # *
In “ Pert and her Stepmother,” Miss
Minnie Palmer has recommenced “ growing on
’em ” at Melbourne Bijou. This remarkable
oomedy was specially built that way for Minnie
and her company, and they are more at home in
it than in a comedy like “ The Schoolmistress.”
* 4 Pert and her Stepmother ” sounds like a revised
edition of “Little Red Riding Hood,” but for real
dramatic interest we would choose the nursery
yarn, and darned be he who first cries “ That’s
enough I ” The story is briefly told. A repect-
able widower has a daughter who thinks pa lias
no business to marry again, and when he does get
married (to a woman who conveniently happens
to be a “bad lot”) his daughter shows her little
airs and flashes poor dear ma’s diamonds right
under the nose of pa’s second wife. As a natural
result, the wicked stepmother makes trouble, the
sassy maiden bolts from home, and gets married
to a journalist —(perdition catch our soul, but we
did admire her taste!)—the inevitable detective
Jays bare the seerets of the stepmother’s past—
and there you have it. It is a storm in the
domestic tea-cup. If that unfortunate pa had
married the nicest “ second ” under the sun, there
would have been the same rumpus about the
jewellery, but our sympathies wouldn’t have
trickled into the right channel. The play is
neatly constructed. The author has lugged in
Minnie Palmer’s diamonds and “ exquisite toilets"
with an adroitness worthy of Nicholas Nickleby,
who founded a five-act drama on a property-
pump, to the order of Mr. Vincent Crummies.
Miss Minnie has ’em all on as Pert, and fairly
disarms criticism hy mashing critics into a jelly.
As an actress she soars considerably higher than
in “My Sweetheart.” If the goddess never quite
strikes the right note in pathetic passages, she
substitutes wrong ones with skill. Mr. Roberts
bears himself gallantly enough for a journalist
who has to sing duets with his girl under trying
circumstances. Here it may be remarked that
the “ variety ” items introduced into “ Pert ” are
as poor asa “ hunemployed,’ with the exception of
Minnie’s dance in the third act. The veteran J.
B. Steele puts backbone into the small part of the
middle-aged bridegroom, while Miss Ada Murray
has qualifications for the step-mother. She is as
SIGNOR BUZZ! AS MEPHISTOPHELHS.
tender as a brickbat in her method. A powerful
bit of acting is introduced, quite promiscuous like,
by Mr. R Inman, as the wicked ma’s wicked
brother; the detective is well done; and of Mr.
thailes Brown, who figures as friend of the
family, it may be remarked that he endeavours to
be G. W. Arson and partly succeeds. This is jam
enough for one notice.
** * *
Somebody took a rise out of John Minnie
R. Palmer Rogers, by advertising in the Mel-
bourne papers that he would give free admissions
fer the Bijou to the first 100 people who presented
a newspaper paragraph. The 100 rolled up and
were not admitted. The advertisement was ex-
plained to be a hoax. Question : “ Did somebody
take a rise out of Rogers, or did Rogers take a
rise out of the unhappy hundred ? ” The answer
must stand over until the Awful Day, when all
secrets shall be revealed.
** * *
Last Saturday’s matinee at Melbourne
Princess’s, in aid of the widow and child of Wil-
liam Hoskins, was an all-round success. Every
scat in the house was filled, and a good many paid
their money for the privilege of sitting on
Shanks's mare. A long miscellaneous programme
was put through in t hree hours. There was an
act of “ Harbour Lights,” a smart little trifle ty
the Majeronis, in which the Signor proved himself
a don at farcical comedy, and " Ring and Keeper,”
with Miss Minnie Palmer and Mr. Roberts to the
fore. Sandwiohed between these came ballads,
piano and violin solos by the Jorans, comic sorgs
and recitations. Phil. Day, looking as well as
ever, gave his irreverent burlesque of a Welsh
sermon. Gallery shouts of “ Turn on the lime
light ” greeted George Rignold when he presented
himself to recite “ The Seven Ages of Man.”
Nevertheless, the great George knocked ’em when
it was all over. Frank Clark put in a music-
hall song which rejoiced the vulgar “ gods,” but
evidently distressed that greater god, Sir Henry
Loch. The eye of sassiety was fixed upon his
Excellency during the singing of this song. The
aides-de-camp waited for his signal to commence
smiling, but the signal forthcame not. An or-
chestra of 40 odd picked performers played the
overture to “ William Tell,” and then Mr. Wil-
liamson made a neat little speech which he called
a “financial statement.” Beyond mentioning
that there was more money in the house than I
there had ever been since the opening night, Mr.
W. left figures severely alone, so his financial
statement placed everybody in the position of
Moses when the light went out. It was as full of
real facts as a Joint Stock Company’s balance
sheet. Proceedings terminated with an undress
rendering of a scene from “ Little Jack Shep-
pard.” Royce took the chair at a free-and-easy,
supported by leading ladies and gents of the per.
fesh attired as mundane mortals. Sundry of the
i
company obliged. Miss Fanny Robina warbled
sweetly in a travelling costume; and W. B. Warner
proved himself to be funny without the artful aid
of burnt cork. Take it altogether, though, this
massing of popular artistes in mufti is disillusion-
ising to the general. No matter, the ben. was a
big thing; and when, at odd times, the sliding
dome let in gleams of bright sunlight upon the
proceedings, anyone with poetry in his soul was at
iiberty to think that “ old Bill Hoskins ” was
smiling down celestial gratitude from the blue
gallery of Heaven.
## # #
The reputation of Brough and Boucicault
fpr putting on good things in good style fetched a
“ brilliant assemblage ” to Melbourne Opera House
to sample “ The Pickpocket.” Roughly speaking,
the b.a. found this three-act farce sparkling and
clean on the palate, but without body to speak of.
There is nothing for the sampler to “ dwell upon ”
in “Pickpocket.” It produces no after-effects
whatever. A jealous Mr. Hope disguises himself
and follows his impossibly fond wife to a seaside
hotel in the horrible expectation of seeing her do
a mash. The dude whom he suspects also sneaks
off to the same hotel in pursuit of the sweet niece
of a hypochondriac uncle. On reaching his briny
destination, the forlorn Hope passes himself off as
Mr. Johnson, and a lunatic of that name is already
on the spot. Mrs. Hope half penetrates the thin
disguise of hubby, and asks the dude (Osmond
Hewett) to crib his handkerchief, as a clue.
Hewett’s girl witnesses this act of larceny and de-
nounces her young man as a “ pickpocket ” to
uncle. Hewett gets compromised up to his neck,
and Mr. Hope is placed under restraint for the
real lunatic Johnson, About a dozen minor mis-
understandings are thrown in, and the curtain
falls on a lively clearing up. As there is not an
atom of human interest attaching to the story,
the honours are appropriately appropriated by an
outsider—the hotel-waiter. Mr. Boucicault com-
pletely sinks his identity here, and works up a
slight character sketch into a picture. Mr. Har-
wood is funny as ever in the over-prominent part
of the hypochondriac uncle, and Mr. Everard
rattles along as Osmond Hewitt. The new-comer,
Mr. F. H. Laye, makes the very most of his one
little bit of “fat” as Mr. Hope, a character he
has played in London. Mr. Laye did all that was
required with so much ease and “go ” as to sug-
gest the probability of there being more up his
sleeve. Miss Florence Trevelyan and Miss Bouci-
cault are but little lower than the angels in such
parts as Mrs. Hope and the nice niece. They
bring freshness, grace, and a certain style along
with them. They give an air of reality to impos-
sible situations. They have the art to conceal
their art, while we must needs lay bare the secrets
of our ’art and gush thuswise. But, to resume.
Other parts in the “Pickpocket” are satisfactorily
filled, scenery is excellent, and there is a polish
on the whole representation characteristic of the
present Opera House management. The “Pick-
pocket ” has been fairly tried, and he will have
to do three weeks’ at least.
** * *
When the “ Tempest ’’ subsided at Mel-
bourne Royal, George Rignold reckoned up the-
damage and gave the Immortal Bard best. The
play was beautifully mounted, and G.R.’s Caliban
was something more than clever, but the public
were as shy as a pedestrian match. To this did
the management Beriously incline, and biz. being
a matter of much pith and moment, “ Called
Back” played the season out. The gruesome-
drama hardly went with the same go as of yore.
Mr. Rignold and Miss Kate Bishop played their
old parts in their old style, but most of the others
carried several pounds overweight, and were right
out of it. On Saturday Bland Holt leaves the
scratch for a “ Run of Luck,” which ought to ba
something big. George Rignold and Miss Bishop
are both entered for this event.
## * *
When the Holloways were playing “ Romeo
and Juliet” in Hobart, the dramatic critic of a
local newspaper took exception to the fact that in
the last scene when Juliet expired with her head
resting against Romeo’s arm, “it appeared as if
death itself was not all-potent againt undying love,
for the defunct Romeo’s arm twined itself round
Juliet’s neck in rather a life-like fashion. This
was, of course, but one among the minutiee of
stage realism and was meant as indicative of
spontaneous muscular contraction " As if that
critic would not have done likewise, if he had had
the chance, when Essie Jenyns was Juliet!
#* * #
The Queen “ commanded ” Mrs. Kendal
“with Mr. Kendal” to give a private perform-
ance at Osborne recently, and subsequently re-
munerated the clever actress with a nice bit cf
jewellery. Kendal was permitted to accompany
his wife to the Royal supper-table after the per-
formanc*, while poor old Rowley Cathcart, who
stage-managed and played a minor character, was
regaled in the servants' hall. Her Majesty is the
mother of her people, but she doesn’t treat all the
family alike, you see.
** # *
Signora Marchetti is giving a scries of
concerts in Melbourne. The Misses Joran also
are electrifying Victorian sassiety. We wonder
if they will treat Sir Henry Loch as they did poor
Baron Bob ?
*# * *
Here's a how d’ye do and a set back for
white culcliaw ! Explorer David Lindsay took a
six-foot Australian aboriginal to see “ My Sweet-
heart” dance. During the performance the “ boy”
kept his eyes modestly fixed on the floor. Mr.
Lindsay, at the end of the trouble, asked him how
he had enjoyed it? “ oh," said he, “ pretty
good ; but I no likee look long-a that girl dance.
I 'shamed ! ” How now, baldheads ? This is the
very latest advertisement for Minnie Palmer.
** * *
The contract price for the Alexandra
Theatre, Melbourne, was £17,599 15s. 6d.
** * *
Mr. Bosco, under whose able manage-
ment the Sunday night concerts at Sydney Opera
House have been made a permanent institution,
promises a rare treat for Good Friday.
** * *
Minnie Palmer leaves Melbourne April
22 to play a short engagement in Brisbane, after
which she will return to Sydney. On dit that she
sails for America July 13.
** * *
The Triumvirate’s comic-opera troupe are
doing a very fair business in NY. They have
worked Dunedin for all it is worth, and are now
sojourning in the city with the scriptural name.
## # *
Melbourne is mourning its prospective
loss of “Little Jack Sheppard,” who starts shortly
for Adelaide,


PEPPER
Salt
The champion jubilee suggestion comes
from Bethnal Green, a north eastern suburb of
London, where the poor wretches who can get
work rejoice in meat on Sundays and the rest
staive A jubilee appeal fra “little something”
towards the Imperial Institute Fund met with a
chilly reception from the Bethnal Green Vestry.
More than tho average weekly number of deaths
from starvation had occur rad in that district per-
haps. Something must have ruffled the local
authorities, anyway, for we read that “a member
of the Bethnal Gram Vestry, Smither by name,
advised his colleagues, if they des red to send her
Majesty anything, 'let them send her a millstone
to hang round her neck.’ ” The Tory rag (Figaro)
from which this i‘em is clinped, saj s that Mr.
Smither’s remark excited “ uproar." O' course it
did The rest of the Vestr/ yelled “ Amen I ”
with one great voice. Let Tiie Bulletin bard
sing:—
This paragraph will be read with a sigh by
the admirers of the late Bishop of Melbourne. It
seems that that eloquent prelate is nothedge d round
with so much awe in his new See as he was in his
Old one. At a meeting cf the Sheffield Temper-
ance Association the president stated that Bishop
Moorhouse (then a curate) attended a lecture
given by Gough, the teetotal advocate, in 1858,
and publicly announced at the close of the same
“that, having considered the objections of his
friends, and examine I his Bible, he had come to
the conclusion that, as a Christian man, ho must
become a teetotaller.” The president then went
on to state that, heariog, after Mr. Moorehouse
left Sheffield, he had broken the pledge (burst it
up would have been (he phrase if he had been a
mere layman), he wrote to him, and received a
reply to the effect that, “ under his doctor’s
advice, he had taken intoxicating drinks, but that
he was sorry to have to do so, and when he re-
covered he would continue the practice of temper-
ance.” The president concluded his remarks by
saying, in a tone of dry sarcasm, that: “He could
only suppose the Bishop’s complaint had lasted
ever since, but he ventured to state that if other
physic had been prescribed he (che Bishop) would
have given up either the physic or the doctor long
ago.” A remonstrance in rnyme :
Advertisement in Melbourne Age :
“ Canvassers, two first-class men only ; Irish pre-
ferred ; new thing and profitable. Literature.”
This is probably what they call in the States a
Whisky-Bible—
O, crack your heels, and sing !
And hoot it at the sky!
Time ita revenue m’-s’ bri-g
Toe Irish need op,» y.
“ The delegates accredited by the various
Colonial Governments to the approaching Confer-
ence have been created honorary members of the
Carlton (leading Tory) Club.”—Cablegram.
A CUNNING STROKE.
Dramatic Sketch.
Time —March, 1887. Lozdon.—The Premier's
Sanctum at Downing-street. (Enter Men qu.is of
Salisbury and the Right Ron. W. H. Smith.)
Salisbury : One moment, gentle Smith, my trust y
knight,
Thou ever foremost in the Senate fight—
I would commune with thee. Canst thou not
find
Some silken, harmless seeming bonds to bind,
Both hand and foot the fertile distant lands
We Tor.es covet —to bend to our commands
Their rude inhabitants 1 Thou knows’t what I
mean—
I’d have them kiss the foot of our great Queen,
Renounce their liberties, truckle to high birth,
And learn that titles are the stamps of worth:
Expend the earnii gs of their vulgar toils
In helping England in her foreign broils.
This to ensure we must some coup devise
Whereby to dazzle weak Colonial eyes.
The leaders were enough the easy, pliant mob
Submit, I hear, to any flagrant job
And ne’er protest—if but these Delegates,
The simple strangers now within our gates,
Were slyly flattered, worked upon, and lured
Within our circle, victory were assured.
The democratic faith to which they’re born
We’d choke with ridicule and laugh to scorn ;
Already are they Tories, save in name—
Snobs, most of them, and therefore easy game.
Their countries’ birthright—Freedom—will they
sell
If deftly tickled, then would all be well.
Ere that we meet these creatures to discuss
Imperial Federation, win them o'er to us.
Old England totters, Smith, and come what will
We needs must work a Federation Bill.
W. H. Smith : Most sapient Salisbury, proudest
of the earls,
Who parts't thy lips to scatter wisdom pearls,
Well hast thou spoken. These colonies indeed
Must be our catspaw in the hour of need.
Ere from our grasp yet strong enough to slip,
We mutt enfold them in the Tory grip,
With this intent, some pretty bait we’ll set
To tempt these Delegates within our net.
“ Already siobs,” thou sayst; in very sooth,
My noble Lord, thy words are words of truth.
Their journals with most noxious grovel reek—
That case, too, of the Viscount and the “Beak”
Proves pla’nly that the pullers of the wires
Wou’d help us to the goal of our desires,
THE VALUE OF CAPITAL.
OLD COLONIST (the one with the [?] pants patched with brown, the long coat, shattered hat,
one the remains of an eye): “ARTER ALL, MONEY AIN’T THE TRUE SOURCE
OF HAPPINESS.”
OTHER OLD COLONIST (with the dubious boots, speaking slowly): "BUT THE POSESS-
SION OF VAST SUMS SUCH AS ARE ANJOYED BY GOULD, OR ROTHSCHILD,
OLD COLONIST ([?]npatiently) : “WELL, WHAT THE BLAZE? WOULD YOU DO WITH
’EM WHEN YOU HAD ’EM. NOBODY CAN GET DRUNKER THAN BLIND.”
If rightly managed. Though it may be true
The mass is democrat, the leading few—
All office-seekers, or more wealthy fools—
These are our useful ever-ready tools.
(Puts his hand to his Wow and starts,)
Hear me, my Lord—a point we well can strain
Our mighty purpose surely to attain—
Admit these strangers to our sacred Club,
First taking care that none t resume to snub
Our boorish dupes. At the Carlton will they
greet
The bluest bloods, the cream of the elite :
Rub shoulders with a marquis ; dig » duke
E’en in the ribs, and meet with no rebuke.
Heating of nought save Church and Sta’e, and
Throne,
Our mildewed doctrines soon will be their own ;
We’ll dazzle, tickle, wheedle, compliment—
Salisbury (interrupting) : Enough, good Smith
a message shall be sent
This very hour. The Club ! The Club’s the lure
Wherewith to catch these Delegates, I’m sure.
(Exit the noble Marquis and his Right Honor-
able friend, whistling Occl Save the Queen)
Curtain.
Until Bishop Goe comes along Dr.
Bevan is starring in Melbourne as Gospel-lead
In addition to running a regular Sunday show at
the largest of Collins-street churches, the doctor
gives addresses to business men, and lectures on
such improvi-g suM»cts ss “ The Queen.” Bevan,
in ill rr, s a ya.e it ft* x of Dr. Monrhou e mi-.us
apron ant gailers, ant his ideas are i ery advanced
indeed. He would have Victoria “ become at
this moment a community completely and abso-
lutely Christian,” so that they of N.S W. might go
and get saved at the cost of a return-ticket i o
Albury. And 01 as Dr. Be van (rhymes with
Heaven) remarks : “ Suppose that every man,
woman, and child in Victoria illustrated, to the
height of each one’s ability, the law and life of
Jesus Christ, crime would cease,” &c., &c. The
scheme is iotoxicatiog in i's lofty beauty. We
roust encourage the preacher to do a sample
“ illustration ” right away :
One William Kettle, baker, of Greymouth,
N.Z., has mysteriously disappcaied-
it’s strange indeed if our giant brain
CLnnot poor William’s fate allot ;
His ending is (to us) quite plain,
We fear that Kettle has gone to pot.
A municipal councillor down South
“pitched into” the Dog-Inspector o' the town for
not doing his duty. “Eh! mon, but I did it,”
replied the accused. The councillor, not to be
appeased, continued that he opened his front door
after dinner one evening and found 17 dogs wait-
ing round about. But the dog-man contented
himself with whispering “Pair f ules! ta expec
ony thing at ttnt hoose !” The Council went on to
the next business.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir, —Your pertinent
remarks on the protection of the N.S.W. legal
ling will be heartily endorsed by all non-profes-
sionals. That jealousy of outsiders possessed of
more brains than the majority of those bred to
the profession is responsible for the illiberal re-
striction is too palpable to be missed by anyone.
Your article on the subject is unanswerable. But,
sir, why did tho promoters cf the restriction in
question seize the present opportunity of bringing
their pet scheme into existence! Was it because
they knew that the late Chief Justice Martin was
not favourable to it ? It is known that he experi-
enced great difficulty in getting into the profession
through the jealousy of his legal brethren. The
remembrance of their conduct would, no doubt,
remain with him At any r.V ©, it is apparent that,
bigoted old Tory ns he was, he would not have
sanctioned the proposal had it been made to him,
or the ring would long ago have bad it in force!
The present time is singu'a-'y opportune. A new
chief justice on the bench who. it is known, is a
stickler for professional rights and piivileges,
and an Attorney-General is in office who is equally
jealous of tie protected i retentions of the legal
fraternity. A chief justice who has not entered
the profession by the regular prescribed course is
not disposed to p'ace any hindrance in the way of
the struggling applicant who has not been
favoured with a course of training, but the dig-
nitary who succeeds him, though far his inferior
takes a “high" stand, and. true to the
traditiins of the “ring" which he has entered
(as he would say) in a " proper manner,” at once
gives his ascent to a regulat on that will as you
correctly infer, Poetically exclude outsiders from
the profession. The vaunting exponents of free-
trade are evidently not averse to the protection of
their antiquated privileges, but the jealous ex-
clusiveness of the trained lawyer must eve tualiy
disappear before the advancing democracy of the
colony. The stand taken by The Bulletin will
meet with the approval of all lovers of fair play
Who tel eve in “justice to all, preferential ‘ regu-
lation!’ f r eon-. J.u
WANTED A FUTHER.
Our ancestors they were loyal,
• As loyal as dear John Biown —
They reverenced all things Royal,
And believed in the Britith Crown;
But ideas have been readjusted
Since guard father left the feene
Oh ! wouldn’t he he diEgutted
With Smither, of Bethnal Green t
In the days of the German Georges
A lord was a lord indeed :
An account of his bigh-class orgies
Our grandfather loved to read ;
A king was a gilded hero—
Though the list of his social crimes
Put him quite on a par with Nero—
In those glorious olden times.
Education has played the dickens,
Alas! with the English mob—
There's a democrat crew that sickens
And squirms at a Royal “job’;
These creatures have quite determined
There’s nothing to choose between
A monarch whose robes are ermined,
And Smither, of Bethnal Green,
Now, isn’t it just too awful,
This terrible change of tone 1
No more is it deemed unlawful
To rail against the Throne,
Would that V ickey pos a essed the power
To vent her moat gracious spleen,
By poppirg inside the Tower
This Smither, cf Billina! Green !
Were quite of a diff’rent kidney
To Smither, without a doubt
(Baron Robert, who rules in Sydney,
Has probably found that out).
Ne’er an ancestor was more loy.l,
More earnestly on the j ob
In worshipping blood that’s Royal.
Than the wealthy Australian snob.
But “grovel’s” a plant that withers,
So perhaos at no distant day,
We, too, shall produce our Smithers
With courage enough to say,
When a Governor wants to levy
For some humbugging Jubilee—
“ Let’s weight him with something heavy,
And topple him in the sea.”
0 Bishop Moorhouse ! Think !
For eightandtwenty years
You have been on the drink
(Excuse, my lord, these tears !)
And loading up, galore,
Whiskies, and wines, and beers.
And other liquors, too.
If you keep this thing up,
And drain the maddening cup
For eight-and twenty more
What will become of y ou?
We do not speak in scorn—
That we would have you know—
But, ah t my lord, we mourn
To see your lordship so
Much given up to drink.
Why, look at Field Flowers Goe—
Who’s chosen from the ruck,
Successor to your See
His strongest drink is tea !
O, Bishop, give it up !
You won't i Weil, then, here's luck!
Doctor Be van. bless your heart!
S’pose the parsons make a start,
And preach a 3 preached the Nazarene :
He never lectured on “ The Queen,”
Or bettered Cte3ar— e’en as you
.Are commonly disposed to do.
S pose you and other holy gents,
Decline to pocket heavy renls
For pews, and open wide the door
Of Chri tian Church to heathen poor—
You who live a life of ease,
And hob-nob with the Pharisees.
Doctor 8., you really might
Make a lot of “wrong ’uns” right—
Work a reformation great
If you would but illustrate
In this land where sin is r fe
Your noble Master’s law and life.
(The usual collectim w 11 now be taken up).
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. C. A. Wilkins has resumed the
editorship of the Auckland (N.Z.) Observer.
The Queen is getting a new private chapel
built. Let us hope she prays for her successor.
It is related that Charles Dickens picked
every horse that won in every race one day at
Newmarket.
Garnet Walch is going to publish a jubilee’
book which is to contain Victorian sentiment
about the Queen in poetry, prose, and soog. Have
mercy on us !
Who will be the French Commander-in-
Chief in the event of a war with Germany ? Some
say General Boulanger; others, the le3s-known
General Laussier.
Mr. “ Bob ” Whitworth has just published
a new novel entitled “ Hine-ra ” (which, like
everything else in Victoria, is dedicated to Lady
Loch), illustrated by Herbert Woodhouse.
The Duke of Westminster has expressed
his disgust with thi G O.M. by 6elliDg the portrait
of Gladstone painted for him by Millais. Thu
picture cost only £lOOO and was sold for £3OOO.
C. E Jones has failed on the second trial
of his action against the A ltous about the Bible.
It was tried iu Jones'own constituency, Ballarat.
Hath then a pro;het still no honour in his own
country ?
The piece of paper so long pasted over
the magic letters M.L. A. following the name on
'Enry 'Arry Cook's carpet bog. has at length dis-
appeared, and that great man is once more a
legislator.
The Duchess of Cumberland is now a con-
firmed lunatic. Judging from the samples we
have had in Australia of late th's seems to signify
an improvement in the mental condition of the
aristocracy.
When Baron Nathan Rothschild died, leav-
ing behind him tonmillions, all went to his relations.
Not an old servant, not a clerk, not a poor man,
woman, or child, got a penny by the death of this
modern Crce.us.
It seems that Sir Georgo Strahan, late
Governor of Tasmania, died from the effects of a
cold caught while waiting in London to be in-
vested with the Grand Cross of St, Michael and
St. George. What a miserable end !
Dilke’s friends are trying to let him down
easy by pointing out that his ancestor Sir William
Snooke, and consequently also his cousin Snooks,
from whom he has lately inherited a large fjrtune'
should lightly have been designated Sevenoaks!
This takes a great load off our mind.
In a Sydney court one Isaiah Reginald
Cohen has been exercising his legal light of sueing
i misguided beggar who backed another man's
ittle bill We are glad to know that this is not
the same Isaiah who wrote all the pretty senti-
ments in that beautiful novel, “ How Will It
End ?”
The late Mis. Henry Wood never received
a farthii g from any theatrical manager who pro-
duced the unauthorised stage version of “ East
Anne ” The sjslem under which such a thing
ias been possible, justly remarks an English paper
s ere of infamous theft.
We are sorry to s< e among the list of in-
solvents the name of Mr. Henry Edmund Southey,
of Mittagong school. Mr. Poulhey, who by the
way is a direct descendant of the pcet of that
name, has many fiiends who will deeply sympa-
thise with him in his misfortunes.
Captain Fairfield, *' Ivan," is leaving The
t RGUS. He las an engagement offered him on
he few York Herald. “ Will you raise my
salary? ’ said he to the young manegah. "No!
: r u are paid enough,” said LC. M. “ Then,”said
van, looking terrible as he twisted his moustache.
' I'm off.”
Francis Myers and Sutherland are arguing
: n th > Argus as to the true character of Governor
Bligh. Why can’t they leave him alone?
Two to one on Francis in this race. He is
he new shining light on the Argus, and takes
he place of Gullett and Britton and the “ Vag ”
and Fairfield.
Mr. Archibald Fraser, the N.S.W. Clerk
of the Peace, has been appointed Under secretary
for Justice The appointment gives general satis-
faction, as Mr. Fraser’s personal and official popu-
larity is unbounded, but it is understood that one
or two other Civil servants strongly urged their
claims to the position, and that the matter will be
debated in Parliament.
“ Why does the Argus refuse to even
notice Mr. John Farrell's “ How he Died, and
Other Poems,” whilst it gave half-a column to
The Vabgaond’s ” " Cannibals and Convicts ? ”
Is it because the ore has a prefatory note that
the poems were first published in The Bulletin,
and the other contairs a fulsome preface eulogising
thi Argus and Australasian ? Farrell is a poet.
What is Julian ?
Mr. Richard Sadleir, R.N., J.P., whe
used so often to write such nice neppery little let-
ters to the Sydney papeis, is one of the old- st resi-
dents of Australia He was born in May, 1796,
and forms one of the few remaining links with
the past ; his residence in New South Wales dat-
ing from 1826, a time when the greater portion of
Australia was an unknown country, and the sites
of Melbourne and Brisbane formed the camping-
ground of aboriginal tribes which had never seen
a white face, and which have now passed away.
Munkacsy’s celebrated picture, “ Christ
before Pilate,” has been bought by Mr. Wana-
maker, of Philadelphia, for £22,006. During its
wanderings for exhibition purposes the imposing
work had already brought the sum of £40,000 into
the coffers of the Parisian dealer who originally
bought the work from Mcnkacsy for £BOOO. The
new owner of the celeb’ at cd canvas keeps a
drapery warehouse, and his probable object in
acquiring the maste piece is to turn it to account
as a “ puff” for his establishment! Thus does
Yankee enterprise honour art.
A reminiscence of Seijeant Ballantine.
The Serjeant was examining the petitioner for a
divorce and asked : “ When you entered the room
what did you see ? ” “I had rather not say ” re-
plied the witness, “iu the presence of ladies ”
“ Ladies 1” ejaoulated the Serjeant, looking round
at a fashionably dressed crowd with ears intent
and eyeglass ready, "do you know that they come
here for the ve-y purpose of hearing what you
had rather not say ? Pray do not disappoint
-hem. Ballantine was a great favourite with the
fair sex even when he let out at them in this
manner.
In spite of Mortimer Franklyn’s efforts
his creditors are about to be pa d so nothing in the
pound. I; may bo remembored th.t Franklin
made a mar. i ige-set’Jom nt upoo his wife whi h.


I has been the subject of litigation in the Victofian
Courts for over a year, the Full Court, Mel-
bourne, eventually decided in favour of the trustee
representing the creditors, but Frankiyn’e trustee
under the settlement gave notice of appeal to the
Privy Council. This appeal has now been aban-
doned, Mortimer being probably fully engaged in
his London Jubilee rejoicing. The creditors thus
will get over £6OO. It. mu-t be excruciatingly
gratifying to Mr. Franklyn to And that, h's credi-
tors are going to have something to divide between
them.
Things are not always very smooth in the
Royal pilace at Tonga* That, (Wilding old
imbecile, King George, is a devout Christian, and
so is the Queen, but on Sunday, 20‘h March—we
quote from a private letter—when the poor old
crowned fossil Was conducting family prayers in
the palace she got into a rage over someihing and
spat all over her consort’s Sabbath shirt.
King George 1 hen suspended the devotions and
went off to put on his other boilpd rag, and in his
absence a certain reverend gentleman attached to
the Tongan Free Church entered. Queen Char-
lotte, however, received him with a volley of
snorts and a number of obscene remarks on the
subject of that cleanliness which is next to godli-
ness, and drove him out, following up his retreat
with observations from the back end of the Scrip-
tures. Relations between Church and State are
now slightly strained in Tonga.
It has just been discovered that a good
many of Hobart Pashas adventures told by him
in his book, “ Sketches from my Life,” are, to put
it plainly, lies. It is sad to write this of Hobart,
late Admiral in the Turkish Navy, blockade-
runner in the American War, and at one time an
officer bn—yes, on Her Gracious’s yacht. But
there appears to be no gettiDg out of it or chance
lof letting Hobart down easy. In his book he tells
a little narrative of his behaviour under Lord
John Hay at San Sebastian, when it has been
proved he was at that very time cruising about in
the Pacific Ocean. On another page he relates
very circumstantially (perhaps Hobart picked up
the art from the Turks) the gallant action of
Admiral Arthur CummiDg when a young man in
capturing a slaver with himself off Campos in
South America, and tells the story of a wound he
himself received from “the huge axe of a great
black man” —when unfortunately Hobart i3shewn
by the'navy records to have been all this time in
his own ship only four days’ sail from Plymouth.
Hobart is evidently the Pasha of Many Tale 3.
The gruel-fed Imperial pauper is coming
to the front. He is a poor, thin, hungry beggar,
■with a half workhouse, half gallows expression,
doubled up with servility because he has so many
masters to bow to, and kept in a proper state of
humility by low diet, but he unexpectedly
shown that he can make himself obnoxious if he
is trodden upon once too often. At New Ross
(Ireland), the master of the workhouso and the
local guardians were engaged f. r a considerable
time in carrying out some interesting experiments
regarding food, or rather want of food, while the
matron pursued a sublime abject of her own
which consisted in hitting the juvenile paupers on
the same ear as often as possible in he course of
the day by way of inculcating proper respect for
the upper classes. But one pleasant February
morning, while the euardians were holding a meet-
ing, the door was burst in by a hundred imuriated
objects of charity, and while a dozen of Lhemscruffed
out the boss of the establishment and thrashed him
in the passage, and finally shoved him through the
front door with kicks, the others charged the Board
and drove half-a-score of dignified gentlemen
with capacious abdomens out by the windows.
The ensued ah awful upheaval. The paupers had
the first square meal on record and left nothing
but grease and bones; they rushed the official
sherry and drank it anyhow, and when the police
came to restore order they drove them out again
contrary to the spirit of the glorious British Con-
stitution, and made treasonable ofnervations re-
garding the Queen. Then more constables were
brought from the neighbouring towns, and the
paupers adduced chair-legs and broken be ches in
support of their view Of the case, and one of
them got a policeman down and showed him the
matter in various new lights, and broke his leg,
until at last discipline prevailed and the leaders
of the mutiny were lugged off to gaol. The
matron who had been bounced off at the com-
mencement of the scrimmage took it out of the
small boys by smacking them all the rest of the
day, and order has once more been restored.
An English judge, bearing the vulgar
name of Ive-ke-wick, has just given a decision
which ought to be like balm in Gilead to the
bleeding heart of the Anglican pastor. The Rev.
Mr. Bihill, of London, is a parson who looks after
the souls of the upper classes, and who is always
ready to walk three miles up hill on a hot day to
convert a duke. He doesn’t want money, or a
good position, or anything, but a grateful church
took him by the taroat, some years ago, and
poured a billet with a big screw attached right
down his throat. The Rev. Bihill, among other
things, runs a sisterhood, the sisteis being mostly
young ladies with more money than brains, and
when they enter this pious poor-house to spend
the rest of their lives in holy contemplation and
works of charity, they have to hand over every
cent, to the pastor for the good of the cause. Miss
Allcard was had in this way recently, and gave
£16,000 to the institution. She was young and
pretty, and thought she had a mission, but her
desire to aid her perishing f<dl«w-creatures was
choked off considerably when she found herself
set to work at the wash-tub for 15 hours a day
and for some three months at a stretch. Also she
calmed down a little under a diet of gruel, crusts,
and slops, and when her spell in the laundry was
finished she mortified the flesh by scrubbing, cook-
ing, washing dishes, and fixing the pastor'sshirte. At
last’ she bucked against this regime , and then she
was further disciplined by being compelled to sit
all day in a chair for several weeks till she almost
took root. The works of charity on which she had
set her heart never came off, all the charity in the
case being absorbed by the pastor, who used to
call and dine with the lady superior on fowls,
salmon, rich puddings; whisky, and port wine.
He also went on long trips to the Continent with
the same lady, and paid his way with the money
of the unlucky drudges downstairs, and he didn’t
take a chaperon with him on these trips, not even
an aged bishop going along with the two saints
ito play propriety. Miss Allcard finally resolved
to become an ” escaped nun,” fearing probably
, that if she stayed she might also find herself doing
a trip somewhere wuh the pastor to come back
afterwards with a battered character to the peni-
tential washtub ; and when she had made her re-
treat she sued the boss of the swindle to get her
money back. Judge Kekewiek, however, resolved
■ that the good man was to keep the coin, and the
young lady, being thus left in a dead-broke con-
-dition, will probably And her laundry experi-
ence come in useful all through the rest of her
POLTICAL
POINTS
To Let —Ireland.
Just hout ! Shut hup ! By the author of
“Good Government.”
Cortis by name, but un-cortis by nature.
Cumberland Mercury.
Jennings and Wisdom joined the Imperial
Jubilee Con'erence on All Fools’ day.
A Queensland writer anticipates what he
vulgarly calls “a new breed” of viceroys to re-
present Her Gracious in the colonies.
Lawyer Chubb, MP., of Ip3wich (Q.),
recommends the local construction of a covered
drain in celebration of Queen Victoria’s Jubilee.
Hughenden wants to be the seat of govern-
ment in North Queensland, as it has an abundance
of water-supply in the Flinders River. M’s.P.
don’t want water. They want rum. Port Mackay
is the place.
AN AWFUL REWARD.
MINISTER INGLIS (the tiger-slaver of the Punjauh, who visits the Vernon N.S.W. reformatory
training-ship ): “NOW, MY GOOD LITTLE BOYS, IF YOU BEHAVE YOUR[?]LVES
PROPEHLY I WILL, ON THE OCCASION OF MY NEXT VISIT, GIVE YOU ONE
OR TWO OF MY MOST FEARSOME AND APPALLING WILD-BEST
PERJURIES.”
We read that: “ With his health, wealth,
and strong will, Mr. Joseph Chamberlain fully
anticipates being Prime Minister of Great Britain
within the next Aye years.'’
Lord Dufferin considers an attack by
Russia on British frontier posts not only likely
rut absolutely certain to come, and to come, too,
ref ore very many years are over.
It seems to be generally supposed that
Enry ’Arry Cook is member for Forbes. This,
iowever, appears to be a mistake, for 'Fury ’Arry
is undoubtedly member for Parkes.
The new South Australian Assembly will
contain at least 18 lawyers out of a total of 54
members: one-third of the whole Assembly will
be represented by the Devil’s Brigade.
At least one member sitting on the N.S.W.
Ministerial benches can, whenever he rises to bore
the House with a speech, be promptly put down
by someone calling out ’’ Cash, heah 1 ”
“ Mr. Sutherland is,' indeed, the arch-
obstructionist of the N.S.W. Ministry, and seems
to have been taken as a representative of and a
concession to the old, stolid, unprogressive, fossil
life of the colony.”—Sydney D.T.
The N.S.W. Opposition mean to let none
of the Government measures pass until theMinis'.ry
introduce a property-tax in accordance with the
Premier’s election manifesto. On some points a
stiff number of Government supporters are already
prepared to “ rat.”
Parkes says that throughout his long poli-
tical career he has shown I he “hutmost courtesy
to his opponents. “ Withered tarantula,” “crimps
and blacklegs,” “mole eyed Suttor,” “craven-
spirited poodle,” “Oh, shut up,” “Does your
mother know you’re out ?” to wit.
The value of P.O. money orders sent to
the United Kingdom from Australia for the official
year 1885-1886, was £346,645, while it is estimated
that £500,000 in sums of under £lO pass through
the banks for the same period. How much of
this, we wonder, went “to pay the rint?”
Buckshot Forster has had his remains
“ decorated ” with a marble lie, doubtless to keep
him planted. It bears the inscription : “ Beloved,
honoured, mourned.” Ham —we wonder if the
dear Hibernian admirers of William E. have been
rumiing this mortuary memorial business as a
little grim joke of their own ?
The Ceylon Observer wants to know—
and so do we—why “oil and other articles for the
worship of the devil called Wally Yakho” were
supplied by vouchers honoured by the Ceylon
Treasury, “on Her Majesty’s service." This is
humouring the Buddhists. But they must be
humoured in that way, or else left un-Chris-
tian ised.
Last year, Mr. Salomons, Q.C., drew from
the N.S.W. Government fees amounting to over
£2300 for doing work which ought to have been
done by the Attorney■ General, while the latter
drew about £lOOO from patent fees for doing prac-
tically nothing. The lawyers have any amount of
Protection, yet it is a singular fact that they
nearly all profess to be freetraders.
The Sydney D.T. says that the imposition
of postage on newspapers in N.S.W. “ would cer
tainly out of existence many of the strug-
gling newspapers in the country towDS.” This is
sheer nonsense. The contention of the country
newspaper-proprietor is that postage would have
a tendency to keep down the circulation in the
bush of the metropolitan newspapers, aDd give
the struggling local journals a chance.
Mr. Burns, the N.S.W. Treasurer, says
th>»t the United States Protective tariff is main-
tained against the will of the American people.
Freetrade in N.S.W. will soon die a natural death
if it has to depend for its exis ence on such trans-
parent falsehoods. The history of America cer-
tainly shows that the people are not prepared to
submit to burdens imposed on them against their
will. No one knows that better than John Bull.
The jubilee hat is being sent round with
a vengeance. The Duke of Cambridge has notified
to the army that no officer is expected to contri-
bute more than a day’s pay, but at the same time,
his Royal Highness feelingly remarks, he does not
wish to interfere with the desire of any officer to
give more ! This is very delicious, but it is even
more delightful to read that the poor Chelsea pen-
sioners—God help them !—have been filched of a
day’s pension in honour of her Majesty.
“ Queen’s Jubilee !” exclaims the Weekly
Bulletin (a paper which, out of compliment to
the success of this journal, has been started in
London) —“ We are sick of the very name of it.
Why doesn’t the Queen write a cheque for a mil-
lion, give it to the poor, and have done with it ?
By the way is it a fact that the residents of Wind-
sor neighbourhood, having subscribed funds for a
jubilee rubbish, askrd Her Majesty what she
would like done with the money, to which she has
“ graciously ” replied, “ Erect a statue to the la*e
lamented ?’*
This is rather a neat suggestion culled
from a leader ia that parson-ridden sheet the Mel-
bourne Daily Telegraph in re Kaiser Wilhelm’s
birthday
“ No fewer than 85 Royal personages will crowd the Im-
perial Presence chamber to-day; and the occasion offeis an
opportunity for comprehensive regicide which must make the
mouth of every Nihilist and Anarchist in Europe water with
longing ! What a shock to the thrones of the civilised world
would one judiciously-placed bomb in Berlin make !”
And this right on top of the Jubilee ! Judiciously
placed is good.
During the Field-Flowers Goe consecra-
tion, the picked preacher. Canon Cadman, amongst
other fairy talk, observed that:
“ England’s mission was to become the benefactress of the
world, through her children becorair g messengers of Christ.
One of the most striking recolleetioDS of the Queen’s jubilee
was that, during her 50 years’ r< ig«», energetic efforts had been
made in this direction.”
Just so. And Archdeacon Farrar declares that:
“ In India the English have made 100 drunkards
for one Christian.” The good (brewery) cause is
evidently still on the boom.
The British war authorities are uncertain
whether they require a magazine-rifle at all. At
a trial recently made it was found that, although
a magazine-rifle would Are more quickly than the
Martini-Henry for the first few shots, yet that, on
a large number, the Martini-Henry quite equalled
and even surpassed the magazine in its delivery.
If that be so it is a serious question whether the
Martini-Henry is not, for practical fighting, the
better weapon of the two. It is undoubtedly the
better for carrying purposes, and is better also in
respect of accuracy.
There was only one unpleasant incident
to mar the glory of Parkes’ Victorian tour. He
was returning by special train, and at Sandhurst
he received a telegram asking him so stop at
Rochester to pick up several prominent freetraders
who wished to accompany him to Moama. He
stopped accordingly and picked up a doctor, a
publican, and a bank-clerk, all in a bad state of
real or pretended hiccup, who greeted him with
fulsome comic speeches that smelt of bull dog
stout. The way Sir 'Enry threw the prominent
freetraders out at Echuca was worth making a
note of.
There seems to be a jubilee badly spoilt
for the N.S.W. Examiner of Coalfields. According
to Mr. Melville that officer was about to proceed
to the Adelaide Exhibition and show himself off
as a sample of the products of the colony, and
now his chance of going on that pleasant spree
and leaving the miners whose safety he is sup-
posed to watch over to blow up in his absence,
seems to be seriously diminished. Mr. Abigail,
that agile smeller-out of abuses, did not at all
appreciate Melville’s revelation, but though he
quibbled, he did not venture on a direct denial.
The noble straightforwardness on which Frawncis
used to pride himself in the days when Lyne’s
base minions were hunting high and low for
something “ agin Abigail,” seems to have all gone
to smash since he got a billet and a screw.
When it comes to a choice between loyalty
a”d lucre the aldermen of Williamstown (Vic.)
cleave to lucre as the limpet to the rock. The
question of contributing to the cost of erecting a
jubilee statue of her Gracious was brought up in
the Council last week, and decided in the affirma-
tive with etfusion —or rather it would have been if
a sarcastic councillor had not got upon his legs
and proposed that instead of voting the money of
the ratepayers for the purpose, the members of
the Council should make up the amount required
out of their own pockets. The Council adjourned
in confusion.
According to Paris Figaro, General
Boulanger, the French Minister of War,
1“ Talks much, writes more, and forgets that he has
written. There is no doubt he has two faces, one for the
public, one for private. Without his mask, he is common*
place, narrow-chested, aged before his time; with his mask,
slightly stooping, with tne walk of a eailor, and a keen, pene-
trating eye. A Frenchman who has known him for a long
time says there is something effeminate about him, over-
strung nervrs, unequal temper, vanity, and a cei tain amia-
bility. His forehead is low, the head small, and the fac e
exactly like that of a bird of prey. His beard, which is
lighter round the mouth, and his hooked nos*», confirm the
impression. He looks like a vulture with his veiled gray
eyes, rather thin, an eagle who soars towards the sun. His
thin, long hands are adorned with jewelled rings. And,
when the war begins, then Boulanger will mount his charger,
leave the white scarf of the War Minister to somebody else,
and call out. as Gambetta did before him * The General for
whom thou art waiting am I.”
“ The Argus is conducted strictly in the
public interests alone, and without a desire to
favour one man or to injure another.” So says
the editor. Indeed ? Why then was Mr. John
Gavan Duify so strongly supported by the Arous
against a man of the same political creed, and
why did the Argus take back all it had previously
said about the Catholic and Irish vote 1 J. G. Duffy
is the new shining light on the Australasian,
and “the office” wishes to secure a partisan in
the House. The Age has two Ministers there in
Pearson and Dow. But the Argus Btaff have
always been deficient in political ability, or their
ambition has been nipped in the bud. When
that well-known journalist, Mr. Harry Britton, of
the Argus, stood for Castlemaine, the Argus
opposed him, and he lost the election.
Mr. Robert C. Grahame, J.P., LL.D.,
a large landlord, by the way, is member for
N.W. Lanarkshire in the Commons, and made a
remarkable speech on the Irish question the other
day. He was thoroughly fitted, he said, to speak
on the Irish question because he never had been
in Ireland, but he had spoken to an Irish com-
mercial traveller for some seconds on the subject.
He remarked that the Irish landlords were human,
because, although they evicted people in the
winter, they always provided them with good
blazing fires made from their own homes. These
tenants' homes were, he said, as dear to them as
Buckingham Palace to the lioyal Family, Mr.
Gladstone spoke in the same ironical style of the
unholy Bnrmah slaughter, and the British desig-
nation of the Burmese as “marauders” and
“ dacoits.”
The Jubilee Imperial Institute is likely to
end in a fizzle. A suitable site would alone cost
from £160,000 to £6OO 000 per acre. The alms
begged for the thing by 3000 Mayors, Lords
Lieutenant, Government cfficials, and chairmen
of local boards amounts to £50,000, or, as a Lon-
don paper puts it, “not half as much as could he
raised in London in a week alone for any object
that really compelled the sympathy of all classes.”
The latest cablegram runs thus
" London, Friday.—The feeling in opposition to the mode
of celebrating the Queen's Jubilee in L ndon is increasing.
Islington has decided not to support the movement."
The long and the short of the matter is that the
rich and the privileged classes, a mere fraction of
the nation, will jubilate ; the toilers will curse.
Of course, it will be very wrong of them to do so,
but they will curse all the same.
Another attempt to assassinate the Czar
has miscarried. Sydney Evening Noose thus
hits the poor assassin when he is down :
“ He was directed by the Secret League to carry a bottle of
poison under his clothing and resting upon his bosom A
second emissary was commissioned to watch the intended
assassin; and that, in the event of the would-be assassin's
courage failing him, he (the second emissary) was to
smash the bottle and procure the death of the intended
assassin."
The N.S.W. legislator carries his bottle in his tail
pocket instead of down his neck, and then he
smacks his chest with an air of noble disdain and
declares that all is pure within. If you want to
rouse him to desperation, however, you have only
to poke him uo from behind with a walking-stick
and listen to the crash of broken glass. This
sensitiveness about a rearward spank is the chief
difference between a Sydney M L.A., and a Mos-
cow Nihilist
In an interview with a representative of
the Pall Mall, a loyal Englishman, who thinks
England has done good in Egypt, said :
" When we went to Egypt we were 'going to establish the
civil, moral, and Christian influences of our country on the
banks of the Nile. What we have done has been to estab-
lish an e ormous number of grog-sh >ps and brothels. That
is the most conspicuous sign of our civilising mission in the
land of lhe Pharaohs .... There are now
400 grog-Bhops in Ca ro, most of them with English signs,
which have sprung up as the direct consequence of the pre-
sence of English garrisons. A gieat number of these drink-
ing dens are also houses of ill-fame, and there is no attempt
made to conceal their character from the passer-by. Any-
thing more loathsome and humiliating t> a decent-minded
Englishman than to go through certain quarters in Cairo and
read the English inscriptions on these dens cannot be
imagined. On some of them, in addition to the title, such
as‘Peace and Plenty.' 'The Union Jack,’ 'the Soldier's
Home,' or what not, there are stuck up announcements of
the fancy names of the women of ill-fame who are kept on
the premises, and who sit on the doorsteps.”
This is the kind of thing that N.S.W. spent her
£300,000 of her good red borrowed gold in backing-
up. This is the kind of tiling that was blessed by
the bishops and clergy of Australia !
The local optionists sustained three de*
feats in Victoria during last month. One hilarious
individual in Sandhurst voted that 23 more public
houses should be created in the town I What a
thirst 1
“Ah ! Ya-a-ah ! Ouch ! 00000 ! ” howled
the railway-passenger, who had been asleep
in the corner. “My foot’s dead ! Ow-ow ! Let
me get my boot off!” “How long has it been
dead I” asked the solemn man on the opposite
seat, as he let the window down.
An experienced digger just returned from
the Croydon (Q ) goldfield estimates the number
of bona-fide miners now on the field at 3000,
which he expected would be increased to 10,000
before the year ended. In the narrator’s experi-
ence of 21 years no goldfield is a patch on Croydon,
and every miner he has consulted says it promises
to be the best reeflDg country ever opened up.
The gold is very fine and can scarcely be seen.
The average return of stone on the best line goes
16oz. of gold to the ton. The water Bupply for
crushing on the creeks is abundant, and the extent
of the field nobody knows, as reefs are being dis-
covered all around for 15 miles.


siS®
l ofoq!> |
Dr CR£tO op pt#aL , c throws PHYSzc To t h£ Mc .
Ako ir/va ify sts Thz'CO-M for a*'
; T * aspect ™ t to n P£ oo sr o r?e c '
' 1 «
At 'ftß oßtt«<S MAr <y ANO pf>mc tot A rerf r He mtik
<;»'SHfD Part y /*rri> MAKtt "
4
Vvi
itfs Peers
(l) ' r, -' c y
AT lUt. h £ IW 1
VhiCH SOI? MAfUW ToßpfODfc.'
4i\e »<epr <^v
MM(C [-S \\,
A ccc)RDiK<;Le/-
foCfctoWVK OFTORPEOOB
‘ AU OA7
[ ot tyt<COTTVt<\MKL A
c;re/>t sa/
I Bin (jis VYARwKt ADVice i
i5Kr rroftfp A I
f?Cf CC|N* |
1 (hcaisc. HE AII^T"
l Built That WAT
Col {t* ( > wtiAT 00 I ftLLS?
V»rtV I MUCH /MJotff Ttit"- '
A yo(/ k f < o*f
toKP£DOEJ> . 'Jfine
A *
PRIVATE- OP MST MiliT**]
> Armiw/v)e.A7* irvri«i/clL_Drg warlike. 1
'nildico ops Tun pi po wARr>/t/fe S£t£s. /l iyf
/)l/I?MVC in? ADCtKf
OF Ttt C liorr
PRoaa H 0 Mg -j-^g
a fyiwvre
o-
ryAHiol/S WlEpitytt /
Creed versus Cracknell.


Tha child Charles Wilson, who was sentenced to
12 months' imprisonment for placing obstructions upon
the raihraj, has been released from gaol.
“A. Member of tho Torpedo Co-pa" ahggwt*
that catch foluntear who take# part m the
Eaatar flocaaipmect •hall contribute, t&y sm, to
the Boili EL«lief Fuad.
y , e f° r
rQ fron of CAarl fS) *£
fJ 9 So ccUufcl/cty tf /V '
°*y s/L; f "?£**> v JjSk
A? c &ot< Ac/ 3s§oAb,
- y *S°ro s ?earA,/k
London, Sunday.—The delegates
the Imperial Conference were entertained
on Saturday at a banquet given by the
Imperial Federation' League, at which
the Right Hon. Edward Stanhope, Sec-
retary of State for Foreign Affairs,
presided in the absence of Lord Itoso-
berv.
VtXnfeer -a&oaCnt
y r
LanuS J
ftjut rerfalatiop
'fea/ei>e out, l"9 f
gof j?o fVe bob
Average Cofon.JM*°f*
(after tie feed/ ovor**. jl
P fere nee Aasdoyea o
' of oooc/ CcTrectc/y
ip^ 5
$ n s '
fj!^ r
’V/ 1
fl^
j&ttTa/r/A/G 7%f /£“ 4 /3/tn/sy
Or fizfier As. //ctrc/
Czar's Jfacet
?„ee ~or* «*4*
' to/Yer- /nepers /or re/> u/rS-
- ooj/nO 7o fy eceni
cit(~enifit- c(/)c/p t/i //fe.
Pictorial Paragraphs.


Society
The mart iage of the Hon. Robert Boyle,
second son of the Earl of Cork and Ossory, with
Miss Horsfall, of Melbourne, will Lot now take
place.
...
Ungratefulness is not a fault of Sergeant
Waldcck, of Western Australia. He recently got
married, and a lot of people decorated the church
with flowers and rice, and otherwise helped to
make his start on the conjugal ri ad a pretiy fair
one. In a half-inch ad ver: iscment he returned
thanks to “ these kiod friends who decorated the
church, and otherwise assisted on the occasion ef
their wedding.' A policeman's life is i carely a
happy one, but we envy Ihe good nature of
Waldock, who spent his money in returning thanks
for being pelted with rice and old bo ts, and
otherwise maltreated. However, it wi)l only
serve to prepare h’m for married existence.
• « .
Original scientific defimtisn, pf a kiss— An
explosive labial combination, • ■
...
Gone is a considerable portion c f the glory
of Potts Point. Mr. H. M’Quade, who bank-
rupted last week for 1:19,250 or so, his assets being
under £5OO, has, it seems, £375 worth of jewellery
in pawn with the N.S.W. Mont de P.etii for £196.
“ One-half the world,” &e.
...
At moro than one London “first-night”
lately, powdered c.iffuns made their ap-
pearance in the stalls of the the at res, and, as
everything mu.t have a beginning, it is just pos-
sible that this phenomenon may portend a general
return to the fa hion of using hair powder so pre-
valent in the lact century. Women rearing 40
are, it mu»t be confessed, under a strong tempta-
tion to powder their hair as a means of disguising
the ravages ot time, ard even young faces ate
sometimes seen to advantage under a powdered
coiffure. For not only is the use of hair-pjwder
in itself a sham, but it entails the use o; 1 air oil,
or some o her abomination of the kind, to prevent
the powder flying about like dust. In the last
century ic was custbmaiy for ladies to wear, not
powder pute and simple, but a species of olea-
ginous "ftiur’ cr pas e, which reduced the hair
to a truly fl thy condition.
Sydney daily :
*c W A NTK!>, a woman, to wash. 99. PLiTip-Btreet "
It’s really very shocking, doncherknow -
It really is, to us, a dreadful b'ow 1
Is it tniy simple bosh ? Or do they want a dame
to wash l
To spare our setthing blusle’, answer “Not"
We read that English hostesses are at
length discontinuing ihe practice of peimitting
amateur gentlemen to invite for ttem. One lady
has wittily headed her cards with the announce-
ment "All otdets suspended.” In Ameiica,
society claims to attend all entertainments,
whether inyited or not. The number of guests
asked to one dance was nearly 600. Ihe number
of those who came was neatly 20C0. There is a
deal of this sort of thing goirg on in London, too,
especially amorgst the met).
The latest idea is for the engaged girl to
lave her hand photegraphed, and sent to the
lover. N.B.—This fatliion is not to be followed
by girls who take seven and a quarter in paw-
coverirgs. And it would never do for the dear ctea-
tnres to have their feet photographed.
There is some bottom to the British
jubilee aft<rail. A lady writirg to an English
paper proposes that the 20th ot June, 1887, should
he celebrated by the sin-ulraneous abolition of all
existir gmarriages throughout the Empire,so that
every one shoulo have a chance to begin a'resh.
This is a healthy scheme, and worthy o) ctns dera-
tion.
Take notice that a certain recently arrived
English aristocrat is once more for ta'e to the
highest bidder in the matiimonial market. |
Widows and orphan heiresses, with coin at their
own dispos 1, will have preference. The distin-
guished one is full of indignation at a common
colonial man’s impudence in expectiog him to
work like a plebeian.
Quite a flood of light is shtd on the doings
of Australian visitors while “ at home ” list year ,
by Dr. Cameron, M.P., editor and proprielor of,
the Glasgow Daily Mail The radical and out- j
spoken doctor dt dares that “it the Australian
visitors had been a little more select in the com-
pany they brought with them, to Glasgow, bo h
they and we might have been spared a got d deal
of scandal and unpleasantness.” This is rather
rough on a certain Northern professioi al man.
“ Madge ” says that among the new songs
la a really lovely one, “ Why have we waited ? ”
by Marie Antoinette Kingston.
In writing of a well-sdvertised soap, Miss
Fortescue states “ that it keeps the hands soft
and fre* from chaps" Wonder if Earl Cairns
was one of the chaps I
The committee of Melbourne Benevolent
Asylum (by a majority only) have again insisted
on petitioning Queen Victotia to allow the prefix
“Royal ’ to.be added to the name cf tbdr institu-
tion. Ic will then read “ ltojal B nevolent
Asylum.” This is very near to “Battenberg
Orphanage,” isn’t it?
Who says the days of gallantry are over ?
A band of Penrith, N B.tv. revelleis, returning
from a dance, found that heavy rain had fallen
while they were chasing the hours, and ihat their
progress was impeded by a long stretch of mud.
One of the ladies of the compan> was p-eparing
to tramp through, however, when a happy
thought struck a hero who hauled a top rail off an
adjoining fence, sat the lady cn it, Sedan-chair
fashion, and with the help cf a male friend carried
her safe and dry aero: s tao quagmire. This en-
Couraged the other gallants to haul down more
rails, and so the whole ef the ladies were jolted
across, to the great delight of all, but more
especially to that of the party who owned the
fence.
Mr. Downer, the delegate from South
Australia, is not to b! allowed to submit the
Deceasel Wife’s Sister Question to the Imperial
Cmference. How ever, as the Conference is one
specially to consider defences, we really can’t see
any solid objection to the mother-in law matter
being brought forward.
Deerhurst is going away from Victoria in
Dudley's yscht—for very evident reasons. Dudley
charges no passage-money.
“ Park-paling style” is what ladies’ thick
handwriting (said to be adopted by some as a sign
of strODgmindedniss) is now called in England.
“ Hungry ” writes to the Melbourne Age
of 2nd March, that—
“ There is a club in Melbourne affecting affinity with the
btlha lettrea wfce e you are not tine of get’iDg a cigar at mid-
day, and are q< i e sure of not getting a bit of anything to
eat after 12 midnight; aod where, notwithstanding, the
honorary manager or secretary is reported to he a Helioga-
balus in appetite, and an Apicius in palate. Can anybody
unriddle the conn undrum involved in the etiatence of this
club? 1 '
We recommend “Hurgry” to give up both the
conundrum and the club at the same time.
We deeply regret to have to announce
that we shall soon see Lady Brassey, the Sunbeam,
ard “Tom.” “Tcm,” it may be explained, is
Lady Brassey's husband find was once a Lord of
the Admiralty. The “Sunbeam” s ar.ed late in
February from Bombay for Australia.
Field Flo wers Goe, the new Anglican Bishop,
of Melbourne, is to arrive in the Southern City on
April 14. No one is to be admitted to be present
when the address of welcome is presented to him
fer less than 10a. 6d. This includes In. eh. At
the lunch the Nanki Poo-Koko duet, in Act It of
DWEADFUL. WEALLY!
"FEARFUL THING THAT BULLI AFFAIR, MAJAH!
"YA-AA-SI A MINAHS LIFE IS A VEWY DANGEROUS ONE. BETTER BE A MAJAH
THAN A MINAH."
the Mikado, is not to bs sur gby the choir. Some
ot the clergy are objecting to the half guinea.
They want the address presented before lunch,
and for themselves to be let see the new bishop
for nothing. No, gentlemen, let Field F. Goe have
his lunch before he sees either yourselves or the
addresses, by all means.
• • •
There are to be six Supreme Court Judges
henceforth in N.B. W., and two of them, it is de-
clared on good authority, will be exolusive'y
devoted to divorce business. It is not yet decided
whether they will be paid for overtime or not.
Mr. Archibald C. Fraser, the N.S.W.
Under-Secretary for Justioe, will, we hear, shortly
again enter into the holy bonds.
A vety high and charming personage in
Sydney recently obterved that It was her intan-
tion “to be courteous to all, but to make no bosom
friends.'’
The Hon. Rupert Carington is now dubbed
Lord by a Sydney paper. Two Lord C'aiingtons!
Why, the Idea Is horrible We shall have a
trinity of Lords to worship direotly, at this rate.
At Walgett, N.S. W., a level-headed squat-
ter was recently applied to for a donation towards
the Church of England Ministers’ Stipend Fund.
A few day s afterward* the applicant received the
following business-like epistle from the shepherd
king: “ Sir,—l herein enclose you cheque for
£5, which I am willing to contribute annually to
the Parsons’ Stipend Fund, and I will engage to
increase it to £lO, providing the parson promises
never to come fooling and bothering about the
station."
Editor Bulletin. Sir, — la it not fair to
ask if the new N.S. W. I ivorce Law should not
include some cheaper provision for divorces, more
esreoially as any woman who tan b'en knocked
eb >ut for frix months by a drunker. husband would
not be likely to have much means i —H.P.
* * *
Now that the N.S.W. Divorce Extension
Bill is almost through, it may be flattering to
colonial legislators to know that during a recent
debate in the French Assembly, special mention
was made of Australia. Deputy Naquet has a
wish, it seems, to still further simplify matters
by making divorce in France a mere matter of
mutual consent, and in the course of his speech
he said :
“ He would like divorce to be placed just on the same foot
iog as in Australia, wh re social usage demands a ‘ divorce
dinner,’ to which all the persons in the land of the living
who were at the wedding of the divorced pair are invited.
In Paris I have known of ladies who joyously celebrated re-
lease from the matrimonial tie. But the repudiated hus-
bands were not at these celebrations. The Australian idea
is that at a divorce dinner the parting couple should, to
make their guests feel at their ebse, be animated by a spirit
of the most benevolent kindness to each other."
M. Naquet must have just been dining with a
cable-correspondent.
Lord Dudley has departed from Melbourne
and taken his aristocractic lineage and all that
along, but he has left his cook behind, which will,
no doubt, afford the Argus extreme satisfaction,
for if the elite of Toorak are bereft of the refining
influence of association with a sprig of our old
nobility, they may surely derive benefit from close
intimacy with his cook —who, by the way, alleges
that the Earl hadn’t paid him his wages. Lord D ,
with that extreme absence of mind which
characterises genius, seems to have quite
omitted to pay that cook his wages due,
and, what’s more, he adopted a plan
of getting rid of him which reflects g-eat credit
upon his delicate nurturing. The dear Lord took
out a warrant, and had his and then
unfurled his sails, hurried up steam, and silently
stole away, leaving the knight of the caboose to
face the beaks charged with nothing worth men-
tioning.
The appointment of Mr. E. D. Dobbie to
the office i f Tasmanian Solicitor-General appears
to have vexed the land-sharks in that colony, and
a petition signed by many leading lawyers, pro-
testing against the appointment, has been for-
warded to the Governor and Executive Council.
His lack of experience is the objection raised.
Mr. Dobbie is a young man who, by perseverance
and natural ability, raised himself from the posi-
tion of grocer’s apprentice to that of Parliamen-
tary draughtsman without any family influence
to assist him. and the distasteful fact of a man
risen from “the people” taking precedence of
these “aristocratic” limbs of the law, accounts
for much of their opposition.
*' * •
During the hot summer months Lady
Loch seeks a cheap and healthy seclusion in a
snug 20-roomed cottage, situated on the breesy
slope of Mount Mtcedon. The trip always
reduces housekeeping expenses, and usually
brings back the errant roee-flush to her ladyship’s
motherly cheeks. This year, unhappily, Sir
Henry Loch’s manageress inhaled mountain air,
and played at 4i buttercups and daisies ”in vain.
The thoughtless behaviour of Lord Deerhurst
worried h*r quite as much as the mosquitoes, you
know. The servants at Government House, too,
have inserted threads of silver among her hairs
of gold. Furthermore—as Lady Loch is actually
a woman, notwithstanding a contrary assertion to
which we must presently call attention—she has
fretted somewhat over the departure of her young
son fjr England. But enough if melancholy.
week Melbourne Punch published a poem
Oh Lady Loch Heturned. ’ A verse—
The stuff is cribbed from a gushing bard whose
naire we can t call to mind, and served up to the
distinguished invalid as something fresh. Great
Scott ! if Lady Loch can swallow it and live she
must he a pretty robust representative of the
grand British Constitution. Pagh !
Sling out your Melbourne rhymes,
Born of those toady times—
Crawl on your stomach, slimy snake,
Along lhe bloomirg street,
And lick her angel feet;
\ouTl revel in the task for her de r sake,
But when the goddess reads that verse,
We shouldn’t be surprised to hear she's taken
worse.
Sir Robert and Lady Hamilton have been
received in Tasmania with a great flourish of
trumpets. His Excellency, by praising the Der-
went, Mount Wellington, and the climate, appears
likely to be extremely popular with the “ natives.”
Henry Sampson, of the Referee, described
Melbourne as the most “governed” city under-
neath the sun The down trodden traveller can’t
g f t a drink, or buy a bunch of grapes on a Sab-
bath Day. He must walk his horse over the
crossings and help to make a block at every point
of cross traffic. He mustn't smoke on a railway
platform, or under the piazzvs of the General
Post Office. He mustn’t wear h'shat in the dress-
circle of a theatre between acts —a piivilegein
which every true-born Briton revels. The trades-
man, again, is harassed by Council regulations
that increase and multiply like the little r»bbits.
To the making of laws there is no end. These
preliminary remarks thrown fairly off our chest,
we beg to call attention to the real business of the
meeting. The local magnates of Prahran (Melb.)
have decided to suppress the matutinal wail of
Milk O-o-o ! Some old lady—who evidently
keeps her own cow—has suffered annoyance from
the n ilkman's war cry, so the Council have de-
cided to communicate with the police upon this
matter. Meanwhile, a clause is ta be added to
some precious bye-law, making “ Milk 0 o-o ! ” a
criminal offence, punishable with the Lord-knows-
what.
When we saw young Lord Dudley “doing”
Flemington racer in white linen trousers, and
thick black cloth coat, and a stove-pipe hat, ir,
dawned upon us that th® slop-made litt e youth
was assuming to be “ peculiar,” in emulation of
his poor papa. The inference was correct Dudley
has been playing the raternal game in Melbourne
by neglecting to pay for a pair of opera-glasses
until the patient vendor served him with a Police
Court summons. The opera glasses, by the way,
were specially dedicated "To Fanny.” The late
Lord Dudley—who scent more than half-a-million
on jewellery for his wife, and occasionally relieved
the Queen of the expense of entertaining foreign
potentates—would let himself be dunned for small
amounts until his wretched creditors got sick and
made him a pieseLt of the money.
* # .
Our noble visitor, Lord Sandhurst, re-
ceived a nasty “jar” at a Ballarat dinner.
Drivelling about the “goodness” of Sir William
Clarke and the prosperity of his Dowling Forest
tenants. Lord Sanolrurst said: “In England many
circumstances had arisen to make the farmer un-
tiaipy, and he thought that the farmers here
should write to their friends at home and tell
them of the fertility of the land, and their own
success ” It never occurred to his lordship to
nrentim that he and his c'ass were the aforesaid
"circumstances that had arisen,’ but Sir Henry
Wrenfordsley (late Chief Justice of Western Aus-
tralia) gave the necessary hint. He "thought
that Lord Sandhurst could apply at home the
lessons learned here. What was wanted at home
was landlords who would say to their tenants,
' How can you live ? Or what can you pay per
year for a farm and still fulfil your obligations to
your family and to the State ?’ ” Lord S. was so
visibly shaken b 7 this jar that Croesus Clarke
ordered “ brandy for his lordship,” and the meet-
ing adjourned.
* * *
What iij the total amount of the subscrip-
tions received from Earl Dudley, Karl Cairns
Lord Sandhurst, and the Earl of Aberdeen
towards the Bull! Disaster Fund? We don’t
expect Lord Deer-hurst to subscribe much.
A little while ago it was announced that
Lady Carington would not receive visitors for
about a month. How wonderful that not one of
the old ladies at: ached to the Sydney dailies has
ventured to assign the reason 1
Lord Carington’s brother has left Sydney
on a trip to Fiji. J
* * *
Lord and Lady Carington have issued In-
vitations for a ball to take place on April 19. Her
ladyship will hold a reception on 18th April.
•
An engagement is announced in England
between Miss Helena Chadwick, daughter of Mr.
Robert Chadwick, of Edgecliffe-road, Sydney and
Lieut. George Osborne, R.A.
* * *
Gympie goldfield, for the first time of its
20 years’ existence has been written up, eocially
historically, and m’neralogicaliy, by Mr. A. j|
Ivimey. The Sydney agents are Turner and
Herder-son, and the copies will include a map of
the field and Warden Hodgkinson's report for
1886, now first published.
A company of rather “ swagger ” amateurs
will play "Caste," “ under distinguished patron-
age ’’—which, of course, means that of Lord and
Lady C.- at the New Masonic Hall, Sydney, on
Friday, May 6, in aid of the Infants’ Home, Ash-
field. The courageousness of the elaborate young
gentlemen who venture to publicly mix themselves
up with this deserving institution cannot be too
“ RjPfi* out, ye Melbourne chimss !
King for the happier limes,
Korn of the Maoedon mountain’s pain ;
To ni -it/wls in the town
Their goddess hath come down
From oil her mount to dwell with them again;
And like the mount the desert street
I)-th bloom and blossom into flowers beneath
her feet. ’


highly commended. By the way, the company
will —by way ot a full-dress rehearsal, no doubt-
give the same performance at Manly Beach on the
evening of May s—the proceeds to go to the
Manly Rowing Club.
A few people say that the members of the
Union Club, Sydney, will give a dance shortly after
Easter.
The Marquis and Marchioness of Huntley
arrived in Sydney from N Z. by the Manapouri,
last Sunday. The Marquis traces his pedigree
back to some of the most remote assassin s and
cattle-stealers in Scotland, and many of his an-
cestors have died suddenly.
The Hon. E. Stanley, nephew of the Earl
of Derby, will shortly visit Sydney, when he will
be the guest of Lord and Lady Caring ton.
* • •
St. Mary’s, Maryborough (Q.), was the
scene of a very pretty wedding on March 24th,
when Miss Kate Hanley became Mrs. W. C.
Powell, the Rev. J. O Reilly tying the knot. The
bride and bridesma ! ds looked lovely, the bride-
groom quite resigned, and Mr. J. H. Cherry the
ve-y beau ideal ot “ best man."
* *
Admiral Fairfax, Mrs. Fairfax, and Flag-
lieutenant Erskine are passengers by the Shannon,
which is due shortly at Sydney.
* • *
There was at least one Sydney young lady
at Mentone on the earthquake day. How she con-
ducted herself is not stated, but her aunt left the
hotel in the snowy robes of night apd performed
her toilet in the street.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Queen Victoria’s train caught fire last
Week. No damage was done. It d'dn't get as
high as the wires—the telegraph-wires we mean.
It was a railway train, dontcherknow.
Te Peheri, a Maori Christian, has been
and gone and done it. He found his wife spooning
with another Maori, so, laying the erring brown
female across his knee he broke her neck.
“ Ah ! my beloved, may I hope to clasp
you to-morrow to my bosom and depict to you
again our future happiness in the glowing colours
of phantasy ? ’ “No, love; not to-morrow—to-
morrow is washing day.”
A “flash” young damosel, at Sydney
Central Court last week, charged with vagrancy,
applied for a remand on the ground that the was
about to be married. The prosecuting bobby said
he had no objection. We should think not. Little
he carer how much trouble he makes for the
divorce judges.
Australia is still suffering from the after-
effects of that Mount Rfenoie ou' rage. Another
Melbourne young lady has failed in her attempt
to hang a young man for criminal assault When
the same game has been played a few more times
we shall have to consider the advisableness of hang
ing one of the girls as an example.
The Queen recently requested one of her
ladies to meet Lady Colin Campbell and tell her
that Her Gracious considered her character had
been fully vindicated. This was evkbmtiy in-
tended as a hard knock for that lone Lome
crittur her Maiesty’s son-in-law, and for the whole
red headed brotherhood from the Western High-
land?.
Senator Smith (U.S.A.), has made a big
three-feet stride in the right direction by intro-
ducing a Bill which provides for the annul-
ling of the marriage-contracts of women
who enter the shekinah benisoned state of matri-
mony while under 18 years of age. The New York
Tribune remarks that Mr. Smith should “ follow
up this Bill with another providing for annulling
ministers that marry women under 16.”
At Wolverhampton (Eng.) a doctor’s wife
was making the tea, when she discovered that the
“ cosy ” was missing. There was a long search
for it all through the house, and finally it was dis-
covered in a shed at the back of the premises.
The doctor's head was inside it ; he had first
soaked his handkerchief in chloroform and rammed
it in his month, and had then drawn the tea-cosy
over his head, and slept with his fathers.
James Howard, aged 85, has come to grief
in Texas. He married a girl of 14, and then,
dragging her out of bed one night, hung her up
by the feet, and branded her in various places
with the iron which he used to mark his cattle.
This was, of course, a valuable precaution in case
she got lost, but it didn’t agree with the girl’s
health, and the neighbours took a dislike to the
aged and cautious husband, and hanged him.
At a Maryborough (Q.) Small Debts Court
recently Miss Wilhelmina Ott sued one Charles
Withmop for £3O damages, sustained through his
Having broken his promise of marriage. The
P.M., however, lectured Miss Ott on her folly in
bringing her case into the Small Debts instead of
the District Court, and only fined the perfidious
Charles £1 3s. 6d. in all! We feel the lady has
been hardly dealt with She ott certainly to have
received her £3O. The naughty Charles
was, at the same time, entangled with another
virgin who threatened a Supreme Court Action
for £2OO.
There seem to be two sorts of billets in
the different Government services of Australasia.
In some the occupant does no work ; in others he
actually returns a fair day’s work for a not too
fair day’s pay One of the latter is a lady State-
school teacher in Victoria, whose case has been
made public. She has charge of a school In a re-
mote country district, and complains that she has
“ to live in a ballock-diiver'a hut on the tare necessaries
of life—mutton, bread and tea ; the only water obtainable in
. dry weather being got from rcoop-holee; and that, in wet
weather, in < rder to get to her school she has to wade
through a cr ek, and thus teach all day in wet clothes."
The magnificent salary for this is something over
£1 a week.
There is just now at Clermont (Q.) a
oitizen who vows he will take proceedings and a
long-handled shovel against his wife if only he can
find her, and even if he should have to wait 20
years for his chance he will pulverise t-hat woman
before he dies. While he was up country on
business the fair creature raffled all the furniture
and skipped with the money, leaning on another
fellow’s arm as she went, and when her lord and
master leturned, the watchful and intelligent
policeman served a summons on him for per-
mit'iig gambling on hir premises. The bobby
had been treasuring up the document for a
fortnight, instead of chasing the wife, who
was now gone beyond recall. The victim read the
paper through and then expressed a hope that a
typhoid headed vampire might hang on to the
policeman’s vitals in the next world for 10,000 years
and more. Upon this there was another summons
for obscene language, and pendiDg the hearing
the victim sits in his empty cottage reelirgoff
deep and complex anathemas at his wife and the
muddle-headed policeman, who won’t let him start
off in pursuit.
A motherly-looking old female with gray
hair, solid ankles, a scarcity of teeth, and a basket j
in her hand, recently paid a shilling for a hot bath
in a New Zealand town. She remained in two
and a half hours, and as she paid no attention
whatever to the pathetic appeals of the attendant,
that unprotected male at last put his head in at
the door. He found his customer washing a
mangy-looking poodle in the bath, the dog having
evidently been smuggled in in the basket, while
two eggs were cooking in a bowl under the hot-
water tap, some tea was being brewed, and a
plate, knife, and fork, some bread, cheese, and
other victuals were laid out on the window-sill.
A ROMANCE OF THE DIVORCE LAW.
“One of the objections advanced by Mr. Gould, M.P. in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly, to divorce in consequence of a husband being imprisoned for a term of three
years, had Arcadian freshness. He pictured the case of a wife who, finding her
husband locked away from her embraces, committed herself to another matrimonial
rite with a more accessible adorer. “Remember,” observed Mr. Gould, “ that there
may still be in her bosom the smouldering fires of the old love.” Well, the period of
release arrives. The gaol door opens, and the long locked-up husband rushes to his
old home. At sight of him the fires that have been smouldering blaze up. She
throws herself in his arms. “Now,” went on Mr. Gould, “in such a case is there
not a danger that complications may arise? —Daily Peeper.
The attendant tried to explain that the place was
not a restaurant and dog-purifying establishment,
but his ears were suddenly boxed, and then he
got the customer run in.
The Melbourne Age has reached its
10,000 th issue. Its first number saw the light on
17th October, 1854. When the paper passed into
the hands of the present proprietary its circulation
was only 2000; now it is 68,000 daily. David
Syme attributes most of his success to his having
led, instead of following, public opinion.
Says a West Australian paper :
” We learn, on good authority, that a company 'is about to
be floated on the Greenoush Flats forthepurpose of securirg
the services of a medical man for the public there. The
company has already made arangements with two eminent
men, and nearly all the shares have been taken up."
The company should also float an undertaking
establishment and a boneyard. It has but a small
idea of business if it don’t.
A religious paper published in Melbourne
in the interests of those amiable visiODaties, the
Second Adventists, says it hopes “to be able to
report, next month, a large addition to the ranks
of those who are looking for a speedy return of
the Lord from heaven.” Well, who knows? —
” In the serenely sinful days of old,
Christ spoke with Jewish doctors, we are told;
But now on earth were He once more enticed,
Our Christian doctors would not Bpeak to Christ.”
There is a great scarcity of draught horses
in N.Z. Since the commencement of large im-
portations to Sydney some four years ago, about
12,000 horses have been sent thither from Littel-
ton alone. Even this large number does not fully
represent the loss to the colony, for many farmers
who, in consequence of the low price of grain,
gave up cropping, also gave up breeding horses,
and their brood mares went the way of their work-
ing teams —to Sydney.
By this time Mr. Panton, P.M., of Mel-
bourne, no doubt wishes to Heaven he had rever
seen a lord in his life—“ It is broadly hinted that as
Lord Dudley, who sat an the bench, and Mr. Pan-
ton both have yachts in the Bay, and Lord Deer-
hurst is fond of yachting; the magistrate
might by associations possible under these circum-
stances have unoonsciously become so prepossessed
in favour of one of the principals in the oase,
that he oould see no wrong in him. The constitu-
tion of the bench has also been condemned. On
It were three members of the Melbourne Club—an
institution that welcomes Lord Deerhurst into
membership— and two of these men were the Hon.
W. M’Culloch and Mr. Ma-s Buckley, but these
men never sat on the bench previously, while
another gentleman, who acted, is stated to te
well-known at the Victorian Club, which august
body expelled Sutton. Even the book-makers
themselves, however, now see that there has been
a miscarriage of justice, and a petition already
signed by 60 sportiDg men, will shortly be pre-
sented to the Victorian Club, asking that Sutton
again be admitted to membership.
“ Dagonefc,” when in Paris the other day,
went to the morgue :—“ Formerly the bodies were
laid out on slabs, and from a tap at the head cool
w at* r trickled over the corpse. You remember
Robert BrowniDg’s poem on the subject, and what
a splendid word picture he drew of the unclaimed
dead who lay behind the Plate-glass window ex-
posed to the gaze of the idle crowd. When I
went in the other morning I found three bodies
there. But they were all full dressed and laid on
i metal trucks. The dead men had even their
billycock hats on, and the effect to me was
hideous. Two of the men had been found in the
{ Seine, and one had evidently been murdered. To
see them bruised, disfigured, and swollen, but
dressed in their every-day clothes, was far more
shocking than it used to be to see them laid out
decently on the cool slabs. The morgue was
crammed, and ladies predominated. There are
Parisians who take a stroll in the Morgue every
day of their lives, generally iust before or after
the midday. Some of the lower-class men and
w omen crack gruesome jokes at theexpense of the
poor diffigured dead who lie there with their set
faces and ttaiitg eyes to be a peep-show to the
thoughtless mob. After an hour spent with a
Pai isian erowd looking at the dressed-up corpses
i f ihe unknown dead, I am inclined to be thank-
ful that we haven’t a Morgue in London. The
effect is as unwhole ome and mischievous as our
public executions nsed to be.”
D. ar Bulletin, —What oursex wantsisthe
higher development, hut in what way it seems nei-
ther the hankerers after woman suffrage, nor the
leaned gentlemen who run our colleges, nor the doc-
tors whose theories sire always against u», seem to
have decided. We know. They will acknow-
ledge our brains might he as large, if our bodies
are smalt r, that a woman is as capable of endur-
ing suffering as a man, that she is as able to stand
the racket if left to provide for a large family and
bring them up in the way they should go, as any
man ; but still a mean jealousy on the part of our
tyrants keeps us on a dead level —but we must
have a higher development, A greater emanci-
pation than that of the negroes in the Indies will
take place one day. What they have forgotten in
the education they sigh for is science. Not the
‘ isms” and “ologies” as taught now, but the
noble art of self-defence. What is the use of a
female going in for suffrage for the sex until that
gentle tex is raised a step higher? There are a
number of young ladies learning to swing Indian
dub 3 and use dumb bells who will never be
called on to use their muscular development in
anything worse than a struggle with the last
ne w thlDg from the music-shops, and so it can all be
considered a sheer waste of time. What I should
propose would be "a proper school of scientific
defence—a national affair, in fact —for women,
and then there would not be half the struggle
aga'nst the matrimonial destiny that seems to
trouble our minds so new. If any married couple
knew they were equal, or nearly to, in the noble
art of self-defence peace would reign in the
domestic circle, and the ancient legends of the in-
the-way-propstick, or the flying piece of wood, and
the flat-iron that smiteth, would be unheard at
last. They are stale. And the day may come, no
doubt, when two pairs of boxing-gloves- em-
broidered or otherwise —will form part of the out-
fit of any bride who coasiders herself worth
knowing; and a black eye on either side will be
worth having, instead of, as now, being considered
a confession of weakness on one side, or a mark
for the scoffer on the other. This is a Jubilee sug-
gestion, and about as sentible as the majority.—
Susan.
CORRESPONDENCE
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
Address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we deeire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ J.B. (Pyrmont): Hardly good enough for
The Bulletin, yet too good for the W.P.8....“A. L.
Hinton (Sydey): We will compare the items as you suggest....
" Gaffney (BiDgle): Rhymes hardly suitable, though they
contain more solid fact than a lot of Tennyson’s. Pluck
You fill ten long verses in stating that the girls of the present
diy are too ambitious, but one well-arranged paragraph
would have convened the point in three lines. If you had
gone in for condensation you could have laid down your
central fact and had time enough left to cast a mellow glow
over an acre of corn, and half-sole a pair of boots, and you
wouldn’t have felt so tired at the end as you do n0w..,.
“Skitastic”: We are holding over your “Dying Shepherd.’’
As for " Regret,” so far as we can understand, your object
in writing it was to explain that, having quarrelled with
your girl many years ago, you had neglected your business
and cobbed ever since. Why in thunder don’t you get another
girl ? 1 here are plenty of them—nice ones, too " Author
of “Nightmare”: Almost every eminent man has the
nightmare—we have it ourselves at times—so ycur yarn
about an “ Exoellency ” dreaming he was being eaten
by a Kanaka is no great shakes after all
“ G.H.M.” (Lower Hutt, N.Z.): Thanks, but held over the for
present....“ Topsy” : Thanks “ Quarterstaff ” : The Duke
of Norfolk is the premier duke ; the Earl of Shrewsbury—the
fellow who ran away with another fellow’s wife—is the pre-
mier earl “ Humanity Well wait awhile...." G.T.”
(Hawthorn) : Thanks. Will meditate on the subject for a
week....“ E.W.8." (Toowomba) : When next you write*
please give us something legible “Frank Fynn ” iMoss*
man River): We don’t remember having seen the MS
“8. Anderson”: Bradlaugh cid in effect refuse to take
the oath, inasmuch as he asked for leave to affirm
“ Reader ” : You musi order Henry George's paper, the
Standard, through a news-agent. So far, it is not on sale
in Australia....“ Wycheproof ” : Thanks. Handed to artist.
—“H. T. Gordon " : Much obliged “You Know Who ” :
What are you driving at?....'*P.N.” : We stick to our
opinion that should Hanlan again row Beach, the latter will
go d0wn....“ W. 8.” : There is only one thing in Paikes’
whole career of which he has real reason to be proud: He
was once a Chartist “ W. Bruton” What are you giving
us ?—“ R.W.C.”: If you want a poet, go to the Down and
Gumtree Jernel. They have plenty of poets chained up
in the office...." Philip Barnes” (Launceston): Your fist is
like a dog-fight, and when we see it coming we sit down and
gloomily enquire “ I- there no surcease from sorrow?” Your
writing doesn’t give your matter a 5h0w....” Mungo ”: They
will get their “gruel” it is now tolerably plain
“ E.L J.” : We only publish the marrow, not the marrow
b0ne....“H.P.” : Better write to Henry George, 25 Ann-
street, New York. He has been asked to appoint agents in
Australia....“ Marrable” (Sydney): You are obviously loaded
for bear, but we have already stated your fact and a lot of
other facts as well in six lines “Thomas Henry ” (Wil-
cannia): Tell us, Thomas, why did you rush to the telegraph
« ffice and wire us as a “ collect ” message a lengthy extract
from the Psalms, and fancy you were doing some good re the
Bulli catastrophe ? And why did you garble up the Psalms
so that David himself would not know them ? And why did
jou leave out all the small words and spoil all the big ones
till the affair looks like an essay by a blind dog? Why don’t
you leave us alone, Thomas? “ J.J.” : Much obliged.
Would republish if it had not already appeared in a Sydney
paper. Subscriber ’’: Next week “ J.M.” (Glen
Innes): We have got our eye focussed on your poetry, but
have not quite made up our mind what to do with it.
Couldn’t you manage to write either a little better ar a good
deal worse ?
An Idle Hour.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little sleepy, silent stream
That flanks a flat of flowering weed ;
A row of willows and a gleam
Of meadow where fat oxen feed ;
A sudden bend of nestling reed,
Faint odorous hints of oats and hay ;
And here I lie in an age of speed,
And dream an idle hour away.
Afar I hear the roar of steam,
Afar I see his iron steed ;
Right useful in their way, I deem,
But here I give them litt'e heed :
Yon pair of doves that poar their meed
Of song toward the golden day,
And more to me—they hold my oreed,
And dream an idle hour away.
What sage was it who launched the theme
That idle hours bear bitter seed ?
Poor fool!. he died, he dreamt Life's dream —
Was his more sweet than mine indeed}
Enough for me if every need
Be satisfied and find its pay ;
Then, free, I seek some grassy mead,
And dream an idle hour away.
Envoy.
0, merchants! Misers I slaves of greed 1
Time flies, the years are growing gray ;
Come, leave your desk and leave your deed,
And dream an idle hour away 1
GEORGE HENRY.
WHAT MADE HIM GLAD.
He was old and alone, and he eat on a stone to
rest for a while from the road ;
His beard was white, and his eye was bright, and
his wrinkles overflowed
With a mild content at the way life went, and I
closed the book on my knee;
“ I will venture a look in this living book," I
thought, as he greeted me.
And I said : “ My friend, have you time to spend
to tell me what makes you glad ? ’’
“ Oh, aye, my lad," with a smile : “I am g led
that I'm old, jet am never sad I ”
“ But why ? ” said I, ard his merry eye made an
answer as much as his tongue ;
“ Because," said he, “ I am poor and free who was
rich and a slave when young."
MRS. CRAWFORD.
[A. LONDON EPIGRAM.]
Virginia’s the lady’s name,
But “ Nia ” most folks say—
They do not use the other half,
’Cos she’s not built that way.


the Reperee
Doubtful and showery weather did no
frighten a big assemblage from visiting the open
iog day of Hawkesbiry meeting. Whitefoo
showed most foot in the Hurdles, which he won
after running a most patient race. Abner did no
justify the pot made of him for the Kowley Mile
as he failed to run into a place, Matador winninf
by half a length from Stanley. Abercorn won the
Claret Stakes, and holly made an easy win of the
Kailway Handicap. Some dOOO people must have
attended the second day, which turned out a regu
lar scorcher. Sentence opened the ball by win
ning the Shorts Handicap ; and Mr. Long's (i to ‘
chance, Exbank, made rather a comfortable win
of the two-year-old Selling Plate. Honeydew had
most call at 3 to 1 for the Hawkesbury Handicap,
and all went vtell until the distance was negoti-
ated, when tie Nun fell and gave her rider a
heavy shaking. Entering the straight Stanley
was in command, followed by Sorello, Peeress, and
Frisco. Stanley won by two lengths from Sorello,
who was hard presst d by Frisco for second place.
Goldlake won the Disposal plate ; and Folly
wound up the meeting by winning the Sports-
man's Handicap from Willeroo.
• • •
Next Tuesday the popular Jack Hall and
the Yankee “Young Mitchell’' are to meet in
Larry Foley’s classic circle in a Queensberry en-
counter to a finish. Rumour has it that “ Young
Mitchell ” was not showing his best hand when
opposed to little Murphy, and, if such be the case,
the show on Tuesday night should prove some-
thing out of the common. Costello, the American
middleweight, has not yet found a mark, and it
does not look as if he is likely to do so unless he
tackles the champion, Peter Jackton.
• ♦ »
Foley cleared £43 for the Bulli Fund out
of the benefit he gave on Wednesday evening,
when some scientific boxing and wrestling was
gone through. “Professor” .lackson played with
Kiley for four rounds, ai d showed togreat advant
age. Jackson is on the stout side just now. which
rather improves his appearance in ring costume.
For chest, arms, and shoulders, the “ Professor ”
is a picture, and, barring his rather fine loin, it
would be hard to find a finer specimen of
humanity. Larry Foley and Jack Thompson gave
something in the style of their old days. They
went at it hot and strong, atd when they rallied
showed some clever infighting, a portion of a
boxer’s education, by the way, in which, with a
couple of exceptions, the present Sydney boxers
are sadly deficient. Some wrestling was shown
after the boxing was done.
The London Referee has cruelly given
Jem Stewart away. They say, in commentirg on
Stewart’s proposed match-makiDg with Jackson,
that “ Jem is a tenth rater, or worse, that he is
not a hard-hitter or quick ; is not clever ; is as
soft as a mud pie ; and that Alt Greenfield gave
him a licking with one hand.” So Tiie Bulletin
was not far out when it stated some time since,
that given Molloy in tip-top buckle, he would be a
fairer match for Stewart than Peter Jackson.
Baxter’s so-called fight to a finish with
Ward, on Saturday night, at Larry Foley's, was a
miserable exhibition. He succumbed in a ccuple
of rounds after receiving punishment that nice
schoolboys out of ten would smile at.
*
“Old-Timer,” Gulgorg, asks us to explain
how it is that men of the present day are knocked
out with gloves in a few rounds, whilst in his day
pugilistic gentlemen, with the “raw-’uns,” and
throwing given in, used to last a much longer
period before “ going to sleep.” It is very evident
Old-Timer has never tried a fast Queensbeiry
three minutes. In a “ring” fight the men when
winded may take a blow and go down in a few
seconds, when they are taken to their corners,
but in a glove fight, should they go down before
three minutes have expired, they must be up and
at it in ten seconds. The Sayers and Heenan
match certainly averai/ed, close upon three-minute
rounds for the two hours, but it must not be lost
eight of that some of the rounds occupied but a
few seconds Langhau’s fight with Sparks the
Australian was of lightning rapidity, no lc3B than
63 rounds being gone through in 63 minutes, and
no better fight than this can be cited to show the
difference in ring and Queensberry fighting. In
the 36th round, Sparks had Langham pretty well
at a standstill, and had it been three-minute
rounds, the Australian must have won, but the
wily Langham went down on the slightest provo-
cation until the 58th round, when lie got strong
again and recommenced fighting.
Mayo, as per usual, did not make much of
a mistake when he gave Elsinore for Stanley, and
“ a bit ” to boot.
* * *
A jockey’s life is far from being all beer
and skittles. Poor little Fiddes, who had the
winning mount la t year on Meteor in the Hawkes-
bury Handicap, and whose win, by the way,
ruined E. B: Holt, was on the Nun last Saturday,
and when she came down he received a severe
shaking and a hurt-arm. The poor little mite,
however, travelled home in the horse box in
charge of his mount, and seemed quite thankful
when a passeDger gave him a drink of water.
Common humanity should have prompted the
sending home of the lad in a more comfortable
manner.
Some of the “ rats ” were perfectly gor
geous at the Hawkesbury on Saturday last. One
gentleman sported a scarlet velveteen coat with
dollar buttons, But the weather was warm, and
“Thummy ” perspired freely, and when he doffed
his coat and decided to work in his shirt-sleeves,
he looked as if the “liver push " had been pelting
him with offal.
* * #
Paddy Hammell, alias “ Cook’s River
Paddy,” applied to the Bathurst Bench, on
W ednesday week, for a free pass to the Destitute
Asylum, as he was stone-broke, and could get no
suitable work to do. He was duly sent along. In
the good old bare knuckle days, long before boxers
punched each other with feat her pillows, Paddy was
a plugger of some reputation, and fought many a
tough battle, one of the best being at Cook’*
River, April 17th, 1849, when he was knocked ou
by Abe Davis in a 23 minutes’ tight of 12 rounds.
* • *
Spade Guinea, the Maori flyer, is the
champion kicker. Once this playful brute opens
business in the saddling paddock there is a general
stampede of admirers, and by the time half-a-
dozen revolutions are performed, that part of the
enclosure is as devoid of life as some of our ex-
changes. During the race for the recent Napier
Park Cup (N.Z.), an alien, named Pat Hogan,
who was craning his neck over the fence, had his
left ear kicked o ff by the “ Spade " as clean as if
a Chinaman had mowed it down with a long
handled shovel. The race committee offered to buy
the amputated member, and roof the Grand Stand
with it, but Hogan declined to sell, and it was
subsequently stitched on by a doctor.
* * *
Gamecock, a veteran performer over big
timber, won the Grand National Steeplechase at
Liverpool. The second horse, Savoyard, was
formerly known as a sprinter on the flat.
* * •
Those great rum. ers, George and Myers,
have been a dead frost in Sydney. On l y about a
thousand persons attended to see their 1500 yards’
match last Monday afternoon. As in the first
race. George took up the running and Myers fell
in at the rear until the back of the course was
reached in the last lap, when Myers made an
effort but was responded to by the Knglishman.
About 150 yards from home, Myers spurted past
the leader, and appeared to be winning hands
down. Some 20 yards from the tape, George made
MELBOURNE NEWSPAPER ENTERPRISE.
FIRST NEWSBOY: "IS THERE GOIN' TO BE A 15th EDITION OF THE ’ERALD TO-
NIGHT, BILL?”
SECOND NEWSBOY: “WHY, OF COURSE THERE IS."
FIRST NEWSBOY “HOW DO YOU KNOW?”
SECOND NEWSBOY: “WHY, THERE’S A BIG RAT BEEN CAUGHT IN CASTLEMAINE
I SOR THE TELEGRAM MYSELF JUST TEN MINUTES AGO.”
a gallant effort, and, taking the American by sue
prise, drew up nearly level, and looked to be weJ
in it, but Myers pulled himaelf together and won
by a bare half yard in 3min. 46sec.
Jack Thompson and Larry Foley have
taken over the “ Bondi Club,” and a beautiful
spot it is : but the amalgam will terminate fatally,
we a e sure, for they will certainly talk one
another to death. As to their visitors
If Larry or Jack alone could be met,
Outsiders might chance have a say ;
But now- a word edgeways they never will get,
Cos the pugs aren’t built that way.
Moses, of Auckland, is a bookmaker who
is always ready with a little cash assistance when
it is wanted. The other day he was strolling aim*
lessly through the streets when he was stuck up
by a Scripture reader generally nicknamed Sawm-
singer, who asked if he was willing to donate a
little for the good cause. Moses felt listlessly in
his pocket and handed out a note, remarking that
he had won it over the Takapuna Handicap, and
the Scripture man took it cordially. But two
days later the bookmaker received it back with
an intimation that after earnest and prayerful
consideration it had been resolved that a blessing
would not rest, &c. Then Moses put the pound on
an outsider at the Dunedin races, and turned it
into £2O, and he afterwards played poker with the
£2O, and after shouting three cases of fizz out of
his winnings, had £37 left. A blessing had rested
on the donation after all,
* * •
The pre-eminence of John Roberts, jun.,
in the world of English billiards has inspired
some novel expedients in matchmaking during
the past season. After giving points to all and
sundry at the “ spot barred ” game, Roberts put
himself on an equal footing with second class men
by allowing them “all in” and playing “spot
barred ” himself. Later we read of him play in
Davy Richards on level term*, spot barred, wit
this proviso—that Richards should have the fre
run of the table, while the champion should b
denied any use of the left hand top pocket. Any
one versed in the game can understand how thi
restriction hampers even such an artist as
Roberts; nevertheless he contrived to beat hi
clever opponent easily. Richards, too, is superio
to anyone in Australia (not excepting Evans) a
an all-round billiardist.
* * •
Item for sporting writers. The latest term
in Melbourne for bad bowling is “tripe.” We
have ourselves seen tripe ere now, but it was not in
a bowl. It was on a plate. That was in the days
when we wooed the tragic muse, and dined at the
“ Full and Plenty.” “ Ah, life in death, the days
that are no more! ”
Joe Thompson (Melb.) has collected £240
among the * ‘ books ’’ for the colliery widows and
orphans. Bulli for Joe !
* # *
At Newmarket (Eng.) in February last,
Mr. C. W. Bulpett, a well-known University
athlete, backed himself to walk a mile, ride a
mile, and run a mile in 18 minutes. Old Father
Time was beaten, and to spare. The walk took
Bmin. 26secs., the run 6min. oseca., and the ride
2min. 26secs. Total, 16min. 57secs.
• • •
Hanlan still states his intention to start
for Australia in August next, after his engage-
ment with Gaudaur, with the intention of meet-
ing Beach on the Nepean. Should Hanlan suffer
defeat at the hands of Gaudaur, it will no doubt
alter his stated programme.
• • •
The Victorians have finally decided on
their intercolonial eight-oar crew Bow, E. It
Airly, lOst. 61b. ; No. 2, F. J. Tajlor, lOst. 121 b. ;
No. 3, W. J. Leverett, list. 41b. ; No. 4, S. H.
Gowdie; lOst. 101 b.; No. 5, J. L. Bannister, 13st.
61b. ; No. 6, G. Harrison, list. 91b. ; No. 7, A.
Chamley, 12st. 41b. ; stroke, R. D. Booth, 12st
41b. The crew picked to represent Queensland
tailed to turn up to practice, and the idea of send-
ing them to Sydney has been abandoned.
* * *
The London Sporting Life says our
Beach is a powerful, thick set man, who rows
with a round back and sits in his boat on a level
with the top of the saxboards, which makes him
look when in her a bigger man than he really is.
Beach’s “ round back ” is caused by the bunches
of muscle which he carries between his shoulders :
and as to the height he sits in his boat we have
always looked upon it as the great secret of the
power he gets on. The Sporting Times man
must indeed be a glutton when he asks for a
bigger man than Beach.
Woman writes—rubbish.
Somebody else has been having a shot
at the Czar—and missed, the wretch, actually
missed.
The Sydney D.T. has commenced to “rat”
from Parkes. It has now Jrgun to howl for a
land-tax.
A Sydney firm of architects has taken
the preliminary steps in a £5OOO libel-action against
Cardinal Moran, who seems to be a gentleman
with a rather bad temper.
A usually cautious senior-constable put his
No. II foot in it at Sydney Central last week. He
was describing the arrest of a thief, and got a
little mixed. Said he : “Jn company with some
other thieves—policemen I mean—l arrested the
prisoner.” The smile that irradiated the Court at
this was more lustrous than the electric light.
“ The Bulletin” Reasons why Membe
of Parliament should leceive Pay
ment ior their Political Services.
1. Because a man cannot attend properly to
own business, and also to the business of t
country simultaneourly.
2. Because only men who can afford to sacrifi
a certain amount of time now sit and vote
members of Parliament.
3. Because it is the possession of Property whic
enables them to sacrifice this certain amount o
time, and Labour is r ever afforded an opportuni
of honest representation.
4. Because if a poor man enters the House
represent labour, his necessity often compels hi
to sell his vote to the representatives of Property
5. Because, even if the poor man who repr
sente Labour does so honestly, his necessity ofte
compels him to make unworthy use of his position
a member of Parliament to support his famil
and this degrades his representative character.
6. Because in any struggle in which the issue
lie between Labour and Capital, the latter is sur
on account of its preponderance of representation
to get the best of the battle.
7. Because if you do not pay a man for wor
performed he will pay himself.
8. Because sub rosa payments are only a form
of bribery and a means of corruption.
9. Because what is worth doing at all is wort
paying for.
10. Because if you do not pay your legislator
they will claim many indulgences of a most ex
travagant character, which in the end will prov
a far more expensive mode of rewarding them.
11. Because wealthy men will always bo fount
to pose as patriots, to enter the House to 100
after the country’s interests, while in reality the
are safeguarding the interests of Property agains
Labour.
12. Because the great majority of the nation
not being landowners,are practically disfranchise!
in a Parliament where it is only possible for land
owners a'd their creatures to sit and manufacture
the laws of that nation.
13. Because in a country where members o:
Parliament are not paid it is common for grea
acts of corruption and political immorality to be
winked at, the people excusing the sinner with
“Well, you can’t blame him for f eathei ing his
nest—he is poor or, ‘‘ He has done a lot for the
country for which he never received a penny ; you
surely can’t blame him for taking a little for
himself.”
14. Because, in a country where payment o
members was the law of the land, people would
deal more stringently with politicians and treat
them more as servants paid for the safeguarding a
public trust, whereas now their pecadiloes are
winked at as the slips of patriots who owe the
country nothing, and who take charge of the
country’s affairs for nothing.
15. Because the administrators of the law are
paid, from the court-crier up to the judge, on a
scale of increasing importance, while the men
holding the highest positions, the makers anc
framers of the laws, are supposed to work for
nothing.
16. Because all servants of the Government are
paid.
17. Because it is selfish on the part of their
countrymen to absorb the time and the talent oi
members of Parliament and to offer them no re-
muneration.
18. Because it would kill the cant of patriotism.
19. Because it would enable clever poor men—
who no ;T surrender their position through inability
to sacrifice time which is fully occupied in pro-
viding for their families, to wealthy blockheads
and propertied idiots—to enter Parliament, and
it would also protect them from the corrupting
influence of capitalistic interests, by rendering
them independent.
20. Because the soundness of the principle of
payiog members is already conceded, inasmuch as
Ministers of the Crown are paid.
21. Because, while the principle of payment of
members has been affirmed by every Legislative
Assembly in Australasia, it has been consistently
opposed by every Legislative Council.
22. Because it is in accordance with the spirit
of our Constitution, which is avowedly copied from
that of Great Britain. In England non-payment
of members of Parliament is merely a modern in-
novation. As late as the reign of Charles 11. pro-
vision was made for the remuneration of members
of Parliament for their political services.
The Right Honorable Lord St. Leonards,
Baron Burtenshaw, et cetera, is just now at
extreme variance with a rugged person who keeps
a public-house at Waverley, Sydney. The trouble
which is alleged by the plebeian to be not uncon-
nected with the Baron's habit of feeding a dog
at the table d'hute, appears to be complicated by
a concussion on the slack of his lordship's pants.
From the Sydney Evening Noose :
“ Another outrage upon a young 1 ic]y j n Sydney The
gaze " Will BUfler BeCrCt rather than ,ace the public
The “ outrage,” it seems, took place in one of the
suburbs on Saturday evening, and the young lady
was so anxious to suffer in secret that she put her
story in the Nooze next Tuesday. This is the
newest way of suffering in secret that we know of.
Decrhurst, having turned his noble tail in
the scene, the sentence of 14 days’ imprisonment
passed on Bookmaker Sutton has been quashed
without an argument. The second-rate lord and
sham policeman, who tried to dodge his debts of
honour, has not left quite the impression in Mel-
bourne that he intended. Still it was cheaper and
more politic to run away than to face an exposure.
The present N.S.W. Colonial Secretary
has, we hear, cut down to six months the twelve
months’ leave granted by tho late Colonial Secre-
tary to that most excellent officer, Mr. J c
Head, Governor of DarPnghurst prison.’ Why
should an officer who has served without re-
proach for 30 years be so treated 1 is the general
enquiry. Mr. Road, it will be remembered was
the medium by which light was thrown ’upon
that deed of darkness, the visit of Parkes and
his friend the Herald shorthand-writer to the
prison-cell of the lunatic OFarrcll, more than >0
years ago.
A correspondent writes to The Bulletin •
“ On Saturday, the 2nd, on the quarter-deck of
the Orient ship Oroya, a light-hearted girl was
merrily playing with soma children. The break-
fast-bell rang; she dropped downstairs and fell
dead. The Oroya arrived in Port Jackson at
midnight, and Miss Thomas’ 3ister, waiting the
joyous advent of the youDg traveller was told that
her corpse had been consigned to the waves
Could not the ship have carried the girl’s body for
a few hours to save her people the agony of
hungering in vain for a last look at the dead face l
How would an officer, if he had a young wife
like to return home and find such lines met»d out
to him ? ”


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
Owe
Insertion
Pet Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
*3" Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
upplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
he Bulletin.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Aal Under the management of Mr. B. N. JONES.
GRATTAN RIGGS'S SEASON
(By arrangement with Mr. Charle3 MacMahcn.)
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, April 7, 1887.
and during the week,
SHIN FANE, GRATTAN RIGGS,
IN FOUR DISTINCT CHARACTERS.
EASTER MONDAY, April 11, KERRY GOW.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT-STRERT. and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... 628,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
AGENTS WANTED
and fastest selling book ever published.
The work embraces full and authentic accounts
of every nation of ancient and modern times ;
including the Rise and Fall of the Greek and
Roman Empires, &c., &c.
Send for descriptive circulars, and full particu-
lars, NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY,
367 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S. W.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 5, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offlee in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
K><>' '
LLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
»nd
Have your Umbrella Frame! re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to matoh cos
tames Repairs neatly exponte*
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited.
80 COLLINS STREET E-, MELBONENE.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches— Chapel-st., Prahran ; Bruns wick-at,, Fitzroy ; Bay-st, North Brighton; DundaspL, S.
Melbourne ; Burwood*rd., Hawthorn; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office —20 & 22 COLEMAN ST., E. „„
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
The Jubilee bustle which plays “ God
Save the Queen," when eat upon, is not selling
freely Mr. O’Meagher, who defended murderer
Caffrey, appears to have been paid on the kill or
cure principle. Caffrey’s friends promised him
£lOO for the job. He has since received £7, which
sum barely covered subpoena expenses... . It is
proposed that the White Terraces of N.Z shall be
dug up by Government. It is anticipated they
will be dusted and ready for next Jubilee if
no earthquakes come around meanwhile A
man at Albany (W.A,) got four months’ hard
labour recently for stealing two eggs and a tin of
sardines The two latest suicides were com-
mitted by Good Templars. Mr. Goodsir, of New-
castle, who refused to face a cold world any longer,
ahd suicided last week, left a temperance card in
his pocket One of the unfortunate miners blown
up in the Bulli explosion was an ex-officer of the
Indian army. The reason of his come-down was
the all-sufficient one “drink." Two Sydney
advertisements: —“Wanted. — A good Bulldog
for yard work.’’ “ Wanted, at Burwood,
a kind person with cow to nurse a baby."
Fire a volley ! Captain Skinner, of the Wallsend
contingent of the Salvation Army, has been lined
40s. and costs for calling a commercial traveller a
public house loafer and a child of hell In
N.S.W. in 1886 there were manufactured 208,828
gallons spirits, 555,470 gallons wines and
13,178,912 gallons beers. The quantity per head
of the population was 1 pint gills spirits,. 2
quarts 1 j gills wines, and 12 gallens 3 quarts 1 gill
beers The Victorian Railway Commissioners
have changed the name of the Cannibal Creek
Station to Garfield. Thanks From 1851 to
1886 gold has been dug out in Australia to the
value of £306,500,000; of this Victoria contributed
55,000,000 oz.
• • *
His Royal Incompetence the Duke of Cam-
bridge has issued a general order that every man
in the army is to have a day’s pay stopped in
order to give the Queen a Military Jubilee Memo-
rial! ...At the Army and Navy Club, London, a
round-robin has been sent to the committee urging
it to exclude Truth from the Club. Nothing can
do a paper more good than its not being taken in
at Clubs, or Schools of Arts, for then dozens of
people buy what they would otherwise read for
nothing “ Don’t you like to see a man enjoying
his smoke?" “Oh, yes. It is the same with
tobacco as with hay ; I don’t eat any myself, but
I am delighted to watch others enjoying it.”
Cluverius, a condemned Virginian murderer, has
been fairly smothered with floral gifts. One
maiden sent him a beautiful design bearing the
words, “Heaven is Thine.” Cluverius merely
smiled and said, “ Is that so ? Well, I'd willingly
swap the lot just now for the top of the Rocky
Mountains.”...ln the neighbourhood of Dartmouth
(Eng.) manners are strange. A month ago two
magistrates metas they were going to church and at
once proceeded to fight. One of them was killed....
“ Why do the heathen rage?" asks the Christian
World, indignantly. We guess it must be be-
cause they are sent red-flannel shirts in the sum-
mer time .The “Sea of Galilee Fishing Com-
pany (capital, £10,000") is the latest wheeze in
London. We are thinking of starting the
“ Gomorrah Building Society” now A Cincin-
nati paper prints the following advertisement
“ Wanted, a lady correspondent, by a prisoner to
be discharged next year, aged 35, with a view to
matrimonv.” If the Chinese nation were to
pass in single file past a certain point, the proces-
sion would never cease until the world did, for a
new generation would be coming on the stage as
fast as the precession moved.
Item of Victorian news
" One of the Victorian Governor’s sta is going home
The cause of his exit is a womau.”
She must be a powerful woman. We judge also
that her boots arc good at propelliDg aides.
Up to the time of writing, tho South Aus-
tralian elections have resulted in the return of 30
Protectionists and only six Freetraders. South
Australia has had 50 years’ experience, and has
resolved to do at least one sane action to celebrate
her jubilee.
The Chinese fleet is coming to Sydney,
and a lot of fair, fashionable dears are speculating
as to whether it is allowable to mash a Chinaman,
provided he is a hero and wears a brass-buttoned
uniform. We are inclined to think it is.' Admiral
Hang-yu, or Captain Yu-be-hung is a very dif-
ferent individual from Plain John who deals in
“ cabbagee,” and though his pay is small, his
swindles are generally large, and he rs almost
always pretty well off. But he is not a good
fellow to marry, on account of one unlucky draw
back. If he gets into a serious scrape, his
paternal government orders him to be cut in
11 000 pieces—lo,ooo is a considerable lot—and
then confiscates his fortune, and, to give an air of
realism to the affair, oders his widow
and the rest of the family to be bambooed twice a
week for six months. And there is something
very real and hide-lifting about a Chinese flog-
ging, so that on the whole it is better to be a vine-
gary old maid at Potts Point than a bruised and
much-spanked widow on the YaDg-tse-kiang or
Hoang-ho.
From at least a hundred letters received
by us in reference to our leading article of last
week entitled “ The Bulli Disaster,” in which
was pointed out the necessity of com-
biDation on the part of the working classes with
a view to enforcing the provisions of the N.S.W.
Employers’ Liability Act on the present occasion,
we select the following :
Dear Bulletin.—Thanks, and more than that, are justly
due to you for the well-timed article on the Bulli affair in Lst
issue. No doubt ‘‘Advance Australia” will be flashed
about in Jubilee time, but if the working classes have not
the moral courage and determination to assert their rights
when duty calls, they deserve to be ranked with Kanakas and
Chinamen. Lords and Bishops do not work in ships or
delve in mines, otherwise the necessity of providing for their
wives and children in cases of accident would have been
recognised in law ages ago Plimsoll in the British Commons
threatened to name members who were concerned in t e
floating-coffin frauds, and otherwise had a hard tight before
the shipowner could be made to sit up, but he wcs well
backed outride the House and gained the day. How the
Lia ility Act came to be enacted in New South Wales passeth
all understanding, but as it does exist and if its provisions
are not strict y enforced the idea of »he colony ever advan-
cing must be up, and we mu t pray for a Russian or
American conqueror —Youis, hopefully, Pistol.— Mount
M'Donald, April 3.
Things are decidedly bad in the N. S. W. bach -
blocks, and the devils of retrenchment are walking
round. Mr. Hunk, commission agent has espe-
cially resolved to cut down ex’s—his name, by the
way, isn’t Hunk, but In the present state of the
libel law that is near enough. He lives some
distance out of town, and he has a clerk who may
be designated as Chunk. This individual has a
slender salary, but his board is paid for him at the
leading hotel, which helps to smooth his way.
Hunk, however, inserted a proviso in the agree-
ment by which he is entitled to have lunch out of
the weekly payment whenever he chances to be in
town, and as a consequence, for some three days
out of each week, Mr. Chunk only enjoys two
meals—breakfast and tea. Business, however,
has been falling off for some time, and in conse-
quence Hunk has thought fit to revise the agree-
ment, and now when he is not on hand, his son—
who, for the purposes of this history, may be
alluded to as Skunk, in order to save pronouns—
eats the lunch on behalf of the firm. The clerk is
thus permanently reduced to a diet of two meals
a day, and it is rumoured he contemplates resign-
ing and making a bee-iine for the Soup Kitchen.
In answer to a Correspondent, “ Carpen-
taria ” (Townsville) : You are right away from it
in the criticism of onr article ‘ The Problem of the
Unemployed." Of course there is reached in the
course of a day’s work, an hour at which man’s
power of production begins to wane Suppose
this perio i to be at the termination of eight-hours'
labour, and that it should then diminish 50 per
cent, which is placing it very high. If a man
could produce one article for each hour he worked,
and he worked ten hours, he Would produce one
article for the two last, which would be one article
more for the day’s work than would be produced
by a man working only eight hours. So you see
the advantage the manufacturer employing the
pauper labour of Europe must have over the Aus-
tralian producer. Your argument assumes that a
man working ten hours performs a greater amount
of work than one working twelve, and a man
working eight hours performs a greater quantity
of work than one working ten. You might extend
this principle to six, to four, to two hours, and
then it is questionable if the man who did no
work at all would not be capable of
producing more than any of them. Your asser-
sion that the work done in England in a week can
be done in Sydney in a day, can be disposed of in
two answers. (1.) Mechanical appliances are
better adapted to the work to be performed, and
machines are employed directly to the article to
be produced, without the intervention of man ;
and, (2.) Articles producedin the olden style were
made to last. You cannot compare the wheel-
wright worx of to-day with that of a century
ago, any more than you can compare the leather
tanned in a month with that tanned in seven
years.
Dear Bulletin, — It is difficult to under-
stand how you, with your keen insight into
the state of affairs which you so clearly enunciate
in your article entitled “ Resumption Without
Compensation,” can object to the B*le of State
lands. Much bosh has been gushed forth of late
years by the Press and others anent alienation of
State lands, sale of the heritage of the people,
prejudice to posterity, and so forth. Henry
George's dictum that all wealth must come
directly or indirectly from the land is, of course,
incontrovertible. Bnt Henry George overlooks
one fact that nullifies all his arguments against the
sale of State laDds. Land, cannot be removed.
Therefore, while Government exists land is
always liable to the imposition of a land-tax —or
rent, call it which you will. The burden of the
masses is not to be lightened by locking up the
broad acres and making them useless to everyone
but the squatters Every acre, used or unused,
except land belonging to the State should bear its
just proportion of the burden. As an example of
the practical working of the theory of non-aliena-
tion of State land, and its effect upou the pros-
perity of the community, let ns take Queensland
at the present time. If the Ministry of that
colony intended to stop land-selection they suc-
ceeded to a miracle. Upon the assumption of
office by the so-called Liberal Ministry, the
Premier (Griffith) poured forth the vials of his
wrath upon the Transcontinental Railway
and promptly quashed that scheme. The
Ministry then evolved an Act, by which
the Northern sugar lands were withdrawn from
selection at their old price of £1 per acre with
three years’ residence, and eventually offered at a
price of £3 per acre with ten years’ residence.
But a large portion, and the best portion of
the land, was already selected under the old
Act, therefore this proceeding of the Ministry
was about as sensible as would be that of
a merchant who should, after selling the best
of his goods, suddenly treble the price of
the remainder, and this at a time when other
merchants were lowering the price of the same
description of good?. By this measure the State
was brought into direct competition with private
individuals who were offering the fee-simple of
land as fertile, better situated, and in the same
district at one-half the price. The result cannot
be doubted. Selection ceased. Buyers considered
the price asked by private holders exorbitant, and
the price of the Government was still more extor-
tionat l But the cry of Griffith and Co. was still,
The fond for posterity. Did this cnurse benefit the
present inhabitants of the colony J Look around.
Unemployed labourers, marts devoid of buyers,
ports destitute of shipping, portentous insolvent
lists, general stagnation. Answer emphatically—
No ! Will it benefit posterity 1 Assuredly not ;
for posterity will enter on its vaunted heritage to
find it a howling wilderness, to oonfront the same
old problem, and to curse the stupidity of its pro-
genitors. And during this time the vast mineral
deposits in the interior are lying idle, while the
miners starve for lack of the railways which are
to bo built wit h borrowed money, but which are
never built, and, meanwhile, the colony is plunged
deeper and deeper into debt, into a slough of
despond, from which the much-talked-of posterity
will have some difficulty to extricate it. W hat is
the remedy ? Throw open our vast areas of fer-
tile land at a nominal price, make the land-grant
railways boom, let syndicates and land-grabbers
gorge themselves with land, and then clap a land-
tax on to every acre. Trade would revive with
the influx of population and capital, work would
be found on every side for billing hands, and
prosperity would again reign among us. It may
be disputed that the landholder would screw the
additional tax out of the tenant, but this is easily
disproved. Land rents could not rise very high
without excessive comcetition. Competition is
keener in England than it is here or will be for
generations, and the value of English rents ha 3
fallen during the past few years, in many in-
stances over 200 per cent. If those English land-
owners had been burdened with a land tax their
estates would have gone to the hammer, would
have been broken up into smaller portions, and
sold at a reasonable rate, for the buyer would have
known there was a land-tax to pay. Again, it
may be contended that it would be impossible to
| impose a land-tax. In England it probably would
be impossible owing to the limited franchise, and
here at present it possibly might be thrown
out for some time, but the rising generation
of the masses slowly becoming emancipated from
the thraldom of ignorance and superstition by
State education will not be as we, nor dumb-driven
cattle as their ancestors were, but men—reasoning,
thinking men, who will at no distant date make
their power felt through the ballot-box. As you
pithily point out in “ Resumption Without Com-
pensation,” the terms “land-rent” and “land-
tax ” are simply sentimental distinctions without
a difference. Give a man a piece of scribbled
parchment, call it a Grant in Fee Simple, and
make him pay tax, he is happy. Give him another
parchment entitled a Lease, and make him pay
rent, he loses half his interest in the land. He is
apt to forget, for a while, that he brought nothing
into the world and that assuredly he can take
nothing out of it. Neither Free trade nor Protec-
tion but a judicious Land-Tax and Land Act is the
lever with which to raise the incubus that, squat-
ting upon the broad, fair bosom of Australia,
crushes her vitality. Yours faithfully,— Bushman.
[Our correspondent makes a mistake. The Bulletin
does not oppose the sale of State land so long as a land tax
is imposed. Our objection is that no land-tax hat ever been
imposed. Fell away as fast as you like, if you only put the
tax on. But we contend that it is better to lease than sell;
and this view does not seem to have struck " Bushman.”
He cite* the case of the colony of Queensland, where progress
is retardedjby the fact that the Crown refuses to sell the land
except at too high a price; and he tries to draw from the
failure thereby caused an argument that Henry George’s
theory against State alienation must be wrong. Not at all!
What the colony should do is lease. Lands already sold,
"Bushman” admits, should be made as nearly as possible
leasehold by the imposition of a land-tax : why then should
not the unalienated lands be leased rather than sold ? The
difference between freehold land subject to a tax, and lease-
hold lands, "Bushman ” admits to be slight; but whatever
difference may exist is all in favour of the leasehold tenures.
A freehold, even though taxed, is more lik-ly from the
nature of its tenure to be settled and tied up than a mere
leasehold. Of course, proper fixity of tenure should be
assured, as also compensation for rentable improvements.
Our theory was that it is better to sell State land than keep
it idle; it is better to sell and impose a land tax than allow
the land to be held free of any burden ; and it is best of all
to only lease land. —Ed. B.]
A MODERN MIRACLE.
Ihe following interesting and instructive letter
from a widely-kn6wn and respected gentleman
who has been very near to death, will be read
with interest.
To the Editor of The Bulletin.
Sir.— For three years previous to May, 1886, I
gradually failed in health, without knowing the
cause. I consulted the best physicians in Ballan,
Creswick, Clunes, Sandhurst, Kyneton, and Mel-
bourne ; they gave different names to my trouble,
but none of them helped me, and gradually failing
in strength, it was only natural that I became
somewhat discouraged. My symptoms were pallid
face with j ellowieh tinge, swelling of the face, and
ankles and legs, especially at nierht—they were
puffy, and could be dented with the finger. My
appetite was very capricious, did not relish my
food, and what I ate seemed to do me no good.
My urine was filled with sediment, and covered
with an irridescent scum. Every night I had to
rise several times to urinate. In fact, I had no
rest day nor night, and life was becoming a bur-
den. Early in May, 1886, I as a last resort con-
sulted a well known medical man (whose name I
will furnise privately), who informed me after a
thorough examination, extending over a part of
two days, that I had a very bad case of Bright’s
disease of the kidneys ; that he was positive of
this, and would stake his professional reputa
tion upon it, and that my death was only a
question of time. He refused to give me medi-
cine, saying he would not take my money
when it was useless. He told me to take vapor
baths to aid the kidneys as much as possible, and
to straighten up my worldly affairs This was
my outlook in the beginning of May, 1886. I
thanked ihe Ltr for his frankness, for he was the
first man who had really told me what was the
matter with me. I have recently written him,
again thanking him for telling me in time, and
also informing him what cured me I had always
led an active li'e, being a member of the Ballan
shire council, member of the Ballarat mining
board, Agent for Cobb & Co.’s extensive lme of
coaches, and manager of Cann’s family hotel at
Mount Blackwood, and to settle down to die at
the early age of 42 was pretty hard lines. I had
read of Warner's safe cure and safe pills, and had
taken a bottle or two at intervals, which I noticed
had given me a better appetite, but had dropped
it without u-ing it thoroughly. With a woman's
quick perception, my wife advised me to stick to
“ Warner’s,” and give it an honest trial. After
receiving the fiat of death from my medical
adviser. I concluded that it might possibly help
me, and like a drowning man I clutched at the
faintest hope. I accordir gly visited H. H. War-
ner & Co.’s laboratory at 147 Little Lonsdale Street
West, Melbourne, and had a long talk with the
manager. After an analy sis of my urine, which
showed tube casts in large quantities, together
with over 50 per cent, of albumen, he told me that
Warner s safe cure had grappled with cases and
cured them as bad as mine, which was most
serious. I agreed to give up all businets and
follow his> advice. For the next six months I
implicitly followed dietary rules, bathing, etc.,
and religiously took Warner’s safe cure and
I safe pills. At flr3t I could see only slight im
provement, but the repeated tests of my urine
showed that my albumen and tube casts were
decreasing, and I began to take hope. To make
a long story short, I will say that I have taken
about 50 bottles of Warner’s safe cure, and am to-
day a living monument to its efficacy. There is
not a trace of albumen or sediment in my water ;
my appetite is gocd ; 1 weigh a stone more than I
did last May ; the sallow complexion is gone, and
has replaced by the hue of health ; I go to
bed and sleen all night, and I feel that I cannot
say enough for the medicine that has snatched me
from the grave and given me a renewed lease of
life. I could write columns, but do not wish to
weary you, and will only say that I am ready at
all timesto substantiate these unsolicited statements
personally or by letter, to any who may be in-
terested. To those suffering as I was, take the
advice of one who has been very near to death ;
do not postpone treatment until too late, but, if
suffering from kidney or liver difficulty, resort at
once with entire confidence to that safe, simple,
and sure vegetable remedy, Warner’s safe cure,
and be restored to permanent health and strength.
JOHN CANN.


PURITY
gOC I A L
The cause of social purity is just now exercising
the minds of a great many people who are very
much in earnest in their search for the best pre-
scription to enable them to get it and afterwards
to keep it. The importance of the search is in
tec sifted by the knowledge that there is no surplus
of the article in any of the more civilised nations
of the earth, and the limited supply which might
perhapr be obtained from New Guinea or some of
the smaller islands of the South Pacific is not
adapted to the Australian complexion. What is
wanted is purity at home as well as abroad, purity
of the mind as well as purity of the body—and the
want is a big one. Some of tbe people who want
it are enthusiastic and optimistic, some are
earnest but desponding, and others, again, would
fail to recognise the object of their search if it
came into collision with them at noon on the
Queen’s highway. But to diverge for a moment
from the subject of these remarks, we are re-
minded that there is one emblem of purity
intimately associated with our everyday life, and
one in the possession of which Australians posi'
tively revel. The reader will at once divine that
we allude to Clausen’s New York Champagne
Lager Beer. The really magnificent condition in
which this beer opens is the subject of universal
comment, although it is the result of a very simple
process. As bottled, it is the pure unadulterated
product of the well-known brewery of H Clausen
and Son, New York. It is bottled by the Phoenix
Bottling Company of that city, and its live con-
dition in the bottles is assured—not by the addition
of chemicals, as is the case with some beers —but
by simply standing the bottles, full of beer, in hot
water troughs up to the neck, and driving the ab-
out by a steaming process, which ensures the
keeping properties of this favourite beverage in all
climates. They are then corked.
A recent analysis carried out at Adelaide, under
the instructions of Messrs. Milne and Co., gave
the following splendid results :
“ Gentlemen.—l have made a careful examina-
tion and analysis of the sample of H. C.ausen and
Son Brewing Company’s Champagne Lager Beer,
bottled by the Phoenix Bottling Company, Second-
avenue, New York, and I And it to be a very pure
malt and hops beer, in most excellent condition
and free from any contamination of false ferments.
It gave me 2. 95 per cent, of pure alcohol, equal
to 8. 5 per cent, of proof sp'rit, or half a pint of
this latter in one gallon of the beer. It also
yielded 12|oz of dry extract per gallon, or 28jlb
per barrel; this extract was not glucose, but re-
sembled gluten mixed with gummy matter and a
small proportior of maltose, such as would be
obtained from acidity beyond the natural acidity
of any vegetable extract; and, further, a glass of
this being exposed to the open air for a week
simply became fiat, and acquired a slight film on
(.he surface, without getting in the slightest
degree offensive or sour, proving its admirable
keeping quality.
“I am, gentlemen,
“ Your obedient servant,
“ George Francis.”
NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER
NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
CLAUSEN'S
CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER CLAUSEN’S
NEW YORK
LAGER BEER CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK
C HHMPAGNE
BEER CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER
IS THE BEST LAGER BE&R IN THE
WORLD
BEST FOR PURITY
BEST FOR COLOR
BEST FOR BRIGHTNESS
BE3T FOR TASTE
BEST FOR FLAVOR
BEST AS A TONIC
BEST AS A STIMULANT
BEST AS A REFRESHER
BEST TO LOOK AT
BEST TO DRINK
BEST TO REMEMBER
BEST ALL ROUND
BEST ANYWHERE.
Evokes no unpleasant memories of a buried past,
Excites no feelings antagonist c to the welfare of
the human race. Suggests nothing but Peace,
Health, Happiness, Comfort, and Prosperity.
Is the best of all driaks for the Australian
climate. And it is in very first-class hotel in
the colonies. The wholesale Sydney agents are—
Walker, Lemon, and Co , 56, Margoret-street;
and you can get it in any quantity from the
firms of Mason Brothers, limited, Fesq and Co.
Tooth and Co., Allt and Co., Burrows and Glee3on
Lucas Brothers, Cornellion and Co., R. Butcher
and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey and Co., Tidswell,
Wilson, and A. Thompson and Co., C. Bath and
Co., Peate and Harcourt, Cooper, Nathan, and
Co., Darcy and Co., A. Rowan and Co., Tucker
and Co., and Stewart and Co.
HYDROPHBOIA IN SYDNEY.
A maBtifT dog recently lande i In Sydney from
England, and now in possession of Mr. Mussel-
grower, of Potts Point, showed symptoms of
hydrophobia yesterday. A veterinary surgeon
was called in but not before the animal had un-
fortunately bitten its master on the thigh. Mr.
Musseigrower exhibited every sign of hydrophobia,
when several medical men were sent for. Their
united efforts proving of no avail, it was suggested
that a mild and strength-giving stimulant be ad-
ministered that the weakness from the convulsions
might be overcome. Six bottles of that strength-
giving beverage the famous St. Louis Lager Beer
were poured into a decent-sized jug and then de-
posited down the throat of the sufferer. The
symptoms of Hydrophobia at once dissapeared,
and this morning at an early hour Mr. Mussel-
grower was well enough to transact important
business which he had with the new Ministry
Ain’t St Louis Lager Beer a wonder? It is, so drink
no other brand, and there you are.*
COME, GENTLE SPRING,
And bring malaria, dyspepsia, biliousness, torpidity of liver
and a train of kindred maladies. Fortunately, Dr. Bells
(Kidney and Liver) Bitters are at hand They may be had
of the nearest diuggist and will purify the system, correct
the stomach and bowels, stimulate the Jiver and kidneys to
healthy action, remove all poisonous tumors, and make you
feel like a new man. As a spring medicine, to ic, and blood
purmer, it has no equal.*
Travellers, when arriving in Sydney, know not where to
seen accommodation, the knowing ones tell the cabman to
drive direct to the Great Northern Hotel, George-street and
Charlotte-place, where they find comfortable accommodation
and the beat meals supplied by any hotel in Sydney The
shilling luncheon there is the talk of the town *
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other Insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.
Is. 6d. Rignev, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioe*.
STOP RIGHT HERB I
JOY FOR EVER !
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. Or
it a child can correetly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wmch at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marohes, popular songs, See. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces, £3T It is pitciiedfor the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
ohurohes, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that whioh is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in its.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
whioh I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other oelebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomeri
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870."
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... £2 0 0
Elgin National Watch Co.'s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Eeyless) Elgin N. W.
Ca's compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
Bilver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, p-fteut pinion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world £lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
GOLD
is tie latest triumph of
Soieuoe. It is a soils
allop, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
aad oaduraace of sterling Sold. A legi-
timato toe ha: been found for thi: noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most ezquierte do-
rigm. The Oriental Gold Co.,
hag
large conoignsent: of theae lovely good:, which they
aellat a fraction of the coot of Sterling Gold Jewellery.
Nc one can detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of thofcl-
lowicg samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant.) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent's
Albert, 73. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled,7s. 6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladles’Alberts
TSs. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
send these on approval. If they don't
please, return uninjured by the First
Hail, an d we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
Paroe" a gent anywhere by post,
Some strange symptoms of an old human
being came te light a week ago near Wentworth
(N.S. W,) They consisted of a jawbone, one arm,
several legs, and three cheques dated 1866, also
the remains of a shirt, a pair of boots, and the
stopper of a vinegar-bottle. There was no silk
umbrella, no fur-lined overcoat, valise, or eye-
glass, or other indications of wealth, and conse-
quently the -coroner has started to draw up a
statement of the assets and liabilities of the de-
funct with very slender data to travel on. For 21
years the local kangaroo has jumped over the
corpse, and the 'possum has sniffed at him, and
the wild dog has scornfully passed by his fleshless
bones, and a new generation has grown up and
come of age, so that it could be sued for its debts
while that solitary busbman was lying among the
wet grass and dropping to pieces, and his remains
have become ancient history and his story has
been forgotten. Also the £l5 which is due for
interest on the cheques he had about him, has
been lost to his heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns for ever and ever.
The town of Gunadorah (Q ) has just gone
through an experience that has almost shattered
its intellect ; another such would reduce the set’
tlement to imbecility. It was a peaceful autumn
afternoon ; the public-house cat had had kittens
the night before, and the publican was quite un-
suspicious of evil, when two strangers dismounted
before his door and entered the bar. They set up
three propositions in close marching order—first,
that they wanted drink; second, that they
wouldn’t pay for it ; arid, third, that they would
kill the man who supplied it—and then they
started on a career of bloodshed. They told a
DID SHE REALLY MEAN IT?
SHE (to gentleman in busy Melbourne street): “I LIKE MELBOURNE. THESE'S SO MUCH
MORE BUSTLE HERE THAN IN SYDNEY.”
man named Brown that they didn’t oare a bat-
tered sprat tor him or anybody like him, and then
they gave him several in the eje and threw him
out. They hunted up the Chinese cook, and asked
him if he was ready to meet his Joss, and without
waiting for an answer they split him up with an
axe. They chopped their way out of the building
with the same weapon, and then, out of pure
devilment, th«y chopped their way in again. Next
they sighted an innocent farmer, and ohased him
a quarter of a mile until he crawled through a
ba bed wire fence, after which they returned,
drank the hotel dry, and made an Aunt Sally of
the landlord with the empty bottles. These two
frolicsome hoys are now in gaol, and the Chinese
cook bids fair to bloom with his Joss in paradise
at an early date.]


a aTdebney i c?.
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
SHIRT MAKERS.
9\
Notice to Visitors to tlic American Exhibition
of 1887.
50,592 English Miles have been covered since Oct. 11, 1880, by
THE “’WOUNTIDIEIEI”
which last seasonlcarried 1978 passengers in peifect safety.
Dr. Rumney (of “Kidgk's Food” fame) will, to prevent
disappointment, to American and Colonial visitors, again tun
his celebrated six-horse Stage Coach, THE “WONDER,”
between London and St. Albans, leaving Hatchett’s Hotel,
in Piccadilly, London, every morning at 10.45, retiming to
Piccadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch and for
passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL, which is one of the
FINK ST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be taken
and the price charged for the return fare is 20s.
For time Cards and other Particular a applv to “ WONDE R
oach Office, Hatchett's Hotel, Piccadi I>, London, England
DR. O'CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 am. till 2.39 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. til noon ;no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
.dvirtising, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
Mends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 CaStlereagii Street,
Sydney.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the oomfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Hioh-class Dentistry | at Reform Prices.
ARTIFICIALTEETI
COMPLETE srr
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily at 11.
YA
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS, {MEfc.S^EngIand.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
Increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. I do not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this scarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored .for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvdnic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is CHrable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pit>t-stv, Sydney.
r
HKATRE ROYAL.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THURSDAY April 7,
FAUST.
• FRIDAY, April 8,
GRAND SACRED CONCERT.
Prices—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls,
is,; Stalls, 4s ; Family Circle. 2s.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Managor ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
SURPRISING SUCCESS
SURPRISING SUCCESS
EACH NIGHT. EACH NIGHT.
The great HOSEA EASTON, Banjoist and
Comic Artist, appears in this hall, in coniunction
with Messrs. JOHNNY COWAN, SAM KEENAN,
the great Soprano Miss BEATRICE JAMES, and
the other members of the company, numbering
30 Artists.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
Robert butcher & c 0.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
/W Country Orders receive prompt attention.
WATCH
JFfffi KIDjVEYg.
They are the most important secretory organs.
Into and through the Kidneys flow the waste fluids of
the body, containing poisonous matter taken out of
the system. If the Kidneys do not act properly this
matter is retained, the whole system becomes dis-
ordered, and the following symptoms will follow :
Headache, Weakness, Pain in the Small of back and
loins, flushes of heat, chills, with disordered stomach
and bowels. Yeu can thoroughly protect the Kidneys
by Dr. Bell’s Bitters, and when any of these symptoms
manifest themselves you can quickly rid yourself of
them by this best of all medicines for the Kidneys—
Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
What is Dyspepsia?
Among the many symptom! of Dyspepsia or Indi-
festion the most prominent are Variable appetite ;
aint, gnawing feeling at pit of the stomach, with un-
satisfied craving for food; heartburn, feeling of
weight and wind in the stomach, bad breath, bad
taste in the mouth, low spirits, general prostration,
headache, and constipation. There is no form of
disease more prevalent than dyspepsia, and none so
peculiar to the high-living and rapid -eating Australian
people. Alcohol and tobacco produce Dyspepsia;
also bad air, rapid eating, Ac. Dr. Bell's Bitters will’
cure the worst case by regulating the bowels and
toning up the digestive organs. Sold everywhere.
Noth.— Any poor Person, or the manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People's Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND, ft AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON k CO., SYDNEY
AOHNTI FOB
Now South Wales & Queensland,
c
'
MANUFACTURERS
4 importers of
HATSCAPSk
438CE0RCE ST
SYDNEY 1
Cfi/>ouCc LaiuCQxa
A\
if/
/to
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
TT«
* * A V
TREATMENT
Dr. E. 0. West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prestrati on, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacoo, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. F,ach box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Gua_r-
antee six boxes to cure any case, with each order 10-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN 0. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the abuve reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache indigestion, constipation oi
oostiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liveb
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN 0. WEST & 00.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN G. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
AST LE 8 SOSs
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dolokeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE'S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
lA agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-streot only
51UDOLPHO WOLFES SON &C°
/(9ft9
17CREH0N / S /?? /
Ly7ie /C^ou?zci/
c^&fo£*4 < &' W r
tfo os£&wme'.
ILLUSTRATION (In rednoed size) It £\ Order to b« found In th*
“LARGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
B
RAD i&I, NKWTOS, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CON NELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRP,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, |x
to matoh.
1 ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
This chair adjusts its if to any positicn, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious ii its
construction; works automatically. Ihe above
cut represents only two of the 1 umerous otitiors
that can be obtained instamly, and with but little
effort. It fils perfectly evtry part of rhe body,
and gives the occupant entire r sc. AST We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the t hair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAM 3 (only).
Packing in canvas-, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
aad Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
SSSS&
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by] movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comma
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Street*.
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets
Si
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERa
ICK
CHKSTS,
all sizes,
From J7s,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order la
any material.
s
ELF ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
*4
Bedsteads, an *i«»i
Niokel-plated and Blaok
and Braaa. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and'
LAMB,
Importers,
CGennell and Spring Btreats.
SPRING MATTRABBHB
Wovsn Wire, bee
make; also, Spiral Sprint«
Price, from 14s. eaoh.
RRADURY. NKWTfIN snd I,AMR
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
I3s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.) Clothes Horses, from 10s. Sd,|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.


The March of N.S.W. Freetrade.
