

CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
ianos
Sprang
Music
Ins
[JBVV
AY. H, (4
XX. aXiEBT
TIIE LARGEST STOCK. THE LOWEST PRICES. THE EASIEST TE
Planes and Organs by all the Ilflßt A lakers, from .‘>oa, Monthly.
LEN & CO.
ANti
COLLINS STREET, EAST
oo. t
RSIS.
MELBOURNE.
, X I 3H£3E
a
r ■' vi■ 71
H
■*L—J
.
>
/ 1171
OF
.. v .
Too piiTollslied. ©an. lOtlo.. lOOB.
A
N :
WITH IT WILL BE GIVEN AS A SUPPLEMENT,
MAGNIFICENT ORIGINAL HISTORICAL PICTURE.
in point of Illustrations and Literary Matter, “THE BULLETIN" CENTENNIAL
j&. NUMBER will be Unique.
y— , ' ■■■■.'— m\' '' .
Wei]?' What does it matter it you don’t read this ? 11 oo.se nothing, Imi you loose sbme thing it you don't
JAMES’ DETECTIVE COLD HARD SALT VVATER SOAR
vV-k ' lp]o * ion « Softening and Cleaning the Hair ; for all kinds of Skin
ll' Ifor !: Ur Y»y. Brnl Scalds, Burns and Sores, Ringworms, and Prickly-
Clolhos of every kind it is the healthiest, cheapest, quickest
• V
Insects on Fruit and Flower Trees: for Greasy-heeled and Sores
ho u °r Clows with Cracked and Scabby Teats ; for. Mangy Doga, &c , S-0,, ,
July, l“>th, 1887.
pay
® ead These Pacts
j,.. j j wit,, i/owuutt; Soup and am glad w
~ n them, it is a most valuable Cold Water Soap and only needs testing
popular. Send me along 10 pounds more.- Gratefully yours,
W. SKDDON, Missionary, Chippendale.
Champion Dairy, Botany-rd . Waterloo, Sydney, Nov, 17, 1887.
oh —Dear Sir,—Your “Detoctive” Soap is wonderful. My cows (35
i more or less troubled.with aoro and cracked teats. I tried many
the,,, satisfaction, but your “Detective” Soap met my Want and
'Wa r hr °ughout ; and now there are no healthier elders in Sydney. I
Uy S,; them with it and It keeps them perfectly soft and clean.—Youts
ALFRED COOPER,
Km
ASK THOSE
WHO HAVE
TRIED IT
WHAT IT
IS LIKE.
Head These Facts.
09 Hanover Street, Waterloo,Holy noth, 1887,’
Mr J amms,— Sir.— l have great pleasure In testifying to the ovcellency of your
Soap 1 have made constant use of It for almost everything In a household, such
a 3 washing, cleaning sllvor, taking paint and grease out of clothes, with the most
gratifying success. No housewife should be without It, Yours truly.
la A. JOHNSON.
Franklan Place, Glebe I*olnt, Sydney, Jaly 20tb, ISB7*
Mi; .Tames:, -- Sir,—My wlfo has complained for more than 13 months pi gieai
pain in her foot. Hearing of your Soap we tried it, and after, using it. for a week
bor pains wore entirely removed. Vours respectfully,
11. WALTERS,
Sydney Tramway and Omnibus Co., Limited.
Hoad Offices— (iC King Street, Sydney, Sept, 23rd, 1887.
Mi: HU. Jamkh,.— Sir,—Your Detective “ Soap has been tried by our foreman,
and has been’found to give excellent results In curing greasy heels and stln
diseases In horses.—Yours faithfully,
O. A. RAYSON,
. . Ryde, July, 1887.
Atjt’n James Dear ST,—.l have muoh pleasure to inform »bu that I consider
your. Soap most vai a able to the ga-doner and fruit grower, It having a most wonder-
lid t Too*, in ch Ti-aug trees and plants of insect life, spar from this h Is the
•most useful and beneficial Heap 1 have ever used, &0,, fee., &.©.• Yours respectfully
ROBT. V. PHELPS, Captain. '
°r particulars send to the maker, H. .JAMES, 7<i ; ! CT£(jRGHS STREET, S3TDK EY, and ask t }iotir storekeeper lot it.
and books for presents mn school prizes.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS. ALL THE NOVELTIES OF THE SEASON NOW ON VIEW.
BEAUTIFUL PIIOTO. AND SCRAP ALBUMS', WORK WRITING CASKS, FANS, SCREENS, &c.
MUSTC-~Newest> Pieces, Songs, Dances, Glees, Christmas Carols, Anthems, Part Music, and Presentation Volumes.
WILLIAM LULL ART), 343 GEORGE STREET.


ƒ
.1;“. .1" LL" ,‘E’E‘K‘E" J3- ‘_." .. ,'.‘-'-_\ a «it ‘ 5.3.1.1; :-
W.H.PALING Bc<s UM ”
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
rIMaORGAN Music Importers.
1 sloth J?V<J greatest Cartel y m Ao stf ' a - 1;v ; ~* the
• | ttthe tfidesr possible choice;- PIANOS OKf>4KS fi am£Uh-
* PAYMttfV INSTALMENTS TO St'iT RU. CUSTOMERS
Tl&ffi&Sifc PALINGS (5 PALING it 0>
mm Baas,
iiliuiii.'
_
5
fMSnuf^
COIMtTHWCTtORS
xcranm
r»
L
IC«0 Office* FACWPY f/CWTOWH if SffAFCF, C QffCf ST. SfOVfY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED. ■
STEAD OFFICE l
ODRNKIt, Of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.!
tWCOKPORATTCD PT ACT OF YrECtTTIVE COUNCIL,
CAPITAL £500,(H STERLING,
RESERVE Aft,7*4 ; ERLXNG.
80
ffca Hon. Francis Abigail;
M.L.A.
*9hn Barley, Esq., ML. A.
A V. Martin, Esq.
Jotti. Vann, E»q.
J. H Nathan, KSQ
'John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathoy, Esq.
The dividend declare .od paid to tfc* Shw’fr'holderß a fcfce
•tt Annual General Meeting* be id on tbtf 2Sth July
M * m follow* r . _ *
Dividend paid to Stm*eb'»de*B at tbo rate 0 12* per 9tm%
per annum
800-if pam W Uepot'H' ,» ..£ U month# |2 P«J <*n> |
The Bank-tsrausacta all usual Banking Business,
horrent acooun: s opened, Bills Discounted, and
takes Advances upon all klnda oi Commercial
ecurities,
"iteodee in London »nd throughout the world.
OTCBDRAFTH GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OE DEEDS!
Received,
interest Allowed t
At Call
8 Months, 5 per .cent,
ft Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
Wlf» BONDS ADDITION? TO DEI • *WTBiOf
. BIX AND OTTBLYK MONTHS
met or? can arrange to withdraw the whole
t portion of ’their deposits without notice.
The Share Register 1b still open, and intending
shareholder a can obtain upon application any
afcmatkm they require, also printed copies of
report. minutes, forms of application tor shares,
kvfco.
ms OBOE ft OP TBit BOARD OB DIRECTORS
H MCNAMARA,
SECRETARY
THOS. BUUKLAND,
MIMING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGXRS
Osassx&s Towsaa.
A«snt tor Bober >nd 00.,-Enfrfne«r*, Blnoolri
„ „ tanfci iui’ - Iwftiirj Co., Meibom* “v
K D MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AfiENT,
Mining Exchange.
i. maRTERS TOW BBS, QBMatSIABU.
ZMBREUAS
RE COVE RED-
OTUDY ECOROM*
0 saS
T\v» sotur UmbfU* Vmubm r»
3o» o rwl and >onf
?nUp!i w-ItoM »u<s mufl* sw
Mi New at
J, BTJLLIVA R'P,
Ml George Street,
Brickfield HUI. tel wo
2 *lM?# 3OI and
fMM3 : i wade to «u»t«s» »o*
rtaatte «m *»t*e
ILL HOTEL, Mapxat, QußENStawp.
EDMUND DUNNOCH, Proprietor,
frnTOllera and Families will flat! the old well*
reputation maintained.
aCFSRIAL HOTEL/ TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SABAH EATON,
te of MusweUbrook and Rockhampton.
W First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
? Salle Vue Uifr*
BiIISBAMa
0 injßU* Partlanww* Hodses. Bol*r?>«*s
and Queensland CUnb
fIKST-OLASB VAMihTRQTm.
ACCOMMODATION FOB 88
A fffV?:." EtWf OwMb#,'
etuis *aid .i»le*tam», pieaflo *AU\*& Ft?
,U#W> * M (XMJWM*,
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner o* SStant.ky and MKtBOUBNR Streets,
Ftrst-olass Accommodation. Suites of Apartment*.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house In the city,
DAVID LYObfS, Proprietor*
g» ACBU3IOE HOTEL, CHAPTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Build Ji g erected in above
w*», situated corner Of V'-’i mi Church-streets*
W, M GOpQH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
a. ‘ Afflicted fth pHvriiATrr Gotjt Tic-
Dor.csßia.7X, Ac* in tb. 'Limbs
Aby suffer these xcru v. .■>,#*.„ I ains w hen one..
bottle of
DR. SOU TEAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days.
The Australian Rented.' N s change lu diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., is. 6d., 65.. and 10s.
cube ran *?m©HT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATRD EYE LOTION.
This IjQtlqn le the Best act Safest ilemedy for Bad
Eyes. It nob only cu es Swelling and Sandy
Blight but strengthens the sight. Numerous tos-
timahiais from those who <• - • • -covered through
Its agency can be seen. Atluullted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and be*: manufactured,
Prepwed.bj W»e Suite Fro i«»or,
& i ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohsmiat,
«81 Cteoraenetroet only.
SWALDRB. Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
• 296 Pttt-streeb,
■
Xjkffr
*st A»* <?
Marinese ca Him
HE ORICINAL
Baking p 0
WAUGH'S
%
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MEKII
ESflb
ISTHE3EST iNTHE. WORLD.!
NONE OTHER frlfT
WAUC H 5
RECtiVtOTHE INTERNATIONAL
l» R I X C M CQ A L
iA« o fAcm»
Hap, 9 r i*r &+ Sr ©-* 4t
SddfcN) ttec«f»wd.tjfi*nnr»
II
*)
DIXON & SONS
TOBACOi. WORKS,
SYDNEY.
Mozwasrs
NSW ZKAI AND„
UM l REMEDIES.
mnnoniAU
fram the Soudan Contingent HoiaJ&
1 fistful
I. ,
(.37 ' '
52%;;1‘,
9"“ 4:122
«<5 , f ' “ 4
L ::;-‘, .9: ‘ .35, , M."
5:93le ‘ >7 :- _': 4"
[41¢ ”370%, :77": 7-, ' ‘
', u “‘ Ev “iv“ v" ‘
, x , . ' M, V.
MONK’S
Pile mixture.
3*. ML per Bottle.
A«k for U and take bo rabitltute.
)t an tijfaJuable care. Bee tcwtiniooiaU.
Th* Oknthai Hotel, Private Sitting Room,
RondeEvoue f o r all parties engaged la mining
business.
H. G. HAILES, Proprietor.
Commercial hotel, ~
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIIST CLASS Accor unodation lor Commer
oial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Billiards <AI cock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, June., Proprietor,
SAMm ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Offices Townsville, H. Queensland.
aVIOJSTKI’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcße Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemist*.
*9. 6d. per bottle.
NEURALGIA MIXTUFE,
29. 6d, per bottle,
Sol* Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & GO,,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY j '
AWO
M Little COM.ma treet East, Melbourne.
MIKING EXCHANGE HOTEI,
GYMPIK. QGEE.VSLAKO.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctionc,C& Rea! Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MB. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry are
BOtTON) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public fchal
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge oi
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will iSSSrS
- carried on under his personal supervision,
—Aburab Hobel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
a and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons *«*.!
the celebrated Mountain will findevery eomforl
09&?©nit*?.co to groot thorn oa their arrival
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON TBS
PREMISES, Also STABLING for the iccommoda
Mon of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCE
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coach**
DAILY WHOM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON,
Not* tbr Adobibbs—
MICHAEL BOLTON
R tv J 0 * *• * l *® “tomr * Belton),
N Sn&JJLctS OTE L,
MOUNT MORGAN.
REMINGTON TTPE-WRITRI
uSS!****”* «UUan«qf. Ml «**, wHUec r w
,V ' ■. W IF ••*! **• ' uflns ui *
?. 5* «*« *rrn»g :'*>!»
■*> ** ' ' f »»oot» lit
wfcclwals »e,s -*UB H tt* ante mwoU,
EMSAF ts 004
TAIXSON & TON . CONQUEROR
not only r mufactures MOB® TOBACw
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES THB
BULK OP THE AMERICAN LEAF huporMi
Into New Sc ith Wales, and hence the greet ****
of tholr brande.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobaflfll H
Australia,
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHA3^ lC
gold leaf,
DIXSON'S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S Na 1 machine a*’*'
10,000 per hour, the choicest Vlrginis®
nnd Paris rice tissue, *‘ nll size wIA
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarette*-
■
«lANarftCTt/ft£R» I
m twi»a^Tcm
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY %
*** XC ’ T-t
4
$O.
TO PERSONS RESIDING IN 'fHE C'OtfSP*|
*• OR THE ADJQIMING COLOltf®* l f|
If you want anything In Sydney. M “^!?
R. GIBBINGB &
jlgkb&? 3>
323
OF
GEORGE
SYDNEY,
.At
M
ADD RINDS Or BUSINESS TBAKSM'T#^
THE VERY 10 WEST RAT** g
’ OUNT MORGAN HO ri&U ‘ 1
■ r ' 1 tf jg It*
Under the distinguished rafcronhg®
celleucy Sir A, Mosgravo, K.t M.O. n j
nation for tiO visitors, o-storey bnildlw ’[
the balconies a splendid view can be ' v »fc*
the celebrated mountain of and vvlt ,,'»*er*'’, r
minutes’ walk of .he eompa ,y'B workf. 1 .r/>
and mail cor ehee daily iron Rockhaii; ." .pp
-Klbrn railway statior , W, MONt W 'Jfi
g
r
V
roUAL
1/ {
REMOVED TO 1Q8&, NEXT " g
BLACK’S j
6 CORRIDOR, TATTERSALL’S ;j
Hdntbr ANI) Cabtleueagh SIR kET ” ': J
s — r ‘ ijl
Householders, Hotelkeepers, Station®* 000" j
twelve month!? for ONE GUINEA- ■
for table Waiting Room. 1
AGENTS WANTEPJ
To handle our fast selling lines. Special l®** Ul
meni) offered to first-class salesmen. I
Foil particulars on application tc* .
2Pfe> nr ®3fc , T f
6 BRIDGE- ; USK?, SIT.DN®*;. ..VS
fri-ced t&Mi, ■Cj^e
f
MACHINERY
UHO
MO
*S<*R!NE
r^CSHES,
FILERS
- 'JMPS,
LARGE STOCK!
WITH All
MF. WES
SICNS
HiGHES
FINISH
AT
«»***
HOI*"!
E
OGOMOTIVEB, TUGB, LAUNCH#*
ESTL'dATJTO FOR COMPLIE S*
iii*
t f 5
Sydney t
111, Pin STREET.
Molbonrß*’ ;
22, KING ST«W*


CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
OF THE
BULLETIN
ol. 8—Ho, 412,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1887.
Price., ©d.
The Bulletin TO THE UNIVERSE
d ue our duty without fear or
V/ For several 3-ears”—no, that will
hardly do :
“ Our bark has now been launched ’’—that has a
savour
Of back-bloek barks, which bear a hopeless
crew
To wan insolvency—it brings the flavour
Of days gone by, when we were wont to chew'
The damper of the bush with savage gusto.
And for mere luxuries of diet, trust to
The monster pie-melon, or parsnip, bloated
Beyond all local precedent, brought in
From somewhere in the woods, b3 r hairy-throated
Wild agriculturists, in hope to win
All men’s applauses. Heavens ! how we gloated
In those grim, vanished years of want and sin
On wooing up the soul-inspiring “ local ”
To wrest the spud from the excited yokel!
“ While thanking our subscribers for the manne r
In which they’ve rallied” —oh, no more of this,
You know us pretty well; you know the banner
We lift ; and what we have to tell you is
That, while you send along the weekly “ burner ”
As you have done, we’ll give 3-011 perfect bliss,
We’ll rain our left-handers on Wrong’s big toe so.
As we’ve done hitherto, but somewhat more so.
We’ll belt the hogslard out of all pretenders,
As in the heretofore —we grow more fit
As we grow older. In the blinding splendours
Of our own private meteoric wit
We'll set up Cant. You’ve but to pass your
“benders ”
And keep a ring, and see us punish it—
To-day we’ve got our brant-new- fighting rig on,
So bring all sorts of humbugs, small or big, on !
You’ve seen us in the old, you’ve planked your
“stuff” on
Us pretty freely, and thrown up your hats,
And yelled, “ They find the Booleyteen a rough
’un ! ”
“ It takes the Booleyteen to give ’em rats.”
And, year by year, our muscles further toughen,
And, year by year, the sturdy Democrats
Have swelled the gate-money, till strength and
fibre
Have come to us with many a new subscriber,
So (metaphorically), with new wings on
We start to day upon a higher flight.
(About these wings opinion differs. Kings on
Their thrones, and drunken Lords, with fingers
white—
Fingers with plethora of priceless rings on
That grasp the Throat of Toil and hold it tight,
Lords of much gold, much land, and many ladies,
Regard them as the bat-shaped wings of Hades.
While work-worn millions, with their thin hands
clinging
To life —poor hands condemned to always slave
For others, ceasing not from work or wringing
Till cramped for room within the kindly grave,
May look on them as like to angels,’ bringing
To those half lost the messages that save—
May look upon our potent quill mercurial
As plucked from out the pinion of Ithuriel.)
We start to-day with the express intention
Of waking up all men, and sailing in—-
You’ve known ns in the past—we did not blench in
'The course we set ourselves, “ With gold plate
sin*” '
Says Shakspeare, “ and no paper dares tp mention
A word about it, save The Bulletin ”
(What wondrous truths are writ on Shakspeare’s
leaf.)
Our lance of justice goes through it.like gold-leaf. ’
You’vo heard our history. We have done some
things
Already, anyhow. Down Clontarf way
We once went picnioing, and witnessed rum things,
And told the W'orld of what we saw next day,
While all the Sydney journals stood as dumb
things,
Because they reckoned candour didn’t pay.
We saw but mandrake where their eyes saw lily,
And, therefore, did a stretch on “ toke and skilly.”
But why partioularise ? Vicious picnic
Or brainless Parliament we’ve 'scathed alike •
Whatever seemed to good or virtue strychnic—
(Our word, dear readers, we can always strike
A new one—when we
write our pace is
breakneck
As Irish hunters com-
ing to a dyke) ;
We’ve «truck out
strongly at, and
(though we say it
As shouldn’t) mostly
have contrived to
slay it.
No more as more than
man men hold John
Davies,
No more as much,
the Stigginses and
Heeps
We’ve squelched—no
more the poor
deluded s'aveys
Put their week’s wages into Tontine Sweeps ;
Kiama’s spectre in a quiet grave is,
And, holier still, John Cash’s jawbone sleeps—
(We saw that it was making people wretched,
And got Phil May and Hopkins both to sketch it).
We’ve managed some reforms, and will continue
To work out more, according to our lights ;
We’ll biff out bigger frauds, with manlier sinew,
Made harder by a hundred punier fights ;
We’re ready now to let out straight, and win you
At least a small percentage of your rights—
We stand within the ropes, and hare our muscle,
And .crow for gore and the approaching tussle !
We’re ready for ’em, singly or in batches—
The priest, who prays to eat, not eats to pray,
Whose fat large paw, whate’er his creed be,
snatches
From pallid meagreness its food away,
Who shuts his slaves below the battened hatches
Of ignorance, and this way holds his sway ;
The purpled Monarch, from mews madness
building
A throne, where human blood shows through
the gilding ;
The Primrose-eater who pins on the badge of
Earth’s champion badgcd and tinselled Mounte-
bank,
And, wearing this, prowls through the slums to
cadge off
The damaged trull some tribute unto Rank ;
But there —we'll come right forward to the edge of
Platform, and announce its every “ plank ”
(“Plank down,” is yours). If you have recollec-
tion
You’ll know we’ve always strongly urged Protec-
tion.
And our intention is to strongly urge it
Until it has grown law—not very long ;
We’re dead against the lash, and mean to scourge
it
And its high-priests, with our own little thong.
Can brutalism lift up our race or purge it
Of vice, or violence, or doing wrong ,2
No— quite the other way—look up the merry
Old-time recitals writ by Roger Therry;
We’re for Home Rule—you hear us say we’re for it?
And Ireland yet will have it come to be—
That wretched isle that has played Little Dorrit
To England s Father of the Marshalsea ;
A selfless serf. It shall have Home Rule ! Nor it
Alone, hut in Times lordlier fullness we
Will knit our millions in a shining nation
A later, manlier, freer Federation !


We’re for Land-Tax, and not another tax on
The face of earth. Men have too long been
blind,
Too long the patient workful Anglo-Saxon
Has wrought for lusty idlers of his kind;
Too long the weight has lain the weakest backs
on,
But we will clarify the public mind
Till through the land, on farms, in mines and
forges,
Shall blossom a young crop of Henry Georges.
We love not the foul Mongol. This we’ve shown in
Our recent utterances ; he must go ;
We love and strive to free all slaves who groan in
Whatever bondages, to lift from woe
All fellow-beings; we dare stand alone in
The van of those who lift the veils and show
On Kingcraft’s lying face, and Priestcraft’s fea-
tures
Some marks God never set upon His creatures.
What else ? Oh, lots of things ! Whatever turns up
That doesn’t look like Truth, we’ll go for
straight—
We’ll break some idols, tip some sacred urns up,
And hurt some corns, we guess and calculate ;
And from where Etna’s dreadful column burns up
To Nova Zembla wc will educate
All men to Freedom (we were brought up meekly),
And all of this for only sixpence weekly
And, ninthly— look at us to-day ! What money
Can buy of Art is here sot out for you !
We’ve clergymen to write things wildly funny
For love of us—they never will take “ screw .”
And, tenthly—to the ladies— we have sunny
Long curls, can jerk off poetry, can brew
Colonial beer, are fascinating, single, and
Admire the things Australians do in England!
“THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
TZHZ-El
CENTENNIAL BULLETIN.
+
TO AGENTS AND READERS.
tfhe 26th day of January 1888, being the
100th Anniversary of the day when our fore-
fathers landed on Botany Bay, “ THE
BULLETIN ” will CENTENNIATE in a
SPECIAL NUMBER of unusual magnifi-
cence.
All orders for copies of the CENTENNIAL
u BULLETIN ” should be sent in before 31st
instant.
THE BULLETIN.
- 1 ' 111 '
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1887.
“And it was Christmas Day.”
One thousand eight hundred and eighty-
seven years ago to-morrow, was born in
Bethlehem of Judea that Jesus whose life
and teachings were to furnish forth a new
inspiration to man and a new moral basis to
the world’s social civilisation. The old faiths
were everywhere dying or dead. Society
had become rotten to putrescence. Egotism,
debauchery, corruption, and unbridled
license ran riot, and love was degraded to
the deepest depths of unutterable and loath-
some filthiness. Man had lost all hope, all
faith. The cynicism of despair filled his
heart and embittered his life. Many men
flung themselves into the yawning grave
with all the suicidal frenzy of those who
must get rid of the agony of existence at
any price. The world trembled for a moment
on the verge of a cataclysm. J esus came
with his beautiful doctrine of love, and his
beautiful life of sacrifice, and the world was
saved. He gave it a faith, and that faith
has been to man a motive for eighteen hun-
dred years and more —and if Jesus to-mor-
row came to keep his birthday with the
world for whom he has done so much he
would be arrested as a Fenian, hanged as an
Anarchist in Chicago, sent to Siberia as a
Nihilist; hunted, hounded down, stoned,
cursed, bayoneted, and trampled under foot,
for the world of to-day knows not Jesus.
« •
Jesus was no splendid, glory-bathed angel
of light and beauty ! Afar across the dim
centuries, we catch a glimpse of the simple
man of the people, the worker, the Com-
munist, the scourger of priests, the de-
nouncer of those who live in riot and luxury,
and who take no thought of the sheep and
the lambs who hunger out in the cold and
the night. The priests, the drivelling dandi-
prats who mumble homilies on Sundays and
various state occasions, paint a pallid pic-
are of pomp and oriental magnificence,
In which the aureole-crowned saints, in
robes of silk and damaskened embroidery,
sit in light and radiance in stately halls of
wondrous workmanship, chanting (JlOrias to
the accompaniment of jewelled harps and
shouting hosannas at the foot of a dazzdng
throne upon which is seated in awe-inspiring
regality the Great Redeemer—the Christ
—the Name in which is wrought all the in-
justice, all the wrong, all the murder, and
all the robbery in our world. Not such the
Jesus who gave to life an impulse and a
hope. Not such the intrepid Democrat,
who drave with unsparing lash the hucksters
who throve by their traffic in the Temple.
Not such the withering and scornful orator
who demanded the amount of profit accruing
to the capitalist who managed to save his
money-bags and lose his soul. Not such
the beautiful Prometheus, of Judea, who
yielded up h is life for humanity and died
with the yearning of love in his great noble
heart and the words of forgiveness on his
sweet, noble lips.
* * •
Jesus preached love and surrender.
Sacrifice ! Sacrifice ! ! Sacrifice ! !! “Give !
was the gist of his message, and the won-
drous novelty of it, the greatneis, and the
astounding beauty of it, seized upon the
world with a tremendous spasm-grip. Io
give, to die, to suffer, to be insulted and
spat upon become the one soul-fi'ling ambi-
tion of the early followers of the despised
Nazarene. The cross was the symbol of
denial, but it was the symbol of degradation
also—in the utter abasement of that degra-
dation was the Christian’s glory.
* * *
A change came over the spirit of the
age. Jesus had always preached the un-
hallowedness of wealth. To have aught o
the earth’s riches was to be consigned in ad-
vance to hell-fire. Dives, although he al-
lowed Lazarus to feed upon the crumbs
which fell from his feast, was condemned
eternally, inasmuch as upon earth he had
the joy and the fatness of life, and cared not
for his brother’s hunger. This is the spirit
of Communism, and Jesus, in this sense, is
one of the finest and first of Communists.
But a change came over the spirit of the
age. Rome outgrew its gods. The empire
was too great to hang together, unless it had
a common motive for action, a single rallymg-
point, a battle-shout which should thrill the
Dacian from the German swamps and
the adventurer from the Indian Eu-
phrates. A great master of cunning
held in his hands the reins of Empire.
He saw his chance, this Machiavelli
of antiquity, this saint of the Greek and
Coptic churches, this slayer of his son, this
budder of a city in which the power he
founded should here, too, find its doom ;
he saw his chance, and to his hosts pro-
claimed : “ En TOUTO NIKA—IN HOC VINCE.
The cross was no longer the sign of sufier-
ing ' it was now enrolled among the insignia
of empire and bloodshed, and figured on the
hilts of the swords by which men slew their
fellows and spread the curse of Imperialism.
• * *
This faith of to-day, which is preached by
priests and bishops, and believed by lords
and landlords—by licensed robbers, and
titled thieves —is not the faith, the sweet
self-denial of the suffering Jew, Jesus, the
preacher of Communism and the friend ot
the people. It is not Christianity we be-
lieve—if we believe aught. It should
be called Constantinism. This re-
ligion of Constantinism is about fifteen
hundred and seventy-five years old, but who
can count the corpses it has made ? It is a
liar as well as a thief, this faith if it is a
faith—of to-day ! Its crimes it heaps upon
the shoulders of Jesus, the son of the car-
penter, and blackens with murder the sacred
name of the truest friend the people ever
had. Murder and robbery and rapine ; lust
and blood and appalling selfishness ; this is
the record of our daily life. The greasy
prießts of the brutal robber-lords and the
coarse robber bourgeoisie— the land-sharks
and the labour-thieves-have “ringed the
tree of life, and it now rears its skeleton
trunk against the blast of modern pessimism,
a dead and rotten daddock. The future
stretches before us a sere and wasted plain,
with no patch of lush green grass, no oasis
of hope—there is naught before us but a
boundless wild of misery and despair.
* * *
And the thing called Christianity has done
this. It has slain and robbed in the name
of Christ— but for the sake of Empire. It
has bastioned the doctrine of private property
with the superstitious terrors of the Church.
It has preached the beauty and holiness, the
dignity of labour— for the poor lt has
counselled forbearance and patience— for
the poor. It has inculcated the grovelling
vices of a helot and extolled them as the
I first of virtues— for the poor. It has taught
the s veetness ol contentment and advised
pain and anguish as excellent correctors of
pride—in the poor. It has degraded woman
to the position of the creature and puppet
of man’s lust. It has denounced as errors
the brightest and most magnificent achieve-
ments of the human intellect. It has hurled
its feeble thunder at the Darwins, the
Hackels, the Spencers. It has pat upon
the pedestal of its worship the puling frauds
of effete and spineless cant and hypocrisy,
and it has grovelled supine before a brainless
puppet like Albert Wettin.
* * *
And to-day—elghteenhundred and eighty-
seven years after that birth in the ppor
stable— were the founder of the religion
which vaunts hii name to appear, he would
be hanged as a Socialist, dangerous to society
as It is at present constituted or, at best, he
would be arrested and lodged in a noisome
and fetid lock-up for disturbing the peace
of “ Respectability h on Christmas Day.
* * ft
To-morrow will bo Christmas Day !
Jesus of Nazareth ! how art thou dis-
honoured by the revolting rabble which have
filched thy name !
“ Baits."
Ever since England entered upon her great
commercial expansion, which followed on the
post- Waterloo peace and the modern de-
velopments of machinery, she has, more-and
more, fulfilled her instincts as “a nation of
shop-keepers.” Once thesB instincts were
held in check by others. There was the
sentiment of national probity which was
given her by the Puritans, by the Common-
wealth, and Cromwell. There was the
sentiment of national honour which was
given her by the great inter-race struggle
with France, the protagonist of which was
the elder Pitt. But the downfall of France
as a colonial power, thanks to Wolee in
America and Clive in India, left her hands
free to organise her trade, and, when Napo-
leon and the French revolutionary ideas
were struck down at Waterloo, England
found the trade of the earth her own peculiar
Canaan —“a land flowing with nrlk and
honey.”
• * •
lb is important to realise this, because all
subsequent English history turns upon Eng-
land’s use and abuse of this prodigious pos-
session and trust which Fate assigned to her.
The candid and the intelligent must perceive
in this subsequent history two great facts.
The first fact is the terrible temptation
which such power and wealth offered to
what was, we repeat, in essence, a “ nation
of shopkeepers,” even when fighting a duel
to the death with the ambition of the House
of Bourbon and of Napoleon. The other
fact is the terrible fall that has followed on
that terrible temptation. Ail the Eng-
lish wars since Waterloo have been more or
less commercial, and, as the years have
passed on, the sordidness of this commerci-
ality of her arms has grown and grown till
there is now no candid and intelligent Eog-
lishman who is not utterly ashamed of the
blood and “ glory ” which has stained the
contemporary British flag.
* * *
Nor is this all. The old national probity,
the old sentiment of national honour, has
continued on in the simple and good among
Englishmen, and those who were neither
simple nor good have not hesitated to use
this as a weapon both of defence and offence.
The name of England is hated all over the
earth as the name of, at once, the most
selfish nation and the most greasily self-
righteous. Take an example or two of her
conduct which has merited this unenviable
reputation. England talked loudly about
her civilizing “mission,” her conferring of
the benefits of science, culture, and religion
on China, in the days of the Chinese re-
fusal to trade. What were the facts, the
naked, inevitable facts ? The best Chinese
saw the national corruption which was fol-
lowing—and which has followed so appal-
lingly since—in the home use of opium.
They forbade this use. But opium was a
great Indian product, and India is a great
British possession. If the Indians could not
sell their opium they could not buy the
British manufactures. China, accordingly,
was coerced to her degradation, and the
blasphemy of Te Deums of national praise
to God for religious and civilised liberty
was the sign of the national greed and lust
in Its masquerade of light and righteous-
ness.
* # *
The history of all the British wars ever
since has been the history of this masquerade.
The provocation and attack of free States
adjacent to England’s great foreign
possessions—the slow, organised exploita-
tion under a military and civil service which
were the mere police for the manufacturers,
what more are the subjection of the Sikhs,
the invasions of Afghanistan, of Burmah, of
ABhantee, of Zululand, of the Transvaal ?
All the blood and gold poured out on Egyp-
tian sands, from the suppression of the
national movement under Arabi to the fall
of Gordon at Khartoum, sprang from the
greed and lust of the British bondholders of
the Suez Canal. Well did the astute dew,
Disraeli, see that his purchase of the
Khedive’s shares hid, under its “ high-
falutin ” talk about “ the key of India,” the
committal of England to his Imperialism,
through this greed and lust. Gladstone,
all along, was strenuously opposed to the
occupation of Ejypt. He had succeeded in
putting an end to the abomination of the
Boer war. But he failed to do so
much for the Egyptians. The money-
bags were too strong for him, and
the world was to see a typical spectacle like
that of that big, hulking, Jingoistic bully,
Colonel Burnaby, shooting down with a
shot gun the Arabian women and lads who,
naked and armed with knives, were hurling
themselves, hecatombs for the sake of liberty
and country, on the squares of European
troops armed with breech-loaders. How
sickening ! How humiliating ! Eagland sup-
ports the foulest and most oppressive govern-
ment in the world—the Government of a
played-out debauchee and fraudulent insol-
vent. because “ British interests ” are also
the Khedive’s ignominy and shame !
“ We hare nothing to hope or fear,” said
Bismarck, scornfully, before the Danish
war, “ of a country like England. ” Nothing
to hope or fear ? No, nothing. Because
England could gain no money by alliance
with Germany, nor yet by assailing her.
The German dynasty did not need to prop
itself up by a partnership of blood and ser-
vice with England as Napoleon 111. thought
he did. Germany would never attempt to
maim Russia and Russian trade in the East in
the interests of England. W heref ore, E n gland
kept her hands off the spoiler of Schleswig-
Holstein despite much tail-talk of “ armed
interference.” Nothing to hope or fear?
No, nothing ; and, therefore, England left
Germany alone. England leaves everyone
alone that she cannot exploit, or that is not
worth exploiting. Yesterday she left Aus-
tralia alone. To-day she does not. What
is the meaning of it ? The meaning is clear.
Australia is worth exploiting.
* * *
V When things are bad with us,” Bald the
British Tory weekly, the Saturday Review,
several years ago (the Saturday Review
by “things” meant “financial and com-
mercial things ”), “ we turn with satisfac-
tion to consider the colonies.” The colonies
here stand for Australia. The capitalistic
England has been awake to the potentiali-
ties of Australia for some time. Oar huge
loans are the proof of it. The commercial
England, dragging along with it the general
national sentiment, is only just awake. The
Exhibition and the Conference wiped the
last piece of sleep out of its eyes. In other
words, England, modern England, the great
commercial harlot, the nation of greed, and
cant, and swagger, has scented a
new prey. The result is already history.
The plundering process has begun. The
brutal demands for money—money, more
money—for that wretched monument of this
greed and lust, the Imperial Institute—the
loud dissatisfaction at what was given the
naval demands, with the same brutality at
the beginning, followed by the same loud
dissatisfaction at the close. This we all
know. But do we all know, or, if we know,
do we all realise, and consider the sort of
underground conspiracy which is going on
to bind with unbreakable fetters to this avari-
cious England—this discredited and played-
out England—our young, strong land of Aus-
tralia ? That conspiracy has a name. What
is that name ? Imperial Federation !
* * #
It is the old, old game ; the old, old game
which England knows so well is worth the
candle. For how superbly cheap it is ! To
scatter contemptible titles among the rained
petty tradesmen or riff-raff professional men
who have risen to the top of affairs here as
bloated capitalists and snobs of the lowest
degree. To send out “ popular governors ”
from the Royal clique who make every
speech an advertisement of the Throne and
“ the dear old country.” To bring the screw
upon the capitalistic press, so far as it dare
go in the face of the profound indifference
of the mass of the Australians and the bitter
opposition of those of them who “drop ” to
the trick. These are the propaganda, and
they are all being worked to death. The
Throne in England is insecure. In Imperial
Federation it is playing its last card. It
dreams of the prestige and national grati-
tude which England would feel to the Prince
and King who had succeeded in handing
over Canada and Australia, and South Africa
tied and bound, to the British manufacturer’
whose enthusiasm for “ fair trade ” or “In-
tercolonial and Imperial Freetrade,” has
just come with his perception of the
first seriously real and great com-
petition of the manufacturers of Ger-
many and the United States. They call
Albert Edward a fool. It would be
better to call him a knave. The Royal or
rather the Imperial, clique is a reality and a
power. It has plans ; it has a policy. And
Lord Oarington, in the Sydney Govern-
ment House, no It S 3 than the Prince of Wales
presiding at colonial meetings in London is a
part of that policy. What is that policy ?
The annexation through Federation of Aus-
tralia to England; the commercial union
with England ; the monetary exploitation of
Australia! 7
* * *
All along the line the effort is felt. No
stone is being left unturned. To' bring
about closer trade relations is an equal ob-
ject with the fostering of the << 2 m _
perialistic ” sentiment by means 0 f the
aristocratic and military paraphernalia
titles and “ discipline.” Every day some
new mine is sprung upon us. Let us take
the latest.
* * *
Says the Sydney Daily Telegraph
In pursuance of the polioy which has been
adopted at the Admiralty of encouraging cadets
of colonial families to enter the Royal Navy it
has been decided (writes the Times) to establish a
training establishment at Sydney, New South
Wales, on the same lines as that on board the
Britannia, for young officers. The Sydney estab-
lishment will now examine and professional
educate the cadets. At the end of the usual two
years’ course the cadets will be drafted into those
ships which, nnder the terms of the agreement
arrived at during the late Colonial Conference
are stationed permanently in Australian waters
A certain portion of them will, if they desire it
be given full commissions in the Royal Navy and
drafted for service on other stations in the same
manner as Royal Navy officers.”
This sort of thing Is very spe-
cious. We are not dealing with
fools. The bait is a good one. The hook is
well-covered. O, Australia, will you rise and
snap at it ? Take care. One snap, and


that cruel steel will only come out of your
writhing body with your flesh and blood.
• #
It is time for Australia to awake. This
last apptal to the miserable vanity of a
drugged and sleeping continent means that
the adventurous yoath and growing strength
of AustraL'a are t j be drafted into English
war-vessels, and trained up to worship the
god 3 of E< gland,and embtnd with sentiments
which will fit them, when the time comes,
to fight against Australia in English in-
terests. The Turkish Sultans were wise in
their genera... u, and Britain’s latest device
is borrowed from tha Othmans ; the Selims
and Amnraths of Stamboul impressed by
thousands the sons of the conquered Chris-
tians, and filled with them the ranks of their
Janissaries—the bravest, fiercest, and moßt
dreaded of the armed pests who infested
Europe 300 years ago—and these military
slaves went forth, filled with the wild en-
thusiasm of the renegade, to crush their
own fathers into the dust when they rose to
strike for their lost liberties. And Austra-
lia may some day have to meet her own
renegade s..ns in battle, just as the
Greeks and Albanians, the Servians
and Bulgarians, and the Latin tribes of
the Danube, had to do long ago. The sea
is the resort of the bravest and most adven-
turous of the youths of the British Empire,
and it is these whom Eagland proposes to
secure that they may be trained up in Im-
perial traditions, and educated in that Im-
perial sentiment which consists mainly in a
lofty contempt of everything which is not
English, and then, in afcer years, when Aus-
tralia is compelled to strike for her indepen-
dence, as America was forced to do 100 years
ago, her own sons will come—in English
ships for which Australia has paid, and under
the command of English officers whose
salaries are drawn from the Australian Trea-
suries—to suppress the “ blawsted colonials,"
and teach them to respect the dignity of
England. It is this privilege—the privilege
of having her own manhood trained to crush
her into subjection—that is now offered as a
mark of especial favour to the new
Continent, and its results will appear when
Australia is compelled to pit her raw levies
against the disciplined forces which Bhe has
supplied for her own undoing. The bait is
carefully disguised. Those who offered it
knew well the snobbish imbecility by which
Australia is governed, and they appealed to
the lowest and most grovelling passions of
the human intellect by tendering titles and
gold lace as the price of a nation’s liberty.
If the offer is accepted Australia will be
sold for less than the price which Judas
exacted when he sold his Master, and the
bargain on which a drivelling generation
enters with a light heart will never be can-
celled—except by rivers of blood.
A "Sydney milkman was drowned last
vweek. But he wasn't.drowned in milk.
Mr. Smith’s son has made a name for him-
-self. He now calls himself Caringtoa—we mean
Smythe.
A facing of freestone is now copaidered
-good by Parkes for his State Sir ’Enry’s
front is made of granite.
Mary Anderson won’t oome to Australia
■ without her ma’s protection. Mary needn’t be so
much afraid. We have no Royal Highnesses here
except King Billy of Gum Flat, and he never
■ visits theatres.
ilt is alleged that Attorney- General Wise
and “Honest” John Sutherland mean to secede
from the N.S.W. Ministry. If so, the Parkes
Ministry will lose all its wisdom and honesty.
‘But that won’t make much difference.
Sydney Evening News advertisement; —
MATRIMONIAL.— GentIeman with fair income, agree-
aL able, desires to marry a nice red-headed Girl, about
' 20, healthy, loving. English or Colonial, but with edu-
cated manners and taste in dress. Arthur T ,
>King-st., P.O
Who ever knew a nice red-headed girl that wasn’t
loving ? As to a red-headed girl’s taste in dress,
how can a Tcd-bear’ed woman drefs except in
rgais green trimmed with yellow J P.S. What
•bouet the white horse I
Jubi ate!
“ The Duke of Manchester has arrived.”
Some marquises we’ve had of late,
And noble earls a few —
But these are men of mean estate
tCompared, your Grace, with you ;
Sassiety will jump for joy
At getting such a plum,
And Brown will say to Jones, *• Dear boy,
My friend the Dook has oome."
Carnarvon’s nose Is out of joint,
And Buckinghamshire dear
Us, so to speak, pegged back a point
While Manchester is here ;
Drogheda sinks to nothing, and
Qur Normanhy is dumb ;
The cry now echoes through the land—
“ The Guinea Pig has. come ! ’’
<@ulck, mother ! bring our Sunday coat
(’Tis hanging on the hook),
We want to -go and meet the boat,
And cheer the blessed Dook.;
And pretty Jane, our sister fair,
Oh! never look so glum—
Hut run away and brush your hair
In case the Dook should comp.
Blue blood, though all-sufficient dower !
True Britons worship rank,
Though unallied to mental power
Or money In the bank.
■Ye trumpeters'! blow clear and loud—
Ye drummers ! thump the drum
-And paralyse the .vulgar crowd
With “ Ho! the Dook has come."
A PROFITABLE PUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About ten years ago, not a day’s tramp
from Ballarat;, set well back from a dusty track
that started nowhere in particular, and had no
destination worth mentioning, stood the Sham-
rock Hotel. It was a low, rambling, disjointed
structure, and bore strong evidence of having
been designed by an amateur artist in a moment
of vinous frenzy. It reached out in seven well-
defined angles, and had a sway-backed building
stuck on here and there; numerous out-houses were
dropped down about it promiscuously ; its walls
were propped up in places with logs of wood, and
its moss-covered shingle roof, o'erborne with the
weight of years, and a great accumulation of
stones, hoop-iron, jam-tins, broken glassware, and
dried’possum skins, bulged threateningly, seeming
but to wait Its chance to collapse, and hurry the
residents into eternity, with their sins fresh upon
them. The Shamrock was built of sun-dried
bricks, consequently it 3 complexion was of an un-
healthy, bilious tint. Its dirty, shattered windows
were plugged in places with old hats and discarded
female apparel, and draped in green blinds, many
of which had broken their moorings, and hung
despondingly from one nail. Groups of ungainly
fowls coursed the succulent grasshopper before
the bar-door ; a mcody, distempered goat scratched
her ribs against a shattered trough roughly hewn
from the butt of a tree, and a matronly old sow
of spare proportions wallowed complacently in
the dust of the road whilst her numerous brood
fought noisily for first drink.
• » •
A battered sign hung out over the door of
the Shamrock informing the weary wayfarer that
“ Michael Doyle was licensed to sell fetmented
and spirituous liquors,” and that good accommo-
dation could be afforded to both man and beast at
the lonesc current rates ; but that sign was most
unreliable; the man who applied to be accommo-
dated with anything beyond fermented
and spirituous liquors of a very in-
ferior quality evoked the astonishment of
the proprietor, as bed and board were quite out of
the province of the Shamrock. Tradition hath it
that one traveller who had insisted upon being
supplied with a downy couch woke up in the
middle of the night, racked with aches and pains
through sleeping upon a mattress that seemed to
be stuffed with old boots and stubble, and found
a gang of hens roosting on the rafters overhead
and a maternal goose nursing her brood upon his
weak chest. The “turn-over” at the Shamrock
was not at all extensive, for, saving an occasional
agricultural labourer who came from “ beyant ”
which was the versatile host’s expression for de-
signating any part within a radius of five miles —
to revel in an occasional spree, the trade was con-
fined to passing “cookies” who invariably came
shuffling up on a bony, drooping prad, took a
drink and shuffled away, their clump-footed nags
kioking a lot of dust and sending a family of
swine squealing into the bar for safety.
# • •
The only other dwellings within sight of the
Shamrock were a cluster of ramshackle huts com-
piled of slabs, scraps of matting, zinc, and bag,
leaning in all directions, and huddled up as if
to save themselves from baiog carried off by the
next breeze. These were the habitations of a
colony of squalid, gibbering Chinese fossickera
who hived together like hogs in a crowded pen, as
if they had been restricted to that spot on pain of
death or a square wash.
* * #
About a quarter of a mile behind the pub.
ran, or rather crawled, the sluggish waters of
Yellow Creek. Once upon a time, when the
Shamrock was first built, the creek was a beau-
tiful, limpid rivulet running between ver-
dant banks ; but an enterprising prospector,
wandering that way and liking the indications,
put down a shaft and bottomed on the wash at 20
feet, getting half-an-ounce to the dish. A rush
set in, andinabout 12 monthsthe banks of the creek
for a distance of two miles were denuded of their
timber, torn up and covered with unsightly heaps.
The creek had been diverted from its natural course
half-a-dozen times, and hundreds of diggers, like
busy ants, delved into the earth, and covered its
surface with red, white, and yellow tips. Then
the miners left almost as suddenly as they had
come; the Shamrock, whioh had resounded with
wild revelry, became as silent as a morgue, and
desolation brooded on the face of the country.
When Mr. Michael Doyle, whose greatest am-
bition in life had been to lord it in a pub., in-
vested in that lucrative country property, saplings
were growing between the deserted holes of the
digging*, and the agricultural had superseded the
mining industry in those parts.
* * *
Mr. Doyle was of Irish extraction ; his
family was so old that everybody had forgotten
Where and when it originated, but Mickey was
not proud—he put on no unnecessary style, and his
personal appearance would not lead you to infer
that there had been a king in his family, and that
his paternal progenitor had killed a
“wonst.” Mickey was a small, scraggy man,
with a mop of grizzled hair, and a little, red,
( hu,morous face, which ever bristled with auburn
stubble, and would have served at any moment to
grate a carrot on. Michael’s trousers were the
.most striking things about him ; they were built
on the premises, and always contained enough
stuff to make him a full suit and a winter over-
coat. Mrs. Doyle concocted those pants after
plans and specifications of her own designing, and
was mightily proud when Michael would yank
them up into his armpits, and amble about, peer-
ing discontentedly over the waist-band —“They
W ( us th’ great savin' in weskits,” she said.
* # •
Of late years it had taken all Mr. Doyle’s
ingenuity to accomplish the difficult feat of
making ends meet. The tribe of dirty, unkempt
urchins who swarmed about the place “took a
power of feedin’,” and Mrs. D. herself was “th’
big ater.” “Yedo be atin’ twenty-fours a day,”
her lord was wont to remark, “ and thin yez must
get up av noights for more. W hen ye'r not atin’
ye’r munchin’ a schnack, bad cess t'y ! ”
* * #
In order to provide the provender for his
unreasonably hungry family, Mickey had been
compelled to supplement his takings as a Boniface
by acting al’erra elyas 'osslrKer, ch wcoal-burm r,
and “wood-Umber;” buc ic came " bur ble
ha d” on the little man, and he waxed thinner
and thinner, and sank deeper into his trousers
every year. Then, to augment his troubles, came
the pestiferous heathen, the teetotal Chinee. He
came in numbers, like a plague, armed with picks,
shovels, dishes, cradles, and tubs. He cme one
hot summer day with a clatter of tools and a
babble of grotesque gibberish, and camped by the
creek and refused to go away again. The awe-
some solitude of the abandoned diggings was
ruthlessly broken, the Banctity of the deserted
field which, with its white mounds and decaying
windlass stands fallen aslant, lay like a long-
forgotten cemetery buried in primeval forest, was
desecrated by the hand of the Mongol, and the
sound of his crude, Oriental profanity. The Chows
swarmed over the spot, tearing open old sores,
shovelling old tips, sluicing old tailings, digging,
cradling, puddling, ferreting into every nook and
cranny, and turning the whole face of the field
into distraction.
* * *
Mr. Doyle observed the foreign invasion
with mingled feelings of righteous anger and
painful solicitude. He had found fossicking by
the creek very handy to fall back upon when the
wcod-jambing trade was not brisk, but now that
stand by was ruined by Chinese competition, and
Michael could only find relief in deep and earnest
profanity.
* * *
Concomitant with the Pagan influx began
the mysterious disappearance of small valuables
from the premises of Michael Doyle, licensed vic-
tualler ; sedate, matronly old hens, hitherto noted
for their strict propriety and regular hours, would
leave the place at dead of night, and return from
their nocturnal rambles never more ; mercurial
sucking-pigs which had erstwhile absolutely re-
fused to be driven from lha door, corrupted by
the new evil, absented themselves suddenly from
the precincts of the Shamrock, taking with them
cooking utensils and various other articles of small
value, and thenceforth their fata became a mat-
ter for speculation. At last a favourite young
porker went, and its lord and master, resolving to
prosecute enquiries, bounced into the Mongolian
camp, and, without any unnecessary preamble,
opened the debate: —“Look here now!’’ he ob
served, shaking his fi3t att v e group, and brist ing
fiercely, “ which av ye dbiriy, hathen ftirrinera
cum up to me house lasht noight, and shtole me
pig, Nancy ? Wh'ch av je, so’t I kin bate ye, ye
thavin’ yellow-dogs T’
* * •
The placid Orientals surveyed Mr. Doyle
coolly, and innocently smiled, and said, “No
savee then bandied jests at his expease in their
native tongue, and laughed the little man to
scorn. Incensed by the evident ridicule of the
“hathen furriners,” and goaded on by the
smothered squeal of a hidden pig, Michael went
for the nearest Asiatic, and proceeded to put a
head on him as big a 3 a tank, amid a storm of
kicks and dig 3 from the other Chows. Presently
the battle began to go against the Irish cause, but
Mrs. Mickey made a timely appearance, and
warded the surplus Chinamen off by chipping at
their skulls with an axe-handle The riot was
soon quelled, and the two Doyles departed trium-
phant, beaming away a corpu’ent young swine,
and leaving a broken, di couraged Chinaman to
be doctored at his own expense.
tt •
*
After this gladsome little episode the
Chinamen held off for a few weeks ; then they
suddenly changed their tactics, and began to try
all they knew to cultivate the friendship of
Michael Doj la and his able-bodied wife. They
liberally patronised the Shamrock, and beguiled
the licensee with soft but cheerful conversation ;
they flattered Mrs. Doyle in seductive pigeon-
English, and endeavoured to ensnare the children’s
young affections with preserved gnger. Michael
regarded t heße advances with misgiving ; he sus-
pected the Mongolians' intentions were not
honourable, but was not the man to spoil trade —
to drop the substance for the shadow. This sta f e
of affairs had continued for come time before the
landlord of the fchamrock noticed that his new
customers made a point of carrying off a brick
every time they visited his pub. When leaving
fihe bland heathen would cast his discriminating
eye round the place, hastily saizs upon one of the
eun-dried bricks with which the ground was lit-
tered andstealaway withanonchalantair as though
it had just occurred to him that that brick would
come in useful. This matter puzzled Mr. Doyle
sorely ; he ruminated over it, but the only conclu-
Bion he could come to was thatitwasn’t good enoagh
to lose custom for the sake of a few bricks; so
the Chinese continued to walk off with hi* build-
ing material whenever opportunity offered, and,
when asked what they intended to do with the
bricks, assumed an expression of the most dep’er-
ably hopeless idiocy, and sudden’y lost their ac-
quaintance with the English tongue. If bricks
were under discussion they hadn't the comprehen-
sion of wombats, although they s;emed pretty
bright on other points. Mickey noticed that
there was no building being done at their tamp,
also that there were no bricks to be seen about
the domiciles of the Pagans, and he tried to
figure the mystery out on a elate, but, on account
of his lamentable ignorance of mathema' ics,
failed to reach the unknown quantity and elucidate
the enigma. Mr Doyle watched the invaders get
away with all the loose bricks which were scat-
tered around, and never oompla'ned, but when
they started to abstract one end of his
licensed premises he felt himself called upon as a
husband and father to uprise, and enter a protest.
Which he did pointing out to the Yellow Agony
in graphic and forcible language the gross wicked-
ness of robbing a struggling man of his house
and home, and promising faithfully to “bate”
the next lop eared child of the Sun whom ha
“ cob shiftin’ a’er a brick.” “ Blast ye ! wud
yez shtale me hotel, so't whin me family go insoide
they’ll be out in th’ rain V he queried, lookiag
hurt and indignant.
* * *
The Chinamen said they did not “ savee,”
but after this warning they went to great pains
and displayed much ingenuity in abstracting
bricks without the cognition of Michael Doyle-
out of consideration for his feelings, doubtless.
Bub Mr. Doyle was active ; he watched them
closely, and when he caught a Chow in the act, a
brief conflict raged on the spot, and a dismantled
Chinaman surely eventuated. This conduct on
the part of the landlord served in time to entirely
alienate the Mongolian custom from the Sham
rock, and once more Mick and the Chows never
spoke as they passed by. Once more promising
young pullets started to go astray in company
with other portable valuables, and still the hole ia
the wall grew till the after part of the Shamrock
looked as if it had tried to stop a runaway cannon
ball. The Chinamen came when Micbael slept, and
filched his hotel, inch by inch. They lost their
natural ie3t, and ran the gauntlet of Mr. Diyle’s
kick and his curee, all for a few bricks. Ac all
hours of the night they crept through the gloom,
and softly, warily, btoli a bat or two, getting
away unnoiictd perhaps, or, may e, disturbing
the tlumbers of Mrs. Doyle, who was a very 1 ght
sleeper for a woman of her size. In the latter
case; Mrs. D. would waken her lord by holding his
nose—a very effective plan of her own—and
filled to overflowing with hate and spiteful invec
tive, Mick w ould turn out in his shirt to cope
with the marauders, and course them over the
paddocks. If- he caught a heathen, ho just laid
himself out to indulge in five minutes’ ener-
getic entertainment, which repaid him for
lost re3t and missing hens, and left a
Chinaman too heartsick and sore to steal
anything for a week or so; but his friends
would come as usual, and the pillage went on.
Michael Doyle puzzled himself bald-headed trying
to make head or tail of this insatiable and un-
reasonable hunger for br.'cks ; such an infatuation
on the part of Chinamen for cold and unrespon-
sive clay had never before come within the pale
of his experience, and it prostrated him quite.
Times out of mind he threatened to “ have the
law on the dirty bla’gards,” but the law was a
long way off, and the Celestial house-breakers
continued to elope with scraps of the Shamrock,
taking the proprietor's assaults humbly and as a
matter of course,
“ Why do ye be shtealing’ me house ?" fiercely
queried Mr. Doyle of a submissive Chow whom ho
had taken in the act of ambling off with a brick
in each hand one night.
“ Me no stealem, no feah ! odder fellah, him
stealem! ” replied the quaking Pagan.
Mickey was stricken dumb for the moment by
this awful, bald prevarication, but that did not
impare the velocity of his kick ; he wished it had
afterwards, for the Chinaman had stowed another
brick away in his pants for convenience of transit,
and the landlord struck that brick ; then ho sat
down and repeated aloud all the profanity he
kne v, and wished ha were a boy again, so that he
could gat his toe into his mouth. The Chinaman
escaped, and had presence of mind enough to io-
tain the bricks.
* # *
For months the work of devastation went
on. Mr. Doyle set ingenious mechanical contri-
vances about his hoise, and turned out at early
dawn to see how many t hicamen he had nailed,
only to find his spring-traps stolen and his hotel
yawning more de=perately than ever. Then
Michael could but lift up bis voice and swear—
nothiDg else afforded him any relief. At last ho
hit upon a brilliant idea. He commissioned a
cookie who was journeying into Ballarat to buy
him a dog, the largest, fb reest, ug ie t, hungriest
animal the town afforded ; and next day a power-
ful, iil-tempered canine, as big- as a horse and as
ugly as a nightmare was duly installed as guar-
dian and night-watch at the Shamrock. Right
well the good dog performed his duty, too. On
the following morning he had trophies to show in
the shape of a hoot, a scrap cf trousers, half a
pig-tail, an ear, and a good part of a so sip ; and
just then the nocturnal visits ceased. Ths Chov> s
s;ent a week fk.raoishtrg round, endeavouring to
call the dog off, but he was to be neither begged,
borrowed, nor stolen ; he was too old-fashioned to
eat poisoned meat, and resented the small-
est approach to familiarity on the part
of a Chinaman by snapping off the mrst service-
able portions of his pants, and always fetching a
scrap of Chinaman along with them. This dis-
couraged the Johns in time, and they drew off to
hold congress and give the matter weighty con-
sideration. After deliberating for some slays, the
yellow settlement sent a deputation to wait upon
Mr. Doyle. Mick saw them coming and he armed
himself with a log and unchained his deg ; Mrs.
Doyle ranged up alongside -brandishing her axe-
handle, but, by humble gestures and a deferential
bearing, the Celestial deputation implied a truce.
So Michael held his dog down and rested on his
arms to await developments. The Chinamen
advanced smilirg blandly; they gave Mr. and
Mrs. Doyle a fraternal greeting, and squirmed
with that wheedling obsequiousness peculiar to
“ John ” when he has something to gain by it A
pock-marked leper wi:h a face like a moon-struck
Kanaka placed himself in the van and assumed
the speakership :
“Nicee day, Mis3a Doyle,” he said, sweetly.
Then, with a sudden expression of great interest
and nodding towards Mrs. Doyle, “ How you
sissetah ?”
“Foind out! Fwhat’ra yez wantin’?’ replied
the host of the Shamrock, gruffly, “ T’ shtalo
more bricks, ye crawlin’ bla’g’ards ? ’
“ No, no ! Me no stealem b’lck, odder fellah ;
he hide ’em, build big house byem-byet”
“ Ye loi 1 ye screw-faced nayger! I seed y’ do
it, and if yez don’t cut and run I’ll lave the dog
loose to feed on yer dhirty carcasses.” The dog
tried to reach for his favourite bold, Mick
brandished his log, and Mrs. Doyle took a fseah
grip of her weapon. This demonstration gave i ln
Chows a cold shiver, and brought them promptly
down to business
We buyem you hotel; what for you sellem,
eh ?”
“ Fwhat 1 Yez buy me hotel ? D'ye mane it ?
Purchis th’ premises, and yez can shtalo ivery
brick at yer lishu e ! But ye're joakia’. Whoop!
Look ’ee here. I'll have th’ lot av yez aten up in
two minits if yez play yer Choinese larks on
Michael Doyle!”
* •
The Chinamen protested eagerly that
they were In earnest, and Mickey gave them an
impartial hearing. For two years he had b e • in
want of a customer for the Shamrock, and he
haiied the offer cf the “ ha'hens” with secret de-
light. After barneying for an hour, daring which
time the ignorant Chinee wi h the contorted
countenance displayed much business-taet and
deep guile, a bargain was struck. The Chin: men
agreed to give £SO ctsh for the Shvmrock
and all out-houses appertaining thereto, and
the folio *iog Monday was the day fixed whereon
Michael was to journey into Ballarat with a couple
of representative heathens, to sign the transfer
papers and receive the cash. The deputation
departed smilirg, and when it gave the news of
its triumph to the other denizens of the crimp
there was a perfect babel of congratulations in
the quaint dialect of the Mongol, and th j China-
men proceeded to make a night of It in their o sn
outlandish way, indulging freely in the seductive
diug, opium, and holding high carouse oyer an
extempore fan-tan table, from which it was evi-
dent that they thought they were getting the best
of Michael Doyle, licensed victualler. Michael,
tco, was rejoicing with exceeding great joy, and
congratulating himself on being the shrewdest
little man from home He had never hoped
to get more th&n a £2O note for tin dila-
pidated old building; it wa3 erected on Crown
land, and could not be expected to stand the wear
and tear of another 18 months. As for the busi-
ness, it had fallen off to a shadow, and could hardly
be relied upon to keep a Chinaman in soap. Mr
Doyle plumed himself on his bargain and swelled up
till he nearly filled his trousers. Still he was harassed
to know what could possibly have attached the
Chinese so stroegiy to the Shsmrook. They had
taken samples from every pa-’t of the ’ecablish-
me t, ai d »vden lp fully aatu-fKii t*»« mse) vei is
lu tie quality o the nick, aid now they wire
willing to buy ; it wa3 mo.t pe:u’iar Micl a :l w as


free to confess he’d never seen anything so quare
before, saving once, when his grandfather was a
boy.
# * *
After the agreement arrived at between
the publican and the Chows, one or two of the
latter contrived to hang about the hotel nearly
all their time, keeping watch and ward. The dog
was retained on the chain, and lay ia the sun all
day in a state of moody melancholy, scrutinizlrg
the Mongolians narrowly. He was a strong anti-
Chinese dog, and had been educated to regard the
almond-eyed invader with mistrust and hate, and
it was repugnant to his principles to have to lie
low when the heathen was around, so he evinced
his resentment by growling almost ceaselessly for
three days.
« * *
Sunday dawned. It was a magnificent
morning, but the rattle of the Chinamen’s cradles
and tom 3 sounded from the creek as usual. When
it is left to his own option, the Chow would
always rather earn sixpence than take a day of
rest. Three or four suave and civil Asiatics,
however, still lingered about the Shamrock,
and kept an eje on it in the interests of all,
for the purchase of the hotel was to be a joint-
stock affair. These “Johns” seemed to imagine
they had already talsen lawful possession; they
sat in the bar most of the time, drinking little,
but always affable and genial. Michael suffered
them to stay, because he feared any fractiousness
on his part might upset the li tie agreement he
had made with them, and that was a consumma-
tion to be avoided above all things. They had
told him, with many tender smiles and much
gesticulation, that they intended to live in the
house when it became theirs, but Mr. Doyle was
not interested -he did not care a swear if they
boiled it down for hominy.
* * *
Michael was in great good spirits that
morning; he beamed complacently on all and
Bundry, appointed the day as a time of family
rejoicing, and in the excess of his emotion actually
slew a prime young sucking-pig for dinner,
an extravagant luxury indulged in by the Doyles
only on state occasions. On this particular Sun-
day, the younger members of the Doyle household
gathered early round the festive board and waited
expectantly for the spuds and cabbage and suc-
culent baby-pig. There were nine children in
all, ranging in years from li downwards—
, 4 foine stbrappin’ cbilder wid th’ clear brain,”
said Michael—but then Michael was prejudiced.
The round, juicy sucker was placed upon the
table, Mrs. Doyle stood prepared to administer
her department—serving the vegetables to her
hungry brood —and, armed with a formidable
knife and fork, Michael hovered over the pig, en-
veloped in its savoury steam. But there was one
function yet to be performed, a function which
came as regularly as Sunday’s dinner itself.
Never, for years, had the house-father failed to
touch up that prodigious carving-knife on one
particular hard, yellow brick in the wall by the
door, preparatory to carving the Sunday’s meat.
Mickey examined the edge of his weapon critic-
ally, and found it unsatisfactory. The knife wts
nearly ground through to the backbone ; another
“touch-up” and it must surely collapse, but, in
view of his changed circumstances, Mr, Doyle felt
that he might take the nisk. The brick, too, was
worn an inch deep. A few sharp strokes from
Mick’s vigorous right arm was all that was re-
quired, but, alas! the knife broke, whereupon
Mr Doyle swore at the brick, as if he held it
“ immediately reshponshible ” for the mishap, and
stabbed it fiercely with the broken carver.
“ Howly Moses I Fwhat’s that ? ”
The brick fell to pieces, and there, embedded
in the wall, gleaming in the sunbeam, was a nug-
get of pure yellow gold. With feverish haste
Mick tore the brick from its bedding, and smashed
the gold-bearing fragment on the hearth. The
nugget was a little beauty—smooth, round, and
four ounces to a gram.
* * *
The sucking-pig froza and stiffened in its
fat, the “ taters ” and the cabbage stood neglected
on the dishes. A gleam of the truth bad dawned
upon Michael, and whilst the tcund of a spirited
debate in musical Chinese echoed from the bar,
his family was gathered a-ound him, watching
open-mouthed, and Mick was industriously, bat
quietly, pounding the sundried brick in a mortar.
Two bricks, one from each end of the Shamrock,
were pulverised, and Michael panned off the dirt
in a tub of water which stcod in the kitchen.
Result : seven grains of waterworn gold Up to
this Michael had worked dumbly, in a fit of ner-
vous excitement; now he started up, bristling like
a hedgehog.
“ Let loose th' dog, Mary Melinda Doyle I” he
howled, and, uttering a mighty whoop, he bounded
into the bar to dust those Cbicamen off his
premises.
“ Ger out!” he screamed, climbing nearly two
feet out of his capacious pants. “ Ger out av me
premises, ye thavin’ crawlers I” And he frolicked
with the astounded Mongolians like a tornado in
full blast, thumping at a shaven “ occiput” when-
ever one showed out of the struggling crowd, The
Chiiamen left, they found the dog waiting for
them outside, and he encouraged them to leave
some more ; in fact, they had to leave anything
he got hold of, or else stay and argue the matter
out, and they didn’t seem at all indited to do
that. L’ke startled fawns the heathens fled, and
Mr. Doyle followed them, howling :
“Buy the Shamrock, will yez? Robbers I
Thaves ! Fiich back th’ soide o’ me house, or O'ill
have th’ law onto yez all!” The damaged es-
capees communicated the intelligence of their
overthrow to their brethren on the creek, and the
news carried consternation and deep, dark woe to
every Mongol. The Pagans knew their little pot
had boiled over, and that was worse than a family
bereavement. They clustered together, and rue-
tally discussed the situation.
* * *
Mr. Doyle was wildly jubilant, his joy
was only tinctured with a spice of bitterness, ihe
result of his knowing that the “ hathens ” had
got away with a few hundreds of his golden
bricks. He tried to figure out the amount of gold
his hotel must contain, but again his ignorance of
arithmetic tripped him up, and already in imagi-
nation Michael Doyle, licensed victualler, was a
millionaire and a J.P.
* * •
The Shamrock was really a treasure house.
The dirt of which the bricks were composed had
been taken from the banks of Yellow Creek years
before the outbreak of the rush by an eccentric
German who determined to settle on that sylvan
Bpot. The German died, and his grotesque struc-
ture passed into other hands. Time went on, and
then came the rush. The banks of the creek were
found to be charged with gold for miles, but never
for a moment did it occur to anybody that the
clumsy old building by the track, now converted
Into a hotel, was composed of the same rich dirt;
never ti 1 years after when by an accident one of
the Mongolian fossickers discovered pra ns of
go’d in a few bats he had takon to use as hobs
The intelligence was conveyed to his fellows, they
tried other bf-I v s and got more gold—hence the
robbery of M% Doyle's building-material and the
anxiety of the Mi ngolians to buy the Shamrock.
• * *
Before nightfall Michael summoned half-a-
dozen men from “ beyant ” to help him protect
his “pub” from a possible Chinese invasion.
o;her bricks were crushed and yield9d splendid
prospects. The Shamrock’s small stock of liquor
was drunk, and everybody spent a hilarious time
On the Sunday night, under cover of the dark-
ness, the Chows made a sudden sally on the
Shamrock, hoping to get away with a number of
coveted bricks. They were received, however,
with vio'ence and clubs, and were put to con
slderable inconvenience by an enthusiastic mastiff
which took part in the defence, but they got no
bricks, and returned to their camp broken and
disconsolate.
• * *
Next day the work of demolition started.
Drays were backed up against the Shamrock, and
load after load of tho precious bricks was carted
away to a battery about four mile 3 off. The
Chinamen slouched about watching greedily, but
any attempt at interference on their part met with
a peremptory and painful reprisal. Mr. Doyle
sent his family and “furniohoor” into Ba’larat,
and in a week there was not a vestige left to
TOMMY: “MOTHER, LOOK OUT OF THE WINDOW.”
MOTHER: “WHAT FOR, TOMMY?”
TOMMY: “I BET BILLIE SMITH TWOPENCE THAT MY MOTHER WAS UGLIER
THAN HIS, AND HE'S WAITING OUTSIDE TO SEE.”
mark the spot where once the Shamrock flourished.
Bar, parlor, bedrooms, kitchen, and outhouses, all
went through the mill, and £lB6O was the result
which Mr. Boyle cleared out of the ruins of his
pub. He is now a man of some standing in Vic-
toria, and as a highly respected JP. has cf :en
been pleased to inform a Chinaman that it was
“foive pound or a month."
E. G. D.
Christmas is close at hand. Two fatal
cases of choking are reported from Melbourne.
Poet Farrell, one of the Lithgow editors,
is nervous on a platform and loses hi* tongue ;
but Caulfield, the other Lithgow editor, has a
jaw that nothing can humble. Said Caulfield,
the other night : “ I can see my local rival
is a bib bashful and nervous, but hell
get over that in tim'*, as I did. I was
ones afflicted that way myself hub now I have
nearly as much front as the average min ”
Nearly as much front as the average man 1 O
Modesty, thy n. me is Caulfield !
The usual daily outrage story is to hand,
ciming this lime from Petersham, near Sydney,
and o i the strength of it four young men stood
the usual chance of being hanged on the testi-
mony of the Mary Jane Hicks of the occasion, a
nice looking girl in tears. The only drawbacks to
the beauty of the innocent oreature’s story were
that she had been assaulted in the same way once
or twice before, that she had oohabi ei with a sea-
captain, and that she acknowledged, under cross-
examination, to having held the hat on three oc-
casions while the four abandoned youths drew
lots for her. The case was dismissed, but neither
magistrate nor policeman dreamt of having the
charming young thing arrested for perjury, and
prosecuted for her infamous attempt to bring four
depraved boys to the gallows, so she has gone
forth to look for some more victims to swear
against. As far as we can recollect, Ada Peel
makes the 29th girl who has tried this same game
in N S W. wi*hin 12 mon h°, and t v e 0 h r 28
also esiaped wii.kout anything happening to them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Koval—" Robinson Crusoe '• .?. 23.
Criterion Theatre —" Merchant of Venice”
Her Majestys Theatre.— " Siberia” - -... „
Opery Mouse — A’l St»r Novelty Combination........ ~
Alhambra Music Hall— Sacred Concert ... ...... „
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy ■■
Domain— Pain's Fireworks ■■
Academy— Maecabe
On Thursday, 15th December, all the
outward symptoms of a great Success were
gathered together at Sydney Criterion on the oc-
casion of Miss Essie Jenyns’ benefit, and that
be »ut ful and ta’ented actress looked her best as
Shakespeare’s Rosalind. “As You Like it ” with
Mifs Jeßyns as the heroine can always command
a full house in Sydney, and, as the popular
favourite will soon be on her way across the wail-
ing deep to commence a season in London, every-
body rolled up to whoop a fond farewell till the
seething multitude trod each other flat. If the
Australian star is not good enough for at least
a moderate success in London, then London
must hive grown difficult to satisfy, and,
in common with her other admirers, we
devoutly trust that MiS3 Jenyns may not be sea-
sick en route. At the close of the performance
five well-known lawyers and three miscellaneous
citizens got up on the stage with a view to pre-
senting the heroine of the evening with a
splendid diamond pendant. [lt c:st £l6O
by the way ] The lawyers took the lead and
the three miscellaneous citizens were shunted
in othereir There were but two bald-headed
men in the deputation, and only ore man had his
moustache dyed purple Presently Sir George
Innes, who had a feeg in his throat, began a long
oration with many “ ern ” interspersed, and Miss
Jenyns shifted wearily from one foot to the other
as he jawed along on bis dismal, dusty way. By-
ard-bye he paused and held out the diamond orna-
ment, and, natnrally enough, the poor little woman
reached for it, but, with true professional instinct,
he tantafisingly dropped his hand again, clutched
the valuables, and went on talking. He made
sundry sad professional jokes about a rule abso-
lute, and, after relating the dismal wheeze about
Shakespeare being fu’l of quota’ions, his Honor
suddenly, and quite unexpectedly, concluded and
gave way to the pallid Pilcher, who made his first
appearance as a beast of burden carrying a huge
album, the gi't of certain ladies of Sydney.
Pilcher has slang-whanged defendants in
the jury-court all his life, and a dozen times he
was evidently on the verge of reminding Miss
Jenyns that she was on her oath, and that her
evidence was most suspicious, but he choked him-
self off each time. One or other, or both, of the
lawyers declared that he or the other fellow,
or all of them put together, would regard
Miss Jenyrs as a granddaughter—we mean to
say a sister—even if it cst them all they were
worth, and just here we would warn Essie about
the danger of adopting a lawyer as a brother.
We have tried it more than once and were cleaned
out every time. Lawyers are an oily and slip-
pery race, and if ever one proposes to Essie let
her insist that he does it on parchment, and see
that the document is witnessed, properly stamped,
and registered at the Deeds Office. Sir Alban
Riley said nothing all the time, andtfce beaming and
fatuous George Reid, the only man at the N.S W.
bar who can pay a compliment without making it
sound like a sentence of death and two floggings
of 75 lashes each, was kept In the background
while the ferocious Pilcher mooned along on the
read ih.t leadtth to the destruc'Pn of hurra i
pat ience. Miss J ;nyts teplitd in a pretty
little well-acted speech, in the course of which
she expressed a hope that the London critics
would not be too hard on her, and provided Bill
Holloway doesn’t play Romeo we don’t think they
will. Bill’s Romeo would break a London audience
up, but he has promised to keep quiet and, as
much as possible, out of sight. A mlfguided
Sydney paper expresses a hope that our Ejsie
will come back in triumph, “like Beach," but for
our own part we trusb tin will come back as
little like Beach as possible. When that aquatic
gentleman returned, he appeared on the stage of
Sydney Gaiety perspiriDg in an awful agony of
embarrassment because he didn’t know what to
do with his hands ; he struggled aimlessly with
his feet, too, while Louise Davenport made a
charming little oration preparatory to a presents'
tion, and when she attempted to take his hand,
she had to reach for the unresponsive William
three times amid the smothered shrieks of the
assemblage. If Miss Jenyns comes back like that
there will be more than one suicide. At prc sent, ac
cording to Plain Bill Hollow ay, she is 21 years of
is nob engaged to be married, and doesn't mean to
marry for five years. Why doesn’t William give
us something original? This dreary five-year busi-
ness was copyrighted by Mary Anderson and loaned
by John Rogers.
*
At Sydney Royal, “ La Fille du Tambour
Major” will give place on Boxing Night to
“ Robinson Crusoe.” On Christmas Eve, “In the
Ranks ” will be prcduoed at Her Majesty’s in suc-
cession to the high-faluting imbecility of
“ Siberia,” and on Thursday evening, ab tte same
theatre, one Hanlan, who couldn’t manage to pull
a boat so fast as he wanted the other day, is to
have a benefit under the patronage of Barren
Carington. “Little Jack Sheppard” will be re-
vived ab the Criterion on December 26tb, under
the management of Brongh and Boncicault.
Christmas Eve, at this theatre, will be filled in
with a gorgeous production of “ Faust,” with
Miss Elsa Sherwin, from Tasmania, as Mar-
guerite. The Gaiety is closed for a week, after an
interlude of that blood-curdling production, “ His
Natural L*fe," in the course ot which Gab-
bebt rubbed his cannibal stomach as of old,
but will re open on Christmas Eve wltti
a piece entitled “ The World Against Her.
For our own part, we are sorry to hear that the
world was against her, bub we have no doubt
things were satisfactorily arranged at the end.
Mr. John L Hall starts a comedy season at the
Standard on Decsmber 21; Bill Holloway, who
well deserves a sand-off for his services
in bringing out Essie Jenyns, takes a
farewell benefit, in “ Ingomar,” on the 23rd
(Fjiday); and ore or two minor rows are also in
progress. The Ccogee Aquarium opens on Friday.
Like everything else, it will be under the patron-
age of Lord Carington.
** # *
Sydney Opera House is now held by
Frank M. Clark’s All-Star Company—a combina-
tion with many extenuating circumstances of
greater or less importance. The performance
opens with a farce, entitled “ The Two Macks,"
which seems to be a sort of universal dump for
the dead cats of comedy. It has neither begin-
ning nor end the characters are nothing in par-
t cular and come to nothing, and how they arrive
there nobody knows, Messrs. Frank M. Clark
and William Cameron play the parts of two par-
ticularly choice Irish drunks, and Miss Annie
Reed also heirs a lot, but they end nowhere.
Mademoiselle Garretta, however, makes a beauti-
ful show with her performing pigeons—the pret-
tiest and best trained gathering we have seen
since our grandfather was very yourg. Miss May
Cameron, a boneless lady with a face like
the countess of our dreams, puts eggs on
her head ap,d smashes them with her feet,
which she throws up behind while she Btanda
on nothing at all, ties herself up in knots,
or else makes her slender figure into a circle and
then jumps through it, and generally dees the
human snake act in good style. Frank M. Clark
does a dismal policeman act with a dismal song ;
Wilson and Cameron get through some very good
tumbling, which i 3 set off by a song explanatory
of the way the Norfolk Howard “ gets there all
the same;" and Messrs. Fields and Hanson’s musio
brings down the house. Lastly, Onda, the acro-
bat, goes through some really wonderful work on
the trapeze, though his performance is still a good
way behind that of Onzalo, whose flying leap
right across the theatre used to para’yse the
audiences ab the Criterion. The house was
crowded on Saturday night, and will probably
continue so unless the attendance falls, off.
## * *
The vulgar herd of the pit and gallery did
not roll up to the Parkes Tribute matinee, given
at Her Majes y’a (Sydney) on Saturday, but the
salt of the universe gathered in the circle and
did their best to look like a crowd. Miss Ess e
Jenyns and the Criterion Company perpetrated
the cathedral scene from “Much Ado About
Nothing ” to an audience which was hardly intel-
ligent enough to appreciate it as it deserved, and
George Rignold and h's followers ensued with
the second act of “My Partner," which made the
house bellow with applause. A musical perform-
ance followed, in which Miss Lucy Pinkstone,
Mi 3B Rose Dampier -whose sweet voice gives re-
newed promise lhat it will one da; make her
famous, and; Ms, Innes, and Messrs. Walehe,
Kowalski, Warner, and others did the'r best for a
shaky cause, and the total proceeds will keep
Parkes’ “ breadless home” supplied with hot roils
for a little time to come,
## * *
Fred Maccabe walks the greasy plank of
popular favour at S, dney Academy with con-
tinued success, and grabs ihe curly tall of the pig
of popular app'ause every time. This finished
figure of speech is eff Australian origin, and was
constructed in The Bulletin office. Tt e sweet
flowers of poetry grow best under the blue skies
of the Sunny South, and the language of the New
World has a richnes3 and flowing rythm un-
known upon the effete and foggy shores cf Europe.
Mr. Maocabe’s melodramatic villain is still the
great attraction of the show, and he comes
on simultaneously as a heavy stage-ruffian and a
shrinking village maiden, and one half of him
goes down on her kcees and begs for mercy,
while the other half utter 3 fierce threats and
drags away the weeping victim, and a third half
—Mr. Maccabe is in three halves—rushes to the
rescue and tears himself away. This demoralised
condition of things hits the audience like a cricket-
ball.
## # *
There is nothing particularly pretty to say
about Melbourne shows this week, except that
they are affording delight to visitors from the
back blocks. Excitement chiefly centres in the
Waxworks.
James Service blurted out at a spread to
himself in London, the other day, that convicts
should not be allowed in Australia. Considering
that Mr. Service is a Fneetrai r who wou’d ficod
| Vi toria with convict-made goods, this sta.emeni
is not quite so superfluous aB it looks.


Vqr*
u3L %MrnL. «
4Stfc
s *lLv wmmmgssm ■" ■'
jSj rl -i' : ’ l™l^t
7» ,,,___________,,, __, -- 7 .""__ ‘- '5'- —' '
W — u‘ ':——'————A ' 2, ~ 7 E -. 1 J——-"
— ——————‘_—_..._.__._ . , . ~~ r cum;
Fﬁ—f ,,:,‘. ‘l .1f“’;.‘«'.?:."3}1111‘ J. ":"i
~7.==:‘ ,.;- ’ ' ._‘_.__""':—“_-5J»
_._.7——_..-.a;~_= _ 1.:- __ ___.——— a:
=,. -.; . ._.__._— . 5,. _— ———-—-
.gzﬁ" ' '1u“;’.‘v$x=32::::f3;i5 ...__ _ > ‘ﬁm‘.
_ ‘ ﬁgﬁ‘és‘vak -—————_=‘==;:__== g‘.
: L? g b-—' =. _ .._—=1=.—_'—'———-.=—=:_—_—~_-_; :
__ _5 =5 g 5121- - -_._=_'= =52, ===.._.____———=‘=—‘T._£- ﬂ
_ = = z: _- = = 3:: =.._..___——-—'-'—-‘=—————‘ ..-=.._._ __—-
=— ——- — 7— — -— o——-° w,_———'—-—‘..—-__&:
--= e.— — ‘--— —— _—_ _,___—— ~._.__,,_
~—_..__. 3:: ; 1.:— ;-—-*=———';-———————;:.-=:—=“‘==
— '—' = '=|.-- :' = .__" _"_—.._.='~_.~—__=='::_~5'.—._."- ——
ﬁE‘——v _; = —— ___—-—_==.‘=.;= 2:5:-_:.=—=
:3. =' .=~ "-‘_——-_=—"' =.~—.____—__=.—=zv¢=:u_:
—__.._ _ __ __ —__.=.:._——__V:._..;:___‘
;xr - ‘ -'-*—'—-—__:2 ‘; = :t— - --._.__—__... -
——.‘=l—=z— --= _“ —————'——“"‘ 4:
“—._-:“.__—_—_——_=_= _..__
=-_._ .—-—_____—____~—‘——-—-‘_ . A=—___ _..
-——. -_. .1 m.- ...__.... __ ..... .
=: s-‘ ‘_—_—___=_—:.=-== :-
2: =:_-.-::____.—_—=_—-.——.——. =
‘31-; mi=‘
.-= 3%:
h 3:: =.—————_———__—__—;==
__ ._ .——————-———_.__.__
____ __.= —ME
:7 .25.: =:_—_______ :—
.—_-- r: -- .. =_..——._.—_._ ._=
_ :; .=:= =2. ==.—..'~=_:_, . = ____——-—
=2: ‘_—- = = = =_,= ?£1$:—._—'_. _—*_
=-'_£_~‘.i:‘_5 ._._.__.:_ __ ‘—.".:—_E“— __.__ __.,,
__:======= ==
=_—= —— ———=_— _— _— = =
_ ._—_ —_ m _ _. .—
2 —————~ m 7“ = ==
__ H _ _.
_ _ N.— -- _.
_ _ “——
= ~— %—_’
__ :- “1—.—
__ M
____= %
M
m
1—f—
|lijlgjgaif||jjj
a, =— : ﬂr— ’ ’ — ;'—.__.=
5—‘_—_-'_..__. Quagm-
:= m:.=§=:.m:-§:;=::;-
55§_:——-’.-_ﬁ?—_.__—__=‘:==-=::_-——~—--_‘_=-
_ -—=F—L‘;:z<=::E——-—-
:_—_==':—~—~_—E—=r=-.¥=_riz==’:?§;
.;;_.,:_=_::,—__153§:‘_:_==::====_:.—_-- *-
q CfrtflS:
_~_—___—.
m
—___;._
__='_————=—=-‘2
___.____.;=§
=7:-
3:5,==5;=
_ ___. '=:-“"'-==-‘——-E-—‘=
"=.-==~=-_-'—._.—-==E.=
====&=:§=H=
===ﬁ5==
-____—._._.=.:v...-.__.
=———————==::::‘_ f = F—
--—-—-—= =
__—=
,4_—_—__———,—:
, ,,__—__r __ #‘7 7d-
FEM—w fl. =
r. m = 533::
, - —~___...=._ -—..‘——-§“ ___._
=§g=5:.‘:—_—:J_—_=:7_~—=“
_.—_,.__——————i._..-:____.¢-—-———:g.-==
—-——-—_.'r§=:= _.‘_.—.____ ' " -7“.:_: : -_:-_=' z:
==m=;$“ =
5-5555 .3? =.=—_~=_= .z. =
EE=E:::=-w=z‘=~:==_;¥rm
rzf“—.é.§ 5% EST-bi“; “'3 3:1:—
__.. g. _._. —”——EF.3= 4: —
ﬁr m%~ 2‘ =__==
_.\‘ - ===;v-;_—-—.:.:u=
._-.____._.___ﬁ_ V malt.‘
mama-7'3? t : =1 " 2““ . :. ._.w=:.'—‘='
=Ez‘ —.=—.:___‘5_~_..___.___
=_r_—_.—~=:cx—_—— ‘2... ==:=':_—.:' ;: = : '..~' 7:"
.523... =~T§ 2:359:
-=-.&——§?=-,='_—= :4 = $5
- 53:.- _~—._— ﬁ4_=_:—._.: .E 25:;
__._ _ .___-._ :3 _. ___:_- ;;';:=;_§T= E
_._.._,..-————'_'—'_. -____.---——~“___pr=—z=—'-
—1:E‘3=:".=_' : m
=__—-..~._—. = =~ “—TL—sm
FIEWEEE: ‘V S's-m
{5’ p§§5~=§ E‘_—_-.=_ Em. =—
: = EFT—2&3: a :"--' L—‘_—_-"
; r= .—.=‘£====.: E:
r'-—_——_é ,__&- '_..;: =:;i‘§ =‘*
aﬁgﬁlm'__"
__ h: , -_—___———.————
=. ' ' "« ﬁ'—m—'_'—
=—._ﬁ_—————
=;ﬁ%
Egg A~:———:%%§ﬁm—__=_-_f=—ir=———————&—— E-
5-— -‘=':::= .-{’— ﬂam—
L‘v‘é‘ .-‘ :5; f = =E=—=F§E:’=u==~——
=‘ ' .; ._ 5311:: ' F W— :- -__—~—~—=— can—'—
1-.,.—, A ,-_. :1-" ‘ EE —. -«=‘—‘_:-,;.__________,_ ————:__£=n__=.
5&3“ 1FV7 : §§5§E§§§——=—==_—_ ' ' uni-335$
———‘-‘-‘ “" , : a=.=_=_.-—_—=‘- 53—: u —_- =——‘
E;:m'::1‘TL7—qﬂ§%§=_ —'=_-; = -'£ =—"———= '~.=_:-_:: 5 £5
==r~ - =— - mﬁ=t==
’;‘-’——‘ _?--:.—.:==P_—A= ~S:-1-_.-=
>z;—-:‘--"—5=Esss-EE_E é—a‘ﬁ
bﬁa—gmmé 4
£ , 7 ,7 7 , ,
_—“+ :=’.’;L=—-—""——~
=————g: _ ; ——:r‘_—§“.=S= :’: ‘=
2.. ,.'——‘—-_===’==
_.__-———1 ,. - ~= ' "- __.__——-' ‘— _.'£'E =-‘-—'_'-—-_
h“: . m- -—-~—‘~*-=-—=———-———
-~h..—.— _.—::.-_'_.~~--———
==:—.——;-=—_—_-.1_—-.~-—=
___r_-_ _. .74.;__ —_
§=§ﬁ ngE=__—_?—‘:€:=:—=
__ ‘m1;:—3=5*——-5=
___.—_.___ _.=_————‘—‘——_. _-————
=—';::;—=_—h_ M
_____- - _ ﬁ—
__%
“gm—“*—
=13: d~r§§2
=.__-—SZ . ;1‘—5::L~=
=2? Egg—£5 59':
='.-;<:———__—-1 "-.='
=.~:~=:gx=
__.———-:___.———_-—' .-_——
l-i'—‘-‘ _"
_—__a—_—m
Eggs '———-—.‘E——-_
_=7.m '4:
___:,r=,_53____—.
—__755:E.
if; =2
4§§=§i§" " —§
Egg:
y _._ 7 fa —_ : ‘ 3 __..
~u—.=——__*—__' — ' '—‘—=
.—= =__‘=_~__""——‘_
1%:ﬂ
ﬁ ﬁ-%
=._. .1.“—
.—:;_ “W
x _ —‘= ‘hAA-E‘
i - —_ 3- 31%"
~———_..— : = ==h—*
§———_~=; =2
=$=“' 5 “—
g u____.—““:_._="
Hair—u --_ ——
:1.“ ‘—.——_:——-—— —.~_ =.—=
__.__ -:._..?'~—__ ._ _..— __—-
_—‘——'—————_ _ _%_—.— - _—
._‘.— - : ,_———____ -——_
._ =‘ : .——_' 7 -——- __ =
-—-_; a; & 35—:4
"— =F“: mum:—
—_ - _-_:—_:‘_._.:'.__
: ____...'——'=- 35% —- —_.~—_._.
' ="— ="_.?1_:‘_‘—-;— t:
m - ~— . .—_ _.
..._. .. _.—_ . —— —
. _. 3 ~ -:'r__— ~__—
. a .v—————-_‘——_ _ a
- __ _ ~-——.. - *
_ f _ _’ -:-_—_—___—.
_= . _——__- . : ¥_—~———___.=
@=-g§
——.'_~ :: m ,_.‘—_ '—‘
—_ ._._f..—-.,§___~.
w: - . .—"-————" ='=
_,._._ ._ - ~a *—
___——»————;~—-—._ __~._
pita—“:5“:
'_ - _._. _
‘!£=_;££=:T=a
_ —~-- -_._ ..—_~.._ 35:13. 5—..—
—__—._.==-—‘—-.= ,———_m_:_ =—'——_
:x:::*—:=::===::::L=—E,:::: =:
53—?mm“ ._....__l~_£ﬁ’%
-—-_—- —~:::. : 1:: -__———=-._=
m::==:——._—:—=:-_—_.— —————__.___.._
____-—-—-__..:_-.‘:: :::. =-=:=E?~.-_ =
--;T&'T___; __;=
__—_:3_——m""'
__———~~———————__—_
——_'—-———_"_‘__—-—_—___—
ﬁ-ﬁ—
——-—.___...—__._—._.
ﬁ-33B—F.
——____:.=-z. __
—_—____—————- -—-—— ———-
m
A Holiday at the Aquarium.


WHERE’S MY WIFE?
Not a drop of water ! The canteen was
empty! The shadow beneath my horse was the
only patch of darkness on the blinding surface of
a boundless plain. High overhead blazed the
fierce and merciless sun. It was mid-day, and bis
beams beat straight down, smiting with whips of
fire the gasping, thirsty earth. Not a cloud in the
sky. The hot air danced and quivered like the
escaping fumes of a blast furnace. As the sweat
broke on my horse's hide it crusted there in g’it-
te’irg salt. Not a hut in sight, not even the
meanest little humpy. Not a drop ot water any-
where. My tongue clove to the roof of my
mouth like a tongue of leather. Afar on the
verge of the plain gleamed the mirroring bosom
of al»ke, enfringedwith graceful palms—it was
the cursed mirage. Not a breath of air. Not a
sound save the ceaseless hum of the mcsquito and
the panting of the poor beast tbat staggersd along
in this hell’s-heat beneath my weight. Here and
there, on the edges of the crab-hole 3, the only
hollows in this almost level plain, were little
heaps of bleaching bones-the remains of water 1 -
famiehed flocks. Once and again, shone white
and weird in the fierce sun-haze the ghastly skulj
of a bullock with wide-spreading horns. The
withered golden gras3-spears flashed back the
pitiless sheen of the sun, while a steaming sky of
molten steel swam like a nightmare over the arid
scene.
* * *
Not a drop of water !—and miles upon
miles cf travel stretching out before me into the
wasted west. . . . But that distant fringe of
stunted box was surely no cheating vision. It
shows faint and mist-like far ahead, and yet?
Anotner weary half-an-hour and the
token looms larger. The nearing belt of timber
lines a creek’s course! But what’s that, anyway !
All the creeks hereabout are long since dried up.
My horse’s powerless limp, weak as it is, crushes
beneath his hoof the brittle grass into a golden
powder.
• * *
Nearer—and, by Jove ! there is water !
The grisly forms of starving • cattle can be made
out amongst the straggllng!timber. They have
come hither to drink —and to die. . . • At
l as t t . . . Only a chain of stagnant water-
holes ringed round with putrid lines of dead fish
—each ring marking a day’s sucking np by the
hoi; sun of the priceless slime—water, save by un-
blushing Ijing, it could not be called. Steaming-
hot, thick, muddy, green ; fouled with the pollu-
tions of cattle, it reeked beneath the scorching sun-
light which hourly lapped it np with fevered
tongue, to hear away, and to shower down in the
form of pure rain-water on some other and dis-
tantpart. These water-holes were made more
repulsive—if that were possible—by the rotting
bodies of young and weakly cattle which, urged
by burning thirst, had plunged into the mud, had
drunk their fill of the loathsome mess, and too
weak to get out again had died there. Yet, not-
withstanding, both horse and man swilled their
fill of the poison. Somewhat set up by onr drink
and a spell beneath the scanty shade cast by the
sparse foliage of the stunted box-trees, we
journeyed on once more, following the course of
what in rainy months was a swift and brawling
creek. Turning a sudden bend, we came at once
and without a moment’s warning, upon an adobe,
or mud-brick hut ; a real ledge in the vast and
arid wilderness), but a lodge that seemed to be
without a dweller. No watch-dog bayed either
a deep-mouthed welcome or an angry halt 1 . No
smoke went up into the sky from the huge
earthen chimney. The clumsy, rough-hewn door
stood wide open upon its leathern hinges, and no
sound of man’s makmg broke upon the ear. One
or two milk-dishes and the cifferent vessels o±
back-blocks cookery were scattered around the
doorway in careless disorder.
# * *
I got down from the saddle and went
towards the door. My horse, left to himself, wan-
dered aimlessly about amongst the pans of domes-
ticity, turning over with equine curiosity, and
sniffing with edacious yearning and expanded
nostril a battered bucket fragrant with the re-
miniscent perfume of an historic horse-feed. Be-
fore going into the hut I peered long, and per-
haps impatiently, through the glass of a show-
side of a lolly-tin stuck over a hole in a slab of the
wall by way of window. Eutthe inside gave no
more token of a dweller than tho outside. I went
into the hut 1
After the dazzling glare of the sun, for
awhile I could see nothing plainly in the thick
gloom that filled the little cabin. By-andbye I
made cut a rude table and, helped by the bright
l ght that beamed down the mouth of the gaping
chimney, a couple of stools. I saw also that some
rough trouble had fcesn taken to brighten up the
walls and soften their barren look with prints cut
out of illustrated papers. The table, strewn with
food and the dishes used in a meal; the white
ashes in the huge hearth, which had plainly burnt
out without anyone’s help; the kettle still hang-
ing by a chain fixed to a heavy cross-beam in the
chimney, a man’s coat flung carelessly across a
stool, a pair of boot 3 which had been thrown
down upon the floor, and the whole look of topsy-
turviness, hinted of flight or sudden and hurried
setting forth on an errand of weight, A fowling-
piece, held by leathern slings, hung above the
mantel, and a saddle-rack, upon which rested a
saddle and bridle, was nailed over the doorway.
Notwithstanding all these things telling of a
man’s former livirg here, there were, too, traces
of a woman’s hand and a woman’s taste in the
lock of the little room ; and near the door a print
apron spoke loudly of the sex of one former
dweller.
* * *
But everything was so still —still as the
grave. A damp and uncanny quiet filled the
Place, and stifled me. . . . My eyes dropped
suddenly upon something which before this I had
not seen-a bunk in the. gloomiest corner of the
100 m. . . . Stretched upon this bunk there
Wtia t . . . My God! was it some porr
wretch, robbed and murdered here in this silent
desert ? The gruesome quiet of the place during
my keen look round the room for the past ten
minutes helped me to stifle seme what the dread
that struggled up like a lump in my throat and
threatened to choke me, yet I felt a sickening
dodke to turn and fly from the eerie spot. . ■ .
I found that I could move not a muscle. That
mute and motionless form on the bunk in the
corner began to throw a spell upon me. It seemed
to call me to its side with its cold, voioeless tongue.
An unseen finger seemed to beckon me across the
room.
• * *
Thrilled to my inmost heart, I obeyed the
ghostly call and walked against my will slowly
towards the stretcher.
* * *
The body was covered with a curtain of
some common cotton stuff, which clung with
rigid faithfulness to the outline of the hidden
thing. I felt that I was here alone with the
dead! . . . Long, long, I gazed down upon
the mystic curtain —how long I hardly know
following with wide-staring eye the lines of the
body beneath. I wondered, as men wonder in a
dream, what fearful eight was hidden by that
common cotton curtain. . . But I dared not
uncover the face of the dead
* * *
Jest at this high-wrought moment my
over-strung nerves got a great shock. My horse,
in his wanderings amongst the tin-pots and pans
outside in search of a feed, knocked a bucket off
the bench beside the door. The din and clatter of
that bucket rolling about amongst the milk dishes
and causing much clamour, sent my heart bound-
ing against my ribs —sent the hot blood tingling
into my cheeks and flushing my face, and then
flooding back again as quickly and making me
shiver as though a stream of icy cold water
flowed beneath my skin, as in the height of fever's
fierce delirium. All was quiet again. . . .
Another aching ten minutes of weak wondering
and dread of something—l knew not what. . .
By-and-bye, I plucked up courage to lift that
curtain. . . For a moment I hardly dared
look. . . When I did, I almost let it fall upon
the dead man’s face—a face turned upward with
great, glassy, staring blue eyes, looking fixedly
into mine—a white, bloodless face which must
have been wonderfully like my own at that
moment. Stubble of an unshaven beard added
somewhat to the ghastliness of his look, and a
trailing blonde moustache hung limp over his
pallid lips and down his blue cheeks, like a ship’s
pennant drooping at half-mast in memory of the
A BLUE MOUNTAIN INCIDENT.
HORSEMAN (loq.): “SAY! IS THIS THE WAY TO THE FALLS"
PEDESTRIAN: “YES, IF YOU DON'T HOLD ON!"
dead. That blonde moustache seemed a mockery
borrowed from the world of fashion to contrast its
paltry vanity with the awful process of decay.
He was a man of middle height, lithe and muscu-
lar in build. Good-looking he was. as good looks
go, and bearing on bis cold forehead a mark -that
strange brand of a life somewhere, different to the
life here -of having been for years in other than
Australian climes.
* * *
The pathos of the situation overcame its
gruesomeness. All fear left me. I looked down
on the dead man as one loots back upon a dream,
and framed for him in my mind the tale of his
life. Then I replaced the calico curtain which
served the purpose of a shroud, and, all my
terror fled, I busied myself with hunting for
feed for my horse. In the corner of the hut I
found a half-filled bag of chaff and corn, enough
to furnish forth a feed. After giving my horse
something to eat, I lighted a Arc in the cold
hearth, and began to prepare my own meal, for
night had suddenly stolen on, and the sun was
just on the very edge of the far-stretching plain.
After I had eaten as much as I had a mind to, I
sat blinking into the fire as it slowly smouldered
into blackness, and the stars came out and looked
down the big chimney. As the night and the
mosquitoes thickered, I opened my “bluey,”
spread my blankets, and turned in,
* * *
I hardly know how long I slept, but in
the midnight silence of that lonely place, when
the moon was beamirg spectrally down the shaft
of the wide-mouthed chimney, and the stars were
glinting through the openings in the bark-rcof, I
was awakened by the sounds of men talking. I
drowsily turned over, and was soon asleep again
_ again to be awakened by the muttered tones of
the human voice. There was no mistake about
it. A confused gabble, and then, sharp and clear,
was spoken out a word that sounded like damn,
followed by toarse and still d ours’.Dg. I plainly
heard the human voice, now whispering asthoußh
breathing a secret into another's ear, now croon-
ing and chattering in a low tone, as though talk-
ing to itself. . . . And, by Jove t there were
two voices. One was an English voice, and the
other spoke in German.
* * *
A.S I rapidly re-called the events of the
past day, a feeling as though I were bound in a
sheet dipped in icy water swept over me. My
hair stood stiff on my head with fright. In-
stinctively my eyes sought the bunk upon which
lay the dead man. . . My God !—could Ibe
mad?—the corpse seemed in the gloom to be
sitting bolt upright upon his bier talking to a
black form with bright eyes, which my fearful
imagioaticn pictured as a Teutonic devil 1 . .
I was wide awake now 1
* * *
In the ledge above the fireplace I had
noticed a piece of candle. I fumbled about for
my breeches. I could not And them. I made
sure that I had thrown them over my feet. They
•were not there. I groped about the floor. Ho t
I had not kicked them off, My hand touched
something cold and slimy, and my skin broke out
afresh with another dread —a snake ! I hunted
about in the darkness, tumbling over articles that
I had not before noticed. I could not find my
breeches. My shirt was drenched with sweat
which chilled at once on my skin. My teeth chat-
tered. It seemed ages and I could not find my
breeches. Suddenly I bethought me-I had
placed them under my head as a pillow. After
what to me was a painfully long time, I found
the pocket into which I had dropped a box of
matches. There were no matches there. Slowly
it dawned upon me that I had placed the matches
on the table before going to sleep. Then followed
another hunt in which I knocked over a lot of
things and my heart gave fearful bumps and my
pulse seemed to come to a standstill with every
little c’atter. In the midst of it all the corpse
began to talk angrily to his German fiend, who
as angrily answered him. I was bathed, soaked
in a damn dread. But I got the matches at last,
and after another long and painful hunt I got the
“dip” also. Half-dazad with terror ard wetly
cold, I made my way with the lighted candle in
my hand, through the spectral gloom of the cabin,
seeing ghosts in every corner, to the side of that
eldritch bunk.
*
The corpse was quiet, perfectly quiet
quiet as any other corpse would be. . . I must
have been dreaming—nightmare ! Nothing more
simple. Cursing my folly and my fears, and
wishing to Heaven that I had not eaten so much
heavy and halt-baked damper, I tried to make up
my mind to go back to bed. . . . But it was
of no use ! I could not. So I went outside,
patted and talked to my horse, then walked back
to the hut again, finished dressirg myself, and for
want of something batter to do, lighted a fire and
put the billy on Even eating was better than
doing nothing—when alone with a talkative
corpse. Bat when I tried to eat every mouthful
stuck in my throat and choked me. The uncan-
nines3 of the place, the presence of the corpse,
would have spoiled the best appetite and the most
sumptuous banquet the world ever saw or had
experience of.
* * *
Surely the voices were at it agarn ! My
hair stood upright on my scalp. A cold flush
rushed over me, and seemed to cut my body off
from my skin. My tongue, too, got in the road,
and would not let me eat. The stupid thing stuck
to the roof of my mouth. I tried 10 speak—but it
was cf no use. . . . The sound was not re-
peated 1 It must have been a trick of the ima-
gination. Somewhat reaesured, I raised a mo-
derate-sized piece of jerked beef to my mouth
. when suddenly a hand—a long, lean,
ghostly hand- descended on my shoulder 1 I saw
the blue hued, death-pallored nails distinctly.
A ghoul-like voice—a voice that seemed
to well up from the caverns of the dead—hissed
into my ear ....
“ Where’s my wife, you 2 What the h
have done with my wi'e. eh, you blasted skunk 2
Where’s my wife 2 Will you answer me, or d’ye
want me to tear your liver out 2 Eh 2 ’
* • •
1 gave a shriek that might have been
heard a mile away. I made a bound ihab would
I have gained me immortal fame as an acrobat. I
kicked over the stool upon which I had bee n sit-
ting. With one frenzied leap I was into the in-
nermost recess of the chimney. I had shinned
up on to the cross-beam which served as crane.
All in a moment into which ages of agony seemed
crushed.
* * #
But I was not pursued ! I sat there on
that cross-beam till my limbs grew cramped and
stiff, till my head fell drowsily upon my bosom,
till at last I really slept. ... I fell with a
heavy fall into the ashes of the dead Are, and
picked myself out of them in a sort of dazed Con-
dition. Then I sat down on my blankets which I
had managed to And again. The candle had long
ago burnt itself out. Mechanically I rolled lip
my swag and gathered my traps together. Just
as mechanically I carried them outside, saddled
my horse and made ready for a departure,
although ib would be yet some hours before sun-
rise. But I could not leave without examining
that bunk. I groped my way across the little
cabin. I stretched out my hand—and almost
fainted. There upon the bunk still Jay the corpse
with the curtain still upon its face hardly a fold
out of order. This was too much. I dropped my
hand to my side and fell into a reverie. I was
called back to earth suddenly. A grip was on my
arm, that voice hissed again in my ear: “Ah 1
Ah ! you ! Give me my wife ! Do you hear,
you devil, what have you done with my wife!
What the h have you don e with my wi'e!” With
that I bounded out of the hub, closely followed by
a scantily-clad ghost, brandishing a stout cudgel
in the light of the low waning moon. In a
I had gained my horse and dashed off into the
fast-growing light of the dawn. Unconsciously I
turned off the oreek course on to the plain. I
glanced round 1 A shirted, cadaverous figure
was leaping along the ground after me,
gesticulating widly, and waving above his head
that massive waddy. The breeze of comiog
morning fanned my cheek, and swept upon my ear
the faint heard cry
“ Where’s my wife, you ? What the fa-
have you done with my wife ? ”
One evening, about
a twelvemonth after, I
was entering a bush
township at tbe close of
a hot summer’s day. I
drew up at the fi rat shanty
and jumped off my horse,
purposing to have a
drink. As I passed him
a man coiled up near the
door on the ground looked
up— ib was the corpse.
I bado him gcod-day, and
invited him to drink with
me, to which he readily
assented. In the course
of the evening, I got from
him his story. Upon the
morning of the day be-
fore that upon which I
had visited his hut he
was supposed to have
pegged out for the Golden
Shore. He was by birth
a German, but had lived
many years in Australia
and followed the life of a
boundry-rider; he had
long been ailieg of some
unknown sickness, Ne
one visited him, of course.
He lived with his wife,
almost on the edge of the
run, twenty miles or more
from the homestead.
When his wife supposed
him dead, she fled from
the place; in the first
place because she did not
care to be left alone with
a corpse, ia the second
to go to the home station
and bring back some one
to bury him. When she
came back, accompanied
by the super -[“ Who
was always sweet on
her,” he somewhat bit-
terly added] and a
couple of station hands,
they found him dancing
in delirium, and shouting
hoarsely for his wife.
He was rather dangerous
with a club in his hand,
bub they got hold of him
and took ib away, and he
gradually became better
—in three days he was
quite well again. His wife
was very disappointed
to find he did not want burying, espfoially as the
b morons Buper., in the trip from the home station,
had taken advantage of his position to propose
himself as the succe s r of the man they weie
en route to put under the daisies.
I a^ked: “ Where is your wife now, old man?"
“Up at tho station, bossing everything, and
pretending the place belongs to her. I saw she
cared no more for me. The game was cut-throat
euchre, and her and the super, axe partners. I
played a lone hand, so cleared out, and left my
stakes. Damn him and her both! he oan have
her!’’
Christmas comes bub once a year. This is
oftener than Parkes’ insolvencies.
A new anecdote is now going the rounds
about von Moltke. It is related that the old Field
Marshal recently said: '* I have a presentment that
my life will not, as I should wish, close in peace.
In my youth it was foretold to me that I should
take part in three great wars. Whatever may
happen, let us all be ready to give our lives for
the German fatherland.”
The order of the London Chief Commis-
sioner of Police, designed to suppress the Trafal-
gar-Square gathering, was to the effect That
should a procession perambulate the streets, or
block the roadway, so as to interfere with traffic,
it is to be dispersed and the leaders arrested.
We notice that no such order is ever given on
Lord Mayor’s Day. The Sir Charles Warrens
and such never interfere with that horrible, re-
volting pageant of bedizened gluttony.
FRCCKLGBINE is an infalllible cure for Freckles, Ta
Sunburn, and every description of Ephelis and Lentigo, and
effects a cure by chemically changing the coloring matter
deposited under the epidermis or scarf skin, which is re-
absorbed into the system and carried off by the nature
excretory channels. Frecklebane does not injure the skin or
complexion. Sold by all chemists. Special city agents
W. H. Soul and Co., Pitt-street. Price 2s. 10d,, post free
from F. M, Cl ementb, Chemist, Newtown, N.S.W.


The Name of New [?]th Wales.
AN IMPROMPTU ADDRESS TO MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS.
(Written for the EVENING NEWS.)
By HENRY HALLORAN.
Weie I a Victorian, I’d not give that name
For the name of another;
Of sister or mother; ,
But would make it eclipse, in the annals of fame,
The name of each other.
Tho’ crampt in extent, even down to a jest,
And pinched in our border,
No patriot marauder . ,
Should trouble its confines, nor dare to infest,'
Nor wreck with disorder.
What Athens-and Sparta in old times have been—
Those day-dreams of glory—
Those splendors of story, . ~
I would strive to make her, the one bright Southern Queen
Shaming States that are hoary.
I’d not fight for straws, nor disparage my neighbour,
Who has right on his side,
And burns with the pride
Of his mighty success in the triumphs of labour ; ,
or stoop to deride.
It is better to be even smaller than Britain
With a power that springs
From the people, and flings
A lustre wherever its name may be written ;
That its people are kings.
If a nation believe in the grandeur of Honor,
In the splendor of Right,
In the wisdom of Light,
She will march, with the blessing of Heaven upon her,
And a Right—that is Might.
Not so with a people, whatever their acres,
Their number, or wealth,
If they flourish by stealth,
Making faithful men slaves of their butchers and bakers,
Wrecks in poctet and health.
AN IMPROMPTU ADDRESS, BY A VIC-
TORIAN, TO THE POET HALLORAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
If / slung that slush I would not sign my name,
For the sake of my mother,
My sister and brother,
But would spare my relations a spasm of shame
By signing some other.
I’ve cramp In the stomach, and pains at the chest,
Through roaring out curses
Since reading those verses ;
If you sling any more, I would beg to suggest
You charter our hearses.
Does any one know what the dickens they mean ?
For inanity splendid
(Now, don’t be offended)
They vie with that Jubilee Ode to the Queen
Which Tennyson’s pen did.
The Bible exhorts us to dote on our neighbour.
But a crime is a crime,
And fellows “ do time
Are frequently sentenced to terms of hard labour—
For less than that rhyme.
It is better to be a big cat than a kitten ;
The mosquito it springs
On a victim and sirigs—
For myself, I admit I have often been bitten
By varmints with wings.
While a people can stand such ridiculous twaddle
In their Noose of a night,
It is evident quite
They will only progress at the rate of a toddle
To the wisdom of Light,
you are a sample of Parkes’ “ Australian,"
I withdraw every claim
To the family name,
And desire to be classed as an outcast and alien—
And we all say the same.
Peace
“ Peace on the Earth. Goodwill to men,”
So sang the Angels bright
At the advent of the lowly child,
On that happy Christmas night.
Alas ! They but mock us now, as then.
Peace upon Earth 1 Goodwill to men !
Peace 1 When the nations groan and cry
To the notes of horrid War ;
When the mother wild soothes her hungry child—
Peace 1 —For the starving Poor.
Peace I—While the jealous monarchs try
To be first to raise the battle-cry.
Peace !—When a million people plead
In vain for work or bread,
While in mansion bright with blazing light
Their “ Master” holds high his head!
Yet the Church will tell you, with satire keen,
He’s beloved by the lowly Nazarene.
Peace ! In Australia’s sunny land,
The land that was made for Peace,
Whose guardians treat with a foreigner’s fleet
Tying bonds that blocd must release,
Peace I When Capital holds the soil
And laughs at the sighs of the Sons of Toil.
Ah ! When shall this war and tumult end,
And the spoiler Btay his hand ?
When the monarch Gold is dead and cold
And Intellect rules the land —
When Birth gives place to Worth, we’ll then
See Peace upon Earth, Goodwill to men.
COCKNEY.
The increased duty on spirits has made
things awkward for the Sydney wine and spirit
merchants, some of whom complain that they no
longer send up-country any spirits worth speak-
ing of. It is pretty well known that most of the
grog sold in the interior of the colony is manufac-
tured by the publicans. There are several tolera-
bly private spirit-factories in active operation in
Sydney, which turn out, in particular, an excellent
and splendidly-packed imitation of Hennessy’s
brandy. Good back-blocks whisky is made this
year out of turpentine, kerosene, horse-blister,
ginger, pain-killer, Worcestershire sauce, and red-
pepper, with some wild-cat and circular-saw
thrown in; also a gas-light, a little real sheol-fire, a
dozen squashed bull-dog ants, and some fusel-oil.
There is a general impression out West that the
liquor is better than it used to be, but the best
brand of all is kept at a bush shanty on the Dar-
ling, where the owner kicked a live monkey into
the whisky-cask and left it there six weeks.
Suppression, Suppression, Suppression !
Right through, the classes hold together. They
will sink all differences, differences of party,
differences of person, for that. The Australian
Press is in the hands, not only of the classes, but
of the rioh among the classes, and the Australian
Press will hear nothing that smacks of the Repub-
lican or the genuinely Australian. There is no
conspiracy ; oh, no ; there is no conspiracy I only—
we may have columns and columns of greasy
“Imperial Federationism,” whether from some
stupid rhetorogue of a Premier, or from some
played-out British Peer on his travels ; but we
shall die of old age before we hear anything on
the other side. The popular feeling is too pro-
foundly indifferent or hostile to allow the “Im-
perial Federationism ” to be rammed home with
the editorial ram-rod in the shape of leaders ; but
the columns of the daily press are always open, to
any amount of it, and closed to anything of the
reverie. Chief Justice Higinbotham is a man
more truly distinguished, and more truly worthy
of being distinguished by Australians, than any
of the hucksters who make up our roll of the
most contemptible politicians in the world. He is
a man whom no breath of slander ever touched,
whoee hands were ever clean, whose heart and
soul were ever at the service of his country with-
out demur or afterthought. He passed from
politics with the simple commendation of all good
men. Nor is this all. Judge Higinbotham,
viewed from the intellectual side, is as vastly
superior to the flatulent crowd of Berrys, and
Stuarts, and Parkeses (whose name is also
Siiarkeses !) as he is from the moral side. All
this is common knowledge. Of late years,
since his virtual retirement from public life to the
distinguished shades of the Bench, we have heard
the Judge’s voice but too rarely. “ The politician,’’
alas I“ we have always with us.” Well, lately,
at one of the Melbourne gorges-cwm-rubbish
gabbles offered to that frightfully commonplace per-
son, Lord Carnarvon —a man who never
would have been heard of at all if he had noo
happened to have a well-known title and a well-
fllled purse—the dead-dog politicians (among
whom Carnarvon holds a proud place) were
let loose on the old “ Imperial Federation ”
racket. There was nothing new to say, and the
whole crew was too far dull a one to dress the old
stuff up in a new fashion. Then the eloquent and
incorruptible Higinbotiiam— the only Australian
Chief Justice who has spurned an English title—
arose. What happens ? All the old dead dog is
retailed in the daily papers by the yard, and the
ell and the mile and the league. The imbeciles
have a gala-day. But Higinbotham's speech is
so small, so thin, that we wonder he took the
trouble to speak at all. Then the secret oozes out.
Higinbotham spoke at length, refuting, attack-
ing the former speakers. Tout s'explique!
There has been an expression of Australian
feeling, perhaps even of Australian Republican
feeling. The papers ignore it, suppress it
How disgusting ! Thus is dead dog ladled out to
us in unlimited soup, and we are told—damn our
optics—to take that or nothing. We take the
nothing. No one reads these stupid speeches, not
the men who make them. But is not disgusting,
indeed, all this ? There is no conspiracy ; oh no,
there is no conspiracy to suppress national and
Republican speech; only those alone who
hear it know it has been uttered, and the Pres 3
does this. Long live Imperial Federation that
propagates itself thus ! Long live the Democratic
Australian Press that helps it as muoh as it dare I
They now call him Angus De Cameron.
There is one place the bailiff dare nob
enter —the N.S.W. Colonial Secretary’s office.
The papers report that “some relics of
Captain Cook are now lying at the Colonial Secre-
tary’s Office, Sydney." Lying is a good word,
A Newcastle, N.S.W., policeman has
been charged with gotting drunk on duty. As
there's a duty on beer, there should be beer on
duty.
I called to Bee Tom, my old school-ehum. I found him
distracted, quite unlike his usual self. “Why, Tom, old
boy, what’s wrong!” “Harry, he answered, "Christmas is
upon us. I have a big bill to meet, and only this solitary
sovereign towards it.” " Cheer up, old boy, that won’t pay
the bill, but you can put it in ‘ Australia's’ Consultation on
Bummer Cap—'Vou never know!" "Capital! I will. Al-
ready I feel confidence in the spee., for I know the thing is
all square and above board."*
Among the many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M
Skaxvey, has spared no expense to make his hotel the first
in Sydney.*
You are respectfully invited to visit the four shewrooms
ot Bn,ay Bros., 402 and 404 George-street, and prove to yo u
own satisfaction that they have the largest and ohoioes
assortment of Dinner, Tea, Dessert and Toilet Sets, a n
china and Glass all suitable for this seasons presents an
every requirements.
GOLDEN GULLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No one lives in Golden Gully, for its golden days
are o’er,
And its clay shall never sully blucher-boots of
diggers more,
For the diggers long have vanished—nought but
broken shafts remain,
And the bush, by diggers banished, fast reclaims
its own again.
Now, when dying Daylight slowly draws her fin-
gers from the “ Peak,”
The WeirdEmpressMelancholy rises from the reedy
creek—
In the gap above the gully, while the dismal cur-
lews scream
Loud to welcome her as ruler of the dreary night
supreme -
Takes her throne, and by her presence fills the
strange, uncertain air
With a ghostly phosphorescence of the horrors
hidden there.
Non e would think, by camp fire blazy, lighting
fitfully the scene,
In the seasons that are hazy, how in seasons gone
between,
Diggers yarned or joined in jolly ballads of the
field and foam,
Or grew sad and melancholy over songs like
“ Home, sweet Home
Songs of other times, demanding sullen tears that
would not start,
Every digger understanding what was in his com-
rade’s heart.
It may seem to you a riddle how a poet's fancies
roam,
CRICKET
PAST [?] PRESENT
But methinks I hear a fiddle softly playiDg “Home,
Sweet Home ”
’Mid the trees, while meditative diggers round the
camp-fire Btand.
(Those were days before Australians learned to
love their native land.)
Now the dismal curlew screeches round the shafts
when night winds sought ;
Startling murmurs, broken speeches, shake each
twisted, tangled bough,
And whene’er the night comes dreary, darkened
by the falling rain,
Voices, loud and dread and eerie come again and
come again—
Come like troubled souls forbidden rest until their
tales are told—
Tales of deeds of darkness hidden in the whirl of
days of gold—
Come like troubled spirits telling tales of dire and
dread mishaps,
Kissing, falling, rising, swelling, dying in the
dismal gaps.
When the coming daylight slowly lays her fingers
on the “ Peak”
Then the Empress Melancholy hurries off to
swamps that reek.
But the scene is never cheery, be it sunshine, be
it rain,
For the Gully keeps its dreary look till darkness
comes again.
As you stand beside the broken shafts, where grass
is growing thick ;
You can almost hear a spoken word, or hear a
thudding pick;
And your very soul seems sinking, foetid grows
the morning air,
For you cannot help believing that there’s some-
thing buried there.
There’s a ring amid the saplings by a travelling
circus worn,
That amused the noisy diggers e’er the rising race
was born ;
There’s a road where scrub encroaches that was
once the main highway,
Over which two rival coaches dashed in glory
twice a day;
Gone—all gone from Golden Gully, for its golden
days are o’er,
And its clay shall never sully wheels of crowded
coaches more.
December, 1887.
HENRY LAWSON.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W.
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only pape which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours^-
Democracy as the Australian National Creed.
Payment of Members.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
Protection to Native Industries.
The Election by the Australian peoples of the
Governors of the Australian colonies.
Tiie Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of What appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pes-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news
paper.
Ihe Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now devastates British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official—that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-wi'itten reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to
whom all remittances are payable. Editoria
communications to be addressed to J, F.
Archibald,


I $Mk
?'/ ft 4 , \yVz~> nfy
%( h UM c tC
V
]3iuwaKp3
"WfS
\ tjt£ Vti[£(V
\ vV t- 0 N
I pof wfiwr
1 (j ()[{."
MfC A HAmC
: »- * ,f
. Y\% J
|f %«/
%At L'^s
y°y
,||,x
Wtii
{
\
■n ' V
/oj*
\ HftT orf
CoMjJ
j
's, .
<v,
DITA£?
I ff.^O/OER.
V A r> ou)
Spc m.''
A - J P
13>5j
[to#
t WE SEE
k v/fJEi't v/5
ot(
tl WiT Muitf.
1 tVU\lfl/
t% \
fill* [ ?»K
* vrAwK ?."
yztj i l, MAY,
A Holiday on the Blue Mountains.


THE
COFFIN CLUB
WRITTEN FOR THE BULLETIN
BY 'D'
The average reader may consider this a
rather gloomy subject to be treated of in these
columns. He may imagine that it is hardly the
kind of thing likely to cheer him up after the
cares of the week when he returns from church on
Sunday and settles himself comfortably down,
with his pipe—and whatsoever liquid accompani-
ment he fancies —to read The Bulletin. But
there he will be wrong. It is a popular error that
undertakers go about wrapped iD an atmosphere
of woe ; that they are clothed with sorrow as
with a shroud ; and that they sit up late driving
the dismal nail into the sad pine-shell, and weep-
ing as they work, while other me a are abed,
dreaming of good times to come, or listening to
the chimes at midnight and passing round the
cheerful bottle. The purpose of the present sketch
is to eradicate this error and picture the under-
taker's he is, with all his gay good-humour and
merry spirits, his light-heartedness and contempt
of care. There may be some undertakers who do
not answer to this description—some who, begin-
ning with an honest intention to do their duty
thoroughly, have carried out their solemn simula-
tion of sorrow to such an extent as to have be-
come as mournful as the popular imagination con-
siders the whole class to be. If there are I have
not met them. Nearly all of those I have met
should have been editors of comic papers. Happy
thought ? —Perhaps the editor of this paper should
have been an undertaker ! Happy after thought!
—Perhaps he has been one.
* * *
When I was editing a New South Wales
country paper, five years ago, I wrote —at the
request of the owner—an elegy upon a poley-cow
that had fallen down a pit and broken her neck.
It was printed on slips for private circulation only,
but somehow or other the proprietor of the rival
paper got hold of it and published it in full with a
running commentary of sarcastic eulogy, intimat-
ing that when it came to real high-class metrical
mourning no elegiac poet that ever lived could
come within blocks of me, and hinting that I could
not have poured such a passion of grief into my
verse if the deceased had not been one of my near
female relatives —probably my aunt. This gloomy
badinage was taken in earnest by the simple
rustics of the district, and from that time forth I
waded chin-deep in woe. Everybody who had
anything dead came to me to have the fact notified
in rhyme and published in the paper. Some of
them were easily pleased ; some were not. Some
were contented with an allusion to the good quali-
ties of the deceased, and an expression of hope
that he or she was having a better time on high ;
others wanted a whole inventory of virtues with
weeping willows, sobbing survivors, harps and
crowns, and a general family gathering on the
Golden Shore thrown in. It came to such a pitch
at last that I had to leave. But the dismal
reputation I had made followed me. I had only
written for this paper two or three times when the
editor called me into his office and, pointing to a
chair, said, “Sit down.” I did. “A cigar?”
“ Thanks. Yes.” “ Whis ” and his head went
under the desk, but was suddenly drawn back
again. He looked me hard in the eye for a
moment, and then —muttering to himself, “He
seems sober, perhaps he won’t,” —said aloud,
“Whisky?” “No, thank you,” I replied with
dignity ; “ I never touch it.”
“ Thank God,’ he murmured, “ maybe this one
will last through the summer.” Then, throwing
one leg over the other, and revealing a boot with
an iron spike in the toe, he began to talk
rapidly.
“ Can you write mock elegiacs —something that
will bring the reader to the verge of tears, and
then suddenly pull him up and knock him back-
wards into spasms of rib-splitting laughter ?”
“ Can you do this ? ”
I answered modestly that I did not know I
could do all that, but I would try.
“ Um !” he said shortly, “ Here are two things
for you to start on. One, as you will see, con-
cerns the reverend gentleman who died of indi-
gestion, the other has to do with the demise of a
prize pig.”
* * *
I took up the paragraphs with a trembling
hand, and was preparing to withdraw, when he
said, taking out his watch and gazing earnestly at
it—as I thought, to see if it was real —“ I want
the copy in two hours.” Then he plunged into an
article on the absurdity of Freet r ade between the
planets, and I tottered out of the door broken-
spirited and miserable, and with just enough rea-
son left to give an I. O.U. to the accountant, and
get it reluctantly cashed. As I was doing this I
beard a hiccup in the upper register close behind
me. Turning round I saw a being in a plug
hat with blue rings round his eyes which were
fixed in a fascinating stare on the coin that still
lay on the counter. Taking it up hastily I thrust
it into an inside pocket, and then basely pretend-
ing to recognise him for the first time, said, with
bold mendacity : “So it’s you, eh ? Well, this
beats everything. Why, I didn’t know you. How
are you, old fellow ? ” He replied with another
hiccup that blew his hat over his eyes that he was
pretty well, but not too well. Something the
matter with his liver, I think he said. Ib is not of
much consequence, anyhow, for he had a lot of
names for the one complaint, I knew at once that
I had to do it, so I did it with a good grace, and
taking him by the arm whispered in his ear,
“ Come down to the corner.” It was beautiful to
see the change that came over his face then. It
was transfigured—beatified. And all by a whis-
per. Well, we passed the flagon round for a
while, and then I recollected what I had to do,
and told my trouble to my ring-eyed friend
“ Pooh ! ” he said, “ That’s nothing. Give me
two or three slips of paper, and I’ll fix it up for you
in five minutes.” I handed them to him, and hav-
ing ordered “ the same again ” went out on the
quay and watched the captain of the Watson’s Bay
steamer clenching his teeth and, after taking one
last look at the land, telling the engineer in tones
of desperate calm to go ahead, and then b-acing
himself together, gripping the wheel, and slowly
passing out of sight—a noble example of heroism
and devotion to duty.
* * *
When I returned the elegy was finished.
“ There,” said my friend, “ I think that ought to
do.” I just glanced at it, and then folded it up
and put it in my pocket. He was one of the poets
of the staff, and I felt that it would be presump-
tuous for me to suggest improvements on any-
thing he had done, so I nodded to the vision of
Beauty behind the bar, and once more replenished
the bard. Then I left him and hurried up to the
1 office. The editor was not in, so I put the copy
on his desk, and departed with a light heart,
When I returned in the afternoon I was informed
he wanted to see me. I went into his office. He
was fingering the elegy my friend had written
For the first time I noticed that each slip was
splashed with rum. The smell of them pervaded
the whole building. The editor had not noticed
me come in, and I heard him say to himself with
a sigh :“I am again deceived. I did think this
man would have lasted through the summer.
But this rum-sodden drivel .” Then he saw
me. With a look conveying more of sorrow than
anger he handed me the manuscript, and said
merrily: “What do you call this?” I took it
and read the following :
HIC JACET.
The Parson and the Pig.
O come and dance a doleful jig !
Here lie the Parson and the Pig.
The Parson was a man of size,
He ate the Pig—and here he lies.
His hat it had a curly brim,
He now rips out the rolling hymn;
The Pig it was a pig of prize,
It met the Parson—here it lies.
But, as the Parson ate the Pig
(Skip round and dance a doleful jig !),
It follows, as the moon the sun,
That Pig and Parson now are one,
And, sure as six and one are seven,
That pious Pig is now in Heaven.
The pig it had a curly tail
(O come and raise the cheerful wail!);
That curly tail wag» here no more,
It wags upon the Golden Shore.
It whisks around in Kingdom Come—
(l wish I had another rum !)
And so, as I before have said,
The Parson he is very dead.
Let him, O Lord— this is no chaff!—
A harp play, or at least a fiddle ;
He measured three feet round the calf, ,
And ninety inches round the middle.
He walked along the narrow way,
So hallelujah, and hooray !
My knees smote together as I read this
monstrous bosh. The editor surveyed me in
silence for a moment, and then said, kindly
enough, all things considered : “ YouDg man, let
this be a lesson to you. You are now, in the
words of the poet, starting to walk upon ambi-
tion’s diamond ridge, and if you wish to keep
your balance you had better give up all ideas of
carrying a cargo of rum to the other end. The
golden rule of literature is —However you go to
bed always get up sober— and if you cannot do
this at the first try wait till you can, if you
have to wait for a week. Good day! ” I went
out dejectedly, and feebly tried the cashier once
more to find that it was a ghastly failure.
* * *
After this I got into the way of writing
obituary verse of a grotesque and grisly orders
and thenceforth my fate was sealed. Did a
man hang himself under peculiarly droll circum-
stances— as the editor understood them—such, for
instance, as having a bottle of brandy unopened
in one pocket and eighteenpence in the other, I
was pitched upon to record the fact in verse dis-
mal enough to encourage everybody who read it
to go and do likewise. Was a skeleton found in
cellar—a skull turned up in digging the founda-
tions of a Life Assurance Society—a coffin dis-
covered near a picnic ground—l had to celebrate
the occurrence in lugubrious rhyme. Life has be-
come a burden to me since then. Here is a speci-
men of the sort of letter I am getting every
week:—
“ Dear D——, —Here is something that will suit your
humour. You can theorise grimly as to what purpose that
coffin was intended for—picture the man in the act of mak-
ing it by stealth at midnight—throw in some eerie effects,
and—but it is unnecessary to tell you any more. You will
revel in the subject."!
This is the paragraph alluded to :
“ On Saturday last, says the Goulburn Herald, some
boys playing in the bush near the Jews' cemetery found a coffin
hid in the sand. The discovery appears not unnaturally to
have alarmed them, and in reporting it to the police they
stated that at night the coffin emitted light as if it con-
tained a corpse. The police went out and took possession of
it, but on being opened it was found to contain nothing but
a two-foot rule.’
This was a cheerful thing to have to write
of—a nice subject to revel in. What could any
body say about it but that some heaven-born
undertaker had tried his hand at making a coffin,
and having succeeded had left it in the bush
while he went off to look for a corpse ? The only
other theery would be that some spirited corpse,
having found that he was too much crowded by
his neighbours, and having measured out with a
two-foot rule what he thought was his due amount
of room, and being refused that much, shouldered
his coffin, marched out of the cemetery, shaking
the bone-dust off his feet, threw the coffin with
the two-foot rule in it over the fence, and then —
after inquiring whether there was an election on
or not, and receiving a reply in the negative—
went away and drowned himself. But in any case
what sort of a thing was this to send to an oc-
casionally sane person to write about? Yet it is
airy and gay to what I have had given me as
“ congenial subjects” from time to time. The effect
of a continuance of this sort of literature would
have probably been to drive me to an early retire-
ment among the dead I had to write so much
about if it had not been for the cheering-up I re-
ceived from the merry mutes and undertakers
with whom I came in contact while in pursuit of
my dreadful calling. I soon got to know them all,
and to fasten upon the conclusion that Minstrels
are the most mournful, and coffin-makers the
cheeriest types of mankind,
* * *
Take the festive Quirby as a specimen of
the latter class. Where would you find such a
bubbling spring of humour—such a fountain of
fun—such a stream of rollicking Rabelaisian
drollery, as welled from him ? I would reward
with untold rum the man who could tell me where.
Quirby ! As I write his name—though now we
are far apart, and I may never have the happiness
of being packed by him in my little “piner” and
bowled out to my last residence by one of his j ocular
assistants—l can see him standing before the door
of his establishment, his thumbs fixed in the arm-
holes of his waistcoat, his plug hat, with the huge
crape band of the trade round it, stuck jauntily
askew, one eye half-closed and the other—a blood-
stone coloured eye—cocked in a spirit of humor-
ous speculation at the passers-by. There were
few who could stand the glance of that eye, albeit
a mirthful one, without momentarily repenting of
their sins and immediately afterwards plunging
into the nearest bar for a “ stiffener.” I have
heard him on suoh occasions mutter to himself
“so many stiffeners—make a stiff ’un.” Then he
would smile a smile that was gruesome to see and
invite me into his office to accelerate my own
decease with a “stiffener” of the same descrip-
tion—an invitation I can cheerfully say I have
never refused. The bottle, I may remark, was
always kept in a coffin, from which, with a
thorough enjoyment of the grotesqueness of the
proceedings, he would draw out the glasses and
ask me to drink “A blessed resurrection” to the
expected occupant. He was a wag, I can tell
you. With what child like pleasure, too, he
would point out to me the various sorts of funeral
furniture strewn around—he sitting on a coffin on
trestles, and dangling his legs the while! “ That,”
he would say, indicating a shell in the corner, “ is
what we call a common-piner. It provides merely
for the necessities of a corpse. Those who choose
to be buried with extras are packed in one like
that over there - that’s a rose-wooder with German-
silver mountings, and a very snug shell, too, at
the price ; though if you want real comfort, com-
bined with elegance, you must go for a cedar-
one like that on the shelf opposite—-and if you re-
quire right-down luxury you must get a leader.
O jly rich people can afford thrse. There is more
joy in an undertaker's shop when a rich man dies
than when 99 poor people shuffle off the coil!”
But Quirby, though gay and genial, always
laboured to elevate his trade to the level of a fine
art, and was ever thinking of the comfort of his
customers. He was always inventing something
or other new for their benefit. I remember his
showmg me a coffin with a sliding lid, by means
ot which a person who was screwed down while in
a trance and happened to have the good luck—or
bad, as it might be—to wake out of it on his way
to the cemetery, could get up, pull the check-
string (always to be found in Quirby’s hearses),
and tell the driver to stop at the nearest hotel, or
lie low until he got to his destination, and then
paralyse his weeping widow (if any) and mourning
heirs by a sudden resurrection. There is much
humour in the idea, but I believe this kind of
coffin is not popular with widows, as a rule. It
was Quirby, too, who advocated—and, in fact
originated the plan of putting a pipe down
through the grave, the end of it above ground, to
take the shape of a speaking-trumpet, and the
end below to be fixed exactly above the mouth of
the corpse. By this means he considered that a
person buried alive would (especially if he had a
few sandwiches and a bottle of whisky put in the
coffin previous to screwing down) be able to give
notice of the fact that he still had a vote—[No-
thing very curious about that. Complete corpses
have had votes in this country ere now.— Ed. 8.l
Of course while they were digging him out he
could be fed through the pipe. “ Great Moses !"
Quirby would say in his enthusiasm when expatiat-
ing on this subject, “ how would a bottle of beer
taste at the bottom-end of that pipe after a three-
days’ thirst ? Why, it would be worth being dead
that, length of time just to try it!
* * *
He told me a story on one occasion, con-
cerning this, to the effect that he had buried a
man, and, to gauge the virtue of the idea, had
fixed one of these pipes into his grave. Quirby
came day after day to the tomb, and placed his
ear to the pipe to try if he could hear anything
from the gentleman below. He did this for
nearly a week, and at the end of that time began
to despair of success, as far as that corpse was
concerned, when a happy thought struck him.
The next time he went out he took with him a
bottle of Queensland rum, and slowly poured it
down the tube, leaving time for the party at the
other end to catch his breath —if he had any
By thunder, sir,” said Quirby, impressively, yet
with a twinkle in his eye, “ do you know what
happened then ? ” “ No." “ Well, I laid my ear to
the pipe, and may I never live to laugh at my own
funeral if I wasn’t struck with a hiccup that
knocked me like a ninepin over the next grave I
It wasn’t a hiccup—it was a kick, and I couldn’t
get the sound of it out of the drum of my ear for
a month afterwards. When I had recovered my-
self and given the party underneath time to sober
up a bit, I put my mouth to the pipe and called
down, ‘ Hi, below there. Are you tired of being
buried yet ? ’ ‘ Who the deuce are you ? ’ was the
staggering reply I received. ‘ Never you mind,’
I said, ‘ I have come here to dig you up.’ ‘ How
long have I been dead?’ ‘You’ve been dead
nearly a year,’ I answered (out of revenge for the
hiccup), ‘ are you going dug up, or not ? ’ ‘I
want to ask you a question first ? ’ ‘ Well, what
is it?’ ‘ls John Davies still alive?' ‘Very
much alive,’ I replied. ‘ Then if he is I’m goinsr
to stay where I am. You can fill your darned
pipe up ? ’ ”
* •
It was through Quirby I became intro-
duced to the Coffin Club. I shall never forget
that night. It was a sort of gdla night, and the
members were in full feather. Quirby led me
down a long, low-arched passage which I momen-
tarily expected to open out into a vault. Then
he suddenly stopped before what seemed to be a
huge black door. “What can this mean?” I
thought, with a sudden sinking in the pit of the
stomach—“ Am I going to witness one of those
grisly and unhallowed revels, dimly hinted at in
that rare old black-letter book, ‘ The History of
the Ogres,’ or have I come to assist at a gathering
of ghouls or a Witches’ Sabbath ?” These thoughts
rushed through my brain, falling over each other
in their hurry to get out. Thoughts come to me
so fast sometimes that I have to wrap my head up
in wet towels and read the morning papers to
drive them away. But that is neither here
nor there. While I was thinking, Quirby was
knocking at the door—three slow, dismal raps,
like the knocking at the gate in “ Macbeth,” end-
ing with one dull thud, like that made by the fall-
ing of clods on a coffin. “ Who comes here to
disturb our solemn mysteries?” said a hollow
voice from inside. “ A Friend of the Worm in
the Mould,” replied Quirby, without a quaver in
his tones. “ What is the password, Friend of the
Worm?” said the Hollow Voice. “Speed the
Hearse,” replied Quirby in undaunted accents.
“ Enter,” said the Hollow Voice, swinging open
the door. I expected to find that the janitor was
a skeleton, or a vampire at the least,-so you can
judge of my surprise to see a little fat man with a
round, red face, and two of the merriest eyes!
have ever beheld twinkling in a human head. His
title, Quirby subsequently informed me, was
Keeper of the Dolorous Door. Quirby’s own title
in the Club was The Grinning Ghoul. Such dismal
denominations were surely never borne by two
such men before.
* * •
My first surprise on beholding the janitor
was nothing to that which I felt on finding myself
in a brilliantly-lighted room, down the middle of
which a long table ran. On each side of this
table were seated a number of gentlemen, each
with a full glass in front of him, and a pipe in his
hand. The President had not yet given the word
to “ Light up and liquor,” before which, accord-
ing to the rules of the club, no member was per-
mitted to either smoke or drink. Quirby here in-
formed me in a whisper that he was about to
introduce me to the President, and that I must
address that dignitary as The Conqueror Worm.
He then led me up the room, and, after bowing
low to the President (whose seat, by the way, was
on a raised dais ac the top of the table), addressed
him thus: “ Most mighty Conqueror Worm,
victor over all things that have breath, thou who
makest sieves of the mortal parts of kings, and
old cullenders of the bodies of aldermen, I would
to thy terrible and gruesome presence introduce
one who would see behind the Veil and know
what may be known of the awful secrets of our
order.” Then he led me forward and whispered
me to do as he had done. So I bowed profoundly
to the Worm in the chair—a personage, by the
way, chiefly remarkable for a nose in the last
stages of purple, and eyes that seemed to literally
ooze out good-humour and gin—and, as far
as I could remember, went through the same
formula of address Quirby had used. During
this time the members sat as still and stolid
as two rows of tombstones. “Advance!”
said the Worm. I advanced “Kneel! ” I knelt.
“ Bring me the Hollow Skull.” It was brought
him by an assistant ghoul. I looked at it and
shuddered. It was a plaster cast of the human
head, but where there should have been eye-
sockets two phosphorised panes that gleamed


demoniacially were inserted. “Place it on the
head of the aspirant!” It opened at the back by
a spring, but it was too small for me. A buzz of
astonishment ran down the two rows of tomb-
stones. “ What a monstrous head!” said one in a
loud whisper. “ What a skull for a Pantomime,
said another. “ Not a skull, but a tank, ob-
served a third. “ Silence!” cried the President,
“ bring his hat ” Someone brought it. “Make
a hole in the crown! ” said the Worm. They did
—with a chisel—and it was a new plug hat, too.
“ Now cut a sheet of glazed paper, to fit inside
the hat, and gum it all round inside half-way be-
tween the crown and the rim.” This also was
done. “ Now bring me a pot of beer.” It was
brought. “ Put his hat on.” It was done. The
President then advanced towards me brandishing
a thigh-bone. “ Close your eyes,” he cried in a
commanding voice, and I closed them. The next
moment the thigh-bone came crashing on the
crown of my new plug, and I was half suffocated
in a torrent of tanglefoot. “ Arise Drunken
Skull, for by that name shalt thou be henceforth
known among us,” exclaimed the Worm. I arose
with my face streaming with beer, and smelling
like a vah “Go into the next room and fix your-
i elf up, old fellow,” sa d the President dropping
his dignified manner ; “ the ceremony was neces-
sary or I wouldn’t have performed it, I assure
you. Don’t be long, for the boys are waiting to
begin business.” I wasn’t long, and when I re-
turned the President gave the orders to Light
up and Liquor.”
* * *
Fifty matches were struck, 50 pipes began
to fume, and 50 hands lifted 50 glasses to 50
mouths simultaneously (I know there is a slight
suggestion of the Baron of Grogzwig and his
Lincoln Greens in this phrase, but Dickens is dead
and won’t complain, and he is the only person really
interested). Each man emptied his glass at a
draught. I never saw such terrible fellows to
drink. They drank long beers, too, but I had had
enough of that beverage for a lifetime, and con-
tented myself with whisky, for which I could see
I was looked upon as rather a funny creature, after
all. The drinking-vessels they used were pint-
mugs of a somewhat gaudy pattern. I had ex-
pected to see a certain play of grotesque fancy in
the paraphernalia of the table —dishes made out
of shoulder-blades, tobacco jars out of skulls, &c.,
and looked forward to hearing quite a number of
picturesque remarks such as this : —First member
to second ditto: “ Where’d you get that long clay
you're smokin’ ?” 2nd member Guess.” Ist
member : “ Can't. Give it up.” 2nd member .
“ Well, you remember old Brown that died a
good many years ago—lived at Potts Point, you
know?” Ist member: “Yes. Well?’ 2nd
member : “ Well, I had to open his vault about a
month ago to put in a new lodger, and I found his
coffin burst and full of bone-dust. Made this pipe
out of it.” But I didn’t hear any such
remarks, and on mentioning my disappoint-
ment to Quirby he informed me that it
was a stringent rule of the club that nothing
made out of mortuary remains or suggestive of
the grave should be allowed in the club-room,
with the exception of the Hollow Skull and the
President’s Thigh-bone Baton, which were the
club regalia. Members, however, might talk as
much as they pleased about the tomb and all con-
cerning it. I subsequently found, as will be seen,
that they talked of nothing else.
* ** *
A long droll-visaged shell-builder on my
right was talking across the table to a jovial-
-1 loking party in the same line. “ How’s busi-
ness ?’said the former. “ Oh, nothin’to brag
about,” was the reply. “ I’ll tell you what it is ”
feaning over and speaking in an impressive
whisper) “ people are getting too d d healthy.
If we don’t 'ave a heppydemic soon some of us ’ll
have to shut up shop and take to rabbit-catchin
for a livin’. And what’s the reason, eh ?’’ ( He
was a little man, and a bellicose) “ Well it’s be-
cause o’ that d d Board o’ ’Elth,andits sanitary
hinspectors, pryin’ and spyin’ around, and rootin’
up backyards and so on, where fever-germs are
multerplyin’ for our benefit. I call it takin the
bread out of a man’s mouth, I do. Why, them
backyards and things is as good as hoyster-beds to
us. They’re our livin’. You might as well go
and root up a man’s garden, and call it justice, as
to root them up on us.” He was just getting
wound up, and would have probably gone on in
this strain for an hour longer if he had not been
interrupted by a guffaw from a third grave-filler.
“ The Board o’ Elth,” said this one in tone 3 of de-
rision, “ for all the ’arm the Board o’ ’Elth does
our business it might be constitooted entirely of
men in the trade.” “ But what’s the use of ’avin
a repperesentative in Parlyment if he don’t rep-
p ere sent us ? ” exclaimed a fourth. “ What’s the
use of Ninny Melville to us I’d like to know ? Has
he ever riz his voice in the ’Ouse agin’ the quaran-
tine laws ? No. Not he. He sits there mum as
a mute and sees a ship-load o’ cholery (cornin’
right to our doors) quarantined. Why, it ’ud a
b:ena perfect godsend to us—we’d a made our
fortunes over it if it adn t been for
them ’orrid quarantine laws. I’m done with
Ninny Melville from this out ” The sentiments
conveyed in this speech evidently hit the taste of
his audience, for he sat down amidst a loud buzz
of applause. The silence following this was
broken upon by the tomb-supplier on my left, who
addressed a friend a few coffin-builders’ distant,
“I hear,” said he, “ that you’ve had an outbreak
of typhoid fever in your part of the town. You
always had the luck of it.” “ Yes,” complacently
replied the party addressed ; “ I can’t complain
Business has taken a turn for the better with me
lately. How are you doin’ ?” “ Nothing much,”
answered the first speaker, despondently; “ I’m
just managin’ to rub along on diptheria, measles,
’oopin-korf, and that kind o’ thing—but then, you
know, there’s no profit worth speakin’ about in
hinfants’ funerals, still ” (brightening up) “we
must always ’ope for better times.” Any further
conversation of this kind was
rendered impossible by the
President rapping his desk
■with the official thigh-bone
and calling out, “Silence for
Coffin-Face’s song.”
* * *
Glasses were replenished,
pipes re-lit, and Coffin-face
(a gentleman of hilarious as.
liect) began to warble a melody, the first verse of
vhich ran as follows
THE MERRY COFFIN-MILLS.
(Air : “ Cruiskeen Lawn."
Let the squatter praise his runs,
The goat- warriors their guns.
The mariner his green fields of foam,
But we, more blest than they,
Chase the ’appy ’ours away
In our merry lit le coffin-mills at ’ome,
In our merry little coffin-mills at ’ome.
Chorus.— Merry little coffin-mills
(Merrily the grave-yard fills!),
Merry little coffin-mills,
Drink! Drink! Drink!
livery undertaker swills —
Drink!
The conclusion of the soDg was greeted wiih
cheers. “Coffin-mills,” repeated the President
with a smack of serious satisfaction in his voice—
“Coffin-Face, you have the glorious call !
Coffin-Face thereupon proposed that Vampire Joe
should sing his usual song. It appears this plea-
santly-named individual knew only one sorg (and
only one verse of it at that) which he sang, by
established custom, at every meeting of the Club.
The verse ran as follows :
THE COFFIN-MAKER’S CAROL.
It was a coffin maker,
And gaily carolled he :
“ Like that of undertaker
Can any trade there be ?
Of butcher, or of baker,
Or grocer, do you see ?
For they must wait for custom—
And custom comes to me."
Chorus.— When I hear the people’s clamour,
I laugh low as they go past
(While I hammer, hammer, hammer)
“ You must come to me at last !”
The whole strength of the club swelled the chorus,
and I regret to say that (as I was subsequently
informed) nay voice was among the loudest. The
mugs were again charged, and Quirby rose up to
speak. He was evidently much respected in the
club, as nobody threw anything at him whilst he
was speaking. He suggested that the club should
engage a germ-specialists to go to China, collect a
quantity of cholera, typhus, yellow Jack, and
other germs friendly to the trade, pack them in
cases and send them to Sydney consigned to the
President of the Board of Health. On the cases
being opened business would, of course, begin to
boom. A subdued murmur of admiring applause
greeted this proposition. Encouraged by this,
Quirby proceeded to enlarge upon his pet idea of
grave-pipes. He suggested that pipes should be
inserted in every grave dug after a certain
date, and that these pipes should be con-
nected by telephone-wires with a Central
Corpse Exchange, where a clerk and a re-
lieving-clerk shouid sit night and day listening.
Each grave should have its number registered, and
arrangements should be made so that every corpse
buried, after the date pre-arranged, should be
enabled—in case he was a revived catalept—to
communicate with the clerk and be duly disin-
terred. Quirby pointed out that this would be
a gain to the trade, inasmuch as a man rescued
from the grave meant ultimately a man to be
buried again, and, therefore, a double profit to the
undertaker. There was a stir among the two
rows of tombstones at this. Quirby merely smiled*
and remarked that his young friend, Dismal Dick,
would “ favour the company with a rendering of
his popular song, “ The Merry Mute. Dismal
Dick rose up readily, and I was not surprised,
after what I had already seen of the Tapleyan in-
congruity of the faces of the persons I had already
noticed, and their anomalous titles, to find that he
was a young gentleman having all the appearance
of a born lo w comedian. He began his song in an
aggressively hilarious baritone. I got a copy of
it afterwards, and give it in full below
THE MERRY" MUTE.
Oh, the life of a Mute is a life of cheer —
' He lives where another man dies!
And two bright pennies he spends in beer—
Two he takes from a dead man’s eyes.
Chorus.— O drink !
And wink
At all the maids 1
Where’er you go
Ours is, you know,
The merriest of trades.
They may talk as they like of their coaching joys,
But they’re not worth a tinker’s curse,
Like jogging along to the graveyard, boys,
On the top of a first-class hearse.
Then sing!
And swing
Your g.ass on high !
For we shall thrive,
And keep alive,
While there are men to die.
And as soon as we’ve dropped our fare, then that’s
The time when a mute’s a Ring ;
For we light our pipes, and we cock our hats,
And this is the song we sing.
Then drink!
And sink
Your cares in rum !
Your weepers wave !
Here’s to the grave !
Hurrah for Kingdom Come!
The cheers that greeted this gruesome melody
were suddenly interrupted by Quirby, who rose to
recite “ a little thing he had written himself. I
don’t remember much of it—nor, 1 suppose, does
Guirbv for his speech was of a gurgling order by
this time-but, as far as I can remember, it went
in some way like this :
QUIRBY’S ADDRESS,
what (hie) what is that I see before me ?
k gathering of gentlemen in black,
I -Y ® q’o crack small jokes, drink toasts,
and pass the bottle,
And bandy compliments like shuttle
cocks
Across the table at each other ? No
Not much. I see with vision clarified.
I see —well yes, I see but never
mind 1
Men have their Alpha in the bassinette
And their Omega in the wooden shell—
Pincr, or rosewood, satin-lined, or plain,
I According to the taste of customers
(An irresolute pause.)
But what's this talk about Cremation ? Trash !
For who would give up the consoling pomp
Of the slow-moving hearse, with nodding plumes,
I The waving weepers, and the mournful mutes,
I And all the solemn circumstance of woe
I (A line that I have heard somewhere before),
I Telling the world another voter dead,
To be cremated, as they call it ? Pooh !
I And who, in thunder, I would like to know,
Would leave his trade to follow—mark you now !
A little heap of ashes in a crock ?
I The person who would do so, I should think,
Would be an all-fired effervescent ass.
I remember little more about the proceedings. I
I only know that I woke up in one of Quirby’s
| coffins in the gray dawn of the following morning.
( He was a wag, was Quirby.
THE SNOB BALLADS.
No. II.
WHAT’S IN A NAME!
What's in a name ? Not much, we’re told,
And yet we’ve sung a baron bold,
Who did not think a name a myth,
But Carington preferred to Smith.
What’s in a name ? Yet sundry wigh* s
Among us live, who to be knights
(Not such as clad in armour bright, "
In days of yore rushed to the fight;
Whom poet loves and minstrel sings—
Our knights are most inferior things),
Who “Mister” just to change to “Sir,”
Would cringe and whine like mongrel cur
To those who in their inmost hearts
Despise them for their paltry arts.
And others, who, though arrant screws,
To give the devil all his dues,
Right gladly would their purse-strings free
To buy three letters—C.M.G.
But he was still more plucky who
Gave gold and lives for letters two
Stay I luck, not pluck, I should write down ;
Both were his country's—not his own.
What's in a name ? Yet some there are,
I Who live beneath the Southern Star,
Do look askance if “ men ” you say,
J For gentle men goodsooth are they ;
I To such a one I, joking, said :
“ Pray, Mister, have you .ever read
I Two clever lines of ancient verse,
I In which is asked, in language terse
‘ When Adam delved and Eve span,
Say, who was thin the gentleman ? ’ ”
Not seeing that I meant to quiz,
He answered thus, with stolid phiz :
“ But surely, sir, you know that then
There never was no gentlemen,
For in those vulgar days of yore
The people all were shocking ‘ pore,’
And Heving knows there’s nothing can
But money, make a gentleman.”
What’s is a name 2 Why there prevails
A madness, in fair New South Wales,
For picking out the biggest word
To give to something quite absurd,
And making out of nothing much—
I’ll mention one or two of such.
A housemaid is a “ lady-help,
A “ butler” some poor nigger whelp,
j A public-house is an “hotel,”
A bank-clerk is a “ howling swell,”
“ Emporium ” we say for shop.
And “ constable ” for common slop,
A “barman” is the boy called pot.
Ten feet of land is quite a “lot” ;
In such, and many ways beside,
Through ignorance or foolish pride,
We mostly prove ourselves afraid
To plainly call a spade a spade—
In short, with sycophantic grovel,
We love to call the spade a shovel.
What’s in a name ? Well, goodness knows,
I But yet it seems the question throws
I A spell on all the fools in town,
Who, seemingly, are sitting down
And writing most prepost’rous rot,
To show that we shall go to pot
Unless we change our dear old name
For one invented by these same :
What reasons have they? —if such louts
Can reason, for I have my doubts—
I Not euphony, for each one fails,
j I’ll swear, to better New South Wales ;
And, just to prove that this is true,
Pray listen while I quote a few :
Here’s an address, one thinks quite grand,
“ A. Donki,
“ Sydney,
“ Sydney Land," !1!
Too lovely, this, without a flaw,
/laugh, he 1 he 1 he laughs, he 1 haw 1
“ Neucambria ” from a Judge we get—
He meant, You’llhangria, I'll bet;
Then comes a lady (111 be bound)
Who thinks that “ Cooksland ” well would sound ;
But think, dear dame, if people came,
Induced by this seductive name,
And found- oh 1 my, how they would swear—
A land of cooks with no cooks there !
Another, who from Sala cribs,
Would give us Colchis—don’t like “ prigs.”
And so full many witless wights
Are slinging ink, morn, noon, and nights—
The reason why, you clever “ nobs,”
Is plain, that all these folks are snobs
Who wish to see their stuff in pi int,
Or - but at this we’ll only hint —
Perhaps the name recalls the days
Their ancestors had different ways
From that ‘ high-tone ” which now prevails
In the beau monde of New South Wales ;
Or think, as snobs so often do,
That nothing’s good which is not new;
Perhaps for fun their hands they try,
Or any other reason whv.
But now I think ’tis really right
That I, in turn, should be polite.
And try upon a name to hit,
Which may with all ideas fit:
I think that you will all confess
It should both sense and sound possess ;
Well, here it is no, I m too shy
To write it clear for every eye —
What shall I do l hie ! Hopkins, here !
Draw me a brimming glass of beer —
That’s right; now, snob3, just come and read,
The name, I think, will suit your breed,
It rhymeth with Australia,
Shout Hail!
COLONIAL IA!
P. W.
The Wreck of the Derry Castle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[la publishing the subjoined verses we take pieisure in
stating that the writer thereof is a boy of 17 years, a young
Australian, who has as yet had an imperfect education, and
is earning his living under some difficulties as a house-
painter—a youth whose poetic genius here speaks eloquently
for itself —Ed. B ]
Day of ending for beginnings,
Ocean hath another innings,
Ocean hath another score I
And the surges sing his ■winnings,
And the surges shout his winnings,
And the surges shriek his winnings,
All along the sodden Bhore 1
Sing another dirge in wailing,
For another vessel sailing
With the shadow-ships at sea !
Shadow-ships for ever sinking—
Shadow-ships whose pumps are clinking,
And whose thirsty holds are drinking
Pledges to Eternity.
Pray for souls of ghastly, sodden
Corses, floating round untrodden
Cliffs, where nought but seadrift strays ;
Souls of dead aen, in whose faces
Of humanity no trace is—
Not a mark to show their races—
Floating round for days and days.
* * *
0 jean’s salty tongues are licking
Round the faces of the drowned,
And a cruel blade seems sticking
Through my heart, and turning round.
Heaven 1 shall his ghastly, sodden
Corse float round for days and days ?
Shall it dash ’neath cliffs untrodden,
Rocks where nought but seadrift strays ?
God in heaven ; hide the floating,
Falling, rising, face from me ;
God in heaven 1 stay the gloating,
Mocking singing of the sea 1
HENRY LAWSON.


pLOf
/\LL R’iCfif ‘3 ILL Tfl£ff£ 5 KOfiOO/ KSovT GrTfut PcLffE.
JOV A SAFE'.
/> f
\i DlDrT'fAKe mcxte V<Wo or*'Three hot/r? $
To o i/Ys id e. ft
N\E A#' 6»»-L AO no A MAHER offline .
SAT" OQyrK AfY M »*£>£/) |f WH«L£ BUL BACK* I
Some -foous * 1
VVe: a Rare qL® 'Vme a smash ip. of rf vj>
~fooH V s v£r<y peak A week, "
*r\
* F
BwT w£ Fot/Fi) Fyrob£Fc£ m if.
Labour in Vain.


The FAIRY FLANNINGAN OR THE PANTOMIME PERI
AND THE POET
(WRITTEN FOR THE BULLEITN)
BY PHIL FLYNN
It was the merry Christmas time
When, with an elf and gnome
A Peri of the Pantomime
Was slowly plodding home.
Could this, indeed, be that bright fay
Who, twenty minutes since,
Was gliding down a long moon-ray
To charm the Fairy Prinee ?
Could this be that svelte fairy, who
(go lovely, yet so wise)
Unveiled those liquid lakes of blue,
The Sleeping Beauty’s eyes ?
Alas, it was ! The gods may grin,
Who made this maze of strife,
To see such transformations in
The Pantomime of Life.
But where are all the gauds she wore —
, Those scintillating things !
Some half an hour or so before ?
Where are her wand and wings ?
Where are her shoes—that pretty pair
That danced on lily-rims ?
The star that burned amid her hair ?
The gauze that wreathed her limbs ?
And that pink couple, full of charms,
Which made grave elders thralls,
And brought, in dissipated’swarms,
The baldheads to the stalls ?
“And brought in dissipated swarms the baldheads to the stalls.”
Some left behind; some—to make end—
Brohght home by favour great
(They let her take them home to mend !)
Of the Triumvirate.
The scene must now be shifted to
A pleasant place and sweet;
In fact—to be quite plain with you—
A house in Sussex-street.
There lives, in unassuming way
(By mangling—when she can !)
The mother of our lovely fay,
The Fairy Flannigan.
And there within the top-back room,
Where noises seldom come,
Th re lies a Being steeped in gloom,
And—if you must know—rum.
His brows are knit, and dark despair
Looks from his eyes beneath ;
His locks of Apollonian hair
Are twisted in his teeth.
He has the most terrific drouth
’Twixt North and Southern Pole;
His tongue hangs in his blazing mouth,
And burns like a damned soul.
tet—think of it, ye Christian men,
While ye in revels join !
Ee has—O dismal fact to pen !
No credit, and no coin.
And there he lies from chime to chime
And watches, that poor elf,
A cheap, yet fearful, Pantomime.
Run solely by himself.
“Who is he ?” you interrogate,
He’s —not to be too hard,
And still to put the matter straight—
A Disappointed Bard.
“The mother of our lovely fay.”
He came from where the wombat roams,
And dingoes rend the air,
With a portmanteau full of “ pomes,”
And hayseed in his hair.
He took those “ pomes ” round with a smile,
And easy air and free ;
With easier and freer style
The W. P. B.
Received them. Editors would scoff—
Those literary sharks —
Though he essayed the manner of
The famous poet, Parkes,
We left him (last verse doesn’t scan!)
In trouble to the chin —
'Tis here the Fairy Flannigan
Into the tale comes in.
He with her mother lodged, this meek
But brilliant child of fame—
And regularly every week
He owed her for the same.
And to the Fairy oft he sent
Full many a loving lay,
And paid full many a compliment —
’Twas all he had to pay !
And so it came to pass—ahem !
Now for an insult grim !
That though he did not “ part ” to them
They would not part with him.
The Peri of the Pantomime
This night, as oft before,
Came home and found him weaving rhyme—
And fighting with the floor.
She dressed her in her Peri dress,
Took up her starry wand,
And, like a dream of loveliness,
She did before him stand.
She charmed the snakes from off the wall,
The gorgons chased from sight,
And changed that small room to a hall —
A hall of dazzling light.
This was the Peri's usual ta9k
In his delirium;
Then slily she drew out a flask —
It was a flask of rum.
Another act: The same old place,
And Mrs. Flannigan
Receiving, with a smiling face,
The bridesmaids and best-man.
Poor soul! she set up this joy—they
On her old shoulders leaned—
By sitting up both night and day,
And mangling like a fiend.
The Fairy ? Well, she bought the ring,
The flow’rs, and all to boot;
Paid parson, cab-fare, everything—
And bought the bridegroom’s suit.
The Bridegroom loaded up with—Dam !
This same old rhyme of Rum !
Contributed a cryptogram
Epithalamium.
The Fairy, who could wishes grant
As quickly as made known,
(When on the stage she did enchant)
Now had at last her own.
For she had longed—poor thing t—for years
To wed a Bard intense,
Whose songs should be too deep for tears,
And, probably, for sense ;
So that her neighbours in the row
She might with envy note,
S< y—“ There goes Missus So-and-So,
The wife of the Great Pote.”
This in her little mind she’d planned
(As shallow as a dish
It was, but true and honest), and
You bet she got her wish l
It came at last that this poor lad—
Though he made many a wry
Mouth at the mess—by thunder, had
To eat his works, or die I
Last scene : the Royal: Treasury Day.
With faces glum as psalms
The “ pros.” (you bet, sirs !) for their pay
Put out their little palms.
But look! What figure have we here ?
First Murderer ? Not so hard I
Brigand ? No, neither. Lend your ear
That is the Fairy’s Bard !
And ever since their fates did join,..
Thus, at this time, he’d come
To gather up her little coin—
And slosh it round in Rum.
How do they live ? We can’t quite say,
But this much we have gleamed—
The Old Girl still works night and day,
And mangles like a fiend.
Moral ;
To girls. A moral you may vamp
From this —it isn’t hard! —
Wed Burglar, Local Preacher, Tramp—
But never wed a Bard.
But if you will, for best or worst,
Take a Poetic Sphinx—
Pray call upon the Fairy first,
And ask her what she thinks!
“ That is the Fairy’s Bard."






Supplement to The “Bulletin" (Sydney, N.S.W.), Christmas, 1887.
THINGS WE SEE WHEN WE COME OUT WITHOUT OUR GUN.




IMPERIAL I
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Here, after all the greasy professions
about Her Majesty being the devoted servant o f
the people, we learn that the British Government
declines to officially recognise the French Exhibi-
tion —because it is contrary to monarchic dig-
nity (!) to assist at a ceremony which recalls the
dismissal of an Emperor and the founding of
Constitutional Government in the shape of a Re-
public.
THE SIGNAL.
A nation meets to celebrate,
By rich display of art and skill,
The dawn of Freedom o’er her State—
The birth of that majestic thrill
POLICEMAN: "'ERE'S A HINFRINGEMENT O THE HACT."
Which beckoned, at the people’s will,
[P The tried and trusted, wi3e and great,
Her palaces of power to fill,
And drove the despot from her gate.
The pride of that immortal hour
That ushered in her liberty,
Hurled shattering down Imperial power
And rendered France the fair and free,
From Jura to the eddying sea,
In cottage as in glittering bower ;
Preached to the world the People’s plea,
And made a hundred tyrants cower!
What wonder, then, if courtly hand
Should shrink in rage from touch of hers,
And angry monarehs frowning stand
And greet her glory with a curse ?
Their jewelled crowns and costly furs,
Her deeper pageant, nobly grand,
Can amply spare, and still rehearse
A purer scene, in happier land.
But Britain—she whose echoing boast
Has been the freedom of her race—
Goes proudly past the muttering host,
And ’mid the gladness takes her place,
With blithesome step and radiant face,
At welfare of the sister coast ?
Ah, no! Lament your sore disgrace
Who loVe your nation’s heart the most!
Iharne ! bitter shame! that men should speak
The wrongs that have too surely been !
Well may the mad blush scorch your cheek
Por England’s Court and England’s Queen !
Whom ye with simple smile serene
Have fondly dreamed alone to seek
Your bidding, and, contented, lean
On you, a loving servant meek!
Ye were deceived—the people’s reign
That from his throne a despot shook,
Rankles within her as a pain
Beyond the power of mind to brook ;
What! marked ye not the hostile look,
The orders to her courtier train,
Nor yet that Gallia’s envoys took
Their kindly guest-word all in vain ?
Ye marvel yet—but glance around !
Imperial glitter nears the throne,
And daily sparkling toys abound,
To bribe their interests to her own,
Whose sycophantic hopes have flown
Where’er the badge of * rank ’ is found ;
While widows all unheeded groan
And with their tear-drops soak the ground.
Yet list! The last Napoleon’s doom,
The great Republic’s life began,
Her regal state surveys with gloom ;
Their memory’s feast she bids us shun.
Nor aught alleged of evil done,
Or that ’gainst Britieh race may loom ;
But this: Restrainless reign o’errun,
Borne down, and sealed in History’s tomb.
Nation, or Queen ! The hour is here !
No time to trifle or delay !
Will ye iu meek, mute, craven fear
Sign all of freedom left, away ?
And own a monarch’s right to sway,
Though all the Nation’s voice shall rear
In anguish, an unwilling prey,
Yet bound its murderers to revere !
No ! here at least on Austral shore
Let every voice spring keen and clear,
And sternly shout the message o’er
Of Freedom’s choice, with Freedom’s cheer!
By all that to your hearts is dear
Stand ready, like your sires of yore,
To struggle for a true career
Till wrong takes flight-for evermore !
WHERE AND OH WHERE ARE THEY?
Where are now the merry party,
Where is now the jolly show,
All so sprightly, bright, and hearty,
Not so very long ago ?
Long ago ? No. Ten years ? Five years ? Well,
not much more than five. We are just past the
middle of the eighties now, and it was the very
tail of the seventies then. Ah, how warm it was
in that December ! Earth and heaven seemed all
aflame, and rays from a thousand sources focussed
about the footlights of Sydney Royal. From j ust be ■
yond the footlights, radiation began again. But
rays snot forth and impinged, and burned, and
enkindled. Alas, what heats ! And are they
burning still ? God save us, no! They are colder
than clay. There is but one thing in this world
"OH! IT AIN’T BEER, AIN’T IT? I'LL SEE!"
that is really cold—that
chills and thrills and
shocks you, and breeds
cold again, and horror !
You know what that is.
But it isn’t come to
that? Not all, not all,
but yet too much. Can
you remember it now
—the frolic and aban-
don, the taran-tara, the
tira-lira, the torpedo,
and the whale ? Weren’t
we all whales then,
and blown kite-high out
of the region of common-
sense and all earthly
considerations ? Then
that dear Drummer
Boy, so svelte, so light-
some, so—let it pass,
let it pass! Wasn’t
there Elsie, and Maud,
and Dot, too, and dear
old Hallewell who, in
quaint disguise, used to
pour from his great
throat the roaring bars,
and who weathers it as
well as the best of them
and Bambini, and the
Duke ?
All are scattered now and fled,
Some are married, some are dead ;
Golden boys and girls all must
Like chimney sweepers, come t dust.
It is natural to mix the poets when we do but re-
member what mixing and mixing and mingling
there has been amongst that merry crew. Elise,
now, where did we see her last ? Was that Elise
whose rags fluttered in the July gale, who had
changed from the fay of the footlights to the
ghoul of the darkness beside the Refuge wall ?
And that merry wonder who would rattle her
laughter against the rib 3 of a consumptive patient
till his shrunk gums parted wider, and his rattling
teeth closed in a ghastly grin—
Is it real or is it vision,
That imquarters not Elysian—
(Radiant memory ! shall we mar it
By that picture in a garret?)
Slippered but suggesting bunion,
Odour very much like onion,
Hair bedraggled, figure spread,
Beauty like a snakeskin shed—
Suppar ready, dirty delf,
Brandy-bottle on the shelf.
Was that what Killed the whale, and cooked the
goose, and sent many and many a poor gander
home without a feather to fly with ? Don’t know.
We think of the Drummer Boy again, and see the
radiant creature rising like Mahomet in his earlier
journeys from heaven to heaven. Dear Drummer
Boy, we are not going to hurt you, or vex you, or
perplex you in any way whatever, we like to
think about you because so much of the rest is so
sad, so very sad. We like to think of you as the
fair princess in the marvellous robe—
“ Whose skirts were broidered with bright sunny
beams,
Glist’ring like gold among the plights enrolled,
And here and there shooting forth silver
streams
’Mongst which crept little angels through the
glittering gleams.”
“ Seemed like these little angels did uphold”
Pah, we shall get too far directly, too deep in
ecstasy, and then—turn, turn, mad world ! Do
you remember the row of shining pates that
seemed lit as with inward rapture whenever the
Drummer Boy approachel the footlights? Can
you recall the exquisites who used to sit in the
circle aloft, creaseless and spotless behind and
before, eyes all front, and hearts also? They
weren’t bad hearts, either, though they did run
away with by no means foolish heads. Do you
want to know what became of them, at least of
one of them ? Ring the bell softly, if you do, put
crape on the door, don’t mock or gloat about it
because it was good man's work! Ah, if he had
only taken himself by the throat somewhat less
violently 12 months earlier ! Down by the Albert
“KEROSENE, BEGORRA! HOULY MOSES! IT’S POISONED I AM!”
Park Lagoon in Melbourne, on a chilly winter’s
night when the wind came whispering up from
the broad salt waters of the Bay, sighing through
the pines in the hissing oaks. Far away he could
see the lights of Melbourne. Just beyond the
trees the ghostly line of the beach and then the
black pall of the broad water. He had not grown
Bhabby—coat creaseless, hat nicely polished still,
boots glossy, and cane in hand. He sat upon
one of the unpainted benches and lit a cigar and
smoked, rattled a few shillings in his pocket—h
had changed the last pound—heard the final
stroke of 11, waited till the chimes rang the next
quarter, then took off his hat, laid aside his stick
and cigar, walked into the water, and lay down—
pressed his face on to the muddy bottom where
the tide just barely rippled over his back, lay
there while the bubbles rose and broke on the
surface —lay there till the bubbles ceased to rise,
was found there in ihe morning—did I not say
ring the bell softly, tell his blame gently, let him
rest, rest; he paid all, did he not ?
* * *
And, how half-a-dozen men of Sydney laughed
the other day when the terrier of the New South
Wales Parliamentary kennel wanted to know if
something wasn’t wrong about a certain institu-
tion, if somebody hadn’t gone away ! What
nose 3 they have, these fellows ; how they can
sniff and snuff and discover any congenial taint—
even beyond centuries I He was only four year
behind. Five years ago, don’t you remembers
how he was not attracted as an ordinary particle
and released in due course, but sucked right into
the roaring vortex, down, down, down to bottom-
less perdition, so it seemed. Heigho ! a butterfly
in January—and in June? Where were all the
terriers in June when we found the poor moth
with wing 3 so sadly sorched, cut of sight in a
dusty corner, only too eager to be wrapt up and
bundled off to some out-of-the-way nook of the
world, out of the reach of the terriers, out of the
sight of the candles and the stars ?
* * *
And still you are tripping across the stage,
Nyum Nyum ? And laughing gaily as of old; still
the song and the dance go on, and why not ?
Shall wise men lack warmth because some fools
burn ? Shall we extinguish the candles ou lof
pity for the moths ? Keep your distance, keep
your distance ! That is the philosophy of the
matter, or wait till, like the old shiny pates in the
front row, all the flux of your nature is changed
to asbestos that may kindle to a fair red heat, but
will never burst into flame. Think of Albert
Park, young man ; think of the dusty garret and
the terriers outside! You will cock up your
beaver, and who but you, eh ?
“ Aye, aye, the white swan,
By God I’m the man.”
You think so, yes ; but how strangely will your
opinion be modified when you look back over only
five years, when you look up yourself, and try to
look up them —
The days of your earliest years,
The days when you first were a man,
When you’d laughter that ended in tears,
And joy like a flash in the pan ;
Pleasure with pain for leaven,
Summer with flowers that fell—
Brief bliss like a vision of Heaven,
And long pain like endurance of hell.
But somehow you survived it. You were skinned
and went back. All that year’s screw gone, and
all next year's mortgaged to the Jews. Life
didn’t seem worth much, eh ? Then you took a
pull at the billy and stretched down beside the
Are, and having heard one or two sheep
cough, contentedly shut your eyes and thought
a bit. And the fragrance come out of
the old coolabah log and took your thoughts
back as incense in the church bears up a priest’s
prayers. But the year parsed and the Jew was
paid, and another and another, and your beard
grew and your knowledge broadened, and you got
a station, and came down with the last of the
wool, and, just to humour a passing fancy, took
the old familiar seat, and looked and—thought.
How the faces were changed all round the ring 1
It seemed to you that the whole theatre, like the
human body, is built up anew once in every seven
years. You were an old atom, an unfamiliar par-
ticle in an absolutely new mass. All you knew
seemed
Scattered, lost, and fled,
Some were married, some were dead.
If you shut your eyes you saw Bambini prance
across the stage, and the dear Duke come solemnly
down the palace steps. You saw the old and
merry party troop in, the stage was crowded.
You opened your eyes, yes, the stage was
crowded again, but where and oh where were
they you had known? You went home and to the
whisky-bar and to bed deeply pondering that
thought. You couldn’t understand how many of
them had been used up. You had never realized
how fierce is that from whose extreme flame
tongues had scorched you. But how will it be
five years hence ? Pale ghost rising up from the
waters of Albert Park. Bearded men bringing
wife and children down for a glimpse of the
summer sea. Would you not smile, and would
you not sigh if you could follow out the drama of
all the life which makes and surrounds that show
to the sequels of five years hence ? Let us leave
it as the curtain is rung down. Nine-tenths of
the people in the world would commit suicide
straight away if they could only see five years
ahead. And the tenth would hardly be found i n
or about that merry party of the glittering show.


SONGS OF SYDNEY SUBURBS.
(AFTER LEWIS MORRIS, AUTHOR OF "SONGS
OF BRITAIN.")
THE LAND BOARD OF THREE.
Parallel with the tramline in Paddington a street
upward and downward ;
The centre is paven with stones and the sidewalks
are neatly kerbed;
A cleanly street in the summer, when all things
bathe in the sunshine ;
Cleanly and bright in the winter, and cleanly and
who’esome always.
The taxpayers’ money is speedily, handsomely,
lavishly spent there,
For in three of the houses live aldermen and
aldermen own five more.
The name of the street is Luscombe and at number
19 lives a maiden ;
Wan is her face and knotted her hair and slow is
her gait.
Once she arose with the daylight and sang till the
birds in amazement
Flooked to the window-panes and applauded with
beaks to the glass :
“ Rise, happy day, arise ; rise, happy day, I em-
brace you;
For I am the maiden, I of all others, blessed on
the earth! ”
A sweet, sweet singer she was, for the song welled
up from her bosom,
Up from the founts of her life, as the song of the
songbird does;
For her heart was caught and was held in the hand
of the Infinite Passion,
Caught and held by Love, the greatest of all
Earth’s kings 1
Sweetly she therefore sang, and the morning
breaking around her
Revealed the picture of beauty, blue-eyed, arch-
nosed, red-lipped;
While the white garment that clothed her, like
the peplus of ancient sea-queens,
Was covered on shoulders and waist with a mist
of auburn hair.
Annetta the first of her names was, but Venus of
Paddington truly
Would come much nearer the mark. Annetta,
however, grieved not.
Out from the dusk of the morning, revealed to
the birds that applauded,
In the midst of the glory of girlhood she walked
to the duties of day.
She stood at the counter in Pitt-street, disposing
of gloves and collars,
And her wage of seven-and-sixpence was shared
with her mother old.
These were the brightest of days, for a part of
each day then was Andrew —
Andrew in lavender kids, the adorable clerk of
the Lands.
Apollo was nobly-featured, but he hadn’t the pro-
file of Andrew;
Adonis was gentle-eyed, but his eyes had not
Andrew’s gaze;
An ethereal something thrilled as his movements
struck the beholder;
And women fell down when he passed and weep-
ingly called his name.
And Andrew would lean on the counter, and two
ethereal somethings,
The something in him and in her, would commune
in mute discourse ;
Another month and a dawn would break and the
steps of an altar
Would risa to her timorous eyes, and a white-
surpliced parson say,
“ Until death parts, no parting.” Annetta would
look up at Andrew ;
And Andrew would look at Annetta, and the
mute discourse proceed.
But a Minister wanted to save, and set up a
Board to help him
To cut the expenses down, and this Board of
Three wrote out
A list of the handsomest clerks, to be thrown
headlong from the window,
The Minister laughed, and threw them. Forth-
with a shower of kids,
The prettiest gloves and boots, the narrowest
hair-striped trousers,
The daintiest scarves and ties, and what they
were tied about,
All came down like rain, and last of the shower
came Andrew.
He fell at the feet of Annetta, and both ethereals
swooned.
Ah, welladay, where’s the wedding ? Poor Andrew
declined to low courses :
He fondled the pewter and drank ; he sat on the
beer-cask and dozed —
Ah, welladay, he lost courage, lost spirit, lost
manhood, and ended
By dying just three days ago, with his head on
Annetta’s knee !
Ab, welladay—and Annetta? Behold her again
in the morning :
The glory of girlhood is gone, and the face is
withered and bleached;
The light, lissome figure is stooped, and her mist
of rich auburn tresses
Is visible only in shaggy, rough knots and tangles,
like burrs.
Ah, welladay, never bird now comes up to ap-
plaud at her window;
Ah, welladay, never sings she the song of the old
glad time;
Only she moans, looking outward, “Let me be
let me be in my sorrow ;
By the Land Board of Three I am slain; I an
ala-in by the Land Board of Three i ”
THE BANK-CLERK OF GOHANNA FLAT.
The fashionable society of the township of
Gohanna Flat (that isn’t its name, but it will do
just as well) in the southern part of Victoria was
lately put into a pleasant flutter by the arrival in
its midst of a new bank-clerk. He was a nice-
spoken, gentlemanly young man, dressed in irre-
proachable bank-clerk costume, and wearing a
pensive smile. He could play the piano, dance
like a faun, and sing like a m justachioed seraph.
He soon became an immense favourite with both
sexes. Yet he had one little but fatal weakness
which would have made him a brilliant ornament
of the Press if—if —well, if he hadn’t been born to
be a bank-clerk. He looked
too fixedly on the rum
when it was red. One
night he was at a liquor-
party—a popular way of
passing time in Gohanna
Flat—and led the laughter
for a few hours, when he suddenly
disappeared. Theylooked for him
under the table, in the beer-cellar,
and every other probable place, but
he was not to be found. Surmising
that he had merely gone home to bed,
they settled themselves down to busi-
ness, which this interruption had seri-
ously hindered. Business in Gohanna
Flat, at nighjb anyhow, meant get-
ting drunk. Next morning, at the
hour when the bank should have been
opened, the manager made his ap-
pearance, but there was no sign of
his elegant subordinate. The gay
feature of the affair was that he had
the keys of the bank with him. Search
was made for him all over the town-
ship, but in vain. To make matters
more beautifully complicated, the
Bank Inspector arrived in Gohanna
Flat that morning and found the
bank closed. Or course he had to be
told the reason, and he cursed till he
was blue. Then he had the
doors forced open and discovered
that the cash was all right. The only
theory that remained to account for the disappear-
ance of the young man that then remained was
that he had staggered down to the bank of the
river and got drowned. The village wag said
that as he passed along the bank early
in the morning he heard hiccups coming
up from the bottom of the river. Anyhow
j the whole township turned out with drags, meat-
hooks on lines, forked clothes-props, and every-
thing they oould lay their hands on that would be
remotely likely to dislodge his body from the mud.
I The wag previouslv referred to calmly sat down
I on the stump of a tree to fish for him with a bottle
lof rum at the end of a rope. “If he don’t rise to
I that," said the baleful humourist, “ he’ll rise to
I nothing.” While they angled for him in the
I depths of the cold river many a fair cheek was wet
I with tears. But the Beauty of Gohanna Flat (who
I was not only fair of face but the heiress to a row
I of houses and a tannery), to whom the missing
1 Lothario was secretly engaged, lost no time in
weeping. She had her horse saddled, and, withou
saying a word to anyone, rode out into the bush
to search for him. She didn’t believe he was
drowned. Three days passed, and yet no sign of
the lost one in wood or river. At la3t, on
the evening of the third day, as the
Beauty was returning sorrowfully home,
she became aware of a tattered figure sitting in
the fork of a gum-tree and howling like a dingo.
It was the object of her affections—the being on
whom she had lavished her pure young love. But,
oh, how changed ! He was without a hat or coat,
and his pant 3 were borne up by one frail suspender.
He had only one boot on, and his shirt hung round
him in festoons. She said never a word, but rode
into town in a fury of disgust, and told some men
where to find him. That ended her young dream.
He had to be kept chained up in the
hotel for a week. Now those of you
who have read this journal diligently,
and profited by its religious instruc-
tion, will guffaw gloomily at what
follows. One night he broke loose and
rushed into a room occupied by a
Presbyterian clergyman, and falling
down on his knees (in his singlet)
began to confess his sins to him ! We
can, when we girl our teeth and lay
ourselves out fir it, write an oc-
casional lurid line or two, but no pen
that ever ploughed paper since the
days of Dante could describe the
horror of that follower of John Knox,
when his benumbed senses grasped the
full shockingness of the situation.
At the end of the week the Bank
Inspeccor returned to the township
and called this merry young gentle-
man into the manager’s room. “You
are in the habit of drinking, Mr. ,
I believe 2” said the Bank Inspector.
Interrogatively. “ A little,” replied
the clerk, modestly. ‘‘How
much a day on an average?—
A bottle of whisky ?” continued the
Inspector in a dry,
statistical tone.
“Yes,” replied
the clerk with
confidence, as
though it were
rather a credit
to him than other-
wise. “More
than that ?—two
bottles?” said the
Inspector.
“ No-o,” answered the clerk, musingly, “ not that
much.” “How much, then?” “Say a bottle and
a half,” answered the clerk, with a pleasant smile
“Say a bottle and a half! Well I’m d d!”
murmured the paralysed Inspector, collapsing
into his chair. That evening a muffled form
might have been seen diving into the Melbourne
train. It was the dashing bank-clerk who had
played havoc with all the female hearts in
Gohanna Flat. He has not once been seen there
since, but he has left behind him a memory that
will never die.
“ Mosquitoes ! What do ye know about mosqui-
toes?" said Big Sam. “If ye had been with me
and Jimmie Junkaway on the Belyando, about
twelve year ago, ye might speak about mosqui-
toes. We was camped near the big waterholes,
btlow St. Anne’s, and Jim went in ‘ bogieing,
and got took with a cramp in the stommick, or
something, and went under. Well, he had touched
mud twice, and come up for the third time of ask-
ing. to let a yell out of him, or take a
i oo k at the scenery, when a buck mosquity
I-eg’lar old warrior), that was roosting on
i branch just over him dug his per-
ioseis into his arm, and held on, too, till
come up and rescooedhim. Jim was pretty well
ilayed out by that time, though. The mosquity
□ust have kept his spear-pump going pretty ac-
tive and Jim was sucked as diy as the dottle of a
•lay pipe, and didn't weigh more nor two dry
amb-skins. As soon as the mosquity seen that I
lad a good hold of Jim by the wool he pulled his
lose out on his arm, and set sail down the lagoon.
He must have passed somewhere in the neigh-
bourhood of our camp, for when we got back
to the waggons young Tommy Offside told us
that a big fat native companion had flew oyer just
afore, a-singing a new song like a hallelujah army.
Now I calls the doin’s of that critter the act of a
real Christian, though he was a bit of a blood-
sucker..” And Big Sam again wrapped him-
self in the stately folds of his Condaminer, and
soon started a rich baritone snore, strong enough
to shake a flying squirrel off a gum-tree.
DRIVEN HOME.
A JUBILEE POE VI.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
(“ In London the other day there was an inquest held
upon the body of John Baker, a boiler-plater, aged 47, who
had committed suicide by hanging himself from a chisel
‘driven home’ into the wall of the house in which be lived—
or rather despaired of living. The evidence showed that
for two and a half years Baker, a sober industrious man,
with a wife and three children, had been utterly uuable to
obtain any work. In th» earlier part of their awful struggle
his wife had earned from 10s. to 11s per week, but for the
last 18 months only from 7s. to Bt. A fortnight before
Baker committed what the papers call the ‘ rash act' he had
walked to Sheffield—starting wi h threepence in his pocket—
in order to make a last supreme effort to find
work, telling his wife that he would ‘ beg or starve
on the road." He was unable to obtain employment there,
and having no money, he walked the streets cf Sheffield for
two nights. On Wednesday he started to walk back to
London, which he reached at 5 o'clock on Sunday morning,
having never broken his fast from the previous Tuesday, awe
with a crust given him by a bootmak-r. During tbe week he
was away Mrs. Baker had earned 2s. 9d. On the Monday
morning she paid the landlord (to whom she owed £1 Bs. for
rent) 2s. 6d The next morning he called and told her the
house was on the list for the bailiffs. Her husband heard
him say this. On Wednesday morning she went to work,
leaving the door locked eo that the bailiffs might not enter.
On her return she found her husband hanging dead. A
neighbour attested to having heard hollow blows during the
evening—presumably the sound of the chisel being driven
home. The evidence proved that the Bakers had always
striven against, and endeavoured to conceal, their poverty.
The Co r oner said there was nothing sensational about the
cise; it was one of those terrible narratives of what was
going on in London which they heard often, but which
seemed to attract far lets attention than they ought to ")
la the Jubilee Year when t he rockets
Shot upward, and few were so mean
As to furnish no gold from their pockets
To honour Our Lady the Queen,
Tn the Jubilee Year when the nation
Was mad with applause and acclaim —
Mad with utter despair and starvation
Seared with sorrow that wrapt him as flami -
Wearied out with the cross of a trial
That bowed his weak frame to the duet,
Worn with years of an iron Denial,
Done to death for the lack of a crust -
la the Jubilee Year, when the gladness
Of voices and fireworks was high,
Cooped alone with his passionate madness,
What was left for this man but to die ?
“ Driven home” while a kingdom elated
Shed gold at the foot of a Throne—
‘l Driven home ” while the Bailiffs awaited
Outside, and men’s hearts seemed of stone
With the tears of an infinite pity
For the ones that he loved in his eyes—
“ Driven home,” while the merciless city
Was ringing with jubilant cries!
Just one case of the many unwritten
Just a common occurrence, no more ;
In the bountiful realm of Great Britain
You can count deaths like this by the score ;
In the land where they pamper, and cherish,
And fatten, and bow before drones,
Men like this man have perished, and perish
| While hypocrite cheers drown their groans
Men like this man have died and are dying
In the hells that no language can paint,
With the sound of starved little ones crying
In ears that Death’s mercy makes faint,
While lords of the lawn and the ermine
Speak words af assurance and praise—
Men whose hands weave the robes, pent like vermin
In dens live the death of their days !
Read the record again till you gather
Its meaning—again and again
Ask yourselves if Our Heavenly Father
But sleeps or has ended his reign—
Learn the story by heart, 0 my brothers,
In the name of the white Christ who died,
Throw it round you as seed—let the others
Hear of this through the earth far and wide!
Let them know that this dead boiler-maker,
This man craving leave but to toil,
This wan, woe-smitten, self-slain John Baker
Found no room on England’s free soil.
Let them know how through stresses inhuman,
Of misery that went past allftears,
By the slavery of one stricken woman,
This man only lived, and for years !
Let them know while the nation applauded
Its great ones, and beat its big drums—
One whom Greatness of bread had defrauded—
Died this death in the horrible slums—
Tired of touching his brow to his betters,
Vainly seeking the lot of a slave,
Broke from England’s unbearable fetters,
And fled through the gates of the grave !
Driven home! When the myriads assemble
At last to the terrible call,
Lords and Bishops and Monarchs may tremble
At thought of those blows on the wall!
For the voice of the Mighty All-Maker
May thunder : “ Your deed was the worst—
By your hands, not the hand of John Baker,
lb was driven! Depart ye Accurst! ”
Lithgow, November 4.
When the workmen were overhauling the
ruins of the burnt Exeter Theatre, the other day,
and bringing out the bodies, they were a good deal
worried by the conduct of a nigger-boy who stood
in the corner with a basket of girgerbeer and
gazad a 1! them. Ha wasn’t obtrusive in any way;
he did not come round and try to force the sale of
his flat and muddy liquor ; he merely stocd and
glared. He was a very small nigger, too, and his
clothes were black, as if he had been rolling in
the dust and debris of the theatre. For a
solid hour he Btood composedly in the
corner and didn't sell a single bottleful,
till at last the workmen grew tired of
the way he kept his eye on them, and one of them
yellBd, “ Hi, boy ! ” But the little nigger never
moved. Then they called to him to fetoh some
ginger-beer, but he took no notice, and they con-
cluded that be didn’t understand English. Finally
cne of them said he would sta*t the little black
varmint, and he went over with two of his mates
and fetched the silent African youth a crack in
the waistcoat. And as he did so the ginger-beer-
seller collapsed and crumbled into a heap of dust
with a head lying on top of the pile. He was the
ordinary refreshment-boy of the theatre burnt to
a cinder.


John Visions
CONCESSION WRITTEN FOR
THE Bulletin
The Rev. Mr. Browne, most excellent of
gaol-chaplains, has urged me to make a full, true,
and particular confession of the offence against
the peace of her Majesty the Queen for which I
am confined in this exceedingly disagreeable place.
* * *
It is more than probable that if Mr.
Browne’s request were my only reason for doing
what he asks I should not do it. He has, no
doubt, performed his duty of lecturing me upon
.the error of my ways with conscientious zeal, and
I have no doubt that he will play his part in the
little function arranged for to-morrow with the
utmost propriety. Nevertheless, I do not care
twopence for the Rev. Mr. Browne. Shocking,
but true.
* * #
For my own amusement, however, and to
dissipate the tedium of this interminable evening,
I think I will attempt some sort of narrative of
the transaction which the daily newspapers saw
fit to characterise as the atrocious murder of
Henry Yissian by his brother. I may remark at
the outset that I have no sympathy with the sen-
timent generally expressed on the subject of
fratricide. Why is it any worse for me to kill my
brother than to kill some other man’s brother ?
We excuse the man who kills his faithless wife.
We may hang him, but still we recognise the
power of hatred based on former love as irre-
sistible. I had at the outset a very proper affection
for my brother. Circumstances resulted in the
destruction of that affection —concurrent circum-
stances replaced it by a strong animosity. And,
in a moment of great exasperation, I terminated
the life of a man whose existence had become a
continual offence to me.
* * #
The immediate provocation was, as many
persons have since remarked, apparently very
trifling. I was in the gallery of a theatre, and he
was in a private box. I left my se rt a moment
before the curtain fell, walked round to the front
of the house, and killed him as he was about to
enter his carriage. I admitted.at the time that I
killed him because he was in a box and T was in
the gallery. I don’t know that I could sum-
marize the grounds for my crime more con-
cisely. He was a successful man—and I was
a failure. The failure was distinct at
the time ; I was absolutely ragged. To be
ragged is, in this happy country, to be wretched.
A man may dress plainly, carelessly, even shab-
bily, from preference. I have not much sympathy
with such a predilection, but I know it i 3 a not
uncommon form of eccentricity. To be ragged is,
however, an altogether different matter. My
boots were quite unfit to wear. The left boot,
just above the heel, had split away from the
upper, and lagged upon the pavement as I walked.
The right boot had broken away from the sole on
the outside of the foot, so that my toes projected
over the edge of the sole. My clothes were
tattered and soiled. The rain, beating on my
thin coat, soaked through to my skin, and the
wind seemed to strike viciously at my cold breast.
My hat was cracked and limp ; the rain ran
through its broken brim and poured down the
back of my neck. I was hungry. For several
days I had lived on dry bread, and the stale
crumb lay like lead in my stomach. I had almost
forgotten the brightness of life, the voices of
women singing and laughing, the sound of mu°ic,
the scent of flowers and wine. My face was un-
shaven and haggard with night-walking and dirt,
my nails were rough and filthy.
* * *
That is why I killed my brother. I have
admitted very frankly whatever aggravation of
the crime there may have been in the lack of im-
mediate provocation. And I will be equally candid
on the subject of premeditation. I not only in-
tended to kill him, but I had cherished the inten-
tion for several weeks. I saw him enter the
theatre with a certain woman, a woman for whom
I had at one time entertained a great fondness. I
went into the gallery of the theatre to see them
together. The shilling which I expended in doing
so was a shilling that I had begged—that I had
kept in my pocket during hours of great suffering
which the use of that shilling would have re-
lieved. I could have bought hot, thick, strong
food with it—meat. I could have purchased a
night’s lodging with it. To a delicately nurtured
man, the want of a bed is almost as painful as the
want of food. I had spent the last six nights in
prowling. My bones and muscles called for a bed
as loudly as my stomach called for food. If you
think it out, a homeless man in London is not
very well off. In the country he can sneak into a
field, and perhaps crawl into a heap of straw.
But in town he has no real rest except in fair
weather. Then, of course, he can sleep on the
grass in one of the parks during the day, and walk
from dark until daylight. The evening passes
quickly enough. I used to watch men coming
down the steps of their clubs, and going to the
theatre. Later, it interested me to stand on the
sidewalk in Seamore Place, or some other nice
part of town, and see the sleek dandies and the
pretty girls slip from their carriages and dis-
appear under the awnings. And how I have
cursed them! I fancy that our amiable friends,
the Nihilists, work themselves up to the sticking -
point in the same way. Still later, Fleet-street
was always bright and busy ; and, after the news-
papers were out, I would go to Covent Garden and
hang about among the market-men till daylight.
* * *
And all the while my dear brother was
eabing and sleeping his fill. Wcat insatiable pigs
the men and women of society are ! Every sort
of BOOial allowance is made an excuse for stuffing. !
Races and weddings, dances and garden-parties —
nothing without a guzzling match. They can’t
go to a football-match without making a sty of
Lord’s. But about my brother. He waa in even-
ing dress, of course, and had not buttoned his
overcoat—a great piece of carelessness, that,
when he had just left a heated theatre. Perhaps
I saved him from catching a terrible cold. I had
to be very careful about stabbing him, for if I had
failed the first time I should probably have been
interfered with. It seems a simple enough opera-
tion. ana yet it requires a certain precision. The
motion is quite unlike any movement one make 3
in the ordinary way. In striking out at a man
with your fist you throw the elbow up, but in
stabbing him you bung the wrist sharply down to
the level of the elbow.
* * *
He saw me as I raised my hand with the
knife in it. I caught his eye and I winked at
him. That wink must have annoyed him. I
have since regarded it with much complacency,
as a detail illustration of thoroughness of pur-
pose. I wish I could have seen my face at the
moment, but I know pretty well what sort of
wink it was. You know the look a man gives a
lot of others when he is going to crack a good
joke on some one—a malicious sort of wink 1
That was it p-ecisely. The woman saw it too—
in fact, she mentioned it in describing the inci-
dent in court. I felt the knife catch on one of
his rib 3, but it slipped to one side of it, and I got
it in nearly up to the handle. I tried to give it a
little twist when it would not go auy further, but
it was too tightly fixed. Fortunately there were
policemen at hand, so that I was not roughly
handled. I will say this for the police : they are
not rough with a man who does not resist arrest,
unless indeed he has been teasing them, and that
of course would irritate anyone. A crowd, on the
other hand, will hustle a man most wretchedly
under such circumstances, particularly if he has
used a knife,
* # *
I am constantly interrupted by the idiots
who imagine that I want to kill myself. Grea f er
nonsense I can’t imagine. To a man of my tem-
perament the prospect of being hanged has no
little fascination If I could lay my hands on a
pot of money of course I would not want to die.
Only a fool would. But in my present circum-
stances I quite fail to see anything to be coveted
in life. And if one is going to die he may as well
experience the curious sensations which hanging
is supposed to afford. I must say that I shall be
disgusted if the official entrusted with the per-
formance of the ceremony makes such a botch of
it a 3 was made in the case of that fellow who
murdered the old woman at Babbicombe—l mean
Lee, About whose case we are still reading in the
papers. To be messed about in that fashion
would annoy a saint.
• * *
La-La. Of course this is all make-believe
and pappycock, and I am really as wretched as a
man can be. I am going to be hanged —killed,
put an end to, destroyed. I choked once, diniog
at the Ship, over a bone. Will it be like that, I
wonder ? I felt red in the face then and my head
weighed so much I had to hold myself up against
the wall till the bone came out. Hanging can’t be
like that though, for it breaks one’s neck sud-
denly.
• * *
What an ass I have always been ! When
I was about three years old my nurse said to me,
“Master Jack, if you eat so much marmalade
you will be ill.” “ I know that,” said I, “ but I’m
going to eat the marmalade.” That has been my
way ever since. The various forms of marmalade
have cost me some bad hours —and now I have
come to the end of it.
* * *
After all, why did I kill him ? Vanity—
that was it at bottom. To make that woman
recognise my existence. She had looked down on
me as dirt from the very first, even when I had
money and friends. I was talking to her one day
at Hurliogham, and I said, “Now, I’m not at all
the cut of man you could get fond of, am I?”
“No,” said she, “ you are not a good man." She
was naturally and inevitably a woman with a
weakness for propriety and straight-dealing. She
knew nothing against me, except that I lived
pretty freely, and was supposed to be a bit know-
ing about turf matters. On the other hand, she
knew that my brother was the most c unmonplace
individual imaginable—and she chose him. Of
course, I should have gone to the deuce anyway
but not quite so fast. The hair at the back of her
neck used to work loose from the coil, and she
used to put her hand up to straighten it. How
pretty she was, to be sure! Just as the police
laid hold of me I looked at her. Her wrap
had dropped, and I saw the mark on her
arm where she had been vaccinated. I wonder
how she feels now. Upon my word, tbey have
brought me a mutton chop and a pot of beer.
Quite a little festival, to be sure. I must put an
end to my little memoir, and eat this before it
cools. A steak you can delay about, but the fat
on a chop becomes simply beastly as it cools, and
bits of white candle-grease float about in the
gravy.
* * *
I trust that the Rev. Mr. Browne will be
edified. A word with you, Browne, at parting.
You are an unattractive-looking man—long upper
lip, bad features. Take my advice, shave clean,
and look odd. You will still be a guy, but not
such an ordinary, helpless sort of guy. That little
weak moustache of yours is simply the most
wretched sort of thing.
J.V.
THE EXILE.
The following touching and pathetic ballad was
found in a bottle at Circular Quay by one of our
staff. He saw it (the bottle) floating about with a
cork in it, and, conjecturing that it contained
something, secured and opened it, when he drew
out the manuscript. It is to be hoped the Govern-
ment will send out an expedition to rescue this
unfortunate exiie before he dies of home-sickness.
The verses run as follows :
Shark Island is a pleasant place
For tbem that’s gay and free,
But Shark Island is a cruel place
For castaways like me.
By day and night I sadly gaze
Across the heaving foam
At the green slopes of Goat Island, for
Goat Island is my home.
I’ve written out my story, which
Should make a camel weep,
And I’ve coiked it in a bottle
Which I've cast upon the deep.
And I hope that some kind Christian
May pick it up, and try
To send a ship, or raft, or plank,
For the relief of I.
For seven long yea's I’ve lingered here,
With weeping almost blind,
I’ve hoisted handkechers and flags,
But no one seems to mind.
Gay oyster-parties used to land,
The oysters for to scoff,
But when I’d pray them take me on,
They’d only take me off.
Tom Biggins was the villain bold
T hat left me desolate,
And, which is hardest for to think,
Tom Biggins was my mate.
We owned a boat, that used to cruise
Around Goat Island coast,
And when 1 think of it I feel
As if I was a ghost.
We never went out far to sea,
But round the shore did creep,
Until, one bitter day for me,
We launched upon the deep.
Tom Biggins swore a fearful oath,
A wicked man was he,
“ Upon Shark Island we will land,
Or drownded we will be.”
I was in mortal terror, but,
Although I oould not swim,
I knew ’twould be no kind’of use
To argufy with him.
The boat was launched, the sail was spread,
The wind came off the lee,
“ My native land, adoo! ” I cried —
And we were out at sea.
The waves the wind blew loud,
The boat ran free and fleet;
Tom Biggins like a demon sat
A-holdin’ the main sheet,
And when we struck a sea sometimes,
And in the waves would pour,
“ Bale out, you fool,” he’d cry.
Heavens! how Tom Biggins swore 1
And once or twice he yelled aloud—
A fiendish yell had he —
“I’m goin’ to jibe !” Round went the boom.
A bitter jibe for me !
Oh, little landsmen know about
The perils of the deep,
For when the boom goes round like that
It knooks you in a heap.
But by the will of Providence
(I try to think it so !)
We landed on Shark Island, and
We let the kellick go.
“Go up! go up !” Tom Biggins said,
“ Go up, my own true mate ”
Tom Biggins, when he liked to, could
Be most affectionate.
“ Go up unto the island top,
And smoke, and take your ease,
And I will oysters gather till
We get a change of breeze.”
I had not been five minutes gone—
Five minutes, and no more—
When I beheld Tom Biggins—Oh.!—
A puttin’ off from shore.
“ Ha ! ha 1” the villain shouted out,
“ Go and lie down again,
For I will sail your saucy boat,
And wed your Mary Jane \
“ Adoo 1” he cried, “ p’r’aps some day, when
A family we owns,
We’ll make a little party here —
To gather up your bones !”
I watched with stony eyes the boat,
As through the waves she swept,
And then- I’m not ashamed to own—
I laid me down and wept.
This is my tale, which I’ve put in
A bottle —to be brief —
Alas, I ne’er thought thus to have
To bottle up my grief.
And here for sev’n long years I ve been,
Through weather wet and dry,
A-sittin’ on a blessed rock,
And this has been my cry—
“ Shark Island is a pleasant place
For them that’s gay and free,
But Shark Island is a cruel place
For castaways like me.
“ I want to go away from here
Across the heaving foam,
To the green slopes of Goat Island, for
Goat Island is my home.”
Death of Dr. Strabismus.
From this world of unfinished investigation and
incomplete search after knowledge has pasted the
mofct persevering analyst of one of our deformities.
I refer to what is generally called a “ squint.”
On the banks of the Castlereagh is a lonely grave
under a “budtha” tree, and in that grave lies
Jean Ccquceil, who Anglicised his own name into
John Strabismus.
Having earned a pound by digging his grave,
his mate, “Scotty the Wrinkler,” became pos-
sessed of his notes, and handed them to me for
the very moderate compensation of two tumblers
of beer, by Scotty yclept “ Twa loang sleevers."
A digest of the somewhat bulky volume may bo
interesting to the world, and a guide to any
scientist who may pursue the thread of the de-
parted doctor’s researches.
It seems that the Doctor was born in Lorraine,
and in the Franco-Prussian war received a knock
(from a dying soldier to whom he was attending)
on the left eye, which was dislodged from its
socket, and gave him the ghastly obliquity by
which he was afterwards distinguished. Being
an observer of Nature, he discovered that with the
cross-eye came crookedness of moral vision, and
from 1871 till the day of his death, April 1, 1887,
he has travelled far and wide always on the look-
out for squints in order to collect material for a
great work on Strabismus.
His book is full of narratives, of which I cull
three.
One day he was resting on the bank of the Dar-
ling when he heard cries from a clump of trees.
On approaching the spot he found a blackfellow
drawit g an eye out of his lubra with a corkscrew,
whilst the tribe looked on in satisfied silence.
Having camped with them all night, he in vain
tried to get at their reason for the operation, until
just as they were departing, the king said in a
whisper, “ Gib it bacca ; mine tell all about that
vellow pull him eye.” From the mouth of black-
fellows and sucklings csmeth wisdom, for he was
informed : “ That pfallow gin got him cock-eyes.
Only got one now. Can’t even look cross. Mine
yan.”
Nothing annoys a squinter more than to be
called “cock-eye,” “squinny-eye,” “swivel-eye,”
&c. (It is strange that a man with one arm does
not object to be called “Wingy.”) This was
exemplified by a circumstance that occurred on
the Bulloo. The landlady of a bush shanty was
reclining on a sofa in the verandah, when
“ Warrigal Wolf,” a roughish bushman. came up,
and, not knowing her, said : “ Come on, Gimlet-
eye, and have a booze.” My lady at once vowed
that the insulter should never squint, and gouged
his right eye out with her scissors. Poor Warri-
gal said he thought she was a Cunnamulla siren
knocking down a cheque.
But the doctor s strangest experience was when
two horribly ugly young men each thought that
the other was mocking his squint 'J hey closed
and fought till one was knocked senseless, and,
strange to say, when he recovered he had lost his
squint.
Apparently Strabismus Coqumil comes to the
following conclusions :
1. All persons cursed, whether from birth or
accident, by Strabismus, are morally oblique,
wrong, crooked, cross, or whatever you choose to
call it.
2. A very pronounced squint is not a sign of in-
tense wickedness. On the contrary, the strength
of one eye, or the habit of regarding objects with
alternate optics, tends to reduce the “ squinny ”
to the position of a gunner, boko, or one-eyed man,
3. The most dangerous is the boss-eye, that
calls for a second look for detection. His vil-
lainy is the same as the Tortoni’s beats in music,
i.e., when two notes approach one another so
closely that the sound-waves are amalgamated in
pulsations at regular intervals.
4. Swivel-eyed women are not so crooked as
boss-eyed men. The perversity of a woman's dis-
position is the homceopathoid dose that counteracts
the other evil. The doctor found 124 squinny-
eyed wives in the bush, and, without exception
they were faithful and hard-working. Only one
had a mate who was cross-eyed, and he was a
nigger. Of the 124, 91 were married to Germans,
and 31 to Irishmen, leaving the nigger and a
blind Scotchman to complete the tally.
HIRAM ARIFF.
P.S.—This paper is dedicated to the Legislative
Assembly of New South Wales,


OUR TROUBLES!
(A BIT OF BOHEMIA.)
Around us all the rags were spread—
The Shroud that oatera for the dead,
The Noose, Mail, Rum, and those that shed
Their luminous effulgence
(Good words those last) on Sundays, glum
With savage gloom—that is the Rum—
Oh 1 d —<- these rhymes,
We mean the Times
And Sunday NEWS-(we can’b refuse
To take the names that rhyming come-
This slip claims your indulgence).
The papers all about us lay,
Ic was our little holiday,
We’d nought to do but loaf and play,
And watch the sunlight flicker
In gold and gray upon the heath—
Of course we mean the street beneath-
And watch the curling blue smoke wreath,
And drown ourselves in liquor.
We did it, too. Of course you smile,
D ,ar readers, and you chuckle while
Your little bosoms, full of guile,
And corned with evil-thinking,
Secrete the thought that never yet
A pressman’s thorax wasn’t wet
It he the slightest cbauce could get
To moisten it by drinking.
But such a charge is simply bluff,
We said we did it—that’s enough.
(Great Scott l this idiotic stuff
Is making us baldheaded,- Ed.)
Of course it is. The papers, then—-
(jEE-hoseph! there he goes again.- Ed.)
Daar me ! how literary men
Get cros3 when they get wedded !
Well, anyhow we had bsen through
The papers one by one, and few
And very far between, as you
Yourselves perhaps have found it,
As plums in hash-house puddings placed,
In all that weary, dreary waste
We found the items that we chased—
But each one had around it
A wilderness of phrasey phrase,
And wordy words, and worn-out ways
Of saying things that in the days
Of Caedmon were archaic.
And introductions that had been
Stereotyped when Anne was queen,
To pars, that possibly were green
And fresh in the Chaldaic.
Smug social siftings, raw and crude -
Police Court pars, in fashion rude,
That tell how ruffians fell “ imbrued
Their hands in infant gore.”
And here a banquet speech report
In bald old form. A smart retort
Some politician made-a sort
Of wit we’ve met before.
“ A well-known citizen”—“ of rain
A copious downpour ” again
We have to note the fact ” —“ with pain
We chronicle the loss”
Of some obscure and purse-proud ass.
And then “ with pleasure do we pass.”
These are fair samples of the class
You daily come across.
“ A fire broke out’ —“ a horse attached
To a milk-cart”—and “fairly matched
Were the antagonists’’—who “snatched"
Eftsoons, “ a brief repose.”
And heroines whose “ piercing glance
Plunges in dark alcoves ” —who “ lance
From “ orbs” a “ ray of fire ’’—enhance
The litany of woes 1
Each phrase is as a hopeless knell,
We curl up on our backs and yell
And shriek like all the friends of—well,
We’ll use no lurid figure.
And all the while the hired girl hums
(From Biloela fair she comes)
A little hymn, and twirls her thumbs,
And then proceeds to snigger.
She rather likes the show, poor thing.
She rather likes to eee us fling
O ar legs and arms about, and sing
Songs of dire desperation.
And presently she coolly saith :
“ ’E’ll stop when ’e gets out of breath ”
Oh ! this is worse than simple Death—
It’s Doubly-Damned Damnation I
What mud-head ruffian scrawls this screed
That causes strong men as they read
To lay the paper down, and plead
For respite or the tomb ?
What fiend flagitious thus attains
The sum of human woes and pains
At one fell swoop? What addled brains
Excogitate this gloom ?
I ord knows! but we have seen a wight
Of woeful mien—a thing of Night
\nd Chaos—an embodied fright—
A fiend of fearsome feature,
Who looks just what you might expect
The wretch to be who could affect
This kind of rot. And we suspect
This awsome, eldreitch creature.
He busted up our holiday,
We had no heart to drink or play
This gruesome ghoul must have his way—
* We took to objurgation.
We cursed him with a crimson curse—
'Twould never do to put in verse
i The - language,- picturesque yet terse,
We used on that occasion* -
CAIN’S CURSE.
It is noon in the North, and the perishing glare
Of the summer sun falls on the flat, brown and
bare;
The ridges of ironstone are smitten with heat,
And as quicksand the dust in the tent-bordered
street;
From the near Table Mountain the fervid beam
plays,
And strikes on the valley its focussing rays
In pitiless sequence, as fire-laden darts
To the dusted brown leaves of the dull ironbarks ;
But there's life in the Flat in the red drought’s
despite,
For the Yellow King waveth his sceptre of might,
And the sturdy gold-seeker is joyous indeed,
For the red flag is up at the foot of the lead.
There is bustle and life, and a rush to and fro,
The lifted pick falls era it striketh the blow,
And the whip-horse stands sweltering there in the
sun,
For the diggers are off down the Flat, every one,
And the horse-thief and gaffer and bummer are
glad
Their prospect is fair whosoever’s is bad—
And they join the emeute, for an opening agape,
With the castaway pick and the fraudulent tape.
And Bluestone, the lord of the gay “Digger’s
Rest,”
In his yellow-white shirt and his buttonless vest,
Stands idly in front of his vacant abode,
While in spirit he pans a pound-weight to the
load.
Ho 1 Jezebel there in the bottle-decked bar 1
Reioice for the rise of the Gold-seekers’ star!
Ho 1 slipshodden syren, whose ethics are nought—
Or, as good people say, “hardly quite as they
ought” -
Go, put off the unkempt and ill-fitting brown,
And put on thy “flashest” and brightest gay
gown 1
Go, muster the frowsy and loose-hanging tress,
Put on the loud trinket and death-dealing dress 1
Go, furbish thy form in the cracked mirror’s sight,
For a harvest of gold shall thy smiles win to-
night.
11.
Away down by the mullock-mound’s sinuous files,
Long reft of the wash-dirt heap’s glittering piles,
Where the rude windlass cross-beam—the rotted
log slides,
Surmounting th.o gut tod shaft s timboriGßS sides 5
Past the tail of the lead where the duffers are
Farther yet, by the bend of the Half-a-mile Blank,
Where a thousand men bustle and rush to and fro,
Stands the pioneer windlass of Warrigal Joe.
Tall, comely, and lithe, clear, blue-eyed, and fair,
His sinewy arms, brown, tensioned, and bare,
Heave the rude windlass handle in slow, measured
round,
Till the wash-laden bucket appears from the
ground,
Then deftly unhooked, with a well-measured
sweep,
And emptied. Below! 'tis a hundred feet deep,
And an idler or two by the mullock-heap stand,
Anri the fast-growing wash-pile is furtively
scanned
At a distance, for all seem to tacitly know
That there’s weight in the arm of Warrigal Joe.
Down the Fiat, where the surface dip stands for a
Of the gutter's true course, called the “Right
Fancy Line,”
To the quartz pitted ridges which show the bed-
rock,
Every spsce is peg bounded in block upon block ;
And vo'ces disputing, fierce, angry, and loud,
Tell the jumper’s at work ’mid the gold-seeking
crowd.
And louder in anger the Babel sounds grow
Till the quick-coming climax—a blow for a blow,
And Warrigal, pricking his ears at the sound,
Heaves his grimed, sweating mate from the depths
of the ground,
And then with an oath, a rush, and a spring
He stands in the midst of the improvised ring ;
There s a lull in the clamour, Joe s resonant voice
Rings clearly and loud as he speaks to the boys:
*• Shall we suffer the bully and thief to go round
And jostle some poor devil out of his ground,
For a hair-shortened peg, or an inch of the tape,
Because’’—with a grim look—“ perhaps he can
shape. .. .
We know ‘ Yellow Jimmy,’ his gang and his game,
But, by G—d! if we let ’em, on us be the blame/’
And for answer to Joe comes a ringing “ hooray!”
Which the crooked crowd's champion hears with
dismay,
For he thinks of a time - not a twelvemonth ago—
When an ounce Snider pallet from Warrigal Joe
Whizzed close to his ear as he muffled the bell
Of Joe’s petted thoroughbred “Silvery Nell,”
And with eyes gleaming malice he turns round to
go,
Vowing terrible vengeance on Warrigal Joe.
111.
In the bar of old Bluestone’s the revels are loud,,
And the glasses are clinked by the “ Golden hole”
crowd,
The jest, spiced with ribaldry, files to and fro,
As “shout” follows “shout" and the liquor taps
flow,
The landlord dispenses his sycophant wiles,
The barmaiden metes out her flycatching smiles,
For the gold-dust and nuggets are falling like hail
As the plethoric “shammy ” uptilts in the scale.
And Jezrbe l , tawdry, bedizened, and gay,
Passes smiling around with the glass-laden tray,
And her glib iepartee give# a joy and a zest
To the laugh chorus hailing the half-naked jest,
In hurrying sequence the rattling sound
Of the ivory cubes as the box passes round,
And the words half-coherent, the wavering hand,
Speak the maddening work of the pore “ Hell-fire
brand; ” .
As the sense-slayirg fumes of the fell liquors rise
Louder, faster the smutted profanity flies ;
0 ! for manhood’s fair instincts’tis little theyreck,
Else the frail woman’s presence might offer a
check.
There’s a brawl in the bar-room, the poker school
clan . „
Bandy blows for the spoil of a golden-hole lamb,
And Bluestone, in tremor, stands watchfully nigh
With fear and appeal in his small, cunning eye,
While wild Yellow Jimmy, of ironhand rule,
Arranges the squabble by scooping the pool.
And he struts to the bar in the pride of his might
For the star of his luck has shone brightly to-
night.
Come, Jez9bel, bow to the shrine of success ;
Where’s your smile to acknowledge the champion s
address i
From your maudlin admirers his prowess will
save,
And the fair should most certainly favour the
brave.
SmaU matter to you though the hue of his pelt
Shows the intermixed s'rain of the Myall and Celt,
If his lip be too full, or his brow should slope
Or his nude, savage mother be shameless and
black—
Full of muscular manhood, of sinew and vim,
Deep-chested and keen-eyed and shapely of limb,
You had favoured his suit not a short week ago
Ere your ■■mile met the blue eye of Warrigal Joe.
But the way of the siren is fickle and strange,
For the smile that is venal is boundless of range,
And she lords it o’er all while her presence is new
With a rule that is queenly where women are few.
’Tis vainly the champion her countenance seeks,
In vain his rough c urt with profanity reeks;
The smile that was his is now kept for his foe —
The stalwart prospector —now Golden-hole Joe.
There’s a lull in the many-tongued b icchanal roar,
And a champing of bit-irons is heard at the door,
And a kindly voice speaking, “Wo I steady, old
pet,
And we’ll travel directly, so mind you don’t fret.”
How Jezebel brightens—she knows the sounds
well —
'T.s her “Warrigal" new love and Silvery
Nell.'
O, Warrigal! evil’s the destiny’s star
That guides you this eve to the Diggers’ Rest bar.
Oh! why as a moth to the treacherous light
Have you come to the spot where your foe Is
to-n’ght ?
For a murderous thought in his moody brain lies,
Tnere is green-eyed revenge in his small, wolfish
eyes;
There’s a sting in each feathery shaft of your
“ chaff,”
There’s a mock In the tones of her welcoming
laugh,
To rouse up the malice that morbidly broods,
And to raise in his dark mind the time-buried
feuds.
Why, Jezebel, cruelly flippant of speech,
Why, tawdry she-fiend, why widen the breach ?
O. why the loud whisper in Warrigal’s ear,
With its sting as a scorpion’s, “that blackfellow
thoro ? **
For scarce hath the devil-hatched sentenoe been
said . .
When crash! went a bottle at Warrigal s head.
Thank thy stars that theiill-potent “ triple-hell ”
brand
Has been sapping the strong nerve, unsteadied the
hand,
Or a knell had been rung by the sound of that
blow, , ,
And on your head the blood of poor Warrigal Joe.
Thy scream, shallow woman, availeth thee
nought
To stay the fell work by thy poisoned tongue
wrought;
There's a spring toward each other —two dull-
sounding blows
As the maddened antagonists vengefully close
Two strong men are pitted in brief battle shock,
A moment, then down in a vengeful death-lock.
IV.
Hurrah! round the camp now the news travels
fast:
That the long-standing quarrel has headed at last,
For the Flat has been dull since the fifty-round
“ mi ll ."
When “Ned the Condenser” fought “Copper
Nose Bill.”
Hurrah ! for the claret in slulceheads must flow
When big Yellow Jimmy meets Warrigal Joe.
In front of the “Rest" where the crowd gathers
fast . . , .
The seconds have pitted the champions at last,
And grimly determined is each as he strips,
Their eyes lit with hatred, comprest are the lips;
The half caste is first like a panther in wait,
Now Warrigal’s poised on the knee of his mate,
Bach thirsting for blood. Now “ Time ”is the
word,
And the battl9 commences with savage accord.
Now Warrigal! caution! so 1 steady ! beware !
For the Yellow Boy’s grip is like that of a bear;
He is trained to close work-in the poker-school
brawls ...
He has mastered the bone-breaking science of
“falls”;
The fell liquor quickens his hot blood to-night,
The man who would face him must know how to
fight.
In the ring he has never been matched with his
peer,
Save his own iron-framed father—a stout pioneer.
But Warrigal watches each wile of his foe’s,
And foils his wild rush with his sledge-hammer
blows,
And the shouts of “Time!” “Timel” pass in
wearisome round
As, first one, then the other, is raised from the
ground,
And, puppet-like, set on a quick-readied knee,
While the rival crowds cheer in their partisan
glee,
And the red stream that follows the rally and
lunge
Is mopped from their eyes with the bar-towel
“ sponge,”
As quick recommences the waveriog fight
By the guttering candle's dim flickering light.
Thud 1 thud ! there’s a rally, a rush for a dote,
And a fierce give-and-take ’twixt the furious
There’s a shout of hurrah! See the Yellow Boy
“jibs!”
Mark the livid hued wale on his massive, short
ribs!
His short gasping breaths tell his gamesome heart
That heavy round-hander has done it; he reels
Down heavily, covered with blood, sweat, and
grime ;
Ho! the fights here, the water will fetch him to
time.
But the sponge or the water may now not avail,
One hand is pressed hard on the lived-hued wale,
A twitching of anguish about his mouth plays,
The half-cl''s6d eyes is fast growing aglaze.
The cheers of the rival crowd die in his ear,
’Tis the last earthly sound that he ever may hear ;
One spasmodic heave of the labouring chest
And the muscular frame is for ever at rest.
And the victor is still as the face of the dead
While the shirt is drawn over his blood-clotted
head.
He shares not the joy of the friends at his side,
Nor heeds he ihe plaudits of factional pride ;
And they look in his face with a feeling of fear
Whi’e he’s helped to the back of the silyer-manei
mare.
And he stares at the dead oer the heads of the
crowd,
And in hollow voice speaks as if dreaming aloud :
“ O Christ 1 where's thy vengeance for what I
have done ?
For this night I have murdered my own father’s
son,
With the blood of a brother my foul hand Is red,
God J God; let thy heavy curse fall on my head,
Come, Nelly! the tussle was only boy’s play,
The daylight will catch us, come, let us away !
Away from the blood-drops that rain in my sight,'
And his galloping hoof-sounds are lost in the
night.
Y.
The three-quarter moon Bheds her fast-paling
light,
The faint glow of dawn ends the tropical night;
The pale russet streaks catch the plume coloured
ray
Till the scintillant morning star hides in the grey,
But the morning light falls on a drought-stricken
land
Of bleached stony ridges or white powdered sand,
Where the perished earth’s crust is seamed,
shrunken, and baked,
And its thirst for God’s rain seems ever unslaked.
The sunrise, foretelling a fiercely hot day,
Beglamours the waste with its blood-coloured ray,
But it wakens no life in the somnolent earth ;
It taps not the springs of the forest-bird's mirth,
It falls on the bronze of the brigalow clump?,
It touches the fire-swept spinifex stumps,
But it gleams on no water for fifty miles baok,
For this is the dry desert Ninety-mile Traok.
The carrion bird pauses not here in his flight,
The wild dog has fled from the spot in affiight,
The sand-freighted whirlwind’s the one bretzs
that blows
On the ill-omened track where the poison bush
grows,
For red-handed Death rulath here in his might,
And striketh all things with his perishing blight,
And the pitiless drought-fiend bends to his nod
Till it seemeth abandoned of mercful God.
Christ pity the horseman who cometh this way
To face the flerc3 beam of the tropical day,
Whose b’oodshotten eye glancsth back in affright
On the deep-sanded furrow he's travelled all
night 1
God pity ihe man in the depth of his need
Who urgeth the dust-covered, dry-sweated steed,
Whose dull leaden eye speaks of vigour that’s
gone,
For the Sweetwater valley is forty miles on 1
And the Sweetwater vale is a tawny-hued land
Whose life has been sucked by the thirsting white
sand,
And its bed is a charnel-place, foal with the
breath
Of the pestilent rdours of sun-shrivelled death,
Where the jackal-like dingo is sleek from bis feast
On the sparse-covered bones of the drought-
perished beast—
For all life else has gone from the land with its
green,
Save the hornet that wings where the last drop
has been.
God pity the horseman, whoever he be,
For the sheen of the water he never may see.
Now the red sun of noon, from a oopper-hue’d sky,
May glare without hurt in his dull, lifeless eye,
And the foul carrion crow that has tracked him
all day
May flap its black wing o’er the “ silvery grey,”
As it sounds, with its raven-llke croakings of
woe,
The dirge of the fratricide Warrigal Joe.
And the tranced land shall wake with a marvel-
ous bound
When the blest summer rainfalls shall sweeten
the ground,
When the flood waters rush like a wave of the
deep,
And the sun-smitten, sewer-like waterholes sweep;
And the tender green herbage like maglo shall
spring,
And the drought-banished bush bird shall hither-
ward wing ;
I But the first rushing waters shall bear as they go
The bones of the fratricide Warrigal Joe.
J. M.
To the Manager Australian Gas Co.
Limited.
Dear Sir,—l was unpleasantly surprised to read
your letter,
And much regret that I must be for many weeks
your debtor;
I do not own the cash, and so
I cannot pay you what I owe
Until —the times are better.
Your threatened action worries me, and makes
me ponder sadly,
That short of funds your firm must be to thus
behave so badly;
But send your man, and when I've learned
How many cubic feet I’ve burned,
Some day I’ll pay you gladly.
came; the gas was here laid on, and so
thought I’d try it;
did not think—your hair keep on—that I should
have to buy it.
You really make my dander rise—
Turn off my gas! Well, d n your eyes !
Your threat, sir, I defy it.
You think I cannot do without the gas you sell so
dearly,
And if I do not send a note you’ll cut it off—well,
really,
Just think again ; it’s too absurd !
Such foolish talk was never heard—
A childish notion, merely.
And I’ll be soon lef c in the dark—o, terrible pre-
diction !
Without a solitary spark to lighten my affliction!
Ha! there appears upon the scene
An angel bright called Kerosene
(This is poetic fiction).
You will not bust me with your gas, yet think I’d
be so rash, sir,
To prove myself a silly ass and trust you with my
cash, sir;
You must think me a “ messer.
Fair sir, farewell 1 There, quiet now !
Once more within this manly brow
I will not pay your bill, I vow.
Yours truly,
THE PROFESSOR.


The N.S.W. Art Society's Exhibition.
The Art Society of N.S.W. is at present holding
l a eighth annual Exhibition, but why the work
of artists resident in Australia should be described
as Australian art, we are at a loss to imagine.
Of all Australian artists, Johnstone alone ranks as
a genuine interpreter of Australian incident and
soenery, and his pictures command in America
hundreds of guineas. The artists at present
exhibiting m’ght with justice be described as
exponents of European rather than Australian
art, and the Exhibition might with propriety bo
held in Bond-street, London. Some of the woik
is very good indeed, and would not discredit ary
ordinary art exhibition anywhere. The mistake
i8 mide in claiming for it an Austral'an character
M. Henry’s realistic painting of Waratahs is one
among the most conspicuous pictures which arres
the eye of the visitor upon entering the room
It is a perfect blaze of colour, but it seems tohav
been painted under two impulses. The upper
portion is strong, careful, and solid ; the lowei,
ideal and transparent. Beyond its teohmca
aeouracy, however, we must confess to a feed-
ing of disappointment that M. Henry has done
nothing of a more humanly appealing charade*
Shmor Nerliis undoubtedly tha best represent* d
among Sydney artists at the Exhibition. Hib
Orgie” is a bold sketch in colour,
but his bacchanals svggest the ba.f clad ballet o
the French opera rather than one of those sen-
suous myths of ancient Greece. Tre vase inter-
iected into this pioture, too, seeme who ly out o.
harmony with the remainder of the composition,
and the lily-bosomed pool in the foreground help ,
.. -noohat “ Iq Transgression’ belongs to a
School of bok
notwithstanding, the suggested love-light and
roguery in the girl’s eyes, which are conoealed by
her hat, is happy. Nerli’s “ Portrait of Lenolonl
is one of his most fortunate efforts , his Eighty-
seven Years” is hurried and somewhat careless
“ Renose ” the figure of a black-satin-drapsd
woman against a flaming background, is startiing
and b’zarre Its title is a misnomer, and, not-
withstanding a deal cf oarafnl and elaborate
work, its effect is irritating. In two very badly
nloture* by C. Rolando, we catch
trlimoses of the true Australian feeling ; in one a
weird little bit of eun-bllgbted pla'n with its
shadeless melancholy gum-trees, in another a sug-
gestion of the bine hazs that hangs about Aus-
tralian rifts and gulleys. Madame Roth a
work is decidedly careful and honest, and
evinces earnest work and earnest study.
Mr J R. Ashton’s most characteristic pic-
ture is an oil-painting representing Sunrise, dis-
tinguished iu the catalogue by a quotation from
on Frurlish noet which has no particular applloa-
tlon or Mr. F. B, Schell exhibits five
water-colour seascapes, in which he manages to
repeat a petrified wave-ourl. This artist, despite
Ws tendency to crystallise in mannerism treats
water with a sympathetic touch, and happily re-
n-oduces its liquidness and lucidity. Mahony, an
Australian artist, contributes acoupleofwretchedly
f own dogs which give no hint of his powers.
FuTwood paints Australian scenery with English
fiats and notwithstanding great natural talent.
in his nictures, to a terrible degree, the
o haXy P S impatient work Atidnson
Idea OI y maklDg a great picture
narrowly Cotton," but the drawing is
s* “knn ™nal to the painting, and
by no mua absolutely no sense of propor-
h, “ems to „ . conven tional, although it
tl0 %?, Lod work That fine artist Piguenlb is re-
SetntadTy sSe broad work of an anxious and
Ktakiug character, but it in some regards does
Sot strike one as overflowing with that genuinely-
not strum o j ohngt one so ably grapples with
local tone wbion jonuB Mary Stoddard’s
aud thpowai h cien P ticm fly painted. They are
portraits aTe ® i l in treatment, but display
flab and oonvenuonemn elaboration in
fiMsh A 'great number of the pictures are alto-
siilrvn tintiog and some few should
gether dtsapp Ant |. by the Hanging Com-
neT®f any excuse whatsoever. On the
mltte 0 , u | the entire exhibition is, in
distinctively national, it is a tre-
aSSI S an “on tho work onblbited Inst ,oar.
A Sons of Democracy.
(Written to commemorate the double Jubilee of
His Holiness the Pope and Her Gracious
Maesty Queen Victoria.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hail, Regal Lie, and Priestly Lie!
Ye flourish passing well;
-Tis strange, O'Lies, ye both such fair
And seemly show should outward bear
From roots in lowest hell.
Right pleasant in our kingly sight
The ranks of war appear ;
Nor golden flood that seaward flows,
Nor valley decked with Sharon’s rose,
Hath half the charm of tender light
Of Morn, that tips with splendour bright,
The thriee accursed spear.
Right pleasant in our priestly sight
Is, aye, the martyr’s pyre.
Nay, prate ye not of jasper sea,
Of battlements that crystal be ;
How pale they by the ruddy glare
Of flame that lick3 the faggot fair
Our faith’s avenging Are.
And do ye bid mankind rejoice
That ye have lived so long ?
The martyr’s groan, the captive’s sigh,
The widow’s wail, the orphan s cry,
The battle yell, the cannon peal,
The clash of fratricidal steel,
Would mingle with the song.
Away, away— ye Curses twain !
Your sway is soon no more.
What stately footfall strikes mine ear ?
The myriad hosts of Truth are near,
They come, they come, with stately tread
0 King, O Priest, your day is dead,
Your sun of glory o’er
A Y.
Britain’s Uncle Pumblechook.
The Carnarvon banquet, held at Sydney Parlia-
mentary Houses last Monday, was a weary
repetition of the Carnarvon banquet everywhere
else. With considerable forethought, it was ar-
ranged that only three speeches were to be de-
livered, and, as the speakers selected were all of
the ultra-Tory order, any obtrusive democrats
who, like the Victorian Higinbotham, might be
inclined to carp and criticise, could only listen to
the flow of drivel without any chance of reply.
Most of them stayed away in consequence, and
the result was a gathering of 74 legislators, out of
a total of 180 or thereabouts, and a muster, aH
told, of 84 perfect gentlemen and John Haynes.
Sir John Hay proposed the health of the Governor,
and the Baron wno went back on the Smiths re-
cited the speech which had been prepared for him.
It wasn’t a long one, but it was as much as h's
secretary dare trust him with. Parkes rose next,
and recited everything that Carnarvon had done
ever since he was a boy, and then Carnarvon
whooped himself up, and plunged into ihe arid
w.ld of p’atitudes which ware old and stale
before this heavy-going Pumb’.echook was
born. The love of Australia for England—
the fact that Australia can’t live without England
(how on earth to many little Republics live
peacefully without England Britain’s Uncle Pum-
bleohook did not explain)—the fondness of Austra-
lia for her luvin’ Queen—the fact that when Eng-
land goes to war it can rely on Australia, and the
beauty of the circumstance that England, relying
on Australia, can bark louder in Europe than
England with no Australia to rely on—the loveli-
ness of all this, and the point that the Soudan
goat and donkey “ woke an echo ” throughout
the world, also the urgent necessity of passing
the Naval Defence Bill, all swept before the
audience in dizzy review. The additional fact
that an Australian possessed the advantages of
British protection in all parts of the world was
laid down and hammered in, and the other facts
that the Germans are insulting and plundering
British subjects in Samoa, that some two years
ago the Russians seized a clerk belonging to a
British Consulate in Persia, and flogged him
almost to death, and that the blustering Govern-
ment of London rarely dares even to remonstrate
except in the case of such countries as
Ejypt or Guatemala, were altogether Mt
out. And then an asinine Daily Telegraph
compositor tailed on behind the report the follow-
ing verse which, from its position, would seem to
have some connection with the dismal feel and
the still more dismal slush which accompanied
it :
“ And I bslieve the devil's voice
Sinks deeper in our ear
Than any whisper sent from heaven,
However sweet and clear.'*
This is rather rough on Carnarvon's voice, but for
once the Sydney D.T. has struck the truth by
accident.
The Brisbane Telegraph says Premier
Griffibh is “ a great man.” He is sunk so low as
that!
Mr. Dailey’s health is improved con-
siderably. He is now well enough to occasionally
take carriage exercise.
Viscount Canterbury, formerly Governor
of Victoria, is now insolvent. He was in monetary
difficulties wh9n he arrived In Australia, as lords
who accept Australian governorships usually are
The National Insurance Comp my have
refused nineteen hundred/ pounds a foot tor their
land-corner of Collins and Market streets, Mel-
bourne, and have been Bince offered two thousand
pounds a foot.
Mr. J. Hubert Newman, of Oxford-street,
Hyde Park. Sydney, has shown us some most
arastic photographs, chiefly of children, designed
for use as Christmas and New Year cards. The
great charm of Mr. Newman’s photography Is its
delicaoy and naturalness; as a photographer of
children he is unsurpassed anywhere.
The other day Thomas Sun Lee Sing, of
Ravenswood (Q ), was gathered into the fold, and
his pig-tinted visage is now the countenance of
a Briton by Act of Parliament. Thomas Sing
has also taken to himself a white, wife, and, by
way of adding to his joy, the Ravenswood Mining
Journal printed the following abject slush re-
garding him
We are informed that Thomas Sun Lee Bing, our worthy
naturalised British subject, has received a copy of record of
oath of allegiance. We congratulate him upon the mag-
nanimity of our Governor, and we sincerely hope that not-
withstanding the promises of our Premier in the Assembly,
that no more Chinese would be naturalised, our worthy Go-
vernor will not allow himself to be governed by our un-
worthy Government, and that many more Asiatics will be
received in our midst. The future white population of
Northern Queensland will require the assistance of the
Celestial race to keep them in the prosperous state they are
now in, and the present is the time to enlarge the inter-
course between the races.
From this pronouncement we gather that there is
in Northern Queensland one seemingly white man
who is prepared to admib that he can’t get on
withoub Chinese assistance -who has fallen so low
that he must have a Chow to hold him up. It is,
indeed, a pitiable position to be in.
A Victorian paper has corns into possession
of an idea, and the unexpectedness ot Ihe thing
nearly blew its head off. New South Wales, it
points out, wants a new name badly, and it also
requires two and a half millions to wipe off its
shortages, and the idea is that the name, if pro-
perly looked after, ought to bring in the amount
needed, and thus throw two stones at one bird for
the benefit of the general public. For instanoe,
if the colony were described in future as “Hop-
bitterslana,” the advertisement would be one that
would be well worth three millions at the least,
and an extra million might be raised by throwing
in the privilege of advertising on the backs of
Acts of Parliament, dog-licenses, gas-receipts, and
Hansard. Another considerable rise might be
made by re-christening Sydney “ Hollowayspills-
adelphia,” and other patent-medicine proprietors
would doubtless pay liberally on condition that
their nostrums were mentioned in the body of
every Bill introduced into Parliament, or run
into proclamations, say, after this fashion
“Victoria, by the grace of (Cockle’s Pjlls)
God (Is. l£d. a box, beware of fraudulent
imitations), of Great Britain (Smith’s horse medi-
cine), and Ireland, Queen (to be obtained from all
chemists) Defender of the Faith (none genuine
without the proprietor’s name blown in the
bottle), and Empress of India,” &e., &c. This
would not only make Parliamentary documents a
source of profit, but would considerably lighten
the dreary pages of the Government Gazette,
and the scheme might be turned to private, as
well as public uses. Any enterprising firm in
existence would pay Parkes's debts right off if he
would undertake to rise in the House once a day
and exclaim, In hollow sepulchral tones: “ Try
Boshiter's Hair Restorer," or, “ Get your pants
from Moses,” and Mr. Wise might easily make up
for those lost patent fees by the same devioe.
There are whole heaps of money in this proieot,
and the one thing that surprises us is that it has
not been adopted long ago.
COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON
ARE NO GOOD
To those who are too 111 to eDjoy them. The sub-
joined list of ladies and gentlemen, however, enjoy
their holidays this season right heartily. Why
this season? Because they are now well, and
enter into enjoyment with a zest unknown to
those whose livers of all their anatomy is holy-
daying, whose kidneys are on a strike, and whose
stomach “ gives it up” at the slightest suggestion
of food. Kindly read the following extracts from
letters from your friends and neighbours, follow
their advice, and without doubt 1888 will be to
you “ A Happy New Year ” indeed.
BRIGHT'S DI3EA.SE.
SAMUEL BA8FORD (Exploration Hotel), Mel-
bourne. —“In Oatober, 1886,1 caught a severe
cold, which culminated in pains all over me,
and I was obliged to take to my bed. From
bad I went to worse. I constantly bled at the
nose, and could not keep anything on my sto-
mach, nob even soda and milk. Tne pains in
my head and back were excruciating. I
called a physician, who examined me, and
said I was suffering from congestion of the
lungs, and dcccored me accordingly, yet I con-
tinued to grow worse. I then first noticed
my ankles and legs were swelling, and that
they would ‘ dent ’ on impresdon. I had five
physicians altogether, but none of them,
except the last one, really told me what war
the matter with me, although I was paying a
guinea a visit. Afber I had been ill about
Beven weeks, my body began to swell to an
alarming extent, and a cold sweat covered
me, with a sour and most disagreeable odor.
My fluids were very tcaoty, high coloured,
and voided with much pain. My left arm
swelled eut of all Bemblance to an arm, a sorb
of watery bag forming and falling down on
the under side. Across my back and hips was
another appendage like a saddle-bag in form,
so large I could shake it. I could not get on
the trousers I usually wore, and so puffed
out was my stomach and bowels with water
that I could only button the two top buttons
of my waistcoat My face was so puffed
that I could scarcely see out of my eyes,
wh'ch ran water to such an extent that my
pillow was constantly wet. I had a pair of
slippers made to order, they were 12 s in
length, and big every way proportionately;
yet I had to slit them open before I could get
them on. The bleeding from the nose con-
tinued, also the vomiting, with dreadful
retching, while my head felt as though ib
was in a vyca. I wanted to die, as life was
only misery. A day or two before Christmas
the doctor told my wife there was no hope for
me, that I could not live until morning :
that I had acute Bright’s disease in it’s worst
form, and he would not call again unless sent
for. The day fol'owiug I was alive, and
having my attention called to an article on
Bright's disease in a local paper, recom-
mending ‘ Warner’s Safe Cura,’ I told my
wife to get a bottle, and let me try it as a last
resort. She did so. The first dose I kept
down—something remarkable. The second
dose likewise—wonderful The third dose I
vomited. I then diluted the medicine, and
persevered. The next day I ceased vomioing,
and had an appetite. From that day on I
have not vomited, and have relished my food
The doctor, probably believing me dead, never
called again. The swelling all over my
body gradually went down. My hair came
out, great scales peeled off my legs, and I
seemed to be renewed throughout. My normal
weight is from 12sb. to 13st, bub when I was so
swelled I must have weighed at least 16 jt. I
can now put my slit slippers on over my boots,
and wear my c.othes oace more, the dropsical
swellirg having entirely disappeared. About
the 1st of March, 1887, I could get on my
feet for a short lime, and thereafter gradually
gained in strength, so that I could take short
walks. Now I feel that my young manhood
has come back to me. My friends jocularly
call me * Cheat the Grave,’ and I feel that I
have done so in truth. I never expected to
get well, and now that I have completely re-
covered, I cannot say enough in praise of the
medicine that brought me back to life, health,
and strength."
DROPSY.
CHRISTIAN REUTTER (Numba, Shoalhaven),
N.S.W. —“It is now about 11 years since I
had to seek relief from the water which
gathered in my body. I consulted a doctor,
who told me that I had a watery tumour in
my stomach, and that he could do nothing for
me, except taking the water away by tapping.
He said the case was incurable, unless I con-
sented to an operation, to which I refused. I
was then tapped, and 16 quarts of water
taken away. I consulted other doctors in
Sydney to no effect, and was compelled to be
tapped every five or six months, the quantity
taken away each time averaging from 15 to
18 quarts. I was tapped altogether 21 times,
and had lost all hops of recovery. I then
heard of ‘ Warner’s Safe Cure,’ and com-
menced its use as my last chaTice. It acted
most miraculously in my case, and after tak-
icg eight bottles a cure was effected, although
I oontiuued taking it, until I had taken 11
bottles. At the present writing ib is five
months since the cure was effected, and no
sign of any water settling in my body. I can
with great confidence therefore recommend
‘ Warner’s Safe Cure’ and ‘Warner’s Safe
Pills.’"
KIDNEYS and LIVER.
JAMES SNEDEN (Edward-street, Summer Hill),
Sydney, N.S.W.—“ For 12 months I suffered
violent racking pains in the back and loins,
accompanied with a burning sensation ex-
tending through the urinary passages, and
constant desire, and straining effort to urinat9,
the fluid, however, coming away in small
quantities, frequently mixed with dark sandy
substances. Language fails to describe the
agony I suffered. I was under four Sydney doc-
tors who entirely failed to give me relief. I then,
on the recommendation of friends, purchased
a bottle of ‘ Warner's Safe Cure ’ with a vial
of ‘ Warners Safe Pills,’ and the result, thank
God, was surprising indeed, for the first bottle
removed the pain, and the secretions of the
kidneys quickly resumed a natural colour and
quantity. I continued with the medicine,
and took some 25 bobbles of 4 Warner’s Safe
Cure,' and about 10 vials of 4 Warner’s Safe
Pills.' I have ever since kept active and un-
unusually strong."
KIDNEYS and LIVER.
EDWARD CLA.RY (66 G mrge-street, W.
Sydney, N.S.W. —“For several years pass)
suffered from chronic cons.ipa ion, and serious
disease of the kidneys. In the latter two
years my cor dition grew so bad that I dis-
paired of my life. I had fearful pains in the
back and sides, and when passing water I
had a scalding sensation; my fluid was full
of greasy froth. During the rast two years
my pains had so wrecked my constitution,
that I became clean bent on my left side, and
for two years walked lop-sided. I was under
five leading Sydney doc < rs, but they were
baffled by my disease, and quite unable to
render aid. Last year I irmured ‘Warner’s
Safe Cure.’ The first two bottles gave me
ease, relieved my pains, and proved a power-
ful stimulant to the digestive organs, liver
and kidneys. When I had taken four or fire
battles all pain had left me, and ever since I
can v, a!k upright. I have now altogether
taken 10 bottles of ‘ Warner’s Safe Cure,’ oc-
casionally with ‘ Warner’s Safe Pills,’ and
they have effected, a thorough cure, while
other remedies and five leading doctors failed
to cure me."
( DIABETES
MRS. M. E. SNELSON (Pemberton House,
Macauley-street), Albury, N.S W.—For
about five years I was suffering from some
disease, and could not find out what was
wrong until the month of June last. The
disease bad arrived at such a stage that caused
me very much alarm, my doctor told me at
the time that I was suffering from Sugar
Diabetes. I was recommended to try
‘ Warner’s Safe Diabetes Cure,’ and am very
thankful to say that after taking five bottles
it proved most beneficial, and after taking 23
bottles the specific gravity of my urine was
reduced from 1 050 to 1 032, and I firmly be-
lieve that two more bottles will effect a per-
fect cure."
CALCULUS.
W. F. DAVIES (Rose street, Darlington), Sydney,
N.S.W. —“I suffered from Stone in tie
Bladder, more or less for the past 11 years, at
times being very bad, and suffering great
pain. Was treated in both schools, but with
no permanent effeote. In November 1886 I
was compelled to take to my bed alto •
gether. In December I underwent an
operation where by a stone was crushed
and taken away after which I suffered
almost beyond endurance. I laid in bed for
two months, scarcely able to move, snd almost
without sleep, suffering excruciating pain
every time I was obliged to urinate. I had
given up all hope. At last, merely to gratify
a friend, I began the use of ‘ Warner’s Safe
Cure,’ and ‘ Warner's Safe Pills,’ and from
the first, noticsd a decided change for the
better. Large quantities of gritty substance
passed from me ; I felt better and kept on
with the medicine. After taking nine bottles
of the ‘ Safe Cure,’and two vials of ‘Safe
Pills,’ I fully recovered, and I can surely say
that I owe my life to ‘ Warner’s Safe Reme-
dies.’ I can now return to budness, have
gained three stone in weight, and feel perfectly
well."
REV. H. PATTINSON (Rochester), Victoria.—
“I have suffered greatly at intervals for the
past 3 years frem Kidney Disease and Stone
in the Bladder. I tried various remedies, and
got advice from two or three doctors, but
nothing I tried gave me more than temporary
relief. Frequently when away from home,
attending to nay pastoral duties, have I sud-
denly been seized with a violent pain in my
b ck and right side, extending through the
groin and hip joints, which would almost
bring me double, and cause the cold perspira-
tion to pour from my bedy. These attacks
were becoming more frequent and more severe
each time. I would have to pass through
from 24 to 36 hours of the most excruciating
pain before I could get any relief from the
use of bran poultices, hot flannels, &o , and
I would be left in such a weak state, that
before I gained a little strength I would be
seized with another attack. A day or two
before these attacks the urine voided would
be as pale as clear water, bub suddenly ib
would change to a high colour, and after
standing a little while would be about one-
third briokdust. At these times io was
generally scanty, and was voided with pain.
My life was becoming one of misery, and I
was minting seriously of giving up the work
of the ministry. I became wretchedly thin,
and to my friends as well as myself it be-
came evident that I was not long for this
wo: Id. I had heard a gooddeai about ‘War-
ner's Safe Care,’ but never made up my mind
to try it until advised by our chairman, Rev.
S. P. Webber, who wrote me a letter stating
what benefit he had received. I bought
three bottles and some pills and commenced
taking them according to directions. The
first bottle made me very ill; I was not in
much pain, but passed a large quantity of
blood. This continued at intervals for about
a fortnight, when I passed away a small
stone, and was greatly relieved. From that
time I began to recover rapidly, and after
taking about 14 bottles of * afe Cure,’ and
six vials of afe Pills, I feel quite well
again; work has become a pleasure again, and I
have been able to conduct nine weeks of
special services, apart from my ordinary
work. I used to suffer from Indigestion
and had a poor appetite. lean now sit up,
at table and enjoy a meal thoroughly, and I
feel none of the bad effects afterwards as I
used to do. All this has been wrought sicca
last Easter, and I trust it will be permanent,
as I have every reason to believe it will. I
feel it my bonnden duty to recommend ‘ War-
ner’s Safe Cure ’ and ‘ Warner's Safe Pills
to all who may be suffering from the same
complaint as I have been.”
LACK OF SPACE.
Prevents us giving more testimonials in full, but
we are assured by Messrs. H. H. Warner & Cos.,
the proprietors of “Warner’s Safe Remedies"
that they have thousands of them, which
illustrate beyond doubt the high character of
these medicines.


Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADING
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELLS IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
4 HOTriSOUTH
VI r I OFTHE
EQUATOR
S 3
m
wi/Jiu'MUU
aEJJIi
///i nni
7V\”
m
M
*
IL_
!W»iui
Ff-
LU
V£
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS &c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Hentlemen’s Hot and Oold Plunge and Shower Baths, HTCOMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen's Smoking, Rending, and Corresponding Room, All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention.
ii nivnax.
IE'A & :b‘E‘R PMS SAU CE
SAUO
g!«je
PKHRI
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated U deceive the Public , Lea and Perrim
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on ecers bottle
bean their Signatisn thus —
without which m fattk of the original WOMCESTMRSMIMM
SA UGE f is genuim .
Ask for LEA and PERRINS’ Same, and see Name m WmfP<er, Label, Botfh md
Stopper .? Wholesale and per Export hy the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crosse
Blackwell, London, fs*c., &*c»; and hy Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Worm,
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore Joseph & C 0. ,: David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel Is constructed on the most modern principles
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydranl i Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
TABLE & FITTINGS COMPLETE
from <£Bo to £l2O.
Billiard Table Manufacturer,
128 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
B. HULBERT.
azxßxra
txxxjooo
S 3!
PATRONISE LOCAL INDUSTRY.
EMPLOY LOCAL WORKMEN. Send for list.
Opt
r- ftWfUSrf i'.ij
NEWEST INVENTION—GREATEST NOVELTY,
THE
&
PATENT DIAftONAL SEAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear
The Oupen savs’—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the cross,
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and Btrong, and the workmanship all that could
e desired.”
Id Medal, New Zealand Exliltdlio n, 1883
Cold Medal, Highest Award
for Corsets, London International L-xhi
bition, 1884.
Latest Award !!! Cold Medal Interna
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
CAUTION.—Beware of worthless imjt
tione. Every genuine Y & N Cor eb is
a mped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116," in oval.
m
bold by all drapers and ladies' outfitters in the united kingdom and colonies
f~p w '^JEJDEIE^
Sail, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin, and Flag Maker, 296 Put-st, Sydney.
SPECIALITY —MAROUJSE TENTS lor GARDEN PARTIES, FOR SALE or HIRE.
m
r
SWnlocp Tent, t#rpnviih,Ouskw,«nohacMf*™.
O JT/uoee un « Tents let out on hire 296 PittS.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN.N.S.W.
T7IIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
a npie rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
R.
II , R I L
(late of the Deteotive'Foroe),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
II ROYAL AROADB, SYDNEY.
Absconder* and wife deaerter* traced, and all kind* ol
iffnsaantui inquirie* initituted. Evidence obtained in
Uvoroe, libel, fraud, and incendiary oaiei, for tbe legal pre-
knd other*. Copie* of will*, oertifloate* of birth.
Marriage, or death, obtained in any part ef tbe world
Cant* and debt* collected. From R. M. B.’« long experience
la the Detective Foroe of New South Wale*, Viotoria, and
Few Zealand, and eitabliibed agenoie* in all part* of the
liobe, he ii in a peiitioa to oonduot all inquiries with caution
ixpssSfoß and itrioteat lecreiy, and to faithfully and
ynw& J attend to all builnen entruited to h care.
AFTEB
oeforB iiCuStaGho and Wkiskersf itFORs
Q!
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this. <
\and will do it on either bald '
'head or bare face Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2to i
4 weeks and never fails, 20,000"
mi e
Copyrighted. young men already wear full Copyrighted.
beards, having used Ito .1 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain
in effect, rackets, 1« 6d. each 3 for 3s. Gd., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation, Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Box 730. a F. 0., Sydney. N S. I''.
YJSITORS TO SYDNEY
DURING THE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
■will rave 20 per cent, by calling on
Enrlu s Mt
FOR
PIANOS and
ORGANS.
ZMITTSIO-
A NEW SHIPMENT JUST UNPACKED.
Any instrument can be placed by our well-known
TIME PAYMENT SYSTEM.
PLEASE NOTE ADDRESS:
L Htii £ Mlt
ROYAL PIANO WAREHOUSE,
318 GEORGE STREET. 318
FITZROY HOTEL,
BAST STRKBT, ROCKAMPTON.
m FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath,
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation,
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
Clgrax JDlTraxa.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
A CHRISTMAS BOX WORTH HAYING.
THE BONUS SUGAR AND TEA CO.
GIVE WITH THEIR
PURE BLENDED TEAS
At 2s. and 2s. 6d. per lb.
AS UNDERMENTIONED
31bs, White Sugar with every lb. of 2s. Tea, or
libs. Yellow Sugar with every lb. of 2s. Tea.
01bs. Yellow Sugar with every lb. of 2b. 6d. Tea;
or libs. Snowdrop Sugar with every lb. of 2s.
6d. Tea; or 3 lbs. Finest English Loaf Sugar
with every lb of 2s. 6d. Tea.
With every 151 b. of 2s. Tea, 60 lb. Snowdrop, or
701bs. Yellow Sugar.
With every 15 lbs. 2s. 6d. Tea 100 lbs. Yellow, or
70 lbs. Snowdrop, or a 56 lb. Case, as im-
ported, of the finest Frenoh Cut Loaf Sugar,
With each Half-chest Choice Congou Tea, at 555.,
a 70 lb. Bag of White Sugar.
With each Half-chest of Choicest Congou Tea, at
655., a 70 lb. bag of best Snowdrop Sugar.
ONE TRIAL WILL PROVE the SUPERIORITY
OF THE TEAS.
Tasting Samples sent free on application.
PARISIAN COFFEE-OUR Is. PER lb. TIN.
Sole Agents for New South Wales :
J. W. ASKEW & CO.,
80 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIO JOBBING PRINTERS, &c.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-street.
NOTICE.
WILL Mrs. E. BRUNTON, late news-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by oalllng on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, If In Sydney.


Isao-portem-t!
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
Tilei OEriysr
musical iktmmiit
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
@74
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to Inform their many patrons and the publio
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
JHEAPER THAN EVER!
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/0, 10/6. 12/0. 15/-, 17/0, 21/
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
2 bellows, 27/6.
i, Patent German Silver Reeded Ac
oordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
18, 6/0, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/8, 21/-, 26/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/-
„ ~ steel notes 50/-
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
U-, 7/8. 10/-, 12/0, 18/-, 17/6, 20/-, 26/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 129.
Speciality > Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/0, 3/0, 5/6, 6/6, 7/0, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s,
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality | 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10a.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
11 mi
which oan be sent post free for 2/0, 8/-, 8/0,4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a Bet,
Single ones In proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
liver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Bnitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c.
ass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
lER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
lers promptly attended to, and all instru-
s carefully packed and sent to any part of
olonles.
guides attended to by return of post,
, Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
4 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY,
(Ilticura
sag
Cczems on Sc»lp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on Necfc,
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and CtmeußA and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
•s pure aB a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns St Co., New South Wales
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticnra, the Great Skin Cere (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticnra Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Ceticeha, is
indispensable In treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticnra Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts,
JTor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
dragnets throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
‘Zeih kid. CetioEßA, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1 ;,)0 : CeTioura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticera Shav-
ino do/p, 15 cents; Cetigera Resolvent, $l.OO
pei lioit le,
PREPARED BY THE
Potter Drug A Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
-
The
‘POTSHOT*
Camera,
0m
'S the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
- ud and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The POTSHOT Camera iB not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as DETECTIVE Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by ns, and they are well worth the attention of the general public#
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
&
r.*»
LIMITED,
203 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
hat.tc to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00. S
Cognac.
„. T. OATEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Monument
In ©ranlbe, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb RaUlngi.
Dnlsni and Bitimatei forwarded on roenu
j. cmmnoHAia,
muimkißi WYinrA*D-w7A*B, Btowot
TjETK oan recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
W ting Saloon as the best in Briabane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address >
Temple Building, George-sbreet, six doors from
Queena-etreet, A, COOPER, Proprietor.
BEOOISrSIETELID HOTEL
(West Beach),
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
THE above beautifully-situated hotel has re-
cently been greatly altered and improved,
and is now ready for the reception cf guests.
Situated immediately on the shores of the Bay,
yet it is within five minutes’ walk of the St.
Kilda Railway Station, so that visito-s, while
enjoying the luxury of a sea-side residence, can,
within 20 minutes, be in the busy centre of Mel-
bourne. Convenient access has been made to the
extensive promenade on the roof, from which
magnificent views can be obtained of the Bay
Bnd Shipping, Government House and Albert
Park Lake, Mounts Macedon, You Yang, and
Dandenong Ranges.
E. A. COOPER, Proprietress.
PERCY GIBBS, Manager.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make oomfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor,
THE SCIENCE OF LIFE,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages'
bound in doth, and contains over 100 prescrip 1
blonß. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address! Dootor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke »n&
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vie,
BRABIKT wvvrTOn, ft LAMB
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and FIANOFORTB
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
▲HD
BEDBIhG MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPR Nfl and O'CONNELL STREET
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MQSi CELEBRATED MAKERS,
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, variou
sizes.
lOC
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasiona
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
f.\-.‘ 7 if"
W WWW;
' ‘1 "‘ ‘3 g! ‘X
AUSTRIAN OH AIR
la
6RBAT VARIETY,
And a complete assor j
ment of Bent W c
Furniture the best make
only.
WALL CABINETS for Choioe China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT.
OVELTIES In Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, noveltleß
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, In colours.
EjCS-lilii
D
RAWING ROOM GABI
NETS,
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Drawing-room furniti re.—The late
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection ia
solicited. Spring and O’Connell streets.
a -
i '
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices.
EASY OHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bee
rooms. New designs covered to order Ik
any material,
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest
ful, a specialty.
‘15—,31
\ lv'
>7;
.ll! ,
'9‘:- Jaw"
'HW.’ @133"? ,
I " '55.” 6’ ~22;
"OEBSTEABB, all tint
Nickel-plated and Black
aad Bran. ©reat variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
, six“ "4:
1‘ i“ ,- "'
r V - , '
up' 7:;5ﬁ “47:: -
“ 7:, “my:
SPRING* MATTRASSBS
Woven Wire, belt
make | also, Spiral Sprint-
Prise, from Its. «aeb,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAM;
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING & O'CONNELL STREET


“ Cocky ” Burns, the N.S.W. Treasurer,
says there would have been a large balance to the
credit of Government had they not exceeded
their estimates of expenditure. “ Cooky’s ” middle
name is Fitzgerald.
The story goes that when Canovas, the
Spanish statesman, was, the other day, asked to
accept a drkedom, he answered ccntemptuous’y:
“a. fig for your dukes I I have made and unmade
plenty of them. I don’t care to fce one myself.”
Some time ago a case came on for hearing
in the Walgett (N S.W.) Police Court. A solici-
tor was retained on each side. The defendant’s
attorney, having a “ bad case,” subpoe eed the
opposing attoiney to give evidence. When the
benoh ordered '* all witnesses in this case” to leave
the court, &o , the legal witness had to go with
the others. But, not to be outdone, he went round
to the C.P.S. and issued a subpoe-a for his legal
adversary, who reluctantly quit' e 1 tt e court andhis
oase. The matter bsirg left to the B nch, a ver-
diot*was given for the d fandant in one act.
A few mixed items. The armies and
navies of Eorope cost £420,000,000 per annum,
but to make up for this you can bty a girl in
Japan for £3 ss. Bhmarck is ill, but the Ormuz
took 700 casks of butter home from Melbourne,
and pcor women near their confi ement are com-
pelled to scrub the jardsof George-ttieet Asjlum,
Sydney. The Prince of Wales has written a letter
of condolence to Sir Saul Samuel, and a man in
Melbourne has drowmd Li 3 mate in the dirty
Yarra, also the usual numberof mysterious outages
and Sydney municipal frauds are going forwa rd.
Editor Bulletin,—* Tee Fatio” hts evidently
misurderstord me lam q.i eas w-lt awtre as he that a
man has to learn more than to mer< ly hold a sheep so as to
»se the shears “Theß.nja' says amm has to learn to
hold ashtep and “nothing more" to sh*ar with “ Wolseley s
Machine." X should like to know if toe Equatter is going to
pay an instructor to teach Ihe c ming rsce of shearers; if
not, how are the men to know whether they are right or n< t
in holding the sheep, or are stating at the riaht place, not
having previously seen a sheep shrrni Perhaps "Ihe
Banjo’ his net seen the machine at work. I have, and I
believe that the sqiatteis, as a ruK will prefer trained
shearers to me t who know nothing about shears and less
about sheep. I think that the rate of shearing will be the
sam , and the price of seating as much as ever, unless the
squatters ''g/' for the cose of Austta ia, ChUamen, at d
tuen they w_uld get their iluep shorn cheaper, no doubt,
but they w uld h-ve the trouole and the expnse ofteichirg
the Chows how to hold and slm-ar “ all-lightee ’ While the
Umon lasts the price will be kept up, machine or no
machine—Youm truly, Practical Shearer.
Dear Bulletin,— Permit mo to call ycur atten-
tion to the exodus of Indian coolies fiom Fiji to Australia
A number cf th -re men are just now set ling in Sydney, and
writeback to their friends whit a grand country Australia
is—that they ci i get £1 per month, out of winch they can
save £3. They earn here from 3d. to 13. 31 p;r day, out ( f
which thev find themselves, as they live on very littlei else
but rice. The talk amorgst them is til Sydney, so N.S W.
will soon be inundated vuth them, aLd as the Australian
people have to legislate to stop the Chinamen from scann-
ing to Australia, I think it nothing t ut fair to let the white
workman know something cf the character cf these C dies
who are on the swarm to Australia jutt now. These men
come fr -m India to F,ji under engagement to wo-k cn plan-
tations for five years aud to stay ia the cou try another five
years after their time his expired, but by some arrangement
with the Government they can leave sooner. Tncy are awful
liars and pti jarera—so much so, that there is no magistrate
in the country who will be love a word they say. They are
very clever thieve?, and as burglars are thorough tradesmen,
for there is not a store or place worth lobbing on the Resva
River that has not been burgled some thrt eor four tint; s
r ver, and, although at times nearly caught in the act. slid it s
batd to btiog a case home to them, they are so clever.
Murder and murderous assaults are common amonast them,
and the calm, vacant look and “nosavee ' of John Oniuaman
when charged with ‘ n c fie ce is not a circamsta.ee when
compared with a Coolie, who puts up his hands in a suppli-
cating way and pu‘s on a pitiful look, which eloquently
pleads • “ liook nt, po r me ; do I look like a man who would
do such a thing V Should any cf them get anestei, there
is no difficulty in getting evidence to swear anything at all
Yours truly, South Sea Rat. Suva, F.ji, 28th Novem-
ber, 1887.
The ways of Providence are past finding
out, and the tracks of tld Bill Wisdom, cf Kim-
berley, are equally inscrutab’e. When the rush
commenced to the rew flald, Bill was one of those
who followed the stony road to the interior, and
along with him were two wjld-eyed new chum-,
who marched in light cheek pants and astonish-
ment at the strange sights of the da-k Continent.
The open-mouthed bswi’derment of this outlandish
pair amused Bill, and his strong tobacco and
tremendous oaths, aleo his fathomless knowledge
of the ways of th« lccd kangaroo, Ailed them
with a sense of awe. One hot day, the trio
pitched thf ir camp beside a new-made grave on a
branch of the Bow River, and when they had
filled up whh a considerable chunk of the last-
killed wallaby, and Bill had picked his teeih and
blasphemed numerously and lit a pipe that smelt
like the burning Cities of the Plain, they all
strolled over to lack at the last resting-plaie of
the deceased. There was a head-hoard above it
made from the end of a gin-case, and an inscrip-
tion set forth that the dust below was “ sacred to
the memory cf John Kerr, aged 22. died of rheu-
matiz, rest in peace.” The new-chums shed a tear
over the defunct pioneer, andspoke in whispers of
his untimely fate, while Bill fell heavily over the
tombstone and rose cursing, and lay down to smoke
another pipe. When he had mastered his emo-
tion ard swallowed enough nicotine to poison a
horse, he delivered himself thus: ‘Lookey’ere,
I knowed that ’ere Jack Kerr. I knowed the
galoot a dashed long time, and I’m going to dig
ptm up and ’ave a look at him.” The new chums
were horrified. One of tt em tried to exorcise
Bill as if he had been an evil spirit as he dug
frenziedly at the grave, and the other commenced
reciting the burial service, with scraps of the mar-
riage and baptismal seivices interspersed, and a
few remarks suitable for the vi ication of the sick,
also prayers for rain, and the petition for the
Royal family put in here and there when every-
thirg else failed him. But old Bill solemnly
delved away, and when at list he struck the
coffin they formally gave him their curse and re-
tired to a distance. Filled with si’ent horror they
watched the profane William nearly breaking his
back as be hauhd cut a long deal box, and when
ne shivered it open with his pick they asked why
the heavens didn’t fall and crush this loathsome
body-snatcher. Then a wild whoop split the sul-
try atmosphere, Bill’s old felt hat went 20
feet in the air, and the owner turned three
somersaults and a back-spring, and hauled
out a bottle of Dublin stout. “ It’s beer I”
he shouted; “ racred to the memory of beer!
Half a ton of gory likker I Balm in Gilead ain’t
a blessed circumstance to th s! Corn in Ejip
aint nowhere I Whoo op i Come in, ye soft-
headed, prayin’ galoots, an' have a drink !” An
hour later Bill was spread on the desert sands,
clutchiDg a bottle, hat unconscious. Twenty
more diggers came along during the day, and they
also became unconscious, and the two new-chums
did their first drunk—and an awful drunk it was.
After that, Bill religiously disinterred every
buried object he came across, and many a decay-
ing dog and spectral horse he lei to a sudden re
sutreoion. Bat, alas! he found no more beer.
Later on, in Hall’s Gully, he came upon a half-
filled shaft, and, starting to investigate for more
inferred liquor, he brought to light a Swedish
d gger with his head caved in. The German who
had planted him there was afterwards hanged at
Perth, and Bill now holds the opinion that his
keen scent ftr hidden grog is a divine “instink,”
implanted in him that he may bring the wicked to
Justice.
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —Your well-timed
and brilliant idea of celebrating the Centenary of
N.S. Wales by raising a fund to feed, if but for a
few days, the pauper-stricken thousands of Eng-
land, strikes down to the bed-reck of human sym-
pathy, g;od sense, and sound policy, and throws
every other idea into the shade. lam ready with
my mite for the fund, and as an “ Australian ”
shall feel proud to participate in it. Those who
preach Christianity may recognise in it a means
of atonement for bygone sins of omission and com-
mission, and they might treat it as a personal and
national sacrifice that may possibly appease the
demands of justice.—Yours truly, An Aus-
tralian.
The subject of the above sketch, Mr. P. R. Lar-
kin, of the Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 and 780
George-s'raet (South) Sydney, has been a resident
cf the ciry for a period of 25 years, and is row
well kEown i s one of the largest wine and spirit
merchants in New South Wales. Ia the whole-
sale department of hia business the visitor is
amazed at the amount of on hand;
tier alter tier of cases, all containing the best and
choicest wines and spirits, from all parts of the
world, aLd shelves reaching from floor to ceiling
stocked with every known brand from which are
made op Mr Larkin's famous £3 cases. The cel-
lars attached are the largest in the N.S.W. capi-
tal, and the proprietor by way cf celebrating the
cen*enary, has rdded to his hotel one of the
finest select bars in the colony. A first-
class refreshment reem for ladies—in which
tea, coffee, cocoa, milk, cotfectlcnery, pastry, &o
are dispensed-is conduct d in Gipps-street (ad
joinlrg the Prince of Wales), and the elegant
lavatory attached has proved a treat convi n’ence
to the fair sex. In addition to there, Mr L’rk ? n
carries on a ltrge wheksa'e and retail produce
store in G'pps-street, near Ge:rge-stteet, also a
br-mch sti re in the Da lieghurst-road, adjoining
Wi!]i.m- i t et, and in tbesa enterprises, as in a 1
other - vh ch he has urdertaker, his energy and
perseverance have scored a striking success.
Coolalta Vineyard, Hunter River, New
South Wales. Some 20 years ago Mr.
John A Wilkinson, nowoneof the leading vignerons
of New South Wales, laid out alittle plot of five acres
at BraENton —ibe beginning of 1 hi now famous
Coclalta vineyard. The first vintage was ob-
tained in 1869. It) amounted to cask only.
To-day the vineyards cover a very area, and
Ccola'.ta ct liars, in which the wine is stored until
thoroughly matur. d, are a maivelcf s:'zj and con-
venience. 1 he prof rietor of this great enterprire
now po'S sees one of the largest wine business in
New South Wale', and his Bcdega, the first of
these valuable instiiu ims ever known in the
colony, has proved not only a great boon to the
thirBty public, but las alio dote a great service
in advertising the vintages of Australia. The
la ge array of prizes taken by Mr. Wilkin-
son is sufficient testimony to the Quality of the
wines pioduced at Coolalta, and among the solid
evidences of his triumphs maybe mentioned the
Bordeaux silver medal, ga'ned in competition
wi h the great wine-makers of France, Germany,
Portugal, and Spain In the very home of the
wine Indus ry—the Continent where such wines
as Burgundy, Champagne. Hock, Claret, Port,
Shirry, and a thousand o'her prec'.ou3 vintages
have gained a reputation which has become his-
torical -M?. Wilkinson has successfully upheld
the credit of the Australian wine industry, and,
having studied his pro'ession for years in Ger
many, Fiance, a-d Switzerland, he has brought
the knowledge thus acquired to bear on 'he fertile
vineyards of the new continent. The rapid
expansion of his business has led Mr. Wilkin-
son to open numerous Bodegas at which his
splendid wine can be purchased either by the
bottle or the glass at moderate prices. Among
:hese establishment may be menticned the fol-
lowing:—354| George-street, Sydney, 28 Hamiltcm-
s'reet, Sydney, Bondi Aquarium. Maidy Aquarium,
C ogea Aquarium, Blalne-street (Newcastle), &c ,
&c.. &c J. A. WILKINSON, Coolalta Wine
Cellars, 352J George-street, Sydney.*
To squatters and country residents this article is
of viial importance as it brings to your notice one
of the leading and mo it progressive firms trading
in Sydney—that of Messrs. Askew and Co., of 80
Oxford-street, Sydney, who pay particular atten-
tion to your wants, and who will supply jou with
anything you want, from a needle to a threshing
machine, at wholesale price, thus saving you the
profit of the middle-man. The different lines in
which they deal would require pages of The Bul-
letin to enumerate embracing aithey do groceries,
patent medicines, ironmcngery, butcher’s requi-
site 3 , stationary and school supplies, lents, tar-
paulins, and oilskins, saddlery and harness, gar-
den and farm seeds, sporting goods, garden and
farm tools, crockery, glass, and earthenware,
drapery, clothing, and hoisery, cigars, cigarettes,
and tobaccos, agricultural implements, carts,
waggons, and diays, shearing supplies, in fact
anything a s'ation owner or country resident
may require. A full and detailed price-list has
teen got up, containing illustrations of
the various articles which we request our
readers to apply for, as we feel sure it would
be the saving of many sovereigns and no end of
troub e in the course of a year. The firm of
Askew and Co. is steadily increasing the
value of its trade each week, and fur-
nishing fresh tokens of the business ability
of its head. To those of our readers who live in
the interior districts we cheerfully recommend the
firm of Askew and Co., 80 Oxford-street, Sydney,
who will cheerfully furnish you with a price-list
for any article you may want free by post on ap-
plication, and we feel assured that any business
transactions you have with them will be highly
satisfactory and lead to a continuance of your
patronage.*
A BUS SCHOOLBOY.
ATTEMPTS TO BRIBE A NEWSPAPER.
The following letter, written for publication in
the columns of an esteemed contemporary, re-
quires no introductory comments ; but its perusal
is recommended to all fathers In all parts of the
oolony who are anxious te give their sons a fair
tart in life and a feeling of independence whioh
is in itself alone a big handicap in their favour
Sorlongabinjy Station,
November 25, 1887.
The Editor Sorlongabinjy Watchman,
Dear Mr. Newspaper,—
This day month is going to be
Christmas day, and I’ve just come home for my
holidays, and I’m going to leave altogether next
half because father wants me to tail weaners and
keep the store books, and I am just going down
to the Shearer’s Arm? (that's a public house about
two miles off) whera our mail b>g gets d/opped
out of the ccaoh, and I thought I'd write to you
just to ask you to give the tip to a lot of our boys
fathers about Christmas. La c t Christmas I had a
heap cf ftn at home, because I've got a whola
drafting yard full of little brothers and sisteis
lhat believe in San‘ a Claus coming along in the
night and jamming tl ings into their stockings
what they h»ng up on the bed. I know who puls
the things there, but they don’t, and mother said
I was never to let on, and father said he
supposed I thought I was avful smart, but he’d
give me a Christmas-b>x anyhow if I’d take the
grey colt and g tover to Dawson’s place before break-
fast with a letter, and run the mob into the
lower paddock as I came back, and get home before
10 o’clock so as I could look after the irons while him
and J.m was branding. And I did too, and when
Christmas came I went in with father to the town-
ship in the spring-cart and brought out all the
Santa Claus things from the store, and you d lave
laughed if you’d seen them when the kids woke
up and turned all the things out of the stockings
they had hung up ; only poor little Joe, he got
sick because he would tuck all the paint off a
spotted white and black animal the man said was
a horse, only you never saw such a fiddle-headed,
ewe necked f crew in your life. Ac d there was no
present for me that I could see, only when father
says he’ll do a thing he always does I know, for
sometimes he says he’ll kncck seven bells out of
me, and he always dees the knocking if he don’t
get the bells ; but all the same, when I went in-
to breakfast there was something in paper on my
plate, and when I opened it it was a Waterbury
watch in a beautiful blue silk box ; and I was
proud, I can tell you, and I’ve worn it ever since
and everybody always asks me the time, because
they know I’ve always get it right. And after the
holidays there was only another boy had ore )i*e
it, and my word didn't they go together like two
twins all the time, and so when I was leaving I
told all the other boys I’d write to you so that you
cculd tell their fathers that a Waterbuty watch
was the best tMog they wanted for a Christmas
present, because you can keep on wind’ng it up
and you can’t hurt it, and it always keeps better
time than the schoolhouse clock, and you can
time the boys when they are racing or swimming
in the creek, and it makes any boy feel gotd to
have it; and father has taken your paper ever
since I was born, and if you put this letter in all
the boys wi 1 be able to show it to their fitters,
and some cf them will most lively get Wa'er-
burys too, and some of them won't, ai dit will be
all the better for you, because the next lima you
lose your mare I know where she gets to up in the
ridges at the head of the yellow water hole creek,
and 111 run her in for you, and you wc uldn’t And
her if you looked from now till next mustering.
So that’s a bargain, and I must go down the
paddock now and get my horse, or I'll be late
with the ma'-l. So good bye, Mr. New spapsr,
from your obedient,
GEORGE BOXER.
UVEOTTUNTTi MOEGA3ST.
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL HOTEL,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprietr as
JAY'S PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
ST. HILDA.
THIS first ciaisHo’el offers super ior accommoda-
ticnto visitors andJ esidents, beinglnahealthy
and cen f ral poitlcn, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Hilda Railway Station Priva'e suites
ofapar meats. Lad es’draw ng room. Gentlemen’s
smoking-room. Hot and c;ld baths without
extra chatge
LI 8TE R’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
ALFRED LISTER. Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the trave’llng public.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
Fibst-olass Accommodation fob Visitors.
WINKS AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
GiTTEIElSrSIj^LJNriD-
MILLAR carter, AND CO.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office. —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
boTFfTde announcement.
Highest Olsi Prices
Given for a l kinds of
GENTLEMENS’
LEFT 0FF_ CLOTHING.
COUNTRY SENDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
QU1TTENDON Bros.,
Ill RUSSELL STREET,
MELBOURNE.
7ft
ofjSydnet/ % '
JENOLAN CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS,b
516 GEORGE SI between Hunt£RS:*C.P.Q*
PHOTOGRAPHY EXTRAORDINARY.
Vandyck Studio
NEXT GENERAL PO3T OFFICE,
MELBOURNE.
Re Opens Xmas Week.
Advertising Cheats !!!
“ it has become so common to begin an article,
in an elegant, interesting style,
“Then run it into some advertisement that we
avoid all such,
“And s mffly caM at'ention to the merits of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters in as plain, hone.t
terms as possible,
“ To induce people
“ to give them one trial, which so proves their
value that they will never use anything else.”
The Remedy so favorably noticed in all the papers,
Kligioua and secular, is
«> Having a large sale, and supplanting all other medicine.
11 There is no denying the virtues ot the Hop plants, and the
proprietors of Dr. Soup's American Hop Bitters have shown
great shrewdn’ S 3 and ability
“ In compounding a medicine whosa virtues are so pal
pable to every ones observation.
Did She Die?
“ No!
“ She linger, d and suffered along, pining away
all *he time for years.”
“ The doctors doing her no good;
“And at last was cured by this Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters the papers say so much
about.”
“ Indeed ! Indeed 1”
“ How thankful we should be for that medi-
cine.”
A Daughter’s Mise y.
«• Eleven years our daughter suffered on a bed
of misery . ~
“ From a complication of kidney, liver,
rheumatic trouble and Nervous debility,
“ Under the care of the best Physicians,
“ Who gave her disease various names,
“ But no relief,
“ And now she is restored to us in good health
by as sinple a remedy as Ur. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters, teat we had shunned for years
before using it.”— The Parents.
Father is Getting Well.
“ My daughter says:
“ How much better father is since he used
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
‘ He is getting well after hia long suffering
from a disease declared incurable.”
“ And we are so glad tbafc he used your Bittors.
—A Lady of N. Y.


o
PERA HOUSE.
Corner of York and King Streets.
Frank Clark Lessee.
THIS and EVERY EVENING
will be repeated by the
F. M. CLARKS
ALL STAR NOVELTY COMBINATION,
their Great Performance of
SPECIALTY ACTS,
each one of which ii
CHASTE, REFINED, ELEGANT.
You can make NO COMPARISON. We stand
ALONE.
We are the INNOVATORS-Unrivalled, Inimit-
able.
Performance at 8 sharp ; terminates at 10.20
Admission—4s., 35., and Is.
Box plan at Nicho’son's.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
c
RITERION
THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon
THE LYCEUM OF AUSTRALIA.
95th, 95th. and positively 95 h, 95th.
LAST NIGHT
of the
most brilliant and successful
SHAKESPEARIAN SEASON
ever played in Sydney.
ANOTHER GREAT SUCCESS.
W. J. HOCLOWAY'S
GREAT PRODUCTION of SHAKESPEARE’S
MERCHANT MERCHANT
of of
VENICE. VENICE.
The Box Plan at Nicholson's music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning,
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
A STARTLING and HUGE SUCCESS of the
New and Romantic Play,
SIBERIA SIBERIA
SIBERIA SIBERIA.
Priees, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Thbatrb royal
Under the Dlreotlon of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and MusgrOTe.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
BOXING NIGHT
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
or
Harlequin and the King of the Cannibal Islands.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager ... F. E. Hiscocks.
UNPARALLELED SUCCESS
of the great and only MACCABE.
EVERY EVENING,
In his Sparkling Entertainment
BEGONE DULL CARE.
Concluding with
THE MAGIC STATUE.
Prices : 35., 25., and Is. Reserved Seats, 4s.
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
GO WHERE
THE MASSES GO.
TO THE ONLY GRAMU FAVOURITE RESORT
FjR PLEASURABLE PASTIME.
And BEHOLD OUR IMMENSE SUCCESS IN
OUR THIRD YEAR.
A never-ending change of
NEW ACTS! NEW FACES! NEW
SPECIALTIES.
MIRTH, MERRIMEN l\ and POLITY.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
JOCKEY CLUB.
BOXING DAY. BOXING DAY.
MIDSUMMER RACE MEETING.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1887,
to be held at
RANDWICK RACECOURSE.
Patron—HlS EXCELLENCY the RIGHT
HONOURABLE BARON CARINGTON.
Under the Management of the
COMMITTEE OF THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY
CLUB.
PROGRAMME :
To be started at 12.30 p m , the FLYING HANDI-
CAP of 20030V5. 63 Nominations.
To be started at 1.15 p.m., the DECEMBER
STAKES of 500 Sova. 17 Acceptances.
LUNCHEON*.
To be started at 2.30 p.m., the HURDLE RACE
of 150 Soys. 11 Nominations.
To be started at 3.15 p.m., the SELLING PLATE
of 150 Sova. 26 Nominations.
To be started at 1 p.m., the SUMMER CUP of
500 Sovs. 31 Acceptances.
To be started at 1 15. p m., the Nursery Handicap
of 200 Sova. 32 Nominations.
To be started at 5.30. p.m., the A. J. C. HANDI-
CAP of 200 Sova. 1L Nominations.
NINETEEN HUNDRED POUNDS STERLING
ADDED MONEY.
LICENSED VEHICLES WILL NOT be allowed
to CROSS the COURSE ; and all Hansoms, Cabs,
and Vans having been driven into the Grounds,
and the passengers delivered, muse be placed and
kept at the station provided for them, and the
Horses tied up in the horse-paddock. Note—
This regulation will be strictly enforced.
SPECIAL AND IMPORTANT NOTICE.—No
person or persons will be allowed on the Course
Proper at any time. The St. Leger Reserve can
only be entered by the Back Gates
Please to read the following IMPORTANT
NOTICE All Visitors to the Randwick Race-
course are hereby requested to take not’ce, that
for the future no person will be allowed to Tress-
pass on the Course Proper at any Time.
SADDLING-PADDOCK TICKETS can be pur-
chased at MEYERS and CO’S., Tooacconists,
King-street, or NICHOLSON and CO’S., Music
Sc lars, Gsorge and Kmg streets, on the Day of
Racing, and at the COURSE as usual.
T. S CLIsBORN,
Secretary, A J. C.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
“AUSTRALIA’S” GRAND CONSULTATION.
SUMMER CUP, Monday, Daoember 26, 1888.
3000 subs, at £1 each. First Horse, £l5OO :
Second Horse, £6OO ; Third Horse, 300 ; Starters,
£3OO ; Non-Starters, £3OO To be divided amongst
them.
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP, January 26, 1888.
5000 subs, at £1 each. First Horse, £2500 ;
Second Horse, £1000; Third Horse, £5OO. Starters,
£500; Non-Starters, £5OO. To be divided amongst
them. Subscribers are requested to apply early
that the fortunate drawers of horses may have
time to hedge. Persons making application for
Tickets are requested to register all letters to en-
sure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes for reply and result.
Address: “ Australia,” care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconist, Victoria Cigar
Divan, 315 J George-street, Sydney.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr, Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Direotor.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Manager ... Alfred Wyburd.
SUMMER HILL BICYCLE CLUB.
First Annual Race Meeting—Saturday, Deo.
17. To be held by Electric Light. Com-
mencing at 7 p.m.
PROGRAMME.
(Under the sanction of the N.S.W. Cyclists' Union.)
One Mile Maiden Bicycle Race (to be ridden on
roadsters, minimum weight 351b).—First prize,
value 5 guineas ; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas.
One Mile Open Handicap.—lst prize, value 7
guineas ; 2nd, 5 guineas ; 3rd, 3 guineas. Half-
mile 2nd class Scratch Race.—lst prize, value 5
guineas ; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. One
Mile Club Handicap (open to members of Summer
Hill B.C. only).—lst prize, 5 guineas: 2nd, 3
guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas, i 10yds. Foot Race (open
to all amateurs).—lst prize, value 5 guineas ; 2nd
3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. Entrance Fee for each
event, 2s. 6d. E. NICHOLLS, Hon. Sec.
(>| RAND CENTENNIAL INTERCOLONIAL
JT EXHIBITION.
To ba held by
THE AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES,
AT MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
from January 24 to January 31, 1888.
ENTRIES in all Sections CLOSE on SATURDAY,
JANU ARY 7, at 4 p.m. £5OOO IN PRIZES.
There being s’me SEVEN HUNDRED (700)
FIRST PRIZES in the List, exclsive of all
CHAMPION PRIZES, and Seconds.
For Advanca Condensed friz a Schedule see
“Town and Country Journal” of December 10.
“ Sydney Mail ”of December 10. “ Tribune ”of
December 16. Complete Schedule (in pamphlet
form) giving full inf rnoation, may be obtained
from the various Agricultural Societies through
out the colony, and from the SECRETARY,
Hunter street. JUDGING DAY—TUESDAY,
JANUARY 24. Grand Opening Ceremonial by
His Excel’enoy, Lord Carington, on WEDNES-
DAY, JANUARY 25, at Noon, Various Line * of
Coasting and Intercolonial Steamers have agr< ed
to carry exhibits to and fro on payment of freight
one way, and the council hope to obtain from the
Government Special Concessions on Rali Carriage of
Exhibits and Visitor's Rail fares. Exhibits bred
or produced in Australia will be in Competition
for Centennial Special and Champion Prizes, also
for the Regular Schedule prizes.
ADMISSION—Members Free on Presentation
of Ticket. Judging Day—Non-Members, 2s. 6’. ;
Children, Is. All other Days—Non-Members, is.;
Children, 6d.
The EXHIBITION will be Open at 11 a.m., and
CLOSE at 5 p.m. Each Day.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Tattersall's Buildings, Hunter-steeet, Sydney.
ƒgƒ
COOGEE AQUARIUM
AND
SWIMMING BATHS,
GRAND OPENING DAY,
FRIDAY NEXT,
December 23rd, 1887, at 3 o’clock.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE
OP
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD C^RINGTON.
Ashfield recreation grounds
and GARDEN PALACE.
Manager Alfred Wyburd.
SUMMER HILL ELECTRIC LIGHT BICYCLE
SPORTS, SATURDAY NEXT, DEC. 17th.
GIGANTIC PROGRAMME.
FIVE EVENTS,
Commencing at 7 p.m. sharp.
The FIRST BICYCLE SPORTS ever held by
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
Electrical Engineers—KlßKLAND & Co.
GRAND ILLUMINATION OF GROUNDS.
MONSTER DISPLAY OF 10,000 LIGHTS,
by Mr. J. PAIN.
GRAND OPENING of the NEW GARDEN
PALACE
The Largest and Finest SKATING FLOOR
in N.S.W. (specially constructed on
the new American principle).
GRAND SKATING CARNIVAL by ELECTRIC
LIGHT.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR CONCERT.
NAVAL VOLUNTEER ARTILLERY BAND.
By Special Permission. 10 PERFORMERS 10.
PAIN’S GRAND DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS
PAIN’S GRAND DI3PLAY OF FIREWORKS.
The Largest F6te ever witnessed in the Colonies.
Trains run from Redfern Station every few
minutes.
’Buses direct from Sydney to Ashfield.
’Buses meet every train at Ashfield,
Admission—Grounds, Grand Stand, and Garden
Palace, 2s. 6d.; Grounds, Is.; Children, half-price.
E. NICHOLLS, Hon. Sec.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reaoh of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, nr yoo miss Foley’s you
Have not seen the city.
i/TASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
KJL HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings i—The “Western Cham-
ion" says: “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
l «sonlo to my western friends.’
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Ana ati GUVS'! B PIKRT.
JUST IMPORTED,
500 CRICKET BATS,
lAlfi PQpTt
I KJ CCL U II ,
Lest and Cheapest
in the Market.
All-cane spliced Handles in 16 pieces,
TENNIS RACQUETS, BALLS, &c,
Equally Cheap and Good.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George St., Hunter St, Sydney.
ITtgh-class Dentistry
at Reform Prices
iARTIFICIALTEETH
feQiyiPLETEsrt
& LOVVf^.I
O .% -°' •
MARSHALL BRO*
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas daily at 11.
'qrcUjreJ qV v C>
LARENTc*fe;
MELBOURNE
nb M e LAREN&C°are
MANUFACTURERS. NOT DEALER!
M c LARENS
nale'nf ( rrm/cned Mutter Su/e
fund ffu/er Cooler n u nru atttd
yrtcurt dJf/- & tyvic/urtt)
ROW’S
lion
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the auantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, Ootober 30 1886.
Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anellon Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Bead an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, Indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
I
gf
IBM
illiaii
3/6
JOSEPHSOire OINTMENT,
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New Sou’ll Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WI'O WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relievo you ?
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &0.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROWS
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
I, GEORGS HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water
and I hope others suffering from the same com-
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
«< i o, , 215 Pitt-street.
Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, before
me,
“ (Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.”
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANE’S
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW. ROW and COMPANY.


SMOKE AND CHEW
m ni m
TOBACCO.
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
G
AR My
&
NAV^
E
cur TOBACCO?.
On receipt of P. O. Order for £1 Is. we will
immediately forward 31bs. VULCAN MIXTURE
in lib Packets, noted for its fine flavour, together
with "a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE in
case. And a nice TOB ACCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS' CHRISTMAS BOX,
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MEERCHAUM PIPE,
and
lib finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the colony upon receipt of
P. O. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us, and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. 6d.
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-stieeb, and you will find we
have the largest and best assortment)
TOBACCOS. CIGARS. PIPES, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MATCH BOXES,
and
All other artioles apertaining to the trade.
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKS.
COME,
If only to inspect these. We have almost every
kind of stick obtainable, from the
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying in price from 6d. to £1 Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line
We can furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUTTING COMB
to
an American, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We recommendsyou to send for one of our razors,
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
for
HAIRDRESSERS.
N B —Hair made up in any design,
LOWEST PRICES, WITH DESPATCH.
nut in aitkbi,
Tobacconists’ and Hairdressers
Sundryinen,
680 .& 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
CU T THE ADDRESS OUT.
ADVERTISING CHEATS.
It has become so common to write the beginning of an
elegant, interesting article, and then run it into some
advertisement, that we avoid all such cheats, and simply
call attention to the merits of Dr. Soule a American -Hop
Bitters in as plain honest terms as possible, to induce people
to give them one trial, as no one who knows their value wi
ever use anything else. Providence Advertiser.
The “ Moldacot." The sales of this wonderful pocket lock
stitch Sewing machine, have been enormous, since their
introduction in this cc lony, and no wonder for such a per-
fect mechanism. Call and see it, next Paling 8 George-
street.*
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica and
other analogous affections should try Freemans Original
Chlorodyne, a medicine that has, since its introduction in
1844, been employeu on a very large scale bo h by the
Medical Profession and the Public in every part cf the
habitable Globe, with unvaried succes. Since its introduc-
tion into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman s
Chlorodyne has been considerably enhanced, and is now re-
garded as the’most efficient and valuable medicina that has
ever been introduced into the Colony. The Profession pre-
scribeit; Missionaries prefer and use Freeman s Chlorodyne,
and people leaving any of the principal ports for the interior
invariably take a sufficient supply to last them a twelve-
month.—Sold everywhere throughout the polonies. Insist
upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they
are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant *
Tattersall's Monster Consultations.—Rosehill Handicap,
run November 12, 2000 subs, at 205.; also, Sir Joseph Banks
13th Grand Handicap, 5000 subs, at 20s. each, now open, and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt
street.*
Consumption, Wasting Diseases and General
Dpi'.itiiy—Doctors disigree as to the relative value if
( I nd Liver Oil and Hypophcsphites: —the one supplying
strength and flesh, the other giving nerve ) ower and actmg
as a tonic to the digestive and entire system. But in
“Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cop eiver oil wiiu
Hvro phosphites” the two are combined, and the effect is
wnYderfal Thousands who have derived no permanent
benefit from other preparations have been cured .by this,
Scott's Emulsion is perfectly paUtable and ‘ a ,
digested even by those who cannot tolerate P' Bl Jive
Oil. Sold by all ChemistSi two s zes, large and small.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XH
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XMAS.
ZONK,
XMAS. XMAS.
fJIHE TORRID
VERY CALORIC.
XMAS. XMAS.
Wearenowgoing tosettledowntoour
steady warmsummerwea* her. Bepre
paredno wif youwant adres sinahurry and
can’t wait to haveitmade. Seeour
thousanandone costumes oneofwhich
issureto fltyonwell orwithalittlealtera
tion PERFECTLY WELL. Nowlistento
this Wehavethousandsof SatinMerveil
leuxDresses inthelatestFrenchstyles;
also boatingandt enni s oostumes ineve ry
variety blaoklaceskirtsat 13s. 6d.; just
fancy (seethem )
AlsoLibertySDk Costnmesinthe new
Eucalyptaand Goblinshades. Twine
lace costumes in the new Heliotrope
shades; alsotwiuecoloredtrimmedwith
brown Indian silk. Frenchmadeplain
coloredcashmeres, Black Merveillexand
BrochACostumes (verycool) trimmed
lacewitbjetpanels, fourguineasa very
nice Xmas. present. Zephyrandprint
coatumesfroml2s.6d. (yestwelveandsix
foradress )
XMAS. XMAS.
NOTICETOSTRANGERS.— Ourplace
of businessisin PITT-Si REETin the
midstof allthefashionable andcrushof
peopleyet thereislots of roomin ourplace
of business (becauseitls builtlike
Noah’s Ark.) Find Kingstreetand
thenaskfor Hordern’sinPiPstreet. Any
onewilltell youwhereitis.
HOR DERNBROTH E RS,
203to211PITT-STREftT(ONLY).
NO W H KREELSE.
XMAS. XMAS. XMAS.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXAxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXY AXXXXXXXXX XX
rj>ENT3,
TARPAULINS, AND WATER-
PROOF COVERS.
Order'of the Manufacturer,
GEORGE BUCKHAM,
287 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
Best goods in Victoria.
Marquees and Tents on hire.
CHANGING THE NAME OF THE COLONY
IT ORIGINATED IN A DREAM.
The poor old man in a disturbed state of mind
rushed to a Sydney Gypsy Queen to have his
future told. “I see,” said the medium, con-
tracting her eyebrows and turning her toes in,
snatching his hand at the same time —‘ I see you
have been drtaming of a new name for this colony.
“ Ye»,” said the sitter, indicating that he had a
name. “ Yes, I see it,” said the medium.
“Australia. That name seems to have given you
a great deal of trouble.” “It has ” * The name
has been on your b aiu some time.” It has,
he said, stupidly. “ And leading you to do things
you are sorry for.” “My word 1" “Your in-
fluence in trying to make your friends and the
public swallow such a dose is bad.
discovered it” “ Youwere having serious trouble
over it.’> “Right you are.” “You have dis-
covered the great mistake.” “I have indeed.
“ When you leave me go home and take a three
days’ sleep. That will give the public a rest.
“ Now,” said the old man, as he got up to go,
“ what’s in a name 1 ” “A great deal,” said the
medium, as she opened one eye and blew her nose.
“I will prove it. Take this piece of P a P®E»
handing it to him in exchange for her fee. Do
notread it,” she said, ‘ un'il you get home.
When he reached home he lit one of Phin, Ihomp-
ton’s best cigars and read the name out in full.
Anheuser-Busch St. Louis Lager Beer.
A LOSING JOKE.
A prominent physician of Pittsburg s lid jokingly to a lad
patient who was complaining of her continued ill-health, ana
of his inability to cure her. “Try Dr. Soule s Amcrijaii Hop
Bitters 1” The lady took it in earnest, and used the'Bitters,
from which she obtained permanent health She now laughs
at the doctor for his joke, but he is not so well pleased with
it, as it cost him a g od patient. Harrisburg Patriot.
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
GBD.GBD.GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintain* it* Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Baware of Sptu ioas Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231, CLARENOE-STREET.
GfrßD. QBB.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipmen coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33- EUGENE’S
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
As the moat central and well appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address —
96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPiOVMEIT AGENCY
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Miaeing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable in'
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street,
BRISBANE.
T 0
fgf
r tub
KRGEST
!*, in the (olony
7R R
ƒg
A3NGAS
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
mHB most elevated and central position In Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
_L Courts, Maoquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies' Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel Is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication, Telegraphio office in Hotel.
The Hotel ow under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by eareful atten
turn to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Homs for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.
Lawler’s Centennial Prize Gifts in
Hard Cash.
Ist. GIFT, £5O Cash.
2nd. GIFT, £2O Cash.
3rd. GIF f, £l5 Cash.
4th. GIF P, £lO Cash.
sth. GIFT, £5 Cash.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
These sums,
less 10 per cent,
will be paid to
the winners,
the 10 per cent,
going to the
Industrial
Blind Insti-
tute, Boomer-
ang-street, one
ot whose in-
mates will
draw dupli-
cates in the
presence of
several well-
known citizens
101. GIFT. £50
2116. GIFT. 820
3rd. GIFT, £15
1th. GIFT, £10
5th. GIFT. £6
BUY FREELY FROM BUY FREELY FROM
TO-DAY OUT. TO DaY OUT.
AT
LAWLER ’8
FIRST CHRISTMAS AND CENTENNIAL
CARNIVAL
in the
NEW EMPORIUM, 608 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Country customers -will reap the benefit as well
as city customers, because they can write for the
ILLUSTRATED Catalogue, containing BOOTS,
CLOTHES, CARPETS, LADIES UNDER-
CLOTHING, IRONMONGERY and GLASS and
CHINA WARE, BEDSTEADS, FURNITURE, &j.
let. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Grateful for
the share of
support accor-
ded them since
the NEW
CENTRAL
was opened,
LAWLERS
have deter-
tnined to sig-
nal is e the
months of DE-
CEMBER and
JANUARY by
giving away
these gifts to
those who pur
chase.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
5,h. GIFT, £5
And in addition to these Gifts, which may £.ll
to you my bind reader, bear this important fact
in mind, LAWLER'S extraordinary OCTOBER
sale prices will apply in every department
throughout the house.
13!). GIFT, £50
2nd. GIFT. £20
31d. GIFT, £15
4th. GIFT, £10
5th. GIFT, £5
Ye 3, in ad-
dition to these
gifts you have
the wonderful
bargain prioes
of October.
The prices that
set SYDNEY
by the ears,
and doubled (
LAWLER’S
business in a
bound.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2ad. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Every PURCHASER -will have an Equal In-
terest The little girl who buys a thimble. The
housewife who buys a cup and saucer, or a knife
and fork. The young man who buys a pair of boots.
The youth, man, or boy, who buys a suit of clothes.
The lady buyiDg corsets or mo;qui to-met curtains.
The couple famishing.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
5,h. GIFT, £5
ALL, ALL,
ALL will re-
ceive a num-
bered invoice
which they
wi'l please
preserve until
January 31,
1888. It will
be upon the
production o f
the numbered
bill or invoice
that the money
will be given.
ls*\ GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, 15£
4tb. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
BUY YOUR BOOTS AND bHOES WHERE YOU
WILL STAND TO GET A £5O NOTE
THROWN INTO OHS BARGAIN.
Buy your CLOTBING Men where you will get
a pocket-liner in the ehape of a £s© NO TK.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £!G
sth. GIFT, £5
Bay your
UNDER-
CLOTHING
Ladies, at
LAWLER'S
during D?cem-
ber and Janu-
ary. Get all
j our drapery
and other
wants, and
have several
interests.
let. em. £50
2nd. Gwr. £20
3:11. am, as
4th, Gm'r. £10
5m. GIFT. £5
A snug sweet £5O, ladies. There’s a lot in that.
Fornishat LAWLER S, andgetyour Carpetsthe e,
Farni shat LAWLER'S, andgetyour Bedding there.-
Furnish at LAWLER'S, and get jour Ironmon-
gery there.
Fnrnishat L AWLER’S, and get your Curtain there.
If you are in the country you can furnish through
the Catalogue as well as if in person in Sydney.
E A.CH PURCHASE gives an EXTRA INTEREST.-
LAWLER’S Emporium prices during the
“ October ” Sale were the talk of Sydney and the
wonder of the trade. During DECEMBER and
JANUARY those Marvelous prices will apply.
£5O in the itching portion of a man’s palm is
an exoitlng pinch of snuff. IT CAN BE YOURS,
ave as certain as the sun shines bright to-day,
because YOUR RIGHTS ARK CO EQUAL with
the other purchasers.
CALL OR WRITE. CALL OR WRITE.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
Xj a ■w lei’s.


w tipTFF
ROYAL
PSWttl
■TT.
lUTU.Y ESS
MSJsM
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
jreasb, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of Its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains Its full
Strength In any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists.
Mid by the leading physicians and hygienists of
Amerloa, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
P. Efc. IjARKIM,
WHLOB9ALB AND RETAKE
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS '
3 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
3 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Rum
1 Bottle Cld Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3.
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George- street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WAUICH BROS.’
JSTBJW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AKD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH DEICE LIST, FEES CM APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS
VENI, VIDI Via\
niuunifiT
For Arolstio Posing and Effective Llghtlrg,
combining softness and brilliancy, th*
Photographs of
ft CP-
ROYAL ARCADE,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALONE
GO THOU AND DO LIKEWISE I
SUMMER, with its heat, dnst and depreuini
effects, is on us, and one of the great* at luxuriei
we may a delightfully cool and refreshing
bath, made more luxurious by the addition of a
little “Sea Foam Shampoo." Follow the directions
and you will find it a most beneficial and health-
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will cleanße th«
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them delightfullj
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, &0., of the
head, and has the endorsement of the highest
medical authorities. The words “Sea Foam
Shampoo" are registered, and any counterfeit oi
imitation of same will be prosecuted to tl e full
extent of the law. Sold by all ohemlfrt* and
dealers in toilet articles at the low price of ons
shilling per packet. Pleaße try one package, let
will never regret it
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Lioensed Hocss le
Rockhampton for holding Theatric! it
other Entertainments, and oan be engage f tat
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee
The Wonher of the Age.
COLEMAN and Sons, Cootamnndra, vrers
awarded First Prize at the Adelaide Exhibi’
tion for their PURE VOLATILE EUCALYPTI
OIL. The only known cure for Asthma and all
affections of the chest. We have more bona-fidi
testimonials than any medicine before the publlCi
This is a genuine article. Posted to any addretl
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d,
Agents, Hoffnung & Co. ; Elliott Bros. Drng Co.
T. F. WIESENER,
334 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATCHES, Jewellery, Instruments for Christmas presents. Watches for ladies, gentlemen, and boys, at all prices. Jewellery, the latest styles and designs in gold and silver
at very low prices indeed (quality being in all cases guaranteed). Opera and Field Glasses, Drawing room Clocks, Th nmometers and Barometers. For professional gentle-
men, Microscopes, Mathematical Instruments in presentation cases, Telescopes, &c. For Boys studiously inclined, similar iif r iments at moderate prices (always in stock) make a
capital present, and lead their tastes into good, and keep them out of bad channels. Buy from the Manufacturer and dir c; Importer, and save middlemen’s profit. The old-
established name is sufficient guarantee for quality and good value. Please remember WIESENER’S Steam Factory and Sh p— 1
334 GEORGE STREET, S'X DNET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nicksl-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c,
Braaa and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Copperamithlng, Blaoksmlthlng, Plumbing,
Gaafltotdng, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and "PAN" OLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER*
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
■ole Agents fer Verity Brea., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Van Cewla, las Vfirea, Beaters,
Warmers, Ae,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Pamiculam and Pnioa on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and CO.
130 COLLINS-STREET, WEST,
Melbourne,
91 PITT-STREBT,
Sydney.
BREWERS and -#>ated Water Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on Brewing and Cordial
r, u u T !l a Boh ® mlan H °P Extract. Dr. Griefendorffs Bohemian Hop Bitters.
Griefendorff s Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorff s Quinine Wine. Utica and Munchen Hod
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignozote for lining vats
Ammonia Finings - Thermometers, Saccharometers, Microscopes.
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale. Hod Bitters
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application. ’
Publishing Office of
THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND SPIRIT
TRADE REVIEW.”
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE.”
READ
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“Australian Land Nationalise!*.”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
JOHIT PiiEEELL.
IT Is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales, It
object is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform—to d»
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart'
should get it, and induce others to do so.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND FOR SPECIMEN COPIES,
BEACWSFIELD HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. 3£ILDA, Melbourne.
ill
V,
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition [First
Prize Gold Medal.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
E3DI N BUEGH.
R. CUNYNGHAMB, Bond-street, Sydney.
in bulk
i
and oase.
Best BEER
In the Market,
s
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
Taylorßr
HiQKi-V NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
9t 0B T A- 'NFO.W ÜBELIEQTINB OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT ?H* €0!L«.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BEI&HTON OE 2ST_S_W_
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &c are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country •
here also you can have good company, good wines-in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi»
comfort able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MRS. KILMtNSTBR, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,


POGONOWSKI,
705 GEORGE STREET,
E"Z\
REDUOTIONS DURING CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.
CONCERTINAS—4s. Gd., ss. 6d., 7s , Bs. 6d. ; Anglos, 33s , 385., £4, £4 ss.
English £4 10s. to £6 10s. ; Steel > otes, £ll 10s.
ACCORDEONS—7s., 9s. Gd , 12s. Gd., 155.; tteel Notes, 235., 275., 375.
VIOLINS—7s. 6d, 12s. Gd , 15s 6d ; with case, 25s , 35s ,to £7 10s.
CORNETS—£2 25., £2 15s ; Water Key, £4 ; Courtois, £lO 10s
BANJOES—Ss. Gd ,to £9 FLUTES—Is. Gd to £5 5s
PY POST.
i:
*
ƒf
• *J
0
705
Note the address :
GEORGE STREET.
(Opposite Anthony Hordern and Sons.)
. 4 "«O:'>“; ﬁlé' k-V ‘
..r/ﬂ n": .77;- , //:.-
.asr- v ‘ g€%*~;grz mjﬁ
w,‘ c; Hz“, .J ~‘J‘1-32'
WWW // » a
ligg‘yff“ M" W I/«k‘o/éﬁﬁ'iié'séa 12:3» CW
WW Ha? I / MAW/[e 14* "rﬁwég‘gﬁh a
”14"1‘Q‘v‘!’ “‘ {Kw [71‘1“ ”WA/1‘3“ CH4 1.)“ “WP-ME}
"car-s". ’ vs; 1 “"t‘in-r‘k-‘t‘; ’m ‘ .1 I
“2» :33 , ' ‘ \‘ xx Wm?“
‘16.; “’3‘“va ‘(M 1.2:.» ~
- -' ‘. _.\' -;
WOLFES CH NAPPSIA
THE NEW NAME FOR N.SW. IN HONOUR OF ITS OLD
ESTABLISHED AND UNIVERSALLY CONSUMED LIQUOR
FSRST IMPORTED BY CaPTAInCOOK
iJbuL
- 1 :lP
si
k
"TS’-Tn
as
££s3*2
emL
r pr;
msk*
• •S',
P
a rfte
aBssjssEateßs=
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
:s§fS24ss
f?SVA
© l Fes
SC H NAPftS] J|p\.
ft*
wftße i- «:
#
e
"0
a
At. A
m
I
u
w


MelißJJf BBOS., BIGG ft 0^
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
til GEORGE STREET, BTDNBY,
‘;jr i- V :k,
j/jyfi
1 REG 1 ?
i
SPECIALITIES I
Unli' Sewing X&cUne, isbestos fire-proof Faint, llbo token Light
ELECTROPLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS?
■AS COOKING STOVES i—LKONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS ft WALKER S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, ICC., fcC,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
wjlntod nr every house,
KRUSES
EFFECTUALLY destroys
ALLNOXiOUS INSECTS
FLCAS Fl»£S BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES 4 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMIESSTGBIROS DOGS/"'
FOALS or other
animals
/*r
/¥
jy
>6 :.
%. .
ylk...
V C ,
*<^X
; <r A \Va%
IrX
YL ?/ v ' ,';•
w/v
\ A >A
\V^A\
V<s, °«°cW
soir
jntins
•rAItCHLKISTs
AND STOStFCtMR'i
FELTON*G Rl MW A P ELL C 0
- MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Afk for KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE, and Beware o]
, *.the numerous imitations.
A LOVELY SKIN,
beautiful complexion. *o IV, smooth and delicate nock, face, hand* and arms can "beet, be obtain**
by discarding all t«uh»i and'r-’asy c<-emetics-and cheap waps, which, reel Mbs allowed t*
remain on the akin cannot possibly hare any good Off'-at on it, find by Being
Office
•.! ?. soothing, aui eg ; pa alien for the face, hands and anas of all
as posed to the heat and d . tot summer or th-.- <■ Jd aal damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
tan, sunburn, stings, rations -*:.d roughness of the skin caused by cold Winds ortho use of hard
W»t«f, rehidres pimples, u. 13. • rilblafoe, -ezrana, <te., telie.re inflammation,
burns, scalds, untamed or s, aiol render* a chipped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
| -* it. ..ayH.all irritation and tendernesi| of the shift,
ft is warranted free from any Iced or miners* UhircxlFents, can be used With impunity 011 the
skin, of the most dellcsue ia«ly or child, ■ ■ * ' . .. ,
is. Bd: and to. «d. per bottle; bottles of haU the usual -
Hisf) 2s 3(1
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes tbs growth of the had, and
df alr. j sold tea golden colour for far -h lira! peOpM,
ROWLAND 000# * 0 wh ! ten* the teeth, jgawent* decay, and dm *
Blear; t-g fragrance, t- tl :>* Art- anywhere foe fiOWuKDI articles of ', rUtto#
Garden, London, arid aroi ■ •• ■ worth' imitation*.
Whoietmi- and Retail Ajjeofite-ELUOTT all H BOfismi f (Jo., Sydaef,
*
*
X. WILLIAMS * oo.;
IMPORTBRS OF
British A Fobihmt Boots & Show ;
Alio Ifanntaetnrers of <
Tea Forms QoAtm os atooDg m ms asqvr Lww,
278 and 412 Ueorge-st., Sydney,
1
SODA WATER.
■arEtJSi
575111 Ml Watir Ca.,
tl OHtJROS RILL, SYDNEY,
r Perfect Porter Guaranteed,
FIEE
PRESCRIPTIONS are bo
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFK," for the epeedy cure of Nearvoua De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
hook will be eent free, sealed, lot six penny
stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO„
Sydney Pharmacy,
78 Hunter-street, Sydney,
mSB BAKE OF NEW 4XJ.
X Storey Branched
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET,
Paid-up Capital M ... £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... m m 606,006
The Bank has Agents in all the principal dtie.
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and O LNADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
rial and Travellers Letters of Credit.,
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, ab rata i watch can be ascertained on
application,
N F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager
~'~k WONDERFUL MEDICINE. '
BEECHAM’S PILLS
AbatentS\
111 PILLS - /!/
fulness and swelling,
after meal*, diiriness
and drowsiness, cold
ehilJ#, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness.scurvy, blotches on
the skin .disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and alt
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The first
dose will give relief in
wirvves. T’i* r -.c sctinn, f-.u they her*
Anns it in thousand*' of cases, Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of thee* Pills, and
they win b* acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
M a few dotes of theta carry oft all gross humours,
open all obstrdetions, and bring about all that, is
required. No female should be without them. There
la me medicine to be found to equal BBBCHAM’B
POLLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
ef the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak, stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and •
few doses will be found so work wonders Upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore th
long-lost complexion, bring hack the then edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are ‘'PACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of. society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pilla have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world,
BEECHAJI’S MAGIC COUGH FILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac,, these
Pilla stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try Or* Box
to prove that they are the best ever of rred to the
SibHe for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
oarceness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
c? breathing which nightly deprive thepat t-nt of rest.
’They fp re almost instant relief and comfort to those
Afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected,'dangerous complaints, Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaint* give *»» <>ox> ;r'ff
Ooue* Pirns a trial.
Th# most violent Cough will in a -short ©me be
removed.
Ohjtio».—The public are .requested to notice-that
the words M Bexckiii’s Pii.us, St. Helens," are-on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery. ,
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proj arietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Btelens,
Lancashire. England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
•aob.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
H.B.—Full directions are given With each boa.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THK above Is one of the oldest Family anf
Bquattlng Hotels In the colony. Price;
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation, Hot and Gold Bathe.
Mrs. W, OOMPIGNK, kToprietrOse.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others tor its lasting anti natural
.. fragrance.
Tan*! Goto M*r*ts-~ '
PApIS.IB7B, CALCUTTA, IBM,
f» nre-est&rat excellence of quality.
Atkiiivon’s New o»t Perfumes
A ■
ftif of r re and t. .'tgrauce, «no being
reassured can be obtained only of the
Jnrentors or then Agenta.
odour. It far surpasses the numerous com
pounds sold under the same name
kerchief distilled from the choicest exotica.
Of ell Dtaltrt, and of tht ilanvfat.tv.rtr*—
i. A B v ATKINSON,
M, Oib Bonfi STaxmr, Lon non.
Trade Mark—"'White Rose on " Golden
Xjrt. M
Everybody lP1?M1? T T ’ C
SHOULD USE/ 1 ]U Jll JCi JU ii R
EXTRA SUPERFINE
3T Xj O TJ S 3 I
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
N*w Pnooass MACHinon*,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FbO TJ B MXl* U
•II Geosh?Mwnnste, fl*«*a*
Guinnass’ Extra
FIRST QUALITY.
BOLE ITJRVITOE3 te li
CGKGKIAX ASS* XRIM4S E7JGSL’ . -
By Special AppchsUnmti
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN. JBRSSTfeIi %■ CD.,
Otvßnthi ttsmim, Be® L **n Sydney.
~ G. £ r IEVENSON
Has On Sale-*-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS CASKS VATS,
RUM, SHERRY. & WHISKY PUNCHi INS
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &«.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET.
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDKRA, N.S W.
First-class Family and Ccfnmercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bub meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
I
Good Sample Rooejp.
f> OBE R T BUTCHER St VO.
4; Havu Removed their Wholesile Win wd
Spirit Business to
■
(Between Bathurst and Liver ?00l c ’ et !’ ,
WINKS, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and ofltfVw
Bond, at LOWEST RITJBS.
PALACE HOTEL
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
f, CRAMP, PnavaiKTOß (late of Red *h ■ to*J>
CONDUCTED on the srnxie urtwnp-s the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. . A Y* »
irgo Billiard Beam. ...
Mens aa follows! 1— ijs. per diem, All meals IS, M.
E
P
H
B
I
A
AsffiMA.BRONCHITIS'. COUGHS
r?
j.NO All. CHEST AfHECTIONS
PPicPARE-O- ONLY HY (
,'®jThpoMas Insham. ;
E o'£ k h A M r TO r<
p
I
H
ft
THE MOST WELCOME DISCOVERY
Of Modern Times, A Cure for Pulmonary
CONSUMPTION.
mo the Conßumpfclvo, and all who antfer fwn
JL 1 asthma, bronchitis, oough», colds, L »»* , f -
huge, and all a/fOctlons of the lungs, lndJgeatic .
and dif>oasae of the liver and kidneys, this qotbw
Is of vital ipipSHaace, for Ibis remedy is genuine,
havltg curod, ar d la chrirg, tho meat eittbborn
oases of the above diseasts. i
The afflicted. need have no feat of in, and uji'r*>
not regard this notice as the ordinary advertisement
preparation are Cleaning and healing, c#t os eaey
"
■hrough the blood, promotes dig- tK ' t! i
aids the stomach to digest and m • . nourinlv
Ing food foi the for £*i " *
to repair diseased- tissues, and maintain t * vh«»
powers. References and r j *'• a;i >< »v
oo: ning it given on applicat
The Consumption Cur m *!' 0> k •eeculowh ,
Also ST. VITUS’ DAN<> perfectly cured within
eighty-four hours.
The above are obtain"'b' only from
Wiuiam Ford uad ( -mi any., o>'d»w,4 An- i alu*
street, Newtown, S-duey.
f>‘RIDCES
FOOD
pm ffIFANTS and INVALIDS
CRLB2TK2E*S np3CAL«pOT?iaCL^
m HTML IMMEIT US LAID MS HUT SOCIETY,
250 PITT STREET.
Fixed Deposits received at beßt Current Bates, 0 per cent being allowed tor r. r ’
She biwriD®** of IhU Society has h arfold Id two. yw
..tJT ODD; IVi .a tv a t-t.,.


18
%
GUINEA A BOX.
*7
'S'
V
7
t:
x
w
"JTH EY (w-invaluable in B'iliov*
m mill nervous- Disorder*, *»■<■]< a*
Wind uiid Fain in the StoihaUi,
Sirl: '(JkhUness, Fuheess
(Mil SireUing offer Mauls, Dizziness
irtul J)ron‘*inexs, Cold ('hills, Flush-
<mj* of II <'«/, Lons.. uf Appetite,
Short uhis of Breath,
Sen ray, Match rs* on the Shin, Dim
iucheiJ Sleep, Frightful .Dreams, and
all uerooHs iiilil' TremMinij Sennit-
<f'C. The Jirsl hose frill ijire
relief irij) rent If minutes. This is no
jlel kmffo i they huec tluiie it *u count-
le'Ss rasrS ACcee'il sufferer- is earnestly
1 0 rite'll tiTTril One tio'X nf tin se I‘ills
/
7
>
7
■ ■
7
y
fOU a Weak Si ad*, Urn-paired
Ififjeaiio'iif <in>l nil Dixin'devs of
the hirer, fin'll met like mayic, aMt
a fine (low* '((’HI he found to icork
‘(•under* 'Upon the 'moat hn/tarta.iil
nn/oii* of. the human, madkitle, They
.itreMjthen tin- wholenmscidoc system,
restore the l»ufplast eample.einn, briny
back the keen edye of appetite, and
'arouse' into art ion, with the rosebud of
health, the whole physical cnrryy if thr
hn~in.au frame, These are. farts ad-
nxitte.d by members tfall classes if so~
eiety • ami ant <f the best fa.arante.ee>
to the nervoas and debilitated is their
■ vast ami still iucreasim sale.
gƒ
PATENT
PILL'S
PREPARED ONLY BY THE
PROPRIETOR,
THOMAS BEECHAM,
ST II ELENS,
LANCASHIRE,
LNOLAMD,
jT*()l I female*of dll ages they ,are rn-
* ealnoUi . iS T 0 female ' should he
without them. There v> 'not o medicine
t , he found equal to them [for removing
(trig i, regularity of the system. If John
’CCordiioj to Direct ton given ivith eufli
Dor, tta-y 'trill soon, venture F v males of
o l ages to sound and robust heedth.
This has , he,eii jtraced by mousa nsa iwho
juice tried, them, and fo'Hnd */ he bnufil.s
which ore ensured hy their use.
/
V
7
7
y
b
s
y
t-
-7
Have the Largest Sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World,
of (VmnixU (tuiljlMi’iliriiie Vrti<h>r»
iWi* (liui 2.v, 9//,
r
>*•
z>
7
V
c
>?
7
