

The
Bulletin
sd


MoLEAJf BIOS., BIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
618 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
*
SPECIALITIES l
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES s—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, &0., fco,
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
SELLABLE
BUGGIES
VKffT SHADE
RttLs. :
■ v ALIIY,
and
rarasiii
■n bu All tha
'SeaSlas cuftnaa.
WtC SOW CHEAP
"EOS HOW QOODI
tfe
1
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs)
WAGGONS’)
With Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for all purposes.
„
Call and Inspect
;
-fLUUSTRATEU CATALOGUES k PRICE'S POST FREE'
W.H.PALING&<s lim "
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
flflilo, Organ # Music Importers,
Ur|est Stock and greatest Variety in Australia - §ivm£ the
hfifiKr.lhp. choice - PIANOS from £4o, ORGANS from £l2-
* PAXMENt by monthly instalments to suit all customers
eSOSBJIfe PALINO J, 6 PALING St &
*°"*S*^
v o£%s'
*
fs
. TJOOT
%JU
252 a Ceorfe S*
lot* yw< anti- jfartxwrt’ sY'l
■ %
OFFORD & CO.*S HATE
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE STRBIT,
d
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHNMNKS,
•63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PLATE, SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
IWINDOW GLASS
White Lead, OMs, Colours, Varnishes, &e.
Paperhangings, Dadoes, Friezes, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glasses
Overmantels, Silvering’and Bevelling.
inmm.nn GLASS COMPANY, Lim„
281 GEORGE STREET.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The A. G. Co. are selling
the above goods at a large discount from usual
prices, being the steak taken over from Mr. A.
BorthwMc.
nqnirie will have prompt attention.
fs
IJIHK REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY ft CO.,
410 Kent-street.
2Cab Lnefrs
5^
ih h
..
CU T_ , TXI s O U
'and keep r it for reference, and
REMEMBER
that the Only Address of the „
IRIEUINSTEDMEJIT
DIRECT SUPPLY,
ASSOCIATION,
is
f 674 George Street,* 674 J
BRICKFIELD [HILL' SYDNEY,'
£ " IfEight doors from Goulburm street,
U7i'.« u': r Where yon can see’the;
Largest, Finest, and most Superb Assortment of
all kinds of Musical Instruments and Fittings F
ever seen in the Southern Hemisphere,
From a JEW’S HARP to a CHURCH ORGAN,
Direct , om the European manufacturers j
the Australian consumer.
SOLE -A.C3-E33STTS
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
sp Tim mm,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, i/6 1
„„ |UM k*. IM .•- •- 5/- and 5/6 per set.
Also, every description of Strings for the Viola,
Cello, Double Bass, Banjo Guitar, Harp Zither,
- : 'Y Mandoline, ASolian Harp, &c., &c.
"J 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality s Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
„ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s. .
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/",
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key... ... ... 35/-
, Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
i- s'
flf w sa*’
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
~ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
~ The “Jubilee” Accordeon, patent
broad reeds, in wood box, complete
35/.
BANJOS—S/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 15/, up to £l2 12s.
FLUTES—I/6, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/, up to £lO
CORNETS—4O/, 45/, 50/, up to £l2 12s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
iai i m t p— — f
NIGGER-MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
j ~ . 1/
All kinds'of Instruments skilfully repaired
at moderate charges.
iff s. fcr ~
All Instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
jfTOrdors promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
r *LOUIS; SIMONSEN,
67411 GEORGE STREET,
! Sydney;
* :
otf s
rxo
ri n c
c o nb
$• L NC
d- w
DR. RICHARDS,(j>iV‘
DTE^WSS&j-SSSf,
1 „.«>■« class Of suffer®
inoreasingly large class o' gteß tly -- j
complaints can only.he c ° * (j ur e t
an experienced specialist I do
dertefcen. When I **■ l *%g*
stop them for a time and j
again, I mean a radical o r 0 f
ailments, which are the ljr /
life-long study, and o» c j ar «l«9®’^ ) »i Z
after personal consultatio • o( i?*% j« jj
oases has brought about m go u>®®£ ti<
has reduced the general
inee almost every oth v, e ing OUS Lt
cause of this scarely eve ry tbin? b -
u 1 for every l ' i
have been doctored for
ihi, class .< P»«eot,, »» Vgjij, '**
D o#f c /
of treatment effect a«u . iD jv«-
hospital and private P r ® “
discovered new and , c0 _tve in
with the use of my ft clir e ®>
am in a position to guar n “Lets'"
undertaken. Consultation ca*
will tell you at once whether y
or not. _ , 1KI&O&'
DR. RICHARDS*
1 SPRING
fs
TONIC
Trade Mark
nW s
tonic
prflifl
ARSHALL
M
Improves Digest^
biliW
CuresNerv^!
_ _ —Tqf-orfl
Sold by all Chemists
bb<^
marshall P
Sydney, N.S.W. >
p hot^ Li
MINING EXCHANGE^.
gympib, g,^/
The Centrai'Hotel- ~p g eP# 8 ®
Rendezvous for a ll pal g
business.
THE GREAT
Charlotte-M-ace "Jjj I
K.
b-peacb a--
AS*
H „
1 X 3 OZ 33
OF ASSO
WINES, SPIRITS, ana
O*
ofi
&
#v
MJ5 “> uriiuAM)
ideliverkd AN * iinier o 3 ,* r*
Carriage free by j list of I°*?, SC<A , 4
irriage free by R» ll or ,' istl 0 f l 0" ~ get
you please from the . plet4£%
son’s. Walker or » 0,, rke 0'
Robertson’s, Walker or « ur jie
Dunville’s Shamrock ana
Brian Boru Whisky
Square Gin
Jamaica Rum
Rea Heart do.
Hatks Br r and°y and Wh'ek> „*»*sid*
ffintrlish Ales and Stout, d« d ifi .■
X i
naaKB ttranuy u es t u*r
English Ales and Stout, aD d
Port Wine, for connoisseu 2 ou. r y, ft
Port Wine and Sherry fro jAPK
Best brands Whisky or gl’L rM
jfJ3 CASE AhSC * forJMj
Superior ACCOM MGPA^ (
attention afforded to v , the 9l ' , :U WjfM
rooms are eonducted una bic )i v fj,
late of Wellington attest* »* /
Guests will receive every ftWrt tfS /
Wines, Spirits, and Beers
papers kept on file. __
Lw/ fa*
maghi
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
s#
«kRGfc
»* ..n -
HU
WIT«
NEWEST
HIGHEST^ 1
£
LOWEST
4
f,
»
TUG 8
TfO#
LOCOMOTIVES
estimated
Sydney:
in, PITT STREET
IT


The Bulletin
Vol. B~No. 880
SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1887.
Price)., Od.
A Graminivorous Objection.
IMPERIAL LION (to Old Man Kangaroo): “ LET US FEDERATE, MY SON. I WILL GET INTO YOUR POUCH."
OLD MAN KANGAROO: “LET YOU INTO MY POUCH, YOU CARNIVOROUS OLD RASCAL!”


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OKI'S A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydniy, N.B.W,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only!.
Per annum - jBI Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By Bending direct to Thi Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Offioe Order, One'
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony— you can
bars The Bulletin posted regularly to you erery week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin Is not dellrered by mall, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to Inter-
fere.
Recent political events, and the tenor of letters
published in the N.S.W. country press, render
the announcement necessary that Mr. John
Haynes, M. L. A. for Mudgee, has no longer any
connection whatsoever, either commercial or
literary, with The Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1887.
The “Voice of the People.”
The great struggle which began over a
question of regaling the children of Sydney
on buns and lemonade, and whicli has since
been fought out on the wider issue of Royalty
v. Republicanism, was put to the vote on
Wednesday night last week, and the Imperial-
istic daily press of Australia affects to be
jubilant at the result. The Voice of the
People—the last court of appeal for a free
nation—it is claimed, gave its emphatic
decision in favour of Monarchy, and covered
with eternal obloquy the paltry faction which
fears neither Guelph nor God nor the soft-
goods men of York-street. The cry of an
indignant country has gone up to heaven to
repudiate the action of a handful of rum-
soaked anarchists—loafing, drunken howlers
from the slums and watch-houses—and the
foul stain of treason and disloyalty has at
last been wiped off the fair escutcheon of New
South Wales. The meeting which effected
this great result was, it is true, held under
serious difficulties. It was packed, in the
first place, by over 3000 bigots and hirelings,
and no Republican was admitted whom it
was possible to keep out, while the few who
succeeded in obtaining entrance were over-
awed by police, men-o’-warsmen and soldiers
in plain clothes, prize-fighters, and professional
and sectarian bullies of all descriptions; but in
the sacred cause of a beloved sovereign the end,
nodoubt, is held to j ustify the means. Aparty,
like an individual, has to fight with the best
weapons at command, and even thfl -pro-
fessional bruiser and cfiueker-out must be
esrpleySu. when no more respectable instru-
ments are available. “Loyalty,” like
poverty, leads men into strange companion-
ships, and in proof of this the glorified
whisky-seller, the policeman, and the pugil-
ist now find themselves in curious juxtaposi-
tion as the pillars of the “aristocratic”
cause in New South Wales.
• » •
The meeting of Wednesday was to some
extent the result of a chapter of accidents.
A few weeks ago a gathering was held in
Sydney Town Hall to formulate a scheme
for impressing on the minds of the rising
generation a sentiment of devotion to the
German lady who draws a salary and sits
upon a throne 16,000 miles away. The plan,
however, was rejected by a majority of
nearly ten to one, and the defeated party
then resolved to call a fresh meeting and
drew up a resolution which virtually de-
clared their hitherto successful opponents to
he a villainous faction and a disgrace to the
country to which they belonged. In a back
room Mayor Riley declared his readiness “to
meet the enemy” whenever and in whatsoever
form he might appear, but when the occa-
sion came the great man was wanting. HU
so-called “ public meeting ” was consider-
ably packed by an organised gang of red-hot
“loyalists,” admitted early by side doors,
and as far as possible in secret, but the
valiant Riley did not even venture to
occupy the chair. The sense of the assem-
blage was never formally taken, and the
violence initiated by the Royalists brought
the gathering to an unexpected and dis-
orderly termination. The miserable coward-
ice of the leaders of the “ loyal” movement
made their failure trebly ignominious, but the
collapse was followed by a series of orations
filled with pot-valiant fury and uttered by
titled officials in the seclusion of a carefully-
locked back room, and it was resolved to
call yet a third meeting for the express pur-
pose of heaping insult and opprobrium on
the triumphant Democratic majority which
could not be voted ■down by fair means.
The Voice of the People was to speak at
last in unmistakable tones, and at the same
time the knights of New South Wales re-
solved to shelter themselves behind the
skirts of a woman, and by coupling the
popular and amiable Lady Carington’s
charitable scheme with their own insult to
an almost unanimous nation, to shuffle off
portion at loast of the load of public anger
and contempt.
Every available ongine of cunning ant
violence was called into requisition b;
the promoters and the press to make
the disgraceful orgie of that Wednesday
night a decided success. The Orangemen
of Sydney were massed in hundreds an<
were admitted !>;/ password long before the
doors were thrown open to the public ; 40
footballers, wearing heavy boots, rolled up a
the call of a youthful softgoodsman, and were
placed where they might kick to the bes
advantage on behalf of ths good cause ; the
L T nivcrsity, an aristocratic institution run b;
a well-paid crowd of imported English Tories
sent 150 rowdy youths to the scene of ac
tion ; the Primrose League gathered a hoi
low-chested battalion badly off for brains
and its cultured members rubbed against
gang of professional prize-fighters, who
had mustered to slog for the British
Crown ; almost the entire police anc
detective force of Sydney, too, was prcssec
into the service, as were also the men o:
the Naval Brigade and Naval Reserve, the
Volunteer Artillery, the Sydney Lancers
and a large number of blue-jackets from
the British men-of-war in the Har-
bour. More than 3000 soldiers, sailors,
pugilists and bullies of all descriptions were
collected to silence opposition and assai
those whose “loyalty” was suspected, and
yot each successive speaker asked his audi-
once to believe that the Australian party,
against whom all these preparations were
made, were only an insignificant handful ol
malcontents, so few in number as to be not
worth notice. If but one half of this state-
ment were true then the cowardice of Parkes
and his following passes all expression in
words, and the African or the Chinaman
would scorn to politically associate with men
who had so utterly lost their manliness :
while, if the Democrats were numerous
enough to excuse even one tenth of the pre-
parations made against them, every speaker
at Wednesday’s meeting uttered a tissue of
falsehoods.
* * *
But the shuffling policy adopted by the self-
styled men of order was at least as remark-
able as their physical and moral cowardice.
Mr. Norton, a representative Democrat,
who sought admission to the platform, was
summarily ejected, and the written amend-
ment which he handed to the chairman was
suppressed. Although the Royalist party
had packed the hall with its own creatures
to such an extent that only a handful of
avowed Democrats could obtain admittance,
the speeches were lost amid the yells of ‘ ‘ loyal ’ ’
footballers and others, and the resolutions were
put by dumb-show. A signal hoisted on a
strange gallows-like erection called on the
assembled multitude to vote—they knew not
for what—but the police straightway gave
their suffrages, and the footballers and the
prize-fighters and the detectives and the
foreign blue-jackets from the men-of-war
followed Buit, and so did the roystering cubs
from the University and the cultured Prim-
rose League, and the hired “ chuckers-out ”
whose loyalty had brought them into strange
juxtaposition with the salt of the earth, and
without even a formal call for votes on the
other issue the resolution was declared to be
carried. The Voice of the People had
spoken, and the cause of Royalty was trium-
phant. Yet in a few moments more the
patient, bewildered crowd, galled into mad-
ness by the shoves of the football monarchists
and the ruffianism of the mingled crowd <Sf
“ loyal ” bullies, had trodden down the
barriers erected against it. and for an in-
stant the knights and lawyers and softgoods-
men, who had just declared their own
triumph, were in danger of being crushed
under foot. No more apocryphal victory
was ever gained by the combined forces of
lying, brazen effrontery, and unscrupulous
coercion.
The attempt to extort a vote of loyalty to
Jingoism by the over-awing display of
a brigade 3000 strong is a convincing
proof that the policy of the dark ages is not
yet extinct. The scandalous and dishonour-
able act by which a body of sailors were
brought from English warships to suppress
the voice of a free people was in itself little
short of treasonable, and even supposing the
system had been carried a step further, and
an armed force borrowed from the obliging
commander of one of the German ironclads
in harbour, the outrage could hardly have
been more unpardonable. Not a few of
these mercenaries appeared in plain attire,
and thus changed their character from that
of foreign troops to that of foreign spies, but
neither the instruments nor those for whom
they acted gained in respectability there-
by The contingent of hair-oiled dudes
from the Primrose League deserve notice
only on account of the glorious effrontery of
their newly-imported leader, who, in a letter
;o the Sydney Daily Telegraph announced
that his childish combination was formed
with a view to suppressing the “ organised
ruffianism, secularism, and republicanism,
which have brought such a disgrace upon our
colony ” —in which he haa probably lived for
several weeks. The more muscular contin-
gent from the University and the football
clubs consisted mainly of rowdy youths
anxious for a little brutal amusement, and the
remainder of the Imperial forces, from the
Orangemen down to the prize-fighters, were
governed by various motives, among which
sectarian hatred and a professional tendency
to hit anyone who was too small to be
dangerous were probably the most pro-
minent. Surrounded by this strangely con-
stituted brigade, seated at a wooden table
upon a wooden throne, and presenting
garbled resolutions pasted on a gallows,
Alban Riley, not yet K C.M.G., figured as
strangely as any champion of freedom of
speech well could. Sir Henry Parkes, too,
with his torrent of Billingsgate directed at
everyone and anyone who was not prepared
to accept those doctrines by which he ob-
tained his knighthood, marked another im-
portant epoch in a career which has already
had many important epochs, beginning with
the Kiama Ghost and ending with the taking
again in to his arms the “red-hot, burningbrand
of shame” from Milburn Creek. Yet neither
he nor his friends dared to afford Mr. John
Norton a hearing, and the whole influence of
more that 8000 men, among whom were in-
cluded the most prominent politicians of the
colony, was employed to silence the voice of
the solitary Republican orator whose words
might have exposed the coarse and brutal
tyranny which their windy platitudes were
intended to conceal. Three thousand to one
are long odds, and abject, unfathomable
cowardice could hardly be carried further
than this.
* * *
The Royalist argument in favour of the
system pursued by their party is summed up
in one arrogant sentence : “ If you don’t like
it you can stay away. ” This was the theory
Mayor Riley advanced on a previous occa-
sion, but it must be remembered that the
Republican who absents himself, to some ex-
tent gives away his principles by so doing.
The meeting of 15th June was summoned
by advertisement as a “public” one, and
the leaders who secretly packed the
hall with their friends prior to the ad-
mission of the public thereby turned their
own words into nonsense. Furthermore,
by refusing to accept an amendment from
the representative of an influential body of
citizens, Mr. Riley not only degraded his
position as chairman, but finally destroyed
any semblance of a public character which
the gathering, orlinary circumstances,
might have possessed. A meeting must be
either public or private ; there is no medium
between the two. There can be no public
meeting with a qualification such as “those
favourable to,” &c., inasmuch as a public
meeting is a meeting to which all are en-
titled to admission at one time and on one
set of terms, and at which all may obtain a
hearing. But despite this, last week’s
alleged demonstration will be described
as representative of the nation, and the re-
solution which it did not arrive at, but which,
by a shameless perversion of facts, is laid at
its door, Will be treated as the untrammelled
decision of the people. The Republican had
doubtless the option of staying away, but in
his absence the Primrose Leaguer and the
University cub and the priije-fightei;- would
audaciously act and speak on his behalf, and it
therefore behoved him to. be present if he
could, and repudiate the action of the
mongrel crowd which was engaged
in saddling him, in common with
every other citizen, with the responsibility
of toadyism, superstition, and grovel. Had
Alban Riley, not-yet R.C.M.G., announced
a “private” or a “packed” mooting he
might with reason have demanded that Re-
publicans should absent themselves, or if
they insisted on appearing he would have
been amply justified in treating them with
insult and contempt from his throne beside
the little gallows aforesaid, but at a public
meeting no despot of an hourhasarighttosup-
press the views of any section of the gather-
ing. The declaration of loyalty which is
ascribed to Wednesday's assemblage will
doubtless be wearily, yawned over by
Her Majesty as the vote of a “ public ”
gathering, and as such shoved away in the
Imperial lumber-room, but if Mr. Riley
wishes to distinguish himself by a strict ad-
herence to fact there is yet time for him to
inform Queen Victoria that the police force,
detectives, Orangemen, footballers,and boxers
of Sydney are devoted to her Crown, that the
Primrose League and about half the noisy boys
of the University mean to stick to her, that a
numberof Lancers in disguise, the Volunteers,
Naval Reserves, &c., still vote straight, and
that the rest of the public was, as far as pos-
sible, kicked out. Such a statement would
contain more truth than the Queen has
heard—at least in one lot—for many years,
and the heroes of Wednesday’s farce would
have less cause than at present to feel
ashamed and degraded when next they look a
‘ ‘ public ” meeting in the face. Furthermore,
Mayor Riley might, as an act of justice,
refer Lady Carington’s charitable proposal
to a genuinely public assemblage of citizens in
order that it may be considered upon its own
merits. The designing policy which, for the
purposes of political proselytism, hampered
a good work with so illogical arid unfitting a
name as the “ Queen’s Fund,” would doubt-
less do much to limit future subscriptions,
but the genuine benevolence of the scheme,
as well as the respect which is trebly due to
a lady when engaged upon a work of mercy,
would always secure a patient hearing from
any audience free from the coercion of bigots
and prize-fighters. But when a hundred'
discredited politicians and alleged men of all
descriptions hido themselves behind awoman
and when a mission of charity is mixed up
with a policy that requires, ‘■he support of
boxers and bullies and the prtAeotion of pass-
words and petticoats, the game is not a fair
one. It is said that on Wednesday night ball-
cartidge was served out to the troops in waiting
at the barracks, and that Lady Carington’s
errand of mercy was performed amid prepara-
tions for “legal ” homicide. When her lady-
ship withdrew, the politicians who had shel-
tered behind her gave way to panic and fell
over each other in their frenzied desire to gain,
a place of security.
* • *
Even as we write we learn that the forged
resolution of Wednesday’s meeting has been
cabled over the world as the unfettered
decision of the people of Sydney. But
except among that crowd of place-hunters
whose centre of gravity is England instead
of Australia, this hollow sham can arouse no
feeling except one of disgust. The Voice of
the People loses its force when filtered
through an Orange Lodge or a Primrose
League Habitation ; the packed meeting of
bigots and rowdies lies when it claims to
speak as a public gathering ; and the men
who are responsible for its doings know
well what a miserable mockery was the
whole proceeding. Mr. Alban Kiley must
learn that he cannot enjoy the safety of a
private meeting, and yet assume the honours
attaching to a successful public gathering ;
he cannot eat his cake and have it too ; and if
he lacks the nerve to speak his sentiments
in the presence alike of friend and foe he
had better retire from the scene. Knight-
hoods may be scarce in the peaceful seclu-
sion of “ the drapery,” but it is better to
preserve a reputation for business acuteness
among £5 bales of linen than to become a
K C.M.G. and an object of political derision.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tho Great Work.
In referring to the dinner given by STt-HEnry;
Parses to some of the survivors of the "«»t Aus-
tralian Parliament, the Sydney Daily Ts.gQjtAPH
affirmed that even as there can be mo second
Columhus because there are no mortv Americas
to discover, neither can there De a second Went-
wohtii, because ihere are no more Constitutions
to be made in Australia. In like manner might
tho Daily Gazette of the colony of Virginia in
the year 1767 have mourned that there could be
no second Sir Edwin Sandys because there were
no more Charters to be framed. Happily for Vir-
ginia and for America, the Gazette would have
been wrong, for there were then quietly living
within the confines of the colony some of a band
of men whose labours at Constitution-making will
live in the pages of history when those of the
framers of their colony’s Charter shall have long
passed into oblivion. Little might Washington
and Jefferson, the Virginians, as they fondly
and half-enviously turned over the pages that
showed the tale of their colony’s first Oharter
have thought what the future had in store for •
them. They, too, it may be, would have liked to>
have had a hand in making a colonial Constitu-
tion, and regretted that the work had fallen ini
other times and to other hands. They did note
know, they could not know, that in the womb of
the future was a task to which that they sighed
for was light and humble. Yet it was so.
Their destiny was to be the fathers of no
mere state or colony, hut of the greatest nation
in the world. It was theirs to frame the Consti-
tution of the United Slates of America. Even
as the Daily Gazette of Virginia would have
been wrong, so may the Daily Telegraph of
N.ew South Wales. That colony has her charter
and its framer's name is notable in our midst;
but there is reserved for some man now living a
task to which that ot Wentworth is truly insig-
nificant. The broad foundations of a nation are
to be laid : there is the Constitution of the United
States of AustraUa, to be And as is the
name of "Washington to that of the almost un-
known founder of Virginia, so will the name
of the father of the Australian Constitution be to
that of him whose name is identified with the
Charter of New South Wales Fifty years hence
the name of Wentworth will be known only to
the industrious scholar ; while that of the Father
of Australia, embalmed in the pages of her his-
torians and daily taught to the countless mil-
lions of the rising generations of the Common-
wealth, will be a household word, and on into
that distant future whose glorious possibilities
are only now beginning to faintly appear like a
Star of Hope far down on the horizon. This is an
ambition for the gifted sons of Australia to watch
for, to work for, and to pray for. What beside
the glory of such an achievement are the paltry
gauds wherewith Imperialism bedecks its votaries!
A Hangman’s Gallantry.
The other day a woman was hanged in Brisbane
for the murder of her husband. Her accomplice,
a man, was also punished by strangulation, but
place aux dames: the hangman, with a courtesy
savouring of the charnel-house, attended to the
lady first. The brutal rite of the judicial garotte,
even, recognises the etiquette of modern society.
Make way there for one of our daughters 1 the
grimness of the gallows is softened by the romanoe
ot chivalry, and Sir Jack Ketch, K.C.M.G., with
all the politeness of a perfumed courtier, conducts
the lady to the gibbet. The sacredness of life is
acknowledged in Queensland. Si much so that
life taken in maduess and passion is atoned for by
life taken in legal cold-bloodedness, and as life can-
not be restored, we ail —nearly all—consider the
next best course is to squander it further still It
wa3 a beautiful ’ execution, wanting in none
of the horrible details which make an account of
these hideous tragedies such delightfully spicy
reading in the columns of our pious daily Press.
Ihe sinner was a small and attenuated woman,
and appropriately and dramatically dressed in
black. She bore herself with great fortitude, and
the curious animals who had gathered to witness
the performance felt duly gratified thereat. More-
over, she was the first woman in the colony to be
hanged, hence an historical interest was added to
the ordinary attractions of the hempen experiment.
But the polite Calcraft was a bungler. The drop
fell, the rope cut through the jugular, the white
cap which concealed the death-workings
face was drenched in blood. Blood sorted all


over the dress, changing ita blackneaa to a hideoua
crimaon. Blood dripped on the cemented floor
beneath and ran away in red atreama Blood
awept acrosa the cyeß and percolated, through the
Alter of the Presa, into the minda of all emotional
monomaniacs who are only awaiting an oppor-
tunity or an incitement to slay and to be allin.
The man who was hanged iuat afterwards fared
no better. His jugular was also severed, and his
blood drenched his clothes and stained his white
moleskins and fell upon the pavement to unite
with the blood of the woman who had gone
before. Yet it is thought that this kind of punish-
ment will paralyse the hand that lifts a knife 1
Legal functionalies are so ignorant of the consti-
tution of the human mind, are s) ignorant of the
rtrst psychological laws as to suppose that the
sort of natures capable of the committal of brutal
crimes are to be deterred by b-utalising execu-
tions. Do such horrible scenes not rather inure
the mentally-diseased criminal to sights and
imaginings of bloodshed f Do they not suggest a
method to a vicious madman ? If it is des rable
to teach the sso-edness of life, can the lesson be
learn’, by the wanton and brutal waste of it—
eve aof a criminal’s ? It wou'd be int resting to
trace the influence of the recent Brisbane execu-
tion upon the minds of all those responsible for
the crime com pitted in Queensland for the next
year or two. Statistics are eloquent with the im-
petus given to crime by brutal punishments, and
the tendency of a Dracjn’c law to increase
in accumulative severity to meet the cor-
responding increase of crimmal apathy to
punishment induced by brutalising custom.
With the emotional and nervous man bloody laws
beget intense and fanatical hat red, and he madly
regards the committal of hideous and revolting
crimes as a mere protest against and a
species of retaliation upon the hideous and re-
volting punishments which disgrace the adminis-
tration of the sentimental brand of justice ap-
proved and endo-eel by many English and nearly
all colonial judges. The issue ceases to be the
deterring of crime. It resolves itself into a war
between the morbidly sentimental underling and
the abnormally sentimental upper-crust—a war of
nervous potential criminals against a blind brute
force, and brings the law itself into contempt and
detestation.
Jubilee Illuminations.
Thk S. M. Herald has gone very carefully into
the whole case for and against the expenditure of
money over Jubilee illuminations, and finds that
there is no waste (in the true sense of the word)
involved in such expenditure. It is no more
waste, according to this high authority, to expend
a thousand pounds in gas for the mere purpose of
display than to put a like amount into fine clothes
and jewellery. In either cai>e, we are informed,
the expenditure is intrinsically and in the abstract-
unnecessary ; but in both cases the outlay is
justified, inasmuch as it causes emulation among
persons unable to afford such display to perform
feats of industry and contrivance with the object
of indulging themselves in exhibitions indicative
of wealth later on. The highest and mo3t genuine
incentive to work and store riehe3, on this hypo
thesis, consists in a love of flashiog display ? This
is certainly novel teaching. Heretofore moral
philosophers in all age 3 have been preaching
loudly and constantly in condemnation of the de-
praved desire in question, to which an enormous
proportion of the ills of mankind have been
ascribed ; and it is a well-established fact that a'l
the great benefactors of humanity have bsen re-
markable for the simplicity of their wants and
their abhorence of tawdriness. And according to
all previous doctrines, the only warrant for un-
necessary expenditure in any shape or form
lies in the advancement of refinement
and good taste. A rich person is justified
in giving £SOOO for a painting because
thereby he is promoting the welfare of ar .
But he is not j ustifled in expending a large sum
in flaming illuminations, because thereby he is
subserving no good end whatsoever, and the
money is wasted in every sense of the word. As
things are, however, individuals are legal 1 y free
to do what they like with their own. Nobody has
any right to interfere with the insane desire of a
lucky digger to eat £5 notes between p eces of
bread and butter, nor with the equally insensate
propensity cf a rich “loyalist” to burn gas as a
means of expressing the faith that is in him. tut
surely the public have a distinct and incontrover-
tible right to object to the funds of the State
being lavished in illuminations. There is still a
large deficit to be wiped out in New South Wales,
and there is still an immense amount of misery
and pauperism in the country. To blaze away
thousands of pounds worth of gas in such circum-
stances eeems theref n re a proceeding approaching
the nature of a crime.
Truth from the Dsvil.
Says the Free trade Melbourne Argus
"But as to all other classes of men” (i e , those who are
not directly maintained by the soil) " their number is strictly,
regulated by the number of producing settlers. So many
producers will support so many stores, so many stores will
require so many clerks, and so many mercantile transactions
will yield a fixed percentage of issue for the barristers in the
law courts. Blacksmiths, bricklayers, and carpenters are
regulated in the same way.”
For once the Argus speaks the truth. So many
settlers, storekeepers, c erks, and all the rest
require to be reciprocally assisted by so many
blacksmiths and so forth, and not only that, but
by so many spinners, founders, and the like.
And the latter being producers in their turn re-
quire so many more assistants and allies. The
only point at issue is, whether these last vacancies
shall be filled up by ourselves, our sons and
daughters, or whether we and they are to starve
in order that the sons and daughters of a distant
land may have the employment—and starve into
the bargain. Oh 1 let us have the producers by
all means ! But then why in the name of wonder
are we to denounce them as “ artificial,” ‘ fos-
tered by the State,” and so on ? The fact is that
the State has not the power to bolster aDy indus-
try for which there is no necessity or demand.
The case lies in the difference between the actual
producers who sell their labour and the importers
who have made and wish to make moLey out of
the blood of foreign wretches whose labour is
cheap because it is stolen. And for the rest,
which housewife can support the largest family—
the one who prepares the meals herself and teaches
her daughters to do so, or the one who sends out
for them to the restaurant—even the sixpenny
restaurant ?
The Reasons Woy.
A thousand causes have made England great
an enterprising industrious people, a climate
allowing the utmost physical labour, her central
position among the nations, the accessibility of
every part of her surface, her abundant natural
wealth, her insularity, allowing her population to
devote the best years of their lives to the acquisi-
tion and production of wealth, while their neigh-
bours only acquired military “glory” or disgrace.
And the wiseacres of to-day claim the effect as
the cause, and worship at the shrine of “ Free-
trade ” and declare that under its rule benign has
all its glory grown. The most superficial ex-
amination would have convinced them of their
error, but, alas 1 their interests stood in the way,
and they did not want to see it. Until at least
the last few years it was a matter of indifference
to England whether her policy was Free! rad-' or
Protection, except in one instance to which we
shall presently allude. Her natural advantages
had secured her such a lead in the race for supre
macy that, requiring no handicap herself, she
generously tried to persuade her competitors
that they also would be better without one.
No doubt Hutchens would like all to start
from scratch in the next Sheffield Handicap.
Within the last few years, however, England’s sister
nations, or some of them, have trodden closely on
her heels, and unless she abandons her cherished
do U rine her lead in the race may be at an end. As
already stated Britain soon had to endure compe-
tition in one, and that the umst important of all
productions—corn. Freetrade in this was not ob-
tained without the greatest difficult, and what has
been the result ?In spite of her former pre-eminence
in agriculture—in spite of her scientific methods
a 1 d implements, she has been beaten in her own
markets by the uttermost parts of the earth. In
spite of her starved toilers, highly-tilled farms,
aceessib.lity to market, the well-paid labourers of
America and Australia, and the rude cultivators
of India a->d Egypt supply her sons with bread.
English rents have receded fabulously, it is diffi-
cult to get farmers to renew leases at any price,
political economists prove that land pays better in
grass than corn, and that beef and mutton should
be the English farmers’ crops—forgetting that.
Nature (at least at present) affords him a l’rot iction
there equal to any U. S. tariff. And as it was in the
beginning, &c. —our readers probably know the rest
—so it follows that when the younger nations
shall, by protecting the tender germ, have estab-
lished their manufactures on a sure foundation,
these, too, shall be found in English markets
competing successfully with England’s own pro
ductions, unless she learns in her old age wisdom
and protects herself. With the exception of bar-
barians, England is the only Freetrade nation in
the world. No nation can ever hope to becomo
either great or powerful unless it manufactures its
own raw material, and no nation can ever hope
unprotected to establish industries in open com-
petition with the pauper labour, accumulated
capital, and inherited skill of the old world.
Dan. O’Connor’s Little Bill
Dan O’Connor has for five sessions in succession
induced the r> cw Sou!h Wales Assembly to pass a
little bill, the object of which is to restore totheci i-
/.ens of Sydney an “ ancient right and privilege ”
of which they were deprived by accident. All
that is claimed is that the occupiers of houses in
the city who indirectly pay the rates shall have
the right to vo eat municipal e'ections. Under
the first Corpora'ion Act the '‘occupier” was the
voter, but in an amending Act the person “ who
pays the rates” is the voter. The Supreme Court
has held that this means the person who pays
the rates direct into the City Treasury, and the
landlords, taking advantage of this flaw in the
Ac’, have monopolised the voting power. The
anomaly of the po.-ition is shown by these figures:
There are 28,000 householders in the city, about
8000 votes and 2700 voters on the ro 1 Mr.
O’Connor says that in rta ity there are oily 700
voters, the remaining 2000 being dummi's whose
names are put on the roll by houseo wners whose
properties represent, in seme instances, as many
as 100 votes. This roll stuffing is resorted to by
the landlords because under the Act no perron is
al'owed to have more than four votes. Daniel’s
bill, which has every element of justice, right,
and hoDes’y in it, always meets with prompt
settlement when it is presented to the Upper
House. The two things necessary to ensure a full
attendance of the gouty, phlegmatic members of
that House—some of whom have literally to be
carried in and out of the Chamber — a
church job and O Connor s bill. The other day
the latter met its customary fate. Selfish land-
lordism, which cannot have much to gain by keep-
ing the municipal voting power in its bands, or
much to lose by its being transferred to the per-
sons who a-e directly interested in and benefited
by proper management of the civic affairs, was
again victorious. The unanimous vote of the
elected representatives of the people in favour of
the bill counted as nought in the opinion of the
irresponsible nominees, the political existence of a
majority of whom is a disgrace to the country.
Now, however, the O’CoNNOR-ian fiat has gone
forth. The Jaynil is full of wrath, and he de-
clares that as sure as the Upper House nonentities
reject his bill again they will sound their political
death knell. Flag not in your determination,
Dan, but fight on until you get your little bill
through, and what is more let us have the Upper
House abolished. Then you will have achieved
an honor which will sink the Victoria X into in-
significance !
♦
Le rislation Under the Lash.
The scenes of disorder which took place in the
New South Wales Assembly last week in connec-
tion with the discussion on the closing of ihe
theatres on Sundays, and on Parkes’ lickspittle
loyalty motion, was nothing like so disgraceful as
was an event which happened in connection with
the Customs Duties Bill. Mr. Carruthers, one
of the supporters of the Government, proposed the
imposition of a five per cent, ad valorem, duty on
jewellery, which was agreed to, the Government
offering no opposition to it beyond voting against
it. The vote did not seem to oissalisfy the mem-
bers of the Government, who resumed tbeir cus-
tomary seats quite complacently. Mr. Dnms rose
to propose the imposition o', the same duty on
carriages and buggies, whereupon Calico-Jemmy
M'Million, in a higlry-excitel state, rushed over
to where Parkes and Burns were sitting and
gesticulated violently to them for about a couole
of minutes. The lashing had its effect.
PARKE 3 arose in high dudgeon and smothered
with aitches his renegade supporters who
had given a vote that he said was in direct con-
flict with the policy of the Government, which, by
the way, was stated to be that the rich should be
compelled to contribute their fair share of taxa-
tion. Of course a tax on jewellery would not
come under this category. This scourging like-
wise had its effect. Dan. O’Connor, who is now
one of Parkes’ most servile followers, explained
that he thought that he was voting for the reduc-
tion of the duty on spirits, for which he had voted
fully half an hour previously. Lucy Wilkiv-
son asserted his independence by declaring that
he had voted under a misapprehension a 3 to
what would be the effect of the du’y. Bow-
man got out of an awkward dilemma by
candidly acknowledging that he had been asleep.
Parkes threatened that unless the amend-
ment were rescinded the Government would
resign. On the following night the Government
proposed the rescission of the item, and this was
agreed to by a large majority, tho following
members voting against their previous
K ethel, O’Connor, Schey, and Wilkinson.
The following members, who voted for Mr. Car
ruthers’ amendment, sacrificed principle to
office on the eecord occasion by making them-
selves scarce when the division-bells were rung—
Ball, Cooke, Bowman, and Hawthorne.
Parkes was charged with having been dictated
to by M'Millan, and of course indignantly denied
the accusation. Parkes’ denials are generally
positive proof of the correctness of the charge
made, and this denial is no exception to the rule.
Toby and His Poor Master
The Bulletin proceeds to wipe the floor with
Mr. John Haynes, M. P. In Haynes’ Weekly,
of 13th October, 1885, Mr. Haynes, now political
Toby to tho Parkes Ministry, gave the following
graphic and wonderfully truthful portrait of the
great man from whose Imperial carriage-wheels
he now licks the dust
“ SIR HENRY PARKES. j
The policy of the Opposition is CHEEK, and its consist-
ency is that of sand. Ic »s excessively a cheeky thing to sup-
pose that this country is about to be committed once more
to the hands of Sir Hanry Parkes. This man’s day is
past. It would te dangerous to give him the reins of govern-
ment again. The simple reason is, that distinguished man is
suffering from a galloplog consumption of the brain Any
man capable of the freaks which have marked Sr Henry
Parkes’ speeches and actions, particularly during the last
two years, is certainly not a safe man. To entrust him with
serious political work would be to allot him duties beyond hi?
mental powers. And that is what must be said of Sir Henry
Parkes. It is a painful fact, but a fact nevertheless.
And as the dusk of evening is settling on the career
of Sir Henry, it is fitting to remark what an
in and out one it hss been. Sir Henry Parkes was bom with
half the ability of a statesman, and got the education of an
alderman. His life was a mixture “t both Over and over
again be has told us he was th« architect of his own fortune.
And over and over again we have thought he ought have
prosecuted th 9 aforesaid architect That architect began at
the roof of the edifice, and built downwards : and t’s b°en
eternal patching ever since. Sir Henry Parkes said he
began life with a sixpence. We re afraid he 11 leave « ff with-
out one. This '-an be said of Sir Henry Parkes—he
legislated for Parkes. We don't believ i the cause of
humanity ever found a true response in his breast. On his
cedar chair in the old Government Offices, by the Fig Tree,
he was a Napoleonic snob He affected the First Consul,
and was ooly bis but'er. H i was a perfect C.esar—in wax.
An Emperor without a subject even to punish. Ho would
have reporters and officials crawl to his feet, and his great
feat seemed to be io distend his nostrils as he deigned to
speak to the officers of the people. This is a true picture of
the man in a few words. It is a reflex from a mirror.
Nature iotended to make the original great—bnt she struck
work when half through the job.’'
“ Death From Natural Causes.”
Two deaths occurred in Sydney recently from
over-easing, and in both cases coroner’s juries re-
turned verdicts of “ death from natural causes.”
Yet it seems, at first sight, rather an unnatural
way of shuttling off this mortal coil —to distend
the stomach so much with food as to interfere
with the heart’s action, and thus to as effectively
stop its beating as if a dose of prussic acid had
been taken. Syncope from over-feeding in these
hard times is certainly a novelty ; but not so, we
are afraid, a lexicon of lesser ills attributable to the
same cause. Albert Smith used to declare that
infinitely more suffering was occasioned to
humanity from over-eating that from over drink-
ing. Of the two nuisances he preferred the
drunkard to the gormandizer, bath in a moral and
physical point of view. In his moral aspect the
gormandiser is without doubt the personification
of numberless small and unheroic, yet none
the less detestable vices. If he does not,
like the “awful example” so valuable
to the teetotallers, beat his wife, he contrives by
putting together innumerable acts of unkindness
io steep her in misery from which the violence of
the “awful example” would be a bappy release.
He is irritable, selfish, mean ; and lacks all the
best uxorious and parental instincts. In the
world he is grasping, penurious, and dishonest
right up to the statutory limitations. Physically
the gormandiser is in worse case than the
drunkard, His liver has a tendency to develope to
enormous proportions. His heart performs its
functions in a haphazard fashion ; and his other
organs are constantly more or less out of order,
and to suppose that over-eating is not the cause
of great misery is to ignore the fact that count-
less enterprising men have been ruined in attempts
to run restaurants on teetotal principles. The
men who required only honest value in food didn't
patronise these places, because they couldn’t get
their beer thereat ; so the wretched keepers per-
force had to depend on those who pride themselves
on being non-drinkers —with the inevitable result
of bankruptcy. On the whole issue we are in-
clined to think it by no means an unmixed evil
for a gormandiser to have his career cut
short by syncope; and though the verdict of
“death from natural causes” in such a case may
appear to the unphilosophical mind a little incon-
sistent, it is reafiy in strict accord with the
Spencerian theory of “the survival of the
fittest.”
Promotion in the British Army.
“ Editor Bulletin, —When you reply to corres-
pondents tell t»>em yon don’t know, if you can’t
give facts. ’E.MM.’ ihould be informed that
any well-educated, steady man can obtain his
commission in the British amy. Indeed, in May,
1886 there were !> generals, 23 colonels, 68 majors,
Bio captains, and 800 lieutenants, quartermasters,
and riding-masters in the service who had risen
from the ranks, and there are on an average 12
rankers given commissions every month. The
Victoria Cross, the most coveted honour in the
service, is held by 227 men only, 128 of whom ob-
tained the honour as privates or non-coms. Th’s
speaks volumes for the impartiality of the mili-
tary authorities at home. I may add that four
friends of mina obtained the.r commissions from
the ranks, and that I was offered one whilst serv-
ing as a staff-sergeant in the lath regiment in
Afghanistan. —Yours truly, A. Robinson." [ln
the list of Victoria Crosses which our correspon-
dent forwards, out of the 61 names in the first
column 53 are officers and 11 private). Eighteen
of the oflicers, however, are noted as having
earned their decorations either as privates or non-
commissioned officers, but as only six have
attained anything higher than non-commissioned
rank, even now the promotion does not seem to be
very excessive. Granting, however, that th j 18 in
question had all been promoted from the ranks
after earning the Cross—which they certainly
were not—the fact remains that out of 61 honours
originally bestowed 32 were given to officers and
only 29 to men in the ranks. In view of this ab-
surd disproportion we maintain our original theory
that the officer can earn his Cross on much
cheaper terms than the private. As regards pro-
motion from the ranks there is plenty of it, but the
men p-omoted are too often the sons of people who
are able to command influenoe, and since the abo-
lition of purchase numbers of this class have en-
listed—not with a view to undergoing the
drudgery of a private soldier’s life, but simply as
the shortest and moat economical road to a com-
mission. A return recently produced in the House
of Commons showed conclusively that “ gentle
men’s ” sons in the ranks absorb the bulk of the
promotion, and in the face of the frauds lately
brought to ligh‘ in almo3f every department of
the British army nothing else could reasonably be
looked for. As far as the “plebeian” goes, things
in the British army seem to stand pretty much as
they were.—Ed. B.]
Parnell and “The Times.”
Here is some matter of a kind which no Atis
• ralian daily paper ever dreams of re-printirg. It
is from the pen of Mr. Sampson (“ Pendragon ”) of
The Referee, as English an Englishman as there
is on earth, and perusal of it will enable those
Australians who have all their lives been politi-
cally spoon-fed by the London correspondents of
the Argus and S. M. Herald to somewhat vary
the false idea so generally entertained of the
power and importance of that silly and worn-
out institution The Times newspaper.
“ Silence, as the weapon depended upon by
Irish agitators, seems put in an almost impossibly
false position; yet Mr. Parnell and his coadjutors
have recently depended very much upon the aid
of silence. Mr. Parnell has, for an Irishman, an
almost unnatural command over his feelings ; but
to some of his hot-blooded associates the policy of
silence must be the most trying thing the world
contains. In this, as in other matters, the calm
and dispassionate Parnell has had his way of late,
with the result that the Times has had to gnash
its teeth and eat out its heart in almost childish
impotence. The articles published in the once all-
powerful organ of weathercockism, “ Parnellism
and Crime,” a terrible impeachment
of the Trish party in the House ; and had, as was
confidently anticipated they would, Parnell and
Co. made any response, the entire country would
have been in a blaze of mixed anger and curi-
osity. Beirg unable to reply in the way which
suited them, Parnell and Co. have maintained a
studious silence, with the result that the Times’
tremendous effort has spent itself, and produced
no visible effect upon either Parliament or the
public. Never was the result of silence so
triumphant. In despair the Times people have
reprinted the articles, and issued them in the
form of a peony pamphlet. Still the world goes
on as before, and there is no particular rush to the
bookstalls to buy the brochure. Now, the Times
is not used to be treated in this wise. The policy
of Printing House-square has often enough been
condemned ; but to be passed over in neglectful
silence 1 W hy, that’s just the very weapon that
the Times itself has wielded for so many success-
ful years against its critics and assailants. Among
the other great victories with which Mr. Parnell
has to be credited is a mo3t decided one over the
Times -a victory from which that paper is hardly
likly to recover. For the Times is to the cosy and
cultivated middle-class Englishman quite as much
a fetich as Obi is to the naked and oil-smeared
and (of course) uninformed African. And when
the middle-class Englishman finds that the Times
has flung its biggest bomb, and that, though the
bomb has exploded, it has harmed nobody except
those who threw it, he will begin to think he has
been mistaken in the object of his reverence.
There comes a time in the history of all news-
papers when the power hitherto wielded by them
begins to decline. You cannot always see when
the beginning is made ; but you cannot help seeing
that it has been made, as soon as the work that is
its results has well begun, because its effect is so
very rapid. Contrast the position of the Times
now with what it was thirty years ago, twenty
years ago, or even t en. Until lately such a coup
manqu£ as that entitled “Parnellism and Crime”
would not have been possible. There has been no
such journalistic giant at any previous period of
history as the Times was when men now getting
grey and bald were in their early adolescence ;
there never will be such another. The abolition
of the compulsory stamp and the repeal of the
duty on paper brought about a new era in news-
papers ; and nobody now pays his penny per hour
to read the Times and rest content in the after-
ward belief that all the wisdom in the world has
for his penny been open to him. In the days that
are gone, an article in the Times could make or
break a Government, could drive the country into
war, or could hold out prospect of peace ; and
the paper itself could be the best friend or the
worst enemy in Europe, if not in the whole habit-
able world. Not so very loDg ago I was told by a
publisher of considerable experience that he could
remember the time when a good notice of a novel in
the ' imes was worth much more than the entire
profits of nineteen out of every twenty nowaday
novels, about which there is such a howl going.
Said he, “ I can call to mind when if in the mor-
ning I read a really favouring review of a book of
mine ia the Times, I could go down to the office a
certain £SOO better off than I was when I left the
night before. Now? No; there are too many
papers. If one praises a book, another slates it,
and the Times has no more power than any other
paper. Not so much, because we find the biggest
power always goes with the biggest circulation.”
All this is very sad — for Mr. J. Walter and the
folk who get their living in his office. It is an
entirely different matter to the great general
public.- The vast power for good or evil held by
one journal was a direct effect of the cruel and
unjust laws which were for ages directed against
the spread of knowledge and education amongst
the masses. Fancy, even in these our own days,
being compelled to put a penny stamp upon every
newapape-, no matter whether oi not it was to be
posted ! And yet there were people who said the
country was going to the dogs because the com-
pulsory stamp was abolished. Before this there
were still heavier dues levied upon the Press; and
even now the Pj ess groans under regulations and
supervisions and restrictions which are unknown
to any -jther institution, and which are a relic of
the period when the dominant classes saw in the
growth of journalism their greatest enemy, and
did all they could to hamper it and to haDg it
around with difficulties and dangers. In thirty
years there had been more growth of journalism
among newspapers than there has been for
the previous three hundred years. Where we
shall be in another thirty years, who shall say?
Perhaps by then there will be no Times —there
will certainly not be such a paper as we know now
under that title. There is talk occasionally about
its being reduced to a penny ; that would be
simple suicide. At present there are many who
buy it and believe in it wholly and solely be-
cause its price is threepence ; divest it of this claim
on their reverence, and they might actually say
they thought the Telegraph was a better —as it
certainly is a brisker —paper. As the people who
were brought up to put their faith in the Times
die off, it will be difficult to fill their places in
face of tee existent competition, which gets keener
and keener with every succeeding day. If such a
paper as the Times had until now never existed,
and were to come out as an entirely fresh venture,
say, next Monday, bristling with wrong-headed
and fatuou3 imbecilities as it does now, it is safe
to say that it wouldn’t sell a thousand copies, and
those that it did sell would be regarded with
derision. Because then the peculiarities we have
been educated to respect would look like studied
impertinences— when they didn’t look as though


he paper were edited at Earlswood. Proof of the
accuracy of what I say is not hard to discover. A
year or two ago tho Times managers thought ol
c mvulsing London to its centre by the issue of a
halfpenny morniDg paper that should have ad van
l ages not one of the penny papery possessed the
advantages of all the machinery for collection and
t ansmifbion of news, of printing and of publics
tion, that had grown up with the Timers in course
of generations. The paper was produced; and
the Briiish public took not the least notice of it
as wretched and as miserable and as ghastly
a failure as ever was made by journalistic bantling,
the Summary— that was, if I remember aright,
the name of the venture —passed away withoui
one in a million of those for whom it was intended
being aware that it had ever been in existence.
This, when coupled with other things that have
happened of late years, might have warned not
only the credulous public, but the Printing House-
square folk themselves, that the Times must some
while ago have ceased to be directed by Divine
Providence. But neither seemed to take to heart
the lesson that was offered them ; and it was left
for Mr, Parnell and his merry men to show
1 hat , unless you care to make it extra great and
poweiful yourself, the Times is no greater, no
more powerful than any other paper. Not so
powerful as some others which the Times but a
few years ago looked down upon with scorn and
incredulity.”
The people of New South Wales should not allow
themselves to be turned off the scent by the be-
haviour of Sir Henry Pakkes. It all simply
means a change of front. That Grand Old Man
has discovered that the Freetrade versus
Protection dodge will no longer serve his purpose.
In other words, his “ fiscal salvation ’ business is
played out, so he finds it necessary to shift his
ground. The recent South Sydney election very
clearly shows that Protection is coming with the
swiftness of a lightning stroke and the gathering
magnitude of »n avalanche. Hence the cunning
old warrior is manufacturing a new casus belli
—ho is raising a fresh Kiarna Ghost. It
was sought by Parkes and his “loyal ” Yellow
Pup to bracket Protection and tho It. C. Church.
The endeavour failed. Now it is sought to weld
together into one heterogeneous and detestable
whole Protection, Freethought, anarchy, dyna-
mite, “ disloyalty,” republicanism, ruffianism, and
Mount Rennie. By-the-bye, docs there not seem
to be a connection between Pakkes, Orangeism,
Primrose-leagueism, Freetrade, Imperialism, and
the cloture, both within and without the House?
Certain almond-eyed girls who are illustrating
the manners and customs of tho Japanese at a
“village” in London have contributed six and
sixpence to the Women’s Jubilee Offering, with
the hope “ i hat the Queen may sit on her throne for
another fifty years, and then enjoy perpetual
bliss.” This is the kind of Jubilee incident which
affords Her Gracious Majesty much pleasure.
We wouldn't wonder if she sent a gracious mes-
sage to those devoted Japs. Reading that little
Mongolian joke it may not occur to her that a
democratic taint is perceptible in Oriental
courtesies nowadays. In Darius's time
the grovellers prayed, “O king! live for
ever.” Now they only give monarchs an extra
fifty years. The day is approaching when they
will pray for crowned heads to die right away,
and suffer everlasting—inconvenience.
A radical writes to the editor of the Age, paying :
“ I do not subscribe to your rag, but I see it often
enough to know that you belong to the mob that
is howling for Imperial Federation. Of course
any one who thinks for himself laughs at your
shallow arguments, but even you ought to be
ashamed of the unscrupulous manner in which
you exercise your influence on the minds of your
111-educated readers.” And the Age, in the
wisdom of its own conceit, printed this just im-
peachment. The Argus is more canny in these
matters. Argus correspondence must breathe a
spirit of blue-mouldy Toryism, aid mention that
* the thanks of all decent people aie due to your
high-minded journal,’ or 'else it is dropped into
the waste-paper basket with a pair of electro
plated tongs. Talking of that reminds us that in
Melbourne last week a compositor was discharged
for setting up “ the Queen ” with a small q !
Who in thunder edits the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph that two such things as the following
should appear within a week ?
J unf. 11.
"The ruffianism which last
night attempted to garote
loyalty and freedom of epeech
and action will to-day find
itself taken in the strong
clean hands of the people
and its miserable life shaken
out of it. A gathering which
might have passed as one of
the incidents of the present
season of jubilation has, by
the action of the gang which
tried to crush it out of exist-
ence, been lifted into the
highest public importance and
become merely the prelimi-
nary to a widespread declara-
tion of loyatty of a hundred-
fold greater enthusiasm than
any man could have contem-
plated a few weeks ago."
June 17.
“ The Supreme Court, in
view of the class of business
it has lately expressed a de-
sire to undertake, might ex-
hibit a transparency pour-
traying with, as theatrical
managers say, real flames, an
auto da fe of secularists and
republicans by way of recom-
mending the most effective
way of ' stamping out ’ odious
minorities. And if over the
front of our Parliament House
we had a coksial figure of
Mr. Julian Salomons en-
gaged in inscribing on our
statute book a severely penal
measure for the legal enforce-
ment of Christianity, the sig-
nificance and faithful realism
of our public illuminations :
would leave little to be de-
sired.”
The raging Royalist lion of June 11 denounces
anti-Jubileeism as ruffianism, and wants to see
“its miserable life shaken out of it," and the
calm Republican lamb of June 17 heaps derision
on I hose who tried to do the shaking. Evidently
the fable ot the old man and the ass wants re-
vising. The modern old man is the editor of a
Sydney daily journal, and his perverted sheet is
the as*. Sometimes the editor carries the ass,
and at other times the ass does the carrying and
takes its unhappy load where he didn’t intend to
go. Sometimes they get mixed, so that it is hard
to tell which is editor and which is ass. Some-
times they even seem to be both ass. Sometimes,
in fact, they are both ass, because they were born
th it way and can’t help it, and then they describe
themselves as “we.” Only the other day we saw
17 “ we’s" in one D.T. editorial.
From the London Times
" Let those who are thus anxious to condemn a whole
nation for the fault of a few miserable and degraded
wretches, brutalised by the very tyranny which arraigns
their brutality, consider under what the
country has been placed. . . But even under the influence
of the horror inspired by great crime, there are those who
will he disposed to ask if nations are to wait for freedom till
they are faultless ? Would Athens, would Rome, would
Fogland would America ever have enjoyed it? They will
also remember that such exceßßes are the miserable legacy
that tyranny leaves to societies whose morals she has sapped
and whose sympathies she has blunted.’’
This is not Intended to apply to the case of Ire-
land. It appeared in the Times of 12th October,
1859, in reference to the murder of a nobleman in
Italy by the bravoes of a seoret society.
Wollongong (N.S.W.) is a perfect hog at Jubilee.
The Queen’B half-centenary is to be celebrated by
the opening of a disjointed section of the Illawarra
ailway, 15 miles in length, and leading from
\owhere into the desert, and this is to be worked
it a tremendous loss at the expense of the bleed-
ng colony for the benefit of certain landholders,
’he movement was initiated by the saints of
Vollongong, and gaDgs of navvies have been
;ompelled to work even on the blessed Sawbath to
et the white elephant ready. They woiked on
he blepsed Sawbath on another occasion a short
vhile since, but as they were engaged then in the
•onstruction of a much-needed loop-line instead of
n building a Jubilee fad, they were summoned
or damage done to the Loard’s Day. They have
>ot been summoned this time. The Defender of
he Faith must be grovelled to and will no doubt
raciously square accounts with poor offended
Teaven.
V. correspondent says “ I hold Republican
4ewB, but I obtrude my views upon no man,
hough naturally desirous of bringing uo my
children in my own political opinions. It appears,
however, that in New South Wales I may not do
this, for my little daughter, aged ten—who. of
course, is utterly incapable of forming an opinion
>n the relative merits of Hoyalism ami Repub-
licanism—was pressed by her teachers andeldeis
to sign the fanatical ‘declaration of loyalty’
hatched by a pack of infuriated magnates half
mad with rage bscause people dare to hold
opinions contrary to those of their spiritual
pastors and masters and those (hat are put in
authority over them. Is opinion to be coerced
as well as speech 1 ”
It is scarcely matter for surprise that a fat church
living should generally be associated with devoted
loyalty to Her Majesty's throne and person. Dr.
Bevan, who draws £l5OO a year from the Collins-
street (Melbourne) Congregational Church, says
that “ the domestic virtues of Queen Victoria
have done more to purify the morals of the last
two generations of Englishmen than all the
homilies that have been preached since her acces-
sion.” The rotund and reverend divine probably
failed to see that he was hore advancing an argument
in favour of the total abolition of the clergy. It
seems pretty plaiD, at all events, that if the
TOO LOW A BID.
COCKY BURNS (loq.): "WHAT, YOUR MAJESTY! AIN’T I ANY BETTER THAN
ROBERTS OR DAVIES TIIATS A NICE WAY TO RECOGNISE MY TROUBLE
IN CRUSHING NATIVE INDUSTRY FOR THE BENEFIT OF BRUMMAGEM.”
example of one lady can do more good than the
combined efforts of the tens of thousands of par-
sons who claim to be the special ambassadors of
the Almighty, the British public are spending an
enormous sum on bishops and curates which
might be expended to much better advantage on
beer and skittles.
The Bulletin perceives with surprise that the
ingenuous person who but a few short weeks ago
used to impressively sign himself “W. H. C.
Tankerville Bennett, secretary New South
Wales Primrose League,” has apparently had the
gorgeous Tankerville cut from out his Imperial
cognomen Snd now struts at the end of his aristo-
cratic hog wash in the city prints merely as
“W. H Bennett.” Bennett, young man, let
us shelter ourselves beneath the shadow of your
ear and speak. Where is your majestic Tanker-
ville? Without your Tankerville your drool-
ings in the Telegraph won’t impress anybody
whose brain is heavier than a flea's eyelash.
It’s about time that delusion that
the law-officers of a Goveinment for the time
being are entitled to jump the vacant chairs on
the judicial bench should be dispelled. Great
Soott ! What a Supreme Court there would now
be in Victoria if some of the Attorneys-General
and junior law-officers in that colony, in times
gone by, had succeeded to the Bench and were
Btill surviving ! We might now see such lines as
these in the law-reports of the daily papers :
“ Banco Court (tefore Chief Justice G. P. Smith,
Mr. Justice Vale, and Mr. Justice Walsii )
First Nisi Prius Court (before Mr. Justice |
M‘Dermott and juries of six). And then Sydney
might see a Full Court composed of Foster,
Wise, and Windeyer !
The Sydney Press recorded the other day the
death of an infant in the local Brnevolent Asylum.
He was born there, and, consistent with the “rise
and progress” of that institution, handed in his
infantine chips and struck the first rung of the
golden stair in the same institution. His juvenile
maternal parent, whose years number only
fifteen, belongs to the category of “ unmar-
ried mothers,” which fact is also illustrative o
the peculiar 4 ‘progressof the Benevolent Asylum,”
and a variety of other things. “ She knew the
father of the child by sight, but was not aware of
his name or abode!” Thus they progress !! Un-
known seducers ; mothers at 15, heroines of a
Mount Rennie tragedy at 17, and God knows
what at 20!! Yet people ask how larrikins are
made. The Mary Anns of to-day cultivate
frailty as babies, and are aged in vies ere they are
out of their teens. Before attaining their legal
maiority, if success attends their progressive de-
velopment, they draw the grand lottery prize-
ticket—four youths dangling at the end of a taut
cord, and five worrying oakum in a crime-
foundry.
The Rev. George Sutherland, of Sydney, is a
capital specim-n of the Christian of 500 years ago.
In a letter to the S.M. Herald he argues out the
old cause of tyranny and persecution, the scourge,
the pit, and the gallows in the following terms
‘‘The Queen is the civil bead of the nation. . . . Before
the crown is placed on her head she solemnly swears that
she will maintain the Christian religion. The question
which must be answered in the affirmative is: “ Will you to
the utmost of your power maintain the laws of God. the true
profession of the Gospel, and the Protestant reform d re-
ligion established by law " To this cur Queen has answered
“ Yes.” Observe, the nation has established by law the Pro-
testant religion. . . . How is it, then, that we ro ad in the
press from time to time that the Government knows no
religion? Is there one Constitution for Great Britain, and
another for her colonies ? It is not so. Th» Qneen of Great
Britain is our Queen. The Constitution of Great Britain is
our Constitution, in respect to its laws and religion. The
colonies are not at liberty to repudiate the religious Consti-
tution of the Empire, while they remain a part of that
Empire: they have never attempted to repudiate that re-
ligious Constitution, but have gloried in it. . . . The
Freethinkers, therefore, who question the existence of a God
and of a future sta'e and who det y that the Bible is the
word of God, place themselves outside the Constitution of
the Empire in respect to the moral basis of our laws.’
The Rev. George Sutherland appears to over-
look the fact that the Queen’s oath binds her to
maintain the Protestant re’igion “ established by
law”—in other words, the Church ef England
The Rev. Mr. Sutherland does not belong to
that church, and is, therefore, outside the Con-
stitution of the Empire. He is thus, religiously
speaking, a pariah, a leper, and an outcast,
according to his own argument. If the Free-
thinker must be put down so must the Rev.
George Sutherland, and in the days when they
used to put down men of the rev. gentleman’s
creed they did it by whipping them through the
streets and then gelling them into slavery. If lie
doesn’t want these days to come back, let him
leave other men alone. And when Mr. Suther-
land strikes an attitude and asks, “Is there one
Constitution for Great Britain and another for her
colonies ? ’ we are bound to tell him that there is
Almost everybody knows that New South Wales
has a Constitution Act of its own.
+
Figures, it is well-known, can’t lie, but they do
try very hard at times— by Jupiter, they do ! when
they get into the hands of Parkes, who, in the
New South Wales Assembly, the other day, eaid
P e found that New South Wales had constructed no
fewer than six railways, each of which was longer than the
longest railway iu Victoria. The railway from Sydney 10
Hay was 454 miles in length ; from Sydney to Jerilderie, 412
miles - from Sydney to the Queensland Border, 492 miles-
f™ra ®y dne y t 0 Narrabri, 352 miles; from Sydney to Albury,
387 miles; and from Sydney to Bourke, 503 miles.”
When a sensible man perverts the truth he gener-
ally allows himself ten minutes to get away before
he is found out, but Parkes does nothing of the
sort; he prefers to wait and see the fun. When
he reckons up the railways from Sydney to Hay,
to Jerilderie, and to Albury, he counts one
stretch of about 300 miles three times over, and
by this process he makes six lines expand 700
miles further than the whole New South Wales
railway system. If he liked to estimate himself in
the same way he would tot up to four men and
two battered old political schemers all in one suit of
clothes. “Me, and Enry, and Parkes, and the
Premier, and the member for St. Leonards, and
the man who wrote that ’ere poetry about kissing
a girl on a mountain top ” ought to count for six
vVOtes, anyway. _
“ O that our enemy twould always write us a
letter!” A trader in the Manning and
Hastings constituency complains to The
Bulletin that although Hon. J. H. Young,
Speaker of the New South Wales Legislative
Assembly, has at several elections received the
most hearty support from the storekeepers of the
district, a son of his is now travelling over a por-
tion of the electorate selling tea to the farmers
and others, “ thus interfering with the legitimate
trade ”of those in business on the spot. Our cor
respondent adds that Mr. Young “ will be a dps?
'ower still at next election." \V e shouldn't won
der. There’s no patriotism in the average voter
V strong intellect, a long experience, a good edu
cation, an unblemished honesty—these are not
what is looked for in a member of Parlia
ment. Mind you, we don't say that Mr. Young
renior. possesses any of these qualities but the
honesty : we only wirh to remark that even if he
conspicuously owned them all he would evi-
dently have to electioneering chance, so far as
the storekeepers of his constituency are con-
cerned, against a g rrilla-candidate whose son
Hdn't sell tea. But listen, ye storekeepers of the
Manning and Hastiogs. Young, senior, got your
support on the Freelrade ticket and was elected
N T ow you would oust him because you want pro-
tection against his son. Tell us now, art you
Freetraders—or Protectionists ?
To Agents and the Public.
The issue of the .lubilee Bulletin was, with one
exception, the largest ever turned out by any
weekly paper in Australasia ; it is exceeded only
in magnitude by The Bulletin’s edition of last
Christmas. Sixty-three thousand copies were
printed and sold, yet this huge supply proved
utterly unequal to the demand, which up to the
date of writing still continues. Agents and
others, whose first orders arrived late, or whose
applications for additional copies have not been
attended to, will please accept this notice in lieu
of written intimation.
Illumination Humouts.
Notwithstanding the columns of gush ladled
out by theSydaey dailies, the local Jubilee illumina-
tions wore a grim and ghastly failure. Crowds of
people perambulated the streets, but there was
not the faintest demonstration of real enthusiasm
during the whole evening. The Chinese lanterns
and the fairy lamps were a hideous mistake, and
theirsuccessive extinguishment left only a dreary
spectacle of splotches of light and acres of dark-
strict biz. The banks, the corporations and joint-
stock companies made the most show—having the
most money to spend—other people’s money. The
vilest sinner ” must have had a dreary time of
it, as no lamp “ held out to burn ” with even the
narrowest show of salvation. Not that the
sinners cared much. Many were in the grog-
shops illuminating the darkness of their stomachs
with bottled lightning and petroleum on draught.
There was little noise, little cheerin g The only sound
which broke the weary trudge of feet on the pave,
ments was the occasional hiccough of somebody who
had taken too much Jubilee gin. We forget. 1
There was one ominous roar : the roar of a
hungry multitude dodging round a police-guarded
politician, and showing their Democratic tusks as
if they wanted to eat him. The whole city looked
like an erysipelatous patient suffering also from
a combined attack of measles, rash, scarlet-fever,
smallpox, prickly heat, gangrene, and aggravated
black-eye. You could not say that the swarthy
features of the night were lit up : all that wa3
done was to put a string of glass beads on
the neck of a dusky savage. Theio were every
where glints of glimmer and gaps of gloom.
And the calico illuminations were simply atro
eious. Queens oglod you with black eyes, glared
at you from balconies with blue eyes, and
glowered spitefu )y at you with green eyr9 .
Her Gracious everywhere wore the cro which is
never taken off even when she goes to lied.
Always that crown, but in everything else differ-
ent. There was a whole picture-gallery of misery
—the show comprised representations of all
sorts of Royal physical disasters, varying
from the Queen in a fit to the Queen in a fever.
At the statue there was a huge portrait of Her
Gracious done in oil—oil-lamps. It was a dread-
ful libel, even on a Guelph. A curious crowd
stood in front of it and irreverently made bets as
to whether a certain string of red lamps represented
H.M.'s nose or her right-hand molar. She was
grossly libelled by another pictorial brutality on the
facade of the Town Hall, that monument to muni-
cipal virtue, which corusca’ed like moonrays
on a brand-new frying-pan. The display
made by the Clubs was a dtlirious and paltry
show. The grounds of the Union Club
were drowned in darkness, and on the
building there was a tawdy exhibition of an
ounce of gas-light and ten pennyweights of
coloured lamp. The fossilised eld boys of the
Australian Club garnished their scandal-bin with
Chinese paper lanterns and managed to approach
the tout ensemble of an Indian Bungalow. The
Atheneeum Club plunged into extravagance and
went to the expense of four-penn'orth of piper
glimmer. The best display was obtained by a
v ery tasteful illumination of the architecturally-
fine facade of the Exchange, but then in this case
there was something more than gimerack ugliness
to illuminate. An awful daub stuck up outside
the Hekald office represented the Prince of
Wales a 3 a bloodthirsty monster with a blue
beard and a red face. And yet Mr. Jame 3 Fair-
fax is a trustee of the N.S.W. National Gallery !
“V.1.R.” was the illumination.legend over Par
liament Houses. It was ordered by Parkes, and
no doubt meant “ Victoria, I, and Robert (Caring-
ton, of course). Aenio me impune lacessit was
the motto adopted by the Federal Bank—than
which a more delightful bull was surely never
perpetrated, inasmuch as even body was instant ly
impelled to make a malicious and untruthful
financial application of it. Which reminds us
that the Bank of New Zealand first sst up busi-
ness in Sydney at the old offices of the A. M P.
Society, whose motto, as the world knows is
Amiens certus in re incerta. Th s legend con-
tinued to gracs the door long aPer the bank took
over the building, but the B.N Z . being a level-
headed institution mainly presided over by
Scotchmen, couldn't afford to act up to so reckless
a promise as that contained in the A. M.P.'s trade
mark. TheEe things remind one that the bill of
fare at a cerl ain fashionable Sydney restaurant
was for many and many a day headed with a
coat-of-arms and Semper Eadcm , and none of the
Scotchmen about the plac9 cjuld see the sa'ire of
the thing. The illumination business as a whole
partook, as above stated, of the nature of a severe
froff. Give us the unalloyed li laiity of the
silent tomb and the cheerful jubilation of the
charnel-house!
„ Thus s P ake Benjamin Lee, P. M., Bathurst-
I have no hesitation in saying that I would
pay a fine rather than send a c iild of mine to a
wm°V Wher T a ,. flr « wa3 not k6 Pt winter.’
Will Tiger Inglis oblige by slaying this daring


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Criterion Theatre.—" The Tomboy” p. 15
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy
Theatre Royal—" Little Jack Sheppard ” „
Opera House—" M« Sweetheart ”
Exhibition Building.— Roller Skating Rink
We have always been a hog for pathos,
and consequently “ The Streets,” at Sydney Royal
Standard, brought a tear to our bilious brown
eye and made our swivel green one grow misty.
It is a touching story, adorned with love, jealousy,
vengeance, a Hebrew old clothes man iu a yacht,
and various other emotions ranging from Sheol to
lunch, and woman—the enchantress who gets up
on a cold morning and skims around in an elephant's-
breath petticoat and yesterday’s hair to get our
breakfasr., and yet thinks nothing of trading off
our evening dress boots for a pair of vases—per-
vades it everywhere. But no one will ever dis-
cover what it is all about. The nice young man
from Canada in the long boots seems to have
someihing to do with it, and as the result of his
recklessness in allowing the author to borrow him
for dramatic purposes, he has to go and hide in a
slum and disguise himself as a policeman and
other low characters. He is haughty and reserved
and as cool as the north side of a mountain snow-
ball, but when his own best girl brings the polics
down on him and demands that he should be
hanged, he gives way for a moment and, looking
reproachfully at her, murmurs, “Is that you
again, you brute,” or words to that effect. He
then melts away, and has to be removed in a jug
and poured into a police cell. Mr. Boothman
looks after this part of the business pretty suc-
cessfully. Mr. Baker figures as a cmntry
lout whose head is constantly buzzing through
too much drink, and the only really tight cuddle
in the whole piece falls to his share. He is
a miserably pallid wretch, and every now and
then he leans up against a cruel Greek and weeps
into his tail pocket and asks what is to become of
him. And the Greek holds him up and tells him
to be comforted, for as soon as he is done with
him he may go to smash, and if hedoesn't stop that
snuffling he will go to gaol first and to smash after-
wards. The foreigner is far and away the bast
character in the drama, and is one of the finest
things we have seen Mr. Sidney perpetrate since
his arrival. A disguised Hebrew in the old
clothes trade, who cuts up larks in a back slum,
cheeks the Athenian at the end of the third act
and brings down the house. This is Mr. Hollo-
way’s way of keeping the Jubilee. Also there is a
grey, dirty, hump backed, shambling, cross eyed
larrikin of (55, who carries about with him in a
box a human hand, a blood-stained knife, and one
or two knocked-out brains ; and two pretty girls -
Miaso3 Alice Norton and Julia Merton —both of
whom play well. What these people are all driv-
ing at it is difficult to say, but they tear round as
if they were paid for it, and carry strange docu-
ments about in their inside pockets. Among
them they hoist the'drama up to a considerable
height and then let it fall, and, with the natural
perversity of things, it falls with the buttered side
down. The principal girl is altogether too inno-
cent to live, and the other girl takes to drink and
sits in a Jubilee condition on doorsteps. A Yankee
instructs her to give two whistles if she sees any-
body coming, but phe can't toot worth a cent.
There never was a woman who oould
#* * *
The half-dressed musical drama is repre-
sented this week by the “Bohemian Girl” at
Sydney Academy. She must be a pretty old girl
by this time, but she still looks young, and she de-
serves much better support than she receives.
Count Arnheim, the stately but rather imbecile
Austrian who fools away precious time in prayer
when he ought to be chasing the abductor of his
babe, is representei by Mr. Edward Farley, and
in his hands the old Bohemian slow coach is de-
lineated in first class style. Mr. Knight Aston—
in a bathing suit—makes an excellent Thaddeus,
and Davilshoof is played by Mr. C Robson. With
a view to putting in the requisite ferocity this
gentleman expands his eyes until they resemble a
pair of spiders on two blue saucers, and the result
seems very striking to anyone who can’t get out of
the window in time and make his escape. We
have looked at Mr. Robson from every possible
point of view, and we confess that we don’t care
much for him, or bis manservant, or his maidser
vant, or his ox, or his ass, or anything that is
hia'n, except perhaps his voice. Miss Adeline
Brandon as the “ Girl” looks as fresh as a daisy
and as innocent as a new-laid egg, and an ap-
preciative audience throws shrubs and vegetables
at her when she says that she had dwelt in marble
halls. A number of fresh scenes nicely painted
on loin cloths of various dimensions lends enchant-
ment to the view. The “Bohemian Girl” is a
vast improvement on the “ Grand Duchess of
last week.
#* * *
It having been resolved last week that a
benefit would do George Darrell a lot of good, the
event came off at Sydney Royal on Saturday after-
noon. There was an immense attendance and the
affair was under the patronage of the salt of the
earth. The house, according to Mr B. N. Jones
—a re ative we believe, of the famous Duke de
Jones- held £3os—a larger amount than the pre-
sent writer has held since that far-off period when
three guileless speculators innocently voted him
iQ as treasurer of a milling syndicate, and a great
deal more than the whole syndicate owned when
he had finished being treasurer; and the sub-
scription-list amounted to about £lOO more. the
proceedings were fragmentary and the subject
was changod almost as often as the topics in a
dictionary, but with few exceptions the per-
formers were evidently at their best. Mr. and
Miss Dampier and the Royal Standard company
rendered the first act of ‘' Macbeth, and then the
three bleary old witches with their kettle of
kitten soup shuffled off to make way for the
Cogills and the “ Human Snake —Fred. Garnet.
Carrie Swain and the Criterion company gave the
fourth act of the “ Miner's Daughter ; Minnie
Palmer —we suppress our feelings with difficulty
at the name-and Mr. Roberts produced a pretty
little comedy, “ The Ring and the Keeper ; and
Blueskin (Mr, Royce) received his pals in his Cave
of Harmony. The rest were too numerous to men-
ion. Mr. Darrell, who is still lying on the
remains of his once broad back in Melbourne was
unfortunately too unwell to appear and thank his
friends in person.
** * *
The bottom having apparently fallen out
of Parkes's boiled Sunday conscience, Mr. Frank
Smith is desecrating the Sabbath Day with
concerts at Sydney Alhambra and at Sir Joseph
Banks’ Gardens as of old. At the former estab-
lishment the ordinary entertainment is a little
livelier than usual. Somebody we think it is
Mr. Ryan—lays four eggs out of his head on the
stage, and Edwin Shipp has got the most wonder-
ful battered hat on record. Little Ida Heath
sings in seven different kinds of clothes, and gets
out of one set and into another at an amazing
rate. The performance concludes with the
screaming farce of “The Live Injun”—one of
the best specimens of Ethiopian drivel we have
seen for a long time.
** * *
“ The Tomboy ” is finishing its career at
Sydney Criterion, and next Saturday Carrie Swain
will silently steal away to make room for Mr.
Gourlay and his “Skipped by the Light of the
Moon." At the Opera House, Minnie Palmer has
reverted to “My Sweetheart.” The house is
always full, and many dudes are still breaking
their hearts all on account of a cruel little hen.
This is not intended for bad language ; it is merely
a quotation from Katisha. Cogill’s big, black
niggers will retire from Sydney Gaiety at the close
of next week. “Little Jack Sheppard,” on the
other hand, means to keep right on, and every
clumsy, hoarse, and husky Mary Ann in the city
seems to crowd nightly into the pit.
** * *
Miss Amy Sherwin is trilling her lays at
Melbourne Town Hall, amidst general jubilations.
Time has done much for Miss Sherwin. She left
us a timid la - k, startled by the echo of her im-
matured melody, and has returned a self-possessed
nightingale with a distinct platform “ style." Her
voice is as sweet as a greengage, as clear as
calves-foot jelly, aud more uader control than a
five year-old boy. Barring her one little weakness
for warbling in a foreign language—just to show
the Australian Natives’ Association what a thing
culchaw is—there is nothing to distinguish Miss
Sherwin from the seraphim who continually do
cry. She is well supported by a somewhat divine
fiddler, Herr Johann Rhodes (who ha 3 probably
Germanised the plain “ Jack” conferred upon him
by his godfathers and godmothers), and the show
is generally high-classy—not to say rekerky.
** * *
Man needs his Williamson below, but
needs his Maggie moore. So on June 25th John
and Lizzie Stofel show their dear familiar faces
at Melbourne Theatre Royal in the perennial
“ Struck Oil.” The tenth revival of this old
friend can be counted upon to hold more money
than any two novelties you like to mention.
Other dramas cloy the appetites they feed, but
“ Struck Oil' makes hungry where it most doth
WHY SHE WANTED THE WIRE.
" At Cape York (Queensland) the blacks are pulling down the telegraph wires."
—Daily Paper.
satisfy. It is a giant who his course must run
whenever the Williamsons say “ Go.” A some-
thing to be taken after meals as often as you can
get it. There is enough fun and patho3 in that
play to make the crowd clap their hands and call
the principals before the curtain after every act—
Lives there a man with a soul so base
That he hasn’t seen “ Struck Oil ”
In that case he’s a darned disgrace,
And ought to go and book a place
Right off, at Melbourne Royal.
This is a free advertisement which issues from
our heart.
## * #
Drama in Melbourne has been doing about
as well as could be expected since we issued our
last report. At the Royal, Bland Holt is winding
up a season, upon which the sun of prosperity
never sets, with a revival of the “ World.” The
steady Jubilee drizzle of last week only served to
whet the public appetite for the pomps aud vani-
ties of this eight-act monstrosity, and biz. has
been so good that a matinee was jammed in on
Tuesday just out of respect for Her Majesty.
Very meagre multitude i poured into the palatial
Princess' to see 1 ’ Blow for Blow.” If this once
[ popular melodrama (an Akgus man called it
“light comedy”) is to fetch’em again it must be
made into a boxing match under Marquis of
Queensberry’s rules. ‘ ‘ Blow for Blow, in four
rounds —a special trophy given by the Triumvi-
! rate,” reads well. A job-lot of comeoies are being
offered here this week, but on Saturday (25th)
1 the ‘ 1 Silver KiDg,” a really respectable monarch,
receives Jubilee addresses at eight o’clock pre-
cisely. Titheradge will again use his dead self as
a stepping-stODe to higher things and Mis 3 Isabel
j Morris is leading lady. Phil Day, whose Jaikes
was so peculiarly his own, is not in the cast this
journey. He is cast out. Talking of the good
Dry, he was a little out of his natural element in
'■ Arrah na-Pogue,” at the Opera House. Bygones
shall be bygones, however. “Two Orphans,”
supported by an influential company, commenced
to mike trouble at the Brough and Boucicault
establishment on Saturday last. The fact that
Sydney postmen were granted a special license to
Jubilate on Tuesday prevents us from further
commenting upon the glories of this show. For
similar reasons a notice of Signor Majeroni’s
“ Corsican Brothers ” must be deferred,
## # *
Melbourne’s capacity for minstrelsy con-
tinues to be taxed to the utmost. Hudson’s Sur
prise Party is firmly established at St. George’s
Hall in opposition to “ Silk Stockings ” at the
Victoria, and a weak-kneed show continues to
totter along at the Nugget. Nevertheless, it
would be nice if an epidemic set in among the
niggers and carried off a few to their long homes.
George Darrell is to have a big benefit at
Melbourne Bijou before the end of this month.
After his fitful fever, George is sleeping well, and
his appetite is most expensive. Nevertheless,
George lacks tono at present. Another good
breezy ben. will b 9 just the thing to brace him
up, and well he deserves it. George has ever
done his level best and kept a stiff upper-lip in an
uphill fight. ‘
** * *
j A “human corkscrew,” named Baggesen,
|is appearing with a New York company. Bag-
! gesen’s strong point is his ability to face due
i north while his toe 3 point due south. He would
be a useful rearguard to a retreating army.
** * *
j Nothing extenuating nor sitting upon
i aught in malice, we ventured to fear the worst
for a one-eyed comic opera company at Melbourne
Alexandra. It died without a struggle last Satur-
day week, and now the big house is a circus,
where the wondrous Wirth Family do about all
that can be done in this line of business. Tne
show is handicapped with a long name, but, if an
“ Equescurriculum” cam come to anything but a
bad end, we think the Wirths will keep undis-
turbed pojsession here until the glorious Fourth of
July, when Miss Carrie S wain once more bursts
upon the scene.
*# * *
News comes from Brisbane that certain
of the subscribers to the Italian Opera not having
paid up, Simonsen threatens to announce their
names from the stage on the last night of the
show. As some of his defaulters are well-known
members of sassiety, there ought to be a good
roll-up to see the fun.
** * *
A number of fluent American prevarica-
tors have long asserted that the reason why Mrs.
Langtry declines to appear in tights is that she is
knock-kneed, and this rumour has gone round
until the maddened Jersey Lily can endure it no
longer. She declares she isn’t knock-kneed, or
wobbly, or anything else, and she is now going to
submit the matter—in the hitherto despised tights
—to a committee of five to be chosen by herself.
Clara Morris, another American favourite, is also
in a difficulty. The breath of slander has nob
settled on her legs, as in the case of Mrs. Langtry,
but as she takes half-an-hour to dress between
each act the audiences are getting impatient, and
the San Francisco press declares that California
will have no more of her “ unless she kindly
brings her dressing-room on the stage and allows
the public to see what she is doiDg for that length
of timo."
*# # #
Nobody seems to have any manners at
Rockhampton (Q.). The School of Arts swamped
its Government endowment in building a stage,
with dressing-rooms and scenery attached, in its
large hall; then somebody in authority was moved
to insist that the theatre should be closed for re-
pairs, and before these were completed the edu-
cational and bun-feed establishment had secured
all the trade. It has kept it for a year now to the
ruin of the theatre, and about £3500 will cover
the amount of the fines which it is liable to pay
in its new character as a penny-gaff without a
license. The theatrical man has just found this
out and is going for the holy curiosity which has
wrecked him. Good luck to him !
THIS WICKED WORLD,
We notice an advertisement in a London
paper of a “ patent palpitating bust, warranted
to stand pressure.” That’s the eternally feminine
postscript An English medical man recently
married his cook. She had just been left £60,000.
General Salvation Booth has long been endea-
vouring to hatch a fitting Jubilee celebration idea.
At length he has decided to increase his official
taff, male and female, by 800 A scientist re-
cently invented a machine to tell how many hours
man sleeps. The contrivance was secretly
placed in the pocket of a night policeman, and it
recorded that he had actually slept ten hours out
of six Vanity Fair says that an English army
officer, having read the Jubilee begging circular
,o his soldiers, said, ‘ ‘ Now, men, you can do as you
ike ; I am not going to subscribe a penny."
Advertisement in a French newspaper: “Fritz
X , an experienced accountant, desires a place
as a cashier. In the interest of the security of
patrons he would state that he is afflicted with
;wo wooden legs.” Some 200 years ago the
outfit of an Englishwoman of the middle clues
cost £2 15s. It costs more than that to go un-
dressed now.... Advertisement from London D.T. :
“ Laundress requires a brewer, grocer, butcher,
and draper on reciprocal terms At a recent
session of the Presbyterian Church, in Augusta,
U.S., it was resolved by a vote of 137 to 13 that
the theory of evolution was untrue, and
hat Adam and Eve were instantly created,
body and soul, by acts of Almighty power.
The Creator will doubtless recognise the
compliment in a suitable manner “ The
world is very old and very weary,” says
Ouida. Yes, old lady; it’s a tired world, and it is
largely your fault Mormon Wife (to husband):
“Are you going out, dear?" Mormon Husband:
“ Yes, I have an engagement with Miss Brigham.
She is to give me an answer tonight.” Rev.
Mr. Whangle : “My boy. I’m sorry to see you
flying your kite on the Sabbath day.” The boy :
“ Why, it's made out of the Christian Weekly,
an’ got a tail of, tracts.” Young Woman
(timidly, to shop-assistant): “I would like to look
at some false hair, please.” Barber’s clerk (ex-
perienced): “ Yes, ma'am. What colour does
your friend want?” Sale effected Wealthy
young woman questions her confessor: “Is
it a sin, father, to take pleasure in having
people call me beautiful ?” “ Certainly, my child,
it is always wicked to encourage falsehood.”
The leading officials of the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition have been voted a bonus of three
months' salary—by themselves Mrs. Hob-
sonby (returning from church) : “ What a
very eloquent man the Rev. Dr. Swell is ! What
do you think of his long prayer ?" Mr. Hob-
sonby : “ I thought he gave the Lord some very
good advice ? ” Done with the pen— A dead
hog Five Continental Governments have or-
dered cartridges from Great Britain In a local
option poll at Glasgow, 57,701 persons favoured
entire prohibition and 19,111 opposed it A
Murkan paper says briefly of a man who didn’t
know it was loaded : “ He handled his gun care-
lessly and put on his angel plumage.” A Mis-
sionary Society last year sent 5000 pairs of trou-
sers to Burmah, The natives tied up the ends
and used them to hold rations in Some Austra-
lian people will be interested to hear that a
“ word-competition ” man in England has gone up
to compete on the treadmill for three months
J. W. Marshall, first discoverer of Californian
gold, is to have a £lOOO monument from the
State. He died in want Little Billy : “Dees
the Lord take the papers, ma 1" Mother: “No,
my child." Billy: “Oh, I thought he didn’t, it
tako3 our minister so long to tell Him about
things.” The very latest :—The Queen’s
Jubilee, 1837-1887. Great sale of eggs !
A 347-oz. nugget of gold has been found
at Mudgee, N.S. W., by three working miners, 17
feet from the surface.
Gorus, J.P., of^Carnpbelltown, N. S.W.,
says he will in future never send Campbelltown
residents to Campbelltown gaol, as “it is only a
piODic to them.” One prisoner, he avers, got grog
from visitors and traded in cattle while serving a
sentenca-
When the Emperor of Austria recently
visited Gallicia many of his Polish subjects not
only went on their knee 3 as he passed but actually
licked the dust from off his carriage wheels.
Sydney Primrose League please copy. If you
have nothing else to lick you can lick Tankerville
Bennet.
The circular sent to the Sydney Orange
Lodges, inviting the yellow pup to roll up at the
packed Jubilee “public” meeting contained
this “ You will be admitted by password at the
southern door, facing Cleveland-strcet. Come
early, come all! Free speech for ever 1 ” You
will be admitted by password. Free speech for
ever! What humorists 1
In their h”ste to have the Sydney theatres
re-opened for ectures on Sunday nights, it would
be well for the somewhat chameleonic Mr. Thomas
Walker and his friends that they have a, care
that for immediate gain'they do not imperil the
cause of absolute freedom of conscience and
speech. Such freedom as wc now enjoy was not
bought by compromises with intolerance. It vt. S
purchased by determination and even suffering.
SOCI ALITIES ’B7. The Edition for She present year will
be published on June 30. To those who bn. read l and «i-
-mired preyious issues we say, Keady, June 30th . To
aew readers it wiU come as a revelation. One Shilling (post,
8.3 d.). All Booksellers. A. McKinley and Co., Sydney
SOCIALITIES, ’B7. Is , post, Is. 3d. Over lOOp.p. of
comic wood-cuts and letter-press. The brightest, best, and
far and away the cheapest (as it is the largest) One Shilling s
worth published. Ready, June 30. The copy for presenta-
tion to Her Majesty will be shortly on view in one of the
principal shops in the city. All Booksellers. A. McKinley
and Co., " Once a Week ” Office, Sydney.
SOCIALITIES, 'B7. Is , post, Is. 3d. Over IOOp p. of
comic wood-cuts and letterpress. The brightest, best, and
far and away the cheapest (as it is the largest) One Shilling’s
worth published. Ready, June 30. The copy for presenta-
tion to Her Majesty will be shortly on view in one of the
principal shops in the city. All Booksellers. A. McKinley
„nd Co , " Once a Week ’’ Office, Sydney.
SOCIALITIES, 'B7. la., post, Is. 34. Over lOOp.p. of
comic wood-cuts and letter-press. The brightest, rest, and
far and away the cheapest (as it is the largest) One Shilling s
worth published. Ready, June 30. The copy for presenta-
tion to Her Majesty will be shortly on view in one of the
principal shops in the city. All Booksellers, A.McKinlev
and Co., Once a Week" Office, Sydney.


PEPPER
Salt
Victorians will be rejoiced to hear that
when their Chief Secretary (Deakin) presented
their loyal address to Her Gracious Majesty the
Queen, at Windsor, he was most graciously re-
ceived. The Argus (which, to give it its due, is
a faithful chronicler of Court small-beer) says.
“ Mr. Deakin did duty for Victoria. As he ap-
proached, the Queen simply said : 4 I am glad to
see you,' whereupon the Chief Secretary bowed
and retired.”—
When Joseph Palmer Abbott, Esq., M.P.,
takes the plug out of the place where he keeps his
ignorance he becomes a holy show for the public
gaze. In the N.S. W. Assembly last week he
denounced Sunday lectures as a disgrace, and
then he called upon Atheist Walker to alleviate
the sin by ceasing to make a charge for admis-
sion to these entertainments. This Walker
volunteered to do if his long enemy would defend
dog-stealers gratis , but he was answered in a
cloud of words which centred in this fact —Mr.
J. P. Abbott would see him jiggered first
Furthermore, he pointed out that in Melbourne
the judges had decided against Sunday shows,
and he looked absolutely hurt when “ Jack ”
Want informed him that this was either lies or
ignorance, as the Melbourne judges had done
nothing of the sort. Also he wept because poor
Chinamen were not allowed to ply their Dade on
Sunday, and when Melville interjected that they
gambled in joss-houses on the holy day he smiled
the pitying smile which Pecksniff wore when he
lectured on the one-eyed almanaek, and told
Ninian that a joss-house was a place of worship—
not a fan-tan den. Yet only a few weeks ago 29
Mongols were arrested at Hay, N.S.W., while
gambling at the very feet of their wall-eyed idol,
but then Abbott doesn’t read the papers—or else
he doesn’t understand them.
One beautiful feature about the Austra-
lian jury system is that, whenever a technical
case is under consideration, ten publicans who
have been up all night, and a tobacconist who
hasn’t been in bed for a week, and an opium-
eater, are summoned to occupy the box, and, by
the aid of a pair of ignorant and quarrelsome
lawyers, a'da coroner who doesn’t care a hang, are
expected to arrive at a full understanding of a
matter in which no two experts have ever been
able to agree. This arrangement is called the
palladium of our liberties, though for all practical
purposes it might as well be called a dugong or a
A SYDNEY CANARD.
“ THE BULLETIN has been seized by order of Parkes and the Jingoes.”— Current umour.
THE BULLETIN has been eagerly seized by the people—even at a shilling a copy .—Solid Fact.
tramcar. At the Windsor railway accident en-
quiry the intricacies of the b’ock system and the
bawling of Purves and Gaunson made things
just a little worse than usual, and when the busi-
ness was half through the jury had mentally re-
solved that if Purves hadn’t neglected to go
back with the flag and throw up his brief
and inform Dr. Youl of the accident,
Blackburn wouldn’t have been killed, and
Gaunson would have escaped serious in-
ternal injuries. This view of the case was con-
siderably modified, however, as time went on,
and towards the end of the inquiry they tried to
find David Purves and J. L. Gaunson guilty of
justifiable homicide, and Dr. Youl guilty of
feloniously receiving the same with malice afore-
thought, knowing it to be stolen from the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so
help you God, and thereby endangering the peace
of our Lady the Queen contrary to the statutes
made and provided, this court being now open in
its civil and criminal jurisdiction, the act of God,
the Queen's enemies, restraint of Princes and
rulers, and popular tumult only excepted, and
therefore they found the defendant guilty of adul-
tery with the co-respondent. Fortunately this
verdict was sorted out a little before it appeared
in court, but there are evidently some things
about the Victorian block system which even a
coroner’s jury can’t understand.
That gorgeous old firework, Fitzgibbon, j
Town Clerk of Melbourne, has dropped Into !
Jubilee poetry. A few jears ago he published a
pamphlet proving, to his own satisfaction, that
Henry George was “ a bass.” It will be kindness
to Fitzgibbon to publish a slice off his muse a* d
prove that he is—but no matter, Her Gracious is
to receive this pome in lieu of the ‘ crown of
gold studded with jewels,” which the Town Clerk
once hoped to offer on bended knee. This is the
slice: —
Get us a first-class return to Melbourne and we
will bring back Fitzgibbon’s head on a charger.
Advertisement in a Berlin paper ;
“ Wanted, quiet apartments by a gentleman
growing his beard."
A good opening for a pushing young man :
“Junior Clerk. —Wanted, in a merchant’s office, a
young man as Junior Clerk ; he must wiiie a
good hand, and have good references ; to salary
given for the first year. Apply by letter, stating
references, to Box 61, G.P.0.” This advertif©
ment was inserted in the S. M. Herald, the other
day, by a member of the Legislative Council of
N.S.W.
A young man with a bland smile and a
mysterious parcel paid a visit to the Tuapeka
(N.Z.) district, and announced that he had a
panacea for the rabbit pest at ‘2s. 6d per packet.
The farmers planked down their half-crowns and
were told not to open the packet until about to use
its contents, which were “subject to atmospherical
influence.” When the affable vendor had gone, and
the purchasers cautiously opened their electric
extermination they discovered a noosa of whip-
cord and a slip of paper, on which was written,
44 Place the rabbit’s head within the noose, and
pull until strangled ”
We have received this from one of tho
Sydney unemployed. The philosophy of tho thing
has its nose twisted out of joint—but, then, who
expects logic from poets ?
“ SHUT UP!”
He the lmperator, who rose to power
By grace of Softgoods and the Yellow Pup,
Cries, in the height of a triumphant hour,
44 Shut up !”
The Cagliostro of a failing cause,
Who swarmed about the land some months ago.
And 44 the foul thing Protection,” ’mid applause
Laid low.
He the great gun defending Birmingham
(’Mid guns like Neild and Haynes, one brazen
Krupp),
Cries, in a tone omnipotent to damn,
“ Shut up !”
Suitor he silenced; Chanter “bullyragged.’’
And holding still upon his onward course.
The Opposition as one man he gagged
By force.
Be mine or perish I—choose1 —choose between the sword
Of acquiescence and the oisoned cup
Of Silence forced upon you—in a word,
44 Shut up!”
So the lmperator. The land grows pale
Beneath his sway, and commerce languisheth,
And industry is going with a wail
To death.
The unemployed o’erflow the land —the men
Who once earned plenty have nor bite nor eup,
The factories reduce their hands, and then
Slut up.
How long is this thiog going to la9t ? How loDg
Will the Dictator use us as his tools?
Applauded by a host where scoundrels throng
With fools.
Alas ! alas ! the way is very dark.
And we’re afraid it will not brighten up
Till our lawmakers are (at Callan Park)
Shut up !
MORE HONOURS KOR AUSTRALIA.
Olid to see you —sweet and simple
Came the words from Vickey s mouth
(In her cheek a royal dimple),
As the courtier from the South
Bowed the knee and bent him double
O er the parchment which he bore ;
Grand reward for all his trouble 1
Glad to see you— nothing more.
Glad to see you ! Gushing greeting
So poetic, touching, quaint;
O ! the joy of such a meeting
Words of ours could never paint.
Bid he turn his eyes upon her
Humbly, as he backwards slid.
And mutely thank her for the honour,
Glad to see you ? Guess he did.
Glad to see you. Does it matter
I f her words be cold or warm 1
To the cringing flats who flatter
They possess a royal charm;
High above all other treasures
Deakin that remark esteems ;
Sleep itself can’t dull his pleasures
Glad to see you haunts his dreams.
And when, in another forty
Years, our Deakin shuffles off
(Having then become a 'orty,
Wealthy, titled, Tory toff),
He will whisper to St. Peter :
“ Faithfully my Queen I served—
When they sent me home to meet her,
Glad to see you, she observed.”
Peter then will, bowing lowly,
Pass him through the Golden Gate,
To recruit the happy, holy,
Haloed throng of truly great;
And, perhaps (to vulgar mortals
This a mystery must remain)
Alf. will hear beyond those portals,
(Had to see you, once again.
JOHN BULL TO “THE BULLETIN.”
Our Queen has reigned for fifty years
’Tis true, Bulli.
And hence this year must be a year
Of Jubilee.
Oar Sovereign sent her sympathy
To you, Bulli;
They say she sent no sov., not e'en
A sou, Bulli
(We all must own she acted like
A Jew-Balli).
Bat loyal grubs must honour blood
Royal blue, Bulli ;
And so John Bull roars loudly for
A Jubilee ;
And hence he cannot spare a dime
For you, Bulli,
A PUZZLE.
(PRIZK OF £100 FOR ANY JUBILEE IDIOT WHO CAN’T
WORK IT OUT INSIDE OF TEN SECONDS.)
My first comes of an ancient race —
Observe the nose upon his face ;
He toils not, neither does he spin—
But O ! he rakes the pieces in
By laying odds, upon the course,
To “ mugs ” who care to back a horse ;
He deals in pictures, watches, rings.
Old clothes, and sundry other things.
My second's a utensil we
At picnic use when making tea ;
Whene’er the wallaby we track
’Tia in the swag upon our back.
A rude perversion of the name
Of that dear Norman duke, who came
To England with a cut-throat crew—
The sources of all blood that’s “ blue.”
Jingo ravings are this vreek
Echoed by a toady clique—
(Wiser men, as we’re aware,
Blush and—breathe it gently—swear)
Illuminated gush displayed—
Lots of lying speeches made ;
“ Loyal ” snobs your laws control—
You must celebrate my whole.
The capitals which head my third,
Read downwards, constitute the word.
“ Join in joyful acclimations.
Roar of canncn, rockets’ blaze,
Waving flags, illuminations,
Myriad other gladsome ways.
Treats to children ; parks for pleasure ;
Statues ; help for those in need.
Welling out of thought and treasure
In brave, philanthropic deed.
Words of loyal gratulation
Deftly phrased in courtly style.
From each guild or corporation,” &c.
A GLIMPSE AT THE PAST.
(BY ONE OF THE UNEMPLOYED)
Poor Betsy ! you’re looking quite ill,
And Ira little furprised that you are,
For this worry’s sufficient to kill
Folks stronger than you, lass, by far.
But cheer up, old woman ; be brave —
Things, sooner or later, must mend,
And, tho’ it might be to the grave,
L'it’a bear it out now to the end.
Bring your chair over here by iny side— •
That 8 right. Now 111 make an attempt
To predict a good turn in the tide,
By relating a dream that I dreamt
I fancied that we were at home,
In our dear little cottage so neat,
In that land far away o'er the foam,
Where our lives were so happy and sweet.
I could see your own bonnv, wee face,
As you waited for me at the door ;
And contentment was easy to trace.
For we vere both contented, though poor
I could see in the garden, so trim,
The flow’rs you had planted with care •
The pansies so pretty and prim,
And the roses so blooming and rare.
Ah .' lass, it was hard to awake
And find how deluded I'd been,
And my heart, even now, seems to ache
For the things which indreamiog I d seen;
But now we must try to forget
The past, which we cannot recall,
For vain is each idle regret,
’Sides offending the Ruler of all.
] never could quite understand
i The way that some people compare
This bankrupt and woe-begone laud
With England so smiling and fair—
They try to make people believe
That poverty here is unknown,
And that people who languish and grieve
Are fouud in old England alone.
They fancy themselves very smart
But it certainly seems more to me
Like the saying of putting the cart
In the place where the horse ought to be.
Well, we've tasted of life’s bitter cup,
But the sun on us some day will shine —
God bless you, old lady, cheer up,
I must be at the Statue at nine.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Buffalo Bill ” is to be made a C.M.G.
The Emperor of China is 17 years of age.
Mr. A. T. Holroyd, for 10 years Master
in Equity in N.S.W., died last week.
Historian Rusden has squared with his
friend Brjce by paying £3700 l : hel-damagot.
Speaker Young, of N.S. W., is to be en-
nobled under the style of “ Baron Buttertub.”
Tyndall says Gladstone is in his dotage.
Tyndall ought to know. He has been there h?m-
self.
It is thought the German Crown Prince
will die of the thx oat-trouble from which he now
suffers.
The Pope invariably eats alone. So that
there'll be no knife and fork for poor Sir Patrick
Jenkins.
Editor Westlake, of Sydney Globe, comes
from Sheffield. He ought to be able to wield the
Ecissors.
Sir Robert Stout, the New Zealand Pre-
mier, is a teetotaller. His title is therefore a
mere pump handle.
Wherever Lord Brassey goes “cheers"
are given for him. Why cheers! Because he
owns a steam yacht ?
The Duchess of Norfolk, who lately died,
was a devout Catholic, and had her bed-curtains
stitch d all over with relics.
Morris, who is to indite the metrical
grovel for the inauguration of the Imperial lus'i-
tute, is the author of the “Epic of Hades."
Colonel King-Harman, the new Under-
rcere;ary for Ireland, was once sentenced to three
months' imprisonment for rowdyism.
“Buffalo Bill" and his Red Indian braves
were presented to the Queen after a performance
of the great Wild West show. Her Gracious
wasn't, tealped.
Lewis Morris is to write the Imperial In-
stitute cde. Tennyson is ill- no doubt at the idea
that even Tummy has at last been di-gusted
with his inanities.
Lady Colin Campbell unfurled a new
banner of a Lord m women’s lodge. Good gra-
cious ! Is her standard high enough for the
women of Lendon ?
Princess Beatrice has composed a song to
the words “ I'm Wunders-hoenen Monat Mat.”
Which, freely translated, means “ I wonder
where’s the money of my ma.”
There is an old compositor of 81 years
still workirg in the office of the Maryborough
(Q.) Chronicle He is still in good form, well
set up, and a pretty haid case.
The Dunediuites have just unveiled a
statue of Robbie Burns with a large amount of
gush. The crowning glory of the monum.nt lies
In the fact that it is still unpaid for.
J. B. Stephens, for a quarter of a century
the p.oprietor of the Chronicle at Williamstowu
(Melo ) i< dead. The family has given more than
one member to the Victorian newspaper Press.
Q teen Victoria was to wear a crown of
Rosts at the Jubilee ceremony. Why not a crown
of thistles!-it would be more 3-otch, you know.
N. ro, we remember, wore a crown of roses at the
turning of Rome.
There is a keen sense of humour concealed
somewhere about the parsons of Ballarat China-
men. We are told that they “laughed heartily’
when General Wung Yung Ho sang “ God Sav
the Q-ieen.” We should have indulged in cone
sideiable each nnalion ourselves.
Sir Alfred Stephen says the Jubilee row
at Sydney Town Hall “ was unequalled for horror
by anything he ever saw in England or the colo-
nies.” From which we presume that this well-
crusted old Tory has not been in the habit of
personally supervising his own hangings.
“Pat.” O Biien, of Hawthorn (Melb.),
late of Lhe Victorian Legislative Council, who
died in London on .oth April, left £183,000. He
was originally a carpenter, and built his own for-
tunes. His widow, who is much his junior, is left
an uncondi ional annuity o’ £lOOO a year.
Melbourne hospitality has afflicted bith
of the Chinese Comonis.-ioners wi.h colic. One
night las-t week hot tlmne s were applied to
Wong Yung Ho’s rice-receptacle, and Mr. U.
Tsing takes doses of chlorodyne that would kill
any other kind of two-legged animal right away.
Dvttkin, of Victoria, who has just returned
from the Colonial Confeience, has been engaged
at Adelaide in tae extraordinary work of inter-
viewing himself. The Adelaide correspondent of
the Melbourne Argus w-i es: “In conversation
with Mr. Deikin, the Chief Secretary of Victoria
said,” etc.
Messrs. W. B. Livesey and Potts are
about to visit the north coast of New Guinea in a
small craft preparatory to a journey on foot
across the island. On landing, their boat will be
despatched to wait for them on the south coast
and retreat b.-ing thus cut off there will be no
turning back.
The Earl of Winchelsea and Nottingham,
who died the other day, was remarkable for hav-
ing more brains and less money than usually falls
to the lot of peers If we remember rightly, the
noble Karl filed his shovel on more than one occa-
sion. Peace to his assets -if he left any. P, S.—
He wrote poetry, and once threatened to visit
Queensland.
But for the fact that patriots and traitors
are almost equally plentiful in Ireland, it would
be a curious fact that Wolfe Flanagan, the re-
creant who wrotethe “ rarnell " stuff in the London
Times, is a relative of Sir Bryan O'Loghlen, who
presided at the anti-coercion meeting in Mel
bourne the o her day. Sir Bryan is the leader of
the Home Rulers ip Victoria.
Thus Haynes, the newly-elected of Mud-
gee, in the E. News :Mudgee hospital is a
splendid building, looked after by a charm-
ing young matron, with ability and kindness
Slumped on her features.” Apropos, we proceed
to infoim the lady that the gushing member is au
interesting young widower with ability and kind-
ness stamped upon his features.
Justice Williams, of Victoria, who has
been called “ the tender-hearted judge," says
that, having visited Pentridge and seen what
'solitary confinement" means, he now knows
that sentences which he formally passed upon
criminals were cruelly severe. On the other
hand, Panton, P.M., who is a visiting justice at
the stockade, eays that “solitary” is downright
ease and luxury to prisoners. Young Molesworth


once sentenced ft youth to ft month s solitary con-
finement, and when the boy came out he was like
an animated skeleton.
The Bulletin has always asserted that
Parkes’ power lay in his hair, and the Sydney
D T. has unwittingly betrayed itself into an ac-
knowledgment of the fact—
“ Cheern-the heaviest and loudest of cheeis . . .
—greeted the npi-e.raac-i of the whitest and otherwise most
conspicuous head of the vast assemblage—that belonging to
the Premier, Sir Henry Parkes.
Parkes’ hair may bo white, but his head is yellow.
Mrs. Annie Gardiner claims to be the first
white human being born in Victoria, and gives
dates find particulars to prove her assertion. Mrs.
G. may also rank as the first white woman who
ha 3 gone into print to prove that she was getting
old. An ordinary woman who had sailed with
Columbus would stand up iu a Sydney court and
declare that she was only 25, and what’s more she
would stick to it.
The generation of the Slacks is not ex-
tinct. We read that “ daring the present term
several litigants have appeared in person at Syd-
ney Supreme Court to prosecute appeals or to
show cause, and in each case furnished a fresh
exemplification of a well-known saying, “Alas!
poor J. B. Slack.” For over 20 yea’s he mur-
dered the Queen's Kngli-h and the statute-law,
and at length was himself murdered by burglari-
ous Barnes. Slack's name will be found in the
files of the Melbourne Argus for 1864, as appeal-
ing for himself before the Full Court, Melbourne,
and through 80 quarterly volumes o' that journal
ithe name of Slack is peopered over the law re-
port. There is no ’ cate ” that any Melbourne
can cite ex-relatime with greater
facility than “ Slack agin Windher, r, umber fory-
eight nought two. your Honor.” Heaven save the
• Queen’s judges from a N.S.W. Slack?
POLITICAL
POINTS
Gone burg—the Stout (N.Z.) Govern-
ment.
Imperial Federation—lmperial Fcttera
tion.
Mr. Joseph Syme, of the Age proprietary,
is just now in Sydney.
Labouohere says £5OO a year goes for feed-
ing the Royal pheasants 1
Mud J. Haynes has not yet been appointed
Court Fool. It takes a wise man to make a fool.
The Alsatian soldiers of the Reserve have
mustered almost to a man under the German
colours.
Parkes denies that he was ever a Chartist.
We presume that he states this in justice to the
Chartists.
Scobie Mackenzie, M.H.R., describes Pre-
mier Stout (N.Z.) as “ crawling along the surface
in politics like a wounded worm.”
The Imperial Parliament has voted a large
snm of money to drain Ii eland of—water. They’ve
already drained the place of people.
A Ladies’ Jubilee Fund was started at
Narracoorte, SA. Then it was suddenly dis
covered that Narracoorte possessed no ladies.
If the rumours of resignations of seats in
the N.S.W. Assembly be true, or even half true,
a Parliamentary strike will have to be prepared
for.
The Argus (Melbourne) says that “Syd-
ney has a local blackguardism of its own.”
Surely this is a breach of N.S.W. Parliamentary
privilege ?
The Gundagai Times is loyal unto despera-
tion, and says : “ Whether she be saint or sinner,
she is our dearly beloved Queen.” Save us from
our friends!'
Cynically said Mr. Garvan in N S.W.
Legislative Assembly It is not the Chinese,
but the white workman of Sydney who are now
living on rice.”
“ Pinafore ” Smith has jibbed on the
most objectionable clause in the Coercion Bill.
The prisoners are to be made criminals by Irish
juries, as before.
The statue of Queen Victoria, to be set up
in King-street, Sydney, will be faced, as far as
possible, towards the Mint. How weU they un-
derstand Her Gracious!
The British hop-growers are appealing for
Protection. As the protected foreign growers
have their own and the Knglish market open
to them, prices are no longer payable.
“ Even poverty is an extremely honour-
able condition of life,” says Premier Parkes.
Quite right, Henry, so long as a man keeps good
company and doesn’t file his schedule too often.
A very short lease of power always suffices
to turn Parkes into a tyrant. Fortunately for
N.S.W., Nature has been kind enough so to turn
up his nose that he can’t see beyond the end of it.
The daily papers label the Sydney Jubilee
row “Loyalist versus Disloyalist.” The Bulletin
prefers to call it Royalist versus Republican.
That’s what’s the trouble, and let nobody forget
it.
Parkes now speaks of Foster (in public) as
“ that estimable man, the late Attorney-General.”
Foster probably speaks of Parkes (in private) as
“that perfidious person, the present Colonial
Secretary.”
The S. A. Government have said that they
are ready to disposo of the people’s money to illu-
minate English buildings for the Jubilee. No
wonder the Assembly has passed a want of confi-
dence vote.
Referring to the N.S.W. Minister of
Education’s withdrawal of fuel allowance from
the State schools, the Vegetable Creek Times is
surprised that the tiger-slayer should have made
war on kids. -
The Times now accuses Gladstone of being
a fellow-conspirator of Ford and O’Donovan Rossa.
The answer is Gladstone’s contemptuous sileace.
and world-stirring cheers for the greatest of living
Englishmen.
Plain Bill Dailey calls the Jubilee “ a
great festival of humanity.” Bill, you had better
go and spin that yarn to the gun-carriages at
Circular Quay—those ones you ordered for the
Soudan donkey.
The Soudan brigands of N.S.W. are “to
be allowed to wear the Khedive’s bronze
star." Tho man who would wear anything from
a miserable ruffian like Tewfik must indeed be
hard up for a bauble.
Nearly all the fruits of Spain and Italy
can t-e grown in Australia N.S.W. has already
succeed din a remarkable graft. The Cobden-
or-inge certainly flourishes in the districts of
Mudgee and South Sydney.
The present Chief Justice Higinbotham,
of Victoria, while a member of the Assembly, de-
clined to touch his £3OO a year Parliamentary
screw. The money has run up to his credit at
the Tieasury for jears, and is there still.
“ Many of the fresh (?) eggs we Londoners
use come from Turkey and Morocco. And yet
English agriculturists and farmers are starving.
What a nation of blockheads wc are! We
scarcely deserve to live.”—London Bulletin.
After printing at least 100 articles, &c.,
advocating that insane grovel should be made
compulsory in N.S.W., Sydney D.T. has at last
tacit'y sanctioned the use of the rifle and the
bayonet. Hcoray again for spontaneous loyalty !
In the Yictoiian Legislative Council a
loyal address of the crawliDgest description was
passed amid the strains of 11 God save the Queen ’
sung in seven different keys. And how the husky
old images did cough after the exertion to be sure!
The diploma of the Colonial and Indian
Exhibition represents Australia wielding a sword.
This has reference to the Soudan cut throat expe
dition from N.S.W. Such a “ba'barous ” event
in history would be fittingly commemo ated by a
razor.
Ex-King Casey, at Melbourne Liedertafel
smoke-night, spoke in the piesence of the alleged
Imperial-Chows, of “the good feeling to come
between Australians and the great nation repre-
sented by the Cninese Commissioners.” Does J. J.
refer to the repeal of the poll-tax ?
Next to the school-fire’ retrenchment
scheme of the N.S.W. Government, the palm for
wisdom must be acoorded to the official responsible
for stopping the allowance of 20s. per week of the
girl Keziah Teece who was injured for life in a
railway accident near Tamworth, some time ago.
A free passage front Frisco to Australia
has been offered Ihe Imperial Conference dele-
gates. The Bulletin now offers a free passage
from Australia to every man who has a handle to
his name, provided that they all undertake to go
in the same boat and never come back.
The reason why George Reid, M.P.
(N.S.W.), refused to yield to the personal pressure
brought to bear on him to induce him to take the
Attorney-Generalship in the Parkes Government
is now said to be that he has not yet forgotten the
insults which the now patronising Parkes heaped
on his head when he first entered political life.
As a general rule, a politician’s protege
shouldn't" get ostentatiously drunk in public at
midday until he has held his appointment for at
least 12 months. However, if a Minister gets
publicly drunk himself, be can hardly wonder at
“the service” going to the devil. This is no
libel, yet hundreds of people will know what The
Bulletin means.
Mr. Graves, a funereal vault-like kind of a
legislator, says that Duncan Gillies is a “ long-
headed aristocrat.” W e never measured Duncan’s
head, but believe him to be an aristocrat because
he once gave a waiter a penny tip. We remember
what the coachman said at the Dilke adultery
trial: “ I know they was swells, 'cos they didn’t
give me anythink.”
“ The metal of Sir Henry Parkes,” re-
marks a Melbourne Royalist print, “ comes out
thoroughly sterling in his firm stand against
Sydney scoundrelism. He has ordered the
* artillery to be in readiness ’ to keep order at the
Jubilee meeting in the Exhibition grounds. Go
it Sir Henry ! grape shot would be a capital pill
for their disordered livers.”
John Anderson, general traffic-manager of
the Victorian railways, is, it is said, to be “re-
lieved from duty,” owing to the Windsor smash.
This is the same John Anderson who not long
since got a large rise in screw in order that he
might presently retire on a specially big allow-
ance. Then, when Agg died, John Anderson was
“ mentioned” as his probable successor, but that
didn't come off.
Sir Henry Parkes has kindly reiterated
his statement that no free passes had been
granted to any of the unemployed to enable them
to go to Melbourne. But then nobody was talk-
ing about “ passes,” which are things that draw a
lot of attention ; the troub’e was that some 150
men say they received ordinary tickets to carry
them into the next colony. Will ’Enry Barks
kindly deny again ?
We mention with tears that a Jubilee gush
has gone wrong. The members of the Nhill (Vic.)
Shire Council had appended their various cogno-
mens of Smith, Brown, Jinks, &c., to an illu-
minated address to be sent home to hor Gracious,
and then some unhallowed heathen went and stole
it from the earn er’s van. When Victoria looks
over the heap and misses it, goodness only knows
what language she will give way to.
Will some legislator kindly ask the N.S.W.
Minister for Justice why the City Coroner or the
police rarely or ever take steps to hold an inquest
on the bodies of persons of position who die sud-
denly by accident or otherwise ? Poor creatures
who die of heart-disease have their deaths at once
reported by the police, but somehow these vigi-
lant officials never take the same trouble when
anyone of “position” unfortunately meets a sudden
death.
This is too lovely to lose. The Wagga
Advertiser has discovered that “the want of
intelligent political culture swells the following of
Henry George and the Socialists." This is the
first time in history that anybody claimed Wagga
Wagga as a seat of intelligent political culture.
So far, its chief glory has consisted in producing
a fat butcher who was the champion liar of the
universe until the N. S W. Freetrade party arose
in its might.
The Downer-Bray Ministry (S.A.) have
betn kicked out of office on account of their un-
certainty with regard to Protection. The result
of the recent election was the return of a large
majority of Protectionists, and the proposal of the
Government to refer the tariff question to a royal
commission was rightly regarded as an attempt
to shelve it. The Calico-Jimmy faction of a de-
laide had no impecunious members of Parliament
to operate upon.
It was mendaciously stated by the Sydney
daily Press that Mr. John Norton, the N.S.W.
Trades and Labour delegate to England, received
from that body a salary of £6 per week while
away. As a matter of fact, Mr. Norton got not a
cent from the Trades. He had £0 weekly from
the Anglo-Australian Press Association, and his
I large outlay in travelling expenses was defrayed
by his mother. Mr. Norton can speak with
fluency in public in several languages.
Says Thadeus O’Kane in the Northern (Q.)
Miner: “We do not object to Governors, if
raised among ourselves.” Quite so. What we
object to is that a lord with a Tory education and
a predilection for Pall Mall should be sent out by
a grasping nation to “govern” a people whose
every sentiment is utterly antagonistic to his
own. The idea of a young democracy governed
by an Imperial dunderhead is as incongruous as
would be an emu laying eggs on a Polar iceb.erg.
It seems that N.S.W. has not even one
paying industry. The foolish city folk who
imagine that the squatters make millions of money
annually are woefully mistaken. So says Mr.
Kelly, M.P. According to this gentleman, the in-
terest on capital invested and the current expenses
of the squatters amount to £8,725,000, and the
annual value of the stock which they run is only
£7,500,000, so that they actually lose £1,225,000 a
year! Mr. Kelly’s figures evidently prove too much.
Mrs. Ashton-Dilke (she is a nice young
lady, and owns that powerful London Radical
paper, the Weekly Despatch, which is now ten
times more Radical that ever) tried to speak in
favour of Irish Home Rule, at a Unionist meeting
at Kensington. She only retired satisfied when the
platform had been stormed by her party, and the
brass railings torn down to be used as club 3. A
scalp or two was cut, and the chairman’s seat was
pulled from under him, whereupon he “ went
wallop.”
The “Duke of Connaught’s Leave Bill ”
has been introduced in the House of Commons.
It provides that Connaught may come home for
three months to see his ma-a-a-a without getting
his pay stopped, or losing his high billet in the
Indian army. The regulations declare that an
Indian commander must stay at his post under
penalty of dismissal, but Connaught is going to
see his ma by Act of Parliament, and if the
Russians come down in his absence there will be
no one to receive them.
John Bright, of England, and Alfred
Deakin, of Victoria, have had a slight tiff on
matters colonial. Bright suggested that the
colonists must be fools to believe in Imperial
Federation, and that they should cut the painter.
At this the loyal Deakin held up his hands in holy
horror, and said that loyal Australia would never,
never, do such a wicked thing. “ You are, so
|)yal and so attached that you tax everything
7Q send you,” remarked Bright; to which the
r ictorian answered, “ And you are so attached to
s that jou admit the goods of your worst enemy
n ihe same footing as those of your children.”
Her Majesty’s Opposition in Victoria ap-
ears to be melting away like ice in an oven, or
ke the fugitive aDger of a high-spirited maiden,
/hen she feels her best young man’s moustache
rushing out the pearl powder from the dimples
1 her averted cheek. The leadership of Mr.
'ommy teat has been repudiated by most of his
ite followers, and they are now like sheep with-
ut a shepherd, bleating for admittance into the
linisterial fo,d. It only remains for Duncan
Lillies and Co. to resolve the whole House into
ne great Cabinet, and carry every blessed thing
nanimously. That’s the advantage of Coalition
rovernment.
It is curious that, whilst it alleges Protec-
Lon to impoverish a country, the Argus stead-
astly affects to believe that there is no poverty at
11 in Victoria. Yet it is perfectly consistent—
kith the object in view. That is, to benefit its
.arling importers by leaving them the whole
Dstead of a part only of the money filched from
truggling paupers abroad, wherewith to “ring”
gainst the legitimate wage-paying local manu-
acturers; and also to give an opportunity of filch-
eg from the local workers of all classes whom
hey have to employ, by creating an artificial and
innatural competition with starving labourers
ured out here under false pretences.
The appeal of the N.S.W. Government to
he trades-unionists of fcydney to illuminate in
io operation with the “banking institutions” on
Tune 21, in honour of the Queen’s Jubilee, has
>roved a perfect “frost.” Those unions that have
Lealt with it decided to let the Jubilee tear along
vithout the aid of their candles, and the rest of
he trade organisations did not notice it beyond
•eading the circular and cracking a joke over the
natter. On the whole, the Jubilee look-out
imong the working-men of N.S.W. is as dreary as
\lderman Jeanneret’s voice when moving the
jxpenditure of the rates for Jubilee gas and
lubilee crackers at the Sydney City Council
neeting.
Thus a London Tory print of a recent
Anarchis ic procession
“ Red is the favourite colour of the gentlemen who thihk
ihemselves second editions of Robespierre. Mr. Burns, as
isual, was much. ve»y much to the front, and was emphatic
Dn the subject of bayoneting landlords. A fearful looking
person, with eipht days’ stubble < n his upper lip, carried a
large axe, tr.e edge of it painted red. Ha carried, also, a
banner, on which was inscribed "The Doom of Traitors.’'
Three figures, each with its head in a noose, dangled from
the banner. The figures represented respectively Lord Salis-
bury (in the middle), Lord R. Churchill, on his lordship’s
left, and Mr Chamberlain on hi 3 lordship’s right hand. The
Marquis was easily identified by his beard aad a coronet.
Lord Randolph’s moustache could not be mistaken; and, to
make certain of Mr. Chamberlain, a screw-nail was fastened
in one eye and an eyeglass in the other. The worthy person
who carried this banner and axe was swathed in a red neck-
tie and a red sash, and wore a sailor’s hat also decorated
with red.”
Pat kes may be able to tell a horse from a
cow when he is in good health, but analogy, at all
events, is not his forte. Payment of members, he
says, is not needed in N. S. W., for lots of good men
can be found to work gratis—clergymen, for ex-
ample, and benevolent parties who interest them-
selves in charities, and legislators can also be pro-
cured on the same cheap and nasty principle.
Hayneß, however, pointed out that the parsons,
at all events, were not gratis individuals. Twenty
years ago, he said, you couldn’t put a threepenny,
bit in the slit of the money box, and now it was
big enough to admit a frying-pan, and from this
John gathered that the clergy were becoming less
and less gratis every day.
“ When loyal meetings are called,” says
the Argus, “ those who are disloyal must keep
their opinions to themselves." Some time ago
certain Irishmen who were loyal to their country,
and perhaps also to the Empire of which it forms
a part, had meetings, and the Argus did not con-
sider it neoesiary to cease from dolorously howl]
ing thereat. But since it has changed its mind it
is to be hoped that when Australians who are
loyal to Australia, and do not wish to see it re-
duced to a mere cheap-labour shop for furnishing
the harems of English lords and their bill-backers,
meet to discuss the ration’s good, the (Austra-
speaking) disloyal Argus will follow its
present advice, and print rows of stars in the
place of its leading articles.
In the Commons, Major Saunderson
called six or seven of the Irish members ‘ ‘ asso-
ciates of men whom they knew to be v.urderers."
On his refusing to apologise, Healy, M.P., very
properly called him (at Labouchere’s instigation),
“a liar” —this with the object of provoking a
duel. The Speaker promptly dropped on to Healy
who by the big Tory majority vote was suspended
I for a week. Then Sexton arose and called
Saunderson “a cowardly and dastardly liar”—
threatening, if he met him outside, to thrash his
life out. The Speaker, however, did not name
Sexton. He saw his mistake— he perceived that
the 27 Irismen present were all going, one after
the other, to call Saunderson a liar and invite him
to fight. So he ordered Saunderson to apologise.
This episode shows what sort of “fair play” is
doled out by the Chairman of the much-vaunted
Commons.
Says the Argus :
“ Sir Henry Parkes, Sir John Robertson, Mr. Dailey, Sir
James Martin, Mr. Darrall. Mr. Lang. The°e were the rierce
and fiery spirits of the old days. These filled the places
sought by the O'Sallivans, and Melvilles, and Walkers, and
Neilds of to-day.”
The Argus picks out half-a-dozen exceptional
men, and brings them into unfair comparison with
the rank and file of the present N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. Of course Parkes is in the bunch. But the
Argus forgets that nearly all the doting old fos-
sils in the Legislative Council of N.S.W. were
formerly members of the Assembly, and forgets
also that Victoria had only one Graham Berry.
Why, too, are all the illustrations drawn from the
numerically small opposition of Projectionists ?
Where are the Teeces, Scheys, Haynes’s, Abigails,
Clarkes, Roberts, &c., &c., of Parke3’ motley
crowd of parti-colored rats ?
The Victorian Government contract with
Messrs. Chaffey Bros, is about to put money into
certain purses. It was an innocent seeming
transaction at the first blush. The twin Water
Wonders were to take over a few thousand acres
of “valueless” mallee country and convert it
into a smiling Eden by the simple agency of water
—pure, cold water. They were to give Victorians
a lesson in the art of making much out of mulling
at all. The “ utter worthlessness ”of this mallee
in its present condition was the sole excuse for
calling in Chaffey. But now it seems that the
original mallee leaseholders are going for gorgeous
compensation which Government must pay, be-
cause it “ omitted” to strike a bargain with said
leaseholders before giving the “worthless” land
away to Chaffey Bros. Who are the lucky lease-
holders that have had this plum thrust down
their throats by a “thoughtless” Government!
What are they going to snavel all on account of
this very annoying, this most irrigating mistake.
A LONG-FELT WANT.
The Tannin Rat and Vermin Taste kills rats
and other vermin.
And al-o tain their bodies, thereby turning
the decoased into a flattened, leathery and
inodorous dead rat, “ which never becomes
offensive.”
Justthe thing for N. S. W. Parliann ntary rats.
Might leave it lying about the refreshment-
room of the ’Ouse Thi«, for instance, is tfce
nondescript member for Budgeree, who mis-
takes it for whisky.
And. this is all that is left of him. No
odour, no obituary, no bother, and no more
** witty speeches” from the doparted.




PETTICOAT PROTECTION— OR, A HARBOUR OF REFUGE.
CHORUS OF OFFICIAL JINGOES : “ PLEASE LET US UNDER THE UMBRELLA, YOUR LADYSHIP.


Society
The daily Press lavishly praises Lady
Carington’s “bravery” in facing the Jubilee
meeting at Sydney Exhibition building. No
doubt her ladyship is brave, but we do sincerely
hope that she is not undf r the impres.-ion that she
had special reason for calling up her courage on
the occasion in question. The Jiogo Press, by its
very praises, openly insinuates tlat Lady Caring-
ton was facing actual danger, and by to doing
offers a dastaroly insult to the whole Au-traban
people. The Gevernoi’s wife, or any other lady,
requires no bodyguard of disguised soldiers or
prize-fighters at any gathering, public or private,
inN.S.W., and not only was she absolutely safe
herself but her presence brought safety to the
crowd of “ loyal ” politicians who hid themselves
behind her. Lady Carington had perhaps uccrn-
sciousiv a large contract on hand on that Wednes-
day night, but ihe had no difficulty iu carrying it
ont.
Lord Carington is beginning to “ round ”
on the farce (for considering ell things it must be
a sorry farce to him) cl attending holy meetings
and uttering orthodox moral platitudes on sacred
occasions, flanked by Episcopalian luminaries in
immaculate “biled” chokers, for at the “second
annual meeting ” of the Christian Evidence Socit ty
the secretary mentioned that letters of apology
regretting their inability to attend had been re-
ceived from Lord Carington, &c., &c.
* * *
Two distinguished Jubilee visitors are
being accommodated at Yarra Bend (Melb.)
Lunatic Asylum. One is Annie Murphy, who, in
a general way, believes herself to be the Duke of
Edinburgh’s widow, but a f other times see 3 in her
battered self “ 'ihe Girl of the Period,” whom the
dear Duke is anxiously seeking. She is a middle-
aged victim of the Edinburgh craze which afflicted
this continent while Annie was yet a young and
impressionable female. Perhaps she was num-
bered among the niggardly Prince’s thousand
and one “ conquests,” and the honour unhinged
her mind. At this time of day it is impossible to
speak with any certainty about Annie’s claim to
be included in the Royal Family, because her
statements are confused and contradictory. In
this respect she differs from the other distin-
guished arrival at Yarra Bend, a pleasing young
party named Mary M’Donald. Mary makes the
plain unvarnished statement that she is Queen
Victoria, and sticks to it. Any amount of cross-
examination failed to shake Mary’s evidence on
this point. When a member of the foorce pointed
out to blooming Mary that she “ wore well,”
considering that she had been reigning for 60
years by the Grace, &c., the young woman indig-
nantly enquired whether he thought the Queen
“ was like those scarecrow pictures pasted on
hotel windows or printed by the Down and Gum-
trke Jernel?” Poor Mary 1 She is now hold-
ing a grand Jubilee reception in a padded cell,
smiling graciously at her Lord Chamberlain, the
warder, when he pops his mouth inside the State
apartment, and tells her to “ shut up.” Ex-
hausted by the faithful performance of regal
duties, she will stretch herself upon a straw pal-
let, fixed against the bare wall of a kingdom upon
which the sun never shines and fall asleep won-
dering why the Ladies of the Bedchamber stuffed
her pillow with broken bricks. Uneasy lies the
head that thinks it wears a crown.
A N.Y. paper states that Mrs. Langtry
has grown rather stout and wears her hair cut
short. This reads like a description of a barmaid.
« • •
The Melbourne Aoe says that “ a physio-
logist has put forth a theory that the love of
woman for scents is wholly due to her defective
sense of smell.” The physiologist is evidently a
single man or he would never evolve such non-
sense. What married man is there who hasn't
had to parry—almost from the street-door, the
query: “You’ve been drinking whisky—l can
smell it from here, you wretch 1” Women with a
defective sense of smell 1 Bah 1 Ask the small
boy who has learned smoking sub-rosa, if his
maternal relative didn’t scent him three quarters
of a mile off 1
Gundagai (N.S.W.) is pre-eminent in
grief. When the news of the Bulli disaster
reached that little one-horse settlement nobody
offered to raise a public subscription, and though
the cricketers held a concert they religiously
pocketed the proceeds for. the benefit of
their club; the local clergyman is compelled
to supplement the miserable offerings of
the back-blocks Christians by keeping a private
school; and a poor fellow who had his leg nearly
blown off four months ago is looking round for
assistance and finding very little. But all the
same, Gundagai is bursting its boiler to raise sub-
scriptions for Jubilee fireworks, and declares it
will die in the last ditch for the honour of the
British crown. The Bulli widow may starve, but
nothing that Chinese lanterns can do to soothe ihe
sorrow of the widow with £llOO per day will be
left undone.
The Bulletin wants to know if Mayor
Riley’s loyalty is really worth a cent. For weeks
that great man moved heaven and earth to get up
a two day’s spree in honour of her Gracious, and
yet at the last moment he announced by adver-
tisement in the S M. Herald that he would keep
his shop open on Monday. About 150 other forms,
most of whom were strictly “loyal,” followed
suit, and from this we gather that not one of the
lot will sacrifice a day’s profits once in 50 years
for the take of their beloved Queen. What’s the
good of faith without works ?
* * *
Poor dear Bishop Barry is giving N.S.W.
an episcopal lift in England. He is evidently
under the impression that should the influx of
wealthy Englishmen cease, the colony will be left
without any visible means of support, and there-
fore he endeavours to promote immigration by
pointing out that life in Sydney is an ocean of
beer and a moving avalanche of skittles.
Drunkenness, he says, “especially in the hlgoer
grades,” is winked at, and sensuality and lawless-
ness are far more prevalent than in England. It
is really nice to see the poor dear bishop looking
after our best interests in this fashion.
The twelfth annual ball of the Mercantile
Rowing Club will be held in Sydney Town Hall
on Wednesday, 13th July.
The style in evening costume has much
changed. Formerly the girls used to weardres»es
up to the neck and gloves with ‘only one button.
Now they wear gloves up to the neek and dresses
with only one button.
General Ho said in Melbourne that he’d
advise the Emperor of China to visit Australia I
By George 1 here’s a prospect for Potts Point.
Sir Allbun Riley for his civility to the Imperial
Chows is bound to be made a Knight Companion
of the Order of the Roasted Pig.
There is no truth in the report that the
noble, blue-blooded Brassey, lord of Normanhurst,
brought a store of wine for entertainments with
him —it oame with other necessities by P. and O.
Talking of Normanhurst (which is a mas-
sive pile of bricks on a treeless hill, and of the
ancient-convict style of architecture), the Duke of
Cleveland loves it and its owner much, very
much. One day he was showing a friend around
his grounds at Battle Abbey—and the friend grew
enthusiastic over the scenery. “ Yes,” replied
the duke, “it would be very beautiful if that
navvy would pull his blanked hut down.”
Governor Wobinson, of South Australia,
is a saving Scotchman from the North of Ireland
the sort of man who would hoard up worldly
treasure in an old sock up the chimney, and stow
bank-notes in a cracked teapot deposited under
his throne. This tendency of his isn’t always nice
QUITE POSSIBLE.
YOUNG MASHER SPRIG OF NOBILITY (who has just returned to England after a year or
two in the Austwalian colonies, to old gentleman in London Club) : “ AW, I THINK I
HAVE HAD THE—AW—PLEASUAH OF MEETING YOU BEFAW.”
OLD GENTLEMAN : “ OH, VERY LIKELY. I’M THE—AH—GOVERNOR OF DARLING-
HURST GAOL—COME HOME FOR A FEW MONTHS’ LEAVE, DONTCHER-
KNOW.”
for his subordinates. The other day it is reported hi 8
aide-de-camp was plnngiDg out of ti e Adelaide rail'
way station with a shiny brown paper pareel under
his arm, and as a Custom House officer watched
the young aristocrat making a desperate bee-line
for home it struck him that something was wrong.
He bailed him up and inquired about the health
of the parcel. “It’s for Gov’ment House,” said
the anxious official, as he dodged from side to
side to get past, “ Well, I must see what’s in it,
all the same.” “I say, looky here, it’s only a
suit of Clothes for Sir William, dcntchewsee,”
cried the despairing aide. “ Then there's dooty
to be paid.” “ Oh, here, I say, dontyerknow, you
don’t understand, it’s only an old dress suit that
his Excellency has been getting dyed in Mel-
bourne,” replied the vice regal hanger-on in an
agonised whisper. “ Don’t keep me standing
here all day with this dooced brown thing under
my arm. It’s an old suit, pon honour, as old as
my mother.” He was allowed to pass, and his
Excellency’s revived and hot-pressed pants went
through on Freetrade principles.
The other day a Ballarat gold-mining com-
pany proposed to call a certain new lode in their
claim “ The Brassey Lode” in honour of Lady B.
A brassy gold-mine 1 When people begin to
grovel they lose their wits.
Why were the names of the N.S. W. Dis-
trict Court Judges excluded from the list of invi-
tations to the recent bar-dinner to Supreme Court
Judge Stephen I r urely, even if a District Court
Judge isn’t a sufficiently lofty personage to eat
and drink on level terms with a Supreme Court
ditto, it ought to re remembered that after all
the poor man is a barrister and should on auch
occasions be so recognised 1
“ Loyalty,” expressed at other people’s
expense, appears to be in high demand of late.
The members of a certain club, where the guttural
in sound predomina'es, and the Or iental in feature
is common, were recently called together to con-
sider the advisableness of voting £lO towards
the cost of sending a congratulatory Jubilee
me»sage to Her Gracious. Through carelessness,
or from some other cause, the Occidentalist mem-
bers did not show up in numbers, so the Orientals
had it all their own way, and the required sum
was voted. Now oomea the trouble. The Occidental
crowd refuse to pay, and confusion reigns in that
club.
* * *
A certain member of a swell corps of Aus-
tralian cavalry down South has at last seen real
bloodshed : it wan his own blood, too, which made
things much more realistic. At a late review one
milingtary swell, who is a very horsey man a-foot
and a very footy man on horseback, got thrown ;
his horse then charged straight at the swagger
corps, and selecting one particular man, rushed
up against him and "‘downed ’’him like a nine-
pin. Then Pegasus firmly but quietly placed its
hoofs several times on that portion of his body
wherein he stows his provisions, kicked his hel-
met sky-high, and fled away triumphant. The
warrior, who ia a mercer by occupation, arose
very shirty, and was understood to remark that
if he “ could collar the brute he would sock him.”
This recalls that famous incident of loi gago when
the corps were first formed. One of the corps,
a hatter, or something of the sort, became unable
to manage his horse, and, while endeavouring to
keep his seat gave his next neighbour’s horse
“poke one” in the ribs with his sword. The said
neighbour was immediately flung the height of a
kite, and, descending in a crumpled heap on the
field of battle, he murmured: “ This comes of
allowing damned tradespeople to join the corps!”
Lady Carington complains bitterly that
the women of Sydney can talk of nothing but the
weather, and she is getting tired of weather.
Even on her ladyship’s birthday—ls:h June—
when she reasonably expected a slight change of
subject, they only marked the occasion by talking
about the weather a little harder than usual.
A Napier (N.Z.) barmaid has just refused
a £5O note for a kiss. It is fair to state, however,
that the masher who made the tempting offer was
wonderfully ugly.
* * *
Things one would rather have left unsaid :
Angelina (to her youthful lover, aged 20): “Won’t
you try some of this port-wine—though I’m
afraid it’s not very good. When papa bought it
ho said it would do for cub-poisom'j
* * *
A long and prayerful study of breach of
promise trials manuscripts found in the tail-
pockets of corpses floating in the harbour, and
of divorce-court documents in cases where the salt
of the earth has skipped with his wife’s kitchen-
maid, has long since convinced us that the art of
writing really nice love letters is decaying, and
will soon be entirely lost. The eloquent out-
pourings which the ave'age gum-and-slate-pencil-
chewing school girl carries about inside the front
of her are about as incoherent as Abigail’s
“ minits,’’ and every year more and more drivel
commencing “ My Own LoVey-dovey ” and ending
" Your Owneat Own ” gets into circulation in this
downtrodden land. But here and there a curly
head and a bonnet still rise above the sea of bosh,
showing that at least one nice girl prefers com-
mon ssnBe to gush, and is prepared to regard life
as a reality rather than as an impossible vision of
kisses, poodle-dog, and flowers. We made this
discovery through the medium of the Auckland
(N.Z.) Observer, whose editor recently offered a
prize for the best specimen love-letter, and for
days he was inundated with pink, scented, cream-
laid sheets filled with “ducky” and “ toodles,”
and the raptures of girls who put their heads
out of the window at night and mused about
the moon,, and the “serious thoughts” of
prim maidens who interspersed their love-making
with Scripture, until the editorial sanctum was
filled with billets-doux and jam. But there was
one sensible girl among the crowd —only one. A
sweet young thing of 19 summers who evidently
understood the wants of the nineteenth century,
and who dated from a mansion in an aristocratic
suburb, competed with a model letter purporting
to be a proposal of elopement written by a married
woman to another married woman’s husband, and
signed her name at the foot. It was a very nice
love letter, too, and if it had got into print it
would have served to show what the correspond-
ence of frisky mammas preparing for a skip ought
to be in this refined and enlightened age. But the
editor was too confoundedly particular in his
ideas, and this solitary advanced girl out of a.
love-stricken crowd was nipped in the bud. Her
sentiments never even got into print, and she was.
shoved into the waste-paper basket, while un-
tied* ed maidens who wrote splodges of bosh about
keepsakes and dreams got honourable mention in
the columns of the Observer. Oh! what a.
globe of drivel this weary world must be after
all !
* * *
William Chiffin, of London, recently
came out of gaol after “ doing ” a little sentence
for pounding his wife with a frying pan. On re-
gaining his freedom he endeavoured to square
matters with the much-whaled partner of his
existence by writing the following letter
“ Dear beller, —my raind has bin in a compleat state o
anksitity, day and nits, from the time I cum out of -quod
as I can't have your company as we used to have. I have
been obligated to pervade the street were you live in all day,
bee rs when I nocks nob aly comes and lets me in. I can't
live with my piece of mind till I near from your sweet Uds
as you won't have no more to do with me. mi luv, I can’t
live without your sweat company. I mite as well be kicked
out of the walls of the creations, my luv, if you will come
back and enjoy wonce more with your hown Bill the sweats
of connubible mattermony, i will promise you au the Bibel
never to hide you no more, my luv. I only hided you to
make you the fonder on me; but as you hobjeck to sttch, I
shall never hundertake the transackton agin. If you don't
come and see me now, you shall repent it, for I carry some-
thin’ allays about me.—Your own true luv,”
Sad to say Mr. Chiftiu’s “ beller ” has had him
bound over to keep the peace, from which we
gather that hiding a woman to make her fonder
doesn’t always work.
It is all very well, perhaps, for a man to
refuse a knighthood. But how about his poor
wife, who has consequently had to refuse a lady
ship?
It m ay interest the British aristocracy to learn
that Governor and Lady Carington, when paying a
flying visit to a Sydney Jubilee meeting, were seen
through the crowd by the well-known prize-fighters,
Larry Foley, Jack Thompson, and Black Jackson.
Their Excellencies remained in the building for
just about two minutes, and seemed quite relieved
when safely outside again. That a lady should be
dragged through a crowd under such circum-
stances is a fitting comment on the strait in which
the paid advocates of perfervid grovel row think
themselves in Sydney.
It will also be learnt in England with
much interest that a Jubilee Declaration of
Loyalty is being hawked round in the gaols of the
colony for signature.
The man who wears an eyeglass is gene-
rally a humbug. Anyhow, who ever saw an eye-
glassed man without tight check trousers, a
stand-up collar, and an elaborate cane ? One of the
few exceptions with which we can prove the rule
comes from Melbourne, where a man who was
not exactly a “ swell” wore an eyeglass for years.
He was an Irish policeman and was guard of the
gaol-van.
* * •
Lieutenant Keith-Falconer, cousin of the
Bari of Kintore, is Sir Henry Loch’s newly-
imported aide-de-camp. What has fate in stare
for this young man 1 went home to
marry a girl with coin, and Beerthirst was sent to
Coventry.
* • •
Is it or is it not an Imperial Service Re-
gulation that at times of popular excitement or
expected civil disturbance, soldiers and sailors
must be kept in barracks or on board, as the case
may be ? If so, how did it happen that at the
second Jubilee meeting at Sydney Town Hall a
marine and a blue-jacket in uniform from H.M.S.
Diamond unfurled the Union Jack upon the plat-
The beautiful Illuminations and Fiieworks prepared for
Tuesday last are now no more, but many oeauttes sti-1
remain at 402 and 404 George-strec*’, wher they have been
quite a centre of attraction. 1 *
Not hi g i rettier was to be seen daring the illuminations
than the window display ot Messrs. Bray Bros., the china
and glass people, in George-street.*
The most Artistic Costumes at the recent Balls were de-
signed at Mrs. McCathie’s, King-street.*
The best selectian of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sydney
and at a reasonable price, far less than London or Paris ia
at Hust’s Boot Emporium, 408 George-street, corner’of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low heels!' or com-
fort ; to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody. Come
and see for yourself/


form ? Further, how did it happen that at the
large packed private meeting held last week at
Sydney Exh bition Building, seamen from an Im-
perial warship were conspicuous in the melee ?
One of them, by the way, was conveyed to a
shore hospital suffeiing from a scalp wound re-
ceived during the affray.
* * *
There is now no possible room for doubt
that Wales will not visit Australia. Tne Adelaide
correspondent of the Melbourne Argus fays that
Deakin told him he implored Albert Edward at
the last moment before he left England to visit
these colonies and that H. R. H. refused. He
refused “ our Alfred ; ” that’s final.
Phil# Robinson, of London, who will bo in
Australia soon, is a good all-round literary man.
He will devote one of his lectures to his experi-
ences of the Mormons. His audience at this
lecture should be large and fashionable, especially
fashionable.
Wife of Representative Australian at her
first grand London dinner. Tne Colonel offers his
arm : “I am to have the pleasure of taking you.
down to dinner, Mrs. A.” Hepre3ent.ative Aus-
tralian lady : “Go ’long with you ; my husband is
I here ; take your own wife down ! ”
A Hobart paper cruelly points out to the
“ladies’ and the “women and girls” of Tas-
mania that ere the year dies “ their much-belauded
Jubilee casket will probably become the private
tobacco-box of some Windsor Castle flunkey.”
* * *
When the celestial “Johns” of Ballarat
gave a howling spread to Wuog Yung Ho, the
warlike, and U. Tsing, the sedate, it was re-
marked, as a scientific phenomenon, that the
wine which make oh glad the heirt of man has a
strange effect upon the internal arrangements of a
Chinese. After putting away a few quarts of
liquor under their jumpers, several opulent cab-
bage growers of the Golden City commenced to
belch forth weird noises, On the spur of the
moment his Worship the Mayor wanted to call in
the doctor. He was alarmed—everybody was
alarmed, except the Commissioners. They
straightened up the situation by exolaining that
their dear fellow countrymen were merely singing
the newest comic songs from Pekin. Nothing
more could be said after that. The Mayor con-
tented himself by whispering the head waiter,
“ For sake don’t give those gentlemen any
more wine ! * A tom cat on the tile 3 isn t a cir-
cumstance compared wish a Chinaman when he
get’s “jolly.”
• • •
Lady Loeh has written to Genevieve Ward
in America, telling her that the foundation-stone
of the Women's Hospital wing has been well and
truly laid.wich a silver trowel. Genevieve re-
ceived all the credit for this charitable work, and
her ladyship took the trowel. By the way it was
understood, at the time, that the melancholy
“ Antigone" performances at Melbourne Town
Hall roalissd much more than the £2500 which is
now stated to have been received from it. Pro
bably Sassiety thought it was “ had,” and refused
to ante-up for a lot of the £2O seats.
yueen Victoria has, we read, “consented
to receive a present of 50 boots to her own size,
from the minufactu:e,’s of Stafford.” Just like
the old ladv ; laying up for another Jubilee. And
if it never co nai, B it. will be glad of the b oots.
. * -
A large nun'oor of Sydney University
students have written to Ths Bullutin warmly
repudiating all political connection with the young
gentlemen whose loaded sticks and “ looked arms ”
were so conspicuous at the lavs Exhibition meet-
ing, and denoun ting that gathering as a corrob-
boree promoted or encouraged by professors
who would not be by any means disgusted if
offered titles as a rewardof their “ loyal ’ valour.
Messrs. Wallace and Pritchard seem to have taken
an especially prominent part in protesting against
tho highest hall ot learning biing turned into a
seminary for "c'lu skers-out,” but of course their
protest under ths cireum itancss counted for very
little indeed. Nevertheless Australia owes some-
thing to the indspeident and discerning students
named, and The Bulletin trusts that it may one
day have the privilege of helping to pay the debt
. • *
A Fiend (with a big F) gave us a sugges
tion for the now past, dead and buried Jub. :
“ That all loyal women should appear in dresses
made of the same colour and material aid iu
exactly the same way,” That suggestion was
worthy of the occasion, but nobody saw it, and
the fairer portion of the community refused as
one woman to wear a uniform.
A good story is told about an actor, popu-
lar in Sydney and Melbourne one or two years
ago, now no more amongst us autipodeans. It
seems a young girl, daughter of a prominent d ic-
torian official, fell in love with him and wrote
him warm and fervent letters, telling him what
seat she would occupy at hie performances and
what colour frock and flowers she would wear, so
that her actor might identify her. He did, end
found out from a friend who she was. She wrote
him some twenty more or less compromising
epistles, and to the last he replied—accepting a
rendezvous she appo.nted at a fashionable Mel-
bourne refreshment-room. She kept the appoint-
ment Iso did he. He met her at the carriage
door, and leading her into a private room con-
fronted her with her father, mother, and married
sister ! The denowunvnt was a caution, and that
girl (by-the-bye. she is only 20 now) would rather
run a mile than write three words to a horrid
brute of an actor.
• . *
Jubilee illuminations atGevernment House,
Melbourne, didn't include a set piece in fireworks.
Loch stated that he preferred "all gas” on such
an occasion, and is too Scotch to understand that
he made a joke. #
They say that if Carington doesn’t get a
Jubilee rise iu the peerage he intends to abandon
vice-royalty and go back home. The change of
climate has tinkered up a constitution previously
damaged by a long course of literary toil, so His
Ex. considers himself just about fit for another
saason in London.
# * *
These Royal Family arrangements are
very interesting. At a meeting of the Free-
masons’ Grand Lodge of England the Prince of
Wales proposed that a Jubilee addrcsi should be
presented to h'S Gncious Ms. On this festive
occasion, too,, it is believed that Her Gracious
Majesty will desire her faithful Commons to vote
supplies for dear Bertie’s eldest son, Albert
Victor. Minor favours are to be distributed
among the younger branches (even poor Lome
being recognised as “ one of them,” for the time),
and a general Jubilee back-scratching will be
carried out in detail. O I they are a Royal Family, ]
they are, they are.
* * *
During Governor Musgrave’s recent visit
to the North, one of the local ladies presented
him with a bunch of flowers. He thanked her,
but she, not catching the drift of his little speech,
jerked out, “ Beg parding, what did you say
last ?”
The most imposing social event of the
past week in Sydney was the marriage,
in St. Andrew’s Cathedral, on the 15th in-
stant, of Miss Mary Stephen, youngest
daughter of Sir Alfred Stephen, to Mr. Allan
Montgomerie Severn, eldest son of the late
A JUBILEE EXAMPLE.
CULCHAWED SWELL (taking his cue from Her Gracious" Telegram of Synepathy to the
Bulli Sufferers, accosted by one of the Sydney unemployed). " ARK YOU VEWY
HUNGRY !"
S.U.: "OH! YES. SIR, SO HUNGRY!”
C.S.: “ARE YOU VEWY COLD AND WET !"
S.U.; “OH! YES, SIR, SO COLD; SO WET—WRINGING WET !!”
C.S.: “ARE YOU ABSOLUTELY HOMELESS AND FWENDLESS !”
S. U,: “ YES, SIR, INDEED I AM!!!”
C.S. (as he walks up the steps of his club):"PAW DEVIL !”
Mr. Henry Augustus Ssvern, formerly Master of
the Mint in Sydney. The officiating clergymen
were the Rev. Stephen H. Childe and the Rev.
Arthur H. Rivers The bride was attired in
white satin and silver brocade trimmed with old
Limerick lac >, looped with orange flowers, and
wore a white tulle veil and a wreath of orange
blossoms. She was attended by eleven brides
maids, all costumed alike in cream surah. Among
the guests were Governor and Lady Csrington.
accompanied by iheir three little daughters and
by Mr. E W. Wellington. #
Mrs. J. B. Rundle will give a juvenile
party at her residencs. Pomsroy, Potts Point, on
Friday evening, June 24.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. L. Aarons gave a very en-
joyable dance on th 9 18th inst. to celebrate the
coming of age of their eldest son.
♦ * *
It is reported that Lord Lonsdale is writing
an account of his experiences in America. What,
all of them ? #
The American residents of Sydney will
calibrate the 4th of July by a garden party.
Consul Griffin is to be asked how much he will
take not to make a speech.
• • *
Lady Musgrave held a reception during
her recent visit to Rockhampton (Q ), and as such
a thiDg had not been known since the o.d blue-
moulded city was founded very few of the 1 atives
knew what was expected of them. Some fancied
that the correct thing was to fall down and kiss her
tiny litt’e foot;otheis wanted to kiss her hand ;
a few would have liked to peck at her pink shell-
like ear, and openly objurgated in the street when
they came out disappointed ; but finally all agreed
that the correct thing was to stay from 4 to 6 p,m.
and breathe hard and stare all the time. Conse-
quently the function resulted in a great success,
and several well-meaning citizens were nearly
smothered.
In Melbourne, recently, a gentleman of
83 married his step-daughter, aged 42. When a
man is getting old it is always advisable to have a
fond wife to see that he gets his arrowroot re-
gularly.
“ Looker-on” writes to say that the lady
reporter of the S.M. Herald is evidently not
great in naval matters. In describing the funeral
j of the late Captain von Reichenbach, of the Qer-
| man corvette Olga, she alludes to the guns and
sword-b vyonets of the sailors as “ side arms,”
changes the petty officers of the Olga into “ ser-
J vants who had been a number of years with the
| deceased," and ‘polishes off in one act the flag
I lieutenant who walked in front of the hearse by
alluding to him as “ the servant of the late cap-
tain !" The blue silk cushion which he carried,
and on which Captain von Reic'aenbach’s orders
were displayed, she mixes up until it becomes
black velvet, but perhaps this error is merely
owing to colour-blindness.
The average Rockhampton (Q ) horse
does not sniff the battle from afar if he can help
it, and when he does sniff he likes to do it as far
as possible. At the Queen's Birthday parade in
that city of sin, sorrow, and singular dawgs, the
Major no sooner gave the order to draw swords
than his steed took fright and landed him on the
flat of his baek in the gutter wiih his weapon
sticking up in the air, and before he could rise up
a terrified Newfoundland tried to walk over him.
Such are the horrors of war—or rather, we should
say, the horrors of peace, of which the average
Rockhampton Major is one.
At the wedding of Miss Maud Macartney
and Mr. William Cunningham (Melbourne), Mrs.
Goe (wife of the Bishop) wore a handsome dress
of pale grey satin trimmed with draperies of pearl
grey silk embroidered material striped with plush
to match. Over this a black jet mantle was worn
The bonnet was pearl grey, with ostrich fea'her
to match. #
The gilded Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point-
Darling Point, you know—once more. To her, a
friend: “ Your son is looking very pale. Is he
at all delicate?” “D.dicafe! No indeed, I’ll
venture to say there ain’t a boy in all the colon'es
as is more indelicate than him.” Verbatim.
Baron Brassey says that “anyone coming
to the colonies must be much impressed with
them." Which is so ve y pleasant and condes-
cending, not to say ao brilliantly original, that the
colonies will endeavour to be impressed with
Brassey - when he geta a new set of brains and
pays us another visit.
A lot of ladies and gentlemen who have
been in the grave these ten years received invita-
tions to Sir Henry Loch's Jubilee fancy dress bal 1.
Dear Lady Loch evidently believed there would
be a Resurrection of the Dead for this solemn oc-
casion, but forgot to add a footnote to the invites
stating that shrouds would be accepted as fancy
costume.
Mrs. Made ay gave a skating party at
the Columbia Rink, Sydney, on Thursday after-
noon last.
Mrs. Leopold Yates, of Prudhoe, Darling
Point, has sent out cards for a musical evening on
June 30th.
Sydney Liedtrtafel’s next “ smoke con-
cert,” June 28, at new Masonic Hall.
That jolly Englishman, Alderman Thomas
Playfair, will give a dinner on 29th inst. to the
whole of the inmates of Sydney Benevolent
Asylum.
The aristocracy of England have come to
a pretty pass in Australia. The other day a man
was found lying on his back and kicking up his
heels in the middle of a Melbourne footpath. He
was at once “ lumlitred ” and br'iaght before a
magistrate. “Have you no friends?” said that
functionary, thinking, perhaps, he tad to do with
a lord in disguise. *' Yes,” was the prompt reply
of the tattered ruin ; “I have taken steps to let
the Duke of Gordon and Richmond know I’m
here.”
...
Yet another A Melbourne baby has
been christened “ Victoiia Jubilee.” Ugh !
Lord Tom Brassey was cruelly treated by
a deputation from the tuft-hunting Imperial
Federation League. These gentry, after luring
Lord Thomas into the library of Melbourne Town
Hall, pi epared to hang, tee-like, upon the honey
of hiSLoble lips, 'lilts was most embarrassing
for his lordeh’p, who stammered out that “ he was
not aware when he was asked to meet them that
the proceedings would be other than of a mere
formal character, and he did not propose to go
into a ttatement of his views then.” As a matter
of fact Brassev’s secretary hadn’t coached the
boss up in any “ views ” suitable for the occasion.
Under the circumstances there was nothing for it
but to resolve the meeting into one of a mere
formal character and order drinks all round. The
distinguished company federated in fizz forthwith.
Sir William Clarke couldn’t be induced
to make a speech, siDg a song, or give a recitation
at the recent Victorian Racing Club dinner. They
stuck our “ only baronet” in the vice-chair, and
there he sat a spit ndid tpt cimen of the stuff out
of which our “ nobility” are originally hewn.
A century hence—if the money keeps in the
family this dull-witttd - idas will have become
quite an historical personage. The future Clarke 3
will delight to speak of themselves as “ descended
from William, the first baronet, a distinguished
scholar and honorary L.L.D. of Cambridge Univer-
sity.” Even in 50 years’ time there will be no one
to explain that the cultured founder of a noble
race was incapable of speaking two sentences at a
Masonic banquet without having a “whisperer"
at his noble elbow. And of such are they whom
their Sovereign delights to honour.
• * »
North Shore prints its Jubilee address
notice so : ‘ The congratulatory address to her
Majesty the Queen on the occasion of her Jubilee
is lying at the Town Hall." Exactly But, dear
Mr. Mayor, lyiDg is such a dreadfully ugly word !
Why not say, ‘' The e c. address to her etc.
Majesty etc , etc. is prevaricating at the Town
Hall
Now, John, 1 am dressed, let us go
down-stairs.” ‘ Down-s‘aira ? Why, my dear, I
should think you were dressed for going up-
stair?.”
Mr. Theodore Bevan — he of the wondrous
eyes—the pluckiest and luckiest of Papuan ex-
plorers, is now in Sydney, with a large collection
of excellent photographs (taken on the spot by
Messrs. Bell and Langford) and other items illus-
trative of New Guinea ecenery, which i 3 lovely,
and New Guinea customs, which are, on the
v hole, beastly. In his last expedition, he dis-
covered that the Aird River, to which so much Im-
portance had been attached, was only one of the
mouths of a large stream which he named the
Douglas, and Which proved to be navigable for
at least 100 miles—possibly, in the case of
small vessels, for a much grtater distance.
Two large tributaries, the Burns and the Philp,
flow into the Douglas. Another splendid river,
the—here we blish for Bevan —“Jubilee,” was
also traced for 100 miles from the sea, and when
want of time forced the explorers to return it was
still 300 yards in width. When traetd to its
source this stream will no doubt be discovered to
have its origin in Mount Grovel. A great ex-
panse of fertile land has thus been opened up, and
the scenery is in places magnificent. No mosqui-
toes were met with in the rivers, the temperature
was agreeable, and in one spot a few specks erf
gold were obtained, Four-fifths of the cost of the
expedition was borne by the enterprising firm of
Burns, Philp, and Co., and though this is the
fourth in which Mr. Bevan has been engaged, he
is already preparing for a fresh start. His par' y
on the last occasion consisted of Captain Boore,
master ; Messrs. Belland Langford, photographers ;
Cornick and Beveridge, naturalists; Kneen,
Marten, G eeson, and Fastre and a crew of
colouted stamen,
* * *
At the Jubilee meeting of the Petersham
(Sydney) Town Council there was a touching
sesne. A resolution of loyalty was passed and
Alderman Gelding (who, curiously enough, is to
bo the next local Mayor) told a tale of childhood's
happy hours which made the aldermen weep
—after lunch. He ssid he was a child when the
Queen was crowned, and that day he was in Hyde
Park and found a penny with which he bought a
coronation bun, and loyally ate it. The announce-
ment was received with much apnlause by the
assembled bourgeoisie. Now, if Gelding hadn’t
been a very 'umblc man, he would have told us,
a la Parkes and Pope, eilher that he found six-
i ence (and bought and ate six buns) or that he
found a pin, and. like a good boy, stuck it in the
lining of his waistcoat. This municipal chavoo
afferds an admirable illustration of the reasons
advanced in favour of Australia grovelling to
, Tory institutions* We are to be “ loyal” because
Alderman Gelding once ate a bun 1
Spectacle Makers.—Osborne and Hunter, 63 Sydney
Arcade. King-street staircase (first floor). Every desc iption
of Spectacles and Eye-glaaaes in stock or mad t(^ n ° rd H-
Pure Pebble Spectacles, ss. per pair (as usually 10s. 6d,
Spectacle*, &c , repaired. Glasses. Pepples, Frames, &c,.
fitted:
The combination of ingredients used in
Cough Emulsion is such as to render i t the best fcnown
remedy in the world for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, or Bron-
ohitia. ? lt oan be obtained direotlromW M.
Bourke-street, East Melbourne. Price 3s. 6d. per bottle, and
from all ohemliti.*
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, Brings with him all that
U new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, ano
may be consulted at Kidman's Buildings, oorner George and
Market streets. Take Lift.*


BRIEF MENTION.
Tiger skinflint Inglis.
When the mob slaver, Parkes slips.
Illuminated addresses—Houses lit up.
Another Yellow Pup—The Primrose
League.
The lambing season promises to be
favourable. Not so the Jubilee lambing.
Our esteemed uncle advertised that h
would take no Jewbligates on the 21st or 22nd ins
Manly grovels about the Queen’s womanl
qualities. Did they exptct to find her manly ?
Sydney Lanceahs had to travel by trai
to Melbourne. It is rather far by cab, dontche
know.
Chief Justice Darley had hardly taken hi
seat on the bench ere he wanted to sit on th
people.
The Victorian Public Service Associatio
have celebrated the Jubilee by—feeding their
noble selves.
The Wallsend (N.S.W.) Sun wants t
know why the Salvation Harmy don’t capture th
devil himself.
Three stars were shown by the Sydney
Lands Office on the night of the illuminations
Same old label.
So many dudes disport themselves on the
steps that they now call it not the Post Office bu
the “ l'ose ” Office
Tho Crown Prince of Germany has a sore
throat. It is probably hereditary. Tho olf
Emperor is stiff-necked.
“ Mrs. Kirby was the undertaker,” says
par. in a Sydney daily paper. Nobody can mea
sure up a man so well as a woman.
There are three things which may not be
brought into the S. M. Herald office. The flis
is tire. The second is grog. The third is brain?.
The Sydney Freeman’s Journal says
that a local Jewish gentleman has just joined tho
RC. church. What glorious news for the bacon
trade 1
A woman was found dead in the Fitzroy
gardens (Melb. 1 the other day with an empty
whisky-bottle by her side. In both cases the
spirit had flown.
Six Ballarat boys last week drank a
quart-bottle of gin apiece. One of them is dead.
No boy should ever drink more than half a bottlo
of gin right off.
Boforo clearing out of Adelaide, Adith
O'Gorman, the Escaped Nun, got a testimonial
from three parsons. Then they went and prayed
for their neighbours.
It has just transpired that Queen Vic-
toria didn't cable any sympathy to the Hulli
widows at a’l. What she really did was to wire :
“ Bulletin splendid paper.”
“ The newsboys are enjoying themselves
to-day," said Sydney E. News on Jubilee Day.
Exactly. Government House is the heaven of the
daily newspaper-man— and woman.
Sydney E. News says the oranges ex-
ported to London from Sydney were “ spoilt by
improper packing.” It takes a lot of improper
‘‘packing" to spoil at a Jubilee
grovel.
A breezy writer in Sydney D.T. speaks of
the “junction of King and Market streets.” It
is only during the Jubilee season that people
notice parallel lines up against each
other.
“ Our Queen is, in short, the symbol of our
popular liberty,” writes a Sunday paper. Why
then have her arms stuck over every gaol ? In
short it right, though ; Her Gracious is only 4 ft.
lOin.
“ That only is important which is eternal,”
is the legend inscribed over the doorway of a
Sydney suburban church. This, we presume, is
the parson’s grim way of alluding to the collec-
tion-plate.
The word “boycott” has been translated
into French (boycotter); Dutch fboycotten) ; Ger-
man (boycottcn); and Russian (boikottlrovat).
There seems to be no necessity for translating it
into Irish.
At Parramatta an organ-grinder was fined
£3 for cruelty to his horse. He used the horse to
drag the organ around the town, and stopped to
perform now and again. How that horse must
have suffered!
A Queensland editor has just had to pay
£3l for libelling a doctor by stating that the town
“had long been in want of a good physician.”
Some people are never satisfied unless they see a
funeral every day.
When next the little Melbourne paper
which started business by borrowing The Bulle-
tin's name, ventures to print the portrait of a
lady it will, we trust, avoid the error of making
the fair creature’s face all jaw.
Still open—Sunday night lecture by—
Pastor Jefferis. Pew-rents payable quarterly.
To sell church-seats wholesale is respectable; to
vend siDgle tickets for lectures given in theatres
is infamy. Of such are the Kingdom of Snuffle.
A soldier of the Queensland Defence
Force, who fell on the point of his bayonet,
escaped uninjured. The bayonet doubled up, and
he now prays once a month for tho swindling Im-
perial army contractors who suoplied the hoop-
iron.
Thus the Sydney Evening News ;
“ Lovers of natural history will find an interesting
account of the polecat in this week’s Town and
Country Journal.” Lovers of the polecat will
always find congenial matter in the columns of
the Nooze.
Last week the forester at Fernshaw (Vic.)
sent a pithy memo, to the Secretary for Agricul-
ture—” 1 have the honour to inform you that it
is very cold up here." This reminds us, somehow,
if a message we received from an uncle (gone
before) at a spirit-rapping show. After Ihe
medium had knocked up uncle, the poor old boy
started his conversation by saying, “It is my
duty to inform you that it is very hot down here.”
We don’t know exactly where he was—didn't
ike to enquire. But we guess that uncle would
like to swap billets with the Fernshaw forester.
A certain lady at the Point says that she
always did like to see the Naval Brigade in full
dress and aceouchements.
Excited member of the S.P.C.A. : “Look
here. I’ll arrest you if you strike that poor horse
again ! Let me remind you that 4 He who made
thee, made the other brute.’” Angry cabby :
Arrest me, is it ? Ye’d better arrest yer mother
fur taychin’ ye ter walk about on yer hind legs.”
A Queensland exchange says that Senior-
Constable Whelan, of Cairns (Q.), relates that he
recently surprised a camp of aborigines who
owned up that they killed and ate their picanin-
nies as a customary thing. Whelan, being an
Irishman, might have added that such had been
the invariable custom of the tribe ever since the
Deluge.
It is generally understood that the tor-
tuous course steered by Sydney E. News in re
Jubilee illuminations, &c , was due to the fact
that the relations existing between the proprietary
and Government Houee are not half so cordial as
those between Government I louse and the D. T. The
Nooze is only waiting for Minister Sutherland to
be fired out of the Government to turn dog on
poor old Parkes and all his crew.
Rev. George Sutherland, St. George’s
Church, Sydney, says that the present commercial
depression is due to “that ungodliness which is
now rampant throughout the land.” As the Rev.
George’s congregation is one of the smallest, and
the financial state of his church is anything
but prosperous, it naturally follows (according to
his own argument) that he must be the shepherd
of about as ungodly a flock of Presbyterian sheep
as were ever yarded.
N.S. W. is now to have a lib. parcels-
po9t. The parcels-post is proving a blessing even
jO the wild Hindoo. Recently a Sepoy died a long
way from his home and country, and his caste
fellows duly cremated him. Having done this
pious duty, they went to the telegraph-office and
wired as follow** to his parents: “Bioda Persad
died Ja9t night. Bones by post.” Apropos,
loberts, C. M.G., N.S.W. Postmaster-General,
JUBILEE SONGS.
A critic describes Moody and Kankey’s hymns as “jingling melodies and puerile
harmonies which do not reach the heart, but only the ears and feet.”
late of the Crown and Anchor, surely ought not
to draw the parcels-post line at a lib. packet. A
bottle of whisky weighs more than 16 ounces.
He was a physiognomist and was called
upon one morning by a man whose face denoted
its owner’s passion for alcohol. “I am sorry,”
said the physiognomist, on bidding his visitor
adieu, “ that I cannot offer you a gla«s of wine,
but at the present moment there is nothing what-
ever to drink in the house.” “Dear me!” ex-
claimed the stranger, in sad surprise, “you don’t
mean to say that the water is cut off?” And for
the first time the physiognomist noticed a piece
of blue ribbon in his visitor’s but tonhole.
■Victoria—surplus, £160,000 ; New South
Wales—deficit, £3,000,000. The latter colony is
£3,160,000 worse off them the former. Protection
v. Freetrade in a nutshell.
Great Scott! The National Anthem is
absurd enough in English, but one Morris Myers,
of Melbourne, has translated it into Hebrew, and
had it sung in the Bourke-street synagogue.
Those German bricks seem to be a reality
after all. Fifteen thousand of them have been
sold for 15s. per thousand in Sydney. The price
of the locally-manufactured article is always
over £2.
Notwithstanding the direct proof to the
contrary published in last week’s Bulletin,
Parkes impudently persists in asserting that he
had nothing whatever to do with the passing of
the Treason-Felony Act,
The N. Y. Herald says a man named
Henry Dobson was tried at Kentucky for “being
a vagrant,” and was found guilty and ordered to
be “sold to the highest bidder at public auction
for the period of seventy-five days.”
Does not Parkes’ effusive gush of loyalty
seem to give some oolour to the rumour that he
is “ Ashing ” for a fat Governorship !
The members of the N.S.W. Parliament
by resolution at the instance of Parkes, declared
themselves loyal. As on entering the House they
swore they were loyal, the resolution doesn’t
amount to a great deal. Parkes doth protest too
much.
“ You and Lord will come and
stay with us at Government House, won’t you ?"
asked dear Lady Loch, the other day. “ We’ll be
most happy," replied the charming visitor, and the
next morning a note came around saying that their
numbers would be twelve.
Cold-water Nimmo, Victorian Minister of
Works, told a deputation of unemployed the other
day that the Government had no money to spare
for relief work. He omitted to add that all the
cash was required for the Jubilee illuminations,
and the new ball-room at Government House.
Mud J. Haynes, in a long, slimy article in
the Sydney Evening News, giving a brimstone-
and-treacle account of the Exhibition Jubilee
meeting, describes Parkes as “a resurrected
white-haired demon.” This is meant to be com-
plimentary. Heaven save us from our friends 1
More N.S.W. Parliamentary amenities.
Mr. Dibbs (sneeringly) : “ Anothor rat!" Mr.
Thompson : “ But I have never falsiAed the public
accounts!" Mr. Dibbs (excitedly) : “Any man is
a liar who says I did, and a dirty one, too! If
the hon. member did intend his remark about
falsifying public accounts to apply to me, then I
say he is a doubly-distilled liar 1" (Cheers from
Opposition.)
The womon of Melbourne have held a
meeting to advocato the claims of the lovely
charmer to accoss to the ballot-box as well as to
the cash-box. The affair was beamed upon by an
ecclesiastical smile belonging to a clerical chair-
man. Are we not right 1 Woman suffrage would
at present mean so many more votes in the pockets
of the parsons, the national and sworn foes to
popular liberty.
Is it not true that the “ Declaration of
Loyalty” is being hawked through the N.S.W.
Government offices and being put under the noses
of men who, being Civil servants, have—what-
ever may be their political sentiments—no option
but to subscribe to it ? Is this a manly course for
the address-promoters to take, and can the signa-
tures thus obtained be fairly held to represent the
opinions of the signators ?
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., doesn’t believe in
toleration and wants Republicanism stamped out.
W hich reminds one that it was once the fashion
to hang members of the nobly intellectual Jewish
race head-downwards with a dog on either side of
them, and the men who were on top in those days
wanted the Jews stamped out. But now that
Salomons has got toleration he doesn’t seem to
make very good use of it—on Jubilee occasions
anyhow,
A man named Edwards, in the course of a
Sunday oration on the Queen’s Wharf, Melbourne,
declared that Sir Henry Parkes gave him 50 free
passes to Melbourne to distribute among the
“ hunemployed ” of Sydney. Either Edwards
or his honorable friend must be lying like a
tombstone in this particular matter. The “ Beau-
teous Errorist” has Btated that he never issued
free passes, and knows nothing of any being
issued to stations beyond Albury.
The men employed on the relief works at
the National Park (N.S.W.) were directed to
stack about 1000 tons of wood for a grand Jub'lee
bonfire on Monday last, but some unauthorised
person set fire to the stack on Saturday night.
The question arises whether the Government
ought not to have sold the wood instead of order-
ing it to be burned. Or, better still, would there
not have been sound sense in sending it to Sydney
and distributing it among poor poople whose fire-
grates as well as their cupboards are empty,
thanks to the “glorious and enlightened policy of
Free trade 1”
A correspondent writes : —Last Sunday
was signalised by Jubilee services in most of the
Sydney churches. The wonder is that it was not
also remarkable for a great mortality among the
clergy—that is to say, if the awful mass of de-
grading abasement before Royalty, which fairly
made my heart boil with indignation in the
church I attend, was common throughout the
city. Where it was not one disgusting trough of
grovelling humility, it was a long drawn shriek of
malediction on enemies and foes and such as wore
not at all times ready with a lifted cap and bended
knee. I am sure if such drivel had been attempted
in Scotland or Wales, or even in many parts of
England, some of the congregation would have
emulated the old lady of Edinburgh who “fetched ”
the bishop with a stool.
One of the moat attractive adjuncts to the "Criterion’
b the Japanese Caf6. Handsomely decorated with the arts
of Japan, it is a perfect Fairy Bower, presided over by a bevy
of bewitching beauties
SOCIALITIES. 87 The Edition for the present year will
be puolished on June 30. To those who h *ve read and Pd
mired previous issues we say, “Ready, June 30th'” To
new readers it will come as a revelation. One Shilling (post-
ls. 3d.). All Booksellers. A. McKinley and Co., Sydney
, SOCIALITIES 'B7. Tbe Edition for the present year will
be published on June 30. To those who have read and ad-
mired previous issues we say, “Ready, June 30th'" To
new readers it win come as a re,-elation. One Shilling (post,
Is. 3d.). All Booksellers. A. McKinley and Co , Sydney.
MR. BASFORD’S JUBILEE.
In these days of labilation, when the air is s
charged with gladness, it is not strange that t
private citizen should in a certain degree catc
the infeotion, and rejoice as heartily over blessin;
past and present, as does Her Gracious Majei
the Queen. And thissentiment is one which ever;
man and woman, whatever be his or her stati
in life, should foster. Gratitude is a grace I
little cultivated, and on toe many lips than
giving dies unsaid In this spirit the story of A
Basford's jubilee is given. It will be found no
only as absorbing as the most thrilling tale of t
novelist, but rivals it in fact, in that it is stric
true.
I svas barn in Northamptonshire, England,
November 1811. When less than five years of a
my parents removed to Australia, and as I ha
lived here ever since, mostly in Gippsland, I ma;
well lay claim to being a pioneer. lam a go!
miner by oceupation, and was always a stron
healthy man until October, 1886. I am we
known in Gippsland. having lived there from IS
to 1885. and was a borough councillor for Nort
Ward, Sale, for the two years preceding my d
parture from Sale to Melbourne. In Octobc
1886, I caught a severe cold, which culminated ii
pains all over me, and I was obliged to take to m;
bed. From bad I went to worse. I constant
bled at the nose, and could not keep anything
my atom vc"l, not even soda and milk. The pai
in my head and back were excruciating. 1 w
delirious in ono sense, and yet had my sense
l’.om my chamber window I could see a ehurc
spire, and from the openings in the spire 1 cou
see thousands of goblins, dressed in all sorts o
fantastic garb, running up and down and dispos-
ing with one another; yet I knew they werenot rea
I had the power of reasoning, yet these fautast
forms would appear, showing my mind wa
weakening. I called a physician, who examines
me, and said I was suffering from congestion o
the lungs, and doctored me accordingly, yet 1 con
tinued to grow worse. I then first noticsd m
ankles and legs were swelling, and that they wou
“dent” on impression. I had five physicians alt
gether. but none of them, except the last one, real
told me what was the mat r er with me, although
was paying a guinea a visit. After I had been il
about seven weeks, my body began to swell
alarming extent, and a cold sweat coverec
me, with a sour and most disagreeable odor,
was so bad my nurse could scarcely stay in th
room. My fluids were very scanty high colourec
and voided with much pain. My loft arm swellev
out of all semblance to an arm, a sort of water
bag forming and falling down on the under side
Across my back and hips was another appendag
like a saddle bag in form, so large I could shak
it. I could not get on the trousers I usually wore
and so puffed out was my stomach and bowel
with water that I could only button the two to
buttons of my waistcoat. My face was so puffec
that I could scarcely see out of my eyes, whic
ran water to such an extent that my pillow wa
constantly wet. I had a pair of slippers made t
order, they were 12’s in length, and big every way
proportionately ; yet I had to slit them open be
fore I could get them on. The bleeding from the
nose continued, also the vomiting, with dreadfu
retching, while my head felt as though it was in
a vyce. I wanted to die, as life was only misery
A day or two before Christmas the doctor told my
wife there was no hope for me, that I could no
live until morning; that I had acute Bright’s
disease in its worst form, and he would no
call again unless sent for. I don't care to
mention this medical man’s name publicly, as
he was the only doctor of the five I 'hac
who really told what was the matter with
me. He did his best to cure me, but his medi
cines failed. The day following I was alive, am;
having my attention called to an article on Bright’s
disease in a local paper, recommending Warner’s
safe cure, I told my wife to get a bottle, and le'
me try it as a last resort. She did so. The first
dose I kept down—something remarkable. The
second dose likewise—wonderful. The third dose
I vomited. I then diluted the melicine, and
persevered. The next day I ceased vomiting, and
had an appetite. From that day on I have not
vomited, and have relished my food. The nose-
bleed also stopped, and has never returned, whilo
the pains in my head gradually ceased. I could
feel the medicine working down in my system.
About the third day after commencing the medi-
cine I noticed the pamphlet which accompanied
it said I should take Warner’s safe pills with the
safe cure. That night I took one pill, which
seemed to thoroughly cleanse my system. I can-
aot describe nty feelings, except by saying it
seemed like passing from hell to paradise.' Since
that time my recovery has been rapid. The
doctor, probably believing me dead, never
called again. The swelling all over my body
gradually went down. My hair came out,
great scales peeled off my legs, and I seemed to
be renewed throughout. My normal weight
is from 12st. to 13st., but when I was so swelled I
must have weighed at least 16st. I can now put
my slit slippers ono ver my boots, and wear my
ciothes once more, the dropsical swelling having
entirely disappeared. About the Ist March, 1887,
I could get on my feet for a short time, and there-
after gradually gained in strength, so that I could
take short walks. Now I feel that my young man-
hood has come back to me. My friends jocularly
call me “ Cheat the Grave,” and I feel that I have
done so in truth- I never expected to get well,
and now that I have completely recovered, I can-
not say enough in praise of the medicine that
brought me back to life, health, and strength. I
am ready at any and all times to answer any
questions or letters, or go before any medical
board for the same purpose. My recovery is
simply a miracle, and I am truly grateful. Tho
Jubilee year will always bo remembered by me
and mine, and the jubilee we celebrate is not a
matter of form or lip service, but comes from the
depths of thankful hearts. Samuel Ba-kord.
Exploration Hotel, L. Lonsdale-street E. Mel-
bourne.


ORRESPONDENCE
Thje Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preserration or transmission of snob
MSS.
“ Ambrose C,”: Parkes succeeded in forcing his
mock resolution of loyalty through the N S W. Assembly by
the use of the gag; his crowd succeeded by veiled threats,
publicly uttered, of grapeshot and bayonets, in coercing the
"great" public meeting. The "loyalty” declaration has, it
is true, bean signed by nine-tenths of tha N.S.W. Civil ser-
vants. You see, they probably thought they had no choice.
They no doubt cjnsidered it was a case of "sign or resign.”
‘ Marco”: Old as the hills: "God made man, then
woman. Thea He felt sorry and made t0bacc0.”...." C.S.”:
Yes, but how about the idiotic practice of calling upon heads
of Civil Service departments to report on their own neglect
and utter ignorance of their duties ? How about that flag-
rant act, the appointment of Mr. Robison, Inspector of
Charities, to the asylums’ enquiry?...." A Lady Correspon-
dent ” (Townsville, Q ): It doesn’t surprise us at all to hear
that a Townsville art committee should award your friend's
pictures first prize one year, and yet next year, although
there were no other competitors, should only give them third
order of merit. We once knew a Townsville man who gave a
sheep first prize in a dog-show, and we met a Chinaman up
there once who called himself Donald Macpherson "E.
Mareland ”: Eliminate from the Emperor's career the achieve-
ments of Bismarck and Moltke, and what remains ? Never
has the Emperor William's character bee a more happily
summed up than in the remark attributed to his brother,
that had he been born of the people he would have been a
drill-sergeant...." H.R.” (Sydney): They attended because
the bride was the daughter of the Lieut. Governor....
"Jubilee Morning”: Already treated "George” (Vic-
toria): Thanks—" P.F.”: Not a bad ballad in the Aileen
Asthore style, but public interest ii the fate of " Ellen
Moore’’ is not very intense at present...." Omuzd’: Will
read your " New Epic” next Jubilee Day " Milparinka ”:
Will read "P. ODriscoll”: Next week, perhaps....
" Anti-Coercion”: To) 10ng...."Au Revoir ": You could
have said it better without tempting Providence with verse.
...." 8.D.F.” (Bullenbong): You have evidently a generous
nature, but as a poet you are a dark and disastrous failure.
real one ; but how can you expect Governments to spare the
time to attend to it ? If they did, who are to sing the
National Anthem and prepare bumptious protestati ,ns of
loyalty to the throne and person ?...." Green and Gold”
(Forb■•8): There is a Boggy Creek near Kyneton, Dalhousie
Countv, Victoria...." Herbert Henry”: Will examine
" Rock ” : Ye 3, it must indeed be nasty " to meet your
butcher at a ball’ —wlißn you owe him a long score.." L.G.”:
Why don't s-veral of the officers go straight to the Minister,
who is a man of humane feelings, and lay the whole matter
before him asking as a favour that the poor wretch be
allowed to go insolvent and yet retain his position ? That
would rid him of the usurer. In any case, we do not believe
that were the ca3e fully stated any Government would,
under the circumstances, deprive the victim of his means of
livelihood..." Scotty the Wriokler’: Salutations ! Next week.
...." T. W.” (Lismore): The publication of your essay on the
present agricultural distress would only increase it. Call, in
your carriage, for M5...."G.8.”: Must inquire, for legal
reasons, before publishing—“ H G.D.” : Q lite true, and in
the public interest, but too hot to publish in present form....
"Frederick”: Do you really expect a Liberal paper to talk
about "a race danned by God and cursed by man?
" W.M.8.” (Sydney): We are open to receive lies and grovel
and misery, also paragraphs, about the early political life of
Parke 3, and notes re Jawbone Neild’s very latest, and long
letters from " loyal” citizens who tell us that we ought to be
fried alive, but we draw the line at puns about Wise
" Heavy Weight Carrier ” (Sydney): Great Ciesar, what are
you ? Do you go on two legs or on four ? How can we tell
what is the greatest weigh 1 ; that a horse dias drawn up
Brickfield Hill (you spell it Hell, too) within the last 17
years? We are not a horse. We make the latter remark so
that you nny have a chance of saying something obvious
and impertinent "J. Bill” (Sydney): There may
have been such a divorce case, but we have doubts
W. L ”: ‘ The number of men who die bachelors is small.”
Of course. " Care killed the cat." Bachelors are immortal.
Its the married man who pegs out "Mr. Macrae”: A
letter awaits you at Park-street P. 0., Sydney ‘ Loyaute”:
The aveiage N.S.W. commercial-traveller, if not an Imperial-
ist, would be a traitor to his own interest. He drums the
lmdtosell to the Australian cheap untaxed goods from
Bruminagun " Oyster Johnnie” : Thanks " A.Z.” :
The Montrose Review and the Montrose Standard
are the only papers published in the town. The Register of
births, marriages, and deaths should be able to supply date
of death, but if you want to hunt up any information re
property or other matters we know of no other agency than a
lawyer on the 5p0t...." £. J.T.” (Vic.): Will read .."A.J.1.”:
We'd like some paragraph?, not a long account " Ex-
change ’’: Thanks. We are not surprised to learn that The
Bulletin s general opinions are at variance with those of
the persons who were so b utal as to cal nly ask Governor
Carington, the alleged fount of mercy (as holder of the
Queen's prerogative) to hang a lot of youths who, it now
turns out, were convicted on evidence not worth hanging
a dog upon “ J.R.M." : Accepted. More anon
"W.H.J." (Sydney): Thanki for a good item “Common-
wealth ”: Thanks, but you have written on both side* of your
paper “ Democrat ” (Adavale): We candidly confess that
we don’t know. Psalmyell Gritibh’s father may have been
an Orangeman. Very likely he was " Man at Brisbane”:
Your dog story is interesting, but too, too utter to print....
"W.H.S.” (Woollahra): Thanks " Herbert F.”: The clock
of the world goe3 on without your little sixpences ..." L.W.”:
Crowded to suffocation "Camera”: Your Saxon is too
plain. ..." MJ.N." (Redfern): We have no time to explain
The Bulletin jokes. If you can't understand them, you
had better leave off reading us and patronise the S.M
Herald " A’ trim”: Her heart is as Dig aster brain. We
mean this for a compliment ‘Barney” (Mitparinka):
What do you mean? "J.M L ”: Next week, probably
"Rises’: Tnauks "Stewart”: We really can’t print
much of this kind ef "poetry”:—
I hate the dame who handi me tracts
(Though doubtless meauing well);
But most of all I hate the fraud
Who fattens preaching hell.
...." G.W.": May u«e . .‘‘H. Cooke”: Who are y0u?....
" H. J. M'O.”: Handel to " A.J.W.”: Thinks
“ Massalioe”: If you go to China you ll find that the white
oarpenter can there earn but a couple of shillings a day
“ W. Warmoll”: Tennyson is not to be blamed for “ failing
powers,’ but for servility in re the Jubilee ode The
author of “ Sixty Years After” could not possibly have any
but a monetary interest in the comp sition of a piece utterly
at variance with the opinions of " Locksley-llall. ’ — "M.
Jaslin”: Mr. Alfred Miller's paltry conduct in re the late
South Sydney election was su ?h as absolutely to disentitle him
to the future support of the Protectionist party
" R.C.P.” (North Wagga): You are a nice old boy. You
say you have been " a subscriber of The Bulletin over 15
years” The Bulletin is less than eight years old. You,
no doubt, ar 5 100 years old and " f night under Wellington
at Waterloo.” "M. J. Watson": You lose. The newly-
launched ironclad Victoria will cost a million pounds....
" J.M.”: To hand "F. Kelk ’: I means missing the
water with the 0ar...." Swagger ”: Will probably print....
" Giffney : Copy mailed ..." Alice B.’: Write to one of the
man igers. We may remark that they'll be more particular
as to whether you can say "Gyurl” and ‘ Me Chej’d
than as to whether you keep all the ten com.iiandmeuts.
An inventive cuss named Coutts, of B
limba (Q.), recently constructed a water-bicycle.
It was made of galvanised piping, on a displace-
ment scale, and calculated to carry about 2001 b.
Being desirous of keeping the invention dark,
Coutts hauled his machine down to the river and
launched it at early dawn. He had barely time
to straddle his aquatic steed, however, b?fore the
brute went under, and soaked him to the chin.
Then he came out, and after consignirg the con-
cern to the care of a water nymph called Helen
Berlasis, he slid home by the dirt road and
changed his clothes. Now, some honest man is
squandering his fortune by advertising in the
Queensland Pre3s that the owner of 27ft of bat-
tered galvanised piping can have the same on
payment of expenses. What Coutts wants most,
however, is a reliab'e cure for the ague.
The simple minded people of Suva (Fiji)
tried their hands at a Sheffield Handicap on
Easter Monday, and made a mess of it. A horse-
headed Hebrew from some distant settlement
arrived on the morniDg of the race with a dark
animal, and, s’help me Moses, he scooped the
pool. He was disqua ifled, however, as not being
what the committee called a bony-feedy resident,
and then the second man claimed the stakes, and
the Israelite swore he would have the monUh or
tear up the racecourse by the roots. By way of
compromise it was resolved that the event should
be run over again, and a third man won and got
the money. Consequently the second man is
suing in the Supreme Court for the stakes, and
the Semite is keeping dark with a view to putting
a head on him should he be so fortunate as to get
them. A few plain cannibals are in a fair way to
be ruined in costs over this unhappy Sheffield
Handicap.
Any lover of horseflesh can have a real
treat by going to Randwick course in the morn-
ings now ; there are about 200 horses in work. A
prominent figure is the Hon. James White’s mag-
nificent two-year-old Cranbrook. lie stands over
16 hands and is well-developed throughout. It is
a grand sight to see this youngster striding alorg
apparently keeping his attention fixed on the best
method of getting over the ground. He never
fools about, like some of the horses, but
works as though he knows he is at school. Some-
times there is a buzz of talk among the watchers
as a big chestaut with two white feet slips by,
going with such a beautiful even gait that you
can easily see why it is that Trident is the king of
the lot. No horse out there approaches him for
style of going. Then there are ho3ts of others—
the blocky Mitrailleuse, the common-looking
Abase, and a mare that will land her owner a big
stake one day—the Queen. Mayo’s horses are
always dangerous, and this mare will win a big
race when wanted.
The seven nights’ Sporting Carnival, at
Melbourne Exhibition, proved to be a profitable
Jubilee spec, for “its public spirited promoters.”
It may bed .übted whether cne buildiDg ever
before contained so much sport all at one time.
Programmes, in a general way, were compo ed of
quantity spiced with quality. While 28 heats, at
intervals of five minutes, were beiog run off in
the body of the haU, somebody would be punching
somebody else in the eye on a raised platform o
the right. Meantime the ’cyclists were working
their weird hanky-panky arrangements on a
boarded track outside, [while Colonel Ike Austin
was blazing away under the gallery. A man
oouldn't blow his nose loudly without starting a
competition of some sort or anollier, and by secur-
ing a poiot of vantage he could divide his atten-
tion between a 100 yards sprint, a Grceco-Itoman
wrest’c, and a bicycle race. That well-man-
nered Hercules, Professor Miller, kept order on
the gymnastic plat form, stage management being
excellent in all other departments.
A certain Australian hunt-club lately en-
joyed a good afternoon’s sport. The properties
consisted chiefly of a pack of hounds, a squadron
of cheap tailors in red coats, and a hare in a box.
The box had apparently been made after the poor,
patient animal was inside —this is a figure of
speech—and a long nail had gone into its head
This being extracted, the tortured brute was re-
leased and someone said “ whish ” to make it run.
It did about 20 yards in good style and then rolled
over from weakness, and it being found impos-
sible to kick it ahead fast enough to afford any
amusement, it was picked up by the tail and
bestowed on some larrikins in a cart, who ac-
knowledged the gift by yelling “Hooray, hoo-
gory-ray ! soup foi* Sunday!” A boy was then
despatched for a bottle of kerosene, or a rat, or
anything with a perfume attached; he got the
oil, but the hounds declined to follow the trial,
and'ano.her messenger was sent some miles in a
great hurry for a supply of aniseed. Ultimately
two men were started off on horseback to repre-
sent hare?, and the hounds went in pursuit for
300 yards and then gave it up. Three men were
lamentably spilt in this brief but exciting chase,
and one of them, a lawyer, was sat upon by his
horse. When he revived he expressed a hope
that there were no and and reporters about, or
words to that effect. Avery enjoyable day was
spent.
A NEW DISCOVERY
Hoffman’s Eucalyptol (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints and discharges,
inflammation, gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c.
Purely vegetable, contains no balsam (pai ''a) or sandal wood
All principal druggists and storekeepers. Price 2s. 6d. and
33. 6d. Take no substitute.
T
J£ A T R K R O
Under the Direction of
X
L.
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o'clock.
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
Prices, 55., 35., and Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
QIR I TJE RION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
“FUNNY, VERY. VERY, VERY FUNNY.”
Important Comedy Event.
Commencing Saturday Evening, June 25th.
Reappearance of the Young Comedian
JOHN GOURLAY,
And a specially engaged Company of Comedians
and Comediennes
In the
Finest Production of Modern Times,
SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON.
Produced with entirely New Scenery and all
the incidental
SONGS, MUSIC, DANCES, ABSURDITIES,
WITTICISMS and ECCENTRICITIES.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Robert GOurlay—Representative for Mr. John
Gourlay.
Worth Your While to
Peruse.
Did you ever notice how surprised you were
when you put your fcot on the next stair-step and
found there wasn’t any there? St. Jacobs oil
cures bruised shins and sprains?
The Trotting Fditor, the SpraiT of the Times,
New York, Mr. E. C. Walker, after an exhaustive
interview with lead ng horsemen, stab emen,
sportsmen, drivers and breeders of horses, s h ate?,
editorially, that St. Jacob; oil will do all that'is
claimed for it in the cure of aches, pains, and
suffering in man and beast.
When a man discovers his boy using his best
razor on a slate pencil his faith in being the
father of a future statesman is overcome, in his
anxiety to find St. Jacobs oil to apply to the cut
finger. A sure cure for it.
One of the largest woolgrowers of Australia. Mr.
Alfred Hay, MulwalaP.O., N.S.W., writes: Hav-
ing had occasion to try St. Jacobs oil for a case of
very painful neuralgia, I am pleased to state that
its use was accompanied by the happiest results.
A lew applications only were necessary to banish
all pain and effect a cure. I keep a supply a t my
station, and I cheerfully recommend it.
Josh Billinas says : The best medisin I kno for
the rhumatiz is to thank the Lord it ain’t the gout
and use St Jacobs oil.
llie West End Bus Company, Auckland, New
Zealand, of which Mr. S. Child is manager, writes
to the Daily Herald of that city : We have
much pleasure in bearing testimony to the efficacy
of St. Jacobs oil. Its succes has been particularly
marked in cases of lameness in our stables. For
man and beast St. Jacobs oil is the greatest pain-
cure ever discovered.
Next to a clear conscience, for sound comfort,
give a man a pair of easy shoes and a bottle of St.
Jacobs oil for the cure of pain.
For months the daughter of Mr. James R.
Hatcher, of Clair View, Inverell, N.S.W., Aus-
tralia, was unable to speak from cold. Her case
wa3 given up by physicians, and her father writes
that one application of St. Jacobs oil restored her
speech.
What is the cheapest way of getting fiddle?
Buy a bottle of St. Jacobs oil and you get a vial
in. It conquers pain.
“Asa testimonial from one of the oldest drug-
houses in great Brirain respecting your household
remedy,” say Messrs. Francis Newbury and Sons,
London, England, established for 125 years, “ will
no doubt be of interest to you, we are pleased to
make the statement that we have sold, with satis-
faction to the public, St. Jacobs oil for several
years, and that owing to the extraordinary merits
of the article, the demand is continually increas-
ing, and that we have heard of many favourable
reports regarding its great virtue as a pain curing
remedy.”
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
Price 2s. 6d.
3Dr. SCOTT’S
Electric Hair Brush.
%
(U-
-m
THE ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH.
It is a Beautiful brush, lasting for years. No. X
Hair-brush. ss. ; No. 2 Hairbrush, 7s. 3d. ; No. 3
Hairbrush, 9s. Cd. ; No. 4 Hairbrush, 11s. 6d. ;
No. 5 Hairbrush. 13s. 6d. ; Fleshbrush, 13s. 6d. ;
Toothbrush, 2s. 6d. We will send by mail, on re-
ceipt of prioe named, with Is. added, either size of
this Beautiful Brush, post paid to any part of New
South Wales or Queensland ; or request your
nearest Druggest or Fancy Store to obtain one for
you ; and be sure Hr. Scott's name is on the box.
Money returned if not as represented As soon as
you receive the brush, if not well satisfied with
your bargain, write us and we shall return the
monej. What can be fairer ? Remittances should
be made payable to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
56 Margaret-street, Sydney.
P. 0., Box No. 221. They can be made in
Cheques, Drafts, P. O. Orders, Currency, or Stamps.
Cheques should be crossed Union Bank of AusJ
tralia.
Alhambra music hall
Gteorge-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp,
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
OUR THIRD YEAR. OUR THIRD YEAR.
Through various changes, and through so many
vicissitudes of affairs we still command the multi-
tude.
MORE NOVELTIES.
MORE CHANGES.
MORE FACES.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
GRAND SACRED AND CLASSICAL CONCERT
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
at 7.30.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
Brief Farewell Season of the World Famed
MINNIE PALMER
MINNIE PALMER
MY SWEETHEART
MY SWEETHEART.
By Arrangement with Mr. JAS. M'MAHON.
g YDNK Y EXHIBITION BUILD NG
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton (or holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
Patron—His Excellency Baron CARINGTON,
G.C.M.G., P.C.
President —The Hon. J. B. WATT, M.L.C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that their
TWELFTH ANNUAL BALL,
Under the patronage of the Worshipful the
MAYOR (Alban J. Riley, Esq.), who, with the
Lady Mayoress, has promised to be present,
will be held in the
TOWN HALL on WEDNESDAY, JULY 13.
and that the number of guests will positively be
limited to 300.
Tickets for same are obtainable from members of
the Committee and the undersigned only.
W. A. BLaCKSTONE, Hon. Sec.
Telegraph Department.
WONDERS
WONDERS
WONDERS I
WONDERS OF THE WORLD ! !
MARVELLOUS Wonders of the whole World
is a vast Museum of all that is marvellous
and wonderful in the earth, sea, air, and skies.
Unparalleled opportunity for making money fast.
Frbe on Application, circulars and full par-
ticulars,
R. B. JONES, 614 George-sL, Sydney.
Department of Publlo Works.
Sydney, June 18, 1887.
T
ENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the Buccessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
fs
Sydney Bicycle Club.
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next.
J. WILKES,
297 George-street. Hon. Seo.


Brown-Sequard, M D., says death by
throat-cutting is painless from the moment the
skin of the neck is severed, and that tho severing
of the larnyx produces complete anaesthesia.
Moreover, a blow delivered with violence upon the
larnyx can produce instantaneous death.
Advertisement from Lee "is Mercury :—
“GENEROUS RETURN FOR TWELVE PENNIES.
4 ‘ REND twelve pennies annually to support St. Joseph’s
School (Garforth), and thereby secure blessings of
special Mass at 8 eve-y Wednesday morniDg, at which hour
sinriify your intentions to St. Joseph, and for the week.
Fifty-two Masses yearly, raomentos daily, prayers of two
congreg itions, monthly novenas, ros dailv, and children’s
prayers thrice daily, all to go on as long as God spares me to
Ab rford Mission. Year may begin any Enrol others
(Is each) living or dead. Names kept in St. Joseph’s 'roll
call,' binder the altar and by his statue. Send stamped and
addressed envelope, full ordinary size, for acknowledgment.
Forwarded also two books, ‘S Heart’ and the
Dying.’ Address, G B. Fazakerley, O.S.B., Aberford,
Leeds.’
Editor Bulletin. —Sir,—Rev. Bamier, at
the parsons’ deputation to Parkes, remarked that
“ one girl who had gone astray declared that she
was taught that her act was not wrong at one of
these Sunday lecture?.” This statement. I venture
to state. isiD all probability, monstrous balderdash,
but if there is a sou peon of truth in tho allegation
made it probably has its foundation in the girl
havin? mUunde r stood the lecturer, just as many
and many a g : rl has misunderstood the parson.
THE RAIN OF (MOUNT) VICTORIA
But in any case how many hundreds of girls have
been ruined at Sunday School picnics? Mr. Banrer,
in the public interest, should name the lecturer
who publicly eulogises immorality.—Yours,
Veritas.”
Egypt’s people have not yet learned to
substantially realise the blessings of being brought
within the reach r f the British lion's claw. A
row occurred lately between t wo English office's
and some Arabs near Cairo. The na‘ ives were
hauled up before a military court-martial, refused
the assistance of legal counsel, refused also the
right of off-ring evidence for the defence, and
condemned solely on the evidence of their ac-
cusers which they were not allowed to gainsay.
They were then cruelly flogged, and the honour
of the ‘ offie vws ” was sat isfied. Great Britain has
boasted abo-1 having abolished the lash and hav-
ing established courts of justice in Kgypt, but
these reforms are only nominal, and the foolish
Egyptians are just beginning to And it out.
They “ are seven ” —as usual. The cus-
tomary young lady charges seven men with
assaulting her at Orange, N.S.W., and when they
have been hanged, a subscription will probably be
raised for her. . .
An old lady in Auckland (N.Z ) has had
her leg broken by a rat. The rat did not pick up
a brick and shy it at the old lady—it simply ran
across the floor. The old lady tried to stamp on the
rat, but missed her tip, with the aforesaid result.
Two members of the Commons havo cause
to remember the all-night sitting over the Coer-
cion Bill. Each telegraphed to his wife that he
would be detained at Parliament all night, but
when the “ whip” sent a message home for them,
they weren't there t Next day they had more of
Home Rule than they cared for, and only wished
they had brought the cloture home with them.
Melbourne City Council will jubilate in
pious fashion by treating all the Sunday School
children within the city. This is, in the first
place, a saving of expense ; secondly, putting a
premium upon hypocrisy and cant; and, thirdly,
helping to poison the minds of the youngsters
with an idea that there is some specially sacred
connection between Royalty and Eternal Life.
“ Which there is no such a thing.”
Sir Julius Vogel, during the debate on
the N.Z Women's Franchise Bill, declared that a
woman is man’s equal in every way. There i3
one woman, a farmeress in Canterbu-y, who is
any man’s equal and something over. She lays
hold of the hind leg of a porker weighing about a
ton and a half and has him out of the sty with one
jerk—a feat calculated to give the average man
a crick in the back, and hysterics afterwards
When the porker feels the grip of her fairy Angers
the sausage machine is robbed of its terrors, and
he thinks that Julius is overdoing matters in be-
stowing further masculine attributes on lovely
woman.
Thus courteously the Sydney Sunday Times on
Wise :—
" There never was probably hi the world before any human
being who could maunder on so eomulaoently and so fool-
ishly, and * ith so evident an inability to comprehend the
subject of his own discourse The half-digested theories of
, the Cobden Club dribble from him as he talks like the super-
fluous pap from the lips of an overfed infint, and he has no
mere idea as to the applicability of his imported theories to
colonial circumstance* than he has of the complexion of Eve
or the colours of next year’s cup winnner."
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
'
SlMi
r=f
- mm
r::A
head OFFICE ;
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £3i,661 4s. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN', DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4i per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
W Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
Jl . KILE Y
* * (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Frlonds, and General
Business Agency Office,
IS ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
onfllentlal Inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained In
flvorce- libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fen lon and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
■erriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Bent* and debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
»nlh> Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Ktw /Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
jl be. he l* in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
xpaultl.a and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
3 mr . attend to all business entrusted to b care
Flonrl Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Floor,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
“ LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,”
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J. G. GOsTLING and Co , and GOSTLING and Co.,
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their ‘ ‘ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
BARB'S" GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILEE HANDICAP, run May 21st,
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000;
2nd, £3OO ; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them Cash Awards —
5 at £5O, 10 at £25. 20 at £lO, 20 at £5. 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, a- d
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. **BARB,” care of T. G Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melbome Cup, 1887,n0w open, 20,000subs-'.ribsn
esoh 20s. First horse £lO.OOO
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defenoe.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
SAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
Children starving to death on account of their
inability to divest fool, will find a most marvellous food and
remedy in Scoits Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil
with Hypophosphites. Very palatable and eat-i y di-
gested. Read the following testimonial: “ I have prescribe l
‘Scotts Emulsion ’ in cases of children suffering from
wasting and mal-nut»ition, and can report most favorably of
its good effect. It has been in each case taken most readily.
W. Perkins, M R C.S.,
Medical Supt., Burleigh Hospital, Eng.
Large and small bottle* *t all Chemists.*
Tattersall’s Monster Consultation, Win6er Stakes, run
June 4, and the Jubilee Handicap, run June 21; each
2000 subs., 20s. now open and filling rapidly. Apply
Tattersall. care G. Adams, Pitt-street.*
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
WHAT THEY ARE ALL AFTER.
1 he Lawyer with his case,
The horseman with his race,
The artist with his art,
The actor with his part,
The traveller with his tonrs,
The doctor with his cores,
All yell unto the press,
Oh push us to success !
If only by a hint,
Just put us into print,
And all you do and f ay
(Please print it every day)
Will close by saying here,
Drink St. Louis Lager Beer.*
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effe dual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, lofluenz i, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rigney, late Mitchell,
King-street.*
NOTICK !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hockirgs
high class selected old vintages, for invalids 43 Pitt-
street. *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prloea
A W L E R ' S
GREAT CENTRAL EMPORIUM
and
STEAM CABINET and UPHOLSTERY
FACTORIES,
Sydney.
Entrance at COS George street.
Lawler’s Factories have held the trade of the
colonies for upwards of 26 yeare.
Parties FURNISHING will receive the very
best make of goods at the lowest prices at which
sound and substantial Furniture can be sold.
Almost everyone in the colonies requires chairs
occasionally. We advise them to purchase at
LAWLER’S.
Austrian Chairs of the celebrated “Thonet”
and “ Turper” make— and a guarantee with the
chairs that they wi 11 be put together in a thorough
and tradesmanlike manner :
CHAIRS.
Austrian Chairs, 4s 3d., 4s. Gd., ss. 6d., 7s. Gd.
American Chairs, 2s. Gd., 2s. 9d., 35., 3s. Gd.
Child's High Keener. Table and Perambulator
Chairs, 255.
Child’s High Table Austrian Chairs, 12s. Gd.
Large American Arm Roc&iog Chairs. 11s. Gd.
How often at the outstarc of house furnishing
does the young couple, forced to economise,
neglect that essential to every room—a neat and
ornamental Pier Glass. Surely one cm save
enough by the practice of economy for a few weeks
to purchase one whilst at the following prices :
PIER GLASSES.
All Gilt Pier Glass, cottage size, 255.
Ditto ditto larger size, 395.
Ditto ditto extra large (iOs., 80s.
Black and Gold Overmantel, 00’.
Ditto ditto with Brackets, 70s.
Walnut Overmantel, with brackets, 60s.
Ditto ditto very handsome, 70s.
Ditto ditto fit for minsion, 90s.
An assortment of Overmant les in Oak, Walnut,
and Mahogany, at prices ranging from £0
to £lB
After the cares of a hard or a busy day’s work,
when home his been reached, and the dinner been
eaten, what more enjoyable than to puff a cloud
upon a comfortable Couch. And whilst the most
luxurious couch ever made is the glorious spring
Staffed Eugene—a line LAWLER sells at £‘4 19s.
and not to be had under £.5 ss. in any establish-
ment outside of London-still the fact is borne in
mind that cheaper couches are required by many.
Let pi ice not bar the way.
COUCHES.
All Spring-set Beat Upholstered Couches, in
Cretonne, 275. Cd.
Ditto ditto, very superior and castored, 3.55.
Ditto ditto, extra strong and covered in
Crockett’s leather, 355.
Ditto ditto, in best hair cloth, 475. 6d.
The glorious Eugene, full size, 795.
Bedroom Box Ottomans, 405., 505., 655.
Never before was such value offered. Never
before was legitimate and BEST UPHOLSTERED
Work so within the reach of all.
You cannot have ••hair” or “Ceylon fibre” or
“ kap »k’ properly cle ined and prepared unless by
steam machinery. The foreman at LAWLER'S
will willingly slow the public the machines at
work.
Spare bedrooms are convenient only when the
few necessaries are ia. Now, LAWLER’S can
supply
SPARK
• BKDROOM
Cedar Washstaiul, with towel-rails attached
Set of Fancy Toilet Ware
Toilet Table and Toilet Glass
The Suite complete for 275. (id.
Does a geutleman with a swe9t and snug income
want anything better than that suite of LAW-
LER'S named “ The thing itself,” and which is
capitally suited for spare or young ladies' rooms.
SPARE
•BEDROOM.
Duchess Dressing Chest, with glass fixed
Marble*top Washstands
Set Handsome White and Gold Toilet Ware
Towel-rail and two Cane Chairs
The Suite complete £4 153.
And then, when suites proper, with glass-door
wardrobes, and all that’s required in the bedroom
combination are wanted, why LAWLEK’S, by all
means, if you want a first-class article at a very
low figure.
bedroom Suites in Woods japanned, Oak,
BEDROOM
SUITES.
Siberian Kir, Bird s-eye Maple, Pitch Pine,
&c. ; Wardrobe, Marble Waihstand, Dress-
ing-table, Glass (fixed), Towel rail, and two
Chairs, £9 10 J .
Ditto, with Bevel Plate-glass Wardrobe,
Marble Washstand, Chest Draw-ers, Bevel
Plate-glas3 Dressing-table, Towel-rail, and
two Chairs, £l l KD.
In Ash, £l7 10s., £22., £28., £37 10?.,
In Walnut-, £25., £3O , £38., £45.
This list would be incomplete were we not to
place those ordinary and useful articles of every-
day sale before the readers of this paper :
that la-ge-sized Chest of Drawers at 525. 6d.
CHESTS
DRAWERS, &c.
Note. —This is sold at 655. by other houses.
It has seven drawers and is in cedar, with
jine linings.
The College Chest of Drawers, 25s
The Cedar Chiffoiner 20s.
The Handsome Chiffoiner Sideboards, 503.
The Shaped front ditto, 553.
Dining Tables, 12s. 6d., 153., 17s. 6d., 255.,
355., 40s.
Kitchen Tab es, 7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 155., 20s.
Kitchen lUs. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d.
Sideboards and juinner Waggons next engage
attention, and it is no hackneyed flguregof speech
to say they beggar description and paralyse com*
petitition. £lOOO lies waiting a turnover in side
boards and inOak, vv alnut, Mahogany, and Cedar,
you can have your cho ce. It is not usual to quote
sideboards, as an inspection is necessary, but a
few prices may be named as a guide— £7 10s.,
£9 10s., £l2 155., *l5 10s., £l7 10s„ £24, £2B 10s ,
£35.
Drawing-room Suites and Dining room Suites in
newest styles, and ia English and Continental
coverings are with LAWLER as much of a
speciality as Bedsteads and Bedding, and that is
putting comparison * as far as they can be put.
CARP RTS,
FLOORCLOTHS
and
LINOLEUMS.
One immense Showroom
devoted to Carpets and Mat
ting 6 alone. Ground is too
valuable in George-street to
give that space to a single de-
partment unless prices were
cut low to admit of business.
LAWLERS
608 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Please say that you saw this In
The Bulletin.
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT WE WILL ECLIPSE ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
n
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxvxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Even,- sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these 1 ills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them, lhere
is no medicine to lie found to equal BEECHAM o
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the Bystem. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak 6tomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As ft remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
, culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
• and Oppression of the Chest, "Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
• any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
puijlic for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
ispeedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
£>t breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
Ipcted dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
■with any of the above complaints give Beecham s
CJopgh Pills a trial. •
The moat violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice tnar
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. ltd. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Peelers throughout the Colonies.
—Full directions are given with each box.
E
VERYBODY
SHOULD USB
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOTT £3 I
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
la a vnil replete with the newest and most approved
Nkw Process Machinery,
Tha PRICK Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
ggf Qbogok Sttonvy.
5
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
r fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA. 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SDAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others tor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use. *
§f all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
' J & E ATKINSON,
ii, Old Bond Street, London
Trßde kCwJc—'"White Hose 1 ’ on" Golden
Lyre.”
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
BBISBAiq;E.
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions — lift and fire-nroof stair-
case, invaluable aequisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can eater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
»-Oom. Sample room.
C. H, DANIELLB. Proprietor
■
MANUFACTURERS
i IMPORTERS OF
HATS'CAPS
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY 1
ffppositt LatseCUrs
t 4
j-
KRVOUS DEBILITY CURED.
An English Physician, M.R.C.S., England,
L.S.A., London, now retired from active practice,
as a Specialist will d?vote his Mornings, each day,
in treating a limited number only of sufferers from
Nervous Debility who have failed to obtain relief
elsewhere. Send list of Symptoms.
Address—M.D., 124 Nicholson-stceet, Fitzroy,
Molbonrne.
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERG.
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a flrst-class chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
M
0 N U M K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Dealgni and Estimates forwarded on requei 1
J. CUNNINGHAM,
HGA.R»T-BTR**T. WVNWARO BQU4R*. BTDW*T
6
EHTOW
BALICYU
Ipzsr
exquisite
Vr THE TOR,
(Ms^ lo
7 U/J/Otylieo FOf\ fTSflt/T I SEPTIC
pt!o CLEAfJsif/6 PROPERTIES.
T.B.MELHUISH , pHARMACEUTm Chemist
A 134 William ST f $ YD N E '
—-
kJ
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
*
ffl
Scrofula on r\eckw
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsom Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, dimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Disecoes of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Lose of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching; and Burning: Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Bar tiers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
U> both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a chiL’.’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R Tovvrs & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re
stores the Hslr, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vtge
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
Sure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
[assaehusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1.00; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Boap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Drti£ & Chemical Co , R seton. TT.S.A.
j. SILBEBBEBG- C^.,
32 MAMET STREET, Corner of Clarence Street, Sydney.
IMPORTERS OF THE FAMOUS SILBERBERG SEWING MACHINES, and the DURKOPP
WHITE MACHINES, the best and cheapest in the market.
Agents wanted throughout the colonies.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIES
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches , no Boils but instead thereof a
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A 11 Ait
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution.— As there are in this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsapanllas the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol s.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
NEWTON, ft LAM B j
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONN ELL STREETS
a
m
rtrtr PIANOFORTE,
3bOO guaranteed
Bound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
oash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb,
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Cod*
nell-street.
fs
C ANYAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
df
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, aU
to matoh.
D
W
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet,
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
sd
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sta
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
"\TOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
_L i SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Conneli-street. '
ALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
n In Plnsh and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
Vii
mu
Drawing boom cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUBNITOM WABXHOUBUMir,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
Drawing room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
§f
<A ■
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. —Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Gonnell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs oovered to order In
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
fs
Bedsteads, ati sines
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BHADLEY, NEWTON, and:
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Gsnnell and Spring Street*,
df
SPRING MATTRASSEB
Woven Wire, beM
make | also, Spiral Sprint'
Price, from Ms. each. 1
BKAiiIJIT. HKWTON u>4 LAMB


Coat of arms for the order of G.O.M. (Grand Old
Muddler): Cornucopia on field or being emptied into a leaky
pocket. In the North-West quarter, a pig rampant on
lever, supported by fulcrum, typifying the attempt to
restore the equilibrium. Motto, “Ad Valorem.”
Order of 1.0. U. (Independent Order of Usurers.) Three gilt
balls on field vert, with motto “My Word!" This is an
honor to be conferred upon people who have lent money to
N.S.W.
Order of U.U. (The Unique Undertaker.) There is to
be but one of these honors to be conferred.
The Order of P.G. (Pinchgut), which will be conferred
only upon the old and true colonial aiistocracy.
This is an honor to be given to Members of Parliament of
both sides of the House. Device: Two cats suspendant (the
Government and Opiiositlon): also, eihpi y bottle on Held
sable (refreshment-room at midnight) “ aving it out,” with
motto, Juncta Juvant, to wh’ch no particular meaning is
attached by either party.
Bellows and Jawbone of ass crossed upon a quartered
shield with dial beneath. Motto, Furor Loquendi, (a terror
to jaw)! also, “ I blow.” We can lay our finger upon the
party who will get this distinction.
Order of C.B. (Colonial Beer). Device: Shield with Bar
Sinister, and a Sinister Bar-maid drawing a long sleever
for, say Mr. Toohey, M.P. This is to be conferred upon
survivors of the N.S.W. “ Brewers’ Holy War.”
Rocent order of Soodle-docdledan. To be conferred upon
bosom-friends nDd admirers of Mr Dailey. Device: Donkey
Brayant standing on £250,000 worth of War Material con-
templating theleitjra P.B. (Plain Bi:l.)
This, for Ex-members of the Civil Service (more
particularly the “ Lands”). Device: Hard-up party at Soup-
kitchen upon a shield drawn and quartered, with moth',
“ho tso upth is da Y,” (whatever that may mean) It
is expected that there will be a great scramble for this
honer.
This title, B P., (Boss Perjurer) will be given to parties
who can tell good tiger-stories.
This will do for Mr. Justice Wia&ycer;. Eiorrf Ckrin#to»
and G. B. Dibbs. Device : Well, think it out for yourself o '
Th 6 Order ftf H——l, OV 11 ' 1 ' Lines > wiu be conferred on
same if they prefer it.
The Australian Jubilee Peerage.
A Detailed Scheme for the Institution of Various Long,Needed Australian Drder of Nobility;


NEVER-TKAVEL without it.
/WJLJSTTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
sdf
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS,
x=:
ECTS
ALLNOXIOUS INSL
"LEAS FUES.BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
0 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
Ha HMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS,
TOWLS OR OTHERS
ANIMALS
fi*
'4
s
IN TINS
J V UPWARDS
rAUCH£MISTS
\HD STOBthEf^RS
WMOUtfUI
FELTON’GRIMWADLU
MELBOURNE -r_
IN EVERY HOUSE
for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware oCT-TI
the numerous imitations.
&
gy]?T(smrk(m
nlnnHuutntmminh
ss
suiumavinNv
mix
r*
/GQifffNSnwf
IRCACI£
REffNfRS
esrt),
/655%
/Cr & Fact °#y. /vewtowm
BRANCH. CCORCf Sf. SYDNEY.
4^Q-Tj
Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
s &“robertson.
114 Vaanwro anpvwv a cmwvr
:°f new . U* MAMET STREET, BERNEY.
•-*Dd second-hand Books. Price of any book on application
mail to any part of Ana lia,
Books sent by
TS
T&
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
MOCS
HOES
W HAT IS YOUR HOBBY?
lave
gfN ini* Ht I s m one
{*2 *t J y °ur outi oorsat -
Soh be M^°° n as U T y ’ get
A, 61 Tf th °ut fct® p °BBible.
V^^.s
ry Photo-
is^SS*
toys'
%® c a n ri*Win
XJw
ipira&BP
The cost erf every requisite
for a beginner is so low, it will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself by a visit
to our
WHOLESALE
PHOTOGRAPHIC
WAREHOUSE.
c htner
AND CO.
v 24 O’Connell street, Sydney,
Vy.
for Photographic Supplies
t He Southern Hemisphere.
l *a
Q
OUE NEW CATALOGUE,
-W
0 hav
Bend <^- ou r. new ® nlar B in g Department in work, and shall be pleased to
u price lists upon application to the trade c '
w
&
tWM
'i
U
DLXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
MX SON A S*ol
mx*on
CONQUEROR
ON * SONS
DOODLE
?Mt«*
•(XftGft 6 SONS
NAILROD
80M" * sons
CHAMP! 0-
SXttON e n»»*
CUT. In 1)» Iksc*
i.C!f BY.ORIEIfTAI MU
OMETTEmiLEr’
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT-STREKT, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 500,000
Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.^
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
m MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 18*91,3 ~ „
Paid-up CapitaiTfiSOO, 000 T Reserve Fund, £l6o^ooo
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.G.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Hay market, Pyrmont. Redfern. Goaford, Nyn
gan, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard'*, Newcastle an
Brisbane.!* ' -**
London Branch : 58 Leadenhall-gtreet.
iCLoNDON Bankers Tbs National Prorinolal Bank of
A.A.DE BNELY & C°
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
SHIRT MAKERS?
MJEEMJEX;
.MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Or AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUERN STREET, BRISBANE.
ft
STUDY ECONOMY
*nd
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasol* re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasol* made to matoh 001
tome* Repair* neatly executed
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR, '-'im
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND "
STREET, SYDNEY. "
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and ltegs, s'aXJow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN ALL ITB BRANCHED
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHEM
6. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons |
Rmr. She and Whisky PUNCHEON 8.
head Quarter casks, Spirit Kegs, I "ok
galoos and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
,\i v
£
ORI GI N A
OUN 0 UN 6AK/IWC fi
OBTAINED A
FIR ST CLASS AWARD ,
’ “p . |
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
.
-iOSfff
ISTHE BEST IMTHEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
-
REC E 1V ED THE INTERNATIONA l#
P R I Z E M ED A t
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Svone'/
Sold byAU Gfccars and Steretopers
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System or Flour Millino,
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
dfs
isgapr-vgy-
r
ft e-foe far:
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFRECTKJNS
Thomas Ingham
£ste
p
1
I
D R RIDGE*
FOOD
on INFANTS ano INVALIDS
S 3 an enormous sale in England;
nd isSno'w beinß introduced into thl
Coiomps.
E veTryStorekeepor,;should get a supply
as wise rnotfcjerwiU certainly
use it.
OR!.JUDGE’S nOYAL FOOD
\ojSX)Dl3i>iE24ftl-AN JX
to MOM MIT EUIO LAID MO UNIT SOCIOT7.
S5O PITT STREET.
- •-
k . e P°sits received at best Current Bates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call
° this Sooiety has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
J AMES A. TODD, Mam-aciur.


ROYAL. BWM
ro*S
SS
0W75
C
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
P. R. LARKIN,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. 3till sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES’
SPIRITS, &c., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PR NS ■ OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGS STREET, SOUTH,
SYDITEX.
IWALLACH BROS.’
isruarw
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
and!
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
LLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALL AOH BROTHERS.!
CHEAP and,
GENERATE YOUR O wN GAS
keeley&co^
Spreader G*- 3
AMD
NIXE LIGHTS
BR3Ti# tb J
Guaranteed to P™ town 3
complications. In use in ma y j re iandW
teen towns in England and f coa j gas.
... ' Instead oi
- « f.to 1 INTO T#®
NOW FIESX - w
from ™%sfa***
andWa i e 3.
j EAOo
FULL INS CTIONS5 ITH
See stock of
D. KEELJY «
CO'
PRICE LIST-
L Branch Brass Bracket Lamp-
With Globeor Shade
! Branch Brass HangingM^fotra
With Globes or Shades
I Branch Brass Hanging Lamp
With Globes or Shades
; Branch Brass Hanging Lamp
With Globes or Shades e
! Branch Brass Table LamP estr a
With Globes or Shades tftmp
Branch Brass Table Reading
With Globe or Shade e- orSt
lutside Lamp for Hotel, S . _
lalfstained Glass Hanging LamP jjiserT
Irdinary Street LamPi n .. V *
'lf
"if!
ii'
«a
SV
amary orreeu j--—*-
Spreader Burner.. •• japann oo
Branch Bracket Lamp, et tra
With Globe or Shade ea j^le
jrosene Lamp, Til \'^ D a°gar FacMP OB^ 3 ?® 1 '
Mines, Woolwashes, S g e q U allO , .
or Chimneys, one burner, » jP
Candles ... • •’A o ne bur 06 ' 1
iptha Lamp, Tin Japann _ ..
24 Sperm Candles gperi® J^r,
,ch burner'gives a ligM to 2j
can be regulated from 0 f 8 <T •
SSjSSS£SS!S; , i = -r^>< 11
A r.lßEttAL^l®g;g'« ia
-390 Fmvgffig f
?ETHf TEE®'T. oB , p a ? f/“ fo » v
ich lamp, insurance can
dying either in P er ®°“ go*. r'^f r fnP v< ° *
K, Insurance Bro^|^we>®
nee Co., 79 CollmS-st ree '
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED CO(
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY OOP CONTAINS MORB ACTIVE
THAN A PINT OP THB BES'i ALB OB POBl»»
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS^!
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <Ssc.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmi thing, Blacksmlthlng, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatio Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &o.
Bole Agents for Verity Bros.. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, «Sc.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 IACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prior on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
£2T Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL 7 Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRI PS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
O. H.
<?gi
fIATB f SJI
302
8 Doors South 0
- " for t»«
CONSULT Dr. THo^ er vo»« **
safest treatment e p as 3oo
Skin Diseases. The Doctor sic ia,n s ** q
it the Royal College of gj,glftt^
College of SorgeoM. •”«
Rooms, 203 Klizabeth-B
E, ROWLANDS,
UTE ROWLANDS LEWIS, f
CRATED WATER and CORDIAL MANUFACTURER, J
pbe
Has It uMOVED to NEW
COEITER OIF 1
BURYS & LITTLE HAY ST
BAHtWO HA BOtf
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
sound tepl l), perfeci freedom from decay, a healthy action of !ho poms, and delight-
triling gritty tooth powdcre and ae.d washes
fully fragrant breath can i
and using daily
ttained by disrardi
1
herbS rl «Sd^SSi’t«nw B^ <>wdcP con . l K osed »»st recherche ingredients of the Oriental
thetee'thorevmd wm rl ’ 25J gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preserves
***’ tam
non-grrtty tooth powder : such KO W.bANDfi’
No other Odonto is genuine.
is n ° W Sold in a golden colour for
RQVVIAKDS’ i&AUfOQB beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
;to.( renders tne skin suit, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for liOWLAftpay
. on. i u. )n Garden, London, and avoid spurious and pernicious imitations.
Wholesale and Eetail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser & Co.,
"T THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
Mid UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, oa stuns from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Iranoh. Payable an demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
THOS. HOLDSRNESS, Acting Manager,
FiEi
PRESO RIPTION3 are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
78 Hunter-street, Sydney.
rr
&
dfsf
6£°
* V
A »*fe
‘•r
POGONOSKI
705 GEORGE-ST.,
Sydney.
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Post
705 GEORGE STREET.
PfrKOtESAtj WAHI/rACTUki
JAMES STEDMAN
s* «ca«i Uimi S’
S§|Ss<lsU i # £4k£s44 OHr
fa &*,&*%*P\*g o *TfSt
”*# o*<x**fho*m?mim
HHI
Guinneßß' l "
FIRST
MM!
i
Jt
bs ste “rf ; V/
aotnts > N , KB TnHI> S >'V /
CHIU Jo <
~ BALCHI N '>»
MmerciKl
OBERT
INK ANP JSjE CV
534 GEO^u
rriß To®
■v. ffo^'
Opposite To® recei ve
aunfery ©r<i erS
' “ Technioal College Laboratory, Sydney, 30th
Oetobor, 1886.—The Syphon Crated Water Com-
pany. —Gentlemen, —Having seen the process of
.derated Water manufacture carried on by yon,
and having examined analytically your product,
I ean bear witness its purity, and thorough
saturation with earbemio aeid g>», Chemical
analysis shews that your system cf water purifl
cation is as near perfection as can be.—l remain,
V yours truly Will. A. Dixon F.1.C., F.«.S ; "
MED WATER CD.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
PRESERVE
f#
, uy our :
The Water made / " Jf
t throu» a
families at each i»ea
and should be adopted
and refreshing beverag 0 -
