

The Bulletin
TOBACCO!
L
Finest in Australia for Smoking and Chewing.
|
t
‘ l '
I
V
w .
mm
6d.
H
you can buy the LARGEST and BEST Plug of CHOICE TOBACCO sold in the
Colonies, made from the
••Rest and best American leaf.
WHOLESALE AALTID EETAIL r
CRAIG & AITKEN
*
J & 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AGENTS IKT HEW SOXTHTHH WALES.


%
m
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES ft PRICES POST FREE -
In
o LIM Tn
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
fiAiJo.ORGANf Music Importers,
r Ur|est Stockand greatest Variety in Australia - the
tebtic~the choice.- PIANOS from£Ao, ORGANS from £l2-
* PAYMENT BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SUIT ALL CUSTOMERS
TKUTO S & PALING S, <5 PRLING it &
Hardman Bros
svjv/jjy
jjjvjy/
ffW
lIIH.TTtWM
qjsj
n^77m
03MCQOICB to 'kb niijylJMimyu:-
-*=m
Mad Office i Factory. Ncwtown
Branch. Ceorci ST Sydney
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
CORNER of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING,
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
IN IMIM ! H •
elhe dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders a the
Bt Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12J per cent,
per annum
Bonus paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent.)
„ „ 6 „ (1 per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
Agencies in London and throughout the world
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowed:
At Call, 4 per cent.
3 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITSIOF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
Br portion of their deposits without notice, and
will be allowed current interest for the period of
deposit.
The Share Register is still open, and Intending
Shareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shares,
fco., dec.
BT ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M’NAMARA,
SECRETARY
CAUTION.
fHE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the United Horse Shoe and
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
Abasing a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
"Globe” nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The in question are made of inferior metal,
pwfl are not bo well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
fj.H-S. and N. Co., and customers should take
Bare that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. S. HAZEON, Secretary.
115 Cannon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and [Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
J ,M[P E RIA L HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
tr First-class Family and Commercial Hotel,
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings The "Western Cham-
pion" Bays i “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonlo to my western friends.'
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress — Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood.
First-class Family and CommercialßHotel.
USE MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.
Posted to an parts of the colonies free on receipt
Of stampß.
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootfamundra, N.S.W.
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgJXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
k SOVEREIGN REMEDY
. o a..' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tig-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
v hy Buffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOK BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyeß. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the Bight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared bf the Sole Proprietor,
fi. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Demist,
681 Georeo-fltreet only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter Btreets,
SYDNEY.
*-#IhC ORiCINAI r-.'H
.o p o < :
J WAUGH’S H
OBTAINED A
Fi|ST CLASS AWARD it
®R j
RICHEST DECREE OF MEfilT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
! NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S f
RECEIVED THE INTER N ATI ONAU :
PRIZE M ED A L
Manufactured b y James Chanhon
Harbour S T Svoner
Sold by All CrocersandSForckwpers
Sis
tn*
w
DfiXSONCSONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
D 1
IXSON ’ft SONS’ CONQUEROR
not only manufactures MOB. #
THAN ANY OTHER, but CON
BULK OF THE AMERICAN lE
into New South Wales, and hence the
of their brands. „ toW*" “
CONQUEROR, greater sale t a
Australia. „g^j{PP
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR Ro d6BB ’
gold leaf. tcmTAL m** 08 *
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY,
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 m
10,000 per hour, the choices &V*
and Paris rice tissue. E u
retailers at 3d. p& r P ac^
a^caTZET’s
NEW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES,
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
atudents.from Sydney Hospital,
i I
fe : !
- •
MONK’S
PllE MIXTURE.
2s. Sd. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute,
is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
MOnSTEZ’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcee Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. Bd. per bott e.
dvroisrK: 5 s
NEURALUA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
ii Little Collins
AND
tkeet East, Melbourne.
MIKING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged In mining
business.
H. <3. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and splrltß of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junb., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
HBad Office: Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. *S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry ane
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerout
friends of the Firm and the travelling public thal
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge oi
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the oelebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coachee
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address —
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry ft: Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL
MOUNT MORGAN.
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPEWRITER
Bbtm labour, alatlonerj, and Mine, writing much fa.ter
man expw-t pen-men, Mid eondeniing matter to leu than
one-half the apace occupied bg pen writing. Beautiful
r oo f‘«s be Uken In the naual manner in the letter-preaa
Bold wholeaale and retail hv the aole agent*,
IMKAY 9c 00,}
410 Kent-streetE
c
•V.
manufacturers
A IMPORTERS OF a
HATSCAPSfc
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY %
i
S
GRIND
BUNDABBB 0 '
lloTf*'
Under New
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM
showbb
To®
CO!
It#
PLUNGE AND:
OAT
for
LAI
Good Stabling, and Loose Bo*® 8
drawing-boom 0B
Having engaged a
to cater for the public in a
A.LF. P.
RUSTONPKOCTOB &C °
PORTABLE
TRIUMPH" jftf#
Mggsp
—o»
Simon's Roues system^
Sole a 0^’ f
K. O. ELLIOT^
54T KENT
■StJ
THE GREAT
OHABI.OTTK-PI-AOB
K. HA^v
1 DO ofsw*2?,
WIRES, SPIRITS,
DELIVERED
Carriage
you
Robertson's, Warner ui ys nr v e ’| a-
Dunville's Shamrock and » ur „
Brian Bora Whisky ••
Hennessy's * Oognao «™ ..
ii *** " ” ••
Square Gin •• ■" *•
Jamaica Bum •• " »-
Red Heart do.
BITS,
® A&.&
fiw^'
ffg
, 5*
vi/
nngiißii Aies auu B(1 »**•
Port Wine for connoisseur .. p»r (
Port Wint and Sherry fro® fro®j^ rA tZ ,urf< #&
Beat branda Whisky or BranW pJI OIA
X 3 CASE ALSO A £ for IVipf SP?
Superior AOCOMMODAT (roD jtbeo o 0 o
attention afforded to Visitor , u perr % S” ffijjj’ t
rooms are conducted nnde^ b *,l > p K«*
late of Wellington (N.Z.b’"r*tentlc“' u»r» d
Guests will receive every on **
Wines, Spirits, and Beers »
file.*
<si*Ct '
NESi
MACHI
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE
STOCKS
WITH
HIGHEST FINIS
l nWEST COSJ !
/
y
j*
>
w
UN C
LA
LOCOMOTIVES,
ESTIMATED foe
Sydney ’
111, PITT STREET.
\V°
M 0
22»


The Bulletin
xr 0 i B—No 404
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1887.
Prio'' 01,
Sporting Law.—Weight for Age.
“Very strong evidence is now forthcoming that Newman, one of the Mount Rennie lads, who was originally ordered to he hanged, and is now serving a life-sentence in irons, is altogether
innocent. His case will be fully dealt with on the return from England of Judge Windeyer. Newman’s petition that he may meanwhile be altogether relieved of his irons, will not be acceded
to, but it has been decided to substitute light irons for the heavy fetters with which the young convict is at present burdened. "—Daily Paper.
GOVERNOR CARINGTON (his head full of the Cup): “HAW! I THINK THE LITTLE FILLY—I MEAN THE LITTLE COLT—IS A BIT OVERWEIGHTED. TAKE OFF A
STUN AND A HALF.”


“THE BULLETIN."
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co.
Limited. .
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Fitt-street, Svd iey, New South Wales
TEEMS TO SUBSGBIBEBS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, Ac., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
the bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1887.
Bricks and Mortar.
The world is fast filling up. The vast terri-
tory of the United States is no longer a
sufficient by-wash to the human overflow of
Europe. South America with its fever
jangles and mephitic marshes is now trodden
by Teuton as well as by Indo-Latin foot,
while the expansive interiors of Africa and
Asia already support their millions of virile
and warlike races. Now, people who look
across ocean for a home find everywhere the
ground “fenced in” save in one out-of-the-
way corner of the globe—Australia which,
too, is rapidly being “ pegged out,” and
within half a century will probably bo as
thickly populated as China, and then we
shall take off our hats and make our salaams
to the Day of Damnation.
* * *
Anyone who can afford to give to idle-
ness a Sunday morning, and who will take
the trouble to wander about the dusty
suburbs of any of the more important Aus-
tralian cities, will find “ sermons in stones ”
and food for reflection enough to turn him
aray-headed. At all events one fact will be
forced upon his attention. Those who had
the good fortune to be first on the field have
fattened on the fruit thereof. The goodly
Rebe is seized by the parson, and the lush
upland by the speculative capitalist, while
the corner lot becomes the prey of the soul-
less syndicate who run up thereon a five-
storied public-house which they let to a man
for the purpose of levying a tax on the
stomach of the by-passer. And this latter
generally lives-or lingers-m a crowded
lane in a ricketty family vault, built of half-
baked bricks, which rears its funereal facade
by the side of similar representatives of
charneldom, on land purchased by the Ceme-
tery Company which euphemistically calls
itself a Building Society.
* * *
With a continent stretching from our
back-doors away into the infinite we are
cramped for room. That is, the producers
who make the wealth of the country are
denied an inch of the soil which their labour,
nay their very presence, makes valuable to
the drones who enjoy its possession. There
are doubtless, vast untrodden tracts whose
boundaries only have been measured by the
foot of the surveyor. And these expansive
stretches of the earth’s warm and fecund
breast have been portioned off by the Ro.se-
berys and the the Wilsons
and the Coopers, who live on the revenues
they derive from Australia, and who pay for
English-raised luxury with Die gold they
dram from the antipodes. The land-grab
syndicate of Lombard-street the
sealing-wax stamp of its charter on the limit-
less downs of this southern continent, while
the men who make its value in the stock-
markets of London are denied the fee-simple
of a humpy in the land whose soil they
moisten with their sweat, and make friable
with their labour.
* * *
But the city is a far more hideous place
than the bush, and the operations of the
land syndicate are there more readily telt
and more readily seen. Only a month or so
a»o a company —floated in London, and
called the Caledonian and Australian Mort-
gage and Agency Company, the object of
which was to advance money for investment
in colonial city property—cabled nearly a
fifth of a million sterling for investment in
freeholds in Melbourne and Sydney. There
are dozens of such companies in London
whose field of speculation and whose source
of profit is Australia, and whose bound
and necessity-gyved chattel is the Aus-
tralian workman. It Is absurd to
talk about legitimate speculation. I he
wealth has to come from somewhere, and as
the English land-grab company does not
create wealth it must appropriate wealth that
somebody else has brought into existence. If
anyone is anxious to know how tbat wealth
is created let him walk through the crowded
slums which are a disgrace to this half-
settled and partially-populated land ; let
him thread the streets of the suburbs of
Melbourne ; let him survey the squalid
homes—so-called—of the workmen of Col-
lingwood, North Melbourne, and Port Mel-
bourne ; let him weary his soul and his
vision by a survey of the hideous repetition
of terraces upon terraces in Hotham and
Footscray, and excoriate his sensibilities
with the dirt and dust of Williamstown In
the Freetrade capital of New South Wales
houses are packed together in streets like
herrings in a barrel. In the Glebe houses
stand side by side like sentry boxes com-
pressed by hydraulic force. The Surry Hills
area is a ioetid wart of building refuse.
Woolloomooloo, Waterloo, Miller’s Point,
and Pyrmont are horrible agglomerations of
brickdust and human concrete. Life be-
comes a frightful lunacy worked out in
burnt clay by clay which would be happy to
be burnt. Adelaide and Brisbane have
their localities of mortar and mortuary
misery—that the land companies may have
happiness in villas located in spacious and
well planted demesnes.
* * *
Says Henry George with a voice hoarse
with fervid warning :
“ The arable land of Australia would not merely
be soon well populated by anything like the emi-
gration that Europe is pouring in America, but
there the forestalling of land goes on as rapidly as
here.”
And in the city it goes on more rapidly than
in the country, for the simple reason that
concentration of population in cities makes
land more valuable and therefore more de-
sirable to monopolise than in the country,
where the sparseness of population limits
the demand for it. We now can afford to
strike the balance in our own favour when
comparing our habits with those of the
Chinese. But our very necessities may
compel us in the fature to do that which
we now so fiercely reprobate. “ Squalid
poverty,” says somebody, “is clean poverty
two years old.” We may become “ Celes-
tial ” in our mode of life simply by being
surrounded by a “ Celestial ” environment
Go through the Chinese quarters of, say,
Castlemaine. Note how closely men are
packed. The Chinese sleep in beds which
are never cool. As fast as one pestiferous
batch rolls out, another rolls in. The
“ yellow ” slave is teaching the capitalist
the minimum of room the “white” slave
should enjoy. When corruption is one day
finally successful and our colonial legislatures
are packed with capitalistic landlords and
their parasites, we shall have a new Lodging-
house Act in which 800 cubic feet cf air per
individual will be treated as a fabulous and
absurd Utopianism. We may one day sleep
three-deep in a blast furnace.
* * *
Stand on the summit of one of the hills of
Woollahra and look towards Darlinghurst.
The main road divides Paradise from Hell.
On one side spacious lawns, solid mansions,
embowered in umbrageous foliage ; on the
other, terraces in all their awful consan
guinity of cuddlesomenees Houses hug
each other and breathe into each other’s faces,
and gaze with their hot glassy eyes into
each other’s vacancy. They pant for fresh
air with lungs of cement, and take again
into their vitals the rejected carbonic acid
poison of yesterday’s leadenness. Children
play in the streets —filthy, neglected images
of human folly grovelling in the unswept
gutters, making mysterious pies of dubious
garbage, and playing pitch and toss with
typhoid in a stagnant drain. Putrid refuse
of scanty meals, cabbage-stumps, oxidised
jam-tins, rotting rags, little heaps of filth
and sickliness punctuate the otherwise snuffy
dustiness of these avenues between the over-
lapping terraces; curs yelp in odd corners, de-
graded barn fowl flutter around in dejected
terror, and slatternly women stand in cheer-
less doorways cursing the men and the drink.
Multiply all this tenfold—-a hundredfold—
and you have the poor man’s part of the
colonial city.
* * *
We are not yet so bad as some cities of
the old world. As yet the mortification has
not set in ; but courage ! —courage ! —all in
good time ! We must be patient. Some
day Sydney in the summer months may re-
semble that masterly picture given us of
New York in the same season by Henry
George
“Some twelve or thirteen hundred thousand
people, without counting Brooklyn, will be left to
swelter through the hot summer. The swarming
tenement-houses will not be boarded up; every
window and door will be open to catch the least
breath of air. The dirty streets will be crawling
with squalid, and noisy with the play of unkempt
children, who never saw a green field or watched
the curl of a breaker, save perhaps when charity
gave them a treat. Draggled women will be
striving to quiet pining babies, sobbing and wail-
ing away their little lives for the want of whole-
some nourishment and fresh air ; and degradation
and misery that hides during the winter will be
seen on every hand.”
Or we may climb up to that glory of modern
Babylon described by A. S. Krausse in his
“ Starving London ” :
“ In Bear-street, Ratcliff, are a number of tene-
ments which have been recently condemned. The
windows are out and the doors boarded up. These
houses are, nevertheless, frequently inhabited, the
poor people, unable to pay rent elsewhere, taking
shelter until they are discovered and ejected,
when they fly to another.”
* * #
There are already quarters in Sydney
which will one day—and that, too, at no
very distant one —resemble the dreary
rookeries —the terrestrial hells—referred to
by the great American Land Nationaliser in
the following passage :
“ There are worlds we shut our eyes to, and do
not bear to think of, still less to look at, but in
which human beings jet live—worlds in which
vice takes the place of virtue, and from which
hope here and hope hereafter seem utterly
vanished—brutal, discordant, torturing hells of
wickedness and suffering.”
The most terrible thing about the terrace is
its sameness. When a man becomes indiffer-
ent to the home in which necessity compels
him to live he is capable of doing anything.
We are paving the path of vice by soddening
the human soul with a paralysis of mono-
tony —an atrophy of taste. Says James Payn
of a London street in the “ Confidential
Agent ” :
“ Whole streets have in some localities as abso-
lute a sameness as though they were turned out
by a machine. . . This is especially the case in
the suburbs, where every coign of vantage is
seized upon whereon to place some object—from
a flower-box to a conservatory—to break the ‘ long
unlovely street,’ and lend it some touch of
beauty.”
* * *
In this connection we have, at least one
thing to be thankful for. We have not yet
come to the hideous experience of tenement
houses and French flats, and the curses of
Peabody philanthropy with its eJannish
agglomeration of things dissimilar. We have
not yet bored down to that awful social
condition, that pathetic herding of men and
women and children by the score—by the
hundred—beneath one roof, so saßy de-
scribed by Henry George in his “ Social
Problems,” but we may not be dead ere it
comes :
“ The houses are climbing heavenward—ten,
twelve, even fifteen stories, tier on tier of people,
living, one family above another, without suffi-
cient water, without sufficient light or air, with-
out playground or breathing-space. So close is the
building that the streets look like narrow rifts in
the brick and mortar, and from street to street the
solid blocks stretch until they almost meat; in the
newer districts only a space of twenty feet, a mere
crack in the masonry through which at high noon
a sunbeam can scarcely struggle down, being left
to separate the backs of the tenements fronting on
one street from the backs cf those fronting on
another street. Yet, around this city, and within
easy access of its centre, there is plenty of land ;
within the city limits, in fact, nob one-half the
land is built upon, and many blocks of tall tene-
ment houses are surrounded by vacant lots,”
At present we cultivate the poor man’s
syndicate-managed soggy terrace, and the
deliriously-irritating and constantly recur
ring chunk of redness and pinkness we
euphemistically call a vilia This latter we
erect in rows like dyspeptic pill-boxes side
by side, and let them to straggling clerks
who try to be “ genteel ” on 30 shillings a
week and a pinched stomach. A well-known
writer has well described these pretentious
little efforts after respectability—albeit there
is something sad in their very pretentious-
ness :
“ I have in my mind’s eye a long row of subur-
ban villas in the South-Western district, very
small and but semi-detached, but rejoicing in the
high-sounding name of “Cavendish” Grove.
Each pair of these twins was originally the coun-
terfeit presentment of the others. . . At the
back of each runs a long, narrow plot of ground,
of precisely the same length and breadth in all
case 3.”
* * *
The terrace is too awful to contemplate
long. This Sunday morning’s walk amid
the horrors of continuously overlapping roofs,
as like as peas, resembles a sojourn in the
tomb. It is a veritable city of the dead.
The people here are living in coffins up-
ended and packed closely side by side. They
pretend that the idea of death is abhorrent,
yet breathe and .sleep and feed amid tombs.
This, then, is civilisation ! The aspect of
the civilised street of to-day is an unlovely
one. Stockings and undel-garments hang
to dry from the balconies. The people who
live in these terraces have no room to swing
their arms about, hence they lack muscle.
The human adjuncts of the tenement house
are packed tier upon tier so closely that they
live over one another in tiers, hence their
chests are compressed and they suffer from
phthisis and pneumonia. And still in the
outskirts of such cities as Sydney and Mel-
bourne, houses continue to ascend in cramped
and unhealthy lots while much more avail-
able building areas remain vacant for specu-
lative purposes.
* * *
The murderer is, afcer all, a philanthropist
compared with many a landlord. The mercy
of the man who slays on the instant is greater
than the mercy of the man whose slaying,
painfully protracted over a term of years,
embraces thousands of victims, The philan-
thropy of the murderer appears in this. He
kills one and makes it more possible for the
others to live. He relieves the strain of
population somewhat. Perhaps th'e landlord
is also a philanthropist according to his pecu-
liar functions. His it is to make it more
possible to die. A life in a tenement house
is, after all, the best preparation for the cold
and silent tomb. But now comes a question.
We hang a murderer because we say his
existence ip deleterious to society, and ob-
structive to its welfare—perhaps ! Although
there is no proof that the murderer is anxious
to harm any beyond the unit. But the
landlord is hurtful to society —he does ob-
struct its welfare. On the same principle,
why not hang him ? As many landlords are
companies, possibly the cost of rope deters,
and there are again quibblers who maintain
that a syndicate has no body to kick and
no soul to damn, but such reasoning is
puerile. It is a case of divided guilt, °and
as the manager seems to secure most of the
emoluments, he might be hanged— or one of
the leading directors. But all joking aside,
nature is as unjast as man. People are
packed together because they are poor in
order that somebody else may be rich. This
packing process produces an epidemic, and
the poor suffer. We dread sickness of this
contagious kind—we dread it for the sake of
those who suffer innocently. We should
welcome typhoid and cholera with a pin an of
old days if they wiped out those who de-
served most to be wiped out.
* * *
Let us cross the road ! We have said that
the aspect of a portion of Sydney is that
of arid rows of sentry boxes cut off by a
broad traffic route from green spaces dotted
with comfortable mansions. Let us cross
the road and view the splendid luxury of
the rich, though we fear the Sydney capital-
ist is too gross and inartistic to be envied—
save as an animal who gets all the provender
he wants by the starveling who never gets
enough. The “ hideous comfort of the rich ”
is almost proverbial, and Sydney is no ex-
ception to the rale. Rather here is it more
accentuated. In some countries continued
possession of wealih has taught men to be
graceful and tasteful, even in debauchery—
Epicurean in sensuality. But this individual
lives in Paris. He has not yet arrived in
Sydney. The houses of many Sydney
hidalgos are frightful things, nightmares in
stone, mirrors in mortar of the vices, follies,
vulgarity, social entourage of their owners.
The first house our eyes light on is instruc-
tive. It is like a gaol. The walls are blank,
windowless. A drawbridge connects an
upper storey with an embankment, sheer in
descent like a moat. A stone coping flanks
the roadway ; the turrets are castellated ; a
policemen on his morning beat completes the
picture, wanting only a gallows—which
might be suggested in the ridge-pole of the
stable continued outward for the purpose of
hoisting hay to the loft, and furnished with
block and tackle —to reproduce an interior
of some convict fastness of fifty years ago.
The picture of the daily surroundings of its
designer are written all over the fayade
of his dwelling. He has unconsciously
drunk in the spirit of the city and the time
in which he has lived.
# # »
The wealthy parvenu of this year’s for-
tune has, lialf-a-mile away, a newly-
ascending red-and-white-brick mansion,
which assuages the warmth of its
reflection in the cool waters of the
harbour. This stately pleasure-house re-
sembles a ham-and-beef shop of new design
—built of glowing red with glaring
laminations of very white brick. Its raftera
are covered with galvanised iron ; its para-
pets are serrated, and its window-sills are
ornamented with pretty iron railings. Hard
by, some wealthy idiots have reared unto
themselves various editions of Chinese
pagodas —Celestial nightmares done in red
and yellow clay.
* * *
Plethoric with morals stands a stately
mansion built of concreted glucose—it is a
grog-sellers palatial residence. A contempla-
tion of its facade lends the stucco a veneer
of gruesome character. There it festers in
the morning glory of a fervid sun, an
amalgam of hob-nailed livers and parch-
ment kidneys ; a materialisation of serous
apoplexy ; a palace formed of the pulverised
bones of drunkards knitted into blocks of
conglomerate with serum. It is Alcohol in
Paradise—the Apotheosis of Staggerjuice !
Near is a house which would be a fitting
neighbour, if the fancy were correct. This
house is red—a hideously suggestive, blood-
hued red. It should be the home of the
hangman, the gaol of the unpardonable, the
condemned cell. Probably a wealthy deacon
who owns a terrace is its occupant.
# • •
The horrors are becoming accumulative.
When in odr old age we become too feeble
to earn enough to provide the body with
food, we shall totter into the bush, into
some poor hut, and far from the awful
street with its awful terrace ; far from the
awfal insolence and snobbery of architecture,
we will gasp out our last breath, with little
of anything beside fresh air and quietness.
And some morning our body will be found
by a stranger, and mayhap, if he is not a
capitalist, or a land grab syndicate’s manager,
he will stop to bury us, and if he does not
we shall not curse him, for would not he be
still the victim of the terrors of cities and
terraces and streets and all the crushing
Atlas abominations of modern brick and
mortar ?
Farnell and Seduction.
Honest James Squire Farnell now seldom
obtrudes his legislative effusions upon the atten-
tion of a breath-bating and awe-stricken world.
On the 20th July, 1885, Mr. Farnell politically
entombed himself at a Gosford (N.S.W.)
banquet amid the clatter of oyster-shells and the
scaly sheen of Brisbane Water salmon. But oc-
casionally from his sarcophagus in the Legislative
Assembly his political ghost gives voice, and ever
on one vast and burning subject. In times various
and indefinable Mr. Farnell has lifted his
strident voice to advocate the virility of an oyster
diet. We have sat at his feet, Gamaliel-like,
while he poured out the riches of his pent-up


wisdom on agrarian matters. He has given New
South Wales an impracticable Land Act, and his
esoteric acquaintance with the transactions of
various certain and uncertain land agencies is a
matter of history. Gosford is indebted to him for
the celebrity of its fish, and his great speech at the
Garibaldi celebration —to which the Masonic
burial-service owes no small portion of its impres-
siveness—is inscribed in the annals of the mother
colony, although David Buchanan gives it no
place in his “ Australian Orator.” Mr. Farnell
i 8 a truly original thinker, and when he is
dead his body will probably be embalmed and
aid out in Parkes’ National Mausoleum.
“ * * •
Amongst Mr. Farnell’s claims to the gratitude
of his country is one of monumental character.
To one aspect or other of this question of ques-
tions he returns with the pertinacity of the Civil
Servant to the shop of the pawnbroker. The
transcendent problem with the Gosford Noah
just now is how to effectually deal with the
seducer. Periodically he presents a little
Bill for the regulation of such matters, and
earnestly beseeches a patient and long-
suffering legislature “to deal with it.” This
“ Bill” contains a single clause to the effect that
any person who seduces or has illicit intercourse
with any chaste girl between the ages of 12 and 16
years shall be liable to imprisonment for two years,
and any person who tampers with an idiot or
mbecile woman or girl under circumstances which
do not amount to rape—provided the person com-
mitting the offence shall be aware of the natural
deficiencies of the woman on whom the offence is
committed—shall be punished by the infliction of
a similar penalty. In a broad sense, the best part
of the clause covers the case of all women who
may allow themselves to be seduced, as no woman
not mentally deficient would take up the position
of an abandonee. Yet, notwithstanding, Nature
is often stronger than reason, and illicit, or non-
governmentally-approved, sexual relations will
probably be maintained as long as the world
lasts—at least, so long as society is constituted
on its present basis. And this because, unhappily,
a very limited number can afford the luxury of
sanctified marriage.
* * *
Modern society in all civilised countries
has a tendenoy to become highly artificial.
It begets an undue observance of idiotic
ceremonial which makes life of a natural
character all but an impossibility. To a poor man
marriage becomes impossible, often not because
he cannot sustain the responsibilities of the mari-
tal state as because he cannot afford the expense
of the initial ceremony. The same thing holds
good in every accident of life. It costs more to
come into the world, with the attendant rites of
doctor, nurse and caudle, than it costs to obtain
an education after getting into it. Divorce is
cheaper than marriage, and more money is spent
on a man’s funeral than would comfortably sup-
port his widow for months a'ter his demise. Nay,
if the same amount usually expended in conduct-
ing a man to his last resting-place were ungrudg-
ingly spent in curative agencies at the right time it
is possible that the poor devil would, in many cases,
renew his lease of life to the diminishing of the
immediate profits of the undertaker. Bub social
requirements must be observed, hence he falls a
victim to the religious demands of Mrs.
Grundy. Mary must be duly honoured
with certain nuptial accessories, hence Mary’s
young man unduly prolongs his court-
ship, or perhaps in despair of lhe ultimate
consummation of marriage, breaks off the engage-
ment. Mary leads a life of sterile virginity, on
her part, or mayhap drifis on to the street to
swell the number of the nymphs of the pave The
swain, on the other hand, not unfrequently
figures in a case of affiliation, or is flogged for
something or other.
* * »
Society, intensely artificial, and unable to
make provision for the effervescent naturalism
of its ingredients, makes spasmodic and re-
current efforts to legislate it out of exist-
ence. Someone has said that love is a flower
grown on a dung-hill. Society makes the mistake
of dwelling too exclusively on the glorious floweri-
ness of the flower, of dilating upon its botanical
beauty, while the nature of the flower-bed, the
coarse realism of the dung-hill, is altogether over-
looked or squeamishly kept in the background.
Modern Society is a sorb of overgrown Mrs.
General, who persists in ignoring what Bhe does
not choose to acknowledge. All this by way of
showing that Mr. James Squire Farnell is an
inspired political idiot with a rage for legislating
in a matter which he does not understand, or
understands too well from his own exclusive
standpoint.
* * *
“Incola” in a Sydney paper advocates that the
man who seduces a girl should be compelled to
keep her for life. In other words he would give the
alleged outcast a superior position to the seducer’s
wife, inasmuch as marriage is after all a contract
in which the woman takes a fair share of labour
for the common interest of the pair. Now it is
absurd to imagine that every woman is an un-
fledged angel. Perhaps even “Incola” will ad-
mit that there are girls naturally depraved, and
others who are as idle as depraved, and
to compel every man who seduces a woman —
which would be decided by her own evidence —to
support her for the term of her natural life, would
be to offer a premium to innate wantonness and
trumped-up accusations. We have only to turn
to the police-court records of the period imme-
diately succeeding the Mount Rennie affair to
form an estimate of how much of this sorb of
thing there is. Pass ‘ 1 Incola’s ” law and no man
would dare be alone with a woman, even for the
most innocent purposes, for a moment. If the
man must keep the woman, it would be better
that he should be compelle d by law to marry her,
and, carried to its logical conclusion, the D.T.’s
moralist is only putting forward a plea for poly-
gamy.
* * *
The best cure for seduction —or should we
say preventive—appears at first blush to be
the knife or the revolver. But unfortunately too
many precocious females might be found all too
prone to accommodate the illicit importunities of
the alleged seducer, and to shoot him afterwards.
This latter in obedience to a hysterical craving on
her own part for a sensational notoriety which
occasionally finds its correlative in a hanging of
mentally and physically immature creatures,
strung up like smoked herrings on a beam, after
an early breakfast, all these legislative proposals
seem to indicate on the part of the law-makers the
possession of an idea that women are sexually
colourless, that the wanton has no real existence
before she becomes the victim of force or intrigue.
Arm all women with revolvers —the notion seems
Plausible enough—and how many dead men would
Punctuate the green sward of our public parks ?
The truth is that notwithstanding the educated
ftrtificlalism of human existence there is a tre-
mendous basis of dormant naturalism which occa-
sionally awakens and upheaves its granitic out-
crops with rude and uncheckable violence.
♦ * •
The proposal of Mr. Gosford-banquet Farnell to
legislate as though the conditions of life in Australia
were no more blood-stirring than the icy atmos-
phere of Lapland or the foggy skies of Scotland is
absurd. Women are virile in warm climes who
would be but babies in colder latitudes In Aus-
tralia it is a frequent occurrence for girls to marry
shortly after completing their fourteenth birth-
day. To raise the age of consent from 14 to 16
as Mr. Farnell proposes to do—would be to close
the matrimonial market to many women whose
charms, ripening at an early age, fade and wither
beyond the power of attracting the eye of mascu-
linity at a like comparatively early period. And
it would certainly be illogical to permit the con-
traction of marriages under the age of 16, while
denying the power of consent in other matters
appertaining to sexual rights—which denial in
itself precludes the idea of the attainment of
maturity, and consequently affirms the barbarity
of a marriage under the age of 16.
* * #
But why is Mr. Farnell continually harp-
ing on this theme ? Does he desire a monopoly
of all the wisdom in the world which
has turned its diamond lights on this
physiological question ? We do not wish to throw
cold water on this legislative luminary of the
political cave of Adullum, but it cannot
be too often or too loudly proclaimed that
the Government which concerns itself mainly
with social in preference to political ques-
tions, is off its true administrative pivot.
And if it is really necessary to legislate on this
question, why not go to the bed-rock at once, no
matter what it involves ? All people are not in a
position to marry. Unfortunately, being human,
they cannot be maintained in a condition of
ascetic virtue. For the interests of the land-
grabbers. and those who object to supporting
poor-houses, there are too many people in the
land already. The unemployed difficulty threatens,
in the event of the retention of the New South
Wales present fiscal policy, to become the perman-
ent Scylla and Charybdis of each successive
ministry. Very goodl a deal of temptation,
suffering, crime, danger to society, may be pre-
vented, and quite a number of reputations may
be saved by a drastic remedy which to one of Mr.
Farnell’s perspicuity of intellectual vision it is
not necessary to more than hint at.
• * *
But we fear all this impending reform is
mere talk. If the Government really desired
to punish the seducer, why does it so un-
sparingly punish the private punisher of
seduction ? Laws are made to shield the
male offender. He has, according to the pre-
sent constitution of society, taken more than life,
yet his own life is sacred from the vengeance of
the wronged woman. We question the advisable-
ness of arming the woman or the hysterical wan-
ton of immature intellect, but if we found in the
street the dead body of a remorseless
wronger of female innocence or ignorance
—the body of one who had triumphed by
force or by lying—we should not be in a
frantic hurry to put the police on the track of the
avenger. The knife or the revolver would then
be the best remedy for the offence of cold-blooded
and calculating seduction. The community in
which the seducer could go about his business
with no fear for his life would itself be socially
and morally rotten, but it would at the same time
probably be the community in which, although
seduction was most rife, the statutory enactments
against its commission were most voluminous —
and most ineffective.
* * *
In France, the country where the relations
between the sexes are moat untrammelled,
the pure woman who objects to the perse-
cutions of a would-be seducer frequently
takes the law into her own hands—and receives
the applause and the congratulations of the law-
courts. Parliament-made virtue is of a fragile
character, and no soul was ever yet legislated into
Heaven, the State-endowed Church notwithstand
ing. The surest way in which to diminish seduc-
tion is to ease a little the tense social pressure,
abolish a considerab’e percentage of the artifi-
cialism and ceremonial of life, and enable
everybody to taste the blessings of double
blessedness. Burn Malthus and Harriet Mar-
tineau and realise the theories of Henry George,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
‘ I Never Give Money in the Street.’
Primate Barry, like Sir Joseph Porter, is a
“ great and good man,” and it is unfortunate for
the memory of Edmund Burke and Augustine
of Hippo that Alfred Sydney doesn't agree with
them on one point. Bishop Barry says that he
“ never gives alms in the street: that he’d sooner
take his shilling or half-crown down to Darling
Harbour and cast his money on the waters.” Now,
will the most Rev. Alfred turn up his New Testa-
ment and show us just one text by which he can—
even by the most ingenious torturing—justify such
eminently un-Christian sentiments? Almost all
the good works related of Christ were performed
in the public highways, and when Peter and John
where asked for alms by the cripple at the Beauti-
ful Gate of the Temple, the Prinoe of the Apostles
didn’tanswer (as Primate Barry seemingly would
have done), “ No, my man, I never give charity in
the street ; go to the Jerusalem Night Refuge and
Soup Kitchen.” Peter's excuse was a valid one
—and one which Dr. Barry couldn’t allege—that
“silver and, gold he had none” ; but what he
could do for the poor man he did—he cured him
of his infirmity. The great Edmund Burke
thought it a “ beautiful and sublime ” thing
to give a shilling to a beggar in the street, and no
doubt he would have considered it a grievous sin
to throw the coin into the Thames while it might
save a human life and mayhap a human soul.
One day while going along the street with a friend
of the Barry stamp, he gave a poor man a silver
coin. “ You shouldn’t do that,’ remonstrated his
friend. “ That fellow will go straight and have a
drink." “And suppose he does,” replied the great
orator, “ let us hope he will enjoy it! That poor fel-
low can have little of the pleasures of life, whatever
he may be.” Let Primate Barry also look up his
St. Augustine. All Church of England bishops
have a great admiration and veneration for the
African prelate to whose gigantic intellect Bishop
Barry’s brain is as a weed of tne field to a kingly
oak. Augustine, speaking of alms-giving, says :
“ Give unto all, lest he whom you refuse be
Christ Himself.” People always do mean and
stingy things on principle. An authority whom
Dr. Barry professes to reverence, says that
“The poor we have always with us.” They
are found in the streets of London and Sydney
and at the church-doors to-day, as they were to
be seen in the thoroughfares of Jerusalem and at
the Temple-gate 1887 years ago, and they will be
found in the same resorts when Bishop Barry
shall be forgotten. Great and good men and
women will continue for all time to extend relief
in an informal way to their suffering fellow-beings
whether they find them in the street or at the
Soup Kitchen, and if Primate Barry has so much
spare cash that he can afford to flip it into
Darling Harbour let him part with some of it to
men like Chief-Justice Higinbotham, the late
Justice Fellows, and the late Judge M‘Farl and,
of Melbourne, who gave away more money in the
streets in a year than perhaps Primate Barry has
ever spent on soup-kitchen or Charity Organisation
benevolence, or recklessly thrown to the fishes ia
Darling Harbour, in the whole course of his life.
Christianity, as the Bishop would have it, is a
hing of lines and angles as cold and heartless
and formal and unfeeling as a piece of machinery,
and when he has fixed it up according to his ideas
—if he should ever succeed in making meanness
universal—it will contain a hundred times less of
the spirit of its Divine Founder than does the
creed of Confucius or the doctrines of the in-
spired camel-driver of Arabia. Bishop Barry’s
Christianity is English—not Australian. The
average Australian Christian has always a pipe of
tobacco and the price of a feed and a drink for
the tired wayfarer, but when any of these
assail the Rev. Barry he, it would seem,
holds up his spotless hand with the palm outward,
after the fashion of the ancient priest as he exor-
cised a demon, and says, “ I don’t know you, my
good man. I must make inquiries as to your
character from the pastor of the Church which
you are in the habit of attending. Besides, I
never give money in the street.”
Bread or Work !
Again have the hungry unemployed of London
arisen and in what the Tory daily press of the
colonies calls “ threatening speeches,” demanded
“ Bread or Work.” The English toiler with the
“breadless home ” now spurns the cold “ charity”
of that parish * ‘ relief ” which means a diet lower
than gaol-fare. The proletariat of that country
whose hollow economic system is held up for our
admiration by the conscienceless land-sharks and
remorseless usurers of colonial politics is becom-
ing too powerful to disperse. Bullets no longer
can be given the masses in place of food. Only
two short years ago the great gulf-stream of the
London poor threatened to sweep away in one over-
whelming flood the greatest city of the earth.
The throne rocked for a moment insecurely, and
even England's miserly Queen was terrified into
an instant’s relaxation of the grasp on her money-
bags, and now the wave has swept up again
hungrier than ever. The English Government
will be compelled to adapt the fiscal system of the
country to the demands of a starving nation.
German iron and Belgian steel are employed in
the formation of railroads past the closed
and deserted foundries of England ; the Ger-
man baker makes the bread of those in
England who can afford to buy it ; the
navvies work with German and American shovels;
and if they can afford to sweeten their tea with
sugar they use the bounty-protected sugar of the
Continental beet. Even the coffins in which the
emaciated paupers are buried are German coffins
—imported by the shipload. Everywhere, in
every branch of trade, it is the same. Foreign
tools are used instead of English tools. In many
instances, just as at the top of society foreign
princes and parasites and pimps displace British
officers who are their seniors, so at the bottom of
society foreign workmen displace the English
toiler. A difficulty a million time 3 greater
than the Irish question confronts Salisbury— the
hungry home nation crying for bread, or for work
which will enable them to obtain bread. The
pressure of population is straining against every
stave of the social barrel, and threatens to burst
the bounds of safe government and flow down the
gutter of communism sweeping everything before
it. The deeds of the English social revolu-
tion may be afar more frightful thing in their
dogged and sullen intensity than all the deeds of
the days of Danton and Robespierre.
Exit Cotton!
John Cotton, Wesleyan lay preacher, of Forbes,
New South Wales, has been excommunicated.
He has grown too big for a surplice, figuratively
speaking, and it is “a worn-out fetter thathissoul
has broken and thrown away." Lke the li.C. Dr.
M’Glynn, he has been preaching what Jesus
Christ preached, and, like Dr. M'Glynn, he has
had to go. “All very well, but the good Lord
Jesus has had His day,” said Tennyson’s doctor.
So, in their bearing, say His Churches. Jesus of
Nazareth seems to have been permanently
shelved, and Mammon, put on duty in his place
and disguised like Him, does well enough for
these times. John Cotton was just a little too
sincere to succeed as a Churchman. He overdid
it. He was given by his employers the option of
leaving the Church or leaving a good billet. He
left the billet—a sign of overdoing it to begin
with—and the Church said, “Well done!” By-
and-bye he read “Progress and Poverty,” and
saw that it was his duty as a Christian toproolaim
the sublime truth of it abroad. But he made the
mistake of proclaiming it from the pulpit, and
the pulpit can’t stand sublime truths, unless they
are quite in accordance with the interests of
Society as at present constituted. The Church
no longer said “ Well done.” It spewed him out
of its mouth, as, on second thought, the Whale
did Jonah. It did not use bell, book, and candle,
for these are part and parcel of the damnable
errors of Popery, but it cut him off with a note,
in which it said, through its representative, that
“ although it firmly believed in the cause with
which he was identified, it must, however reluc
tantly, on account of its respect for him, rule that
such principle must not be advocated from the
pulpit again,” and it did this “solely because the
Land Question lay outside the true province of
the Church.” That is true. As churches are
understood now, anything but dull exhortations
to be righteous yourself and let things alone, lie
outside the province of them. Tell your brothers,
preacher, to have faith in God, and he will set
everything right for you: speak to them of Moses
and the Burning Bush, of Joshua and the Sun,
and let them take comfort from these I But and >
not hint that your brothers can help themselves
at all—do not mention to them that while
they shut their eyes to the natural laws God
has made, and let idle robbers fatten on their
work, He will not interfere, but will let the ruin
and the misery they bring upon themselves go on
for ever. Not a word of this, preacher, as you
value your Cloth. Say rather that the meek and
the lowly in spirit are blessed ; that the thorns of
this life are the Crowns of a Shining Hereafter ;
that it is well to bear all oppressions here that the
compensation may be the greater in the life to
come. Impress upon the hunger-wasted listener,
splashed with mud from the wneels of a brougham
which his hands have made, that it is well to be
poor in order to have a good show for a front
place in the Kingdom of Heaven ; tell him that
God works in a mysterious way and that He has
oruained all these things lor the good of the Poor
in the long run, and for the well-being of 4 Soclety.
Say that Society must not have its Foundations
tampered with by mischief-makers of the Henry
George stamp, who would probably like to see
even the clergy compelled to do productive work
for a living. Preserve the Church intact; preach
the platitudes and inanities of it only; coin
Christ s blood into gold for the Church, but as
you prize your surplice, preacher, use some
caution, and do not go too far with His
teachings, Bend your . neck to those in
authority over you, and dilute God's Word
slightly as the Churches prescribe, lest
Society find it too strong, and the Church turn
and rend you at its bidding. Have Galileo and
Bruno before your eyes always, and don’t parade
your beliefs in the pulpit! And yet
“ We think we hear a little bird that sings
The People will be wiser by-and-bye.”
The Churches have trimmed their sails pretty
considerably. From the excommunications of the
middle ages, with their accompaniments of pomp
and terror, to those of to-day, with derision and
inextinguishable laughter coming across the sea
to us with them, is a long and lamentable stride.
And we foresee that the M‘Glynns and the John
Cottons of the world—the true and brave dis-
ciples of Him of Nazareth —will be so plentiful
that the derision and the inextinguishable
laughter will be louder than all the bells of church-
dom before long.
+
The Old Parkes and the New Proctor.
The Sydney Daily The Sydney D.T. on
Telegraph on W. Sir Henry Parkes,
C. PROCTOR.
“ Mr. Proctor’s return
for New England is a
direct blow at the mor-
ality of our public life.
It has just been the duty
of the Supreme Court
to fine this gentleman
for a trespass against
one of the cardinal laws
of parliamentary purity.
With none of the facts
denied, he virtually ap-
pealed from the court
to the constituency,
where he finds sym-
pathy and consolation.
The law essayed to pro-
tect New England from
corrupt representation
and got snubbed for its
pains. New England
says this is exactly the
sort of representation
it approves of. Mr.
Proctor may in his
private business trans-
gress the rules formed
for the purpose of pre-
serving the purity of
p ublic administration
as much as he likes so
long as he looks after
the local wants of his
district, and his district
will support him in so
doing. That is the only
intelligible interpreta-
tion of his present re-
turn to the Assembly.
Using his influence as a
Member of Parliament
in furtherance of mone-
tary transactions with
the Government, in
which he was inter-
ested, is a thing which
seems in no way to dis-
credit him with his
constituents. In this
we plainly see how the
policy of corrupting the
constituencies, lately
pursued by the dor-
mant political faction
in this colony, is bearing
fruit.”—Sydney Daily
Telegraph, January
12, 1887.
“In rebutting the
veiled charges of cor-
ruption hurled against
Idm in the Assembly
last Thursday, Sir
Henry Parkes shat-
tered to atoms the pal-
try doctrine that a Pre-
mier in not at liberty
when forming his Cabi-
net to seek the co-opera-
tion of any public man
with whom he happened
at the lime to have pri-
vate pecuniary rela-
tions. . . . The
mere fact that there
happens to be an out-
standing acoount be-
tween two men is no
reason to prevent them
performing public ser-
vice together. , . .
Because of his commer-
cial association with a
Premier it cannot be
maintained that any
otherwise eligible col-
league should be passed
over in the selection of
a Ministry. If any ri-
gid rule of that kind
were to come into force
it might at times hap-
pen that the formation
of a Cabinet in which
the country could re-
pose confidence would
become an impossibility.
. . . As we have
said before, it is impos-
sible to lay down any
hard-and-fast rule by
which the formation of
these political-financial
cliques can be prevented.
It is entirely a matter
for healthy individual
opinion to deal with.”
—The Daily Tele-
graph, October 17 th,
1887.
The Fall of the Legal Ring 1 .
The New South Wales Assembly deserves credit
for having taken one little step towards breaking
up the senseless, grasping, plundering monopoly
of the “ Devil's Brigade. When the existing
Criminal Law Aot was under consideration, in
1884, a determined effort wa3 made to insert a
clause by which a prisoner could select anyone
whether lawyer or layman—to defend him, but
the legal cormorants of the House rolled up in
force and the clause was thrown out. A man
may, if he please, hire a butcher to build a fence
or a shearer to erect a house; a Ministry may
entrust an almost illiterate bootmaker with the
drafting of a Babbit Bill, or the nation may turn
an ex-toy-dealer into a Premier, and no one has
any right to complain; but if such speakers as
Parkes or Vogel endeavoured to lift up their elo-
quence on behalf of a friend whom circumstances
had placed in the dock on a criminal charge they
would be at once biffed out, and the defence of
the life and liberty of the acoused would, in the
absence of much gold, be entrusted to some legai
suckling whose abilities in the way of public
speaking did not go beyond a stuttering attempt
to say “ Your Honor, er—er—l appear— er,”
Men who could not pay counsel have gone to life-
long imprisonment or to the gallows through the
workings of a law which refused them the outside
assistance which would often have been readily
forthcoming, but, judging from the recent debate
on the Bankruptcy Bill, the end of ihis judicial
murder of the poor is approaching. When the
clause which permits a debtor to engage a layman
to represent him in the Courts was under discus-
sion, the “'Devils Brigade” rolled up as of old to
claim for their order the sole privilege of i icking
the bones of all who are in trouble but, in bpite
of their best endeavours, they weredefea.ed by
64 votes against 8. Of the miserable minority six
were lawyers, and out of the faithful eight seven,
we are glad to say, were Freetraders. The Pro-
tectionists voted, almost to a man, for free-trade
in law, while Buch ultra-Freetraders as Burns,
Water-jug Foster, and the Beautiful Smith,
went for the protection of the legal hawks to the
last gasp. Smith, aforesaid, considered that the
debtor might employ “ any ruffian he met in the
street” —“a man without a coat, and with his
sleeves turned up to represent him ; O’Mara
considered that people would be dragged into
ruinous litigation by an army of impostors, touts,
members of Parliament, and other unmitigated
nuisances ; and the remaining six were also bent
on maintaining the purity of the Courts at all
hazards. But a majority of 56 refused to be con*
vinced that all lawyers are apostles, and all wto
are not lawyers foul-mouthed ruffians. The
clause was passed, and the legal tribe has started
at last on the downwaidroad which leads to
forced honesty—or else to extinction.


Parkes and his Tenants.
Sir Henry Parkes has opened his mouth and
put his foot into it—in fact, it may he said that
he opened it so generously that there was ample
room for both feet at once. A few days ago he
was written to by Mr. M’Namara, one of the
tenants on his North Shore estate, who declared
that Parkes had leased to him a certain piece t f
land, and had afterwards mortgaged it on his own
account, thereby rendering it impossible for the
deluded occupant either to obtain a title or to re-
cover his money. To this Sir Henry responded
with his customary energy, by characteris-
ing his alleged victim's representations as
“impudent” and “false,” and denounc-
ing M’Namara as “ the instrument of
persons worse than himself.” And theD, ur-
happily for himself, the great Hi-Ham descended
into details. He informed his tenant that, so far
from being a swindled individual, he was in
arrears with his rent and purchase-money, and
was consequently his (Parkes’s) debtor, and
finished up thus :
“I have ascertained that the directors of the Colocial
Mutual Life Assurance Society (the original mortgagees),
whenever you are prepared to pay the balance of your pur-
chase-money and ynr arrears of rent, are prepared to con-
firm the issue of your lease.”
This was plain, vigorous, and direct, and it was
this unwonted directness which brought Parkes
to grief. For M’Namara straightway wrote to him
and to the Press to the effect that there was no
purchase money whatever in connection with his
lease, and that consequently Parkes’ assertion
that his purchase money was in avrear was- well,
unreliable; also that he had receipts to prove
that his rent was paid in advance, which receipts
he had submitted to the editors of the Sydney
dailies, in which matter again Parkes’ tendency
to financial hyperbole shone out conspicuously ;
and on top of this the Acting-Secretary of the
Colonial Mutual Assurance Society published a
direct denial of Sir Henry's assertion that
his office Was only waiting till M’Namara
paid these imaginary arrears in order to
issue a lease—in other words, he aleo gave to
the unreliable Hi-Ham the—ah, contradiction
direct. Consequently, it is time for Sir Henry to
besfr himself. He is openly accused of having
had part in a disgraceful and unmanly
trick by which be or his Bgents raked in the
little savings of a pbor workman, and his
statements ia defence having been flatly contra-
dicted bj almost everybody concerned, it is time
he did FOTethiDg to save his character from
further defilement.
+
Rival Counsel.
According to Sydney Evening News, the Parkes
Ministry is endeavouring to rush through the
House, in 38 working days, the Local Government
Bill, the New Land Bill, the Railway Bill, and the
Property Tax Bill, and, pointing out what a very
Hercu'ean labour it would be to get only the new
Land Bill through in that time, the E.N. concludes
a leader with this passage :
“ If any unreasonable attempt is made to rush or smuggle
it” —the new Land Bill —“through along with other import-
ant measures, as the Premier says there will be, the Opposi-
tion would be justified in using every legitimate means to
block the whole of thejmsiness. It is all very well to tals
about obstruction, but if the Government persists in its at-
tempt to force measures through Parliament, each of which
means a revolution in the policy of the country with respect
to some of its most vital interests, the men who obstruct
such hat ty legislation will serve the country better than the
subservient majority who would pass the bills, without due
consideration, to oblige the Government generally, and
please the Premier particularly.”
The E.N. is a Freetrade journal atd a supporter
of the Government. But what is the average
elector to think ? The Freetrade journal support-
ing the Government which he reads over his
morniDg meal fiercely recommends an altogether
different attitude on the part of the Opposition,
In other words, the Sydney D.T. hoarsely de-
mands the “stamping out”—its own phrase—to
be applied to the wicked obstructionists who con-
stitute the Opposition. In another part of the
D.T. we read
“ Sir Henry Parkes never rendered so priceless a ser-
vice to New South Wales as when last year he engaged in
. the struggle which had as its result the destruction of the
Ministry of Anarchists who were assiduously employed in
ruining the colony.”
The whirligig of time brings about many strange
ravenges. In due course, when the D T. has
found Freetrade a failing cause and has ratted to
Protection, it may write similarly of Meagre.
Melville and Garvan and Dibbs and of their
work in the present session. The D.T., however,
should remember that, in a country like N.S.W,,
a Phakoah may arise who will know it not, and a
Protectionist daily may be established at any
moment which, printed only on four pages, shall
ba independent of the subsidy of Government
advertisements. In the meantime, what is the
trusting Freetrader who looks for counsel to the
press to believe ? Is he to consider the E.N. or
the D.T. as the possessor of absolute wisdom ?
*
The “ English-speaking Races.”
The bosh about “ the union of the English-speak
ing races of the world ” is growing insupportably
stale. Even body seems to be afflicted with it
now from Plain Bill down to the man who draws up
the land-sale advertisements in the S.M. Herald,
and at the recent Henniker Heaton banquet they
had it very, very badly. Consul Griffin, fortu-
nately, was unable to appear, or things would have
been worso than they were, but he wrote the fol-
lowing pyramidal slush in order to keep up his
character :
" When I learned that your committee had selected me to
speak to the toast of ‘ The Union of the English-speaking
races,’ my regret at being unable to be present was greater
than I can express, for I cannot imagine that a more inspir-
ing'sentiment csuld be presented on such an occasion than
the union of the English-speaking races. It was the English-
speaking people that gave to the world Constitutional
Government. It was the English-speaking people that de-
manded and established individual liberty. It was the Eng-
lish-speaking people that gave to the Christian religion the
broad and liberal spirit it now manifests ; that gave free
education to the masses, and established the reign of law, of
order, or justice, and of equity. The spirit of the English-
speaking people has been the spirit of adventure, discovery,
investigation, and colonisation, improvement, and progress
throughout the world.”
Then Hon. James Inglis took up the parable
thus: —
“ When we think of all the English-speaking people
around the wide circumference of t is planet of ours—when
we .think of their many noble attributes, the very word
‘union’ is one that appeals to every patriotic heart.
Although we may differ,” &c. (same old yarn as before).
Mr. Dan Yell O’Connor went one better :
“Asa matter of fact, the union of the English people is
an accomplished fact at the present time, and now what are
the principal means that have led up to it? Our common 1
Christianity has contributed very largely to that, for in that 1
great system the true ideal of high brotherhood is laid down j
although T am sorry to say, net very often followed out. . . I
The day is not far distant when the English language will be I
spread over the whole’faee of the world, and then man will
fulfil the objects of his creation, not the destruction of life ,
but the discovery and adoption of systems calculated to 1
make life happy and comfortable.”
Also Mr. Dibbs wiped the floor with all the pre- !
ceding speakers by taking the bung out of his 1
grammar and uncorking his geographyand letting 1
fly the following choice sentiment: j
" Let me say further, to the English-speaking races alone
rest the peace of the world. The English-speaking races of
America, practically our own brothers and sisters, with their
siity millions of people, the English-speaking races in England
with their fifty millions, the population of India under
British sway, with their three hundred millions, the popula-
tion of Canada, and lastly, but not least, the English-speak-
ing races of Australasia, combine as one great home, repre-
senting four hundred and fifty millions of English-speaking
people, if they simply say to the world, ‘ Lst there be peace,
there must be peace” (prolonged cheering).
Hi-yah ! also hurrah ! Erin-go-bragh I Inc i-go-
blue 1 and o’her exclamations. According to this
calculation, all the 300,000,000 souls of Hlndostan,
with their babel of a hundred tongues, are “ Eng-
lish-speaking races,’’ though there are millions
among them whohave rarely or never seen an Eng-
lish face. The handful who have learned the
Anglo-Saxon language are mostly soldiers similar
to those who mutinied and massacred their
English tyrants some 30 years ago, or dissatisfied
patrio s who are silently engineering a great
Home Rule movement which is one day to wrest
the power from their white rulers b> the irresist-
ible pressure of leagued millions, or they are
native joutnalists who are editing papers in which
they curse the beardless infidels who call the
Hindoo princes “ niggers," and whose wives—the
descendants of wealthy English cheesemongers—
refuse to sit at the same board with the nobles
whose ancestors guided the destinies of the Mogul
Empire, or else they are grovelling rajahs, seated
on rickety tributary thrones, which they en-
deavour to make more secure by voluble assur-
ances of their devotion to the Empress, whose
throat they would gladly cut should the oppor-
tunity ever present itself. These are the repre-
sentatives of 300,000.000 out of the 450,000,000 of
Mr. Dibbs “ English-speaking races,” and among
the other 150,000,000 a large proportion are
Germans, Americo-African blacks, Red In-
dians, Caffres, Zulus, Chinamen, and other
aliens, who know no more of English than they do
of ancient Greek. We present this information to
Mr. Dibbs gratis, in the hope that it may prevent
him talking more bosh on this subject in future
than he can help. Australia is weary even unto
death of the gag about the “English-speaking
race.” Two-thirds of the “ English speaking”
races are only English speaking in the same sense
as the Chinaman is English-speaking when he
gets into gaol.
♦-
Chief Justice Way, of South Australia—the
fame gentleman who recently ran as fast as his
little legs could carry him after a newly-arrived
English lord, and wanted to hump his carpet-bag
—is evidently a man who rises up early in the
morning to pursue after judgment. A few days
ago he came into violent contact with Edward
Burford, a carter employed in the Telegraph
Department, and his soul revolted within him
when he learned that that humble official had en-
deavoured to defraud the Government out of one
pound one shilling. Burford, it appears, had
been serving his country in the Far North, and in
the pursuit of his avocation he was induced to
spend a guinea in “shouting" for a crowd at
Alice Springs. Then a demon cf cussedness
entered into him, and he inserted the item among
his expenses, and asked the Government to pay it.
In any country that was not eaten up with the
canker of sham godlinesa—in any land whose
semi-barbarism was not disguised by a thin veneer
of miserable hypocrisy—the item would simply hav e
been struck out, and the delinquent dismissed from
the service or warned not to indulge in t uch comic
1 games in future, but they do things differently in
South Australia, and Burford was arrested and
committed for trial. Then Chief Justice Way
started to fish for the whale of equity in (he slop-
pail of his intellect, and after stating that, in con-
sideration of the prisoner’s previously unblemished
character, he would award him a “comparatively
light” punishment, he evolved from his inner con-
sciousness the atrociously brutal sentence of three
years’ hard labour. As he pronounced it, Bur-
ford’s wife, a delicate, consumptive woman wl 0
is burdened with the care of eight helpless chil-
dren, was hustled out In hysterics, and— to quote
what sounds like bitter sarcasm from the S.A.
Advertiser, “ even Sir Alfred Stephen, who
occupied a seat on the Benoh, seemed terribly
distressed by the occurrence, and looked quite ill
as he left the Court a little later.” Evidently an
overcharge of one guinea, when perpetrated by a
carter, is a widely different matter from an over-
charge of ten times the amount on the part of a
lawyer. Even the godly Adelaide solicitor, when his
bill is 1 axed, generally finds 25 per cent, of the total
struck off as unallowable, but Chief Justice Way
—the agile bearer of the carpet-bags of the British
aristocracy—never dreams of sentencing him to so
much as 24 hours’ in the cells. He also lets down
the burglar with 18 months, and when he had dis-
posed of Burford’s case he reckoned that two
years was enough for a common swindler who had
obtained four different sums by false pretences.
Australian justice, as administered by Way, is
evidently more uncertain than a hyaena—and a
good deal more cruel.
♦
While nations are groaning beneath the oppres-
sor’s heel and the security of thrones which
tremble responsive to the hunger-pangs of the
pauper’s stomach is threatened, the little great-
ness of princes and the magnificent feebleness of
high-placed dignitaries are still chronicled with
punctilious minutiae That magnifier cf impor-
tant insignificance, the cable, is laid under re-
quisition to inform us that Sir Patrick Jenkins,
of New South Wales, attended the funeral of
some “nobleman” or other in Scotland a few
daj s ago, and to give the latest news concerning
the throat of the Crown Prince of Germany.
According to modern science the rulers rule
because they are the fittest to rule, physically and
intellectually. If the Crown Prince goes under in
this struggle with the King of Terrors we presume
that his death will be hailed by savzns as a proof
that one prince in Europe was at least not among
the fittest. Perhaps his coachman might have
pulled through, when of course the same merciless
logic would apply in a converse fashion.
From the London Daily News of sth
September last :
" The death of one of lhe victims of the Herbe-tstown
evictions will recall the vivid description of one of the inci-
dents of her closing days given in a letter in our Saturday’s
issue. ‘ I witnessed,’ wrote Dr. Gould to us, ‘ that almost
unparalleled scene where the old woman, Mrs. Moloney,
close on fourscore years, was dragged from her house on her
mattress and deposited on a heap of dung.’ On going over
to see the old lady, Dr. Gould said he ’ sank to hia ankles
in slush.’ Our own correspondent, in mentioning this evic-
tion on the o'Gb.ady estate, described M'S. Moloney as an
old woman who had been in bed for the last six weeks suffer-
ing from nervous debility. The county coroner certified
that she was not in a fit state to be remived. She dtdined
any settlement, and would not consent to remain iu posses-
sion as caretaker, and she was removrd during heavy rain
amid the cries of the people. Her ancestry had been in pos-
session of the farm for nearly 200 years. Dr. Gould trusted
he would never again see such a scene enacted in the name
of the law. What, then, must be the effect of such a scene,
with its tragical termination, on the minds of the friends,
neighbours, and countrymen of this latest victim of oppres-
sion J”
By the way, have our readers noticed the discreet
silence of the Argus since the publio threat
(made at the Melbourne mass meeting a month or
two ago) to boyoott it for its dishonesty and
malignity on the Irish question ?
CORRESPONDENCE
‘ H.C.S.’ (Byrock) : Tell the young man to bear
up. It will alleviate his sorrows if he reads The Bulletin
regularly, but nothing will bring back the girl.,.Ferny-
hough’: Yes, and when is the long-expected catastrophe
goieg to overtake that unwieldy rotten old steam-tub in Syd.
Hey Harbour ?....’ E G.’: We don't know whether it will come
rut at all....'Honi ’: Glad to hear from you....‘Austra-
lian’ (Ultimo): See articles in last week's Bulletin
entitled “ Parke3iana ” and “ Save Parkes from his Friends.”
.... ‘ Mnemonics ’: Astound ing feats can be accomplished by
systems of artificial memory....‘Joseph B.' (Millches’er):
You must send particulars... .‘D. A.E.P.’(N.Z.): Will read....
‘ L.L.’: You find fault with us for remarking that if a man
produces goed work it does not make it any the worse to
have been made on wine. Yet you don’t object to the pro-
duct of Chinese labour—which is not good work—and there-
by you imply that opium is moral though wine ißn’t, and that
bad work is more moral than good. From the general habits
of the class of people who are called Conservatives, we
believe that the latter is their candid opinion.... ’N
(R'hainpton): Letter, addressed to you under your nom-de-
plume, posted to Rockhampton P.0....‘W. Maroombe':
Tell us, which was right about the Mount Rennie case —The
Bulletin or she daily Press?....*E.M.’ (W. Kempsey):
Already noticed....‘ N.N.’: You can’t generalise on the con-
duct of a clerical “crank.”.,..’A.S.D.’; Received....
‘Jason’: Charters Towers is far ahead. We find that the
dividends from 82 companies for nine months of 1887 amount
to £573,872.... ‘ J.L.W.’: The sweep alluded to is a rank fraud.
....‘Justitia’: The accusation is not sufficiently specific....
‘ J.CY: Too much dead-house....’W. Gillespie’: What do
you want to know?....’Chamberlain’: An unclean subject
if not dealt with au serieux.,,.‘C. Cane’: We have nctfull
returns, but find that for the eight months ended August 31,
62.073 persons left Ireland as compared with 45,875 for the
same period last year....’ M.M.’: (1) £385.000 ; (2) England a
Established Church annually costs the State between nine
and ten millions sterling. Two archbishops and twenty-
eight bishops receive £163,000 with free residences, in order to
enable them to live up to the style of the Galilean fisherman.
..’ H. Boehm’: What do you mean by addressing us as “you
enlightened Englishmen," “you thick-headed Englishmen,’
“you British slaves to superstition,” and so on? The Bul
letin is Australian, not English....‘M.M.’: If Malietoa
had landed at Cooktown (Q ) he might, as a political offender
only, have claimed his freedom....’John W. Miles ’: The
Fi eetrader is, and must be, the Chinaman’s friend. What
is the difference between allowing the results cf Chinese
slave labour to bs imported free of duty and allowing China-
men to work in competition with the white man in Little
Bourke-street, Melbourne?....’ Humanity': The story cf a
black being chained up by a Queensland squatter wouldn't
make any sensation or arouse any public sentiment. The
blackfellow is shot promiscuously wherever the white man
meets him—alwajs provided the white man is beyond the
immediate fye of the law—and he is also murdered and
maimed and set on fire by native (police and white troopers
and other limbs of the law. If you want to redress the
wrongs of the aboriginal j ou must do something more than
expose the very smallest of his sufferings.E. Parton’:
Yes—
“ They are slaves who dare not be
In the right with two or three."
....’Omega': No use....’Nuts to Crack’: You dip a
tarantula in an ink-bottle and let him crawl over a sheet of
note-paper, but there's nothing wonderful about it; we have
seen spiders write before to-day ‘Richard Hadnett ’
(Bourke): There is no resemblance between the individual
laFdlord who holds fee simple aid the Crown. The Crown
in N S.W., as a landlord, simply means the State, that is the
People. Improvements should be paid for on surrender of
lease by in-coming tenant simply as a matter of justice; but
to assume that if improvements were not compensated for
there would be no improvements, is wrong. The lease-
holder is compelled to improve, otherwise he could not ge:
the full value out of his holding. Men find it a profitable
investment to erect warehouses costing thousands of pounds
on »round held under lease, and they get no compensation •
however, more anon ‘An Uneducated Man': You are
not what you represent yourself to be; your bad spelling is
too artistic....‘ Senex’: You ask "Is it worth my while to
sing ?” Asa rule, no, though yo 1 have written more than
one good thing — ‘ Brown ’: The following eight lines of the
10,000 you have sent ua are possibly unique :
" The measured thud rolled over the hill
Where nestled the gray curlew,
With blinking eyes marsupials peered
As his muscles stretched and swelled.
“ Then his arm round her waist—so graceful he thought—
And her plump form pressed close to his breast
And her innocent features, where guile never wrought,
Turned up to the face she loved best.
..’ Ely Pitchin’: If there were no other objection, your yarn
is much too massive....‘Thos. Watts’ (St. Kilda, Vic)-
Merely a local matter....‘R.A.L.’ (Cootamundra): Too
trivial for notice....‘Henry Boehme’ (Ironbarks): Thanks
‘ J.K.H.' (Wangaratta): A horse-doctor is now called a
veterinary surgeon, though a vet. is not necessarily a horse-
doctor only. He is supposed to attend to all animals of
draught; from velio, to carry—contracted from veheterinus
A farrier may be a shoer of horses. A shoer is a sort of
horse-chiropodist—he cuts the horses' corns ‘M.A.S.’:
(Wexford-street): Alas for you and your” poetry!”,.’ J. Mores-
by’: What do you mean? ‘J.C.’ (Haunted Stream): Re-
ceived ‘ Jerry Jordon’ (Gippsland): Will read....‘Free-
thought’: (1) It would be polygamy—what then? (2) The
New York papers do oppose George, and it is also true that
the majority of pressmen support him, but the two things
are not the same; nearly all the Sydney pressmen are Pro-
tectionist, but all the Sydney dailies supDort Freetrade. (3)
George is not a Socialist; he opposes Socialism ; hence the
hissing....’Cornubian’: Will read ' A.W.’ (Centennial
Park):| Not suited....‘Cockney’ (Braidwood): Will wade
through ‘ Agenoria ’: Mr. Alfred Deakin evidently doesn’t
know Parkes, or he wouldn t have written such subbish. Let
Mr. Deakin read the evidence in the Webb case, and then
wjite Parkes a letter ‘Oldßachelor’: Next week, perhajs
. ..What M’Elhone, M.L.A., really did say is in Hansard,
You ought to read it.
The Case of William Roy.
Some further donations to the fund are now
thankfully acknowledged:—
Amount previously acknowledged, £lO6 16s. 6d. R
Sutton, 13s. 6d.; T Williamson. 5s Collected by R B
F.H.S., £1; A.D., 10s.; A.H.M., 10a.; A.H., 10s. ; R.B. 103. •
N.C., 55.; J.G., 53. ; E.B.S , ss. W. C. Young, on behalf of
36 others, £4 12s. 6d; Loco. Depart., Goulburn, per F. W
M’Fadden, 18s. 6d.; Kennedy and Mears, 10s.; Journeyman
Butcher, Bathurst, ss. Collected by Geo. Williamson, Ivan-
hoe: Mr. Jas. Yeo, 55.; G. Williamson, 55.; Dr. Semple,
55.; W. Playford, 5s - C. P. Irvine. ss; Rev. John W
Eisdell, 53 ; Chas. A. Dobbi, ss; R. J. Webb, 5a.; C. Hud-
son, 55.; John Walter, 25.; W. J. Stewart, 55.: A. Nelson,
55.; Alfred W. Rice, 53; W. Gordon, 2a 6d.; N.W., 2s. 6d. •
W. H. Keast, 55.; J. Croaker, 2a. 6d.; W. Reynolds, 2s 6d :
Wm. Guthrie, 2a. 6d.; William Moller, 35.; John Low, 5s
Amalgamated Shearers and Working Men of Narine Station’,
Queensland: C. Seaton, Esq., Narioe, 10s ; Sydney Fletcher,
Esq. 10s.; W. Gordon, Is.; J. Fitzpatrick, It. ; George Bald-
win, Is ; Thomas Dillon, Is. ; James Davis, Is. ; Thomas
Briggs, Is. : Wm. Waddell, 2s 6d. ; Robert Miller, 4s. ; John
Ciappin, 2s. 6d. ; C. W Watkins, Is. ; J. W. M‘Leod, 2s •
John Smith, 2s. : Thomas Norman, Is. 6d. ; Michael Fitz-
gerald, 2s 6d.; J. R. Wilson, Is. ; James O'Donnell, Is. ;
James Cooper, 55.; James Pratt, 2s. 6i. ; A. M'Phee,
2s. 6d. : M‘Donald, 35.; Henley, 2s. 6d. ; Henry
Moore (a boy), 6d. ; John Peck, 2s. 6d. : H. Attenborough,
Is. 1 A. Stewart, 2s. ; Chalker, Is. : Pat. O Sullivan, Is.;
W. Monat, 2s. 6d. ; Stephen Fogarty, 5s ; Ted. Davis, 2s. :
W. Blanche, Is ; C. W. O’Reilly, 2s. ; W. Milsen, Is. ; E.
Maidens, Is. ; Wm. Richardson, Esq, 10s ; Wm. Hill,
3s 6d. ; Joseph Wilson, 6s. ;T Thomas, 6s. ; Wm. Brown,
6s. ; George Daisy, 4s. ; John Daly. 2s. 6d. ; Wm. M‘Leod,
2s. 6d. ; Arthur Clark, 2s. 6d. ; B. Curtis, Is. ; Thos. Davis,
2s. ; J. Noonan, Is. ; Charles Daniels, 2s. ; Dan. Bellenger,
Is. ; Dan. Foley, Is. ; James Bellenger, Is. ; F. Shannelly,
Is. ; Sam. Russell, 2s. ; Robert Cook, Is. Per George Tibb:
W. N. O'Rourke, 10s,: W. D. O Rourke, 2s 6d. ;J. P.
O'Rourke, 2s. 6d. ; G. Spicer, ss. ; Shearers and General
Hands, £3 7s.
THE REMEDIES.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
" With reference to Ireland, it is trusted that the remedies
provided to meet the wants and troubles of that country
will gradually and completely restore order and encourage
peaceful industry.”—77if Queen's Speech.
Of course they will. The problem’s solved
At last; they can gee through it.
Peace quickly will be brought about—
The Remedies will do it!
The wroDgs of bitter years and years
Will shortly be adjusted,
And everything set right at last,
At least so “it is trusted.”
The cruel reign of rage and hate
At last is to be ended,
And right in front of Ireland now
There is a prospect splendid.
The tenant will no longer feel
With barren toll disgusted,
But calmly slave to pay his rent
Each month—so it is trusted.
The Remedies will fix it all,
And things will go on humming ;
The Landlords will wax glad because
The Rents will be forthcoming ;
The envious Tenant, who, it seems,
For daintier fare has lusted
Will now go back to damaged spuds
And seaweed—it is trusted.
No more the weak man bent with toil
Shall speak with angry tongue, or
Attempt to knit a haggard brow,
But, patient in his hunger,
Slave on and eat his meagre bread
With tears and salt sweat crusted,
That idle robber-lords at ease
May live—so it is trusted.
In future things will jog along
Quite smoothly and sedately,
Without such savage bursts of crime
As we have heard of lately.
The peasant will look calmly on,
And see his hut combusted ;
Then meekly crawl about and starve
With thanks—so it is trusted.
On those historio malcontents,
Old Ireland’s sons and daughters,
The Remedies will fall as oil
On very troubled waters.
In quite a trifling space of time
The carbine will be rusted,
The pike into a ploughshare beat
Or sickle—it is trusted.
No more will men in masks of crape—
Attired as for Death’s pageant—
File solemnly along some hedge,
Beyond which come 3 an Agent;
No more will hapless beeves be found,
With knife-blades in them “ thrushted,’
Nor rude death’s heads be sent by po3t
To Landlords—it is trusted.
Hereafter Parnellites will be
Of less aggressive manner ;
John Dillon will be mild, indeed,
And so will Dr. Tanner ;
Tim Healey’s M’Elhonian game
Will be entirely busted ;
And in the Commons peace will reigu
Supreme—so it is trusted.
No more will Michael Davitt rage
Of breaking Ireland’s fetters,
And Parnell in the future will
Be shy of writing letters ;
And those low brutes who dare to speak
Will have their jackets dus’ed,
The Remedies>ill shut their mouths—
So it is fondly trusted.
Henceforth there shall ba no fierce raids
Of murderous Moonlighters,
No swaggering discontented crowds
Of loud-tongued dynamiters ;
No meetings shall be held at all
For Wrongs to be discussed at:
All men shall go to bed at dark
And sleep—this, too, is trusted.
When agitators, one and aH,
Are in their dungeons rotting,
There will be no more Land League strife
Nor any more boycotting ;
When all who dare to breathe have chains
Upon them forged and rusted,
All peaceful industries will thrive
In Ireland—it is trusted.
Oh, yes—the Remedies will meet
The Irish case—don’t doubt it,
The trouble is all over now,
We’ll hear no more about it;
The Grand Old Man can now retire—
Of course, he’ll feel disgusted
To think they've settled things without
His help—as it is trusted 1
The Tories, with their taper thumbs
Held to their Norman noses
Will fleer at him, and gaily go
A-plucking of primroses ;
The drones can live in perfect ease
And have their biDjies busted
With choicest fare, while others starve
To earn it—it is trusted 1
Mr. R. Colonna-Cloae, while a'idresiing
an up-country Bench last week, remarked that
there were some insolvencies which attached a
atam to a man s character ; there were others
which were a disgrace to the colony, but at (ho
same time, ennobled the man who sought relief
in the Insolvency Court." Conundrum : Where-
abouts does Parkes get a leg in out of all this 1


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—"Harbour Lights P- M
Her Majesty's Theatre.— "Called Back"
OritertonTheatre— " Much Ado about Nothing ” „
Opera House.— Brighton
Royal Standard Theatre. Minstrelsy
Alhambra Music Hall.— Burlesque ■■
Domain —Pain’s Fireworks »
Exhibition Building.—Roller Skating Rink ...... 15
Who has ever counted the modes by which
gold can be extracted from this thankless earth ?
Let him answer who has summed np the ways of
the introspective though weeping goat, and let
the man who has never cursed as he picked a
gopher out of the blanc mange lift up his voice
and reply, for we ask in all seriousness—where is
cash to be found t We have sought it in salted
claims, and it wasn't there; we have endeavoured
to raise the wind by taking a new umbrella out of
ohurch, but the bloated monopolist to whom it
belonged had got his name engraved on the
handle and it wasn’t negotiable ; and we have
known a man who put a pawnbroker’s head in
the Are and held it there till the frizzled
usurer handed over the keys of his safe, but
alasl the safe proved to be empty. We have
measured tribulation with a two-foot rule, and
wrestled with affliction in our search for money,
and all without avail. But the announcement last
Saturday that Mr. Dampier proposed to play
“ Post Obit,” at Sydney Gaiety, roused our drooping
spirits once more, and we rolled up in the
hope that we might gain a few valuable points on
a subject which has 6ver been nearest to our soul.
The result was bitter disappointment. “ Post
Obit ” is the sort of drama which seems to have
been lost and trodden upon in a cow-house, and
then rescued out of a dog-kennel and wiped on a
door-step. It purports to have been written by
J. B. Cooper, and it is described in the bill as
“ original.” Bless J. B. Cooper, bless his origi-
nality, bless everybody and everything. The
story consists chiefly of the wicked squire who
has done duty in a thousand dramas before —the
man with the horc e-laugh and tte green vest
who smiles while smothering his aunt, and titters
as he abducts the virtuous village maiden with
the long hair, and grins at the sight of his other
wife in the snow, and finally is led off to
gaol guffawing as he goes, and is hanged,
we presume, with a yelp of merriment.
Then there is the ’umble, though benevolent,
friend in reduced circumstances who spends his
days in shovelling dirt and his nights in watch-
ing the wicked squire smothering his aunt, and
the financial Hebrew who is prepared to assist
anybody who may wish to go insolvent, or have
twins, or get buried, or raise the wind, or stop
the woman next door from emptying things
over the back fence, and this gentleman also
watches the squire smothering his aunt. The
smothered aunt, herself, was not in the bill, and
we were glad of it, forjudging from the ferocity
of the squire, the chances are that he danced on
her remains till she wasn’t fit to go to the devil.
“Post Obit” is deceiving from first to last. We
went to see it in the hope of learning some new
mode of propitiating Benjamin acroßS the street,
but, alasl we have no aunt to smotler.
The chief redeeming feature of the obeEe literary
freak at the Gaiety is the tender pathos whloh
Miss Idly Dampier infuses into tha old, old part of
the virtuous village maiden with the hair. Mr.
Dampier, as the friend in reduced circumstances,
is exce’lent at times, but now and then the
m'serableness of his part seems to weigh him
d >wn ; and Mr. Baker makes a roaring farce out
< f the squire, and almost chokes with merriment
as he cuts off the gas of his wretched aunt. Mr.
L-j (ton’s policeman is also an oasis in the desert,
b it otherwise the abject cussedness of things pre-
tents no redeeming feature.
** # #
Since our first painful experience of
“ Brighton,” at Sydney Opera House, we have
succitsfully kept away from that cow-headed
comedy, but Mr. S ’. Maur still holds up his end of
the log with an ability worthy of a far better
cause. “Harbour Lights” is also running with
goad houses at the Royal.
#* # #
‘ ‘ Much Ado about Nothing,” no w prospering
by the grace of Bill Holloway at Sydney Criterion,
ia a welcome relief from plays which make a man
go out and curse with misery underneath the
boiler in the yard, Miss Essie Jenyns' Beatrice
has improved a little since her last visit to Syd-
ney ; and Mr. Holloway’s Benedick hasn’t got any
worse. This is saying a lot. Beatrice is a fas-
cinating character on the stage—though, consider-
ing what a bad tempered creature she was, the
chances are that after marriage Benedick admo-
nished her with a rope’s end, a club, or a dead
snake—and as Miss Jonyns plays her, the
audience are apt to forget what a nice
girl she would be to have about a house,
and how she would tie the cats’ tails together and
then shut Ih-mup among the crockery, and they
mistake her for a white-winged augel in a green
silk dress, Mr. Robert Inman's C.audio is almost
perfect; and Miss Constance Deorwyn makes an
admirable Hero—a girl, by the-way, who didn't
sass her relatives in the style Beal rice was so fond
of. The painted canvas and Mr. Richard Stewart
are the other attractive poinls of the comedy, and
the former is on so lavish a scale that we think
the management might as well sell a little scenery
and buy a little more Ste rart with the money-
just a little more.
## # #
George Rignold’s production of “ Called
Back ’’ will run at Her Majss y’s till Friday next,
when that magnificent villain, Paolo Macari, will
take his dark Italian hook. On Saturday “ Held
by the Enemy” will be produced with all the
energy which Mr. Nelson Decker and his col-
leagues can command. Mr. Decker wasn t
drowned in the Cheviot, as he wasn’t there, but
he came within an inch of being on board that
unlucky vessel, and if lie had travelled by her he
would probably have died without seeing our
Beautiful Harbour—unless, ind.ed, he had swum
ashore with his drama between his teeth. Any-
how, he has seen the haibsur now, so he has a lot
to be thankful for.
## # #
F. Smith’s old minstrels are firing off new
gags at Sydney Alhambra, and the minions of
rhythmic mystery discourse in runic rhymes about
the woes of the big-footed nigger and his gal.
Even the sweltering breath of summer has no
effect on Smith’s perspiring audiences, and on
nights when the mercury gasps for breath in the
thermometer, they still roll up as gaily as of old.
The present programme is full of good points,
among which the Spanish dance by five ladies
is conspicuously excellent, and the “ Volatile
Millers ’’ are about the most volatile individuals
on record. The ermpany has been strengthened
by the advent of Miss Annie Lewis, whose singing
is above par, and the other melodists pipe as
sweetly as of yore.
*# # *
Governor Carington having lent the
blessedness of his countenance to Frank Smith’s
darkeys, at Sjdney Royal Standard, it will in
future be the correct thing for Potts Point to
spend its evenings at that place of entertainment.
A BACK VIEW.
On the whole it might do worse. The present
programme is all that a governor need ask for, and
is even good enough for some bishops we have
known. Our acquaintance with bishops is not
extensive, bat the few we have met all went to
the theatre and had oysters and beer incognito
afterwards,
## # #
Sydney E. News, in a cabled blander,
remarks that Miss “ Cinkelstein,” the Oriental
lecturer, is comiDg to Australia in March. This
probably refers to Miss Von Finkelstein, a hand-
some Jewess, who, arrayed in Oriental costume,
lectures on the East, and fetches her audienoe
every time.
** * *
There was mad excitement on the Sydney
wharf of the Newcastle S.N. Co. last Friday
evening. Ned Holloway, after playing lago to
Dampier’B “ Othello at the Gaiety, had to catch
the 11.30 boat for Newcastle to fulfil an engage-
ment there, and not having time to change his
costume he scudded down the jetty in his lobster-
coloured tights while a terrified crowd fled before
him. Close behind him ran a friend carrying
some more tights, and a lot of swords, hats, boot?,
and o her luggage, and the sight of him and his
load completed the panic which Nea’s blood-
thirsty aspect had occasioned. No lives were
lost, but it will be a while before the wharf
loafers get over the shock.
** # #
As we write, Miss Lucy Pinkstone, elocu
tionlst, &c., is announced to appear In the Sydney
Y.M.C. A.. Hall on the evening of the 25th, in the
presence of the Governor and a lot of other dis-
tinguished citizens. Also Pain, flreworkist
and artist In blazes, gives his next show in the
Domain on the 31st, and, judging from the over-
powering gorgeousness of his last exhibition, the
probability seems to be that the Domain will
burst this time from over-pressure.
*# # *
The cordial thanks of the N.S.W. public
are, for once, due to the crowd and to the police :
to the former for having, on Thursday night last,
burst through the obstructive fences illegally
erected by Mr. Pain, the fireworks man, in Sydney
Domain, the people’s renreation-ground; and to
the latter for not having actively interfered with
the citizens in the exeroisa of their unques-
tionable rights. A contemporary says it is
“better,” and “cheaper” to pay than to
resist an admitted violation of the law ; but
British liberty wasn’t built that way. Nobody
would growl at admission being charged to the
Domain on occasion If a large proportion of the
receipts went to bona fide public charities such as
the hospitals ; but a line must be drawn sharply
at the point where the reserve is found closed in
the interests of the fireworks-man and of that
fashionable imposture the Queen’s Fund.
** # #
Bland Holt, the actor, left Melbourne for
N.Z. last week, in the same steamer with the Rev.
Fitchett, editor of the pious Melbourne D.T,
Now, if they had all sunk together, we presume
the “ wessel,” as his head bobbed down beneath
the briny waves, would have exclaimed with his
last breath that it was the presence of that miser-
able actor on board which brought it all about.
Yet Fitchetfc might, if he had so chosen, have
gone in another steamer which sailed the same
day, and in which he would have had “ Commis-
sioner" Howard, of i lie Salvation Army, for a
fellow passenger, instead of an unsaved actor.
And yet he didn’t avail himself of the oppor-
tunity. If he had, and the other steamer had
gone down, the “ Commissioner ” would prob-
ably have said it was the miserable editor whose
presence called down disaster. And perhaps he
would have been right. We have known a lot
of miserable editors, also the miserable pipers
they edited, and their leading articles were enough
to sink any steamer.
## # *
The “ Mikado ’’—which in the course of
a 14-night s’ run was twice blessed by the presence
of h's Holiness the Governor—has been with-
drawn at Brisbane, and James MacMahon’s com-
pany is now running “ La Masootte ” in its stead.
#JL JL Af.
■7T *7v* W
At the Adelaide Royal “ The Mikado,”
with his “ object all sublime,” continues to attract
orowds of citizens of all ranks, from the white
chokerist to the boy who sells matches. Miss
Leonora Braham has thoroughly established her-
self as a favourite, and deservedly so. Tommy
Hudson has got into his eighth week at Garner's
Theatre, the engagement of C. Nayler being the
latest feature. This gentleman is termed a
double-voiced vocalist, but he only uses one voice
to any great advantage. If it cracks, the other
one may come in handy.
*# # #
Brisbane Observer says, in re the “ Tas-
manian Nightingale,” “ that the supercilious con-
oert-going folk who stared coldly at Miss Sher win
as she concluded florid operatic passages beamed
when she sang ‘ Home, Sweet Home,’ and many
beamed through tears.” Thanks. ‘ Supercilious
concert going folk” is good, and fills a long-felt
want, for of all the affectations in the world the
affectation of profound musical tas.e, experience,
and acumen, is just now the most common and
the most offensive.
## * *
Mr. Snazelle, the clever “entertainer”
who comes to Australia shortly, is chiefly known
here as the man who punched Carl Rosa’s nose—
his snazslle organ, in fact—some time ago in Erg-
land. We somehow always contrive to hear of a
man’s punching capabilities before we hear of his
brains.
*# # #
In “ London Assurance ” we have the
curled and corseted old baronet supplying the
newspaper with “ An account of the elopement of
Sir Harcourt Courtly with Lady Gay Spanker,” in
anticipation of an event which doesn’t come off.
Which reminds us that the London Referee of
September 4th says : “ Miss Leonora Braham has
made a big success in Melbourne as Princess Ida.”
Miss B. never played in “ Princess Ida,” and on
September 4th she hadn’t appeared in Melbourne,
anyhow. Consequently, the Referee was also a
little ahead.
** * *
More literary larcenies are being brought
to light by men who cherish memories of the
past. Directly a sketch of the plot of “ The Bells
of Haslemere ” (successful London melodrama)
was published in the papers, somebody discovered
that the third act was a dramatised facsimile of
a story from “ All the Year Round.” This story
appeared in 1863—a good long while ago, but not
long enough. A vast amount of research among
the buried past is required for the writing of a
strictly original play-giarism. i
Melbourne's in fete, and to each of its Shows
A stream of humanity steadily flows—
Standing-room only in circle and pit—
K very darned thing is a “ genuine hit.”
He who to Italy’s opera is loyal
His savage breast soothes at the popular Royal;
And mashers, inclined towards damsels and
dresses,
<J at plenty of both at the gorgeous Princess’s ;
A farcical comedy certain to please you
Fills Brough and Boucicault’s bill at the Biiou,
The Nugget a crowd every evening entices
To see a man hanged at most moderate prices ;
The Wax Works gives backers relief from their
sorrows
(They look quite at home in the Chamber of
Horrors);
The Town Hall attracts many Christian young men,
For the J übilee Singers are flni shed at ten ;
People are pushing, and squeezing, and fighting,
To get at Locke Richardson when he’s reciting
Shakespeare, Dickens, and Tennyson’s higher
works;
Others find pleasure in Pain and his fireworks,
Those kings of burnt-cork and “business” called
“ nigger
The Coghills—lament that their Hall isn’t bigger;
And still, as of old, are the baldhoads a-flocking
To get a sly peep at a bit of “ Silk Stocking ’’;
At the Opera House is the latest sensation,
An All Star, Immense, Unsurpassed “ Com-
bination ”
JYot the garment that’s’never discussedjn Society,
But a Novelty Company versed in “Variety.”
This show fairly bristles with features unique—
For further particulars wait for a week.
BRIEF MENTION.
The Maiden Tribute The Parkea Ladies’
Fund.
There are now in Sydney two lady under-
takers.
Are dead-brokea to be buried in Parkea’
Dead-house ?
The question of the day in N.S.W.—Will
Baby give Parkes a penny ?
Sydney butterine factory burnt down.
Who now refuses to believe in Divine Providence '!
Three sweet girl burglars in Melbourne
are in a tight place. The old story. Too fond of
the Jimmies.
A boys’ school exhibition was given in
Melbourne last week, at which “Casablanca”
was not recited.
Wanted, a Sunday-school Superintendent
who does not commence his address, “ When I
was a little boy.”
Prisoners in N.S.W. gaols are flogged for
bad language. Theca is one law for the ordinary
thief and another for the M.L. A.
Sydney E. News fretfully howls, “Give
us our gaol.” We wish to remind Alfred that
patience Is a virtue and justice eternal.
Ninian Melville, M.L.A., declares that he
wouldn’t save a murderer from the gallows. No
more would we—if we were an undertaker.
A dead baby was found on the doorstep of
a Chinese cookshop at Goulburn (N.S.W.) a few
mornings ago. John has been short of pie 3 evt r
since.
Sydney Evening News says Lady Caring-
ton is “homely and graceful.” Lady Oaringtcm
Implores Heaven to savo her from reporters’ com-
pliments,
Abigail advocates irrigation. At present
this appears impracticable. It will take all the
water in New South Walo3 to wash the Parkea
Ministry.
The motto of Sydney Corporation is, “ I
take but I surrender.” “I take” ia all right, but
nobody sees where the “ surrender” part of the
motto fits in.
The other day the Maryborough (Q.)
larrikins pelted the body of a drowning man in
mistake for a shark. When hauled ashore it was
found to be the corse of a lawyer.
Some of the Sydney bakers are the most
generous of men. If you ask them for even 141 b?.
of bread they won’t think of offering you a stone.
No, they’ll give you lOlbs. or so.
Remarks a Croydon (Q.) print:— “Society
is veiy unsettled at present t'ergeant Parkinson
appeared on Monday morning with an eye in a
snow-white bandage -the effects of the O’Brien.’
Daring Major Dane’s lecture the other
night at Brisbane, the name of Baker Pasha was
loudly applauded. These are the holy people who
want to make it a penal offence,to drink lemon-
squash on the Sabbath.
Hotel-keepers on the Cairns-Herberton
railway line (Q ) intend forming themselves into a
mounted rifle corps, to pursue absconding debtors
into Cairns on steamer-days. They have tj do it
rather regularly now.
A Hay (N.S.W.) policeman charged an
alderman with using ob3cene language the other
day. The case wa3 dismissed. The magistrate
who could decide between a policeman and an
aldeiman isn’t yet created.
The intelligent compositor again. The
editor of the Western Champion (Barcaldine,
Q ) wrote : “ The parasites infest the biliary ducts
of the liver.” The compo. made it read, “The
pharisees inject the library ducts of the liver."
Attorney-General Wise should see to this.
An alarming rumour is current that the shark’s]
eggs at Bondi Aquarium are to be artificially
i hitched. A grosser infringement of the new
regulation for the admission of barristers and at-
torneys could not be conceived.
Sydney Preacher, suspected of following
the light and lucrative business cf “ running the
rule” over dead-drunks, received a short ssntenej
at Richmond (Vic.) court the other day.
A number of Sydney preachers who live on what
they collect from the sleepers are still at large.
Thus the E. News :— “The Ministers in
Orange inspected the local hospital. One of the
most cheery eights there was a bright-looking
country lad who had the misfortune to lose one of
his legs.” If he had lost both legs, Alfred would
no doubt have headed the par. “Delirious Joy.”
Parkes, member for the Not Sure Bridge.
■Wheelmen and athletes generally are
making a big bid for a portion cf the old Sydney
rifle range on which to form a track of their own.
“Joey” Palmer, the champion trundler
of the Cabbage Garden, has received a snuggery
in the shape of the secretaryship of the East Mel-
bourne Cricket CluD.
A fine portrait of Mayor Riley, painted
in oils by Mr. J. Hubert Newman, is now on view
in the premises of Messrs. Thompson and Giles,
George-street, Sydney. It was purchased out of
the surplus realised from the return ball to the
Mayor, and is a really beautiful specimen of
Australian art.
Mr. Henry King, of Sydney, has pro*
ducei a splendid assortment of photographs of
Australian scenery for use in place of those old
and rather mouldy Ch'istmas cards in which a
fowl used to hold out a text in its mouth. The
photos, a-e beautifully executed, and more than
replace the dog-eared ticket and motto which has
done duty so many years.
From Sydney Echo in re the recent
private theatricals at the local Government
House :
The distribution of characters had been kept a secret'
and the make up was so good that the identity of the butler
with a distinguished officer wa3 not easily established,
despite the information given by the programme; and, with
one exception, the same remark applies to the seven gentle
men who took part.
Blessed are the merciful! How kind of the Echo
to put it all down to the make-up !
It is rather unkind of the Noose to tell
us, at this particular juncture, that “A beggar's
agency in Paris supplies, for two franc 3, the ad-
dresses of persons who are known to assist beg*
gars,” and that the manuals also contain “phrases
calculated to soften the hard-hearted.” We fancy
the phraseology referred to is already sufficiently
well-known in N.S.W,, where silver-haired men
walK “ in the light of the grave” to the hustings
from their breadless homes to qualify themselves
for a new raid on the Treasury.


Pepper
and
Salt
Councillor Peterkin, of Traralgon, in the
colony of Victoria, says that he considers the oc-
cupation of the New Hebrides by the French is a
studied insult to Victoria. We regard this,
from an international point of view, as a some'
what scurvy thing. Everybody knows that the
French are now in somewhat of a fix. All the
Powers seem to be against them, and —last hope
of all— Councillor Peterkin, of Traralgon, “turns
dog ”on them. But, no matter. By this time
there are long moustachios being twirled on the
Bois de Roulegne, and “a Traralgong" and. “ a
has Peterkang ” are the phrases that mostly issue
from under them. We would not be Councillor
Peterkin for the whole value of M‘Namara’s lease.
Still he shall have a verse
These islands if the French do win,
Tnough Flemish, he mill find
That though the French are Peter-kin
They are not Peter-kind.
Two million earthquakes ! Council Peterkin also
says that “ much as hostilities between the two
nations is to be deprecated this council is strongly
of opinion that the honour of the Empire and the
interests of Australia alike demanded the imme-
diate expulsion of the French by force of arms,
diplomacy having hitherto failed to effect that
object.” Now there is no more hope for peace.
Commodore Peterkin is, without any doubt, sail-
ing from Traralgon with a fleet composed of al 1
his old boots. Traralgon is a very large island
somewhere in the neighbourhood of Nothing. If
Traralgon determines on having the New Hebrides
Traralgon will have them. Peterkin the First, by
the Grace, &c., Emperor of Traralgon and the adj a-
cent islands, will not die till the next barracouta
comes around and swallows him,
“Miss Mary Anderson, who recently
entered into an engagement with Messrs. William-
son, Garner, and Musgrove, fora tour in Australia,
declines to fulfil the engagement.”— Cable.
The British House of Commons enjoyed a
howling good joke recently. His Grace the Duke
of St. Aloans draws £965 per annum as “ Master
of the Hawks,” and when the Estimates were
under discussion a waggish legislator enquired
what duties attached to this particular billet. The
grave answer came that “the Master of the
Hawks had no duties to perform,” which set
the House laughing till tears ran down their
cheeks
“ Widow (Professional Man) desires situa-
tion,” says an advertisement in a recent issue of
the S.M. Herald, where, as usual, the stock of
humour is confined solely to the advertising sheet
How does that sound, and what are we coming
to? What is there left now for poor, down-
trodden man to do but to turn Professional
Woman and sling boots at the Professional Man’s
head when she comes slouching up the stairs a t t
3 30 a.m. and says she has been sitting up with a
sick friend ? Life is a river, and man is the boat,
and woman is evidently pulling the stroke oar
and driving things generally to the deuce. And
moreover she is doing it a good deal too fast.
Only 12 short months ago woman was a peaceful,
though rather broken-up, creature with a weak-
ness for towing a small, fluffy dog through the
streets, and on more than one occasion it was our
privilege to rescue her from the jaws of destruc-
tion when the dog ran away with her and to wed
her bodily between the hind legs of an omnibus
horse. She has leant up against us like a
bilious kitten reclining against the wall of a
loan and discount officp, and we did not com-
plain. She has invited us to help in pack-
ing the yawning sarcophagus of her trunk
when she was going away for a fortnight’s holi-
day, and we uttered no word of repining even
when she brought out six camel loads of clothing,
and told us that the first consisted of baby’s
things, and the next was made up of the things
she would want as soon as she got there, and after
them came the things she wouldn’t want till she
got settled, and close behind these the things that
would come handy when she was coming home,
and, in the capacious rear of the crowd, stalked
the great procession of the things she wouldn’t
want at all and ihe things that were of no earthly
good to anyone, but which she considered it just
as well to take along with her, anyhow. We have
stood all this, but we won’t stand it any longer.
When a woman starts to advertise that she is a
man by profession she can pack her own blessed
trunk for evermore, kingdom without end, amen,
and we will decline to interfere.
* * *
Love at first sight is a thing that poets
have cracked up for several thousand years, and
the mildewed humbug is still going. It was
founded originally before the days of pens or
paper and when the earth was very young. Some
youthful, gushing savage, who ought to have
/ '
At
been warmed by his mother with a fishing-line,
cast his eye on a maiden with her ear slit and a
ring stuck through it, and then, finding she wa3
about to be the bride of another, he wept, and
blew his nose on a leaf, and proceeded to cut
poetry about her on a reck by means of an axe.
He afterwards faded away and died. People who
fall in love at first sight are divided into two
classes : these who fade away and die, and those
who reveal their passion and are struck in the eye
by the girl's brother’s umbrella. Down at Mary-
borough (Vic.) a railway fireman was taken this
way recently, and whenever his train stopped at
the station he would blow long, love-sick wails
with the engine whistle and hang on to the foot-
board and throw kisses at a “slavey” in a cer-
tain back yard. She did not reciprocate bis pas-
sion, being already engaged to the butcher-boy,
hut one day she came trotting along with a beam-
ing smile in her dark eyes and a bowl of something
hot in her hand. He thought it was soup and
struck a paralysing attitude, but when she threw
the boiling-hot mess over his manly chest and
washed all the attitude out of him, he called her a
little cat and stated he would “go for her.” But he
hadn’t time to do it, for the butcher’s boy came
through the hedge and said he would put a ’ed on
’im, and then lifting up his basket he brought it
down on him with a whack. There was a wild
rough-and-tumble for five minutes, and then the
fireman lay down and said feebly, “Yah ! ’taint
fair to hit a man that can't get up.” The audience
laughed, the little slavey did a can-can round his
prostrate form, and the butcher’s boy remarked
with lordly disdain, “Take hit away I” When he
got home that night the fireman explained that
there had been an accident on the line, but some-
how the story leaked out, and his wife went
home to her mother in tears, partly of sorrow at
his perfidy and partly of self-reproach because she
missed him with the saucepan. Thus ends a
painful tale of love at first sight. It is an emotion
that never yet paid any dividends.
Recent performances of Shrewsbury and
Co., in England, show that the cricketers who are
turned loose during the winter months cut a poor
figure beside those who start off for the Antipodes
directly the home season is ended. Batting for
Nottinghamshire against Sussex, we find that
Barnes, Gann, and Shrewsbury—all members of
our last visiting team —scored 460 runs between
them, while Shrewsbury’s average for the whole
season exceeded 90. This latter is a phenomenal
record, the result of continuous practice (barring
six weeks’ breaks of sea-voyage) for two years
and a half. When Murdoch, M’Donnell, and
companions were at their very best, they, too, had
been steadily playing the game for five years out
of six. But nobody ever sought that very Bimple
explanation of what was called “ the superiority
of Australian cricket.”
TWO CABLEGRAMS.
' “ October 19.—Fresh demonstrations on the part of the
unemployed took place in London to-day.” “ October 19.
Earl Cairns has been left a sum of £1,000,000 by an uncle.”
The wretched unemployed of London town
Are wondering whereto “ turn an honest brown,”
For winter chill
Is bringing destitution in his track.
The beggar (with no coat upon his back,
Nor bread to fill
His craving stomach) rails against his life —
Made e’en more miserable by shivering wife
And whimpering bairns.
a • • • •
Zounds!
An uncle’s left ten hundred thousand pounds
To dear Lord Cairns!
LINES TO MARY, SO CONTRAIRY.
O ! Mary, dear, and is it true
We shall not feast our eyes on you
In June, next year ?
Knocked silly by this sudden grief,
We can but take our handkerchief
And drop a tear.
So statuesque, so full of grace,
So lovely both in form and face—
So good, so sweet!
Had you but come, you would have found
Us quite prepared to kiss the ground
Pressed by your feet.
With kindling eye we read the tales
Of how you snubbed the Prince of Wales,
Who thought you “ nice ” ;
And fondly dreamed there'd come a time
When we might melt, with fiery rhyme,
Your heart of ice.
The happy birds upon the trees
Chirped “Mary” to the balmy breeze,
When first the news
Of your intended visit spread ;
And now each songster droops his head—
You’ve changed your views.
With lovely maids ’twas ever so—
B’irst a “yes,” and then a “ no”—
“ I will,” “I wont;"
But, Mary, if the paper’s signed,
Our trio will not change their mind —
You bet they don’t!
Here’s a noble old peer, draws his thousand a year
From England (the Land of the Free),
As the Master of Hawks, and his duties—O!
lawks —
Are light as “ no duties” can be.
The nation to rob by a palpable job
(We read of such scandals galore)
Isn’t much of a joke for the Briton who’s “broke,”
But it does make the lawgivers roar.
There’s a suffering crowd, ever crying aloud,
In England, for something to eat,
But her Parliament heeds not the imminent needs
Of creatures who starve in the streets.
'Twere a blessing and boon, if, some fine afternoon,
Came forward another Guy Fawkes
With a Gunpowder Plot, just to scatter the lot,
And prove himself master of hawks.
ABORIGINALITIES.
The skeleton season in the Australasian
colonies comes round with almost the same re-
gularity as the gooseberry ; crop in colder latitudes.
At Mount Gipps the other day the bones of a man
were found in a rabbit-burrow, but how he ever
got there is likely to remain a mystery. Perhaps
he crawled in while alive in order to get out of
the rain ; perhaps he wa3 searching for somethiog
—Allah only knows what ; maybe he had dropped
his last three-and-sixpence into the hole and
perished while clawing round for the coppers ; or,
possibly, he died outside, and somebody shunted
his mortal remains into the burrow, and t here left
him. Another skeleton —or rather all that three
generations of wild pigs had lefc of it—has been
discovered on an Otago (N Z ) run, and before it
could be removed for interment the finders had
to chase away a malevolent old boar who was
turning over the polished skull with his tusks and
treading on the bones But very few of the grue-
some finds made now a days equal one which was
brought to light just outside Moore Park, Sydney,
a few years ago. Sometime in the last generation
a girl and her lover went out together one even-
ing and never returned. Nobody ever traced
them. It was presumed atflrst that they hadeloped,
but as months rolled on without bringing any
news their waiting friends began to imagine that
the earth had opened and devoured them, or that
they had somehow found a grave in the deep
Pacific, and that the wave 3 would carry them on
and on in their ceaseless
course till the Day of
Judgment. But one
day some workmen dig-
ging in a sand-mound
unearthed two grinning
skulls and two skeleton
figures sitting side by side
with their eyeless sockets
still turned upwards just
as they had besn turned
when they looked their
last on the starry skies
and the sleeping city, and
bade a sudden good-bye
to earth. Eaca had a
fieshless aim still clasped
round tlpe other's waist,
and when they were dis-
turbed the girl’s head fell
suddenly from her lover’s
shoulder where it had re-
clined for years just as it
was reclining when her
fate overtook her. They
had been sitting there
under the shadow of the
huge sand-mound when
suddenly tons and tons
of the yielding mass
descended upon them and
swallowed them up. One
moment they were gazing
at the sky; the next
they were themselves
beyond the stars, and
though men walked over
their burial-place, and
children played above
their heads, they lay
there undisturbed until
their very name 3 were
all but forgotten. When
at last the sand gave up
its dead there wa3 nobody
left to mourn for the lost
lovers. Sacrilegious hands
were laid upon the bones,
and they were cold-
bloodedly articulated by
an anatomist in who-e
surgery the skeletons
stand side by side, mak-
ing love through many
gloamings.
A Lismore (N.S.W.) correspondent sends
us—on public-house paper which smells of to-
bacco and pickles—a sad and mixed-up tale about
a black gin, from which we feebly ascertain that
the lady in question is dead. It seems that she
went to sleep with her feet in the fire, or
else her head, or else she sat down in the fire, or
the whole camp took fire, or something, aud then
she fled in a damaged condition to the hut of an
old bushman, or else to a hotel, or to the church,
or somewhere, and carried on so that the had to
be chained up to a post. She afterwards escaped
and died in the bush, like a sheep that had gone
astray, and after she was gone—notbefo.e - some-
body got up a subscription for her. Here the story
deviates to a carter whose horse was crippled on
one hind leg, which was his only means of support,
and had a wife and eight children, but whstherthe
horse had the wife and eight children and suppor. el
them on oneleg, or whether the carter supported the
horse, or whether the children had only one leg
among them, or whether the wife had no legs at
all, but was merely an aggravated stump, or
whether the wife had two legs and supported the
horse is not very clearly stated. The writer next
branches off to ask, “What could you expect
from a bank dude ?” At this stage it appears that
someone tried to get up another subscription, and
the bank dude endeavoured to get ic brought
under the Vagrant Act, but why he did such a
thing, and who the bank-dude was, and where
the Vagrant Act was, and how the subscription
would have looked under It, and, suppesir g it had
got under it, how it would ever ha e got out
sgain are not explained. Instead of fixing up this
point our correspondent drifts off into a disser.a-
tion on the Queen’s Fund and the Bulli Fund, and
what a bully thing all these funds are, and goes
into details about the priest who burled the burnt
gin, and the girl who cadged for subscriptions on
her behalf after she was dead, till at last the
blacks’ camp and the gin and the woodcutter and
the lame horse, the priest, the bank-dude, the
gin’s fund, the horse’s fund, the Queen’d Fund,
and the Bulli Fund all dance round in a wild
phantasmagoria, and the letter winds up with a
few remarks about the waste of public money.
As a fair example of an all round communication
which touches on every subject from everlasting
oblivion to carrots, this epistle has seldom been
equalled, and we trust the writer will chirp to us
at frequent intervals through the post.
In a township in Riverina, the other day,
the local peeler—there was only one—was found
suffering from weakness in the gutter, with his
helmet on his chest and his head waiting to be run
over. Next day the beak called him to account
for his conduct. “Yer worship,” he said, “I
was feelin’ a pain in me stummick, an’ so I went
into O’Dooley’s an’ axed for a glass o’ brandy, an’
the gerrnl gave me something out of a bottle, an’
as soon as I dhrank it, yer worship, I dhropped
like a cock on the fiure, but whin I was goin’
down I heard the gerrul call out, ‘ Good Heavens !
I gave it him out o' the travellers’ bottle 1’ And
thin I disremembered the rest till I found meself
out in the gutter with me helmet on me foot, an’
I said to meself, ‘ Pathrick O'Toole, ye baste,
ye’re a disgrace to the foorce, that’s what ye are T
An’ I felc so bad, yer worship, that I never
answered.” Case dismissed with a caution.
# * *
An old man of Smeaton (Vic.) owns a
horse which is the best example of the influence
of habit that can be offered to the studious
scientist; he has a set of automatic nerve-arcs
that would delight the heart of a biologist more
than anything else, excepting, perhaps, a monkeys
with a brain capacity of seventy inches and an
appe.ifie for alcohol and high hats. He is a flea-
bitten-grey horse, with a spine like a picket-
fence, and dropsical tendencies ; he has a swan-
like neck, a low, square brow, protuberant cheek-
bones, a Roman nose, and other strongly-marked,,
facial characteristics; his tail is hairless, and
muph resembles a pantomime-club, and his general
aspect is one of peaceful urbanity ; his lips seem
to be wreathed into a perpetual smile, and a pleas-
ing geniality beams from his.liquid orbs. He is a
relic of the early days, and worked a whim when*
the Ballarat riots were young; he has done nothing:
but rotate in whims ever since, till his present
owner bought him, under the impression,
that he was a blood mare with an unbroken,
record. This interesting equine is called “ Spud ”
by his most intimate friends—he is “ Murphy” to
strangers. He spends his time now chiefly in
cropping herbage and affording the school chil-
dren unlimited fun. Spud is possessed of more
humorous eccentricities than any other prad his
size and weight, and it pleases him more than he
can tell to have people stand round and applaud
while he shows off his accomplishments. His
new owner discovered his ludicrous idiosyncrasies
when driving him through the township for the
first time. The aged crock was waddling along
at a drowsy jog-trot, his lower lip dragging in the
dust and his stump tail poking out like the handle
of a pan, when a red-headed urchin on the foot-
path recognised him and yelled, “ Turn, Spud !”
Spud immediately livened up, and on the spur of
the moment attempted to turn short in the shafts,
with the result that the rheumatic old trap was
over oast and the driver shot into a gutter on his
Grecian nose. Long years of whim-work have
quite uafltted Spud for hauling bricks or compet-
ing on the turf ; habit has such a grip on him
that when called upon to “turn,” “backup,”
“ take slacs," or “ go on,” he does it, no matter
how inconvenient it may prove to his proprietor.
At times when hauling along a loose-jointed, im-
ported jaunting-car, he will suddenly sink into a
state of dreamy absence of mind, and start to
rotate in the road. Even when out to grass he
will knock off feeding on occasions, and com-
mence to travel in a circle, and his mind has to be
diverted with a brick before he will resume his
repast. When the youngsters come from school
they delight to climb on the fence, and set him
going, and be pursued by his wrathful owner
armed with a waddy and strange fierce oaths.
Spud is an old horse now, but hi 3 appetite con-
tinues strong and his eyesight good, and when he
can get somebody who appreciates versatility in a
horse to give the orders he will “ turn,” “ back
up,” “ give slack,” or revolve in a circle with
promptitude and precision, and look so happy all
the time, it would do your heart good to see him.
The people of Bourke, N S.W., gave
their new R.C. Bishop, Dr. Dunne, a right royal
reception. They drove him round the town and
—says the local scribe—“ pointed out all the pubs,
to the number of twelve.” One for each of the
Apostles, we presume.
The Tichborne Claimant has given up his
stand in the dime museum to a lady with a goatee
and 14 fingers, and is now barman at a Bowery
saloon in the East end of New York. In all his
previous ventures, Arthur was a frost, but now
he draws splendidly—draws beer, we mean.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, I notice in this
week's issue of your paper that you publish a long
satire on the formation and working of the “Aus-
tralian Loan, Discount, and Financial Company,”
in whLh you take the liberty of using my name
as one of the Provisional Directors. As you ap-
pear by the article to have some misgiving ai to
how the names were first obtained, it is, to my
mind, a strong reason that you should have made
sure of your position by making full enquiry as to
who the parties were that formed and are now
carrying on the business of the Company. I may
sta’e that the prospectus was issued and my
name pirated into it before Iknew anything about
the matter. Immediately on its coming under my
noticj, I called on the Secretary for an explana-
tion as to why my name had been used, and he
stated “that it had been suggested by some of the
other promoters.” I requested him to have my
name withdrawn, as 1 did not believe in the
character of business they proposed to carry on.
I may state that that was the first and last time I
have seen any one connected with the Company.
Therefore, as I nevei —directly or indirectly— had
any connection whatever with the Company, 1
trust you will, injustice to my character, publish
in as full and prominent a manner my disclaimer,,
as you have my name in connection with the,
matter.—Yours faithfully, John Kidd. —Blair
Athol, Cimpbelltown, N.S.W. [We are very
glad indeed, for Mr. Kidd’s sake, to find that
his name has been used in this matter without his*
authority, and we take this opportunity of point-
ing out to him that, under the circumstances, it is*
his bounden duty to insist upon the alleged,
‘ pirate,” whoever he may be, publicly answeiiog
for his off’ence Perhaps Mr. Kidd has, long ago
publicly disavowed all connection with the affairs,,
of the Australian Loan, Discount, and Financial
Co. ; if so, we, who have so far been unable to
aiseover any announcement of the sort, will, on.
his pointing out to ua the medium through,
which such disavowal was made, have great
p’easure in dravirg attention to it. Mr.
Kidd admits that his name was publicly used,
as that of a provisional director of the company in,
question ; and The Bulletin is entitled to con-
tend that his repudiation of all connection with ■
the “bank” Bhould be made in at least as open a
•manner as was the unwarranted announcement
of his acceptance of a directorship. Finally, we
may inform Mr. Kidd that despite his renuncia-
tion of the Australian L.D. and F. Co, and all Re-
works, it is still using his name, for The Bulletin.-
representative, when he applied to the Auotralinn
Banking Company on 14uh October for a copy of
their articles o? association, was l anded a copy of
the articles of association of the A L.D. and F.
Co., the company’s official remarking at the time
that though the name of the Company had been
altered its rules were still the same. In these
articles of association Mr. Kidd's name appears.
at the head of the list of “ Provincial Directors."
We will be glad to show Mr. Kidd the pamphlet
in question and the note made by us thereon im-
mediately after its receipt.— Ed. B.],


POLITICAL
POINTS
The Canopbelltown Herald remarks, en
passant, that Tom Garrett didn’t lend Parkes any
money.
There are 28 Executive Councillors in the
Victorian Assembly, and all of them with free
railway passes for life.
Dr. Cortis, M.L.A. , has utterly spoilt
himself at Ba'hurst, where Mr. Frank Suttor
will be returned at next election.
Neale, the English forger, arrested in
Melbourne for forgeries to the tune of £30,000,
was Conservative agent at Coventry.
Gaunson, of the Victorian Assembly, says
M. H. Davies, the new Speaker, is “a cross be-
tween a local preacher and a parson.”
The Sydney Anti-Chinese League has
asked Lord Carington for his patronage. Which
is just about the grimmest joke of the season.
Last week the apostate Schey, M.L.A.,
formally recanted his Freetrade faith at Redfern,
and once more declared himself a Protectionist.
In 1880 poor Victoria had 2 417,582 acres
of land under cultivation, while N.S'W,, with
almost four times the territory, totalled only
977,064 acres.
The Cowra (N. S. W.) paper ranks ‘ ‘ blighted
hopes, overweening vanity, and cold-blooded in-
sincerity” among the causes of J. P. Abbott’s
failure as a politician.
Bent, M.L.A., the other night publicly
reviled a brother member of Parliament for being
drunk. We hate these displays of jealousy. [Joke
adapted from Aspinall ]
How mad Water-Jug Foster must be that
he didn’t hold on to the N.S.W. Attorney-General-
ship and make up for the loss of patent-fees in the
mode adopted by his ingenious successor!
The N.Z. Government intend to reduce
the salary and allowances of the Governor to £5OOO
a year, and to reduce their own salaries to £lOOO
a year ; the number of Ministers being lowered to
five.
J. B. Patterson, M.L.A., of Victoria, says
he’s afraid that if Peter Lalor goes home for his
health, Parnell and the other fellows will seize him
and make him Speaker in the new Irish Parlia-
ment,
Mr. Walker, Victorian Commissioner of
Customs, willsoonresign on the score of ill-health.
He is an ardent Freetrader, and his indisposition
is attributed to his being compelled to administer
a policy of all-round Protection.
Sheffield Daily Telegraph wants to settle
the Irish question with the aid of “ picked marks-
men” — i.e., it offers a direct incitement to the
assassination of the Irish leaders. Yet that same
S.D.T. altogether objects to picked Irish knife-
men.
We notice that the services of the Tribune
have been enlisted by the band of brothers whose
object it is to frighten the Bulli widows out of
their intention of proceeding against the Com-
pany for compensation for the loss of their bread-
winners.
When asked to withdraw the term
“chuckor-out” the other night, in the N.S.W.
Assembly, Mud J. Haynes said he would “most
undoubtedly withdraw the harpoon.” This may
be very funny, hut we don’t like to see a politician
call himself a whaler.
During a recent debate in the Victorian
Parliament on the subject of compulsory vaccina-
tion, L. L. Smith said be was “ speaking for 13,000
mothers.” Mr. John Gavan Duffy: “Have the
husbands no voice in the matter?” This will
repay careful consideration.
Parkes, in his Local Government Bill, sets
down insolvency or assignation of estate as a dis-
qualification for aldermanic offices, &c. Is then
the municipal councillor so low that he is to be
bound by rules which do not apply to the Premier
or the private member of Parliament ?
As Parkes has been so good as to give
Deakin’s little private puff to the world, he might
let us have Sir Sawmill Griffith’s opinion on his
gross discourtesy in not replying to the Queensland
Premier’s repeated communications in re New
Guinea and the border railway-station.
A stranger in the N.S.W. Assembly last
week sang out, “ It’s a lie! ’ when Haynes,
M.L.A., was speaking. The House was so
thunderstruck at this usurpation of its privilege
that even the Mudgee man forgot to call the
offender “ an orphan bandicoot on a burnt ridge.”
The Victorian Amending Licensing Bill
requires landlords to keep a lamp burning “for-
ninst” their pubs, all night. So the belated
M.P. will not he excused in future when he knocks
up a private individual to make a soulful request
for “ shubt one more, for the love of heavensh 1”
The S.M. Herald sympathises with Pre-
mier Parkes in bis pecuniary misfortunes, but (by
way of encouraging the others) points out that
payment of members would have had no more
effect in saving him from financial trouble than
the rubbing-in of saltpetre in the case of a lost
soul.
The cable man says, “ It is expected that
the Crown will enter a nolle prosequi in the cases
of the policemen and bailiffs found guilty by
coroners' juries of wilful murder at Mitchellstown
and Wexford.” Right for once ! It is “ expected ”
by everyone, No one would ba fool enough to
* expect ” anything else.
A. T. Clark, who has just resigned his
seat for Williamstown, whicn he has uninter-
ruptedly represented for 20 years, ior the purpose
of entering the Upper House, is the man whose
vote enabled Francis to carry the Victorian
Education Act. Mr. Clark has always been the
staunchest of Liberals and of friends
John Farrell, in the Lithgow Enter-
prise and Australian Land Nationaliser,
says :—“Mr. Thomas Robertson, a solicitor, has
been obliged to apologise to Mudgee Haynes for
bavin < called him a liar in the Legislative As-
sembly. This is the grisliest instance we have
ever heard of what may happen to a man i
N.S.W.'
Speakirg of a Mr. C. H. James, M.L.C.
the Argus states that although he isn’t well
informed and doesn’t possess any opinions wort
mentioning, “he is necessarily in sympathy wit
the settled interests of the community.” Whicl
means that James is sugar-coated and lives a
Toorak. That’s the kind of politician for th
Argus.
Parke s declares that his only reason for
holding on to office is that he does not wish ti
break up the N.S. W. Freetrade party. We hope
the freetraders appreciate this declaration. Wha
a poor cause theirs must be if the maintenance of ii
depends upon the existence of the combination ot
mummies, imbeciles and shameless po itical rene
gades who form the Parkes Government!
Melbourne Age, dealing with the French
military scandal in a leader, says:—“We cannoi
conceive the possibility of Ministers of State in
an Eaglish-speakiog community putting armies
and fleets in motion in order that they and their
friends may make a profitable deal on the Stock
Exchange.” Beg pardon, old weather-cock, but
we can ; we remember the Egyptian War.
J. B. Patterson, of the Victorian Assembly,
told Deputy-Speaker Cooper that the Speakership
ought to be put up to auction if M.H. Davies was
going to be allowed to buy it. Had the House
been agreeable, Cooper would have knocked down
the Speakership in one lot. He wields the hammer
in private life. “And, gentlemen, £lO,OOO is all
I’m offered for this elegant Speakership. All
done? Going, going, gone ! Mr. Davie 3.” Patter-
son himself is also an auctioaer.
At an Anti-Mongolian meeting held in
Prahran (Vic.), the other night, a parson took
the floor to defend the “ pore heathen,” and en-
large upon his meek and childlike spirit; but the
meeting arose with one, unanimous get, and re-
quested the reverend to go and attend to his con-
gregation. It also asked him in sarcastic toDes
how many Chinee parsons there were, and other
impertinent questions. The Chinese invasion has
no terror for the parsons. They don’t want work
Little James Mirams, who was cruelly
thrown over by the Colling wood (Melb.) larrikins
at last general election, is offering himself for
a vacancy at Williamatown. May Fortune favour
him. He makes speeches which would
bear sweating, sometimes loses himself in laby-
rinths of statistics, and carries an umbrella of
weird aspect. But he is a good Radical, who can
be reckoned upon" to talk plain truths about the
HOW TO “COOK” RABBITS.—" ANOTHER WAY.”
Bustles are going out of fashion. Now is Habigle’s hopportunity to improvise
traps for the all-devouring rabbit.
proposed increase of £5OOO on Governor Loch's
salary.
Oar old heart always warms to any man
who signs “ Noblesse Oblige ” to an Argus letter.
We know by instinct that he is a philanthropic
Socialist, overAowing with brotherly love for the
masses. Tne very latest “Noblesse Oblige”
thinks that now is the appointed time for raising
Sir Henry Luch's salary, because Victoria “ap-
pears to be entering upon an era of unexampled
prosperity.” Aha! this gives N.S.W. a valu-
able hint for dealing with Baron Bob. Let
him be paid nothing at all until N'S.W. is about
to enter upon an era of prosperity. Good ideal
We hope Noolesse will soon oblige again.
Though a convincing case has been made
out in favour of Newman, who was with much
difHculty saved from the gallows as being con-
nected with the Mount Rennie outrage, it has been
decided that he must still pose—in chains—as a
“lifer " until the genial Judge Windeyer’s return
from his judicial junketing. Bat suppose his Honor
should never return, what then ? Newman
would undoubtedly have been executed with the
rest hut for the fact that the four boys who were
hanged solemnly assured the Sisters of Charity who
attended them in their last hours that he had had
nothing whatsoever to do with the alleged offence.
After the hideous bungle made over this never-
to-be-forgotten case, we dou’t so very much wonder
at Premier Parkea’ distrust of N.S.W. judges and
juries.
When next Attorney-General Wise re-
fuses to criminally prosecute anyone who ha
criminally libelled his friend Parkea he will pro
bably abstain from giving reasons. Mr. Wise ;
not good at reasons. His plausible excuse th:
time is that he doesn’t wish to advertise ob3cur
men—quite a new departure in Australian justice
For 99 yearsandsomemonthsithasbeen the obscur
man who was always prosecuted, while the pro
minent man got off, and when next year open
this great legal principle will celebrate ita centen
ary in N, 8. W. If Mr. Wise attempts at this lat
hour to establish a new system by which the ob
scure man is to get off on account of his obscurit;
while the prominent man is imprisoned or flogge
he will capsize the very foundations of Society,
and chaos will return upon eatth.
“ Constant Header,” writing from Bsurke
NSW., asserts that “J. Armstrong's” lette
as to the destitution existing among labouring
men in the N. S.W. back-blocks, is in the mail
quite true. He points out that though of late the
shearing has afforded relief, the demand for
labourers, &c., up to within the last three months
was absolutely nil. “ I happened to be one of the
fools who went to Nyngan in February last on
the strength of the Government tenders that were
advertised for the construction of the Railway
between Nyngan and Cobar, and I can assure you
that there were many men who came from the
Darling, where they could not get work, to look
for it on the rail way, which has not started even yet.
And yet at the same time from February to July
there was a constant stream of about 70 China-
men a week landing in Nyngan to work on the
stations, whilst the Government was spending
thousands on unemployed Europeans in Sydney 1 ”
A mathematical problem. Editor Bulle-
tin. —Sjr,—lf the States of New England, with a
population of 3,000,000, were able, one fine morn-
ing ia 1776, to inform John Bull’s world that
all men are created equal, how many fine morn-
ings is it likely to take the confederated states (?)
of Australia, with now also about 3,000,000 souls,
before they will be able to inform John Bull again
that they also have learnt to look upon them-
selves as created equals, and equally independent
of English thrones, of English Archbishops and
Bishops, of Imperial Federation, of Imperial Insti
tutes, and, above all, of Imperial military and
naval protection? And again, how long would it
take the Australian 3,000,000 souls of 1887 to
swell into the present 56,000,000 souls of our
Transpacific Sister Republic (sister in spe), sup-
posing the Australians of to-day were to announce
to day, or at as early a date after to-day as con-
venient, to John Bull, in Downlng-street, that the
Australians are not going to look on with indiffer-
ence until our queen (queen spelt with a small
“ q”) celebrates her centennial Jubilee over them ?
And, Anally, when will the Arst Cato Austra-
liensis pronounce his ego antem censeo Joannem
Bovem esse mackandum ?— Triumphant Demo-
cracy.
Tempora mutantur —and that’s a fact.
Only a few years ago the S.M. Herald, in a care-
fully prepared leader, fairly foroed Premier Parses
to retire from public life, till the clouds rolled by
at least, on the ground that, though he had been
re-elected to Parliament after Aling his schedule,
the peculiar nature of his indebtedness was such
as to make it highly objectionable for him to
occupy a position entitling him to be “ sent for ”
at any moment by the Governor. ‘ ‘ The
Governor," said the leader referred to, “ would be
forgetful of all that Is honourable in administra-
tion if he were to allow any man to come into his
Cabinet as an adviser when in the legal charge of
a Court of Record,” and then it proceeded to
touch up the “ unblushing effrontery ’’ of the man
who would presume to “ criticise ways and means
while an insolvent.” Practically speaking, Parkes
is as much an insolvent to-day as he was then,
but he is something more as well. He is the
Premier, and the head of the money-bag party,
and this probably accounts for the fact that the
Herald Is now advocating a “gift from the
people ” to this very man, and calling upon the
House to take such step 3 as will prevent him from
being insulted or worried by references to the
state of his pecuniary affairs. Verily, time works
wonders.
Dear Bulletin, —I would be glad if you
would tell me why Parkes should not take his
creditors into his Ministry if he feels so inclined.
New South Wale 3 is a Constitutional country, and
in a constitutional country the first principle of
government is that the people must have confi-
dence in the Premier. If the people are ready to
lend Parkes money—and really it seems as if he
had borrowed money from more N.S.W. electors
than almost any man ever did before him—then
that is proof positive that they have confidence in
him. If you can find better evidence than this,
I will be glad to know what it is. The members
of the Ministry, too, must have confidence in their
leader if they are to work in harmony with him,
and if several of them have trusted him with
money that is satisfactory proof that they have
confidence in him. If he still owes them the
money then it may be presumed that they still
have confidence in him, and the more he owes
them the greater the confidence. If, on the other
hand, Parkes should try to borrow money from one
of his colleagues, and be refused, then it is time
for that man to go out. His action will show that
he hasn t confidence in his chief, and his presence
will only breed disturbance. Confidence is a deli-
cate plant and of slow growth, bub in Parkes’ case
it seems to have reached the full blown stage of
maturity. Then why should you seek to blight it
with the cold breath of criticism ?—Yours a C
Simms.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Parkes never shaves. AU his time is de-
voted to his country.
Miss Braddon’a Jubilee.—She is publish-
ing her fiftieth novel.
In early life, George Augustus Sala was
in business as a pill-maker.
There are three Smiths, one Jones, and a
Brown in the N.S.W. Assembly.
Gerald Massey’s pension from the English
Civil List has been increased to £lOO a year.
Viscount Dalrymple, who is doing the
colonies, is the eldest son and heir to the Scottish
Earl of Stair.
The most recently-arrived English lord
has found employment as a writer on the staff of
the Melbourne Heraid.
Tommy Bent, of the Victorian Parlia-
ment, does not consider that calling a man a liar
is a matter to cause a break in friendship,
Justices of the Peace are tolerably plenti-
ful in N.S.W. One is a high priest of Venus
Cloacena, and another is a doctor's groom.
The latest polite fiction fashionable in
Melbourne sassiety is that Sir Henry Loch spends
more than bis salary. Scotchmen do, as a rule.
When Cardinal Moran speaks, he always
quotes poetry. But no one ever knows whose
poetry it is. Many now suspect that it is his
own.
At a recent public meeting in Brisbane an
Anglican parson, a R.C. priest, a Baptist minister,
and a Jewish Rabbi met and shook hands all
round!
A patent-medicine man bearded the
O'Kane in his den the other day to complain that
he had been libelled. He was thrown out “on
his ear." j
Red hair, God beware ! It is noted a curious
fact that the three last murderers hanged in
Nawgate— KiDg, Currell, and Lipski—have all
been red-haired.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley’s debut as a lead-
ing counsel at the Victorian bar in the E. S.
Parkes case was not a success. His opening ad-
dress was prosy and ineffective.
Bismarck weighs fifceen stone. The Prince
of Wales, when he is ten years older, will weigh
sixteen stone, and will therefore be a greater man
by fourteen pounds than Bismarck.
The Princess of Wales and Her Gracious
are not “ playing chaneys in the same back-yard ”
now. Her Highness is very polite before folk, but
she keeps out of her mother-in-law's way as much
as possible.
Tamworth (N.S.W.) people have a poor
opinion of themselves. During the hearing of the
incest case against Cressy the Judge invited all
decent people to leave the Court. Tnereupon not
a soul-stirred.
Archibald Forbes isin a bad way, and des-
pairs of ever being able to accomplish any more
deeds of daring. The Kings he has Met must
look him up in his bedroom if ihey are particularly
eager to renew the acquaintance.
Referring to Parkes, the Tamworth News
says:—“One has no more right, for instance, to
gratify a taste for pictures or costly furniture at
the expense of somebody else, than he ha 3 to
gratify a taste for gin or billiards.”
The cablegram of the S.M. Herald re-
ports that the Hygienic Congress met at Vienna,
and Sir Patrick Jennings from Double Bay wasn’t
present. That was all Jennings was absent, and
the torch of science was rudely snuffed out.
A Queensland Supreme Court judge has,
we are told, started a butcher’s shop at Bowen.
Our correspondent remarks that it is incompatible
with judicial dignity for a judge to be seen feeling
sheep's tails with a view to finding out whether
they are fat.
Bishop Barry says he never bestows money
without inquiry. He gave Parkes £lO the other
night, and right here we mildly ask: “What
does he know about Parkes 1 ” Ihe fact is that
Bishop Barry is the sort of man who always sools
on the uppermost pup.
The other day, Mr. Ninian Melville,
M.L.A.,ofN.S W., who is an undertaker, preached
a funeral sermon and took up a collection in aid
of the family of a deceased miner. “At the close
of the sermon the miner’s widow ascended the
stage and her fatherless child was christened by
Mr. Melville.”
In the early days men hadn’t time to
bother themselves over grandiloquent in-memo-
riaius. Side by side, in an old-time cemetery near
Rushworth (Vic.), are the graves of two brothers.
On one of the red-gum taolets at the head of the
mounds, the following words can be traced :
“ Jackey White, as snug as a bug in a rug.” On
the other Is written: “Tommy, his brother;
snugger than the other bug.” Pl*in facts, and no
frill.




SIR HENRY AND HIS FORTUNES.
SIR HENRY: "WHEN I GET THIS SEWN ON AND MY HAT BACK AGAIN I SHALL BE JUST ABOUT AS GOOD AS NEW!”


Society
DELBECK
REIMS
Since the present leaders of the N. S.W.
Opposition went out of office they have been roost-
ing in the cold shades of social neglect. Governor
Carington doesn’t invite them now to his gilded
halls, and they no longer shuffle in the mazy
dance when balls are on at Government House.
Parkes, of course, is there, as his cowhide moni-
tors testify when he plants them on the lily-white
hoofs of the gubernatorial girls, and so are his
colleagues, but the others—alas! where are they ?
Nowhere.
* * *
Parramatta is just now much agitated
over the identity of the tree against which Lady
Mary Fitzroy is said to have received her fatal fall
from horseback. An old lady points out one tree,
while an equally reliable old man alleges that the
old lady wasn't there at all and knows nothing
about it, and that he alone possesses the secret of
the correct tree. A third antiquarian dispels this
version with the sweeping assertion that the
historic log was chopped up for firewood, and is
non est. Lady Mary fell on the solid earth, ac-
cording to a fourth yarn, while a fifth bears testi-
mony to the fact that “the horse shied and
stood on her.” The local magnates have, how-
ever, decided to invest in a brass plate, and nail it
somewhere or other to mark the scene of this
musty tragedy,
* * *
Madame Schiller gave what was billed as
a final performance on the 18th, at Sydney
Y.M.C.A. hall. Acceding to the signed requests
of the musicians of the city to stay a little
longer, Madame consented to give one more reci-
tal on the 26th inst. On Tuesday vice-royalty
beamed o’er the show in the shape of Lady Car-
ington, who, in pale blue, designed in pale pink,
low corsage, and diamond and pearl ornaments,
looked very charming. The clever and graceful
pianiste wore burnt cream silk and satin Btripes—
cream lace petticoat embroidered in pearls—cor-
sage en suite. During the evening Madame
was presented with a beautiful bouquet and
basket of flowers.
* • *
Out from the depths of the grim, ghastly
official details of the Wesleyan Bashi-Bazouk
horrors in Tonga glisten some curious details.
One of the contending parsons accuses his godly
rival of a too liberal interpretation of holy writ
into the Tongan tongue. For instance, the word
J ‘ uma,” which means kiss, was strengthened into
“uma lolonui”—a solid, deep-sounding, smacking,
Divorce-Court, yum-yum, clerical sort of kiss—an
emphatic kiss, or a buster—of the kind whose
passionate gurgle used to torture the nerve-
centres of poor baker Weeding. It was con-
tended that this kind of theology was calculated
to be detrimental to the moral welfare of the
black youth of both sexes, and that the effect on
the woolly-headed adolescent heathen on reading
that Hezekiah or Nebuchadnezzar or one of the
horrid old Kings of Israel ran after Rebecca or
somebody and said “Yum-yum!” was not in
accordance with the doctrines laid down by John
Wesley and the rest of the early fathers. It is
plain that the Tongans are on the high road to a
state of civilisation and piety in which they will
be able to get their insolvency, certificates on
appeal to the Full Court, and be respected by all
who know them.
* * *
We hope there were no licensing magis-
trates amongst the Bega sycophants who
solemnly, but quite illegally, decided that one of
their hotels “should be specially set apart” for
the adoration of Lord Carington and his party on
the occasion of their visit to that ultra-loyal
town. Will even the oldest and best paying
boarder, who usually sits at the head of the table,
have to go to the lock-up in consequence of the
vice regal spree ? And must even the best-looking
bank-clerk be directed “over the way” when he
suavely calls for his customary pewter ?
* *
The poor, weak, defenceless woman who
will persist in shoving herself into a smoking-car
when all the rest of the train is empty, who
crowds into the already over crowded tram-car,
and then goes off her much-bonneted head because
the poor, old, gouty, sat-upon man in the corner
doesn’t go out and hang on the foot-board in the
rain to make room for her, the helpless creature
with a tendency to tears who could carry a piano
on her hick for three miles if she tried, but who
thinks she is too weak almost to blow her own
nose, ii again on the warpath in the Sydney Echo.
Her complaint this time is that the days of
chivalry are past. Perhaps they are, and a very
good job, too. It is rather nice to look back upon
that remote era when galvanised-iron bushrangers
rushed at each other with sharpened clothes-props
for the honour of some lad ye fay re, but these times
had their drawbacks. There were hardly any
baths then, and the ladies mostly went to bed
with their clothes on, and a slop-bowl full of water
was considered enough for five girls to wash with,
excepting in the winter, when they mostly satis-
fied themselves wi;h a dry polish. Also at dinner-
parties it was the correct thing for a lady and
gentleman to eat off the same plate, and the one
who was hungriest “scoffed” most of the victuals
and reached for the other's last piece of fat. Per-
haps in view of these things the excited woman
who writes to the Echo will give up worrying
about the days of chivalry.
* * *
A spotted cow, with a hollow eye and a
gaunt, woe-worn aspect, clambered up the broad
stairs leading from Bourke-street to the dress-
circle of the Melbourne Bijou theatre. She was
an inquisitive and short-tempered bovine, and
bored holes into quite a number of large mirrors
in the corridor to get at a wasted, sore-eyed cow
which blinked at her from their polished surfaces,
after which she tasted a few of the sham plants
that bloom and blush in the niches, and, finding
them tough and of poor flavour, she kicked them
over and expressed her contempt for the whole
get-up by tangling her horns in the curtains and
upsetting the busts and statues. She next pre-
sented herself at the entrance to the circle, and a
man with long hair threw a chair at her, and in a
firm voice requested her to “shoo!” but whilst
she was lowering her occiput and getting ready to
shoot, the man climbed into a gas-bracket and
she was admitted “on the nod.” We have not
heard which of the local society journals the
represented.
* * *
Had the Sunbeam been at all decently
fitted, they might have scraped as much lead or
copper as would have saved poor Lady Brassey’s
clay from the waves, and permitted it being
placed in the family vault. Even in Central
Queensland, only a little while ago, a corpse was
carried about 200 miles in tin, no other suitable
material being available.
* * #
Earl Cairns (Gumboil) knew what he was
about when he backed out of his promise to marry
Miss Fortescue. That cool million (then only
prospective), which a kind uncle willed him the
other day, was the cause of the rumpus, and the
young lady from Western Victoria who rejected
his offer of marriage in deference to the strongly-
expressed wishes of her uncle will now have
nothing to do but kick the cat all over the draw-
ing-room.
* * *
The Rev. Mr. Fitchett, President of the
Wesleyan Ladies' College, Melbourne, has deli-
vered his soul in a lecture concerning horse-racing
and betting. He denounces gambling as the great
national vice, and states, on the alleged authority
of Joe Thompson, that £20,000,000 is annually ex-
pended over horse racing in Australia. But is
Parson Fitchett earnest in this matter? He edits
the Melbourne Daily Telegraph, a journal
which, though it is only partly alive to anything,
A PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT OF A GREAT SOCIAL DIFFICULTY.
"It has been arranged that the female medical students at Melbourne University shall be provided with a
separate dissecting-room.”— Daily Paper.
LEARNED PROFESSOR: “THERE YOU ARE, MY DEAR, TAKE IT AWAY TO YOUR OWN ROOM;
AND PLEASE GIVE THIS HEAD TO MISS FLORA. TOMKINS, WITH MY COMPLIMENTS.”
is deeply impressed with the importance of secur-
ing race-advertisements and publishing reports of
race-meetings; while the sporting editor of the
Weekly Times, published at the D.T. office, has,
to give the devil his due, the reputation of being
the most successful turf tipster in Victoria. Per-
haps he gets his prognostications from Heaven,
via the clergy.
* * *
Melbourne Herald hastens to inform its
readers that Viscount Dalrymple is a “ gentleman
of unblemished character.” This is rather rough
on the old nobility, it strikes us. John Smith or
his brother Tom can laud in these colonies daily,
and be accepted as an honest man till fce picks
somebody’s pocket or henroost, but no soon r
does one of England’s nobles start our way than
the Australian public is all _a-gape for a list
of his previous convictions.
*_ * *
Captain Keith-Falconer, Lord Deerhurst's
successor on the staff of Sir Henry Loch, has baen
gazetted to a commission in the Mounted R ties,
and intends to drill with his troop This will ba
much safer than betting at pigeon-matches and
ogling barmaids in the back-parlours of Bourke-
street.
* • •
Few English jadges have worked harder
to thin out the population than Sir Henry Haw-
kins. He cocks the black cap over one eye
and rolls out the death-sentence like a good ’un.
When the foreman of the jury says “ Guilty” you
can see Hawkins’ mouth water with sup-
pressed—well, we suppose it’s emotion.
Many of his earlier “sentences” were re-
prieved, and one of them —Alice Rhodes—re-
ceived a free pardon after the genial j udge had
told her to expect no mercy on this side of the
grave. But when not engaged in exhorting some
poor devil to prepare for the gallows, the British
prototype of our friend Judge (we decline
to print his name under £2o,ooo)—is a nice old
man who goes racing, and light ly turns to thoughts
of love. In days gone by he married his cook, a
worthy woman enough, with a mania for calling
out - “ I say ’Orkins” during the pauses in dinner-
party conversation. Quits recently poor Lady
Hawkins was gathered to her lost h’s, and now
the tough old j udge of seventy-two has been set-
ting his black cap at a plump young thing. We’re
hanged if he hasn’t put his head in the noo3e once
again. All this leads us up to the fact that Judge
Windeyer has been giving the English judges a
lesson. Truth butters up Hawkins because he
sat in court until ten at night on the first day,
half-past nine on the second, and half-past eight
on the third day of Lewes Assizes, “ The object
of the hanging judge was, as usual, selfish,” says
a London print. “He wanted to get the business
over, so that he might marry the second-rate
actress he had been courting so long, and did not
care in the least for the inconvenience to which he
put counsel, solicitors, suitors, and witnesses, t)
say nothing about the prisoners ”
• • «
Quite a simple young man from an Arca-
dian suburb was leaving the theatre on Saturday
night with a pretty little golden vision, who had
told him she was dying for a snack of supper,
when he ran up against a male acquaintance.
Equal to the occasion, as he thought, he blurted
out: “ Ferguson, this is my sister.” “ Yes, yes,
I know,” responded the other with infinite calm,
“she was mine once.”
#. * *
Says the S.M. Herald in re “ Tamate ’*
Chalmers’ welcome by the New Guineans : —“ Mr.
Chalmers, as is well known here, had been on a
visit to Europe, and his welcome ‘ home ’ was of
the heartiest and most demonstrative character,
the swarthy Papuans swarming round him and
hugging and kissing him in turn.” We have
travelled far and suffered much, but we never
sunk so low as that. We have lived on faith and
taturs on a volcano ; we have put up next door to
an infernal pussy cat and a thrice-dashed hyseaa
which sassed the cat at midnight through the
bars of its cage ; we have had a Chinese baby left
on our doorstep with a ticket attached in which
the yellow anomaly called us “ pa ” ; and we have
gone out at night and fallen over a goat on to a
hoe, but we say it with pride that we were never
yet kissed by a nigger. And, by the tail of the
laughing jackass, we never will. Missionary
Chalmers may put up with it if he likes, but when
a greasy Papuan, incited thereto by the seven
devils of dirt, aggravation, and malignity, enters
this office and attempts to hug us, he .shall P9iish
in agony.
* * *
Mrs. Stephen Thompson, reviewing Aus-
tralian literature in a London magazine, gushes a
great gush over J. Brunton Stephens’ poem,
“ Convict Once. ’ But Mrs. T. dep.oras that the
pome didn’t catch on. “To more refined ears,”
naively remarks the lady, “it also labours under
the disadvantage of a most repulsive title.”
Quite true. “It's so very unpleasant to be con-
stantly reminded of bygones, my dear.”
* * *
Here is a new American fashion which we
trfist will not soon be acclimatised in Australia.
Two Boston belles recently appeared at a high-
toned dinner party with serpents painted on their
naked arms and a circle of strawberries and
leaves neatly executed on the white skin of their
necks. If this custom arrives in the colonies it
will probably be modified a little, but still it will
be sufficiently exciting to sit in the theatre be-
hind a fair thing in a low-necked dress with a
kangaroo etched on her back, or the cow of the
period done in brilliant tints on her shoulders.
And when the artist doesn’t turn up, and the girls
have to paint each other’s backs, and when Borne
horrid mean thing sketches spiders and ants
crawling over her pretty sister's spine instead of
the butterflies she ordered, what a racket there
will be !
* * *
MARRIAGES ARE MADE—IN HEAVEN.
At the Cathedral,
“ The church with the sunny windows
Is full of the happy crowd ;
The bridal troop’s in the chancel,
The choristers singing loud.
“ Do you hear how low she spake it,
How soft she said, ‘ I will,’ —
I stand by the shadowy pillar,
I think I hear it still.
“ They have turned, the march is playing
She moves on stately above ;
That is the woman that loves me,
That is the woman Ilove!"
At the Hotel.
Lady, why are you laughing,
Your cheeks and eyes so hright ?
“ The blood in my veins is burning ;
This is my marriage night! ”
Lady, why are your teeth clenched ?
You seem to shudder and wait
“ Far, far away is the man I love ;
„ Here is thz man I hate ! ”
Francis W. L. Adams.
* * *
At Narrabri (N.S.W.) the so-called
“ Queen’s ” Fund has proved a black frost. The
local lady appointed to manage the finances an-
nounces that she hasn’t yet received a penny.
Rather a novelty in
the way of bigamy came
before the Parramatta
Quarter Sessions last
week, when Richard
Francis Teas dell appeared
to explain why he mar-
ried a Miss Emily Wright
in 1881, and a Miss Emily
Overton in 1887—Emily
Ist being then alive. The
evidence proved that
Emily Ist went straight
from the nuptial altar to
her parents’ house, and
troubled no more about
her lord and master than
if he had been drowned
with Pharoah in the Red
Sea. As the years rolled
on, Richard Francis met
with Emily No. 2, and,
having an old regard for
the name, he advertised
four times, warning Emily
No 1 that if she didn’t
show up and claim her
right to him he would
make a happy bride of
Emily No. 2. Miss Wright
either “didn’t read the
rubbishin’ papers,” like
Mr. Attorney General
Wise, or else she paid
little attention to what
they contained, for she
remained silent, and in
due time Emily No. 2 had
jumped the claim of
Emily No. 1. The happy
pair were rather dis-
gusted, however, to learn
rom legal lips that even
if the newspaper notice
had been a standing ad.
from the days of Caxton
down it would not be
worth the paper on which
it was printed, but as the
jury were of opinion that
the prisoner had been
hardly treated, a “rising
of the Court” sentence
was inflicted, and Rich-
ard Francis trotted off
with Emily No. 2.
* * *
Some parents who
their children to the
seminary more for the
purpose of temporarily
getting rid of them than
for anything else, are by
no means grateful to
Lord Carington for having
prolonged the King’s School Christmas holidays
by a week, ostensibly in honour of the Jubilee
year. When masters are not averse to taking
holidays themselves ‘he pupils have very little
difficulty in getting the illustrious visitor to work
the oracle. It’s not all loyalty. It’s partly laziness.
* * *
Mexican charity is evidently rather ahead
of the Australian article. In the city of Pueblo
there is a maternity hospital in which allcomers
are received without question as to morals or
antecedents. Those who wish wear masks, and
during the whole of their stay no one except the
nursing sister ever sees their faces—and she
tells no tales. The obtrusive tract-distributing
“Kerrisfcian ” female who loves to visit and admo-
nish a suffering girl and impress upon her the vast
gulf which separates her from Respectability is
thus crushed out in one act. She may visit the
hospital if she please, but she can learn no names;
the little apartments or cells are all alike ; and
the patient who puts on her mask to receive a
visitor may be a peasant girl struggling back to
a decent life, or a high-born lady forced to resort
to this refuge because her purse is shorter than
her pedigree. We commend this idea to the notice
of the S.M. Herald and respectability in general.
The Earl of Buckinghamshire sings comic
songs. He sang one of them at an Artists’ Smoke
Night in Melbourne.
* * *
Inquisitive people breathing the pure air
of Mount Victoria have often been puzzled to hear
We were wondering what the crowd around the window
were gazing at. Looking up we found was BRAY Blos’.
place in George-street. When our turn ;ame we were uncer-
tain which to look at first the ingenio- j candlesticks which
can be affixed anywhere and in any position, the various
Deer-heads, Dogs, the rich locking Dinner Sets or the pretty
and rem wkably chaop Flower Stands which are marvellously
good value.*
FKECKLES.— These unsightly subcutaneous discolora-
tions are of two Kinds —the “Summer” or temporary freckles
(Mphelis and the norm at ent variety (Lentigo), The former
is generally due to a darkening of the epidermis in small
oval patches (“Summer Freckles”), or extending over a
larger surface (“Tan or Sunburn”), while permanent
Freckles (or Lentigo) are deep-ir seated, and remain even
after the epidermis is ro ripletely removed. Clements
Frecklebane is an infallible cure, and will eradicate the
wo.se case of Freckles without injuring the skin or com-
plexion. Sold by all chemists. Wholesale, F. M Cl kments,
141 King-street Newtown.*
Ladle* would do well to attend the great aale ot the aeaaon
now on at the London and Faria Outfitting Eatabliahment
Mri. MoOathiw. W and 90 Klnst-atonet.*
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—A Private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms,
derive the great advantages of a constant med'cal super-
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff.
For particulars apply to the Lady Superintendent.*


the afternoon train from Sydney styled the “ fish"
;rain, and were under the impression it was so
called because it carried a fish cargo. . Not so. It
was so named because its driver, fireman, and
guard were named respectively Haddock, Herring,
and Pike.
# * *
A Sydney daily, in its account of the
Wreck of the weasly-propelled Cheviot, states
that “ all the women were removed in ihe same
way—each in order of seniority of years.” Now,
if this really was the case, the wonder is that any
women got resbued at all. How delighted a
Woman would be when asked her age, and how
grateful she Woiild be if rescued first because she
looked older than that cat of a woman in the
yellow dress 1 O Death where is thy sting 1
to- *
Phil Beck, in “Harbour Lights, 3 ' knocks
the ladies silly with admiration of his David
Kingsley. In fact, one girl with turquoise eyes
and golden hair in the circle, the other night,
audibly slid, during some of the yum-jum busi-
ness between David and Dora, “Oh, doesn't he
make love beautifully !" Fact. P.S.— We beg to
State we can make love ouite as well as Phil
Beck.
» * *
The mighty engine of the English press is
fast degenerating into imbecility so abject that
the time is not far off when it won’t know
enough to put on its own boots Listen :
“ The young Duke of Albany, an intelligent little boc/ oft
'three, has already eutered upon the duties that royalty ip
heir to, and His Royal Highness recently 1 kid the founda-
tion st"ne of a new house in Claremont Hark. He pertorrjjeq.
■the ceremony with dignity and savoir faire, and declared tpe
■s'one 1 well and truly laid.’”
Just contemplate the “ dignity ” of a babe of three !
And then try if yoffcan to figure out how digni-
'lied that there kid would have been if he had
been twins!
* * *
This beautifully pathetic little efforb is
from the obituary column of the Age :
“ We are thinking of my poor brother,
Who on earth we ne’er shall see,
For his soul is with the angels,
And may he rest in peace.”
From which it would appear that rest and peaee
are by no means certain even among the angels.
Had the man outlived three wives, or is that last
line intended as a covert fling at the celestial
choir ? These are questions which are causing the
giant intellect of our special commentator to Are
its; bearings.
• * *
The presence of more than one Australian
<G cvernor wiil be imperatively demanded at Mel-
bourne, on the Ist proximo, for the transaction
of important business in connection with the Cup.
* * *
From Sydney E. News :
us MATRIMONY.— Straightforward, working, kind-
M hearted, business-like Young Man, small capital,
wishes to correspond with Young Woman who is a
compete ri" cook, with some means. L A.NDLORD, P. 0.,
William-st."
“Young Man” is quite right. Everything de-
ipends on cooking. Happy marriage is a gastric,
mob merely a cardiac affair.
* * *
A N.Z. barmaid has just recovered £5O
dimages from the chief officer of the lonic. He
stiook hands with her one night—too much, she
a’l-ged—and she fell down and fractured her lily-
■white arm, whereupon the dear creature sued him
tn £5O damages. The officer’s version was that
s’ae swung around herself, let go. and collapsed,
ibut the judge wouldn’t believe him. Of course
n i. Whoever heard of a barmaid letting goof
th :i chief officer of a mail-steamer ?
• •
A certain Melbourne professor of clairvoy-
■a iyy was up in Yass (N.S. W.) the other day. To a
1 1 Yy bush youth who came to consult him he
sad, “ You will feel a sensation directly.” And
hi did. The bill was £7 15s.
# •
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) is afflicted with
as attack of surprise-parties. One host, after
b -ing invaded by about 40 hilarious strangers
wao brought their own hard-boiled eggs and
drank up the trifling store of whisky which he
had in the house in case of sickness, rose and said
“he really didn’t deserve their kindness, and it
had been a great surprise to him.” We reckon it
was. We knew a man once who headed a surprise
party, and got so obfuscated that his host had to
instruct him as to his road home. He followed
the instructions religiously, and fell 30 feet into a
quarry. It was a great surprise to him.
* * *
It ia whispered in ecclesiastical circles
that their Anglican Lordships of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are not on those terms of intimacy which
should exist between Christian prelates. Some
colour is lent to this rumour by the fact that
■when Dr. Barry goes to Melbourne he stays at
Government House and not at Biahopscourt.
• • *
A Church of England reverend near
Sydney is breathing forth threatenings and
slaughter against tobacconists who sell cigarette •
packets labelled wish a picture of a tightly-dressed
girl. He says such pictures are “ suggestive.”
Without attempting to palliate the act of the
weed-sellers who mix up tobacco and giddiness,
we humbly venture to remark that we here have
the sort of parson who would go to bed in the
dark for fear he should see himself in his pyjamas.
And yet parsons attend dinner-parties where
pious old ladies turn up in evening dress, and so
skinny are some of the dames that when (after say-
ing a long grace) they swallowa bone, you can see it
going down, down —till it gets pa3t the top of the
garment and is lost to view. Let us blush
• • •
Perhaps the saddest lesson to be derived
from the less of the ill-fated Cheviot is that which
once more teaches ui how rough the God of
storms is on steerage-passengers and men bafore
the mast.
* * *
A happy couple were united the other
day at Brisbane. He was aged about and
hadn't a cent in the world, his assets consisting of
a pink face and a girlish figure, but he knew his
way about all the same. She was 45, and had to
furl her ears when she retired to rest to keep her
from coming under the Rabbit Act ; she had
never been kissed, and had limbs which would
have supported a whale, and hards like a soup-
plate ; but she had lots of coin, so he took her to
blossom in the garden of his affections, and they
Were made one. The wedding breakfast was
spoilt a little, because her father, who had lost all
his teeth astd 1 ad to gum his remarks, got at it be-
fore the rest of the company eat down, and spent
an hour skirmishing among the victuals, but there
"was enough left to go round. Towards the end
of 1 he proceedings one of the bride’s relatives —the
one who looked least like a mud-carter—was
with difficulty wrenched away from something he
was gobbling and waa raised tip to propose the
health of the happy pair. As he rose, the bride-
groom and his aristocratic relatives fixed their
ejeglasses on him with sudden alarm, and the
bride fell against her husband and said she felt
faint. Then a hush came over the assembly, and the
speaker commenced : “ Mish Thingammy, ladies,
an’ gentle-Mc-men : I have to proposh the tosh—.”
There was a long pause, while the unfortunate
relative held on to his chair and did a deep think.
After a minute or so, he started again : ‘ Misher
ladies and gentlemen, —I have knowed the bride
for 40 jearsh— I meanshay—she an’ me wash boys
togezzer—happy daysh o' childhood—l have a gra-
tifying health an’ felishity —zhat ish—Misher bride
an’ the hj sena wiz ze eyeglash—l mean —er —er —
I have . ’ He stopped here for a rest, and thB
biide was helped out oc the room. As she was
making her escape he got afloat again: ‘ 1 Mish
Thingammy. The bride nurshed me in infanshy—
I meanshay—l have never known the bridegroom
—I have alwaysh adopted—Miss Whatshisname —
I beg to proposh .” • Someone here attempted
to haul him down, and it made him mad. There
was a c%|)siz9 among the furniture and then he
was on his feet cnce more : “Misher bride —shes
as old as Methusha—a—lah—l proposh hang the
bride—darn the bridegroomsh- don’t care tbiea
shtraws for the whole crowd of ye—she's got falsh
teeth—proposh she goesh an’ dinesh in the shtable
and we’ll make a night of it—Mish—Misher bride,
cime an’ have a drink—'markable old galsh—
propo3h she puts the bridegroomsh on her knee
an’ spanksh him with a fence-rail.” The company
„ Jma HE Anti-Chinaman is
# * the title of a new
V jft paper which has its head-
fla quarters in the city 0*
J§|k* Wellington, N.Z, It is a
vigorous little sheet run
f/°£ on pure anti leper prin-
———V ciples by a man named
Smith, whose journalistic
creed is summed up in these terse and emphatic
sentences: —
“ We intend to prosecute a peaceful, but at the same time a
determined and vigorous crusade against the enemi-s of fair
trade and fair wages, until such time as the evil has been
abated and the tide of Chinese immigration turned from our
shores. Wh'nlhat end has been attained the Anti-China-
man's motion will be accomplished, and he will prob’bly
devote the remainder of his days to growing cabbages and other vegetables
honestly in good, clean, sweet-smelling healthy soil—in striking contrast with the
rank, putrid, boggy, stinking, steaming manure heaps levelled out and mixed up
in which the disc'pies of Conphew-cius rush up those vegetable atrocities which
scatter broadcast death, disease, wind, bile, indigestion, doctor's bills and other
ills too numerous and nasty to mention, throughout a long-Buffenng, much-en-
during Cheap-John-haunted community.”
We wish the Anti-Chinaman a long and honourable oareer —in some other capacity. Which means
that we trust its anti-Jess, anti-leprosy career may speedily be rewarded by the success its energy
deserves, and that it may thereafter proseoute a new mission by pounding at some other of the many
plague spots that disfigure modern society.
had dispersed by this time, and when the orator
fell heavily forward among the edibles there was
no one to pick him up. He called on the newly-
married pair the next evening to apologise and
nearly killed the bridegroom, and that gentleman
is no w only the shadow of his former self. The
care 3 of matrimony are dragging him down to an
early grave,
* • #
The S.M. Herald produces the following
“ad which is unique in the awful possibilities
it conceals :
“ A YOUNG Man having a large American Organ,
w 'uld Sell it cheap ; or take Board and Resi-
dence with quiet family in exchange for it. N. A ,
Herald Office ”
How is that for high ? The miscreant will intro-
duce his blighting machine into some “quiet
family ” and turn its tranquillity into chaos in ex-
change for board and lodging. Possibly he would
also be glad to trade off a bulldog for a sitting in
a secluded church. Maybe he has a keg of dyna-
mite which he would like to take out in clothes.
Perhaps ha would exchange a delirium tremens
for a corn, or set off a howling monkey against
six new shirts, or square a washing-bill with a
foghorn. It is hard to tell what a man like that
would not be capable of.
• • *
The incalculable benefit which we derive
from our cable communication with the dear old
mother country was never so clearly proved as it
was on Thursday last, when word was flashed
forth that their Royal Highnesses the Princesses
Louise and Maude of Wales were down with the
measles. Our fit of Jubilee grovel must be dying
out, however, for no one has yet suggested that
Mayor Riley or Mayor Cain should call a public
meeting, aud cable home au expression of our
condolence and sympathy to the two poor dear giils
with the big “ rash.”
* * *
The chief excitement at the Columbia
Rink, Sydney, last Saturday evening was the ladies
race. Only two entered—a child of ten aud a lady of
the grown up description, but the former kept
ahead, and as her competitor fainted all of a heap
on the traok in the last lap, an unfeeling public
lost interest in the proceedings. Another skating
carnival eventuates on Friday, and in view of the
heat, and the flies, and tha way a girl looks when
she is labouring round on a summer night, tha
rink will close at the end of the present month.
* * •
A Eocial in aid of All Saints’ Church,
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) was held at that somno-
lent township on the 7th October. The first part
of the entertainment consisted of songs—senti-
mental and comic—ye gods, comic songs in aid of
a church!—and afterwards the hall was cleared
for dancing. The shepherd and the elite of the
flock danced on the stage, and the hard-up sinner
and his missus, also the ordinary girl and her
“ bloke,” hopped in the hall below. One pore,
miserable, lost soul tried to go on the platform
and dance with the aristocracy, but something
was said to him—“ Go to Sheol !” perhaps—and
he slid down again and joined the common persons
below.
• * •
Jawbone Neild, M.L.A., sends in a bill
for £3050 as the cost of having a man with a
waxed moustache to represent N.S.W. at the
Adelaide Exhibition. About £l5OO of this amount
is put down as “ expenses of a general character.”
This reminds us somewhat of a very fresh young
man from England who was employed in the
Queensland Railway Department, and who was
sent A Sabbath Day's journey out of Brisbane to
look af cer some trifling piece of business. He was
sacked owing to the vigorous efforts he afterwards
made to engineer through an account of 12s.
for expenses, of which ss. 6d, was put down as
‘ charges incurred while knocking round in a
rough sort of way.” The boss of his department
dumped down 6s. 6d , and told him he was a fool,
and he replied that either the Government must
go the whole hog on that account or else accept
his resignation—which latter they did.
* * *
Poor old Poulton, the Molong (N.S. W.)
religionist, is one of the very few who suffer for
conscience sake. He is both an educated man
and an able speaker, and a few years ago he was
manager of the Commercial Bank at Orange.
This post he resigned, as he felt —so he said—that
he could not continue connected with an institu-
tion devoted to modern finance. The directors
offered him twelve months’ leave of absence on
full pay, with a promise of a post where he would
not have to handle money, but he declined, and
went free selecting, an occupation for which he
was wholly unfitted. Then he gave up his new
pursuit, >nd devoted himself to “ths Lord 1 ’ with-
out fee or reward. Poulton was always afstrong
temperance advocate, and it is related that on one oc-
casion whenacertainhotelfellintothe bank’shands
and was to be sold, Poulton should have been
inside the house with the auctioneer, but he de
dined, and took up his position in the centre of
the road, whence he issued his instructions.
On another occasion a wealthy publican customer
of the Bank popped in on Monday morniDg with
his usual deposit. The accountant happened to
be absent, and Poulton received the cash. He
handled the notes pretty gißgerly, and with each
count would audibly utter the word “blood-
money 1 ’ The whisky-seller was wealthy, and,
taking offence, lifted some thousands in fixed
| deposits and placed them elsewhere, a man with
| a conscience like Poulton's was not) meant fm 1 a
financier.
* * *
Lady Carington on Tuesday last opened
; the Horticultural Society’s Ro3e Show in Sydney
Inner Domain Herladyshipsaidalotofsweetthings
but she altogether omitted to explain what a dis-
play of beans was doing in an exhibition of roses.
But perhaps Lady Carington doesn’t know beans
when she sees them. We don’t ourselves, for
that matter, and yet we are literally stuffed with
erudition, vegetable, animal, mineral, and other-
wise, and can tell a correspondent right off how
many feet a horse must gallop in a minute going
up hill in order to pay 5 per cent, on his cost, and
if so how fast a dog would have to go down hill
in order to pay the interest on a bill of sale at 90
per cent.
• * *
On Saturday evening last an amateur con-
cert was struggled through at St. Leonards
Masonic Hall, the proceeds going to fhe “Queen’s”
Fund. Governor and Lady Carington were
present, and a number of pretty girls alleviated
the proceedings.
* * *
It is rumoured that a certain R.C. digni-
tary in Australia is in considerable difficulties
with the old priests under his command. He
sends them positive orders to make their wills
right off, leaving all their property to the Church,
and if they refuse he sacks them, and puts freshly-
imported saints into their churches. As a rule,
they do refuse, unless in those cases when ihey
haven’t a cent to leave, and, consequently, many
an old man who has lifted up his clean shave for
years in the service of St. Peter is now going out
upon the world and letting his hair grow. There is a
good deal of ill-feeling over this, and some mem-
bers of the flock are trying to find out how many
years in purgatory is likely to ensue as a punish-
ment for kicking a bishop, an archbishop, a car-
dinal, and a pope, respectively.
* * *
The “Women’s Testimonial to Sir Henry
Parkes ” commenced a feeble existence at Sydney
Town Hah on the 21st iast., when some 30 ladies
resolved that the red-mouthed demon of poverty
should not be allowed to overtake Sir Henry
while one remaining school kid had a copper. The
most conspicuous feature of the proceedings was
the unanimous way in which the “society”
dames of Sydney were elsewhere, very few of
them even forwarding an apology for their unex-
pected remoteness, and the next most conspicuous
feature was the double-barrelled resolution that
“ subscriptions should be received from women
only,” and that “subscription lists should be dis-
tributed in all public schools.” This means, we
presume, that little Tommy may give Parkas his
penny through the school-marm, but that Pa kes
won’t take little Tommy’s penny through any
other medium. How Tommy is to be persuaded
to hand out the copper is not stated, but means
will, no doebt, be taken to induce the grimy little
urchin to part. The lady collector will probably
point out to tho teachers that the Minister for
Public Instruction having given £lOO, a Aver or
a tenner will be regarded as a delicate attention,
and the teacher will ask the poor little offspring
under her charge if they wouldn’t like to have a
nice tram-compartment always set apart for
themselves and their dear little brothers and
sisters without being forced to mix wi'h common
children, and wouldn’t it be fun to find dear old
Sir Henry waiting for them at the platform every
morning with a big bundle of lollies in his hand?
And then how nice it would be to have Pa made
a J.P, so that he could send all the nast y children
to gaol when they made faces at them in the play-
ground. With such means of persuasion at band
the “Women’s Testimonial” ought to boom with
the babies’ coppers, but somehow we are much
afraid it won't.
* * *
This world needs to be Taked over pretty
carefully if one wants to find any bowels of com-
passion in a Ladies’ Christian Association. For
instance, a poor woman wsvs recently lying sick
unto death in a miserable hovel at Wellington
(N Z ), and around her bed her children, starving,
and almost naked, were crying for bread. Some
poor Christian ass came to their assistance, and
when his means gave out he appealed to the
Ladies’ Association to take the matter up. Then
a deputation waited on the dying woman, and
dredged up her character, and sifted her morals
through the hair-sieve of aggravated piety, and
raked her all over to see if the seeds of righteous-
ness had been implanted in her and were showing
any signs of coming up, and finally they presented
a report in which they stated that ' 1 although she
was undoubtedly in urgent need of relief she was
not a fit subject for benevolence.” And theD, in
a Christian outburst of wrath compounded of
many elements, the Association resolved that the
poor sinner and her infants might scramble on as
best they could, but that the exhilarating cocktail
of charity was not for such as they. This
resolution being passed the Christian Ladies went)
home to their tea, and wondered how that dying
woman in the back slum could have sunk so low
as to sin for the sake of bread.
David Anderson, shepherd, aged 82, the
only survivor of the party who came with Fawkner
from Van Dieman’s land in 1836, is now in Mel-
bourne Benevolent Asylum celebrating his Aus-
tralian Jabilee. Apropos, it is not generally
known that Fawkner visited the spot now known
as Sorrento with Governor Collins, in 1802.
In re a paragraph which has just gone the
rounds of the N.S.W, papers, about a prosecutor
who “ modestly swore he could take 60 drinks in a
day without feeling any ill effect,” a cynical corres-
pondent writes enquiring whether he was a Crown
prosecutor 1 ” The Bulletin can’t say for cer
tain, but it presumes that he was something of
the sort.
Another distinguished clergyman will
shortly visit us. The Rev. Dr. Keating, sentenced
to 18 months for obtaining a Dublin curacy as a
converted Catholic priest, was released last month
and is about to depart for Australia, “where he
promises to lead a correct life.” Which reminds
us that Sydney is already paved with good inten-
tions like that.
Messrs Parkes, Garrett, Roberts, Inglis,
and H. Taylor, M's.P., have presented a pair of
whips, with their illustrious names engraved
thereon, to a Forbes (N.S.W.) man, who drove'
them around that locality during their recent
visit. A local paper wants to know who is H.
Taylor. Well, that’s easy. H. Taylor is a credi
tor of Parkes.
Rhoda Broughton, the famous novelist, is l
a fascinating fairy with sparkling eyes and a face
like a sharpened meat-axe. She has had, per-
haps, more offers of marriage than any other
woman in creation, and has refused several dukes,
half-a-dozen lords, earls, and marquises, not to
mention a youthful sprig of the Russian Royal
family, who was “badly mashed.”
The verdict of £13,000 to the executors of
the late Mr. E. S. Parkes, of the Bank of Austral-
asia, who was killed in the Windsor accident,
may be looked upon as a victory for the Victorian-
railway-commissioners The claim of £40,000 was
regarded by everybody as an absurd one, and’
even his Honor Judge Williams went the length-
of pronouncing it “wild and extravagant." The
Commissioners offered to compromise for £15,000’
before the case went into court.
Lord Dudley, one of the most absent-
minded of men, and father of the youth who was-
te. Australia the other day, was once payiDg a-
morning visit to the beautiful Lady M . He'
sat an unconscionably long time, and the lady,
after giving him some friendly hints, took up her
work and tried to make conversation. Lord
Dudley broke a long fit of silence by muttering:
“A very pretty woman, this Lady M ! She
stays a devilish long time—l wish she’d go.” He
thought Lady M was paying him a visit in his
own house.
Charles James PitfieldLydiard, J.P., fora
quarter of a century Superintendent of Police in
the Western District of N S.W., has retired from
active service. Mr. Lydiard was originally in
the Victorian police force, and was known there
as an active officer. When the new police system
was inaugurated in N.S.W. he and one or two
others were induced to come over and assist in
the remodelling of the force. Mr. Lydiard went
from Maitland to suppress bushranging in the
West when Gardiner, Hall, Gilbert and Co. were
causing a lot of trouble. On his retirement the
officers and men of the district presented him
with an address and a purse ot sovereigns—a
day spay from e*ch member of the force being
the limit Mr. Lydiard has for son-in law Mr.
Abbott, the well-known S.M. of the Sydney
police courts, and will continue to live in
Bathurst.
When Marcus Clarke was officially at Mel-
bourne Public Library he was much sought after
by duns. But Marcus managed to evade them
very often, for as soon as one of the gentry in-
quired at the front entrance if Mr. Clarke was in
his office or not, the messenger bslow would
touch an electric bell which communicated with
Marcus’ office above, and thereby warn him of
impending bores. But one day a dun, more
astute than his fellows, walked straight upstairs
and bearded the debtor in bis den. The amount
owing was only a few pounds which Marcus
asseverated he could not pay until the first of the
month. The dun left, and that afternoon while
standing in Bourke-Btreet he saw Marcus go into
a shooting-gallery, and wondering what could
take him there he entered the gallery also, and
was eventually astonished to see Marcus lose £lO
through failing to Bcore as a shootist.


The Referee
The Melbourne betting market has seldom
been so slack at this time of the year. Algerian’s
“ throw in ” is given as the reason of the stagna-
tion, yet the fact that Silver Prince is quoted
within two points of the favourite, while Oakleigh
and Australian Peer have been fairly well backed
at 10 to 1, gees to prove that Algerian isn’t such a
bugbear, after all. But with such starvation
prices as the books were offering a week ago, the
public are not likely to ba lured into rash specula-
tion, A glanca at the list shows that any man
canid “get round” by laying twelve horses, of
which two or three are by no means certain to
face the starter. Estimating the Melbourne Cup
field to number 25, this would leave about 15
horses running “ for the book” —a pretty profit-
aide game, anyhow. The Derby betting reads
equally favourable for the gilded Hebrews. A
week ago the public were backing the three first
favourites at prices which were equivalent to lay-
ing 4 to 1 on them collectively—that is to say, you
couldn’t stand to win £5 by the victory of either
Abercorn, Australian Peer, or Tranter, without
standing to lose £2O if some outsider beat all
three. Probably most of the bookmakers don’t
understand what preposterously short odds they
are laying—delicate calculations like these never
interest them. It is enough that every year’s
business brings more diamonds and another ter-
race of houses. But we have drawn up this para-
graph in the interests of punters generally, being
ever on the side of the weak and oppressed. A
good many people will endeavour to lose their
little sovereign on this Melbourne Cup, but as
things are at time of writing, they had better
defer their attempt until the Derby is run off, if
their fancy is for any of the present favourites, A
blue riband slung across the shoulders of Aber-
corn or the Peer wouldn’t materially shorten the
Cup price of either, while a defeat would peg
them back for certain.
Sporting men, who bet on ’ossea
(Robbed by cunning owners’ “ crosses ")
Get back all this season’s losses
On the Cup that’s uppermost
In your minds while now a-reading
These few lines, their lesson heeding—
Not alone because of breeding
Go for Tranter at the post;
This is not the story merely
Of a dream, you have them yearly—
Recollect that Yours Sincerely
Got the griffin from a ghost.
Parson Fitchetfc, of Melbourne D.T., says
that; if the local citizens were to exchange the Cap
meeting for an annual attack of smallpox it would
be ‘' ch aper, healthier, and better."
* # *
Tranter or Bedouin, perhaps both, will
borne still further to the front in the Melbourne
Cup betting.
* # #
Hanlan’s boils and blains seem to indicate
that there is something wrong with the Canadian
more than appears on thb surface of his hands.
Long years of training have impaired his vital
forces, and left him a muscular, worn-out old man
of 30. Perhaps that is a correct surmise and per
haps it isn’t. But if perfect condition cannot be
attained without a course of carbuncles, we pre
fer to potter through existence without even get
ting into form once. One doesn’t need to undergo
severe training for eruptions.
* # *
A Bathurst woman has dreamt that Bravo
will win the Melbourne Cup.
* * *
It must surely have been a jest on Han-
lan’s part, that asking for a postponement of the
race on account of blistered hands. From the re
marks of the daily Press, it would appear that Joe
Thompson is risking his £5OO, and Beach is row
ing, merely with the object of giving the public
the chance of seeing a good race. This, of course
is simple idiocy. Mr. J. Solomon Thompson is a
professional betting man, and Beach rows for a
living. If the Canadian’s ‘ ‘ sympathisers ” and
the “ lovers of a good race ” want to see one, let
them subscribe £5OO for another match. They
must recollect that Beach has more at stake than
an amiteur “pot,” though we doubt if the
average “ amateur ” would forego such a slice of
luck if he had a fiver hanging on the result.
* * *
The old war-horse sniffs the battle from
afar. Mr. Dave Gregory has once more donned
flannels and will play with the Warwicks during
the season. He has been appointed on the Selec-
tion Committee in conjunction with Messrs. Mo3es
and M'Donnell.
* * *
Lady Carington is not going to the Cup.
* * *
Sam the Yankee middle-weight
wrestler, arrived in Sydney, by the Alanieda, but
we do not think there is much occupation for
wrestlers in Australia. There should be a pile in
Australia, however, for any first class well-
managed Yankee or British boxer who may cross
the herring pond.
» * *
Teemer has challenged Bubear to a match
on the Thames for £2OO a'dde, in January next.
* * *
Mr. S. H. Fairlandj the Pooh-Bah of
Sydney cricketing, athletic, and ’cyling circles,
wasnot at the meeting with respect to theformation
of a new ground. How is this thus 1 Has Mr.
Fairland suddenly lest his burning interest in
’cycling and pedestrianism ?
* * ■*>
John Brown came down at the last hurdle
at Canterbury on Saturday, and broke Mr.
Edward Terry’s collar-bone. Mr. Edward Terry
is unlucky, and generally has one or other of his
limbs in a sling. But ever doth he bob up
serenely.
* * •
Hanlan can scarcely be blamed for refus-
ing to row Ned Trickett in Queensland in the
midst of the summer. Charon is the only oars-
man who would stand any show with Trickett on
a summer’s day on the Fitzroy.
* * *
The running of Toronto in the Selling
Race at Moonee Valley was so suspicious as to
amount to certainty. Opposed to a couple of
jommoners like Gay lad and Avon it should have
aeen long odds on Mr. Oxenham’s horse. But the
betting soon told its own tale. From odds of two
to one on, Toronto receded to five to one against,
while about Gay]ad it was impossible to get
any price at all. Toronto steadily lost ground
until the last 200 yards, and then the boy on his
sack (frightened, probably, by yells and hoots
!rom the flat) commenced to ride vigorously. The
Way in which the horse “ came ” when there was
no earthly possibility of winning left the stewards
no escape from enquiry, of which the result is
»] ready known. While Toronto was being sold
:he auctioneer’s voice was drowned in shouts of
“ Put, up ; we want to buy the - ! ”
THE SPECTRE’S TIP FOR MELBOURNE CUP.
BY E. F.
Sporting men, who bet on horses
(Taking tips from doubtful sources),
List while “one who knows” discourses
On the Cup that’s uppermost
In your minds this very minute ;
I’ve a yarn, and I will spin it
You shall make a bet, and win it
Have ’em on a bit of toast—
If you follow my instructions,
Heeding not the touts' seductions —
Won’t the Ring raise awful ructions
When the horses pass the post 1
Study well this lesson, scholars—
Pawn your shirts and pop your collars,
Change your wardrobes into dollars,
Pluckily invest the lot;
Plank it down with calm precision
On this tip ; I’ve seen a vision—
You may treat it with derision
(Of the prophet honoired not
By the people of his nation
Oft we’ve had an illustration),
But this was an inspiration
Showing how to make a “ pot.”
I was wrapt in troubled slumbers
(Having tried preserved cucumbers),
When, by Jove ! I saw the numbers
Written on my bedroom wall;
Quick as thought, I seemed to note ’em—
Seemed upon a card I wrote em
(’T would be waste of time to quote em
Anyway, they’d scratched Recall),
And I sighed for scores of martyrs,
Who, on Monday, would be parters,
When I saw the list of starters
Totalled twenty-three—that’s all,
With this vision coincident,
Lo! I heard the voices strident
Of the Ringmen roaring ‘ ‘ Trident 1
Trident, any price, 111 lay—
Algerian 1 put down a hundred
To a pony 1 ” Still I wondered—
Every name, in turn, was thundered
As the hero of the day ;
All the Thompsons shrieking, yelling—
“ Skinners for the book” foretelling—
Then a sudden, solemn quelling
Of the tumult, strange to say.
Next, the numbers—erst so plainly
Written on the wall —I vainly
Sought to gee, and wept insanely—
Sweat from every pore distilled,
When a spectre touched my shoulder
(Jove 1 a mortal braver, bolder,
Would have felt his blood run colder)
And offered me a goblet filled—
Filled with blood from gold decanter,
Saying softly, “ Drink to Tranter,
He has won it in a canter,
So the blessed Fates have willed.”
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman's Eucalyptal (mixture and injeotiou) positively
cures all urinal and kidney oomplaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable.
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. Take
flo substitute.*
To the Deaf —A person who was cured of deafness of 2S
years standing by a simple remedy, will send the description
of it free to any person who applies Address J, H.
Nic'hoXjSON, 15 Camden Park Road, London, KW. Eng
land.*
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
(Under our own management.)
Lessee and Director Mr. Frank Smith.
Manager Mr. J. Grant.
OUR MELBOURNE CUP, FIRST PART :
Our Lady Jockeys
Cur Gentlemen Riders
Our laughable Burlesque,
H.M. MUD BARGE, NORTH SHORE.
SATOR AREPO TERET OPERA ROTAS.
PAS DE LIEU RHONE QUE NOUS.
W. and K.’s S. M. and B. Company
EVERY EVENING.
Dress circle, 25.; Stalls, 2s.< Pit, Is.
Box plan at Bruoe and Massey’s, Pitt-street.
Carriages 10.30.
QRITKRION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
LAST NIGHTS
of
W. J. HOLLOWAY’S
magnificent production of Shakespeare’s
exquisite Comedy
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING,
which was received last season by crowded and
delighted audiences, with every
demonstration of approval.
BEATRICE Miss ESSIE JENYNS
BENEDICK ... ... W. J. HOLLOWAY
Supported by an exceptionally strong cast of
characters.
The Box Plan at Nicholson’s muslo warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
OPERA H OtJSE
Under the Management of B. N. Jones.
THE SAINT MAUR COMEDY SEASON.
THURSDAY, BENEFIT
of
Mr, HARRY SAINT MAUR.
BY GENERAL tIEQUEST.
THE CANDIDATE,
By Justin Huntley M‘Carthy Esq., M.P. Eng.
Box plan a.t Nicholson’s and Co.’s
Day Sales at Robert’s, next to Theatre.
Theatre royal
Under the Direotlon ol
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
until further notice,
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS.”
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS.
Prloes as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp
EVERY EVENING
OUR MANAGERIA EYE
CAN BE SEEN TO GLISTEN
WITH A GLOW OF GLADNESS
OVER THE SUCCESS ATTAINED
IN THIS MONSTROUS
WORLD OF FUN.
MINSTREL SHOWS COME AND GO, BUT WE
GO ON FOR EVER.
POPULAR PRICKS.
Orchestra chairs, 25.; Stalls. Is.; Balcony, 6d.
IMPORTANT.
On FRIDAY NEXT, the 28th instant.
A BENEFIT, tendered by Frank Smith, Esq ,
Will be given to his late manager, Mr. Edwin
Shipp, previous to his departure for America.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7. j Performance 7.45 ; Carriages 11,
Sixth Week and Continued Success of the
RIGNOLD SEASON.
LAST 2 NIGHTS OF
CALLED BACK,
a greater success than ever.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
P
AIN’S GRAND FIREWORKS DISPLAYS
AND
ILLUMINATIONS.
PAIN’S GRAND FIREWORKS DISPLAYS
AND
ILLUMINATIONS.
SECOND GRAND DISPLAY,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31.
SECOND GRAND DISPLAY,
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31.
IN THE DOMAIN.
IN THE DOMAIN.
IN THE DOMAIN.
IN THE DOMAIN.
In aid of
LADY CARRINGTON'S QUEEN’S FUND.
Under the distinguished Patronage and Presence
of
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD CARRINGTON,
G.C.M.G.,
and
LADY CARRINGTON.
SECOND GRAND DISPLAY.
SECOND GRAND DISPLAY.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 31,
In the domain.
Monday, October 31,
In THE DOMAIN,
JAMES PAIN*
ROSEHILL RACING CLUB.
WEDNESDAY (Prince of Wales’ Birthday)
9th November,
AND
SATURDAY,
12tH November, 1887.
A.J.C. RULES.
FTRST DAY.
QUEEN’S PRIZE,
SO so vs. For Maiden Horses. Mile.
HURDLE RACK HANDICAP,
100 sovb. Two Miles.
PRINCE’S GIFT,
Sweep 2 sovs., 125 sovs. added. 1 Mile 3 Furlongs.
DISPOSAL STAKES,
50 sovs. Winnet sold for £6O. 7 Furlongs,
Birthday handicap,
75 sovs. 6 Furlongs.
SECOND DAY.
JUVENILE STAKES,
For 2-yaarmlds. 100 sovs. 5 Furlongs,
SELLING HURDLE RACE
100 sovs. 2 Miles.
ROSEHILL HANDICAP,
150 sovs. 1 Mile.
HANDICAP STEEPLECHASE,
125 sovs. 2 Miles.
CORINTHIAN WELTER
100 sovs. 1 Mile.
Entrance sto close Monday, 24th October. 1 s
for each Race,
Weights published about 31st October.
Gates, Booths, &c., to be sold 31st October.
For full particulars see Programme to be had at
Rosehill Racing C’iub Office, 05 CasUereah-street.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections;
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov*
ing all impure secretions titan any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day#
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure in recom
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several jears with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21,1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, wearirc3s, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row aDd Company, Sydney.
Bilious affections, liver com-
plaints, SICK HEADACHES, DYS-
PEPSIA.
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES.—A mild, prompt,
and effective remedy. There is scarcely any
disease in which purgative medicines are not re-
quired, and much sickness and suffering might be
prevented were they more generally used. No
person can feel well while a costive body prevails ;
neglected and injurious symptoms soon show the
sufferer that disease is gaining upon the body, and
fatal results often follow which might have been
prevented by timely and judicious use of RAN-
DERSON’S LOZENGES. For they correct the
whole system, quickly dissolve in the stomach,
being more mild, prompt, safe and uniform in
their operations than most aperient medicine. As
a family medicine to keep always by you in case
of sickness they are invaluable. Old and young
alike may takethefn, being pleasant and agreeable,
so that children are saved the unpleasantness of
taking medicine. Sold by all Chemists and
Druggists.
Prepared only by
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY, Sydney.
Tosephsofs ointment.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New Souih Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is each an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the KUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &c.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 45, 47, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Centrally
SITUATED
V AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADING
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELLS IMPERIAL 1 HOTEL
E
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
«PT[I
SOUTH
OF THE
EQUATOR
g
fa.
kj
£2
m
ate 22 -
Mm*
'T
7m*
mi
//t}/<t
L
DAN
c»
///iniii
LL
SPPP
AA/^
: fl
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STAjmi
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies. Ladies' Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Rentlemen’s Hot and Oold Plunge and Shower Baths, COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. H. DAOTEIX.
COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RINK
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD CARRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RIDGELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening
and mornings for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
SELECT MUSIC.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
Bee future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defenoe.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ir you miss Foley's you
b ave not seen the oity.
Vital Questions !!!!
Ask the most eminent Physician
Of any school, what is the best thing in the
world for quieting and allaying all irritation of the
nerves, and curing all forms of nervous complaints,
giving natural, childlike refreshing sleep always ?
And they will tell you unhesitatingly
“ Some form of Hops ! !!"
CHAPTER i.
Ask any or all of the mo3t eminent physicians
< ‘ What is the be3t and only remedy that can be
relied on to cure all diseases of the kidneys and
urinary organs ; such as Bright’s disease, diabetes,
retention, or inability to retain urine, and all the
diseases and ailments peculiar to Women
And they will tell you explicitly and emphati-
cally “ Buchu."
Ask the same physicians *
“ What is the most reliable and surest cure for all
liver diseases or dyspepsia ; constipation, indiges-
tion, biliousness, malaria, fever, ague, &c.,” and
they will tell you :
g[ Mandrake or Dandelion !!!!
when these remedies are combined with
others equally valuable,
And compounded into Dr. Soule's American Hop
Bitters, &uch a wonderful and mysterious cura-
tive power is developed, which is so varied in its
operations that no disease or ill-health can possibly
exist or resist its power, and yet it is
for the most frail woman, weakest in-
valid or smallest child to use.
CHAPTER 11.
' “Patients
" Almost dead or rearly dying”
For years, and given up by physicians, of Bright's
and other kidney diseases, liver complaints, severe
coughs, called consumption, have been cured.
Women gone nearly crazy !!!!!
From agony of neuralgia, nervousness, wakeful-
nags, and various diseases peculiar to women.
People <q-awn out of shapafrom excruciating pangs of rheu-
matism, inflammatory and chronic, orsuffering from scrofula.
Erysipelas
“ Baltrheum, b'ood poisming, dyspepsia, indigestion and ;
n fact, almost all diseases frail”
Nature is heir to
Have been cured by Hr. Soule's H ,p Bitters, proof of whi-h
o in be found in every neighborhood in the known world.
t None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisoous stuff
made to imitate the above.
Department of Fnblio Works,
Sydney, October 25, 1887.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIKS.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a die of which Is kept at
every post-offlce In the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the snooessfn
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration nnless
the terms of the notice are striotly complied with
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
not? t1:1 which
an ere
N etnre of Works and Supplies. can he rcoeived
at this ofﬁce.
Bridge over Three mile Creek. I
Road Wiicannln to Wentworth
Iron Roof Engine House. New
Dock. Cockatoo Island
Manufacture, &o., or Single
Ladder Steam Dredge. tor
Sydnev Harbour
Bridge, Leliey'e Creek. road
Mudgee to Cobbernh
Bridge over Bmabong Creek. at
Mnhonge
Supply of Stores. Roads Depert- heed”.
ment, during 1858— November 1.
Ironmongery at 11 o'clock.
Shipehandlery
Bruehware
Cement I
Iron-decked Culverts
Boats
Bridge, Ohio Creek. road Arml-
dele to Weloha
Supply of 10.000 Radial Bricks,
Narandera Railway Station
Purchase of Old Tramway Cable.
North Shore
m
Supply, 8m, of Pipes, 850., for: I
Reticuletlon Balrannld Water
Supply. cont. 5 I
Additions Past and Telegraph-
Oﬂice, Narrabri Tuesday.
Addi ions. Gaol, Liemore November 8.
Erection 0t Luokup. Moema at 11 o'clock
Bridge. Cenoona Creek. reed
B=ga to Cendelo
Additions, &c., Poet and Tele-
graph Oﬂice. Mudgeo
Bridge over Goolmengnr Creek,
Brown's Crossing, Road Linc
more to Nimbin (exclusive of
supply of Ironwork.) Tunedny.
Bridge over “ Five Mile." Warr- November 15,
nambool-Wnlgeit road at 11 o'clock.
Do.. " Three Mile." do.. do. [
Additions Court House. Oorowe I
Fencing. 8co., Court House,
Emmaville I
Repairs, Court House. Blnyney
Construction of Timber Bridge, Tuesday,
are». ovr-r the Great Northern November 22.
Railway. at Uralla at 11 o'clock.
Construction of Wharf. m”
King's Creek, Clarence River Tuesday,
Continuation, am. of Iron Road- Nevember 29,
way Bridge across Bye Wash at 11 o'clock
from Prospect Reservoir I
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR FIFES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231, OLARENCE-STREET.
GBD GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY,
KOICSVPS
oJjSydnej] ;
W -- JENOLAN CAVES .'BLUE. MOUNTAINS,!*
316'GEORCE; SI jpetweew Hunte*ST«C.P.O*
s,
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker,
296 Pitt-street.
ntf? K
<5. W/tLotfi. Trt
* Tgju>/u/uN O/tsn/H aNJ> fiac Mrkl&
696 Arr&f-
flflffl
jUiia
uni,
A HANDSOME
GOLD WATCH
GIVEN AWAY.
This is a genuine
offer, and no humbug.
Send a ess for full particulars to
R. B. JONES,
P.O. Box 570, Sydaey.
TO STAND THE SEASON,
At Rosehill Racecourse, Parramatta,
Bonnie Charlie.
THE Famous Imported Hungarian Pony,
BONNIE CHARLIE, II hands high, by
Ponil from Match.
Terms, £5 ss. An allowance for any number
over three.
Only a limited number of Mares can be taken,
for which early application is necessary, to be
made to 65 Castlereagh-street, to Wm. Ingiis and
Co., Horse Bazaar, or to Brush Farm, Eastwood.
JOHN BENNETT.
td.
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwardirg Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queens’and.
H OLLOWAY ’ S PILLS .
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of the LIVER
and STOMACH, they may be used with perfect confidence
by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is agu irantee
of their efficacy. Thousands of testimonials, from princes to
peasants, attest their marvellous virtues
Manufactured only »t 78 New Oxford st , London.
£3T Purchasers should look to the label on the Jtioxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London, they
are spurious.
High-class Dentistry | at Reform Prices
ARTIFICIALTEETH
COIftfi&FET
M ARSHALL BRO!
DENTISTS '
.ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily at 11,
.MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And »b QUERN STREET, BRISBANE,
WORD COMPETITION.
Prizes, £5, £3, £1 103. Extra prize
of 10s. for the best arranged
Competition List.
171 OR the greatest number of English words out
of the word “Doncaster.” All words must
be strictly adhered to any Dictionary of the
English Language No letter allowed to be male
use of more than once in the sane word.
Address, enclosing 2s. 6d. to “ENFIELD.”
Post office, Stccktor, Newcastle.
N.B —The same privileges allowed as in the
last Word Competition, viz , Any competitor not
satisfied with the results can see their lists, and
also the winning lists on application.
This is to certify that I have Trig day received
from “Enfield ’ the sum of £lO for Prizes, to be
distributed in connection with the above Word
Competition.
P.S.~ the latest date for receipt of entries is
postponed until 12th November. Result will appear
in The Daffy Telegraph, 28th November.
JOHN LIMEBURNER,
Proprietor General Washington Hotel,
Stockton, Newcastle.
loth September, 1887.
This Celebrated BEER
has been awarded at the
Adelaide Exhibition
First Prize Gold
Medal.
COOPER & McLEOD’S
INDIAN PALE
ALE.
EIJDI NBUEGrH.
In bulk and case. Best
BEER in the Market is
drawn by all leading
Hotels.
E. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
9JJXJ i
NEWEST INVENTION—GREATEST NOVELTY.
THE
Y&N
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAI CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the cross
and the component parts being algo arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all that could
he desired."
Gold Medal, \cw Zealand Exhibition, 1882
Gold Medal, Highest Award
FOB COBSETS, LONDON If. TEBNATIONAL EXHI
BITION, 1884.
Latest Award !!! Gold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 188 G.
CAUTION. —Beware of worthless imi-
tations. Every genuine Y & N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
5%“ . "WK.
.f ﬁg; a. ; \.
as? (ail. .‘1 3'3"» ‘.;99§~'-533.'|
v«.£;2~:rq-* “m .. 76-14
"“3 )c m". 1 :1) “$1."?
t}‘-.--1‘r-;\_L‘:=-‘ xivﬂf- I
HOLD BY ALL DRAPERS AND LADIES' OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES.


The wife of a Christchurch (N.Z.)
labourer has given birth to triplets, and a loca
paper, as usual, calls it an “ auspicious occasion.
Minister Garrett cannot afford to dis
regard M‘Elhone’s statement that his (Garrett’s)
hide is oO times thicker than that of a rhinoceros.
M'Elhone’s opinion is a professional one. He
deals in hides.
From a Liverpool (Eng.) paper:—“A
lady who loves Christ wishes to meet a gentleman
who loves him too. Address, —, Mercury
Office.” We have here a lady who evidently
wishes to avoid parsons.
THE RABBIT QUESTION.
The Australian Press is agitated over the puzzle of how to treat the rabbits. The
matter is very simple, after all. Treat them to Sydney beer.
If Salomons, M.L.C., wants a clinching
argument for the abolition of trial by jury here is
one : A verdict of suicide while of unsound mind
was returned recently by a London jury against
a man who had killed himself rather than be
married.
One of the “ great Freetrade industries ”
of Sydney is that of “a dealer.” Almost ad the
doubtful characters who figure as thieves or
burglars in the city police courts describe them-
selves as dealers. On one occasion a certain
stipendiary magistrate asked a prisoner, who was
entered on the court leg look, what he dealt in.
“Oh,” was the reply, “empty bottles, an’any-
thing I can ‘ make ’ on.” “ I see,” said the bench,
“ one-half the population appear to be in the same
line ”
An Adelaide man rolled off his verandah
to the ground—a distance of 21 inches to amuse
the baby, and the little beggar was so much
pleaded that it encored the performance, and he
did it twice more. The third time he broke his
neck, and left the applauding baby fatherless.
Here is something neat and nice in th e
way of matrimonial ads. from the Cooktown (Q )
Independent: “Wanted. —A girl to make a
wife, not over 25 ; must he tall, fa*r, buxom, and
squarely built at the elbows. Exchange photoj.
with Romeo, P. 0.” A girl who is squarely built
at the elbows may make a good all-round wife,
but she’s apt to learn to hit out straight.
The Chinese burglar arrested in Sydney
had on him 23 pawn-tickets. After all, even gßuug
Hi goes down before Melchisedech.
Editor Bulletin. —Dear Sir,— ln last
issue I saw a reference to the member of the N. S. W.
Upper House who has given his sons high-sound-
ing titles. As lam one of the sons, I must beg of
you to insert our names in full, as I object to have
them mutilated Fergus Jago, Lancelot Noel,
Uiwin Ambrose, Claudius, and Wallace Arabin.
Besides the five sons the member has also brought
up six daughters, whose names I shall be happy
to give you, or indeed any other information in
connection with the family which you may re-
quire.—Yours, faithfully, Claudius Smith. P.S
I trust the reply to this will not be a request to
practise writing on a [chaff-bag.—Yours, C.
Smith.
NINETY-EIGHT IN THE
SHADE,
In a suit of regulation tweed and an atmosphere
composed of fine dust and variegated smells, i 3 con-
ducive to the rapid development of the same old
40- dollar thirst which had been written about and
set to music in every age, from Paul the Apostle
down to Parkes. And the great trouble of the
hour has always been the same—to know how to
ALLAY THAT THIRST
Without incurring present discomfort, and the
risk of future suffering. The carrying capacity
of the average man rebelsat the abnormal quantity
of whisky and water required for the purpose, and
his liver resents the intrusion, no matter whether
the spirit be 18-carat whisky, suburban gin, potato
brandy embroidered with many stars, or the
colonial rum of commerce in all its virgin purity.
FUSEL OIL AND SALT WATER,
Whatever it may be called, and however it is
branded, is*renowned for creating a bigger thirst
than it will quench ; and the heavy imported beers
which are so highly prized in lattitudes between
50 and 70 degrees north are chiefly admired in
Australia for the celerity with which they will
put, first a head, then a nose on a man, and finally
increase his girth till he can’t
TAKE, HIS BOOTS OFF
Or brush his back hair without exciting the
criticisms of his belt friends, and the sympathy of
all good peop’e. Then, the question na'in-ally
arises, “ What is a man tef drink under the con-
ditions referred to ? ” Coffee heats him, tea don’c
like him—he is a trill) suspicious of milk—lime
juice doubles him up like a boo\iack, and his
nature abhors water.
WORSE THAN A VACUUM.
In this condition he wrndd probably die were it
not that he reads his daily paper, and be sees
therein the praise bestowed on that best of ail
drinks - Clausen’s New York Champagne Lager
Beer. It is the very tbiug he wants. He at once
recognises in the reports of professional analysis,
in the public testimonials, in the extracts from
the official prize records of the world, that in
Clausen's Lager he has found a beverage exactly
suited to his requirements and surroundings. The
analytical reports convince him of its purity, the
wide-spread testimonials assure him of its immense
popularity, and the prize list stamps it as being
beyond competition. Jf he wanted to know, in
addition to all this, the opinions of the leading
merchants
HE WOULD CONSULT
essrs. Mason Bros., Limited. Fesq and Co.,
Tooth and Co . AlltandCo , Burrows and GleesoD,
Lucas Bros., R. Butcher and Co., J. T. and J.
Toohey and Co., Tidswell, Wilson, A. Thompson
and Co , C. Bath and Co., Cooper, Nathan, and
Co., Darcy and Co,, A. Rowan and Co., Tucker
and Co., Stewart and Co., and others. And he
would end by ordering a constant supply as a pro-
vision against the most exasperating changes of
temperature, and by afterwards declaring as the
result of experience that he would henceforth and
for ever drink no other beer but the
PURE, INVIGORATING,
NONINTOXICANT,
CLAUSEN’S NEW YoRK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER.
“The Waterbury.”
irA^
T. WITH A TICK-LISH
' TIME OF IT
KEEP WATCH.
Australians, your time is come. Eternal
vigilance must be your watchword. Keep
a watch on every body. On your statesmen,
capitalists, clergymen, police, journalists. On
yourselves, on everjbody. It is of vital impor-
tance, and it must be done if you want to protect
your hearths and homes, if you want your children
to have a future. The watch is “ The Waterbury. ’
It costs only 13s. 6d. It runs 28 hours with only
one winding. It regulates to a minute a month.
rarely gets out of order, and when it does can
be repaired at a nominal cost. Buy it. Try it.
Wear it. Take care of it. Or live to regret it.
NO MORE HARD TIMES.
If you will atop spending so much on fine clothes, rich fo'd
and style, buy good, healthy food, cheaper and better clo*h-
ins ■ get more real and substantial things of life every way,
and’especially stop the foolish habit, of employing expensive
auack doctors or using so much of the vile numbug medicine
that does you only harm, but put yo"r trust in that simple,
DurG rGinfidy , Dr. Soules AnuGriCciti Hop Bittora , that cures
always at a trifling cost, and you will see good times and
have good health. “ Chronicle.
Summer ! Hookings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt-street.*
One of the best managed and largest hotels in Sydney is
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling lunoheon
t *
New South Wales and Freeman's Original Chloro
_it may be safely asserted that the world is destined
to hear a great deal more of New South Wales mining
enterprise, possessing as she does all the most important
known metals and minerals in great abundance. Mr Free-
man the Inventor of the Original and onlv Genuine Chlo-o-
dvne has in deferer ce-to the wishes of his patrons and cus-
t ime s in New south Wales made such arrangements, that
colonists and new arrivals mayob'ainhis Cnlorodyne. with
the greatest facility in all parts of this important and rapidly
growing colony. For Colds, Couvhs, Bronchitis, A'thma snd
Consumption it has no rival.—Sold everywhere throughout
the colonies. Insist u on having “Freemsn s only. Reject
substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark an Ele-
phant.*
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20a. each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1.000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2 000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided amongst them.
Address—' \Tattersall.'
Care i f G. Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Consumption, Bronchitis and General Debility
will yield quicker to the regular ure of “Soott s Emulsion
op Cod Liver oil with Hypophosphite s,” than any
other remedy known to Medical science. Bead the followin'*-
1 have prescribed ’Scott's Emulsion’ and have also taken
it myself, andean fully endorse the opinion that it is both
palatable and effic ent and can be tolerated by almost any
one, especially where Cod Liver Oil itself cannot ba borne
Martin Miles, M D , &c.
Stantonbury, Bucks, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.
THE PURE, THE BRIGHT, THE
BEAUTIFUL.
THE FAMOUS ST. LOUIS BEER.
This pure and unadulterated beer we wish to
impress upon the public mind that it is the purest
Lager Beer in the colony. It is made from pure
malt and hops only by the Anheuser Busch Brew-
ing Association of St. Louis, U.S.A., who spare no
expense ia procuring the best material from which
to brew it, and whose famous brewery affords
every facility for its perfect manufacture. It is
in the interest of health and temperance that the
famous St. Loois Larger Beer should be drunk in
preference to any other. Can be obtained at any
of the wine and spirit merchants in Australia.
GUILTY OF WRONG.
Some people have a fashion of cocfas ng excellent remedies
with the large mass of “patent medicines,'’ and in this
they are guilty of a wrong. There are s me advertised
remedies fully worth all that is asked for them, and one at
least we know of: I) -. Soule’s American Hon B ; tte*s The
writer has had occasion to use the Bitters in just such a
climate as we have most of the year in Bay City and his
always found them to be first-class and reliable, doine all
that is claimed for them. “Tribune."
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies' Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel is now under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by careful atten
felon to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Rnsldanfia n* .»
LOOK AT THIS.
150 Long shaped, Chinese Cane Balcony
Lounges, 12s. 6d.
Not more than 5 of any one size will be sold to
any one customer, as our object is to make the
prize bargains general, and we again repeat the
prices are for October only, and for above named
parcels.
What more useful than Chests of Drawers. Jus
read this aloud and go fume and fret at having
bought elsewhere than Lawler’s.
70 of those handy 1-drawer Chests of
Drawers, £l5 0
100 of those useful large 7-drawer
Chests of Drawers, £2 5 0
100 of those Sideboard looking Chef-
foniers, £2 2 6
20 Large 6 feet glass-back sideboards, £8 10 0
But again we repeat not more than 5 of a line will
be sold to any one buyer.
Gently, gently. We spoke of revolutionary
rates, and we mean to the letter to prove our
prices revolutionary to the hilt.
25 English Ash, full 1 feet Wardrobes,
with silver-plate glass-door, and
fitted with hang up compartment,
and deep drawer under, £7 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Marble, and
tiled back Washstands, 2 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Dressing Tables,
glass, drawers, &c., 2 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Pedestal Cup-
boards, 16 6
25 Fullsize English Ash Towel Rails, i 6
50 Fullsize English Ash Cane Seat
Chairs 7s. 6d. each, the two 15 0
£l5 1 0
Phew!-Ask any one else to touch it in single size
in Pine even at £lB.
We are on the job in Upholstery, and simply
invite our friends to call, as space will not admit
of chronocling a few special bargains where so
many prize bargains abound.
But our confidence in the matter of bargains in
Upholstery, is so strong that great though the
temptation is to avail ourselves no farther of the
press, yet what we have done, what we are doing
and what through great, marvellous, October we
will do, is excuse sufficient to break through al
resolves.
Suites for Drawing-room in solid Wal-
nut, and spring set, frames all
close braced, upholstered in
very best manner in own
factories, and covered in Tapes-
try of silk and wool, gimped and
corded, and finished in first-class
style, for the sum of ... .. £l2 10 0
Will bring more money under the hammer. Could
not—and here let us say it’s worth the while of
those who read the statement to go through
Sydney houses and judge for themselves, the
above suite could not be got in Sydney a brown
cent less than £lB 10s. Yes, the suite is of 9
pieces. But hold on searchers after “ bargains '
we will give you a surfeit of them at Lawler’s dur-
ing this great October sale.
Look at this ye joyful widowers’ who purpose
furnishing again.
Suite of 9 pieces, upholstered on the
premises, webbed from frame in
best manner, and with best web,
spring set and upholstered in
olive terry, the small chairs hav-
ing upholstered panelbacks, ... £8 10 0
How is it done? Well, that’s not the lookout of the
buyer. Let the buyer buy, and buy quickly,
whilst bargains of the kind are before him, or as
sure as the sun will shine to morrow he’ll have to
plant down his sweet little £i2 12s. for the suite
above referred to at Lawler’s at £8 10s.
The £24 10s. suites in Tapestry and plush—and
where can such a selection of frames and furniture
coverings be seen— ye 3, those charming suites will
only be £lB 10s. during this sale.
There are some 20 suites upon the floor at £35,
which will be sold during this sale at £25 10s.
But those who want the best Dining-room suite
In Sydney, massive, bold, handsome, glorious,
something in solid Walnut and in real morocco,
here's a line worth coming to look at.
Massive Dining-room suite in solid
Walnut, upholstered through-
out in curled horse hair, and
covered in real be3t morocco.
Value, £9O but at October’s
sale, £57 10 0
This could not be repeated, so there’s no use of say-
ing that it could The frames alone are worth
£3O.
And sideboards and Dinner waggons and Tables
to match.
Gilt Pier Glasses, during sale, 255. Od,
Walnut and Amboina inlay Pierglasses „ 15s. od,"
Black and Gold Pierglasses, ~ 37 5 . lid"]
Large Ditto ~ 55 5 . odl
Very Large Ditto „ 85s. Od
No exageration to say worth half more than
asked during sale.
This column is about ended. For the good of
those who read we say bear this important fact
in mind that we offer no old stock, ill-fashioned
and damaged, for the simple reason we have none,
There is not an article that will be on show that
has been 6 months in the warehouse.
Look out for bargains, for by the immortal Jove
and aU his juniors we will make Lawler’s October
sale, and all the Emporium wondrous bargains
thing to be talked of for years to come.
Watch for the ready-made clothing advertise
ment and the bargnins in that department.
Boots also, and drapery Carpets and on
mongery, all will get their turn, and by thunde
they will speak.
The place at which to knock spots off “ ire
and all “ other ” sales is Lawler’s Emporium
Call in thousands. Write and you will
attended to with the same promptness as
person.
For October only, this sale of Lawler’s
but its a terror.
LAWLER’S
608 GEQRGE-STREET,


l3aQ.p©rta,n.t!
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OISTL'Sr
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
3HEAPER THAN EVER!
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/b. lii/b. 16/-, 17/8, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
~ Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
/6, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/-
~ ~ steel notes 50/-
• "
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow,
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
bl; 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s. "
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10a.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in oase,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
BOMAI no STBIS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
every kind of strings
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
nigger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the oolonies. t . . , .
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Guicura
•as
#
si
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
M even form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
Scrofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Guticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Guticura and Guticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally,
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Guticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Guticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Rb-
30LVENT. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors ; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales,
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Shin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hadr, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
puTe by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
drugg’sts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
jSsuiaiid. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fl.Jb "Juticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura SnAV-
ing Jc/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per fcotf Je.
Prepared by the
Potter C rug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.B.A.
a
The ‘POTSHOT 5 Camera
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
Tip, and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “ DETECTIVE ” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be -got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOORAPkIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
'SS
■f*
y|;;
LIMITED,
263 to 239 Kent-sfcreet,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
RAT.TC to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHBNWARS
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CG.'S
Cognac).
T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
0 N U M E N X
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing!.
Deiigni and Ultimate! forwarded on reqnu
J. CUIUriBICIHAMt
MAUX-RIBUT, WTWWASP.R^rASI, BTBMOT
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street, A, COOPER, Proprietor,
Everybody \
SHOULD USEJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOITE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
811 GnoBSB-sunn. Stoshy.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for oommer-
oial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip]
tions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address t Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, oorner Bourke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vio,
ft LAMB
(in liquidation),
rUKNITUKIfi ana fiAiVOFOKT*
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREET
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MO » CELEBRA'i E D MAKE RS,
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
®c
W,
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasiona
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o.
Full suites for diningroom.— side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long; and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
C 1;: '
M" «I!
V! a’ "‘ \T1'\i‘,\lil :
Mix-1W “
1"“ link
1!? 5:9
“ ‘ V E
\ R
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY.
And a complete assort-
ment of Bent Wood
Furniture the best make
only.
w
"VT OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
J3I SUITES.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
JgTLEGANT VENETIAN MIRRORS, richly
enamelled, in colours.
zlﬁlm‘ll
M 4“" '
.~ - :- =3
{Mil In“
M 3‘s 7." '4
T\RAWING ROOM CABI
NETS,
EARLY EJkGLISH
and
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid •with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection Is
solicited. Spring and O’Connell streets
I
I
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. —Handsome
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood at
all prices. ’
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bet.
rooms. New designs oovered to order Is
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty.
~52} '77“ ~"
i H
II.
.
‘
Ll Q
P“? . .\. 7" ' r
11W!“"hggﬁi'a};Si '
KL" H .‘ 2 a ' ‘ .--t'
,— . b "
X>HDSTKADB, All giigg
Nickel-plated and Black
and Bragg, Great variety,
Beddin*,—All descriptions a
lowest ratesi
1‘77itigz: :5 /
r 3*‘.
i =9:
SPRING MATTKASSKg
Woren wire, bait
make i also, Spiral Sprint.
Price, from 14s. each-
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTOIi Y
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.


Hanlan has a bad hand. A losing hand ?
It Is stated that George Giffen, the South
Australian champion, will not be asked to join the
next A ustralian Eleven.
' John Farrell is writing about colonial beer
in Sydney D.T. It is a significant fact that Farrell,
though a brewer, never drinks beer himself.
A book-fiend and the lion, secretary were
the sole attendants at a meeting to form a branch
of the N.S.W. Free trade Association in Armidale.
Hingston, the globe-trotter, who is writing
about his travels in the Melbourne Argus, says
nsl <x
l Q c° 9 ~16
LJe cD V fA X
l K^’ n \ /
\ o°j. V s ''/
, 0 °xtV/
1
A
wy/
1 /
I .
jr
I U , eft
ii,e trures
se f u^ne ))°f
\\ }>out L /^ eeJ ) /u
X\ cr/
*"T 5 «,y .y o k r) 0
iu* y ou - /* ur */**'
feci f-ro'T, /art/?V ) / l c “?'
5,.., r
\ijT-X £ '/**'¥
\yi„ r..i‘-- r ‘ l - r ‘jf/l'H' 7
ft YV r 4°W e
&V*“-2 iii i#
t > ,
bu.ot~ to be-d \
fartnOj / / C^3^^ ce \
coi/ff Occ rjej " fjof' '
Jou. d b u.f~ r/ p ?/>
/ Tb° &<- rj
ytjr rdc./l \>
” a*«<* d c?osh 'ay »y \
°3~ h J'tyj'
«r
//fV ly 7>lA A T//f A f^rzr" /,/T/e
/ <""/ -i cty c? cl ?? _Je e 7% c r A~ eye As
ft*
*?s%*»
, S °f s ufta ? ar)d
°j- c t*°- d ly /poi^t) .
2 ' f*] t ol r? t Cl ftjy 3/er/ou% forty iyc*.*) 'tye. rp G~7roi. 6?<° se Sc<(ttz.e{ f 0, ~rtp
'Jocoujg etc a- ft) a.rp cte.ntr-u-C.nep _ I /> tpr //e r So t>/7c.
Ppa. 7jy <a. Jorp'G. cdoSy\/ef/-'rfes°/c*-/'Q- y//a*-/r' /J //~ a.t / Ct/ee/>sc^
y f or /ye/? Oyfac/'/y 7£c< f~ 9 /a A rct/jz s- yp/tt es
A Deed Without a Name.
that Sydney much resembles Naples—in its
“ wretched, dirty suburbs.” Ah, you thought we
were going to say “ in its Beautiful Harbour ’’ 1
Lady Carington and other ladies in simi-
lar positions will, no doubt, be greatly obliged if
owners refrain from naming horses after them.
Some of the announcements which appear in print
as a consequence of the practice referred to are
absolutely paralysing to all but the coarse-nerved
personages who block the footpaths outside the
betting-rooms.
The Queensland Cricketing Association
have decided to charge per cent, on all matches
played under their patronage. The charges made
by the different Associations may, on the face of
it, appear rough on the Britishers, but it must be
remembered that all Australian elevens have had
to stump up handsomely to managing bodies in
England, although Australian cricket has been
the means of improving many an English ground.
Captain Jackson Barry, who accompanied
Sir John Alcock to Sydney in the Rover about the
year 1829, lectured in Melbourne Town Hall a
few nights ago on the early days of the colonies
Captain Barry claims to have landed at Indented
Head, Port Philip (now Queenscliffe), two days
before John Batman’s arrival in the Rebecca.
While building wattle-and-dab huts on the site of
the present Hobson’s Bay railway station, Cap-
tain Barry encountered Buckley, who had then
been 32 years with the aboriginals. The lecturer,
who is 70 years of age, is a history of
Australia.
“ The Vagabond ” describes Sir Coutts
Lindsay, who has sent out the Grosvenor Gallery
pictures, as “ a painter of rare talent, an amateur
only in the sense that he does not sell his works."
This is bosh. Asa matter of fact Sir Coutts is a
rich, handsome picture-fancier, but a very
“pussy” painter. He possibly started the Gros-
venor Gallery because it was the only place where
he could get his own works hung to advantage. It’s
true enough that he doesn’t sell them, We have re-
mained an amateur painter ourselves for the very
same reason.
At his shivoo the other night Henniker
Heaton dropped into poetry and spoke a few
lines which he said were written by a “ young
Australian who had been invited home by his
English cousins.” Henniker also declared there
was a “spirit of freedom" in them which was
“ admirable.” One chunk ran :
“ They tell me of gay English life, the wonders, too, of
Rome;
But give to me my trusty steed, my own Australian
home !”
“My trusty steed, my own Australian home l"
The man who lives in a horse must be an ass,
“ The attendance of no less than thre
Supreme Court Judges was required in Adelaide
a few days ago to see that the Marquis of Drog-
heda got a square lunch at Government House.”
—Local paper.
Oar dear old friend, Sydney Taiwhanga,
one of the new Maori members in the N.Z. Lower
House, has tried for 20 years to get into Parlia-
ment, and has only now succeeded. It was the
artful Taiwhanga who first afforded us a thorough
insight into the workings of the numerous English
societies who yearn for the immortal welfare of
the poor heathen. When he returned from Lon-
don it took him four hours to narrate to us hi
adventures among the bishops and their female
relatives, whom he described as the most simple-
minded and trustful persons he had ever met.
One cricket-ground Is not sufficient to give
scope to the Sydney cricketers. King Phil, and
Company appear to be under the impression that
cricket should b 8 subservient to making revenue
out of their, or rather the public, ground. This
is not as it should be. Now that the trustees find
it such hard work to spend the enormous revenue
on the ground in terms of the grant, a bill might
well be taken through Parliament for the spend-
ing of surplus revenue on a new ground. The
Association Ground was given to the cricketers
for the furtherance of their sport. As at present
managed it is the greatest obstacle bona fide
cricketers have to contend against.
Genial Andy Lynch—the heavens be his
bed I—once Member for Carcoar, had consider-
able experience amongst office-seekers, who de-
sired Andy’s influence in securing good Govern-
ment billets. One of the kidney rushed breath-
lessly to him one day, and stated that he had
heard of a splendid position which would suit
him, and wanted the Mimber’s influence. Andy
hesitated, but the billet-seeker was Importunate:
“Why, there’s nine-hundred pounds a year at-
tached to it!" “Is there?" said Andy, “Then,
begorra. I’ll go and look it up for myself!"


1 MoJLXIAJf BMOS., BIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
MI GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
! 512 x
•ft. BEG? J ® l
SPECIALITIES I
Davis’ Sawing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Alba Oarbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
BAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER'S 1
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fco., fcO.
■wx:r J x_.x-A.iv££rs
ftBUIUI TEAST POIDEE
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
Bread, tha-cazss, pasth'st, & c ,
ARE
light, wholesome, and digestible,
I,WHEN MADE WITH
wiUiams’ Australian Yeast Powder,
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.J)
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS. "^1
S °LD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF POUNDS
Rowland S ,
Maea^arCil
been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver restorer and beautifier of
*he human hair: it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, of which most hair
***torers are composed and which ruin the health (vide Medical papers), will keep fresh ana
JWeet in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses; it prevents hair
Jailing off or turning grey, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandriff, and renders the
g»ir soft, silky, curly and glossy; it also stimulates the growth of whiskers and moustaches:
It is especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, and
®an also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
which, after great time and trouble, has been especially prepared for the use of golden-haired
y-haired adults. Sizes 3a Gd. ; 75.; family bottles, equal to four small.
*OB. 6a.: and double that size, 21s.
.. ROWLANDS’ KALYQOR is a healing and refreshing preparation for
hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS' ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
Sygngthans the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
ROWLANDS' articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations unde"
•imilar names.
and Retail Agents—Enjoin? Bros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
°OTS
T. WILLIAMS & 00.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes
Alio Manufacturer* of
Thr Finest Quality or Goods in the above Linbs.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HOES
SODA watek.
J
Pi liirf Water Ci„
HILL, SYDNEY.
6 «eot Purity Guaranteed.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent free, Bealed. Address—
a WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-Btreet, Sydney.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches!
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... m ... 606,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
dal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerrous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
invited to try one box of these Pills, and
be acknowledged to be
PATENT
PILLS.
"WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH A M’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
®f the system. If taken according to the directions
given, with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and s
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ PACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pill# have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
So prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
'with any of the above complaints give Bsxohaic’s
Ooug-h Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. I|d. and 2s. 9d.
®ach. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.— Full directions are given with eaoh box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
riIHK above is one of the oldest Family and
JL Squatting Hotels in the colony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Beths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNK, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON'S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY,
surpasses all others forks lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS,IB7B, CAT,CUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU EE COLOGNE.
Is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
0/ all Beaten, and of the Manufacturers —
J & E ATKINSON,
24, 010 Bond Street, Lor dor
Trade Mark —“White Hose" on“ Golden
hi L * re " A
Guinness' iuxtrs sterna
FIRST QUALHYe
Ml
BASS' PALE ALE.
SOLR PURVEYORS to the
VOKOMIAK MD IKDIAH DlESniHt
LONDON,
By Special Appointment!
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALGHIK JOHKSTOK f CO.,
CiMßfrtU! Chamber*, Bond-ilint Sydney.
G. ITEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARRANDERA, N.S.W.
f First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out of
‘Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockampton).
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows i— 6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d,
śd
S 3
HE
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
a
LPAKU ONLY BY
MM INOHAM
M&MiUAMti
I
I
4
The most welcome discovery of
MODERN TIMES.
A CURE for PULMONARY CONSUMPTION,
To the consumptive, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affections of the lungs, this notice is of
vital importance, for this remedy will effect a
perfect cure of the most stubborn cases.
The afffieted need have no-fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the lunga
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish'
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers.
On application for reference we will send the
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
It has cured.
The Consumptive Cure can be obtained from tha
office of William Ford and Company, No. 4
Australia-street, opposite Courthouse, Newtown,
Sydney. Sent to any part of the Colonies. Price,
7s. 6d. per bottle. And where may be also ob*
tained The Cure op St. Vitus’ Dance, by ex«
ternal application, which disease it will cure
within eighty-four hours.
y- RIDGE’S
FOOD
dr INFANTS and INVALIDS
as an enormous sale «n England,
id irnow balng introduced into the
CoTonics.
use dt.
(JHJKIPCTS’S ROYAL. FOOD MltXSk
LONDON. JENGI-AN D.
TM H HIT HIM USD 111 UNIT SOCIET7,
S5O PITT STREET.
*fc
Deposits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed tor moneys at Call,
iness off this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A. TODD. Manager


at.**
ROYAL
*4KIH c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powdbb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
p. r. x^^RKnrc”,
IMPORTER,
Eamily Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PCNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE"
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stooked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDMTBT.
WALLACH BROS
I
JSTETW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AMD
60 CLABENCE STEEET, SYDNEY,
[Melbourne and London.
JfU ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI, IVICL
For Artistic Posing and
combining softness and bn
Photographs of
ghaxlemnt
ROYAL ARCADE-^
STAND
80 THOU ANDJJO t®*®,
SUMMER, with its heat, dust and
effects, is ia ns, and one of t Te (re
we may enjoy fis a delightfully c a otion
bath, made more luxurious by
little “Sea Foam Shampoo, ro „.nd .1,
and you wiU find it a most ben
giving adjunct to the toilet « aei*-;
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, . ,
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Rbag of t jje M
head, and has the endorsem “ge» •
medical anthorities. The J 7 co« nt ® hfl fill
Shampoo” are registered, an ” i( .. 11 ted to t
imitation of same will be pr°® ~ cheVd**,
extent of the law. Sold by price
dealers in toilet articles at the fto feaS 8,
shilling per packet. Please try
will never regret it.
THEATRE
ROCKHAMPTON’ J
THE above is the only 0
Rockhampton for hol®** w erf B **
other Entertainments, and oa»
any term upon cation to
The Wonder of»}?
COLEMAN and Sons,
awarded First Prize*’'iX-TLB ,
tion for their PURE
OIL. The only known cure for 00
affections of the chest. AVe h . oro tb® '
testimonials than any medicine aD y
This is a genuine article. P° s qj, a& d gl
on receipt of stamps. P ri ce,_ ■
Agents, Hoffnung & Co. ; ElliO
ASK YOUR GROPER FOB
FRYS MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AH ORDIN4.RY OUP CONTAINS HORN AOTIVH PBOPBR***®
THAN A PINT OP THH BEST ALB OR POBTBB-”' I'^ 1 '^
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of /
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ao.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppcrsmlthlng, Blaokamithlng, Plumbing,
Qasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Bleotrio and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," "VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, See.
R«le Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Kxhaast Van Cowls, Gas Vires, Beaters,
Warmers, As.
BON ACCORD WORKS,'"BAND9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
Full Partioulam and Pbich on Application.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
str Private Suites for Families. tJi
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINKS AND SPIRITS OF THK CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. K. STEWART, Proprietor.
Belle Vue
BKISB^'/
Opposite Parliament Houses,
and Queensland CW
—**
FIRST-CLASS FAMI&*
accommodation ?olt
A Waiter Maetfl Ever*
Letters and telegrams
prietor,
GO
a
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
THOS. BUCK LAND,
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGIN)
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineer*, Lincoln)
„ „ Langland'a Foundry Oo , Melbonrni, Vl»
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGBNT.
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND
FITZROY HOTEL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
Cigrax E)VT7-an
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLE REAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN,N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
,■
UMBRSLIAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
Mid
Have four Umbrella Frames re-
covered and roar
Parasols re-lined and made eqna
to New. at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to matoh eot
*««««> Kanalva naatlv axaeatef
i>M.R I b m Y
*■** (late of the Deteotlve Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
11 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY
absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kind* of
oafldential Inquiries instituted. ' Evidence obtained In
llvoroe, libel, fraud, and Incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
Marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
gents and debts collected. From R. M. ft.'s long experience
ia the Detective Force of New South Wales, Viotoria, and
Veer Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
ilobe, ha is in a position to conduct all inquiries with oaution
ixpsultiun and strictest secreay, and to and
ifosspf jr attend to all business entrusted to h oare.
AFTEB BEFORE
Copyrighted.
Moustache and Whiskers.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, i
land will do it on either bald l
head or bare face■ Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to j
4 weeks and never fails, 2D,(XX)*
young men already wear full
•EFOne AFTEH
Copyrighted.
beards, having used. 1 to 3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, ]» 6 d. each, ?>for 3s. (>d., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation, address, Frank Douglas. Sole Agent.
Pox 730. 0.P.0., Sydney. NS. W.
Tbglorßrtf
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
tTwEC O#
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT Tn
r=
WIESENER’S WATCHES. WIESENER’B WATd -
NO amount of competition reduces the demand. Their reputation for reliability is unassailable. Reduction in price
quality. Geneva, English, and American Watches, of proved qualities and results, in sterling- cases, frorw 0 f o
Monogram, Crests, Inscriptions engraved. Country orders promptly and faithfully executed, well and posted tr 0
Estimates and prices by return post. r
334: GKEIOIRG-ID BTBBBT,
