

The Bulletin
Vol. B~No. 388
BATUHDAY, JULY 9, 1887.
Price., Od.
THE SNOB BALLADS.
No. I.
“I AM THAT BOY.”
T
O man considers it a reproach to own that he comes
from humble stock, tl can give you one instance of the case
in point. Nearly 200 years ago, about the time when the
battle of Blenheim was fought, and the British took Gibral
tar, and England and Scotland were united, in the reign of
Good Queen Anne, a little boy, whose father kept a shop,
lived in the town of Nottingham in England. The boy
worked hard, and when as a man he took over the business,
people would give him valuables and money to take care of
when they wont abroad, as the countiy was unsettled and
roads were unsafe. He died at a good old age, respected bv
his fellow citizens, and left his sons to carry on his small
bank. I, in the reign of good Queen Victoria, am proud to
be able to say that that little boy was the founder of my
family, and I hope I may never do anything to> disgrace hia
name.” —Lord Oarinijtonto the Sydney Newsboys*
Now listen, all you vulgar boys,
And I will tell bo you
A story most astonishing,
And yet, my lads, ’tis true.
Some nine score years ago, or so,
When good old Anne was Queen,
There lived in Nottingham—a boy !
You think that strange, I ween ;
But yet ’tis true ; and, stranger still
He wore most ragged clothes,
And did not use a handkerchief
To wipe his little nose.
And yet—another funny thing—
The boy he had a “ pa,”
And, now I come to think of it,
He likewise had a “ma.”
It was, I sa ! d, about the time
When Blenheim’s field was fought—
Twas when we sto’e Gibraltar’s rock,
And bonnie Scotland bought.
Now, this boy’s pa—we’H call him Smith—
Was not the sort of oaf
To go and work all day himself
And let his offspring loaf.
I use a vulgar word or two
Because you're vulgar boys—
A clever speaker words, to suit
Hi?audience employs.
IDLENESS REPROVED.
Twas true, indeed, that little Smith
Would much have liked to shirk.
But with a strap his parient
Persuaded him to work.
In course of time, this little Smith,
As all boys do, grew big,
And ran the shop, until at last
Old Smith he hopped the twig.
Now, as I said, the elder Smith
Endeavoured to instil —
Assisted by a strap—some brains
Into his little Bill.
(I do not think his name was Bill,
But still, you know, at times
A rhymster must some license take
In order to find rhymes.) ; w
And so, you see, all vulgar boys l .
At bottom should take pains.
Which may, as was the case with Smith,
Come out on top in brains.
For when hia pa returned to dust,
And Junior Smith was boss,
He turned his nose up at the shop
And said it was “one-hoss.”
v e M o nfsff
i «>
13
J
I
I
s
1
T
H
E
BILL SMITH THE YOUNGER.
Those, boys, were far more stirring times
Than we have with us now ;
And Englishmen were given more
To kicking up a row.
The question of Succession was
A fertile cause for fight—
Young Smith, he did not care a curse
Which side was wrong or right.
But when they were hard-up for cash,
This benefactor lent
Them money on their jewelTy,
And charged them—shent per shent.
He also kept their cash for them
When on the Continent,
And faithfully returned it them,
Less only—ten per shent.
He hung three balls above his door,
They called them “Lombards” then,
We call them “ uncles,” Frenchmen “ aunts,"
These great and goodly men.
When this Smith died he left his sons
Who deftly “ skinned the lamb,”
Until there was no fleece at all
Upon poor Nottingham.
So then they came to Lombard-street,
Chucked up the golden balls,
Forgot poor mouldy grandpa Smith
And bought ancestral halls.
Now though, dear boys, baronial seats
Are nice when once you win ’em.
It’s awkward when you haven’t got
A baron to sit in ’em.
THE “ANCESTRAL HALLS."
The Newsboys 1 Exemplar.
, P E I«,-
THE SMITH FAMILY TREE.
But three-ball Smith, before he died,
Had laid this maxim down,
“ He who has sovereigns enough
Can always buy a crown."
They could not get a regal crown.
For there we re none to let.
So bought a sort of half-a-ci own,
A Baron’s Coronet.
Thus from this humble root there sprung
A tree with noMe pith,
And lordly boughs, who not for gold.
Would bear the name of SMITH 1
Heroic deeds and talents grand
Are surely paltry myths,
'Tis better to have gold galore
And spring from three-ball S.n'Uuk
JIJBILFj
30d||
“ LITTLE JOHNNIE STANDS BEFORE YOU.”
For here /stand, a Prince's pet,
Who from my basainet
Have had whate’er I wished to get
And worn a coronet!
Yea, boys—for I with that dull pride
Which apes humility.
In mock-heroic strains have told
That but a Smith am 11
Chorus of Newsboys :
Oh ! he's a jolly good fellow.
An always ’umble great swell, oh !
His game is quite easy to tell, though.
Which nobody can deny.
P. W.
“HE’S A JOLLY GOOD FELLOW."


THE BULLETIN
PUBLISHED OMCS A WEEK,
AT ii PITT-STKKET, SYDNEYJSf.S.W.
TERMS TO subscribers
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per annum * - ” “ ,2 s ’ S2’
Half-yearly - - - - O 13s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING-,
bo whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By lending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shlllii. s*
idling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony-you can
bare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer 1s net open to residents of Sydney. In that city
Ihe Bulletin is not delivered by mall, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1887.
The N.S.W. Goverment Asylums.
Owing to the number of complaints regarding
N.S. W. Benevolent Asylum mismanagement
it was decided in August, 188fi, to ascertain by
means of a Board of Inquiry the truth con-
corning those institutions. With this object
a committee of three persons was appointed.
The chairman was Mr. T. K. Abbott, a
stipendiary magistrate of high standing and
acknowledged ability in sifting evidence.
The other members were Dr. J. A. Thomp
son and Mr. H. Robison, bith in Govern-
ment employ—the former as assis.ant chief
medical officer, the latter as Inspector of
Public Charities. For two months the re-
port of that Board has been before the pub-
lic and as efforts, no less scandalous than
the facts brought to light by the inquiry,
are being made to hush the matter up, it is
but fair that a few of the discoveries made
should be placed before the community, so
that people may judge for themselves how
the charity that covereth a multitude of sins
is understood and administered in New
South Wales.
* * *
Newington, on the Parramatta River, was
the first institution visited. It is about ten
miles from Sydney, and within its boundaries
are some fifty acres of land. Considerably
less than an acre of this space is available
for the three hundred inmates. In other
words, the authorities grant a liberal slice of
ground so that the patients may not have to
complain of want of room ; while, in order
that no cause for murmuring might arise,
the old people are confined to no less than
one-fiftieth of the whole. It is not pleasant
to think of the result if no grounds at all or
but an acre or two were attached. When
political economists tell a British pauper
that English trade is increasing by leaps and
bounds, the ungrateful and unvarying answer
is, “ Yes, but it does not leap my
way ; I am still hungry.” So when a
Newington inmate learns that fifty acres of
land belong to the Asylum, but that she it
is an institution for females alone —will have
to limit her wanderings to three roods, it is
not quite apparent what advantage she
derives from the balance. In the cancel -
hospital of this odd establishment, according
to the report, “ the inmates had their meals
served up in a dish, and not being supplied
with knives or forks, had to feed on the
beds or on the floor like pigs.” Again, per-
sons “ many of whom could neither read nor
write, were entrusted with the administration
of poisonous medicines, and had command of
sufficient morphia to have destroyed the
lives of every inmate of the ward.” Indeed,
this lethal alkaloid appears to have been served
out without stint, especially to the attendants
of the cancer ward ; and as one of these atten-
dants was accused of “ stealing the comforts
given by visitors to her helpless charges,” of
“ getting up in the night to beat her patients
because they disturbed her by snoring,” of
“ ill-treating one patient who was near her
death by beating her with a stick,” it will be
readily understood that the cure of cancer is
a specialty at Newington. This woman appears
to have been nick-named the murderess,'
by the slanderous paupers. One attendant
admitted that “ when she was given powders
to administer to more than one patient she
would carry one in her right hand and one
in her left, and when she got to the ward
would place one at either end of the mantel-
piece, so as to make no mistake in giving
them to the persons for whom they were re-
spectively intended.” In view of these and
other statements brought out by the inquiry,
it is significant to read in the report : “A fter
the Ladies’ Board and this Board began
their inquiries, the death-rate fell in >1 uly
and August from an average of 11 per month
to an average of 3 per month !”
* *
The Asylum in Macquaric-strcot, Parra-
matta, contains some three hundred male in-
mates. The methods so successfully em-
ployed at Newington for making the women
comfortable appear in an improved form at
Macquarie-street for the comfort of the men.
If, in addition to being old, the patient hap-
pened to be imbecile also, he was mopped
all over with cold water by the wardsman,
the malodorous mop being dashed in his
face at the finish. Says the report : “ Dur-
ing May, 1685, seven inmates died in ten
days, all of whom were mopped in cold
water ; and if any of the patients said it
was a shame, the wardsman threatened them
with the same treatment.” Some of the
wardsmen seem to have had a fine sense of
humour. One of them, for instance, gave a
poor creature named Dowling a blow in the
eye, and then assured the doctor that “ a
liy must have stung him.” Nor was this
jocoseness confined to the subordinates it
ran through the whole management. Thus
we read that an epileptic barber was em-
ployed. At one time we plumed ourselves
on possessing a keen appreciation of drollery.
But, compared with the official who ap-
pointed an epileptic to shave bed-ridden
patients, we are a mere undertaker. On the
subject of this appointment the Board re-
mains : “ One can imagine the feelings with
which a feeble, nervous old person would
place himself under the hands of such a
barber.” It is not so certain that one could
“imagine the feelings” of “a nervous old
person ” in such- circumstances. It is not
always easy to put yourself in another s
place and think as he thinks. But it is in-
evitable that all possessing ordinary humanity
will feel a shock of indignant surprise on
learning to what those may be reduced who,
frequently through no fault of theirs, have
to accept charity in IS ew South VN ales.
• * *
One of the Macquarie-street cases invites
special attention. It is that of William
Roy. He is 34 years of age, a Scotchman
by birth, and a baker by trade. In 1870 he
enlisted in the 32nd foot, and subsequently
volunteered or was transferred to the ill-
fated 24th, the major portion of which was
surprised and cut to pieces by the Zulus. In
1871 Roy landed at the Cape, and served un-
til 1879, when he returned to England and
was discharged. He was a patient in the
-Rorke’s Drift hospital when the Zulus
swooped upon it after their sue mss at Islrn
dula. He broke through the wall of the
burning building, and under a searching fire
rescued eight of his comrades. All this can
be seen detailed in the London Graphic of
the 20th December, 1879. It was on that
day that Roy, crippled through the exposure
incidental to semce in such a country as
Zululand, received from the Queen at Wind-
sor Castle a racial for “South A-frica,
another for “ distinguished conduct in the
field,” and, most precious of all, a Bible
with Her Majesty’s autograph. He does
not appear to have got a pension. On en-
listing in a British regiment each soldier is
supplied with an “ Account Book,” in which
his slender pay is balanced monthly. We
have seen robust and bearded fellows, bronzed
by following the colours through Indian
jungles and Chinese swamps, stand round
the'pay-table with their account-books and
rejoice to find that after having drawn two-
and-fourpence in pay during the month there
was still twopence due them at the end. A
penny a day was, and still is, we believe,
what the British bull-dog cleared when the
state of his shell-jacket or ammunition boots
necessitated repairs. Besides showing the
lien he had upon the Imperial Exchequer,
the account-book was also used to show the
man’s conduct during his term of service. It
will be easily understood, even by those un-
acquainted with warlike aftairs, that military
law, under which a high state of discipline has
to be maintained, is obliged to class as crimes,
actions which in civil life would be regarded
as trivial. To tell a persm that you are
as good as he, may in civil life be practised
with impunity provided you are quite sure.
Not so in military, A soldier may have
every reason for thinking himself his ser-
geant’s equal, but he has a still better reason
for keeping a discreet silence on the subject.
When, therefore, a man passes nine years in
the service without a black mark, tne infer-
ence is that he is trustworthy and prudent.
In Roy’s account-book, the Board states,
“ not one solitary entry against him for in-
subordination or misconduct of any kind is
to be found.” He is now paralysed and
blind. Let us see how broken-down soldiers
of exemplary character and proved courage
are treated in New South Wales Asylums.
♦ * *
In January last the Inspector of Charities
called and asked if there were any com-
plaints. Roy stated the bread was sour.
This, as the report says, was a matter of
common complaint. Roy, being a baker,
ought certainly to have been a fair judge.
Next day the stout allowed him was
stopped. When he murmured he got the
answer, “ Well, if you make trouble like
that, do not expect to get extras.” Nor was
this all. “ Upon some alteration in the
hospital arrangements, the necessity for
which was not made clear by the matron, he
was ordered to occupy a ward at the top of a
llight of stairs or remain in the yard,” By
going to the new ward he became a prisoner,
as he could not get down without being
carried ; by remainiog in the yard he would
be (we quote) “.entirely at the mercy of the
charitably-disposed or sympathetic inmates,
if such happened to be there, as he can
can neither walk nor see.” What appears
most antagonistic to fair play or decency in
this affair is the abysmal meanness of asking
a poor wretch if he had a cause of complaint
and then punishing him for having one. It
is not reassuring to speculate on what per-
sons who act like this would do if favoured
by opportunity. Think of the blistering
irony of the affair ! Conspicuously hung in
the N.S.W. National Art Gallery is a
celebrated picture by a famous painter.
It is the picture of a heroic de-
fence. But the poor soldier who assisted
in supplying the motif is left paralysed,
blind, and helpless, at the head of a cheer-
less staircase, his wretched allowance of beer
withheld, while cannons roar and simpletons
bellow congratulations for the Jubilee of a
monarch who cheered his helplessness by—
the present of a Bible with her autograph !
* * *
In connection with one Alice M. Batho,
at Newington, the Board reports that it is
“ reluctantly compelled to admit that this
humiliating picture of cruel suffering and
hard-hearted indifference is coldly true,
although it seems infernal. ” Nor is it pos-
sible to arrive at any other conclusion when
the evidence is considered. Further on in
this remarkable report —a document, be it
remembered,, written by middle-aged, un-
impressionable officials skilled in sifting
testimony—we find: —“We have at New-
ington the fact that unfortunate consump-
tives have been actually starved to death
through neglect. . . . At Macquarie-
street the evidence is incontrovertible of the
gross brutalities practised upon helpless in-
mates by the wardsraen. . • • Here
[Newington] for days and weeks she [Batho]
lies in a state of semi-starvation
Take also the cases of Bath and Kennedy.
For ten years and four months these persons
had lain side by side, bed-ridden, when they
were suddenly separated because the doctor
discovered that one was a chronic and the
other an acute case ; but this discovery was
made after they haddoeen overheard convers-
ing with the Ladies’ Board. . . • She
[Emma Redding] is placed in a ward where
she remains for weeks, and when removed
her hair has to be cut off, and she is found
to be in a horrible state of filth. It is in
view of these, and many other cases of a
similar character, that the Board recom-
mends the taking of immediate steps to end
“a system of ill-treatment and neglect
which, although existing under the name of
charity, and in the midst of a Christian com-
munity, would be degrading 4 to the most in-
human race of savages.”
* * *
We have by no means touched on all the
shortcomings brought to light by this re-
port, but enough has been said to apprise
the public of the gaunt and ungentle form
under which charity masquerades in New
South Wales. The remainder is soon told.
The report was presented to Parliament,
and is now in process of being carefully
“burked” chiefly, it is openly asserted,
because some of the officials compromised
are related to personages in high places.
So honey-combed with nepotism, and
worse, is the public service of the colony
that it will ultimately be necessary not alone
to forbid members but their relatives to oc-
cupy places of profit and trust. It may ap-
pear strange that in a self-governing society
founded on manhood suffrage, any politician
whose power is derived from the people
should dare to shield those whose offences
of commission or of omission have made
decent folk turn away in disgust. But
when it is remembered that within the last
few weeks a vulgar and chameleonic
demagogue has at the beck of bigotcy cur-
tailed the liberty of speech and action of
thousands, and at the beck of sycophancy lent
his aid in making the colony malodorous in
free men’s nostrils, the fact that his party
now seem not disinclined to protect those
officially found guilty of having outraged
common humanity need occasion no sui prise.
* * *
We presume that the case of William
Roy has ere now been brought by Governor
Carington under the personal notice of the
Queen, his Imperial mistress.
The Clergy versus “The Bulletin.”
We have a big order on hand. We admit the
seriousness of the situation, but never yet having
shirked a public duty, we sit stolidly down to for-
mulate a new religion. Within the spaceof a column
or so we are expected to chalk-out a vernal faith 5
to lay jiown a brand-new creed ; to furnish the
lock, stock, and barrel of the rubric of the future,
and, in fact, to hash-up the raw material of float-
ing theosophy into the manufactured article of an
absolutely fresh and new-born religion. And this
theological contract has been taken by us at the
instance of the Reverends Drewktt and Johns
and certain sheep of their pasture from whom they
raise their hibernal wool. These good gentlemen,
who have been sacerdotally vegetating in the re-
mote and savage fastnesses of the Hume, and
wasting their ecclesiastical sweetness on the
desert air that howls like a parson’s curse round
the bluffs of Kosciusko, have struck against the
ancient and breach-honoured creed of Christianity
and by their recent utterances plainly evidence
that they consider the old faith to be utterly out-
worn and fit only to be consigned to the limbo of
the irreminlscential Past. These heterodox cavil-
lers, as members of the Committee of the Albury
A then mum, endeavoured to procure the exorcism
of that blasphemous exhalation of Cocytus, The
Bulletin, from their institution, on the grounds
that certain cartoons and articles which have from
time to time appeared in this paper, were of a
profane and leprous character calculated to bring
the blush of shame to the cheek of modesty and
subvert the eternal principles of True Religion—*
their brand of it Their motion was lost by eight
votes to six, one>f the champions of The Bul-
letin adding insult to injury by pouring gall into
the open sores of the maw-worms, who just failed
to exclude from their local School of Arts the only
Australian paper whose influence they feared, by
reading aloud a number of opinions from the
Australasian and foreign press complimentai y to
The Bulletin. So we can afford to be generous
and give them a new religion for an old psalm.
* * *
But let us examine the evidence these theological
weedlings have adduced against us. We have
always considered ourselves pretty decent expon-
ents of the bona fide sort of Christianity, and it
came with all the shock of genuine surprise to
learn that we were so far from the narrow and
surplice-swept path of glory. This is the case
against us. In the inspired language of the
beatified Drewktt, “ The Bulletin’s last Christ-
mas number showed six of the Mount Kennie
criminals on a gallows with a cross attached,
and the fheopathic pounders of prayers and
pietism considered that “ there was something
indescribably horrible in the association of these
two figures—the Cross (with a capital C), the
symbol of man's redemption; the gallows (with
a very small g), the means of hanging scoundrels.”
Now the Reverend-sin-paralyser Drewett must
be a very ill-informed shepherd if he really does
not know that the Cross (with a capital C) was as
much a Roman gibbet—a means of punishing
“ scoundrels ’ —as the modern tie-beam is a
Christian gibbet. Moreover, we would remind
Mr. BuLLKTiN-exoroiser Drewett that all the
rascals are not hanged yet, and that many of
them affect the Cross (with a capital C) with
quite another design than man’s redemption.
And yet again, many and many a citizen has
been done to death on a gallows who did not de-
serve it. Perhaps the Reverend Profanity-teaser
Drewett will recollect the case of John Brown,
the Abolitionist—who perished by the rope at
Harper’s Ferry, U.S. —and that we are told in the
Book, which the reverend pastor professes to
reverence, but which it is plain he has not yet
sufficiently studied, that the special feature of
Christ’s execution was its ignominy— Mr,
Dhewett’s Master was crucified between two
thieves. Of course, that could never happen
now-a-days, for roguery has grown more respect-
table. Next, says the demon-wrestler ; “ More
than this, The Bulletin attributed to the fol-
lowers of Christ the execution of these
criminals.” Quite true ! The alleged “followers
of Christ ” were, by their callous and pachyder-
matous indifference, directly the cause of the exe-
cution of the miserably ignorant Mount Rennie
lads. We know something about the matter—wo
were at the trial. When the agitation was raised
in Sydney to commute the death-sentence, we
waited personally upon several of the Christian
clergy— soi-disant and real —and with this
result: All the Roman Catholic priests inter-
viewed were at once ready to sign the petition to
the Governor, and to use their personal influence
in endeavouring to obtain a commutation —this
even before Sir Henry Parkes, Mr. Dalley,
Bishop Barry, and Cardinal Moran had, at the
instance of the eloquent Mr. Francis Myers, set
the fashion by raising their influential voices on
behalf of the wretched boys. But the “decorous”
alleged lights of the other churches—with one or
two notable, and, therefore, all the more honour-
able, exceptions—wriggled out of their responsi-
bility as Christian Ministers, and shirked the onus
of their position, thus avoiding all risk of offend-
ing that cold-blooded “respectability ” which has
so often in the world’s history stood calmly by
while murder was being done.
* * *
We called upon the Rev. Golden Tartuee.
This well-fed parochial saint was in his study en-
gaged in devout exsufllations, or in trying on his
sanctified person one of those bran-new phylac-
teries which were then all the clerical rage. We
entered the consecrated crypt, and the chastened
one emerged from the depths of a comfortably-
cushioned and gorgeously-upholstered easy-chair,
in which he had no doubt been engaged at his de-
votions. His appearance was elegant in the ex-
treme ; his attire was faultless, and fitted like a
glove. His white tie was neatly arranged on the
spot’esi c’erioal represser of hisbl ae-blooded jugular,
and his regenerated locks were carefully smoothed
and parted, and shone with an anointing of the
oil of gladness. And no wonder. The atmosphere
of his sanctum was a compromise between
patchouli and piety, and the fixings of his cell were
suggestive of Paphian luxuriance tempered and
solemnised by hints of a chrism-washed pietism. We
asked the holy one’s interference on behalf of the
too youthful victims of a social hypocrisy which,
while it affected to protect the most degraded
vice, far oftener outraged the most stainless
virtue, and as he listened to us with a bogus air of
condescension, the while adopting attitudes every
one of which might easily have been borrowed
from Mr. Charles Wyndham in a French play at
the London Criterion, he hum’d and haw’d and
hesitated. We soon cornered him on the score of
Christian duty, and the frigid moonbean smile of
simulated humility which had hitherto spasmodi-
cally shivered across his refined lips, fled, leaving
him pallid, anxious, worried, ill-at-ease, perform-
ing with his shekinah-burnishcd boot “The
Angels’ tattoo ” upon the consecrated carpet. We
pressed our point and he retreated —mentally
biting, kicking, and s ar'.ing. We left him to the
sacred influences of medita ion, to pursue our
thankless efforts in another direction. Nearly
everywhere our experience was the same. Re-
spectability, Christian piety, hypocrisy, and fawn-
ing expediency seemed to be the characteristic
traits of the a'leged followers of the Meek and
Lowly Nazareno. It was almost everywhere,


Whatare tfee Primate’s views upon the question ?’>
TPhey didn’t say so, you know, but how easily one
ccould see itl Ecclesiastical time-serving pointers,
t-fchey rounded on the one or two men who bravely
1 -essayed to tread in the steps of the Master. In
>-the case of the Rev. T. J. Curtis, a Presbyterian
> clergyman, clerical malignarcy kicked itself in
,} the effort him injury with the public and
' with hies aggregation.
* *
But' teb experience of Mr. Gurus is the usual
mebd‘ St those who honestly endeavour to carry
into Effect the doctrines of true Christianity. 111-
ootfCbaled sneers from the “ respectable ” profes-
sor of the faith; from those who fear their
'bfahops or their congregations of purse-proud
Wgainers with the God they attempt to propi-
tiate with pew-rents and richly-worked altar-
cloths ; from the perfumed, lavender-kid-gloved,
cambric-handkerchiefed, tailor-made clerics, with
their copious tears ever “on draught” for each
and every occasion—where a moneyed, “ respect-
able” sinner’s soul is in question. Such rare men
as Preacher Cox, of Sydney Domain, are the
bites noires of these people. His earnest and
human-hearted philanthropy is a mystery they
cannot understand. To urge larrikins to contri-
bute to the cause of charity; to combat the verbal
and frequently the material filth hurled at h m;
to wheel about on the Sabbath an invalid chair
half bought by his own scant earnings at a secular
•occupation during the week ; to feed the needy
; and the wretched, and to nurse the paralysed at
; his own poor home ; to act the saint in a rough
! suit devoid of symbols, phylacteries, and divining-
rods—this it is that astounds them. A man who
behaves every day in the wmek as they every Sun-
day” preach from their well-appointed pulpits
that fee should so behave, is to them a riddle and a
ridicule. Poor, unselfish Parson Ullmann, the
English University man who, shocked and dis-
F grafted at the apathy of conventional religion, had
»36 little worldly wisdom that he threw up a com
Portable and even fashionable Anglican living Of
£4OO a year and went out with his noble hearted
wife to trudge round pursuing his evangelical
fad and doing the work of Christ without a
i penny in the pockets of his rusty garments—and
who ultimately came to grief in following what he
considered to be his duty—Parson Ullmann is
something they don’t understand, and they don’t
want to.
* * *
Parsons Drewett and Johns, of Albury, are
eminently “ respectable” people. They represent
•also an eminently “ respectable" fallowing. The
downright interpretation of Christian
'doctrine from an ui saphisticated Chiistian s’atd-
) point fills them with irritation and annoyance.
-A concluding paragraph of an article entitled
“ Christ has risen I ” which appeared in these
columns last Easter run thus;—
“ In the course of but a few years, if population continues
to increase, Australia will take her place among the nations
of the earth, and then— Gon help her ! The Easter ealuta
tion of the future breaks upon our ear ; ‘ Christ has risen.
Let us weep!'"
Now, this is clearly to the effect that with each
successive Easter day the outlook for humanity
will, judged by the present tendency of the social
compass, be increasirgly desperate. The intellect
that could extract blasphemy from this—even
from the narrowest modem Christian standpoint
—must be acute indeed, This distinction has,
however, been achieved by a brace of theological
hair-splitters who denounce the last sentence
“Christ has risen! Let us w eep I”as a most ‘ blas-
phemous ” exclamation. Well, let it pass ! We can
perfectly understand and appreciate the intolerant
impatience of the average cleric at an exposure of
‘the rottenness of k the social system which the
•bourgeois clergy so largely help to bolster up.
* * *
Yet all this plainly indicates that the old-
fashioned sample of Christianity is knocked out
completely, and is altogether incapable of coming
to scratch at the call of “ time.” Most of its profes-
sors clearly do not believe what they preach, as they
certainly do not practise it. Were we in their
position—did we believe what they profess to be-
lieve—we would bear and brave anything for the
promised reward over which they mouth and
mumble upon each successive Sawbath ; “ for
what does it profit a man if he gain the whole
world and lose his own soul ? ” The self-denial of
Preacher Cox, the and disregard
of public opinion or public approval of
the Rev. T. J. Curtis, the impracticable
simplicity of poor Parson Ullmann, the
manful and level headed pleas for mercy of the
truly Reverend Doctor Gilchrist— all this (nay,
more) would not be beyond our attempt if we
sincerely believed that our fate was not worked
out on this earth; but that our Heavenly Father
would square all our woes in this world with a
good solid chunk of the golden concrete with
which the streets of Paradise are paved. What
are the paltry pleasures of this sub-celestial sphere
compared with the delight s of a glorious hereafter
which, by the conventional clergy’s own account,
an undue preference for the flesh-pots of Egypt
will considerably endanger their chance of obtain-
ing 2 But the faith of the Coxes and Ullmanns
is not the belief of typical modern clergy-
men. ihe creed of the latter is the
liturgy of the Mammon of wealth and
“ respectabilitythey believe in comfortable
and luxurious living ; in distant and long-deferred
dying. “Make the most of to-day,” say they
with an atheistic and furtive glance into the dark-
ness of the grave, “ for to-morrow we die and we
go we know not where.” Neither do we, but we
say so in the market-place besides whispering it
In our dreams. Yet, after all, it strikes us that
We have not yet started to lay the keel of that
new religion we contracted to build—and perhaps
we do not need. The people for whom we in-
tended it, have a pretty accurate notion of what
is best suited to them. We leave them with it,
and hope it may do them much good 1 The old
original Christianity is a good religion, if you only
follow it out to the sweet or bitter erd. When we
come to believe what the parsons say they believe
about the future state of rewards and punishments
and the means of shaping one’s destiny beyond the
grave, we will sell all our goods and give to the
poor, and go out into the slums and the rain like
Parson Ullmann.
The Newsboys' Exemplar
As a mere matter of form, we see no objection to
a Governor, provided only he be "good form,”
As a matter of fact we think, under our present
constitution, that a Governor is desirable, pro-
vided only he be a fact and not a fiction. That is
to say, that he be really capable of governing n
the true sense of the word should occasion aris
and not be merely a more or less ornamental dumm
It is, of course, quite possible for an individu
who has lived up to a certain period the life of
man about town to blossom out into a genius, ant
to behave as such when called upon. Fox was
case in point, but he was an exception, and sue i
an exception has not yet made its appearance
Governor of New South Wales, Some time ag
the present ruler ot the “Mother Colony of the
Australias ” had a grand, though painfu
chance of showing whether he was a man cr
mouse, and failed lamentably to prove himself th
former. When the terrible Mount Rennie busines
was about to be finished for good or evil it restec
with him, and with him entirely, to demonstrat
that he was indeed .'entitled to call himself
Governor or leader of men’s minds. What wa
the result 1 When a deputation comprising S
Henry Parkes and some others of the mos;
experienced and thoughtful men in our com
munity waited upon him before the tragedy wa
consummated, to protest, some of them on loft
constitutional grounds, against the course which
had been decided upon, what did he do ? Afte
listening to their arguments ar d reasoning, he rea
a previously prepared and totally ii relevant reply
which of course could not, nor did, either refut
their arguments or confute their reasonirg
This pitiful and no doubt well-founde
want of self-reliance has been painful]
manifest on almost every occasion of any import
ance, carefully prepared written speeches being
almost invariably resorted to, and when thee
have not been forthcoming the result has been tha
wheneverhehasopened his vice-regal mouth he ha
invariably put his lordiy foot into it. We do no
assert fora moment that a governor need be agrea
orator We do not expect the eloquence of Glad
stone, Beaconsexbld, or Bright, from men who
as a rule, come to us as much for their (not our
country’s as their own got d ; but, on the other
hand, we do think that a Governor of England’s
greatest colony should have a thinking-machine o
his own, and be capable of extemporising, at al
eve nts, a short speech in decent English. So much for
the matter-of-fact sideof the question. With regard
to the matter of form, His Excellency's ceaseless
and, if he only knew it, ludicrous popularity-hunt
ing, is excessively weak, to say the least of it. What
can sensible men think for instance, of a mock
modesty which tells a pack of boys that nearly
a couple of hundred years ago (the Evening
News made him say one hundred, but we do give
him credit for knowing when Queen Anne
reigned, though the News evidently dees not) the
founder of the family of Smiths was a pawn
broker in Nottingham, and that he hoped he
would not disgrace his memory ? We hope not,
but if the said founder of the illustrious line of
Smiths was in any way addicted to real
(not merely official) piety, we should like,
if possible, to have his opinion in this
matter, as we rather fancy that some of
the doings of some of his descendants would
make the old gentleman “sit up,” if he were
allowed to take a turn in “ this wicked world ’’
during the nineteenth century. The inference to
be drawn from this touching episode by the news-
paper boys is clearly that, if they all took to pawn-
broking, given a fair amount of good luck and
good judgment their descendants might in 200
years or so become Governors of New Souih
Wales. Now, if H.E. had started pawnbrokieg
himself, and thus risen to his present dazzling
altitude, he might have something to brag about;
or if he had then and there invested in 2400
golden balls for his 800 auditors and given them a
chance of setting up in the business and becoming
800 Governors of New South Wales, there
might have been something in it. But, as
ho has hitherto done nothing but spend
old Smith’s money, and, as a matter of
business, shake some of the grimiest paws
in the Sunny South, we fail to see what “ vulgar
little bops ’’ can learn from the touching history of
dear defunct old Threeball Smith, as related
for their edification by his Excellency the Governor
of New South Wales. Joking apart, that sort of
twaddle is very feeble, and even a Jubilee
audience of newsboys, with their stomachs full of
Jubilee beef and pudding, is hardly soft enough
to be fooled by suchVemarkably sickly “ taffy.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bulli “Charity.”
The Bulli Relief Fund still remains in the hands
of the committee, and the widows and orphans
are waiting- always waiting—for the assistanca
which seems as it it would never come. The
c fticial fly in the glue-pot continues immovable ;
the public subsetipiions which flowed in so freely
are sunk in a Dead Sea of red tape, and the final
distribution of the fund seems as far off as the
end of the Jarnhvce Chancery suit. Some day,
perhaps, the matter will be settled, and the board
will cease to block the way of public benevolence,
but according to present signs the widows will be
dead and the orphans grown old before that time
ai rives. The two questions which the people of
Australia now wish the so-called “Relief” Com-
mittee to answer are these: First, by what pos-
sible right do they continue, week after week, to
withhold the money with which they were en-
trusted for the express purpose of affording instant
relief to urgent distress? and, second, is there
any truth in the rumour which is already begin-
ning to gain ground that the sufferers are to be
deprived of a portion of their money in order to
enrich the Jingoistic “ Queen’s Fund ” —so called
in bitter irony, because the Queen never did and
never will give a cent to it or any similar institu-
tion in Australia ? If these two questions do not
evoke a prompt and satisfactory response it is
time the Bulli Fund were placed in other hands.
Already it bids fair to be converted from a public
charity into an engine of private tyranny, and the
S. M. Herald, as the organ of “proputty,” de-
fends this atrocious injustice in these words :
The decision not to give money to those who proposed
to go to law with the company was certainly right. The
money was subscribed to relieve distress, and not to promote
litigation. Those who think that they could successfully
prosecute the company, and recover damages to the e xtent
of three or four hundred pounds, are of c urse entitled to
try. Rut not till such action is settled or abandoned could
they appropriately come on a chaiity fund.”
This utterance has a plausible ring, but it repre-
sents only the view of those who claim that might
is right. Distress does not necessarily mean mere
want of bread. It may mean, *8 in the present
case, want of the money necessary to enfoi ce legal
tights. By a monstrous act of bad taste two
tflicials of the Bulli Coal Company hold »eats on
the Relief Committee, and as a matter of human
nature their inclinations would run in ihe direc-
tion of preventing further trouble to the company.
As far as can be judged from present appearances
80 lives were lost through sheer carelessness, and
if proprietorial neglect could be proven by an im
partial inquiry in the Supreme Court, the wealthy
proprietors of the Bulli colliery would be held re-
ponsible for a vast sum in damages. With this
question, however, thepublic has nothing to do, but
the public are certainly bound to see that the widows
shall not he debarred from spending, if they so
elect, a portion of the funds (unconditionally sub-
scribed) in bringing about a bona-fide enquiry in
the Supreme Court as to who is responsible for
the slaughter of 80 men. Is the Bulli Fund, wo
ask, to be used as an engine for smothering legal
rights or burying the demands of justice-is it to
be turned into a public charity for the benefit of
the capitalist rather than for that of the capitalist’s
helpless and starving victim ? Every week of
delay and suspense brings the time nearer when
the women will consent to any terms in order to
get the relief which has been so long withheld,
ihe people of Victoria, who with their accustomed
generosity, subscribed fully one-third of the Fund
an action which contrasts strangely with that of
the people of New South Wales on the occasion of
the Creswick disaster, when out of the vast sum
raised to relieve the sufferers only about £3OOO
came from the parent colony-will probably take
better heed in future how they entrust the
management of their benevolence to a New South
Wales board. Their aid was intended for the
hungry orphans - not for the hungry capitalists—
of the colony, and as it was given freely it must be
freely distributed not doled out merely to those
who will promise to ref rain from assailing the private
interests of a wealthy corporation, a boaid com-
posed of men occupying a purely independent
position might with some semblance of decency
exact the proposed pledge, but the constitution in
of the Bulli committee makes such an act a
public disgrace and an outrage on charii y.
Downing-street Qovernmt nt.
Colonists who flaunt it as a glory that their
country is subject to another not alone do a stupid
thing, but waste a lot of money in getting the
subjection duly caried out. Any street in Aus-
tralia is better suited for the seat of colonial
government than is Downing or any other street
in London. This, however, is not only forgotten
by these colonists, but they go on contentedly
paying and making others pay for the blunders
which ignorance of this plain principle creates.
Take NeW Guinea. A few years ago the colonies
set their hearts upon appropriating this island.
Whether the desire was a good one or not need
not now be discussed, As a fact, Australia looked
upon the place as one likely, if let lie wi.hout an
owner, to fall into the hands of some European
military Power, and she determined to put in her
claim. This was the time when the merit of the
claim should have been fully argued But
colonists themselves were hampered by knowing
that no argument among themselves could settle
the point. Its determination rested with England.
While then the people of Australia hung in doubt
as to the merits of their case their desire for
appropriation was favourably answered from
Downing-street. That gratified Australians. But
just as they were hampered before, here again
the development of their political existence was
arrested. They were not permitted to appropriate
in any but a diplomatic sense. They were played
down an incline of low moral and political senti-
ment. To-day there is nobody in Australia who
can tell what useful connection there is between
us and Papua. The general impression is that if
Australia could cut the island adrift again the
riddance would be lucky. A few nights ago Sir
Henry Parkes was asked in Parliament a ques
tion relative to the affairs of the island, and his
answer showed that he knew as much about and
was as deeply interested in Patagonia as in Papua.
Had Australia had the power to give effect to
what was a strong desire at the time, the moral
and political merits of the case would have re-
ceived suitable consideration. If she had decided
to appropriate, a scheme of government would
have been drafted and by this the island would
have been in the position of an infant colony with
its lands open to the sun and its industrial re-
sources in possession of a name. The part of the
country seized by Germany is already under
work. Tillage is progressing, mines are being
opened, immigrants are being landed, and towns
are growing up. In the part owned by Australia,
but ruled from Downing-street, all is at a stand-
still. The Resident Commissioner can do nothing
without authority. He has written to every
Government in Australia, but each Premier puts
him off. He hurries about every now and then to
raise a moiety of his salary, and every colony tries
to evade him. The absolute fact is, however,
that £15,000 have been extracted from colonists
to keep the ridiculous game going. If anything
were wanted to show Australians that in thiega
which concern the colonies they should think for
themselves and act for themselves it is the farce
Downing-street is playing in New Guinea and the
price Australians are beitg made pay for the
carrying of it on.
+ ,
The fact that three men have been tried and ac-
quitted on an established charge of “ savagely
assaulting the police ” is a legal phenomenon
worthy cf more than passing notice. It is a
pleasing vindication of the rights of honest citi-
zenship as against a reckless assertion of the
power of the law. In nine hundred and ninety-
nine cases out of every thousand the man who
lacerates a “peeler’s” head with a tomahawk
and gets pulled ” for the job is made a stern ex-
ample of. The thousandth case is something to
be noted and remembered. Very well, then
shortly after one o’clock in the morning of Aprii
Jth, Sergeant O’Donnell, a Melbourne detective
took two plain-constables up to Carlton, on a pro-
fessional expedition. He had received certain
mysterious information that a “wanted” criminal
was concealed in the house of certain Whites.
He and his myrmidons apparently knew so little
ot the aforesaid VV kites that it was thought ad-
visable to make further enquiries about them
before entering their house to secure the secreted
cuiprit. They knocked up a neighbour, and
asked him for particulars respecting the White
family, which circumstance plainly proves that
t*e active O'Donnell was poking about in the
dal-k after the manner of his kind. Particulars
were promptly forthcoming. O'Donnell, accord-
ing to the evidence, was advised that the three
Hr others White were respectable, steady young
men, and that Miss White was a young wonder
of unimpeachable character. His informant
scouted the idea of a criminal being harboured in
such a house. On the strength ot this fresh
‘ received,” the aitful O’Donnell and
his merry men knocked at the Whites’ front
door and demanded admittance without giving
any sort of reason for their nocturnal visit. After
a while the door was softly opened, the “ per-
lese ’ rushed in and found themselves savagely
assaulted with axes and other implements of war-
fai e. In the thick of the battle it is more or less
certain that one of them stated they where con-
stables in disguise. This was probably in answer
to the cry of “ Police ! ” raised by the Whites.
Anyway, the garrison boat off the attacking
army, which, letiring for reinforcements, ulti-
mately carried Castle White by assault and
hugged off the brothers, their sister, and her
young woman friend to the lock-up. The girls
were discharged from custody, after spending a
night in the society of two drunken drabs, while
the brothers were committed for the trial which
has recently ended in a verdict of “not guilty.”
A jury of 12 has decided that if officers of the law
masquerade in ordinary attire and commence to
. P ]a y burglars "at 1.30 a.m. they may be treated
in accordance with the character they assume.
The brothers White have done the public good
service in establishing a certain right to maltreat
policemen. A general police right to maltreat the
public had almost come to be regarded as a mono-
poly. It is positively startling to learn that the
Acting-Chief Commissioner of Police thinks that
Sergeant O'Donnell has received sufficient phy-
sical punishment to meet his indiscretion.
+
Cardinals Gibbons atd Manning support trades
unions in the name of their church. In a recent
letter to a dignitary of the Church of Rome,
Cardinal Manning writes thus of ihe “Knights
of Labour”:—
“ Hitherto the world has been governed bv dvnastio
Henceforth the Holy See will have to deal v ith the people!
and it has bishops in close daily and personal contact with
the people. The more clearly and fuliy this is perceived the
W°n be ' Ne - Ver at fcny tinae has th e episcopate
been so detached from civic powers and united in itself and
so » ell able to see, to realise, and to ure its powers Failure
to see and use those powers will breed much trouble and
mischief. My thanks are due to the Cardinal for letting me
>n the argument. If I can find a copy of my lecture on
The .rhgnity and Rights of Labour’ I will send it to him.
It will, I think, qualify me for knighthood in the Order
Hkantano some years ago published books on the guilds,
in he proves that the association of labour and crafts
goes backs to antiquity, but there is this notable fact—in the
religious and Teutonic laws they were recognised, favoured
and chartered: in the Imperial and Latin laws they were
vigorously prohibited. We are at this day as a Church the
mother, friend, and protector of the people As the Lord
waked am oug them, so His Church lives among them. The
Cardinal a [Gibbon s] argument is irresistable.”
This is discreet upd straight. We wonder wbat
Cardinal Moran Las to tay for himself on this
question ?
+
The Orangemen of New South Wales have brought
in their little Jubilee offering of gas and gush, and
dumped it down at the feet of Governor Caring-
ton. They state in a large round hand that—
Subjects of the Crown and Constitution of the
United Kmgdom of Ore-*- Britain and Ireland, and as him
adherents of the Xroit isnt Kefoinied Faith, we rejoice hi
the devoted attachment Wjukli h?s been manifested through-
out your Majesty s realm to your Majesty personally and to
the House of Brunswick ; at a we also rejoice in the treat
advancement made in the extension of religious liberty dur-
ing your long and exemplary reign. ’
Precisely so. And yet only a few years ago the
Orangemen of the Empire talked blood and flames
and vitriol, and swore they would “ kick the
crown into the Boyne ” ; and when about 18
months ago there seemed a prospect of Glad-
stone's Horae Rule measures passing through the
Commons, theee bilious bigots showed their re-
gard for institutions of the Empire by announcing
that 100,000 of the brethren were ready to rise in
Ulster and drench the land in blcoL Owing to
which circumstance our respect for the voice of
Orangeism crying in the wilderness goes down to
zero, and we regard the Chinaman-coloured
brigade as frauds whose loyalty only endures so
long as their own jellow pup is uppermost.
Determined to bolster up at any cost the
curiously piebald sort of fiscal system which it
brands Free-trade,” Sydney E. News, discours-
ing of the New South Wales locomotive tenders,
says:—
“ The work will remain in the colony— not from any pro-
tectionist notion but from the unanswerable argument ihat
the country will save money in the way of time and quality
of workmanship. The more the colonial-mace engires are
tried, the greater is the satisfaction, and their advantages
over o’hers that have been half their time in the mechanical
infirmary, have been really difficult to estimate."
If this meant anything at ail it would mean that
New South Wales possesses more enterprising
capitalists, better machinery, and more skilful
workmen than any other manufacturing country
in the world; which we are very much inclined
to doubt. As a matter of fact ihis locomotive
business is merely another straw which shows
how strongly the wind is blowing in favour of
Protection.
A return of part of the letters, &c., relating to
the Commission of Enquiry into the terrible Bulli
colliery explosion has been laid upon the table of
the New South Wales Assembly. As to the ap-
pointment on the Commission of the miners i ther
than Hilton nothing is said. As regards Dr. J.
R M. Robertson and Mr. J, Y. Neilson being on
the Commi ; sion—the former, especially, as chair-
man—there can be nothing but dissatisfaction.
Respecting Neilson’s appointment, Mr. Crou-
dace wrote to the Colonial Secretary as follows ;
/ would respectfully remind you that Mr.
Neilson should be an important witness in this
matter, he having been engaged at the very time
of the accident making an examination and re-
port upon the u.ine.” Neilson then wrote a denial
of having anything to do with pit A that exploded
and his denial was accepted ; but he could not deny
being an important witness ; hislittlc-more-gasand
coaldus t- havin g - been ■ distributed theory had been


given inter alia. What a spectacle for Justice !
Neilson the witness became Neilson the Judge !
Then as regards Dr. Robertson’s appointment,
Mr. Croudace telegraphed to the Secretary for
Mines: “ Rumoured that Robertson will be
Chairman of Commission ; if so, I decline to sit.
Quite willing if Clarke is appointed.” The
Government urged Mr. Croudace to reconsider
his decision—yet he held out for Clarke as
Chairman. Finally, the troublesome Croudace
had an interview with Dr. Robertson, “who re-
moved some ill impressions from his mind,” and
everything was squared up. And this is the
Commission from whom the truth, the whole
truth, and n ohing but the truth, shall come !
We are deeply interested, and think it is
high time that the said Commission rendered an
account of themselves to the public.
♦
“ W. B. Campbell” wails in the capac’ous page
of the S. M. Herald about the horrors attaching
to payment of members, and points out that
N.S.W. will one day possess 35,000,000 people,
and then, at the present rate of representation,
the will have a Legislative Assembly 4270 strong,
costing in salaries £1,281,000 per annum. This is
truly awful, especially the way Mr. Campbell
puts it, biit he evidently forgets the worst part of
the outlook. Some day N.S.W. may have 350
instead of 35 million inhabitants, and then, by the
i ame reasoning, she will have 42,700 members in
the Assembly, and 10,000 will form a quorum
and the salaries will amount to nearly £13,000,000]
It is all a matter of simple proportion. In the
same way we figure out that there will then be
350 Campbells writing letters to 350 S. M
Heralds, and about 1,750,000 unemployed cutting
f crub in the National Park, The outlook is evi-
dently rather gloomy. We almost wish Mr.
• 'ampbell hadn’t spoken. It will be time to con-
t ider Campbell’s objections after the occurrence
' f the event for which Parkes is now preparing
at an immense cost, and against which W. B.
• ‘ampbell has apparently nothing to urge—the
granting of the public thanks to the N.S.W.
i roops who shall have successfully resisted the in-
vading Russians.
MR. R. A. COWTON,
Editor of the WARWICK EXAMINER AND TIMES.
The Fourth of July was celebrated in the usual
f ishion by a gathering of the American citizens of
.Sydney at Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion, Botany,
»md along with them there mustered a crowd of
New South Wales politicians and celebrities,
large and small, but mostly small, to dine and
drink and orate in honour of the great Republic.
Of these strangers Mr. Dalley and Sir Alfred
Stephen were the most prominent, and either
through the irony of circumstances or th eir own
utter inability to appreciate the fitness of things,
both these advocates of Aristocracy and Monarchy
were present to propose Republican toasts,
and waste their rounded periods in praise of
the nation which, 111 years ago, declared
both their Jingo idols to be the emblems of
an accursed slavery. In proposing the
health of the President, Sir Alfred struck a
happy compromise by describing him as “ vir-
tually a sovereign,” but . a moment later he lost
himself in maurderings about “ the love of free-
dom for speech and for act,” which sounded
strangely from the man who, on the 10th of June,
declared with impotent fury that “ before a week
would have passed” a measure wouldbe enacted to
enable a band of Jingo aristocrats to put down all
freedom of speech except their own. But if Sir
Alfred put his foot in it once in these happy
after-dinner moments, the erstwhile Plain Bill of
the Soudan was a thousand times worse.
In proposing “The Day we celebrate,”
he let the day and the Republic slide
together most of the time, and drifted on
with gently-flowing paragraphs about “ the
Sovereign, who during half a century bed shown
her love to her children in America even as to
those in her own realms,” and who, “under the
guidance of Heaven,” had by her own action
warded off the dire calamity of war between the
two nations in the troublous times of 1861. Even
Dalley’ s habitual contempt for strict accuracy
when it interferes with the flowers of rhetoric is
strained a little further than usual when he repre-
sents Victoria as having been a mother to
America, though in saying that she has loved the
Republicans even as she has her own subjects he
only commits her to one collect-cablegram more;
but when he tells of a modern Guelph having
averted by her single act the horrors of war, we
can only hope that the plausible Privy Councillor
is making—net recording—history. For if his
facts are accurate, then Mr. Dalley has damned
Ihe pel tical character of his beloved Sovereign in
one disastrous moment of over-confidence. Queen
Victoria, he asserts, posses c es and once exercised
the power of averting bloodshed, and the theory
that she possesses such a power, and yet
often failed to exercise it, heaps upon her
all the hideous crimes of the Chinese opium-war
and the Egyptian campaign, and the wanton
slaughter which is going on to-day to make a
Burmese jubilee, and places to her account the
ruined homes, the smoking fields, the burnt cities,
and the mountains of corpses which are all that
remain of the fairest land in Eastern Asia. This
is the only rational deduction to be drawn from
Mr. Dalley’s 4th of July logic ; lethim square his
mistaken eloquence with his loyalty if he can and
tell us why Victoria permits such things to be.
Parkes’ State House,
The speech of Premier Parkes in moving the
second reading of the New South Wales Centenary
Celebration Bill was perhaps the most melancholy
exhibition of fatuous twaddle ever performed by
that expert in the art or mystery of stringing
together innumerable words signifying nothing in
particular. Doubtless Parkes could make a
more nonsensical deliverance, but doubtless he
never did ; and, accordingly, we have a scheme
absurd and ridiculous in itself ushered into the
world in a manner calculated to inspire profound
pity for its inventor as well as contempt for the
inven'ion. So far as the proposed transformation
of the Lachlan Swamp into a public park is con-
cerned, that may be passed over with the remark
that there is only one thing new in the project,
and only one thing objectionable. Some toadies
have been industriously circulating a report
that to Governor Carington is due the
honour of originating the idea; yet from time
immemorial the conversion of this reserve into a
park has been generally recognised as its obv’ous
and inevitable destiny. Over and over again
public-spirited men have loudly denounced the
Government for neglecting to take time by the
forelock and plant trees, in order that when the
land is no longer required as a catchment area it
might the more speedily be utilised as a park.
The prolonged and studied neglect of Government
over this business cannot too soon give place to
energetic action, apart from any consideration as
to the number of years that have elapsed since
the first hatch of convicts was cast on the
shores of Botany Bay. But when this
much is said of Parkes’ Centenary Cele-
bration scheme there is room for nothing
left save condemnation. Of the area available for
a park, he coolly proposes to sell a seventh for
what he calls “mansion-sites,” and speaks of a
“ syndicate ” being prepared to take these sites
off the hands of the State at a figure which, so far
as his roundabout story enables one to judge,
would enable the speculators to at once bag a hun-
dred per c.-nt, on their bargain.
» * *
The idea of selling 106 acres of park land in the
metropolis to commemorate the centenary of New
South Wales is probably the most brilliant of the
countless suggestions that have been made for
celebrating the event. The poverty of resource of
which this feature of the scheme is an indicant
would be intensely ludicrous if it were not so de-
plorable. In bygone times some genius conceived
a similar notion in regard to the Sydney Domain
Some “mansion sites” were disposed of there;
and a year or two since these sites had to be re-
purchased by the Government at prices higher per
foot than the original grantees had paid per acre!
In the not very remote future, if the present
scheme is carried out as proposed, no doubt the
expediency of resuming these “mansion sites”
will be forced on, and Parliament will be asked to
vote a sum for compensation to the ousted land-
lords and tenants, in comparison with which the
amount realised by the original sale will appear
preposterously insignificant. Ihe New South
Wales Assembly is preternaf ura'ly subservient to
Parkes ; yet surely it cannot, in the long
run, bring itself to ratify this monstrous
measure for parting with the common pro-
perty of the citizens of Sydney. It would
be scarcely less justifiable to cut up Hyde Park
and the Domain into building lots, and offer these
on the existing sick money market to the highest
bidder. Parkes nevertheless twaddled away on
Thursday week as though this particular feature
of his plan not only stood in need of no defence,
but was goed beyond all controversy—and the
people’s representatives have actually accepted
the proposal. This splendid conception appears
to have stricken first “ an eminent firm of land
auctioneers,” who, it would seem, are ready with
a syndicate to buy the land at a price—provided
the purchase money is wholly expended in im-
proving the property thus alienated. That is how
the patrimony of the people is frittered away.
* * *
But the programme is admirable so far as the
park is concerned, as compared with that part of
it in which looms what Parkes describes as a
State House or National Palace, In the first
instance, he proposed that in this structure there
should be a mausoleum, in which to gather the
dust of men whore memory the country desired
to honour ; and although he subsequently recom-
mended to be put therein only archives touchirg
the early history of New South Wales colonisa'ion,
the Assembly bound him down to the initial idea,
and now we shall have a national mausoleum all
ready fer the bones of the yet unborn.
Tie storage cf archives is too cruel.
The blue-blocded aristocrats of Potts Point are
bonified at the proposed hunting up of these
archives, the contents whereof relate for the most
part to the inordinate number of lashes inflict'd
on the backs of their forefathers, and to the exact
nature of the reasons which led to these early
colonists departing from the land of their birth.
And this is the sort of fustian proffered in advo-
cacy of the scheme :
11 He maintained that a public building such as he asked
hon. iremhers to tßsent to wruld have a very large and un-
speakable influence upon the fortunes of this country.
('Hear, hear.) What he meant by an ‘unspeakable in
flueuce’was an influence that could not be traced, and the
most powerful influence in forming the character and views
of an individual or nation was of that class that could not
be traced. They were insidious, unsleeping by night and
day, felt in all our undertalings, and the philosopher could
not understand them nor the crptious critic or genius trace
or imagine them. These were a class of opinions that tended
more than any other to elevate character and prepare men
for the highett of their national duties. He believed it
would have a great effect in promoting the education of the
people to a higher phase of national duties. He felt quite
sure that this country neve-- could become a great country
unless the sentiment of the country was cultivated and
acquned a robust figure as well as the mere matter of fact—
the mere business of the country. It was just as necessary
for the higher range of rational life as the smaller considera-
tion might Ve necessary in other ways. He instance d the
other day, and he would do so again, a use to which this
building might be put. Supposing this country were attacked
by an enemy, and supposing it was Iravely defended and the
persons who attacked got what he felt sure they would—
more than they bargained for—he said that this feat of arms
would deserve a men cry in every man’s heart and in every
woman’sheart, andthere would be no better use to which to
apply a public hall of this kind than of formally thanking
the defenders of the country. (‘Hear, hear.’)’’
* * *
The reporter who made this pretty speech for
Parkes is to be congratulated on making it an
approximation—though only a remote one—to
sense. Those miserable victims of a craving to
hear parliamentary debates who could not escape
from the Speaker’s gallery, and had perforce to
listen to this rhetorical effort could make nothing
out of it bur unadulterated nonsense. It is not
easy, even after the Champion Political Humhug’s
lofty balderdash has been passed through the
hands of the skilled reporter, to understand
what on earth or in heaven he was driving
at. What sort of a terrible entity is the
“ unspeakable influence ” he talked about—that
untraceable, insidious, unsleeping force which re-
quires a State House for generation and the
archives of the old convict days for getting up
steam? We leave the question to the solvers of
word-puzzles. To The Bulletin the whole
hash is nauseous and disgusting. What Parkes
evidently means|when he gabbles about elevating
the character of the people and preparing them for
the highest of their national duties, is the per-
petuation and increase of the slavish and grovel-
ling lack-spirit which already bids fair to involve
the Australasian people in trouble. The Imperial
authorities are doing their best to debauch the
public life of the colonies by means of trumpery
decorations and other pieces of corruption.
Parkes’ State House project aims at acclimatising
in our own country a centre from which similar
demoralising paraphernalia of anti-democracy may
be dispersed broadcast among the inhabitants of
the land. And to achieve this fine object the
park lands of the citizens of Sydney are to be sold!
The present Assembly of N.S.W. is undoubtedly
unworthy of confidence ; but the most thorough-
going antagonist of Parkes and his following, in
his most pessimist mood, will find it hard to bring
himself to believe that even such a House with
such a leader will finally sanction the centenary
commemoration programme as announced in the
Chamber last week and swallowed on Monday.
* * *
The Assembly in passing the measure seemed to
be under some ban, sinister and mysterious. But
no doubt the Bill will be amended in the Council,
and will, therefore, again be submitted to the
popular Chamber, in which case surely the whole
scheme will be rejected—unless, indeed, the House
is in toils of a more permanent nature than the
bitterest foes of the majority are wont to declare.
To fool away £200,000 over a meaningless State
House whilst the indigent sick are housed in
wretched sheds, and the industrial classes gener-
ally are steeped in misery, would be simply paving
the way for one of those popular revulsions against
the folly of rulers, of which Stephen, Darley,
and Co. stand in such dread. Premier Parkes is
not unaware of which side of his dole of bread
holds its smear of butter. Therefore we presume
he will discover “ reasons ” before Parliament is
prorogued for modifying in important respects his
State House monstrosity.
MR. LEONARD NORTHGROFT,
Editor of the WEST COAST TIMES.
Editor Bulletin.— l should like to say a
few words with reference to the burning question
before us to-day in Australia. I spiak as an Aus-
tralian, native-born. Amongst others, I attended
the second “public” meeting at the Town
Hall on the Jubilee question, I need not remind
jou of the sue ceseful attempt to pack that meet-
ing. On the platform Conservatism was repre-
sented strongly Tie class of gentlemen who
have lately been flgurii g in England as returned
colonists was represented. Orangeism and Pro-
testantism were represented, Roman Catholicism
was represented, and class and national old-world
prejudices of various other kinds were repres nted
—on the platform. Not one truly repieientative
Australian, not one advocate of the sentiment
expressed in the words, “ Australia for the Aus-
tralians” cn that platform. But in the body of
the hall a majority of Australians stood, Aus-
tralians by birth, and Australians by adoption,
who have in their hearts a desire to bufid up a
federated Australian Republic or Commonwealth,
and who deem it their duty, when working for
the attainment of that end, to stifle all old-
world feuds and strangle all old-world pre-
judices, Now, sir, as to the question of
loyalty to the hritish throne and person,
and the maintenance of British institutions
I say this, that I care not one jot whether England
be a monarchy or a republic. What I want is to
eee that the evils of the English system are not
engrafted on our young institution. The uphold-
ing of British institutions has nothing to do with
us —the building of Australian institutions every-
thing. Young men who attended that meeting
have been loftily reprimanded, and asked : “ What
do you want ? You have a large amount of free-
dom, more than in republican America or France,
or monarchical England. The Governor is only a
figurehead. He can do nothing without the ad-
vice of your elected representatives.” This may
be all very well, but yet there is something more.
There is a yearning felt by the native of the soil
not existing in the breast of the adopted Austra-
lian. It may be all very well to have a question-
able freedom, but natives want something more.
Something that titles wifi not replace, nor C.M.G.-
ships console for. Something that will cement
the different colonies in a union never to be
shaken. Something that will spur us on to beat
England in the race of civilization, if possible, in-
stead of, as now, waiting for her approval before
taking the slightest step forward. We want
Nationality. That we must and will have.
We may have to wait until the old
copiers of English Conservatism—the Daileys,
Darleys, Stephenses, Parkses, &c., have gone over
to the majority, or we may rise and overwhelm
them by agitation and organization—but have it
we will. Look around and see the class of men
settling upon our shores. In Sydney thsre are
two or three Scottish Clubs, two or three Irish
Clubs, a Swiss Club, and, until recently, a London
Club. Not one Australian Club. Well, yes, there
is an Australian Club, but the members are all of
the Returned Colonist class. All the above-men-
tioned Clubs are instituted for the purpose of pre-
serving national characteristics (instead of merg-
ing into the new race), and perpetuating national
errors and prejudices, instead of leaving
them on the lands they left. Why should this
be? Why should not all these representatives
of different nationalities work, as their com]
patriots have done in America,, for the country
they have adopted ? To the native of the soil who
has been fortunate enough to escape being stuffed
with his parents’ prejudices, this kind of thing is
sickening. But natives are awakening. The re-
cent attempted coercion will .arouse those who
have never thought before on the question of a
nationality. The keynote has been sounded, and
if natives of the soil and adopted Australians work
together, within twenty years the goal will be
reached Nationality is what we want, an Aus-
tralian national sentiment and aspiration, which
will lead us to forget intercolonial prejudices and
aim at the demolition of all barriers that inter-
pose between Federation of the Colonies—which,
I take it, is the first rung in the ladder of Aus-
tralian Nationality.—Yours truly, Native.
Mr. R. A Cowton.
Mr. R, A. Cowton, editor and joint proprietor of
the Warwick (Q.) Examiner and Times, starts
his biography in 1834, in which year he was born
into this vale of tears and sorrow. He joined the
over-worked brotherhood of the Press in 1848, and
served on various newspapers in Yorkshire, Lan-
cashire, and other parts of Northern England in
the successive capacities of devil, compositor,
machine-man, reporter, and manager. He learnt
phonography from the original Isaac Pitman at
Bath, and then, after a period of service on the
London Press, he attached himself to the gigantic
printing establishment of Waterlow and Sons. He
left for Queensland in 1861, and after a brief con-
nection with the Brisbane Leader and Guardian,
he settled at Warwick and assisted in starting the
Examiner and Times— christened after the well-
known Manchester journal of the same name. In
1867 he became part owner and editor, which
position he has retair ed ever since, and for 20
years he has run the Examiner with an energy
which has made many public men wish he were
dead. The attached portrait shows the upper end
of Mr. Cowton, space compelling us to forego any
attempt to depict his extremities.
Mr. Leonard Northcroft.
Tub attached portrait represents Mr. Leonard
Northcroft, editor of the West Coast Times and
the Leader, published at Hokitika (N.Z.), one of
the wettest spots in a wet and slippery colony.
He was born at Waiwakaiho in the province of
Taranaki, in 1852, and during the Maori troubles
which arose a few years later his father’s farm
was the scene of a number of skirmishes in which
blood was shed freely. At the age of seven he
nearly lost his life through an accidental encounter
with the natives, and when the fortune of war
went against the Pakehas hefound himself cooped
up in New Plj mouth along with a small band of
settlers whose lives at the moment appeared very
cheap. When peace was restored, his father be-
came Provincial Secretary of Taranaki, and a
year or two later young Northcroft commerced
life on a station. At the age of 17 he was farm-
ing on his own account, but Tito Kowaru’s out-
bree k led him to abandon this occupation and try
his hand at wa”. Being shunted into the
convey, however, he soon grew weary of a pur-
suit where there was no reasonable chance of
glory, and, accordingly, he started for the West
Coast goldfield, and settled in the Grey Valley,
where he was successively a butcher, gardener,
packer, fencer, miner, and several things besides.
He afterwards appeared as a drover at Wairarapa,
and then turned telegraph operator and became
post and telegraph master at Westport. Abandon-
ing this position, he put in 10 years in the service
of the Bank of New Zealand, during the last three
of which he was manager at Ross. He was next
a sharebroker at Hckitika, and in 1881 he became
editor, manager, and part proprietor of the West
Coast Times and Leader Mr. Northcroft is also
known as a contributor to various Australian and
London journals, and judging from his photo., is
good for at least another 35 years of stormy
existence.
To keep moths out of old clothing. —Give
it to the poor.
Purves, Q.C. (Vic.), netted over £l2OO for
the Windsor railway inquiry, and his shadow,
Coldham, about £4OO.
The Staffordshire bootmakers have pre-
sented to the Queen 25 pairs of boots—no doubt
as a broad hint to “ walk.”
Tennyson, in his Jubilee “pome,” grate-
full / chaunts the praises of the “lord-manufac-
turer,” You see, he is a manufactured lord him-
self.
0. A. Smyth, Crown Prosecutor (Vic.),
makes, through the good offices of the depart-
mental officials, a tidy sum out of the Govern-
ment. Last year he drew £3680, exclusive of his
salary as Crown Prosecutor, which is about £BOO.
C. E. Jones, M. P , has called for a return, and
some interesting details are expected.
“ Man overboard,” shouted a sailor.
“ Poor fellow,” said the captain, “ can’t stop the
ship in this gale Heaven have mercy on his
soul.” “Begpardon, sir, (hat was our best pig
fell overboard,” said the sailor. “ Hi, there ! stop
the ship!” yelled the captain. “Bout e Hip I
Launch the life-boat, Mustn’t lose that valuable
pig, whatever happens.”
Sir Alfred Stephen said at the Sydney
American Independe- ce Day celebration that he
“ had for 50 years been the glad servant of the
Crown.” Why, cert'nly. Fifty years at an
average salary of, say, two thousand a year. Sir
Alfred, when Acting-Governor, gets half or more
of the Governor’s screw, and in judicial pension-
money alone has already drawn at the rate of
£1750 yearly— say £25,000 or so. Glad servant of
the Crown. We should smile!
“ Scandalous loyalty ” is the neat way in
which an Adelaide subscriber alludes to the resent
Sydney Jubilee shivoo, and this reminds us that
when the row at the Exhibition barn loyalty-roll-
up was at its height a patriotic Orangeman raised
a waddy to squelch a prominent dissenter, when a
Boyne-water brother roared out : “ Don’t thump
that mar. His life is insured in our office !’
The Sydney Daily Telegraph, after a
lengthy career of twists, wrigg'es, and toadyings,
seems from its latest leader to have finally de-
clared for straight out Republicanism. The
D. is a better weathercock than we once
thought. Within eight years or so it
has been Protectionist, Freetrade, Coercionist,
Nationalist, Jingo, and now it goes stiff-backed
Republican. Long may it wave ! It’s only the
other day it “adulated” Rev. Downing of the
Primrose League for his loyal and heroic conduct
in the face of an anti-monarchical mob, and lauded
Darley, Stephen, and Co. for their buckshot and
bayonet blather in the Town Hall back-room.
This week it addresses itself to the task of demon-
strating how utterly those personages are at vari-
ance with the Democratic and Republican spirit
of the age. We notice that the spirit of the age-
in King-street, Sydney—changes at least six times
week, i


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— 11 A Run of Luck ” p. 14.
Criterion Theatre.—" Skipped by the Light of the
Moon" 15.
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy.
Opera House—" Mv Sweetheart ” „
Exhibition Building.— Roller Skating Rink
We rise to call for a much-needed reform
among the shows. Since the beginning of the
present Parkes regime N. S. vV. has been flooded
with proposals for opening everything down to a
tin of fish with prayer, the theatres only excepted,
and the home of drama and comedy must either
go with the times or be abolished. Perhaps
Parkes might as well wipe out the shows when he
is about it. The money that is fooled away on
scene shifting in a single year in Sydney would
keep the heathens on India’s coral strand in grog
for a decade ; it would buy boots for ten thousand
sweltering niggers on the banks of the Niger ; and
it would supply all Africa with tracts on the sin-
fulness of extravagance in dress ; and even then
there would be enough over to provide the N.S.W.
Council with rattles and feeding bottles through
the dreary years of its second childhood. In the
interests of missionary enterprise we invite
Parkes' attention to this matter.
Uf. JL
'/V' */V ’Tv'
The good old story of the “C rsican
Brothers” is drawing respectable houses at Sydney
Royal Standard. The name of this drama carries
our recollections back to that far-off period when
we were cutting our front teeth. If there is any
moral in the “ Corsican Brothers” it teaches that
a young man from the country is apt to get killed
when he goes about having lata suppers with a
lady older than himself, and this is a point which
cannot be too clearly impressed upon the rising
generation. Mr. and Mias Dampier re-appeared at
the Standard on Saturday night and received an
ovation, Mr. Dampier’s performance was a really
excellent one, particularly in the closing scenes
where he waved his Corsican shirt in the wintry
air and drove his sword through the deceiving
Frenchman amid the falling snow. Miss Dampier
played the part of Emilie de Lesparre, a young
Pariaienne with an old eye, with good effect, and
the resL of the company perpetrated all they knew.
The performance concluded with the farce of
“ The Limerick Boy,” in which Mr, Sam Poole as
the boy in question did some excellent low
comedy, and the others did nothing in particular.
-tf- AL AL OR
TV* "TV- “Tv "TV*
If this earthly existence is meant to be
one long washing day, at the end of which Death
climbs over-the fence and cadges all the clothes
off the line in the back yard, then, and not other-
wise, can “A Run of Luck” —now running at
Sydney Royal—be described as a true picture. It
has no visible beginning, it has a bulgy and shape-
less middle, and in place of coming to an end it
trails off, wobbles, totters, and falls. There are
80 characters in all, but the authors forget to
mention what becomes of 29 of them, and their
story simply consists of a lot of incidents slung
together anyhow and ending in nothing turned
upside down and planted nowhere. The characters
have no apparent connection with each other, and
are mostly without visible means of support. A
bleary, unctuous cadger who lives in a stable
owing to incoherent circumstances gets sold up in
the first act, and this seems to lead to all the after
complication?, but when he has woiked off a few
noble gags on the public mind this pariy retires
into a back seat, and except when he makes
a ruffi to look at a horce towards the
end of the show he is seen no more. Then
another haughty od person sails along to
the front, and flaps his wings and crows, but he is
“ cheeked ” by his son and doubles up miserably.
Tne horse, which is a noble animal and useful to
get busted off, then comes on the stage, and on
Saturday n'ght he backed almost righc i_to ihs
orchestra. Tnere was a scare among the tiddlers,
and we caught a glimpse of a saturnine man
named Mullins diving out of the stalls with horror
on his countenance ; evidently he fancied his last
hour was at baud. From this point the drama
seems to get lost. An old gent eman does a back-
fall while skedaddling through the land, and re-
turns to curse his son with three broken ribs on a
shutter in his shirt-sleeves for giving post-
obits to a horse-dealer —we trust this sen-
tence is sifficiently explicit—but whether the
breaking of his ribs has anything to do with the
misfortunes of the young lady who is locked up in
a room and escapes head first out of a window in
evening dress while a missing girl gives her a
shove from behind, or whether the horse dealer
has a hand in it, or the old aunt whose dress
seems to be made out of a cadged gamp, or
the captain who lives on faith and cigars, or
whether anybody has anything to do with any-
one, we really can’c tell. “ A Run of Luck ” con-
tains four acts and 15 scenes and a shock to the
nervous system, and the excitement is cheap at
any price. -Miss Kate Bishop is a charming Daisy
Copsley, and Miss Louise Davenport, who shoves
her ouc of the window, is excellent, but when 30
characters are crowded into four acts, nobody
gets a decent show. Mr. Bland Holt brings down
the house with a roar when he appears as Charlie
Sandown, but that cheeky swindler has absolutely
nothing to do with the story. Messrs. Flemming,
Ireland, and Seagrave also deserve some notice,
and so do a lot more, and sometime or other
during the twelve months’ run of this piece
they’ll possibly get it.
#* * *
That weird production entitled “ Skipped
by the Light of the Moon ” —a strange hash of
delirium and old boots, bad luck, dust, coughs,
lost babes, dogs, dyspepsia, policemen, and larks
is drawing pretty large houses at Sydney Criterion,
and bids fair to have a good run. It is amusing
enough, but as mixed as ever. If the author will
kindly call at this office he will get killed.
#* * *
The English and Comic Opera Company,
under the direction of Signor Verdi —our old and
valued friend Billgreeno—is announced to open at
Sydney Gaiety on Monday, llth July, when
“Boccaccio” will be produced. A good many
people in Sydney still pronounce this “ Bokakio,”
but that isn’t the correct way,
Af* At
W TV* *7r
On Friday evening Minnie Palmer, the
brightest little dear on this side of the Equator,
will do her farewell at Sydney Opera House, when
every young man who is healthy and moderately
sane will be present. On Saturday a new dramatic
company, which includes Messrs. B. N. Jones and
J. C. Sidney, Mrs. B. N. Jones and Miss Alice
Norton, will open in “ Sentenced to Death ”
another collection of gore by these eminent
Chinese Hottentots from Central Africa, Messrs.
Conquest and Petitt. Mr. Locke Richardson also
advertises for “ positively the last time.”
* * *
A dreadful panic occurred at Mr. Locke-
Richardson’s recital on Friday night, but luckily
no lives were lost. The fact was that Sir Alfred
Stephen, Lieutenant-Governor of N.S.W., was
hauling off his overcoat in the front row of seats,
and in doing so he divested himself of his swallow-
tail also, and stood up like a common individual
in his shirt-sleeves. An impression went round
that he was about to pitch into somebody, but he
forbore, and struggled again into his claw-hammer
amid great applause.
-A/- JL JL JL
■Tv* 'Tv* TV* *7v*
The juvenile “ Fun on the Bristol ” com-
pany is still running at Sydney Academy.
** * *
“ We are indeed glad to find that Sir
Henry Parkes has decided to allow Mr. Frank
Smith to continue his delightful Sunday con-
certs at Botany in the afternoon and at the
Alhambra at night,” &c.— says Bailey’s Sunday
News. Good Heavens! Talk about the Czar
and the Czar's obedient servant Monsieur Katkoff.
** * *
“ There was a large audience at the
Academy of Music, who greeted the principal
performers with roars of laughter.” This is Even-
ing News criticism, and is dreadfully equivocal.
Bat the managers reprint it in their advertise-
ments, all the same.
** * *
For reasons darkly hinted at in the next par.,
“ Silver King” gives place to “Harbour Lights”
next Saturday, and on the a 6th the Princess’s will
be quite full up of drama. Gilbert and Sullivan’s
“Princess Ida’ makes
her debut on that date,
assisted by fresh talent
just unloaded from P,
and O. steamer. “My
Partner,” best of all
George Rignold’s shows,
is this week’s bill at the
Opera House. Carrie
Swain commenced to
carrie on at the Alex-
andra last Monday,
Grade Plaisted and suite
are warbling at the Bijou.
Further particulars all in
good season.
* * *
It is time we began
to talk to Melbourne
theatrical managers like
a Dutch uncle. The
moment has arrived wh n
The Bulletin must
warn them that things
can’t go on as they are
now —they must alter
their mode of life, or it is
easy to see what the
consequences will lead i o,
and then where will be
the use of saying why
didnt I foresee ell th s,
when it’s too late and r> -
grets are vain, because
what’s done can’t be un-
done—but wait a mo-
ment till we get our
second wind and can puff
out a fresh sentence. Mel-
bourne is believed to be
the hungriest city for
shows that ever was, but
there is a boundary-line
to its appetite. And of
late the caterers have so
pampered that appeti e
that only expensive dishes
are in any demand at all.
The Triumvirate, who
rule the roast, find it
necessary to give dramas
a stronger cast in Mel-
bourne than suffices tic
the same p :oducti ns in Sydney,in order to keep their
grip on a somewhat surfeited public. Prices re-
main the same, while the cost of production is
steadily increasing Dramas, so put on that they
require a fair run in order to pay their way com-
fortably, are interfered with by rivals as strong as
themselves. Last week, for instance, a first-chop
revival of “ Silver King ” did only moderately be
cause the Rignold-Bouoicault combination was
playing “Two Orphans” in superior style, and
the Majeronis'wereworking “ Corsican Brothers.”
And neither of these three could make any stand
at all against the Williamsons in “Struck Oil.”
Which reminds us that John and Lizzie Stofel never
had a harder battle to fight, and never got so much
the best of it as they are getting no ,v. But we
are wandering from the point, and the point is
this. The Melbourne talent tread on one another’s
corns. There isn’t room for so much genius in one
city. The lessees and managers must gather to-
gether in a dimly-lighted chamber and draw
straws out of a whisky bottle. And he
who draws the shortest must die, leaving his
property to be equally d.vided among the other
bandits.
** * *
Professor Miller has been displaying
his va-t proportions in a new character. The big
’un showed at St. George’s Hall (Melb.) in the
duel scene from “ Corsican Brothers,” playing
Chateau-Renaud to the F»bim of Augustus
Glover. In the earlier passages our Professor ap-
peared to most advantage when he wasn’t saying
anything, but after the duelling began he was a
lot better actor than Roscius. Nevertheless it
was with a sense of relief that the audience saw
the avenging Augustus lay Chateau-Miller low
with a deadly dig under his armpit.
** * *
It is to be feared that Mr. Phil. Robin-
son, the London pressman, our latest lecturing
visitor, has not duly considered the ‘ Contingent”
question. There are indications that the genial
Philip intends to try the effect of a little gush
about “our gallant boys in the Soudan” We
hope Smythe hasn’t sold his man to Carington and
the Primrose League. Before commencing to
lecture, Mr. Robinson had hotter visit Sydney and
take some lessons from The Bulletin on the
goat-and-donkey aspect of the affair.
** * *
Rev. Charles Clarke, the once popular
preacher and lecturer of Melbourne, is coming out
to Australia on a flying visit. Will R. S. Smythe
trot him round 1
#* * *
The success of W. G. and M.’s comic opera
in New Zealand kept on till the bitter end. It
was thought that in Auckland, where the mort-
gage companies and the pawnbrokers have more
customers than in any other Maori city, the busi-
ness would be “a bit off ” ; but the audiences were
larger and the season longer than in the southern
towns. The illuminations did not affect the
attendance on Jubilee night, when standing room
could not be had, but this was partly owing to
R. S. Smythe’s ingenious advertising, which led
the Primitive Christians of Auckland co believe
that the Queen and the Three Estates of the
Realm would be present to hear “ the finest body
of voices in the Southern Hemisphere ” (in other
words, the Royal Comic Opera Company) sing
“ God Save the Queen.” The company gave their
last performance on 29 th June, and arrived in
Sydney on Monday. They re open in Melbourne
on 16th in “ Princess Ida.”
** * *
Winifred Emery, poor old Sam’s charming
daughter, is engaged to be married to Mr. Cyril
Maude.
BRIEF MENTION.
Imperialise—lmperial lies.
The Orange Blossom. —Mud-J.
The Road to Ruin. —The railway.
The Widow’s Mite—A £2O annuity.
Sir Henry Parkes. —Centenary Parkes.
Scotched —The Bulli Relief Committee.
A bad Sign of the Times. —Parnell’s signa-
ture.
The Southern Cross was illuminated on
Jubilee night.
Sydney train guards want a new uniform.
Uniform politeness.
see
\
\
V
/v.
Y. R. means Very Respectable. On a
gaol-van it stands for Vagabonds Removed.
“ Copper is rising in the London market ”
—by reason of the demand for brass in Sydney.
Parkes wants Parliament to build a Cen-
tennial State House. Why not an insolvent estate
house 1
Parkes’ new “Rotten Row” is to be at
the National Morgue, and is to consist of a row of
corpses.
Poet Halloran’s new brew of Imperialistic
lyrics is coincident with the reappearance of the
small-pox.
Thirty-nine parsons attended the Queens-
land Governor's Jubilee levee. Where was the
other—parson ?
The Melbourne Argus uses the word
“ choosed.” Shocking ! A sub. with a name like
Charles Lamb Smith oughtn’t to pass a thing like
that.
“ It is only the great whose thought is
worth digging for,” says the S. M. Herald. We
have often felt this as we laboured through a
Herald leader.
At 101 b. turnip has turned up at Gundagai,
N.S. W. When it is chopped up by a tomahawk,
the latter will be put down as a N.S.W. “fac-
tory” by Moses Pulsford.
The champion left-handed apology is
printed in a Lithgow paper “I am sorry for
having said you stole the goods because I am un-
able to prove that it was true.”
The N.S.W. Freetraie members now vote
on whichever side they see the Premier’s white
head. It saves the trouble of trying to under-
stand the subject under debate.
. The crew of the Danish steamer Thing-
valla report having seen the sea-serpent off St.
Helena. So says the Nooze. The Thingvalla’s
cargo consisted chiefly of whisky.
The Belgian Government has convened a
railway conference to be held at Milan. The
Victorian Government will, we trust, be repre-
sented by young Blackburn, of Prahran.
HasaalJ, M.L A., of N.S.W., asks Parlia
ment to vote £2OOO for an aborigines’ corroboree in
honour of the Centenary. This is regarded as un-
just to the white portion of his constituents.
Pastor Jefferis says that “ the French
were bea’en by the Germans because they were
impure.” When a foreign invasion of Australia
takes place we’ll press all the clergy for service.
The proposal of the Bulli Relief Commit-
tee to pay £2O annuities to the Bulli widows is
characterised by an Illawarra paper as the “ afterj
effects of an overdose of Scotch relief committee.”
The Mount Morgan West Company floaters
persist in advising their flat—we mean constitu-
ents—to hold on, as there’s “ something in it.”
Most of the investors believe the story. Their
money is in it.
In a new Congo steamer a hose and steam-
pump have been substituted for fire-arms as a
defence against nigger attacks. As a further pre-
caution soap has been placed in the water, and no
nigger can stand that.
A Sydney R.C. priest has just “ named”
from his pulpit the pubs, where drunken women
of his parish deal and run up scores. He threatens
to name the women themselves if they don’t
quickly reform their habits.
According to a local paper, during a
sports gathering near Mudgee (N.S.W.), a M.P.
lifted a table, on which sat a 12-stone man, with
his teeth. There’s nothing like Parliament for
strengthening a man’s jaw.
An old man named Punch got ill and died
in St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, during the
service. A priest and two doctors were by his
side in the twinkling of an eye. But where was
the enterprising attorney 1 Perhaps they don’t go
to church.
Lazarus got tired of sitting round the front
doorstep of Dives, so he thought he would help
himself. He did, and, being related to somebody,
he only got three years or so in the local Sheol, after
which he will return to Abraham’s bosom, and
the fatted calf, &c , &o.
Sir Patrick Jennings, K.0.M.G., Knight
of St. Gregory, &c., has just been created an
LL D, as well. This reminds us of the French-
man who had three decorations. The third was
given to him because he already had two, the
second because he had one, and the first because
he had none.
Baron Dowse, of the Dublin Bench, says
that the Irish definition of a fair trial is a trial in
which the Irishman wins. And, of course, the
English definition of a fair trial is one in which
the Irishman loses. That is the reason why Eng-
lishmen and Irishmen should try themselves
and not one another.
Sydney pawnbrokers are not the flint-
hearted persons they are accredited with beii y
after all. One of them, who had a £3 mortgage
on a widow’s sewing-machine, let her off after she
had paid interest amounting to £l2 10s. The rest
of the ring called him a ‘ ‘ mug,” but he couldn’t
go against his conscience.
A leading (native-born) member of the
Ballai'at Y.M.C.A. writes to a local paper holding
up the Mongol to the whites as an example of
sobriety and thrift. That argument, however,
cuts a lot of ways. The leper’s apologist may be
a very good young man, but just think how muen
better he would have been had he been born a
Chinaman 1
Says the Lithgow Enterprise;— “The
greatest grief in adversity is the remembrance of
happier days.” We remember a Cooktown editor
who used often to quote the line that ‘'the crown
of a sorrow a sorrow is remembering happier
things.” He was eternally trying to make us be-
lieve that before he took to the Press he held the
proud position of poundkeeper down South.
“ Adelaide, Sunday. —The Jewish com-
munity of South Australia are about to present
to the Queen a Jubilee address of a novel and
beautiful character. It is in the fo-m of a scroll
of Hebrew law.’’ Here is a copy of the inscription :
.’. LX per C .’.
For that is their only law. Wales knows all about
it, and will explain to his ma.
A Mudgee journal describes a combat be-
tween two policemen’s horses that fought with
short sticks in their mouths. If we were running
a Primrose League paper we’d observe:—‘'Such
are the effects producible on the brute creation by
association with Irishmen even when these
latter happen to have been partially refined by
wearing the uniform of Her Most Gracious
Majesty.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Chap. 1., mail one ; chap. If., maid won ;
chap 111., made one.
A woman residing a few miles from New-
castle (N.S.VV.) has jmt presented her husband
with thsir seventeenth child.
Walt Whitman, the poet, recently gave a
lecture in New York, and at the end thereof was
kissed by all the yoaug ladies of his audience.
An aboriginal woman has been sent to
gaol at Casino, N.S.W., for having no visible
in pans of support. Poor Qaeen Mary! The
trouble too often is that the means of support of
such ladies are, though rather thin, very visible
indeed.
Madame Caroline Popp, who runs a
Liberal journal in Flanders, celebrates the jubilee
of her editorship this year :
Through many a changeful, stormy year.
Dear Caroline, you’ve been
Within that editorial chair
A literary queen.
One little question we would ask—
Important, though so brief—
Say, was there added to your task
“ Pre-eminencs in Grief ?’’
As an item of fashionable intelligence we
may mention that the Queen of Hawaii is now
prancing through Europe. She attempted to
make the trip some time ago, but owing to a row
with Spreckels, the sugar merchant, whose lavish
tips keep the Hawaiian exchequer going, she was
detained. In other words, Spreckels took off his
stars and garters and shied them at the Royal
family, and said he would see them all blowed
before he would lend any more cash, and then
there was a shindy. Ultimately, it is reported,
a San Francisco grocer found the needful, and the
procession started.
Someone in London is evidently going to
buy cheap a vast expanse of tangled Australian
wild and float it in the English market as a region
studded with precious stones. Modern Society
publishes the first murmur of the coming breeze :
—The splendid fPe and the great brilliancy and
variety of colours that the Australian opal pos-
sesses at once stamped it as being superior in
every way to its rival from Hungary and else-
where ; indeed, such opals were never before seen
anywhere.” We know what that means in the
distant future (long after the bona-fide opal
mine now on the London market has been sub-
scribed for) —150,000 shares of £2 each, 10s,
paid up, the balance by calls not exceeding ss. per
share per month ; the vendors kindly agreeing to
accept £lOO,OOO cash and the balance in 50,000
paid-up shares. And then, when the bottom falls
out of the arrangement, the London press will rise
as one bull and a bear and say that them Austra-
lians have passed another atrocious ’oax on the
peaceful Anglo-Saxon, and will want to know
how long this far-away barbarian will be allowed
to sell wallaby-tracks as diamond-mines and
swamps as gold reefs. Somehow, in his dealings
with the financial Cockney, the poor, bland Aus-
tralian is always sat upon in the end.


Pepper
And
Salt
At Bingera (Q. ) lives a toan who will one
day rise to greatness. His new> original, double-
barrelled Jubilee oath is in itself sufficient proof
that he possesses a mind of no common order, and
yet he throws it off in the airy fashion of a man
who can make another whenever it is wanted,
the production in question appeared in the corres-
pondence column of the Bundaberg (Q.) Mail, and
ran thus “ May the blessing of the seven blind,
black, mangy curs that followed Mahomet to
Sheol fall on the decombomerated chump that
don’t know any better than to rush into print
every time he gets a chance, merely for the sake
of a little cheap notoriety.” Such a remark as
that sounds like balm in Gilead and corn in Egypt
to the overworked newspaper man, who is stifled
by his feelings as he peruses a letter from his
“ Constant Reader ” desiring to know what is the
heaviest load a horse has drawn uphill within the
last seventeen years.
“F. B. Boyce ”, ymfes to the S. M.
Herald to sisk about tl>e N.S.W. Brink Commis-
sion' -which was appointed a year and a-half ago,
dnd particularly ijie wants to know wherq the re-
port has got to. He seems to be worried about
tjhis matter, so we rise to relieve tyis mind. The
report has gpne where the new hat went to which
was huhjg up in the cloak-room at the Jubilee
ball ; it has gone with last year’s umbrella, and
the flowers that bloomed in the spring, and the
girl that Ifissed Iparkes on the top of the Rocky
Mountains. It is lost as utterly as the extra tup-
pence charged for manners in the seminary where
Mud J. Haynes got his fiscal education. It has dis-
solved into thin air as our last pokeiyhand did
When we staked everything down to the flat-iron
on three aces and the other man had four, making
seven altogether.' It has evaporated, in short,
and left nothing behind it but tljie bill* That is
what has happened to your cherished drink report,
lyir. Boyce, and if you want; further information
please call at this office at midnight and see the
watchman.
* * *
‘‘ Sir Wilfrid Lawson has given notice in
the House of Commons of his intention to ask
that the Queen should be requested to afford in-
formation to the House as to what services were
performed by the recipients of Jubilee honours to
entitle them to such distinctions.” — (Age cable-
gram).
While Sir Wilfrid Lawson is on the job—the
jubilee job-he might enlarge bis request for in
formation touching the services rendered by “re
cipients of honours.” Since 1?30 the number o
hereditary British peers has increased by 149 ant
535 new baronetcies have been created 1 if a
true and particular history of all those “ honours'
were published in pamphlet form and destributed
around the Lcndon slums, we should soon have a
cablegram announcing another English Common-
wealth. By the way, the father of Sir Charles
Dilke acquired his “ handle ” through lickspittling
“ Albert the Good.”
* * *
At Fremantle (W.A.), a rum-dispenser,
named Conroy, shot a Town Councillor through
the head for refusing him admission to a children’s
fancy dress ball. Here we have nearly all the
materials for a romance. The dazzling halls of
light—sweet strains of music-affrighted infants
in Watteau costumes, clustering round a prostrate
Councillor whose robes of office run blood—pallid
waiters hurrying to and fro. Only one thing is
wanting. The unfortunate Councillor had in-
herited the miserable patronymic of Snook. A
poet, indeed, could make something of the subject
if he ti ied hard. For example—
Yes, a grand descriptive historical pome might be
worked up despite the name-difficulty. But what
artist, what artist would be bold enough to paint
the ‘‘Attempted Assa?sination of Snook?”
The great bT.S.W. “Centennial” sch'eine
has been born deceased. Rarkes’ Morgue. for
eminent corpses is all that remains out of half-a-
dozen gorgeous programmes, arid what’s the good
of a morgue without a corpse, or a dead-houee
wich nothing to put in it ? sir llenry himself is
not going there, for he has already arranged that
when he shuffles off this mortal coil his rtiVhains
are to be rushed round to a hole in the m'dnnthihs
and dumped down among the wattles lb a place
where it will be handy for the Stella who, as he
beautifully tells, us, “kissed him through the
night,” to coine betimes and weep ; Piddington,
too, has got his grave dug in the everlasting hills,
where his resting place is to be marked by that
famous inscription copied off an Egyptian stomach;
and Joe Abbott is too lorg to go in except through
the window. Of course the Centennial hall may
come in useful as a place of deposit for the
archives of the colony, but so far the archives
have got along very weli in a swag or a bonnet-
box, and they would look very small and mean
when lying in a heap in the corner of a marble
palace. And then, while the great white elephant
was eating its own stony head off, muddy larrikins
would get in by the window, and chalk up rude
remarks ripen the t hrone, and amuse themselves by
squirting tobacco juice into the ears of the statues,
and painting the monuments blue. And besides
what N.S.W. really wants after all is not so much
a cemetery for eminent men as a receptacle for
boros—a place where De Salis can lie down along
with the Jubilee cadger, andHabigle can rest on
top of his own “minits,” and Roberts may be
interred with a pewter-pot above his dust and the
brief inscription, “Shout for Daniel’s band.”
John Haynes, too, might be stowed away at the
back of the fireplace in company with many other
politicians to whom we wouldn’t lend our office
umbrella, because we want it ourselves, 'and Id
Jawbone Neild we would offer an honoured place
where his remains could stand up' in a'corner,
adorned with a pair of petrified' feelers, alongside
%l OESCENf*f Ma«..
J. P. T. Caulfield’s “ constant reader.” Also there
would be Salomons and Thomas Walker under
one tombstone, with a joint inscription one half
Hebrew and the other half extracts from a com
lecture on Jonah and the Whale, and alongsic
them Pastor Jeffens with a brief epitaph consis
ing of one tremendous French swear. Sever
hundred other bores are unavoidably held ove
Then in place of the archives of the colony
would have a stack of insolvency schedules filet
by members of Parliament, and a mule load oj
N.S.F. cheques from the same source, and a
Knapp’s everlasting jabber in the daily papers
and Tankerville Bonnet’s printed P/imrose maui
derings, and a library of N.S-W. politicians’ di
honoured bills with a volume of essays explai:
ing who wrote the names on the backs an
how the endorsers felt when they got notic
from the pawnshop that had done the discountin
If N.S W. is pining for a centennial monumei
this ought to fill a long-felt want, as' nothin
else can. Many a rowdy politician Whom
nothing else could suppress would “‘diy up ” whe
informed that otherwise the Ouse wodld adioilr
for the purpose of soldering' hftn into a Vault a
Parkes’ Pantheon. ■ • *- *
* * *
Here is a really romantic Australian stor
ifresh 1 from England; Some time in Isst a youn
Oxford student came to London.’ ’ His "father hac
gone broke, and he had only his det)ts and a few
pounds' to live upon. Almost immediately afte:
his arrival a glass-eyed person put him on teas
and left him nothing but an umbrella. Then h
became a poet, a book-hawker, a copying clerk, >
borrower and begging letter-writer, a man with
broken boots and concertina hat, an assistant t
a phrenologist, and, in short, almost everythin]
except a dog-stealer. Next he made a small rise
and fell in love, and finally he skipped by the ligh
of the moon, the girl promising to wait for him
He came to Australia and got three months for
vagrancy, after which he started business as j
commission-agent, and suffered—or rather his
clients did—from a shortage in his cash. He had
another shortage as a sharebroker, and he woulc
have had a third if circumstances had been
favourable, but they were not He jumped some
body’s claim on a Far Northern goldfield, and also
robbed a tail-race, or a battery, or an unprotected
widow, or something, ■ and when a crowd of dig-
gers came after him he made for the bush and fell
in with a tribe of niggers who wanted to eat him
but changed their minds. For the next year or
two he figured in the papers occasionally as the
wild man of the woods, and benighted tra-
vellers came across him now and then with-
out any clothes on, but, as a rule, he lived
in retirement. Having no longer any pockets
he carried his one treasure, the photo, of his lady-
love, slung oyer his ear, and looked at it when
nobody was nigh. He also married 14 black gins,
and when at last he struck a rich gold patch he
made these unfortunates work 15 hours a day at
sluicing, digging, and piling up wealth on his be-
half. Now and then they attempted to mutiny,
but they were generally whaled into subjection
by means of a rope with an ounce of lead and
half-a-dozen fishhooks, at the end. Six of them
died off under this discipline, and, finally, when
the patch gave out and the eight surviving ladies
were no longer required, they were kicked out by
their luvin’ husband. Most of them now live on
grubs in the bush, and have no desire to marry
again. Then the hero collected his wealth and
returned to London, where he found his old
sweetheart married and living in luxury in Park-
lane. So he waited opposite her house until he
saw her husband go out in the family brougham,
and a moment later he put a bronzed head and a
cabbage-tree hat in at the door of her boudoir, and
began to call her bad names. But he had hardly
begun t'6 swear before h% oWerVfcd that the
lady was in tears, and with a Sudden accession of
tenderness he insulted Cause, and found that
the splendid home w&s h scene of misery, and that
his successful rival filled himself up with brandy
every night knocked his wife all over the
house ftkh the fire-irons. At this the colonist’s
hfeart melted, and with tears in his eyes he drove
his head right through a plateglass-window and
cooeyed for a cab. He was mistaken at first for a
dog-fight or a burglar, but when the public ex-
citement had cooled down he hustled his old love
into a hansom and carried her off. It was not till
several hours afterwards that she became fully
aware that she had eloped. The pair were last
heard of in New Zealand, and, as the London hus-
band is said to be after them, there ought to be a
tragedy George Darrell may make any use he
likes of this yarn in his next sassiety drama.
* ♦ *
The Jubilee is over, and even the bush
poet is sick of the subject, while the country edi-
tor, finding the prop and pillar of his profession
knocked from under him. is going back to his old
lines, and pitches into our “loathsomecontempo;
rary ” once more. Nobody cares twopence for the.
Jub. any longer, and it is only the painful sqljje-
quentness of the Hebrew scholar which bripgs him.,
to the front at this time of generaj wqasmess
and disgust, with his dryhash disspijtatiqps,,
about the origin of Jubilee, wq. qpiy
learn, means a ram. A%aham pajtgkt ppp,
and offered up part of if, as a bpynt-oflpripg, ami
then buried the; remains of the brqfg, under a
golden altar, I}avid hoisted, qp the intestines of
the animal and thqjp, iqjto. strings for his
harp, and Elijah tinned the hide into trousers or a
cloak or soiyie - other garment. The left horn of
tjbh ram was the trumpet of Sinai, and the right is
to be used to spund the crack of doom. This
valqablp item is gathered from a New Zealand
country paper, and a little further down the same
column appears an interesting anecdote about a
man who was crossing a river in a waggon ac
companied by his family, when they were rushec
by a shoal of salmon which over-turned the carava
and ate everything except the eldest son. Th
country press is now almost the only reliable inst
tution we have left.
* * *
Charles Rossiter For wood, of
solicitor, has had a streak of b,ad or goot
luck—accordingly as he happens, to he an in
nocent or a guilty man. fjew \yeeks ag
he was arrested in Melbo\|pne op, a charge o:
cleaning out a Maori who ha,d entrusted fyim
with his savings, but instead of typing tied up, am
bundled on boartl a steadier tq, rpturh apd stam
his trial he was released on ball. Then hpappliec
to the Victorian' court to discharge hint alto
gethet ; his health was delicate, ty.e said, and
journey to rpZ,’ would kijl hup, and moreover he
hadn’t cleaned but anybody ; and aa the insolven
Maori was smoking his pine 10(K> miles away
nobody could prove the contrary. Of course
brutal, and, unfeeling j,u4ge might have refused to
have anything to do, with a esse in which only
one side could'be heard, but the Victorian bend
is a benevolent kind of plank and doesn’t go on
like that. Judge Williams struck a compromise
at last and decided that the case should be hung
up until Mr. Forwood was better and could gc
back without being killed, and thus Mr, Forwooc
remains out of gaol. Common people, however
must not jump to the conclusion that this same re
suit would ensue in every case. We had an es
teemed literary friend once who was alleged to ha e
accidently rushed at his wife with a club —a circum-
stance which led to her death —his doctor swore
in court that his health was so bad that hanging
would probably be fatal, but nobody took the
trouble to release him on bail till he got strong
enough to stand being killed. They hung him
right away instead and he dropped down dead in
the middle of the ceremony. But then he wasn't
a lawyer.
The dugong fiend, Ching, has branded with
his name at Wide Bay (Q.), 24 young turtles and
sent them to sea again. The name of Ching is
now as well known at the bottom of the sea as
that of Quong Tart on the N.S. Wales turf.
“ Have you been to the rink yet?” said
Miss De Smith to Jorkins, the other day. “No
I have not,’’ said the valiant Jorkins; “I don’t
want to die yet, and when my time comes I want
to die like a man—to die some honorable death
I don’t want to die of trying to belt the flooring-
boards out of Sydney Exhibition Building with
the base of my skull; I don’t want to die of hav-
ing some 18-stone female fall on me while I am
lying prostrate and defenceless; I’d sooner get
kicked in the stomach at football and have fits ;
I’d sooner die of being horned by a one-eyed
milking-cow—l would, indeed. Not any rink for
me, thank you.”
Dear Bulletin, —There was some years
ago a French parson—l mean a priest—in Dubbo,
and he appeared one night at a woolshed accom-
panied by the squatter. The shearers were deep
in poker and euchre, but were requested to stop
playing, only for ten minutes. You guess it was
for service; nothing of the kind. His Reverence
then asked one of them, “ Comical Jack ” by
name, to sing a song he had composed, beginning:
“In eighteen hundred and seventy four
The Castlereagh began to roar.”
This was done, and the priest withdrew after ex-
pressing his thanks. And they were all as-
tonished, for he asked not an alms, and we have
not seen the like, no, not in Israel.— Scotty the
Wrinkles.
Yes, raise a palace, vast and fair
(Hang trophies on its sculptured walls),
To grace the latest of our Parks
(The tomb of Parkes may grace its halls);
Nor think the price too great to pay—
Westminster’s cloisters for him sigh—
So give the veteran his way.
And out of gratitude he’ll die ;
Then, when his obsequies are said,
Strife, feud, heartburnings laid at rest,
Let friend and foe alike admit '
His latest action was his best.
TO WILFUL WILFRID.
What have they done that they deserve
To he wiih **honour” loaded ?
Sir Wilfrid Lawson, what a nerve!
Of course they toadied.
By foolish questions such as these
The Queen’s not incommoded;
’Pis answered with the greatest ease—
Of course they toadied.
Her Gracious, if you thus persist,
Will be to arger goaded ;
She put ’em on that little list
Because they toadied.
Think of their past, and then reflect—
Was not their fame foreboded ?
’Tis meet for titles to select
The ones who toadied.
And (though we’re loth to fasten blame
\On men by dust corroded)
You sport a “Sir” before your name—
Some Lawson toadied.
The Councillor in haste desired
That boor to “fake his hook”—
On which black Conroy quickly fired,
And on h ! s face fell Snook.
He turned him o’er, that Council-tor,
Gave one despairing look—
While ruby gore ran down the floor
In rivulets from Snook.
Black Conroy spake to one and all—
“ His goose I meant to cook;
He proudly bade me leave the ball,
So I left the ball— in Snook,”
STCATERA.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Walker alleges that Parkes used ta writ#
freetbought articles for the Stockwhip..
Ex-parson Brentnall, editor of. Brisbane
Telegraph, is posing as a d istinguisbjd;-colonist
in London.
The leaders of the Jamieaen (Vic.)
Chronicle are thus headed 4 Thfc sound of the
voice that is Stills.”
Mr. Lavater, associate to Chief Justice
Higiubotham, is a grand-nephew of the great
Genevan physiognomist.
Explorer Stanley says that famine prevails
in the interior o{ Africa. Just think of a. mann
leaving London,, to look for famine !.
Lady Brassey says she dbesn’fc Sr©
prudery, and that the,; Australian women have
morq.Qf the, .article than the Americana.
Therp is at Carriok, Tas>, a youth agedv,
years. And yet., aococdtiing to a Launceston,
paper, “ he has nex-'i) been a teetotaller.”
They are collecting shillings in Ballarat
fpr a. statue, of Her Gracious. Next, they will
CollpQt half-crowns for an effigy of C. E. Jones.
A Brisbane paper offers to lay long odds
that Lady Musgrave would not recognise Sir
Anthony as depicted by the Australasian artist.
Sala gives the young Australian credit for
sobriety. Bishop Barry condemns the Australian
wealthier classes for drunkenness. Therefore, &c.
Twenty-five Canadian Mayors are to be
knighted by Her Gracious. How much did they
give to the Institute? Mayor Biley is requested
to 44 keep up his pecker."
Stanhope, British Secretary of State for
War, says hes the descendant and inheritor of
one of the companions of Captain Cook in the
foundation of the settlement of Botany Bay.
Writing of his European tour, the “Vaga-
bond ” remarks : 44 Standing on the Castle Elmo,
I drank in the whole sweep of the glorious
Neapolitan bay.” Julian is great on the 44 swal-
low.” m
Sir J. Macdonald, the Premier of
denies the rumour that he is to be raised to. the
peerage. Has Mayor Riley, of Sydney, tl.o,mpr»l
courage to do the same ? Let him a us
James Grant, the novelist, whs ( just
died, aged 65, was a convert to the , '4O. church.
His best known book is the 44 Romeos,# War.”
Grant was a Scotchman. Some j oara ago he was
unwarrantably dragged into a divorce case.
Poor Frederick Maskeli, the engine-driver
who was done to death in the Melbourne smash-
up, left a widow, nine children, and £l3OO worth
of property. Engine-driving would seem to be a
pretty good 44 line so long as the line is kept
clear.
Councillor W. Smithers-Gadd, of the Aus-
tralian Natives’ Society, Melbourne, can't nowt ;
induce the newspaper reporters to write his jaiuwfc/
as above. They ruthlessly abolish bpcb, Ute
Smithers and the hyphen, and invariably report)
him (when they do report hfip), “‘Mr, W. S.
Gadd.” Egad, the temerity, Qty those MWspaper
fellows!
A member of, IjVliWiWiftlfc confesses no
ignorance I A pJoOid# that he knows
,0* !■ Wl. ML A, for Argyle
(N.S.W*),fiaB bpen fljned, £<s and costs for refusing
to give StajnpoiJ, reoqipts, for money. The answer
to the charge ignorance ; but if this kind of
defence is, to bp accepted, a member of Parliament
can do Sflythtng he likes.
r ih,e aao-erdotal Jubilee of Leo XIII. will
be celebrated on the 31st December next. There
wifi bo rejoicings all over the world—even in
Patagonia. The Jubilee prese ts will be so
numerous that a building is to be erected for their
reception, and an 44 exhibition ” of them will be
held at the Vatican, Australia is to send a big
money present to the Pope.
, Sergeant Corbett, of Melbourne, men-
tioned as the alleged “protector” of a lady who sue-
cumbed to a criminal operation, has been relieved
of his official duties. The dashing Sergeant will
be much missed by the foorce. He was such an
active and intelligent officer that he found the
winners of last year’s Derby and Cup and pulled
off a £l5OO double. What policeman could dOo
more ?
An enormously wealthy ironmaster—W.
H. Houldsworth—has dropped in for one of the Jalb.
baronetcies. As Mr. Houldsworth he was on% of
the best respected men on the English, turf,
although, with the exception of the flying*- Sprit)g-
fleld, he has never owned a horse that the public
made much money by. Their old confidence in
his colours will be seriously shaken by this unfor-
tunate title.
Mr. R. P. Stubbs, the Syctney auctioneer
who died the other day, was son of the celebrated
“Tom Stubbs,” thp q'4 Melbourne auctioneer of
twenty years ago, who increased the circulation
of the daily papers enormously and nearly crushed
the comic prints out of existence by his facetious
advertisements on the most dry and solemn sub-
jects. Why doesn’t someone collect and edit
those gems of real humour ?
Judge Quinlan, of Melbourne, is on a
visit to Sydney. He has been very successful in
life. Years ago he was a hay and corn dealer in
Melbourne; then he became a journalist and ran
a weekly paper. Afterwards he went to the bar,
and a few years ago was appointed a County
Court Judge by the O’Loghlen Government. He
married the handsome and wealthy daughter of
Mr. Lynch, a very old Victorian colonist.
A writer in the Melbourne Gerald, after
enthusing over the historic pile at Wesi minster,
says ; “ In time, reverently be it said, the dust of
Victoria must be borne to the noble Abbey.”
Altogether wrong ! Not one grain of our beloved
Sovereign’s dust will be deposited there. She has
already contracted to be taken in at Frogmore,
where Albert the Good now sleeps. There is
plenty of elbow-room in the Mausoleum, while
the poor unfortunates at Westminster are packed
as tight as tinned sardines.
The one-roomed brick building in which
Johnny Fawkner, half a century ago, printed his
newspaper in Melbourne, is about to be pulled
down. It stands at the back of the door of Lange
and Thoneman, in Market-street, and has been
bidden from the public gaze and almost forgotten
for many years. L. and T. are now about to de-
molish this oldest newspaper office in Melbourne
in order to enlarge their premises. Fawkner’s
hand printing-press ia in the Melbourne Public
Library. Johnny’s widow, by-the-bye, still sur-
vives as the wife of J, J. Walsh, the Melbourne
barrister and land reformer, who has unsuccess*
fully contested so many Victorian elections.


POLITICAL
POINTS
I Two Irish M’s.P. drew up 50 amendments
in one day to one line of the Coercion Bill. After
all, Melville has a lot to learn.
No prisoners will be released in Ireland in
honor of Her Gracious’ Jubilee. They were set
free in India, but Ireland is not India.
Chamberlain has been stumping Scotland
in favour of Coercion. In 1881, he said at Liver-
pool, “ Coercion is a blot upon our civilisation.”
In the J apanese Empire, out of a popula-
tion of 37,000,000, there are less than 10,000
paupers. In Christianised, civilised England, with
a population of 20,000,000, there are 803,000
paupers.
fa In th( N.S.W. Council last week, the
goody goody G. A. Lloyd piously observed “ I
am sure that no prayer would be more proper or
more likely to bring down a blessing upon us than
would the Lord's Prayer.”
In the baking trade Germans are forcing
Englishmen out of the business ; and 1000 out of
the 23,000 cabinet-makers in London are foreigners,
chiefly Germans. The tailoring trade has felt the
immigration most severely.
df
g
ACT 2.—ATTORNEY-GENERAL WISE (loq.): “NO YOU DON’T!”
The South Sydney Tobacco-Tax Carrot?. Act I.—The Lure.
“ Why we went to Egypt is utterly un-
known,” wildly exclaims the Melbourne Argus.
We paps on the question to Dailey and Cardinal
Moran. The latter surely wouldn’t give away
£lOO without knowing the reason.
The chiefs of the Jarra Jarra and Broken
River Tribes (Vic.) are going to present a Jubilee
address to Queen Victoria—thanking her, no
doubt, for the blessings of gin, tobacco, cur-dogs,
blankets, and civilisation in general. Jubilate I
It has transpired that we are indebted for
the visit to Australia of the alleged Imperial
Chows to “Jimmy” Campbell, late Postmaster-
General of Victoria, who, when in China last
April, suggested such a mission to the Marquis
Tseng.
The rent of a tenant on the estate of
Colonel King-Harman, the present Tory Under-
secretary for Ireland, was reduced by the Land
Commission from £42 6s. to £l9 13s. One fact
like this is worth all the Times leaders that ever
were written.
In his Imperial-Conference-cracking-up
speech at Bacchus Marsh, Vic., Alfred Deakin re-
ferred eulogistically to the S, A , Victorian (bar
himself), and Queensland delegates. His silence
regarding Jennings and Wisdom was ominous. It
was also suggestive.
Truth thus refers to Chamberlain s
Highland trip: —“The crofters, most of
whom can only speak Gaelic, are under the im-
pression that he is a commercial traveller from
Birmingham gone off his head, and there is much
sympathy amongst them for his unhappy mental
condition.”
Somebody discussing railway compensa-
tion says that “the railways acknowledge the
superior value of a portion of the human commo-
dity by offering alternative rates for different
classes of passengers.” Just so; we don’t fall
into the error of confusing the accommodation
with the accommodated, though.
Gillespie’s flour-mill, at Sydney, is the
best-fitted establishment of the kind south of the
line. That is, so far, an argument in favour of
freetrade. The splendid machinery used at
'Gillespie’s mill was made in and deliberately im-
ported from protectionist Victoria. One more
argument in favour of freetrade.
It is suggested that the head-quarters of
theN. S. W. Primrose League be removed to the Syd-
mey Quarantine ground, and that the whole
Yellow fraternity—the League, the small-pox, the
•Orangemen, Parkes, the Chinese, and the jaundice
—be pegged out together, with the yellow flag
flying over all as their national standard.
Said the O’Sullivan, M.L.A., in the course
of the Centennial Hall debate in the N.S.W.
AssemblyWe had a Garden Pa 1 ace which
|3at £200,000. Where was that now? In one
lort half-hour it was whisked away into eter-
ity.” Now, as the Garden Palace was burnt,
’Sullivan’s idea of eternity is evidently Sheol.
The Legislative Council of Victoria opens
:s proceedings with the recital of the Lord’s
’rayer by the President. The RC. members of
be Council never join in it. The late Sir John
>’ -hanassy, we remember, used to emphasise his
bjection by waiting round the corner outside the
iar of the House till his Protestant brethren had
tone praying and then ostentatiously stalking in.
It has cost the N.Z, Government £70,000
n cash to give away 900 farms for nothing. Most
)f the new settlers have taken to growing pump-
Hna because with that particular crop it is only
recessary to stick in the seeds, and the rest of the
work goes on by itself while the farmer is away
jinning. Some obtrusive politicians are grumbling,
however, and complain that there is too much
pumpkin in the world already.
Dear Bulletin, —I have read your article
re promotion from the ranks in the British army.
Your statements are quite correct: a poor man
has little chance of promotion, and if he does get
it the upper-ten officers will not associate with
him. They make things so uncomfortable for a
man from the ranks that he is glad to retire at
the first chance. I am speaking by the card.—
Yours, G. Cowper, Newcastle.
From the “ Fuel| Delivery Bill ” intro-
duced to the N.S.W. Assembly by Alfred Allen,
the Paddington Hottentot
“ It any seller of or dealer in coal shall knowingly sell one
sort of coal for and as a sort which they really are not or
knowingly sell wet coal with the view of fraudulently in-
creasing its weight ”
Why cert’nly. If anyone should sell they as
something that it is not it will be necessary to
look after he, especially if, &c. Them sort of
things wants to be looked after. The ’Ouse will
now go out to ’ave a drink.
Mr. Frank Hugh
O’Donnell, who it is
cabled, threatens the
Times with a £lO,OOO
libel action, was for-
merly Parnellite mem-
ber for Dungarvan,
but has fallen out
with the Nationalists.
He is a slender per-
sonage with flaxen
hair and an eye-glass,
and, queerly enough
—a 11 things consi-
dered —occupies the
position of foreign
editor of the madly
Tory Morning Post.
At Mackay (Q.), a storekeeper advertised
in the local Mekcury that “being a loyal sub-
iect" he would close his premises on the occasion
of Her Gracious’ Jub. The following verse natur-
ally ensues :
“ Oh I he’s a loyal subject and loves his Gracious Queen,
And well he’s proved his loyalty in many a changing scene,
He'd freely give his life and limbs and wade through foe-
men’s gore,
As he's not asked to do these things he 11 only close his
store.”
Two N.Z, butchers were summoned re-
cently for Sunday-trading, under the Act of
Charles 11. of pious memory. They pleaded that
as 11 days had been knocked out of the calendar
in the reign of George 111., Charles’s Sunday had
long since gone to pot, and that no one could tell
where it had gone to, and then the beak started
to figure out the position of things. Ultimately,
however, he resolved that the old Sunday was
still about, and the customary fine ensued.
Our young friend, the Sydney D.T., is
fast coming round to the Republican idea. “ The
time,” it says, “is evidently not far off when the
acceptance of a title from the Colonial Office will
be an effectual bar to a political career, and when
it will even lie under something the same kind of
stigma as used to attach to the receipt of a
pension from the Court, or, still worse, from the
court of a foreign country.” We wonder what
Lord Carington and Governor Loch think of that!
Bishop Manchester, alias Melbourne
Moorhouse, is sore in spirit, because the beloved
of his soul, the British Umpire, has boundaries
other than the two poles, the setting sun, and
eternity. Speaking to a meeting of the clergy
and laity of Blackpool lately, he mourned to note
that the three great outer portions of the Empire
are bordered by rivals: Russia is close upon
India ; Germany at New Guinea; and the United
States stretch across the southern boundary of
Canada. “ How are we to meet these perils ?” he
pathetically asks. Can’t we grab the whole globe,
establish the Anglican as a universal State church,
I and proclaim Her Cadgesty Em pres 3 of every-
where, with extra pay, the use of the piano, and
two nights a week off?
The great cause is looking up in West
Maitland (N.S.W,) When the election was in
progress in that district" the Freetraders issued
the usual mendacious placard showing a huge
freetrade loaf for the working man, and a micro-
scopic Protectionist bun for the hungry wretch
who allowed himself to be led away by the advo-
cates of monopoly and wickednes 3 . Now West
Maitland has enjoyed the blessings of Freetrade
for a good white—and the other day a starving
man nearly got into trouble because he went into
somebody’s hack yard and embezzled a hunk of
stale bread from 'the garbage-keg. Thus is the
Scripture fulfilled. The loaf was the'e all right,
and the Freetrade candidate merely omitted to
mention that the working man could only get it
by robbing the other fellow’s hog -of its dinner.
Thus the S.F. Argonaut, a paper which
dearly loves poor Paddy ! '
“ It is no* an uncommon assertion that there are ten mil-
lions of *he Irish and their descendants in America. It is
not probable that theie are that number in all the world,
while it is highly probable that there are more Irish in
America than m Ireland, There was no emigration of any
importance previous to the great famine in Ireland, which
occurred in 1847, and nearly all the Irishmen in existence
musk be descended from the seven and a half millions of
people who survived that awful calamity The greatest in-
crease of the Irish race was in the half-century preceding
that event, in which time it amounted to 50 per cent. ;
assuming a proportionate ir crease for the last fifty years
the present number of Irish, at home and abroad, in the
world would be Isss than ten millions five hundred thousand
From this number subtract l hose in Ireland, and those who
are now in England and its colonies, and in other parts of
the world, and there are not five millions of Irish or of pure
Irish descent in the United States of America. To see a San
Francisco primary election one would think the whole Irish
wo-id had assembled. It the Irish race is prolific they do
not all survive. They gather as a rule in the great towca of
all countries to which they emigrate, where aanitay enndi
tions are unfavourable, and it is estimated that in New York
City 85 per cent, of Irish children die young. It is ques
tionable whether, in America, they maintain their original
numbers—whether in the conll ct with the saloon and corner
grocery they are heating whisky,”
Editor Bulletin, —In a recent
issue, speaking of the 1000 tons of wood
wasted over the Jubilee bonfire at the
National Park (N.S.W.), you say: “The
question arises whether the Government
ought not to have sold the wood instead of
ordering it to be burned ” Now, allow me
to supplement this question with a couple
more. Is it a fact that thousands of loads
of wood, cut down at the Rookwood Refor-
matory works, were sold at one shilling a
load ? If so, how much of the money so
received was paid into the Treasury? A
strict inquiry into this matter would, I
think, bring out some startling revelations.
Speaking of Parkes’ public dead-house
proposal, Mud J. Haynes grew quite poetical, and
observed;
“ Many a tinn in the country have I lain in the woods for
hours at a time bridgi-'K in thought miles and miles of the
ocean, and taking myself far berond these shores; and what
I want to do is in every possible way to build up in these
lands a nation which will be second to none in the world.
Fancy that now ! And only think (as the girls
say) what a high old picnic the “sojur” ants
must have had as John the Plump lay dreaming
of the glorious future of the fortunate land which
gave him birth I Ob, that Balzac were alive to
recount in a second edition of his ‘ Contes
Drolatiques ” of this other “ wise man who would
lay at full length in a ditch or against a church-
wall, and think over public affairs !”
Mr. J. L. Purves, Q C.,is usually an element
of discord in any company, and he did no discredit
to his reputation at the recent banquet of the
Melbourne Federation League. M>. G. L. Carter,
wine-merchant, was in the chair loyalty and
whisky always go well together, somehow—Lord
Brassey was among the guests, and all went
merry as a marriage bell, until the leader of the
Victorian Bar got on his legs to propose the toast
of the Parliament of Victoria. Then the trouble
commenced. The learned counsel had mis-read
his brief, for once ; and instead of apostrophising
Albion’s sea-girt shores, after the most approved
manner of Federal orators, he expressed his de-
liberate opinion that Australians owed the British
Empire nothing but their origin—which was not
much to be proud of, after all. The sting was
scarcely taken out of Mr. Purves’ remarks by his
subsequent avowal that he “ meant nothing off'en-
sive.”
Queen Victoria was “ baptized in a golden
font which was brought from the Tower on pur-
pose. ” And it is stated, on the authority of Lord
Melbourne, that the very first thing Her Majesty
did af or getting through the Coronation ceremony
was to wash her spaniel puppy.
"A D-Good Sort."
It mv ill be remembered that during the time when
the great Minister for .babbits, Mr, J. P. Abbott*
was in the full bloom of his sway over the bunny
kingdom, he made a progress through the Never
Never country, a land which it is well-known is
sacred to the ravages of his rodent subjects;
Among Joe’s companions was the Under Secretary
for Mines, Mr. Harrie Wood. Now, the party
did not at all times advance in state together. At
times th y would become separated. Well, on
one of these occasions, Mr. Wood was riding on
the box of a coach. A stranger rode there also.
He was a talkative, not to say a boastful, stranger,
and so, ere long, among many other interesting
items, he imparted to the U.S. the intelligence
that he was a rabbit-inspector. * I A good busi-
ness, that, I should say?’ queried Mr. Wood.
“ Business, did you say? It’s the best game out.
We do just as as we blooming well please,
and jolly little at that. For example, sup-
pose there’s a race-meeeting, you can bet I’ll
be there, and though it may be fifty miles
to the nearest rabbit-camp, I’m not the little bit
of stuff to forget to send in my expenses vouchers
all' the same. The fact is, old man, it really
wouldn’t matter to the Department a bit whether
I was having my little fly-round or was boosting
about with my men. You see, we live by these
rabbits and we are not going to be such gory fools
as to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs—not
much. Anyway we do precious little of it, and,
so you see, it comes to pretty much the same
thing in the long run so far as expenses are con-
cerned whether we work, or play for them.” The
U.S smole a dry smile. “ Ah, indeed 1” quoth he :
"tis a fine game, indeed—one which offers an un-
limited scope to the energies of an enterprising,
talented, and public-spirited man—no, thanks ; I
don’t drink ; but will go into the hotel for a while,
I want to make a note or two ” “A commer-
cial-just what I thought,” quoth tho rabbiter;
“ but —say there, Tom ! who is that old chap with
the long grey hair that was up here with me just
now? He’s a good sort!” “ What! you don’t
know him, and been riding with him? Why,
that’s tho Under-Secretary for Mines.” “ Tho
U-n-d-e-r Sec—ret—ary for Shepll! Tho Un-dcr
Sec . Great Heavens! It’s the sack straight!
I've made a gory fool of myself ! I'm up a tree,
Tom ! ” A short time afterwards a new inspector,
specially instructed as to expenses vouchers, race-
meetings, and other little secrets of the best game
out appeared upon the scene, a visible proof of
the wisdom of keeping good things dark from
d d good sorts with long grey hair.
The lady of Sir Leo Africanus, K.0.M.G.,
at Sydney Zoo, has given birth to four youn? lions
During the war of 1870, the French Crown
jewels were packed in a commoh wooden box and
“planted” in arsenal beneath a pile of
anchors, chain cables, &c.
At Rockhampton (Q ) three policemen
have been poisoned through eating tinned meat.
This is what comes of having raw now chums in
the force. The prorerly acciaiatised policeman
can devour a hen with the feathers and claws on,
followed by a live six-foot crab, and then go out
and arrest a dwarf who was looking on at a fight
between two huge navvies, £snd be won’t even
turn a hair.
A London writer says : “ The latest sun-
shade handles are exceedingly eccentric. _ I know
a girl who bought one, the handle of which, they
assured her, had been made from the thigh-bone
of a deceased Chinaman. Certainly the thigh-
bone was carved and ornamented out of all recog-
nition. Its proprietor would not have known it
again.” We welcome this fashion with enthu-
siasm. It is just about the best suggestion we
have met in the direction of enlisting the aid of
the fashions in the development of Australian
Radical politics.
Sadness never takes kindly to a North
Queensland editor. Even in an obituary notice
his festive spirit asserts itself“ Matthews started
on foot to walk over the range to Thornbo rough !
but, overcome with grief and whisky, he lay down
on the bank of the Barron River to sleep. Now, the
alligators of the Barron River are both numerous
and ferocious, s > th<-y assimilated Matthews,
with the exception of one leg, which was re-
cognised by the boot on it. This, after identfication,
was aff.rded Christian burial in the Cairns
cemetery, the funeral being largely attended.
There it still reposes, while the balance of Mat-
thews is wandering about the Barron River as an
alligator.”
Mr. Thomas Chirnaide, the oldest member
of the Victorian family which claims a few miles of
God’s earth, blew out all that remained of his
brains the other day. A statement that the de-
ceased gentleman had been drinking heavily for
some weeks past may be interpreted to mean that
he had been drinking for years. Take him for all
in all, Mr. Tom Chirnside was a fair average
specimen of a numerous class of landed proprie-
tors, He developed melancholia when a syndicate
picked up a bit of land adjoining the Chirnside
prairie and cut it up into building allotments, tie
went forth and killed himself because his relatives
obstinately refused to let him get at the rum-
I bottle. It is satisfactory to reflect that the old
gentleman’s rash act entails no loss to the estates.
He had previously provided against the possi-
bility of paying too much legacy duty when he
was gone, by transferring his possessions to other
members of the family.


7W- oiir Of
wyov/fv h|Uo*
jito r "
KtfOvr IKe h?EM'£R DID
■~Hor \N<dr<D to XV^ reSS ,
Yi lvys
to IKe Kof>o^
& mOrZsl^^'M
S/T£
l/
MEMORY
if dims
Mfi O' SuLlivaW
'(ftjf 9 £S ' r
OccAS'OK would t
sonzcoioih
fAouvHU*r
iht
A PALACE 'OUT
OF j
1 *—
Col/LD
tyiH ObJEcT-
'iaw sfroi/LOBt
To-fHE
WSfILEI/^-
Great Australian Historical Pictures.—*
Ho. I.—The Thanking of the Victorious
N.S.W Ann/.
T//ttf//tfA/A//k
7?/AA//rjDt/t
fro /n, Hxl, l^l6.Qr6LhL.
‘ JuLI L
Su/b/otstnj //its coun/ry M,rt
(Z//nc/{ed ly an enemy, c ind
Stlp/iosirw it trcis hrore/y defends
and /he /arsons who cjttsc ted
not yrhnt' he feltsuredhy ttou/d-
J mor? than //uy faroawedfor—
he said fhutfan featdf- arms would
deserre c\ tnornoiy m enry rnoric
heart c7/id i/j erery womans /ear/,'
and //fere wou/d Se 710 he/ter use /d
which /o cityty/2 fuubltc hall oj/ts
kind than <f 1 0 tin oily than my /tie
's defend?cs of /he county
( Wear, hear. J
THE GREAT CENIAL SCHEME.


siuiLPJl'Nc
To it u
■JO y of
C,teA-r.-
J)U )re or A lUCfff-ty
Fa&M
Hfnr Li£ -» the or
/J QRtAT'UN m
.. -. . - . • /f *7 s
,/o
D/M4 .
ir/^e/ofeasures of (2”^
/t)e remaps. .
of7J>eca,te,
tyr Us/Qo/hey cd* ft at
fast jget cfae.s
1 Quire on the cards.
(See ne - T/i f /*JA US O L EUH J
7(err)CL>oS Of Qreut filar} - I
beg your Jb a. rcio rf.ba.fi you
■are iy mv yuufifi.
'Jie/na//} 5 of Create r fi'/ccy 7~/jccC~
be. J?~
df
gd
WM-UyXf:
1?
]Q trc
£*!}<*
-J) / :f —
fg
tez±-t/e
« r t .
df
OHof)
(P ul
/ 0,
//'
/r
i^ol>V3?
gd
/a' £ 1 p
X
:#
’tromous se/?\s/cßs "
y/f'Official'(upoxlusiijess
/ rjy J /. '•//‘ktofoolcif/erTf/est
tyO^Sj-' TreW my yooc( ty**?
| &**> T cTofor you
froofi. faff yer
(Office. Of) JboracTe To cTay
jj f fatty /aUecT my
6a,y»it' cc Syc/feyT
Tu/jcers eye ' '
_ (/oef (f /t7/ffe <7 £/ny f*,
c /<t/tc7 /O
*:tysj 7fp r>ame of
e Co&jyy yocf 7/essyou /
r?f s T yf o'-*-'T S. "
f
«0K
"Xm*£CatomAL TamPA) - *4“ ?//«“■
rveary To Say you re o ■
yticcrjTc/rje /#&///?& <*“66/
> iVfy //-/SJy’T- fajf 7,j e/70<s/y.
Jfs S/X //f~A//<y Ac*s ex/> resS c/ecie/eci oAfeot/o p /o
funerccfs eJe Aee 0 7sa.r/AcZoctfa Aea-
cS/es 73 }~&ou 7a/A*
V u ff.O'”? <* n.d ’3eA£,3, u.j6 /# cc CopsfscttOtis />&*. c/.
&£- 7ttcUc*so/eu>7?':
„ /&V r DA'ipt>v r ZcccS/e J
S/esnep u>/f€ e/cuse rr> e-
c/fr a ctyjfej Isha eey 'Z?/
J>eccc? /£ <JoccAr "
Hop & Phil Mq y
NIAL SCHEME.


The beautiful Illuminations and Fireworks prepared for
Tuesday last are now no more, but many oeauties stM
remain at 402 and 404 George-strect, wher they have been
quite a centre of attraction.*
Nothing prettier was to be seen during the' illuminations
than the window display ot Messrs. Bray Bros., the china
and glass people, in. George-street.*
The most Artistic Costumes at the recent Balls were
signed at Mrs. McCathie’s, King-street.*
The beat selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sydney
and at a reasonable price, far less than London or Paris, is>
at ri.usT’s Boot Emootium, 408 George-street corner of
ydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low heels' or com-
ijri; to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody Corns'
and see tor yourself. *
Society
Sir Henry Parkes always makes a fool of
himself when he affects to be sentimental, Look
at his poetry—look at his Centennial graveyard
proposals. The awful anti-climaxes which per-
vade his efforts in the realms of imagination
remind us of the time when we heard a young
man making hot love to a well-gilded, middle-
aged widow who was very deaf. Whenever he
told her, at the end of a gorgeous rhapsody, t*at
he loved her better than his life, she would open
her yawning chasm of a mouth, put her hand to
her huge ear, and say. “ Wh a-a-t did you re-
mark ?” P.S.—We were Ihe suitor, and were cut
out after all our trouble by a Chinaman who was
rich,
* * *
The gushing lady who acts as social writer
for Parson Fitchett’s holy sheet seems not to have
been satisfied with the appearances of the mas-
culine guests at Lady Loch’s Jubilee ball. She
did not like to see the gallant chevalier whose
forte is pork-selling prancing to sweet music in
the aesthetic costume of other days. With charm-
ing naivete the sweet
young thing queries:
•‘But do men ever look
well out of their clothes?”
We retire behind our
hand to cough.
* * «■
The Melbourne cor-
respondent to the S.M.
Herald says that the
N.S.W. Naval Volunteer
Artillery were enter-
tained at dinner in the
Melbourne Town Hall by
the Victorian navy men,
and that the “ Naval Ar-
tillery band accompanied
the guests home to the
Victorian Coffee Palace
and on arriving outside,”
&c. Now, the Coffee
Palace happens to be
next door to the Town
Hall.
4(- *
Already have scores
of newly-born girls been
christened “ Victoria Ju-
bilee Smith.” It may be
very loyal, you know, but
the Jubilee will hereafter,
when Mies Smith is on
the top shelf, afford a
mercilessly accurate way
of telling what year the
venerable lady was born
in. Victoria Jubilee
Smith will, The Bulle-
tin prophesies, eternally
revile the memory of her
godmother,
* * *
Dr, O’Hara, of Mel-
bourne, stated in court
the other day that three-
fourths of the colonial
women are broken down.
This should put a stop to
the anti-core et crusade,
it being evident that the
dear creatures need stays.
Eight men, one boy,
and three women of the
Melbourne Salvation
Army have gone to India
to minister to the pore
heathen, taking with
them £2GOO cash. The
males have renounced
coats, collars, socks, and
other European frivoli-
ties, and go content to rig
out,if need be, in a couple
of yards of cloth. The females, too, have not only
changed their dress but their names. In India
Selina Ann will be Sleeping Waters, and Johanna
Jane will only answer when called Dew of the
Valley.
• « *
It is now the fashion in very high (tem-
porarily colonial) circles for ladies to wear artifi-
cial frizzes tied over the forehead with elastic.
What this malicious item, sent by a woman who
writes with a quill, may mean, is to us an un-
fathomable mystery.
* * *
Triplets came to the family, and when
little Billy saw them all in a row, says he to his
ma says he : “Oh, motner, wich of'em are we a goin’
to keep.” We have heard this before, but it is a
story of which no one could ever tire.
♦ * *
The latest cadism is to publish the birth
of an infant after it is christened and give its
names (in parenthesis).
* * *
Sir Jimmy M‘Bain, the canny Highland
President of the Victorian Legislative Council,
says that the colonies ought to be represented in
the House of Lords. K'W we know who has been
writing to the Times on this subject. Isn’t Mac
satisfied with his knighthood ?
* « *
King Milan, of Servia, seems to be a sad,
sad dawg. He is a seeker after strange women,
and, being a fine figure of a man, does
considerable mashing. A few weeks ago we
heard that Queen Natalie was going home to her
“ Ma,” all along of the king carrying on with the
wife of one of the ambassadors. Milan pleaded
for forgiveness, promised reformation, and
tied the white ribbon of social purity to the
bottom button of his waistcoat. Now the naughty
man is taking proceedings in Divorce Court : i
the ground that Natalie is intriguing for his over-
throw. Our own Henry VIII. never conceived a
smarter coOo. There is no Woman’s Suffrage in
Servia, so while all the ladies who have not yet
received marks of royal favour impotently r ail at
their sovereign, the married men will ra'ly round
his standard and lay their votes and interest at
the royal feet. Whenever the missus begins to
cross-examine us about the long golden hairs she
picked off the left shoulder of our “ Beaufort,” we
Shall swear the nasty thing is intriguing for our
overthrow, and file a bill, God Save King Milan !
* * *
A Jubilee earldom has been conferred
upon Lord Londesborough, probably as a reward
for his faithful services to the stage His lordship
—like Cairns and St, Leonards—is the degenerate
son of a strict-lived lawyer. His sole business in
life ha? been the “ bringing out” of pretty actresses
some of whom have succeeded sufficiently well to
be able to support themselves on the boards when
their noble patron wuhdrew from them the sup-
port of his patronage. It was Londesb'Tonga who
found the cash for the Original production of
“Babil and B-jou ” at Covent Garden Theatre.
Boucicault pcre tossed that celebrated show, and
acquired such supreme control that he snapped his
fingers at the lord who paid the piper, and"ordered
him off the stage at rehearsal. Later on, nondes-
borough put Henry Neville into the O ympic
Theatre, and pushed forward the younger sisters
of Ellen Terry, together with his fair protege of
the period, Flox-ence Gerard. Beyond that he
once entertained the “ Midgets ’ on Christmas
Day, and squandered £5OO in miniature furniture
and appointments, we can think of nothing else
remarkable about this nobleman s career. But
stay ! He was a particular friend of so nebody
who was once smuggled out of a London
drapery establishment by a back staircase, on re
ceipt of intelligence that his wife was walking
towards the show-rooms. At the moment Lon-
A GOOD REASON.
MRS. HASHMORE: “MAY I ASK WHY DO YOU PUT YOUR COFFEE ON THE CHAIR, MR. JONES?"
MR. JONES: “IT’S SO VERY WEAK, MA’AM, I THOUGHT I WOULD GIVE IT A REST.”
desborough was purchasing a complete rig out for
his newest best theatrical prodigy. This long,
lean, emaciated-looking person will make a first-
class earl.
* * *
Wellington (N.Z.) is at present shaken up
by a sensation which knocks all the earthquake
records away hack to the furthermost realms of
utter insignificance. It appears that after the
debris of the recent Post-office fire (consisting
chiefly of old telegrams, money-order books, and
like records) was gathered together, ic was not de-
stroyed, but merely thrown on some waste land
and covered with a very thin layer of ep.rth. This
being washed off gave up its treasures to all who
cared to take them away, and the result is that
no end of startling revelations have just been
made public. A telegram to a gentleman holding
a good social and public position warning him
that his Bank credit was only £5, has been handed
round pretty freely, and the party interested now-
sits un half the night consigning all Bank and
Post Offiee officials to the most sultry spots in the
dim and uncertain future. Another “ wire
from a wife to her husband (who is not uncon-
nected with the church) pathetically complaining
that she has no money, and imploring him to send
some to keep her from starvation, is anything but
an agreeable exposure, although not quite so bad
in its way as the unearthed message from a
theatrical lady, noted for the shortness of her
skirts, to a highly respectable married church-
warden in Christchurch, to “ meet Totsy with
buggy on arrival.” A batch of Government telegrams
has proved a mine of wealth to the curious in State
secrets, the correspondence between the Govern-
ment and certain of its West Coast supporters
being h’ghly interesting and calculated to make
certain parties dread another election worse than
a Botany Chinaman dreads soap. Some com-
munications between the Minister of Justice and
the Dunedin Harbor Board placing Dunedin
Prison labour at the disposal of the Board at the
rate of 2s. per day, per man have caused the un-
employed to send up a howl that can be heard
from North Cape to Invercargill, and altogether,
it is doubtful if New Zealand has been worked tn
such a pitch of excitement since the rouseabout
days when the mirthful Maori used to fill himself
up with mashed missionary, and the mighty Moa
used to lay eggs as big as a “thirty-sixer” of
Tooth’s, and leave footprints on the sands of time
several sizes larger than even A. G. Taylor’s.
*' * *
The Australians drink 7’UG pounds of tea
each annuaffy. The people of Great Britain, only
4 *1) J pounds.
* * *
We read that “ at the first appearance of
Mrs. Potter at the Haymarkeb, Lady Colin Camp-
bell sat in the stall?. She was in full evening
dress, and was accompanied by her brother.
Although surrounded by a large number of society
people who knew her perfectly well, no one spoke
to her or recognised her in any way. She is a
slim and handsome woman, with a small
waist, clear complexion, well-arched eyebrows,
and retrousse nose. Her dark eyes are expressive
and full of fire. Her hair is very dark and was
worn high, twisted into a coronet shape, upon the
top of her head. She wore an elaborate evening
divss of a pink lavender colour. Bx-own feathers
were in her hair. She leaned back in a position
of extreme repose as she fanned herself idly with
a fan of white ostrich feathers. She appeared
perfectly serene, self-possessed, and indifferent.
There was not upon her face the slightest sign of
worry or car e- Her brother was a fresh
coloured, modest-looking young man of a type
fully as dark as his sister. He never left her for
a moment, not even during the 'movement which
occurred between the acta, but sat f aithfully at
her side, as if he were on guard against the stu
died indifference of her surroundings,”
Lady Lentaigne, widow of the late Sir
John Lentaigne, Bart., whose death in Ireland
has Just been announced, was the mother of the
now deceased priest who, in conjunction with the
Rev. W. Kelly, founded the Jesuit Society in Aus-
tralasia over 20 years ago. Father Lentaigne, who
comes of a French refugee family, practised at the
bar before he became a Jesuit.
* * *
Brisbane is better off than Sydney. It
boasts of a lady who has pluck enough to stand
up and speak at a Jubilee meeting. Which re-
minds us that whenever there is a meeting of
ladies in Sydney, not liking to get a real live man to
do the talking for them, call in the aid of a parson
or two. But, to proceed. The Brisbane lady in
question is Miss Jardioe, who runs a prii ate
school, and says that “ If women were less hasty
and less petty in their way of judging of persons
and things, their influence for good would be
greatly increased, and crime and irreligion would
not be so rampant amongst us.” Quite right.
And if ladies were only less hasty in judg-
ing distances, Maria and Louisa, not to say Msry
Ann and Bridget, would hit the poor old man
with the crockery every time.
* * *
From the S.M. Herald “Wanted for
the country, a middle-aged tutor, for a private
family, that will attend to kitchen-garden between
times ; references required, and terms of salary
for six months; Church of Lngland religion.
This shows the advantages of hedj '.cation in an
altogether new light.
♦ • *
The Orangemen of Newcastle (NSW.)
were dreadfully sold a few weeks ago. They
turned out in force to attend the funeral of a de-
parted brother, and on arriving at the cemetery
they found a clean-shaved priest preparing to
read the service over the deceased. The fact was
that the brother who had gone up had a Catholic
wife and that lady had played it very low down
on her late husband’s pals. The Orangemen cast
one horrified glance at the priest and then girded
up their loins and fled from the scene.
♦ • ♦
Young Tomkins, squatter, of Queensland,
is eccentric, and often does things without due
consideration. The other day, for instance, he
was riding towards a neighbouring station, and
observing that the road took a long detour round
a patch of bush it occurred to him that he would
survey a track right through it, and get it made
at once. Accordingly, he hung his hat on a tree
to mark the spot where the dealing should begin,
and then took a bee-line for another, which he
marked with his collar. A hundred yards further
on his shirt came in handy ; next, his bags and
boots ; and finally, a pair of socks carried him
through. Then he lay down, and commenced
taking levels through a telescope, and it was
chiefly owing to this circumstance that a party of
ladies who were riding past just 50 yards away
didn’t get much of a view of him, and wondered
who he was. Presently, however, young Tomkins
looked up and saw them, and there were ear-
piercing shrieks on both sides, and an undressed
Tomkins might have been observed diving head-
long into the bush and making for his clothes.
The party of ladies, as it happened, included
almost all his female friends for several miles
round, and Tomkins is now cold-shouldered and
called a brute all over the neighbourhood.
* • *
A Bankers’ Institute has been established
in Melbourne for the training and examination of
young bank clerks. A prize is offered to junior
members for the best essay on how to dress like a
dude, live in East Melbourne, bet on the cup, and
keep a box at the opera on 30s. a week,
• * *
The late Major Ind only accepted an ap-
pointment in the Victorian Defence Force to gain
a step in the Imperial army. He had a private
income of £lO,OOO a year.
* * ♦
The mysterious disappearance of Mr.
Staurenghi, the popular woolbroker, has caused
great consternation at Geelong. He started life
as a draper's clerk, and having married well, got
a partnership with Synnot and Co. Subsequently
he commenced business on his own account and
with bank assistance became a financier on quite
an extensive scale. It is now stated that the
bills he is alleged to have forged represented, at
least in part, gambling losses.
*• * *
Alas ! the long-promised Spiers and Pond’s
barmaids are a shadowy and empty thing 1 We
searched for them over the Adelaide Jubilee Ex-
hibition, from basement to dome. We questioned
everybody who scented the still air with clove, or
had the smallest flash of red on the nose. No-
body had heard of them-nobody had seen them.
History was silent about them, and none of the
Hebes who refused to trust us for our usual “ go ”
bore the faintest likenesses to any of our old-time
London enclmntres-es of the Gaiety bar. We leave
by the next cattle-truck
* • »
One of the most enchanting features of
the Adelaide Exhibition was a pretty creature
who presided over the Canadian fancy chemis-
try stall. She wore a tobogganing costume —con-
sisting of a white blanket made into a coat, and
dimmed with fur at the neck and wrists. Upon the
head she wore a scarlet cap, and she told us all about
ihe tobogganing so prettily that we began to for-
get the loss of the barmaids. She was the only
stall-holder who wore fancy costume, and the only
young lady who fascinated the public in general.
All the rest made us keep on repeating mechani-
cally “ Adelaide is a city of churches.”
* * *
Governor Loch calls his wife “Lizzie.”
* • *
After a long stay with the Loch family,
Ladyßrassey doesn’t knowthe Governor’s Christian
name. She spoke of him to an Argus reporter as
Sir William” Loch, Perhaps, however, Lady
Loch only addresses him before strangers as
Ducky ” or “ Dovey.”
* * *
Luxurious city ! Advertisement from
S.M. Herald :—“ Blankville, 137 Brown-street,
vacancies, bal. rooms ; porridge, soup daily £l.”
What glory, and all for two-and-tenpence a day 1
Let us illustrate ovr idea of a model hash-foundry
adverticement. Painaitch and soup 1 Here's
pabulum for an “ unemployed ’ Scotch mermaid,
■nd all for a trifle over 2s. 10jd per diem. But if
competition becomes much keener than it at pre-
sent is the hash emporium advertisement of the
future will read som ethic g like this :
“ Snooksville, Tucker-ter., 29 Diggings-street, vacancies,
bal. rooms with green Chinese blinds and clematis climbing
up the verandah post; the piano, although occasionally used
as an ice-chest, is in thorough repair and is fitted with a
handle for the use of lodgers who haven’t leei ..i the notes.
There are four girls in tte house, daughters of the family,
and a brunette French milline- who doesn’t object to spoon-
ing. The girls names are respectively Maud, Ethel, Ando-
rilda, and Melanesia, and their styles amber, blonde, bru-
nette, and liquorice-tint They can all play the piano and
sing. They are skilled in dancing, making slippers, and
working smoking-caps, and none of them objects to filling a
gentleman's pipe. Th< y prefer smoking ! We have soup and
porridge all the time, and boarders receive £1 a week for
coming. N 8.-We have ducks on Sunday."
♦ » *
The surprise-party nuisance is getting
worse every day. The latest sufferer is a R.C.
dignitary in Melbourne, on whose behalf some
thoughtful fiend—the compositor has left out an
“r” in this word—lately issued invitations for a
dinner-party. Consequently Father O’Hooligan
rolled up at the time appointed, closely followed
by Alderman O’Grady, who had hardly entered
before Mr. O’Fogarty was seen turning the
come-, and as the servant admitted him Mr,
O Leary signalled across the street with his um-
brella that he was a'so coming if she would only
wait till he got safely through the mud. Then as
the bewildered slavey was about to go downstairs
again the voice of Captain O’Dowd from outside
requested her to “ open the dhure,” and presently
there were 15 brogues gathered in one room and
only dinner enough for one. A pause an hour and
a half long ensued, and then one broth of ahry
ventured to remark that he was moighty hungry,
and the miserable priest asked what the dickens
they had all come for, sure, and an explanation
followed. Finally £lO worth of dinner and other
refreshments was procured at the restaurant
round the corner, and when the host finds out
who perpetrated ihe joke he means to make it a
matter of excommunication.
• • *
A London scientist suspected his young
and beautiful wife, and every time she returned
from a walk he took her jacket and ulster and


The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Emulsion is such as to renderi i the best-known
Sin the world for Coughs, Colds Asthma, or Bron-
It can be obtained direct fromW. M. Rowley, (Chemist,
3 ourke-street, East Melbourne Price 3«. Bd. per bottle, md
from lU obt *
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, brings with him all that
is new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
may be consulted at Kidman's Buildings, corner George and
Market streets. Take Lift.*
carefully examined it for stray hairs. These he
placed under the microscope, and soon noticed an
incessant recurrence df me class of hair which he
identified as being df the same colour and tex-
ture as the moustache off a masher who frequently
visited his home. Acting on this evidence, he
watched the pair and soon got sufficient proof to
justify him in appealing to the Divorce Court.
* * •
Some of the ladies who attended Lady
Musg rave’s reception at Rockhampton (Q.) the
other day are mad beciuse she hadn’t the civility
to return their visit, and didn’t even forward her
kyard when leaving. Several of them says she is
an ill-bred thing. However, it's the last time
they will call on Lady Musgrave, anyhow. So
there.
* * *
Bindarra (N.S.W.) enjoyed a glorious
Jubilee. The performance began with races, and
about 40 men had a fight on the course which
lasted all the way back, the 117th round being
finished in the bar of the hotel. The proceedings
wound up with a fancy-dress ball, most of the
gentlemen being disguised out of all knowledge
by the way their trousers were turned up at the
feet. It rained all the time. God save the Queen.
* * *
They are saying in Sydney just now that
if you” mother-in-law happened to be a pawn-
brokeress you ought to be able to sport plenty
diamonds.
* * *
The wife of a N.S.W. professional man is
taking proceedings for divorce on the alleged
ground that her husband—she speaks bluntly—
“ keeps a harem.”
♦ * *
' The Melbourne Lord’s Day Observance
Society has “ expressed regret that Lord Brassey
should have chosen the Sabbath for the public
exhibition of the Sunbeam, a desecration which
was aggravated by a charge being made for ad-
mission." Considering that the whole of the
money was handed over to the local charities, the
.Society might as well “express regret” at the
(Sunday collections in the churches—which, by the
\way, don't go to charity.
* « *
"The bill of fare at the Imperial Federation
(banquet, given to Lord Brassy (we like brevity)
iat Melbourne was, we read in the Argus, “ very
built up of ideas compiled by Mr. A. G.
jMttntyre.” Mr. MTntyre (son of “ Maldon ”
is, we may explain, a rising Melbourne
(barrister, and the Beau Brummel of the Yorick
(Club. As, tfcoagh still under 30 years of age,
(be is the Toriest of Tories, it is absolutely ter-
ffiibie (to contemplate the sort of politics to which
(be will be addicted when he “comes to fifty year,”
jturwl, bearing on hjs comely face the mature bloom
that .comes of good living and a cherished diges-
tion, taikes bis seat in the Lords under the title of the
Marquis .of Yorick as ,pne of the representative
Australian nobility.
• # *
Mrs. Dugdale and the other magnates of
the Women’s Suffrage Society (Melb.) uncover
their heads when they attend public meetings.
Many of them wear their hair cut close like those
brutes, the men.
In China there are no bank-embezzlements
worth speaking of. The fact is there is a Govern-
ment auditor in the Central Flowery Land, and
his clerk carries an axe and a bag of sawdust.
These he dumps down in the corner of thp room,
and then he and his master start to overhaul the
accounts, and if anybody is short in his cash that
man’s head is carried away in the bag. Conse-
quently, a shortage is not the thing that the yellow
bank-clerk hankers after.
* * *
Said Premier Parkes, in speaking on his
Sydney Centennial Park proposals :
“ By the plan hon. me obers would see at once what a
marked feature the great road was, and as it would really be
one of the noblest roads of its kind, he believed, in any Eng-
lish-speaking community he would be disposed to at ach to
the great road the name of the present Governor of N.S.W.”
(“ Hear, hear.')
Pooh! So Henry wants to call it the “ Smith ”
Road. That’s a very common kind of name.
“As it would be one of the noblest roads. . . .
he would be disposed to attach to it the name of
TiuO present Governor of the colony.” There is a
hugd non sequitur sticking out here. We pre-
sume that what Parkes really meant to say was
that as it was going to be a fine and even noble
highway it would never do to name it after a
/Governor who had no intellectual claims whatso-
ever to the perpetuation of his name. And if
Parkes doesn’t mean that, what in thunder does
he mean? Why not call the road after old
Doctor Lang, or Edward Smith Hall, whom the
Premier so highly extolled only the other evening ?
—for the ‘‘ Smith Hall Road ” would sound just as
well as the “ Smith Road.” However, we sup-
pose it’s no good trying to bring to reason anyone
who is disposed to grovel.
* * *
/A sends us the following
xremjnispmce of a cricket match against the Manly
'grteket Club f—We went down with our scorer
and the Manlys took the field. After a couple of
overs the balls of one of our batsmen were sent
flying. “Name of the bowler?” screamed the
scorer. “ Smith ! ” was the shrill reply. Next
over a man was thrown out, “ Who threw him
(O W t ?” asked the scorer. “ Smith” was the deep-
toned response. Then a new bowler was put on.
“ New bowler’s name ? ” “ Smith.” Then a ball
was skied high in the air, and a man who had
been away in the long-field ran in and made a
grand catch. “Who caught him?” said the
scorer, and once again the answer came with fell
distinctness, “Smith.” Then the scorer abandoned
hope, and put everything down “ Smith caught
and bowled Smith, “stumped Smith,” “thrown
out Smith,” and when we left nine Smiths were
fighting a rough-and-tumble over which had got
most wickets.
• < •
The Melbourne Argus says t v at there
were men at the Imperial Federation League ban-
quet to Lord Tom Brassey who had “already
done seven hours’ solid dining that day.”
Where now is Moorehuse of Manchester,
the champion digestor of “ great masses of food ?”
* * *
The Mayor of Belfast (Vic.) announces his
intention of giving a silver medal to every child
born in the town during Jubilee year. A lot of
people are complaining that the notice is too short
and want an extension of time.
• • •
Murkan joke. A San Francisco man re-
cently poisoned his neighbour’s dog which
howled all night, and the very next evening he
found a strychnined sandwich on the piano where
his daughter was accustomed to practise “ Only a
Pansy Blossom ” for three hours daily.
A Melbourne Mahometan lately married
a European woman, and thereby lost caste. The
bridegroom’s brethren called him to account, but
he explained that he had converted his bride to
the pure and elevating doctrines of the Prophet.
Then the wife was called in (they were all holding
high revel at the time in the classic region of
Fleet-street, Fitzroy) and she acknowledged that
she was prepared to become a Mahometan. She
aho produced her parents’ consent in writing.
The high priest then informed her that she must
eat no more chops or steaks slaughtered by non-
Mahometan hands, and must not eat or pray with
her relations. The happy pair were then
married again according to the Mahometan rite.
* * *
At WilJiamstown (Vic.) there is now a
cabbage and-turnip-menger who is so blown up
with pride as to be almost insufferable. This is
how it came about. A few days ago Lord and
Lady Brass —this is short for Bras-ey—came down
from Melbourne in the last train to spend the
night on board their “yot,” and as her ladyship’s
poor feet had given out completely with too much
walking, the Lord had to hunt round for a eab to
take her to the whaif. But never a cab could he
find, and in his despair he was juit about to bor-
row the barrow of his sire from a wood-yard when
a market-gardener came along with a load of
assorted vegetables and volunteei ed to cart the
old nobility for monetary consideration. And
then, in the darkness of the night, the British
peerage straddled over the tailboard of the vehicle
and squatted down among the vulgar cabbages,
and the gardener woke his horse with a shovel
and the procession moved. When the jetty was
reached Lady Brassey shook the charioteer by his
honest mud-hook, and gave him an order for half
an acre of potatoes, but the nobleman, who did
not enjoy the joke, merely dusted the smell of
onions off his purple and fine linen, and remarked
that it was a “ dooced beastly country.”
* * •
Lieutenant Cecil Edward Feith-Falconer,
I Viscount Deerhurst’s successor in the Loch house-
NO WODFR THEY’VE A BEAUTIFUL HARBOUR.
hold, is related by marriage both to Lady Loch
and Lord Carington. He is 27 years of age, and,
of course, unmarried.
* * *
“Bushwoman” writes to point out that
out of £4OO collected at a certain fancy fair given
on behalf of a charitable fund, £2OO went in pay-
ments for a number of singers who were adver-
tised as giving their services gratis ; £75 more in
advertising that the said vocalists were to sing ;
and £2B in refreshments for the'committee 1
* * *
Lady Brassey defined for a Melbourne
Argus man what “society" people are—people
who “ talk common-place, but can do nothing
at all.”
* * *
After all, there is a distinct advantage in
being a corpse in N.S.W. As an inducement for
cadavers, the Railway Department offers to carry
“ corpse-paupers and friends free.” Think of this,
ye corpses ! No bustling about after tickets, no
necessity to bother friends for your fares. After
this we shan’t be a bit surprised if the whole
Scotch population commit suicide this very week
rather than miss their chance of a free ride. “ Let
us noo sing the forrety-second paraphrase, ma
braythren I ”
• * *
Gertie (who meets Lady Garington out on
horseback,) : “ Ma, does she shut up her house
when she comes out ?” Ma (very much worried);
“Yes.” Gertie: “Then does she put the milk-
jug out on the window, or does she takeenough in
the mcroing to last her all day?” It is that
ghastly milk-jug at the door which has kept us
out; of matrimony.
* * *
Poetical justice. There was lately in
Australia a dignitary who constantly reviled the
simple barmaid ,in public. Well, this dignitary’s
specially-built carriage was purchased at the
auction of his effects by a pretty little ex-Hebe
who now rolls round in it as if she were a lord's
wife.
* * *
This is very distressing. The May. r and
Mayoress of Majorca (Yic.) were personated at
Lady Loch’s fancy dress ball. Although it is
darkly hinted that the shameless miscreants who
accomplished this dastardly deed had secured, by
artifice and cunning craft, the tickets intended
for the real Simon Pure, the Majorca Council have
magnanimously decided to allow the culprits to
stew in their own guilt, instead of indicting thorn
for treason-felony.
» * •
Here is an old story illustrating the sweet
simplicity of our good Queen’s nature. Guizot
tells how, “ in 1813, while the Queen was staying
at the Chateau d’Eu, Louis Philippe, knowing
that she was in the habit of drinking a glass of
water in the evening, rang a bell to comma'd one
to be brought. The glass arrived and was pre
sented by a footman, but the Queen refused with
a gesture of hauteur. The King, quickly alive to
the oversight, signalled to one of his sons, who
ran after the servant, took the salver from him,
and presented the water to the Queen, who then
drank it.” That was when she was a tender,
timid young thing. Nowadays the Queen wouldn’t
accept a glass of cold water from anyone unless
he had previously put a squeeze of lemon into it.
Poor Lady Loch, owing to indisposition
I (which may be taken in any sense sassiety
chooses), periodically expresses her regret at being
unable to receive visitors on the regulation Thurs-
days. It is sadly to be feared that too much
handshaking has utterly shattered her ladyship’s
constitution.
• * *
A select Melbourne clique is busily whis-
pering that “ something ought to be done ” in ac-
knowledgment of Sir Henry Loch’s enlarged
Jubilee hospitality. By way of a diplomatic
‘‘blind,” a return ball to his Excellency was first
mooted. The next step was to discover that the
bogus ball would be “ quite out of form, doncher-
know.” It is now suggested that nothing will be
so much “in form ” as a money grant to the dear
Governor, and it is probable that the Government
will enrich him on the strict Q.T. The same
thing was worked between Graham Berry and Sir
George Bowen. When something has to be done
for a Victorian Governor that “something” is
usually —the poor taxpayer.
* * *
Mrs. Dr, Anna Potts—more power to her
prescriptions ! —says that if she had the manage-
ment of marriages “she would have a committee
of two gentlemen and two ladies appointed to
wait upon the prospective couple to ask them a
;ew questions. Each should be asked whether
they had an ideal in their minds as to the nature
of the companion they desired.” Anna Potts is a
smart, shrewd little woman enough, but she
drivels—after the manner of the sex in general—
when sle gets on to the love racket. What
blessed committee could ever cross-examine a girl
out of an idea that the fellow who takes her
O'tencst to the theatre is just the one she dreams
about, ss a matter of fact, she does dream about
him, and he becomes her ideal right away. As
for the men— well, a man’s ideal companion is the
girl he happens to be ‘ gone on” at the moment.
He doesn't cultivate a shadowy ideal, but wants
one that he can hug. After he is married, his
wife’s prettiest unmarried sister becomes his ideal,
because young girls have a way of looking at
their best when they visit their brothers-in-law.
“Ideal companions” are things that men and
women never seriously think about until after
they are in the matrimonial noose. They are
will-o’-the-wisps that lure us into drink and the
Divorce Court. Now, if Mrs. Anna Potts pro-
posed to send a committee round to married men,
with a view to providing them with ideal com-
panions if they are not already suited, we should
approve. At present Anna is talking like a little
silly, that she is.
• * *
The indicting of Fred Woods, the cham-
pion bicyclist, for stealing a purse belonging to
the husband of his paramour, calls to mind the
celebrated Brown-Crellin case which amused Lon-
don some years ago. Pretty Mrs. Brown was the
wife of one of the partners in the firm of Shool-
bred and Co , drapers. She had a merry eye, and
it looked kindly upon Herbert Crellin, then the
/eun pren, ier of Irving's company. Crellin—one
of a family of “ mashing” actors—reciprocated
the lady’s attentions, and they ate oyster lunches
together—said oysters being “ charged to Mr.
Brown.” The magnitude of his oyster account
aroused the doting husband's suspicions. He
made enquiries, just as Mr. Marshall has been
doing. Enquiries brought matters to a crisis, and
the guilty pair eloped. Brown procured a war-
rant for Crellin’s arrest on a charge of stealing
some of his (Brown’s) jewellery, which Mrs. B.
thoughtfully carried away in a hand-bag. Crellin
was acquitted, one of his brothers did a stage-
swoon in court, and sassiety enjoyed a nine-days'
wonder. Subsequently Brown divorced his wife,
but here the romance of the affair terminates.
The lady neither took to drink nor went mad with
remorse. Possessed of a private income of £2OO
a year, she married her actor, and lived happily
until some six months ago, when she unfortunately
died. Crellin retired from the stage while this
scandal was blowing over, and afterwards made
a re-appearance under a new name. He was a
prominent figure in “ Pink Dominoes" and kin-
dred productions at the Criterion.
* * *
H. He'y-Hutchinson, clerk of Petty Ses-
sions at Bathurst, who died a few days ago, be-
longed to the family of the Earl of Donoughmore.
The present Earl was out here a few years and
married a Tasmanian girl. Wnioh reminds us,
by the way, that a certain Tasmanian girl who a
few years ago married an alleged nobleman is now
by no means so glad about the matter as she used
to be.
The bo in liful Sunbeam
Is another little gleam
Of the Federation dream,
You eee :
But we da not care a jot
For Lord Brassey and his “ yot”
(Like the Federation lot)
Are at sea,
* * *
“ Ma says you are not a, fit associate for
me, but I don’t believe it,” said a sweet damsel o
17 summers or so on the Ashfleld railway plat-
form one night last week. Of course she doesn’t
believe it, and she’s not likely to until you take to
goirg out every night and leaving her with half-a
dozen squalling brats to mind. Wejsaid that our
selves once
* * *
There are some sorrows which can only bo
quenched in the flowing bowl, and the following
is one of them. The scene lay in a backtownshii
where the O’flooligans most did congregate, and
many of them had good-sized bank-accounts. The
manager of the local financial institution was
about to be married—he was a long-visaged party
“ frae Scoatland,” and the lady had money—ant
the event was fixed for the 12th of July. Every
morning as he opened with prayer the bridegroom
thought of h ! s coming happiness, and had anyone
informed him then that his joy was shortly to be
blighted he would probably have fetched that
prophet of evil a wipe in the eye. But almost at
the last moment the Irish residents arose as one
jaundiced idiot and cross-eyed pelican of the
wilderness and stated that if the banker married
on the 12th July, the Orange Anniversary, they
would withdrew their accounts and burst his
financial crust. So he caved in with a sigh and
postponed to the 13th, and then the b'-ide objected
because thirteen was “ the devil’s number,” and
when she was informed that such superstition
was unworthy of a “ Christian lassie ” and only
befl ted the bank clerk who played Yankee grab
in the pub parlour, she gave an angry sniff and
flounced out. 3he wedding now bids fair to be
put off indefinitely. There is no moral in this
story.
» * *
The third Woollabra private assembly of
the season was held at Nithsdale on Friday even-
ing last. Upwards of 170 guests were present.
* ♦ ♦
It is proposed to hold a grand concert in
aid of the ‘ Queen’s Fund.” All the performers
are to be of the fenale persuasi- n.
♦ * *
Lady Carington will be “at home” at
Government House. Sydney, on the afternoons of
the 14 th and 28 f h July. This arrangement will
give her ladyship only 28 days to recover from the
effects of hearing sassiety talk about the weather.
Dr. Schwartzbach handsomely entertained
a number of friends at Leigh House, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, on the 27th June. Dancing was
the order of the evening. The host was assisted
by Mrs. Airey and Mrs. Paul, and among the
guests were Colonel Airey, Professor and Mrs.
Gurney, the Baroness von Lindenfels, a number of
officers from the Diamond, Myrmidon, Bismarck,
Olga, Sophie, and Albatross—and many others.
• * *
The Manly Assembly was held at the
Aquarium last Friday evening, and proved a great
success. The seal cavern conservatory of ferns,
and fish-tanks, were illuminated by the electric
light, and the seals howled off and on all the
evening, which conduct ultimately laid two fond
hearts waste. Toe facts were these: A lovely
couple had wandered into the cavern and sat in a.
nook with their arms around each other far from


One of the most attractive adjuncts to the " Criterion
ia the Japanese Cafd. Handsomely decorated with the arts
of Japan, It is a perfect Fairy Bower, presided over by a bevy
Of bewitching beauties.
Theatre UOX A L.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Qamer, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
IMMEDIATE EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Drury Lane Spoxtlng Drama,
A RUN OF LUCK.
Prices, 55., 35., and Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
TO THE SPORTING PUBLIC.
In reply to numerous appeals, I beg to state that
after many years’ connection with the leading
press of Australia as Sporting Scribe, and also
Turf Adviser to several of the greatest horse
owners in Australia, I have determined to give
the public in general the benefit of my large ex-
perience on Sporting Matters. I have many
reasons for so doing :
Ist.—l will be supplying a long felt want.
2nd. —As there are thousands of spcrting people throughout
Australia who, through being ever-desirous of “ getting
on ” to what “ reads well on paper” as a “ good thing “
at a long price, find out to their sorrow when too late
that they have backed a “ stiff un,” and who would have
been only too happy to have paid a fa : r price for a “ lit
of information.”
3rd.—That it is well known I am in a position to gain infor-
mation about any horse in Australia, whether in work
or out, which cannot fail to be of the greatest benefit to
intending backers.
4th.—That the great amount of success that has attended
my previous work, is a sufficient guarantee for my suc-
cess in the future
Commissions executed promptly and faithfully.
Betting accounts collected on settling days on a
small commission. So as to be within the reach
of the great m- jority, I have determined to fix my
fee at ONE GUINEA for which sum I undertake
to send by post or wire (according to arrangements
made) to every client, any information he may
require on any sporting matter, and to advise to
the best of my ability as to what is worth backing
in the forthcoming Spring events. I may state that,
the fee once paid entitles the sendor to my services
for the whole season without further charge.
All communications must have a stamped and
addressed envelope for reply. I beg to remind the
country press that I am prepared to write up in-
teresting Sporting items at moderate terms, and
to represent them at all Sporting events. Tele-
grams sent to any part of Australia immediately
after any event, if required. In conclusion I wish
to state that I know a real “ DEAD BIRD ” in the
HAWKESBURY HANDICAP and METROP, and
also something in the Melbourne Derby and
Cup that will be the greatest “BOIL OYER”ever
known. My Doubles this Season are worth a For-
tune Ito Anyone. Send for them. All letters,
communications, &c., must be addressed to
“PREMIER,” Box 1166 G.P.0., Sydney, when
they will receive immediate attention. All fees
to be sent by P.O. Order or Crossed Cheque.
thy madding crowd. A holy calm pervaded the
spot, and they both fell into a reverie. Then the
senior grandfather seal of the tank got out,
flapped himself, and barked, and the lady, wak-
ing with a start, exclaimed : “ What did you say,
my darling t ” Her loved one explained coldly
and hoarsely that he hadn’t barked an observa-
tion just then, but he has never spoken to her
since.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Hannell, of Oomoobah,
entertained a number of friends at the Protestant
Hall, Newcastle, on the 22nd June. Dibdins
play, “The Waterman,” was produced very suc-
cessfully by a party of amateurs, and dancing
filled up the rest of the evening.
* » *
N.Z, is going ahead. At Auckland the
leading uncle of the city now haunts the thea'ra
every night to keep his eye on the jewellery he
has lent out to the occupants of the circle. “It
is all shenuine, my tear,” and that is what mak s
the uncle so anxious, for “ if they wash to shlope
with it vera would my monish be ?
* *
A circular informs us that the Mercantile
Rowing (Hub’s Ball is fixed for July 13, in the
Sydney Town Hall. It was fixe! the same way
last weak, and we are glad to see that it hasn’t
moved since.
* * *
The marriage of Miss Dibbs, daughter c f
Mr. T. A. Dibbs, general manager of the Com
mercial Bank, with Mr. Massie, the well-known
amateur cricketer, will take place some time this
month.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Biar, of Hirll, Woollahra,
gave an enioyable dance on the evening of
June 28.
* * *
At Christ Church, North Shore, Sydney,
on June 29, Mr. William Allison, of C’anonbar,
was married to Miss Nellie Milsoa, youngest
daughter of Mr. James Milson, of Elamang, North
Shore. The bride was attired in ivory cloth,
braided in ivory and gold, and wore a small chip
bonnet trimmed with ivory and gold.
* *
It is reported that the officers of the Ger-
man squadron intend giving a dance on board the
Bismarck before the departure of their ships to
kill some more savages in the South Seas.
• ♦ ♦
The marriage of Miss Gaden, daughter of
Mr, T. B. Gaden, with Mr, Tooth, id announced to
take place during the coming month,
♦ * *
The latest bouquet gives the lady an equal
show with the noble animal between the act?. A
squat half-pint bottle is cunningly fixed in the
centre of the flowers ; in the bottle is placed a
“refresher,'’ and in the cork is placed as:raw.
When a lady is now seen inhaling the fragrance
of a huge bouquet, two to one she is having in
cosy comfort what the man has to go out in the
cold for.
* * *
Commend us to Hobart folks for combin-
ing loyalty and basinets. At the jubilee illumina-
tions in that city, a pork-butcher exhibited an
artistic outline cf a pig formed by gas-jets; a
grocer showed ai illuminated notice that a certain
brand of cindles was a speciality at his establish-
ment ; and a publican displayed her Gracious in a
centre window with advertisements forchampagne
and whisky on either side.
• •
Sir Robert and Lady Hamilton entertained
over 600 guests at Government House, Hobart, on
the 23td ult, the occasion being a Jub. bail. As
this was the first en ertainment given during the
present regime, much interest and cu’iosity was
aroused concerning it. The affair proved most
enjoyable, and the lady guests were specially
pleased to observe that her ladyship can dress
handsomely when occasion demands. One of the
local dailies seized the opportunity for a grovel,
even gushing over staircases, cloak-rooms, and
the taking np of carpets. This was probably a
loyal effort to stem the tide of unpopularity which
has so decidedly set in against Her Gracious’
representative in Tasmania.
The Mayor of Hobart, Mr. Chas. Har-
bottle, gave a ball in the local Town Hall on the
28th ult. Neither expense nor trouble was spared
in decorations and arrangements for the oomfoi t
of the guests, so the invitds had quite a good time.
Sir Robert and Lady Hamilton were present,
arriving late, as usual. Many pretty dresses were
worn, and, judging from the lavish display of
vaccination-marks, small-pox will not have many
victims in Tasmania. Lady Hamilton wore ivory
net; the Mayoress, prune silk and pear's ; Mr?.
A. J. Clarke, black lace; Miss Kennedy, pearl
white; Miss Blliston, cream satin; Mrs. W.
Ferguson, maize satin trimmed with tulle and
/poppies—this was considered the handsomest cos-
tume in the room. Much dissatisfaction was
•caused by the fact that so many of the alleged
•aristocracy received invitations to the exclusion
•of the trades-people, who have hitherto been re-
•cipients of these favours on similar occasions.
* * *
The marriage of the Emperor of China is
■estimated to cost a million pounds sterling. That
•doesn’t seem so much money to spend over one
wedding, when we remember what a wholesale
'matrimonial order has been given on behalf of the
rpoor little Emperor. He marries four wives all
•at once, the young Brigham !
One of the smartest things ever said at a
Hallelujah howling-match since General Booth
first went on the war-path was recently jerked
out by a half-caste Maori girl at Gisborne, N.Z. :
—“You gentlemen,” she said, addressing some
swells who were at the meeting, “ are very fond
of going through the Bankruptcy Court, and as
you are all over head and ears in debt and sin, I
seriously advise you to confess your sins and de-
clare yourself bankrupt in the sight of heaven
and then you will get whitewashed once more
and be ready for Kingdom Come at a moment’s
notice.” It would take old Spurgeon all his time
to beat that for a Gospel illustration.
* » *
Girls ! only think. At a recent Sydney
wedding the bride walked over a mat, stretched
from the gate to the church door, fashioned of
evergreens, and filled in with lilies, chrysanthe-
mums, and violets. Vanitas vanitatum ! A few
’moons more and the same lady will be hanging
herself over the back yard balcony barneying with
a slant-eyed Mongolian sinner over the price of a
head of cabbage.
CORRESPONDENCE
tux Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
a Idress is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
r a sponsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“L.J.S.” : An Empire on which the sun never
sets must be an empire on which the sun never rises....
"L L S.”: Yes, but will all the statesmen who so talk about
repressing blasphemy and muzzling open-air oratory refrain
from giggling over shady stories at the c1ub?....“ L.g.”:
Hermes is edited by a Mr. Potts....“ Admirer ” (Adelong);
Freely translated it means “tell that to the marines’’; its
literal translation is “Let the Jew believe "—Jews, you
know, are incredulous. "Jenny” was written by Mr. John
Farrell... ."Radical” : Yes, there is a post to Kimberley.
Ask at ary Post-office. You can’t expect people in the
States to accept Australian stamps. We don't know
the price of the paper, which is a daily,..." L.W.”:
Orangeism and small-pox both hang out a yellow flag....
“Pouch ’ (Brighton, Melb.): You’ve got us “by the wool.’’
The hungry appearance of the Imperial lion was, however,
intentional. The Imperial lion is dyspeptic, and has a fear-
ful appetite, but what he eats dees him precious little good.
....“Yuro”: Many thanks. Mr. “Teddy" Wollaston is
entitled ta his little opinion, and we're not sony to see him
so furious " M. 0.8.”: It doesn’t follow. If Mr. H
thought he was right he acted properly in attending....
“Water Swivel”: See par...." A. Robinson” (Sydney):
Will endeavour to find space. You seem to have a down on
Scotchmen. What's the matter with you ?....“ W. Dew-
hirst": We haven’t received the paper “Free Buck-
Jumper ” (S. dney): How should we know about the ‘ rough-
riding of Kelly and Farrell at Bathurst 25 years ago"?. ..
“One if Them ’’ (Tvmingley): Thanks for your letter, which
AN ADELAIDE INCIDENT.
EXCITED SPEAKER: “WOT I SAYS IS WHY AIN’T THE WORKIN’ MAN A DOIN’
NOTHINK? WHY AIN’T ’E A WORKIN’ NOW? WHY IS ’E HIDLE?”
ONE OF THE AUDIENCE (who has been there hiasell): “PRAPS IT’S ’CAUSE THE
FOREMAN AIN’T A LOOKIN’.”— (Tableiu.)
we shall preserve.S. 8." : For the same reason that the
Aeous “ leads ” Brassy letters. (2.) For the same reason that
the portrait of the great Darwin reminds you of a monkey... j
“ E.W.W.”: We have not yet seen the full evidence in the j
Oribble case. Vast allowances must be made, however, for
the sort of Justice which is dispensed in Crown colonies....
“H.T.” (Bindana): Judging from your communication, we j
fear you are not strictly loyal to the person of Her Majesty, j
This is a very bad trait in your otherwise spot'ets charac'er.
“LO S.” The cigars seem made of straw-paper boiled in a j
decoction of tobacco....” Bushwoman Thanks for letter. |
....‘‘George W.” (N.Z.): Yes, if we use them....“G.W.”:
Tell us how you get along. Get the Heeaxd. .;.“ An His- j
torical Ballad In the first verse you speak of the “dawn”
of Freedom ; in the next that it grew to a mighty “ tree”; in
the fourth you refer to it as a “lamp”; in the last you kick
Freedom’s lamp out altogether and talk of the “lamp of
love and truth.” Now, what sort of an animal is it, anyway?
....“ Constant Subscriber” (Goulburn): Thanks. But,
“dose” dors not spell ‘'does.” “P.8.P.” (Redfern);
Yours is the 101st account of similar incidents connected
with the celebration of the Jubilee in Sydney that we have
heard of. The loyal employers ef disloyal labour gave their
men the option: “ Sign that Declaration of Loyalty or quit.’’
....“Siberia” (Winton, Q.h We are very glad to .hear it ..
“Bushman” (Woodstock): Stick to your business. Anything
is better than the life of a professional scribbler for the
Press. If your son should ever evince a desire to scribble
take him outside and kill him. Write when you feel like it,
but don’t relinquish your present mode of getting a living—
for it is a precious deal sweeter than ink-slinging....
“ A.P.” (Melb.): Good. The “Old Nick” par, however, is
too sultry “ J.P.8.”: Held over.... 11 H. 8.” (Ironbarks):
Will read evidence if you cut out report and mail it....“ J.
Mayall” (Melb.): Much obliged....“ Australian Incident”:
Fairly written, but more suitable for the “ Christian Youth’s
Magazine ” than The Bulletin “ R. 8,”; Still ponder-
ing...." Lux ” (Gundagai): The same thing is true of every
town that jubilated : the press was determined to put a good
face on the matter and so suppressed all mention of counter
demonstrations. If it would do so in regard to Sydney you
may guess how much more readily it would in regard to
Gundagai “Paddy Bungaree” (Yass): You aboriginal
pirate !....“ E. R. Hirschmann”: Fairly written, but not
suited....“A. Bonney” (Alexandria): Thanks....“ W. J.
Rodgers” (S. Melb.): Many thanks! “You Know”:
Blessed if we do; the signature is the only thing we can
read....“ A.S.S.”: What do you mean ?....“ Youth Not
bad for a maiden effort; try again! “ Sydney L. Bryce”:
Thanks! “A Bushman” (Western Port, Vic): Rather
long “ H.K.B ” : Will read carefully... .“Bayliss W.”
Unconscionably long “W.A.”: Perhaps next week
“A.G.0.” (Ballarat): Good “Thos. Watson”; Have
handed your letter to Hop. That talented yoath rather
j fancies himself on the natural history racket. [Many eom-
j munications held over.]
The Referee
Apropos of just nothing at all, the pugilists
are now saying that when a man is fairly beaten
he should not complain of having been drugged.
* * *
A hundred yards’ flatter for £5OO reads
like a fairy tale, but it wasn’t, for the backers of
Ashworth and Miller (H Oxenham and “ Billy
Lees” respectively), hal'-marked the match run
between those men last Friday on the Carington
Ground, Sydney. Ashv orlh led at 20 yards, but
at 50 Miller passed him, and won with ease in
10 1-5 seconds. Ashworth, by the way, is the man
who captured the Soudan donkey. He was a
member of the Contingent.
* * *
Gaudaur received £420 “ gate ” out of his
match with Han'an. The latter £2BO.
* * *
John L. Sullivan is getting into bad odour
in the States. . T ack Kilrain, who is a good fighter
and well backed, loudly challenges him, but J. L.
is deaf to the call.
• * *
The Quoensberry affair between Fogarty
and “Professor” M’Carthy, at Foley's, last
Saturday, was no pedestrian matter. About the
fourth round M Carthy brought Fogarty down,
and it looked a foregone conclusion for the Pro-
fessor, but the minute's spell pulled Fogarty
together, and the men fought with varying ad-
vantage until the 28th round, when Fogarty again
came to the stage from a blow in the throat. It
ag'in looked all over but throwing un the sponge,
but Fogtrty was thereat the call of time, and
shortly afterwards knocked M'Carthy out with
one of his crushers on the point of the jaw.
M‘Carthy gave the public a little “ Costello,”
feigning an injured leg, but he was unable to
draw Fogarty, who fought in a fair and manly
spirit from first to last.
* * *
Barnes, the Nottinghamshire cricketer, is
paying dearly for the little brawl he had in Syd-
ney, as up to latest advices he had not sufficiently
recovered to play with his county.
* * *
Brown, who ran fourth in the Carington
Handicap on Saturday, is an old ped. He used to
run on the Albert Ground in ancient days, and
raced in the handicap won by Walter Medus,
Steve Punch being second.
* * *
Legislative Councillor Scotland, of New
Zealand, disapproves of horse-racing on the
ground that “ it fosters a useless breed of horses
and a bad breed of men.” What fosters
M’s.L.C. ?
* * *
Wallaend footballers will get themselves
disliked. They took their gruel very badly on
Saturday, hooting the umpire when they saw they
were getting the worst of Jhe game.
* * *
“ Sir Roger Tichbome,” the “ Claimant,”
is now among the first flight of pigeon-shots, and
is matched against Dr. Carver.
* * *
One of Beach’s chief backers, when asked
the other day what was to be done about
Gaudaur’s challenge, replied that “he hadn’t con-
sulted Bill yet ’’ —this in a tone which seemed to
say that the job was one not to be lightly entered
upon.
* * *
A bicycle can buck. Mr. J. Fyffe’s wheel
i played him false on the Melbourne tram-blocks
last week, breaking both the rider’s arms in the
fall, the left one in several places.
• * *
There was considerable woe among the
Sydneyites present at Moonee Valley (Melb.)
when Brummy went down in the deciding course
for the Queen's Jubilee Stakes, With The Last
Request out of the way, Brummy would have had
a soft thing, but the Victorian dog was too good
for him at all points. Rather singular that the
longest stake (128 entries) ever coursed in Austra-
lia should be finally fought out by two such cracks
as The Last Request and our own Brummy.
* * *
Sam Hopkinson, the working stonemason,
who met with a fatal accident at the Parliament
Building, Melbourne, a few days ago, was one of
the oldest cricketers in Australia. He was one of
the most reliable bats in Melbourne 30 years ago,
and played with the Victorian T wenty-two against
the first English Eleven brought out by Spiers
and Pond.
* * *
In the Jubilee ocean yacht race, the
Dauntless had 20 passengers, besides the crew, on
boatd, and for six days they had not a drop of
fresh water to drink. Champagne, wines, spirits,
and beer were on board, but no water, and conse-
quently she got left behind in the race. Successful
yachting may require water in England, but not
in Australia, Colonial yachtsmen can do without
drinking water for a much longer period than six
days.
* # *
The death of Robert Boyd, the English
sculler, isc.b’ed. Boyd was three times cham-
pion of England, and held the title for about three
months each time. He was a graceful sculler,
a successful imitator of Hanlan’s style in every-
thing but results.
* * *
“ Colonel ” Ike Austin recently fell among
Melbourne larrikins, who despitefully used the
renowned marksman. Strength doesn’t lie in
long hair now-a days, or poor Ike might have
sent those irreverent Philistines to the hospital
instead of going there himself.
* *
The committee of the Adelaide Exhibition
Regatta, having decided to allow “manual
labour ” crews to compete in the international
eight-oared race, the Williamstown (Vic ) Eight
have determined to enter. On public form they
should beat any other crew in Australia.
♦ * *
Dan. Mayne, of Bathurst, is said to have
been only once properly frightened in his life. He
was persuaded to put the gloves on with
Larry Foley, and upon their assuming
the pugilistic attitude, Dan. made a desperate
lunge at Foley. Lany purposely took it on the
jaw, and then dropped apparently dead. Four
men carried him off, to Daniel’s horror.
The proposal to open N.S.W. Parliament
with prayer has been shelved. The next motion
will be to close it with prayer.
A Queensland kanaka has started a grog-
shanty on one of the railway lines This is fight-
ing the white pfeller with his own weapons.
General Wong Ho thinks that China will
be represented at the coming Melbourne exhi-
bition. We should say so —by the vegetables.
The sleepy town of Gundagai (N. S. W.)
was stood up on end on the 29th June by a fresh
excitement in the shape of a private assembly
attended by everybody who was anybody.
The Protection and Political Reform League meets on
Monday next, the 11th inst., at the Temperance Hal., 8 p.m.
Ft! ow colonists, this inhuman Government of ours ruth-
eesly puts £25 per cart-load (of ore to") tax on our colonial-
grown toba.co, and kills our native industries. Tx is horrid
Freetrade-gone-mad Government could have raised double
the amount of revenue by taxing imported jewellery, but
Jared not offend the Calico Jimmies, and preferred to dreg
taxes out of the poor who cannot or dare not complain.
Agriculture and manufacture are being ciushed out, for the
.ake of Belgim and China goods, and knighthoods for the
Cobden Club mob.—R. 0. Luscombe, Secretary.*


EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
ANTILB ROWING CLUB.
Patron :
His Excellency Baron CARRINGTON, G.C M.G.,
P.C.
President :
The Hon. J. B. WATT. M.L.C.
The Committee of the above desire to intimate
that their
TWELFTH ANNUAL BALL,
under the patronage of the
Worshipful the MAYOR (Alban J. Riley, Esq.),
who, with the Lady Mayoress, has promised
to be present,
will be held in the
TOWN HALL
on WEDNESDAY, JULY 13,
and that the number of guests will positively be
limited to 300.
Tickets are now obtainable from the following
members of the Committee and the undersigned
ONLY Messrs. T. M. Alcock, F. J. Bull, F.
Boulton, J. Blackman, S J. Fotheringham, T. W.
Freeman, M. J. Fitzgerald, K. Gittinan F. R.
Isler, F. Ives, R. A. Keddie, S. A, Kemp, J. Lord,
J. Mannix, S, H. Martin, J. H. Smart, F. Thorpe,
and J. Young.
W. A. BLACKSTONK, Hon. Sec.
Telegraph Department.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next.
J. WILKES,
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
QRITKRION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon" 5
INSTANTANEOUS AND LAUGHING
SUCCESS
SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON,
Received with unbounded approbation.
SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON,
'1 horoughly appreciated by large audiences.
SKIPPED BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON,
Amusing situations and uproarious fun.
JOHN GOURLAY 1
JOHN GOURLAY J
Qa
as
f OBADIAH DINGLE
\ OBADIAH DINGLE
TO-NIGHT, at 8. TO-NIGHT, at 8.
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is,; Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Robert Gourlay—Representative for Mr. John
Gourlay.
W. J WILSON, Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager... Mr. Edwin Sbiff.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
AND YET ANOTHER ONE,
15.
THIRD YEAR,
GREAT TRIUMPH. GREAT TRIUMPH.
AMAZEMENT,
BEWILDERMENT,
of the great Multitude that last night saw our
NEW FIRST PART.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
BW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
Brief Farewell Season of the World Famed
MINNIE PALMER
MINNIE PALMER
MY SWEETHEART
MY SWEETHEART.
By Arrangement with Mr. JAS. M‘M AHON.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY,
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, Rockhampton,
Queensland.— The above Hall is duly
licensed under the Queensland Theatres’ Act.
Every Company travelling through Rockhampton
for the past 18 months lias (with one exception)
occupied this Hall, including Messrs. MacMahon
and Leitch, Thornton and Harrison, Harry St
JMaur, and Grattan Riggs, with Mr. Chas.
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company, who have just
conc’nded a brilliant and successful season. This
Company played in the Theatre Royal two years
ago, and Mr. MacMahon expresses himself as
highly pleased with the arrangements in this Hall.
Managers are requested to book at least li days
before opening to secure uninterrupted dates.
Terms on apflication to the Secretary.
£25
IN PRIZES
IN PRIZES
£25
NATIVE S’ PLUCK.’
GRAND A.N.A. WORD COMPETITION.
First Prize, £l5 ; Second, £5 ; Third,
£2 10s; Fourth, 80s; Fifth, 20s.
The above pnzei will be given by the BUILD-
ING COMMITTEE of the ST. ARNAUD AUS-
TRALIAN NATIVES, to the competitor who can
form the greatest number of modern English
words out rf the letters comprised in “Natives’
Pluck.” No obsolete words, or historical, geo-
graphical, or proper names will be allowed. No
letter to be used twice in cne word. Competitors
must enclose list of words, with name and address,
and state number of words on each list in a sealed
envelope, together with a postal note, jnpney
order, or stamps, of the value of two shillings,
addressed to the undersigned. Such lists will be
received up to 6 o’clock p.m , on WEDNESDAY,
AUGUST 3rd, 1887, and opened the following day
in the presence of the Committee of the St.
Arnaud Branch of the A.N.A. Ihe names of the
winners will be published in the Australasian,
Sydney Bulletin, and local papers.
WILLIAM O’DONNELL,
Hon. Sec.
Prosecute (lie Swindlers ! !
If when you call for Ani’riovn Hip Bitters (see green twig
of Hops on the. white label and Dr. Saule's name blown in the
bottle), th“ vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and shun that reader as you would a viper;
and if he has taken yrur money for anything else indict, him
for *he fraud and sue him for damages for the swindle, and
we will pay you libera'ly f it the conviction.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
. 1 EMOVED to No. 0 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-sellicg Subscription Books, &c., &c.
Full particulars free on application. Address :
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-st, Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
293 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, foi
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
".ad general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J. S )RIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
•. T. GAYBN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
«X»»
r.«
DR. O'CONNEi L has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation, to 10 am till 2 3o p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
advertising, as all of his patients who have con-
sulted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Casti.ereagh Street,
Sydney.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILEE HANDICAP, run May 21st,
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000;
2nd, £300; 3rd, £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them. Cash Awards—
-5 at £6O, 10 at £25, 20 at £lO, 20 at £5. 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, at d
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. .“BARB,” care of T. G. Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melborne Cup, 1887, now open, 20,000 subscribers
each 20s. First horse £lO,OOO.
NEWEST INVENTION—GREATEST NOVELTY.
I
■r-^yl
uo
y&n
TliK
Y*N
PATEST DIAGONAL SEAM CDESET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—"These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the cross,
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all that could
be desired."
Gold Medal, Kew Zealand Exhibition, 1883
Gold Medal, Highest Award
tor Corsets, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
Latest Award I!! Gold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 188<>.
CAUTION. —Beware of worthless imi-
tations. Every genuine Y & N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
ItacT
V?
IfOTPAUflONil^
LD BY ALL DRAPERS AND LADIES' OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES.
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
is the Only Address of the
I
DIRECT SUPPLY
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
in f act it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every pescription of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
10L1H mi
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
o/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., !)d,, and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, Od, Is., and Is. 3d. each,
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp
ZMar, &c., &c.
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
~ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
~ French Violin, with extra finished
case, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
1/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6. 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/-
, Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/-
5/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/ ,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s,
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality! 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent/!
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TRODPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Listen to Your Wife.
The Manchester Guardian, June Bth, 1883, says
At one of the
“ Windows
Looking on the Woodland ways ! With clumps
of rhododendrons and great masses of May
blossoms !!! There was an interesting group.
It included one who had been a “ Cotton
spinner,” but was now so
Paralyzed! ! !
That he could only bear to lie in a reclining
position.
This refers to my case.
I was first Attacked twelve years ago with
“ Locomotor Ataxy ”
(A paralytic disease c f r«ve fibre rarely cured)
and was for several years barely able to get about.
And for the last Five years not able to attend to
my business, although
Many things have been done for me.
The last experiment being nerve stretching.
Two years ago I was voted into the
Home for Incurables ! Near Manchester, in May,
1882. I
lam no “Advocate”! “For anything in the
shape of patent ” Medicines ?
And made many objections to my dear wife’s
constant urging to t r y Hop Bitters, but finally to
pacify her —
Consented! !
I had not quite finished the first bottle when I
felt a change come over me. This was Saturday,
November 3rd. On Sunday morning I felt so
strong I said to my room companions, “ I was sure
I could
Walk!
So started across the floor and back.
I hardly knew how to contain myself. I was all over the
house. lam gaining st'ength each day. and can walk quite
safe without any
“ Stick ! ”
Or Support
I am now at my own house, and hope soon to be able to
earn my own living again, I have been a member of the
Manchester
II Royal Exchange"
For nearly thirty years, and was most heartily congratulated
on going in the room on Tnurslay last. Very gratefully
yours. John Blackburn
Manchester, (Eng.) Dec. 24,1883.
Two years later am perfectly well.


D
R. SCQTT’S ELECTRIC CORSET.
yvss
LIFE
HEfILT
EIfCA/VCF
m
These goods are sent out in a handsome box,
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by which
the Electric-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get th m in your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland upon receipt of price
named, with Is. 6d. added ; or will mail direct to
any address upon receipt of stamps to cover full
postage. The prices are as follows
NO. I OOWt
No. :$ Coraot
8. d.
No. 2 Corset ... 8 f>
No. ;> Corset ... 15 <i
Electric Belt 15s.
No. 1 Electric Hair Brush
2 do do
3 do do
1 do do
5 do do
do Flesh Brush
do Tooth Brush
. ss. Od.
. 7s. 3d.
, vo» uu.
. 11s. 6d.
. 13s. 6d.
. 13s. 6d.
. 2s. 6d.
9s. 6d.
We will send by mail on receipt of the price
named with 6d. added, either size of this beautiful
Brush, post paid to any part of N. S W.; or request
your nearest druggist or fancy store to obtain one
for you, and be sure Dr, Scott's name is on the
box. Money returned if not as represetned.
The price of the Electric Belt is 155.; or post
free to any part of the colony 15s. fid.
Remittances should be made payable to PALL
MALL ELECTRIC ASSOC JIATION, 56, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney; P. 0., Box 221.
W A T E R B U R Y MEMO.
The price of the genuine Waterbary Watch is
13s. 6d. If you buy one for less money in the
belief that you are getting a bargain, and you
shortly afterwards find that it requires repairs,
don’t be astonished wiien you make the discovery
that the repair notice refers only to the genuine
Waterbury. If anything goes wrong with the
real Waterbury Watch, which is sold only at 13s.
6d- the owner has only to take or send it to the
offices of the Waterbury Watch Company at
54, Margaret-street, where it can be repaired
at’a cost according to its requirements, but in no
case exceeding 2s. fid. unless by mutual consent.
The cost of transmission by post or parcel delivery
on watches sent from the old country must be pre-
paid, and a sufficient amount to cover return
charges and cost of repair forwarded at the same
time. If sent in the box in which the Waterbury
Is sold, the postage fee is 3d. each way.
Thousands die annually from some form of kidney disease
that might have luen prevented by a timely use of Hop
Bitters.
Tattersall.s Monster Consultation, Bank Handicap, run
August 1, at Canterbury; and the Spring Handicap, run
Eandwick, August 27; each 2000 subs , 20s. now open and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams. Pitt-street.
If the Sufferers from Consumption, Scrofula.
BRONOHIT.S AND GENERAL DsE LITY WILL TRY SCOTT’S
Emulsion with Hypophosphites they will find imme
oUte relief and ape manent benefit. The Medical Profes-
sion in various countries of the world, universally dechre it
a remedy of the greatest value; and as it is very palatable,
it can be readily taken by the most sensitive stomach anl
will never fail to give the sufferer relief and comfort.
Large and small bottles at all ehemists.
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
fnrthp Coughs, Colds, Croup, Astnma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rioney, late Mitchell,
King-street.*
ON 1 HE PADDINGTON TRAM.
“ Do you realize,” said a long-haired passenger
who was on the tram and conversing loudly, “that
there is one who can see and hear all we do,” who
can t olve our inmost thoughts.” “ Give me your
hand ” said a red-nose and grey-haired Old Man.
I know just how your mind is moving, and just
how you feel. I’m married, and been there my-
self. I could never make my home happy until I
bought a cask of that famous St. Louis Lager
Beer, and don’t you forget it.”
The best periodical for ladies to take monthly and from
which they will receive the greatest benefit is American Hop
Bitters,
NOTICE !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Dockings
high class selected old vintages, for invalids. 43 Pitt-
street. *
One of the beat managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney i s
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDISEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices,
L
A W L B
GREAT CENTRAL EMPOR TMI
and
STEAM CABINET and UPHOI -TERYi'
FACTORIES,
Sydney.
Entrance at 608 George-street.
Lawler’s Factories have held the trade of the >
colonies for upwards of 26 years.
Parties FURNISHING will receive the very/
best make of goods at the lowest prices at whio .'•
sound and substantial Furniture can be sold.
Almost everyone in the colonies requires chair,
occasionally. We advise them to purchase at •
LAWLER’S.
Austrian Chairs of the celebrated “ Thonet 1
and “Turpes” make—and a guarantee with the
chairs that they will be put together in a thorough
and tradesmanlike manner:—
CHAIRS.
Austrian Chairs, is. 3d., is. 6d., ss. 6d., 7s. 6d.
American Chairs, 2s. 6d., 2s. 9d., 35., 3s. 6d.
Child’s High Rocker. Table and Perambulator
Chairs, 255.
Child’s High Table Austrian Chairs, 12s. 6d.
Large American Arm Rocking Chairs, lls. 6d.
How often at the outstart of house furnishing
does the young couple, forced to economise,
neglect that essential to every room—a neat and
ornamental Pier Glass. Surely one can save
enough by the practice of economy for a few weeks
to purchase one whilst at the following prices:—
PIER GLASSES,
-All Gilt Pier Glass, cottage size, 25a.
Ditto ditto larger size, 395.
Ditto ditto extra large 605., 80s.
Black and Gold Overmantel, 60s.
Ditto ditto with Brackets, 70s.
Walnut Overmantel, with brackets, 60s.
Ditto ditto very handsome, 70s.
Ditto ditto lit for mansion, 90s.
An assortment of Overmantles in Oak, Walnut,
and Mahogany, at prices ranging from £6
to £lB.
After the cares of a hard or a busy day’s work,
when home has been reached, and the dinner been
eaten, what more enjoyable than to puff a cloud
upon a comfortable Couch. And whilst the most
luxurious couch ever made is the glorious spring
Stuffed Eugene—a lino LAWLER sells at 19s.
and not to bo had under £5 ss. in any establish-
ment outside of London— still the fact is borne in
mind that cheaper couches are required by many.
Let p> ice not bar the way.
COUCHES.
All Spring-set Best Upholstered Couches, la
Cretonne, 275. 6d.
Ditto ditto, very superior and castored, 355.
Ditto ditto, extra strong and covered in*
Crockett’s leather, 3os.
Ditto ditto, in best hair cloth, 475. 6d.
The glorious Eugene, full size, 795.
Bedroom Box Ottomans, 405., 505., 655.
Never before was such value offered. Never
before was legitimate and BEST UPHOLSTERED-
WORK so within the reach of all.
You cannot have “ hair ” or “ Ceylon fibre " or-
“ kapok” properly cleaned and prepared unless by-
steam machinery. The foreman at LAWLER’S-
wiII willingly show the public the machines at,
work.
Spare bedrooms are convenient only when the-
few necessaries are in. Now, LAWLER’S can.
supply
SPARK
BEDROOM.
Cedar Washstand, with towel-rails attached!
Set of Fancy Toilet Ware
Toilet Table and Toilet Glass
The Suite complete for 275. 6d.
Does a gentleman with a sweet and snug
want anything better than that suite of LAW-
LER’S named “The thing itself,” and which ia>
capitally suited for spare or young ladies’ rooms*
SPARE
•BEDROOM.
Duchess Dressing Chest, with glass fixed
Marble-top Washstands
Set Handsome White and Gold Toilet Ware
Towel-rail and two Cane Chairs
The Suite complete £i 15s.
And then, when suites proper, with glass-door
wardrobes, and all that’s required in the bedroom
combination are wanted, why LAWLEK’S, by all.
means, if you want a first-class article at a very-
low figure.
BEDROOM
SUITES.
bedroom Suites in Woods japanned, Oak,.
Siberian Fir, Bird s-eye Maple, Pitch Pine,,
&c. ; Wardrobe, Marble Washstand, Dress-
ing-table, Glass (fixed), Towel rail, and twa
Chairs, £9 10s.
Ditto, with Bevel Plate-glass Wardrobe,
Marble Washstand, Chest Drawers, Bevel
Plate-glass Dressing-table, Towel-rail, and
two Chairs, £l2 10s.
In Ash, £l7 10s., £22., £28., £37 10s,,
In Walnut, £25., £30., £38., £l5.
This list would be incomplete were we not to
place those ordinary and useful articles of every-
day sale before the readers of this paper :
CHESTS
DRAWERS, &c.
That large-sized Chest of Drawers at 525. 6d.
Note.—This is sold at 655. by other houses.
It has seven drawers and is in cedar, with
pine linings.
The College Chest of Drawers, 25s
The Cedar Chiffoiner Safes, 20s.
The Handsome Chiffoiner Sideboards, 50s.
The Shaped-front ditto, 555.
Dining Tables, 12s, 6d., 155., 17s. 6d., 255.
355., 10s.
Kitchen Tables, 7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 155., 20s.
Kitchen Safes, 10s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d.
Sideboards and Jjinner Waggons next engage
attention, and it is no hackneyed flgure|of speech
to say they beggar description and paralyse com
petitition. £lOOO lies waiting a turnover in side
boards and in Oak, U alnut, Mahogany, and Cedar,
you can have your choice. It is not usual to quote
sideboards, as an inspection is necessary, but a
few prices may be named as a guide—£7 10s.,
£9 10s., £l2 155., £l5 10s., £l7 10s,, £24, £2B 10s.,
£35.
Drawing-room Suites and Dining room Suites in
newest styles, and in English and Continental
coverings are with LAWLER as much of a
speciality as Bedsteads and Bedding, and that is
putting comparisons as far as they can be put.
CARPETS,
FLOORCLOTHS
and
LINOLEUMS.
One immense Showroom
devoted to Carpets and Mat J
tings alone. Ground is too
valuable in George-street to
give that space to a single de*
partment unless prices were
cut low to admit of business.
LAWLER’S.
608 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
THE CHELMSFORD CASE.
The Chelmsford Essex News, the leading paper
of Essex, says :
“Thefamily of Mr. George Lester, who have
resided in Marriagb’ssquare, Chelmsford, for
twenty-three years, have just met with a thrilling
experience. The particulars of the event are so
remarkable that they have created quite a sensa-
tion in the neighborhood. The facts as given be-
low have been duly verified by us, asd are of such
general interest that they should be made public
everywhere, inasmuch as there are no doubt
thousands of families who can profit by the in-
telligence thus conveyed.
“About eighteen months ago the son of Mr.
Lester, a youth of seventeen, was attacked with a
peculiar and painful ailment of his anckles and
muscles, which so disabled him that he- was
obliged to stop working at his trade—that of a
baker. He was placed under the ire a ment of a
skilful physician, and notwithstanding every at-
tention, he received no benefit, but speedily grew
worse. His condition became so alarming that
further medical aid was called in, but he still
failed to obtain relief. The malady of the youth
had now assumed such a violent form that his
condition was pitiable. He had completely lost
the use of his ankhs, and was unable to walk. It
was only with the aid of crutches that he could
move at all, and even then not without experien
iug the most intense pain In the language of bis
parents, he was completely crippled. He was
then sent to one of the leading London hospitals,
but there also his sufferings were not in the
slightest relieved. He had now been crippled for
nearly a year, and every treatment having utterly
failed, he and his parents were almost in despair.
Having read in the Chelmsford paper of some
remarkable cures wrought by a remedy recently
introduced for the cure of pain, the young man
was led, as a last resort, to make a trial of one
bottle of the same. To use his own words, he was
greatly relieved after having applied the article
but once, and he was able to walk without his
crutches in ten days from the time he purchased
the first bottle. After using three bottles he was,
strange as it may seem, actually able to resume
his work, and is now free from pain, and leading
his former active life. His cure seemed almost
miraculous to all those who are familiar with his
long, agonising sufferings and his previous help-
less condition: and St. Jacobs oil was the only
remedy he used.
“ When a representative of this paper called on
Lester, imorder to see for himself what this magi-
cal remedy had dune for him, the young man
could scarcely find words with which to express
his gratitude at his recovei y. He remarked that
St. Jacobs oil had transformed him from agony
and misery to joy.”
The Proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil are
sincere and positive in all they allege in regard to
its virtues and have offered large i ewards for
proof, showing that any testimonials published by
them are not genuine.
Next Morning — Chappie : “ Haw, Cholly,
how feel?” Cholly: “Immense. How you?”
Chappie : “ First Clawss. How’s head ? ” Cholly:
“ Immense ” Chappie : “ Haw, naturally,”
Cholly : “ Haw,”— Life.
In 1879, the S.F. Chronicle, the best
newspaper property on the Pacific Coast, yielded
at the rac of £15,000 annually. These are very
small figures indeed beside these quotable on be-
half of Australian papers The united profits of
the Sydney Morning Herald and the Sydney
papers owned by the Messrs. Bennett do not fall
short of £120,000 per annum ; while the Age and
Argus of Melbourne between them nett at least
£BO,OOO yearly.
Snaix seem to bo on the rampage already.
A Lake Cowal (N.S.W.) stockman reports a
Jubilee gorge that happened on his run a few
days ago. Two big brown snakes undertook to
swallow a small diamond stinger at the same
lime. One commenced at his head and the other
at his tail. They swallowed till they met, and
then they settled the trouble amicably by swallow-
ing each other. No doubts can be raised as to
the truthfulness of this statement, because the
man who saw the swallowing has a brother who
occasionally corresponds for the Evenin’ Nooze.
We have on the Castlereagh a young
squatter who is noted for his bonhomie and muscle.
A would-be nob, with a magnificent nose and a
green necktie, was crooning out the 108th verse
of an interminable song, when our friend thought
it time to interrupt, and asked what he was cry-
ing about, and if any of his relatives had died.
The usual result: “ Come outside and take your
shirt off,” but gentlemen do not remove the nether
garment and can bump with their coat on, as the
sweet singer of Yarragabowlamine found out. At
RF Ciw/)fq y
\
% "
Sh l*SH
the Coonamble races the latter came up to the
man who had mangled him, and apologised
thusly : “ Mr. Squatter, if I insulted you at the
Yarragabowlamine races I’m sorry for it.” To
his chagrin, in presence of all the bookies, the
answer was: “Oh! no; you didn’t insult me,
for if you did I d have knocked you tail over tip.
I always do.”
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —It is, I believe,
compulsory for a chemist or doctor to label his
boluses, &c. I have been asked for my advice on
the following tough case. A young gentleman,
through not attending to his lessons, had got into
the practice of mixing the words boil and bile.
(N.B. —A common mistake in the Australian
bush.) Having absented himself from breakfast
at his cousin’s house, he gave as a reason that he
“ awful bad with the boil.” Now, one
of the young ladies, being a prompt Samari-
tan, at once made him an emplastrum of
soap and sugar, which she sent him by the cook,
and the sufferer swallowed it. It cured the bile,
but the subsequent chaff has driven him to con-
sult me. I contend that the cure is compensation
for the alleged damages. —Yours, Hiram Abiff.
A white-haired Melbourne footballer put
in a claim to the Government for 225. 6d., being
the price of one shiny hat lost in the Windsor
railway accident. He ultimately accepted 12s.
6d. rather than go to law.
The appearance in the dock of Melbourne
City Police Court last week of John Armstrong
and Ellen Lennon, charged with murdering an old
man named Kims, recalled a description from
the realistic pages of Eugene Sue or Gaboriau.
The male prisoner is paralysed from the hips
down, and crawled into court on his hands and
knees. The woman’s face was seamed and bat-
tered out of all semblance to humanity, and,
taken together, the pair might have sat for a
group of Vice and Poverty. The woman has con-
fessed that her paramour fractured Elms' skull
with a saucepan-handle, the object being to gain
possession of his clothes —which might be worth
at most say 10s.
Mr. J. W. Frater, of Newcastle (Eng.),
has just published a book on his travels in N.Z.,
and the colonists are looking for him with clubs.
At Wellington, he says, he saw gangs of convicts
in chains and dressed in red parading the streets,
and when he got further south to W aimate he
met a couple of old friends who were “ employed
in the healthy occupation of cutting timber in a
bush containing black men and wild animals.”
On the Canterbury Plains, he adds, it is customary
to build a huge fire outside houses at night in
order to keep off beasts of prey, and in some
places a sentinel is also posted armed with a i iflc
and revolver. This is decidedly rough on a
country which can’t even raise a poisonous snake
and where the natives go into Parliament and
lend out money on mortgage.
A reporter sums up a Jubilee sermon at
Balclutha (N.Z.) in a few touching words :
“ After calling on his hearers to pay due tribute
of honour to Her Majesty, the preacher concluded
with an earnest appeal on behalf of the General
Church Fund.” The man who wrote that evi-
dently understood that grovel and collection-plate
were the two things that are calculated to make
the modern church whiz.
The great Mudgee nugget, found in honour
of the Queen’s Jub., has a little tale attached. A
young man named Brennan, while prospecting a
few weeks before the discovery, sank a shaft
15 feet. Then rain came on, and the hole became
half full of water, so he started sinking in a new
and less sloppy place. Some strangers shor.ly
commenced work on his abandoned claim, and
within 48 hours they unearthed the great nugget
weighing 347 ounces. This looks like bard luck,
but if young Brennan’s mozzle was out, as it
seems to have baen, he might have dug round
that nugget for 47 years without noticing it, so
perhaps he did not lose anything after all.


Please say that you saw this in
The Bulletin.
WK WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT WE WILL ECLIPSE ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, disainess
and drowsiness, cold
Chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness Of breath, costiVß-
fless,scurvy, blotches Oh
the skin,disturbed sided,
ffightful dreams,and dll
nerVoiis and treinblihfe
sensations, &c. Thd first
doSe Will give relibf ifa
tWehly minutes. tills IS lib fiction, for they have
done it ih thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
tfiey Will bb acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired dige ■ a and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action With the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame, These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thpusands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest Sale of any patent
medicine in the world,
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS,
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaihts need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public tor Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, When neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ BeEcHam’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is, lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Healers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Everybody \
should use/
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOir R!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
881 Gbobrk- Srniiif.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mei at.s—
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUtI’A, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CY-MBlDlUlffi
are of rare andpecuhar tragranc-e, ana being
registered can be obtained only ot the
Inventors or their Agents
ATKINSON'S
odour. It far surpasses the numerous com-
pound# sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine pertume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dialers , and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Rond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose'* on“ Golden
Lyre/*
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
BBISBJLIsTEI.
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions—lift and fire-proof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every door. Largo banqueting
room, Sampler oom.
C. H. DANIELLS; oprietor
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
HEAD OEFICB -
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £3.,661 Is. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
Afit)
Intc.ro; t Allowed
At Call, 4\ per cent.
3 Months, 0 per cCnt.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
gdf
■a.
manufacturers
A IMPORTERS OF
t,n— i. Tfdhl , ■■
HATS CAPS At
{ =vp: *
438CEORCE ST
3YDNEY %
op/yositt MatseCCers '
$
A
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABBRGK
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND, SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
M.RI L B Y
1 • (late of the Detective Force),
Vivace Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
12 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
bsoonden and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
icfidentiai Inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
! force- libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro
mlon and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth
tarriag®, or death, obtained in any part of the world
lenti and debts collected. From K. M. R.’s long experience
a Ur Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
tew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
Ve, be l« in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
ipfultUn and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
- ■ >ttend to all business entrusted to h "are
Oiticura
AN
Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
jt-j
Scrofula on Isecki.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Erup
lions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsom Soles, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes,' instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best pby
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and goi
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVE!, , the new Blood Puii-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts,
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
• ■i.' .. 'wts throughout Australia, Tasmania,and New
i. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fj. >j luttcura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Srav-
i;;. . t, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
Prepared bt the
Polir,.- 1 vug & Chemical Co , B oston, U.S.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL’SSARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors, It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
undean Eruptions , no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A fil-NE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution —As there are in this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol s.
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
jqftßADjliT, NEWTON, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and ("CONNELL STREETS
g
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con*
nell-street.
df
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb.
B
KNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New'
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
D
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALLNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
w
gdf
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O'Connell sts.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
■\TOYELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
AJi SUITES. Bradley, New,on, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
oa
0
B
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fusnixub* Wabbhousbmbp,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection Is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
•e-CE.
1
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets. _
gjIASX OJtiAXKS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms. New designs covered to order In
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
g
Bedsteads, ail sizes
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and!
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Gonnell and Spring Streets,
df
SPRING MATTRASSBB
Woven Wire, be> t
make | also, Spiral Sprint •
Price, from Ua. each.
BSADLKI, MBWTON and LAMB,


gdf
gdfgd
i
Reciprocal Log-Rolling.
SIRENRY: “NOW, THEN, YOU OPPOSITION FELLOWS, COME ERE AND GIVE US A ’AND WITH THIS ERE FIRST, AND F'R’APS BY-AND BYE I’LL GIVE YOU A ’AND AT YOURS, AND WHEN I PROMISE A THING
(With this understanding, Joe Abbott spits on his hands and gives Sirenry his “hearty support.” while the others follow his example. more or less.)
