

The Bulletin
Vol. 8 -No. 318
SATURDAY, APRIL 30, 1887.
Price., 6d
The Asstralian Attitude.
" I CAN DEFEND ME OWN COAST—AND IN MY OWN WAY, THANK YOU!


THE BULLETIN.
rntumn owe* a wkek,
At 24 Prrr-sTRBK-T, Sydney. N.B.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 0d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDINQ,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE
By sending dlreot to Thi Bulletin office twenty shilling
sterling—whioh yon may pay by Poet Office Order, One*
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony -you can
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you eeery week for
a year.
This offer Is not open to residents of Sydney. In that olty
The Bulletin Is not delirered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to Inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, APRIL 30, 1887.
Parkis and Foreign Criminals.
There is a certain amount of pleasure in
the discovery that the person whom for
years you had regarded as an uncompro-
mising opponent was really bent on com-
passing the very political ends for which you
were striving. It was through his adopting
different means for reaching the common
object that the mistake arose. But the dis-
covery is not without its lesson. It should
teach us at all events to be more careful in
estimating men’s motives, to examine with
increased attention the principles that guide
their conduct. It is in politics that this
vigilance is essential if we would avoid fall-
ing into grotesque errors and succeed in
tracing to their true sources the motives
that prompted the actions of public men.
There are alive at present two statesmen
the one European, the other Colonial, who
have met and triumphed over more than
their fair share of misrepresentation. Not
that this misrepresentation was owing to
the malignity of opponents. It was due to
the mistake of assuming that because a man
follows an unusual route in order to reach
an object he has no intention of reaching the
object at all. Theology affords a somewhat
similar example. All men, with the excep-
tion of a few eccentric persons, are desirous
of reaching heaven, but almost all expect to
do so by a little private pathway of their
own. It would be a grave error, however,
to conclude that because your neighbour
thought his road straight and yours circuit-
ous, he was not as anxious as you to wear a
crown of gold and blow a sonorous shawm.
The statesmen to whom we refer are
Prince Bismarck and Sir Henry Parkes.
Up to the Danish war of 1864 no one sup-
posed that Bismarck’s aim was the gathering
of the German people into one nation. It
was not until the dispute with Austria in
1860 and the subsequent falling-out with
France in 1870, that the breadth and object
of his policy became apparent. It was then
that some of his bitterest foes among his
countrymen—men who had risked their
lives and fortunes for the cause of German
unity in 1848—recognised that his object
and theirs were almost similar, while the
means of attaining them wore so widely
different. The dream of Barbarossa was
fulfilled, and Germany tvas welded into a
nation able to hold its own against all
comers. Let us now turn to Sir Henry
Parkes. The platform on which he plays
his part is, in the eyes of some obscure per-
sons, less elevated and roomy than that
occupied by the great Chancellor. Whether
it is so in the mind of the N. S. W. Premier him-
self is a point on which it would be unsafe to
give a decided opinion It is not so long
ago since he said he would sooner be Premier
of New South Wales than Napoleon. This,
however, might have been because Bona-
parte was dead. But the really important
fact is this : we, like many others, have
always held to the view that Australia’s true
destiny was complete independence—that in
the fulness of time this continent would be-
come a great Federal Republic after the
pattern of the United States, a Republic
taking no interest in the national or dynastic
broils of the old world ; a commonwealth
where no political privileges followed the
accident of birth. We, like others, believed
that Sir Henry Parkes’ ideal Australia was
of an entirely different kind ; that in his
eyes the links binding this continent with
the two petty islands in the North Atlantic
should become adamantine, and that through
all time the Australian fountain of honour
should be in the keeping of a German
family living beside the Thames. We have
been mistaken. It is now clear that Sir
Henry’s desire to “ cut the painter” is more
active than ours—that while we were content
to trust to the growth of population and of
the democratic spirit, he is bent on reaching
the goal by means shorter and more direct.
This opinion has been forced upon us
by a careful perusal of his lately-introduced
“ Foreign Criminals Bill.” In every sen-
tence this remarkablo measure bears the
trade mark of him who distinguished the
Statute Book of New South Wales from all
others of any age or land by placing or as-
sisting to place on it—for Parkes cannot
deny the allegation when it is put in that
way —the late “ Treason Felony ” Act. That
towards the end of the nineteenth century
a citizen of an Australian colony should be
liable to two years’ forced labour for keeping
his seat and smiling wh°n asked to drink
the health of a short, stout, middle-aged
woman, twelve thousand miles away, shows
how the sturdy spirit of British independ-
ence thrives in these southern lands. This,
however, was a political measure. But the
Foreign Criminals Bill is more of a social
one, its object being to preserve public
morality from the blighting contact of alien
vice. It may be safely said that the
foreigner who remains in New South Wales
on its becoming law, deserves to be a
criminal whether he is or not. The assump-
tion, therefore, that the measure is intended
by theN.S. W. Premier to be used as a lever for
the purpose of securing Australian independ-
ence, is quite legitimate. For, it is certain
that, if passed, a diplomatic note will quickly
find its way from Paris to London with a
polite request to know if the authorities of
St. James’s are prepared to take upohThem-
selves the onus of defending a law whereby
a French traveller, visitor or resident-, can be
seized without warrant by a constable igno-
rant of his language, brought before a ma-
gistrate equally ignorant, and sent to prison
until he can prove that he has not been a
convict. It is probable that the British
Government would disclaim all responsi-
bility. Here would be Sir Henry’s oppor-
tunity. He would at once say : “ What is
the use of having fa Parliament if its mea-
sures are liable to be vetoed ? Government
like this is representative in name only. We
shall set up housekeeping for ourselves, and
then whatever laws are deemed necessary
for the encouragement of virtue can be
passed without fear of rejection.” That
something like this is in Sir Henry’s mind
is obvious ; for it would be an insult to
imagine a statesman of his experience to be
so simple as to suppose that in presence of
such a law the English and French Cabinets
would remain silent and make no sign
Parkes will find that he can’t deal with
Johnny Crapaud as he has dealt with
Hung Fat.
# * *
Let us consider some of the people the bill
would affect. On the 2nd of December,
1851, a bastard was President of the French
Republic. His mother was Hortense, the
daughter of Josephine, and he was Louis
Napoleon Bonaparte On that December,
nearly 30 years ago, he strangled the Re-
public. His drunken soldiery were given a
few francs apiece, and they shot down un-
armed men, women, and children in the
public streets. The brightest and best
Frenchmen— Hugo, Thiers, Berryer,
Chanoarnier, and Lamoriciere, among
others—were seized, and either escorted
across the frontiers or sent to rot in the
swamps of Cayenne. Those who survived
and lived till 1870 lived to hear of their
country’s assusin sitting on a dung-hill out-
side Sedan to await his German conqueror.
But it is with the victims we have to deal.
The clause in Sir Henry Parkes’ Act,
“ The expression foreign criminal includes
every person who has been deported,
whether before or after the passing of this
Act from any foreign State for an offence
against the laws of that State to any place
being a possession or under the jurisdiction
of that State,” would neatly cover their
case. There is, no doubt, a concession
made in certain cases, but it is hard
to say which is the more insulting—the
concession or the law. For instance, a
political offender who has served his sen-
tence, or has been pardoned, may be granted
a dispensation under cortain conditions. Not
so if he escapes. He is then a foreign
criminal at large, although his crime may be
that of defending his country against a cut-
throat—say the cut-throats sent by New
South Wales to the Soudan. Again, but ten
dispensations can be granted in any one year,
so that the hundreds sent to New Caledonia
for resisting somo future bastard, even if all
had justice done them by a fresh shuffle of
tho p ''itical cards in Paris, but ten could
visit New South Wales and remain legally
free'! Should Sir Henry’s bill become law,
even the colony’s worst enemy would not be
justified in calling her an asylum for politi-
cal refugees.
Fancy the Americans giving up a Spanish
political offender that escapes from Cuba to
Florida, or the English arresting a rebellious
Pole just landed from Warsaw. Every
penal establishment in England is much
nearer to France, every one in France much
nearer to England, than New Caledonia to
Australia. But, so far, no move has been
made in eithor country to arrest visitors
from the other, and throw on them the duty
of proving their innocence. There is, how-
ever, another and more important side to
the question. It is this : Far more Austra-
lians visit France than Frenchmen Australia.
If French subjects then can be put to an-
noyance in New South Wales, a return
match can be played in Paris. If it would
be difficult for a subject of the Republic to
prove in Sydney that he has never been a
convict, ill-natured people might be found to
say that it would be quite as hard for an 1
Australian colonist in Marseilles to show
that he has never been a felon, and, more
difficult still, to prove that his father had not
been one. Thus, some of our most re-
spected citizens might not be quite safe once
they landed on the Calais pier, or crossed
the frontier from Italy. This is a really
serious matter, considering the approach of
the Paris Exhibition of 1889, when the
leaders of Australian ton will naturally de-
sire to make a show in the world of fashion.
Success, then, to the Pakke.s' Foreign
Crimina's Bid of 1887 ! If it hastens, as no
doubt it will, and as its gifted author in-
tended, the advent of the Australian Repub-
lic, no one will reja'ce more heartily than
The Bulletin— none more willingly recon-
siderthe views regarding the N.S.W. Premier
into which we fell through an entire misap-
prehension of his character
“The Gentlemen of England”
According to a representative of a Castle Maine
paper, Lord Sandhurst, when in Melbourne the
other day, oxp-eseed an agreeable and eminently
patrician surprise at the extraordinarily high bred
standard of morals and amenities attainod by colo-
nial legislators. We have been accustomed hitherto
to apologi-e for the persoralbrutalities and vinous
eccentricities of our colonial lawmakers, but Lord
Sandhurst’s implied severe condemnation of the
English Commons give* us Aus’ralians so pre-
eminent a place on the rooster-perch of fame that
wo feel the mantle of mentor depending from our
shoulders and a vain'y resisted inclination to ad-
minister a stinging rebuke to tha Parliamentary
larrikins who gyrate in the historic halls of our
distant and moss grown Fatherland.
But any testimony of Lord Sandhurst's, in re-
ference to the superiority of tone and behaviour
of Colonial Legislatures when compared with the
House of Commons, is not needed. Some few
years sinoe we were ourselves constant visitors to
the deliberative pow-wows of the English Lower
Chamber, and profited no little thereat. Picture
the gladiatorial combat in the blood-stained arena
of old Rome 1 High aloft sit the gilded puppets,
bedecked with the price of their slavery, basking
in the smiles of their sensual patrician pur-
chasers. Near by the papulous descendant of a
“noble" house, fat, proud, libidinous, reeking
with the fumes of the Falemian nectar, his flaccid
muscles swathed in the proud imperial purple
vesture, sacred alike to his pomp and toliis pimples.
Glassy-eyed, lecherous and cruel, hi 3 lungless
voice gathers an unwonted energy to join the
fiendish yell that hails the worsted combatant ;
his cold and scornful lip curves deeper with con-
tempt, and his nerveless hand deflects its thumb,
bereflt of mercy—companion signals to the
Dacian savage to complete his work of wrongful
slaughter 1
The British House of Commons at night in the
hour succeeding the fashionable dinner which the
beau monde dictates, is a mild form of a British
Colosseum. The world of great people throngs the
galleriee. The men radiate in evening-dress, rare
exotics bloom in their button-holes and shed a
subtle perfume on the heated air. Their womeD,
their proud anfl glittering lomans, sit enthroned
in bright but haughty beauty, breathing an at-
mosphere of frigid superciliousness and high bred
contempt, and showering down glance 3 full of
scorn for the plebeian herd below, tempered with
melting and seductive smiles for the special
champions of embastioned wrong. Ah! that
gorgeous patrician crew and their brutal,
highbred blastedness, their lordly insolence
and full-paraded sneers for simple manliness 1
Swollen with luxurious edacity, drunk with the
garnered vintages of flf y years, filled with the
Sybaritish omnipotence of the British “ nob,”
they endorse with wine-tainted cheers the Billings-
gate impertinences, the vulgar but privileged
libels of a titled cad of their own kidney. But let
a Radical, a Home-Ruler, a Labor Member, es-
say to Bpeak, and Dante's Hell were nothing to
it. Yells, shrieks, bootings, boc-hoos, cock crows,
all the verbal machinery of Pandemonium is put
under levy, and the man who has the temerity to
“ see it through ” is destined for a nobler fate
than ninety-nine hundredths of his fellow men—for
the English gentleman is facile princeps when he
essays the bully or the larrikin. He has no equal
under Heaven, and we shrewdly Buspect, no
superior in Hell. Whenever the English gentle-
man essays pre-eminence, he achieves it—even in
blackguardism. On the whole, we are inclined to
endorse Lord Sandhurst's statement. Our
plebeian confraternity can never—no, never—hope
to eclipse in low vulgarity and intensive brutality
the Gentlemen of England.
Parkes and Patronage.
Before Sir Henry Parkes got warm in his
official seat, he signalised his advent to power by
giving his immediate predecessor and political foe
one of the most important appointments then in
his gift. He has explained since that he did this
from motives of pure magnanimity. He accident-
ally learnt that Sir Patrick Jennings was
desirous of representing New South Wales at the
Imperial Conference, and hastened, like the
Christian gentleman he is, to sweeten the cup of
bitterness he had for months previously held full
for Sir Patrick with a cheap, yet decidedly
sumptuous excursion to Europe. Parkes’ ex-
planation, however, scarcely accounts for his fol-
lowing up this “ kindly ” action by scampering
all over the country, declaring Jennings to be
guilty of every form of political vice within the
concept of even such an old stager as the accuser
himself ; and uncharitable people will have it that
Jennings was sent to London as a delegate—
simply to get rid of him. If one-tenth of Parkes’
allegations against Jkxninos possessed an adum-
bration of truth, clearly the ex-Primr Minister
was wholly unfitted for the task entrusted to him
and so the current theory that Parkes was
actuated merely by sinister motives in shunting
his whilom adversary off the Ecsne of action at
Sydney is pretty conclusively established.
* • »
And it wonld re*m that the shunting pro-
gramme is baiDg followed out vigorously by
Parkes. A. G. Tavlor has been transmogrified
from a member of Parliament into an “ examiner
of patents ’’—not, obviously, because he knows
anything about patei.te, but because he knows
just a trifle too much about Parliamentary busi-
ness, and is a dexterous and scathing political
critic. This billeting of a politician on the conn-
try in the present circumstances of New South
Wales is absolnte’y indefensible. Parkes and
his colleagues are for ever preaching Retrench-
ment, and hosts of Civil servants have been and
are still being dismissed on the ground that it is
urgently necessary to curtail the public expendi-
ture. These Ministers have promised to consider
the Civil servants thus dismissed as having prior
claims on any vacancies that might occur. They
will no doubt plead that their promise is not
broken by Die appointment of Taylor as exa
miner of patents, inasmuch as the office is not one
vacated, but one newly-created. Yes. newly
created—expressly to be filled by A. G. Taylor I
An examiner of patents is no more wanted in New
South Wales than a First Lord of the Admiralty,
or a Groom of the Stole. Heretofore a clerk in
the Crown Law Offlca has performed all the work
that will fall upon Tatlor, and performed
numerous other duties besides, while the Attorney
(ienoral and Crown Solicitor have pocketed the
foes. These fees had to be given up to the Trea-
sury in response to an overwhelming public
opinion ; and the Treasury is using the money for
the effacement of a “dangerous" member of She
Assembly. A more transparent job was never
perpetrated in New South Wales, and that is
saying a great deal.
So far as Taylor is concerned, we, for our part,
don’t think he is to be blamed in the least. At
all events no moral stigma can fairly be attached
to his acceptance of this sinecure. Bis fault cpn-
sists mainly in being not over provided with
wealth, and, in a secondary degree, in being
lulled into unconsciousness of Parkes's little
game by the polite and insidious missives the
G.O.M. is such an adopt in writing. No doubt
the necessitous Taylor was persuaded that in
taking upon himself the oner >us functions of an
examiner of patents he was doing something
necessary for the salvation of the country ; and
probably the first inkling he had of the real
nature of the appointment was from the criti-
cisms passed in the Press and the Assembly. The
Press has certainly b«ca singularly unanimous in
viewing this business with disfavour. Even the
organ of Parkes himsslf declare? that “ Mr" 1
Taylor, in the prime of political manhood, has
ioen devoured by a Government billet ; ” and
adds: “ Everybody must regret that sad onding
to so promising a career ; still, better death than
dishonour.” The particular “ dishonour” escaped
by Taylor through his acceptance of the
oxaminership of patents, accordiog to the D.T.
consists in the possible alternative of “ living by
Parliamentary land-agency or ‘twenty-five pound-
ing.’” The fineness of the perception which de-
tects a distinction between jumping into a fat
sinecure and the carrying on of a land-agency, by
a member of Parliament—in the point of view of
honour, and to the disadvantage of the latter
means of gaining a livelihood—is too near the
superlative degres to be a ppreciated by ordinary
mortals. The case is plain : Parkes found a
predacious fish swimming among his trained carp,
and threw out a temptingly-baited hook, which
was swallowed ; and now the pike is killed
Parkes is free lds small fry into fresh
habits of obedience.
The perpetration of this piece of jobbery has a
teaching hard to ignore. If the members of the
New South Wales Assembly wero paid for their
tervices, in all probability the services of Taylor
'.vou’d still be given in the place where they were
unquestionably of value to the country. A man
cannot live on air, even if he be one of
'he corps legislate/. Men like Mudgee Taylor
are certain sooner or later to do one of two
things: either subordinate their independenee in
the House to Ministers, or accept place and pay
openly, and thus end their Parliamentary career.
Taylor would probably scorn to sink his inde-
pendence, yet this very inability to efface himself
would constantly operate towards compelling him
to adopt the scarcely less culpable alternative
course. Under the existing system in New South
Wales, clever, independent men, who are not rich,
can no more live in the Assembly than in the
Antarctic Ocean. And the worst feature of the
case is that clever, independent men, who are
rich, seem to be as extinct in the House as the
dodo. Hence the colony is given over to a set of
wealthy noodles, whose sole idea is to safeguard
'heir property and throw the burdens of taxation
on the producing classes, and fer the rest to place-
hunters and hirelings. lhe evil is only to be
cured in one way : Pay the representatives a fair
price for their services, and there will be no lack of
thorough representatives, and able. The absurdity
of expecting men (who hare no axes of their own to
grind) to devote nigh the whole of their time to
public business without proper remuneration is
unparalleled ; but it is fair to say the electors
of New South Wales do r not expect anything of
the sort The question of payment of members
has been decided in the affirmative over and over
again, so far as the great mass of the people have
had a voice in the matter ; but in Parliament the
question has been systematically burked by such
men as Parkes, whe naturally soent danger to
their interests in a project which aims, inter alia,
at putting a stop to such transactions as this
shelving of an “ unmanageable ” representative at
the expense of the cow-try.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Concerning Bishops.
In Melbourne just now the reigning epidemic is
Bishop on the brain. Some ten years ago they
had a similar visitation, when Dr. Moorhouse,
the great Grmco-Roman theological wrestler and
collar-and-elbow controversialist, chucked his
shovel-hat among the parsons and showed his in-
tellectual muscle. A bold, outspoken, gab gifted
gentleman wastheDoctor, andhe would call aspade
a spade, although he was never known to refer to
his hat as a shovel. There is always a lot of theatri-
cal mummery at the installation, or the enthrone-
ment—or the apotheosis, is it ?—of a fresh bishop.
Dr. Goe’s photograph, in six attitudes, graces the
centre pane of Bookseller Mullen's shop-window.
[N.B.—Cardinal Moran’S, in eight attitudes, is
shown just a little further down Collins-street for
the edification of the girls.] Fancy an attudin-
izing bishop—picture a follower of the Meek and
Lowly One posturing before a mirror in pious ex-
periments at looking lovely 1 What are the main
requirements in an Anglioan Bishop i He has to
content himself with one wife, and he is to be no
lover of money, eaith the Scripture. Bishops
have to comply with the monogamous restriction,
but country people are sometimes suspicious, and
a pastoral gentleman in the back-blocks once ex-
pressed his surprise that the Bishop of Boorigal
should be announocd fn the papers as continually
travelling about with a Mrs. Smith. It was
explained that the lady named was the one wife
to whioh his lordship was legally limited. The
back-blocks man looked fifty miles away and said
he saw it. As to the love-of-money question, The
Bulletin some months ago published an authentic
inventory of the various sums left by Kngllsh bishops
during the last 20 years, and the total amount was
enormous—many hundred thousand pounds.
There is one Archbishop in history who died as ho
ought to, “without money and without debts."
This was Fbnelon, and by historic research he
stands alone. There was at Goe's installation a
twelve-and-sixpcnny luncheon, and each reverend
luncher oould for that amount have obtained a
hearty meal for a dozen hungry families. Church
and State—how these twin oormorants devour
their meals I Mark the “ divines," especially the
gentlemen in corded hats. What human feeing is
divine t Take note of his Lordship He won’t eat
his apron, because, as Sydney Smith said, it
always goes against his stomach, but he will man-
age to sample almost everything else. In France,
the bishop at chess is called a fou. not because he
wears a hat with a split in it, which looks foolish,
bHt because a fool was an appanage of Court, and
stood at the elbows of royalty. However, it was
better to re-ohriston him a bishop and no fool.
Edmond About, in “La Question Ilomaine,” spetflis
with delightful irony of the Princes of the Church
garbed in purple and rolling in luxury—just like
tho Apostles of old. The poor fishermen and tent-
makers who founded the Apostolic idea broiled a
fish on the sea shore and ate it thankfully, instead
of regaling on creamy salads and delicate wines to
the soft whispering of choral music. Imagine
how acceptable it must hare been to the Almighty
Creator of suns and systems to hear a “service”
performed in D flat minor, or ary thing else, or
seme words of grace and thankfulness chanted in
so many sharps !
Lord Aberdeen and the S. M Herald
TnE reception given in Sydney to the Earl of
Aberdeen; upon Saturday week last is chronicled
in the S. il. Herald in the usual half-hearted
style adopted by that journal when dealing with
any subject which has two sides to it. By this
we do not wish to infer that there were two sides
to the reception nor to his lordship, but there cer-
tainly are two sides to the Irish question, viz.,
the right and the wrong. Both of these our
elderly contemporary would like to take if she
dared ; neither of them being an absolute accom-
plished “ certainty,” she tries to occupy the same
sort of amphibious—between-wind-and-water-
position with regard to the great question as she
doe 3 in even describing the surroundings of the de-
monstration. In a sub-leader she declares that
■“ the reception . . . was oertainly not less
enthusiastic than that which greeted him in the
other colonies.” The Herald cannot make a plain
statement upon tho simplest matter without
■drawing back. “ Not less enthusiastic.! ” Why
could it not have said “ as enthusiastic "—that is,
if it were so. The expression is made indefinite
to please one section, and is then endeavoured to
be made positive and deeided by adding the
■qualification “ certainly,” so as not to displease
■the other section ; it, however, only renders the
sentence the more ridiculous. “ Three-fourths of
the Australians of Irish birth favour the Home
Rule movement ’’—and so do three-fourths of all
thoroughbred Australians to whom the movement
has been impartially explained. But such Jingo
journals as these under which these colonies suffer
have endeavoured to keep Young Australia in the
dark with regard to every movement which would
have the effect of giving to man more of those
just liberties which are his by right divine.
“ Lord Aberdeen . . . comes as a represen-
tative of a Government which has lost power in
consequence of its having surrendered to the Irish de-
mand, and he received his ovat ion in consequence."
Here we have a refreshingly straight semtence,
and it happens to be perfectly untrue in every
particular. Firstly, neither AiiERrnWN ner anyone
else can represent anything which does not exist;
second, the Earl did net oome out in the capacity
stated ; and thirdly, “ his ovation ” was not “ in
cousequenoe ” thereof Mr. Toohey, M.L.A.,
was bred a brewer, and no doubt, he ©ould not
help it; Aberdeen was born a Lord, and he eer-
tainly oould not hedp it either; but notwithstanding
Hie disadvantage, he is “ a man for all t hat; ” and it
was because of his being this latter that he received
the ovation. The Herald thee proceeds to make the
too unnecessary remark that " He himself would
not pretend that he is abler or more humane or
more penetrated with the spirit of liberty than
the Viceroys who have preceded him." Cer-
tainly not, this genuine man would not “ pretend”
it, but it is as certain that he is so as that “he is
not the first person by several who, having been
sent to Ireland to assist in its government, has
come over to the conviction that Home Rule . ,
is imfvfeible.” Aft* i*elurtbhtly making this ad-
mission the Herald goes on to show how
much more she knows about the question than
the “ several ” as quoted, by declaring that “ Ire-
land could be made a peaceable country if all its
liberty were withdrawn." After that sentence do
your readers wish to hear any more ?
Where is Stanley ?
William Stanley, the soi-disant heroic defender
of Miss Mary Jane Hicks, is still missing, and
the Sydney Evening News darkly bints that his
mangled corse is lying about somew here awaitiDg
the general resurrection. His name has become
awkwardly connected with a forge d cheque, which
might furnish any ordinary man with adequate
reason for being absent; a warrant, too, is out for
his arrest, and his position with regard to the police
is, prima-facic, simply that of a hunted thief, but
the News declines to accept the theory that the
hero of the unclean romance so peculiarly its
own has tied to avoid the customary fate of men
who make free with other people's property. Yet
Stanley’s career, so far as it is known to the
public, has been fiaught with suspicion. He was
a dead beat of no particular character, and his
eagerly-swallowed sensational story about his
adventure at Mount Rennie gained him free
board and lodging at the hands of the police
department, and elevated him into the position of
a hero. In his new quarters, according to the
statements of ledgers therein, portable property
began to make itself suddenly scarce, which it
apparently did not do either before his advent or
after hia departure. Next, Stanley himself dis-
appeared, and when, in course of time, he returned,
he accounted for his absence by asserting that
some active malefactor had taken him, he oould
not tell how, to Newcastle ; had confined him, he
did not know where, and had endeavoured to ship
him to some unspecified place in a vessel
the name of which he did not take the
trouble to learn. Having escaped this fate
he returned to Sydney, whetlu r in a skiff■
or on a bicycle was not stated. This romance
would form a good basis for a tale of the
“ Haunted Mud-Cart’’ description, but as, in real
life, the authors of such narratives are apt to be
regarded as liars, very little was said about it
during the progress of the so-called trial Stan-
ley’s evidence was taken bona-fide , no doubt,
just as tha f of any o:h r witness might le
taken, and four boys were hanged meiily
on the strength of it. Anyhow, they could
not possibly have been hanged without it. One of
the witnesses afterwards hinted in a letter to Go-
vernor Carington that he had been urged to swear
straight ahead with a view to a reward, but fortu-
nately for hia character, the kidnapped and chloro-
formed escapee from Newcastle seems not to have
hadashareinthisbusiness. Lastly, the heroic Stan-
ley has, as we have said, disappeared, and an
unconsidered trifle in the shape of a forged cheque
for £25, drawn on Mayor Riley’s firm, is waiting
to be explained, and public opinion now inclines
to the belief that if the hero of Mount Rennie is
guilty of the crime laid to his charge, he is equally
capable of concocting false evidence and sending
four boys to the gallows for the sake of a prospec-
tive bribe in the shape of a public testimonial;
white if he is not guilty, people would like to know-
why he has so suddenly run away, leaving behind
him over £IOO of the testimonial-money subscribed
by a pack of drivelling dotards, hysterical old
women, and advertising mummers. Mary Jane
Hicks, the heroine of the drama, was a fitting
match for this conspicuously absent hero in the
present damaged state of his reputation. When
she was placed in the cha'ge of a married
police-officer in Sydney, that unlucky official
after a few days' experience of her, waited
on the Inspector-General of Police and prayed
him “ for heaven’s sake ” to take her away
from his house on account of her immoral
tendencies; and according to an extensively cir-
culated statement in the New Zealand press she
has since been committed, not, as was first said,
to a convent, but to a reformatory in that colony
as an incorrigibly vicious character. The young
lady is now probably detailing to her friends how
in New South Wales, she once made certain
dunderheaded people in high authority her un-
witting accomplices in an act of j udici ■ 1 murder.
Apropos, the following item from a recent issue
of the Sydney D.T. is amusing, though not (to us)
instructive :
“ The Mayor then propofed the health of his Excellency,
Lord Carington, aDd in doing so spoke of the interest his
Lordship took in sports, his sympathy with suffering, aDd,
when stern duty demanded, his promptness in upholding the
majesty and dignity of the law.”
When the woman whose “virtue” four boys
were hanged to protect has been abandoned even
by the police and turned over to the penal
authorities, when her chief witness has disap-
peared under circumstances that point to him as a
common criminal less worthy of credence even
than those whose lives he swore away, when
another witness has dcoiared that attempts were
made—whether successfully or not no one can tell
—to buy his evidenoe against the prisoners, there
still remains in Sydney a man who will compli-
ment the Governor on his oonduct in refusing a
reprieve to the victims of this choice combination,
and a lord who will aceept that compliment as
something to he proud of. The latter, in declar-
ing that “ he always felt at home in Sydney
Town-hall ’’—the home of pig-butchers, grog, and
grovel—has opened one of the windows of his
little soul. Mayor Riley, who took a foremost
part in promoting the testimonial to Stanley,
whom, according to an uncontradicted report in
the papers, he alleged to be “ worthy of the Vic-
toria Cross,” is to be congratulated on the adroit-
ness with which he now scores one for himself
under the guise of a compliment to His Kxoel-
leney Lord Carington, In conclusion, we may
rsmark that no one can accuse The Bulletin of
being wise only after the event. As everyone
knows, we suspected the affair “ from the very
jump.”
R< nts and Chinamen.
Dear Bulletin, —About 35 Chinamen have ar-
rived in New Zealand from Sydney under engage-
ment to work in a ooabmine on the We3t Coast.
This is the boginning of fresh trouble to the
already impoverished working classes of Maori-
land. The Chinese have now completely driven
the Eurepean market-gardeners out of that branch
of industry. At rearing cabbages and other vege-
tables no white man can compete with them.
They have been known to pay as much as £2O
per acre yearly rent for land near Wellington, and
rents of £lO an acre and upwards are quite
common This suits the owners of the soil re-
markably well—for a time. They get big rents
for their lands and do not care one brass farthing
how many of their fellow-countrymen starve so
long as they can add to their own ill-gotten gains. :
I say ill-gotten advisedly, for the Chinamen who
work in these gardens are to all intents and pur-
poses slaves, and the produce they force out of
the soil by their horrible process of over-manuring
is fraught with death and disease to the people
who innocently use it. I never pass a Chinaman’B
garden, or the place he lives in, on a calm night
without having to hold my nose and my breath as
long as I can to keep the infernal stench from
penetrating my system. Yet the working classes
who are injured in health and purse by this com-
petition stupidly continue to buy large quantities
of vegetables from Chinese hawkers merely be-
cause they are cheap, without thinking how nasty
and unwholesole such garbage must be Similarly,
Chinese dealers have now almost entirely mono
polised the sale of fruit, groceries, and vegetables
in small shops and stores in Wellington. Only
three years ago in one of the leading streets
of the city there we-e no Chinese shops,
and owners of properties refused time after
time to let them to Chinamen. The rents,
however, were raised, because the wily
heathens offered higher rates than those
tbefl current, and gradually the poorer classes of
white tradesmen were starved out, and their
places taken by Chtnamer, who alone-as they do
not work under the conditions by which the
European is environed—could make them pay at
the exorbitant rents required, and now this par-
ticular locality (Manners street) is full of Chinese
shops, and the same process is going on all over
the city. The Chinese will soon have it all their
own way, and the number of Europeans out of
employment go c s on increasing every week. The
coal miners on the West Coast have been holding
out for the last few years against the reduction of
wages, and now the owners of the mines have
imported a job-lot of foreign slaves. Unless
something is done-and done quickly—to prevent
it, the coal miner’s occupation is gone. If things
go on a 3 at present for a few years the upshot will
be that the white population will have to rise up
in self defence and drive the yellow-skins into the
sea.—Yours truly, N.Z. Democrat. —Wellington,
N.Z., April 7th, 1887.
A Venerable Lie.
Age makes a lot of foolishness sound like wisdom,
and a lot of ugliness pass for beauty. A lie, if it
is repeated often enough, will one day gain cur-
rency as an eternal truth. A lie of this family is
the nonsense talked of Sunday being a day of rest.
The very fact th-t a day of rest is needed in
countries regulated on Ihe good old Christian
plan condemps Christian civilisation. That we
are so hardly and brutally worked for six days
that wc require a seventh to recover our vim a» d
our enthusiasm is an outrago on humanity. Men
work 48, 54, GO, and 72 houra a week, when they
should work only 28 hours a week. And the
whole matter lies in a nutshell. The workman
never reaps any advantage from the invention of
labour-saving machinery. The work done by a
hundred men working ten hours a day for six
days can be done by a labour saving machine and
25 men working ten hours a day for six days.
The hours of labour are not diminished
75 per cent., but the number of hands
employed arc. If men reaped the full ad-
vantage of labour saving machines, if all
men worked ia accordance with their parti-
cular capabilities, if wealth were more justly dis-
tributed. we should each work four hours per day.
or thereabouts : equivalent to 28 hours for seven
days, end no Sabbath wou’d be needed. We
work three times as much as we should do,
Nature is outraged, and the Sabbath is a neces-
sity. But the miserable respite afforded is all
insufficient notwithstanding the laudation be-
stowed upon it. We do not require to conserve
the Sawbath. Begin at the other end- readjust
the distribution of wealth, make the system of
co-operation universal, compel wealthy idlers, the
non-produceis, to w’ork according to tbeir capa-
bilities, give to labour the advantages derived
from labour-saving machines, and our modern
Sabbath becomes a glaring absurdity. Continue
the present system of muddle, and the over-
worked will require three Sundays a week if they
are to receive any adequate and natural rest for
the total amount of their labours.
“ The Beauteous Terrorist.”
Here is an aspect of the future “ ensuffraged ’’
female from which we recoil in anticipatory
horror. The position of woman—benighted or
enlightened—is rarely that of a propagandist of
Reform. If wealthy, h'gh-plsced, and cultured,
she is a hot and strong Tory, anxious to conserve
all her rights and privileges. If poor, low-born,
and ignorant, she has an abject reverence for the
lot the opposite of her own. There is no high-
flyer like your wealthy feminipe vulgarian, and
no one so intensely conservative against the class
from which she sprang. We may, therefore,
assume that all women are Tories. Of course
there are exceptions, but exceptions “ only prove
the rule,’’ and we are not now speaking of petti-
coated or unsexed males—we are dealing ex-
clusively with genuine women , the women who
marry and become mothers. Objectors may
spring a mine here and anticipate us by saying
that women—real women—do not desire any
political rights. We do not believe they
do, but give them political rights, and the
innate feminine vanity will do the rest.
And if women were inclined to be quiescent
in the matter, the haw baw dandy, or tea-and-
muffin politician of the opposite sex would imme-
diately inflame the political germs in the female
mind. We can easily prove this by a reference to
the history of different religious denominations.
Among the Mahometans the women are supposed
to have no souls, and, assuming the belief to be
well-founded, the sweet creatures demand none.
In Jewish congregations woman ta'' es no part in
public worship, and we never hear of her de-
manding a scot and lot interest in Naboth’s vine-
yard. But, in certain dissenting sects, woman
takes a very prominent place, and cuts a very
conspicuous figure Next to the Rev. Stiggins,
Sister PiCKWfCK and her consceurs were the lead-
ing lights of the Pump-handle church. In Method-
ist bodies the women run the show They pray
in public like men, and at the annual festive cele-
bration prey in public like parsons Turning to tbe
hell-fire and bass drum mov* ment which owed its
evolution to the brain of Chieffire-director Booth.
wefinditmost successfully “bossed " and managed
by the lady “capting” or “lootenint.” So we can
safely assume that if women held political rights
they would, being women, exercise them “ right
up to the knocker,” and, being women, exercise
them in the interests of Conservatism, Imagine
the saccharine joy of the household in which the
masculine creature held Liberal views, and the
feminine angel advanced Tory notions of a very
pronounoed brand. That unfortunate man would
probably be poisoned, or slaughtered by a Tory-
impelled saucer, or a Conservative flat-iron aimed
at his progressive sconce. Or his partner in life,
not his partner in politics, would “clear” from
her legal mate and entrench herself in her Tory
mamma’s home, refusing to surrender and re f urn
to the family joy-bin unless he pledge kis
vote and interest to the Cause of the Primrose
League. And the curtain-lectures, oh 1 the cur-
tain-lectures, pitched in a Parliamentary key.
Ach Qott! our brain reels from the hideous pros-
pect !! But verb, sap ., in view of Parkes’ future
“ ensuffragement ” of women, Jawbone Neild
should tack a clause to his Divorce Amendment
Bill in the interest of down-trodden and super-
seded man, providing for a severence of the
hymeneal chain in the event of political incom-
patibility in the views of husband and wife.
and Sons-in-Law.
New South Wales is not the only colony in which
an honest and capable commission on law-reform
could find ample work. In tact, we very much
query whether it would not be advisable for the
home authorities to deal contemporaneously with
the judicial abuses obtaining in the United King-
dom. The relationship trouble is one calling
loudly for attention. There are very few fathers
capable of the part of Brutus, or of Lynch, the
Mayor ot Galway. We have yet in our recollec-
tion the Adams v. Coleridge scandal, in which
the verdict of the jury was reversed by the pre-
siding Judge in the hope of pleasing Lord Chief
Justice Coleridge, who happened to hold the re-
lationship of father to the defendant. Of course,
we are perfectly aware that one has not to cross
the ocean for examples. Almost every colony of
the Australasian group will afford dozens such.
Here in these colonies the privileged guild bar the
way to the superior courts, and exact tribute from
every unfortunate who from choice or necessity
appeals to the decision of the big sachems of the
ermined caste. Case? are decided in and by
families, and the amount to be extracted from
those who have recourse to law, and their capa-
city for bleeding, is no doubt cheerfully discussed
by bald-headed sires and callow-faced sons over
Wie festive tea board. Lawyers hunt in clans, and
what the sucker dots not know the old hand puts
him up to. Father and son, uncle and nephew,
and cousins to the tenth degree, divide the spoil.
Fees are so exorbitant that if a man be wise he
will submit to wrong quietly, and leave well —or
law—alone. The fiction of legal justice is a little
farce played by the lawyers for their own benefit,
or for the benefit of those who have purses long
enough to pur*, base a satisfactory denouement to
the play. Law is one of the institutions by which
the rich tyrannise over the poor. The justice of
the case is often quite a tertiary consideration —if
the pockets are empty And lawyers work the
public the more effectually as they always hunt in
packs: the judicial freebooters are members of a
clan or family. The .Judge sits on the Bench,
Mr. Justice Facias : his youngest son conducts
the caee upon which he adjudicates, Mr.
Capias Facias, barristcr-at law; and the last-
mentioaed gentleman is injtruc ed by his
first cousin, Mr. LevaNdi Facias, solicitor.
And, strange to say, the young fellows manage to
carry off hundreds of cases in Papa Facias’s
court. It is quite surprising!! Peradventure
they are much sharper than most other legal
suckers, and it may t e in a position to pick only
the fat, luscious cases, well basted with the adi-
pose lining of money bags. Perhaps it is all light,
doncherknow, but then people will talk. Of
course the lawyers who are out in the cold, and
who cannot contrive to get into the swim, are
most righteously indignant— but their indignation
is seldom fa f al to their success. It withers when
they, too, partake of the feast—and that is when
the young Factases have their hands full. The
press is aJso discreetly quiet. No editor knows
when he may have a libel suit on hand, and
“perheps it is just as w r ell to keep quiet about
what you cs n’t help/’ &c. In some countries, miser-
ably benighted no doubt, no eon is allowed in the
government office in which his father already has
a position. This may be a mistake, but it seems
to us to have its advantages. In course of time,
and as the Facias family increases, we expect to
see Michael Facias, court-crier, George Mont-
morenci Facias, clerk of the court, Barnacle
Facias, judge’s associate, and the entire legal
officialdom rej icing in a common surname.
The Bulli Inquiry.
The New South Wales Minister of Mines has re-
fused to appoint any working-miners on the Com-
mission of Inquiry into the causes of the Bulli
catastrophe - on the ground that the problems to
be solved in no way affect class relations or class
interests. It is a great mistake, as a Lord Chan-
cellor once declared, to give “reasons” for a
jadgrrent ; and Abigail, of course, failed here.
The “reasons” he gave for not putting working
miners on tbe Board are suggestive of an urgent
necessity for the pierence of working miners on
.that tribuna'. There is obviously an enormous
class quest : on involved in the subject matter of
th 5 s inquiry. The question to be decided is as to
whether the management of the Bulli colliery was
at fault. If it was, then clearly the proprietors
of the mine ought to be made to compen-
sate the widows and children of the unfortunate
victims of the sxplos'on. If the Commiseion is
composed entirely of colliery managers, the result
may be forecasted with ease. Cla£s bias will and
mutt undoubtedly influence the dependents upon
colliery-owners to free, if possible, the manage-
ment f om blame. Abigail should see this, though
he is not skilled in the science of reasoning, and
can’t write a letter without six capitals to the line-
The decision come to i 3 really one that ought to
be indignantly contested by the country, for the
whole country assuredly should concern itself
with the protection of the livfs of coalnrners, out
of whose labour in the bowels cf the earth such a
large proportion of the country’s wealth is de-
rived. It is a well-established fact that these
explosions, in nine cases out of ten, occur as a
direct and certain consequence upon penurious
management. To save a few pounds a
year, r.’sfes cf the most appalling character
are Incurred; and tho main business of
the Bulli Commission is to ascertain whether
or no the cause of the recent calamity lay in this
criminal desire to make money. The working
miners assuredly ought to be represented on the
Commission, unless their interests are to be
studiously ignored. That many of these working
miners know more about explosions than the kid-
gloved “ experts’ in whom so much faith is re-
posed, is abundantly proved by the fact that only
a working miner has been able to yield a reason-
able explanation of the two reports and emissions
of fiery blasts from the Bulli mine, and the great
fall of roof in a part of the mine far distant from
the seat of the mischief. The well paid Examiner
of Coalmines could on’y account for the pheno-
mena on the theory that gun powder or dyna-
mite had caused what he considered must be
called a second explosion. The coroner’s jury
laughed at Mr. Mackenzie : yet it ii out of men of
Mr. Mackenzie’s acumen and experience and
predilections that Abigail is go’ng to manufac-
ture a'Board of Inquiry ! Surely- the Assembly
will have something to say about such an iniqui-
tous scheme for freeing the inspecting officials
and the coll’ery proprietors from all responsibility
in respect of an unparalleled catastrophe.
+
Thus a well-informed Melbourne correspon-
dent: —In the general dearth of political ex-
citement, Mr. Deakin’s refusal to accept the
dubious honour of a knighthood has supplied


Victorian quidnuncs with much welcome material
for gossip. The two leading Melbourne papers
have, of course, taken opposite sides in discussing
the reasons which led to the Chief Secretary’s
declining the star and ribbon of the most honor-
able Order of St. Michael and St. George ; and
equally, of course, they have both arrived at a
hopelessly erroneous conclusion. The Argus
suggests, with characteristic delicacy, that the
income which supports plain Mr. Deaktn is too
slender to bear the strain of the added dignity;
while the Age remarks, with paternal fondness,
that the Hon. Alfred is a true chip of the old
block in spurning an offer which he could not have
accepted without violating the democratic princi-
ples instilled into him by his political godfathers,
Mr. David Syme and Professor Pearson. To those
accustomed to read between the lines, it will be
apparent that there was another reason, which
formed a far more important factor in Mr.
Deakin’s decision than either of these. Nomin-
ally—we use the word advisedly—the hon. gentle-
man is a democratic Liberal, it is true ; but he
would be worse than ungrateful to forget that he
owes his political promotion to two Conservatives.
It was Mr. Service who first made him a Minister
of the Crown, and when the present hybrid
Government was reconstructed, Mr. Gillies made
him his Chief Secretary. Now-, as the presentar.d
late Premiers, for very good and sufficient reasons,
have never been offered knigh hood, it would
accentuate in a very marked manner the coolness
with w hich they have been treated by the Imperial
authorities if their protege had been pitchforked
over their heads, so to speak, into a position as
unattainable by them as were the proverbial
grapes by the proverbial fox. Doubtless this
consideration was impressed upon Mr. Deakin by
the “ friends ” whom he is said to have consulted,
and, like the prudent young man he is, he took
their advice.
The New South Wales Government got them-
selves into a difficulty over the unemployed, and
they got out of it in the customary way—by
“ shuffle and shunt.” Despite all the talk by un-
sympathetic money-bags about " drunken, lazy
loafers, who ask for work and pmy that they may
not get it,” and the fact that 2500 men are already
employed on relief works, the Government found
themselves confronted with the fact that there
were thousands of people in a state of absolute
destitution. A happy thought struck Parkes !
The Government might relieve themselves of the
incubus, and at the same lime give the suburban
municipalities the benefit of a large supply of
cheap labour! A circular was sent to each
Council, s'ating that they could have as many
labourers as they pleased at half-a croru'n a day,
the Government offering another half a-crown
and tools ! This action, which would have had
the effect of reducing wages to five shillincs a
day. called forth such an outburst of indignation
that Parkfs had to shuffle out of it, and the moat
convenient course was to say that in an excels of
zeal the officer w ho wrote the circular exceeded
instructions, and had no authority to stipulate
as he did, that the rate of pay should not be
more than ss. a day. That is the version by
Parkes : the version by Officer Peering is con-
veniently suppressed by Civil Service regulations.
Very likely, isn’t it, that any old and experienced
official would make such a specific offer without
fixed instructions !
When we remember how the Eight Hours’ move-
ment was brought to a successful issue in the
teeth of Tory opposition, it is surprising to
note a growing tendency to grovi in the
management of the big annual demonstrations.
In Melbourne, for instance, the patronage of H.E.
the Governor is respectfully solicited, and his
presence at a Treasury window is the successive
signal for cheers and discordant renderings of
“ God Save the Queen ” by the trades’ bands.
This is as it should not be. In the name of all
that’s honest, what excuse can the Eight Hours'
processionists find for demonstrating over a
Governor, or blowing “ God Save the Queen,” on
such an occasion ? His Excellency is natural
head of a “sassiety ” which would gladly extend
the working hours of the working man—of a
moneyocracy which dreams of cheap labour and a
return to the “good old state of things." The
National Anthem is borrowed from a country
where capital reigns supreme and the eight hours’
system is a thing unknown. Such a system is re-
garded by the Queen’s confidential friends and ad-
visers as one of the “ knavish tricks” which they
ask the Almighty to frustrate. How, then, can
an emancipated Australian workman profess to
regard La dame aux Jubilee as the one individual
on whom his hopes are fixed ? Loch can so regard
her, and he only played his part last Thursday,
when he removed his bell-topper as the bandsmen
beat and blew. But there is nothing in common
between Loch and trades-societies. The fact that
His Excellency is now made a leading feature of
these Bhows proves that a spirit of toadyism is
demoralising the wire-pullers. “God Save the
Queen ” and the Governor have robbed “ Eight
Hours’ ” processions of the healthy significance
they originally possessed.
When Hudson Brothers, of New South Wales, de-
cided to form their manufacturing business into a
company, there was such a rush for shares that
the company might have been formed three times
over. The Hudson's guaranteed 10 per cent,
dividend for three years, and it is sa : d that no
small part of last year’s dividend was paid out
of their own pockets. Last week the directors
made a call of 2s. 6d. per share. The shares are,
as we write, quoted at sixpence —which shows
what may happen in a Freetrade colony to its
biggest manufacturing concern, started as a
limited company in £1 shares, 12s. 6d. paid-up.
Perhaps the youthful president of the New South
Wales Freetrade League will cite this as a glorious
example of a local industry flourishing under the
unassailable policy of Freetrade 1 As a matter of
fact, the only reliable dividend-paying companies
in New South Wales just now—leaving out the
banks—are the coal-companies, whose chief cus-
tomers, apait from the New South Wales and the
Victorian Governments, are the manufacturers of
Victoria. The success of these companies is attri-
butable in a large measure to the genuine free-
trade of P otectionist Victoria, which admits,
duty free, all raw material that it cannot produce
itseif. Freetrade New South Wales reverses the
conditions by taxing the raw material and admit-
ting the manufactured article free.
Mu. Fr etcher's motion “that, with a view to
relieve the dialrcrs among the ironworkers, the
Government should call for tenders for the manu-
facture of 100 locomotive engines in the colony,”
was agieed to in the New Souih Wales Assembly
last week The Government supported it, not
withstanding that they stated in their budget
speech that their policy was to destroy every
vestige of Protection. Their reason, however, for
supportiqg the motion is too transparent not to be
seen through. It’s a cheap thing to express
sympathy in words. If the ironworkers think
that any practioal good will result from the
motion they will soon find that they have been
deceived. Of course the Government will call for
tenders, but the motion does not bind them to
accept one. Tenders were opened last week for
the supply of iO engines, and it is understood that
the contract is to be given to an English firm, the
colonial tenders being too high. It does not seem
to dawn on the mind of the ultra-Freetrader that
the preliminary expenses for machinery to enable
a local manufacturer to complete such a big order
would be very heavy—perhaps more than the
difference between the amount of his tender and
that of an established manufacturer elsewhere —
and that he would be in a position to tender for
future contracts at a price minus the first cost of
machinery.
Attorney-General Foster (N.S.W.) said a few
weeks ago that the Attorney-General and the
Crown Solicitor were entitled to the fees which
they received from applicants for patents, not-
withstanding that they did the work in'office-
hours. He also said that if they were deprived of
the fees they would not do the work. Events
have demonstrated the truth of the latter state-
ment. The Government decided to cancel the
minute under which the highly-paid officials
“ tnavelled ” the fees, and, at the same meeting,
appointed an Examiner of Patents at a salary, it
is said, of £6OO a year. The natural question—
if the Attorney-General and the Crown Solicitor
have been able to do the work within office-hours
hitherto, why should they not be compelled to do
it in future without drawing the fees ? —does not
seem to have suggested itself to the honest
patriots of the Government of Retrenchment.
Melbourne Jubilee illuminations, on a scale of
surpassing splendour, have been arranged for the
night of June 2lst. The old Treasury Buildings,
Parliament Houses, the Custom House, and the
Law Courts are to be flreworked all over in
honour of the glorious fact that one lady has kept
a firm grip on one sceptre for 50 consecutive
years. As a spontaneous exhibition of ‘ ‘ loyalty ”
these illuminations will be very touching, because
the Government has voted £ISOO to Messrs. Brock
and Co. for the job. Even Government-house is to
be adorned with a setpiece at public expense. All
this is quite en regie. The sturdy Republican and
the snivelling snob will be provided with equal op-
portunities for expressing their devotion to the
throne, whether they would like to lick that use-
ful arrangement in crimson and gold, or prefer to
make a b rnfire of it. That “public rejoicings”
throughout Australia will be worked in this same
way goes without saying. In our br arding-school
days the Principal docked each boy of a week’s
pocket-money in order that we might all willingly
c jntribute a trifle for the p ior heathen. Now that
we are old and weary the poor Queen is getting
the compulsory mite, and the heathen have to rub
along without our muru- money.
The London Standard, an oracle of Coercion
and Conservatism, in its description of the
recent “ Battle of Youghal,” says : " People sang
‘ God save Ireland,’ and stones were thrown.
Th e police then charged with fixed bayonets,
driving the crowd before ; but they rallied, and
were addressed by some Nationalists. The police
again charged them .... Portions of broken
bayonets were picked up ‘ off the field,’ from
which the constabulary retired discomfited.”
“ It is Abu Klea over again—corkscrew bayonets
and all the rest of it," remarks a Radi-
cal journal. “ Ireland cannot be coerced by
bayonets that break.” We should think it could
not. And, by-the-way, the cutlasses which were
in use on two of the ships on the Australian sta-
tion broke like uncooked maccaroni when put to
the test on their return to England the other day ;
so when the time comes for coercion in New
Guinea the naked savage with his wooden spear
should have quite a large say in the matter. As
for the Russians, should they ever call at Sydney
or Melbourne they will probably have tobe fought
with bricks.
It is not so very long since a d istinguished Eng-
lish lawyer, full of the cynicism begotten of ex-
perience, declared that “ nine out of ten of the
charges brought by women against men had no
foundation in fact.” At St. Leonaids, Sydney,
last week, Mrs. Emily Wallace brought a man
up for alleged criminal assault. She based her
claims to respectability and credibility on the
assertion that she had been married, she didn’t
exactly know when, in a church which she had
forgotten, situate in a street that she never knew
the name of. She couldn't remember the minister,
there were no witnesses, and she had lost the cer-
tificate, but she recollected her own name which,
supplied just one fact in an ocean of slippery
theory. Her husband, whose memory was also
like the seat of a cane-bottomed chair, remem-
bered nothing at all except that a friend had told
him to go to a certain church which he pointed
out. The friend had then presumably uttered a
sardonic laugh, and made off in a north-easterly
direction, and had never been seen again ; at all
events, he did not come forward to supply infor-
mation about the place of worship. The magis-
trate looked at these facts all round, and then
concluded that he couldn’t hang or flog anybody
on the evidence of two such memories, so the
prisoner—who, as he lives in New South Wales,
must consider himself exceptionally lucky—was
discharged.
With all [his vituperative denunciation cf the
“worm-eaten theory of Protection,’ Parkes is
demonstrably a believer at bottom in that theory,
though his Freetrade supporters have not the
nous to see it. The theory of Protection is per-
fectly simple and comprehensible, even in these
days—after Parkes, the Sydney D.T., Wise,
M'Million, and all the Manchester-goods huck-
sterers have poured their ignorance upon it. The
object of Protection is to promote the employ-
ment at remunerative wages of the country’s
own people. Blood is thinker than water, and no
man with a spark of human instinct in his breast
can bring himself to refuse employment to the
men and women who immediately surround him,
and who have claims on his sympathy by
reason of fellow-citizenship and blood-ties,
on the wretched Freetrade plea that it
is most profitable to buy in the cheapest
market. The manner in which Parkes treated
Mr. Fletcher’s motion last week respecting the
manufacture of locomotives in New South Wales
showed him tote a Pro ectionist right down to
the ground, so long as the interests of his friends the
soft-goods importers were notinjuriously affected.
He accepted the proposal with li tie or no hesita-
tion, and thus committed himself to the principle
of Protection pure and unadulterated. A hundred
engines may now—the so-called N.S W. Freetrade
part y have de dared—be manufactui ed in the colony
for the Government, regardless of the difference in
cost between the colonial and the foreign
machine. .And if the granting of this mea-
sure of protection to iron workers is defensible,
measures of a like kind cannot reason-
ably be withheld from the numerous other
industries languishing, like the ironworkers', in
consequence of unrestricted foreign competition.
There is really no justification whatever for
singling out the particular branch of industry in
question and making it the recipient of a fat
bounty at the expense of the country at large. It
is Protection, but it is Protection in the worst
form, inasmuch as It gives an undue preference
to one manufacture, and thus fails to effect that
which is admitted by Smith, Mill, Ricardo,
Senior, and all other Freetrade economists to be
a beneficial outcome of [ Protection, namely, yield
diversity of employment for the people. How-
sver, it is the thin of the wedge : Parkes has
conceded the principle against which he pro-
claimed “on every hustings ’’ war to the kDife,
and for the rest Protectionists have only to wait.
Tiil latest move in the Jubilee and “ Demonstra-
tive Loyalty ” game has just been made in Sydney
by Lady Caring ton, in the shape of a proposal to
present to Her Gracious an address from the
Women of New South Wales, and to form a
Woman's Fund for the relief of destitute women
and children. The proposal reminds us of the
cute dodge by which the friends of an unsuccess-
ful seeker for Parliamentary fame at the late
New South Wales general election managed to
rake in coppers enough to banquet the rejected
one. Nobody seemed to banker for tickets until
the local doctor suddenly went the way of all his
patients, and the banquet committee conceived a
brilliant idea. The public was informed that any
surplus after paying the expenses of the feed
■would be given to the medico’s penniless widow.
The success of the affair, which before was as un-
certain as Tom Waddell’s political opinions, was
thenceforth assured. Charity, besides covering a
multitude of sins and a bogus banquet, is now
used !o shield a Jubilee address which, standing
alone, would fall as flat as Parkes’ foot. There
is no reason why a Woman's Relief Fund should
not be formed, but, in the name of Charity, why
mix it up with an address to a woman who is as
unable to understand the meaning of the word as
Jennings, K.C.M.G., is to represent the Austra-
lian democracy 1 It is but a few days since this
dear, good, soft-hearted woman—who is paid a
salary of nearly £400,000 a year, and has a private
hoard of £ll,ooo,ooo—showed her deep interest in
the destitute women of New South Wales by
simply " commanding " the Secretary of State to
convey to the Governor “her siocere expressions
of regret at the Bulli disaster, and sympathy with
the sufferers.’' And yet the Sydney D.T. (and
who should know so well ?) says, as it greedily
gulps the Charity-coated Jubilee pill: “ There is,
we may be sure, no purpose to which the money
could be applied that w-ould give greater satisfac-
tion to the Queen.” The women of New South
Wales (amongst whom we do not include the D.T.
and the aged female of Hunter-street) will not be
gulled by the Government House crew of fair-
weather loyalists into countenancing this hybrid
Jubilee charity, nor will they allow themselves to
be used as catspaws by the wives of K.C.M.G.-
hunters.
TnE usual bruised and broken-hearted female is
again to the fore in Sydney. This time she says
she has been assaulted by Dr. Horatio G. A.
Wright, an old and respected medical man, and is
seemingly rather surprised that that gentleman
has not come down with a cheque to silence the
affair. Her name is Thomas, and her husband is
a Wesleyan parson in Victoria, but as the man
with whom she is living is a layer of odds named
common J. Smith, it will be observed that there
is a discrepancy somewhere. Strangely enough
there always is this discrepancy about the as-
saulted female ; the lady with a clear record never
is assaulted, and the lady with the shady record
generally wants money to square the damage done
to her virtue. Owing to the persistent upside-
downness of things in this world the present in-
jured female is in gaol await ing her trial for con-
spiracy, but had her case come on a few months’
earlier Dr. Wright might perhaps by this time
have been awaiting glory in the silent cell. We
congratula e the Doctor on his pluck in seeing the
matter through, and we have no doubt that his
medical brethren will deem it their duty to ex-
press their sympathy in a form befitting the oc-
casion.
Mrs. McDonald the wife of an employe on the
Victorian railways, has obtained a verdict of
£l5O for injuries inflicted by an energetic porter
who ran a lamp-truck against her upon a crowded
railway-station. The defence was a curious one :
that as the woman was travelling on a free rail-
way-pass which stated that no compensation
would be paid for injury, she had no legal claim.
This point has yet to be decided by the Supreme
Court. If it be fettled in favour of the railway
authorities the latter can have “ a high old time ”
with the people who receive what will be a doubt-
ful gift, a free railway pass. In fact the Depart-
ment can absolutely picnic upon the fragments of
those of its employe's who are venturesome
enough to go for a free trip.
Somebody has made a mistake. The Prince of
Wales is not oblivious of the soulful yearnings of
the lower orders. He cannot sleep o’ nights for
thinking of the poor subjects of his Gracious ma
Witness a letter written to Sir Henry Loch,
Governor of Victoria, in reply to a missive from
that official enquiring A.E.’s royal pleasure in re
Jubilee subscriptions. The good Prince Albert
says : “ I would be glad to hear of the adoption
of a scheme affording a I classes in Victoria an
opportunity of contributing. ’ There! All
classes, mind ; there’s no high-born pride about
Tummy, who does not debar the lowest, hungriest
dead-beat in the land from hearing the whoop of
the man with the collection-plate.
♦
The Argus, in chronicling the virtues of Lorimer,
Victorian “ Minister of Defence”—how the Jingoes
would like to call it “ Minister of War 1” —who has
been made a K.C. M.G., says “ he is a leading mer-
chant, he has been a leader in the Harbour Trust,
he was a Soots Church leader,” &c. This all
strikes us as immensely humorous. Fancy the
fact that a commonplace Scotchman with a
candle-selling mind has engaged in a wretched
theological dispute—the Strong case—being
paraded as a reason for “ Her Gracious ” giving
him a title 1 But then “ any stick will do to beat?
a dog with.”
On Good Friday, 15 individuals sat in a
low on the pavement with their feet in the gutter
in Phillip-street, Sydney, and drank beer and
were not ashamed. The N.S W. law allows a
man to buy liquor on that holy occasion, but it
must not be drunk on the premises, and this was
the natural result. What the suffering colony
evidently wants now is an “ Act for the Suppres-
sion of Beer Drinking in Public Spots,’’ or some-
thing of the kind. Al6e the pernicious custom of
eating pork pies at street corners should be sup-
pressed with ferocity.
CORRESPONDENCE
Ihe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MBS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
VIBB.
“ Q.” N.Z.) : Many thanks
"J.W.": The parson who preaches against entertainments
at which entrance-money is charged, and then ruus one on
behalf of his own church, isn’t necessarily (as alleged by you)
a liar, or a hypocrite, or a vampire, or even a skin-tight thief.
He may be only a selfish jacka?s. How does this view strike
you ?...." H.C.” (Walgett): Glad to hear that your friend is
still young and active. Ai dhe is going to get married, too 1
What a jolly dawg he must be .J. Green " : Nobody who
knew a musical note from a chicken’s track wouid attempt
to sing your screed....” Royal Oak” : Have got your sketch.
Regret to note that you have broken out in a fresh place....
” A Subscriber ” &c.: We don’t know exactly, but the mar-
riage took place three or four months ago, in Sydney, and
was duly announced in the papers of the day “M.C.’
(M’boro, Q.): Call on the 31st April for the money...,
“Rockhampton”: The old adage, “If you want a thing
well done, do it yourself,” refers to looking after your own
girl “C.H.H.”: Many thanks for the papers....“ Anti-
Quack”: Send us particulars, in confidence... ."C C.S ";
There is no reason why a man wh-> has been convicted of
embezzlement should not be entrusted ,with the task of col-
lecting for a public charity, so long as lie gives security
“ Bushman ’’ (Hughenden, Q.): You can mail as many
papers as you like in one parcel, so long as jou afiix the
needful stamps. But it is best not to send more than two in
a parcel. Will try and get you recipe...." Q. Frank B.”
(Wellington, NZ.): A welcome letter. Send more items....
•*R.P.”: Good things " R.H.” (Rwick): Will read
“W.S.”: Thanks. Already dealt with....“ M.C." (Iriah-
town, Q.): Thanks “ J.W.E.": Nelson is New Zealand
bred....“ Wycheproof ” : Useless, we regret to say....
“ W.J.8.” (Paddington): Thanks for letter “W.H.P.H.’’
(Silverton): The meanness of your friend is vile rather than
interesting...W.W.W.” (Sydney): There isn t anything in
it, Doubleyou. The Australian railway-porter always leaves
a lady with two children and three boxes in the lurch that he
may carry a dude's carpet-bag. It is lighter aud there is
more chance of a tip...." Home of Hope” (Sydney): What
do we think of you and your verse? We think you are a
fifth-rate blackguard trying to be a tenth-rate fool... New
Guinea” (Hodgkiuson) ; Many thanks. Will probably use.
....“ Please Oblige (Bourke): What a larky ooy from the
country you must be ..“A Workman" (Newcastle) : Not
only the six trades you speak of but a good many utners will
be shut up by Parkes’ new tariff. The object of the present
Government seems to be to make New South Wales
a grand country for niggers and Chinamen
“ C. Clarton”: Moral: Never bet with a lawyer...." S.
Kastman” : Chamberlain made a fata mistake: he thought
Gladstone was worn out. Chamberlain has utterly and for
ever spoilt himself with the Radical party...." W. Heaton”:
We don’t think Government should give State-school teachers
or anyone else the use of houses gratis. But we take it that
the rent-allowance hitherto given has been part of the
teacher's pay “Happy Eliza": What! "Constant
Reader ” : Yes, he could..“ Arthur Robinson” (Woollahra):
Your copy is too diffuse; learn to compress; we will look
into it again...." C J.” (Orange): Your “ Garden of Eden”
is a howling wilderness : we are no longer surprised at
Adam’s fa 11...." Phillip Barnes”: Have forwarded your
verses to the Government analyst for dissection.“ In-
quirer” : You evidently imagine that writing was invented to
conceal thought—you have succeeded, if you ever think....
“ Publican” (Cairns): Will look into the matter “R. 8.”:
By-and-bye —“ Socialist” (Norwood, S.A ): You flourish a
literary tomahawk, as a male champion of the tenderer sex ;
but it's a woman’s hand that wields the weapon; if you are
not a woman, a woman sat by your side while you wrote
“ Lovely Woman": Give us a rest! “ B. Morton” (Glen
Innes): Tnanks; but you make a mistake in calling The
Bulletin a cjlonial paper; we are Australasian, not
colonial ; there’s infinity between the terms Au Revoir” :
No. 2: By-and-bye ...” B. Collins” (Petersham): Thanks !..
“ E.P.” (Neutral Bay): Thanks, but not suited. You are
slightly in error in thinking the N.S.W. Divorce Amendment
Act is entirely in the interests of the wife; the “ unprincipled
scoundrel” has a wider field for his talents also “ Trades-
Unionist” : Write on one side of paper and cut it short.
A Dunedin solicitor, named Jay, cut his
throat last week. We are always sorry when a
lawyer cuts his throat himself. It seems like rob-
bing other people up to the very last.
Mr. Abigail declined to allow any repre-
sentatives of labour to sit on the Bulli Inquiry
Commission. Somehow or other Abigail doesn’t:
pose as the “ friend of the working man” quite
so much now as he did before he got a fat billet.
Three innocent children have already
suffered for their Queen, having been dubbed
with the mongrel compound Christian name of
\ ictoria Jubilee.’' It is an awfully mean man
who will hit a newly-born babe when it is down
with such a name as that. The boy who was
triumphantly designated “ Dailey Sjudan Khar-
toum, is now 18 months old, and already he
looks a miserable wreck.
A betting dispute, of Victorian public in-
terest, was ventilated in Melbourne Banco Court,
last week. The facts are interesting. In October,
1885, Mr. Robert Bowman, tea dealer and M. L. A.,
was in difficulties.” The distressed legislator
applied to his friend, Mr. Goulstone, for assist-
ance, and Goulstone lent him £l5O without
security and without interest, accepting two
cheques for the amount, whichcheques he held over
as per agreement. In December, 1885, Mr. Bow-
man filed his shovel, and Goulstone found his
name included in the list of general creditors.
Bowman s estate yielded the eplenoid dividend of
9 (d. in the £., but nevertheless he magnanimously
‘considered that he ought to pay Mr. Goulstone’s
gratuitous loan when he could.'‘ Good. A twelve-
month later (on the 22nd January last) Mr. Bow-
man, now retired from the Senate, went halves
with his old benefactor in a £5OO ‘•double” which
actually came off. Mr. Goulstone drew the
monkey, and thought this was a favourable
opportunity to stop the £l5O that Bowman ‘ con-
sidered he ought to pay when he could.” That
gentleman demurred. He wanted the full £250
for his business, even as he had wanted the other
£l5O in (hose unhappy days of yore. Goulstone
persisted in returning the long-held over cheques
and sticking to their equivalent in cash. Bow-
man brought an action to recover full amount of
his winnings on the betting transaction, and his
Honor reserved the Court’s decision. Whatever
the learned judge may decide—or has decided ere
this—there is one grand moral to be learned from
the Bowman v. Goulstone case.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Some day we
will run out of nice
things to say about
the shows, and we
would like to ask the artistes in
advance what they are going to
dotheL? When we do our final
burst of admiration, and the
clothes-peg is worn out, and
there is no room to write any
more notes on the hack of the
old liver pad, and we have used
up all our compliments, then there will be nothing
left to do except fa'l back on bed language and
sling in profanity. T te two latter won’t give
out; there are about 200 times ss many ways of
be’ng truculent and disagreeable as there are of
being pleasant, and there are at least 50 different
styles of calling a man a hog, while there is only
one of calling a woman an ante 1 . Unless someone
can invent a few new forms of blessing, there-
fore, it will one day be necessary, in order to
avoid imbecile repetition, to curse all theatres,
actors, actresses, ticket takers, scene-shifters, and
all the rest with one enduring, scathing curse,
and we would ask them once more what they are
going to do about it? Aie they going to stard
this ut seemly levity which we will one day spring
upon them, or are they not?
# * * *
“ Life in the Coal Pits,” which now
stretches out its six-act length at Sydney Royal
Standard, is a rather attractive little effort by
Charles Ueade, a gentleman who was dead some
time before he knew it. The front place in tlm
drama is filled by Joan Lowrie, a child of the
soil, with a slender figure, a pretty, intelligent
face, and a pair of arms that are capable of throw-
ing a dude over a two-storey house. Joan is in
love with the young engineer of the mine, but her
father, who does not share her feelings on this
point, is perpetually “laying for” that func-
tionary with a view to putting both feet in his eye.
He stumbles over his own daughter on one of
these excursions, and attempts to throw her
down a shaft, but the result shows that he has
opened before he is dry, aed he gets himself almost
torn to rags. On another occasion he and his two
sinister pals fall over a small ham-and-egg-
colouted dog while they are loafing behind a
hedge armed with knob-sticks and vitriol, and a
long series of difficulties ensue 3, at the end of
which the dog is rather out of breath, and the
ruffians have thrown the deodorising fluid in
each other’s eyes. The pup always comes out
right even though the heavens should fall, and
the imperishable small boy to whom it belongs is
equally fortunate. When the mine blows up
in the fourth act the engineer and Eeveral
dirty but courageous individuals are chok-
ing down below, and Joan and a swell
wilh long weak legs lead a rescuing-
party and blast the fallen debris away with gun-
powder. For a moment there is an idea
that the whole end of the theatre and about a
square mile of the city are going to shivers, and
the effect is something remarkable. When at
last an opening is made that will admit four mis-
sionaries abres st the drama is about over, and an
impression prevails among the audience that they
have got as many shocks as fhey could expect for
their money. Miss Lily Dampier’s excellent
rendering of Joan Lowrie is the great feature of
the performance, and the pit has degenerated
into a state of lunacy over it. Most of the occu-
pants of that cheap department want to cheer her
all the time, and when her father gets trouble-
some they have a ten dency to shy things at the
old man. Mr. Dampier as the engineer comes
next, and the rest of the company are chiefly
nowhere.
* * * *
Even in melodrama there is something
new under the sun, and the author of “ First
Class ” has found it out. To the hollow-chested
citizen who is badly off for brains Mr. Scudamore’s
play is a new experience ; the materials are old
enough, but the dirt, the kicks, and the swearing
come in in a new place, and the result is a success
such as has not been seen at Sydney Opera House
time out of mind. The play opens with a rail-
way-smash, and in the confusion a blue-moulded
burglar seizes a portmanteau full of gold and
jewels, and walks up-hill with it till he gets hot.
His well-dressed pal at the same time rescues an
auriferous girl worth £20,000 a year, and totters
about with her in his arms like a midge running
off with a cask of flsur. But Peggy, the pretty,
hungry, and shoeless daughter of the unwhole-
some-looking thief owns a conscience, and she
gives back the portmanteau to its distracted
owner, who fights 13 rounds more or less—
with her father. The next act is mostly
taken up with preparations for “ warming” Peggy
for her undutiful conduct. The two thieves have
a narrow escape from being choked while arrang-
ing an advance on personal security, but they
evade this danger, and a little later the shiny
burglar with the eye-glass wins the girl with
£20,000 a year, to the utter discomfiture of a pre-
vious lover whose hair has all rushed to the back
of his head. Stolen propeity, to the value of
£l5O sterling, however, i 3 bulging out of the bad
man’s shirt-front, even while he is striking gal-
vanic altitudes in front of his lady love, but he
manages successfully to explain this awkward
circumstance. The language he uses afterwards
is a mixture of file, venom, pickles, blasphemy,
and cactus-spikes, but he takes it out by whaling
a wealthy jeweller and doing a robbery to the
extent of £30,000. While the work is going on,
the hungry girl without shoes is abducted by a
lover of noble character who measures three feet
across the chest, and i 3 borne away to ornament
his happy home.
* * *
The shiny thief’s end is now approaching.
His marriage with the wealthy girl already
alluded to is spoiled at the very altar, and though
in the course of a swift and masterly retreat he
captures his ancient rival —the one whose hair is
confined to the back of his head—and puts him
down a coal-hole, the victim gets his bead out
every now and then and makes unpleasant re-
marks. Jack Stroud, the gentleman who fought
at the railway station in the first act, calls in and
hauls his old enemy down and shows him the
matter in a new light and sits on his head and
finally leaves him tied up in a dusty corner. He
then locks up another prominent member of the
gang, and just as his throat is being cut by a
third burglar the ill-used lover aforementioned
rises out of the coal-liole like the hair of the
working man rising at sight of Parkes’ budget and
takes a hand. He also takes a frowsy coat-collar
and the burglar’s legs from under him, and the
dramaends suddenly and brilliantly. Miss Maggie
Knight as Peggy has the best part of it all through,
and her rendering of the part is as good as any-
thing we have seen since the dog next door died.
She is pretty, winsome, pathetic, a d a hundred
other t ings all at once, and she brings down the
house. Mr. Grattan Higgs and Mr. Robert
Vernon, in the characters of Jack Stroud and Dan
the unwholesome burglar, respectively, are both
excellent; and Mr. Frank Gerald makes a success
such as he hasn’t done for some time. We would
like to make a few more adulatory remarks,
but space being scarce, a large quantity of choice
compliments are held over.
* # * #
Hiscocks’ now Federal Minstrels seem, for
the time, at all events, to have blotted themselves
out, and the talented Raynor Brothers are now
occupying Sydney Academy. The change is de-
cidedly for the better, for, though we have no
desire to say anything unkind about the dead and
gone niggets, there were several of then who
would have shone better in agricultural pursuits,
or in fishing for fiatheads. than on the stage. The
Raynors have started with a good programme and
with crowded houses.
# * * #
Cogill Brothers’ moral, physical, and in-
tellectual show is going on with its accustomed
success at Sydney Gaiety. If Poikes, that
bird of taxes, should levy 10 per cent of the gross
takings of all N.B.W. theatres, the present Ethi-
opians should contribute handsomely to the
revenue, for there is seldom tnj thing but stand-
ing room to be hah
* * # *
Vice Royalty shed its halo on “Elijah”
in Sydney last week, and, as usual, virtuous bore-
dom sate on all countenances, from that of the
Crown s Representative with his sempiternal air
of frozen surprise, to that of the most gushingly-
inclined damsel. Yet Mendelssohn’s music is
deep enough todelightconnoisseurs.andmelodious
enough to satisfy those who prefer a “tune.”
Whence, then, the dismal solemnity ? Possibly it
is the correct attitude when religion is dragged
into publicity. Possibly the worldly-holies don’t
like to have the doings of Ahab and ezebel so
suggestively hinted at; or again, the holy-,
worldlies get an uncomfortab'e glimpse of the fact
that they w ill be rather out of place in a heaven cf
Seraphim and Cberubim ? as one of the angelic
choir gave utterance to a seiies of piercing shrieks
we turned to our companion with the unorthodox
remark : “ If that’s how the Seraphim sing, give
us Tartarean sulphur and strange fire and
weepii g and gnashing of teeth!’ Oratorio-
singers suffer from a general depression, and dis-
course sweet music with studied melancholy.
The heavy basso looks prepared to flog music
into you ; the agonised expression of the sharp
soprano is simply horrible. One lady on Thursday
last was in su< h awful agonv as she heaved and
swayed and wobbled and groaned before the stony
audience, that we actually felt inc ioed to ask a
physician to step on the platform. ’J hese people
are so terribly in earnest wiih their drawn brows
and zero-shaped mouths! We rather fancy it
would be wicked to adopt the gentle curve and
winning smile of the opera-singer 1
*■***■
Mr. Solomon has sub-let Sydney Gaiety
Theatre for sacred concerts, and Bosco has made
elaborate preparations for opening next Sunday
evening. More opposition for poor Pastor Jeff-
ers’ show !
* * # #
Minnie Palmer w ill play in Victoria for
two weeks more (one in Sandhurst and one in
Ballarat) be!ore journejing towards expectant
Brisbane.
* * #
“ The “ agent ” who looks after the
“ front of the house” is, theatrically, a dtmi 4 od,
but this bediamonded personage is rarely seen by
the audience in all his gorgeous splendour un ecs
an apology has to be made, and he has an oppor-
tunity of allowing his eloquence to flow over the
footlights. Theie a e few managers who can
make a good apologetic speech. W. S. Lyster
was a master of the art, and the next test man
was Cagli, with h’s memorable appeal :—” Ladies
d bigneri,—l maka von apologia—l am Very
sorry for me.” But who was the duke in disguise
who came before the footligli’s at Sydney Royal
last Friday evening, and said : “ Lad;e3 and gen-
tlemen, —Mr Signor de Alba is a bit off, and Mr.
S gnor Buzzi has kindly consented to take his
place ? ”
* # * *
According to Biitish Court etiquette, cne
must not applaud at a performance. When Mr.
and Mrs. Kendal lecently performed at Osbone,
between the pieces the Queen though'fully sent a
menial to know whether ihe players would take
anything—mernieg, no doubt, a little whisky.
The leading man, from the fulness cf his heart,
blurted out, “Yes, a little applause! ”
# # * #
Were the ancient Gauls singularly knock-
kneed and bony? We suppese so, judging from
their warriors as presented to the gaze of the
Sydney public in “ Norma.” Never before did we
see such a lavish exhibition of ostrich-like sup-
ports, and we suggest that, if not too modern an
innovation, a little judicious padding would be
desirable, Osteolcgical specimens, however neces-
sary to the student, aie not what the bald-headed
man with the ever aitis.ro eyo pays his good red
gold to see.
# * * *
There has been much trouble among cer-
ta’n of the male members of the Italian Opera Co.
lately, “ all along of a girl.”
# . # # #
Mr. Manning, advance-agent for Essie
Jenyns, passed through Sydney last week en
route for Brisbane, where she will appear early in
May. September will see her back in Sydney.
* * * *
The Fisk Jubilee Singers are now touring
in N.Z. to a very profitable tune In the leaflet
ihey distribute is an account of their performance
before the Imperial family of Germany, of whom
so vague a description is given that we almost
failed to recognise their Imperial highnesses.
When, however, wo lit on the following : “ The
Crown Prince chatted socially of matters in
America, and begged a copy of the songs, saying
he wished to play and sing them with his family,’
we felt we once more soiffed the atmosphere of
Royalty. The future Emperor couldn’t offer four
bob for the book like any of his grovelling sub-
jects. With right regal condescension he played
the cadger. Having got the performance for
nothing, he went for the book. What Imperial
completeness, to be shooah !
* # # #
We are requested to say, for the benefit
of haldheadedness and masherdom in general,
that a very neat programme of the amateur per-
formance of “Caste” (to take place at Sydney
New Masonic Hall on Cth May, in aid of the
Glebe Hospital tor Sick Children) will be sold in
the hall on the evening of the performance by
the hospital nurses. That should fetch ’em.
## #
“ Change (N.S.W.) Resident” writes :
“ Touching a recent Bulletin par. to the effect
that Annis Montague said Orange could boast
of ‘a 31-old gaol-warder with a tenor voice which
for range and sweetness is unsurpassed in the
world,’ those who know the said tenor longest
think Annis spread the marmalade just a shade
too thick. R. Fullerton is the man referred to,
and he is now a warder at Trial Bay prison. For
an amateur he sings a song very well indeed, and
has afforded us many a vocal treat here, but there
is nothing phenomenal about either the range or
quality of his voice. And no one will trump this
statement more willingly than the tuneful Fuller-
ton himself.
# * * #
At Melbourne Opera House Brough and
Boueicault are trying Irish drama, begorra, and it
won’t do at all, at all. “ The Shaughraun,"
showing unmistakeable signs of ha-ty production
in the clumsy working of the scenery, had a bad
ser d-off on Saturday. It would have required a
grand, all round performance to compensate for
stage waits of five minutes at a stretch, and
dreary intervals between curtains. But the play-
ing lacked grandeur entoirely. From first to last
the show was distressingly English, you know.
Divil a bit o the bregue was attempted by many
of ihe lady and gintlemen pathriots who were
to n and bred on the dear ould sod. The talk
was the talk of county Sligo, but the accent was
the accent of Piccadilly in most cases. The ladies
especially sinned in this respect. Miss Trevelyan,
as Clare Ffolliott, attempted to put in a little
local colour in the first scene, and then gave it up
as a bad job. Miss Marie Brooke attempted
nothing at all. Even that swate colleen. Miss
Boueicault, struck us as falling far short of her
previous performance as Moya ; and Miss Romer
converted the Shaughraun’s mother into a London
lodging-house keeper with exceptionally trim boots
and clean apron. Among the males, Mr. Brough
makes an effective Harvey Duff, on the lines
originally laid down by Shiel Barry. Now and
again he loit the character, but that final scene —
where Duff cheats the wild pizantry by drowning
his ugly self—was about as good as they make
’em. Here, too, Mr. Boueicault, as Shraughraun,
scored heavily. In the lighter passages Mr. B.'s
Corn lacks roundness, and unctuousness. It isn’t
racy of the soil as might be expected. The
memory of Boueicault ptre is still green in Mel-
bourne, and as to his clever son in Irish character
parts we must agree with our old friend Tennyson
that—
Dion is the lesser man,
And his humour, matched with Pa’s,
Is as moonlight unto sunlight
And as candlelight to stars.
Mr. Walter Everard, who undertook the con-
genial masher character of Captain Molineux,
again exhibited a natural unfitness for anything
more earnest than farcical comedy, and he uttered
love-speeches as though they were conundrums.
Mr. Frederick I.aye put plenty of life into Robert
Ffolliott, but suffered with the prevailing com-
plaint Along exile from his native land had
converted him into the most Saxon-seeming
Fenian that ever prayed for Parnell. An excel-
lent Father L'ol an turned up in Mr. Haygarth,
and Mr. Fenton was a medium qcality COrry
somebody. With the nicely-painted scenery
under proper control, “The Shaughraun” may
now be fetching ’em to some extent. But the
majority of the Opera House Company will never
shine in their new char-ac ters. As Doctor Watts
hath it:
“ Although the little Busy B’s
Del'gnt us on the whole —
No highly-polished, rounded peg
Will fit a square-made hole.”
* * * #
“ Harbour Lights ” finishes at Melbourne
Princess’s on Friday, after which Lieutenant
Phillip Beck cruises round to Adelaide, and com-
mences to woo and win Miss Isabel Morris all
over again. The drama —full of fresh young
lovemaking and moving accidents by flood and
field —has run for 54 nights in Melbourne. On
Saturday, 30th, the Royal Comedy Company
starts a season here with ‘The Magistrate,” G.
W. Anson pi vying Brough’s old character.
# # # #
The Age says : —“ Lytton Sothern was a
capital representative of the character of Asa
Trenehard in the play of ‘ Our American Cousin.’ ”
Shades of Lord Dundreary! what sort of a sub-
editor have they got on the Daily Syme?
Apropos, poor Sothern (who has gone thus early
to join the old original Lord Dundreary in the
realm of shades) had many friends amongst the
frisky dames in the upper circles of Melbourne
and Sydney. As David Garrick he “fetched
’em.” In Melbourne, Gowen Evans (Jeames)
was his mentor. In Sydney, “ Labby ” took him
in hand, aod Lady Robinson and Mrs. St. John
especially petted young Sothern.
* # # *
“ A Run of Luck ” is crowding every part
of Melbourne Royal except the dress-circle, fiom
which Sassiety holds aloof until dear Sir Henry Loch
has accorded his distinguished patron age. That
Daisy filly is a wonderfully consistent performer,
The “ books” knock her out every night, but she
always wins, beating Marmalade and other speedy
cattle just as though they weren’t trying a yard.
About the best of Bland Holt’s slang wheezes is
brought off on the lawn at Goodwood, when a
mondaine asks, “What price Marmalade?”
“ Same old price—sixpence a pot," says Bland.
# # * *
Speaking of James Anderson, the Argus
says he is “ admitted by the best critics—Lady
Theodore Marlin among the number—to have
been one of the best actors of his time.” Thank
goodness ! that time has derned well gone. We
have seen Jimmy Anderson play Marc Antony,
and Lady Marlin (Helen Faucit) do something or
other for a benefit. If they could appear, at their
tragic best, on Sydney Royal stage this evening,
the distinguished couple would have all their
work cut out to dodge the lemonadejbottles.
* # * *
Melbourne amateurs have arranged to
give a matinee performance at the Bijou on May
7th to help along the Hoskins Fund. Charity
covereth a multitude of sins, so we suppose it
covereth even an amateur theatrical show.
* * * *
Phil Day has issued a writ against the
Melbourne Opera House Company claiming £l2OO
damages for breach of agreement, and for dis-
missal, a:d for money alleged to be due.
# # #
Mr. John Gourlay opened at Melbourne
Bijou on Saturday, in “ Skipped by the Light of
the Moon.” If this is a howling success the glad
tidings shall be spread in next week’s issue, but
after one or two fugitive visits we left with a
sorrowful impression that the fun of this comedy
was so ovvrpoweiingly stiong that it antidoted
itself and kept the audience sad. There was
some falling out of window, and much chucking
about of a sawdust baby. The rest of the plot
seemed wanting in sustained interest.
** # *
Miss Louise Davenport and a gentleman
friend were thrown from their horses at St. Kilda
(Melb ) last week through a collision between the
gee gees. Miss Davenport was out of the bill of
“Harbour Lights" for a night or two while her
cut face was recovering. The gentleman suffered
considerably, and his four-fooi ed companion in
misfortune was rendered horse de combat , and had
to be killed.
** * *
A Fiji paper thus describes a local fire-
works display : “ The rockets, with a fierce rush,
appeared to penetrate to the nebulous regions of
the shimmering stars, where they exploded in'o
comets, constellations, and phantastic falling
meteors, quite eclipsing the flaming fixtures of the
firmament. The azure fire, in its incandescent
brightness, lent a sweet effulgence to the moon,
and shot a gigantic halo of radiant rays far out
into the awful shadows of the ghostly gloom,
there was also some wire-walking, and comic
singing, and a well-stocked booth administered to
the comforts of the inner man.”
*# * #
A German comic opera—“ Czaar and
Zimmermanis promised for May 16 at Mel-
bourne Alexandra. We are educating ourselves
on sauerkraut and Dr. Ollendorf, and hope to be
qualified to judge the beauties of this work on
the appointed night. According to present ar-
rangements we shall disguise ourselves in long
hair and spectacles, and grunt, “ Das ist sehr gut
gesang,” after every ballad. Either that or
“ shrecklich, gottdam ! ” It all depends whether
the management enquires: “Was wollen sie zu
trinken haben ? ”
** * *
Frank Weston, Melbourne’s Frank, the
only Frank, he of the Wizard Oil and peaked hat,
is in London. He is general business manager for
Ben Wheeler, lessee of the theatres at Capetown
and Kimberley. Frank is in the great city en-
gaging talent for South Africa. He is still at his
old games, for he advertises in the Era '* warning
the profession, and particularly the commercial
public that he is no: in any way connected with
a certain other Weston who is also pretty
well known to mourning hotel-keepers and others
in Australia. Wizard Weston’s friends hope' he
may again strike oil.
** * *
Says Figaro (London): “Some people
have wasted much superfluous praise in attribut-
ing the overture to ‘ Ruddigore ’ to Sir Arthur
Sullivan. Asa matter of fact, it was written by
Thomas Clarke at 48 hours’ notice, and I do not
believe Sir Arthur could have done mure than
glance over it when the score was before him at
the dual dress rehearsal.” Where are we ?
** * *
Nothing but toffee for Maggie Moore in
the Frisco Chronicle. The editor spreads him.
self over the “ old sweet quality of her voice.”
*# * *
Mrs. Thomas Brown Potter, an American
lady whose personal attractions are so great as to
fit her for the friendship of the Pi ince of Wales,
is about to leave the drawing-room for the stage.
She is an excellent elocutionist, and has nerve
enough to recite “Ostler Joe” in puolic.
** * *
A London paper gushes over George llig-
nold’s “ splendid presence.” We will venture to
bet a woman was the gusher.
** * *
The latest about Bandmann. From Tren-
ton, New Jersey Just previous to the begin’
ning of Monday evening s performance, Band
mann and his leading lady, Ida Lewis, hell a
vigorous debate on the stage, which ended by
Bandmann picking the lady up bodily and carry-
ing her to his dressing-room, where another ex-
cited quarrel took place. Miss Lewis left the
theatre and refused to coma back. After urgent
requests she returned, and opened the performance
at a quarter to nine. The next day Miss Lewis
married a member of the Co., E. F. Enos, and
the newly-wedded pair were immediately dis-
charged.”
** * #
Lord Lonsdale and Violet Cameron are
“ fully reconciled ” to the lady’s husband; they
all travel together now.
** * *
Mis. Vincent-Witty commenced a success-
ful Eeries of Shakesperian readings at the Protes-
tant Hall, Melbourne, the other evening. This
lady was a pupil of Miss Glynn, and is the wife of
an English journalist well known in the midland
counties John L. Hall had at latest struck a
little ice at the Wellington (N.Z.) Theatre Royal,
with the Australian Vokes (late Pearman Family)
in “ Belles of the Kitchen."
Three thousand Nonconformist ministers
injEngland have protested against Coercion for
Ireland. And so would the State Church clergy
if their screws were not in question.
They say that Alfred Deakin consulted
David Syme, of the Age, before refusing the
K.C M.G. Syme, who is doing Yurrup at the
present time, advised his pupil to pose as a Radical
for a few years lorger, and return home before
they had time to knight him by main force. So
Alfred booked a passage per P. and 0. for next
month.
Mr. Henry Jones and Dr. Taafe, of
Rochester (Vic ), who state that they consider
themselves aggrieved by a paragraph which ap-
peared in The Bulletin regarding Parkes’ late
Victorian tour, wish to have it most emphati;
cally declared that when they boarded the train
in which the “ Hi-Ham ” travelled, they were not
“ in a state of cither real or pretended hiccup.”
Also, that they did not greet the great man with
comic fulsome speeches, and that they were not
subjected to any indignity by him or anybody else,
Andtaki.g it all round, ai.d viewing the matter
from every point, they wish to have it sated that
The Bulletin is a liar. Consequently we hereby
state that somebody is a liar, and we suppose it is
the poor Bulletin, as usual. Mo.eover, we fish
to apologise abjectly to somebody whom we are
alleged to have traduced by calling him a bank-
clerk ; we find he is a respectable tobacconist,
P.S. —This abject grovel is the result of a three-
sheet letter from that distinguished lawyer Mr,
Pelling Hugh Gough Pigotb Stainsby-Conant,


PEPPER
Salt
Queen Victoria cabled out sympathy for the
sufferers in the late Bulli (N.S.W.) disaster. It
is very touching. Let us sing to a Jubilee accom-
paniment :
Oh “sympathy ”is lovely ! Quite ft blessing from
on high !
'Tis sweet to know our loving Queen found time
to heave ft sigh
For all those toiling, striving men to death so
quickly hurled—
For all thore widowed women wailing in the far
new world.
Yes! Vic. has said, “I'm sorry. Very sad.
indeed, for you.”
But can’t she put her Gracious hand into her
pocket, too ?
She’s worth— oh heaps of money ! Her coffers fill
and fill!
Oh ! sympathy is lovely ! But it doesn't Jill the
bill /
For pure, unadulterated hog-wash Lord
Rosslyn’s “ Jubilee Lyric " takes the cake. Here
are the first three “ stanzas ” (we couldn’t keep
well if we repeated any morel :
“ There is a Word,
A Linnet lilting in the grove,
Keen as a sword,
And pure aa Angels are above :
This little Word good men call Love !
It liears a name,
Unsullied by the taint of wealth ;
Careless of l-’ame,
And bright with all the hues of health,
It shrinks from praise, to bleBS by stealth.
I join it now
To thine. Victoria ! Thou haßt seen
With clear eves, how
To win it: blessed hast thou been
With Love, as Mother, Wife, and Queen.”
How a linnet can bo “ keen ns a sword,” and how
a name can enjoy good health, remains to be
demonstrated, and how the anybody could
call Vic. blessed for beirg the mother of a man
like Albert Edward is beyond us. Let us to the
harp :
There is a Word,
A Word that hums in whirling space
Keen tvs a sword.
Bright as a shining, glittering star.
This little word good men call “ Yah !”
The “lyric” appeared in Blackwood’s Maga-
zine “by order of Her Majesty.” We pity the
editor of Blackwood’s.
♦ * •
“ Sir Patrick Jennings, one of the N.S.W.
delegates, paid a visit to-day to Mr. Gladstone, by
whom he was very cordially received.”— (Cable-
gram. )
The Melbourne D.T.—a journal written
by parsons for parsons—bewails “ a further
lamentable instance afforded in the criminal divi-
sion of the City Court of the depraved instincts of
certain youths in the community, and to what ex-
tremes they will proceed to satisfy their vicious
inclinations.” We find that the lamentable in-
stance was that of two young men breaking into
a Cricket Club pavilion and stealing a dozen of
ale and a box of cigars.—
One of the best stations in the Cloncurry
Q.) district is owned by as close-fisted a son of
Scotia as ever walked a mile to save a bawbee.
Every ounce of sugar for station-use has to be
fairly dragged from him. and he would far rather
part with a pint of blood than with a flg of tobacco.
One of hie hutkeepers—a man who has seen very
much better days— recently had him served up
nice and hot, however, by sending along the fol-
lowing letter
“ Sir,—lt is my painful duty to acquaint you with a certain
matter which I know will grieve you greatly, but I am deter-
mined to bring it before your notice, no matter what the con-
sequences may be. I have known for som: time past that
this dreadful trial must one day come, and nothing but pure
consideration for your feelings has kept me silent on the
subject. The crisis has now arrived, however, and I feel that
I would be acting a base part if I kept the matter from you
any longer. Do not censure me too harshly for what lam
about to say, but in your mercy remember tbat tbe remedy
lies entirely with you, and you must reap tbe benefit ef the
results as well as myself. Iferve yourself, therefore, dear
master, for the dread tidings, and my poor but fervent
prayer will be that God may give you fortitude sufficient to
bear the shock."
That ominous yarn filled the first page of the
letter, and the startled squatter’s knees knocked
together with fright, and his hair stood sideways,
and his eyes stared out so far that anyone could
knock them off with a stick as his trembling
hands turned the sheet, and he read on the next
page : “ The d d blacks stole the last pound of
flour I had this morning, and if y6u don’t send
over a couple of bags at once I’m off, and the
sheep and shanty can go to blazes.—Yours truly,
Jim.” “Ma coonshense ! ” was all the poor boss
could say for half-an-hour, but when he came
properly to, he had that flour bundled off instanter.
* * *
Somewhere in the New Testament will be
found a few interesting details about a young man
who, after failing in other pursuits, started to keep
pigs, and eventually pulled through. If thn<
young man had lived in Australia, however, j
he would have joined the police to a dead cer-
tainty, the “foorce” being here the recognised
refuge for everything that is red about the head
and painfully green everywhere else. Some time
ago a fine specimen of the Prodigal Son joined the
constabulary at Auckland ;Tand before he had
been many weeks on duty he found himself ap-
pointed as orderly in the Resident Magistrates'
The Tev. Dr. Cameron
Lees, Who is about lio
lake charge of the
Scots Church, Mell;
has been appointed
to the Order of the
Thistle .
A. SUGGESTIVE DISTINCTION.
Court Was that constable proud? Bejabers he
was as proud as a dog with two tails and a boiler-
metal head. The very first witness who came in
his road happened unluckily to be Mr. Sholomons
from Palestine, and the constable, who hated Jews,
laid for the haythen to show him up With a
triumphant grin that nearly swallowed up the
back of his head he administered the oath
hurriedly; “The evidence ye shall give— h’m—
ahem - the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth, so he'p your Jupiter.” It wasn't
till he had yelled ‘ ’ Silence in the Coort I ” four
times that he got a chance to explain that he
always thought Jupiter was the thing a Jew swore
by, and even after the matler was thus honour-
ably adjusted the magistrate had two fits and a
convulsion cn the bench, and the Hebrew grew
black in the face from suppressed grief.
It costs £2OO to be invested with the
Order of St. Michael and St, George. A dear in-
ve:tment —
An active Parramatta (N.S.W.) policeman
last week ran in a man dressed in a decent suit of
clothes, and owning also a decent bank account,
on a charge of vagrancy, because he hadn’t
worked for five weeks ; X. actually found two
magistrates to remand the prisoner. And yet
scores of politicians who haven’t done any visible
work for 25 years haven’t been run in once.
BUTTERING THE PAT.
AN ODE TO THE K-NIGHT.
You felt a few feet taller,
And your blood a-boiling ran,
That day you clutched the “ mauler ”
Of the other Grand Old Man ;
It is not surprising, is’it,
That your brawny bosom heaved
When you paid that little visit
And were cordially received ?
Of that fleeting hour of pleasure,
Of those golden moments proud—
O ! the memory you will treasure
Till you slumber in your shroud ;
Though your fame was down to zero,
Pat, you felt the past retrieved
When you called upon the hero
And were cordially received.
In the course of conversation
On what topics did you chance ?
Did you give much information
On your system of finance ?
Did you talk of your deficit
(That can hardly be believed)
When you paid your morning visit
And were cordially received ?
Conscious worth was ever humble,
Conscious merit aye was meek —
Bill was quick enough to “ tumble ”
That your only point is “ cheek ; ”
We will bet tbe grand old chappy
Was in spirit truly grieved,
When you felt, and looked, so happy—
And were cordially received.
HORRIBLE!
May Heaven’s great wrath descend npon those
blokes
Who prigged the tipple and that box of smoke s I
So vicious—with their instincts so depraved
What can they do in order to be saved ?
Our shudd’ring soul all horror-stricken shrirks
From wretches who could thus obtain free drinks,
And let the parson-planted precious seeds
Of Gance be choked by rank, unpaid-for weds.
Compare these miscreants with the smperiDg
youths
Who’d sicken if those smokes defiled their
mouths—
Who never knew the taste of ale or stout—
And nothing, save a “ hallelujah,” shout;
Have they no fleshy inclinations —instincts vile ?
Yea, rather, just a 1 rifle, we should smile ;
They go to their extremes in diff’rent ways,
Those dear young members of Y.M.C.A.’s
A theft’s a crime, the awful fact is clear—
And larrikins, who snavel smokes and bottled
beer,
Sin against Heaven ; so do purists lank
Who quote the Scriptures and defraud a bank—
Wear the blue ribbon and play tricks, alas !
W T ith prudish damsels after Sunday class.
“ Instincts depraved,” we’ve reason much to fear,
Drive men to blacker sins than prigging beer.
THE FOLLY OF WISDOM.
For wisdom we panted at school,
And learned aspired to be—
But now, more collected and cool,
We prefer to be voted a fool
If Wisdom’s a K.C.M.G.
Where ignorance really is bliss.
With the time-honoured saw we agree,
To be wise it were folly ; and this
Will by no one be taken amiss,
Since Wisdom’s a K.C.M.G.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Something new. The Czar has not been
fired at since last week.
Z The honour of ,an offer of K.C.M.G.-ship
merely lies in declining it.
E. B. Holt is to be removed to Darling-
hurst prison for observation.
Bishop Goe avers that he is “not a parson
but an Evangelical clergyman. ”
David Buchanan is an ardent advocate of
cremation. But it isn’t everyone wiio’d burn as
well as David.
Henry of Battenberg is to receive a com-
mission as Colonel in the British Army when the
Jubilee awards are gazetted !
Visoount Eversley, aged 93 years, is the
oldest peer in England. Since 1857 he has re-
ceived £4OOO a year and —well, he’s not dead yet-.
Lady Colin Campbell sent a New Year’s
card to each of the jurymen who helped her out
of her little scrape. The inscription read,
‘' Washed in tbe Blood of the Lamb.”
Excursionists to Maoiiland do not think
their tour complete unless they visit the house at
Woodlands, Timaru, where Hall, the prisoner,
resided. Still, people are found to live in it.
Some perverter of the truth reporks that
Mr. Gillies, the Victorian Premier, slept for two
hours in a hansom cab recently. There was a
dispute over a shilling, ami the hon. Scotchman
went in for silent obstruction.
An “ eld identity,” a Mr. Egan, of
Merriwa, N S.W., is in Sydney at present. He
has not seen the “ great metrop. for 36 years, and
first came here in ’49 with his regiment, the 11th,
or “ Salamanca Heroes.” Another of them !
It seems as if the Prinoe Imperial-Watkins
scandal is not to be allow ed to rest. A firm of
London private enquiry Agents are advertising
for persons possessing direct information respect-
ing the late Prince and the young Englishwoman.
M. Eugene Rimmel, the great perfumer,
has passed in his checte. He was something
more than a perfumer, haviDg translated “Othello”
into French verse. He was engaged on a similar
translation of “ Romeo and Juliet ” at the time
of his death.
The latest ideah is the “Jubilee” anti-
maccasar. This consists of a portrait of Her
Gracious surrounded by a wTeath of Mowers. The
whole is dono in outline, and loyal
females buy silk crewels and work all
round Her Majesty's bigdouble chin.
John Woodyatt, of the Mary-
borough (Q ) Chronicle is enjoying
himself in Melbourne. A few years
back John was a clerk in a Brisbane
ehipping'Ofhce. Then he bought into
the biweekly Chronicle in Sugar
towD, and made it a daily and a first-
class provincial paper. Not satisfied
with that he went prospecting and
discovered Mount Shamrock. He is
now worth £lOO,OOO.
t. E. Jones, of “ lamb-and-
mint sauce” notoiiety, also well-known
as member for Ballarat East in the
.... ictorian Parliament, is bringing
a ibel action against Samuel Mullen, the
Colhns-street bookseller. It is The Argus Bible
case over again, Mullen having penned the letter
on which the paper wrote the offending leader
Jones is also applying for a new trial of his action
against Tiie augus,
The gentleman who used to be Mudgee
Taylor has issued a writ for £lO,OOO damages
against Judge Docker. The trouble arises out of
Docker s alleged assertion that the man who used
be , Ta >' Inr took a Up to procure one James
Mara s release.
The Germans will have to evacuate New
Guinea immediately if not sooner. This state'
ment is made on the authority of a Cooktown
IQ.) paper which declares that when Romilly, the
High Commissioner, plants his feet on that island
there will be no room left for a single German.
Ihe Bishop of Riverina publicly said in
Melbourne, on April 10, that “all should be
gralofu! to God for sending cut to Australia such
a Bishop of Melbourne as F. T. Goe.” Why it
was only because four other clergymen would not
take it that Mr. Goe had the chanoe of coming
out at all I B
Poor old David M’Beath, late city architect
of Sydney, who had to stump up £5060 or so to the
City treasury sometimeago, as compensation forthe
mess he made of the foundations of the great hall
died the other day, aged 67 years. “ Relieved
from this world's injustice,” says the obituary
advertisement. *
Sir Henry Tichborne comes of a»e in May
when there are to be various festivfties on the
Hampshire and Dorsetshire estates in honour of
the event. The Tichborne property produces
about £9OOO a year and during the long minority
of the present holder of the title a eonsiderable
sum of ready money has been savod.
The Bat libel case has terminated in an
arrangement between the parties, Mr Peck’s
character being “completely vindicated” and the
defendant giving every apology for the libel and
paying all the costs. It is quite evident, even
from this end of the world, that the affair was
simply a “ put-up job" to advertise The Bat.
All this is real glory. In a recent over-
land passenger-list we were nea-ly stunned by the
following comet:
“ J. C. Neild, M.L.A. (Executive Commissioner for N.SW
at the Adelaide Exhibition).
When we call the above a comet, we mean that
the tail is so much more than the nucleus.
It has lately come out that Sir Patrick
Jennings’ knighthood was the result of a distinct
understanding arrived at between him and the
Governor of the day at the time the ex-N.S.W.
Promier consented to take charge of the arrange-
ments for tho r yflney International Exhibition.
These ba-gains are made very oold-bloodedly
after all.
Tho Earl of Aberdeen is indeed a canny
Scotchman. It taros out that before deciding to
receive the Irish deputation in Sydney the other
day, he consulted two or three leading local poli-
ticians as to whether his taking part in the demon-
stration would in any way injuriously affect
Governor Carington’s position as Governor of the
colony.
Says an English newspapes-flnnkey :
" Theexaminelion passed by Prince Albert Victor was really
a moit creditable one, I hear, and llw Royal Highness hae
cxpreaied himsslf as being very sensible of the services
rendered by Major Miles. Garrison Instructor of Aldershot
the officer under whom he coaehed. Major Miles is a most
industrious soldier, and left no stone unturned in order to
post the Trinae in all the subjects which came witfcin tho
curriculum of the examination."
Major Miles must indetd. be an industrious
soldier,
Mr. Thomas Holt, of Sydney, has been
making himself conspicuous hy providing a roast
beef and plum-pudding spread for 300 London
sandwich-men. Tho wages of the poor devils,
who perambulate public thoroughfares between a
pair of advertisement boards, is usually one shil-
ling per day, and they would have preferred the
psice of the meal. But a £2O-note divided among
them wouldn’t have been paragraphed in the Lon-
don papers.
Poor K , of the Burnett River, was a
terrible stutterer, particularly In the presence of
strangers. One day, while on the road from town,
he was overtaken by two young fellows also
bound for the station, who rode u-p to K and
civilly Inquired how many miles it was to the
homestead. After nearly dislocating his neck and
becoming purple in the face in abortive efforts to
reply, he at last burst out with, “ D it! well
be there before I can tell you.”
A lord called Rosslyn has perpetrated
a Jubilee lyric. The last verse runs :
” 'Tie a poor thing
By one wheae heart haa ever been loyal and strong,
And who, like Simeon, now haH seen
Hia hope fulfilled. God save the Queen P
What pitiful trash! what abject, God forsaken
drivel 1 The man has lately been appointed Cap-
tain of the “Gentlemen at Arms," so that explains
the wormy grovelling.
Bishop Goe says that when he was ap-
pointed Hector of Sunderland he heard a per-
son whom ke passed in the street say,
“ There'B the new Rectev—and there’s not much
of him.” There certainly is not much to spare,
so far as physique goes, of Mr. Goe. Bishop
Moorhouse was “ digniflsd aßd stately,” like the
poors in lolanthe, but Goe's appearance is a mini-
mum, and forbids ihsse two qualities. He agree-
ably surprises an audience when he spoaks, chiefly
for the reason that, from his personal appear-
ance they expect so very much less. He has aj.
ready told two atori.e (we hope they are not
stock onesl, which are fully up to Bishop level for
anecdote. But, be Bishop Goo a clever man or
not, sufllce it to say he is a Bishop, and that is
quite sufficient for the “ Churchey ” people who
are always talking about “ the dear Bishop.” Ho
may be summed up yorhaps in a few words. He
has not the brains of Moorhouse, but he has mere
sincerity.
It is related that after Weissenburg and
Woerth had been fought and won, the German
army of the South was quartered ono soft sum-
mer’s evening around a little village in the Vosges.
The Crown Priuoe was sauntering alone, pipe in
hand, past a barn occupied by a party of Wurtern-
berg troops. Hearing something like stump-
oratory going on, the Prinoe opened the door and
looked in. Every one ross. “ Oh, sit down ; I’m
sorry So disturb. I dare say thsre's room for mo
to do the eame.” said the Prinoe. “Pray who
was making a speech ? ” All eyes were turned on
a Bergeant whose very intelligent countenance
however, looked sorely puzzled when the Com-
mander-in-Chief further asked, “ And what were
you talking shout ? ” Rocoveripg his presence of
mind, the sergeant confessed, “ Well, of course,
we were talking of cur victories, and I was just
explaining to these youDg men how, four years
ago, if we had had you to lead us, we should have
made short work of these confoundod Prussians ”
“ Unser Fritz ” roared with laughter.
The only peopde who are really well-off
just at present in Sydney are the lawyers and the
beggars.
While we were comi»g into town the
other morning the train ran over a cow. We had
just breakfasted oa beefsteak at our boarding-
house, and couldn’t understand how it was that
the train received no injury.
Visitors to Brisbane cannot do better than
put up at the Imperial Hotel. The proprietor
evidently understands how to run the concern so
as to make people comfortable all along tho line.
The house is well built, well-appointed, and ad-
mirably conducted. In fact, Ltanielis runs the
Imperial Hotel much better than Salisbury runs
the Imperial Government.
From Wellington (N.Z.) Evening Post of
9th April :
th ‘‘ r h A e 7 ™ m .t n A 0f ttwAlfredkm Hoad Board notifies in
HJ® J hat * P° U °P a Proposal to borrow £lOO for
the extension of road formation hsa resulted in the proposal
amffcp I w . a3 .® nl y one ratepayer entitled to vote,
and he recorded his vote in favour of the proposal.”
This is a little one-man place in the Wairarapa
district, near Masterton. The four-ho. se power
voter is losing a golden opportunity; he ought
to form himself into a Charitable Aid Board and
levy a rate.
Official reports show that 2200 men a*e
employed at exterminating rabbits in X.S.W., and
that the number is insufficient to deal with the
area infested. Two thousand two hundred men,
at tlie present comparative scale of wages, require
to earn each VIOO a year to feed and pay them-
l e }Jnnnn d ° eP np Wieir plant ’ Th&t amount* to
£2-0,000 per annum, to whioh add departmental
expenses amd oost of supervision, and the total
will amount to at least £300,000 a year, which will
increase to £lOO,OOO and more as the country be-
comes more and more infested.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Queen Victoria’s subjects havo increased
duriDg the 50 years of her reign fiom 126,000,000
to 252,000,000.
Did the Queen pay for the sending of the
cablegram of sympathy to the iiulli sufferers ? Or
has the amount been charged to the N.S.W. I rea-
sury ?
A travelling insurance man is described
by a Cootamundra (N.S. W.) paper as “ the most
successful the oolonies has ever seen.” Atlas!,
then, we’ve got a cleverer man than Parkes.
From Vanity Fair :—“ It seems to be
understood that a fresh shower of decorations will
descend on India in June, and this fact will no
doubt tell in favour of the Imperial Institute ”
Isn’t bribery punishable under the law ?
The English Government place very little
confidence in the loyalty of the Irish militia regi-
ments, and it has been determined not to issue
this year the ten thousand Martini-Henry rifles
allotted towards the re armament of that force.
For some lime past a brutal statement has
been circulated to the effect that the English in
Lidia have made 100 drunkards for one Christian.
We are now in a position to report that this state-
ment is utterly incorrect. There never was any
Christian
Heard in the British House of Commons.
Colonel Saunderson : “You attenjed a meeting
of a murder society.” Mr. Sexton: “You're an
infernal liar. 111 cram the statement down your
throat, and thrash you within an inch of your
life." (Alarms and excursions.)
At last British general election the average
expense to the successful candidate was 4s. lOd.
per vote in Wales, 4s. 7d. in Scotland, 4s. in Eng-
land, and 2 s sd. in Ireland. Northampton is the
cheapest constituency in the three kiogdoms, the
oost there being only 6d. per vote.
“New South Wales,” says a Sydney D.T.
correspondent, “is suffering from a complicated
malady. She has been prostrated by political
typhoid fever.” That aicounts, we suppose, for
the freedom with which a certain Ministerial poli-
tician has been prescribing brandy of late.
Father Donnelly, the successor to Father
M’Glynn in New York, is religiously boycotted.
There is no one to make his bed, he can’t find a
cook, the porter won’t light the fire, the choir
won’t sing, the collectors won't collect, and,
worst of all, there are no worshippers to collect
from.
The Sydney dailies say Mr. Copeland
displayed ignoranco when he said that there was
no Excise duty on English beer. What Mr. Cope-
land did s»y was that there was no excise on beer
that is exported, which is a fact, as the duty paid is
refunded, less an amount equivalent to the cost of
collection.
Thus a brutal Bourke (N.S. W.) journal :
“ As long as there is one starving needlewoman in
London, not one penny piece should be given to
the over-rich widow lady [Queen Victoria] who is
putting by rich's (that she can’t take to Heaven)
at the rate of about a quarter of a million ster-
ling per annum.”
The N.S.W. Government boast about the
judicious retrenchment which they have made in
the Estimates for the year. One of the items is a
reduction of the charitable vote of £20,000. This
is “ judicious ” retrenchment with a vengeance at
a time of unparalleled depression and destitution
like the present 1
Sixty -four members of the N.S.W. Assem-
bly declared against a property-tax in the House
last week. All of them advocated a property-
tax when before their constituents. “ Men, not
measures, ’is the motto of the majority. When
is the Australian system of responsible govern-
ment to be relieved of this degradation i
Scene : N.S.W. Country Lands Office.
Special area being selected. Large landowner ar-
rives with a new-chum and bank-clerk, both of
whom apply for land as non-residential selectors.
Another party also applies. Ballot ensues, new-
chum secures land, deposit is paid with large
landewaer’s cheque. And yet this sort of thing is
not uncommon.
John Bright wants the loyal Catholics and
loyal Protestants in Ireland to unite “ and give
great strength to the Government.” That is, he
would like portion of the Irish people to help the
Tories in coercing their fellow-countrymen. And
this is a Liberal English statesman, who received
the freedom of an Irish city some years ago for
supporting a few paltry measures of justice to that
country.
Maffra (Vic.) is not over “ loyal,” and
nothing but a visit from Albert Edward or a sight
of Battenberg’s baby will be able to arouse the
inhabitants to Jubilee enthusiasm. Only three or
four attended the Jubilee meeting, convened by
the Shire President, and as somebody announced
that a neighbouring cattle sale might be the cause
of the failure, it was adjourned until nobody
knows when.
A ’Frisco paper logically observes :
“ If Dr M’Glynn had no right to advocate the election of
Henry George as Mayor of N.w York, then Bishop Corrigan
had no right to promote tha election of President Cleveland;
nor had Bishop Riordan and his papal clergy any right to
intrigue for the nomination and eleation of Judge Sullivan
to the Supreme Court of California ; nor has the Church of
Rome any right to interfere with Republican Government in
France, or with the schools in Belgium; nor the Pop* any
right to interfere with the election in Germany for members
of the Reichstag.’’
These are weighty words of Lord Salisbury
uttered at the National Conservative Club
Banquet only six weeks ago :
•• We have entered upon a period of struggle. Great con-
flicts are dawning upon us; great antagonisms are arising
vast questions, vast controversies which shake society to its
eentre, are gathering more and more in importance. A stern
duty will be imposed upon ihe [men whoever they are who
have to rule in the times that are before us.”
The speech altogether has a very “ After-us the-
Deluge ” tone about it.
The S.M. Herald says that “the Earl of
Aberdeen’s recent speech at Sydney Town Hall
was frequently interrupted by tbe chee s o' the
people.’ This statement must surely hL.ebeen
mado as a slight upon the Irish to show how dis-
orderly they were. But it is as false as the views
upon the Irish question as held by that journal.
As a matter of fact, the speech was listened to
with the closest attention, its periods were marked
with frequent applause, and scarce a word, if any,
was lost.
It now transpires that the following part
of Sir Redvers Bullet's evidence on the Irish rent
question was excised from the report of the Com-
mission :
‘‘l venture to say it would be a serious matte*, with
grievances upredressed, to attempt to suppress by . rce or
fresh coercion-legislation, ihe rights cf tenants on my to
a sociate for the protection of their interests, a class to
whose property the State, up to 1881, refused any real loyal
protection.”
This is the deliberate judgment of the Salisbury
Balaam, who was sent to curse the Irish nation,
and remained to bless them altogether.”
Henry John Farmer, solicitor, has re-
signed his seat in the Richmond (Vic ) Borougli
Council for the reason chat he cannot stand the
scenes wnich are a leading feature in the muni-
cipal bear-garden. In consequence of his having
given his vote against a Jubilee proposal to ttuff
the local children with buns and tea on 21st
June, he had been abused for two hours, told that
his vote was an insult, threatened that he would
be knocked off his seat, and informed that he was
a disgrace to the council. Loyalty and Buns must
be in an aggressive condition at Richmond.
It is interesting to note at the present
juncture that Sir John Fowler, the engineer who
BOILER-LINED.
CARINGTON (handing Queen's Bulli telegram of sympathy to Parkes): “AH, MY I EAR SIR
HENRY, HER MAJESTY HAS INDEED A SOFT HEART.”
PARKES: “YES, YOUR EXCELLENCY, BUT SHE DOESN’T SEND ANY MONEY. SHE
SEEMS TO HAVE A BOILER-LINED POCKET.”
has for y ars and 5 ears been in the regular receipt
of, say, £7OOO a year commission for “inspecting
railway-material" in London for the bleeding
colony of N.S.W., is a devoted friend of Sir Henry
Parkes, for whose personal satisfaction he seems
to have prepared designs of that wonderful pros
pective bridge, which even now, ere it has been
erected, enables the N.S. W. Premier to walk
whenever he pleases into the rather venal consti-
tuency of St. Leonards. Parkes says that the
plans in question are his (the Premier's) own pri-
vate property.
During the year ending March 31 last the
N.S.W. Treasury raised £950,000 from alcoholic
liquors. Of this, £693,000 represents the State's
revenue from spirits, £96,000 that on wines, and
£68,000 that on beer. Malt and hops gave
£52,000, £BOOO came from wholesale-license ft e 3,
and £96,000 from retail or publican licenses. For
the current year the Treasurer estimates the
State will profit on liquor alone to the extent of
£1,230,000 —viz , £BBO,OOO from spirits, £55,000
from wine, £70,000 from imported ale, and £225,900
from colonial beer 1 Licenses will probably give
another £lOO,OOO.
Mr. Barns, the N.S.W. Treasurer, says
that the prospeot of a property-tax is vanishing
every day, and that the object of his financing is
to prevent the neces.ityofonearising. Mr. Garrett,
the N.S.W. Minister of Lands, however, says that
the present intention of the Government is simply
to “ clear the ground for a property-tax.” Before
politicians go forth to tell lies they should take
care that the lies agree. The present N.S.W.
Government owe their election to the propertied
classes, and there is no one so foolish a 3 to be-
lieve that they will attempt to tax property ex-
cept to save their own political skins.
These be ominous words, my masters.
Says Bailey, of the Sydney Sunday News, which
wrote Parkes and the N.S.W. Neo-Liberal party
into office :
‘‘But the taxation is to be taxation of the poor and the
oppressed for the benefit of the rich and powerful, and if
Freetrade is to become the Telegraph's and Berald's
trade of the property-holders and soft-goods party, then our
denunciation of such a policy will be anything but luhe-warm,
and we shall be driven, with thousands of others who think
for themselves and look below the surface, to support, how.
ever regretfully, and for a time at least, the ranks of the
retrograde Protectionists.'’
Freetrade must indeed be a failing cause when
even the faithful Bailey threatens to forsake it.
The N.S.W. Freetraders are driven to
their wits ends to account for the presence in the
colony, of so many thousands of unemployed work-
men. Their favourite assertion is that the
majurity of the men have been 'attracted
from other colonies by the prospect of a life of ■
ease at the expense of the Government. An M.P.,
who is a Freetrader, had been propound ng this
highly-feasible theory when he was asked why
men who were out of work in one colony should
come to another where there was less chance of
getting employment. “It is the excessive liber- j
ality of the Government in providing meals for the
loafers that does it,” was his answer, which was
followed by the question, “ How do they get here I
if they are so hard up in other colonies ?" The j
Freetrader was not to be crushed by such a I
pertinent question, and, with a chuckle, he re- I
plied : “ Why, you fool, don’t you know that j
they tramp it ?” Fancy a man tramping to Syd-
ney from Adelaide or Melbourne for the sake of
getting a ticket to admit him to the Soup Kitchen j
Ihe “Order of the White Lose” is anew
Tory fad which has sprung up in England. The
members are mostly ladies, and they meet to-
gether to talk bosh and consume high-priced
refreshments in the interests of their bleeding
country. The cbjects of the society are to keep in
memory the deeds cf a crowd of gamblers and
drunkards with wide boots and long hair who
fought for Charles 1., and also to recover and
bring back to England the widely-scatteied car-
case of James 11. The organisation has been such
a success that we are thinking of founding a simi-
lar institution in Australia. We have observed
that the colonists show a lamentable indifference
on the subject of Caractacus, an eminent early
British savage who was pointed blue, and a league
should really be formed to hunt up facts about the
old man.
Editor Bulletin.— lf Parkes and his
successors wieh well to N.S.W. let them consider
the expediency of adopting some of the following
proposals <0 That no more State lands be sold,
but leased to all, so that native-born Austra-
lians of the future, and those who hereafter come
to the colony, may have homes unclouded by the
tyrannous system of landlord ? sm. 2. That the
Chinese leave and make room for only white im-
migrants who can ome here without Stato as-
sistance, and that those whites who employ
Chinese be taxed. 3. That when the Chinese de-
i part, the whole colony be proclaimed a gold-field,
i 4. That what raw material the country produces
be manufactured in the colony, as far as is prac-
ticable, and that the aim of the colony be to sup-
ply its own vants in everything. 4. That all peti-
tions for future railways be signed only by the
persons holding or owning land, say five miles on
both sides of the entire length of the line petitioned
for, and if the Government agree to build the line
the State hold those lands a 3 security against loss,
the lands being improved Jat the public expense.
Of course the line will pay— they always do—but
it will be just as well to hold the .‘security as a
matter of form. 6. That instead of opening Par-
j liament with prayer, each member leaves his re-
| ligious cant, vanity, and humbug, outside the
j House, also his bad manners.— Gaffney,
Coined sweat — Money.
Society item from an American journal :
" Tbe wedding was strictly private, owing to the
bridegroom being still in mourning for his first
| wife.”
A serious military convulsion has swept
over the town of Maryborough (Q.), a place with
a population of 10,000 souls, allowing one to
I each inhabitant. A marine force has lately been
| organised in that sink of iniquity, and a fresh-
| looking greenhorn was appointed captain, ranking
I equally with the veterans of the fall-baek militia
I —a of grey-haired old warriors who had
| faced death from sunstroke again and again while
| bumping ammunition at autumn manoeuvres.
The latter straightway threatened to resign in a
j body. It was monstrous, they said, that they,
whose backs no enemy had ever seen except
through a telescope, should have to associate with
this yardstick colonial on an equal footing, and in
secret orgies they alluded to the blithesome horse-
marine as an upstart and an ass. A dead lock
ensued, but at last the difficulty was solved by
making the major a colonel, turning the captains
into majors, the lieutenants into captains, and the
non-commissioned officers into lieutenants, while
the young man of the sea was left a plain captain
as before. This arrangement soothed the wounded
pride of the local shedders of blood, and, except-
ihg that all the privates now want to be made offi-
cers, everything may de described as serene.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con.
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
Democracy as the Australian National Creed,
Payment of Members.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation ol State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
Protection to Native Industries.
The Election by the Australian peoples of the
Governors of the Australian colonies.
Thf. Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pes-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once he seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin. q
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, it*
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has yet seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established A us
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal wb.ch denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now devastates British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not boen granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most "widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent busliman must indeed be broadly based.
At least ten copies of The Bulletin are sold in
Sydney to every one of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one man to another.
The Bulletin is the jouri al which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most freqi ently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office
twenty shillings sterling in advance —which you
may pay by Post-office order, one-pound note, or
stamps of any Australian colony—you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. Cheques and Orders payable to
J. M. HARDING.
IN SYDNEY.
“ Tell me who is Deficit ?”
To his father said the son.
11 Well ” (at least so we expict)
He is some three million !”
“ Tell me what, then, did he do
That his name is so renowned ?"
“ Oh, he brought the revenue
To be buried underground.”
“ Revenue?” the youngster said,
“ What is that ?" “ The very nick !”
“ Did it die ?” “It isn’t dead,
But is very, very sick.”
“ Tell me now, what’s gone amiss ?”
“Burns will put the thing to rout—
Now don't ask me who Bi ms is.
He’s the devil. There, get out!”


(ifom* ’ n «Y
6y cdljitJ), lender 7/e necofega.ta.tion 5 a/ema e /
/<.*/> 000.1-m coiN,ou./Tt/e ef/,e»se of af/nt. \ .
r„ e/7Rer Case 7/e A/ooeiA Aoy /O /
/•«/***«'. /.* \y
* 7Ze firmer 0/ y™j“J” ce,,VC/ A
u- Ca.7,/°rpram y e Mt
MA/cA Ae Ca nnoA c/pC\ />**’
7m 6/eit f / Ca-rr mate ouA
e? /7/i a A c ff c, jAf ar an o/-c/er
/of Ca.A6ayes TAc> Ata.7j Oj/o toCof?
j A Ac. tc e Ac> <p K cC*s7 '*rC) f<7/M~ TAe
* Pr>n/C0 of 71/A/_}~s 7' ftt/c'Ap
TaylOR IN //a L/TTIE PATEN/ -PED
CxAASA/y PA/fKSi - 7fo</c/oeS ft/ceE Comfy anc/c/oeiP
r 0 Cl rtf' - 7*y£or — (pctn/ry c ,
/V*. ybre/Yy Co mfy rfa 6& - Conju/er/ny 7*e sAorAness o/ tie Ac
7Ac S&cirrA/reSS of Me Coi/e/-/rj£ t‘ / ojont ArouAAcyou any Snore
V T to 4") cl ° uf '
FojSita.
AWac/ie of F/sA- f/ctte Ife/bat-Fnte nf
£re J/r /3 anc/t/ter one at/Meuf your
Aonour fo fiok a£ before '*>e So/ T A'f~off '*
S'* Zoaexr _ £ore ! rfoi/toaJreS 7fre Second
Joo/re c/ Q+f~>c/c*.y a rt <JL 4?nt^
O-yea.r Cou/rf/trG &*>
no re s /n We so oU/0u.3 /-/iA~ jS&Sifs / *
Ouff o»/Ai Little s>ueit/oa4- @O/:
ft. Vu>/y Te/e<srufi^
Gc&trj " (t)Ay //~'i 74a 4 /y r £\*/*>ourrt *Y al£ */
n fuffof s„r vA'A **?#’*'*•?' \
/V£W 2fa i and /S free from >'
/ “r , jit
°S 4/S />'& a ne *
/y 5 iV
Ct/*J
uS* CL f <***
ec<. 5 y o/’ a -
Things in General.


Muzzled!
Mudgee Taylor, M.P., has been Swallowed by a Government Billet.” —Daily Paper.


Mias Carrie Swain, the piquant heroine in the Miner's
Daughter, dons some of the neatest-fitting wearing ap.arei
we have seen in Sydney. The elegant and becoming tailor-
made gowns worn by her are from the establishment of that
painstakin modiste Mrs. McCathie, King-street, Sydney.*
The best selection of Boots and Shoes to be had in Sydney,
and at a reasonable priee, far less than London or Paris, a
at Hust’s Boot EmDorium, 408 George-street, eorner of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low heels for com-
fort ;to suit youne or old, in fact, to suit everybody. Come
and see for yourself.*
Society
On Tuesday evening the Governor and
Lady Carington gave a most enjoyable dance at
Government House, Sydney, to over 200 guests.
Lady Carington looked charming in rose pink silk
with a pretty design in rosebuds. The train was
not very long, and the bodice, which was cut low,
was ornamented with sprays of d amonds and
diamond humming-birds, the same jewels orna-
menting her throat, arms, and hair. Lady Aber-
deen wore old gold silk, and a rich shade of green
velvet; in her hand she carried an Irish harp of
white chrysanthemums. Mrs. Fairfax wore
brown and gold brocaded velvet, r.chly orna-
mented withduchesse lace ; Mrs. Riley (Mayoress
of Sydney) wora white brocided silk, richly
trimmed with lace oinate, with ostrich feathers,
diamond ornaments; Mrs. Malleson wore white
and gold brocade trimmed with rich bullion
fringe: Mrs. James White, white and gold-
striped silk, with pendant gold drop 1 ; Mrs.
M'Millan looked well in white surah and gold
silk ; Mrs. Gilles, in blue moire and crepe de
chine; Mrs. C. J Roberts richly embroidered
white silk and lace ; Miss Roberts, white silk and
tulle; Mrs George Knox, white brocaded silk;
Mrs. J. M. Purves, a beautiful dress of white
moire.
* « *
They say that a large number of those
invited to the last ball at Government House,
Sydney, did not attend, owing to the impression
abroad that the guests for the first ball of the sea-
son were selected.
• * *
A pretty little breach of promise case will
BhorTy come off in Brisbane. The plaintiff is an
ex-barmaid, to whom, report says, the defendant
has platonically extended a helping hand for years
past. The “gay Lothario” is a solicitor of a
well-known Brisbane firm. The cause of the
action is his engagement to a Southern lady.
4.t a recent rather swagger eastern suburb
(Sydney) wedding, the clergyman, who w'as to tie
the complicated love-knot, failed to have the
church open to time, and kept the unhappy groom
and his best man shivering in the rain for a bad
quarter of an hour. All ended happily, however,
and we suppose the bridegroom is now cursing
Providence, as per usual.
As there are in Australia several (at the
very least) middle-aged women who read The
Bulletin, we hasten to reprint the following ad-
vertisement: —“Matrimony. Wanted to meet
with a middle-aged woman, by a farmer 40 years
old, with a view to marriage. Photos exchanged.
Address, Samuel S , Post-office, Lismore,
N.S.W.”
* * *
A North Queensland magistrate and gold
warden, who generally camps less than a hundred
miles from the coast-raDge, returned to his domes
tic hearth the other evening after a few days’ ab-
sence, and found the premises desolate. His
partner in life had scooted, regardless of the ties
of affection and the sacred duties of hone; con-
trary to the custom of nations, she had skipped
with another, and the beak felt himself cut off
like a flower in his bloom and generally bowled
out. An examination of the premises showed
that the lady had taken off most of her clothes
before she started, and had gone flying light in
point of baggage, in fact she had eloped attired in
a large rag, one golosh, some grease, and a
feather in her hair. When the official had to
some extent recovered from the shock he resolved
to give chase, and ordering a trooper to saddle
his noble steed and to come behind on his own
constabulary moke, he went off at a gallop. After
an hour or two of careful exploration the lady was
found ; she was attired in a single old clo’ and
was dancing under the trees, and she hadn’t
washed herself for two days. The magistrate
liquored her up and reproached her mildly for her
faithlessness and unladylike conduct, and v hen he
had brought her to a state of tearful penitence he
gently but firmly tied her feot together, secured
her hands behind her, and prepared for the return
journey. Before they had got half way back,
however, the lady’s obvious grief at her past
wickedness so moved him that he untied her,
whereupon she galloped down a steep place into a
creek, swearing as she went, and then slipping out
of her saddle made for the bush. She has never
sine© returced, but the local police have received
general orders, should she ever again heave in
sight, to tie her to a tree and keep her there until
the magistrate,has time to come for her. The
lady is about 21 years of age, and rather hand-
some—for a stray Queensland nigger.
The Countess of Aberdeen had a narrow
escape at Albury, N.S.W. When it became known
that she was to pass through that town it was re-
solved that a deputation should do a little second-
rate grovel in honour of the occasion, and two
“dreadful smart men” appointed themselves to
the job. One of them had come from the town in
which the Countess first saw the light, and the
other waa qualified chiefly because he represented
the Archimedean lever which moves this earth —
need we say that we refer to a Sydney evening
paper? the station the?e two blandly introduced
themselves, and while one bowed and scraped in the
background the other proceeded to enquire if
“ her leddyship ” knew Sandy Dougal and Duncan
M’Tavish, and a number more of his old pals. It
was not till this had gone on for some time that
the pair found they were letting themselves loose
on the Countess’ waiting-maid in place of the lady
herself ; it w'as the sergeant of police who ex-
plained the mistake, and the language which the
interviewers employed towards that unoffending
constable is generally described as having been
awful. * The members of the deputation have
resolved that they will never again attempt to
find a Countess without an index.
A rather “ rekirky ” adventure happened
to a camping-out party on the Ilawkesbury River
during Easter. TheSe picnickers were standing
on the bank of the river preparatory to embarking
in a skiff which was to cariy them over to their
yacht, when they were accosted by a highly
respectable elderly female, flanked by two raw-
boned damsels, who addressed them (in
slishtly Hibernian accents)in these terms: “Gentle-
men, the age of chivalry and knightly courtesy is
not yet past. Here are two youne ladies, too
diffident to speak for themselves, who are des-
perately anxious to reach Wiseman’s Ferry.
Will you— for love or money (\)~ take them in
your boat to their destination 1 ’ “ But, madam, ’
gasped one of the party, “ the wind would not
carry us, and, besides, the river is not navigable.’
“ You can pull, then,” retorted the special-
pleader. “A distance of 35 miles?’ mildly sug-
gested the second speaker—“ it would necessitate
campirg out, madam.” “Camping out” under
the circumstances did not at all disconcert the
damsels, who only itched to reach their goal re-
gardless of Mrs. Grundy. One of the campars-out,
however (not unconnected with the Civil Service),
arose in the awful maiesty of outraged innocence,
and, bowing low, said ponderously, “Madam, we
have wives and families in Sydney.” That saved
them, and they beat a hasty retreat, leaving the
b liever in latter-day “chivalry and knightly
courtesy ” a hopeless cynic.
Information wanted. Dr. Creed, M.L.C.,
having an awkward penchant tor asking military
conundrums, may derive some amusement by
cornering Salomons on the follow.ng matters :
1. How many, and what are the names, of the
officers in the N S. W. Torpedo C-rps who have
passed the different examinations which are neces-
sary (or generally supposed te be necessary) to
qualify them for their military duties ? 2. Hotv
THE NECESSARIES OF LORDLY EXISTENCE.
COLONIAL FRIEND (at P. and O. Wharf , Sydney): “HELLO, YOUR EXCELLENCY,
WHAT'S THIS COMING OFF THE BOAT? ANYTHING CONSIGNED TO YOUR
LORDSHIP!”
CARINGTON (yownisyly): “YA—A—S, IT'S AN OLD ENGLISH FRIEND OF MINE—
MONTMORENCI WARWICK, OF THE GUARDS, DONTCHERKNOW. FELLER
MUST HAVE SOMETHING DECENT TO TALK TO IN THIS BEASTLY
COUNTRY.”
many, and what are the names, of the officers in
the Torpedo Corps who have not done so 1 These
replies may, of course, be objected to on the
ground that they will give Parkes away too
cheaply to Bismarck.
From Melbourne D.T. : “ Blacksmiths.—
Society men out of employment send to F. G.
Hartley, sec.” Has the bottom fallen out of
Victorian sassiety and left the dear creatures
without an occupation ?
It is significant that in tome hundred
messages and letters of condolence sent lo Mrs.
Logan, the widow of the eminent U.S. senator
who lately died, only two, it is said, made any
allusion to the Supreme Being or the consolations
of religion. “ Fifty years ago,” says the Wash-
ington Post, “ it would have been impotsible for
such omissions to have occurred, and a century
since a message of condolence that lacked the re-
ligious element would have been a mockery.”
At St. Matthew’s Church, Manly, by the
Rev. R. Willis, assisted by the Rev. H. Wallace
Mort, Mr. William B. Mitchell (son of Mr Mit-
chell, of Etham, Darling Point) was married to
Miss Edith Gore, daughter of the late Mr. J. C.
Gore. The church was beautifully decorated,
arches and horseshoes of white flowers being on
all sides. The handsome bride wore a trained
gown of rich ivory faille, with a petticoat of
striped plush and satin, tulle veil fastened with
diamond ornaments. Commander Cross, of the
Undine, acted as best man, and Lieut, Commander
Pullen as groomsman.
Miss Clauscen, of Melbourne, undertook
to give a Jubilee portrait of the Queen ‘ as she
was 50 years ago,” in some tableaux vivants held
at Colling wood Town Hall. Miss Clauscen is
the daughter of the Mayor of Fitzcoy, K.C.M.
Peg pardon ! Only anticipating.
Touching the threatened Sydney divorce-
suit which was to tickle the ears of the ground-
lings and disturb Government House suckles, the
; Melbourne Herald's correspondent telegraphed,
“ For the present the expose will not be made, as
the husband has decided to consider ‘honors
I easy.’ ” A better term would be “ virtues easy.”
* *
Mr. Foiayth, ex-member for South Sydney,
held a small jubilee of his own in Sydney Town
Hall on the evening of 25th April, prior to his de-
parture for China and Japan A large quantity
of high-priced nourishment was provided, and
Mayor Riley occupied the cha r. The proceed-
ings were very successful, and nothing happened
to bring a blush to the most modest cheek.
* « *
On Sunday, previous to Admiral Tryon’s
departure for Melbourne, Lord and Lady Caring-
ton, with a party from Government House, at-
tended, divine service on board H.M.S. Nelson,
after which His Excellency and Lady Carington
drove to the Redfern Station to wish
bon voyage.
Broken Hill (N.S. W.) is going to have a
subscription ball in aid of the local hospital. The
individual who drew up the invitations states the
position thus :
“ It is proposed to hold a ball in aid of the above in-
stitution on May 2nd, when the pleasure of your company,
and any ladies you may choose to bring, is requested."
This is a comprehensive chance for the washer-
lady and the char-peeress, and we would advise
them to take advantage of it, for it may never
occur again. Also it is a chance for a good many
other ladies of different sorts.
There was a quiet wedding at All Saints’
Cathedral, Bathurst, on April 19, when Miss
Matthews, only daughter of Mr. George Matthews,
was married to Mr. W. C. Richardson. The
bride wore a dress of ivory satin trimmed with
lace caught here and there with pearl horseshoes.
The Misses Emily, Eva, and Florrie Richardson
acted as bridesmaids.
I A plain and fancy dress ball was held in
( the School of Arts, Brewarrina, N.S.W., on tho
18th April, the proceeds going to swell the Bulli
Relief Fund. There was a large attendance.
Among the ladies “ Good Luck,” “ Mother Hub,,
bard," and “ Grace Darling,” were conspicuous.
At Christ Church, Enmore, a very pretty
wedding was solemnised on Wednesday the 20th
inst., when Miss Isabel Wallis, of Stanmore, was
united to Mr. Pring Roberts, son of the Hod. D. F.
Roberts, M.L.C., of Brisbane. The bride wore a
tailor-made gown and a little velvet bonnet, and
was followed by four bridesmaids.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. Hennessy, of Glendalougb,
Burwood, gave a very pleasant dance on the 19th.
Ajril. There were 60 guests present.
A duly-summoned juryman, at Mary-
borough (Vic.), sent his brother to court lo say
that he could not attend as he was being married,
on that day. The judge, considering that two
misfortunes should not be heaped upon a man on
one day, excused him at once.
The Lord Brassey Reception Committee
are making all due preparations for welcoming
the coming visitor. There are no particular
points about Lord Brassey that his visit should
be made even a semi-public affair, and there
would probably be very little fuss made about
him if he were not rich and did not bear a title.
And although he is a lord, ho will probably have
brains enough to measure up the gushers.
Here is a true yarn : Some years ago, in
a Queensland country township lived an honest
woman of the early settler type, who had a rather
good-looking daughter of whom she was im-
mensely proud. But t usie had one defect—the
“ native's ear mark ” in all its luxuriance ! They
were at a ball of the usual bush sort, and Mrs.
sat with other dowagers watching the
dancers. She was loud in praise of her Susie,
who, she said, was the best-looking girl in the
district, &c., &c. Just at this point, Susie, in her
partner’s arms, gyrated to the spot where her
mother sat Her hair was somewhat disarranged,
and as she passed, Mrs. called out with pain-
ful distinetness, “ Susie, you hussy, tuck in them
d — d big lugs of yours ; everybody can sec ’em !”
Sir Henry Loch and the Misses Loch
witnessed such a painful sight at the Melbourne
Societies’ Gardens on Eight Hours’ Day. Just as
the distinguished ones graciously entered the
running enclosure a truculent nigger “ set about”
a policeman, in full view of vice-royalty Tho
nig., kicking and cursing, was carried away by a
loyal crowd, but the incident so affected Sir Henry
aLd the young ladies that they shortly withdrew.
After that, yerknow, Government House opinion
of all people who work hard for a living is lower
than ever. It was never high, yerknow. Thanks-
givings were subsequently offered up in the
“ best ” Melbourne houses for dear Lady Loch’s
merciful deliverance from this severe trial.
* * •
The Red Gauntlet, which has just arrived
in Sydney from Melbourne, is a yacht with a
history. It was in her that Mr. and Mrs. Langtry
made their wedding-trip, long before Wales and
the rest of the social white elephants of London
had eaten the Jersey Lily into a state of active
insolvency, and the same vessel afterwards carried
the rich and ill-fated Mr. Balfour, who is still
remembered in Sydney Her present level-headed
owner follows the prosaic calling of a contractor,
and his name isn’t Smith —it’s Miller.
Our noble friends, Earl Dudley and Lord
Decrhurst, sailed from Adelaide last Thursday,
per P. and O. steamer Ballaarat. Admiral Tryon
accompanies them. Meanwhile Earl Dudley’s
“yot” will get home the best jway it can. So
will Lord Deerhurst.
* # *
An advertisement picture of a gigantic
bottle of stout is painted on the hoarding in front
of Melbourne Cathedral, now a-building. Bishop
Goe is already talking of sending round the hat
for a cool £20,000 required to complete the sacred
edifice by August 1888. As a rigid abstainer, Goo
will make a fervent appeal to his teetotal friends
to assist him in removing that hatefnl bottle.
Chief Justice Way, of South Australia,
received a nasty shock to the constitution last
week. He waited at the station, at Adelaide, to
receive Earl Dudley, Lord Sandhurst, Admiral
Tryon, and s'me inferior cream, per express from
Melbourne. When the nobility’s luggage was
turned out of the van, no railway myrmidon
volunteered to hump it, so after one or two baw-
haws, Lo r d Sandhurst picked up two bags with
his own fair hands and walked off. For a few
seconds the poor Chief Justice was like one in a
dream. Then he rushed after his noble friend,
shouting, “ No, no, my lord, we won’t allow
this 1” The incident has left the Justice in a sad,
sad way.
Here is a true story of magnanimity from
Victoria. Pat and Mick had been schoolfellows
ever so many years ago: where, it does not
matter. They both came to Australia, and Mick,
having accumulated a fortune in the lambing-
down business, one fine day saw from his country
house a wretched object with a swag coming
across the lawn. Sure enough it was Patrick.
Now, of course you expect something grand was
done for the poor broken-down miner by his
old chum and schoolfellow. But that was hardly
the case. “ What did he do for you, Pat ?" asked
a man after the interview'. “ Sure, a great deal,"
said Pat; “he offered me a shilling a day to dig
the garden—nothing to be paid when it rained !"
They are both dead now, and one is as well off
as the other.
* * *
He was a smart fellow at cricket—but at
law he wasn’t a don. When he went up one day
for examination for admission as a solicitor, one of
the examiner’s questions was rather a poser.
“ What would you do,” it ran, “ if a man came
to you,” &c., &c.—going into details which were
sufficient to turn one’s hair gray. But he was
equal to the occasion. He simply answered, “ I
should take counsel’s opinion, and he prssed
flying. This is a true story, and is almost equal
to the well-known one when the candidate for
legal honours was a-ked, “ What is the first thing
to do when bringing an action?” “ Get some
money on account ” was the ingenuous reply. He
also was passed into the profession at once.


A new terror is added to life. Senor
Carulia, of Madrid, has just completed a rhjmed
version of the Bible in 260,000 verses. Louglas
Sladen is grappling with the Spanish language,
with a view te publishing a translation.
The latest thing in larrikinism has just
shown it-elf in Melbourne, and it consists of five
or more roughs camping with liquor upon a man’s
doorstep and fighting Paterfamilias when he
comes home to lunch or dinner. Such a proceed-
ing is nearly up to the level of one of the practical
jokes of the aristocracy, but it must be doosid
annoying to a min on an empty stomach, dont
cherknow.
The collection at the installation service of
Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, came up to just £3B 2s.
lid. This is about half what the takings come
to at a second-class Minstrel entertainment in a
not too prosperous town. The “Te Deum” was
sung to a new setting by a Ballarat musical
genius. A Melbourne paper says it would have
emptied any secular hall in the city before its
elose. Poor Bishop Goe no doubt wished himself
back in Bloomsbury.
* * *
A series of private halls is starting at
Needs' rooms, Sydney, the flist coming off on
Tuesday, 3rd May. Mr. W. T. Cunningham, of
the Tourist Bureau, acts as honorary secretary.
The Tall in caste of valentines is shown by
the British Post Office returns. Last year 215,000
valentines passed through the office ; this year
there were only 117,000.
The Newtown Private Socials held their
first danoe at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, on
the 22nd April. Thero was a good attendance,
and everything passed off satisfactorily.
How was it that, at the supper of the fare-
well ball given to Admiral Tryon, at Sydney Town
Hall, Mr. S. A. Joseph arose and proposed the
health of the Admiral 1 In the absence of any
other arrangement, was not that task a privilege
belonging to the Mayor, who was present 1
The story goes that a ceitain old salt was
to have proposed the toast in question, and that
he had written out a speech and sent acopy there-
of to the Admiral in order that the la*ter might
have an opportunity of deliberately framing a
reply. But this arrangement was utterly upset
by the intervention of Mr. Joseph, whose oration
was chiefly composed of “Bon voyage! Bon
voyage /”
Apropot of the ball costumes worn by a
recent titled lady visitor to the Government
Houses of Australia, people are saying that they
never in all their lives saw anything so low.
The latest craze in “ Amurican sassiety ”
is called the donkey party. An outline of the
lowly ass is drawn upon the wall, the guests are
blindfolded in turn, provided with an extempore
caudal appendage and a pin, and turned round
three times, the fun being to find the ass, and fix
the tail just where tails are usually located. If
you can’t do it you have to stand on your head for
a flxedperiod, or kiss the fattest worn an in the com
pany, or something equally dire. What larks
they might have in the ’Ouse with this innocent
little game ! There’d be no trouble in finding the
ass, and therefore no penalties. The blindfolded
one would just have to make a bald-headed dash
for the ruck, grab the nearest M P., and hook on
the fly-disperser.
* * *
In a village near Birmingham (Eng.), not
long ago, the Bishop of the diocese paid a visit to
the church. Prior to his arrival the Sunday col-
lections were always made at the door. On this
oecasion, however, the parson determined to do a
good stroke by passing round the plates. Beckon-
ing the clerk, as his lordship was ascending the
pulpit, the minister told him to fetch two silver
salvers from the rectory. The housemaid im-
agined that the e’ergy wanted refreshments, and
piled the salvers with biscuits which the clerk
took to the church, and after marching down the
aisle offered them to the Bishop remarking that
none of the congregation would have any. His
Lordship and the parson were quoting strong
Scripture for a while afterwards.
A modest lie is usually preferred to the
naked truth.
Gladstone received £250 for his Locksley
Hall article i* the Nineteenth Century.
Cremation at Milan only costs £2. The
work is done with gas. “ With those three little
jets a head is reduced to ashes in five minutes,”
said a guide to a recent visitor. From twelve to
fifteen bodies are burnt daily. Cremation is
especially in request by Garibaldians, whose
famous ch'ef had particularly requested to be
burnt.
The very latest wrinkle. In a certain
town of N.S.W. a prominent citizen managed
to run a long score. The poor storekeeper said
he was willing to accept a pro. note (approved, of
course), for the amount. Debtor : “ No, Mr. ,
but if you like to draw a note in your own favour
for what I owe, I have no objection to endorse it 1 ’
The ledger still shows a debit.
At a recent matinee two “chorus-ladies ”
were luxuriating in a couple of stalls and chatting
about some too-persistent youthful admirers,
whom they stigmatised as “calves.” “Calves
they are,” acquiesced the other, “ and our prey of
rights.” “Why so ?” asked the first “ It’s tit
for tat, you goose : don’t these calves devour our
calves from tbeir stalls? Surely, then, it’s only
fair that we should devour them in turn.” At
this point, a well-known comedian in the n»xt
row, evidently having a knowledge of the damsels,
leant over, and said with a grin : Devour your
calvee, do they, my dears? Then that’s why so
many of you have been reduced to wearing false
ones 1”
A great deal more money will ba urgently
needed on behalf of the widows and orphans of
the eighty odd miners killed in the terrible Bulli
(N.S.W.) explosion. Most of the ill-fated men
were married, they had just resumed work after
a six months’ strike, in which they had lost all,
and they leave sorrowing widows and helpless
ahildron numbering together about two hundred.
And, painfully sad as it is to relate, that large
total will be increased within the next few months
by about thirty orphans yet unborn. In consider-
ing the sad position of these fifty widows, it must
be borne in mind that the earnings of their fifty
dead husbands, at the low average of £2 per
week, would amount to a total of £5200 a year,
£15,600 for three years, £26,000 for five years, or
£52'000 for ten years. All these earnings have
been lost to them in a moment, and now they and
their 150 orphan children are absolutely de-
pendent upon the public for support. Subscrip-
tions should be sent without delay to the Mayor
of Sydney or the Mayor of Wollongong.
WOMAN ITEMS,
A girl wrote a six-page letter to a friend, !
and added in a postscript, “ You’ll see by my
signature I’m spliced.”
A niece of Mrs. Tom Thumb recently be-
came the mother of a healthy so a weighing 7 Albs.
Her husband is a six-footer.
In England and Wales there are nearly a
million more females than males. This accounts
for the result of the la3t general election.
There is no truth in the saying, “ Like
father, like son.” Some girls like the son first-
rate, but they cordially hate the old man.
John Dalton has shot himself in Mel-
bourne. Yet John ussd to say he never had time
to get married. He must have changed his mind
since.
Women have a great hatred of cows, but
the only way they can vent their revenge is by
breaking down the kitchen-table when pounding
the beef.
Mrs. Food, for carrying drink on board
H.M.S. Nelson, has- rank injustice !—been fined
£3 or one month’s imprisonment. Food and drink
should always go together.
He was in the observatory, and when they
met the other day she gushingly asked him “how
he was 1 ” His reply was characteristic : “ Fair
with light and variable winds,” he said.
Primrose Dame (with a sweet J ubilee
smile): “ I’m sure you’d like to give something
towards the Queen’s Jubilee.” Democratic Old
Woman: “ No, not now. Perhaps I will next
time.”
An English scientist is “ putting on
frills” because he has just discovered a sure
method of removing moustaches from ladies’ lips.
We knew it away back as far as A. D. 1. All
you have to do is to is to pull the man away.
THE INFAMY OF A NAME.
NEWLY-MARRIED WIFE (looking over her husband's bachelor-album): “CHARLES,
DEAR, WHOSE PORTRAIT IS THIS?”
CHARLES (glibly): “THAT’S BROWN, AN OLD SCBOOL-CHUM OF MINE.”
SHE: “AND THIS?”
CHARLES: “OH, THATS MY AUNT EMILY.”
SHE (coming to something which strongly suggests the ballet): “BUT WHO’S THIS?”
CHARLES (hesitatingly, this time): “OH, THAT’S—MRS., AH—YES, THAT’S MRS.—AH—
SMITH.”
SHE: “YES. I THOUGHT SO. SHE LOOKS LIKE IT.”
They were on the honeymoon. “Darling,”
she said, “why did you choose me?’ “I saw
you sweeping the floor once.” “Then you
chose me because I did not scorn the broom ?”
“ No, but because you could not handle it we'l.”
A Scotch divine lately wanted to compli-
ment the pretty Princess Victoria of Teck, who
opened a bazaar for him, so he expressed a
wooden-headed hope that the lady “ would soon
follow on the broad lines of her mother.” The
Duchess (who i#of flour-bag proportions and
weighs Heaven knows how many stone) giggled.
“Stella” (S.M.H.) tells us, in re the
Nice earthquake shocks, “ one gentleman reached
the Grand Hotel of this city in his dressing-gown,
with literally nothing but his white sunshade.”
A pretty figure he must have cut pranciDg up the
Boulevard in a flowered gown and a white
paraiol I! We hope Parse appreciated him— we
should.
The following is the best news we have
heard for a long time. A British court has just de-
cided that a husband cannot be compelled to pay
for the shampooiDg of his wife, and anybody who
rubs the lady down on credit must therefore take
the oonsequences. Our wife and all our feminine
relatives may now go and be shampooed until all
is blue.
Marriage advertisement from the Mel-
bourne papers: ‘ ‘ Coall —Binn, the son—of —Coall,
Esq., &c., to the daughter of Binn, Esq., &c.,
&c." A verse :
A thing appropriate we see
This combination in—
For Binn should surely have her Coall,
As Coall should have his Binn!
The story goes that a sprightly young
thing playing in the pantomime at Brighton
(Eng.) received £lOO under unconventional cir-
cumstances. A rich male resident first sent her
£5O, and later on his wife put in her £5O just to
show there was no animosity. This is the first
time on record that one woman has come for-
ward with such a substantial mark of esteem for
another woman’s understandings.
Miss Van Zandt, one of the wealthiest
heiresses of Chicago, has left her home in order
to be married by proxy to August Spies, an
anarchist rioter who is under sentence of death.
Ste is very beautiful, and only 19 years of age.
Spies, on the other hand, is an elderly, ugly
Nihilist, with a very good show of being hanged
He was represented at the altar by his brother,
who is not in the hanging business, and is not so
good a shot with a bomb as the lucky August.
Here is a line for lovely woman, and for
1 lovely woman’s manageress, the gifted “ Hum-
ming Bee” of the Sydney D.T., who, to idealise
the female form divine, advises the wearing of
“ inflated bust improvers.” Dr. Dio Lewis says :
“ The present fashion of wearing large pads upon
the breasts almost entirely destroj s them. The
pressure and heat produce absorption, and the
plump, healthy glands of the young girl become,
after five years of fashionable padding, empty and
pendant.
Mummer-worship has made great strides
in New York. An English actor over lately gave
ai natinee reading to a small party of ladies at the
Lyceum Theatre. When it was ever, a committee
of the fair listeners, headed by a married lady,
well known in Now York, presented the actor
with a pair of garters, a pink how, and a few
! other trifles. This is a distinct advance on the
service of plate or jewelled pin, remarks an
English paper, There is no chance of the re-
cipient disposing of the gift.
Mrs. Elizabeth Berry has just been hanged
at Oldham Eng., for poisoning -her child and her
mother to obtain insurance-money. When inter-
viewed in the condemned cell she said :—“ How
can people invent such a paltry motive for so
great a crime? I have very little hope of a
reprieve, and when the time comes for me to
accompany my namesake (the executioner) to the
scaffold I shall be ready. I feel as Longfellow
describes Resignation in his beautiful poem of that
name.” She then read the poem in question in an
impressive manner, and continued : “ I look upon
transition from this world as stepping into a train
! from which I shall alight shortly in a far more
beautiful and better place.”
Mr. Sidney Wilmer, of Manchester
(Eng.), has been let in for £5O all through a piece
of platonic affection. He regarded Mrs. SkeltOD,
of the same city, with a cold and distant admira-
tion, and stayed at her house two nights in the
absence of her husband. One day, however, he
called under the impression (according to his own
account) that the lady was dead, and he was just
j taking a seat by her bedside and telling her how
glad he was to find thatshe wasstillalive when Mr.
Skelton came in at the front door. Sidney spent
the next four hours locked up in a cold attic and
not daring to cough, and then, on ihe husband
going out to church, he sneaked down again. He
had hardly time to cough, however, when
Skelton again returned, and he had, with the aid
of an obliging female domestic, to dodge out by
the back door. The jury, composed probably of
twelve louts with British instincts, did not take the
platonic view of things after this, and Wilmer
had to pay £5O and costs. Calm politeness is
almost as costly as passionate affection at times.
In old Jewish times, if a lady was making
broth for dinner and left it just one moment to go
out and smack the little patriarch who was squal-
ling at the door of the tent, and the dinner got
burnt, her husband could divorce her, and, owing
to this and amultilude of oiner things, the Hebraic
female had to mind her eye. In N.Z. however,
ideas on divorce seem now to be nearly as far-
reaching as under the Jewish theocracy. Mrs.
Rowe has just been suing for a separation because
Mr. Rowe struck one of the children some time
last year—he only struck the offspring once, it
would appear, and even then he didn’t leave a
mark —and both she and her lawyer seem to be
surprised that she didn’t get what she wanted.
The judge used rather powerful language on this
occasion, and implied that her stupidity was cal-
culated to shame a pawnbroker out of his shop, so
Mr. Rowe may evidently go home and thrash the
rest of the rising family if he likes. This sort of
experience, however, is calculated to make a hus-
band’s hair grow thin on top, and after one or two
such adventures any ordinal y man might almost be
excused if he p-oceededto cast his wife’s horo-
scope with the wood-axe.
“The Queen’s last Drawing Room” says
a London writer, “should remain notable lor
reasons ether than that it was the first function of
the kind of the Jubilee year. It deserves to be-
come historic by reason of the crowd of shivering,
nervous debutantes it brought together, and for
the more than usual indecent boldness of the old-
stagers in attendance on them. The long line of
waiting carriages in the Mall presented a vast
exhibition of flesh— flesh fresh and plump and
firm looking, flesh overloaded with fat, flesh
yellow and withered and wrinkled, flesh with its
imperfections covered as far as possible with per-
fumed cosmetics and shells of enamel, flesh of all
kinds, everywhere. Semi-nudity, demanded by
the etiquette of ‘the most moral Court of Europe’
and carried out under the Superintendence of a
Lord Chamberlain, who is only prudish when he
beholds a burlesque actress's legs, was triumphant.
The air might bite shrewdly, but wraps were not
resorted to. The women sat in their carriages,
and suffered not only iheir own sex, but male
loafers, coarse in thought and expression, to gloat
over them. One is temp ed to propose, as a
Jubilee suggest lod, that the Drawing Room
dresses be lengthened above and shortened below.
It is only lately that ladies have attempted to kill
time while making their tedious progress to Rer
Maiesty’s Drawing Rooms. Three hours have to
be consumed. And the question has at last pre*
sen ted itself how to best consume them. Somo
solutions were offered by the occupants of sundry
carriages the other day. One fine lady was
absorbed in Miss Braddon’s latest noyel, and
another, a magnificent dowager, was searching
the advertisement columns of the Christian
World— perhaps for a “plain cook.” Yet
another, a woman with a beautiful face, who
wore a concealing wrap, had brought with her
some knit ting. A half-finished grey woollen sock
hung from the swiftly moving needles, and the
ball of worsted nestled amid the folds of her Court
train. That woman was merely performing a
duty imposed by her social position in attending
the Drawing Room ; her presence there was not
of choice By far the most exciting kill-time had
been conceived and was being carried out by three
ladies who occupied one carriage. Armed with a
pack of cards, they defied ennui and cut and
dealt, and played and laughed, oblivious of the
fact that the blinds of their carriage, although
drawn, did not provide perfect concealment from
the eyes of the curious. “Go Nap, missus 1”
yelled a facetious and precocious errand-boy with
his eye to a corner of the carriago window. We
could only imagine the consternation of those
three merry matrons at that sudden piece of
gratuitous advice.”
Ciedidimus Jovem Regnare.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Carve us a god, 0 Sculptor, and let It be graven
fair ;
Pearls of the deep and gems of the mine shall pay
thee for thy care,
And see thou body forth its form in guise and
aspect meet,
That tae sons of earth may gather round and wor-
ship at its feet.
And what may be the semblance, 0 Son, of this
god of thine ?
Hath it the stately gait and mien of the Paphian
Queen divine ?
Glows its face with the godlike-grace of the
Master of the Lyre,
Or wields its hand the levin-brand—dread Jove’s
Olympian fire ?
Away with thine ancitnt fables and mjths of
bui ied eld!
Never hath earth since primal birth so dread a
lord beheld,
A mightier he than all old gods that ever wielded
sway
From dim Cimmeria’s furthest bounds to botders
of Cathay.
Low bend the votaries of his fane on every
Western hill,
The furthest North and dimmest East obey his
sovran will,
The breezes bland of Southern land, his banner
proud UDfold
And raise the anthems of our lord—our lord, the
God of Gold.
For him the warrior girds the sword, the priest
uplifts the psalm,
Howe’er they prate of pious toil and the meed of
victor palm,
Howe’er they gloze of the holy place, of the altars
where they kneel,
Of life and might for God and right, in the clash
of battle-steel.
Though wide the gentle Cross may wave, the
snowy Crescent beam
By many a mount of storied fame and many a
silvery stream ;
Full well ye wot the sacred bounds that meek de-
votees hold,
May yet contain in their wide domain the lovers
of mighty Gold.
Swells high the note of Mammon-praise from
many a sunless mine,
The chorus rings from myriad threats across old
Ocean's brine,
Pale Europe’s son lifts up his voice and Afric's
swarthy child,
And far responsive echoes rise o'er Asian desert
wild.
Then make an image of our god—employ thine
utmost skill.
And wealth and spoil for cunning toil shall follow
at thy will;
Lift proudly lorth his stately form and let him
take his stand
In the proud confine of the stateliest shrine we
boast in all our land.
And raise the psean, swell the ptean, lift the notes
on high.
Let your songs, O Sons of Mammon, rend the very
sky I
And when your god be bodied forth in guise and
aspect meet,
Then gather round, O worms of earth, and wor-
ship at its feet.


The brand of Egyptian cigarettes gotten
up by John Noake are comme il faut; we are
smoking one as we write,*
11 you feel down-hearted, and want things
Lu “>ellow up and assume a general couleur de
appearance, try a bottle of Dalbeck’s chain-
We know its efficacy from experience.*
The Keferee
Sydney Agricultural Society has offered
the princely sum of a fiver for tho best jumper at
the show. Last year about the tenth-best horse
secured the prize.
The N.S.W. intercolonial eight-oar race
authorities are still doing their best to render de-
feat certain for their colony. George Robertson,
who just now is in fine trim, and should be
amongst Ihe first picked, has been thrown out.
Mr. Myers has been decided upon as coach and
Mr. Donovan as coxswain during practice, but
why the ciew should be asked to cart around a
heavy coxswain is a mystery.
The coming winter promises the advent
in Australia of a team of American baseballers.
Hitherto the game has not gone down in the
country, but we have Eeen it far from its best,
Hanlan and Gaudaur row three miles with
a turn on May 30 lor £5OO aside and the cham-
pionship of America.
* * *
A N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association
has been formed. As it will not undertake to
govern amateur boxing, it should have been
named the Amateur Pedestrian Association. The
greed of the Association Ground people killed the
beet Sydney amateur pedestrian clubs, yet the
N.S.W. Association begins by giviig the paid
A.G. secretary a Eeat on its committee !
* * *
The Baron is again first favourite for tho
English Derby, having die placed Florentine. Ilis
price a late wire quotes as 5 to 2.
Hon. Jas. White won £T5,000 iu stakes
last year, and has gone £5B tetter this year
already. Only two English owners have patsed
these totals during the corresponding period.
The Davis’ Sculling Handicap proved a
big frost, Wulf (a young German, by the way),
Davis, and Anderson were lelt in the final; and
it looked a moral for Davis with bis ten seconds
stert. By the time Wulf had started in his
clumsy style, Davis had a big lead, but Wulf fairly
rowed him down and finished an easy winner in
under 25 minutes. Anderson was clean out of it,
The Matterson Bros, were too severely' handi-
capped to win the preliminary heats.
“Professor” Jackson did some rtally
terrific work on Saturday night, w hen he faced
O’Brien, of Melbourne, in a six round “ knock-
out.” The Professor soon cornered his man whom
he knocked down with great regularity until
O’Brien’s seconds cried a go. The affair was a
tolerably brutal exhibition. Giant as Jackson ip,
he is as light on his feet and fights with the
rapidity of a nine-stone lad. After Saturday’s
show it is hard to surmise w here he can get on
another job in Australia.
Next Saturday evening Costello, from
America, and M’Carthy box to a finish. M’Carthy
is a good man, but in meeting Costello he stems
not only outweighted, but outclassed.
Melbourne will probably send a crew to
compete for the £4O prize offered for a foor-car
race in September by the Sydney Mercantile
Rowing Club.
Little “ Pluto,” the coloured lad, beat one
Ince (to whom he gave 181 b. weight) in a bare-
knuckle tight for a tenner, at Flemington (Melb.)
Pluto got punished severely for 11 rounds, when
he took the lead, and held till the 46th round,
when Ince gave in. Pluto was thrown 42 times
out of the 46 roundp.
The Sydney cricket season of 1880-7 (so
far as senior cricket is concerned) was brought to
a close on Saturday by the conclusion of the
Carlton-Belvidere match, about the only interest-
ing club contest played during the season. With
only 60 runs to get on the last day, and eight
wickets to fall, the Belvideres thought it all over
except the cheering, but 1 urner, who was in his
best form, upset the certainty by capturing eight
wickets for six runs, the Carltons eventually win-
ning by 30 runs, and proving themselves the
champion club. Turner’s performance with the
ball was a fitting conclusion to his brilliant suc-
cesses during the past few months.
* • »
There’s an almighty kind of English horse
in India now, imported to Lord Beresford’s order,
named Metal, lie la Poer B. thinks so much of
him that, according to Mr. E. Weekes, the Indian
buyer lately in Sydney, he intends to make a bid
for the next Melbourne Cup. All the Indian
‘•coursers” proved a soft thing for Metal until
Despot put him down in the Viceroy’s Cup, but
that does not stamp him counterfeit, as none of us
ever knew how good Despot really was. Being
foaled north of the line, he will be entitled to a
71b. allowance, and should be handicapped at 7st.
or thereabouts.
* # *
Jack Molloy appears to have a double 1
Anvway. while he was quietly officiating at
Foley’s “ it,” under the name of “ J. Molloy, of
Sydney," fought a battle in Dowdridge’s Athletic
Hall, with one Starlight, fora £2O purse—and got
badly beaten. Then the “ Sydneyite ” took up a
collection. Wonder whether the real Molloy felt
that “ neat left-hander on the jaw” or found “the
collection ” in his breeches-pocket when he awoke
next morning ?
Hutchens has written to an English sport-
ing paper stating that he is disgusted with Aus-
tralia. The ped. omits to mention whether
Australia is disgusted with Hutchens.
Barefaced welshing is carried on at bicycle-
meetings on Melbourne Cricket Club ground, since
betting was prohibited. It is hinted that the
police stand in. While they “caution” backers
who are detected in the act of staking money, the
spurious bookmakers quietly slope.
A six days’ wobble (12 hours a day) at the
London Aqua*iurn, was won by G. Littlewood,
who covered 403 miles. There is not much money
in the game now.
* * *
As we long since saw with our mind's eye,
the Centennial Stakes of £5OOO. proposed by the
Rrsehill (N.S.W.) Racing Club, has gone buDg.
• • •
Jem Stewart is to have an opportunity of
distinguishing himself on May 28th, when Peter
Newton meets the “ Chamj ion of Scotland ” for
£5O aside. According to articles, the men are to
put in eight rounds, “ scientific boxing,” at a
Melbourne hall. It is satisfactory to know that
the work will nectssarily be scientific and to be
hoped that the affair will be a draw, without end-
ing in one.
Cannon threatened to call himself “ Cham-
pion Graeco-Roman Wrestler of the World ” unless
Connor covered his deposit for another match,
and the latter obliged. To anyone who saw the
men try conclusions in Melbourne it was evident
that Connor can keep the title against Cannon if
he chooses. And though the world is a large
place, he is probably champion of the few it con-
tains who devote their whole time and attention
to such a miserable branch of business as is
Graeco-Roman wrestling. The one genius at it
—Clarence Whistler—had no other ambition but
to drink champagne against time, and then chaw
up the glass? s.
* * *
We can learn something from England,
after all. The Duke of Beaufort has proposed!—
” That Messrs Weatherby and clerks of the course who
receive the nommatiens for handicaps shall neither publish
them nor inform anyone of the names of the horres entered '
that they shall merely give the number ef entries, and that
the names be not revealed until the weights come out.”
If this rule were adopted here, it would be a
death-blow to the forestalling game, and owners
would have no excuse for knocking a favourite
out after the second bell hid sounded. In some
cases, however, dumb secretaries would be re-
quired, and even they would have to be kept
down a well until the business was over.
* * *
It appears that at last Cairns (N.Q.)race
meeting Mr. M’Donald’s horse Cadmus won a
cup, the advertised value of which was £5O.
When settling-night rolled round, M Donald
refused to accept the Cup presented, on the
ground that it was not worth half the advertised
value, and he sued the Club with the result that
he got a verdict of £2O in audition to the cup, the
Club having the privilege of paying all the costs
of the action. Now’s the time, therefore, for our
successful athletes to haul their pewter mugs,
copper coffee-pots, and tin toast-racks off their
sideboards, and supply themselves with enough
cash for their winter beer by “ taking the law ” on
those generous sports who rang in bogus trophies
on them.
More About the Fount of Honour.
The Bulletin committed an egregious blunder
last week in speaking of the qualifications con-
sidered necessary by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty and her councillors in the recipient of
any of the titles that are now being lavishly con-
ferred on colonial “gentlemen.” The mistake
consists in the statement that a man must be
“ decently sober” in order to be eligible as a com-
panion or knight of St. Michael and St. George.
This statement, it appears, has caused no end of
mental agony to numerous deserving Australian
politicians and Town Hall grog sellers, who
naturally felt themselves cut off from all hope of
wearing a decoration in the circumstances alleged.
But let these gentry be of good cheer. Sobriety
is not an essential qualification in candidates for
these coveted titles. The veriest old toper has as
good a chance of becoming a K.C M.G. as the
most thoroughgoing teetotallar ; and, in fact,
a better chance on the whole. An inspection of
the noses owned by those on whom these
titles have been bestowed certainly leads
to the conclusion that, for whatever rea-
sons they were selected for the distinc-
tion, the temperate use of alcoholic stimulants
was not in the list. But the case is proved beyond
all doubt or question by a well-authenticated ac-
count of the performances of an Australian Prime
Minister a few nights previous to his being made
something or other in connection with those two
pro-colonial saints. This P.M. was in London on
official business, and the Secretary of State for
the Colonies conceived it his duty to in-
vite the distinguished visitor to dinner—to
be met by several other distinguished men.
Well, the P.M. began very early in the
morning of the festive day to peg away
with brandies and soda, as was his wont ;
and by the time the dining hour approached he
was what sailors call “three sheets in the wind.”
The A gent-General, who was to have accompanied
him, endeavoured to dissuade keeping
the appointment, but the P.M. swore he’d put his
legs under the Secretary of State’s mahogany or
suffer perdition. And he did, too; and, furthermore,
before the repast was finished, he put the whole of
himself under the table. The host and the sober
guests adjourned at that point, and the P.M. was
laid on the sofa by two footmen, and a basin was
brought so that he might not damage the carpet.
Poor fellow, he suffered terribly; but he was
rewarded. A few weeks after this episode a notice
appeared in the Gazette to the effect that Her
Majesty had been pleased to raise this representa-
tive Australian to the exalted dignity of Knight
of the honourable Order of S.S. Michael and
Georoe. The hearts of countless aspirants for
that high mark of Her Majesty’s favour and ap-
preciation will doubtless be cheered by reading
this narrative of an historical incident. That a
great many should have been cast down last week
by The Bulletin's erroneous averment that a
K.C.M.G. must be “decently sober,” is a matter
for which we have to express sincere regret.
We are told that clergymen are men of peace.
John Bright dispelled the illusion recently, when
he pointed out that there is no class of men of
equal number in England who bring up so many
of their sons to the slaughtering business in the
army and navy as the clergy of the Church of
England. And still they continue to preach, of
course, about “Peaceon Earth” every Christinas.
THIS
WICKED
WORLD
A wall-eyed heathen nainod Tommy lately
sold a confiding Uralla trader Us. 2d. worth of
good solid brass, representing it to be gold. When
Tommy was charged he remarked : “ Suppose yon
no likee gold me take ’em back.” The Mayorof
Cooktown has suggested that a block of granite
be polished and suitably inscribed for presentation
to the Queen in connection with the
Jubilee address. The Mayor should send him-
self Mudgee (N.S.W.) is evidently a power-
fully go-ahead town. John Bax. who resides
down there, has just been appointed caretaker of
the Town Hall, rate-collector, bailiff, messenger,
and inspector of nuisances, all at once, at a com-
bined screw of £5O a year Good news for cocka-
too farmers. Chemists in the French Antilles have
perfected a process for making alcohol from sweet
potatoes. Four gallons can be obtained from 2251 b,
Memo, for Bismarck. The 25-tongunsat Middle-
Head, Sydney, seem to be peculiar and amoozin
pieces of ordnance. Unless a red-hot poker is
put to wake them up they won’t go off Since
Deerhurst passed himself off as a police-officer the
Melbourne larrikins have perfectly revelled in the
idea and have carried it into practice very often....
On St. Patrick’s Day a numberof prisoners confined
at St Helena prison (Q.), sang patriotic songs.
“ For which offence," naively comments a local
paper, “they were severely dealt u-ith!" A
male prisoner in Darlinghuret gaol is said to be
102 years of age. It is comforting to our amour
propre to know he cannot possibly be an Austra-
lian! The Victory and Pandora mine in Sand-
hurst is now the deepest in the colonies, 2012 ft.
Lansell's No. 80 mine comes next with 2041 ft.,
and the great Extended Hustlers third with 2020,'t.
Berrima is to b 3 iepre3ented at the Adelaide
Exhibition. We hope to see Darlingaur3t there
also.
In California a deaf mute has been “ar-
rested for endeavouring to black-mail.” We pre-
sume he did it with a club Mr. Bonnor,
owner of the trotting mare Maud S., has just re-
fused £20,000 for her. He says he wouldn't take
£60,000. The last thing in vanities is for army
doctors who have the rank of “surgeon-general ”
to drop the “ surgeon,’ and become “ General ”
this or that At Millbank, the great English
convict prison, they gave the penitents Holy Com-
munion in the chapel till one of them emptied the
cup at a draught. Now they serve round the
wine wi h a spoon A Berlin professor says the
sun will go out in 17,000,000 years. Let it
A huge air-gun charged with lOOlbj of nitro-
gelatine is the latest outward sign of Christianity
and progress in the United States. This charge
is equal to about 40001bs. of gun-cotton, and its
obituary effects are about the same as those of a
ton of gunpowder. It is calculated that one shot,
if well directed, would make a modern army
look very sick, and send the best part
of a fleet down among the sharks and whales
Don Luis Mazzantini, the greatest of bullfighters,
has started for Havannah. The great man—a
couple of years ago he was a small station-master
with a salary of £4 a mon h —is engaged for
150,000 francs to take part in eight bull-fights,
and to kill a minimum of 64 animals. He takes
his victims with him to Havannah In his
article on General Lee, Wolseley dismisses General
Grant altogether. To him Le 3 and Lincoln are
the only two men concerned whose reputations
will last At Messina (Sicily) a workman killed
his aged parents in order to avoid the trouble of
supporting them. The Government will Bupporl
him shortly—about eight feet, in fact—until his
soul wings itself away to join the rest of the
family Military discipline in Germany is now
so tevere that if a beetle crawls down a soldier’s
back while he is in the ranks he mustn’t even
shudder. He has simply to stand still and hope
that the brute will crawl up again Felbermann,
of London Life, has been convicted of libelling
Dr. Bird in re the Colin Campbell case
Archbishop Corrigan's father kept a liquor-saloon
in Newark, N.J Men often jump at conclu-
sions. For instance, they jump to their feat at
the conclusion of a sermon just before the plate
comes round The latest revised version of that
doggrel ballad, “God Save the Queen,” goes
thus :
” May she be near to us.
F.verless dear to us.
Oftener appear to us,
God save the Queen.”
Last week Mr. Fred. Wolseley (brother
of Lord Wolseley, the well-known shearer of the
Egyptians) exhibited his sheep-shearing machine
at the N.Z. Mercantile Co.’s wool stores in Bridge-
street, Sydney. There were about 300 present,
including some lawyers, who are adepts in the
business, three or four parsons who have little to
learn in it, and a gentleman who has recently
failed in an adroit endeavour to get the wool off
his employes The whole thing was very simple,
notwithstanding the columns of mystery which
the Sydney daily press has contributed to a report
of last Friday’s exhibition. Mr. Fred. Wolseley’s
sheep-shearing machine is merely the ordinary
human hair clipper, or horse-clipper, worked by a
motive power other than the muscles of a man.
The sheep takes a little longer to shear than by
the old process, but there is a saving of from 4oz.
to 12oz. of wool on each sheep shorn by the
machine, and the poor animal is not clipped and
gashed so that its ma wouldn’t know it. The only
disadvantage we see is that the ordinary shearer,
incompetent to work with the new machinery, is
out of the running, and .speoially-trained men are
required. Besides, the small sheep farmer who
cannot afford the machine is placed at a disad-
vantage. All machinery tends to the conservation
of wealth in the hands of the wealthy. The old
story ! “ But the clock of the world moves on.”


c
RITERION
THEATRE.
Sole Lessee and Proprietor . . Mr. John Solomon.
Big; Successes sometimes cause Jealouiy,
BUT OURS IS THE BIGGEST ON RECORD.
So popu'ar has the name become of CARRIE
SWAIN that it is a household word every-
where in Sydney.
3rd WEEK 3rd
T*lE THEATRE STILL CROWDED NIGHTLY',
EVERY EVENING, until further notice, of
CARRIE SWAIN in the MINER’S DAUGHTER
CARRIE SWAIN in the MINER’S DAUGHTER
Supported by the very Best Company ever got
together in Australia.
Doors open at 7 o'clock, curtain rises 8 sharp.
Carriages may be ordered 10.40 p.m.
Box-plan at Nicholson's Music Warehouse.
J. S. SMITH, Business Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), April 28,
NORMA.
FRIDAY, APRIL 29,
FAUST.
Prices—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls.
55,; Stalls, 45.; Family Circle. 2s.
VT EW OPERA HOUSE,
ll Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
AN ACKNOWLEDGED “ FIRST-CLAS3 ”
SUCCESS.
FIRST-CLASS Drama and Scenery.
FIRST-CLASS Acting and Music.
FIRST-CLASS Stage Management.
The Only “FIRST-CLASS” Company in Sydney.
_ including GRATTAN RIGGS,
Miss MAGGIE KNIGHT.
“FIRST-CLASS" THIS EVENING.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipf.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
End Men.—Sam Keenan, Hosea Easton, Johnny
Cowan, Perry Ryan.
Sketch Artists. —Little Ida Heath, The Heaths,
Lillie and William, The Ryans, Perry and Lulu.
Comedians. —Edwin Shipp, Sam Keenan, Hosea
Easton, Johnny Cowan. Alf. James.
Ballad Singers.—Miss James, MissScasi, Miss
Murray, Miss Courtland, Miss Schuler, Miss
Riley, Miss Harvey, Mr Barrington, Mr. Matlock,
Mr. W. Ryan, and Mr. Lawler.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
m THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
OENT. on sums from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Hranoh. Parable on demand. Offices, 4 °ark-st
THOS. HOLDERNESS, Acting Manager.
<r ,
POGOHOSKI,
705 GEORSE-ST.,
Sydney.
CONCERTINAS
ACCORDEONS
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Post
705 GEORGE STREET .
f ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fiagrance.
Three Gold Metals—
PARIS,I67B; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkin.ions Newest Perfumes
FAGR.KA & CYMBIDIUIV
are of rare and peculiar fragrance. nr
t igtotered • be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSO.IS Q’JI’ilNE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurp i-sed for promoting the .jiowth and
imp vi .■ the nppi.iiame o the hair,
e,ia: mtced p, rlectly ham less
ATKIM.-"N- S FLORIDA •VTATER
Dapartment of Public Works,
Sydney, April 26, 1887.1
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Passenger Engines
Construction in Col ony of 25
Goods Engines
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
CHEAP and BEAUTIFUL LIGHT.
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS from
KEE LEY & GO ’S
Spreader Gas Oil Burner,
AND
NINE LIGHTS CIKCILtK BUBXER,
One to twenty-four candle power; the BEST in the World
Guaranteed to produce 1000 ft of Gas at a cost of ss. No
complications. In use in many towns and railways. Seven-
teen towns in England and one in Ireland have adonted this
instead of coal gas.
NOW FIRST INTRODUCED INTO THIS COLONY.
Testimonials from Noblemen and others, from
Corporations in England, Scotland,
Ireland, and Wales.
FULL INSTRUCTIONS WITH EA CH LAMP.
See stock of
D. KEELEY & CO.
PRICE LIST.
1 Branch Bra°s Bracket Lamp ..
With Globe or Shade extra
2 Branch Brass Hanging Lamp..
With Globes or Shades extra
3 Branch Brass Hanging Lamp ..
With Globes or Shade* extra
4 Branch Brass Hanging Lamp ..
With Globes or Shades extra
2 Brauch Brass Table Lamp
With Globes or Shades extra
1 Branch Brass Table Reading Lam p
With Globe or Shade extra
Outside Lamp for Hotel, Store, or Stable, with Re-
flector
Hall Stained Glass Hanging Lamp
Ordinary Strfet Lsmp, fitted with Reservoir and
Spreader Burner.
1 Branch Bracket Lamp, Tin Japanned
With Globe or Shade extra
Kerosene Lamp. Tin Japanned, suitable for Circus,
Mines. Woolwashes, Sugar Factories : no Wicks
or Chinn eys, one burner, equal 10 to 36 Sperm
Candles 0 1
Naptha L mp. Tin Japanned, one burner, equal to
24 Spe.m Candles 0 1
Each burner gives a light equal to 24 Sperm Candles,
can ■ e regulated from 1 to 24 candle power.
Gas Oil per gallon, in cases of 8 gallons each.
Naptha per gallon, in esses of 8 gallons each.
Address-403 PITT-STRKET, SVDNFY; and at 39 ELIZA-
BET H-STRFKT, North Melbourne.
Remittances to accompany all orders.
Address all communications to C. H MATES, Manager.
By carrying out instructions sent by D. KFFLF.Y and CO.
with each lamp, insurance can be effected in all th« colonies
by app'ying either’in person or by letter to W. DOUGLAS
BLACK, Insurance Broker, 80a Pitt-street, Sydney ; or N.Z.
Insurance Co., 79 Collins-street, West, Melbourne.
Please say that you saw this in
The Bulletin.
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT WE WILL ECLIPSE ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A visit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
Newest lnventum
THE
PATENT
DIAGONAL SEAM
COBSET.
Patented in England aDd on the Continent. Will not split in
the seams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Follet says A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cutis very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.
The Owen says“ These Corsetg are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong, and the workmanship all that could b 6 desired.” Caution.— Beware of worthless imitations.
Fverv genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Patent Diagonal feeam Corset, No. lib, in oval.
GcddWdal. New Zealand Exhibition, 1882. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets. London
International Exhibition. 1884 LATEST AWARD ! Gold Medal, International Exhibition, Kdin.
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonics.
p 1
K
*' -G
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFBECTIOKS
Thomass Insham;
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such ns wind and pa n
in the stomach, sick
(headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
theskin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them cany off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to l.e found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy c f the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to ti e nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
eulty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Vi heer.ing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. The}
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of r est
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and. when nog
looted, dangerous complaints. I.et any persi >n troubled
vith any of the above complaints give Bskchau
loura Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in
short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice tr.a
the words *“ Beecham’s Piles, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepare - 1 , only and sold wholesale and retail bj
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d
each.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
BRIEF MENTION.
Benighted Wisdom !
Rough on “rats”—Trades Unions.
Albert the Good—all but the good.
The best blood is to be found in black
puddings.
The world of ton in Sydney —the world of
Caring-ton.
The geographical problem —to “ fetch ”
Wales to Australia.
The only tree that flourishes in N.S.W.
—Parkes s Orange tree.
Woman’s place is in the house. Man’s
also is in the house —the publichouse.
All the European armies are being armed
with repeaters. History is going to repeat itself.
A Ballarat poetess signs herself “ Mona
Marie.” We had almost written “ Mona Mania ”
A speoial Commission has been chosen to
sit on the Bulli mine. It will merely generate
gH9.
Deerhurst has gone home. He was a
chaste young man. though. He was chased out
of Victoria.
Nonpareil looks bigger than pica when you
see your name in the reports of a police-court.—
Murkan print.
Sheep in one part of New Zealand “ are
selling at !>d. each " The week’s supply of mutton
is led home by a string.
The Bulli sufferers need the sympathy,
not of the Queen, which is worth lees, but of the
sovereign which is worth twenty shillings!
If you ride slowly on a bicycle, you over-
turn yourself. If you ride quickly, you overturn
other people. Bicyclists usually prefer the latter.
St. Patrick’s Church, Parramatta, has
been robbed of 2s. 6d. The thief is a mere
amateur or he wouldn't go robbing church poor-
boxes.
From the Bega (N.S.W.) Standard :
“ Wanted, a lad for dairy farm ; one who can
milk preferred, but not absolutely necessary.
Apply, &o.” Of course not 1 Any fool can grate
ch'aik and work a pump-handle !
In the City Police Court (Vic.) a man was
charged with robbing a constable. He only found
a florin in the pockets of the victim. Of course.
The foorcc can’t carry their gold watches and ter-
races of houses about with them.
From the S. M. Herald :—“Wanted, a
clean, respectable boy. for general use. Apply,
251 Elizubeth-street Cafe, between 3 and 1 p.m."
Where is the boy daring enough to apply for a
billet full of such awful possibilities J
“ Ginger” Clarke, the N.S W. Minister
for Justice, has in view a scheme for making
sheriffs’ officers act also as District Court bailiffs.
Just think of the ferocity of the combined animal
—a sheriff’s officer and a bailiff rolled into one !
In a recent issue the Melbourne Age
speaks of the Bible as “ the noblest, most pathetic'
most humorous book extant.” True, that little
thing about Jonah and the whale is more comical
than Mark Twain’s “jumping frog,” but even yet
the parsons have not discovered the joke.
From the S.M. Herald :
(t WANTED, by recently-married couple, a pleasant
bedroom, with widow lady preferred. Moderate,
Herald."
What are they giving us 1 The Fairfaxes had
better engage one of our spare humorists to edit
their advertising columns.
Referring to the Melbourne Jubilee illu
minations, the SM. Herald remarks “ The
scaffolding in front of the Parliament House
affords opportunity for a grand display being
made there.” Is the Herald hinting at a whole-
sale Jubilee gibbeting of the Victorian members
of Parliament ?
A “pweachah ” of the gospel at Steiglitz
(Vic.) has settled the debate on Jonah and the
whale once and for all. He says “ Jonah was a
sanctified, indigestible mor3el, and the gastric
juices couldn’t grip him.’ This we accept as
equivalent to asserting that Jonah was a very
hard-shell Baptist.
We cut this from Melbourne Age, as
likely to interest people who are out of work in
Sydney:—
tt rjLERK, as office-manager, wanted; salary, 20a.
Apply letter. Gledhill, auctioneer, 22 Collios-
atreet.”
Melbourne is evidently going ahead.
The S.M. Herald is getting fearfully
ambiguous For in a recent issue the following
advertisement held a prominent place
“ Wanted, two gentlemen friends share pleasant
waterside home, salt baths, use boat, 20 minutes
G.P.0., steamer direct, lady housekeeper, free
charge ; references exchanged. Amicus, Herald.
We don’t italicise anything.
Camp comfort. Scene : N.S.W. military
encampment. National Park. Officer (at guard-
room) to prisoner : “ Keep quiet Joe, and it 11 be
all squared. I saw the sergeant just now, and he
says you’ll be let out in two hours.” Lesh me
out in two hours ! ’ hiccuped Joe, who seemed
very ill; “ no3h if I knows it, ole pal. A fellers r
got clean shtraw t’ lie on here, but my tent sh
worser nor a bloomin’ pig-stye. Ive come ere t
shtay, you bet."
Lord Dunraven leaves England during the
month for a twelve months’ tour through the
colonies.
The Queen “ intends ” to build a villa at
Aix-les-Bains. Which reminds us that Good
Gracious is 68, and Heaven is paved with in-
tentions.
IS THIS SO?
A few years ago a little book fell Into our hands,
recounting the experience of a certain prominent
business man, from which it appeared that, as
with most Americans, too close attention to busi-
ness had broken hi 5 health. The doctor said he
could not live He then stated that he used a cer
tain article which effectually cured him, and
“ out of gratitude for his own recovery he deter-
mined to devote a portion of his fortune to spread-
ing its merits before the world ’’
As we read it we said: Tiffs is evidently a
shrewd expression of a commercial motive : it
sounds well; it reads well; but many people will
not believe it
In a few years, however, that man got famous
the world over. He gave several hundred thousand
I dollars to astronomical research, and his name
became a household word in nearly every home in
the United States.
Hundreds of thousands of people to day, without
reservation, say that to this man alone they owe
their lives.
If ten men are collected together the chances
are that if one man incidentally refers to Warner’s
safe cure seven of them will be able to tell, from
their own experienre or from the experience of
their friends, of marvelous results which that
remedy has wrought.
Nothing has ever been put on the market, we
are told, the sale of which has been so great and
kept up so wonderfully, and this alone is evidence
that merit is at the bottom of its popularity.
In our files we find many an advertisement from
this house Some people have believed, have used
and have been cured, others have disbelieved,
have not used, and died.
The manufacturers have stated, as the result of
their most careful investigations, that the condi-
tion of the kidneys is the key to health, and that
they know if the kidneys .are maintained in health
by Warner’s safe cure, ninety-three per cent, of
diseases would disappear.
The uric acid, or waste of the system, left in
the blood, by what may be called constipated
kidneys, blocks up the system and carries disease
to every organ
This statement, made time and time again, is
so full of sense that it is now accepted as a scien-
tific truth by insurance companies who reject
millions of risks every year if there is the least
inactivity of these organs.
The public is tired of the wrangles of this school
and of that schhol, and it is quick to recognise
anything that has such conceded merit, and on
this ground alone can we account for its extra-
ordinary sales and popularity.


HOLT'S RELEASE RECOMMENDED.
How about the poor fellow who w-as sent to
gaol for ten years? Do any of the Ministers o-f
Justice call upon him with the same sympathy ?
Echo answers, “ No.’ One was a banker, and the
other only one of the commen people—one has
influence, the other not any. The way of the
world. Ye 3 ; the bigger the rogue the less is the
crime Taking £4OOO is called a case of genius ;
£2009, shortage ; £lOO6, litigation ; £5OO, insol-
vency; irregularity; £lOO, corruption ; £5O,
embezzlement; £25, dishonesty ; £lO, thieving ;
205., total depravity. Taking one bottle of the
famous St. Louis Lager Beer, war on society.*
Travellers, when arriving in Sydney, know not where to
seek accommodation, the knowing ones tell the cabman to
drive direct to the Great Non-hern Hotel, George-atreet and
Charlotte-place, where they iindcomfortable accommodation
and the best meals supplied by any hotel in Sydney The
shilling luncheon there is the talk of the town *
Cockroaches. Bugs, anA all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d. Is.
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Wshicnable Garments to Orde- at Moderate Price.
STOP BIGHT HERB I
JOT FOR EVER !
CONSIDER THIS.
Ad Autophone costa but 30b. aid Is a joy for ever
The Autophone la a wanderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full aired parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute preoiaion and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the paits of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without Instruction,
any of its music, wmch at present consists of ever
390 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, 3tc. It
is best adapted ta the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. AST It is pitched for tk*
voice, and has a little card hoifter for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is oompact, trad far
cheaper than that which is made for any erganette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
onciess fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra muslo sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents fbr Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Wateh Co.'s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,291,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the line watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate yon upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other oelebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber,
January 28, 1870.”
Remember eaoh and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balanoe. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the prioe of the oase. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make sHch things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These oases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
oqual of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... £2 0 0
Elgin National WatchCo.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face ... £8 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £" '0 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band ease, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, patent pinion, &c. ...£3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-oase 3 15 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... ... £lO 0 0
We have net space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, otter silver-eased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £49 0 •
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
fiUTT NT A T 11 utM * w “i*
vAwA*iAl A (fLAj Science. It is a noble
ft TT\ V tue *~’"* iie lustre, beauty
CT VAd U and endv-mnee of sterling Sold. A logi-
ttaat: use bos been feud for tins Mbit medal, by
wedrfag it inte Jewellery if the meet es<nieite 4o-
Itgts. Xlie Oriental Sold Co,,
has “
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sellst a friction of the eest of Sterling Ibid Jewellery.
No one can detest the dtSerenee. Send (tor a
I»rice<i Catalogue, or for ene of thofol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Be. j JeweMed (Parisian
BWlliant.) Breech, 7s. Cd.; Bent’s
/Hbert, '/a. 6«L; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled',7s.6dit Looket
Ss., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’Alberts
15s. P.OfO. payable Oriental QoM
Be.
lggp”lTc send tiioKP on approval. If they don't
please, return uninjured by Hie First
Mall,andnerepay theeaeb,less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET,
?ar ei* sect injwhite by po»t.
JOVE AT LUNCH TIME
There is one phase of city life wh*ch attract
comparatively little notice, yet is rich in material
for the student of human nature, and that is the
opeo, unadultera'el, unsophisticated love mating
which goe3 on every day during the lunch hour in
some of the public squares and reserves in or
near the city. Generally the lady arrives first
appropriates a seat and settles herself down to
pretend to read a book or do some fancy-work
until he comes. He is neaily always up to time,
and the first greeting over, love, the lord of all,
appropriates to himself the hour allotted by
custom and common sense for the more prossaic
luncheon. And in how many cases do these
afflicted people carry on as though they—like
Robinson Crusoe—had the whole island to them-
selve* cr as if the rest cf the human race had
been born blind and grown up silly ? A caretaker
in one of these reserves was recently interviewed
by a report or, and in reply to a query on the
subject he said, “ Well, you see, sir, I’ve got* my
work to do aid I don't take much heed of ’em,
and bein’ as I’m old they don’t take much heed of
me. But, Lird! there is tome fools among ’em,
hands and makin’ eyes and wrigglin’
about all over the sea’s as though there warn’t
acreage enough in the square to hold ’em. And
it’s amusin’ to ste the trouble some of them young
fellers has with their the way they
pulls and hauls at ’em is dreadful someti i es.
They ain’t got as much nerve as the gals has, and
don’t seem to know what to do with their hands,
and tome on ’em do talk the most awfullest rot,
to be sure Thtm as seems to have it the worst
says the least, and only looks at each other ; but
most times the gals do the mo t talkin’. And the
things they gives each other would make you
split laughin'. Sometimes its fruit, or lollies, or
cake ; sometimes it’s a necktie or a handkercher,
and I have sc n one of ’em give a gal a toothbrush.
There was one youDg chap as come every day
for near a week, and the gal was always thero to
meet him, and they always went to the sarr e ?c*\t;
and at last one day he gives her a pa'r of boots
and says he ‘Them’s just the right fit for your
pretty lit’ le tootsey w ootseys,’ and I'm blest if she
hadn’t got a of feet that wou d spread all
over a house like the small pox. But the most
sensiblest thing ever I seen was a g&l that brought
a bottle of St. Jacobs oil for her masher, and says
she. ‘ Now, do use it, that’s a darlin’, for my sake,
for I know it will cure lhat nasty pain. Mother
always uses it, and fho says it’s the only physic
she wants in the house.’ But, Loid bless you, I
don’t believe the half of their mothers knows
they’re out, and it’s my opinion it’s a good job
some of ’em don’r. There’s many of ’em would
be better for a good spankiDg, so they would.
Thank'eo, sir, I’m obliged to you, and I’m sure I
didn’t think it was likely to be any interest,
although I declare to goodness it nearly makes me
ill srmetimes, so it do. And 1 gets rheumatiz,
too, at times in the wet grass, and whatever I
should do without that there St. Jacob i oil myself
I don’t kuow, that I don’t.
ST. JACOBS OIL CURES
Rheumatism, Backache, Headache, Neuralgia,
and Toothache, Sprains, Bruises, &c.
Every constituent of the formula of ST. JACOBS
OIL exerts specific action in the Cure of Pain ; as
a combination its specific virtues are simply
marvellous. Not an element of it would be dis-
approved by any Intelligent Physician ; no one
truthfully can disqualify its success, nor deny the
Truth of every Indorsement. It penetrates gently,
but quickly; it soothes perfectly ; it heals surely,
it cures promptly, permanently, and without re-
action. Universal public sentiment has won for
it the Highest Prize Medals which nothing could
call forth but the Most Extraordinary Merit.
rjIHE WAY BABIES GROW.
Mothers, who are above all other people
principally interested in this matter, rhould know
that an average healthy infant grows about eight
inches in length durirg the first year ( f its life •
but for the next two years the growth is loss
rapid, and on the third birthday the child is said
to be exactly half the size to which it will attain
when full grown. This ca’cu’ation is, of course,
founded on the supposition that the child is
properly nourished all the time, which it un-
doubtedly wi>l be if fed on C. Gilberts Corn Flour,
the be3t and purest known.
The genuine is branded C Gilbert, Buffalo, N. Y.
and L’es Moines, la., and it can be obtained in
•Sydney from D. Mitchell and Co. (limited), Barlow
and Co ,T. H. Mate and Co., Robert Miller and
Co., Cramsie, Bowden, and Arthur; Slocombe
Brothers, Tillock and Co , and F Butcher.
The most interesting item in the
PAPER.
The invaluable Waterbury would not be the
cheapest watch in the world if it could not be re-
paired at a low cost. But if anything goes wrong
with it the owner has only to take or send it to
the offices of the Waterbury Watch Company, at
•56, Margaret-street, where it can be repaired at a
•co3t according to its requirements, but in no case
exceeding 2s. 6d. unless by mutual consent. The
■cost of transmission by post or parcel delivery on
watches sert from the country must be prepaid,
and a sufficient amount to cover return charges
and cost of repair forwarded at the same time. If
sent in the b,x in which the Waterbury is sold,
the postage fee (including registration) is 2s. each
way.
At Parramatta, one Cain lives in a house
whereof Mr. Abel is the landlord.
“The Onion, from the time of Moses to the
present date,” took so well in the Down and
Gumtree Jerxel that the spirited proprietors
have now gone in for “ The Rabbit, and a record
of his career from the time of Julius Ca'-ar.”
After Bunny has been put through, we will pro-
bably be favoured with “ The Frog as he appeared
during the Deluge," or “Tne growth of the fig-
leaf since the days of Mr. and Mr?. Adam ”
The other Saturday night, at 8 30, in a
little town out West, four choice spirits sat down
to the fascinations of Loo. The sun rote upon
their game, and the police looked in at noon on
Sunday ; the game was resumed after their de-
parture, and continued till they (the police) re-
turned at 4.30 p.m.—this time to be shut out by
the interested four. Play was continued all Sun-
day night and up to 11.50 on Monday, when the
remittance-man rose a winner to the tune of £613.
A much-bediamonded crmmercial lost £483
Editor Bulletin, —If your heart is ten-
der, if you cannot bear sorrow, read not this tale
At Bungy I met Joe the W haler, an old friend of
mine, an experienced cadger. He told me that
he had seen Jimmy Duncan in Coonamble, and
thathe (J.D.) had hoped “that Old Scotty the
Wrinkler wculd be in time for the elections and
the free bocze.’’ Now Jimmy Duncan was an old
mate on the diggings, and I had not seen him
since the Palmer, when we jumped Greasy Bill’s
claim on the German Bar, so I rolled up bluey,
and with Wallace (my poodle) pushed for Coo-
namble. Having pitched my camp outside the
Fancy picture of the human vampire at Surrey Hills, who (vide Bailey’s Sunday
Noose) levied on a poor woman’s cork-leg to recover his rent.
N.B.—The Jew shedding tears in the back ground is put in to give an air of
verisimilitude to an otherwise bald and unconvincing narrative.
town I went over the bridge and got the usual pre-
liminary beer before anyone knew w hether I was
sugared upor chequeless. Ithc • inquired for Jimmy
Duncan. No one knew wli -ho war just then,
though he had been seen fit utntly during the
day. At last Senior-Constable Tweezer told me
that if I went up the street toward the Court-
house I should see him with the sergeant. Ct r-
' ainly, I met the sergeant followed by the black-
tracker, but devil a Jimmy. So I said quietly.
“Sergeant Todd, can you tell mo where I can find
a man called Jimmy lluncan ? ” I could not quite
make out the expression of the officer's face when
he replied, “ Look here Scotty, you’re in for the
elections, and you’re not drunk yet. We won’t
lock you up to-morrow, but what s your game l
You knot? Jimmy as well as I do. Here Jimmy,
do you know this pfeller !” “My word ! Booze
me up every time come along Coonamble.” The
tracker's name was Jimmy Duncan. Can you
wonder that I entered the fool’s paradise of swipes
and rum ! That I yelled for plumpers for Kelly
next day 1 That I fought a bloodless battle of
twelve rounds with drinks between 1 And now
if you want to see a man w ith his hair off, just
tell me where to find Jimmy Duncan.—S otty the
Wrinkler.
This may not be new, but we got it as
hona-fide from a squatter the < ther day : A
butcher out West got some good bullocks from a
selector called Mickey O'Doolan. When the bill
was i resented there was delay, and again delay
until Mickey threaten! dan action. The butcher
hinted at insolvency, when Mickey says, “Be
iabers, it's not so aisy now to go throo the Court ?”
But the other, also a Tip. wa> ready with, “Be
gorra, they’ll shoon let me troo whin they know
I’ve been dalin’ wid Mickey O’DoolaD.”
At the great sale of French Crown jewels
fixed for the 12th of May some of the most im-
portant gems in the co’lection will not be sold.
Among these are the Regent, valued at twelve
millions of franc 3 The remaining diamonds will
all be disposed of, St) 10 brilliants weighing 51,100
carats, 471 roses weighing 21,119 carats, besides
pearls weighing 7034 carat?, and a rare collec-
tion cf rubies, emeralds, eapphtres, and
turquoises. The Imperial Crown is to be melted
A Newcastle vanman, a party not wholly
unknown to Thespian fame, and a “ dorg” have
caused troub’e in the house and a vacuum
in the breeches-pocket of Smythe, a theatri-
cal impresario. From information received it
appears that Smythe came to the shrewd
conclusion that as a dog never got drunk he is
about the most reliable friend a man could have,
and he accordingly became possessed of a New-
foundland “ purp’’ about four times as large as tt
tram-car How he became possessed is a matter
which, to use a NEWs-ism, is still “enshrouded
in Egyptian darkness," but it was one of the
sights of Newcastle to see this Brobdigm gian
canine scooting through the streets in charge or
its alleged master, who held it by a rope, and was
kept in a constant simmer of perspiration and
protestation, whilst baldheadcd but otherwise
perfectly respectable old citizms were tumbled
over on the pathway like ninepins, and younger
people secured elevated positions on lampposts
and verandahs with the most commendable
alacrity imaginable This was capital fun for
Smythe, until one day there came along a van-
man named Pitts, who at once declared that was
the bloomin’ dorg he loft last October. Smythe
then called the vanman a “ gotoell," and the van-
man immediately “ took the law on him ’’ When
the case came on the impresario most emphati-
cally declared that one Do Gloriao, of acrobatic
renown, had made him a present of the dorg. and
De Glorian most emphatically declared he didn’t
The result was that the Solomon on the Bench
declared the vanman to be the rightful owner of
the “ purp,” and fined the disgusted Smythe £lO.
The event has, of course, caused the most intense
excitement in the district ; fears of a civil war are
entertained and anyone who hankers after a pair of
hand-painted eyes and a broken head can promptly
obtain the same by calling on Symthe—with an
“ e ’’—and offering to warble, “Can anyone tell
where mine leetle dog vha"?” P.S.—lt wasn’t
R. S. Smythe.


A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLKY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ie you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY,
‘ THE IRISH QUBSTION,”
rpHE Irish Loyal and Patriotic Union, estab-
I lished to uphold the Supremacy of the Im-
perial Parliament and the maintenance of the
Legislative Union has it now exists between Great
Britain and Ireland, appeals to the Australasian
public for funds, which may be paid into tho
branches of the Union Bank of Australia, Limited.
“The Irish Question: A History and a Plea,”
contains a complete account of the Parnellite con-
spiracy since 1877, and has been issued especially
for Australasian readers. Copies may be had at
the chief offices. 109 Gratton-street, Dublin;
London offices, 20 Palace Chambers, Westminster,
London; and at the efiice of the “Age,” Mel-
bourne.
MASON BROTHERS,
1
II
fff?' >
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-Btreet,
Sydney,
Have always to STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANb
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognao.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
IMPERIAL HOTEL, Brisbane,
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and fire-proof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can ca f er in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room.
C. H. DANIELLS, Proprietor.
Sample room.
MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark—“TONIC NERVINE.”
Marshall s tonic nervine
, Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W.; London, England,
AGENTS WANTED
and fastest selling book ever published.
The work embraces full and authentic accounts
of every nation of ancient and modern times ;
including the Rise and Fall of the Groek and
Roman Empires, &c., Ac.
Send for descriptive circulars, and full particu-
lars, NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY,
667 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
MANUFACTURER’S STOCK OF HATS,
AT
ONK THIRD COST PRICE.
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
Having purchased the above, are now
Retailing below ordinary wholesale prices,
Cork-lined Mashers 6/6
Best quality English Felts 7/6 to 6/6
Second „ ~ ~ ... ... 6/6
Usual priess 8/6 to 12/6.
c. f prTddy & CO,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Lassetter’s,
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
CONSULT Dr. THOMAS for the best and
safest treatment of Nervous Debi'ity and
Skin Diseases. The Doctor has passed his degrees
at the Royal College of Physioians and the Royal
©ollege of Surgeons, England. Consulting
Rooms, 2#« KMeabeth-street. Hours: 9 till 9
daßy.
■■■-r
sm
sm
m
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS, {mRC.S 1 ,"England.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure, I do not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
dfe-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this scarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Oalvdnic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.C.S., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-st., Sydney.
DR. O'CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to his health and age to alter his hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
.dvertising, as all of his patients who have con-
jlted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr, J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlerf.agh Street,
Sydney,
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
BASS’ PALE ALE
SOLE PURVEYORS tc tbl
COLONIAL AND INDIAN ElBUmtl,
LONDON,
Bj Special Appointment.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES t
W. BALCHIN JOH-STON & CD. |
Commercial Ciiamlm, Bond-Direct, Irfaff.
The fresii food and ice oompaet
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
No. 23 ROYAL AROADE,
where they supply
Milk, Cream. Batter, Coffee, Cooos, fee,, wMb
light refreshments.
At this Branoh, orders may be left (or deflvcry
by their earte
They have also taker over the Agency fit
“ KOUMISS." so highl;- recommended In pnlmc
nary eemplalnts.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00., LIMITED
Head Offloe ... .
Stables ... .
Factory ... .
.„ 21 Harbonr-itrec'
... Llverpool-etreet
... Mittagong
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HAITS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
A LOVELY SKIN,
jcantiful complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms can best be obtained
iv diseardimr a'l leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed to
■emain on the skin cannot possibly have any good effect on it. and by using
ftowlanck’
n> Kalydor
bun
. discoloration
r the
oil) a
pleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin ;
it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on the
skin of the most delicate lady or child,
4s. 6d. and Bs. fid. per bottle ; bottles of half the usu.rl
size at 2s. 3d.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
is also sold in a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton
Garden. London, and avoid cheap, wortlilees imitations.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
Ilf MARKET STREET, SIDNEY.
Large stock otaiew and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books sent by
mail to any part of Ana 11a,
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited
39 COLLINS STREET lEL, MELBOURNE.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches —Chapel-st., Prahran ; Brunewick-st., Ktzroy ; Bay-st, North Brighton; Dundas-pl., S.
Melbourne ; Burwood-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London •pfick —2o & 22 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
j!JDUI.PHOVvCLIT-? is'ONV:
y /f? /
Wu/si'# /bzwa&fe /&/
w
do Qyme&fotfJme'.
ILLUSTRATION (In reduosd Rise) 7t J& 1 Order to ba found In tha
“LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
AD j&T, NEWTON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CON NELL STREETS
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’ Coe*
nell-street.
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out, A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, k Lamb,
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extendind
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 2# feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
I C K
CHESTS,
all sizes.
From 87s,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
"\T OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
-131 SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-streot.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale design?.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
FcßNirm* WARjmousEMir,
Importers ot High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring
Streets
DRA WING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
-VV\ ’ '■>
IV;
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Sonnoll 1
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Conne! 1 -street.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes
Niokel-plated and Blaok
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and"
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Street!,
SPRING MATTRABSEB
Woven Wire, bet
make; also, Spiral Sprint*
Prloe, from 14s. eaoh.
BRADLHY, WKWTOK «nfl


The Bed of Justice —What N.S.W. Law is coming to.
“Mr. Justice Blank not being very well, heard the cases at his hotel.” — Sydney Newspaper.
“Mr, Justice Hogg, being in a hurry to get away to Europe, and having, besides, an appointment to dine with a party of distinguished visitors at Government House next evening, kept the jury sitting till some of them were dead-beat and had to be
touched up with pal-volatile and bromide of potassium.” —Current Rumour.
Mr. Justice Bacon, having peacefully expired on the Bench, the prisoners are, according to his last wishes, to be hanged without a trial. —Future Rumonr.
