

The Bulletin
Vo’ 8-No 'Bl
SATURDAY, MAY 21, 1887.
Prtcv 60.
The Beal Boss.
“The Chinese Commissioners paid an off[?] inl visit to the N.S.W. Colonial Secretary and were received by Mr. Jamuson . o f Prin[?], [?] and Co, and Sir Henry
Parkes. ” —Fydury D[?] [?].


NOTICE
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
Sterling—wirioh you may pay by Post Office Order, One*
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian oolony—you can
bare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
t ae hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
ibl bed once a week,
At 24 PlTT-STBEBT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per annum - jBI Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING-,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
Recent political events, and the tenor of letters
published in the N.S.W. country pres’, render
the announcement necessary that Mr. John
Haynes, M.L. A. for Mudgee, has no longer any
connection whatsoever, either commercial or
literary, with The Bulletin.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MAY 21, 1887.
Protection in Australasia.
It is not a little amusing to observe the cool
and arrogant manner in which the Freetrade
party in New South Wales assume that it
possesses a monopoly of economic know-
ledge and wisdom. In every one of the
Australasian colonies the Customs tariff is
framed with the clear and distinct object of
directly or incidentally fostering local manu-
factures and production. Yet Park ns and
his following loudly assert that the theory
of Protection is exploded, and worthy only
of the consideration due to the hypothesis
of the earth being a quadulateral plane sup-
ported on an elephant’s back. The con-
temptuous treatment of the principle of Pro-
tection vouchsafed by Parkes, Burns, G.
H. Reid, M'Millan, Wise, and the other
shining lights of the New South Wales Free-
trade coterie is virtually a sneering rebuke
to all the leading statesmen of Australasia
outside of the mother colony. If Protection
is obviously a fatuous fiscal policy, as these
sapient gentlemen unhesitatingly affirm,
then it follows that not alone the electors
but the public men of Victoria, Queensland,
New Zealand, South Australia, and Tasmania
are very little superior in intelligence to
drivelling idiots ; and that even the men
selected by the Imperial authorities to
govern West Australia are wholly incapable
of distinguishing a policy of folly from a
policy of wisdom. For in all these colonies
the policy written down by the Oobdenist
monomaniacs as absolutely insensate has
been deliberately adopted in a greater or
lesser degree ; and the cry of the people and
the answering echo of political leaders is for
more Protection.
• * *
The truth is that whether Protection is an
economic fallacy in the abstract or not, it is
undeniably a necessity for Australasia. This
fact has been discovered and acted upon
even by such a thoroughgoing advocate of
Freetrade as Parkes himself. Within
the past few weeks he has made seve-
ral large concessions to the principle
he denounced during the late elections as
moth-eaten, mouldy, and worn-out. He has
not made these concessions in a straightfor-
ward and above-board fashion. But that is
unimportant, since he seldom or never does
anything except in a circuitous and under-
hand style peculiarly his own. When, for
instance, he consented to have the loco-
motives required by the New South Walts
Railway Department manufactured in the
colony he pretended to believe that this
was not a measure of Protection. The effect
will be to give remunerative and prolonged
employment to several hundred engineers
and other workmen at a considerable direct
loss to the taxpayer. On the 50 engines
proposed to be manufactured, the difference
in price as compared with foreign engines
will aggregate fully £20,000. Some autho-
rities are of opinion that the direct loss will
be nearly double that sum. But against this
direct loss there will be the enormous in-
direct gain to the community involved in the
circulation of about £150,000 in the colony,
which will cause an increase in the local wage
Fund and tend to promote general prosperity.
If this is not a measure of Protection, then
all the Frcetrade writers on economic science
are as addle-pated as Parkes declares the
Protectionists to be. The secret history of
the way in which the fostering duties on
farm produce were gotten back into the New
tion of the need for Protection, coupled with
a like shuffling pretence to be wholly in
favour of Frcetrade. The removal of tle
produce duties would have ruined half t le
farmers of the colony ; yet it would ha
given the poor man cheaper food as a set-o:
against dearer beer and tobacco. The ruii
tion of the farmers was, however, a conti
gency not to be contemplated with coi
placency even by Parkes, and an excuse hat
to be invented for retaining the protectio
A supporter was put up to move a reducti
of a penny a gallon in the beer-tax, the
duction was accepted by Burns with th
show of reluctance, and the loss of reven
thus occasioned was made the pivot of
argument, readily swallowed by the Hous
for re-imposing the produce and several oth
protective duties.
The circumstance of Parkes having ful y
appreciated the necessity for measures ain
ing at the encouragement of local industr r
at the cost of the State, has not passed u
noticed by the Freetrade press of Sydney.
He is charged now with keeping the word o
promise to the ear and breaking it to the
hope. By and bye he will perform a con
plete volte-face, and then there will be lout
wailing among the rag-importers and th
daily papers. ’ The policy promised by
Parkes is impossible. He ‘‘ unfurled th
banner of Freetrade on every hustings ant
nailed it to the mast. But where is it t
day ? Tattered, riddled, low'cred before th
despised enemy, invisible in the forefront o :
political strife. It does not require any
great gift of prophecy to forecast the futur
fiscal policy of the whole of these Australa
sian communities. Each of them will, pent -
ing the development of its own resources, g
in for isolating itself against the compotitio
of the others as well as against that of the out
side world. But as soon as they are all on
tolerably equal footing with each other they
will come to perceive the wisdom of uniting,
and, like the United States of America, sur
rounding the whole group with a Custom
cordon against the cheap labour and chea )
capital of the external world. A policy o
this sort has already been foreshadowed b
a man who may perhaps bo regarded as th
ablest and most clear-sighted of Australian
statesmen. Samuel Griffith has mad
such Cobdenist doctrinaires as J ohn Morley
laugh by advocating something in the natur
of an Australian Customs Union or Zoll-
verein, under which trade between the
colonies in colonial products and manufac
tures would be free, whilst the products anc
manufactures of other countries would be
heavily handicapped with duties Thi
would be an important step towards the
goal that must eventually be reached—
namely, a Federal Custom-house, as in the
United States and the Dominion of Canada
There are difficulties in the way of the im
mediate realisation of Griefith’s scheme, as
he himself acknowledges ; but difficulties are
what able men are born to surmount, anc
what men of Griffith’s grit and sagacity
love to overcome. Every beneficial condition
in all ages and countries has been realised
only after an arduous and apparently hope-
less combat with gigantic obstacles ; and,
given leaders of Griffith’s calibre, the
obstructions to be razed in order to secure
the blessings of an Australasian Custom
House will disappear with marvellous ra-
pidity.
* * *
There is already a vast public opinion in
favour of some such intercolonial arrange-
ment. It is perceived on all hands—even
by Parkes and Burns —that the old theory
about “ natural protection ” is, now-a-days,
disproved by actual experience. Twenty
years ago goods which now cost only 10 per
cent, to import cost nearer one hun
dred per cent, for freightage. Steam
navigation under foreign and colonial
subventions has rendered it in many cases
less costly to carry goods from Europe to
Australia than to cart them from the ships
into store. Cheap freight on things wc
don’t produce and require in connection
with our own industries, is undoubtedly a
good thing. But cheap freight all round on
the manufactures of the pauper populations
of Europe and Asia must, in respect of goods
we dssire to manufacture ourselves, be met
by a discriminative tariff; else the misery
and semi-starvation of those regions will be
transplanted to Australasia. The Eight
Hour systam cannot survive under free com-
petition with twelve and fourteen hour
systems ; nor can Australian rates of wages
be maintained under free competition. It is
perfectly plain and clear that if the Austra-
lian peoples put themselves under absolutely
free trade for a couple of decades they would
be sunk to depths of wretchedness scarcely
preferable to those reached by the coolies of
India and China. They are even now feeling
the pinch. But they are, happily, a free
people, and have the political power in their
own hands ; and will not be slow to adopt
measures of protection that will effectually
obviate the terrible fate otherwise in store
for them. As we have said, all the colonies
except New South Wales are avowedly
more or less protected to-day ; and New
South Wales, while making herself believe
and trying to make others believe that she is
whole-souled Freetrade, “ sneaks-in” a piece
of Protection whenever there is a chance.
The Privileges of Banks.
A writfr in a Sydney paper lately drew atten-
tion to several curious circumstances in connec-
tion with the status and operation of banks in
Xew South Wales. These institutions, he pointed
out, erjoy a monopoly of the note-issue, control
the currency all along the line, are free from State
inspection, and, while eDjoyirg all these enormous
privileges, are practically untaxed by Govern-
ment. The matters here involved assuredly re-
quire public attention. In the country districts
bank-notes are really no better than greenbacks,
for they are legally payable in gold only at the
head offices of the issuing establishments. This
paper-money is issued over and over again, until
it rots in circulation, and becomes, in many cases,
tattered and filthy beyond recognition. The ab-
sence of State inspection is a source of danger
alike to note-holders, depositors, and shareholders.
That the “sworn returns” required by the law
from the banks are worthless is abundantly proved
by the fact that the last sworn returns made
by the since insolvent Commercial Bank of
South Australia were ostensibly those of a re-
markably flourishing concern. The largest—and,
indeed, the only important—item under the head
of assets is called “ all other debts due to the
bank.” This item is popularly believed to include
only really good and amply-secured debts. Vet
there is no proof of this, and there is, on the other
hand, grave reasons for the suspicion that hope-
lessly bad debts are often paraded as assets, and
thus absolutely rotten institutions kept afloat on
the confidence of the public. The so-called “re-
serves ” exist for the most part only on paper. A
bank reserve ought to be invested in undoubted
and readily convertible securities: but the colonial
system seems to be to throw the reserves into the
ruck of general investments, whence often
enough they are as retrievable as they would be
if sunk at the bottom of the Pacific.
* * *
Furthermore, soire banks resort to various law-
less devices in order to make profits or secure
themselves from loss. The Dubbo Despatch, in
its issue of May 3, refers to several instances in
which decidedly illicit methods have been adopted
by banks. Wc reprint our contemporary’s narra-
tive of one caee, the facts of which we have
verified, together with some seasonable observa-
tions by the journal named. The Despatch
says :
" 0. is a station-holder, who, like the majority of his clars,
has had, through drought and low prices, to accept assistance
from the banks. He is advised by his banker to stock up.
' Buy for cash or bills—in fact, do what you like, we will
stick to you.’ He bought some £l5OO or £l6OO worth of
cattle. Finding that by giving a promissory note at the
usual six months he would make a better bargain than pay-
ing cash, he offered bills. The agents of the owner of the
cattle telegraphed to C.’s banker at Dubbo, and the reply
came, 'C.’s bill is undoubted.’ The cattle were delivered,
and the bill, of course, accepted on such a guarantee as quite
equal to cash. C. sold £l2OO worth of the cattle, and re-
mitted the money to the bank. He has still £lOOO worth
left on the run, but when the bill that was guaranteed as
‘ undoubted ’ matured, it was dishonoured, and the bank put
a man in possession. This is, it will be admitted, a singularly
hard case for squatter and stock-seller. The bank by its
manager guaranteed a bill for £l5OO or £l6OO as ‘un-
doubted,’ and then after receiving £l2OO as part proceeds of
the transaction, and having another £lOOO worth of stock on
the run, the responsibility is evaded, and the bank enters
under its powers as mortgagee. The bank is privy to the
purchase of the stock, it declares a promissory note 'un
doubted,’ and having got hold of the stock and thus bettered
its own security, it coolly disclaims responsibility and refuses
to honour the promissory note. It goes further. It allows a
writ to be issued against the client it led into this trap, and
by saddling him with the salary of the bank’s representative
in possession, heaps expense after expense on the shoulders
of a man who has had a hard fight with drought, and brings
disgrace on the name of one who for the past 30 years has
borne the unblemished reputation of being ‘ an honest man,
the noblest work of God.’ The law—and this is yet a matter
involved in serious doubt—may condone the bank’s conduct
—may say that the Corp' ration is not bound by the guaran-
tee of its manager. But what will honourable men say ?
What will be the verdict of every honest trader ? Only one
thing can be said of such a transaction. Supposing a private
mortgagee deluded by guarantee a man to part with his
cattle, dishonoured the bill drawn to pay for them, and took
possession under his mortgage of the stock thus bought, or
the proceeds resulting from their sale, people would he apt to
insinuate that the whole thing had a fraudulent savour
about it.”
The above story we believe to be strictly true,
and it is only one of a host of similar stories cur-
rent. Evidently institutions capable of stooping
to such miserable trickery are unworthy of public
confidence. A bank that deliberately goes in for
cozening its customer in this remorseless style
assuredly ought not to be trusted with the money
of depositors, nor ought it be allowed to obtain
credit by the issue of promises to pay. Of what
earthly service are “sworn returns” emanating
from officials capable cf putting up a debtor of
the bank—ard in all probability an insolvent
debtor—to buy stock on the credit obtainable on
their falße statement that his ability to pay was
“ undoubted,” fimply in order to makegood a bad
security ? One man may steal a horse, while
another dare not peep over a hedge ; but we im-
agine a barefaced grab of this sort should not go
unpunished even because the delinquents are
“respectable” and occupy the powerful per t ion
of bank managers and directors. According to a
beautiful legal fiction, “there is no wrong with-
out a remedy,” and doubtless the unfortunate
vendors of the stock above referred to will be ad-
vised to bring a suit at law against the bank to
recover the amount of the promissory note taken
on the strength of the bank’s opinion. But
very few persons care to go to law with
a bank, in the face of the ruination that
has befallen innumerable litigants against
such concerns in the past; for banks invariably
take the fullest advantage of the infamous state
of Australian law, which makes success in
the long run sure for the longest purse. The
cheated vendors, if they are wise, will put up with
the first loss. But the matter is one demanding
the attention of the Government and the Parlia-
ment. A bank is trusted by the public to the
extent of millions of pounds sterling. It trades
under Parliamentary authorisation ; and it is by no’
means a far-fbtched argument which affirms that
Parliament is in duty bound to see that its
authorisation is not being used for improper pur-
poses. We may fairly presume that if a gang of
footpads and pickpockets applied to Parliament
for a charter to run a bank their application would
be scornfully refused ; and by the same token
when some “ highly respectable ’ gentlemen, who
are already in possession of a charter, are guilty
of such conduct as the above described they ough
certainly to be deprived of their privileges.
But the power of banks to obtain special Acts
of Parliament should be abolished altogether and
the right of banks to trade in the colonies under
Imperial Acts or Royal Charters should also be
swept away. What is urgently required is a
general Banking Act under which every bank
should be compelled to register, and by virtue of
which eflicient inspection by public officers could
be secured. Furthermore, there are ample
grounds for the contention that has recently been
advanced in favour of making the issue of bank-
notes a State monopoly. This system is practi-
cally esttblished in the greatest monetary centre
in the world—for Bank of England notes, which
are the only ones allowed to be issued in London,
are in a sense State notes—and why not in Aus-
tralia? Notes are the most convenient form
of money, and have become a necessity. The
banks could not get on without them. But what-
ever notes they require they ought to be com-
r oiled to get from the Government in exchange for
full value in geld. This, no doubt, would in-
volve a serious reduction of the profits of
banking; but since, even in these bad
times, the Sydney banks contiive to payS from
15 to 25 per cent, on their paid-up capital, while'
the English banks trading here yield similar large
dividends to their shareholders, evidently there is
ample room for reducing the profits of banking
without trenching on what may fairly be regarded
as legitimate profits. The whole question should
be looked into by the Legislature without delay
and no doubt if New South Wales had at the pre
sent time an honest and efficient Legislature, and
a Government with capacity for greater efforts of
finance than taxing beer and tobacco, there would
be no delay in investigating the question with the
view to fundamental reform.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Burns' Apology.
Tiik great New South Wales Freetrade programme
has burst. The Sydney D.T. has rounded on its
idol, Parkes, and commenced to point out that
his tariff is expressly built to foster foreign, and
crush out local, industries ; the Evening News
has cursed the Premier for his shameless jobbery,
and has gone back on a long record of
prayer and praise ; and lastly Pclskord, on be-
half of the New South Wales Ereetrade Associa-
tion, has denounced the insane system of finance
by which raw material is taxed while manu-
factured goods are admitted free. In the face of
all this opposition from quarters where he ex-
pected nothing but admiration, Burns, the only
genuine freetrader in Parkes' Pro-trade, Pree-
lection Cabinet, has abandoned his programme,
and started on an entirely new career. The duties
on some half-dozen classes of manufactured
articles are to be restored, and a tax is to be levied
as before on imported butter, cheese, bacon, and
hams not with a view to aiding these industries
but because the Treasurer “ did not find that the
repeal of these duties was regarded as a calamity."
Burns gave himself away like a smiling infant in
that one sentence. If the repeal of the duties
had been regarded as a calamity the repeal
would have stood, but as the Treasurer
found to his surprise that the disaster
was not bo bad as he had expected he
restored the impost to see if he could bring about
a calamity in that way. The business of Free-
trade being to smash up local manufacturers, he
had framed his proposals accordingly, and then
when he found that this particular industry
tho wed no immediate sign of being smashed, he
went back on his principles, and, amid the deri-
sive cheers of his opponents, asked what had be-
come of the expected calamity. Any ordinary
statesman, if compelled to levy additional taxa-
tion, would have preferred to restore some duty,
the removal of which was generally regarded as dis-
astrous, but Parkes’ Treasurer, in his frenzied
anxiety to declare himself a public enemy, care *
fully reverses this process, and is proud to have
discovered a method of raising money which will
in his opinion, do harm all round. No doubt the
Protectionist party has scored a triumph in this
instance, but if Burns’ dictum can be accepted it
is due solely to their opponents’ cantankerous
desire to destroy local industries for the benefit of
foreign producers. It is difficult to suggest what
should be done with a man who gives away him-
telf and his party so childishly as this. He is
obviously not fit to be a Treasurer, and he is too
innocent even for a policeman or a beadle. There
is no adequate opening for so guileless a politician
in any depaitment of the Civil Service, and he
would be cast out of the licensed victualling trade
with scorn. Perhaps he might suit for some kind
of a cherub, but we have our doubts. Even a
cherub is supposed to know his way about to a
certain extent.
A Journalistic Flunkey.
It is a grand and gorgeous thing, if your na-
ture has not been cast in the reticent mould, to
nave your name bawled out in a reception-room
by a gilded and glittering flunkey radiant with
an the padded magnificence of a made-up chest and
fictitious calves. But you may be a modest man'
with the total disadvantages of a modest man’s
bashfulneßS and innate awkwardness. When you
enter the ornately upholstered and glaringly
decorated drawiDg-room of the ex-keeper of a five-
cent whisky-mill, who circulates in “the highest
colonial sassiety,’’ under the dubious distinction
of a C.M. G.-ship, you may feel anything but
pleased and grateful for the stentorian verbal
advertisement which you receive from the beauti-
ful hireling ( who seems to like nothing bott*. man
blurting out your name with volcamj abruptness
and emphatic insolence. There is & blaze of much
gaslight, a meretricious glitter of many mirrors,
a rustling of imported bvt “ unadvaloremed ”
silk, a dream-like gleaming of naked shoulders,
a sheen of shirt-front ard diamonds, a chatter


of vulgar voices—and the whole barbaric bril-
liancy is momentarily arrested, the babble
attenuates into ill-bred whispering, even the gas-
light seems to glare with vulgar intensity, as the
name of George B Washington Smith is
pompously shot into the patchouli-perfumed at-
mosphere. You become at once the focus of a
hundred binoculars, whileall the fair ones who scin-
til'ate benea'h the glittering chandeliers in dia-
phanous ball-costumes, survey your parson
and calculate your matrimonial attractions, and
convey their whispers quite loud enough to reach
your ear and cause your cast-iron cheek to as-
sume an unwonted crimson. But some people
like it 1 It is fat to the soul of the wealthy vul-
garian, who shows his appreciation thereat by
an expansive smile of oleaginous intensity. In
“dear old England ” this announcement business
is carried a step further. It is made a conspicuous
feature of the “ Sassiety ’’ journal. Weread, in a
column of “ Arrivals, Departures, and Alterations
in Address,” specially devoted to this sort of grovel,
that “ Captain and Mrs George Armstrong have
left Aehburn Place for Cannes,” that “ the Dowa-
ger Lady Saltoun has returned to St.
George's Square,” and that Lord and Lady
Percy are staying at their place near
Ainwick." We of Australia have not struck this
high note in the gamut of fashionable flummery
yet, but we are progressing thither as well as we
know how The gifted “ arbitress" elegantiarum,
“ Humming Bee,” in her “ Social ” column in the
Sydney D.T., ever keeps us informed of the move-
ments of those distinguished and particularly in-
teresting creatures, Lord Jones, and the Duke of
Roiiinson, the Marquis of Brown, and the Baron
Hogwash, besides the infinitesimally frac.ional
circulations of such small people as Exhibition
Commissioner Mick Murphy, Sir Patriquk
Oreille, K C.M.G., and numerous other fashion-
able irradiating colonials. She does what she can.
and we're not impationt. It is plain that we shall
one day have in the D.T. whole pages devoled to
chronic'ing the joys and sorrows, the hilarious jun-
kettingB and gruesome indispo jilions, thegoingsout
and the comings in of the high and mighty Smiths,
Browns, Joneses, and Robinsons, K.C.M.G. a,
of Potts and Darling Points.
Who is our Bro'her?
Who is my brother ? is a question that might be
very appropriately asked, in connection with the
Bulli disaster, of the Imperial Federatonists. This
party—or, at least, the influential section of it
led by the S.M. Herald and Sir John Robertson
—is never weary of trying to throw obstacles in
the way of any federation of the colonies forthem-
f elves and by themselves ; whilst, on the other
hand, in season and out of season, it never wants
an areument to induce a tightening of the
“bonds”—yes, “bonds” is the word—that bind
us to Britain. Is there an Intercolonial Con-
ference : it is studiously and persistently be-
littled, and its prerogatives mercilessly criticised ;
substitute an Imperial Conference and the Herald,
faction touch caps to it and would endow it with
the privileges of a Parliament. Propose a Federal
Council composed of such representative men as
the Premiers for the time being of the various
colonies, and abuse and satire are launched at it;
substitute a proposal for representation by a coun-
cil of gravelling Jenningses and Salmon Wil-
sons in London, and never a word is heard
of its unrepresentative character. So the
thing goes all through the piece. One
might therefore very appropriately inquire what
that country on the other side of the world does
for New South Wales more than for that colony's
next-door neighbours. Have the working men of
Britain ever stood to the working men of New
South Wales when the latter were out on strike ?
Did the men of New South Wales ever get a red
cent from Manchester or Birmingham ! The
answer is No, but on the other hand cheap labour
has been brought from there to crush men on
strike in Australia. Whi'e this is so with Britain
how does New South Wales stand in this matter
with Victoria ? Simply that Victoria has on every
occasion, when the cornstalks wanted coin, stood to
them with a free and generous hand, and she has
moreover sternly set her face against labour being
brought from one colony to coerce its representa-
tives in another. Who is the brother is this case
Ballarat or Birmingham ? Likewise, with the
employers of labour ; who stands to them in the
day of battle - Britain or Victoria ? Let the capi-
talists of the Shipping Association reply. Again,
who plays the brother to the New South Wales
clergy and Freethinkers, her temperance men and
publicans, her Protectionists and Freetraders, and
so on with twenty other public and semi-public
bodies ? The answer is always ; their fellows in
Victoria. And now last, as well as first, may we
ask who is New South Wales’ brother in the day
of Bulli disasters ? Who comes forth in the day of
woe with a full heart and an open hand to allevi-
ate the sorrows of the miners' orphans? Who
does it —London or Melbourne? Let the Bulli
and other relief committees—and the Queen's
telegram of “ Sympathy"— make answer.
The Mudgee Victory.
Parkes and his friends were filled with pride and
delight last week over the election of that political
farceur , Mr. John Haynes, the male Edith
O'Gorman, for Mudgee. This result of a contest
between Orangeism and Romanism is impudently
claimed as a triumph for Freetrade. A few more
such victories, and not even all the gold of Sydney
importers will save the cause of Shoddy and
MacMilliONISM from utter collapse ! “ Free-
trade” must indeed be in most desperate case
when it has to be bolstered up by appeals to reli-
gious hatred and bitterness as in the Mudgee
election. Mr. Haynes is-though perhaps we
ought to say was— a nominal Roman Catholic
and coinc'dently with his nomination for Mudgee
he in a letter to the Press, ostentatiously de-
nounced and renounced all the works of the Pope.
This trait in his character was, of course, suffi-
cient to enlist on his side the active support and
sympathy of the Protestant, or rather the anti-
Roman Catholic, majority. To be an apostate Roman-
ist is to command the unbounded admiration of all
true Protestants, just as to be a whilom Protestant
recently admitted into the fold of the Holy Roman
Church is to ensure the uncritical favour of ali
true members of that Church. Haynes, in
publicly blackguarding the poor Pope, certainly
took a strategic advantage of the Protectionist,
Carden, who was not an apostate Catholic, but
only a mere Protestant. Wny, there is not an
electorate in New South Wales —except, perhaps,
Burrowa—which would not return Pope Pecci or
Cardinal Moran against any other candidate in
the world, provided his Holiness or his Eminence
appeared as one who, after having lived all his
life comfortably behind the soenes, had at length
screwed his moral oourage up to the sticking point,
and cast off the hideous thraldom of saoerdotalism,
and so forth. But this sort of thing is not politics.
Haynes may be thoroughly representative of
Mudgee Protestantism; but it takes a preter-
naturally keen vision to perceive even a remote
Connection between Protestantism and Freetrade,
or between Roman Catholicism and Protection.
That the New South Wales Freetraders are
being forced to ally themselves with a bigoted
politico-religious party in order to secure seats is
the strongest possible proof that their cause is
already wobbling. For none but the veriest scum
of politicians will consent to crawl into Parlia-
ment as the exponents par excellence of religious
ligotry ; and to be driven to ca f ch at this straw —
as the Freetraders demonstrably are— assuredly
testifies to the rapid approach of the day when
they will be entirely overwhelmed. Haynes
himself only claims to represent Orangsism. He
boasts that he has defeated Carden and the
Cardinal. He made a great noise during the
election about having started with a 700 solid
R.C. vote against him, the object of the great
noise being to stir up the local RC.-phobia and
thus secure a solid 1000 Protestant vote in his
favour. Carden polled 850, and if Haynes had,
as he alleges, a purely R.C. vote of 700, then, as
a logical sequence, only 150 men voted against him
outside the R.C.s; and this involves either the
absurdity that the earnest Protectionists of Mudgee
number less than a thirteenth of the electors on the
rolls, or the conclusion that the racing of a clap-
trap anti-Popery cry is sufficient to stifle all pub-
lic opinion in that district touching matters fiscal
and political. And the latter hypothesis is the
true one. L. F Heydon, the man who per-
formed llerculeen labours in the interests of Pro-
tection, never could obtain the hearty support of
Protectionists as a whole —simply because he could
not bring himself to abjure his faith. He con’d
not “ turn dog ” on his Church even in the i.-
terests of a cause he profoundly believed to bo
identified with the welfare of the Austr-.lian
nation. And it would seem that the number of
Protectionists who have not been bit' en by the
Yellow Pup is still limited ; but happily
there is such a thing as political “ Paeteurism,”
and the severs treatment the New South Wales
working classes are receiving under aFreitrt.de
policy must shortly kill them—if it does not euro
them of their sectarian rabies.
Le Roy et la Reino
At Rorke’s Drift in 1879, where the British
Government were robbing and murdering the
natives of South Africa, a young Sootch soldier
named William Roy distinguished hiu self by
his heroic actions. He was in hospital suffering
from fearful injuries icceiicd in battle. The
building took fire, Roy broke through the walk
and under the enemy's tire succeeded in rescuing
eight of his comrafles who were unable to move.
In recognition of his bravery he was awarded two
medals, and these; with a Bible fnot a cheque)
bearing the autograph of the Queen, wtre pre-
sented to him at Windsor by tier Majesty in per-
son in December, 1879. The Graphic of the 20 h
Decemte", 1879, contains a pictorial represt senta-
tion of the ceremony. Whs: eis that young and
gallant warrior no w ? No doubt the reader will
picture him located in his Dative village eojoyit g
a life of ease on a pension well earned after many
years of active service without a black mark —
v ds official records —against his name ! No doubt
you pictuie him oomfortably reclining before the
blazing furze reading from the pagei of the
“ Precious Book Divine,” only pausing now and
then for a loyal reflection on the generosity of
the donor! “Baseless fabric of a vision!
The reality is that William Roy has been
an inmate of one of the asylums at Parramatta,
(N.S.W.I for four years. He is blind atd a help-
less cripple—the result of injuries sustaiued in
Zululand. The only chance which he his of
enjoying the glow of sunshine is when two other
unfortunates, less crippled than himself, take pity
on him ard lead him about the yard. Such is the
glory of a soldier's life ! All that he has ever re-
ceived from the British Government since he
retired from the army the miserable cripple that
he is, has been two medals—we were nearly for-
getting that precious Bib'e and tbe si ill more pre-
c.ous autograph ! Here is a chance f r the laving
Jubilee loyalists. Why should this man, who is
in such a state of health that he cannot possibly
live very long, be allowed to spend the remainder
of his days within the cold, unsympathetic
walls of the Infirm Asylum at Parramatta
where, according to the evidence taken by the
Government Asylums Board, he is treated worse
than a dog ? His case is one which must appeal
to the compassion of every human being, and we
have no doubt that, now attention has been drawn
to it, some steps will be taken to ensure that Roy
will spend the rest of his days in comfort. The
fact that the Queen has condescended to present
him wi’h a teDpenny book and say to him, “ Well
done, thou good and faithful servant,” will, no
doubt, be sufficient for the grovellers.
M‘M llionism Indignant.
The conversion of the so called ultra-Freetrade
Government of New South Wales to a Protet-
l i mist policy—an event which does not come under
the category of “ unexpec ed,” considering that
five out of the eight Ministers were undisguised
Protectionists before they joined in the cry of
“ Parkes and Freetrade ” as a personal or poli-
tical expedient—has called forth indignau t. in-
vectives and lugubrious lamentations from the
representatives of M’Miilionism. When Trea-
suier Burns announced last week that it was the
intention of the Government to re-impose for re-
venue purposes the directly prvtectivc duties on
biscuits, butter, cheese, bacon, and hams, gal-
vanised manufactures, paints, and varnish,
maizena, doois, sashes, and shutters, the Protec-
tioni-ts were jubilant, and showered their congra-
tulations on the head of the “honest” po'itician,
who said, only six weeks ago, that it was the in-
tention of the Government to eliminate from the
tariff “ every vestige of Protection. ’ This
ecstatic exultation quite up et the usually suave
M’Million, and he made a speech, eveiy word of
which up to a certain point smote the turncoat
Government to the quick, and intensified the io-
joicings of the Oppositicn in their signifi-
cant triumph. M’Millan claimed that the
policy which the Government hal pledged
themselves to was to restore “ pure and simple
Freetrade,” and he could not understand w hy they
with such a large majority at their back should
be recreant to their pobey. The conclusion of the
speech, however, was as lame and impotent as the
beginning of it was vigirous and pointed. Mr.
M’Millan acknowledged that lie was placed in
an awkward fix, but he must “vote for the pro-
posals of the Government on the principle that
half a loaf is better than no bread. Hon. mem-
bers on the opposite side would give me no loaf at
all.’ It is possible that the latter remark is true
in a sense which M’Millan did not intend.
The complaint against the existing state of thiDgs
is that while M’Millionism riots in luxury on its
gains from its dealings in pauper and prison-made
goods of other countries, the wealth of New South
Wales-its industrial population—has to go with-
out the loaf. If M’Millionism persists in up-
holding the extremely selfish policy which gives
it a monopoly of the leaves and fi3hes, it must not
be surprised if, when the inevitable reaction sets
in, it finds itself in the unpleasant position of
haviDg “ no loaf ” at all.
Parkes' Property-Tax.
From the time when Sir Henry Parkes issued
his election manifesto The Bulletin has consist-
ently maintained that the promised N.S.W.
property-tax was simply a political dodge, and
now, in support of our contention, we have “ con-
firmation strong as Holy Writ.” Hitherto, when
speaking on the question, Parkes has been quite
himself—that is, he has been conveniently evasive,
but last week, when lashed into fury by the vigor-
ous denunciation of M’Million, and chagrined
by the congratulations of the Protectionists on his
change of policy, he forgot himeelf, and conse-
quently told the political truth. He said :
“ Mark, I do not say that I may be privileged to carry a
Bill into effect to establish a property-tax. ... I would
not consent to a property-tax unless concurrently with it was
expunged every item of Protection from the tariff, and also
in some measure lightened those burdens which press upon
the classes least able to pay.”
The only fair interpretation of these remarks is
that he has no intention to propose a property tax.
Are not the concurrent consequences of a property
tax mentioned as a direct incentive to the House
of|Landlordsto reject the Customs Duties Act. thus
leaving the Jennings tariff intact with all its ob-
noxious protective items so irritant to M’Milliox-
ism 1 There would be just as much sanity in com-
manding the earth to cease to revolve as there
would be in asking the Upper House to remove
burdens from the poorer classes so that they
might be put on to the richer classes, and no ore
knows this better than Parkbs does. In another
part of his speech he said : “Our intention is, if
we have time allowed us, to oppose protection to
the very death.” This statement following as it
did remarks in .justification of the re-imposition
of protective duties, sounds very much like a
doctor saying to a strong man ‘' I will now proceed
to poison you, ” ard then handirg him a glass of
unadulterated champagne. The moral of all the
evasions and icconsistencies of Parkes is that if
ho is allowed rope enough he will soon hang him-
self P’ litically. If t he Opposition are wise they
will allow him to pursue his own course without
let or hindrance—the less they badger him the
sooner will the public recognise that he holds his
position under false pretences.
Alered Deskin “ spreadeagled ” a bit before the
Conference about the new race springing up in
Austra'ia, but he will be worshipped for it, and it
is only a matter of time for his words to come
true. Lord Salisbury talking Lo an Aus-
tralian Liberal is like a cock turkey stuffed with
Toryism enunciating its sentiments to a game-
cock of small but rapidly increasing dimensions
No doubt there is one sentiment—Sir Gko. Bowen
used to call it the “blasted Britisher'' idea
which believes that Great Britain is the only
nation on the face of the earth, and there is
another sentiment which is to the effect that Aus-
tralia is by far the most important place outside
England; while, indeed, there are other nations
to have a say—and a big one—in matters affecting
the globe, and places besides Australia which the
average Briton thinks more about. This is about
the truth, but we need not be quiet, even if it is.
How Toadyism rears its head uncea3iDgly 1 Read
this, spoken in Melbourne. May 6, by the Chair-
man of the Workiny Men’s Collece: —
" Sir Henry Loch paid a visit to the college only the
other day, and gave his hand to a working man, and shook
that hand, stained no doubt, for it was that of a son of toil,
and spoke kind words to him.”
And yet all that happened was this —A man who
works shook hands with a man who doesn’t.
“ Charles Maxwell,” an itinerant bun seller,
of Sydney, writes k to (point out that ha has been
fined for ringing a bell in the streets. We are
sorry for him, but we hate unnecessary noises of
ail sorts, and we don’t see why his racket should
not be abolished. At the same time we would
like to know —if the laws of New South Wales
i deal equally with all—why the parsons are allowed
to scare men, women, children, and dogs, into
fits by ringing their huge jangling machines for as
many hours as they please either on Sundays or
week-days, while a common Binner may not even
call out a newspaper on the day of rest? We have
known of more than one patient who, at the crisis
of a serious illness, has been killed and sent to
Tophet by the clank of the shepherd’s bell, and
yet no one, excepting ourselves, has ventured to
describe the crime of the well-fed parson by its
right name—manslaughter.
According to a telegram in the papers, the Hill-
ston (N.S.W.) people enthuse over Judge Back-
house’s “ability, impartiality, and gentlemanly
forbearance.” And why is young Judge Back-
house possessed of all these virtues ? Because,
for one good reason, he, like Judge Williams, of
Victoria, takes plenty of exercise and is in good
health. He walks 20 mi'e3 every day. and some
days he walks 40 miles. He is sober and doesn’t
feed like a hog, and he always feels well towards
his fellow man As soon as a judge can no longer
walk 10 miles a day he should usually be flipped
into the dust bin. We don't like to see a brutal
adipose glutton who has just stoked himself up to
the tonsils with brandy and butcher's meat, come
into court and spit veoom at the man on whom he
is about to pass sentence. It is unseemly, and
brings the law into contempt and hatred among
the lookers-on.
♦
Man is nearly always a poor creature, but lovely
woman as a novelist is too often a dark and dis-
mal failure. The women novelists who have
really done anything worth doing may be counted
on the fingers: George Eliot, Jane Austen,
Mrs. Gaskell, Charlotte Bronte, George
Sand, and Frederika Bremer, and perhaps one
or two others, fill the list, Ouida is grotesquely
absurdandmonumentallyimpossible. W henlovely
woman takes to novel-writing she becomes either
ridiculously prudish in the Y. M.C.A. and tea-and-
muffin direction or she shoots off at a tangent into
the garishly meretricious and sentimentally volup-
tuousstyle. Mrs. Camrueel-Praed (withahyphen)
who once lived in Queensland, is a disciple of the
untrammelled school with all its unbridled free-
dom and lusciously languid surrender to every idle
prompting of that illogical something—a woman's
oaprice. In “ The Bond of Wedlock ” Mrs.
Caairbell-Praed leads her heroine tbroughno end
of trouble. She is married to a man she doesn t
lore—all heroines are. She loves a man to
whom she isn’t married—all heroines do. She has
a father—the common lot. He is a reprobate—a
not uncommon lot. The husband and the father
get drunk—a very usual proceedings, especially
up North, where Mrs. C. P. was railed—and live
on the lover, who supplies them with unlimited
shandygaff in the summer months and whisky hot
when the bloom is off the rye. The limited
liability drinking syndicate burst up. Lover and
father make common cause, and then follows a
hideous phantasmagoria of divorce, seduction,
marriage, deceit, desertion, rum, chaos, and
eternal night. In the end the heroine is badly
left, and the novel concludes with a gorgeous
transformation scene of universal madness. The
woman of to-day as anovelist is a magnificent failure.
She mistakes the loud and pretentious for the
effective and the real. When she strays away
from the beaten track of commonplace respecta-
bility she is wrecked on the rocks of Ouidaism
and broken up on the lee-shore of rabid sensa-
tionalism.
“ 11. H.” writes to the Sydney D.T. in terrific per-
turbation about that “ Protectionist Plough.”
“ H.H.” imagines that after all it is better to send
£6 out of the country and import that trouble-
some mud-graver than to expend £8 in a local
market. Now, “ H.H.,” if you are a farmer you
must know which will benefit you most! Suppose
you send the money to Europe, your £6 goes to
assist the European farmer to compete against
you. Your money enables the agriculturist to
live— e.g., to sell the product of his tillage to the
men who receive your money for making the
plough. You do not in any way assist (by neglect-
ing to buy a colonial plough) to establish a local
market, hence you are compelled to send your
grain products across the ocean to compete
against the grain products of the neighbour of the
plough-maker. Can you not see that if you had
bought the local plough and paid £8 for it you
would have put it in somebody’s power to pur-
chase your grain on the spot in a local market,
and thus you would have dispensed with the cost
of ocean carriage, the deterioration in value con-
sequent upon a long voyage, and last, but by no
means least, you would not have had to contend
against the competition of the rest of the world,
“H.H ,” if you are a farmer, buy the local plough
if you have to pay £io for it. You will get per-
haps as much a' £5 back again. If you go to
Europe, you will get nothing back.
Catch a weasel asleep or discover a Victorian
who isn’t keenly alive to the beauty and holiness
of his own interests. During the recent confab
concerning reciprocity between England and the
colonies, although the delegates generally favoured
a uniform differential duty giving a preference
to English over foreign imported goods, the Vic-
torian chunks of delegated astuteness desired that
special provision should be made so as to leave the
general duties of their colony intact. In this con-
nection the same cible informs us that the 41 Im-
perial representatives refrained from declaring
themselves.” Of course they did ! This is their
own characteristic mode of procedure. Theirs is
the Socratic method. They allow the other side
to do all the talking and all the committiog of
themselves to the ready-made schemes. The Im-
perialist confines himself to the preparation of the
cast-iron contract.
The reverend clergy of the South-western
part of N S.W. have resolved to authorise
their Bishop to petition Governor Carington to
reserve the New South Wales Divorce Bill for the
consideration of an elderly lady across the ocean,
jocularly known as ‘ Her Maiesty.’ What on
earth she has to do with it would probably puzzle
even the cute parsons of the south-west. An
ordinary mortal unblessed with ecclesiastical dis-
cernment would naturally conclude that the
“ colonials” ought to know what is best for them-
selves, and whether or not it is advisable to
legally harness up a man and a woman who are
about as well fitted to run amicably together as a
giraffe and an alligator would be if hitched-up in
a ’bus. But that is only our opinion.
Mr. Francis Ormond, of Victoria, has handed
over his £20,000 to the Melbourne University for
the establishment of a chair of music in that scat
of learning. If it comes off the knighthood will
cost Mr. Ormond more than Sir Salmon Wllson
had to pay for his srticle. And then there are
the agony of waiting for it so long, arid ail the
hopes and fears attendant upon so delicate and
ambitious a business. Salmon s little aflair was
pulled through with much more expedition, and
cost less. He sent bis cheque to the Chancellor
for £30,000 to build a hall at the University. Sir
Redmond Barry wrote to The Argus, telling
what a Loble and disinterested thing Mr. Wilson
had done, and almost immediately the knighthood
came. It was just as if titles were sold like hats
or umbrellas, and Salmon WYlson went to the
proper shop and said : “I want a good, decent
sort of title—say a knighthood,” and he was shown
one at £3o,ooo,"which he pocketed and paid for.
Ormond has not been able to do business in the
same satisfactory style. He first built a Work-
ingmen’s College, and called it after Prince Leo
fold, who was supposed to have loved the horny-
handed dearly. Well, that was no use. Now he
has struck another note—or, rather, put down
twenty thousand notes —and wants to found a
chair of music to that tune, not because he, F. O.
has any over-mastering love of the divine art, or
performs on the Jews-harp.but because Alfred,
Luke of Edinburgh, plays the fiddle and Waies
bosses the English College of Music. When Wil-
son got his knighthood he went “Home” and
lived in Hughenden Manor, considering himself as
worthy to cccupy that historic abode as Lord
Beaconsfield. If Ormond succeeds in buying
his spurs he may go Home and rent Hawarden
Castle the next time the G.O.M. and the shirt-
collar go yachting northward wiih the Poet
Laureate and his clay pipe.
+
Poor old Barren Tennyson is to the fore again
with a crazy-quilt ode in honour of Victoria’s
Jub. The chuckle-headed muse of the worn-out
poet is an insult to the human understanding.
The following verfc, for example, reads better as
prose than as poetry :
“ You that wanton in affluence, spare not to be bountiful
call your poor to regale with you, make their neighbouthoud
healthfuller ; give your gold to the hospital, let toe weary be
comforted, let the needy be banqueted, ktthe maimed in hia
heart rejoice at this year of her Jubilee. ’
It requires superhuman gall to pass this as poetry.
We can pick better verse out of our waste-paper
basket or N.S.W. Hansard any day.
As last week saw the fifth suicide recently com-
mitted with the avowed purpose of escaping
poverty, even in Melbourne, which is supposed to
be the most prosperous of Australian cities, the
question arises, why people in general don’t lake
some means to abate the evil. We have first of all
an incessant stream of pauper adventurers coming
in from England, which we could do without.
We are capable of manufacturing articles in-
numerable at a cheaper rate than they can be im-
ported of the same quality, and we don’t, because
we are such fools as to think a foreign article
must of necessity be the only good one, and we
shall probably continue, as a majority, in that be-
lief long after we have voluntarily fined ourselves
for our stupidity by taxing the imported things
which we so superstitiously revere. We aljw
our newspapers to bolster up out of sheer vanity
the idea that our country is a paradise, and to


contradict the true 9tatemente occasionally made
by individuals' to the contrary effect. And yet
we wonder that the population is losing its pur-
chasing power, and that affairs grow worse every
day. Proctection, we repeat, is not invariably
necessary even to equilibrate the priceß with those
of European pauper-made goods, for we can pro-
duce as cheaply and better, although mo doubt
less profitably for the monopolists. It is required,
however, to overcome the insane prejudice agains
colonial goods, by adding to these the ad von tag
of the cheaper selling rate. Moreover the cost
the consumer would be dimished as the production
extended. One good result might be attained bj
a systematic household canvass conducted on be
half of associated colonial manufacturers. At any
rate, if this were done at the time of imposing
tariff the importers would be less able to make
temporary “cut"to save the market, and there
after we should not hear so many complaints o
high prices from those who even now fancy tha
nothing can be good unless it is made abroad. An
idea, by the way rather humiliating if any o
them are engaged in productive labour, is it not 1
♦
Parliament Houses, Melbourne, are to be illu
minated on Jubilee night with the words “Vic
toria” and “England." Someone asks, “Why
England ? Are these colonies any more English
than Scotch or Irish ? Why not Britain or Bri
tannia ?” Well, yes, they are. Britain is al
subject to England, and “England" is just begin
ning to feel sorry that the Australian colonies are
not as hopelessly and abjectly enslaved to her, so
she is running an Imperial Institute to try anc
bribe their leaders into part ing with the already
acquired modicum of national independence.
Hence it is just as well that the name of England
should be burnt in effigy, which is really what is
done when it is displayed in fireworks Just as
the “unity of Germany” is “the sacrifice ol
Germany to Prussian policy,” so “ the unity of
the Empire ” means the sacrifice of its democracy
to the English “ nobility.”
In the New South Wales Assembly last week Sir
Henry Parkes justified the application of strin-
gent cloture rules on the ground that this session
the Opposition had indulged in hundreds of yards
of talk without any object in view other than that
of obstructing business. This is a deliberate mis-
statement. A big ail positively refused toappoint any
miners to the Commission to inquire into the Bulii
colliery disaster, and Melville and Walker
availed themselves of motions of adjournment
night after night to protest against this slight
being cast on the colliers. The result was that
Abigail was compelled to appoint two miners to
the Commission. It required a terrible amount
of dart-throwing before the Northumberland re-
presentatives could penetrate the pachydermatous
hide of Abigail, but the result attained justified
the means used to bring it about The long-
drawn-out debate on the financial proposals of the
Government cannot be called useless obstruction,
because it has resulted in the Government aban-
doning the ultra-Freetrade policy which was to
strangle every struggling industry in the colony.
The only other occasion when Walker occupied
any length of time was when he gave a bare state-
ment of facts connected with the Mutual Pru-
dential Society, in which Parkes and two of
his followers figured conspicuously. The man
who would say that this debate served no good
purpose would require to be a very bigoted parti-
san indeed. Parkes’ virtuous indignation on the
question of long speeches directed against the
Government is very dirty political linen—it won’t
wash 1
The poll-taxed Chinese of New South Wales are
going to present a Jubilee Address to the Queen,
thanking her Gracious for the permission accorded
them to turn up in her colonies and hawk vege-
tables. The poor ignorant John that vends the
cabbage to Maly Ann and Blidget is being led
by the pigtail by the grovellers of his race, who
wishtocurry favour with certain of the “swagger"
Europeans. The Bulletin never did think much
of Chinamen, but when it sees a set of jellow-
skinned beings who have to pay a head-tax before
they land on Australian soil, just as though they
were suspected of being venomous dogs, thanking
Queen Victoria for favours received, it conceives
that the time has arrived for a soapy address to
the Throne from the Queen of Bungabooand other
black gins who see their infants’ brains dashed
out against the boles of gumtrees by the native
troopers.
Here is a solution of the unemployed difficulty :
The municipal inspector of Maryborough (Q.),
taking pity on the aborigines who were waiting
for their annual blankets, polished up his six-
shooter, and, having girded on a stock of ammuni-
tion, sallied forth into the highways and byways
and shot every goat he spotted. Then he turned
over the bodies to his black brethren. By-and-
bye, when the rest of the New- South Wales fac-
tories shall have been closed in the interests of
the York-street softgoodsmen, the New South
Wales unemployed will have a chance of eating
stray-dog flesh, which, we regret to observe, is
now being wasted in a most reckless manner.
The fact having dawned on the minds of the
“ honest Freetrade Government ” of N.S.W. that
it is impossible for all the laborers in the colony to
find employment in unloading ships which bring
hither foreign-made articles, they have aban-
doned their retrenchment policy. Arrangements
have been made to let contracts for work which
will provide employment for 2800 men. As these
works are started to relieve the prevailing distress
among working men it may be assumed that the
Government have authoritative information that
this number of men are out of employment, No
objection can be made to the action of the Govern-
ment in undertaking works of public utility to find
employment for genuine working men, but it must
be pointed out that this is a mere makeshift ex-
pedient. Instead of striking at the root of the
evil which has produced so much distress among
workiDg men, it applies a fostering element. So
long as the Government can continue to spend
millions of pounds of borrowed money, the labour-
ing population may have fairly prosperous times,
but there is a limit to the power of the Govern-
ment in this respect, and when that limit is
reached the “unemployed" trouble will again
present itself in a still more formidable shape,
unless in the meanwhile the country adopts a
policy which will give a stimulus to industrial
enterprise.
“ It is announced that England has declined to
take any part officially in the Paris Exhibition of
1889,” says the cable. Which means that the
present blue-Tory Ministers, themselves (in most
cases) hereditary believers in the divine rights of
“ birth,” and, in all cases, sworn enemies of free-
dom and progress, are truckling to their High
Priestess, Victoria, by objecting to countenance
a centennial celebration of the great French
Revolution. If the Grand Old Man puts the outs
in before next year, then England will, probably,
“ cordially assent ’’ to take part, and some royal
princeliDg will be packed off to Paris to represent
Her Majesty in spite of himself, or herself. To
to do anything, is to convey one of those false
impressions of the real state of affairs for which
down. Every English manufacturer who has any-
thing to exhibit will exhibit it at the Paris Exhi-
bition. Thousands of Englishmen will cross the
Channel to see the show, which will possess an
added and healthier interest from the faot that it
is held in honour of a glorious event which makes
Queen Victoria and her satellites turn first pale
and then green every time they think about it. If
they hurry along with Imperial Federation
it follows, as a matter of course, that the Austra-
lian colonies must “decline to take any part
officially in the Paris Exhibition of 1889.”
The S.M. Herald says that “ Englishmen have
never carried their loyalty to such an extent as to
raise their Sovereign above the level of humanity
nor have they ever sought to dienify a constella-
tion by naming it after a member of the Royal
Family.” How moderate of Englishmen ! Great
Scott! raise Guelphs “above the level of
humanity!" If we could manage to get them
any way near the level we would thank Heaven.
But no one can yet tell how the stars may be
utilised to celebrate the Jubilee, any more than
any one can tell how the S.M. Herald came so
conveniently to overlook the fact that the Geor-
gium Sidus was named after Georoe the
Third, of execrated memory. As the colonies
are to be included in the Queen’s new title, the
Southern Cross might appropriately be re-named
the “ Victoria Cross."
Tins Mormons have got to go. Public opinion is
against them, and public opinion in the States
means something tangible. No reasonable person
doubts the right the Southern States had to secede.
It was no matter. The general sense of the ma-
jority was against them, and they had to give
way. It iB the same with the Mormons. No one
denies their good qualities and the benefits they
have brought. Their devoted courage sustained
them in their terrible migration to the Salt Lakes,
a migration like to that of the Israelites from
Egypt, whitening the deserts with their bones
They have made of an arid briny desert a little
paradise. Their irrigation is unrivalled. Prosti-
tution, the curse of civilisation, is unknown among
them. Crime is scarcely known. It is no matter.
The women of America see that, with all these
benefits, the status of women in their community
is, as a whole, lower. It is a step backward. The
Mormon women are not wives, the equals and
slaves, mere concubines. The spirit of the time
is against it. The Mormons have got to go.
Enactment has followed on enactment. They
have been prosecuted and persecuted, and they
have borne it admirably. Now they begin to per-
ceive that it is all no good. What will they do ?
Will they abjure ? W ill they disperse l That is
not likely. Apostacy or submission is not in the
temper of these Latter-day Saints. They will oer-
tainly migrate again. They left their home in the
Eastern States ; they will leave their home in the
\\ estern. The latest is that they are forming a
new colony in Mexico, north of Casa Grand.
A. section of the Melbourne Press is making
merry because the Town Council is preparing a
bye-law forbidding the keeping of pigeons within
the city precincts. Any number of idiotic harass-
ing regulations pass unnoticed, while this pigeon
suppression act is marked out for ridicule. Yet
there is something in it. '1 he new bye-law appeals
right to the sympathies of any man whose house
roof is the favourite abiding place of the pigeons
belonging to his next-door neighbour. Long
suffering may accustom that man to the war-cry
of the truculent rooster, and the Tyrolean yowl of
the matutinal milk-carter. But nothing, save
death itself, will let him sleep when the fellow
next-door commences to dislodge those pigeons
with lumps of road metal. We have been there
ourselves, and when Councillor Somebody solemnly
asserted that amateur pigeon-fancy iDg imperils
the immortal soul he wasn’t so far wrong. Charles
Dickens was impressed by the same inexplicable
fact when he drew a character sketch of Rob the
Grinder, who “ went wring all along o’ keeping
pigeons.” A show of these guileless-looking birds
was held in Melbourne Exhibition Building last
year, and attracted a crowd of boys whose coun-
tenances would convict them of murder without a
trial. The demoralising influence of pigeens on
the human race is remarkable.
The Melbourne Argus is weeping over the evil
effects of reduced hours of labour upon Australian
wage-earners. Thus maunders the Tory oracle
“ The present prospect is not of an improving, but a dete-
riorating, class of tradesmen—men lighter worked, better
paid, better fed than their fatherß; but as thinkers, workers,
reasoners, commonaense judges of the larger things which
ooncern them, scarcely worthy to be called their fathers’ sons
. ... It is easy to see a good deal of larrikin blackl
guardism, of unprofitable idleness, of degraded life, and
ultimate crime growing out of the emancipations whioh the
progress of science and the enlargements of liberty afford ”
It is like painting the kettle blaok to accuse the
Argus of monstrous mis-statements. Who would
honestly compare the midern Australian working
man, as thinker or reasoner, with his English
forefathers, save to the former’s advantage ? As
a common-sense judge of the larger things which
ooncern him, he has proved his superiority by
securing (as the Argus sorrowfully admits) better
pay, better food, and the leisure indispensable to
mental culture. If it is not admitted that a higher
stamp of workman is bound to spring up under
these new conditions, whence comes the Argus
admiration for the moneyed classes who do nothing
at all ? Indirectly, this journalistic champion of
oppression would insinuate that the rich man’s
food is the poor man’s poison—that the idleness
of the one is profitable and improving, and the
hard-earned leisure of the other degrading and
criminal; that the welfare of a country demands
that its working bees shall make more honey for
the drones, and exist on less themselves. The old
argument, persistently advanced by Tories against
the demands of civilisation, ever since the days of
serfdom. As the English son of toil has been
gradually obtaining enlargements of liberty for
the last few centuries, what a blackguard he
must have become 1
In a “ social 'twaddle ” notioe of the Sydney
“Jubilee Juvenile Ball,” of course by “Humming
Bee,” in the Sydney D.T., is the following imperti-
nent and in the column it appears—ludicrous
remark :
"A three-year-old Protection looked very prosperous and
nappy in blue satin, with a soar! with the word 1 ProteoMon’
in gold across her shoulder; happily she waß too young to
know the fallacy she was representing.”
Of course we are pretty certain that the latter
part of the sentence has been added by some
masculine pen ; but if the fashionable gush of the
D.T.’s gifted lady scribe is to be edited by the pur-
veyors of flsoal damnation, anew terror has been
added to the perusal of the Morning Rum.
If New South Wales is really a Freetrade colony,
what means the break of gauge whenever a rail-
way-line approaches the borders of another
colony? What means the outcry against the
towns of Wentworth and Hay for trading with S.
Australia ? against Albury and Deniliquin for
trading with Victoria? against Tenterfield and
the towns of the North for trading with Queens
land ? What means the adjustment of the New
South Wales railway tariff to meet the require
ments of special rates to border towns, inasmuch
it is often cheaper to send goods a distance of 200
miles than it is to send them a distance of fifty ?
The italics below are The’Bulletin's. The
Bathurst (N.S.W.) Record, organ of the local R.C.
hierarchy, says that
" Instead of regarding the concession of free railwiy
passes (to children attending R.C. schools) as a boon, we
th’nk it should be riewed with something akin to alarm
If Catholic and Protestant boys mid girls do not mix in the
Public Schools they will in the raiticeiy vans, where they wil
be huddled together like cattle and shesp [like sheep an.i
goats we presume his rererence means— Kd. IT] at the sweet
win and pleasure of the station-master or railway-guard,
without any regard whaterer to clas-ihcation as to see.
The ' thin end of the wedge ’ has been inserted, and it may
be too soon to try and drive it home by asking a separate com-
vortment for Catholics and Protestants. The demand would
be met with a 'thut-up' Irom Sir IIaNRY, who has already,
in this rery matter of free passes, saorificed consistency to
expediency, but knowing the elasticity of his political con-
science, it may not be demanding toe much to ask that there
he separate compartments for boys and girls, without regard
to religious denominations.”
It is just as true that Parkes, in giving way om
this free-pass question, has “sacrificed consistency
to expediency ” as that, in continuing Protectionist
duties on farm-produce imported to N.S.W., and
in subsidising the local iron-workers, be has sold
Freetrade and put the handle of the political lever
into the clutches of the Protectionist party. But it
is plain from the foregoing extract that at least
one R.C. priestly paper is as intolerant as any of
the Orange rags. The hairy toothed saint with
the blue stubble on his jaw who wrote the above
is evidently more than willing to keep up in Croa-
jingolong the old rows of Donegal and Tipperary.
He is virtuously indignant because the little
Catholic boy is not being incited by .the State to
chew the ear off the little Protestant boy.
Everyone knows that the present Parses
Government is under the special care and protec-
tion of Providence and the dry goods interest,
and that Calico Jemmies are all-potent in shap-
ing its policy and in guiding its manners and
morals, but we must say that we hardly expected
such delicious candour on the matter as is shown
by the announcement of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph of May 12—that on the Chinese Commis-
sioners paying an official visit to the Colonial Sec-
retary’s ortice “ they were received by the Premier
and Mr, Jamieson, of Prince, Ogg, and Co."
The following cabled item appeared in Monday's
Sydney Evening News :
THF QUEEN AND THE SPOONS.
(Bv Telegraph.]
" London, May 15 —On Saturday, on her return from
opening the People’s Palace in the Mite-End road, the Queen
took tea with the Lord Mayor at the Mansion Houße. After
Her Majesty's departure, two of the gold teaspoons which
were used at the meal were missed."
In a column of general items in the same issue of
the paper the point is made more apparent by the
query, “ Is there then kleptomania in the highest
circles ?" This sort of thing is rather nice for Mr.
Henniker Heaton, M.P., whose name now ap-
pears regularly in the World and Truth and
Vanity Fair alongside those of dukes and
duchesses, and whose misused brain seems to be
the only thinking organ at the command of
the Evening News proprietary. Henniker
is even now posing in the British Commohs
as a red-hot Tory and loyalist altogether
devoted to the House of Guelph, and the
very same issue of the News reports how he went
to see the Marquis of Salisbury and laid before
that poker-backed nobleman his opinions on the
subject of ocean penny-postage. And yet, at the
very moment when he was talking to the great
man the misguided wretch who runs the other
end of the firm was publishing a paragraph accus-
ing her Gracious of petty larceny. Before con-
demning the poor Queen in this matter we must
ask one question: Did the police search the E.
News reporter ere he left the Mansion House!
The relics of the howling past are being
destroyed one by one. At Wardell (N.S.W.) the
old lock-up has been cut down and chopped into
fuel. It consisted of a huge tree, with a chain
and staple attached, and short -sentence men used
to work out their time tied up to this primitive
fixing not so many years ago.
After the christening of the new Chinese
Josshouse at Tenterfield (N.S.W.), the Chinkies
offered sucking-pig. and duck and green-peas to
their god, which he, however, refused, to their
intense disgust. He wouldn't even accept a drink.
Hereupon the representatives of the Press left the
edifice, refusing any longer to remain in the pre
sence of such a deity.
Can it be true, as alleged by several cor-
respondents of The Bulletin, that one of the
members of a commission recently appointed in
Australia to investigate a matter of the greatest
public importance is an individual who, by reason
of h;s drunken habits and his relationship to one
of the persons concerned in the enquiry, is utterly
unfit for the position to which he has been nomi-
nated ?
Water-. Tug Foster, though he pretends he
isn’t at all anxious to accept the N.S.W. sixth-
judgeKhip, is already getting ready to grab the
fat little billet in question : it is generally under-
stood in barristerial circles that W. J.’s talents
don’t at present steadily command so large a sum
as £2500 annually. B. R. Wise is in hard training
for tde prospective vacancy in the N.S.W. Attor-
ney-Generalship, and, that being so, we hope to
see a first-class Protectionist put up to oppose
him when he goes for re-election.
One of the most spirited supporters of
North Queensland mining, Mr. L. F. Sachs, who,
on Charters Towers alone, must have spent
£40,000 or £50,000, last week took rctuge in the
N.S.W. Insolvency Court, the schedule showing
liabilities of £140,000 against assets stated at over
a quarter of a million sterling. The estate appears
to have been forced into the Court by the action
of one creditor alone Mr. Sachs’ many Northern
friends, and especially those who shared the plea-
sant and lavish hospitalities of Hern.it Park a few
years ago, will regret to hear of his present pecu-
niary misfortunes—to which, however, a man of
his abilities and buoyant energy must ultimately
rise superior.
BRIEF MENTION.
Behind the Agk— the Argus.
Odious—Tennyson’s Jubilee Ode.
C.M.G.—Cheap Mollient Gew-gaw.
Among the unemployed—Davies, C.M.G
Parliamentary procedure—Out, to have
out.
Saved his bacon—The N.S.W. Colonia
Treasurer.
“ Queen Victoria is a well-preservec
woman.” So she ought to be Plenty of “ sugar
has been expended over the job.
Drunk and disorderly (in a wheedlin
tone) : “ Fine day, yer honour ! ” His Hone
(With gusto) : “ It is forty shillings fine.”
Queen Victoria likes nothing better tha
funerals. Let us therefore celebrate her Jub. b
a big funeral, and follow all the C.M.G.’s to th
grave.
At Charters Towers (Q.) one Wight swal
lowed a large live green frog for a wager. Whic
is the only thing in the world that would eve
induce us to swallow a frog.
A patriotic dentist in Mackay (Q.) offer
to draw or stop a tooth of the winner in the
“ Separation Art Union.” We suppose hr mean
this blood-thirsty offer for a prize.
Thus does the Cairns (Q.) editor write hi
weather report: “More prophesy. More dissap
pointment. Mororain. H—l! ' We suppose the
last means that the weather is growing warmer.
The last straw. An Ipswich (Q. ) patriot
advertises has decided to start a butcher'
shop in honour of her Majesty’s Jubilee. Thus is
the eternal fitness of things once more vindicated
On the Queen’s arrival at Binninghan
< Eng. I recently, Mr. Joseph Chamberlain stretchec
forth his hand to shake that of Her Gracious
Victoria tried not to notice it, and started button
ing her glove.
The Melbourne police have receivec
orders to see that the churcheßdo not over-crowd
They never received a smaller order. However
it's the only way of getting the poor policeman t<
go to church.
A Mr. D. Carnegie, from Ballarat, is
evangelising in Melbourne. Carnegie is billed as
the “Converted Elocutionist,” which probably
means that he used to'speak grammatically before
he started “ terewth ’ -expounding.
In the face of the fact that thousands ol
Queen Viotoria’s subieots in Great Britain am
Ireland are glad to eat peas, grown for cattle
fodder, her selection of the text ‘ Pea. « on earth,
good will towards men” is very appropriate.
Melbourne Herald (Winter, editor) has
now longer columns than any other Australian
paper. Hence it is now called the “ Long Winter."
Some say that there is a hidden meaning in this.
And yet it is scarcely more dreary than the rest
of them.
We read that the German-made bayonets
with which the police lately charged the Cork
Fenians “bent like hooD-iron.” Pernaps, how
ever, the bonding was caused not so much by the
softness of the bayonets as by l he toughness of the
Fenians.
The Chinese Commissioners might en-
lighten us upon one point: Is there any means by
which a white policeman can identify the Bar-
caldine Chinaman who last week gave a blind
white man eight pennies wrapped in paper as
change for a sovereign !
“ Aw ! may 1 awsk what an Awstralian
weally is! ” said an Englishman, attached to a
pair of white gaiters, to a full blooded colonial the
other day. “Certainly,’ responded the gum-
sucker, “ an Australian is an Englishman with all
the modern improvements."
A Melbourne man lately ate four plates of
stewed peas at a poor and then
refused to pay. Then there was a row. We don’t
know what the sentence way, but we believe in
retribution, and we have no doubt he was severely
punished not very long after
A religious paper was delighted the other
day with the sentence passed on a couple of pugi-
lis’s. “Now,’ it says, “these ruffians know
what it is to have their hair cropped.” The
parson's idea that a boxer habitually wears the
long flowing locks of a poet is lovely.
An enterprising Yankee named Parkes,
who reeideß in Kentucky, reports that he has
trained seven large apes to work in a hemp field,
where they supply the places of as many men.
We trust that the hemp is being made into ropes
to hang Australian squatters who employ China-
men.
Phrases that newspaper-reporters never
use:—“The devouring element." “Mulct.’’
“Our boasted civilisation." “A well merited
punishment.” “ A rambling statement.” “ A bad
accident.” (By the way, what sort of a thing is
a good one ?). “A luncheon to which ample jus-
tice was done.” We have now exhausted last
night’s Nooze.
A poor blind old beggar was recently
guilty of attempting to cut his throat with a
blunt knife in a Melbourne lodging-house. He
explained to the arresting constable that he
couldn t see to put his hand on anything sharper.
This is the height of misery, surely—not to b
able to commit suicide when the spirit moves you
Pity the poor blind !
Insanity is useful in its way. In N.S.W
the other day, a man escaped from a charge of
murder on lhe ground that he was not “all
there. His lawyers then wanted him to sign a
mortgage deed to pay costs, but on this occation
he pleaded that he was still insane. The lawyers
themselves are now nearly mad.
A Dunedin (N./5.) paper says :
, “.f Pumpkin turning the scale at 1121 b., grown in the
rertile Wanako district, came to Dunedin yesterday. Thia
monster certainly beats the rscord, and will draw a crowd
a hen on view.
So the pumpkins travel by themselves in N.Z. r
vV e have known much larger pumpkins to walk
about, but then they were supported by a body
and legs. Most of them belonged to the Civil
service, too.
Advertisement from a Sydney paper :
“QENTLEMEN employed in large warehouses or
shops can add to their incomes without inter-
rering in any way with their ordinary duties. For full
particulars apply,” &c.
We thought every gentleman knew how to add,
&c., under the circumstances named. We know
one, at all events, who “added” £l9 in a single
day, and it didn’t interfere in any way with hie
ordinary duties. He simply sold three stoves
when the boss was out.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
It is a pity
Mrs. Henry Wood
did not take “ East
Lynne" away with
her beyond the grave. If she
had done soher weary, drivelling
screed would not have been run-
ning this week at Sydney Aca-
demy ; and, speaking without
bias, bile, or prejudice, the
human race would have had
something to be thankful for.
A few new lights were thrown on the story
when it was first produced on Saturday
night, but the only emotion they aroused
was a desire to find the perpetrator help-
lessly jammed under a gate. By the time the
third act shuffled on to the stage the crust of the
drama was burst up past redemption. Mr. South
took the part of the hero, Archibald Carlyle,
whom he converted into a sort of depraved lamb
without mint sauce. Miss Helen Vivian played
Lady Isabel with an energy which would have
been invaluable in the baked-potato business, or
the law, or the church, or any other light employ-
ment ; and Mr. Arthur Vivian, as Sir Francis
Levison, was, notwithstanding his tendency to
monotony, the one redeeming feature of the piece.
Between each act a piano and a fiddle suffered
from fits in the orchestra, and there was also
some singing which made us feel as if we were
troubled with a rush of cats to the spine.
** * *
Mrs. Beecher Stowe’s great African cram,
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” takes the place this week
of Bret Harte’s ghost at Sydney Criterion. The
new piece is a dif jointed affair, spotted all over
with “ damn,” and decorated with a ragiDg low-
comedy Quaker. This individual is the smiling
Phioeas Fletcher in a new guise, at least sj says
the bill. For our own part we prefer the original
Fletcher—
He lived at peace with all mankind,
In friendship he was true ;
His coat had pocket lx lei behind,
His pantaloons wert blue.
And though as a lion ha was brave he was calm
and didn’t chew. Mr. George Carey does credit
to this rowdy apostle, but the character is an
awkward one. Mr. Joyce plays that mild, old,
black Christian, Uncle Tom, and Miss Carrie
Swain does Topsy, who is thus necessarily magni-
fied into importance. She is a dark girl dressed
in sackcloth, adies, and dirt, and branded on the
hack of her solitary old clo’ with the words “ Glass
with care.” Most of the time she is an in-
carnate whirlwind dancing, turning somer-
saults, telling picturesque lies, and grinding
out nigger obligatos in a rich young voice.
Altogether she is a nice lively girl to have about
the house. Several overdone Yankees, with
boots and whips, pervade the piece in various
directions. Miss Ophelia, a starchy lady from
Vermont, with a hazy knot on the top of her
head, represented by Miss Emma Bronton, is also
a good character. She is sassed within an inch of
her life by lopsy, who leads her the existence of a
badly-kicked dog. Mr. Fred Dark, as George
Harris ; Mr. Douglas, as St. Clair : Miss Emma
Bronton, in the character of Eliza ; and last,
though not least, little Miss Fuller, as Eva, are
all worthy of praise, and several of the sceres are
really excellent. The story is so seriously hashed up
in places that some of Mrs. Stowe’s characters, if
they could come out and look at themselves,
would be surprised and would sneak back to their
graves in profane disgust ; nevertheless “ Uncle
Tom’s Cabin ” seems likely to have a pretty long
run at the Criterion.
## * #
The “Two Orphans” are doing a second
successful week at Sydney Standard, and Mr. H.
C. Sydney, as Pierre, a highly moral man with a
barrow and a suit of pork-coloured clothes, who
suffers from lameness in the off trotter, is fast be-
coming a popular favourite. He plays his part
admirably, and whether ho is wheeling his humble
vehicle round in search of a job, or arguing with
his heavy-weight ma for cleaning out his pockets,
or actiog the part of good genius to a nice looking
female orphan, he seldom leaves any room for
criticism. If he doesn’t die young he will prob-
ably live a considerable time, and in the interests
of Sydney theatre goers it is evidently his duty to
keep alive.
## # #
Some dramatic Choctaw has induced the
management of Sydney Opera House to put on
“ the ancient and evergreen ” “ Arrah-na-Pogue."
The drama, thanks to Grattan Riggs and Miss
Maggie Knight, is well presented, but the play,
all the same, really wants a rest. The audiences
throughout have been fairly good. “ Current
Coin,” a thing that is very short just now, is to
be produced on Saturday, when Mr. C. Herbert,
“ the great English actor’” will make his first
Sydney appearance.
** * *
Cogill Brothers’ catalogue gets more
crowded every week. The show at the Sydney
Gaiety now includes the “ Evening Party,”
Walter Keen’s “ Unemployed Mashers," Messrs.
Gregory and Murray s efforts to kill themselves
on the horizontal bars, a farce in three scenes en-
titled “ Loves Troubles,” and a lot of interesting
sundries.
#* * *
The management of Sydney Royal Stand-
ard have been advertising for a young donkey.
We hope some deterring fellow got the billet,
#* * *
Brock’s second fireworks show came off at
Sydney Association Ground, on Monday night.
There was a good crowd, [and the air was filled
with a magnificent display of blazes. To add to
the horror, the hand of the Scottish Rifles
screeched bagpipe airs, and the proceedings
wound up with “ God Save the Queen,”
## # *
Mr. George Forbes had a complimentary
benefit tendered him by some Hobart amateurs on
the 29th ult., when his own comedy “ The Ap-
prentice,” was produced, at the local Theatre
Royal, the beneficiare personating the hero. There
was a full house, and the performers, on the
whole, acquitted themselves well (especially
Misses Hudspeth and Fletcher—Messrs. Hud-
speth and Webster), but in many “business”
details they did not quite “ hold, as ’twere, the
mirror up to nature,’ ’—notably in the matter of
kissing. By the general snigger that was heard
through the house whenever any osculation was
going on, it was evident that the audience
did not accept a peck at a lady’s back-
hair as a fair representation of a genuine ;
salute. None of the Hobart girls we have
been privileged, to kiss would have tolerated |
such a thing, anyhow. Mr. Forbes is well-known
in Hobart, as he was educated at the local
Hutchins’ school.
** # #
Gilbert and Sullivan’s opera, “Patience,” ;
was creditably produced by an amateur company
at Parramatta Theatre on Wednesday and Thurs-
day last. Mrs. Newcombe, who had coached the
players, and sang with much vigour, took the j
part of Patience, and was described in the bill as
“ that talented and accomplished artiste.” Per-
haps she is— for an amateur. The management j
took the liberty of patching up Gilbert’s produc-
tion with one or two new songs which ought to
please that gentleman very much when he hears
of it.
** # *
David Buchanan, of Sydney, on the
“ Hamlet” of Henry Irving, of London :—“ From
the beginning to the end of the play I was struck
with nothing that Mr. Irving did. The whole
seemed to me the most ordinary and common-
place performance I had ever witnessed. He did
not make a single point all through the play, nor
was there a single tone of voice or expression of
face that attracted the attention.”
*# # #
Don Giovanni was staged at Sydney Royal
on Monday evening last, and although the per-
formance may not have been such as would have
unreservedly pleased Mozart, it seemed to suit the
public, who, for some reason or other,
encored Pimazzoni 'in the name-role) for
his singing of the serenade. 'I he chief honours
in our opinion fell to Signor Buzzi, who imbued
the part of Leporello with much spirit and char-
acter. Miss Flora Graupner, who may be said to
have made her debut as Donna Elvira, very effec-
tively rendered the song from the window, in the
third act, Febottaro’s voice seemed weak, and
De Alba had seemingly not previously appeared
as II Commendatore. Cerne. as Mazetto, was
funny, but this is not necessarily favourable criti-
cism. The costumes weren’t by any means up to
the mark.
Mr. Locke Richard-
son, the eminent elocu-
tionist, whose readings
are announced to com-
mence at Sydney
Y M.C.A. Hall on the
18 th inst., comes to
N.S.W. with about the
largest stock of favour-
able notices on record.
The words of the Boston
(U.S.) Advertiser:
“ His gift of compelling
the hearer's imagination
into complete and happy
subjection to the poet's
thought is absolutely
unique ” are only a
sample of the praise
lavished on him by hun-
dreds of journals in
almost every country
where the English lan-
guage is spoken. We are
sorry that Ihe time fixed
for Mr. Richardson’s first
Sydney appearance
clashes with our hour of
publication.
# # #
The cablegrams say
that the performance of
Wagner’s” Lohengrin”
in Paris occasioned noisy
riots in that gay capital.
No doubt. The “ noisy
riots” were, of course,
on the stage and in the
orchestra. The “ music
of the future,” when first
heard in Melbourne,
made the peace-loving
citizens flyfrom the Opera
House. When the next
meeting of the share-
holders was held there
was a “ noisy riot.” Poor
Lyster had dropped a lot
of sugar over “ Lohen-
grin,” and there was no
dividend.
* * *
London theatreswill
not be thrown open to
the public at the Queen’s
expense during Jubilee
week. And who started
a rumour that CariDgton
intends to charter the
Royal for a week’s free
opera !
Dear old Levy, the cometist, is now play-
ing in London in conjunction with the Viennese,
Lady Ouhestia. “ Mr. Levy is a susceptible man
so when he is tongueing his instrument in the
midst of his fair surroundings, he should keep his
eyes well to the from, or his turning his head
might he followed by bis head being turned,” says
a local paper.
** * *
The present Earl of Seafield, years before
he came in for his title, held a very subordinate
position in a theatrical company which toured the
Australasian capitals. How Toorak would have
grovelled had it only known!
** * *
Queen Victoria paid £5OO the other day
for a special circus performance. She drove to
the show in a close carriage, and notices were
posted cautioning the performers and attendants
not to stare too curiously at Royalty ! Sepulchral
silence reigned.
** * *
Adelaide Exhibition people have sent a
commission over to Melbourne to get a conductor,
&c., for the music at the opening of the show.
What on earth has become of Albert Richardson
and that well-cared-for moustache 1
** * *
The St. Maur Comedy Company has
played a ten weeks’ season in Brisbane (the
longest comedy season ever played in that city),
and this in spite of continual wet weather and
strong opposition. They are now doing well in
the North,
“ Alone in London,” produced at Mel-
bourne Royal last Saturday, commands respect as
being the work of such capable writers as Robert
Buchanan and Miss Jay. Told in commonplace
language throughout the story is human and
fairly probable. Situations are legitimately led
up to, and in this respect “ Alone in London” is
far in front of the tricky “successes” of more
experienced melodramatists. Bat it is too gloomy,
too long, and too dependant on one performer and
one great sensation which unhappily hung fire on
the first night. The trouble extends over a period
of eight years. A prologue shows how a humorous
beast named Jenkinson—fashioned after Coomhe
in “Silver King”—has brought down a swell
mobsman from London to marry a rustic Suffolk
heiress, Annie Meadows. Annie prefers flash
Dick Redcliffe to a local miller, and when a vir-
tuous vagrant boy denounces Dick as a wrong ’un
she doesn’t believe him. No young woman would,
under the circumstances. After an interval of
six years gentle Annie turns up in a Drury Lane
lodging-house, together with her hUEband,
Jenkinson, and the virtuous vagrant. Annie
also has a little boy of her own, a well-behaved
child who assists his “ma” in selling flowers on
Westminster Bridge. A stately banker takes
mother and child in hand—flash Dick is run in for
forgery at the instigation of virtuous Gipsy Tom,
and after another curtain lapse of 18 months,
Annie resumes her career of woe. Living in
clover as confidential servant to the banker, she
finds herself handing round tea to Dick and his
companions in crime, who have struck up a friend-
ship with the banker s son, and contemplate strik-
ing up an acquaintance with the bank later on.
The artless recognition of Dick by his little boy
“blows the gaff” for the mob, and leads to a
polite chucking out of Annie and her offspring.
Back again with her unconsiderate husband, Annie
is tied to a post in an Old Sluice House by the
Thames, while Diokopensthesluicegatesandietsin
the water. The faithful miller from Suffolk, whose
opportune arrival is ingeniously accounted for,
ought to rescue Annie as the curtain falls. This
blood-curdling scene, alone sufficient to save the
play, was muddled on Saturday—a mishap which
will probably cost the management a small for-
tune. In the last act Annie and her miller
prevent the bank-robbery, and Gipsy Tom sticks
two feet of co'd steel into Dick Redcliffe. Ihe
! mounting of “Alone in London” is superb, a
AN ILLUSTRATED “AD.”
From The Herald :—“Missing, since Kith April,
Boy, 15 years, scars over left eye, black masher hat,
dark tweed coat, black vest, fancy check trousers,
light brown overcoat, patent leather leggings. Any-
one knowing his whereabouts kindly communicate
with anxious mother, Herald office.”
stage-picture of Westminster Bridge being simply
a masterpiece of Mr. George Gordon’s art. Given
an effective working of the Sluice House “ set,”
and a more powerful delineator of gentle Annie’s
sufferings, and the drama might have knocked
’em. Miss Kate Bishop consistently failed to
make the most of one of the “fattest’ parts ever
written. She played in a graceful, machine-like
manner, which was depressing. A monotonous
rising and dropping of the voice, always apparent
in Miss Bishop’s delivery, has developed of late into
an irritating mannerism. Except that he always
wore the mask of a gentleman, and wore it, too,
well, Mr. Herbert Flemming was a satisfactory
Dick Redoliffe. Mr. Bland Holt played Jenkin-
son in his genial stereotyped style, and a new ar-
rival, Mr. Walter Howe, scored every possible
noint as the faithful miller. Miss Kate Douglas’s
conception of Gipsy Tom was not inspired. She
made up a cross between Smike and “ poor Joe,”
and spoke five words to the minute. This part
wants to be cut in half and divided by two and
then considerably pruned. Some minor characters,
well played enough, might be dispensed with
altogether ; the time throughout should be taken
quicker, and with a successful drowning scene,
“ Alone in London ” may yet get back the money
lavished upon it. There is solid merit in the
show,
** * *
At Victoria Hall, Melbourne, Frank
Clark celebrated the “ Silk Stockings ” anniver.
sary last Saturday, There is any amount of wear
in those Stockirgs, and they “ wash ” beautifully.
Cabinet portraits of the entire company are being
distributed gratis this week, so that every suscep-
tible purchaser of a front seat can prop a picture
under his pillow and dream that angels are guard-
ing his slumbers. This is nice. Hugo’s Buffaloes
are just leaving St. George’s Hall, but the Cottier
Minstrels still hold out against the enemy at the
Nugget.
*# * #
“ A Night Off,” which was to come on at
Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday, is postponed
until the 21st, all along of the sudden indisposi-
tion of Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner. The Consump-
tive Hospital matinee is held over for the same
reason, and Mias Watt-Tanner is the amiable
object of much interested and disinterested sym-
pathy.
** * *
The Melbourne Comedy Club gave a very
respectable show at the Alexandra last Friday,
in aid of the Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital.
There was lady-professional assistance and a good
gate to gladden the ear and eye. On Saturday
next the Alexandra Opera Company tries its luck
At the big house. Miss Marian Norman appearing
as “Little Dook,” and SignorGagliardi flourishing
the Btick. With no rival opera in the field there
is a healthy chance of success for the new speo.
#* # #
Messrs. Brough and Boucicault are about
finishing a prosperous fortnight of “Colleen
Bawn," at Melbourne Opera House, and now they
intend to give Irish drama a much-needed rest.
On Saturday (21st) George Rignold returns like
the prodigal to the scene of his ancient glories, in
order to renew his “ Youth." This is advertised
as a Grand Jubilee Revival, for 12 nights only,
after which the Royal George departs for Her
Majesty s Theatre, Sydney. George deserves a
banquet, like other “distinguished colonists,”
before leaving Melbourne. He plays the patriot a
lot better than our K.C.M.G.’s.
## * *
Mrs. Armstrong, the Australian prima-
donna, seems to be progressing famously in Paris,
where she is now known professionally as Mile!
Nellie Melba. She has obtained a five years’ en-
gagement with Maurice Strakosch.and is to debut
in opera as Marguerite Gautier in Traviata. Le
Journal des Arts says of her singing at a con-
cert given by the pupils of Madame Marchesi
“ One of the greatest successes of the evening
was that of Mile. Nellie Melba, a delicious Aus-
tralian beauty, gifted with a voice of extraordi-
nary flexibility and clearness.”
CORRESPONDENCE
lH£ Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“Win. Grimmond ” : Thanks for your good
wishes “ Navvy”: We have “boiled” your letter for
next issue.... “Biff”: Will read... .“Frank F.”: To be pub
lished soon “ P.” : No, not a sheep-shearing, but a cheap-
shearing maohine ...“Nicholas M. O’D.” (Melb.): Will pro-
bably publish....“J. Mayall" (Melbourne): Thanks for
your letter. The affair is not going to be gobbled up
by such a syndicate as that mentioned by y0u...." Pink-
headed Papist ” : You are evidently a thick-headed Papist...
“ Parslow”: No, thanks. Just now we are pre-eminent in
grief —" E. Coleman": Most amusing extracts “E.M.” :
No, because the large city churches, rich clergymen
don’t seem to have given anything to the Bulli Relief Fund.
....“ T.J.H.”: We print a piece of it :
Australia ! Australia ! beware of the day,
When Russian war-steamers shall enter each bay
I see with the sight of a truth-telling seer—
With a prophet’s foreboding those war-clangs I hear,
That are pealing near Albion’s fea-girded Isle,
And shall boom on our shores for the sake of our ' pile *
Tis but fancied protection Old England can give
To her distant dominions—take warning, and live •
Cast off thy allegiance—no longer bt slaves ;
‘ Cut the painter,’ and trust to the merciful waves
No longer dependent on Downing-street rule,
Be classed as a kingdom, not used as a tool.”
“ J.W.R.”: Will do so shortly..“ Oyster Johnnie”: Miles
too giddy for us—“ Nimrod”:_May yet use it *• C.l.*
(Vic.): By no means sufficient money has yet been sub-
scribed to decently provide for the widows and orphans of
the men killed at Bulli.lntelligent; Geebung”: The
assertion that any considerable number of the unemployed
in N.S.W. are Victorian natives is a shameless and deli-
berately-told falsehood...." E.M.”: The Queen and her
family have had from the people, in 50 years, at compound
interest, £84,000,000. This is apart from the billets given to
many of the German hangers-on “ Ambulator” : Cleanly
written, but a little too thin “Establishment of Social-
ism”: You don’t accord with Bulletins sentiment
“ 0.R.": You mtist assure us that there is/no personal appli-
cation "Crux”: Thanks. MS. destroyed “ S.S.” :
“Caste is just the sort of play to suit the high-toned of
Potts Point. It shows that even the keeper of a beer-shop
may in time receive the well-bred sneers of a dook and yet
live.. :“J. Mayau”: Thanks—‘ Mr. Holson”: Too long
....“ Ingoldsby Tasmaniensis ’ (Hobart): Copy too much
for common use “ Royal Eulogiser” (Tentertield) : Don’t
worry; won’t publish your name “An Old Resident”:
For consideration “ Land Law Reformer ” (Woollahra):
The application you refer to under the provisions of the Real
Property Act was made by Sir Daniel Cooper, and date of
expiration for lodging of caveat was 21st ult. ; the notice had
reference to a plot of 1130 acres originally granted to Sir
Daniel Cooper and Mr. Solomon Levey on Edgecliffe Road
Woollahra...." Gaffney”: Thanks. Your letter was very
welcome “Lemuel”: Pleasing, but hardly suited
“ Prize Story ” : Good, but lengthy. Will ponder
over it...." W- Read” (Miller’s Point): consider
“P. Corton”: Sorry to say Signor Giammona is in Cook’s
River Asylum for the Insane—“ W L.” : Their law is that
to kill an unarmed man is murder an armed one, homicide.
....“ J.S.J." : Thanks, but it would look too much like mere
snarling ...“ Constant Reader,” &c. (Melb.): Much obliged.
...." Voicey ”: The British publio has been sick of Poet
Tennyson ever since, after the death of “Albert the Good,”
he wailed until the nation held its ears and went to the
side of the ship...." R.T.": Some of it now used “Fen
wick ” (Sydney): We hasten to relieve your mind. Fr d
Garnet, who is tying himself in knots at Sydney Gaiety, is
the same man who used to swallow himself at the “ Olympic ”
last year....“ A.J.G.” : Can’t read all your hieroglyphics,
but when you come to the surface now and then you seem to
be prophesying. We don’t deal with prophets “ Ki«nga ” :
We don’t associate with Smiths when we can help it....
“S. Laurie”: Will read your verses—" Dick Mizzle":
Nothing to laugh at. The man seems to have done a
humane action, in a clumsy.way —" Epsac” : Clever, bufc
at variance with The Bulletin’s politics "J.H.T.”:
It is evident from recent events that Sir Saul Samuel, like
all the rest of the Agents-General, has blossomed, into an
ambassador.


PEPPER
Salt
Sir Henry Parkes has succeeded in reduc-
ing politics to a science just like wheeling bricks.
He measures the business of N.S.W. with a two-
foot rule, and as a result he calmly stands up in
the Legislative Assembly and announces that, dur-
ing the debate on the financial statement, of the
members opposed to him Mr. Melville spoke 33
yards of Hansard ; Mr. O’Sullivan, 25 yards ; Mr
Copeland, 25 yards; Mr. Dibbs, 21 yards 1 foot;
and Mr. Walker, 21 yards ; but that, on the
Parkesian side, Mr. McMillan only spoke 11 yards ;
Mr. Wise, 2 yards 1 foot 6 inches : and so on. The
total is given as a quarter of a mile of patriotic
jaw. This calculation naturally [induced us to
measure the results of one of Parkes’ senseless
stonewalling exploits during last session, and we
stuck at the work till our tape-measure got bald.
As a result we found that Jawbone Neild’s oration
extended from The Bulletin office along to the
Mines’ Department, where Habigle perpetrates
his “ minits,” from there to the cheap pie-shop
round the corner, thence to the publichouse oppo-
site, and finally the conclusion of his shambling
remarks gees right down to the back yard
of an unsavoury Chinese fan-tan den in Sussex
street. Sir Henry Parkes talked the whole
of a 50-yard measure, nine bits of stick, the length
of Jawbone Neild’s feelers, and a lot over. Dr.
Rose’s observations covered more ground than a
lame hen could traverse in pursuit of a grass'
hopper between the hours of nine and five, while
all the remarks which the Jennings party managed
to get in sideways were only lfi hands high. In
addition to this, Parkes’ followers swore ten paces
and the dimensions of a plug of tobacco, and
cursed the size of 16 long beers and our office-cat.
Also they drivelled the length of a lamp-post in
going back on their previous policy, and their per-
sonal explanations take up a sixpenny tram-ride
in Hansard. But somehow Parkes had not taken
to calculating in those days.
* * #
We have lately been engaged in formulating
a little scheme of our own for the due celebration
of the Jubilee of her Gracious, and as brainy ideas
on this subject appear to be very scarce, we con-
sider it our duty to lay our plan before the public*
First of all, we would suggest that there be a
week’s holiday all round, during which period no
papers should be published, no debts collected, no
rent fall due, that there should be no acting, no
preaching, no prayer-meetings, no Parliament, no
Salvation Army, no drivel, gush, fireworks, ban-
quets, or row of any kind, no escaped nun, no
politics, K.C.M.G.s, Imperial Conferences, cabled
lies from Europe, or anything else. Let every-
body have his screw raised, let the Sydney Lancers
be abolished, and let Parkes be paid £lO,OOO cash
and sent to Bega or Jamberoo. When two China-
men appear in the streets together let one of them
be shot as an example to the other. Let all time-
payment furniture men be wiped out ; also all
money-lenders, consultation men, amateur tenors,
and larrikins, and let the woman who wears a
tall hat at the theatre be planted in the cold, cold
ground. If any girl asserts that any man has con-
ducted himself towards her as he shouldn't ought
to have done, let him be flogged at once with-
out any questions being asked, and if the
girl doesn’t think .that enough let him be
hanged afterwards. Let J. P. T. Caulfield
fight 16 rounds with Jawbone Neild, and let
Brennan’s torpedo be turned loose in Sydney
harbour. Suppress Knapp's temperance sugges-
tions, and let all the policemen in N.S.W. run
three miles—they look as if they wanted exercise.
Let Governor Carington be compelled to explain
why his ancestor changed his name from Smith to
Carington, and if the explanation is not satisfac-
tory make His Excellency go back to Smith again,
or quit; Smith is good enough for any man. Let
M’Elhone go away somewhere for change of air,
and let him go very fast and very suddenly and
stay away a long time. Let that member of
Parliament who shadows little girls in dark
corners be clubbed till his own mother won’t
know him ; and if it is considered absolutely essen-
tial that there should be a public dinner let all the
poor and unemployed have the first show: then, if
there are any funds over, let them be expended
in washing the suburban aldermen. These few
items form the groundwork of our scheme, which,
however, is not yet fully worked out. We will be
glad to receive suggestions from sober, moral
citizens who are willing to aid us in drawing up
a programme worthy of an occasion which—thank
Heaven—is not likely to happen again befere the
year 2000 a.d.
The other day a decent man from Wagga
came to Sydney to look for work, poor devil! He
was soon footsore and hungry, and didn’t know
where to lay his head on a cold night. He was quite
sober, and would have been all the better for adrink.
Seeing the luxurious houee of a clergyman next
to a Sydney church he dropped in and asked for
the price of his supper and bed. The benevolent
clergyman, instead of taking him into his house
in Christian fashion, told him he was a liar and a
drunkard, refused to give him a shilling or the
price of a train-ticket, but got the housekeeper to
hand him a chunk of cold mutton and a lump of
bread to worry on the roadside. The holy one
said he never gave money in charity. Since then
the decent man from Wagga has got into a decent
billet and has sent 55., the price of the bread
and mutton (with interest at 60 per cent.) to His
Reverence, and requested him to give one shilling
each to the next five men who ask for a bed and a
feed. The decent man from Waggagoes to H.R.’s
church every Sunday, and when the collection is
sent round explains that he “never gives money”
on the plate, but if H.R. were peckish he wouldn’t
mind putting a sausage or a pork-chop on it.
N.B.—Names and addresses may be had by calling
at the office of j.The Bulletin. I
More woe for the country editor. Jackass
Flat, N.S.W. (if we gave the real name of the
place we would have an “escaped journalist
going for damages) possessed until lately a news-
paper and an editor, but the latter has struck
and the former is suspended. The talented press-
man, in consideration of the sum of £3 10s. per
week, wrote the leading articles, the local tea-
meeting reports, and other matters, and fixed up
thrilling articles about the troubles of Mrs. Jones
who stepped upon a rake and caused it to rise and
hit her on the ear ; he also examined his own copy
in his capacity as sub editor, and passed it as
editor, and hen turned compositor and set it up,
and, furthermore, he acted as cashier, book-
keeper, light-poiter, horse power, and busi-
ness-manager, ana >he last thing at night he
went out and barked for an hour in the back yard
to scare away thieves. But last week the pro-
prietors, having resolved to adopt Parkes’ policy
of retrenchment, piled up the last straw by sack-
ing the message-boy and requiring the editor-man
to go out in person and deliver the Archimedean
lever and at this insult he struck. He writes to
us saying, “Be gorra, ami a baste of burden?" and
we have replied stating that we don’t know.
A closer inspection of Treasurer Burns’
shattered beer-scheme forces us to the sorrowfal
conclusion that Parkes’ foundered financier is run
ning in league with the parsons and bidding for
clerical support. For many years three-
pence has been what Mortimer Franklyn—
now burst-up and gone to grovel in London—loves
to call the “ unit ”in N.S.W. The humble coin
has been the standard for ’bus-fares, long drinks,
and church collections, to say nothing of Jubilee
A CONTRAST.
Portrait of the Mayor of Portland (Vic.) as he
appeared on hearing the local Councillors’ decision
that he should go to England and present in
person to the Queen a Jubilee Address from the
people of Portland.
subscriptions and other unquenchable foolishness,
and its value has been so universally recognised
that prayer-books are now constructed with a
pocket of a size suited to the customary donation.
In his efforts to raise the long beer to fourpence,
however, Mr. Burns has done his best to
overset this order of things, and had he
succeeded the old familiar threepenny-piece
would soon have been as dead as the recent
Noah. Beer leads the van of Christianity. The
Bible always follows the brewery, and as custom
has declared that the price of a liquor is the
correct thing to give to the Loard, it naturally
followed that church subscriptions would go up.
And now the scheme has burst, and the Church is
reaching for Burns’ hair, and if it gets hold of him
he will shortly “ hev no skelp on his brain.” This
is a cold and unsympathetic world.
Some people write from England that
they recently attended service at the Whitehall
Royal Chapel to hear the Bishop of Peterborough
preach, but had to stand throughout the service,
notwithstanding that the Royal pew was vacant.
Such is the Christianity of “ the so called nine-
teenth century.”
An interesting murderer is Christopher
Pickford, of Charters Towers (Q.), now awaiting
the hangman for slaughtering his mate. The
prison authorities contracted with a local black-
smith to rivet the leg-irons on the condemned
navvy. The man of hammer and anvil teemed
too precise about the job, so Chris, hurried him
up with, “Oh, they’re safe enough ” “Rather
uncomfortable,” murmured the village Vulcan.
* I’ll soon get used to them,” replied the stoical
one as he seated himtelf in the furthest corner of
the cell aloof from his fellow-prisoners—two Chin-
kies—who were serving life-eentences. By the
way, why should we keep Chinamen in gaol for
life l Why not pack them off to China ?
W. H. Archer, late Registrar-General of
Victoria, has become a great angler since the
death of Archbishop Goold. He goes down to
the Saltwater River with J. R. Greville, the
comedian. When Dr. Goold was living, W. H. A. j
always dined with J. A. G. at “ the Palace ” on
Fridays. William is very fond of fish and his
friend James used to have some savory specimens
at table. As the Post Oflice clock chimed 4.80 on
Fridays Archer was sure to be seen climbing the
Eastern Hill. Fellows who wanted billets in his
department and couldn't see him at the oflice
used to stick him up at the Cathedral corner. ]
Now, William has to “first catch his fish” and I
then broil and eat ’em, G, p, Williams looks 1
after the sand-worms'
Only the roar of a train in the distance
A whistle —a start —
A crash, and a shock of abortive resistance—
One throb of a heart,
As the curtain descends on the play, and a player
Has finished his part.
Life is a drama—the hour of its ending
Not named on the bill ;
Sorrow and joy in the story a-blending—
Good deeds and ill;
No warning tells of the curtain’s descending—
’ Tis when God will.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bismarck was 72 on the Ist of April.
C. S. Parnell has Bright’s disease of the
kidneys.
The present Emperor of Germany was 18
years old at Waterloo.
The Countess of Cumberland, who haa
gone mad, is a sister of the Princess of Wales.
Emil Zola complains bitterly ef the com-
petition of the British Divorce Court records.
Touch the harp gently. During a short
sea trip to Cherbourg, last month, Victoria by the
grace of God was seasick.
Graham Berry says the London climate
and the east wind suit him admirably. So pos-
sibly does the £2OOO a year.
Messrs. Chaffey Bros, will allow no alco-
holic liquor in their district in Victoria. What
will they dilute their water with ?
On his birthday, Kaiser Wilhelm “ retired
to have a quiet chat with Moltke and Bismarck”
probably on the subject of manslaughter.
Alexander of Battenberg has had the
chicken-pox. That is to say, after the rising in
Bulgaria there has been a breaking out on Batten-
berg.
The Lancefield Mercury (Vic.) is shortly
to change hands. The new editor is to be Mr
P. A. Gullett (brother of Mr. Henry Gullett, of
the Sydney D.T.
I Portrait of the same Mayor on receiving in-
| timation that if he did go to London as bearer of
1 a Jubilee Address he would have to pay his own
j expenses.
The latest is that Sara Bernhardt was
secretly mairied to M. Angelo in South America
The unconventional genius felt quite ashamed of
being married, perhaps.
For an hour’s amusement at a London
circus the Queen gave £5OO and numerous presents.
Her contribution to the Unemployed Fund last
’ year was something like £250.
Lady Florence Dixie protests against the
erection at Windsor, in celebration of the Jubilee,
of a statue of the Queen. A statue won’t be able
to tell lies about big dogs and men in buckram,
anyway.
“ The Vagabond,” while roaming at large
over “ Picturesque Victoria,” put up at all the
R.C. presbyteries. The whisky was always good,
and the tucker Al. Of such is the Kingdom of
Heaven,
T ennyson gets a certain amount of wine yearly
from the Royal cellars for his alleged services as
Poet Laureate. He musthave drunk all his annual
allowance at once before he lay down to write his
Jubilee grovel.
When Dr. Russell, of Christchurch, N.Z.,
recently convicted of performing a criminal opera-
tion, was arrested, he said: “It’s better that I
should die than disgrace a hundred families.” A
suggestive sidelight on N.Z. society, truly.
Dr. Wallace, M.P. for Edinburgh East,
formerly editor of the Scotsman, is now a bar-
rister, but has a sail his senior at the Bar, who,
having lately occasion to allude to his father in
Court, spoke of him as “ my learned junior.”
The gorgeously wealthy Mr. John D.
Spreckels, of San Francisco, will be in Sydney
this month. He is described as “ a singularly
modest and agreeable gentleman.” Halleluiah 1
Eureka ! A modest man from San Francisco 1
Mortimer Franklyn, since he left Flinders
Lane to shave the Londoners, has not forgotten
his cunning. He has just written to a leading
Melbourne journalist asking for puff-noi ices of his
recently-published book on Imperial Federation.
The M‘Elhone says that he will support
a line from Grafton to Sydney, provided a certain
hon. member is hung on the end of it. There is
room here to build a poem entitled “ A Corpse on
the Rolling Stock,” but we haven’t time to do it.
Waterloo Veteran Dayer, of Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum, only claims to be 72, to if he
fought with Wellington he must have faced Bona-
parte as a pink infant in long clothes. Bow out
the Waterloo veteran : enter up the champion liar.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s monument in
Brighton (Melbourne) cemetery is handsome, suit-
able and enduring. It consists of a shattered
granite column entwined with a laurel wreath,
and it was erected by a lady who loved the poet
well.
They say Hall, the N. Z. poisoner, is going
to cultivate a vacant glare in bis eye, and bark,
and neglect his victuals, until the doctors con-
clude that he is insane and remove him to an
asylum, and then he will recover and come peace-
fully out. He is already practising various kinds
of frenzy.
A question propounded in the N.Z. Par-
liament the other day elicited the curious fact
that the wife of Colonel Fraser, member for the
Thames, had been paid a sum of nearly £2OOO by
the Government for surveying a block of native
land.
Judge Holroyd, of Victoria, at lunch time
every day keeps the court-crier at his elbow on
the Bench for 11 minutes while he scrutinises
Mrs. Thompson’s bill of f-re. After all, his Honor
invariably winds up by orderiog “ roast beef
underdone."
When Bishop Barry left Sydney for
England it was given out that he was going there
to attend some sort of a religious conference.
The London papers, however, say that his visit
home is due to the state of Mrs. Barry’s health.
Which version is correct 1
Dr. Durham, once of Sydney, now of Mel-
bourne, has got a ruling from the Victorian
Supreme Court that a doctor on his way to see a
patient needn't pull up, like any ordinary mortal
and walk his horse over street-crossings. Butchers’
carts being privileged, how about hearses ?
Constable Clapperton, of Melbourne, has
been dismissed for falsely stating that he had
rescued a man from a watery grave. The man
unluckily, was dry all the time. Clapperton
doesn’t seem to be much of a hero, but he would
suit anyone who wanted to hire a good liar.
A hangman’s son has just been sentenced
to death in Queensland. You can’t always put
before the dull people who make brutal laws so
clear an illustration of the solid fact that the
murderer is and ever will be the son, legitimate
or illegitimate, of the hangman and the llogger.
The sensational picture of the year at
Paris Salon will be Henri Gervex’s “Doctor l’ean
performing an operation before his pupils on the
body of a young woman under chloroform." This
canvas is brutal in its realism. Gervex was the
founder of the “Nana—Potiphar’s Wife” exhibi-
tions.
The Duke of Edinburgh has refused to re-
turn a French salute at Cannes. We should like
to know how H.It.H. would treat Consul-General
Smith, of Sydney, or Consul Oakley, of Melbourne.
Such a Blight as that offered to the great French
nation would inevitably lead to a bloody war be-
tween England and the Cannibal Islands.
The number of people that received a
“ severe nervous shock” in the Melbourne railway
accident is increasing every day It’s impossible
to point out any discrepancies in the story of a
man who says “ I remtmber sitting in a flrat-class
carriage, but the rest is a blank.” The Govern-
ment can only “ blank ” and ask him to fix
damages.
Three attorneys were “pulled” to the
N.S.W. Full Court last week, and one was struck
off the rolls for pocketing a client’s money. He,
however, has leave to apply for re admission at
the end of a year. How kind the Devil is to his
own! If a layman illegally pockets five sove-
reigns in N.S.W., he as often as not gets three
years’ gaol.
Chief Justice Higinbotham, of Victoria,
“ smokes like fury and drinks tea like a Musco-
vite.” When Honest George—this epithet, unlike
the “Honest” prefixed to the name of many
another man, is not used in scorn—was at the
bar, his butler used to fill eight clay pipes every
day and put them in Goorge’s study to smoko
while he read his briefs.
A few hours before Aaron Waxman hitched
up for his fatal drive, a down on-his luck acquaint-
ance called and asked him for a loan of a few
pounds. The security evidently seemed shady to
Aaron, who replied, “Ma tear poy, I hef no
monish to lendt now. The timesh is awful hardt,
und lam goin’oudt of der peeziness soon.” He
went out of it sooner than he expected.
Smyth, the God-fearing shopwalker who
swindled the pious Retallick, by whom he is now
to be made insolvent, says he doesn't care a rap
for the Insolvent Court and that all the judges
helped by a dozen teams of bullocks oouldn’t drag
from him a hint as to where Retallick's £4OOO is
concealed. He says he wants it as a solatium for
wounded feelings and damage to his character.
Our old friend, Bishop Moorhouse, of
.Manchester, has been saying that curates have no
business to marry when they are young, “ taking
upon themselves the responsibility of maintaining
a family before they have the means of doing so."
This is simply inhuman waggery. All that tho
curates need is Moorhouse’s recipe for gett ng
married without embarrassing themselves with a
family.
John E. Kelly, M L.A. for the Bogan,
N.S.W., who is himself about 48, boasts that his
father, grandfather, and grandmother were born
in Australia Mr. Kelly is a native of the Hunter,
where at one time his people held the bulk of the
lower river, his grandfather being one of the first
to navigate it. At an early age he was engagod
in station life, having at the age of 17 command
of a station on the Namoi.
“ Old Saltbush ” has published a volume
of poems, the respective items of which are
labelled thus :
" ‘ Oswald and Ellen : A Death Scene,’ ■ Despair,' ■ Death
of Kennedy the Explorer,' ‘Eines Written on Hearing a
Sermon,’ ‘The Wreck of The Pride of the Yana,’ ‘ The Oath
of Vengeance,’ ’ Death of an Aboriginal,’ ■ Death of G R
Nicolls,’ ‘The Maniac's Manuscript,’ ‘ Death of Leichhardt ’
‘ Epitaph,' *c."
What a ghastly collection 1
J udge Toohey, of California, passed a sen-
tence of 40 years’ imprisonment lately on a mur-
derer who happened to be exactly 40 years old,
and blandly expressed a hope that when he came
out he might become a useful and honoured
member of society. This is a gentlemanly way of
putting things, and any amount better than snort-
ing and glaring and belching at a convict after
the fashion of a certain N.S.W. judge.
David Synie and Joseph Symes love each
other with as ardent a love as that which warms
the hearts of Presbyterian Inquisitors towards
heretic < like Strong and Dods. The Freethinkers’
“Joss” howls in the excommunicated Liberator
against the aforesaid David for excluding his
advertisements from the Age, and insinuates
that although the orthodox devil is dead, he has
left a worthy representative in the oflice of
Ananias.
They were summoned for working on Sun-
day, and they pleaded that the Act of Charles II
(reported as“2!l Car. II”) did not apply in the
cate. The Bench arose in its majesty and said
The Act of Queen Caroline JI. does apply /”
“ Charles 11., your worship,” said the defence.
“Queen Caroline 11. 1” roared the Blnch ; “I
know all them statoots by heart.” This all actu-
ally occurred the other day in a court in the
county of Cumberland.
The Hon. “ Tarbrush ” Woods does not
blame the Westinghouse brake for the Melbourne


Iscident. At the same time lie feels it his duty
i point out that, if the Woods’ brake had been in
se something or other might have occurred in
lother way and the calamity avoided. Just so.
ut perhaps it is better to go oil suddenly than to
lifer a lingering death from the effects of Woods’
ivention. Having ourselves sat over the bone-
mkiDg arrangement, we distinctly prefer acci-
ents.
Mr. Fred. Wolseley (Sir Garnet’s brother),
iventor of the she»p-she«ring machine, used, in
ays gone by, to boss the shearing shed at Cobran
tation, near L’eniliquin, N.S.W., of which station
e was part-owner. On one occasion, according
o a yarn which is going the round of the t ic-
orian papers, there was a rough specimen of
.umanity known as Hobart Town Ned engaged,
,nd Mr. Fred Wolseley, after long finding fault
,-ith Ned’s clipping, proceeded to hoist him out of
he shed. This led to a light to a finish, and the
Inished party was Mr. W., who, taking his gruel
ladly, swore he’d one day be able to do without
hearers altogether. The new shearing-mtchine
s the result of that row. This story was no doubt
Irst told by a shearer “ who was there at the
imo.”
Boiled down from Vanity Fair :
.. t week according to the Court Circular, (edited
w the ‘queen herself, and therefore infallible), Colonel
Butler was introhiced into the prrsence of the Sovereign,
him aKC B ’ This is the same Colonel Butler
"ho was cited as co-respondent in the Colin Campbell case, who
failed to appear, and whose non-appearance led to the jury
Icclaring his conduct ‘ altogether unworthy of an English
officer and a gentleman.’ The incident recalls another gal-
lant soldier who has been very differently trea ed over an
Sab the same in kind as, though differing in degree from
that involved in the charge against Butler. General Valen-
tine Baker has been visited with life-long punishment, in ad-
dition t. actual imprisonment and the loss of his commis-
sion, while the country has been deprived of his services
the services of one of the very best gen-rals of our time
This again, reminds one that both Colonel Butler and
~A,.. k ttve greatly distinguished thennelves in
Kgvpt 1 and Egypt recall the fact that that country has long
been famous for unexplained differences of treatment
Pharaoh Kin- of Egypt, the contemporary and natron of
the"virtuous Joseph, did in fact most literally foreshadow in
his own acts the difference made by Victoria, queen of Eng-
land We read in Genesis that he, t n o, signalised his birth-
day by an act of clemency and an act of severity and that in
hfs case, too, the objects of the different treatment were a
Butler and a Baker What their offences were we are not
£ld but we are told that he ‘ restored the chief Butler to
hts Buttership but he hanged the chief Baker.’ Poor
Baker' I always felt that he was hardly treated by
Pharaoh ; but I hardly expected to find a parallel case under
Victoria To follow up the story, wt> know that Joseph,
when he foretold to the Butler his restoration said Think
on me when it shall be well with thee , and show jundness.
I nrav thee unto me, and make mention of me unto
Pharaoh ’ And we also know that the Butler entirely forgot
his obligation, for we read, • Yet did not the chief Butler
remember Joseph, but forgat him.
Maxwell, the St.
Louis murderer, who,
after killing young Prel-
[er add putting the body
into a box. was caught
in New Zealand, and
who, when his case was
called at Auckland Police
Court prior to his extra-
dition, was found larking
with three ladies who
were also awaiting their
turn to appear before the
magistrate, is not hanged
yet. He has had three
trials, and has kept on
appealing for over a year,
and he has another ap-
peal still looming in the
distance. Meanwhile the
witnesses are forgetting
the points of the case, or
are dying off, or are slop-
ing to Canada with the
cash-box, and in view of
the fact that the evi-
dence against him is get-
ting scarcer every day
there is a good chance of
ultimately bursting up
the decision of the Su-
preme Court, which con-
cluded some time ago
that the inferior court
was right in refusing to
rescind its action in re-
versing the order of a
still more inferior court,
that the whole of the
previousfour trials should
be held null and void,
and that the prisoner
should be let out on bail
and entirely forgotten. A
man gets a decent show
for his life in the States
unless somebody lynches
him.
Purves, Q.C., of
Virtoria. was lately
“ had up ” before the local Bar Committee charged
with preferring a certain junior to another. It is
the greatest breach of Bar etiquette for a senior to
aav “Give Phunkey a lift m this case. Of
course such a thing has never been done for un-
numbered generations But the Bar Committee
let the cross examiner off—a decision which people
have doubts about. Some say it is a censure
others say it was a caution. Anyhow, 1 urves
doesn't care which it is.
There is a difficulty in Sydney about
finding chambers for the sixth Judge. At Mel-
bourne, when the learned Kerferd made himself
the sixth judge over there, the same bother arose,
poor old O'Grady Bose, Molesworth s associate,
had a coal-hile close to the judge’s chambers,
where he used to read queer books from Mullen s,
and stow away insolvency papers never to be
found again. Well, they bundled the old man
out white-washed the coal-hole, and put in a few
sticks for G. Briscoe Kerferd. Then there was a
stable wanted for Billy Barlow, the sixlh judge's
“SS& o b u°t lte o d f
oliatribcri. When Ihe'.lineal descendant
was shown into the coal-hole by Arundel, and his
S^^nru 8 made a
hole.
POLITICAL
POINTS
I Victoria - Evict-oria.
Muzzled - The Minister’s Dog.
Tho speech from the Throne does not mate
s much noise in these days as the speech to the
'hrone.
John Davies has been appointed by his
riend Parkes a member of the Board to deal with
he unemployed.
Who is “Mr. Jamieson, of Prince, Ogg,
md Co. 1 ” Well, Mr. Jamieson is jnst now the
government of New South Wales.
Two German parasites. Prince Christian of
Schleswig-Holstein, and Prince Henry of Batten-
Derg, are, it is said, about to be created peors.
Australia doesn’t want to federate with
England for the simple reason that it is not good,
sven politically, to live too near one’s mother-in-
law.
That great Liberal, the veteran Sir George
Grey, of N.Z., claims to be the originator of Home
Rule for Ireland. Well, he might be, but for
Butt.
Treasurer Dickson, of Queensland, won’t
illuminate worth a cent. He thinks their present
lighting apparatus will be good enough for the
Jubilee.
Perhaps when next the Newington Asylum
affair comes up in the N.S.W. Assembly, Mr.
Garrett will have the good taste to say nothing on
the matter.
In the Mudgee election last week Haynes’
principal majority was at Hill End, where most
of the miners were Methodists, prepared to vote
the Orange ticket even for a blackfellow. ‘ ’ Free-
trade,” indeed!
A N.S.W. FREETRADE RETRENCHMENT SUGGESTION.
Why not utilise the Chinese, who work cheaply? Let Hung Fat he at once appointed a District Court Judge,
and Shy Wo e a Crown Prosecutor.
DiiriDg the 50 years of Victoria’s reign
Britain has spent £4,500,000,000 on alcoholic
Irinks. Last year’s grog-bill was only £122,905,000
—doubtless owing to hard times.
Jubilee meetings held in Wales have ter-
minated—with scarcely an exception -in groans
and langhter. The exceptional cases were marked
by a lavish display of rotten eggs.
A retired dry-goods exporter recently gave
£710,000 for the acquisition of a Yorkshire
estate. This is one advantage of Freetrade colo-
nies to the British home commission-levier.
The Cooktown Independent says that
the most fitting way of marking the Queen’s
Jubilee would be by sending to the throne a
monster Australian petition—for Irish Home Rule.
From the Granville (N.S.W.) Express
“ People are bpginning to see that to be a Protectionist
does not mean that a man is a Melville, a demagogue, or
an atheist."
The Express might have added : “ Or a Roman
Catholic.”
O Moltke ! Pigeons are to be registered
in Victoria in future—for Jingo military purposes,
we presume. Duncan Gillies would serve humanity
much better if he registered the fleas in the Vic-
torian hash-foundries.
It is said that the Promissory Notes and
Bills of Exchange Bill, which has been passed by
the N.S. vV T . Upper House, will be piloted through
the Assembly by Sir Henry Parkes. He ought to
be an authority on the subject.
A-Bourke paper on Mudgeb- Taylor :
“ Once there was a man named Mudgee Taylor ;
now, a long-limbed nonentity slouches into the
Minister for Justice’s office, states his intention of
resigning, and asks for a Government billet.
Mr. Conybearc, M.P., says that ’’thebest
way of Jubilating would be for the Royal Family
to consent to reduced salaries for the sake of the
si arving miners of Lanarkshire, the victims of
Glenbeigh, and the down trodden serfs of Skye.”
Dr. Creed asserted, in the N.S.W. Upper
House last week, tha AdmiralTryon “hadissued
instructions to his officers to destroy, immediately
war was declared, all coal in outlying depdts in
Australia, to prevent it falling into the hands of
the enemy.
L 4 It is not impossible that a time may
come when Ireland will be governed by the only
Ruler she understands —the Sword —and when
the presence of Iri»h Members in the House will
therefore not be required.”—Vanity Fair, a Lon-
don Tory organ .
“ Electioneering now-a days is reduced to
a scie ce. of which fact there was positive proof
during the contest just closed ’ —says the Mudgee
(N.S. W.) Independent Yes, Mudgee elec-
tioneering has undoubtedly been reduced to a
science—a theological science.
Parkes says he measured his
speeches “ with a carpenter’s three foot rule.”
He must have been thinking of the Calico Jim-
mie's yard stick and not of the cabinet-maker s
two-foot measure. Jamieson and M‘Millan have
made him forget hi 3 own trade.
Shortly after the Queen assumed the title
of Empress of India, her Viceroy suppressed a few
dozen native publications. Now that she gra-
ciously proposes to dub herself Queen of the
Colonies, we hope Baron Bob doesn’t cherish
sinister designs on Tiie Bulletin.
Astounding ! A telegram from London
says:—“The colonial delegates regard the pro-
posed alteration of the Queen’s title with inditfer-
ence. ’ Have the lightnings of heaven become
feeble and supine that they do not smite those
blasphemous delegates and avenge the insult!
The N.S.W. squatters ask for rebate o f
rent to enable them to clear their holdings of
scrub. The Bulletin' does not say they should
not get that concession, but it holds that in every
grant to scrub, it should be stipulated by the Crown
that the lessees shall employ white men and not
Chinamen to do the work.
Thus the Pall Mall “ The English
spirit of resistance to arbitrary oppression has
entered into the Irish heart.” It's the other way
about, Mr. Stead. Electing Tory members is not
much proof of “ the English spirit of resistance to
arbitrary oppression.” “ The Irish spirit of re-
sistance to arbitrary oppression has entered into
the English heart ” would probably be miles nearer
the eternal truth.
France has refused to send any exhibits to
Melbourne Exhibition in consequence (it is tur.
raised) of the persistent opposition of certain lead.
ing Australian politicians to the French occupa-
tion of the New Hebrides. It is reported that J.
J. Casey means, by way of reprisal, never to put
tiis moustache inside Paris again, and to forget, as
effectually as the Claimant, every word of French
that he has ever learned.
“ Ginger ” Clarke, Minister for Justice in
Parkes’ soi-disant Freetrade Ministry, was once
thanked by the Yass farmers for the action he
took in endeavouring to legalise duties on im-
ported grain! This is part of the reply he made
“ My motion was lost through the treachery and
deceit of members representing agricultural con-
stituencies.” Does Clarke now reckon himself in
the list of the treacherous and deceitful ?
The S. M. Herald Eays there is a move-
ment on foot to get free postage-stamps for mem-
bers of the N.S W. Parliament. That game was
once played with success in Victoria, and it was
found that the man who used the greatest number
of stamps was the President of the Council, the
late “Sir” James Palmer. This was the same
large-souled individual who charged his groom
with stealing 12ioz of firewood, and against
whom a Melbourne jury gave swinging damages.
Mr. L. J. Jennings, formerly editor of the
New York Times, has written “ Mr. Gladstone—
A Study,” bitterly attacking the Grand Old Man.
Jennings reprints extracts from speeches, pam-
phlets, and magazine articles to prove that Glad
stone was a decided Conservative up to his 50th
year. No stronger argument could be advanced
in favour of Liberalism than this—that, in the
very prltfisr6f-hi'|'-majgniticeht physical and intel-
lectual powtrs, its most brilliant opponent re-
canted, and turned Rad.
The following is the tariff oration of
M'Klhone, M.P.. as summarised by the Sydney
Globe :
“His speech consisted of ‘ Dibbs, devils, kicks, bites,
kookaburras, monkeys, thieves, dump cars, and vagabonds.
He stuck the parts together with saliva, and offered them as
an intelligent contribution to the cause of Freetrade.
After reading this it seems like getting back into
a purer atmosphere to learn that he called Mr.
Toohey “a low Fenian blackguard and. dyna-
I liter,” and accused him of being “drunk with
is own tanglefoot.”
The Australian delegates at the Imperial
inference said they were inclined to agree to a
nifoim differential duty in favour of England as
pposed to the products of foreign countries,
tetter for Australians to at once guarantee England
he annual amount of the Imperial -Army and
estimates for ten years to come than to
etter and hamper their growing trade with re-
trictive arrangements having a special proviso
or the opening of colonial markets to the importa-
ion of the products of English pauper-labour.
Bishop Goe suggests that Victorian Sun-
lay-school children, of every denomination, ought
,o celebrate the Jubilee by howling “ God save
he Queen ” all together. The idea is to squeeze
JO,OOO of the dear lit:le scholars into Melbourne
exhibition Building for this noble purpose, that
die seeds of grovel may be early planted in 20,000
native breasts. Training for the grand event is
progressing satisfactorily. If you drop into a well-
ordered Victorian home at about the childten’s
bedtime you can hear the innocents lisping the
National Anthem at mother’s knee.
It was once the rule that the monarch of
England should not leave the country without the
nation’s permission This was because he was
expected to be always at hand to perform hia
duty. Australia demands less from her vice-
monarchs. This by way of announcing that an
innocent man has been, and is as we write, lan-
guishing in the Geelong (Vic.) Gaol because
Governor Loch cannot be got at to sign the re-
lease, by reason of the fact that he and his wife
are cavorting round Queensland in the interests of
Jubilee. Arbitrary rank and arbitrary rank
neglect naturally go together.
All the J übilce suggestions of Melbourno
Municipal Council have been rejected by a
majority of the suburban bodies who have
truculently refused to embezzle trust funds
on the occasion. There is to be no
misappropriation of public money for a statue
or a crown of gold. Even the proposal of a joint
address has been tabooed. A few councils will
do a little grovelling on their own account, but in
a general way it may be said that the Melbourne
Jubilee scheme has gone bung. It only remains
for the public to agitate against the Government
grant of £l5OO for squibs and crackers.
Queensland’s Minister for Lands has re-
served 300,000 acres for Chaffey Brothers to go
irrigating on. N.S.W. hasn’t reserved any land
for the purpose. The N.S.W. reserves are made
into National Parks wherein the unemployed may
cut scrub that grows up again. Anything to keep
the troublesome beggars out of town and out of
sight of voters in general. To read in the
papers that 2000 men are engaged upon unproduc-
tive relief works, and being paid so much a day
by Government, conveys quite a different impres-
sion from seeing 2000 hungry able-bodied men
assembled in one city square. Parkes’ Freetrade
policy is to put a diachylon plaster over a cancer
—to give the starving workman a free pass to
Victoria, a ticket to the back-blocks—anything
but a chance of getting honest work.
During his “ratting” speech the other
night in the N.S.W. Assembly, Treasurer Burns
remarked that “ in view of the fact that no pro-
perty tax could for some time yet be brought into
operation, the Government felt it necessary to re-
tain in the tariff a number of articles they would
like to see out of it altogether.” Why does not
Mr. Burns tell the plain, unvarnished truth? He
well knows that the promised property-tax was
only an electioneering dodge to jump the poor
man’s vote. The Parkes Government is not a
democratic Government. Its interests are alto-
gether the interests of monopolist Freetrade im-
porters and mammoth landholders. Parkes’ crowd
will never intrcduce a property-tax with anything
like an intention of passingit through both Houses,
and if they did the nominee Chamber wouid
“ freeze” the Bill, and Parkes knows it.
Only a few years ago the exploring party
of Burke and W ills came to hopeless and irretriev-
able wreck at Cooper’s Creek in the Australian
wilderness. To day a newspaper—the Thargo-
mindah Herald and Cooper’s Creek Adver-
tiser—is published near the direful spot, and the
following is a specimen of its sentiments :
“As for the mnnarchs of the House of Hanover— if we ex.
cept tfueen Victoria and her immediate predecessor-they
we e, if anything, worse than either the Tudors or the
Stuarts. Aliens by birth, by speech, ana by sympathies,
these petty German tyrants had naught in common with ths
grand nation over which they reigned. They were, however,
too engrossed on disgraceful family disputes, on drunken
orgies, and on famous intrigues to intefere much with the
management of public affairs. Inverting back, however, to
the seventeenth century we find that on one occasion the
royal blood of an English sovereign was actually shed for the
good of a nation. It was on the morning of the 30th of
January, 1649, when the head of Charles Stuart, severed
from its worthless trunk by the executioner’s axe, was held
up to the gaze of an outraged people, while the headsman
pronounced those terrible, but truthful, words Behold
the head of a traitor?’
In the Bathurst, N.S.W., district it is
easy to be a good Catholic during Lont, for, says
ti e organ of the local hierarchy
1“ Persons not twenty-one years of age, or broken down by
old age, suffering from sickness, or engaged in hard labour,
are exempt from fasting.”
This is all very well, but hang it, here is how Joe
Byrne nails you and gets level:
“ Such a« are exempt from the law, because they are so
circumstanced that fastiDg would be injurious to them,
should make compensation by contributing to the support of
our Orphanage.”
Isn’t this making friends with the mammon of
unrighteousness ?
The Invercargill (N.Z.) hospital authori-
ties don't seem to be at all particular. They had
a Portuguese leper on the premises a few weeks
ago, and instead of being proud and happy at
possessing such a rarity they have turned him
loose and told him to take walking-exercise.
When last heard of this man with the spots had
got as far as Gore, and lie keeps going into public-
houses and has to be ejected with a long-handled
shovel. It is reckoned that a leper who knows
his way about can always make a good living by
threatening to hug people if they don’t give him a
shilling.
Editor Bulletin.—ln re your article as to the
alleged Gueen-cheerirg and God-save-the-Queen-playing afc
Melbourne Eight-Hours' demonstration. I was at the Trea-
sury when the procession passed. Out of about of
hands, two played a couple of bars of the English National
Anthem, the remainder continued the ordinary tunes. As
for the supposed cheering, I can say that only two trades,
representing about 50 men out of a total of 8000, made any
demonstration of the sort, and that was in honour of Sir H,
Loch, who is as popular as any useless Governor drawing
£lO,OOO per year with the run of a big house and numbers of
special trains can possibly be. Several attempts were made
to cheer, and were such dismal failures that I pitied the
Governor with all my democratic heart, for he i* a decent
man. risen from the ranks, and I can assure your readers in
N S.W. that we in Melbourne will never tolerate a man after
the pattern of a Loftus, or a Normanby, or a Canterbury
again. It is time for the Australian people seriously to con-
sider the advisability of electing their own Governors, such
being a step towards what all true and patriotic Australians
desire to see within the next 10 years—viz. : a great Austra«
ban Republic.


, _ I)ic* tfmouc) / <ci /-r,(j b<> fan,,: ,oAe f./y tb
*2 2 ,y \ 7
22 f>‘£ - c
*s> z 22
*§*&<* K > sZ
j/r Lrri/d)* a f' jrje °/O'* One fe gt//.
/Te />orro y • u CuSA^n/fS
and bora.7f<yo<i
an tnfima/t ayuc.nTdoce .
yrrc&fy - /teem
tf&Mti' /oa ’ ,v
M ''4/P I///l Uv, _ v vl l
’) ** 6a ? U n *">S on e Ucl y
2s ct/fackrecL /u a, deaclfi. Snake
\f u f /i i € ' s Cu -ec( />y 7/ e cdtc!o<2 o/7/c.
up b/nq Jdetcss (d/jft/, /
So d /Usksfaiq //
/hi oi/tyinfg QioriqinaP loaned
fitrr, Ct Sct-r/ ColtpoC ’O cDptcf f>£
dderfk /?/sf>ir>cy op 7t>e /apoor) /ye
CcLuvfka ftsfi. SuS cZiai uao.6/e fo
fecai-e //■ as fe oapoe coci J « /„/£-
y*a.r&e enough To fioCc.i />o'/
redencf*-
0/7 <ffiok
y \rriTZ*'»* aU u **“*
f h ;fi* We
Cuntti fa. ho 9of eyJ>or,ence Q-ncS /'"ioj c, nc/ ij 7~e c.LjzV" 61 c ~ /' *
(0//$ Gisery c^enro„j/^a/t /or , qk Soy oy fits *fa^
A Holiday in the Bash.


HANSARD
Paikes Measures Parliament with the Calico Jimmies’ Yardstick.— (Vide “Pepper and Salt.”


At the Mayoress's Reception, on the lltb, several of the
most tasty and stylish costumes worn by our fashionables
weie from Mrs. MoCathie s, 86 and 90 King-street, where
gowns and millinery are all designed and made by first class
artists
The best selecti »n of Boots and Shoes to be had in Svdi.ey,
and at a reasonable priee, f*r less than Lor don or Paris, is
at Hurt's Boot Emporium, 408 George-street, corner of
Sydney Arcade. Point toes for fashion, low heels for com-
fort ; to suit young or old, in fact, to suit everybody. Come
and see or yourself.*
Society
The Chinese Commissioners are the very
incarnation of the most delightful politeness. It
is rumoured that they have been requested to stay
in Sydney and give the old aristocracy lessons in
manners.
The Earl of Dudley was the patrician who
laid Lord Carington £lO.OOO to £IOJ that Hon.
Jas. White, of Sydney, wouldn’t pull off an Eng-
lish Derby within the next ten years. The Earl
has evidently inherited the plunging propensities
of his pa. In this case he waits ten years to win
£lOO and runs the chance of any day lotting a hun-
dred times that amount. What a noble “ mug !”
People are saying that the flaming gowns
worn by certain of Sydney’s old nobility at the
recent amateur performance of ought
to be put down. Not, mind you, that these were
not “ put down ” a good deal.
A large amount of betting was done by the
ladies who attended Rosehill (Sydney) races the
other day, and some of them had obtained very'
good tips indeed. Not one, however, invested on
Smith O’Brien, who won the Sympathy Plate.
“ W hat a dreadful name, my dears 1” exclaimed
the fair metallician with a boa, who appeared to
boss the ring.
A party of eminent Sydney citizens—all
of one family— who fancy that their names will
echo down the reverberating corridors of time, went
to Moss Vale the other day with a view to calling
on Lord and Lady Carington. They informed
Lord C., whom they met in the grounds on their
way to the house, that they had just looked in
while passing, and the Governor replied briefly :
“ Oh 1 Aw! ” Then they asked for Lady Caring-
ton, and were told that she was—haw —some-
wheah in the g wounds. They had to walk round
and round until their tight boots nearly gave out,
however, before they found her ladyship, and
when they did arrive at her she didn’t invite them
to stay to tea, but talked so exclusively about the
beautiful scenery they would see on their way
back that they ultimately felt compelled to start
off. Three of the party have since adopted Re-
publican sentiments, and the rest have gone about
proclaiming their own misery and recounting
their freezing interview with Lady Carington
with a great number of “ sez she’s and “ sez
I’s ” thrown in, and they all weep as they come to
that touching point in the story where they rose
on their hind legs and felt themselves “slung’
out.
* * *
In a “ select ” Sydney drawing-room, not
very long ago, the company were dwelling upon
the horrors of drought and how fearful it would
be if water should altogether fail. “ Bah !” said
a pretty girl triumphantly; “what would it
matter ? We could always drink tea /” Fact.
The hat goes round once more. Wales’
silver wedding comes off next year. For a whole
quarter of a century Tummy has dodged round
with other men’s wives, and skirmished after
actresses. He can’t earn money himself, like the
Jersey Lily, whom he ate out of house and home,
and whose husband is now pensioned off with a
humble billet in connection with a ferry-boat
somewhere on the Welsh coast, so, unless he starts
to pose as an advertisement for a hair-restorer,
there is nothing for it but the well-worn subscrip
tion-list. .
* * *
The first thing that strikes one in looking
over the admirable collection of drawings exhibited
this year by the students of the National Gallery,
Melbourne, is the monotonous frequency with
which the one living male model is reproduced.
When that distinguished architect, Mr. Pecksniff,
received a select number of young gentlemen to
be instructed in the mysteries of his profession,
Salisbury Cathedral in its various aspects was
the one study to which their attention was
directed, and the example of so illustrious an
art-teacher would seem to be reverently followed
by Mr. Folingsby. Too much of a good thing in
his opinion is more than one. The liviDg original
must be a handsome fellow enough ; not an Apollo
Belvidere exactly, but as near that pattern as
they are made in these degenerate days, lie is
depicted in every possible attitude that the finite
mind of man can conceive ; and one can scarcely
help noticing with what loving fidelity of detail
the lady students dwell on every particular hair
of his pendant moustache. Upon the whole,
however, we have no fault to find with this fine
specimen of masculine symmetry, except that
there ought to be more of “ him.” It is some-
what remarkable that the eminent art critics who
have focussed their gigantic intellects upon the
Students’ Exhibition have ignored the single study
from a living female model which the collection
contains. This lady is drawn in a recumbent
attitude, and might serve as a most realistic model
of Nana, or Sensuality. The whole pose of the
figure is eminently suggestive of a Chinese opium-
den. Surely the shapely damsels who do the
pages and officers in the operas bouffes are not all
paint and padding ; and if they are only half so
nice as they look, one or two might be selected at
random as models for Mr. Folingsby’s pupils.
Budding artists in search of the beautiful
must have something approaching beauty
in their models; otherwise they had much
better confine themselves to their broken-nosed
and sparsely-limbed studies from the antique.
* * *
At Maryborough (Q.), when the poor
parson is pressed byjiis butcher, baker, and laun-
dress, he goes out into the highways and byways
to try and collect some of his stipend.
. * ♦
Babies of two-and-a-half years of age are
in great demand in Auckland (N\Z.) A mother
who appeared to have rather too many pledges of
affection, put a two-line advertisement in the
paper announcing that a respectable person could
have her two-and-a-half year-old girl by applying
at the newspaper office. And they did apply.
Ladies with false hair and extended improvers,
old ladies who should have grandchildren, and
young ladies who had no children, poor women
who sighed for something to love besides their
husbands, and others who couldn’t love their
husbands but thought they’could manage a baby—
all these thronged into the office and spread into
the street waiting for the baby, but it came not.
In desperation the clerks suggested that the
ladies should leave their names and addresses.
This was done, and the prospects of a general
fight for the baby vanished as the last dear crea-
ture disappeared from the office.
♦ • •
“ Humming Bee,” in the Sydney D.T.,
speaks of “ the bulk of the ladies assembled.” Of
course—improvers are not out of fashion yet.
* * *
Prince Albert Victor, says an English
correspondent, has been given a good long fine for
his leading-string, and allowed to fall in love with
every pretty girl he met, so long as matters did
not assume a serious aspect. He has kept pretty
well within bounds until lately. But it seems one
fair young maiden sunk her bright eyes, rosy lips,
pearly teeth, and slender ankles deep down in
his princely heart and budding affections ; and, as
a consequence, he has been shipped off to Gib-
raltar without ceremony in charge of a sedate
equerry, there to join a commonplace fine regi-
ment, where he will be obliged to march on his
feet instead of astride of a dashing charger. His
papa has directed the penalty. You see, “Tummy”
himself, when he was a youngster and quartered
at the Curragh Camp, in Ireland, with the Grena-
dier Guards, away back in '62 or ’63, went and
lost his head and heart over a pretty Irish girl,
and the report was, at the time, actually married
her. Of course, the marriage was not legal, for a
prince can not marry a subject without the con-
sent of Parliament; but that, instead of excusing
the prince, only made it more disgraceful of him.
So “ he knows how it is himself.”
* • *
When “ General Wong YongHo ” was an-
nounced at the Mayoress of Sydney's reception
last week there was a general titter among the
assembled fair. Had “Mr. Sausage Smith” or
“Mr. Publichouse Brown, C.M.G.,” been an-
nounced at a reception given by the Mayoress of
Pekin, the Chinese ladies would have been too
well-bred to giggle.
* * *
An esteemed and respected citizen got
drunk the other day at Auckland (N.Z.), and
when found by two good Samaritans he was lying
with his feet on the pavement and his head wait-
ing to be run over by a passing cab. He was
immediately shaken up, whereupon he snorted
TOO OFTEN TRUE.
Sir Crichton Browne maintains that for sylph-like grace, dignity of carriage, and
beauty both of form and feature, Sarah Jane, the housemaid, can wipe out her
mistress, Lady Clara Vere de Vere, any day in the week.
like a two-year-old and made some remarks redo-
lent of onions and tobacco. It being explained
to him that he couldn’t remain there all night,
he responded, “Z’klyso,” and then pointing i o a
villa near by he added, “ Ma-a-a-ry Ann.” This
statement was interpreted to mean that the villa
was his home, and that “Mary Ann” was waiting
for him, so one of the strangers put his elbow on
the fallen one’s stomach and his arm round his
neck, and the other seized him gently but firmly
by the coat-tails and with tne stupendous hoist
they carried him across the road and in through
the front gate. On the way he remarked that he
would then and there burst them into rags, but
they took no notice of the observation. For a
quarter of an hour the two philanthropists hupg
on to the bell by turns and yelled in between the
shocks, and at last their efforts were rewarded by
the'appearance of a tall, vinegary lady in a-single
snow-white garment who brought a candle to
the door and blinked at them. Being pretty
tired, they wasted no time in empty civilities, and
merely remarking “ Here’s your husband, ma’am,”
they shot the beery wreck right through the door-
way, find in a moment he and the slightly-dressed
lady and the candle were all mixed in a screamiDg
heap on the floor. The visitors then closed the
door and left, and it wasn’t till some days after-
wards that they learned that they had called a
respectable and pious spinster out of her bed at
midnight only to knock her down by firing a per 11
fectly drunk stranger into her bosom and had
then shut the pair in together under circum-
stances that were calculated to knock any lady's
character into a cocked hat at the shortest notice.
♦ * *
A R.C. priest from Melbourne, who lately
visited Sydney, showed that the practice of letting
the seats in the R.C. Churches of the
city of the Most Beautiful Harbour was “a
fool of a system. It promotes,” said his rever-
ence, “a spirit of business and commerce in re-
ligion amongst the people ; impairs the spirit of
generosity and irritates the poor, between whom
and the rich a distinction is made, such as does
not exist in the Kingdom of Heaven. In Mel-
bourne we leave all to the spontaneous generosity
of the people, and I’ll bet my silver snuff-box
against your meerschaum pipe that our offerings
are bigger than your rents."
It is the fashion at Government House,
Sydney, to wear gaiters and keep your trousers
turned up. This mode has been demonstratively
adopt'd by several prominent members of the
“Points’” aristocracy, who, in season and out of
season, hang round Lord Carington, and slavishly
copy the attire of his flunkeys. How the im-
ported patricians must snigger in their boots!
There are numberless applications for the
vacant Town Clerkship of Sydney, and all eorts of
influence is being used in the matter. Among
the applicants are Mr. E. Pulsford, Secretary of
the N.S.W. Freetrade League, Mr. John Osborne,
Mr. R. J. Browning, barrister-at-law, and Mr.
Leopold Jordan.
• • *
Why did the Union Club so cruelly black-
ball that M.L.A. ? It is now plain that, in
Sydney, all the “ best” people aren’t given up to
the worship of the Cobden Club's calf. There i* a
strong and rapidly-increasing detachment of Pro-
tectionists within the walls of the Union, and it is
no secret that more t han half of the writers on
the staffs of the “ Freetrade ” Sydney dailies are
avowed Protectionists.
* * *
Sydney D.T. has received a letter, which
it does not think necessary to print, but which
we are told contains some strictures on the pro-
posed Jubilee address from the women and girls
of N,S.W. The correspondent is a female, and it
(the female correspondent) encloses a draft con-
gratulatory address to Her Gracious which
“avoids the great insult of designating us as
‘ women and girls ’ —an epithet which we have
not deserved.” The D.T. does not tell us what
substitute is proposed, but it matters very little
what it is, and we are content to suppose it would
read, “ The ladies and young ladies of New South
Wales.”—
Come, haughty female, set us right,
For on this point we’re but a baby,
What is a woman 1 and what might
Be most correctly termed a lady ?
What is a girl I We thought we knew
Enough about this social feature;
And what’s a “ person ?” worthy shrew,
And what would yQlLprpnspmce a “ creature ? ”
And what are you ? but stay ! a thought
Across our mind comes lightly tripping :
Behind the bar you may be sought
Of some low “ pub.” down by the “ shipping.”
There was a small romance in Adelaide
the other week in which a flighty grass-widow, a
Dice-looking young swell, a private detective, and
another man’s wife all took a hand. The nice-
looking swell had come from Sydney on a short
visit, haviEg left his own agreeable married girl
behind him, and in his absence the lady got
jealous and put a private detective on his track.
Meanwhile, he w r as going round with a beauty
whose husband didn t know she was out, and
didn’t take the trouble to inquire, and the two
were enjoying themselves immensely until one
day the baleful shadow of a seedy figure and un-
kempt head and a broken nose was cast upon
their path, and the private detective, with an
ugly smile, handed the stray sheep his oard. The
sheep glanced at it, and put his hand in bis pocket
with an inquiring look. The detective winked
and said : “ Bless you, sir, / understand.” Then
there was a rapid handing over of sundry bank-
notes, a chuckle, a bow, a smile, another wink*
two dirty boots disappearing round the next
corner, and all was still. The lady in Sydney was
assured next day by wire that her husband was
spending all his time with a sick male fiiend, and
she p* id handsomely for t lie information.-Defini-
tion of a private detective—A man who takes tip
from both sides.
A Melbourne correspondent writes to The
Bulletin complaining of the eternal flunkey ism
of the daily press, and its subservience to the
money icterest. His daughter, a bright, intelli-
gent girl, died from typhoid-fever, and in sending
the notice of death to a certain soi-disant demo-
cratic organ w ith a big circulation, he added the
words: “Another victim to our disgraceful sani-
tary laws.” But even this brief and justifiable
protest against the condition of a dirty and
neglected city was too strong for the newspaper-
proprietors, and the “ad” was refused insertion.
“ Proputty,” whether dirty or clean, had to be re-
spected, and the paper was not going to take the
risk of offending some owner of a malodorous
terrace who might be thereby riled into stopping
his subscription. Especially considering the un-
holy drivel which constantly appears in the
obituary column of the journal in question, the
rejection of our correspondent’s advertisement
seems to have been arbitrary and indefensible.
There is a very swagger parson in Mel-
bourne who has certain trousers for walking in,
others for riding in, and others for sitting in.
Going down Collins-street the other day a bank
clerk was “fetched” by the parson’s well-built
breeks, and forthwith he went to Milton and ordered
a similar pair. The first day that the B.C. put on
the pants he attended a garden party at South
Yarra, and the moment he first sat down he felt
like Captain Gingah that “something had given
way.” He retired hastily without takiDg leave of
his hostess, and exhibited his deplorable condition
to the epic tailor, who blandly replied : “ But,
sir, you ordered a pair of the Rev. Mr. Howler’s’
walking trousers, and you must have sat down,”
The Sydney E. News, speaking of the
reception lately given by Mrs. A. J. Riley, the
wife of the Mayor of Sydney, alludes to that lady
as “ The Lady Mayoress.” Which strikes tome
people as being just a leetlc premature.
One of the Queen’s Remembrancers is at
present in Melbourne. Perhaps that’s why she
forgot to send a little cheque with her Bulli tele-
gram of “ sympathy.”
The Jubilee idea of establishing a fund by
public subscription for the relief of widows, and
calling it “ The Queen's Fund,” is brutally sar-
castic.
The letter quoted by Mr. Piddington in
the N.S.W. Legislative Council against Dr. Creed’s
Cremation Bill was the most incoherent, not to say
humorous, of epistolatory efforts. It asks ;
“ ‘ Is the law made by God or by man V and proceeds in
these terms : ‘ I ask you again if God made man’s body to be
cast into a furnace? I think, sir, this is going against the
laws of nature, and against the laws of God. As man waa
made from the earth, let the body return to the earth which
gave it birth. The greater the tyrant, the less respect he haa
got for his fellow-creatures. How can we expect him to
show respect to the dead ? . . Now, sir, I ask you in
reference to taking the ashes and having them in a jar in
your house on the mantelpiece or on a shelf. Could you
have a contented mind ? your aged- father, or your aged
mother, or your sister, or your brother—look which way you
will, when you have got them in the place, your own flesh and
blood.’ "
Surely a Scotchman hath written this.
We have received the following letter,
which, if true, contains seven dozen divorce-acts
and about fifty strong hints for the police :
“ In a Sydney suburb resides a tolerably prominent man
who for a long time his lived in open adultery. His wife
was long aware of the fact, but she was a good woman with,
a poor heart. Recently, however, she did pluck up sufficient
courage to go to the house where her husband was squander-
ing his assets. She caught him in flayrante delicto; but the
only residt war that the brute turned on her and publicly
heat her into the street. Beating was her share from day to
day of the joys of married life, while money and caressea
were lavished on a shameless harlot. The thing went on till
the other day, when the lonely wife died suddenly. She waa
seen about in the street, to all appearance as well as usual
one day. The next she was found dead. No inquest waa
held, but the poor creature’s remains were hurried to the
grave unfollowed and unmourned by a single soul. Tbia
matter is one that should certainly have been inquired into.’
The business of Worth, the man-milliner,
is to be turned into a limited liability company,,
capital £lBO,OOO. Mr. Potts Point should tako
shares, and thus get a return on the money spent
by Mrs. Potts Point,
The question this Are the affections of
any barmaid worth £lO,OOO ?
* * *
A Civil Servant wants to know what has
become of the expensive piano, music, and other
belongings of the Sydney Civil Service Musical
Society, which, at the time operations were “ sus-
pended for a few months”—someyears sgo—had a
considerable amount of property and few or no
debts.
Country cousins are usually the “black
beasts * of all sorts and conditions of men in cities.
They want to see all the lions, and much money goes
in showing them round. One independent Sydney
gentleman, however, has hit on an economical
method of entertaining these pastoral persons.
Early in the morning he takes them to either the
Gardens or the Museum or to some other gratuitous
excitement. Then comes the question: “Well,
and where shall I meet ee after dinner ?'*
Dr. Bromby, the Incumbent of St. Paul’s,
Melbourne, who not very long ago disturbed the
equanimity of his congregation by marrying him-
self again at an advanced age to an extremely
young lady, preached on “ Joseph and Potiphar’s


There i< nothing succeeds like success. The most success-
, i L hi. line nidging from the numher of I>»trons who
throng places of busim as, John NoAkk, 3iU end 346
Georgistreet, and 33 Hunter street. Smokers materials of
the best only.
The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Ccugh Emulsion is such as to render it the best-known
remedy in the world for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, or Bron-
chitis. It can be obtained direct f roraW. M. Rowley, 'Chemist,
Bourke-street,- East Melbourne. Price 2s. 6d. per bottle, and
from all chemists.*
Dr. Frederick Ware, having leturned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, firings with him all tbat
is new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
may be consulted at Kidman’s Building*, corner George and
Market streets. Take Lift.
wife,” on the evening of Sunday week. We ought,
however, to have said was to have preached on
this interesting subject. For, though there was
a large congregation in consequence of the
previous announcement, the interesting little
divorce story Potiphar v. Potiphar and Joseph
was only most remotely touched upon. The Doctor
is artful He km ws how to get a big congrega-
tion together by a smart announcement.
Many clergymen object (noncupatively) to
the ballet, and an Episcopalian dignitary once
gave it out that no man with a family should
dance. Yet only the other day we came across
this little ad. “ Grand Ball. —Liquidation of
debt on St. Nicholas’ Church, 22nd June, 1887.”
Old Nicholas' Church, no doubt.
From the S.M. Herald :—“ If this should
meet the eye of , would he call at the office of
this paper for the address of his wife 1"
He will speed (when he learns what this ad. has to
say)
To the S.M.H. office from far wildernesses,
For however men err or however men stray
They always arc anxious for their wives' ad-
dresses 1
That’s so.
One of the most vicious of and
book-canvassers had the cheek to call at
a Sydney convent the other day to ask for an
order for the “ Life of St. Patrick” or “Life of
O’Connell.” The nun who answered him said she
didn’t want these excellent works, but could he
bring her a volume of “Wit and Humour!”
Fact.
From the Daily Fairfax :— “ Wanted, a
man, to knock about.” We advise a married man
to apply for this billet. He might be able to dodge
Suppose you mean to go up for election
at a Sydney club you should not, while an honorary
member, find too much fault w ith the club cuisine.
Anyhow, it is not diplomatic to express your senti-
ments too loudly.
“ Social happiness consists in being asked
ererywhere, and in going nowhere."
* • »
Ouida’s “ Puck and “ Moths ” are more
“ out ” than any other books in Sydney School of
Arts. But George Moore’s “Mummer’s Wife”
and Francis Adams’ “Leicester” are ruled as
morally “ unsuitable” by the virtuous committee.
In London now, if you want a cigarette,
you have only to go up to a pillar-box, put a penny
into the slit, and out drops a first-class smoke.
Nearly every passenger-train and restaurant is
fitted with one of these contrivances.
Some new assorted social rules :
Dress well, even if your tailor has to pay for Feed
those who are already over-fed—they will probably return it.
The most conspicuous adventurer is the most reliable
weather-cock. No man knows Society better than he who
has worked his way up; and there is no greater scoundrel
than the one who has worked his way down. The object of
extreme discretion is to entrench imbecility and impotence.
Speak well of everybody till they are irretrievably broke:
then listen to nothing in their favour. Shun poverty; its
consequences are contagious. In these days a gentleman
must be a snob; formerly a snob could not be a gentleman.
Snobbishness is worldliness without knowledge of the world.
Don't be ashamed of your vices ; what irritates us are your
virtues. Follow these instructioni, and you will be con-
sidered “ nice.” Should you have expectations, the expres-
sion will then be “ charming.” Always bear in mind the
well-known cartoon in Punch Passer-by to Crossing-
Sweeper : “ What's all this about?’ Sweeper: “ Well, sir, it
seems a kind of wedding; but it ain’t likely to be a 'appy
union—only two brough'ms and a hack cab.”
* * *
So “ Hamlet,” after telling Ophelia to get
her to a nunnery and never to mairy, and thereby
driving the poor girl to a suicide’s watery grave,
has gone and married a lady in Sydney.
*
A fashionable doctor has startled society
by giving the opinion that tight-lac ng is a public
benefit, inasmuch as it kills off the foolish virginp,
and leaves only the wise to grow into womeD.
* * *
Yes, George Augustus Sala is bound to
devote a whole chapter to the Yorick Club, Mel-
bourne, iu his new book on Australia, Most
likely he will give portraits of Haddon, of the
Argus, George Aytoun, of the Agk, and other
men who had the astounding temerity to go to
George’s hotel and see if it was “tightness” or
square sickness that prevented the great journalist
from partaking of the Club’s corned beef and cab
bage. Great Scott! how Mr. Wm. M'Kinley raves
over the way Sala treated the club ! Poor Jos
Pickersgill is blamed for the whole wretched busi-
ness, but Jos. indignantly denies his culpability.
J. P., by the way, says that Mrs. Sala was a
“ lovely lady,” and that she was the real source
of George’s inspiration in maDy of his best efforts,
and prompted some of his finest social sketches.
» * *
“Humming Bee,” the Sydney D.T.’s
lady contributor, thus explains in her “ Question
Box ” to an anxious enquirer after terewth :
“ AGE OF THE GOVERNOR’S YOUNGEST CHILD.
Inquirer': The name of his Excellencys youngest
daughter is the Honorable Ruperta. She will be four years
old on July 14.”
Now it will, of courre, instantly strike everybody
that this delightful piece of fashionable intelligence
can have only come from one source—Lady
Carington, doncherknow. Now that we have had
a loDg sniff at the smelling-salts (a special pre-
paration of ammonia in alcohol, by the way) we
feel so much better that we can face the next
item
‘ Economy.—l have no recipe that I can guarantee to
remove wrinkles. They are the kisses of time, and you must
bear with them.”
“The kisses of time!” Surely “kisses' is a
misprint for kicks—or scratches.
** * ,
A correspondent of the Argus, who, no
doubt writes in the interests of ‘' Jubilee,” feels
deeply for the families of the Bulli miners in their
affliction, but thinks they are receiving more
money than is good for them. A man who sub-
scribes to the Argus, and never gives away six-
pence, is always the first to have his li-tle say
about “ misapplied charity.” The writer in ques-
tion is probably trying to square his soul because
he has already refused to contribute to the Bum
B'und. .
Alas, poor Moss of the Victorian Railway
Department! For years past he had a bloated
billet and an enormous screw for disputing the
claims and impugning the veracity and bonafiaes
of people who had lost legs or had had their spines
smashed up in railway accidents. Business in
Moss’s department got quiet for a few months
lately and he was sent away on a retiring allow-
ance. When he left work somebody wept in the
House and said that Moss had saved the country
enough to pay off the British national debt. Now ,
Moss will be missed. Some comparative incompe-
tent (probably) has got the mossy billet which he
filled with so much satisfaction to C. *. Smyth
and Poole. Young O’Hara the sporting pill-box,
made a pot of money giving evidence for the
Crown against maimed and injured plaintiffs, and
built with the coin a swagger mansion at Brighton
which he called “ Moss Yale.”
The Mayoress of Sydney, Mrs. A. J.
Riley, held her second reception in Sydney Ex-
hibition Building on the 11th inst. It was largely
I attended, and the throng was no doubt all the
larger with a view to possible invitations for the
coming Jubilee festivities. The hall was taste-
fully decorated with flags, ferns, re reshments,
and wreaths of evergreens, and canaries in cages
were placed here and there, but no large or
quarrelsome fowls were admitted. The Mayoress
wore a becoming costume of dark steel-blue gros
grain and moire silk ; Mrs. W. Cowper was attired
in dark blue striped silk; Mrs. E. J. Roberts,
dark green eilk and bonnet of the Fame colour;
and a large number of other ladies looked
“sweetly pretty” in all sorts of costumes.
The Queen never receives more than 80
ladies personally at Drawing-Rooms. When the
first four-score have curtseyed, Her Gracious re-
EQUAL JUSTICE TO ALL.—A SKETCH WITH A MORAL.
The newsboy who cries out “Pa-a-per!” on Sunday in Sydney is to be arrested
by the police for making a noise on the day of rest. How about the parsons and their
church-bells?
tires to refresh, leaving the Princess of Wales to
put the rest of ’em through. It is, in a word, the
early worm which kisseth the Queen’s hand.
Lord Tom Brassey and his pushing wife
have arrived in Australia, and are being received
in accordance with the ex-contractor’s bank-
account. The Brasseys are chiefly remarkable
for their cheek, their yacht, and their furniture.
Lord (then Mr ) B. first came into public notice
through his dining-room chairs at Normanhurst,
which were built at a cost of £64 apiece. We
mention this fact so that Sydney sassiety may be
duly apologetic when soliciting the noble visitors
to take a chair. Everything about Lord Tom is
modern and glittering - notwithstanding his recent
discovery as to his descent from the Seigneur
de Bressi, “ who came over with the Conqueror,
my dear” —even to “ the brand-new stamp of his
nobility.” Some wicked London wag christened
him “ The Golden Calf.”
* * •
A private performance at the great
“ Olympia ” Hippodrome cost her Gracious £5OO.
Considering that she might have got in with an
order on any ordinary occasion, the Mother of Her
People paid £5OO to prevent her people from see-
ing mother.
* * *
“Humming Bee,” after ( almly guaging
the “ loyalty” of the Sydney public by the crush
at Mrs. Riley’s reception, says The Mayors’
Honiton lace ruffles were the admiration of many
ladies, who would gladly have worn it in some
and other of the thousand-and-one ways known
only to the feminine mind.”
* * *
Viscount Castlerosse, brother to Lady
Loch, and predecessor to Beerthirst as aide-de-
camp, was married to Miss Baring on April 19th.
Castlerosse, like the other young man, will be an
earl when his pa dies.
Mrs. C. J. Roberts, of Chatsworth, Potts
Point, gave an eDjoyable dance on Friday last-
About 200 guests were present.
It has lately come out through the medium
of evidence (carefully suppressed by the news-
papers) in a Sydney suburban police court case,
that a “ swagger” individual, who has been pro-
minently figuring as a “b 033” promoter of a
Jubilee testimonial to Her Majesty, vigorously
thrashes his wife.
* * *
There wa3 a stylish wedding at Trinity
Church, Hobart, on 28th ult, when Miss Aline
Sievwright, daughter of the late Major Allan
Sievwright, promised “ to love,” &c , Mr. Arthur
Davenport, of St. Kilda, Vic , son of the Arch-
deacon of Hobart, The bride’s dre-:s of rich white
silk dra.ied with lovely lace, was greatly admired
Two bridesmaids—Misses Davenport and Siev-
wright—wore heliotrope and pink. The church
was prettily decorated, and six little girls strewed
with white flowers the bride’s path as she left the
church, whi:e “ Trinity bells ” rang out a merry
peel in honour of the event. On the same day a
weddiog was solemnised at All Saints, Hobart,
the happy couple being Miss Aimes Archer,
daughter of Mr. Joseph Archer, of Panshanger,
Longford, Tai.. and Mr. Robert L. Parker, of
Launceston. The bride wore white merveilleux
satin and lace ; the was followed by four brides-
maids, her elder sister and three tiny girls, who
all looked charming. The fact of two fashionable
weddings occurring at the same time caused a
little contretemps among the guests, many of
whom received invitations to both festivities and
found it very awkward to decide which to accept.
The Melbourne Lying-in Hospital, be-
friended by Genevieve Ward and extensively
smiled upon by Lady Loch, appears to be a useful
sort of institution for such as have no particular
anxiety to gain admittance thereto. One day last
week a policeman found Alice Swift reclining in a ,
light of-way. on the pointof adding another unit to
Poet Hayter’s birth-returns. Being a family man
himself, it dawned upon the foerce that Alice was
lying out when she ought to be lying in, so he
popped the young woman into a cab and sent her
off to the Hospital. The sapient authorities re-
fused to extend their hospitality to the woman,
considering evidently that she was merely suffer-
ing from toothache or a bad attack of influenza.
So they drove Alice to the city watch-house and
charitably locked her up on a charge of “drunk
and dis.” Then the little stranger made its debut,
and on receipt of this important piece of evident-i
bearing upon the genuineness of Alice's cam she
was duly received at the Hospital and is doing
about as well as can be expected under the cir-
cumstances, thank you.
# * *
We hear that our old friend, Jem Mace,
and lesser professors of the noble art, are doing
well in London teaching le boxe. Kvery young
nobleman of fashion takes lessons three times a
week. They want to be ready for angry husbands
who let themselves in with a latchkey and rush
into the back drawing-room without knocking.
“ Look 'ere, my lud,” says Jem, “if hever the old
josser drops on you and the lady hunexpected,
yer just props ’im under the jaw with your left,
so—and down ’e goes ” This is a hint for Larry
Foley and the Sydney mashers.
Undergraduates are much the same
species all the world over. At Sydney University,
on Commemoration Day, groans and cheers,
whistles and cries, flying balls and irrelevant in*
terruptions, “jolly good fellow,” howls and Ame-
rican war-ditties, interfered with the even tenor
of proceedings. Probably nobody objected very
strongly. The commemoration service would be
a tedious affair without some of their lightsome
gambols, and a good many present were more in
terested in the display of young Australia’s
healthy annual sprits than in the Chancellor’s
lengthy report of University doings. Young Aus-
t* alia enthusiastically cheered its “ fair girl gra-
duates subsided into a quiet attitude when Sir
William Manning appealed for a patient hearing
on the score of his age, and paused to listen when
it found itself actually overpowered by the patri-
cian presence, or the lung power, of Governor
Caring ton, whose speech was short and to the
point. “ Man-millinery ” made the platform of
the stern hall gay with colour ; many hued
hoods lighted up the sombre black gowns,
blue, white, rabbit skin, scarlets, and the bright
gold of the B.Sc. struck the eye ; Mayor Ililey’s
purple garb and some soarlet robes were specially
gorgeous, notably Professor Stuart’s scarlet and
cerise, while military raiment added to the glitter
and glare.
Sydney E. News has made a fuss about a
gay old dog—“a widowed gentleman with one
child’’—who “wanted a young person to accom-
pany him on a voyage to England.” The P.S. to
his letter ran :
“ I would of liked to have seen you earlier for I will not be
back to town earlier. —W.R.’’
The man who talks about what he would '‘ of
liked” to do may be a widower, but he’s not much
of a gentleman.
* * *
Tbe Sydney School of Industry Ball will
take place in the Exhibition Building on Tuesday,
31st May.
* * *
Gov. Carington will hold a levee on the
23rd inst., at Government House, Sydney, in
honour of Her Majesty’s birthday,
« * *
Sydney D.T. speaks of Mr. Riley’s ball a*
“ the first great festival event of the Jubilee
year.” Pooh 1 Wasn’t the Jubilee celebrated last
year in Sydney ?
An engagement is announced between
Miss Stewart, daughter of Mr. J. C. Stewart, of
Melbourne, and the doctor of the O.S.S. Austral.
* . •
Mrs. A. J. Riley’s juvenile fancy dress
ball came off in Sydney Exhibition Building,
Prince Alfred Park, on the 12th inst., and was
well attended. The eldest daughter of Mayor
Riley, attired as Britannia, received the little
guests. Lady Carington appeared in a pretty
gauzy toilet of pale pmk, and her three little
daughters wore Welsh costumes. Master Leigh
Ri.ey (nephew of the Mayor) represented the
Duke of Wellington seen through the wrong end
of a telescope, and the Duke of Marlborough was
also present —not the reigning Duke, of course ; if
he had come it would have been necessary to send
for the police. A postman, several barristers,
Hamlet, and the princes in the tower, before they
were choked, were also among the crowd “ Old
Lace ” adorned one of the prettiest faces present,
and “Granny ’ and Kate Greenaway were also
very attractive. That awful nuisance, the nigger
serenader, appeared, as a matter of cours9, as did
a gentleman of the reign of the hard-drinking
George IV., a multitude of fairies, “ Night,"
“ LoheDgrin,” “ Cards,” and “Red Riding Hood.”
A saucy little Republican turned up as “Stars
and Stripes, ’ and it was hardly possible to move
without falling against a Greek girl or some
similar curiosity. Some of the tiny guests got
very little to eat, for a large party of able-bodied
chaperons rushed the refreshment room, and there
was only a poor chance for anybody under three
feet high, but otherwise the proceedings might be
termed a gorgeous success. The band of the
Vernon, in their frenzied determination to do
something fresh, played “ God Save the Queen."
The Melbourne University Review ia
coming to the front as a high-claes periodical. A
rattling good poem, “ She was an Undergrad,”
appears in present issue. Here is a chunk off the
inspired work, which strikes one as being espej
cially “smart”: —
“ Courting ber came the classical Prof.,
Many a year ago,
And spouted ihe Aulularia off—
Wrote the fifth act, you know.
And the Natural Science Prof, did wco,
Many a year ago,
And offered to take her to the Zoo.,
To zoologise, you luiow.”
Miss K. Butchei, daughter of Mr. R.
Butcher, M.L. A., of Waverlcy, will shortly be
united to Mr. W. M’Carthy, the well-known
chemist, of Hunter street, Sydney. Two daughters
of Mr. J. Martin, solicitor, of Waverley, are soon
to be married —one to an officer of the French
navy, the other to Mr. F. Marshall, local secretary
of the Messageriea Maritimes Co., well-known in
Sydney as a iiDguist and artist.
* * *
Invitations have been issued by the mar-
ried men of the Union Club, Sydney, for a ball to
be given at the Exhibition Building on May 26.
Parson (who has been summoned away
from a dinner-party to attend a dying man, and is
in a hurry to get back): “Now, my good man,
you have lived a sinful life, and must prepare to
meet Him who is ever merciful.” Hard Case
(impatientls) : “Yes, yes, parson, I know : He’s
all right. He's always merciful. It’s the thought
of the other fellow that’s bothering me,"
Five persons have been sentenced to
death in Queensland within the last month.
Queensland would be a good place for Upjohn,
the ex-hangman and public flagellator of Victoria,
to make for. Upjotin thought he was scurvily
treated by the Victorian Government. He wanted
an official residence at Pentridge and to be classi-
fied as a Civil servant. After he had probably
been told to put his application in writing, and he
had got Tommy Lloyd to write a letter to Harri
man, he was informed that business was not brisk
enough to encourage the Government to comply
with his request. Whenever Upjohn was wanted
for a job, and was not “ doing time,” orders were
given to the police to run him in for something or
other. “Insulting behaviour” is a good and
comprehensive charge in Victoria. Upjohn was
always good for some offence or other. However,
he huffed with the Victoria Government and dis-
appeared. A shilling advertisement in the
Courier or Herald (Personal) might find him.


_cL George -street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shi pi .
Minßtrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
PRK EMINENTLY THE GREATEST RESORT
IN THE CITY
for
PLEASURABLE PASTIME.
ALWAYS CROWDED TO REPLETION.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE MOST SUCCESS-
FUL AMUSEMENT ENTERPRISE JN
AUSTRALIA.
ENTIRE CHANGE EVERY MONDAY.
POPULAR PRICES:
Orchestra Chairs, 2s; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
ORITBUION THEATRE.
Sole Prop, ietor Mr. John Solomon.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING.
REVrVdL on a MAMMOTH SCALE by
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
MISS CARRIE SWAIN,
the Gifted
ACTRESS, VOCALIST, and DANSEUSE,
will again demonstrate that the New York Herald
was right when it declared she is
"THE ONLY ONE."
THE ONLY TOPSY I UNCLE TOM’S
THE ONLY TOPSY J CABIN.
Admission—os., 3s , 25., Is.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWN,
Business Manager,
“ One man in his time plays many paits."
R. LOCKE RICHARDSON.
the greatest Dramatic Reciter since the days of
Walter Montgomery.
FRIDAY. 20th MAY,
TWELFTH NIGHT.
MONDAY, 23rd MAY,
JULIUS CA-ISAR.
Prices—4s , 35., and 2s. *
Y.M.C.A. HA'.I the most central, commodious
and eomfortable hall in Sydney.
Box plan »t Nicholson’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
This Thursday Evening (Benefit of Signorina
Cavalleri),
LUCREZIA BORGIA.
FRIDAY, May 20, DON GIOVANNI.
Prices— Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls
55,; Stalls, 45.; Family Circle. 2s.
E W
OPERA HOUSE
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
9th WEEK 9th
of
GRATTAN RIGGS’ SEAaON.
ARRAH-N A-POGUE.
ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
By Arrangement with Mr. CHAS. M’MAHON
The Keferee
Next Saturday Mr. Bale's meitii>g comes
off, wh“n Dwyer and Bennett are again bi led to
meet, bat as t here sr ems no grea e * guarantee c f their
doirg so ihan there was at last Saturday’s spotti, it
isn’t likely lha‘even (>OOO people will put in an
appearance. Mr. Bale has teen called on b/ the
V.C.U. to show cause why he should not be de-
clared a profes nonal.
The Sydney Suburban Bicycle Club mott
etTectuaMy humbugged the crowd who attended
their last Saturday’s meeting. The billed meeting
of Dwyer and Bennc t in the so-called one-mile
intercolonial scratch race ancl the five-miles in
tercolonial cup did Lot come off. For the former
the clily starters were Dwyer, Browre, and a Me 1 *
bourne man not on the programme ; the five-miles*
starters were Browne, Bennett M Ivor, Rem-
shard, and Jenkins, Dwrer thus evidently giv-
ing Bennett a UoUnd for h s Oliv.r Bennett
won, Browne, the only man who might have
troubled him, leing run cut of hi-* course by
Jenkins, the ama eur who trained Bennett. And
then t lie great shock of the afternoon can c. Ben-
nett wa* on the programme t> try a r «d beat the
half-mile record, if we a her and track ptrmi'ted.
The track was perfect, likewise the wea'her, but
Mr. Amateur Bennett did not show out.
No greater evidence of the ano.na y of the
dual position ht Id by Mr. S H. Fairland cai be
cited than the fact of the Athletic Club s deciding
not to accord th ir patronage to the foo ra:e at
Bale's meeting. Mr. Fail land is paid tecrecary to
the Association Ground and a committeeman of
the Athletic Association Mr Fairland naturally
likes to make a draw to the Ground out of which
he mak< s a living, and had the Athletic Associa-
tion been in fuU swing, and the matter been re-
ft rred to it, he wou d not be acting fairly to his
employe r* if he voted in Comniitt-.e that the foot
race shou’d not be lua on thi i • ground.
Slavin failed in his attempt at Foley's, on
Saturday night, to “knock out” the American
Costello in six rounds Costs lo must turn the
scale well on to twelve ttine, but he lcoked a
mere lad alongside ihe gigantic Queenslander
Slavin is a splendidly built fellow, but his science
is not equsl to bis st r eogth. Costello made a
better show than he has hi herto done, and had it
been a matter of “ points *’ it would have been a
hard matter to separate them at the tiuish Next
Saturday night Jackson and Slavin meet in an
eight-round bout, the champion undertaking to
silence the gentleman from Alligatorland If
Jackson means business from the start ho should
perform his task in romethiDg under three rouods.
“ Professor ” Miller says ho lias not his
peer ia the combined cxerciies of Grieeo-Romin
wrestling, boxing, heavy-weight lilting, foil and
single-stick fene ng, and walking 26 ho ire, and is
willing to back his opioion fo.- £3OO He has
“ put up " a deposit of £5O, and will take expenses
and compete in America He does not say it all
the events, bar the walking, are to come off in
one evening ; if so, John L. Sullivan might tackle
him on the contingency that the slogging came
first. Miller might chew this over.
...
Jack Thompson has shown himself to be
the only man avail b’.e in Sydney to properly
“ referee a glove fight. Jack’s stentorian vo'cs
carries weight with P, and so dees his delicate
little paw.
...
The triangular human came off
in Melbourne on Saturday night, wh-n “ Pro-
fessor” Miller thiew Chiistol twice and Sali once,
Gise:o Roman style, and won the match. Miller
was thrown once by Sali.
• • .
At Sydney Agricultural Ground, on Satur-
day. Huon, the pet make of that enthusiastic and
liberal patron of trotting. Dr Slate, trotted a
mile in 2min. 33jsec., and lowered the Australian
record one second.
The Glebe Rowing Club lut e at last done
the next be;t thiug to winning a race. Their
representatives ran a dead heat with the Mercan-
tile* in the double-scull race at St. Ignatiu,’
Etegatta. At their annual meeting chej had not
a single win to boast of. ‘ Slo ” is mo : e in their
# * •
Roschill Race Club netted nearly £JOO for
the Bulli Bkicd Goodman, John Bennett!
Shades if Tom Brown! Wei On, a
Chinese youih, secured first prize at the English
Public Schools' gymnastic competition. Harrow
and half a score or more pubi c schools were rep: c-
• * ♦
The London Referee, “ Pendragon’s ”
paier, specially commends our Mr. “Jim” Clark
to the polite attention of the up-river men.
The rumours in rc the South Australian
horse Isonomy are without foundation. He is
said to be as sound as a bell and a likely goer for
the next Melbourne Cup.
• * *
There was a spirited competition at Botany
last Saturday between 20 members of the N.S.W.
3un Club for the Elkington Trophy. Messrs,
.ord, Modini, tnd Sheldon each grassed their nine
birds, and had to shoot on. Mr. Sheldon missed
the tenth, leaving Messrs. Lord and Modini to blaze
away for the prize. Both missed their twelfth
birds. Mr. Modini knocked feathers off his 16th
bird, but it soared away, leaving Mr. Bertie Lord
with his usual luck to kill and win, which he did.
• • »
Lady Judge, alias Z.R. is the only horse
on the Australian turf which has the distinguished
honour of carrying two disqualifications at once.
I Now they want to get at the o wner and disqualify
him. No one seems inclined to admit the soft im-
peachment, eo the best thing to do is to impound
the mare.
There are now only 12 registered book
makers in Queensland. Shop totalisatars hav
killed the re6t. .And, by all accounts, the 12 don’,
use diamonds for breeches-buttons. Apropos ,
man got a £22 12s. dividend for a half-a-crown
Investment in a Sydney totali a'.or the other day
Friction, the coming N.S.W. hurdle-race
champion, has already ‘‘been out” in Victoria
Didn’t win ; greenness, &c. By the way, Mr
lannon’s pui chase has been backed to win a thou
>ver the Melbourne Cup.
Turf speculation is alive in N.S.W. Ovei
;SOOO has already been invested about the distant
k r . H.C. Derby with one Sydney booktnaktr, while
i In'ge number of horses have been bajked by the
mblic to win the next Melbourne flup, the
ntries for wh'ch, even, will not be made before
'une 6
Per recent private wire from London,
rnterprise’s win in the Two Thousand had brought
im up level favourite with The Baron for the
iptom Derby, run next week. Three’s to one is
be quotation ag.inst either.
Alfred Shaw’s version of the international
ricket row, in the Oxford Hotel, makes out that
Arnes dish cated his thumb through slipping up
gainst a wa’l when dodging an unprovoked blow,
oor Barnes 1
What enemy of mankind invented public-
Jtise lemonade—the mawkish stuff charged with
le cat bonic ac.d gas with which they kill dogs in
the Grotto del Cane ? Select a given number of
lemonade factory hands and their equivalent in
veteran soldiers, and see which carries most scars
and wounds. Here we have Bob Battye, the
adventurous cross-country rider, passing unscathed
through the perils of flood and field, only to get an
eye knocked out by a bursting bottle of lemonade.
“Alas!" says Bob, “they'll be able to get up on
the blind side of me now.”
The Hod. White’s Plutarch, by Chester
from Cameo (imp ), is first favourite for the Royal
Stakes, and Mayo’s The Jewel has suddenly
attained a like position for the Randwick Birth-
day Cup. Both races eventuate on the natal
day, &c.
* » *
Two new advertising “ Tipsters.” One
announces “ Whilst feeling thankful to sub
scribers for the generous manner in which they
have offered to remember me after the Royal
Stakes and Birthday Cup, I have to say that it is
not expected by me, nor is it needed.” Just so.
A cartwhlp hurts devilishly this cold weather.
The following is a racing item, and may or
may not be a lie —we really can’t say. A con-
tractor who was making a harbour fancied he was
not getting enough work out of the men who
went down in the diving-bell, and gradually came
to the conclusion that business was being inter-
rupted by jinks at the bottom of the deep blue
sea. Accordingly one day when the men were at
dinner he went into the bell and there he found
seven large crabs, and on the back of each was
chalked the name of a Derby favourite. The men
had been amusing themselves with crab raoes on
the floor of the ocean.
* » •
Let us suppose that “ a committee of
sporting men” had, as suggested by a Melbourne
Sportsman correspondent, met to arrange for
another monument to A, L. Gordon, the poet.
iJoe Thompson, Alf. Josephs, Austin Saqui, Ike
Cohen, and the rest would perhaps have held
preliminary meeting at the rooms of the Victorian
Club, and one can imagine one of these scholar
and gentlemen remarkirg : “S’ help me 1 ’ow
many bloomin' statutes does this ere cove want
Ain’t they goin’ to put one up in Spring-street 1
To which another would probably reply : “ Wha
are you giving us ? Wy, that's to the joker a
killed all the lions in Afriker and wrote ‘ Long
Odds.’ ”
* * *
Dear old Donald Dinnie has been assault-
ing somebody. It is only fair to mention that the
other fellow assaulted Donald, which was indis
creet of the other fellow. If Donald assaulted ns
we should ask him what he meant by it, and walk
away without BayiDg another word.
• * »
The “site ” of the proposed Sydney City
BowliDg Club's new pavilion in Cook Park is ob-
jected to, because it will shut out the “ sight" of
the beautiful Harbour. The late Sir John
OShanassy objected to the present tite of the
Victorian Parliament Hou*es, when it was being
selected, because it would shut out the view of
St. Patrick’s Cathedral from Loarke-street.
• * *
The new Mordialloc (Melb.) racecourse
was baptised with a meeting last Thursday. All
the arrangements were primitive, and the mud in
the paddock was about as deep as the haoky-
panky on the course. Given time, capita), and
fine weather, and the Mordialloc races may be-
come as favourites resort forsDOrtsmen as the place
itself is for married ladies and single gentlemen on
off days.
Bendigo appears to be snavelling all the
rich weight-for age races at home. Last year he
romped in for the Kclipse Stakes of £lO,OOO. in
addition to sundry minor plums, and now he is
cabled as winner of the Jnbilee Stakes, a special
event, worth a little fortune. Leaving bets out
of consideration, Bendigo must alrtady have
earned more money for his popular owner than
any horse that ever lived, and he is still at the
gatre. The owner is Mr. Barclay, of Barclay,
Perkins, and Co., be vers. Bendigo is named
after a prize-fighter, and runs in the beer interest.
* * *
Mr. Patrick Bowman, who won the first
prize (£110) in the Carington Handicap on Satur-
day, has suddenly awoke and founded himself
famous. He is a superhumanly ugly aboriginal,
born at Gundagai, or more probably cast up by
the memorable floods of 27 years ago. He is as
angular as the backbone of a fish, but has a good
calf, his sole redeeming feature. He was trained
by Mr Joe Heffernan for the race. Lest anyone
should say “ Lo, a g eater than Samuels is here,”
we baste to state that Bowman had 40 yards start,
and ran the distance in 1 yards over “ even time.”
Our old friend Ben Bolt (dost thou re-
member him, Alice ?) will probably try for the
Birthday Cup. He is as big as a bullock, but runs
best on the large side. He was very freely backed
on Saturday night.
At Sydney bicycle sports last Saturday
the starter was compelled to use ball-cartridge,
no other kind having been provided. As the re-
sult, one man received what he thought to be a
visitation of Providence in the leg—but it wasn’t ;
it was only the bullet. Luckily, both he and his
garments were but slightly injured.
The articles on “Sculpture in Sydney"
in the S.M. Herald are, we believe, by Mr.
Francis W. L. Adams. He talks of Greek Art v.
Modern Art, bub what about Australian Art v.
the Sydney Post-Office carvings ?
THE CHEERFUL PUP.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
'Tis the bicycle man o’er his broken wheel
That grieveth himself full sore.
For the joy of its newness his heart shall feel,
Alack and alas ! no more !
When the bright sun tippeth the hills with gold
That rider upriseth gay,
And with hat all be-ribboned, and heart that is
bold.
Pursue!h his jaunty way.
He gazetli at folks in the lowly crowd
With a most superior air.
He think th ha 1 ha! and he smileth ak ud
As he masheth the maiden fair.
Oh ! he masheth her much, in his nice new clothes,
Nor seeth the cheerful pup.
Till he roots up the road with his proud, proud
nose,
While the little wheel tilteth up.
Oh, that youth on his knees— though he doth not
pray !
Is a pitiful sight to see ;
For his pants in their utterest part give way,
V hi!e merrily laugheth she.
And that bicycle man in his heart doth feel
That the worst of unsanctifled jokes
Is the small dog that snifteth anon at his wheel
But getteth mixed up in the spokes.
Sydney, April, 1887.
A. FRY.
THIS WICKED WORLD.
A “ Republican and Atheistic Jubilee
Fund "is the latest fad of the scoffers of Mel-
bourne Brisbane publicans’ rum has boen pro-
nounced 35 degrees underproof by the Govern-
ment analyst «ev. Dowie says that public
education in New Zealand is “ controlled by two
Atheists and a Jew." Bowie should join them.
A would-be faith-healer would compete the
menagerie Brodzky, of a little Melbourne
paper, suggests the local establishment of
a School of Journalism. Why, cert’nly. It
might do Brodzky a lot of good The
Melbourne Anarchist Club meets in a dark,
lonesome cavern lighted only by a tallow-candle
stuck in a dead whisky-bottle It is stated that
there are 15 temperance organ'sations in Mary-
borough. Now, do you know, we would never
have thought it ? From the Age :—“ Rev. J.
C. Freeman treated the congregation of Sandhurst
Bible Christian Church to a weird and awful des-
cription of hell lately." Treated them to it, mitd.
The West Mount Morgen has a peculiar name
in London. It is said to be spoken of as the
‘ Rockhampton swindle.” Rather rough, con-
sidering no end of “ Honorab’.esare mixed up in
it Another sign of the depression. Bread has
been reduced at Wagga from Sid. to 3d. per ’lb
loaf.
The visit to Sydney of the Chinese ConT
misBieners has disclosed the astounding facts that,
after all, Quong Tart isn’t a Mandarin, and
that Dr. On Lee, who can lcok right through a
patient, is only a Mandarin of the fourth class !
At Inverell (N.S.W. ) 23 persons have
been poisoned at a wedding, ai.d are all more
or less damaged. Something unhealthy had got
into the tea, and the incident is an awful warn
ing to people who drink that flat and dreary
beverage on such an rccasion. The man who
swills tea at a marriage feast ought to be poisoned.
Sir Henry Parkes—And suite, we suppose
we should say—have commenced their inquiry
into the condition of the N.S.W. “benevolent”
institutions by paying a state visit to Newington
where, the I).T. is careful to mention, they “ were
not expected. ' The visitors, reading between the
lines of the U.T.’s report, soem to have decided
that everything was all right, and that the matron,
Mrs. Hicks, was an angel. Considering that the
lady in quedion is related to a member of the
Parkes Government wo see no reason for doubting
the accuracy of this conclusion.
It is said that the fatal railway accident at
Melbourne w as nearly a\ erted by a little boy who
rushed into Prahran station with the news that a
train was stopped on the 1 ne. While the officials
were laughing at this youngster the express
passed through, and he lest his chance of beiog
lewaided by the Railway Department, and canon-
ised by the prc3B. That’s the worst of being a
boy. If the might-have become-hero had said
that a train wasn't stopped on the line, the
Prahran sceptics would have put a danger eigna
against the express, and telegraphed along for
further particulars.


E. ROWLANDS
(LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS),
&RATED WATER
AND
emu ms
HAS
REMOVED
TO
NSW PREMISES
C3RN*R OF
Boras aid Litili H&yM;,
Darling Harbour
WONDERS! WONDERS! WONDERS!
WONDERS OF THE WORLD! !
MARVELLOUS Wonders of the whole World
is a vast Museum of all that is marvellous
and wonderful in the earth, sea air, and skies.
Unparalleled opportunity for making money fas'.
Frkk ox Application, circu'ars and full par-
ticulars,
H. B. JONES, till George-st, Sydney.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
TH E above i t one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs W. CORNIQUE, Propriet ess.
POBONOSKI,
705
Sydney.
CONCERTINAS
ACCOM DEO NS
VIOLINS, &c.
Strings sent by Post
705 GEOROE STREET..
“VICTORIA GUELPH/'
GRAND JUBILEE WORD COMPETITION.
APPI 'E of £25 will be given by the Committee
of the Mechanics’ Institute, Kerang, to the
Competitors who can form the g reate it number of
modern English words out of the letters comprised
in “ Victoria Gcjelpii. ” No absolute words or
geographical or pro er name? will be allowed; no
letter to be used twice in one word except the
• 4 i” in Victoria. Competitors must enclose list
of words in a sealed envelope together with a
postal note money orde*, or Victorian stamps of
the value of two shilling-*, addressed to the un-
dersigned. Such lists wdl be received up to
6 o’clock p.m.'on Her Majesty’s Jubilee Day, 21st
June, 1887, and opened the following day in the
presence of the C unmittee of the Institute The
name of the winner will be published in the Aus-
tralasian. DAVID G. RATTRAY, President of
the Mechanics’ Institute Kerang, Victoria.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation fir Visitors.
WIVES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICE-.T
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Piopriet 'r.
Fireworks fireworks fireworks!
The Cheapest Place to buy
JUBILEE FIREWORKS
Is LUTLE HILL’S BIG SHOP,
790 George-3treet.
Hill’s Half-crown Parcels are simply Surprising.
Is., 28 (id., 55., 103., Jubilee Pad ets forwarded
on receipt ot Stamps or P.O Order. No. 1 Extra
Strong Cbitese Guns. Is. Cd. per dozen bund’es. No.
1 Extra Strong Red Packet Cracker*, 2s. Id perbor.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
BIRTHDAY CUP. run May 21th. 1887.
6000 members, each 10s First horse, £lOOO ; 2nd,
£3OO ; 3rd. £2OO. Starters, £2OO ; Non-starters.
£3OO divid d amongst them Cash Awards—
fl at £5O, 10 at £25 20 at £lO. 20 at £5 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, a d
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. ‘‘BARB,” care of T. G Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh street, Sydney.
The Melbourne Cup of £20,000, is si o open.
First horse, £lO,OOO,
“ LIGHTHOUSE BRAND,”
Manufactured by the
LONDON PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Successors to the original Firms of
J G GOnTLING and Co ,and GOSTLING and Co.,
LIMITED.
And the SOLE PROPRIETORS
Of Their “ Marks,”
D. F. WATSON, 51 Chancery lane, Melbourne
Sole Agent.
R' OYAL POLYTECHNIC, 190 GEORGE-ST.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m.
Just added, and now on view, a Monster ALLI-
GATOR, 15fc in length, and weighing 18001bs. To
be seen ALIVE and swimming about in a Mam-
moth Tank. We are also showing the GALAIEA
MYSTERY, or the Living Bust. Also the Great
Mechanical Model of the BULLI COAL MINES,
showing the miners at work, &c. Engraving on
Glass by F. P. Webb. Electrical and Mechanical
Models of all kinds, Curios, &c. Also just added,
the Freaks of Nature—a SNAKE, TURTLE, amj
a CAT with Eight Legs.
Admission to the whole of the Exhibition, Is ;
Children, 6d.
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
HEAD OFFICE r
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, ISBG.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 Is. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Banking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upo
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
Deposits Received
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4 i per cent
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
PDepositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or porti
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed curren
interest for the period of deoo.it.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTOR 4.
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
Tiif. Central Hotel. Private Sitting Roo
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILKS, Prip-ietor.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, May 17, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept a'
every post-offlce In the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unlest
the terms of the notice are strictly oomplled with
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whlc'
Tenders
can be receive
at this office
Approachesand Bridge William-
Henry-street, Darliog Harbour
Construction of Ironwork for
Syphon. Georga-stfeet West,
Contract 24,Sidney Sawerege
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Ballina
Manufacture of 1300 Tarpaulins
(c invas supplied by Ralway
Department.)
Supply of 50 tons Pig Iron, Eve-
leigh Foundry
Supply of 20 tons Ingot Copper,
r ailway Department
Wednesday,
May 25,
at 11 o'clock.
Daliveriog and Laying about 2| i
miles loin. Pipe 3, (’ mtractso, |
Sydney Water Supply
Erection of Iron Shed, Cowper
Wharf
Supply of Railway Sleepers
Bridge over Gap Creek, roid |
Kempsey to Aranda’e
Erection Engine Shed, Cowra I
Erection Waiting Shed at Corri-
ma’, Illawarra Line
Tuesday,
May 31,
at 11 o'clock.
bnstroction of Railway line, I
Hornsby (Pearce’s corner) to Tuesday,
St Leonards | June 7
irection of Bridge, Bell's Creek, I at 11 o’clock,
road Tumberumba to JiDgellic |
irection Dwarf Wall, &e., Bal- I Tuesday,
maia Post and Telegraph | June 14,
Office | at 11 o'clock.
dditions, &c., Dead House, Cir- |
cular Quay | Tuesday,
dditions Post and Te’egraph I June 21,
Office, Yass | at 11 o'clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
Notice to Visitors to the American Exhibit io
oT 1687.
50,592 English Miles hare been covered since Oct. 11,1880, by
THE “WON'DEB”COACH,
which last seasonlcarried 1978 passengers in perfect safety.
Dr. Rumney (of "RinoK’s Food” fame) will, to prevent
disappointment to American and Colonial visitors, again
his celebrated six-horße Stage Coach, THE “WONDE
between London and St. Albans, leaving Hatchett's Ho
in Piccadilly, Loudon, every morning at 10.45, returning
Piccadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is allowed at St. Albans for lunch and for
passengers to inspect the CATHEDRAL, which is one of the
FIN 4 ST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be
and the price charged for the return fare is 20s.
For time Cards and other Particulars ai
Coach Office, Hatchett's Hotel, Picradi'l
>ER,"
ng to
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
674 George Street, 674
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYI'NEY,
Is the Only Address of the
DIRECT SUE PLY ASSOCIATION,
With the Largest, Finest, and most Superb Assort-
ment of all kinds of Musical Instruments and
Fittings ever seen in the Southern Hemisphere,
From a JEW'S HARP to a CHURCH ORGAN,
Direct from the European manufacturers to
the Australian consumer.
£
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6. 10 6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-. 2/
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key... . ... 3
~ Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key... ... ...2
ACCORDEON*, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : The miniature Melodeon, 21/-,
Ditto, oak, with steel notes, 42/-.
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: German Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Old copy Violin, with case (kck and
key), full mounted bow, extra tet
of strings, Tutor, &c. £2 12s. Od.
TL
CJRNETS, at 40/-, 50/-, 75/-, 105/-, 130/- to £lB.
Specialities : The new “ Levy ” model,
with water key .7. ... £5 0
~ The new “Reynolds” model
with double water key... 9 0 0
The new “Reynolds” Echo-
attachment Cornet ... 12 0 0
Flutes .
F om 1/6 to £lO
About 100 varieties in stock.
Specialty : The 8-key Cocoa D Concert Flute,
with slide-head, in case, Best
English make 50/
(US
5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6, 1
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Nickel Banjo, Water Howard Model,
with 6 or 7 strings, as required, £3 3s
Strings for Guitars, Yiolios, Harps
Zitras, Cellos, Banjos, Dhle. Bass, &c.
Speciality,: Po ; t free, one set of Roman Violin
Strings, 2s 6d.
Brass and D um and Fife Bands
furnished th'oughous.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
All kinds of Instruments skilfully repaired
at moderate charges.
All instruments carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the colonies.
Orders promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to he made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
Please say that you saw this in
The Bulletin.
WE WILL SELL TO YOU 10,000
ARTICLES DURING THIS SEASON
AT SUCH REASONABLE RATES
THAT W< WILL ECLIP E ALL
PREVIOUS EFFORTS.
A lisit requested.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
211 Pitt street.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
c ma
&
PATENT
LLS
PI
jS
4a
Are admitted by thou*
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilioua
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness, scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy cf the human
frame. These are ‘‘FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, T.’ heezing, &e., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring undeT
any of the above complaints need only try One Bo*
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepare.-l only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lsd. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Everybody
SHOULD USE
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUB!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
tn a Mill replete with the newest and mist, approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
SRI <l>ono*- TRit«tT Brnun.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all other* for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mep4L*—
PARIS. Ib78; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
SPRING FLOWERS
JOCKEY CLTJ3 I JASMIN
HELIOTROPE I MAGNOLIA
Atkinson’s renowned
ENGLISH LAVENDER WATER
*n.i other well-known Terfumes are un-
.ti’ialled tor tl.eir delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S OR ENTAI TOOTH PASTE.
Unrivalled for cleansing, beau ifyfng, and
preserving the Teein and Gums.
Of all Deal ere, and of the Manufacturer*—
J & E ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Strext, Lohdow.
Trade Mark—“'White Hose" on“ Oolden
IMPERIAL, HOTEL,
BBISBANE.
THE above has been known (or some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hot»l
in Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge.
Amongst other additions— lift and fire-Droof stair-
case, invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef , can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every floor. Large banqueting
room. Sample room.
C. H. DANIELLS, Proprietor.


Dr. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSET.
dip*.
I
01
j LIFE'-
I health/
/eiecawW
These gsods are sent out in a handsome box,
accompanied by a silver-plated compass, by waich
the Electro-Magnetic influence can be tested. If
you cannot get them in your town, we will send
either kind to any port or railway station in New
South Wales or Queensland, upon receipt of price
named with Is Gd. added ; or will miil direct to
any address upon receipt of stamp to cover full
postage. The prices are as follows :
s. d. |
No. 1 Corset ... 6 6 1 No. 2 Corset
No. 3 Corset ... 10 6 | No. 3 Corset
Electric Belt 1S« Od.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
56, MARGARET-STREET SYDNEY.
IHTS IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
s. d.
8 6
16 6
T
The invaluable Waterbury would not be the
cheapest watch in the world if it could not be
repaired at a low cost. But if anything goes
wrong withit the owner has only to take or
send it to the offices of the Waterbury Watch
Company, at 56, Margaret street, where it
can be repaired at a cost according to its require-
ments, but in no case exceeding 2s. fid. unless by
mutual consent. The eost of transmission by
post or paroel delivery on watches sent from the
country must be prepaid, and a sufficient amount
to cover return charges and cost of repairs for-
at the same time.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILOEB,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garment* to Order at Moderate Price*.
ORIENTAL
SOLD
1: latest triumph of
Science. It is a ncblo
allop, posses"’~g the exact lustre, heautp
and endurance of sterling Gold. A legi-
tiaate use has been found for this noble metal, by
writing it into Jewellery of the most exqdr.te de-
signs. The Oriental Sold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
seßat a fraction of the cost ef Sterling Seli Jewellery.
Ne one can debit the difference. Send for a
Priced eatalogoe, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches, Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant-) Brooch, 7s. od.; Gent’s
Albert, is. «d.; Pair Barrings,
P+airvSs., Jewelled, 7s. 6ck; Looket
95., Jewelled’, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
16s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
[ggpWe send these on-approval. If tile J don’t
please, return uninjured by the Hirst
Hail, an Awe repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
13 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
F»o k « lent enrwhcre hr pint,
The conquering hero.
VICTORIOUS AGAIN.
The Whitehall Review contains the follow-
ing, relative to a discovery of American origin,
which is just now causing considerable stir
throughout Great Britain :—“ The same has such
a direct bearing upon human happiness that it has
been made the subject of considerable comment
and investigation on the part of various news-
papers. As it is claimed that by the discovery in
question an absolute specific has been found for
the cure of certain and distressing ailments
with which the human family is afflicted and
which have thus far bathed medical skill, and as
these diseases, in their most aggravated forms,
are very prevalent, a representative cf this
journal was commissioned to investigite the
remedy by personal interview with the parties
who could speak from actual experience. From
the results as given below, it may well be claimed
that the general adoption cf this remarkable
remedial agent will cause a revolution in the
treatment of these painful complaints.
“The first gentleman interviewed was Mr.
William Howes, the well-known civil engineer,
No, 68, Red Lion-street, High Holborn, London,
who, it was learned, had made some per >onal ex-
periments with the preparation in ques ion Mr.
Howes stated that for over 20 years he had been
constantly arid severely afflicted with rheumatism.
At times his hands had be n swollen to twice
their natural size. Again, his joints became so
stiff - and painful that he coi»ld not walk, and hU
feet so sore that he could not bsar his v. e ; gbt on
them. He had at different times tried physicians,
and many remedies which had been recommended
to him as a cure for his complaints. But ha
derived no benefie whatever. An acquaintance,
who had himself been cured of a severe rheumatic
trouble, gave him a bottle of this new discove y,
which he applied once, with such unexpected and
marked benefit that he procured another, which,
to u-e his own language, ‘settled the business’
by removing the pain, which he had not been free
from for 20 years. Mr. Howes said that had be
not used St, Jacobs oil—the remedy referred to
he would now be in bed. instead of attending to
his business. He added, ‘lts effects were simplv
magical. It produced a complete cure. I will
also add that numerous friends and acquaintances,
suffering from rheumatic and nehragic affections,
to whom I recommended the oil, t-peak of it as
wonderful. It seems to effect a cure in every
case.’ *
“ The name of Mr. C. 11. Palmer, secretary of
the Conservative Defence Association, » nd over-
seer of the District of Islington, having been men-
tioned to the reporter, this gentleman s opinion
was sought and cheerfully given in the following
language ; “For a long time I have been a great
sufferer from neuralgia in my face and head, and
rheumatism in my limbs,’ remarked Mr. Palmer.
* After trying various remedies without obtaining
relief, and having learned of the signal benefit
which several friends and acquaintances, suffer
ing from severe rheumatism derived from the oil,
I procured a bottle, the use of which completely
removed every trace of pain. Ido not hesitate
to recommend it as a most valuable dsscovery ’ ”
“Mr. Harold K. Chappie, hon. secretary of the
Dalston Havelock Cricket Club, writes as follows:
—* I am desired by the above club to express the
satisfaction which they have found in the use of
St. Jacobs oil. For the healing of bruises, wounds,
sprains, &c., it is undoubtedly of efficient seavice,
and its value should be made known, especially
among athletic clubs.’ ”
“It may be added that in its current number
the Magazine of Pharmacy, Chemistry, and Medi-
cine devotes considerable space to a discussion on
the extraordinary power of St. Jacobs oil, and
cites some astonishing cures.”
“It appears also that this remedy received no
less than six gold raedas during the past year a*;
International and other Expositions. One of these
was awarded at Calcutta, another at the Great
Southern Exhibition in the United States.”
• Ex-Mayor Young and his newly-wedded
wife, who are touring New Zealand, have been
jubilated in Auckland. Their host was himself
the recipient of our late Mayor’s Jubilee hospi-
tality.
Says the Sydney Ech£ humourist : “ To
attempt to fill Mr. Beecher’s place with an ordin-
ary preacher would be like trying to wad a Krupp
gun with a doughnut.” The full force of this
argument is probab’y unknown even to the author
of it, but it mainly consists in the fact that they
don't icad Krupp guns.
The clients of Aaron Waxman, the lately-
deceased Melbourne usurer, who died worth some-
where between £lBO 000 and £300.000, ranged
from Ministers of the Crown down to railway
employees getting 50s. a week. He once had a
Minister in his clutches, and as a kind of com-
pound interest the ‘ gallant Pole” demanded a
4 i PV
H\e oi\ly n\ei\wl\(fs!\oi!tri\o!
com^lairyof U\c liqes-\
H o .
Fopiifeir bdsii\ess is always/
- —
A.P.-ship. The Minister knew that the pock-
marked Aaron was no more popular than Dick
lieadeye, and that a multitude of people, whom
no man eould number, would rather see him in
the dock of tire City Court than on the bench.
He knew that if Waxman were appointed, people
would begin to inquire who was the new J, P.’s
debtor in the Cabinet But Aaron put on the
screw, and his name was spirited through, un-
observed, with a batch of new beaks. When the
appointment was gazetted there was a row all
round. It was stated that the appointment was
got by fraud and tiickery, and it was demanded)
that the name of Aaron Waxman, Esq., J.P.,
should be struck off the roll. The Government,
however, didn’t like to admit its blunder, and the
great usurer was allowed to sit on the bench and
revenge the injustice done to —— Shj lock, Esq.,
of Venice, Italy, some time since. Waxman was
a great man in the synagogue—a pious man,
honoured and revered by his brethren.
Food for Consumptives. Scott’s Emulsion of Pure
Con Liver Oil with Hypophosphites of Lime and
Soda, is a moat wonderful food for the Consumptive. It
not only gives strength and increases the flesh, but heals the
irritation of the th o.t and lungs. It is very palatable;
children take it like. milk, and in all wasting diseases
ooth for adults and children it is a marvellous food and
medicine
Large and small bottles at all chemists.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense.
NOTICE !—Beware of young Wire. Diink only Hockirgs
high class sele .tel old vintages, for invalids 43 Litt-
strect. *
TATTERS ALL’S MONSTFR CONSUI TATION BIRTH-
DAY CUP No. 2. 2090 Suoscri mis. 20s. each. Run May 24 ;
also winter STAKES. 2 00 Subscribers 20s each. Run
June 4th. let Horse £lOOO ; 2nd, £3OO • 3rd £2OO. Starters,
£250 ’ non-starters, £250, to te t* ivided amom St th» in Apply
to "’TATTERSALL," care of Geo. Adams, Tattersali’s
Hotel, Fitt-street. City. Note —Please register your letter
to ensure safe delivery: also, enclose two addressed stamped
envelopes, one fo- reply and the oth r for result of the
drawing.*
The march of civilisation. At the Thames,
N.Z.. Henry Wright, accused of assaulting a mar-
ried Maori woman, had his ear deliberately cut off
by her husband. In England, two women set upon
a man, one with a jug and the other with a cup,
and hideously gashed his face. Then one of them
bit off his nose, which he brought to court,
wrapped in paper. And in America, lately, an
alleged man bit off a policeman’s ear and swal-
lowed it.
The Anglican convocation opened recently
in London. The object of the jaw-jaw is to fix up
new dogmas and to divide the gate money, but
the bishops pretend also to have something to do
wi h governing the country, and they turn up
each with a curate's salary on his back in the form
of scarlet robes trimmed with black velvet, to say
nothing of lawn sleeves and other millinery. A
bishop, if sold by weight—hair, teeth, hide and all
—isn’t much different from any other fat man, but
the glow of his heavenly togs makes him look im]
portant. The first business of the spiritual fathers
is to present an address to Her Gracious. Then
Her Maiesty will be graciously pleased to mumble
something, after which the disciples of the poor
Carpenter's Son will roll off in their carriages.
Mr. C. Tt. Callow sends us a brief descrip-
tion of a new car which he claims is calculated to
revolutionise the street traffic of large cities. It
runs on a single wheel, somewhat after the style
of a lame hen chasing an oat, and, consequently,
requires only one rail. Instead of using tickets
an automatic register is attached at each end.
This principle was formerly adopted on many
bridges where a charge was made, but it was
gradually abandoned, it being found that dogs
thought nothing of sitting down on the machine
and scratching themselves until they ran up a bill
that absorbed all the wages of the collector for six
months. Mr. Callow also claims that his car will
water the streets as it goes along.
H@LT'S RELEASE RECOMMENDED.
How abeut the poor fellow who was sent to
gaol for ten years? Do any of the Ministers of
Justice sail upon him with the same sympathy ?
Echo answers, “ No.’ One was a banker, and the
other only one of the common people—one has
influence, the other not any. The way of the
| world. Yes; the bigger the rogue the less is the
I crime Taking £4OOO is called a case of genius ;
£2OOO, shortage ; £lOOO, litigation ; £5OO, insol-
I vency; £3OO irregularity; £lOO, corruption; £5O,
: embezzlement; £25, dishonesty ; £lO, thieving ;
205., total depravity. Taking one bottle of the
famous St. Louis Lager Beer, war on society.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rignev, 141 King-street.*
STOP RIGHT HERE!
JOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effeot. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. On
it a ohMd can correstly play, without instruction,
any of its musie, wmch at present consists of over
800 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marshes, popular songs, &o. It
is host adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. tW It is pitched for the
voice , and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICK, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,'
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o.
the flue watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I hare intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t Bell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Noth:. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... £2 0 0
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £"■■<) 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pitent pinion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... ... £lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £lO 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.


A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
MASON BROTHERS,
fct»
LIMITED,
263 to 263 Rent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
. '•ORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
High-class Dentistry | at Reform Prices.
rOMPLETESFT
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, dally at 11.
m THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPER'
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE P
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O In the Savings Bank
Branch Payable on demand. Offioes, 4 Park-st.
THO?. HOLDERNESS, Acting Manager,
G. F. PRIDDY & GO.
Having purchased Bankrupt Stock of
HATS,
ONE-THIRD OF USUAL COST,
are now retailing them
BELOW ENGLISH COST.
Special Lines :
English Zephyr Felts, at 7/6
usually 9/- to 12/6
Do, Do. Do. at 5/6
Usually 7/6 to 9/-
At our two Establishments,
438 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Lassetter’s,
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL
£5O IN PRIZES. PLEASURE AND PROFIT
COMBINED.
The best way to spend a winter’s evening in
innocent amusement, combining profit with plea
sure, is to compete in the great WORD COM
PETITION, and endeavour to obtain one of the
Ten Valuable Prizes offered to the persons who
can make the greatest number of words out of the
word RHEINGOLDS.
The prizes are as follows : Ist, £l5 ; 2nd, £lO
3rd, £5 ; 4th, £4 10s,; sth, £4 ; 6th, £3 10s ; 7th,
£3 Bth, £2 10s.; 9th, £2 ; 10th, £l.
Anyone, old or young, can compete.
The lists will be examined publicly by an in
fluential committee of Leading Citizens of Sydnej
on the 24th MAY, 1887, when Prize Winners
names will be announced, and they will be pub-
lished in all Sydney Papers on first issue after
date of examination.
All lists of Words to be sent by post, accom-
panied by Twelve Stamps, and an addressed
envelope, when they will be acknowledged by
All lists to be addressed to Mr. H. BENNETT,
No. 11 Park-street, Sydney.
Note —In composing a word no letter must be
used more than once.
CONSULT Dr. THOMAS for the best and
safest treatment of Nervous Debility and
Skin Diseases. The Doctor has passed his degrees
at the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal
College of Surgeons, England. Consulting
Rooms, 203 Elizabeth-street. Hours: 9 till 9
To Weak, Nervous Invalids, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHARDS,{
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly largo class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure ev&ry ease un-
dertaken . When I say I cure, Ido not merely
stop them for a time and then havo them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
ufe-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every ether disease, and the real
cause of this ecarely ever beiDg suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
o t treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Oalvdnic Appliances ,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitt-at., Sydney,
DR. O'CONNELL haa Removed from hia i
quarters, Opposite, and has been compel
owing to his health and age to alter his hours o:
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation o:
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs n
.dvertising, as all of his patients who have con-
alted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address—
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Cabtlereaoh Street,
Sydney.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
BASS’ PALE ALE
SOLE PURVEYORS t» tb«
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIFITEOH.
LONDON,
B} Special Appointment,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES I
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CP
Commercial Chambers, Bond- Urret, By."E<
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
FT ATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
LAWLER'S.
A
DVISE one and all to pay the CENTRAL
EMPORIUM,
608 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
an early visit, and there learn how to buy, and
buy well. Wealth has been acquired by a prac-
tise of economy. Why should the wealthy
squander their wealth by paying ridiculous
prices. It is a notorious fact that many will not
believe they can get the best of Morocco Dining
Room Suites unless lhey pay £75. But the truth
is that £l5 will be the profit to the upholsterer
fortunate enough to get even £45. Lawler’s turn
out these suites at £35 and £4O.
BOOTS and SHOES for a family's use run up a
stiff sum in the course of a year; so does Mer-
cery. And yet, without touching or considering
the saving to be effected upon heavy drapery,
which is a speciality at the Central Emporium,
we make hold to say that, by purchasing at
LAWLER’S the year throughout, one could save
at least the insurance money upon a policy of
£5OO. Is it not worth considering ?
OOFTS
DOTS
T. WILLIAMS k CO.,
IMPORTERS OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
S3O
OH
S 3
w
IS l '
KIM
"■>!
I"'
(i n"
nib
s-Ani-f
DIXSONASONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY. «•
MXSON 4 Itn
CONQUEROR
YANKEE DOODLI
SIR ROGER
QlXlOffl 4 SONS »».«« rr
NAILROD
MOO* * sons
C HAM PI 0 f
QJKJON 4 SONS .**»“«* >VH
CUT , la TJ m Ptcufc
R.CRUBYORIENTALMIX
(MRETTEGGLDLU”
r
;
8
0
e
T. SILBEEBEEa d 5 CO.,
32 MARKET STREET, Corner of Clarence Street, Sydney.
IMPORTERS OF THE FAMOUS SILBERBERG SEWING MACHINES, and the DURKOPP
WHITE MACHINES, the best and cheapest in the market.
Agents wanted throughout the colonies.
r§s) Gstruy
GAu&fi&y do Q^edfou’wie'.
ILLUSTRATION (In reduotd die) -Jf £1 Order bo bt found In the
‘ LA.RGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S 80HNAPPS
j&T, NEWTON, ft LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNELL STREET#)
Full suites for dining-room.— side
board, dinner waggon, table,
overmantel, couch, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
i ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
X
-Mtsi
Thia chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, lrom
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. ffWe can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. J3d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up.
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, Ac. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Streets.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varlj
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O'Connell and Spring
Streets.
NMMI! a |||
Drawing room cam-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fubnitubb Wabebousembt,
Importers of High-art
Fnmltnre,
O'Connell and Spring Streets-
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves for
oaah only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sts.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms. New designs oovered to order In
any material.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, tor
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
"D OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
JLV ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’ConneM-street.
Bedsteads, as sues
Niokel-platod and Slack
and Brass Great vasiekr.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and;
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
SPRING MATTRASSB3
Woven Wire, bet
make; also, Spiral Sprint
Price, from Ur. each.
mUSUT, VBWWIW ,m 1 T.AMP
IHKAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13b. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. Sd.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d. |
Chests ef Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.) Clothes Horses, from 10s. Bd.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 80s.
HBADLF7, NEWTON, and LAMF,


The Political Abyssinians.
"It is the hahit of the Abyssinians, when on the march, to cut steaks from living cattle.” — Bruce's Travels.
CHIEF ABYSSINIAN PARKES (loq, to Bums): "NOW COCKY, YOU JUST HACK OFF ENOUGH TO KEEP OUR CROWD GOING. WELL HAVE TO LIVE ON THIS POOR BRUTE AS LONG AS EVER WE CAN.”
