

The Bulletin
i
:r - \
*0?.
ADDITIONA
'
EMISES
To his already Extensive Business, at
mi
\
V-v ■
jsS
(r'oxeivCEisL’2" -w. tz. sotxil,)
v WHERE THE LARGEST AND BEST ASSORTMENT OF
■ '
IS
m
I
AKE KTE**® lIT TXXT3 OITX
5
WAREHOUSE - 177 PI
mches
BTBTTT
Eilin 1
320 and 446 GEORGE STREET,
lin
Q § Brands of Havana Clgtf* Guaranteed Genuine and of My Own Importation-
UUGE STOCKS OF J; A PACE’S- CELEBRATED TOBACCOS TO . ARRIVE.


Ml®« * CO.;
IROKMOKQSRE,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
518 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
S
IRONMONGERS
jhkhk
hk,n
H
S
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
6AS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, fco., fcC,
<■“ ILLUSTRATED CfITALO'GUESRPRICES*POSTFREE
m
W.H.PALING&(s um !
1 356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY. j
WSUM6
who, Organ ? Music Importers;
largest stock ancl Greatest Variety in Australia - giving the
ictlie Widest possible choice.-PIANOS from £4o, ORGANS from £l2-
'AYHCMt 8V tfONtHIV INSTRUMENTS T 0• SUfT AU. CUSTOMERS
PALING &G
BALING St &
OFFORO & CO.’S HATi
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST,
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEORGE STRII?
iPEWfO
JJW FROFRt£ TOR
&
j,n,
WOW PASTE
U/Jrivalled wq/Ts/ufnumc
/tfo CLTAffstfo pSOHftTftS.
T,B,M'elhuisH Pharmaceutical Chemist
134 Wat! AM SJ SYDNEY
P“'
TE, SHEET, and ORNAMENTAL
IWINDOW GLASS
White Lead, Oils, Colours, Varnishes, &o.
Paperhanglngs, Dadoes, Friezes, &c.
Mouldings, Backboards, and Toilet Glasses
Overmantels, Silvering and Bevelling/ -
AOBTMLIAN BLASS OOMPASY, Lim„
281 GEORGE STREET,
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The A. G. Co, are selling
)he above goods at a large discount from usual
prices, being the stock taken over from Mr, A.
Borthwick.
nquMe wiU have prompt attention.
mo WINEGROWERS and others
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons }
also,
Rum She ar and Whisky PUNCHEGi S,
Hogsheads, Quarter casks, Spirit Kegs, tfOC
gaVons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
37 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
$
MANUFACTURING HATTERS]
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Or All THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at qmCKN BTItKKT, BjpSBANK,
m|H S SCIENCE OP L IFB,
X By W, Knox Parker, M.D. ■ . ..
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages l
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip
tions. Price, post paid, Bs. 6d, Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address; Doctor W. K,
Parker, Poet Office Chambers, corner Bourka and
Kllzabeth Streets, Melbourne, Tic.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
Xo all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout TiO-
Doioreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
i bottle of
DR. SGUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary i In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOB BLXOHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes, It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tea-
tirxvonlals from those who have recovered through
its agency can be Been. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty tojbe the safest, ana Desu
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
B. i. BOSE, Pharmaceutical Oh;mist,
681 oeorifeHetreet oniv.
SE3SIOR BEEN ADO.
The Celebrated Ecle'etopathist,
lQiSYefMr#' Experience in Hospital Practice, Haris
has established,
THE N.S.W. MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
for the speedy, effective, and permanent cure of
Nervous debility, Mental and Physical Depression, Loss of
Energy, Kiting and Bladder Affections, Liver Com-
plaints, Rheumatism, Skin Diseases, Ailments peculiar
to Ladies, and all morbid, conditions of the Blood and
general System, no matter from what cause arising.
Fits of 10 to 20 years’ standing, even after they have been pro-
nounced incurable, successfully treated.
1 Guarantee of Cure given in every case undertaken.
/ Consultation (personally or by letter) free.
CONSULTATION ROOMS, 207, KLIZABBTH-STRKET,
Corner of Bathurst-street,
or G.P.0., Box 790.
Hours from 10 a.m. fco 9-p.m, daily,
if .
I iM|
STtfDY ECONOMY
M>d
Hare your tfmbrtiUa Frame* re-
covered. and your
Paraeola jre lined and made eqna
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN’S,
, 541 George Street,
, Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurit Street*
Parasol* made to match cat
taatee. Repair* neatly executed
DIXSONaSONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
OWfOV C *•«•»
CO
EE
kailrod
-manm*
CUTJb*-^
«UKTT£Sai^
aMcoarsrs
NEW ZKAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES,
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent' Hoepita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and i
~ i Students from Sydney Hospital.
mm.
0 TAWHTAO.
PHE MIXTURE.
2*. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask tor it and take no substitute.
Ilia an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
IZMIOISriK/S
Cholera, Dysentery, Biarrhcee Mixture
A positive ctore. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
InCOISTBI’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHFY, NATHAN & CO.,
' 201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
‘ /' . - AND ■
ii Little Collins Street Bast, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business,
H. Q., BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
TT7IIRST - CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
ciai Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms wit hcut extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLffl~& SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office i Townsville, N. Queensland.
' G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON;
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
ItyTR, BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
If JL Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
gone toMount Morgan to take charge of
be carried on’"uiiat? KLl ’ which will henceforth
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morg^ff onal supervision,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. tJr ? ,lly sifcuate< L
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every et vi . sit "
and ebnvenienoe to greet them on their arrival 6
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aooommoda-
tioix of Thirty Hornet* * and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes' walk of the Hotel, Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Finn of Lowry & Bolton)
SUNBURST jt ( ) m
MOUNT MORGAN
E h,
riIHE
EaMU'QijQjT
TYPE-WRITER
copies may be taken In the use* P® 11 t4 '? itin
Beautiful
Sold wholesale and retail by t^®*P nBir 1“ <*« letter-press
sole agents,
& CO,,
UO Kent-abreeSj.
w Ara*”*» d
DR RICHARDS.Ijj^
and may in future be
7 Spring Street, , frB J ST xflfe fer fLvm®'t P
increasingly large class ° Leteß* ls 'X/
complaints can only he ®° r £«£* y
an experienced specialist OV I
dertaken. When I say
stop them for a time and f.M I> eg ] Kw l
again, I mean a radical ot J
ailments, which are the Sdr#£?
life-long study, and ean®
after personal consultant 0 f i , & *
cases has brought about __ gto cJ »° ir ' a pd fst
has reduced the general y
duce almost every othe . eJp g gflSPj, t W j#
cause of this scarely^eve' ything
have been doctored toT mft ny
one. Notwithstanding jpjtji#
that medical science baa P Q j $e W,
this class of patients, none °ySflO * IP
of treatment effect a ln
hospital and private pr ® sa
discovered new and 00 , 0 jjj e ’
with the use of my exte “®' fceo a
am in a position to goaf ® cos# i
undertaken. Consulted yjfi
will tell you at once wheth pp
or not. fjr * J
DB. RICHARDS,
7 SPRING STR«®JJ—-"l 2*
M
THE^GiEAT
>
-S3*
irrlage free by of P gco*^
you please from the M gleodijlr^
ibertson’s, Walker or .•
inville’s Shamrock ana »
ian Boru Whisky
ennessy’s *^Cognao
rare Gin
naioa Rum
;iw
gush Ales anu ■” ' ; qoure
■fc Wine, for comioisaou
WnißHy
£3 CASK AbSO jolf
aooommopaW
uperior
ies, Spirits, and Re orß
nra kent OP file. *
jh,n,
nj,
bhfhgf
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOIURS
PUMPS.
ftghnf
thf
LOCO
tjfvhn
Sydney'
111, PITT STREET.
rhfchf


The Bulletin
Vo). B~tfo. b 92.
SATURDAY, AUGUST «, 1887.
Prlo« ~ Gd,
Breakers Ahead for Gaunson.
JUSTICE ( en route for Australia) : “ Y OU, I BELIEVE, ARE THE CHIEF ENGINEER OF THIS VESSEL?”
HIS HONOUR: “THEN FOR HEAVENS SAKE CROWD ON MORE-STEAM. I AM THAT ANXIOUS TO GET A-NIGH THAT WICKED MAN GAUNSON!”


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OSCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STRKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advanoe, only},
Per annum - - - - & Os. Od
Half-yearly - - - - Ol2a
Quarterly - - " - O 6s. 6 .
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable no the proprietors,
The Bulletin f ewspaper Company, Lim,
to whom orders for tbe paper, advertisement*,
and remittances are to be addressed.
NOTICE.
By lending direot to Tna Btjlmtin Offloe twenty .hilling*
Iterling—which yon may pay by Poat Offioc Order, One-
pound Note, or .tamp* of any Auatrallan oolony-you can
t»ye TH> Bullbtih poated regularly to you every week ftr
eyear.
Thi. offer la not open to reaident. of Sydney. In that city
THK Bulletin la not delivered by mail, but la entirely in
the hand* of our oarriera, with whom we do not wiah to Inter
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1887.
“The Best Thoughts of the Best Men.”
A few weekß ago, on the occasion of a ques-
tion regarding tome Parliamentary records,
Premier Parkes was reported to have
stated from his place in the Assembly
that he wished the reports of the speeches
made in the New fc'outh t\ ales Legislature
to be preserved intact chitiiy because they
contained the best thoughts of our best men.
The claim that a colonial Assembly or a
political congress of any country contains
the best men in the colony or country, and
that their most valuable thoughts are to be
found in its records is a bold one. Let us
test it.
* * *
If by the “ best men” are meant those of
the purest lives, the highest acquirements,
the choicest natural gifts, the broadest views
of mankind, • or the keenest insight into
human nature, we deny the Premier’s as-
sumption. If by the “ best thoughts are
meant those which have done most to amuse
or instruct men ; to help along the world s
progress, dissipate the clouds of national
prejudice, or uphold the standard of civilisa-
t on, we deny it more emphatically &t.ll. At
former periods of the world's history there
was a far greater tendency than at present
for able men to find their way into the
national councils. But at no period since
the myths of nomadic hordes gradually gave
place to trustwoithy annals will it be found
that: either the ablest men the nation could
bring had places at the council-board, or,
having them, took care to speak their best
thougnts from such pulpits. Confining our-
selves to the last hundred years or so, how
poor and mean, compared with those of
others, have been the contributions of the
world’s politicians tothe world s knowledge or
cuture! Take ti e b* st of them-the two
Pitts, Burke, Fox, Oastlereagh Mel-
bourne, Macaulay, Aberdeen, Palmer-
ston, Gladstone, Disraeli, Bright, or
the foreign Thiers or Bismarck. Even ad-
mitting some of these to bo or to have beeu
men of a talent akin to genius, their best
thoughts were not uttered in Parliament,
but said or written outside it. Granting for
the sake of illustration that every spoken
and written word made use of by the pro-
minent men named had been uttered before
the assembled representatives of their
various countries, still how ignobly would
their incursions into the realms of fancy or
of fact compare with those of the gifted
men who gave us “ Faust,’ “ Les Miser-
ables,” “ The Origin of Species,” “ Sartor
Resartus,” “ The Stones of Venice,” or the
thousand-and-one literary and scientific
masterpieces which have changed not alone
the current of men’s thoughts but the face
of the globe they inhabit. The poor Ayr-
shire ploughman, who, from amidst squalid
surroundings sent forth the half-indignant,
half-defiant watchword, “ A man’s a man
for a’ ihat; ” the struggling valetudinarian
who, tight in the grip of circumstances
almost as dismal, electrified England with
the “ Song of the Shirt ” struck truer notes
and preached loftier sermons than those
struck or preached by the 1 Treatise on the
Sublime and Beautiful ” or the “ Lays of
Ancient Rome.”
* * *
So far from the best, i.e., the most
talented, men finding their way into poli
tical assemolies and enunciating their best
thoughts, the very contrary is the case. . It
has long been recognised almost as an axiom
that to be successful as a politician you must
not be an intellectual head and-shoulders
over the community. In politics marked
mental superiority is a hindrance rather than
a help. Tne qualities that go to make a
profound thinker or a great discoverer
will either retard the representative’s ad-
vancement or altogether close the door of
public life in his face. Bismarck’s success
ia due not so riiucb to talent as to unscrupu
lousnesa. So was the first Napoleon’s ; bo
was his putative nephew’s. No one who
has followed the great German statesman’s
career since the pour purlers preceding the
combined raid on little Denmark in 18G4
needed to read the late Count Beust s
memoirs to discover that the Iron Chancellor
was “ unscrupulous ” —the word is Beust s
—or, in the words of an English Minister,
un liomme sans foi ni loi. Of the Bona-
partes it is scarcely necessary to speak.
Indeed, their work spoke for itself in the
volleys that rid the uncle of the inconvenient
Due D’Enghien and the nephew of the
December Kepubiicans. It Pas been said
that only a man of commanding genius could
have done what Bismarck han done—-could
have wielded into one homogeneous mass
the mutually-repelling members of a common
body ana fashioned a mighiy empire before
tho eyes of astonished Europe. People who
say this forget- if they ever knew—that for
centuries the teachings of the foremost
German thinkers have all been towards a
united Fatherland, and that to give Prince
Bismarck: the credit of having accomplished
it is just about as sensible as to give a
clergyman credit for making a, runaway
couple on©, because when they called at the
parsonage he happened to be the re to marry
them. No doubt the Prince united Ger-
many as the priest did the lovers, but
neither Chancellor nor curate would have
been of mudk use if preceding events had
not paved th© way. The power wielded by
Bismarck was given him by the Dream of
Baubarossa.
* * *
The case of John Stuart Mill is an
illustration of the fact that in a constitu
tionally-governed country at least it is not
safe to be intellectually great if you desire
public life. It will not be denied that tho
famous British apostle of utilitarianism the
man who gave the schools their best text-
book on logi<? and the world tho fine examin-
ation of Hamilton’s philosophy—was a man
of parts or “of light and leading.” The
latter phrase is Benjamin Disraeli’s. We
do not quite understand it, and never met a.
person who did ; but as it is now freely
quoted by all who- accept the primrose as a
power in politics, and as We are much at-
tached to that flower and the cause it sym-
bolises, we have as good a right as any to
Lord Beaconsfield’s mystic utterances.
Eor a short time Mill represented West-
minster in the House of Commons, but his
thoughts were so much beyond the ken of
Sir Henry Parkes’ “best men” that the
latter gave expression to their views by
cock-crowing and other means. Soon Mill's
constituents deserted him, and he lost his
seat; not, however, before he had discovered,
as many others had done before him, that
when a person is pregnant with a great
thought, Parliament is, perhaps, the worst
place of all in which to seek delivery.
1 * * *
It is time to turn to colonial Assemblies.
Before doing so, however, it would be as
well to point out that in a lately-published
and eminently successful American work,
entitled “ Triumphant Democracy,” the
author, Mr. Carnegie, shows very clearly
how, when Democracy is in full swing, great
men are not only not required in the Legis-
lature, but are actually out of place there.
This opinion is so intrinsically probable, and
so consonant with the oft-quoted advice of
the Swedish statesman to his son, “ Go
forth, my child ; travel, an<i see for yourself
how little wisdom is required to govern the
world,” that it may be accep ed without ar-
gument. And now, for colonial Parliamenfs.
At the very beginning it might be as well ,
to clear the ground by throwing out a chal
lenge. Our challenge is this: We will
undertake never again to say a word
about the £25 due to us by the N.S.W.
Minister for Mines, Mr. Abigail, for
proving him —for proving, that is, how he
made a mistake in saying he never advocated
a Protective policy in any form —if his col-
league the Premier will point out in any
colonial Hansard a thought or idea of worth
which had not been differently or better ex-
pressed by some English or colonial writer
or speaker. We do not exclude the Parlia-
mentary utterances of Sir Henry Parkes
himself. We shall go even further, and say
that he (the Premier) is at liberty to search
not alone his own extra-Parliamentary
speeches, but the published volumes of hi*
poetry for such evidences of originality. In
one sense, no doubt, this challenge is rash,
as British poesy contains nothing so truly
original as the best of Sir Henry s stanzas*
In fact, there appeared to be but one link
wanting in the great chain of originality,
and in the “ Murmurs of the Streams ” he
found it. Still, having thrown down the
glove, we shall not budge.
* *. *
In the self-governing colonies of Australia
—if the term “self-government” can be
fairly applied to provinces which are obliged
to accept their supreme executive officers
from the ends of the earth, and which have
their supreme appellate court in a little
island twelve thousand miles away—there is
but one way of learning how members speak
when they speak at all, and what they say
when they say anything. This is by attend-
ing the Parliamentary debates. It is popu-
larly supposed that if you cannot hear them
speak you can at all events read in the morn-
ing journals or in Hansard what they say.
Such is not the case. Before Hansard goes
to press they are allowed to make certain
emendations, while, so far as the newspaper
reports are concerned, each broad sheet
makes a member speak or not, say this or
that, just as it likes. Attend a session, then,
if you have time, and we guarantee that it
will not be time wasted. Before you, ac-
cording to Sir Henry Parkes, are the
colony’s best men. Why they do not use
better English is puzzling. Minister and
member ; old hand (parliamentary) and raw
recruit rise in their places and fairly be-
wilder the listener with wordy slip slop. It
is rare to hear from any of the intellectual
elite assembled half-a-dozen consecutive sen-
tences of fairly correct English. And the
thoughts dressed in this motley language are
worthy of their apparel. It is droll to listen
to a Minister of the Crown as he enunciates
vulgar thoughts in the language of a Mrs.
Malaprop. Droller still to listen to his
claim for the pre-eminence of Buch bourgeois
specu ations and of the men who gave tnem
utterance. The first thing that is apt to
suggest itself to a strange visitor to any
colonial Legislature is, “if the men before
me are the best the country can produce, it
must be depressing to see and hear the
worst or even the second best.”
* * *
The fact is, the foremost minds of a com-
munity are never found among its rulers or
its representatives, and, as the world grows
older, there is less chance than ever of the
brightest intellects taking to politics. Nor,
as Carnegie points out, is it either necessary
or desirable that they should. Except in
great crises like that which resulted in the
sweeping away of American slavery, Govern-
ment, particularly of the Democratic type,
requires not so much commanding abilities
as plain commonsense and unsullied honesty.
It has too long been the custom to attribute
to public men a superiority which they were
far from possessing. This tendency is even
more observable in new countries than in
old, and the politicians of the former are not
slow to take advantage of it. Take "V ictoria,
for instance. Her public men will not suffer
by comparison with those of New
! South Wales. The present Chief Justice
Higinbotham can certainly hold his own
for intellectual or moral excellence against
any New South Wales public man of the past
or of the present. But what has Mr.
, Higinbotham said or done that will be re-
membered as long as some of the poems of
Gordon ? By his views on the precise
position to be assigned to Jesus and the
apostles he caused, it is true, a gentle flutter
among the miserable Melbourne sinners who
mortify the flesh on five thousand a year
and a house at Toorak. But Mr. Higin-
botham s scepticism is of the mildest
and daintiest sort. It is merely the
A B C of unbelief. To anyone ac-
quainted with the writings of the great
German, French, and English thinkers, the
idea of the judges having told the world
anything it did not know before, is laughter-
provoking. Again, take the case of the late
Marcus Clarke. Gibbon, one of the
greatest scholars of the E'ghteenth Centuty,
and the incomparably greatest historian <>f
any, wrote of Fielding, “He was of the
younger branch of the Earls of Denbigh,
who drew thtir origin from the Counts of
Hapsburgh. The successors of Charles Y.
may di dam their brethren of England ; but
the romance of ‘Tom Jones,’ that exquisite
picture of humour and manners, will outlive
the paiace of the Escurial and the Imperial
[Eagle of Austria.” And it might be said
with equal truth that the story of “His
Natural Life,” that terrible picture of man s
inhumanity to man, will outlive the memo-
} ries, not alone of Sir Henry Parkes’ best
men, but of their best thoughts—will be
read with mingled auger and pity when the
very name of the Vicionan Prtiruer, Gillies,
who now denies a pittance t. the author’s
struggling widow, has gone down, in com-
pany with those of Sir Henry’s favourites,
to a common and unregretied oblivion.
The Honouring of Office.
The State and strictly insular religion of the Eng-
lish is primarily responsible for the limitless and
unspeakable evils wrought by official slowness,
blundering, corruption, and thieving
wherever the British plant themselves. Right
through the centuries the people have been taught
by priests fatted and pampered by ihe State, to
rest their hopes of everlasting salvation on a
blind, uncritical faith in the sanctity and power
for goed of the Sovereign and all his underlings.
The formula runs: ‘'Fear God and honour the
Kicg,” the teaching whereof is plainly that the
head of the State is a vicegerent of the Almighty,
and to dishonour him—to criticise, that is, his
performances whether personal or by proxy—is to
commit blasphemy and incur divine wrath and
eternal retribution. In order that there should he
no mistake as to the extent of the area over which
the religious awe of the people for officialdom
must be spread, if the anger of the Deity is to he
stayed or appeased, the Church has gone carefully
into details, and enumerated a long list of func-
tionaries who must perforce he implicitly obeyed
and held in deep respect, ending with the toler-
ably complete summary : “ And all persons placed
in authority over us.”
** * .
In England itself the outcome of this “ reli-
gious'’ instruction is a monstrous condition or
official incompetency an d crooked derding, extendic g
down from Victoria, by the grace of God Queen,
Defender of the Faith, and so forth—down
through all the departments of Government to
the petty constables and parish beadles. That
the Queen herself sets an example of both
these things is a proposition supported by
abundant ar.d unimpeachable proofs. In the dis-
charge of her simplest duties she is obstinate and
wrongheaded to a degree calculated to drive from
the service of the country ah ministers of large
capacity and independence of thought; and she is
perpetually raising a fuss over matters almost too
puerile to engage the attention of a child As to
her official purity, Sir Charlks Dilke and other
competent authorities have proved that she
annually peckets at least £lOO,OOO in defiance of
the Civil List Act, which statute provides that any
portion of the £172,000 yearly allowed for her
tradesmen’s bills, not actually expended for the
purpese named, shall be returned to the Treasury,
while vouchers for more than £60,000 to £70,000
l er annum have not been forthcoming since 1862.
And the methods and conduct of her Majesty ad-
mirably typify the methods and conduct of the
whole pack of red-tapeists and hangers-on who run
the machinery of Government, general and muni-
cipal. Yet in England the “best” people raise
their hands in pious horror if anybody ventures to
whisper the patent facts of the situation. Tho
superstition instilled into them for ages about
honouring the king and obeying and venerating
all persons placed by him in authority over them
holds in bonds inextricable their reason ; and they
submit patiently to unjust laws, to the cruel
and biased administration of the same, to govern-
ment in the interests of the classes and inimical
to the masses all along the line, to a political con-
stitution and a social system honeycombed with
corruption and alive with crawling parasites ; and
are content with a State pyramid with nothing in
the shape of honest substantiality about it save
the hangman who stands minacioußly on its apex.
* * *
Here in Australia the same superstition,
though no doubt to a less extent, bars the
way of justice and progress at every point. An
important modicum of that “ divinity which doth
hedge a King,” according to the partly inherited
and partly acquired belief of the people, descends
upon every place holder under Government; and
what is euphemistically called “public opinion"
is shocked if anyone who has contrived to free
himself from the popular delusion dares to give
expression to adverse criticism on an erring public
servant. The consequence is that tho laws, often
bad enough in themselves in all conscience, at
times are so atrociously administered as to make
tho very name of “justice” a byword and a re.
proach ; while, as for the management of extra-
judicial affairs, that is simply a nauseous pot-
pourri of inefficiency and theft, A majority of the
officials are not base enough or clever enough tosteal,
but exhaust their intellectual powers in strenuous
efforts to discover the rationale of how not to dh
anything whatsoever. A fair proportion, it ill
fair to say, are of superior capacity, and hence
the public are robbed one Way and another to ah
extent incalculable, and in a manner shrouded in
that closest cf all veils —the “ opth secret,” known
to everjbody, but of which it is not the proper
caper for anybody to whisper. This state of things
cannot continue much longer, either in the
Mother Country or in the communities that have
inherited the blasting prostration of reason which
underlies the condition. Already in Englaid
politicians and writers in the Press are beginning
to sound what bids fair to swell into the death-
knell of the “fear God and honour-the-Queen”
doctrine, and when that is gotten rid of the rest
is all plain sailing. In Australia, nobody, with
the exception of one or two uninfluential poli-
ticians, has attacked public servants with any
success. Ihe fault lies almost entirely wirh the
Press, which, in these colonies, lacks well nigh
every quality that goes to make public journalism
a useful and beneficent institution. The Aus-
tralian Press has no originality of thought, no
real honesty of purpose, and, above all, has not the
courage of its convictions. It is always “on the
wait.” watcbiig to see how the cat jumps, and
has never yet been instrumental in initiating any
important reform, or aseis ing materially in the
advancement of a refoim, until the end was on
the eve of realisation.
* * •
This characteristic cf the Australian Presß lias
recently been exemplified in a remarkable manner.
The hideous facts of the notorious Mount Rennie
trial are still fre sh in the minds of the public. On
the very morning of the infamous execution of
four lads, whose guilt of the offence imputed was
never satisfactorily proved, the S.M. Herald,
which for weeks previously had preserved an apa-
thetic attitude in the matter, came out with an
article severely condemnatory of the conduct of
the trial, the innuendo of the whole contention
being that the Judge who presided thereat was
unfitted for his hgh office. Here is a sample of
the Herald’s argumentation in its own words,
the italics being the present writer’s :
“ It is the very Essence of our criminal jurisprudence that
tivra prisoner should not only be allowed the benefit of counsel
is, his defence, but that every reasonable facility should be
afforded him by the Court as well as by the Crown. It has
rarely happened that any cause for complaint in this respect
has arisen of late years; but the present instance is a proof
that even this merciful rule is not without its exceptions.
Whatever the facilities afforded to prisoners on .their trial
may be, they can be of little avail when the sittings of the Cour
are protracted from day to day to such an extreme as to ex-
haust the physical and mental energies of counsel and jurymen
alike. The celebrated TichbornE trial in England was only
one of many instances in which Courts presided over by the
most eminent of English Judges have patiently sat from day
to day, for weeks together, for the purpose of administering
justice in the merciful spirit of English law. But no case has
been heard of in modern times in which English Judges have
compelled jurors and counsel in criminal cases in vol ving issues
of life and death to sit all through the night in spite of repeated
protests and requests for adjournment."
For the Herald this account is very, very strong.
It might have added that the same Judge exhi-
bited a like indecent and unwarrantable haste in
the trial of Johns (an undefended prisoner, after-
wards hanged) on a capital charge ; and it might
have argued with more directness that, so
far from calling upon accused persons to defend
theiawilves in the small hours of tho morning, it


was the bounden duty of & British Judge to pvo -
Mbit a prisoner from so doing, even if the latter
were so foolish as to wish to engage in the task.
But the story is good enough. It sufficiently jus-
tifies the belief that Judge Windeyer violated
the fundamental principles of natural, not to
cantingly say British, justice.
* * *
Well, in the Victorian Assembly a few days ago
Mr. David Gaunson, influenced in no small
measure mo3t probably by the above-quoted judg-
ment, animadverted in strong terms on the con-
duct and character of the judge concerned ; and
forthwith the selfsame paper, which had'demon-
strated that that functionary represented in his
conduct something like the negation of justice,
discovers that Mr. Justice Windeyer even
under the circumstances complained of by Mr.
Gaunson, rendered a valuable service to society,
and that his accuser is guilty of “ruffianly
coarseness," and other dreadful things. The
Herald is brimful of pious horror at Gaunson’s
assault on “a resolute administrator of the law,
and protector of the interests of the weak against
lawlessness and violence ’’! This is the old stand-
point of the place-and-power worshippers. The
holder of office is always to these infatuated
biiogs the protector of the weak and deserving—
for the king reigns by Divine right, and the
authority of the placeman is simply the delegated
authority of the king, and therefore of God. They
don’t stop to observe that it not unfrequently hap-
pens that the alleged “ protector of the weak ” is
in reality the assailant of the weak. If there is any
truth whatever in the Herald’s statements of
January 7, Justice Windeyer showed himself to
be, to all intents and purposes, a resolute foe
of the true spirit of the law, r - of weak-
ness as personified in the accused wretches
brought before him for trial, and a friend and ad-
vocate for power, as represented by the Crown
and its minions. The horrid superstition referred
to will not permit of chose circumstances being
perceived, however plain and prominent they may
be, The simple fact that Justice Windeyer is
“ placed in authority over us ” negatives in what
these people are pleased to call their minds the
suspicion that he can be fallible, and the doubt
that he can be otherwise than omnipotent on the
side of truth and justice. The Herald, mark
you, uses Mr. Gaunson simply as a pivot on
which to turn the old idolatry of power. So far
as Mr. Gaunson is concerned, very likely he did go
beyond the issue. But our task to-day is not to
defend Mr. Gaunsons “ruffianly coarseness” cr
his point of view in any way where it differs from
that of the Herald’s own prior argument. No
added strength is needful to make out a sufficient
case against Mr. Justice Windeyer, and the sys-
tem of transmitted Divine right of which he is a
creature.
* * *
It assuredly behoves the people of Australia to
break the false glamour that has been ca3t
upon them by the well-paid industry of their ‘ ‘spiri-
tual pastors and masters ”in the past. As things
go we are simply perpetuating a state of things in-
volving misery and wretchednes s for the mas?es
of the people a 3 the complement of the unnatural
ease and luxury enjoyed by the “classes.” It is
an axiom of sociology that “ an unjust reward is
the indirect cause of injustice ad infinitum’' To
secure tolerable comfort for the multitude the in-
efficient aud backslidiog holders of cffi :e must all
be cast nto outer darkness as a condition precedent.
Howlongaperiod will elapse before this is generally
perceived is a problem hard to solve. One would
sometimes think the end too remote to be taken
into account. But the human race has occasion-
ally had a sudden awakening—has cast away
ancient beliefs and superstitions between the
rising and the setting of the sun, and returned to
reason as to the True God after ages spent in
bowing before gilded creations of priestcraft and
kingcraft. It is surely not taking a too optimist
view to trust that in the near future Australians
at any rate will pitch the played-out absurdities
of the English to the winds, judge every public
servants strictly on his merits, and insist on legis-
lators and administrators alike performing in the
interests of the whole body of the people. In such
case, Mr. Justice Windeyer, we submit with
Peat confidence, would be impossible, inasmuch
ae however able and conscientious he may be he
is afflicted with mental defects which render it
utterly inexpedient that he should continue to dis-
pense criminal law from a bench of justice.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
State Litigation.
, t' e ' v South W ales public are constantly being
. more judges are needed to get through
< usiaeBs before the courts, and suitors are as
B“nn t complaining of interminable delays con-
thfl « ? n the of judges. Evidently
orm r r y stands in want of less (or better), law,
think- 18 ’ or better) judges. We are inclined to
th»t * mpr °vement all round is desirable ; but
tourii eanwilile > the Government itself might do
■t„ , ow [ ai 'd 3 securing tolerable expedition in
“e administration of law and justice by refrain-
-Benppicm ° ccapyin S the time of the courts over
bvciti- 88 ° r trumper y defences to claims preferred
tor’s dp 6llB '. New South Wales Crown solici-
offlcp ;f a !'v raent is J u Bt about the biggest lawyer s
fcnnkan« i worldi It is perennially dealing
Sjita ftns e ° aB y with a score or so of big law
Orbitmn mnumera ble little ones, not to mention
a o n ir i,° n 8 , cos t> n g £30,000 to obtain a decision,
kand. f aS a " va y a a few Privy Council appeals on
by thp P ut of dve of these actions are caused
th.ir fm r UB spirit that imbues the Govern-
ttten raii° m tae ■ Pi ’ ime Minister down to the police-
iustanr-f. wayporters t and office cleaners, Atypical
°UB as ,“ e absurdly cantankerous and litigi-
Waa aff ™ n of New South Wales officialdom
to Wn ,* ast week. Water is supplied to the
la, ga castle by Government at the price of
the co'at nr @ a^, un s» the civic body defraying
forth Th r „ culation . collection of rates, and so
o Government run au asylum for idiots
in the town—not for Newcastle idiots alone, but
for all the idiots capable of being raked together
in the colony (so far as one inefficient Government
can perform the operation)—and for the water
supplied to this asylum the Corporation made a
charge of 2s. per 1000 gallons, which is about cost
price. But the Colonial Secretary refused to pay
the charge, on the ground that the asylum was
a hospital or a charitable institution, which
are specially exempted in “ country towns ” from
paying for the water supplied them by municipal
corporations. This matter has been before the
Primary Judge in Equity for some weeks, and has
manifestly cost his Honor a vast amount of
laborious research into antique statutes, commen-
taries, dictionaries, and other means of enlight-
ment. The industrious Sir W. Manning said
there could be no doubt whatsoever that morally
the Government ought to pay, but the question
was whether it could be legally made to pay. If
that is so, then why should Government raise
any dispute ? The sum claimed was less than £5O
per annum. The costs in the case will probably
amount to at least ten years’ rates, not to mention
the loss involved in the wasted time of the Judge
and other public functionaries engaged in the
settlement. It is curious to note that in this
matter the moral and the legal rights were not,
contrary to custom, mercilessly cast asunder by the
court. His Honor decided wholly in favour of
the Borough Council with costs against the Go-
vernment—for the good and sufficient reason that
the asylum in question is neither a hospital nor a
charitable institution. The direct and indirect
outlay may be set down at £2ooo—forty years’
payment of the charge in dispute ; and yet people
wonder why the unfortunate Judges can’t get
through their work, and wonder why the Govern-
ment is troubled with a constantly-increasing
deficit.
♦
Farkes’ State House.
When Premier Parkes submitted his scheme for
the “fitting celebration of the hundredth anniver-
sary of the colony ” he waxed “ immense ” touch-
ing the State House feature of the programme.
On an elevated site in the proposed Centennial
Park he recommended the erection of “an edifice
for great national purposes.” This, he said, was
“ not to bean ordinary hall or museum, but a
great structure, identified with the national life
of the country.” “All countries,” he went on to
say, “ have some spot which maybe characterised
as the home of their national life, some place
which may be considered the altar on which their
highest offerings are laid, some place round which
the nation, as such, rallies on great occasions.”
And this “great structure” was to be
designed and constructed so as to provide
“a great hall or amphitheatre ” wherein
could be held “ great national assemblages and
commemorative celebrations and services of a
national or special character.” It was also to
contain a suite of apartments “ for the proper
keeping and exhibition of such archives, records,
and memorials of the colony a 3 may hereafter be
collected and preserved ‘' all books, documents,
maps, printed or written matter, and reliques as
may be illustrative of the historical, material, and
industrial stages of the colony’s progress, and of
the various aboriginal races of Australia, their
customs, languages, and ethnological characteris-
tics.” It was to contain, furthermore, “ a gallery
for the reception of statues and pictures ” ; and,
finally, “ a public mausoleum for the interment of
those who have been honoured with a public
funeral.” All through his speech on that occasion
Parkes' keynote was grandeur. His State House
was to be not less “great” in point of size than
the “ great national” genius and aspiration it was
intended to ty j ify. The idea of a vast amphitheatre
in which the multitude might congregate and weep
over dead heroes, or glorify living specimens of the
genus, was conveyed in every sentence ; and the
Assembly was fairly carried away by the electric
contagion of the brilliant and imposing Concep-
cion. But Parkes had a different tale to tell last
week. Having secured Parliamentary sanction
to his scheme, he advertised for competitive
designs, proffering the munificent reward of £l5O
to the architect who succeeded in getting his
plans declared, by some unknown authority, the
most suitable ; and the Sydney architects waited
on him with the complaints that this offer filled
them with surprise and grief, that they never
before felt so humiliated, and that no body of
professional gentlemen had ever-hitherto had to
submit to “such a slap in the face.” Parkes
tnereupon proceeded to unsay all he had told the
House about the “great structure.” A popu'ar
error had somehow arisen, he averred, as to the
need for an enormous building. The great hall or
amphitheatre was in fact to dwindle into a small
apar.ment. “The Mausoleum would be quile a
small place—only a few bodies would be deposited
there.” The gallery of art would be strictly
limited in area; while, as for the historical, in-
dustrial, ethnological, &c., museum, that might,
we are led to suppose, be omitted altogether, for
the whilom eloquent advocate of this “great
feature” of the “Centennial Palace” was last
week silent on the subject. This i 3 exLremely
disappointing, and so the architects seem to feel.
They went to Parkes inbued with the idea that
the State House is a “ grand conception, looking as
it does into the dim vista of futurity, when mil-
lions of people yet unborn will inhabit this great-
territory, and be able to look back with approval
upon ttiis statesmanlike act of a nation’s love and
pride of country in its Centennial year,” and more
than ever filled with surprise and grief to hear
from the originator’s own lip 3 that his amphi-
theatre, art gallery, museum, and Charnel hoase
were intended to be stowed away in a Liliputian
edifice, the designing whereof was not worth
more than £l5O. Thus nas the mighty project
shrunk and shrivelled as its practical fulfilment is
approached. By and by we shall hear that the
exigencies of the N.S. W. Treasury will not permit
of the “great national palace” being larger than
a sentry-box. or smaller than a tin of sardines, or
more architectural than a galvanised iron shed.
+_
Judge Higinbotham's recent re-affirmation of
his Unitarian principles has sent Melbourne piety
circles into a state of ferment. The smug-faced
crew to whom “ doxies ” and “'isms” arc meat
and drink (and plenty of both) are girding up
their loins for the inevitable newspaper fray.
They are grinding out columns of theology so
weird and mysterious that, after sitting up all
night with the blessed correspondence, we have
come to the conclusion that the terew faith wants
more finding than a winner of the local Cup. It
would have been better if Higia botham had kept
his ideas strictly to himself, and not caused excited
crowds to gather at the corners of Melbourne
streets to discuss the Deity from a materialistic
standpoint. Moreover, we disapprove of religion
getting into the hands of the lawyer chaps. They
will so cumber it with technicalities that unless a
man takes his case right away to the Higher
Court he won’t be able to save his immortal soul
in the short space of a lifetime. Pretty soon no
one will be able to say the simplest prayer under
I six and-eightpence. ,
The leading articles of the S.M. Herald are re
markable for their length, their stupidity, and
their obscurity. When they can be followed
along their tortuous passages they will be seen to
cordially shake by the hand Imperialism, Jingo-
ism, and Property. Such an article last Friday
stated that Republican institutions gave little
security for property, that their existence de-
pended upon a chapter of accidents, and that a
barricade or two in the streets with the rising of
the populace might destroy them in a day. Pooh >
A contented populace never yet rebelled against
good law and order, such being according to their
wishes. And the “ History of England ” tells us
a different tale than that of monarchies respecting
property. But the creed of the Herald is that
ot the rulers of the day, which is opposed to the
creed of the people. Have we not now to witness
under, monarchy the steel-gloved defence of pro-
perty in Ireland against the wishes of the people ?
the tyrannical powers given to property holders
and their sympathisers there by the Crimes Act
will be used with brutal force against the people ;
but the greater the oppression the likelier the
revolt
The blessings derived by Australia from
partnership in the Empire are again illustrated
the Imperial income-tax levied on Australia
residing in Great Britain, although their inco
is drawn from this country, a Frenchman, or an’
other foreigner, escapes this impost because
hasn t got a dear old mother country. To
Australian property, no matter by whom held
simply infernal impudence on the part of an;
foreigner whatever, and Ought to be met b,
good stiff tax on all English assets o wned out he"
• it for tat is fair measure, but we fancy that En
land would be the first to stand in astonishme
at the process when so applied to herself. O:
course the above rule should apply equally to a
taxes, so it would be as well for (say) Victoria
send in an account to the English Government
the amount of protective duty estimated to
due on goods imported into Britain for the co
sumption of Australians who live or have cap!
invested there.
We have before us a copy of the N.S. Wa
Freetrade Association’s income and expenditu
for the past year, and a remarkably cheerful pie
of reading it is. Including the noble band
half-crown donators to the good cause, there a
about 300 city subscribers on the li3t, Messr
Hardie and Gorman, Fairfax and Sons (of ti
S.M. Herald), John Frazer and Co., toppin
the columns with £5O each; the amount poolei
for the year ending June 30bh, 1887, is £llolss. 2c
The monster Freetrade banquet, at which o
Jack Robertson so unmercifully trounced tl
cadging business,'realised £lBl 165.. and out
this the committee paid away £l9B 3s. 3d. Wha
beesm9 of the balance is not stated, but in a
probability it was laid aside for funeral expens
to be spent when the day should arrive to bur;
the cause for ever. The Association’s deflcienc
up to now borders on £5OO, and it is significant tha
all hough the landlord of the rooms in which tl
Association’s business is done is a staunch Fre
trader, still he has faithfully promised to land th
whole of the official paraphernalia into the stree
if his little bill be not promptly settled. It mus
be a phthisical cause when not a single Calic
Jimmy, or soft-goods magnate in the land think
it worth while to put up even a “fiver” to sav
its Lares and Penates from the degrading grip o
the bum-bailiff.
-♦
The Case of William Roy.
The Bulletin has so far acknowledged subscrip
tions to the amount of £l6 3s. 9d. received by i
on behalf of William Roy, the soldier who now
lies blind and paralysed in Parramatta Asylum
As already stated, Roy wears the distinguishec
conduct medal, awarded him for his gallant con
duct at Roike’s Drift, where, though at the tim
an invalid, he rushed through the flames during
the fight to save the sick from the burning hospi
tal. He subsequently received from the hands o
the Queen an autograph Bible, end his portrait i
to be seen in the celebrated painting by De Neu
ville now in the New South Wales Nationa
Gallery. The unfoitunate man, who since
his admission to the wretched asylum that
is now his home, has, according to the
report of the gentlemen appointed to enquire into
the management of the N.S.W. Government
charities, been treated with wanton neglect anc
cruelty, i 3 in a hopeless condition of health, and
will while he lingers be utterly dependent on the
good offices of those who may wish to make a
substantial protest against the hollow-hearted
system which, while it spends lavishly to com-
memorate triumphs gained chiefly at the cost and
never for the benefit of the class from which the
common soldier isf drawn, callously permits a
brave private to die in misery. The Bulletin
hopes to collect a considerable sum for Roy, and
undertakes to see that he is directly benefited by
its expenditure. The following additional dona-
tions are now thankfully acknowledged
A Friend, 5 a ; M. Kinealy (Orange), £1 Is.: Taj, £2 25. ;
collected by W. H. W. and W. M , £2 17s. 6d. : J. M. Bucher
(Broken Hill), £1 ; A. O Keefe, £1; R. Dunn, 53 ; V. T. H.,
£1; J M'NAugtnoD, la.; J. Stephens, £1; D. T. A., £1;
a plodding clerk, 59.; P. M. Whealy, 55.; previously ac-
knowledged, £l6 39. 9d. ; total, £2B sa. 3d.
Editor Bulletin, —The history of Ireland since
the Union has been one long series of Coercion
Bills, carried by majorities in an English Parlia-
ment in the teeth of the bitter opposition of the
constitutional representatives of four-fifths of the
Irish people. The latest of the black record is de-
scribed by the greatest Englishman of the day as
a causeless, insulting and insidious Bill, intended
to create a crisis. L'oubtless, Mr. Gladstone
meant thereby that it was meant to exasperate
the Irish to desperate expedients, and hence give
the Tories the long-wished-for opportunity for an
indiscriminate U3e of lead and steel. The Tories
know well that there is only one way to govern
Ireland from Westminster—by blood and iron.
I hey have not yet had, in this reign, a valid ex-
cuse. Perchance, they think the Crimes Act will
create one—that an outraged people will grow
weary of waiting and resent this last crowning in-
sult by an appeal to force. It would be vair.
The Irish would be crushed to the earth—wiped
out. There would be a great silence, and the
Ministerial report would be that there was peace
and contentment in Ireland. It would be the
peace and content of Poland. Some special ex-
cuse has been brought forward for every coercion
bill; but the real aim of all of these appeals to
legalised force has been to stamp out the just and
natural desire of the Irish people to exercise their
inherent right to be governed by their own repre-
sentatives in their own way. Yet people dare to
wonder that the Irish love not the Union The
marvel would be if they did. Love is not‘gained
by tyranny, and it is tyranny pure and simple to
persistently withold from a nation its natural
rights-rights enjoyed by the Australian colonies
and to crush out with an iron hand every legi-
timate attempt to attain the use of those rights
This is what majorities in the British Parliament"
which is based on the principle that laws should
be made for the people and with the people’s con-
currence, have been persistently supporting. This
is why the Irish hate the Union, and this is
wherefofe Home Rule is dearer to every virile
Irishman than all other things earthly are. Till
the Gagging Bill to close the mouths of his repre-
sentatives in the English Parliament had passed
into practice, and till the last blow of the Crimes’
Act is consummated, there might still be some
satisfaction to the patriots of Ireland in continuing
to send representatives to the House of Commons
and m patiently bearing with the restricted liberty
of free speech they enjoyed at home, for there
was still some means to defend and plead then-
country s cause ; but now the ever-present gag
and soon the gapmg prison, await and will awai’
the lush delegate and the Irish agitator who daro
to proclaim their nation’s rights. There is no longer
hope at Westminster. It is now noplace for the re-
presentatives of Ireland, and their best way of im-
pressing this fact on the world and of moving the
hearts of nations would be by shaking off the dust
of their feet against St. Stephen’s. Let them rise
as one man in their places in that House, and in the
presence of the assembled legislators of Britain pro-
claim that they appealed from the decision of that
Assembly to the people of the United Kingdom ;
that they repudiated its decrees, and that their
places in that House should know them no more
till the people of Great Britain should rectify the
wrongs and establish the rights of their outraged
country. Let the Irish Representatives then pass
over into Ireland and meet in Convention in com-
pany with the noble leaders of the English.
Democracy. Let them state their case as
nearly as the letter of the Coercion Act
would allow, and publish a manifesto to
the Democracy of the Empire, and if this docu-
ment bore the signature and was upheld by the
voice of William Ewart Gladstone, and the
other great Liberal leaders, it would, un-
der the circumstances of its issue’ ap-
peal irresistibly to the hearts of tens of’ thou-
sands who, though loving their liberty, have not
thought of Ireland. For the rest let the people
present a calm, patient front to the Crimes’ Bill.
Let it be met with such a wide and universal and
relentless boycott a 3 has not yet been known in
Ireland. Let this passive resistance—though it
causes a burden, grievous and scarcely to be
borne to the national defenders as well as to the
emissaries of the strangere— but be firmly and un-
flinchingly carried out, and the Crimes Act and
much other authority beside it will beat the air o •
serve no other purpose than to exist as an emblem
of tyranny and as a band of iron to strengthen tho
union of the patriots of Ireland. Let it bo
boycotted in the cradle, at the altar and tho
grave, in the streets and in the fields, at the table
and the fireside, in the market-place and in tho
chapel. Boycott it in sickness and in health, in
joy and in sorrow, in riches and in poverty. Let
it be boycotted to-day and to-morrow and to
death. Thus will an act of tjranny perish, and
thus will the Irish people defeat the malice of
their enemies, and thus will they show by a
Spartan determination to suffer all for liberty that
they are worthy of its enjoyment —Yours truly,
W. Mackworth Harrison, Charters Towers’
North Queensland, 2nd July, 1887.
Loudon Morning Post wants to fortify
Thursday Islard. For a place wilh a small
population we think the pubs, are sufficiently
numerous.
Some of the biggest of the ferry-boats in
Sydney harbour are manned by a skipper, an
engineer, and a boy. If the skipper is taken ill
(the engineer has to stay down below attending to
his machinery) the boy is responsible for the lives
of 500 passengers. We’d prefer to be the Czar of
Russia to that boy.
The Evening Nooze narrates a ghastly
yarn about a young lady who laughed herself to
death. 1 hat’s nothing. A widowed mother sat
watching her son. He was reading the Evening
News. He smiled at a brevity, and the aued
woman, horror-stricken at this feaiful evidence of
his approaching insanity, at onco took to her bed
and died in the most horrible agony.
Dr. Dobson and Sir H. Wrenfordsley have
accepted “silk” in Victoria, Why doesn’t Cook
get silk 1 He’ an old member of the bar, and the
early bird ought to catch the early worm. Doctor
Frank Stanley is a Tasmanian native—brother of
Justice Dobson, of that tight little island. He
plays on the flute divinely. Wrenfordsley, after
playing the judge in Western Australia, Fiji, and
Tasmania, is now content to take silk and briefs
(if they come) in Victoria.
An alleged son (he was probably only a
nephew or something) of toil lately called on a
certain Sydney M.P. with a view of getting an
easy job in that refuge of loafers, the Corpora-
tion service. The member at once wrote a lette'
to an aldermanic friend, saying “ This will intro-
duce my friend, Mr. B , who desires employ
ment, &c. Not being able to read, the toi'er
took the letter away, and meeting a friend asked
him to explain the contents of the epistle. This
being dune, the indignant Mr. B thundered out,
“ Hemployment! why, burn his eyes, I never asked
him for employment, What I wants is a billet in
th’ Corporaehin.”
Although the intense selfishness of man
Protrudes its brazen front and leads the van,
A nobler view of life exists l
Although a gilded monarchy may rule,
Supported by the sycophantic school—
An independent spirit lives !
Although there are the dukes, the earls, the lords,
ihe bishops, and such leeches now in hordes—
The people are, and they advance!
Although a tew, now poor, in time grow rich,
i 1 orgetting then they left the human ditch—
lhc truest hearts, they never will!
Although the poor, who’ve neither lands nor food.
Incited are to spill each other’s blood—
They know not what they do-they will t
Although the superstitions still prevail
To tempt a ghostly and a yellow gale—
Undaunted science daily grows l
A nobler view of life exists to thwart
The selfish feelings of the human heart,
And soon will lead the van !
An independent spirit lives and spreads
To tear the garb of monarchy to shreds—
For monarchy is doomed !
The people now advance to life’s ideal
(Equality, fraternity)—they feel
That Liberty triumphs !
The truest hearts, no matter rich or poor,
Are leading on, and victory is sure—
Then social life is gained !
The people then will know and guard their power,
And help the helpless, who will blessings shower
On happy social homes !
Let Science flash its all-reflecting light
And educate the world that Right is Might —
And Right the only God !


The Referee
The Sydney footballers were up to their
necks in slaughter on Siturday over the second
round of the Cup matches. The Wallaroos de-
feated the Gordons after a rough-and-tumble in
which a broken collar-bone and a “busted ear
played a prominent part; the Cniversity fahly
romped over the Newtowns; Arfoma put Bal-
main through ; the Burwoods had an easy thing
against the Rosedales; and Dr. Wilkinson at
tended to the wounded.
* *
Young Jack Fuller wants to box the
coloured lightweight, Marshall, to a finish, for
£25. The writer cannot see that Fuller has the
ghost of a show against Marshall.
j L. Sullivan, whose pugilistic star seems
now to have finally set, has taken to umpiring
base-ball matches.
* . * *
Ananias Redivivus—we mean the cable-
informed Londoners that Trickett had challenged
Beach l or the championship.
* * *
At Sydney, Smith won the Carington
quarter-mile from the 23-yard mark with the
greatest ease from Merchant, 25 yards. When
Smith saw he had his men beaten he commenced
to “poke borak” and “take lunars' at them.
However, the handicappers will in future, no
doubt, put Mr. Smith on a mark where he will be
perfectly safe.
# * *
Yachts’ light-wind sails are now being
made in England of “Union” silk—a mixture of
silk and cotton, which takes up little space and is
expected to quite supersede duck.
* *
Champion amateur bicyclists do not ap-
pear to be long-lived. Cortis died young in Aus-
tralia, and his sometime rival, the celebrated lon
Keith Falconer, died the other day of heart
disease at Aden, whither he had gone as a mis-
sionary. The writer is not a bicyclist, but he will
venture the opinion, leaving out certain other
dangers, that the position of bent double over the
handle of a machine is by no means calculated to
serve a man when he is straining his every nerve
and muscle. Bicycling will not develope a raca
of Garvans, Parks, Freemans, Clarks, and
-Other bis: ’uns turned out by rowing, cricket, and
boxing in the old Sydney days. The man who
sticks to bicycling alone, as so many are doing
just now, will be an animal abnormally developed
about the log at the expense of lemonade-bottle
shoulders, fowl chest, and poor-turkey arms.
* * *
A Melbourne writer commends the N.S.W.
Bicycle Union for upholding amateurism in their
disqualification of certain doubtfuls; and then
goes on to speak in favour of the Melbourne
people’s offer of a £3OO amateur prip-the very
thing to encourage quasi-professionalism.
* * *
The boxer Lees, who made so pitiable a
show with champion Jackson, is now in England
under the care of Jem Mace—who is notorious for
taking up poor goods. Maori Slade, to wit.
* *
The Melbourne Cricket Club aristocrats
are crowing over the success of negations
with the English “ amateurs. Mr. W. W. Read
is coming out for £BOO, and the mighty Grace is
nibbling at £l5OO and expenses. By the way, a
return match between the Gentlemen and Players
terminated like the first-in a one innings victory
for the despised professionals. This is a little fact
which is quietly ignored by the Argus and
other journals that are steadily puffing the M.C.C.
team. For the first time in many years the Argus
published no results of the great English matches.
It preferred to waste cablegrams that undoubt-
edly came to hand.
* * *
Ou the Victorian steeplechase courses they
ire now filling in the fences with brush, which, as
giving the horse a better sight of his jump, may
Lend to reduce accidents.
* * *
Merry Hampton, this year s Derby winner,
is one of the few high-priced yearlings that have
paid for their oats. He was bought for £.llOO.
* * *
Our late visitor, Mr. “Juggins” 8., is
reported to have won £7OOO in one weeks cards
at a London club. It is further reported that he
lost £36,000 the next week. Thus it came about
that when B. sauntered into the ring at Ascot and
asked what were the odds, a metallician softly
murmured : “ Ten to one you’ll be broke before
Goodwood.” The books have no patience with
young men who “do in their brass at the card-
ie. They regard such extravagance as cheat-
ing honest men of their just dues.
Stonebroke won the last race at Denili-
quin meeting. It’s generally the other way about.
* * *
Mick Nathan and David Green squabbled
over Ihe division of the spoil after their scrapping
“barney” in Adelaide, and the long-suffering
nublic have been favoured with a peep betund
the scenes. Mick’s statement is that the other
man only agreed to “ fight” on the understanding
Shat he mustn’t lose. Adelaide is Greens dung-
hill and the local rooster declined to contemplate
the' prospect of a defeat. Mick babbles us
ingenuously : “ On the>ight of the match, before
the doors were opened, I had to go into VP nv , at ®
dressing-room to rehearse with him. We then
arranged that I was to hit him with a half-
clenched glove, and he was to hit me as hard as
he liked.” It further appears that the Melbourne
pug. wound up this holy show by blowing the
saffto the meagre audience assembled. A dis-
gusting business, anyhow. But it is strict
accordance with Biblical precedent that Nathan
and David should fall outs
Larry Foley is reported to have joined
the Lanceahs. Alas, for the decadence of the
noble art!
Has Larry forsaken the gloves for the lance 1
Does he fence on a warlike white horse ?
Does he curvet and caper, and gallop and prance
(Oh! the thought fills us full of remorse)
Does he march with the stay-laced and perfumed
toffs,
And sport a big helmet and plume ?
Can it be that he drills with our starched
KomarofFs
Away from his athletic room ?
No; we cannot believe that the boss of the ring
Thus equipped to the battle would go,
When he’s only just got to step forward and sling
A speech that would frighten the foe.
* * *
Steeplechase jockeys are not good sub-
jects for insurance companies. When not break-
ing their necks at big jumps they appear to play
larks with loaded firearms. Only the other week
that accomplished horseman Bob Batty blew out
one of his eyes, and now the darkie, Sam Floyd, is
minus two fingers through a gun-explosion,
* * *
Charlemont, the French savatteur (foot-
boxer) has somewhat changed the views of Lord
Queensberry. The latter held tenaciously to the
opinion that the scientific kicking of the French
man was easily defensible by methods at the dis-
posal of a skilled English boxer, and so conclusions
ware tried. The result was disastrous. His lord-
ship was knocked on his back three times cleanly
by a kick from the sole of Charlemont's foot dex-
terously placed on his chest, and which he was
ignorant how to guard, although Lord Queens-
berry’s skill as an amateur boxer is well known.
* *
Johnny Patrick, the sprinter of long ago,
is now engaged at the Waverley (N.S.W.) bend,
Bondi Junction, in directing the trams on their
several courses. It is rumoured that when
Johnny is interrupted, by the starting of a tram
car, in his conversation with the driver, he runs
beside it till the yarn is finished. This was told
us by a clergyman, so we retail it confidently.
* * *
J. L. Purves, T. Heydon, and Murdoch
and Midwinter, of cricketing fame, were a,mong
the competitors at the Victorian Club billiard
tournament.
* * *
A little light, it is anticipated, will be
thrown on the prospects for the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups when the result of the Winter
Handicap, Geelong (Vic.), August 6, is known.
* * *
Of the 26 Melbourne Cups run for only
three have been secured by aged horses.
* * *
A local paper complains that the Essendon
(Victoria) football team, which recently invaded
Albury, was too exuberant in spirits, their ex-
uberance being expended in practising with their
heavy boots on hotel doors and 1 household
utensils.” The Essendon youths deny the soft
impeachment, and the editor has not persisted in
his remarks for reasons best known to him.elf.
* * *
Kangaroo, who fell in the V.R.C. Grand
National, is a grand-looking horse, and will cause
a stir when he appears at Randwick.
* * *
Peter Newton and Nathan have given
Adelaide best, and returned to Melbourne. Peter
speaks dolefully of that holy city.
* * *
Haggin and Baldwin, the ’Frisco racing
millionaires, it is authentically stated, have
wagered their entire racing studs and fixings as
to which will scoop the highest pool in stakes
during the ceming season, the winner to take the
lot. Haggin’s stud is the larger, but Baldwin’s a
brifie faster.
* * *
P. F. Slaven, now of Melbourne, is
anxious to meet Mick Dooley at Brisbane for £5O
aside before he leaves for N.Z.
* * *
Sali has recently put up a 1121 b. dumb-bell
fifteen times in succession with his left hand.
* * *
Abercorn and Niagara are equal favourites
for the V.R.C. Derby at 5 to 1 in Melbourne.
Silver Prince tops the Cup quotations at 100 to 7,
but biz. is very limited, as the “ books” can’t see
further th?.n the Victorian billiard tournament
at present.
* * *
Charlie Wood, Archer’s successor on the
English turf, has paid £20,000 for an estate near
Newmarket.. ..Jockey Smith, who fell at Williams
town, Vic., races with Rockworth. and got his
skull’fractured, is up and about again.
* * *
Hon. Wm. Pearson, of Victoria, is trying
his level best to have the minimum handicap
weight fixed at (Ist. 71b. The reform is one in the
right direction.
* * *
John L. Sullivan has had his bumps felt
by a phrenologist, who states that socially the
Slogger will always stand in his own light. John
L., having failed to discover what this means, is
now looking for the bumps man.
, . *
The mare Gentility, that ran so well in
Trident's A.J.C Plate, is in good condition and is
meant for N.S.W.
* * *
Nelson will not visit Australia this season.
* * *
Cannon and Connor are going in for more
strangling, and the gentle lovers of the wrestling
art in Melbourne are joyful.
* * *
A certain Australian theatrical manager,
whose orthography is palsied, on one occasion
when backing two horses named respectively
Neophyte and Union Jack, entered them in his
betting-book as Nearfight and Onion Jack. Fact.
* * *
Watts, who had the winning mount on
Merry Hampton in the English Derby, was pre-
sented with £lOOO by the owner, in addition to a
retainer of £5OOO for three years from the same
gentleman. The Grand Prix of Paris was looked
upon as a “ dead bird” for Merry Hampton, who
smarted at 2 to 1 on, but he collided witn another
horse shortly after the start, and did not run into
a place. The stakes were worth nearly £6OOO.
* * *
Hanlan seems to be in deadly earnest thi
time. He has made his final deposit for the
match with Beach, and sails for Australia on the
15 th inst.
Alf. Joseph, the bookmaker, has retired
from the Sandhurst Town Council, on the score of
pressing business engagements. Melbourne Cup
is coming on, and “ stiff’uns ” must be attended
to.
* * *
There are two Deans at Winchester, one a
horse-trainer, the other the Dean —of tbe Cathedral.
Somebody sent a wire to “ Dean, Winchester ”
(the trainer), after the Derby. It was wrongly
delivered, and so it fell out that as solemn ser-
vice was progressing and the Dean sat enthroned,
a telegram was handed to him, and he opened it
and cast his eyes up to heaven in dire perplexity,
for it said : “ Ormond has won !”
* * *
Plunger Benzon, who scattered such a lot
of paper among the Australian books, before
comirg into his “ properiety,” is now know in
London as the “ Jubilee Mug."
* * *
The English bicycle champion, Howell,
won the first three of a series of matches with
Woodside, after which the Amurrikan retired.
There was very little money put up, and Wood-
side seems to have suspected from the first that
the derned Britisher was too good for him. Now
that Mr. Fred. Woods is under a social cloud, we
shall likely have Howell comiDg out here.
■>!- - K*
That tough old sportsman, the Dowager
Duchess of Montrose, has pulled off a lot of big
stakes this season. She won the Prince of Wales’
Stakes and Royal Hunt Cup, at Ascot, besides
landing heavily over the handicap wins of Carl-
ton, trained in her stable. The Duchess crows
like a rooster when fortune smiles, and when for-
tune frowns she uses strong language and chucks
things at her jockey.
That scientific society upon the Stanislow
could have learned much at Penrith, N.S.W.,
where an awful ghost story has just gone bung.
The other day, at Penrith, one or two people saw
a troubled-looking apparition prowling round a
dark arid lonely spot. It was plain a horrible
murder had been committed, so they searched the
spot in daylight. Yes, there were the remains of
the assassinated victim—there were his broken
ribs, the fragments of his poor skull, the decayed
and tattered remnants of his rags. By and bye
the coroner took possession of the bones and
handed them over to anatomical experts, who
pronounced that "while none of the portions of
bone could be affirmed to be parts of a human
being, some of them were undoubtedly those of a
lower order of animal." But line Bulletin re-
spectfully submits that the inquest must go on,
inasmuch as there is nothing in the report incon-
sistent with the theory that the bones formed part
of one or more of the electors by wh m Sammy
Lees was returned to the N.S.W. Parliament.
Victoria by the Grace appears to pursue a policy
of ‘‘slobber” on all public oocasions. Royal
functions are en'iveqed by little family kissing
games for the delectation of the newspaper re-
porters. Thus we read that after the West-
minister Abbey service there was more lip prac-
tice than you can ste anywhere outside a Sunday
school picnic when the teachers get together.
Sassiety organs have furni-hed full particulars of
this “ pretty scene of family affection.” First of
all plump Bertie made an emotional peck at his
royal mother's hand, and was awarded wi'h a
chaste salute on the cheek bone. Then two other
princes made their pecks, but retired without
being muzzled by their august relative. Sud-
denly the Queen (in accordance with stage busi-
ness previously arranged by the Lord Chamber-
lain) was "carried away by the impulse of the
moment,” and commenced to kiss the whole
family circle. The two princes were recalled and
received their " busses” like everybody else. It
was sublime. Not a dry eye was left in the Abbey
when this ostentatious osculation had come to an
end. By such shallow devices does Her Gracious
keep her fat salary and perks.
Prime-Meat Barry’s Patter Song.
THE BISHOP’S PREVARICATION;
or.
“IT’S OWING TO THE MEAT”
I find it is reported in a wicked Sydney sheet
That I told the English people the Austral/an
eifte
Were sensual and lawless and consumed their
whisky neat.
Now what I really said to them I’ll with your
leave repeat :
I said that you were wicked, but I laid the blame
on Meat;
I told them that for beauty none could with your
glrl3 compete,
They were e'egant and neat , they were sweet, but
indiscreet
(But I said their indiscretion was brought on by
eating meat.)
I told them that your working man his wife and
children beat,,
Twas not drink that made him do it —it was
what he had to eat.
I told them Sydney s'atesmen were puffed out
with vain conceit,
That the height of their ambition was to use their
fists and feet,
Considering it was quite the thing to wrestle in
the street,
And that rather than pay railway fares they’d
ride beneath the seat
(But I added it was owing to Demoralising Meat).
I told them your policemen found dead babies on
their beat
With a Herald or a Telegraph to serve as
winding sheet,
But I told them this sad state of things was caused
I by Sydney meat.
I told them that ycur Harbour they would find it
hard to beat,
And that your beef and mutton they would find it
hard to eat;
I told them Sydney tramcars were considered
quite a treat
To anyone v> ho had a taste for soot, dust, smoke,
and heat.
Now, I think that I have told you all I don’t wish
to secrete,
So hope if any people think me guilty of deceit
They’d say, as I have said for them, “ It's owing to
the meat."
PHIL MAY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Alone in London" p. 14.
Criterion Theatre.— '* Pickpocket "
Opera House—" The Magistrate 1 ,
Gaiety Theatre—“ Boccaccio •”
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy
Exhibition Building.— Roller Skating Rink
Mr. Dam pier having apparently, like
many another good maD, made his pile with
“Rags and Bones,.” had them carted off the
boards of the Royal Standard on Monday, to make
room for. our persecuted Jewish friend of the last
century. “Leah, the Forsaken.” This drama is
strung into five acts, which impress one with the
belief that old-time Christians, instead of ham-
mering one another for the love of God, as they
do now-a-days, confined their persecuting charity
to the pork-scorning Hebrew. Most of the per-
secution is showered on Leah, who consoles her-
self by annexing the heart of Rudolf, a Gcutils
masher, already engaged to a fair young thing
wich flaxen hair and a snowy apron. With the
I aid of an apostate Jew, Rudolf is led to believe
that Leah is only in love with his money, and he
returns to the arms of his fair Anna, after having
cast off Leah with more force than scorn. Rudolf
then leads the fair Anna to the altar, or rather
Anna leads him, when Leah again turns
up and invokes the names of all the
patriarchs from Adam to her uncle in a
malediction upon her faithless swain that would
have made a bullock-driver burst with envy.
Rudolf studies the pattern of the carpet while his
jilted girl is doing the cursing, but he lives long
enough to make atonement and obtain forgiveness
from Leah, who exposes Nathan, the villain, and
then dies right off just when the audienco are be
ginning to think that Rudolf ought to forsake his
gentle Anna or get a divorce and marry Leah.
Miss Lily Dampier as Leah was tearfully pathetic,
and jMLr. Dampier as Nathan, the bald-headed
apostate, made a remarkably murderous-looking
sneaking persecutor. Mr. Edmund Holloway was
quite at home in the shoes of Lorenz, the farnu r
and magistrate. Rudolf, filled by Mr. A. Booth
man, requires a little more practice in love
makiDg. Mr. W. E. Baker was quite holy as
Father Hermann, while Mr, H. Lestcn filled the
dual requirements of doctor and barber success-
fully. Miss Annie Marsh, as Anna, fairly filled
I the duties of a less than usually jealous sweet-
heart and wife.
AA. At. AA. A/U
■7V* ‘n’ ‘7T 'A'
At Sydney Criterion the “Pickpocket”
continues to draw full benches. Young Dion
Boucicault, as Andrew, the writer, grows upon
you the more you see him ; and the ancient Har-
wood, who is always growing upon his audience,
inasmuch as every night he perpetrates some
fresh gag, is greater and greater as Grumbledon.
The piece looks like haviDg quite a run.
*# # *
Sydney Opera House, which has been
I closed for a few nights, re-opens on Saturday,
under the auspices of Williamson, Garner, and
Musgrove’s Comedy Company, when “ The
Magistrate” will be presented with a promising
cast of characters.
## # *
Bland Holt’s “ second novelty ” at the
Sydney Royal is emotional and dreadful enough
to please the most enthusiastic devotee of the
sensational, and awfully realistic notwithstanding
its extravagance. “Alone in London,” as the
play is somewhat inappropriately called, deals to
a large extent with the se imy side of life, and the
authors succeed, in an apparently strained effort,
inportrayingonefirstrate villain, and sundry lesser
lights of the genus —the first-rater contriving to
lead the heroine a life sufficiently miserable to
satisfy the most ardent lover of stage wretched-
nes3. Annie Meadows is (of course) an innocent
country girl, and she throws over an honest
bumpkin admirer, Biddlecomb, in favour of a
London swell mobsman, Richard Kedcbffe, on
whose treatment of her and conduct generally turn
the major part of the interest. At one time things
go pleasantly for Annie. Her spouse gets into
“ quod,” and she is taken in hand by a pilanthro-
pist and made a sort of lady help. But Redcliffe
turns up again, as bad boys always do, Annie and
her child are dragged off and made quite too ex-
cessively unhappy, and finally the unfortunate
woman is driven to desperation by her husband’s
employment of their little son as an assistant in
the burglary of her benefactor’s banking house.
She frustrates this feature of the programme, and
Redcliffe puts her in a sewer and opens floodgates
admitting the Thames. But the rustic lover of
bygone days arrives in time to save Annie from
drowning, Redcliffe is killed off, and the curtain
falls with the recently created widow happy in the
prospect of eventually being led to the altar by
the previously discarded B.ddlecomb.
* * *
The chief attractions of “Alone in
London” are produced by the scenic artist, whose
work is splendidly performed in every detail, and
Mr. George Gordon merits the highest commenda-
tion. None of the characters are artistically
I drawn. Tae villain Redcliffe is too utterly void of
any quality other than devilish, and Annie is
weak and meaningless. Miss Agnes Thomas
struggles haid Fto make something out of
Gipsy Tom, a waif and stray of the “Jo” species,
but the part does not allow of any particular
success. The Jenkinson of Bland Holt is skilfully
done, and the audience is interested and amused
whenever this funny villain is on the s age Mrs.
Walter Hill, as Biddy Maloney, is suited right
down to the ground, and helps to good purpose to
throw welcome rays of lightintothe dismally shady
pictures of low London life. The drama must
have cost a pretty penny to produce, and should
enjoy a long and profitable run.
** # *
A good house, and Joe Davis, who is back
from Newcastle, to look after it, greeted the
fourth representation of “Boccaccio” at the
Sydney Gaiety. With Bill Greeno in a wondrous
suit of black and gold as Leonetto, the opera
beuffe couldn’t fail to be what it was—a success
big enough to make Rev. J. howl with suppressed
gladness Miss Ivanova in the title idle went up
top, her acting being even over the average ability
of prima donna. The tiio, Lotteringhi. Scalza,
and Lambertuccio (Farley, Dean, and Lester) were
good enough to make us burst a pair of white kids
(our number is 18 in glo ?es, address them to the
office) in frantic applause, and there is enough
whisky in the three to make a sympathetic poet
in the front row hiccough. In fact, the prin-
cipals were too satisfactory to die early. As for
the ladies, they were wonderfully beautiful! They
wear a yard of gold fringe and silktights, and
even then some of them come up to the foot-
lights and complain that there is too much
of their clothes ; but, there wasn’t much his-
trionic genius amongst them.
## # #
At “ Boccaccio,” the other night, a lady
whose avoirdupois was above suspicion, broke one
of the gorgeous orchestra chairs by simply sitting


on it. We don’t know if it was a little joke of
the management’s to make the audience laugh
before the curtain went up.
*# # #
Business at Sydney Alhambra still hums
along merrily under the managerial smile of Mr.
Frank Smith and the boisterous applause o:'
his well-pleased patrons.
-It % 'K- -Ji-
The popularity of Mr. Leopold Jorda
ensured a crowded house for his benefit on th
20 h ult., at Sydney Y M.C.A Hall, when a con-
cert and recital was tendered him prior to h s
departure for Europe. A capital programme wa
carried out, the performers being vociferously a i-
p'auded throughout. Mr. Hallewell and M
Knight Aston led off with an admirable due;.
M'ss Maud Laurent, Mms Josephine O’Reill
and Miss Frances t aville each contri-
buted excellent renderings of choice songs,
scene from Henry V., recited by Mr. Lock
Kithirdson, a violin solo by Mr. Horae
Pcussard, and a piano solo by M. Henri Kowalsk
evoked appreciative applause. Mr. Jordan con
tributed several of his' own humorous musica
sketches. The success of his benefit testifies
the appreciation in which Mr. Jordan is held o
account of his generosity in cheerfully bestowin
his services whenever the cause of charity needec
them. He leaves on the 10th inst. for London vi
America.
## # #
After a long struggle for completion, He
M p jesty’s Theatre, Sydney, will, it is reported, b
opened at the end of the present month. Accord
ing to a c’ause in the lease, a performance mus
immediately take place within the walls
if only on one night. This will be an ex
pensive proceeding for the management, and
has been suggested that Rignold and Alliso
should play “Box and Cox,” if the latter pe
sonage can study cither part. Failing that-, how
ever, Rignold will produce a novelty—viz
‘‘ Henry V.” By the way, we don’t like the nam
“Her Majesty's Theatre.” To us guilty ones
sounds like “Her Majesty’s Gaol.”
.###'*
Major Dane, an American author, orator
and traveller, is now in Sydney on a lecturin
tour.
## * #
“Princess Ida” is a fashionable novelt
still in demand at Melbourne Princess’s, but very
old goods are on show at the other houses. Th
Royal has been doing fairly good business wit
“Streets of London,” a drama which wa
“ realistic ” twenty years ago. Time was whe
the public would swallow four acts of imposs -
bility for the sake of a fire engine, a stage con
Hagration, and a festive shoe-black. But w
don’t sin the sin our fathers sinned (Tennyson) i
the same primitive style. We want earthquake
and real natur’. now-a-days. . Oa Saturday Mr
Williamson appears as “ Rip Yan Winkle,” anc
Maggie Moore comes to the rescue with “ Fool o: !
the Family.” Apres lui Italian opera. “ Littl
Jack Sheppard ’ is about to relinquish the chain
of his poor dear ancestor and pop up in the vir
tuous garb of “Dick” (WhittiDgton). Brough
and Boucicault are making big preparations fo
the new opera. Scenery, dresses, legs, anc
other appointments will be up to Dick. The
Alexandra is thriving, thanks to Carrie Swain anc
L. L. Smith’s bloodhounds. No pains have been
spared (new phrase!) to make “ Uncle Tom’
Cabin ” a popular resort. The management even
went to the expense of a police prosecution for
overcrowding, for which the judgment of Solo
mon was 10s,, with costs, and a remarkably cheap
art at the price. Such enterprise deserves sue
cess and gets it The Bijou knows Gracie Plaistec
no more for the present, an unfruitful season o:‘
French opera having come to a miserable end last
week. Mr. Wybert Reeve is trymg his luck at
the pretty little house with “Only Dust,” to be
succeeded on Saturday by that somewhat mature
female, “The Woman in White.” Meantime,
“ Silk Stockings ” are keeping about the same as
usual at the Victoria Had, and Coghill's crowd
have established themselves at St. George’s. A
rtog show at the Exhibition was brought to a suc-
cessful issue on Saturday.
** # #
The Bulletin is sorry to hear that that
large-hearted and popular as well as accomplished
artiste, Madame Lucy Chambers, of Melbourne (a
native of Sydney, where she received her early
musical training), is seriously ill of effusion of
blood on the brain.
*# # #
The Jubilee Musical Festival at Mel-
bourne Exhibition resulted in a deficit of £4OO.
Fext time dear Lady Loch starts a fund she will
probably decline the disinterested assistance of
the musical perfesh. Philanthropy guaranteed
by Government is a beautiful but costly article —
blessing them that give and increasing the yearly
estimates.
## # #
Anew Australian opera, entitled “ Ftde-
is to be soon put on the Melbourne stßge.
the leading parts represent a kanaka and a black
The difficulty is to secure a lady performer
who will not object to black herself and wear the
Primitive blanket.
At latest the travelling perfesh. were
thus distributed in N.Z.:—South Island : West
8t > London Circus ; Dunedin, “ Ala ” ; Christ-
Jnurch, Moore and Ashton’s Minstrels. North
8 and: Wairaraka, Lynch Bellringers (awfully
uggestive tame, Lynch, to travel into an Ameri-
,an t 0^ n with) ; Manawatu, Smithson and Dun-
f"; Napier, J. L. Hall and two sons, Pei man
Lynch and Laura Roberts in “ Fun
the Bristol”; West Coast, General Mite and
wcassian Youth ; Auckland, Foley at the Opera
Max Rinkle at Town Hall. Hugo ooens
-., Au< 7 an d Aug. 1 ; Wybert Reeve at Bluff on
•th—Mick-I-Do.
#* * #
j ar tin Simonsen’s Italian Opera Company
a\e writes our correspondent, no reason to be
Ain • the support accorded them by the
m ? ai(^e Public. The houses have been good
wit acd the °P eras produced during the last
Vo u Ve * ,een “ Don Giovanni,” “Un Ballo in
schiera,” “The Barber of Seville,” and
jcrezia Borgia.” The Faust Family, with the
Minstrels, have been doing only fair
a 6BB at Garner’s Theatre.
** * #
thJn 6 William Hoskins, when lessee of
Theatre, Melbourne, was fre-
Panv/ UEaWe to meet the demands of his com-
ininL- Sa ! aries- one day he was bemoaning his
D),, Uni oßitv to a friend, to whom he said, “ Ah,
Wen’s r actors > 1,111 sorry I can’t pay them, I
a nn . a Penny—can you tell me where I can buy
‘PtenT ° f ducka ■*” Old Billy, who had an
°ftce n re .l erence for Shakespeare’s works, was
Porn fled during a rehearsal of “The Tern-
pest’ by a child engaged in the representation
asking, him, “ Please, sir, when does the trans-
formation scene come on 'l
## # #
A good story is going the London rounds
about a usurer who paid £9 103. for a window in
a house “ on the route of the jubilee procession to
Westminster.” On coining to take possession of
his window, the smart man found it at the back of the
house. He was advised not to take proceedings
for the recovery of his money, on the grounds
that even a back room possessed jubilee value for
refreshment purposes.
## * #
At Toulouse menagerie, a ferocious lion
did full justice to his family traditions by tearing
the arm off a poor musician who went too near
his cage. The musician was accompanied by two
artillerymen, who drew their swords and attacked
the brute. This, however, only made the lion
more ferocious, and he devoured the man's arm
before the eyes of the horror-stricken people.
Several persons fainted away at the ghastly spec-
tacle, and everybody left the menagerie, the in-
jured man being taken to the hospital. When the
lion-tamers arrived, the furious beast was licking
his blood stained jaws and glaring hideously at
his masters, who beat him with bars of iron.
## # #
It’s only just dawned on us, but the stage
is rapidly becoming all heart. We have ha*
“Dead Hearts” (also deadheads), ' ‘ Broken
Hearts” (and breakdowns), “Marble Hearts”
(and stony-hearted creditors), “Sweethearts”
(likewise sour tarts), “My Sweetheart” (and
another fellow’s), and now the latest London ana-
tomical discovery is “Amber Hearts.”
AA. JL Jf, Jl,
W “TV ’7Y‘ TV*
It is often the custom among travelling
theatrical companies for the outgoing show to
puff the incoming one upon the last night in a
town. The manager of a departed company was
once taken to task for having failed to announce
a rival’s.advent. “Well,”
said he, in defence,
“ when I went before the
curtain to make an an-
nouncement, the fellow
had gone out to have a
drink.” Biz. was not big
in that town.
# # #
Frank Frayne, the
American actor, has been
getting into more trouble.
A lion plays one of the
leading parts in his new
drama, and we bear that
the carnivorous star got
mad a while ago and
gagged his part by mang-
ling a horse and biting a
piece out of Frayne’s arm.
Four or five years back,
Frayne playing “ Si
Slocum ” at Cincinnati
—killed his affianced
bride stone-dead. In the
great scene of this im-
proving drama, Frayne
had to shoot an apple
off the maiden’s head.
He never failed but
once, and that was once
too many for the girl.
The bullet hit her brain
instead of smashing the
apple. Poor Frayne was
tried and acquitted of
any murderous design on
his own “intended.’’ It
was a sad affair. But if
she had lived to become
Mrs. F. perhaps the lion
would have eaten her.
*A/. -V-
W 'TV 1
There is a weird
story of the Paris Opera
Comique, now a heap
of wreckage and ashes.
The day after the fire
an immense number of
workmen were removing
the dead from amid the
ruins of the huge seven-
storey building, and they
discovered that, though
the lower boxes had been
burnt away, the topmost
was somehow left intact,
and protruded like a
little square cage from the
wall. In it three ladies
were still s itting. They
had died of suffocation, but were not even
scorched, and the mortal remains sat there side
by side, two leaning back quietly in their chairs
the third with her fan still in her hand and her
head resting on the ledge in front of her. For
four days they stared down with sightless eyes
before the workmen could reach their lofty perch,
and then they were removed and buried. No one
came to claim them, and their identity was never
discovered.
## * #
Joubert says he could have made the
Alexandra pay had he been able to get a license
for the bar. Too true ! The bar-angel is a better
and more profitable actress than the star. The
bar-angel is, in fact, a three-star.
*# # #
Business at Capetown is immense. Re-
menyi made his farewell bow to a gr< at audience
at the Royal there, on June 29, after a lucrative
season, proceeding to Kimberley and other parts.
Luscombe Searelle’s Opera Company followed at
the same house with “La Fille de Madame
Angdt,” Vernon Reid, Daisy Morris, Kate Greena-
way, Amy Fenton, and Blanche Fenton being of
the company, and Searelle writes to the effect that
he finds the Cape veritably one of Good Hope, not-
withstanding the eccentricities of the hotel
keepers.
*# # *
-Our old friend Luscombe Searelle is play-
ing pranks at the Cape. He recently left his
hotel in the dead of night—because the accommo-
dation was not equal to his notions of comfort,
and the waiters not so attentive as they might be.
After his departure the landlord missed some
blankets from the bedroom Searelle had occupied,
and sent over to Searelle’s new quarters to see
if they had become accidently mixed up with
Searelle’s luggage. The irascible Luscombe
naturally returned to the abode he had abandoned,
called the landlord a mean cad and an adjective
liar, and knocked him down as often as the unfor-
tunate fellow could pick himself up. The magis -
irate who investigated the business said : “No
doubt there had been a disagreement,” but he
commended the gentle Luscombe to show more
control over his temper in the future, and in the
j meantime to pay a penalty of £5, which the G.L.
did, together with £1 to the local poor box.
** # #
Mr. Leonard Braham says it is not true
(as stated by the Melbourne Argus’ London man)
that he has never been able to get out of the
chorus. Mr. L. B. declares that he has been
singing first tenor in England for five years, and
threw up a London engagement with Reid and
Corney Grain to come out here with his wife, both
under engagement to the Triumvirate. The
Argus calls this an ■‘explanation,” not a “con-
tradiction !”
## # #
At an Owl hoot. Herr Professor to
amachawartiste, who has just “favoured” the
company, Nouhel a mosht ree-maj'A-able voice,
my vrent.” Amachaw artiste : “ Ya-as !Do you
think, now, that it would fill the University
Hall Herr Professor: “Vill der University
Hall l Oh, my vrent, it vouldt not only vill dot
Hall, but it vouldt empty it as veil.”
## * *
It may not be generally known that “Jim
the Penman ” was a genuine character, who was
sent out to Botany Bay half a century ago. His
real name was James Townsend Saward, and he
was a barrister with a turn for other people’s
signatures. Some of his descendants now occupy
good positions, but they have long since dropped
the name of their off*coloured ancestor,
## # #
The vanity of old actors is proverbial in
the profession. A benefit performance was to take
place at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, about
eight or nine years ago. Two old actors, who had
consented to dig themselves out of their long re-
tirement for the occasion, engaged in several I
quarrels during the rehearsal of a farce. Both of
them wanted the centre of the stage at every I
opportunity, and there was war in consequence. I
I always had the centre when I played this part I
Vv 'h t IV' vv c. f
i/r <?ik< *
forty-three years ago,” said one. “And I always
had the centre when I played this part toity-five
years ago,” said the other. Time was wasted by
these old boys, and at night the audience sincerely
wished they had remained in retirement.
A well-known colonial actor with a
strongly-marked individuality in face, form, and
voice, while travelling with a short-handed com-
pany, offered to make up a deficiency in the cast
of a piece by “ doubling ” parts. Said he, “ I’ll
exit first entrance, stick on a goatee, re-enter
centre doors, and who the deuce is to know me?”
Commodore Heusner and the officers of
the Bismarck gave a delightful afternoon dance
on Saturday, July 23. Those present included
Mrs. Fairfax, Miss Dundas, Capt. Clayton, and
officers of the warships Diamond, Lark, Carola,
and Olga, Mrs. G. B. Simpson, Mrs. Bosanquet,
Colonel Bingham, Major Bunbury, Mr. and Mrs.
M'Millan, Miss Elvy, Mr., Mrs., and the Misses
Neil, and many others. Each lady guest was pre-
sented with a bouquet.
A strange discovery was recently made
near Cooktown (Q.) On the far {north shore near
the foot of Mount Amos a traveller came across
the remains of a vessel which ha 3 apparently lain
there for a century or two. The coast-line has
silted up and left it far above the present high-
water mark, and huge mangroves have grown up
between it and the water. Some old Bristol
galley or Dutch trader evidently visited tho e
shores long before Cook was heard of, and left her
banes on the sand, while the crew were probably
killed and eaten, and the men who ate them were
eaten in turn, and those who devoured the second
lot grew old and withered and became too tough to
be made into a decent lunch years and years before
the white man attempted to colonise Australia.
The worm-eaten wreckage of the old ship alone
remains to tell the tale, and if, on close inspection,
it proves that the spirit of the' age has breathed
upon what is left of it it should at once be brought
down to Sydney and planned in Parkes’ Charnel
house as a sacked relic.
BRIEF MENTION.
Cooksland ! Chinese Cooksland.
Boundless—The Afghan frontier.
General News—About Boulanger.
The lower orders—Colonial distinctions.
Cairns (Q.) has provided a hospital ward
for “ jim jam” patients.
Sheriff Cowper has slipped and hurt his
knee. Cowper, slip knot again !
Victoria’s new Government Printer is
named Brain. Civil Service brain.
“ Blankets in demand,” says a Northern
editor. His subscriber arc all blackfellows !
A Chinese tailor at Cooktown (Q.) has
been employed to make Government uniforms.
Uniform boycotting is indispensable.
A Sydney daily says that Sir Patrick
Jennings has caused a splash in England. It isn’t
every jellyfish who can make a splash.
The Argus wants to be called the Vic
torian Times. Suppose we call it the facsimile
Times ? That ought to satisfy it, anyhow.
Bailey’s Sunday News :— “Harry Humby
was found in the Clarence River on Wednesday.
He had been there three weeks. He was dead.”
Mud J. Haynes says that the men who
are good spouters are a curse to humanity.
Now, John himself is an improvingly good
spouter.
Bishop Barry denies the truth of that
cablegram. The man who has to decide between
a cablegram and a bishop is in a truly awful
position.
New South Wales has seven hundred
teachers who cannot be assigned schools. Why
not appoint one to instruct each applicant for a
J.P.-ship ?
“ 1 always prefer to be on the safe side
when I speculate,” remarked the Australian em-
bezzler as he landed at San Francisco from the
mail steamer.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) man brought 12
witnesses to prove his ownership of a dog. The
other side had 14 and defeated him. The dog is a
noble animal.
A Richmond (Melb.) publican has been
fined for selling rum 84 4 under proof. The
attorney for the defendant urged that there was
no proof of fraud.
Twelve charges of burglary were lately
brought against a Y.M.C.A. youth in Adelaide.
Seek and ye shall find ; use the jimmy and it shall
be opened unto you.
A letter lately appeared in the Sydney
Daily Telegraph signed by “ The Devil.” And
yet Henry Parkes will persist in saying he never
writes to the papers.
On the Queensland border a few days
ten pigs got drunk on the refuse of a wine cask'
The spectators remarked that not one of them
even asked another to come outside.
“A law is wanted,” says Mr. Abigail,
“that will enable an honest tradesman to obtain
ins due from a rascal who does not mean to
render it.” iVe are honest tradesmen, and Mr.
Abigail owes us £25 and interest.
Says a Cooktown (Q.) paper “We do
not believe that there is in the world a harder -
worked, more under-paid, better abused, and less
appreciated man than a North Queensland editor ”
Pooh 1 what about an Irish bailiff?
“Go amongst your unemployed,” said
Mrs. Gordon Baillie, to a Melbourne D. T. reporter
the other day, “ and if you find a Highlander
with them 111 eat him.” This was a daring state*
ment, but the lady knew she was safe. No High-
lander is ever unemployed while he has hands—
and nails on them. God bless the Duke of Argyll!
A Northern Queensland journalist mildly
suggests that to cure the blacks of stealing, a
little “rough on rats” judiciously spread on the
damper would be effectual. By the way wo
would remind him that a little asafeetida or sul-
phuretted hydrogen applied to the moustache is
an infallible remedy for dispelling the aroma of
rum.
The accursed drink again. A back-block
correspondent of a Bathurst journal says “On
leaving my hut last week I encountered a most
remarkable animal. He was about the size of a
Newfoundland dog, and had long, large pointed
ears ; his eyes shone with the brilliancy of elec-
tricity ; his feet appeared to be like a horse s, and
his tail was the facsimile of an American broom ”
The temperance apostle Burnett had better go
West. 8
Burwood Social held its third annual
dance on July 22 at the local School of Arts.
The Hon. H. E. and Mrs. Cohen enter-
tained about fifty guests on the evening of the
26th ult., dancing and music being the chief en-
joyments.
At the enjoyable rinking party on the
afternoon of July 27, at the Exhibition Building
the hostesses included Mrs. D. P. Dickson Mrs
Cecil Griffiths, Mrs. A. Bloomfield, Mrs. Lee’Lord’
Mrs. E. H. Knox, Mrs Gurney, Mrs. Grecnrv
Walker, Mrs. Kyngdon, Mrs. A. Lamb £
E r ric Mackay, Mrs. Macnamara, and Mtr
M‘ Donald.
Lady Carington being at home on Thursday
last, quite a number of visitors invaded Govern-
ment House to indulge in afternoon tea and gossip
and make themselves at home. Among those
who attended were Mrs. Fairfax, Miss Dundas
Mrs. Justice Faucet*-, Miss Faucett, Lady Inn es’
Mr., Mrs., and Miss Rolleston, Mr. Chetwynd’
Mrs. M‘Quade, Mrs, Savage, Mrs. Merewether’
Miss Durham, and many others.
At All Saints’ Church, Bathurst, on July
23, Kate May, eldest daughter of Mr. Frank B
Suttor, was married to Mr. Alfred Con=>ett
Stephen, of Cintra, Potts Point, by the Very Rev
Dr. Marriott. The bridegroom, who is a grand*
son of Sir Alfred Stephen, was accompanied by
Captain Milward as best man ; while the bride
was attended by Mrs. F. B. Suttor, the Misses
Ethel, Mary, and Maud Suttor. The bride was
given away by her eldest brother, her youngest
sister acting as bridesmaid. She wore a costume
of grey cashmere and velvet, with vest of crevette
satin, bonnet en suite , with bow and osprey of
pink, and ornaments of diamonds and pearls.
Her youthful bridesmaids wore cream cashmere’
with blue sash and velvet cap. The service was
chora l and finely rendered The happy couple
left for Mount Victoria in the evening, the bride
wearing a travelling costume of navy-blue serge
sailor hat en suite. They join the ss. Carthage ac
Melbourne for a trip to Europe.


pepper
And
Salt
We always feel sorry for the bailiff, the
saddest and worst-banged man in the '■ommunity.
Nobody loves him, and everybody claws at him
and aims hot water at his head, 'those whom the
gods love die young, and so does the bailiff; but
the gods have nothing to do with him—it’s the
other fellow. He gets bald early, for women who
are behind with their rent reach for his hair, and
regularly every Monday morning he gets his ear
shifted. Then on Tuesday he generally gets it
shifted back again, and it seldom remains two
days in the same place. Furniture rushes at him
on the smallest provocation ; so do farming imple
ments and live-stock, and cooking utensils fall on
him from a great height. People are always in-
venting new troubles for the bailiff, too, and t his
brings us at last to what we wanted to say all
along. The very latest is that the other day two
of the children of misfortune went to reason with
a farmer who was very deep in debt, and when he
saw them coming he hid himself and left his wife
to talk to them. Accordingly that lady locked the
door and remarked suave’y from the window:
“ Good marnin’ to yez. It’s the master yez want
to see, I don’t doubt now. Well, wait a bit in the
yard, and Oi’ll sind him to yez.” And with that
she went out to the barn and “ shoo’d ” the bull
round the house, and that excited animal came
along with a roar and scattered the bailiffs in the
shadow of a wink.
* * *
“ On Sir Henry Parkes’ arrival at Parkes
he was presented with several addresses, and the
crowd detached the horses from his carriage and
drew him along in triumph ”
You talk of fame and glory—pish !
See how the great Parkes passes
“ In triumph”—like the son of Kish—
“Behind his herd of asses.”
* # *
In addressing the Melbourne Y.M.C.A.
Dr. Goe, who is becoming funnier than any
funeral, urged the young men and women to
follow virtuous and holy lives, such as that of
Lord Cairns, who rose every morning at i o’clock
and held communion with God till 6 o’clock before
entering on his legal studies. This dispels our
impression that Lord Gumboil always remained
up till 4 a.m.—at which hour he returned to the
ancestral halls from the Savoy Theatre via the
Gaiery bar and Scot t’s oyster-saloon and Romano’s
restaurant and the Cafb Monico and the Ship
Hotel, and so on. But seriously, when the in-
genuous Goe tells us that old Cairns “ arose every
morning and held communion with God till
(I o’clock before entering on his legal studies,” he
merely tells us that Cairns condescendingly gave
the Deity two hours’ start of the Devil. The good
Bishop, however, does not tell us how it was
that the Almighty was able to spare two hours
every morning to listen to the orisons of a lawyer.
* * *
Mr. Forbes-Leith, late President of the
Victorian Field Naturalists’ Club—a body of mild
enthusiasts who go into raptures over the dis-
covery of a rare specimen of potato-bug, and weep
upon each others’ necks when one of their number
triumphantly produces anew variety of worm —
has returned from Europe with a Roman lamp
2000 years old which he bought at Malta regard-
less of expense. It gives a light about half as
good as that of a shepherd’s slush-lamp. But then
look at its associations. Horace may have written
his satires by its feeble glow, or Catiline initiated
his friends into the details of his dark conspiracy.
What is far more likely, however, is that some
beady-eyed Maltese living in a cellar manufac-
tured it to beguile the unwary stranger, and that
it was first lit with a tandstickor match struck on
a pair of London-made breeches.
* * *
The Hawthorn (Melb.) Inspector of Nuis-
ances is a man of erudition who occasionally
drops into Latin. At such moments the local
Council find it very trying. They didn’t lam no
Latin when they was boys, bless your ’art, but
just had a good plain Henglish heducation which
henabled them to do sums as ain’t too differcult.
An’ when it comes to munney, carn’t they buy up
a dozen of them fine scholards as puts on such
hairs 1 In course they can. But we must re-
sume. Well, last week the inspector put in his
written report about an absent-minded cow which
wandered within the sacred precincts of a rate-
payer’s garden. The inspector stated that he
was duly summoned to the scene of trouble, but
when he arrived ‘the cow was non est." At this
stage of his narrative tbe classical inspector was
interrupted by a good plain Hinglish councillor,
who wanted to know where the cow was. “ Non
est,” whispered another borough magnate, who
had a dim remembrance of seeing the expression
in some book. “ And where was that ?” thundered
plain Hinglish. They put the good man right by
explaining that non est is furrin for “gooe away,”
and the cow case was eventually disposed of.
But the inspector is despised by the Council from
this day for’ard. There's too much of the
scholard about him.
* •
There has been a lot written about Adam
Lindsay Gordon in one way or another lately.
The latest contribution to the literature already
a-cumulated,concerning him appeared in the Mel-
bourne Herald tbe other day. Here it is
“ The poet’s legs were so long that when astride
some of the colts he could cross them underneath
the animal.” Tais is one reason, we suppose,
why he had such a good grip on Pegasus. But all
this praise of, and interest in, a man long after
his body has dissolved into gases with hard names
strikes us as being rather late in the evening.
Why not have warmed him with them while he
was alive ? He, at any rate, would not have
wanted to borrow money from his admirers. Tf e
poet seems to be like the prophet. He is never
thought much of in his own country—or his own
generation, for that matter. A rhyme—
Four hundred and eighty stray dogs —col-
lected in the streets of Melbourne during the last
six months—were drowned by the police the other
day. Stray men generally save the police that
: roub’e. On the whole, it is better to be a stray
dog, in Melbourne, than a stray man. The dog is
seldom, if ever, accused of being a burglar
because he ha 3 to walk about at night, not having
a place to sleen iD, and rarely gees about wanting
fo sell his soul (dogs have soulp, or else there is no
future for a lot of people we know) for a pint of
beer. All this happens to a man. Therefore we
say it is better to be a stray deg than a stray man
Even The Bulletin’s reliable penny
come is not equal to the occasion at times, On
the banks of the Murray, in the extreme north-
west corner of Victoria, a blackfellow was lately
buried, and above him was placed a monument
consisting of his tent and blankets, and a quantity
of logs, all bound together with a flsbibg-net. The
other day, however, two men, who were white
outside and Chinese within, knocked this tomb to
pieces and “ raised the wind “ by selling the dead
nigger’s tent to a wood-cutter. One of them re-
marked, “ Wot a lark 1” and the oth°r said, “Wot
dee 3 a hahoriginal want with a tombstone ?” The
man who would turn a deceased native's monu-
ment into beer must have been born in a vat.
A little excitement took place recently in
a Queensland back-blocks township. The local
paper mildly describes it as a disturbance, but
one of the parties concerned, who ran a mile in
3 minutes 30 seconds and wished he had died
young, says it was a mixture of nightmare, Sheol,
blue fire, and blood. A mounted drover began
the trouble ; his hair was standing up with drink,
and he ashed a policeman if he thought the
country paid him or any other lantern-jawed
death’s head, all legs, and eyes and meat pies, to
stand scratching his back against a lamp-post. He
also asked him if he wouldn’t like to go down
town and whack a widow or an infant to keep his
hand in, and the officer, feeling that his reputation
for courage was at stake, said, “ What ’re ye
givin us?” Then the drover said
and galloped at the policeman, adding that he
would knock him into hashed ass, and the con-
stable cast one wild backward glanca at his aged
mother and his married sister, who lived in the
second house i;ound the corner, and his home,
MORE ADULTERATION.
YOUNG WIFE (the man has called to look at the meter) : “DEAR ME! WELL I WOULDN’T
HAVE BELIEVED IT! ACTUALLY WATERING THE GAS NOW!”.
which he never expected to see again, and the dog,
and the steak and onions which his wife was pre-
paring for supper, and uttering a piercing yell he
skipped for sweet security down 1 the street.
The drover followed him, using reprehensible
language, and forced him to dodge from side to
side to avoid being run over; another officer loomed
ahead, but seing what was going on he also fled ; a
publican ran betiind the caravan, throwing broken
bottles at the,, drover ; the minister’s dog-got in
front, and had all his libs stove in before he knew
where he was ; and then at last the hunted
policeman found refuge under a corner verandah
and told hi-, enemy he would run him <in. ihe
drover got off, and, reaching under, hit him in
the ear ; the other policeman bit the drover in
the back while he wa3 doing it and ran away ;
and then the victor got on his horse, and wi h a
wild “ hurroosh” went off at a gallop. Half-an-
hour later he returned, apologised, and shook
hands with the two officers, who hung on to him,
and tried to handcuff him, whereupon he hit them
both in' the face with his hat and again de-
parted. About 7 o'clock that evening, however,
he appeared for the third time, and said he had
c me to surrender and the constabulary pair,
aided by two trends, made another effort to
tie him up. At first he was content with ti ling
them 10 stop it, but when they still persisted he
raked their legs from under them with his foot,
and had some supper and allowed himself to be
locked in a cell. It is understood that at his
trial the first policeman, if his ear is sufficiently
recovered, will testify that he fought with the
prisoner for three hours, and ultimately succeeded
in wrenching from him two revolvers and a spiked
club, after which he took him “ into cushtody,
yer Honner,” in spite of his struggles.
How should the sculptor carve the form of Fame,
Who wrests great memories from the engulfing’
years,
And saves the poet's, and the patriot's, name
From the all-swallowing Gloom ?
Sitting upon a tomb,
Blowing a trumpet into dead men’s ears.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sutton, thirsting for Beerthirst’s money,
means to follow him to Coventry.
Armidale wants to be stamped out. Lady
Brassey parsed through there unnoticed.
We have discovered the secret of Nihilism
at last, The Czar plays on the cornet.
Over 3000 Yellowskins arrived in N S W.
from Leper Land during the half year ended
June 30.
Townsville (Q.) people call their Mayor
“ Right Worshipful.” Mayor Riley isn’t such a
big bug after all.
“ Dagonet ” says that Albert Edward is
a prey to dyspepsia of a sort that sends him to
sleep without notice.
Sarah Bernhardt, on being askel by an
admirer the meaning of “ comme il faut,” replied,
‘' Ze propair capair."
Boyd D. Moreheal, M.L. A., is the new
leader of the Opposition. More head is required
to cope with Sir Psalmyell.
Melbourne Argus calls Phil Robinson the
London Ma-k Twain. We agree to this if the
Argus allows us to call it the Melbourne Times.
An ex-Minister of the New South Wales
Parliament is now a gatekeeper on the Northern
railway, Victoria. 119 is evidenly on the down-
line.
Rev. R. K. Ewing, Anglican minister at
Inverell, travels 4000 miles every year in fulfilling
his duties. He ought to be pretty near heaven by
this time.
The London correspondent of : the Mel-
bourne Argus says that the late Earl of Win-
chilsea (Finch-Hatton) “ was a poet, scholar, and
reprobate.”
A country journal says that Sir Patrick
Jennings made “ a great hit ” at the London ban-
quets. The hit is understood to have been ch'efly
directed at tl}? catering.
Captain Daniell, R.A., the new command-
ant of the Victorian Permanent Artillery is only
30 years of age. Hp entered the army at 19, and
saw service in Afghanistan.
The true reason why Governor Wobinson,
of S.A., refused the Queen’s Bounty to a woman
who had given birth to triplet a is that H.E. is a
sworn enemy of extravagance.
The Australasian is our authority for the
statement that after the great trial young Tich-
borne was branded “H'T ” so as to present m’s-
takes in future. Branded on the near shoulder,
we presume.
The first wife of the notorious Mr. Lang-
worthy was the sister of the Earl of Limerick
(and of the CP S. at Forbes, N.5.W.)., The,
second Mrs. Langworthy is a niece of Mr. Pasley,
also of Forbes.
That popular Sydney medico, Dr. C. K,
Mackellir, writes our London correspondent, is
at present studying at the London Throat and Ear
Hospital and purposes going on to Vienna soon
with the same view.
It is necessary to inform the Clarence
Ex ami sew that Hon. B. R. Wise, th 9 N.S W.
Attorney-General, is not married to a niece of Sir
Wiiliam Manning. Mr. Wise is himself the
nephew of Sir William.
The Melbourne correspondent of the S.M-
Herald expresses surprise at Dr. Marmaduke
itoee, M L A., havißg ever been on terms ot
closest intimacy with a man in the social position
of Weeding, the baker.
The father of Dr. Camidge, the new
Bishop of Bathurst, N.S. W., was Vicar of Wake-
field. For this reason we hope his lordship will
not take trips to Europe per saloon of P. and 0.
oftener than twice a year.
The Presbyterian (Sydney) says : “ The
Chief Justice of Victoria has again let himself
loose like the proverbial animal who once got
into a china shop.” We stated last week tha
Mr. Higinbotham was born in a china shop.
Justice Dods, of Tasmania, has come back
from the Conference in a condition of Imperial
hysteria. Tne Carlton Club, the Queen in her
Royal Majesty, the banquets, -and all the re3t of
the Tory tricks have fairly taken in and done for
Dod*.
John Willis Smith, who has been practis
ingin Sydney as a “herbal physician,” and has
been committed for trial for the alleged murder
of the girl Cissy Bradshaw, is understood to have
been formerly well known in Victorian banking
circles.
Deakin, when in America, went to a
Mexican bull-fight. He tells a yarn about a bull
“with brains” who didn’t try to gore the horses
because he knew they didn’t want to harm him,
but went for the men, and landed one of them so-
high that it was thought he was never going to
come down.
A well-educated man, who once was a clerk
in the N.S.W. Treasury, was brought up at
Bathurst the other day charged with vagrancy a
“ Do not send me to gaol,” he pleaded ; “ when
last I was.there, my reason was torn up by the
roots and judgment jostled from her throne.” He
was sent up for six months.
One of the reverend chaplains to the*
Queen has been doing the Barabbas business by
publishing one of Dr. Talmage’s sermons over his*
own signature. The good man had no better
I excise to plead than “inadvertence.” It was
iust a ca3e of religious kleptomania, and much*
: sympathy is expressed for the Queen's chaplain.
The Melbourne Argus says that Spoight*
the Victorian Railway Commissioner, “ looks like
a man tinted with coffee,” but that “ both his>
associates [Greene and Ford]: have warmer hues.’
Wrong again ! Anyone who knew Dick Ford at
Ballarat 20 years ago, and has watched his career *
since, know that if he has one weakness in lif e—
it’s coffee !
Henry George usually performs his edi-
torial work in the morning, and is nearly always ■
absent from his office in the afternoon. The men -
at the Standard, office use a classical lingo.
When one of them asks another, “Is hla giblets*
in?” he is understood to mean Henry George;:
but if he inquires for “ His jags,” Dr. M‘Glynn is
referred to.
David Buchanan has just been pleading ;
: the case of J.osiah Cramp, at Bathurst In the
springtime of his youth, 21 years ago, Josiah
annexed a flock of sheep and then went on the
wallaby. Justice gripped him in the long run, bub
the jury recommended him to mercy, and David’s ■
advocacy has helped to soften down his sentence '
to six months.
Parkes was not, as stated, the designer'
of the plans connected with the N.S.W. Centen-
nial Park and Great Dead Meat House scheme.
The affair originated in the brain of that ex- •
perienced showman, Mr. Franklin, C.E., who
with his own hand drew the original plans, and is
now furious at. their having been coolly copied!
and signed with, the name of Enry.
Bishop Barry now explains in ■ re his l
alleged reflections, on the morality of NS. W.
Firstly, he says, he didn’t know there were re- •
porters present (inference : he wasn’t over-cau-
tious in what he said) ; and, secondly, he was l
misreported. Misreporlir.g is indeed the most
gigantic evil of the age. Beside its evil effects, ■
those of larrikinism, drunkenness, and sensuality, •
are a mere circumstance.
The other day Mr. John &mith, the Vic-
torian Crown Prosecutor, was in an ejectment l
case in the Melbourne Banco, Court. Jack wa3 ■
for the ejectee, Dr. Madden for the ejector.
While J.S. was vehemently arguing why his client
shouldn’t go oujb, a telegraph-boy put a telegram 1
| into his hand. Jack glanced at the message and 1
then mentioned to the Court that he had no more ’
to say. H;u3 client had gone out,. In point of fact
he had died an hour before.
I I Charles Summers, the Victorian sculptor '
who executed the Burke and Wills monument for
i Melbourne, and died at Rome, is buried in the
;Eternal City with simply fiis name—two words
inscribed upon his tomb. The bronze statues of '
the explorers, opppsite ; Parliament Houses, Mel-
bourne, and the grand colossal' marble statue of
: the “Gqardiap Angel” over the tomb of
;f‘Mickey” Dawson (Town Clerk Fitzgibbon’s '
, father-in-law), are, hp.wever, enduring monuments 1
pf Sumpie:s, in the- Victorian capital. Charles
Summers was brother of ■ Mr. Joseph Summers, ■
the well-known musician.
Dr. M‘Crea, ofi Melbourne,, who half his '•
life-time has been. Government medical officer of
Victoria apd doctor to>-the Melbourne Gaol, has ‘
been on a visit to Sydney., The doctor also pos-
sesses the qualification of being physician in-
ordinary to ex-Justice Sir- Robert Molesworth. •
Of late I)r« Map haa been, largely employed by the
; Government to examine and report upon persons
; reeking compensation for injuries received in rail-
way accidents, and his experience in the Mel-
bourne Gapl has, stood him in, such good stead
: that his evidence in, court in cases of the kind has
given us a very poor opinion of human nature.
Her Graeious is stated to have wept when ’•
’Duke Louis of He3se kissed her hand, after the
Jfibfiee mockery business at Westminstar This
impecunious sponger’s only claim to distinction i)
that he married the sweetest and brightest of all
Ithe Queen’s daughters (the late Princess Alice),
who pined under the o fid Bhadow of his neglect
till she,found a happy deliverance in “ the kiss of
death.” Her life was a constant straggle with '
sordid poverty—in fact. on one occasion she had
to,borrow money from her mother to pay the cost
of h9r confinement. Everybody wondered where '
the money went to which Parliament had vote!
her. But after her dea'h, when her husband's re-
lations with the woman De Kalomine were '
divulged the mystery was made plain. If the
Queen shed tears over this man, they must have '
been either tears of remorse or those of the
crocodile.
Herr Knpp, the great eauuon-tounder of
Essen, is dead. Krnpp largely assisted to build '■
up the German Empire, and, did more to provide 1
humanity with a swift and easy means of escape 1!
from all their troub'es than any man that ever
lived. The widowed and the childless of France '
and Austria don’t bless his memory, for thousands
of thei 1 * husbands and sons survived an attack of
the croup in infancy only to succumb to the
disease in after years. "D ed of the Krupp"
might be carved on many a soldier’s tombstone.
Ah well! the scientific destroyer is in his own
sh'll at last. May he rise again and perfect a gun 1
of sufficient range to kill the Devil!
Herr Krupp was a wonderful man,
Quite one of the century’s features;
His aim it was weapons to plan
For slaughtering innocent creatures.
Herr Krupp he was terribly smart,
Most certainly older than seven—
But we do think his cannons nf art
Were opposed to the canons of Heaven.


POLITICAL
POINTS
The Queensland Minister of Mines has
been chosen to receive deputations. He i 3 very
deaf.
The S.M. Herald is the only Australian
daily which does not opsnly approve of Irish Home
Rule.
When a N. S.W. Free-trade editor now
swears a big big D, he is understood to refer to
Dibbs.
Sir Samuel Griffith has informed Bung
Hi and Co. that Queensland wants no more
Mongols.
Salisbury says that Freetrade is con-
demned by all the world except England. So is
Coercion.
Michael Davitt presented medals to the
women who fought against the bailiffs at Bodyke.
Evictoria honours.
Parkes infers that no man has a right to
change his opinion after he is GO. No ! Not on
the tariff-question ?
Jack Gardiner, M.L. A., of Victoria, says
he doesn’t object, as is were, to “sugar bounties”
to members of Parliament, ilke.
Every Australian buys 23 times more
goods of England than a German or Frenchman.
This is mighty consoling—to England.
Sir Charles Dilke says Australians are
likely to drive the French out of the South Pacific,
just as America drove them out of Mexico.
“ What shall we do with the boys and
girls of N.S.W. ?” Why, send them to look for
work in the countries that receive our money.
Lord Rosebery urges the Imperial Federa-
tion League to greater exertions. Hear, hear,
Rosebery 1 Let them exert themselves and burst.
A Conservative Melbourne journal calls
“ Baron ” Norton a Socialist. Norton doesn’t
mind, so long as nobody calls him a toady or a
K.C.M.G.
Sir Patrick Jennings says the colonies are
in favour of Home Rule on “ Imperial ” grounds.
Sir Pat. should be elevated to the peerage on Im-
perial grounds.
Parkes told the people of Orange that
N.S.W. need not covet its neighbour’s donkey.
Of course not. N.S-W. is well stocked with
Free-traders.
Dr. Rose, M.L.A., of Victoria, won’t
resign his seat over the Weeding affair. He says
“If I were guilty I would resign, but as I am
ianocent —never. ”
Two Honolulu Government Ministers have
been arrested for embezzlement. This couldn’t
h <ppen in Australia, We have here written an
item that warns thinking over.
The financial statement of the N.S.W.
Freetrade Association contains an item of £l5O
for assistance to Freetrade candidates. The par-
ticulars of the “ forties ” are not given.
The Spalding election was the first in
England in whicn the police exercised the fran-
chise. The return of a Gladstonian shows that the
bobby is on the side of real law and order.
Sir Charles Dilke says that England is,
of all nations, the one that is the most prepared
fif war, while she is also the leait popular, and if
attacked singly, no hand would be raised in her
defence.”
Caulfield, the Boy Politician, met Mud-J.
Haynes at Lithgow and carried Protectionist
amendments against John to the rate of a meet-
lug against three dissentients, one of whom was
John himself.
Mud. J. Haynes declares that the N.S. W.
Mines’ department is no longer an institution of men
busy enriching themselves at the public expanse
Now, we want some other memoer’sopinion on
the N.S. W. PaiLament.
One of the best arguments in favour of a
Republican government is the refusal of General
B julanger to be tempted by the French Royalists.
Sucu a thing never happens to a colonial states-
man, at least we never hear of it.
Perhaps the N.S. W. stamping-out ring are
not aware that an art gallery is a “disorderly
house” within the meaning of 21st of George 111.,
the fossil enactment they dug up and closed the
Sydney theatres with the other day.
Sir Anthony Musgrave said the other day
that he “ didn’t think much of the mining in-
dustry, which never made a country.” And no w
o'mes word from the new goldfla d, Croydou, that
6JOO men are on the spot and that 1500 claims aie
getting gold.
An ultra loyalist pager at Bega, speaking
of the Sydney Republicans, says “ Short shrift
and a speedy end would bs their reward in any
Other country hut that over which Victoria rules.’
Tue writer is evidently graduating for a shake-
hinds with the Chief Justice.
It is now explained that the N.S.W. mem-
bers who arose and walked out of the Victorian
Parliamentary gallery while Gaunson was abusing
Windeyer didn’t leave because they specially re-
spected the smiling Judge. They left out of sheer
envy of Gaunson’s slanging powers.
A bill for the protection of game is under
the consideration of the Indian vice regal council.
Tnousands of unarmed peasants are annually
killed by wild beasts, yet the preservation of game
is considered much more important in order to
provide sport for the milingtary rulerd of India.
The Age, speaking of the Argus, says :
‘An unbroken series of precedents demo ns t,rat- s
that no cause to which that pap, r gives its <>pp si-
tion ever fails to succeed.” It might have added
tdat everything which the Argus supports is
eventually blown down by the honest breath of
po.ular opinion.
The Irish are keen lawyers. Their benevo-
lent rulers having given them a brand-new Coer-
cion Act, they have ungratefully gone and killed
its chief clause by turning the National League
into a trades’ union. The Tories have got to do
their work over again and make an act to stamp
out trades’ unionism.
Mr. Nimmo, Victorian Minister of Public
Works, mildly suggests a means of relief for the
decrepit and unfortunate. He advocates the
Scotch system of a tax cn heritors and landowners
which enables any homeless wr«toh to demand
“ proper assistance and relief from his Dative
parisn. Bravo. Nimmo! The cotd water he
swears by hasn’t chilled his heart or muddied his
faculties.
Of the ■personnel of tho Victorian Ministry.
Gillies looks cool and juicy ; Deakin seems to be
on wires: Dow puzzled and awfully busy; Dur-
ham looks just out of a band brnc ; Wrixou, re-
served, amiable, and full'of “possibility of com-
pliance.” Any artist wno wants to catch the ex-
pression of absolute negitiveness had better watch
the faces of a deputation whichhadjust “ thanked
him and withdrawn.”
’Utable ’Enery, Champion Egotist, after
jerking out 1713 “ Is " in his Molong speech,
modestly concluded: “If the Government be
spared we shall endeavour to direct the policy of
rhe country in the guidi> g light, and to the great
ends/h we indicated to you this evening.” We
are much obliged to Henry for this remote hint
that there are one or two other people besides
himself in the N.S. W. Ministry.
“Why do the authorities allow our Chinese
quarter to remain in the condition in which it is
admitted to be?” asks the Melbourne Hrrald.
Well, we guess it’s because the lands and tene-
ments built thereon are owned by sundry of the
BROWN BELIEVES IN PHRENOLOGY. JONES DOESN’T.
aforesaid authorities. No paper in Melbourne
has the pluck to publish a list of the bigwigs who
are primarily responsible for the existence of a
plague spot in the heart of th 9 city.'
The Russian bear has invaded Victoria
The animal was brought over by a couple of
Frenchmen, who honed to make a living ou
of showing the animal; but they quarrelled an
left the bear in a stable, which brain converted
ini-o a stronghold, defj iog the Chief Commissions
of Police and all the Force The latest repor;
from the th-atre of hostilities is that the sam
piece of ordnance used against the Kelly Gang i
being brought into play against the Muscovite in
vader.
The petty German “ Royalties ” at the
English Court are “ displeased” because the
dusky Queen of the Sandwich Islands has been
recognised by her Gracious as a sister Sovereign
Hence this thusness. She no w “ tak«s prece
dence ” of the petty Serene Transparencies o
Lagers will von Hamme-bung, Schwillensau'en-
schewedischturaipstein, Rutterbrod von Sohnapp
sling, and the rest. If rhe English tsxoavers
were asked their opinion they would say, ‘ Gjqc
job, too. She doesn’t cost us anyihiog.”
The English Admiralty officials take the
cake for stupidity. Several war -hips were fitting
at Newcastle on Tyne, and hundreds of tons of
coal were dragged by train from Cardiff to New-
castle to fill their bunkers ! Another man o’-war
was fitting in the Forth of Clyde, within sight, of
a steam colliery, and the inspired idiots at White-
hall actually sent coal from Cardiff to put on
board her. Thus we see that even our heaven
born administrators can learn a bit about “how
not to do it” from the old folks at home
The London Daily News has boldly de-
clared that, by the proclamation of nearly all
Ireland under the Crimes Act, a gross ou rage has
been committed on that conntry. Comm-mtifg
on this, the Argus says : “ The above express! n
of opinion by the Daily News possesses no sig
nifteance, as that paper is an orgau of the Glad-
stone-Parnell party. 1 What cool impudence!
When the Argus correspondent cables over half
a column of lies from the Times, the public is
never warned that the landowners' organ is
merely perjuring itself in tae interests of the
Salisbury-Hartington clique.
Exports from the U.S. during the first
three months of this year increased by £5,600,000,
and the imports by £1,934 000. In England. a 3
compared with the same period in 1886, during the
first four mouths the exports increase 1 by only
£1,952 949, and the imports by £10,622,472, In
April the imports to Great Britain show an in-
crease of £5.083,171, while the exports decreased
slightly a 3 compared with the previous year. If
Great Britain continues to go to the bad like this,
she will have to send for Pulsford to prove that
Freetrade is a gladsome and a glorious policy.
The other day there was a vacancy in a
N.S.W. gouthern Police magistracy, and one of
the most capable officers in the colony with an
unblemished rec od and 47 years’ experience was
aoooir.ted to fill it. A few months previously he
had been removed from a former appo ntment
where he had with his family made an effort at
settling down for the remaind; if his life. No
sooner, however, had he been installed in his last
office than he was again removed to make way
for a favourite of the department, a much younger
man with an official existence of only 14 years.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A 23s£» -]§r. S.,W. aboriginal widow is be in**
exhibited in Melbourne.
A woman has just willed her estate to her
husband on condition that he does not re-marry.
A Waterfall (NS. W.) woman has been
toed S3O for sly-grog-selling. Women never can
keep a secret.
From Melbourne Akgus : “ Young Syd-
ney lady (widow) desires engagement as°house-
keeper. Address, See ”
Seventy thousand pianos are exported
from Germany every year. They are all bought
for Sidney hash-foundries.
A N.S.W. country journal calls the
Queen’s fund for distressed woman a fund for
“ fallen ” women. How unfortunate 1
Mrs. Pike, of Wangaratta (Vic.), is
another victim of the bottle. A “lady Mend”
applied it externally to her head, and beamed her.
Fashion item. Slight ladies who wear
air-inflated dresses should never allow a gentle-
man to pin on flowers. The air is liable to escape
At an afternoon tea.—Mrs. Smith : ‘'Good
afternoon, Mr. Robinson; excuse my left hand.”
Mr. R (who is deaf, and thinks she is alluding to
the bad weather) : “ Yes, it is rather dirty 1”
An old lady at Mangere, N.Z., wore the
same silk dress on Jubilee day that she sported at
the Queen’s coronatioo, and alleges that it is 150
years old The neighbours are preparing for
ear; hquakes.
The Legislature of Indiana has enacted
that when the seducer of a woman is slain by her
father, her husband, or her brother, the homicide
shall be a misdemeanour only, punishable by fine
without imprisonment.
“ Then, sir, I have your consent to pay
my addresses to your daughter. Ah if I only
thought I could win her affection !” Eager
Fa her: “ Why not, my dear sir; why not?
Henty of others have succeeded.’
A woman wrote to Queen Victoria the
other day asking her to send the combings of her
hair, and she (the woman) would tie them up in
lofe twists and sell thnm for untold wealtn at a
bazaar. But Her Gracious wouldn t.
Lady (to applicant) : “ Vi hat wages will
sou expect as nurse?” Applicant: “ How owld is
the bab-y, mum?’ Lady: “Seven months”
Aoplicmt : “ Without laudanum mum, seven
shillings a week ; wiih laudanum, three-and-six
There will be very little drunkenness at
elections when Par*es gives N.S.W. women the
f.anchise. ! he husband will vote first, and th- n
g) home and mind rhe baby, while his wife is
neutralising his recorded opinion at the pollicg-
bjoth. fa
Glynn, M.L.A., of S.A., contends that
it is certainly the right of woman that all arti-
ficial obstacles to her development should be
gradually removed.” Mr. Glynn evident y never
sold a No. 2 pair of shoes to a lovely creature
with a No. 7 foot.
“I htar that Mr. and Mrs. have
separated.” “Yes; it’s a great pity.” “I think
she’s very foolish. I'm sure I don’t know a single
woman who knows him who does not think he’s a
most charming man.” “ Yes, dear. That’s why
they have separated.”
Hugh Abernethy shot his sweetheart in
G asgow (May 12). The bullet went through her
dress, but after perforating her corset it spent
itself, and was found between the whalebone and
her body. Now we know why certain gallant
Lanceahs wear corsets.
As she was taking a long railway journey
she wore carpet slippers. “ Why do you trample
on my feet in that manner?” she asked her
vis-a-vis. “Excuse me, madam ; I thought the
company had become liberal and spread a Brus-
sels over the compartment.”
James Davies shot himself dead the other
day at Kilmore, Yic. He selected his wife’s
grave a 3 the scene of the deed. Where is the
woman who would go and blow her brains out on
her husband’s grave while a emgle (or married)
man remained on this lovely sphere ?
A telegram in a New Zealand paper, refer-
ring to the Eight Hours’ Bill, stated that it was
proposed by Sir Robert Stout to irsert a clause
providing that in future barmaids should work
“in shifts.” If such a piece of tyranny as this be
perpetrated N.Z women will have just ground for
grievance.
People shouldn’t make their advertise-
ments too short. Look at this, for example, from
S.M Herald “ Wanted, Y. Pup. teacher,
accomp. for services.” Yet the advertiser would
® u !, p .f® ed approached on the subject by a
T- h a Btraw m hn mouth and a bull dog
under his arm. &
e o Sreat ® Ham, speaking of his pro-
to I mabJ nf’fh Morgue > Ba * B p e doesn’t want
W f * he plBce a gallery or museum,
T h6 £ u aVe Sr ° red up tbere “ everything
of ed , UPOn by the groan spirit
m„ tb ® 0 d ', hat a P lle of dead marines the old
man means to stack up !
Coroner You!, of Melbourne, apropos of
he frequency with which fires on insured pre-
mises are attributed to "the rats,” savs he has a
Cake u f °f e rats t 0 his own'house and
give them the job of lighting fires. “ I give a
girl paper, matches, and coal, ” says the cynical
coroner, ’ but she can never light a firtV’
A Dublin shoemaker was lately summoned
aw aSBa r o n LHm Wife ’f lady given t 0 gia and
ev, bbler got peace on his domestic
hearth for three consecutive hours by plugging the
miBsuss mouth with a big cork, tying her hands
hp , r back ’ ail(i her feot together, and flop-
ping her down face-foremost on the nuptial couch.
There is a movement to abolish the side-
saddle. It seems that the dear ereature who sits
!?nrt gee geS !? orre< r Lly 18 nothing less than a human
WlthvTo f h« th 9 t , ime bcing ’ and a 3 it . isn’t
doal o tby 13 be a . corkscrew, benevolent London
physicians are agitating for equestriennes to ride
we mean fhe other way-in loose trousers,
like Mexicans. Another injustice to the ballet!
Waiting for his fiancee. Young man to
sexton,, at church door : “ Isn’t the sermon nearly
done ? Sexton : About an hour yet. lie is
only on his ‘Lastly.’” Young Man: “Will it
taue him an hour to get through his ‘Lastly?”’
Sex on : No ; but there’s the ‘One word more
and I am done,’ and the ‘ Finally,’ and the ‘ Jn
oonclusi >n ’to oome yet. Don’t get impatient,
young man I ” ’
“Hubby, dear, I can’t wait to tell you
what I’m going to buy you for your birthday.”
Darling wife, what is it?” “Well, dear. I’m
going to get you a silver card tray and a bronzs
Hercules for the mantel, and a lovely Russian
wn 6 *- rUg t 0 ay m flont of dressing case.
What are you going to got for mo, Toot-v ?”
I ve been thinking, Jane, and I have just decided
to get you a new shaving-brush.”
A lady writes in tho Pall Mall Gazette
that she wont one Sunday to hear a cultivated
and clever clergyman who was to preach in a
South Kensington church A ornate appeared
instead in the pulpit. He was all zeal, bad
English, and worse taste, and as a sample she
gives this phrase—“ Even you, my sisters,
though only women, may yet find some dwy to
perforin. On which she irreverently remarked :
Lvidently his mother had fai ed in hers.’
„ accomplished coiner Creed, alias
Dr. Bonnefin,” who swindled so Mel*
bourne people, has got part of his semence re-
milted for helping to quell a prison riot. The
genial “ doctor ” ran a private mint of his own at
Collmgwood Flat, and a female jeweller who gave
him credit says that when he represented himself
as a medical man she looked at his hands and saw
that they were small, soft, and white. Therefore
she trusted him. Alas for the man with a hand
like a ham 1 That s we.
The London police-magistrates have been
much worried of late by Tottie Smith. Tottie is
aged 19, and is a sparkling beauty, but she turns
up once a week among the drunks attired in a
bodice and striped petticoat, with a bustle tied
conspicuously outside. Also she has no boots or
stockings. She winks at the gaoler, and tells the
magistrate she would like to adopt him ; and oc-
casionally she appears carrying a pair of corsets
under her arm. When last heard of she said that
if she were only let off this time she woiud leave
the country, from which we presume some benevo-
lent society is going to export Tottie t" Australia.
And then next year we will find a bright specimen
of a bishop wailing because the colonists are ad-
dicted to drink. D’ye hear, Dr. Barry ?
Rev. John Husking, a Melbourne Metho-
dist parson, is growing downright hungry in the
service of the Loard. The flock has left off giving
John any salary, on the ground that be
refuses to support the doctrine of a material hell.
At latest dates the Rev. John— reduced to six
stone nothing, preaching weight—was sending
round the colßcUon-plate in behalf of his own
Sunday dinner’s fund. Poor preacher he repre-
sented to his flock that ‘ if a man preached the
tfo-pel he had a right to be paid for it.” That’s
true. The itinerant organ-grinder has a right to
he paid something, even for hush-money, and it’s
rough if a parson must grind out his eloquence
and starve No matter John told them the
other unday That he was ready to die and go
anywhere—to hell itself—so long as he has his
Bible with him. The faithful fellow won’t pawn
his Bible —not to buy bread
Sh u!d woman-suffrage ever be granted
here, there is one man who will wish he had a
flour-mill tied round his neck and were buried in
the deep blue sea. That man is our “Answer to
Correspondents” artist. Already one fair enthu-
siast has sent along enough pink paper for a
circus-poster, apd if we read her cockatoo fence
style of writing correctly, she wants us t o “ tell
her all about ‘ Protection,’ and ‘ Home Rule,’ and
the ‘Land Bid,’ and ‘ Payment of Members!’ and
what are the real duties of an Ad Val'rem.”
That’s about all she wants to hear of this trip, but
she cautions us to “ explain these subjects fully
and in language easily understood by a new be-
ginner of Political Economy.” Simply that and
nothing more! Why our fair friend omitted to
ask for the usual recipe for removing freckles
and a tasty way of dishing up cold mutton is a
greater mystery than the Bermagui trouble’ but
we are very certain that the men who advocate
woman-suffrage after this notice will never die in
their beds while we can wield a meat-axe and
get within cooey of them.
Parkes is developing his ideas on the com-
ing female elector. He is “sure that no woman
would even vote for a man who got drunk, or a
man who was unkind to children, or one who waß
cruel, or one who did not give his attention to
the treatment of destitute and orphan children.’
Quite so. No one need expect a vote from Si
Enry’s female reformer unless he wears a blue
ribbon, wheels the baby-carriage at leasG one hour
per day, is a member r,f the Society for Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals, and takes an absorb
mg interest in Lady Caring-on’s Queen’s Fund
Sir Enry’s emphasises the fact that the lady voter
should go to the ballot-box just in the “ same way
as she went to the market to purchase, say a
pound of sausages.” vVe were not aware that
anybody contemplated her going to the ballot-box
on roller-skates, or in the slight garb of a Papuan
princess. But Parkes is a poet, and we must let
him down gently—as usual.


Oh Lord of Heaven .
Here is a small offering—a small pig for
breakfast, aud it would be a good thing if tiiy
royui master would be pleased 10 .tv sept this
And here 19 dometbing small which will be laid
before you. A few iu-cent pieces. do.oOOdol. a 9
your servant ha 9 rememberea aud sent it ; so
umy you be gracious and kind to me, aud ao
to those thiogb that your servant spoke to your
Majesty, bis master, aboot they will be faith,
fully carried out, because f am for ever vout
servant, and may the bones ot your servant
be constantly revived by bie high and roy*'
master. Ou the seventh day from thi9 dayl
* ll * agam bring to your hand -10,0001101
What I ask of yonr Majesty now is tbaC
you will give me the opium licence. I do
not think that my gift is larger than that
of nlauy other people Peabaps they have bee l #
b»dore your Majesty, perhaps not. I tonUtiot
that a small gift with love and affection is
large. f
And now if you will help me and I really gel
the license, then at the expiration of the fir*i
year t.oj-t f have it I will give your Majesty
IO.OOOdoI. eaclrye.ir until the expiration of the
t'rae, or perhaps ill the will be paid a',
oue time as may oe decided upon by* yom
Maiesty.—Your humble servaut, T. Atti
J JV* *. o/fe r'O $ % fife />
ey to Sec~T'?3 <?/>' icrr > fi ,ce O sc^.
(ous/ erii/ue/Ze. eS^t? c2 7*S/cej? <rZs.
7~At/ m 2S* O /j£li 7 fU* hmjm^°/ ,u y „ je
ASy.-fr.*, ' _ - MS fan#*?'™ *!><> 7 J"
#ll* 6«st-e/3 o/ c/ertfan aye? Aoy J>)os ' /"//*/ %e 9 /belays jfe ZW ?/ 'T eCt
r*Zu- 0 fye. tyy/>' 3 t a n o/'cfof&rj '_ //% -AA Z' euZp y*«ry6*f Q-!?*
JT J/be O A y°‘ jr <*e/Ta> S )/rsu See Aj tyere. "
r//fr -
Of //&asep £sc
e*?/>7y 6<* 3 Are As JscC* &yy
tdciy/
The Pig, the Palace, and the Perquisites;
OR, HOW TCP WORK THE ORACLE IN HONOLULU.


dghdh
ARE MEA^
-TH«r T3»SM<?P MET V*i7h
A K' ACci Ofy HiS Y<A/
H6fft AfO) CorVffEQi/Ern L/
ARRiftD iK-s/OKe/ ALL oven
crl c K | rrq piAS-TE R AKB SfUPF.
Lesr ThC RE rffoOLD /3*A#/
to tsurr oEß.vSVan'o ur<{ w£
HAS-ftr <0 exf-LAiK THA-r if
WAS or<\ r«i'fo/h£
Spc €{fECfOf’AtrsffrflLiA* ME*T,
B^^
\
°+
\
%
rs£ M»Kfc AK O t SWtA« to foO
I W»uu >»y/ M< yot
01 / Radian; <*\l
E,PI» KA'f'i orf
TCEapPeaRAKCE.
of AK old fAiroJfilfe
vviTh r \/i
Ut w topic At 1A
All ok op^e.at\
i
wcf poWlOufi
\Of Sfrf/UfK I
/Wjisfv !
“All on Account of the Meat.”
VIBE THE MAIDEN EFFUSION OF THE POET MAY.


Society
At dinner time one day last week, at
Sydney School of Arts, an assistant was placed at
the head of the stairs, and as people came up they
were asked to state their numbers on the sub-
scriber’s list. Those Without any tumbled down
stairs by the dozen. The bona-fide subscribers
grinned, and actually had a chance to read the
periodicals; The Secretary has not interfered in
this matter a moment too soon.
* * *
A Sydney clergyman inveighed the other
Sunday from the pulpit against the reading of
novels of the London Journal order. “ A young
married woman,” he said, “is not filled with
extra love for her poor devil of a husband, who
perchance has just come home from the Govern-
ment relief works, if she has been spending her
hours in the company of dukes, earls, and mar-
chionesses.”
* * *
At the bank at which Queen Victoria’s
private account is kept a strict rule prevails that
it shall only be open to the inspection of the clerks
immediately engaged in connection with it, and
the penalty imposed on any other employe who
may venture to view the ledger is instant dis-
missal. A young fellow who was appointed to a
position in the establishment, and who was sent
into a room where the ledger containing the debit
and credit account of her Majesty was kept, in-
fluenced by an unlucky curiosity, was induced to
open and view it. He was seen by a brother
clerk, who reported the incidents, and the re-
sult was that the unfortunate delinquent was
immediately cashiered, notwithstanding that
he pleaded that he was quite unaware of the con-
tents of the book when he had seen it.
* * *
Two members of the Queensland revenue
police entered the Clermont Club one evening re-
cently, placed an embargo on billiards, seized all
the liquor in the house, and familiarly addressed
the president of the club as “old covey.” The
local haw-haws are foaming at the mouth, and
northern clubdom gasps with indignation.
* * *
Alfred Bennett’s matrimonial advertise-
ments have a lot to contend with. , There are
130,000 more males than females in N.S.W.
* * *
The Mayor of Cooma succeeded in secur-
ing the attendance of five persons at his “ Queen’s
Fund” demonstration ; but as there was no
unanimity of opinion the affair collapsed. Is it
possible that Cooma is disloyal 1
* * *
In re the Bulli Fund distribution, Sydney
D.T. has an article headed “The Widows Satis-
fied.” What nonsense ! Who ever met a widow
who was satisfied ? Any widow who is satisfied
will please call at this office.
* * *
Fifty N.S.W. members of Parliament
have gone to Adelaide Exhibition by special train.
Before returning they will, it is rumoured, give
at one of the theatres, for the benefit of the
South Australian charities, a performance of the
well-known Parliamentary farce entitled “ You
are an Adjective Liar.”
N.Z. Seamen’s Union wants a tax on
foreign vessels engaged in coastal trade. But the
“ Sunbeam” has departed with a full cargo of half-
crowns.
* * *
Good luck seems to attend the name of
Hennessy. A Reverend father of light, James
Hennessy, has been presented 65 sovereigns on
leaving Gundagai for another vineyard, and the
congregation burst into sobs during the ceremony.
We can easily understand this—for who would not
sob on parting with James Hennessy ? It is but
fair, however, to his reverence to state that he
seems to have made his little purse out of the
anti-Cognac movement.
* * *
More bad news for the poor married man.
Saucepans are now being made with “fluted
handles.” This allows of a firm grip being taken
in case the handle is greasy.
* * *
In a western Queensland township, the
other day, the junior partner of a local firm rushed
into the editorial sanctum, and, seeing that the
great man was not in, looked up the only composi-
tor on the premises and told him that his senior
partner’s wife had just given birth to a “ big,
bouncing boy,” and not to forget to publish a
notice of the event. The informant was in a
hurry and had no time to write down the particu-
lars. The comp, was also in a hurry with his
work and a large quid of tobbacco, but neverthe-
less he promised to see to it. When the customer
had gone some time the comp, recollected that a
birth announcement had to be made; and having
been a little absent-minded he was puzzled which
of the partners should be credited with the baby.
Reasoning from the hurried appearance of his
visitor, he concluded the baby was born unto
the junior partner, to whom he therefore gave the
benefit of the doubt. When that junior partner
saw the birth announcement in his name he went
straight to the office with an eight-pound axe.
* # *
A powerful limelight was thrown on the
duties of a lady companion at North Shore
(Sydney) police court the other day. A young
lady (“of prepossessing appearance”) was sum-
moned for deserting her hired service. This
charming creature was engaged at £3O per annum
as a “lady companion,” and her duties consisted
(she found this out afterwards) of feeding, bath-
ing, and dressing the kids, making beds and
assisting in the kitchen, with the compensating
privilege of dining with the family and slttirig in
the “ droring-room ” any evening she got finished
in time, which must have been pretty seldom if
she performed her duties faithfully, She is now
thinking of hiring out as a general servant. No
more gentility for her.
* * *
One of the largest American tobacco-
manufacturers says that when a cigar-maker
desires to do his employer lastii g damage, he goes
to work on the Pest leaf, and puts a single hair
out of his head in each cigar. This trick is almost
impossible to detect, and yet it will destroy the
flavour of every c>gar it is applied to, and in
time irretrievably ruin the best b’-ands. The only
remedy is to employ none but bald-headed rollers.
At the banquet given to Sir Henry Parkes
at Parkes, the town of which he is godfather, a
rugged local maghste said—As a compliment, if
you please ! that Sir Henry and the town much
resembled each other, in that they “both had
risen from nothing.” Now we come to think over
the matter, there is yet another resemblance.
Neither of the pair is anything much to “blow ”
about, eVen now.
• « •
Sir Henry, by the tvay, got a great recep-
tion from the girls of Parkes. Wherever he goes,
he ingratiates himself with the women. The art-
ful old man ! No wonder he wants to give women
votes.
* * *
A military item. An Italian paper pro
poses that the canteen shall be located about
two miles from the barracks, so that “Tommy
Atkins ” may take more exercise. This is all
very well ; but how is Tommy to get back to bar-
racks ? We know our Lanceahs couldn’t do it.
* * *
Apropos of the refusal of the S.A.
authorities to give the Queen’s bounty for triplets,
it is remembered that when a little while ago a
Sandhurst (Vic ) woman increased the population
by three infants at once, Sir Henry Loch was
written to and answered that he did not see his
way to write to the Queen for the bounty, as he
believed, “ it did not apply to the colonies" Very
well —Australian women will know what to do in
future.
* * *
“The ancient Godiva procession at Cov-
entry has been revived this year.” So an English
paper says. There seems little sense in resurrect-
ing this relic of the past in these days. Why.
even if the principal actress in it were to model
her costume exactly on that of Lady Godiva she
would not be such a thundering draw as you
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
HE (in the hotel rending room) - “EXCUSE ME, MISS, BUT THAT’S MY PAPER YOU’VE GOT.”
SHE: “PARDON ME, SIR. HAD I KNOWN IT WAS YOURS I’D CERTAINLY NOT HAVE TOUCHED IT.”
might think -not to people who had been at a
Queen's Drawing Room, at any rate. The dark
ages are over long ago. There are no mysteries
left in these days. Peace to the ashes of ancient
modesty.
* * *
The London correspondent of Adelaide’s
champion daily groveller has been interviewing
Mr. Phil, Robinson, late editor of the Court and
Society Review, whom it makes to say :
1 Society papers, such as the Would and Truth, are both
of them dependent a great deal on the personalif.v of their
nronrietcrs. Should Lahourhere or Edmund Yates die the
value of either of these papers would fall immediately and
greatly The Court and Society Review has teen
started with the idea of giving people all the fashionable
news and good literature. ‘ Bootle s Bißy, Ouidi, Besant,
Rider Haggard, Robert Low, B C Stephenson, and <'fCir
Wilde are among its contributois, while Lady Cdlin ( amp-
bell writes all the ladies go*sip. The idea is to exclude from
the columns of the Review scandal or any matter that is
likely to distress any of its readers, and at the same time to
comnete with its older contemporaries in the fulness >nd
accuracy of its news. Ihe result has been shown by the
naDer giving the proprietor already a fufficient income. A
feature of the paper is the portraits of Australian ladies now
appearing in it, the original one having been th’t of Lady
Carington, which I am bringing out for presentation to her
ladyihip.”
Delicious! The italics are ours. What in
thunder does Mr. Phil. Robinson take us for?
In the words of the classics, what is he giving us ?
* * *
Recent N.S.W. official returns show that
there are 875 aboriginals still alive on the Clarence
River, 557 on the Richmond, 105 on the Tweed,
and 38 on the Brunswick. During the tempestu-
ous enthusiasm of our Jubilee shivoo each adult
of these was allowed Jib of tobacco, and this
hurst of extravagance was capped by a donation
of 31bs. of flour, lib, of sugar, ?>lb. of suet, s lb.
of raisins, and a few currants to enable them to
make their own plum-puddings! Shade of Soyer !
Fancy a black gin starring to mix a pudding As
it was the niggers ate the sugar, raiffns, and cur
rants raw, greased themselves all over with the
suet, and plastered the flour over the fat, in order
to make themselves “ cobborn miall ” (very fierce)
for the night’s corroboree.
ft- « *
A jilted young man at IDey’s Plain (Vic.),
drank himself to death to assuage his sorrows.
His girl was so overcome by remorse that she
killed herself with strychnine. The swain was a
fool and so was she. We are sorry for her death :
the poor little woman was too innocent and
artless to know, and to console herself by the re-
flection, that had he suicided decently with
strjchnine and left a note for the c'roDer saying
that some girl had jibed h’'m, scores and scores of
women would have gore about laying the flatter-
ing unci ion to their souls that one man at least
had died for the love of them When the time comes
for us to swallow five grains of the deadly alka-
loid and die we Will scribble on a piece of paper :
“I die for the sake of the woman whom I love,”
and then, after dissolving the drug, we will stir it
into a small bottle of bitter beer and drink the
draught, well knowing that when the news gels
into the papers a lot of those whom we have loved
will be too knowing to come round and tearfully
gaze for the last time upon our poor clay—they
will be frightened of met ting all the other girls.
And then a lot of the little simpletons who don’t
believe that we ever had any other girls—all
they will do will be to each complacently remark :
“flearme! Poor fellow, I never did think he
was quite right He was always a little strange
in his manner, but I did not anticipate he would
end himself—how dreadful ?—for my sake.” And
when the funeral goes by they will slyly lift up
one corner of the Venetian blind to see how many
cabs follow the hearse, and then they will burst
into tears for a moment, and go and sew that
lovely trimming on their new opera-cloak.
* * *
With commendable thoughtfulness, the
Australian Gaslight Company has furnished each
of its patrons with a highly moral circular contain-
ing enough excellent advice to make their heads
ache for a year. The first item on the list tells us
to “ turn on the meter-tap full for cooking,” and
the last contaius the solemn and' much-needed
warning, “ Do not grumble at the amount of your
gas-bills.” HaviDg unfortunately given our own
circular away in mistake for a £5 note to a blind
man round the corner, we have to trust to our
memory for the rest of the admirable hints given,
but we fancy the following fill the programme
correctly:—“Remember that the instrument can’t
lie. Never turn the meter off under any considera-
tion, as this is detrimental to dividends, and tak-
ing a mean advantage of a guileless company
whose directors lie awake half the night devising
plans for your own welfare and comfort. If your
meter leaks, let it leak, and be thankful you can
afford to keep a meter of any kind whatever. This
will save the plumbers’ hills, and make the Gas
Co. love you. Remember, that summer nights
are short, and those of winter long—but, owing
to a merciful dispensation of Providence, the gas*
meter keeps up to its top average all through.
Pay your gas-bills punctually, aid, if necessary,
two or three times over; remember the Lord
loveth a cheerful giver, and bin dab qui cito dat —
he gives twice who pays double. Never speak
disrespectfully of the Gas Co., for it burns to
you, and to lighten your darkness —and
pockets also. Keep your lamps trimmed and
your gas turned full on night and day. Remember
the parable of the foolish virgins who cur off their
gas, and when the bridegroom came they were
booted out, like dead rats, from the festive board
because they didn't know enough to keep them-
selves warm. Lastly) burn all the gas you can,
and pay for as much more, if possible, and when
the collector calls look upon him as an angel of
sweetness and light. P.S. —This is a goak.
* * *
A woman —we beg her pardon, a lady—
who was giving evidence in a Melbourne Court
the other day, said that “ her brother was a
gentleman now, but he had once been a cab-
driver.” Til’s is a new way of putting the case ;
it used to be the reverse at one time. But it is
mighty rough on the Jehus, and reminds us some-
who t of ’Appy 'Arry, at the Harmy meetings,
rising up, slapping his chest, and exclaiming
proudly * “I was a misrabul wonst. I used to be
drunk as a pig all the time. And look at me
now! ”
• * *
The obituary ghoul of the Age has struck
a new form of memorial verse. It begins :
“ A sudden change all in a moment fell,
He had not time to bid his friends farewell.”
This is a pretty good b°ginning, but the remain-
ing lines tail off very feebly. Now, this would be
rather vigorous and picturesque, and, in a good
many cases, appropriate S
A sudden change all in a moment fell,
He had not time to bid his friends farewell—
Alas! there are no telephones in—the—ah—
New Jerusalem.
* * *
Mr. Benjamin Champion died in Mel-
bourne lately, leaving a trifle of £22.480, made
mostly out of selling half pint” of beer in pewters,
! At one time his hotel was the trystingplace of
the Bohemians of the Press. They used to meet
in a little dark room, filled with an atmosphere of
tobacco smoke, strong enough to cure a whale,
and with a smell darkly suggestive of old boots.
Here they played a succession of vanishing tricks
wi r h half-pints, swapped lies, made jokes that
caused the unliterary listener to gnash his teeth
with anguish, and formulated glittering schemes
that were to make the fortunes of all of them,
but which, sad to say, locked pallid and phantas-
mal when not viewed through the irridescent
medium of half-and-half. There came a change
when Champion knocked the partition walls of
the little room down ar d ran a Dew bar through
it. The Bohemians, Ike a brood of bats dis-
turbed by the sudden entrance of daylight into
their den, flittered aimlessly about once or twice
afterwards, and then deserted the place to return
no more. But that didn’t trouble the deceased
Champion much. He wanted to see less talking
and more drinking. And now (beautiful and con-
soling thought!) hb is in heaven. The hands that
were once cexteroua on the handle Of the beer-
engine are now sweeping gaily over the strings of
the harp.
* « #
A Melbourne lodging-house keeper adver-
tises : “ Verandah room, suit married friends.”
Where in thunder does the woman expect to find
them ? But—um—yes—perhaps she may—if they
are each married to somebody else.
* * *
They are saying up north just now that
when two officials fall in love with one Jewish
lady affairs get considerably mixed.
* * *
We have sorrowful tidings for the ladies.
Phil Robinson—the gallant, warlike Phil—has
been (vide S.M.H.) “suddenly recalled to Lon-
don.” He will find time, However, for two lec-
tures in Sydney on Thursday and Friday (4th and
sth ofAugust),and then he wi 11 hie him t o Adelaide
which he leaves per mail steamer for the Big
Smoke. Phil’s fascinations being so far absolutely
nil to ourselves, we only weep with one eye over
the curtailment of his visit.
♦
Feeling a strong craving to behold Sydney
culchaw balancing on two pairs of wheels and
a sickly grin, we stowed ourselves into a hansom
and made for the Columbia Skating Rink lasb
Thursday night. When we got there a band was
complaining about something in the key of G
sharp and some people were falling down and
trying to look as if they liked it, on skates. Cer-
tainly rinking is the very poetry of motion when
you can do it, but then
so very few can, doncher-
know, and the speotacle
of a fascinating girl with
a seductive ankle taking
a header on to the waxy
floor, and in so doing
tripping up her escort,
who also conies a big
cropper, followed by the
old gentleman behind who
doesn’t look where he’s
going and falls over the
pair in his turn, might
amuse some people, but
not us. When Skinner
himself floats round,
though, with a dreamy
expression and two inches
of dudeish shirt-cuff (not
to mention his heavenly
mustivey) the married
men look fierce at their
flirty spouses and tell
them that this is “no
placa for them, d’ye
hear?” Yes, Skinner can
rink so that you think
he’s a yacht on wheels.
* * *
Now that the Bras-
seys have departed we
feel charitably disposed
towards them, and in-
clined to remember a
yarn greatly to the credit
of Lord Tommy’s papa,
which runs just like
this. In the dawn of life
Lord B'spapawas a young
man with lots of energy—
a good character and (it
follows) no cash. He
was in the employ of a
Chester banker, Mr. Wardell. Being (like his
son s wife) of a pushing turn of mind ho saw his
way to enter on small contracts. At last he was
offered a very large railway contract far beyond
his means. In his extremity he waited on his old
boss, laid the facts ef the case before him, and
asked him for a large advance “But,” he con-
cluded, “ I have no security to offer you.” “ Yes
you have—the best a good character. You
shall have the money.” (Mr. Wardell lived before
the days of defaulting clergymen.) Now comes
the poetry of the affair. Years after, when Brassey
was a second Croesus, a rumour got about that
Wardell’s bank was shaky. Brassey heard of it
and sped to Chester. “ I have just heard the bad
news. What sum do you require?” Several
hundreds of thousands was the hopeless amount.
“ You shall have it.” “ But I have no security at
all! ” “ Yes you have—the best—a good charac-
ter.” The bank was saved, and years after, as
embezzling accountants prayerfully skipped to
Honolulu they blessed the saving name of B assey
proportionately to the size of their appropriations.
* * *
Romilly and Gumboil had some fine fun
when in Cooktown a short time back. His lord-
ship entertained a number of beche-de-mer fisher-
men at the Sea View Hotel with his excellent
singing and thumping on Marsh’s piano, and
when things got warm it was delightful to see the
servant gals and the fishermen hopping around to
Gumboil’s music, while ho3t Marsh patted him on
the back and called out: “Go it Cairns ! You do
play fine. Come again to-morrow, old man?” By the
way, people are wanting to know what became of all
the cartridges, &C-, that Gumboil brought up from
South.
* * *
In a recent haul ton marriage notice, the
phrase went, “the lovely bride was given away
-by her father.” Pooh! We rise with a (capital
P, please, printer) Protest. The girl is never
given away on these occasions. It is the bride-
groom !
* * #
It is rumoured up North that a certain
Anglican cleric of High Church proclivities,
who, a very short while ago, had the sorrow of
losing his wife (by death, we mean), intends, in
spite of a numerous crowd of pledges of the
They are marvellously pretty anu cheapi and it is not sur-
prising that Messrs. Bra.y Bros, of George street, opposite
the Joint Stock Bank, have sold some hundreds cf them.
Get one before they all go. 11
The eye has to be pleased, the right tone has to be heard
and clumsiness to the touch avoided if you would please
connoisseurs in China and Glass, such as is kept at those
shopß, 402 and 404 George street.*
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment
Mrs. McCathte, 86 and 90 King-street.*
We are glad to see that Mr. Noake has taken our ad vie i
and that of his friends in taking th'se premises in Pitt street,
rext G'insler's We *re confident of his success, as he in
tends keeping thejcest cla‘s of goods. l '


deceased’s affection, to slip on tho flowery yoke of
connubiality once more. There is a regular epi-
demic of matrimony in that sanctimonious house-
hold, for the sen and the daughter are going to
bestow themselves upon some hapoy strangers
at an early date, and now the reverend “ pap pa ”
meditatively marvels if the same ring will fit
Adalgisa as well as it fitted poor Mary Anne.
*- * *
The letter of Prince Albert the Good to
his grandmother on the eve of his nuptials is a
perfect gem and deserves reproduction :
“ Dear Grandmamma, —la le3S than three hours I shall
stand before the altar with my dear bride. In these solemn
moments I mus once more ask your bU ssing, which I am
wtll assured I shall receive, and which will bs my safeguard
and my future joy. I must end. God be my stay. Ever
yo u faithful grandson.’
Tne groom who asked “ Dear Grandmamma” for
a blessing before he could go on with the ceremony
and who was going to regard it as his future safe-
guard and joy, must have be -n very much in love
—with his grandmotner. “ God be my stay,’ too,
is excellent. .If we were a girl, and the man upon
whom we were about to bestow our snowy flipper
wrote such an epistle as that to the lady whom
the prayer boon won’t let him marry —we would
lead apes in Sheol rather than have such an
emotionless wretch for a hubby.
* * *
Writes a correspondent :
“ Adelaide has been overwhelmed with excitement over
the appearance of the ‘ N.S.W. Contingent.’ First to come
was Sydney's Jubilee Mayor, Alban Riley, who was enter-
tained by Mayor E. T. Smith. It would be difficult indeed
to decide which of the two paid the more ‘jammy ’ compli-
ments to the other. We awarded a 1 dead heat,’ but it was a
close contest, and they both seemed intensely relieved when
they had finished their speeches. Lord Cariogton (the Ade-
laide papers mill spell the name with two ‘ r s’), accompanied
by Ministers Abigail, Clarke, and Burns, were next received.
H K. exhausted his somewhat limited vocabulary in re-
ferring to S.A.’s musical Governor, Wobinson, and the
said Wobinson did likewise in regard to Smith, but
they both survive. Fair Adelaide’s ladies think Lord
Oarington extremely good-looking, but his feet—oh ! !
Lord Bertie, we believe, mashed successfully. Habigail lias
been giving Adelaide people a specimen of his oraton-. I 1
response to the toast of ‘N.S.W.’ the Minister for Mines
said, without a smile, that ‘Adelaide was honoured by the
Jtoiver of the N.S.W. Parliament, and many distinguished
people, and he felt some diffidence in the presence of so
much N.S.W. eloquence’ How’s that for high? Sneaking
of Habigail, we hear that one Adelaide Bulletin reader
had actually the effrontery to call on him at his hotel and
ask if tie had yet settled the oft-rendered account of that
paper for £25 The result of the interview is not chronicled.
Ministers Clarke and Burns have each had 1 heir innings at
talking rubbish, and no doubt the whole party will have a
lot more to say on their return to Sydney. Ex-Attorney-
General Jack Want and T. Walker, M.L A., are the more
recent arrivals in pious Adelaide. It is worthy of note that
no remark was made by any one of these personages respect-
ing the loyalty of the citizens of Sydney, and 1 the enthusi-
astic meeting ’ which was held. One would have expected a
lot of snuffle on this head.”
* * *
John Taylor, Brigham Young’s successor,
is dead. Don’t all apply at once. The London
aristocracy first, please.
* # *
At the Ascot Cup the Princess of Wales
wore a dress of green surah (powdered over with
pale pink flowers), pale pink vest, a Leghorn
bonnet tied with dark -green velvet strings and
ornamented with a tall cluster of pink roses.
* * *
She was a beautiful girl, the daughter of a
rich Sydney citizen who was about to take him-
self and her on to the Continent, and she was
seated with some of her choicest lady friends in
her aesthetic drawing-room discussing the pros-
pect. “ You won’t disgrace us abroad,” said one
of the girls, “ for you have pretty eyes and a
lovely foot!” “Yes?” responded the beauty
eagerly, “ I know ! Pa says when we go on the
Continent he will have a bust of it made !” Fact.
# * *
A well-known Sydney professional man
writes us under date Jun 9 18, from Loudon :
“ A few days ago I sent you a copy of the Bat containing
a very sweet article upon our old friend Henniker Heaton.
You will observe that he still energetically harps upoa the
old string, ‘a penny post f>r Australia,’ but seeing that the
French and Italian railways charge something like three
halfpence per letter for conveyance from Calais to Brindißi I
don't think that he is likely to carry his point either in
the way of mail s-rvice or of the peerage. I can t resist now
sending you a choice thing in the way of toadyism, a cutting
from the London Daily Telegr vpii of May 27: ‘ Stan-
hape-Olarke.—On the 22nd inst., at 135 Richmond-road
Hackney, K., the wife of W. Stanhope-C.arke of a Jubilee
son (prematurely).’ One begins to feel surfeited with this
Jubilee business. We have had numerous Jubilee sons and
Jubilee daughters, but this is the first Jubilee premature
birth. If you look at Truth of June 9, page 938, you will
see that even the parsons are getting sick of it, for it is there
recarded that one absolutely refused to go ou with tae farce
of christening any more children ‘Jubi'ee.’ Look also a'
Truth, June 2, anent the same thing. You might observe
a leading article in the Standard about the first week of
this month c wceraing tne 1 brutal legislation of Canada,
and also N.S.W , in regard to iron duties and railway con-
tracts, the chief evidence of the brutality, vide Standard,
being the faej that the Cjlonieß have not given any special
preference to English manufacturers !’
* » •
It is a great thing to be well-connected.
A Civil servant in western N.S.W. (we don’t
mean Mr. C , of Sydney) is related by blood or
marriage to everybody who is in any way famous.
Thus, when the fast timing of a sprinter was read
out and the runner happened to have the same
name as our swell he said, “ Ye 3 ; good I My
young brother.” “Indeed!” said the reader,
“ I always thought you were related to him.
You and he are very much alike.” And then the
reader went out into the night and laughed. And
he returned and quaffed, for he knew that the
runner was a Bogan btackfallow!
* * *
A Sydney larrikin was recently sentenced
in the police court for the theft of a locket and
Silk handkerchief from a young daughter of King
Billy living ia a camp near Paddington, N.S.W.
The man who could rob a poor aboriginal of her
tawdry finery (both articles were value! at five
Shillings) ought to be sat upon by a wombat while
an alligator sharpened his front teeth on a file a
little lower down.
* * #
Sydney aldermen want to go to Adelaide
bn the nod. Very soon they will want a
K.C.M.G.-ship for nothing.
* * #
James Russell Lowell spins a spicy yarn
about a male friend ef hi 3 who was eternally blow-
ing about people he met oa the Continent Lowell
remarked that he liked George Sand’s works.
“ Ah,” said the much-travelled one, “ I have had
many a happy hour with Sand.” “You knew
George Sand, then?” asked Lowell in surprise
“ Knew him? Well, I should rather say I did.
Why, I shared the earns room with him for a
mouth in Paris.”
# * *
One of your first-water heavy swells,
dressed to within an inch of his life, walked up to
the door of a private residence in street,
Paddington, the other day and rang the bell
Presently a female head was thrust out of an
upper window, but the position of ths verandah
blocked her view of the caller. At that moment,
as the clock struck loudly, something seemed to
dawn on her mind, and with a loud voice that
could be heard half way down the street she sang
out, “No vegetables to-day, Jo m!” Then the
dude backed into the roadway, staring in helpless
amassment at the upper, windows.
* * *
The remains of the wealthy Pat. O’Brien,
of Hawthorn (Melb.) which were b rough', from
London, where he recently died, were interred
in Melbourne Cemetery last week. The late
Michael O Grady, M.L A., Pat. O'Brien’s friend
and neighbour, did a sentimental thing in the
Boorortdva Cemetery, Kew (Vlelb.) He pur-
chased a grave there, sent home for a box of earth
from his father's grave in Iceland, and buried it in
the grave at Boorondara, Michael himself no v
lies in the same grave.
* * *
The end may justify the means when you
sneak through the back gate to court your best
girl in her angry father’s washhouse. But when
it comes to asking Chinamen, in the sacred name
of charity, to hold a carnival at Melbourne Exhi-
bition, we must really go outside and sniff
at the Pre3ton salts. And that’s what it
has come to. Oi August sth a repulsive,
opium-soddened crew will start some filthy
A TEMPTING INDUCEMENT.
LIFE INSURANCE AGENT-. “THE ADVANTAGE OF OUR COMPANY IS THAT YOU
DO NOT FORFEIT YOUR POLICY EITHER BY BEING HANGED OR COMMIT-
TING SUICIDE! WILL YOU OBLIGE ME BY TAKING A PROSPECTUS?”
foolery in the building aforesaid. We sup'
pose the public intend to patronise this show, and
we hope they will catch as few diseases as possible.
* * *
General Wung Yung Ho “thinks that
Chinese women could not be induced to live in
Australia.” Mrs. Ho, to make a long story short,
couldn’t bear to see the aristocracy eat rice with
their knives.
* * *
Moruya’s (N.S.W.) volunteers are a neg-
ligent lot. None of them will attend drill, and
their commander is in despair. We never shall
have soldiers until a ladies’ gallery is provided in
every drill-hall throughout the land.
* * *
Here is a copy of “ Tom -'s ten
commandments”—in other words, the succinct
and admirab’e domestic ru!e3 enforced by the late
proprietor of a certain leading Sydney hotel:
“ NOTICE.
“ All employees in this establishment are engaged by verbal
agreement subject to the following rules, viz.
“ 1. The first week's wages to be kept in hand as security
for 1 good conduct, which will, ia tin event of any employee
leaving without notice, or being guilty of any other miscon-
duct, be forfeited, as well as all other wages then due.
”2. Every employee will be required when leaving this
establishment to hand over all property in his or her charge,
and will be charged with anything missing, and value of
same deducted out of his or her wages.
“3. Breakages or other damage done by any emDloyee to
property in this establishment will be deducted out of his or
her wages on the following pay-night after such damage or
breakage has occurred.
"4. Notice to leave to be given to the book-keeper on pay-
nights only, provided that such pay-night does not imme-
diately precede public holidays, or races at Raodwick, or
annual Exhibition, in which case 3 14 days’ notice Will be
required.
‘■s. A week's notice will be given by the proprietor when
he desires to dispense with the semces of any .servant, ex-
cept in cases of misconduct, incounpeteacy, or neglect of
duty, for which any servant will he liable to instant dis-
missal.
11 6. Servants are not allowed to receive visitors or friends.
‘ 7 All female servants on their nights out must he in by
10 o'clock, male servants at 11 o’clock.
‘‘B. Tne proprietor particularly requests all servants in
this establishment to avoid quarrelling with each other. A
servaat with a quarrelsome disposition is a nuisance and
must be got rid of.
‘‘9. Servants a e cautioned against ths use of abusive or
obscene language-.
“ 10. Servants are not allowed to purchase or use fermented
or spi ituous drinks on the premises without a writteu order
from the office.
“TEL'MAS Proprietor.
•• Hotel, January, 1881,”
* » *
The Argus announces a fancy dress foot-
ball match between the Deutscher Turn Vereiu
gymnasts and non-gymnasts in aid of the bogus
“ Queen’s Fund.” The next thing will be a fan-
tan oombat in aid of the conspiracy to give that
close-fisted lady Queen Victoria a reputation for
charity, between the Mo-Peen Yun and the Yow-
Peen-Yun.
* * •
A Southern mayor gave a fancy dress ball
last week, and guests were publicly requested “to
write on the back of their cards the characters
they appear in.” This is what one guest wrote
on the back of his card : ‘ * Gentelman of the rain
of Gorge the Sekund.” His wife appeared a 3
Made in Wateing to Catherrine of Arrergon.
* * *
Hiw fleeting is fame ! The fact that
“Demon” Spofforth had been presented with a
“ demon” in miniature was not commented upon
by any of tae Melbourne papers. Four years ago
such an event would have inspired pars, innumer-
able.
* * *
The new Charity Organisation Society of
Melbourne is getting on nicely. No charity has
been dispensed up to the present, but a promising
account for stationery and etceteras has been
opened. “ Che committee further considers that
the time has now come for empowering them to
appoint a paid inspector.”
* •
An unfortunate Southern colonist, whose
wife lately presented him with three children at
oncp, is dying of consumption. However, there is
a compensation for every ill. Death can have no
terrors for the father of triplet girls.
* * *
A touching yarn is being told about the
magnanimity of Lord Besrthirst on the voyage
home to England. Nearing the Red Sea, a young
woman in the for’ard part of the ship became so
queer that the doctor said she must obtain cleaner
quarters or die. Hl3 lordship vacated his
“ luxurious cabin ” in favour of the young woman,
and carried his portmanteau to a “ far less agree-
able spot.” This wa3 not bad of Bserthirst. The
worst of it is that he displayed his generosity at a
time when he was escaping from the payment of
costs connected with that miserable assault case.
Bookmaker Sutton has taken steps to “tap” his
noble friend in England.
* *
The S.M, Herald’s) leader on Primate
Barry wa3 rather neat, and to the scoffer seemed
not untinctured with the Dissenter’s delight at
having an Anglican magnate on toast for once in
a way. It occurs to the reader that when Barry
spoke to the King’s College girls he didn’t intend
returning to Australia. The Primate is un-
doubtedly not very happy in this country—he has
in him too much of the old schoolmaster to become
popular. He felt so thoroughly at home when
talking to the girls, that he let his tongue wag on,
and so made a mess of it. By the way, most
bishops do seem very much at home when talking
to the girls.
* * *
He: “And may I see your father to-
morrow, dear?’ She! “Y-e-s. I suppose it’s
too late to see him to-night ?”
» • *
The Broken Hill Silver Mining Company’s
mine (N. A Wales) in four weeks of June and
July yielded nearly seven tons of silver, valued at
£50,000. If things go thus much longer, the British
half-crown will have so depreciated that the
Brassey gang will have to raise the price of ad-
mission to their “yot” by at least five shillings.
• # *
The merry young lady who skipped from
a Victorian town with a gay musician a short
time ago used to teach in Sunday-school and play
the organ—we mean the harmonium —at a bush
church- She was looked upon as a model of all
the proprieties till this fascinating fiddler began to
throw his spells around her. Lst’s see. Didn't
Faust first meet Marguerite when she was on her
way to church ? Devotion and divorce cases are
frequently found together. In a previous issue
we told how the brother of the girl followed the
purring pair with an arsenal of ancient firearms
concealed about his person. This was not the
reason why she is not now far away upon the
bounding billow, calling out f.rautically for the
stewardess. Shortly after they arrived in Mel-
bourne she quarrelled with her Lothario. Tne
cause of the quarrel has not been divulged. Per-
haps he was a little too premature in giving him-
self airs ; perhaps she discovered in time that his
morals were not as good as she thought they
were. Anyhow, she left him hastily one day, and
took refuge with her grandmamma. It was a
bit of bad luck for him, as she had drawn—so it
is said—£7 000 out of the bank only a day or two
before. He might, with some economy, have
lived several months on this before he found oat
that there was an incompat bility of tempera-
ment between them. There are several morals to
be drawn from this story. One—for men only—
is that when a man runs away with a
rich girl he should ba careful how he
offends her before she has entrusted him with
the cash. Another —for parents—is that they
should never allow their daughters to be taught
by a male musician, no matter ho w old or how
ugly he may be. Hand? are apt to meet a great
deal too rau di in fingering the keys of a piano.
We once knew an old musician—he was over 70
years of age—with wa r ery eyes, and a red nose,
who could —and did —cause young and handsome
girls to follow him as the rats did the Pied Pxper
of Himelin. Yet gazed at with the masculine
eye he was as feeble and frowsy-looking a crea*
ture as you wou:d wish not to meet. You had to
take a drink after talking to him in order to get
the taste out of your mouth. But, notwithstand-
ing, there wa3 some diabolical charm about him
which made the hearts of women as wax in his
hand 3 A piano under the spell of a master is the
finest of love-makers. We would not like to say
as much for a trombone. Yet another moral for
girls is—that they should not leave their happy
homes to fly to far lands with long-haired Or-
pheuses before they have made sure that the
Orpheuses are virtuous. It might be better still
if they (the girls) were not to run away with
musicians at all. Why not choose journalists ?.
They are disinterested and care nothing for money
—except a little now and then for ram. Besides
their morals are above suspicion. Let us remark,
before we are misunderstood, that this is a general
statement, and does hot apply to us (except as far
as the purity of morals goes) personally. Any
girl coming to this office wanting us to fly with
her will not be asked to sit down. We have been
flown with, as much as we think "good for our-
selves already. By the way, the musician who
flew the other day is said to have left behind him
a practice worth £lOOO a year. We shall not bo
surprised to hear of him next as the orchestra in a
freak-of-nature show, nor to hear of the proprietor
of same coming forward one evening and address-
ing the audience something after this fashion :
“ Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that in
consequence of the orchestra having abducted the
Fat Lady there will be no show this evening.”
Let that Fat Lady take warning in time. The
heroine of this little story is now living in retire-
ment practising variations on Watts' hymns.
* » #
Mr. W. Wilson and Miss Mary Warden
were married at Bowning, N.S.W., on tho 20th
with considerable ceremony.
* * #
Petersham Owl Club hold socials on Sep-
tember l and September 30.
* * *
Walgett show ball on the 21st was a
brilliant success. Evening dress preiominated,
hut there were some tasteful fancy costumes.
* * »
A woman’s (and girls’, we suppjße) con-
cert in aid of the Queen’s Fund takes place in
Sydney on 26th instant. No horrid men are to be
admitted, although they will have to provide the
money all the same.
* * *
A high-toned amateur performance in aid
of the Goodenough Royal Naval Home takes place
to-night (Thursday).
* * #
The Columbia Skating Ilink will be
monopolised to-morrow (Friday) evening by a
private skating party organised by a number of
gentlemen.
The Times ach lertiaements are worth £25
per column —or about £2lOO daily.
Five thousand Mount Morgan shares
have been sold in Melbourne at £6 153. each.
Chas. H. Lord, who runs the Salvation
biz. at Nowra, N.S. W.» wires the War Cry:— •
“ Been to court charged with obstruction. Case
dismissed; devil defeated. Glory to God 1 still
fighting. Hallelujah!”
From the S.M. Herald : “ A lady in bad
health would sail her house, furniture, and five
boarders cheap.” Shades of Wilberforce and Old
John Brown! who would think that the slave-
trade could be carried on so openly in Australia ?
Touching that blasphemous Jubilee ser-
vice at Westminster, it is stated that “ most of
the Royal personages were apparently oblivious
that they were assisting at a religious function.*
Which reflects some sort of credit on those
Royal personages. They probably guessed they
had secured seats for a burlesque performance,
and would have liked to throw bouquets at Her
Gracious when she concluded her firs*, prayer.
The poetry of the words “ghastly drop 11
is a myth when applied to American executions.
The victim is dra -vn up to the tie-beam by cutting
a lanyard supporting a heavy weight which
attached to the rope) falls into a pit, and the ap-
paratus nukes no er or. Our penny-a-liners must
write “ghastly jerk,” “fatal jump,” “electric
hoist,’ etc., etc., when they pad their account of
Maxwell’s exit.
A fat Chinese last week performed on
himself the operation of the hari-kari, or “ happy
despatch i.e., he, instead of cutting his throat
(which according to the most celebrated physiolo-
gists is a painless operation) slashed open hie
abdomen with a knife. He died in a day or two.
Which recalls the fact that a most sensational
abdominal section was performed the other day by
one of the honorary surgeons of Sydney hospital.
The patient was a man, and made a splendid
recovery.
There is, in Coonamble, a policeman who
knows howto be just as well as generous. On
one occasion he gave out of his private purse to
Happy Jack, a swagsman, whom he had
“lumbered’ and begged off, half-a crown for
tucker. A few minutes afterwards he found
H. J. breasting the bar, and accused him of mis-
appropriating the money. Jack said he was only
cutting out the odd sixpence. But when the
publican handed over a florin in change, the con-
stable took ic off the counter, and went on his way
a two bob wiser and wealthier man.
“ The “ Evolutions of Sheol ” are thus
Siven by a Yankee print:—
“ Old-time idea of the place of future punishment: A
dark and asvfal abys3 of se-thing molten liquid, with a
thousand slimy and fiery tongues reaching out in glee for
their shuddering and wretched victim—A little later: A
place lined wi h the bones of the wicse 1 Liquid cooling off
but still bubbling. No lights.—Next generation : A place of
remorse and retribution Pleasant surroundings. Naviga-
tion open, but no fire. Tapers burning.—Still later :An
anteroom in which to throw off one's earthly garments
Piateglass-windows and skylight. Good music and refresh 1
ments. All invited.—Very modern : A summer resort'
Cold air draft, Everything on ice. Uoholstered furniture.
Good kindergarten for the children. No board bills. Bright
future
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, Orings with him all that
ii new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Beaumed Practice, and
may he consulted at Kidman's Buildings, corner George and
Market streets. lake Lift *


CORRESPONDECE
Thb Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
“ H.W.” ; We don't think much of Mr. Henry
as a bard—" You have proved that a ring can
be square. You have squared the circle, in fact. All right,
go and talk into the ear of poor old Euclid “ S.L.E.”
suggests “Longbeeria” as a new name for N.S. Wales
"Vic.” (Narrabri): Very acceptable.... -l S.D." : Very well
done. But the question of a decimal system of coinage is
not just now a burning one. The burning question—the
“boss" burning question—is how to obtain coin of the sort
now used... .“C.S.E.” : You might just as well ask how it is
that Mrs. Langworthy was enabled to find under the laws of
the Argentine Republic an instant justice denied her by
British courts....“ Bargo " : The tyrant Merzentius had a
pleasant little trick of fastening a living prisoner to a dead
one, so that the former would be killed by the gradual
corruption of the latter. Persons who, like yourself,
believe in keeping a virtuous wife chained for life
to a drunken, brutal husband seem to be able to
improve even on the fiendish cruelty of Merzentius..,.
“ E. Bulkeley”: How do you reconcile your contentions
with the fact that the Irish poor are evicted “ in the Queen's
name?"’....“ C.A." (The Hsart, Gippsland): Please write
to the Secretary, Mr. W. M. Foote, who will forward you
prospectuses, &c.„.." E.L.G.”: As Governor Loch is so
stingy, why doesn't the Australian Natives’ Association,
which makes such a splutter about people being born in
Australia, offer a prize of their own to the mother of
triplets? This is the manner in which great nations are
built up —s*'E. Bornstein” : Parkes has broken his pro-
mises, has he ? Never mind, he can make plenty new ones.
”E. Masson”: We hardly think that Premier
Gillies will this time have the conscience to make himself
disagreeable over the proposed Parliamentary grant of
£lOOO to the widow and family of Marcus Clarke, consider-
ing that for the somewhat needy family of Australia’s first
litterateur Mr. Reid, M.L.A.. asks only half as much as was
required to meet the expenses of Gillies’ pleasure trip—
charged to the revenue “ Coorong ” : Many thanks. Go
ahead "L.L.S.": The latest theory about the Ber-
magui mystery is that Mr. Young and party were poisoned
and their bodies taken out to sea in a boat (which as it was
found bow-on to the rocks could not have drifted ashore.)
The holes in it, which were made from the inside outwards,
could not have been the result of accident. It is altogether
ufilikely that one murderer would undertake the risk of
shooting four men —“ W. Semple”: There are some
manias just as bad as alcoholism or morphia-eating, and one
of them is the desire for political distinction on the part of
men whom nature and education have unfitted for anything
better than calling their neighbour a liar in the Legislative
Assembly or plotting against him behind the carefully-
" tyled” doors of some miserable se"ret society ‘ R.B.’
(Cooma): The butcher has seized our encyclopedia and our
memory man is down with brain fever ; we can’t tell you
Thomas’(Albury): The S.M. Hebald simply makes
an assertion, and trusts to heaven or the simplicity of the
reader for proof ; manufactures in America could not have
been established and brought to iuch a high state of perfec-
tion within so short a period without Protec'ion. More
anon — 1 C.H.H.’ (Melbourne): We do not care a snuff for
1 society,’ and if the people of Powong consider their affairs
of more importance—to themselves—than the Queen’s
Jubilee, we don’t know but what they are right. All
thiDgs are relative . ,‘J.A.H,' : Will examine. Wi-
lliam Nelson’ (Tilpa, Vic.): Next week, perhaps
‘ W.B.M.’: 1 A Surprise for the Premier,’ you leave off before
you get to the ‘sur,rise’; will consider the other ‘screed’
you send us....‘Nimrod’ (Vic.): Thanks... .* J. H. Parker’
(Mudgee :By and bye ‘Oyster Johnnie’: Very good, will
attend ‘W. G. Taylor ’: We are not quite clear about the
‘ Football Polka ’; is it to (be performed as a pedal exercise,
or is fingering' permissible? ‘ J.S.’ (Gundagai): ‘Bung’
is aboriginal for ‘dead,’ hence if the joint stock company to
which you refer has gone ‘bung,’ you can look for its re-
mains in the local lioneyard ‘Bushy’ (Mount Mac-
donald): Your letter was somehow mislaid; propound
your query again and we will endeavour to satisfy y0u....
1 W.H.B ’ (Brisbane): The metre of you ‘ pome ’is all out of
twist, and the rhymes are characterised more by singularity
than any other quality....‘G J.T ’ (Randwick): Thanks.
We will correct ‘ discrepancies in punctuation or grammar,
or otherwise,’ especially ‘ otherwise.’....‘ Alexander Gam-
bridge’ :In a future issue.,‘ 450’ : The clipping is very local.
.... ‘ Camera ’:lt is a weird and wonderful affair, and when
we get those warrigals and hunyips boiled down we 11 send
you the ultimate analysis 1 H. Langdon ’ : Thanks for
item.,.. 1 Landrail’ : We have not had time to iron it out
yet....' L.M.’: Still pondering ; haven’t quite made up our
mind; it's s large affair, and takes some time to make up
‘J.K.M.’: Many thanks. The matter is so unsavory that it
would be hard to discuss it....‘Green and Gold’: The
Highlander take 3 the oath holding up his right- hand
' James Munro' (Brunswick, Vic.): Your tale is a good one,
although, as you say, hardly suited to The Bulletin.
However, we will ponder over it....' Festus’ (Koroit, Vic.):
You would probably be obliged to undergo the usual
teachers’ examination; write to Department for copy of
Education Act and regulations....*Bushman' (Western
Port, Vic.): You might send us a ‘ boiled -down’ account..
‘ Australian ’ (Minyip): Sorry that your letter came rather
late for insertion....‘H H.’ (Wellington): Stolen from
Bulletin....‘Gladys’: You may feel strongly, hut you
can’t write poetry.... S.L.’: It is not honest, any more than
jt is honest for a newspaper to accept telegraphic reports of
political meetings written by directly interested parties
I E. Masselin ’: It is untrue that Mr. G. R. Dibbs ever ad-
vocated the supplanting of the white labourer by the China-
man. If you hold otherwise, send us your proofs....'Cock-
ney ’ (Braidwood): It starts promisingly. Will see ‘ H G.’,
(Bathurst): Next week, perhaps ....* C.W.’ (Newcastle):
Letter addressed to you at P.O. Newcastle .Subscriber’:
80,850 actually sold....'Wanderer': Thanks, but already
d0ne....’W.8.D.': Next week, very likely. But we have
already tried to speak strongly on the subject ...‘H.P.’
(Elsmore): Write to Mr. H. W. Foster, William-street,
Sydney....' M.P.M.’: Held for condensation.
Jay Gould, who has obtained a railway and
telegraphic monopoly in China, aud has started a
huge bank at Shanghai, fancies that he has now
complete financial control of the Chinese Empire.
J. G. has evidently never been in court during
the examination of a Chinese insolvent.
A wedding of some interest to Sydney
folks took place on June 4tb, at St. Augustine’s,
Queen’s Gate, London, when Miss Helena Chad-
wick, daughter of Mr. R. Chadwick, of IMgecliffe
Road, Sydney, who, with Mrs. Chadwick, is at
present on a trip to Europe, was married to Cap-
tain George Osborn, R. A., adjutant of the South
Durham Artillery Volunteers.
Mr. De Lisle, M.P., for promising to
break whose neck Mr. Healy was, according to a
late cable, suspended from attendance ,at the
Commons, is a prominent member of the most ex-
treme branch of the Conservative party. In
other words, Mr. L)s Lisle is a fashionable English
Roman Catholic Tory.
There was a somewhat crowded attendance
at the second last dance given by the ladies of the
Randwick Assembly at Nithsdale on 1 hursday
last, but not sufficiently so to mar the comfort of
the dancers. Among the pretty costumes was
that worn by a daughter of the hostess, who looked
charming in pale pink ottoman silk. Her married
sister wore cream silk trimmed with beautiful
lace. The fiancee of a young lancer looked pretty
in white tulle relieved with brown.
The arrival in Sydney from Adelaide of
H. Lord Carington, last Friday, was the cause
of some little disappointment to his staff. They
gathered expectantly on the railway platform and
gazed into the carriages of the 11 a.m. train, but
failed to find him. However, he turned up at
I. p.m. and explained that he had been stuck
up by a deputation or some other awful boah at
Goulburn, doncherknow. Captain Baynes met him
with a guard of honour, which included the in-
evitable Lancers.
Lady Carington, accompanied by her
daughters, Lord Shaftesbury, and Major Gas
coigne, visited the Mint on July 27, probably to
procure some Jubilee coins to place in the founda-
tion-stone of a Mission House on Edgecliffe Road,
which she laid on Saturday last,.
The Australian Club ball, on the 29fch ult.,
passed off pleasantly. New and stylish dresses
were the exception. Lady Carington wore a
pale blue costume and diamonds ; Mrs. C. Hogg,
an exceedingly pretty dress of pale green net and
satin, with dark green striped velvet and satin
bodice and panels, pink feathers and ribbons;
Mrs. H. M'Qtiade, a very stylish black satin and
tulle dress, bodice cut V shape back and front;
Mbs Metcalfe, a lovely white satin and net
frock ; Mrs. W. Mitchell, a becoming heliotrope
gown ; and Mrs. W ise, pale pink crepe de chine.
INSOMNIA.
One of the chief maladies of the age is Insomnia,
and from this terrible nerve disturbance spring
the most painful and hopeless diseases. “If I
sleep to-night I will spend to-morrow (Sunday)
morning with you. If you don’t see me you will
know what is the matter." Such notes as these
were quite frequently received by the writer from
an old friend, one of the most brilliant men of his
time. He was an indefatigable business man, and
always on the top wave of prosperity. His
success he attributed to his untiring industry.
This man was undoubtedly correct No depart-
ment of his vase interests was ever neglected, and
with all this labor he managed to keep abreast of
his time in all scientific and literary matters. But
for years he was not able to sleep, and, strange to
relate, with all his intelligence, this fact was
utterly inexplicable to him. He disregarded all
warnings, laughed at the predictions of the wise,
and grew weaser and more irritable as the days
rolled by. This gent’omin had not a single bad
habit. He never touched sprituous liquors, nor
did he use tobacco in any form. His only excesses
were intellectual excesses. His arch enemy was
ambition, and it wrecked him quite as thoroughly
and tragically as intemperance in a less refined
form might have done. Sleep is nature's great
restorer, without it insanity and death ensue, lo
the weary brain to which sleep is a stranger,
breaking down.under the pressure of business, or
stress of househo'd cares, we offer with entire con-
fidence a brain tonic and restorer tried and found
reliable in three continents, which is both harmless
and effective. It contains no opium, cocoaine, or
other harmful drug to create a morbid appetite,
and leave its victim infinitely worse than before,
rendering him totally unfit for business or pleasure 1 ;,
and morally and spiritually blasted, but is com*
posed of ingredients harmless as water, and sooth-
ing and beneficial in its effects. Such a remedy is
Warner’s Safe Nervine, now put on the Austra-
lasian market for the first time, although wellj
known in England, the United States, and Canada.
It is for sale in two sizes, at 2s 6d, and ss. per
bottle, the os. size holding 18 ounces, the same as
Warner’s safe cure. “Through the avenue of
insomnia a man is pretty sure to travel one of
three houses,” Charles Lamb once told a friend,
“to the mad house, the poor house, or the house
of refuge. If he passes these he will bring up at a
hospital, public or private, and this place, to my
mind, is almos't as bad as the others.” This was
the conclusion of the brilliant “ Elia,” and it is
none the less true to-day. If you find you are not
sleeping well you are in danger. It is a danger
not to be trifled with. Avoid it at once by pur-
suing the path we have pointed out, and secure
that blessed boon—Sleep, that
“ Barrier ’twixt day and day,
Mother of fresh thoughts and joyous health."
The eminent Eastern traveller and writer,
Madame Dieulafoy, has made herself more
“eminent” still by appearing in a Paris theatre
on a fashionable “first night” performance
attired in men’s evening dress—trousers and a
dress coat, open pointed waistcoat, white tie,
short hair, &c.
Woollahra Private Assembly holds its
monthly dance to-morrow (Friday) evening at
Nithsdale.
Some people have it that the correct thing
is to go to a rather small dance in ordinary walk-
ing clothes and creaking boots.
Tennis has been revived at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, with the Permanent Artillery
Band as an additional attraction, although the off!'
cers should be sufficient.
At Wollongong, N.S.W. He seduced, and
at once abandoned her. She instantly took
“ Rough on Rats ” and died. At the inquest he
deposed: ‘ ‘ She was a member of the Salvation
Army. I am a member of the Christian Brethren.”
What a familiar story !
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman's EucaJyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, infi animation,
avel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegc table
—mtains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s 61. Take
no subatitnte.*
T
O THE SPORTING PUBLIC
HOW TO WIN A FORTUNE.
Consult the Original and most Successful
TIPSTER
~ of the Day,
PREMIER,”
Who gives the
BEST ADVICE on ALL SPORTiNG EVENTS.
SEND for PREMIER’S Great
HAWKESBURY HANDICAP TIP,
Also
GRAND DOUBLES
on the
HAWKESBURY AND METROPOLITAN.
Premier's ‘‘DARK ’UNS” for the Spring
Events are doing well.
ONE TRIAL will PROVE the GENUINENESS
of Premier's Advice.
Send for list of Winners. &c.
Terms are
ONE GUINEA for the WHOLE SEASON.
Address ‘‘PREMIER,” Box 1166, G.P.0., Sydney.
All Money Letters Must be Registered.
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
IMMEDIATE and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT’S SECOND NOVELTY.
This and Every Evening at a quarter to 8.
ALONE IN LONDON.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
Alhambra musio hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we. go on
for ever.
THIRD YEAR. THIRD YEAR.
The ECSTATIC EFFECT caused
EVERY EVENING,
as the CURTAIN RISES at 8 p.m,,
and displays to view
BRITANNIA’S BOWER,
surpasses
ALL OTHER NOVELTIES
EVER PRODUCED.
Orohestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
E W
OPERA
HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. .Tones.
STARTLING ANNOUNCEMENT.—Mr. B. N.
JONES his much pleasure to announce to his
patrons, the public, that hi lias made arrange-
ments with Messrs WILLIAMSON, GARNER and
MUSGROVE for the appearance of their cele-
brated COMEDY COMPANY.
Commencing SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1887.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee ... ... ... Mr. John Solomon.
Director and Proprietor... Signor G. Verdi.
Manager for Sig. Verdi... Mr. J. S. Smith.
Stage Manager ... ... Mr. George Dean.
4th WEEK 4th
AND E3TABCASHED SUCCESS
GRAND SEASON OF OPERA BY
SIGNOR VERDI’S ENGLISH AND COMIC
OPERA COMPANY,
70 NUMBERING 70.
LAST NIGHTS LAST NIGHTS
of
BOCCACCIO-
BOCCACCIO ... MIS 3 ANNETTE IVANOVA.
LEONETTE ... Signor G. VERDI.
In active preparation, “ MARITANA.”
Doors open at 7. overture at 7.45 sharp.
JOE DAVIS, Business Manager
RITERION
C
Sole Proprietor
THEATRE.
Mr. John Solomon
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
NEW LONDON COMEDY SEASON.
AND SI’AR DRAMATIC COMPANY.
THE PICKPOCKET.
Mr. Dion Boucicault, Juu.
Mr. F. H. Laye
Mr. G. Lash Gordon
Mr. George Bryant
Miss Florence Trevelyan
Miss Rita Wyndale
Mr. Robert Inman
Mr. E. Haygarth
Mr. H. R. Harwood
Miss Bouciciult
Miss F. Romer
The Comedy produced under the sole direction
of Mr. DION BOUCICAULT, Jun.
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is. W. J WILSON, Manager.
YD
NEY EXHIBITION BUILDIjnw
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of Sydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are rigidly enforced,
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKATING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION-ONE SHILLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next.
J. WILKES,
297 George-streefc. Ron Sec
CAUTION.
THE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMER? of the Uuited Horse Shoe aud
N<ul Company are cautioned against pm-
cHa3i'-g a spurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Globe” nails, and which ai-j txported from
Germany.
The nails in question are made of inferior metal,
and are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.H-S. and N. Co., and e istomers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R S HASEON, Secretary.
115 Canton etreet, London, E.C ,
June, 1887.
THE Protection and Political Reform League
Meets at the Temperance Hall on Monday,
the Bth Instant. Chair at 8 p.nT Attorney-
General Wise’s truism, that “ Free Trade some-
times crushes human beings in its wheels,” is
operating with a vengeanc ) in New South Wales.
See the hundreds of starved-out wcrkmen opposite
to the big gasometer, Pitt-street, Belmore Park,
every day.
R. C. LUSCOMBF, Secretary.
Palace Family H)tel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation Suites tf Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
houso in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
Cigr=ix JDVx’-ain.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor, j j
Wayside Gleanings The “Western Cham-
pion” says : “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic •’0 my western friends.”
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westport.)
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange,
charters towers, Queensland.
THOS. BUCKLAND,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineeis, Lincoln;
~ ~ Langland's Foundry Co . Melbourne, Vie
JP XCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
ADELAIDE.
E’LDER’S WOOL AND PRODUCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
CAPITAL £200,000.
STOCK SALESMEN,
WOOL AND SKIN BROKERS,
GENERAL COMMISSION AGFNTS.
ETEBSS'mm IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLO UK!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
ia GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
CSI Ocnßac-sTRin. Svowbv
Please Do Not Fead This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is no excuse for any person of either
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of the Face, Neck, or Skin, caused by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kiod of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
&c., &c Supeifluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour.
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward T. Hubbell,
Dermatologist, Box 852, G. P. 0., Sydney, N.S.W.
DR. O'CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-streef. Dr. O'Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patientp,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr J. O’CONNELL.
Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.


A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL
LARRY FOLKY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks a'ter
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, Rockhampton,
Queensland. —The above Hall is duly
icensed under the Queensland Theatres’ Act.
Every Company travelling through Rockhampton
for the past 18 months has (with one exception)
occupied this Hall, including Messrs. MacMahon
and Leitch, Thornton and Harrison, Harry St
Maur, and Grattan Riggs, with Mr. Chas.
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company, who have just
concluded a brilliant and successful season. This
Company played in the Theatre Royal two years
ago, and Mr. MacMahon expresses himself as
highly pleased with the arrangements in this Hall.
Managers are requested to book at least 14 day
before opening to secure uninterrupted dates.
Terms on application to the Secretary.
TH BATHE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed House in
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACK AT.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. Y, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
• r EMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &c.
Full particulars free on application. Address :
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-st, Sydney.
FITZROY HOTJBL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
iar FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
JMPERIAL BOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
t3~ First-c'ass Family and Commercial Hotel.
MASON BROTHERS
mu
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, foi
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORINandCO.’S *
Cognac.
.. T. GAYEN’S
’ohnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
High-class Dentistry
at Reform Pricef.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
t R & o»
MARSHALL BROr
1 DENTISTS *
ELIZABETH ST
kkL -si . -■ ■ - ::
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily at 11,
GOLD. NOTHING BUT GOLD!
Read, Cut Out and Keep this Adverttsement for Future Reference. It will Pay to Follow Advice Given.
THE GREATEST GOLD CITY IH THE WORLD
VERY SOON WILL BE
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
Unfortunately for Themselves Southern People until Lately have Known Very
Little About It.
English Capitalists are now and will Continue Investing Millions in the
PURCHASE of CHARTERS TOWERS MINES.
The Public of every Class cm Safely Invest lrom One Pound to a Thousand Pounds with
the Certainty of Gaining an Enormous Profit
Here is a Case in Point—One Amongst Thousands :
THE BLACK JACK SHARES.—We strongly advised our Clients to Buy when shares
were obtainable at a very low prPe. Take the following figures and facts, which are strictly
true
By buyers’s price to-day per share, not less than 50s .. .. £2 10 0
By nine dividends paid by the mine, some over, none under a
shilli-g, say 11 0
To amount paid for application money and calls till mine cc m-
menced to pay dividends per share
£3 1 0
0 1 0
Or a NE WDETT on COST
£3 0 0
SIX THO
This mine is not much over than a year workin is paying dividends, and will con-
tinue to do so probably during the lives of the shareholders. The holders of these shares
believe they will be sold for £3 a share at an early date.
We o-jly mention the case of this mine as an example and one of maav
It is not a suitable investment now for people with small means who want quick and cer-
tain large profits on a small outlay of a few pounds, or even one.
High-priced shares are only suitable as an investment for the richer classes.
„ HOW A WORKINGMAN MADE A FORTUNE
wo,king f ? r wages oyer 12 months ago, bought 3QO shares in a mine here for
£3, and after paying a few monthly calls
These shares oniy cost him altogether £l5, which he paid by monthly instalments, thus
not feeling or missing the amount from his earnings. 111
For these shires Mr M— expects to receive in a few months the sum of £l2OO. and he
sn?m lr n\ dy re u elvec l ln oivl(iends “bout £l5O He thinks it possible ho may set more than
Look at the a se r figSes :- an enormoUß retum for an outl ‘W of £l5 within a little over a year.
By sale of 300 shares at £4 per share .. £l9OO n n
By dividends receive! .. .. " .. " ” g g
Less
To original cost of shaies, calls, and all other expenditure
£1350 0 0
15 0 0
Close up to £BOOO per cent, Profit. £1335 fo: £l5 looks strange, but it's true.
There is every opportunity for nil persons of every class to invest large or small amounts
from £1 upwards, with certainty of gaining great profits
We guarantee if our advice be followed that loss is impossible.
Wc make No Charge for Buying or Selling, for Advice, Telegrams or
Correspond ence.
_ , Everyone Should Write for Particulars, Sent Free.
Leading members of the Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane Stock Exchange will testify
from their extensive dealings with and personal knowledge of our firm,
, 17 , That we are most Reliaole Advisers and Straightforward in our dealings.
Where clients send us money for discretionary investments on their behalf we exercise
the utmost care. No remittance should be under £l. No stamps to be sent. Oheaues
postal notes, &c., to be crossed ‘Bank of Australasia" Correspondents r plied to im
mediately, letter or wire r
-A.G-lElSrTfcs .WANTED--LIBEEAL PAY,
3srote isr_a_3vi:e! address -
D’AHCY COIVIPANrY.
Charters Towers, Queensland.
Department of Public Wortts,
Sydney, August 2, 1887.
Tenders tor public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the sucoessfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Workß and Supplies.
Dates to whlo v
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Construction of Engine and
Boiler House, &c., Contract
1, Lismore Water Supply
Construction of Covered Reser-
voir, Contract 2, Lismore
Water Supply
Supply of Ironwork and Erec-
tion of Iron Bridge over Mur-
ray River at Mulwala
Additions Lockup, Camperdown
Erect’on of Footbridge, Plum-
bago Creek, Fairfleid
Erection of Bridge, Little Billa-
bong Creek. Road Little Billa-
bong to Tumberumba
Alterations to Post and Tele-
graph Office, Richmond
Supply of Ron bark Railway
Sleepers at Murrumbidgerie
Supply 3000 tons of Blue Metal
at Darling Harbour or Botanv-
road Siding (Railway Depart-
ment)
Construction of Six Cars for Sans
Souci Tramway
Supply of Ballast at Koorawatha
and Cowra Railway Stations
Tuesday,
August 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Waiting Shed,
Public Wharf, Cockatoo Is-
land
Erection of Colonnade, Post-
office, Glebe
Erection of Bridge over Iron-
bark Creek at Lower Man-
grove
Erection of Bridge over Bedlam
Creek at Lower Mangrove
Erection of Bridge over Ourim-
bah Creek, Hoad Wyong to
Gosford
Tuosdiy,
August 16,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Quarters for Tele-
graph Operator, Gabo Island
Erection of Iron Railing, Court
House, I Urlinghurst
Repairs, Court House Morpeth
Construction of Tank and Fenc-
ing, Police Station, Uralla
Duplication of Great Southern
Railway from Goulburn to
Joppa Junction
Addition, &c.,St. Mary’s Lodge,
Domain
Painiicg, &c , Post and Tele-
graph Office, Casilis
Erection of Fencing, &c., Post
and Telegraph Office, Berrima
Erection of aßoom, Court-house,
Jerilderie
Erection of Bridge over Salabar
Creek, Road Mudgee to Coo-
namble
Tuesday,
August 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf and
Shed, Tucki Tucki, Richmond
River
Fencing, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Bowral
Repairs, &c.. Post and Telegraph
Office, Tenterfield
Feneirg, &c, Court-house,
Emmaville
Fencing. &c., Court-house, Bal-
ranald
Tuesday,
August 30,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction, See., Engine,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, See., of. Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract i, Lis-
more Water Supply
Erection of Police Barracks,
jßcurke
Tuesday,
September 6,
at 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
UlSU'd
I r&W
NEWEST INVENTION—GREATEST NOVELTY.
THE
Y«N
PATENT DIAGOHAL SEAM DORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The quern saysThese Corsets are a new departure. The material is out on the cross,
and, the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all that could
b6 desired.
Cold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1883
told Medal, Highest Award
for Corsets, London Isternational Exhi-
bition, 1884.
Latest Award !!! Cold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1880.
CAIJTION. —Beware of worthless imi-
tation?. Every genuine Y & N Corset is
stamped “ Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORS&T No. 116,” in oval.
SOLD BY ALL DRAPERS AND LADIES' OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES.
FOGDKOTSEI’S
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
mm ira
472 GEORGE STREET,
i
Opposite the Central Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haymarket.
Fito/ms,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, See.
Speciality :
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O,
Concertinas,
1/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes,
best make, £4 103.
_ Accordeons,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
Cornets,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6 16s.
Flutes,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/- each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c„ in great variety,
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to,
Take all in all.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all the Ague, Fever, and bilious
specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
—Take all the Great health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all the e
and the— best
—Qualities of all the best medicines In the
world, and you will find that—flop Bitters have
the best curatives qualities and powers of all—
concentrated in them.
—And that they wiil cure when any or all of
these, singly or— combined. Fail ! 1 ! 1
—A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
Harden cel Liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has ivorked a miracle in my case; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morey, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering.
" i was dragged down with debt/poverty and suffe log for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, uutil one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced using Hop Bitters, and in
one month we were all well, and none of us have seen a sick
day since, and I want to say to all poor men, you can keep
your f imilies well a year with Hop Bitters for less than one
doctor’s visit will cost. I know it."
A WOKKtKCMAN,
Prosecute tlic Swindlers !!
If when you call for American Hop Bitters [see green twig
of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
bottle), the vendor hands out anything but American Hop
Bitters, refuse it and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
and if he has taken your money for anything else indict him
for the fraud and sue him for damages for the swindle, and
we will pay you liberally for the conviction.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
BARB’S” GRAND CONSULTATION on the
JUBILEE HANDICAP, run May 21st,
1887. 6000 members, each 10s. First horse, £1000,';
2nd, £300; 3rd, £2OO. Starters, £200; Non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them. Cash Awards—
-6 at £5O, 10 at £25, 20 at £lO, 20 at £5, 80 at
£2 10s. each. Early application is requested, and
please register letters to ensure safe delivery, and
enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. “ BARB,” care of T. G. Green,
Guildhall Hotel, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Melborne Cup, 1887, now open, 20,000 subscriber!
a i0b.209. First horse £lO,OOO,


Dr. Tanner, M.P., of the Irish party, is
the terror of the Tories. While Pinafore Smith
was in the middle of a maundering Jubilee speech
lately, Tanner jumped up suddenly, and asked
whether the Government had engaged the Poet
Laureate to compose a Jubilee ode on Coercion.
Ireland seems to be a land where the
heart-rending and the ludicrous are inextricably
interwoven. At the Bodyke evictions the fortified
cabins of John Lyddy and the Widow Mac Namara
were captured after a whole day’s siege, in which
200 police and 10Q soldiers formed the attacking
force. As soon as the army retired, both families
re-took possession. “ Force is no remedy.”
A GRAND PANACEA.
WIFE (after fixing him up comfortably : “AND NOW. MY DEAR, SHALL I GET SOME
MEDICINE FOR YOU?”
HER DYING HUSBAND : “YES, DEAREST, BRING ME THE BULLETIN"
The Victorian Supreme Court judges have
asked the Melbourne Corporation to pave the
roads about the new Law Courts with wood, and
also to preserve the neighbourhood from the dull
fumble of tramways. The Argus says that tan
should be laid round the court buildings. Wonder
how would Higinbotham, C.J., and his five J.’s
like to sit in the Sydney Supreme Court with the
eternal roar and pant of the Government trams
going on outside the door ? The Argus is sur-
prised that j udges’ ears should be so abnormally
sensitive. There was a justice of the Common
Pleas in Ireland who couldn’t deliver a judgment
in comfort if an ass brayed outside, and was
unable to pass sentence of death if wedding bells
rang out from a neighbouring church. Mr. Justice
Ball on one occasion while presiding in an assize
town sent out a policeman to have a marriage-
bell silenced at a church hard-by. The constable
succeeded in having “ th’ ordher o’ th’ coort ”
obeyed, but got a severe scalp wound from an old
boot which had been meant for the bride. When
he returned into court he dropped his baton on the
floor amid a dead silence, and was summoned
before His Lordship and severely rebuked. No
sooner had order been again restored than a defiant
donkey outside, for the larceny of which a
prisoner was awaiting his trial, began to bray like
mad. This was too much for old Ball, who said
he’d fine the sheriff if the court was further dis-
turbed. A constable then rushed out of court and
induced the donkey by a bribe of carrots and
thistles to “ howld his jaw.”
Treasure to the extent of 95 millions ster-
ling was recently discovered in a ruined palace at
Rabat, Morocco. The Emperor annexed the coin
with all possible despatch, and now Queen Vic-
toria is in an agony'of rage and grief because the
Morocco potentate was not invited to take part in
the Jubilee ceremonials.
Curate: “ Have you been confirmed,
boy?” Boy : “ Yes. sir, I was done three times.”
Curate: “Done three times! What do you
mean?” Boy: “Yes, sir; once by Dr. Brown,
once by Dr. Green, and once by Dr. White.
Mother said if it wasn’t done three times the con-
firmation wouldn’t take.
In Queensanld, on a recent hot day, a
coach rolled peacefully along a rough bush track.
All was calm and still, and no sound broke the
solemn silence except the creaking of the un-
greased wheels, and the occasional croak of the
thingumbob and the thrill whistle of some tropical
fowl whose name is too long for our space. Then
suddenly a huge snake was observed sleeping
right in the track and the wheel went over it. It
was killed, but in its death agonies it fixed its
fangs in the vehicle, and in less than a quarter of
an hour the coach swelled to such a frightful ex-
tent that it got jammed and had to be left behind.
Mr. Alfred Bennett is now requested to oblige the
company with a shark-perjury.
John Norton, the N.S. W. labour agitator
is a journalist by profession, his first essay on the
Press having been as a junior reporter of the
Manchester Guardian. Subsequently he acted
as private secretary to Sir Edward James Reed,
the late Chief Constructor of the British Navy,
now member for Cardiff in the Commons.
Thereafter Mr. Norton lived on the Continent for
a time, and was for some years connected
with the Levant Herald, an English and French
journal at Constantinople. Afterwards he went
to Asia Minor as the special correspondent of the
London Daily Telegraph, and was present at
the bombardment of Alexandria. Mr. Norton ar-
rived in Australia some four years ago. His first
literary work in Australia was done as a contri-
butor to The Bulletin. He is not yet 30 years
of age.
BEAR IN MIND that St. Jacobs oil i3the be3t
friend you can keep in the house. It
certain help in all cases of accident and suffering,
and will frequently spare you the payment of a
heavy doctor’s bill.
i
SL
R
lo m
'ID'.
A
M
s
B BTTER THAN PHYSIC.
Owing to the unprecedented success which lias
These brushes are all made of pure 1 ristles, not
w re; the brush handle is made of a new odorless
composition resembling ebony, a combination of
substances producinga permanent electro magnetic
current, which acts immediately, and the strength
of which can be tested at any time by a small com-
pass snpplied with each brush,
The hair brushes wiil positively cure nervous or
bilious headache in five minutes, neutralise th e
distressing agony of neuralgia, prevent falling
hair and baldness, dandruff, and diseases of the
scalp. I hey will make the hair grow long and
glossy, arrest premature greyness, and soothe the
weary brain.
The flesh-brush is said, by the Surgical
Gazette, to be “ better than all liniments and
embrocations.” It keeps the skin healthy, beauti-
fies the complexion, and imparts vigor and energy
to the whole body.
The bath-bru'h is one of those comforting de-
velopments of modern science, the value of which
can only be appreciated by using it. It speedily
cures all pains and aches resulting from colds,
impure blood, and impaired circulai ion.
The Royal Dental Society of London testify in
the strongest terms as to the great benefits which
speedily follow the use of Dr. Scott’s Electric
Tooth Brush; and many experts in dentistry de-
clare it to be the greatest invention in dental ap-
pliances since the manufacture of artificial teeth.
Any or all of these brushes are handsome toilet
accessories, and very durable.
If you cannot purchase them in your immediate
neighbirhood we will send by post to any part of
New South Wales, on receipt of price named, with
6d. added for postage.
Orders to be addressed and remittances made
payable to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASOSCIATION,
56, Margaret-street, Sydney.
P.O. Box 221.
My first is in water, but not in bury ;
My second in claret, but not in sherry ;
My third in temper, but not in cross ;
My fourth in flower, but not in moss ;
My fifth is in raven, as well as in crow ;
My sixth is in beauty, but not in show ;
My seventh in useful, as well as in use ;
My eighth is in pear, but not in juice ;
My ninth is in fiery, but not in heat;
My whole is a watch that no other can beat.
'Tis sweet to hear the watch-dog’s honest bark
Bay deep-mouthed welcome as we draw near home;
'Tis sweet to know there is an eye will mark
Our coming, and look brighter -when we come,
’Tis sweet to hear the dinner-bell’s soft chime,
To feel quite certain we shan’t have to wait;
Because we know that Waterbury time,
Keeps dog, and eye, and cook, from being late.
If your Waterbury wStch meets with an acci-
dent send it to the repair depot established by the
company at 56, Margaret-street, where it will be
repaired for you at a cost varying from 6d. to
2s. Gd, according to requirements.
"SBad dreams, disturbed sleep, indige'tion, stom ich gas, all
vanish before American no’s Hop Bitters, R* ad and
ponder.
A Wond&rful Food and Medicine known and used by
Physicians all over the world “Scot's Emulsion’’ not only
gives flesh and streugth by virtue of its own nutritious pro-
perties, but creates an appetite for tood that builds up the
wasted body. Read the following:—” Scott’s Emulsion ’
is,in my opinion an excellent and valuable co noound. I
have given it to Consumptive patients, and have been de-
lighted with the results obtained It is pleasant to the taste,
and can be borne by the most sensitive stomach.
E A Rodway, M.D.,
Butter-Knowle, Darlington, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.
One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney i
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
Btreet. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
Balsam op Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
for the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &c. Rigne y, late Mitchell,
King-street.
Fever in Nbw South Wales is f'r less frequent among
the Colonists and Chinese than formerly. This is owing to the
discovery by them of the curative properties of Freeman’s
Original Chlorodyne. This valuable medicine cht cks theprog-
ress and rapidly cures all forms of Fevers and Aeue, so pre-
valent at certain seasons of the year in many,pirt« of N S.W.
By the older Colonists it is regarded as a household reundy,
and employers of large hodies of workmen always keep a good
stock of Freeman s Chlorodyne on their estates —-Sold
everywhere throughout the Colonies Insist upon having
‘ Freemen’s" only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
NOTICE !—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hookings
high-class selected old vintages, for invalids. 43 Pitt-
street. *
Tattersall.s Monster Consultation, Bank Handicap, run
August 1, at Canterbury; and the Spring Handicap, run
Randwick, August 27; each 2000 subs , 20s. now open and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-street.
Obstructions of' he kidneys and a ttendant rgans will prove
fatal if not removed ny Amercan Hop B tiers. Read
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prises,
We recommend those who purpose furnishing
! Hotel, Cottage, or Mansion to call at Lawler’s 608
George-street, Sydney. And we would advisq
furnishers to walk round the se v eral well stocked
showrooms in the Central Emporium and get the
salesman to show the best value they can submit,
and chen to get each head of a department to
make out a list of whatever was considered first-
class value, and to take the several lists away and
analyse them at leisuie, deducting this item as un-
necce3sary, or improving upon another, or adding
sundry necessary furnishing requisites in all
probability omitted fiom the first estimate or lists.
In this way furnishing becomes easy and in the
end safe, as without doubt it is sure.
Now we will commence with the sth floor whei
the Carpets and P. ear ih rugs and Doormats and
Matting and Linoleum and Oilcloth for the floors
ate. Upon this floor LaWLER'S show the Tapes-
tries and Velvets and Repps for covering furniture,
as alsv Tablecovers and Window Curtains in all
the present fashions and material.
First we find that we want Carpet fo certain
bedrooms upon which we do not want to spend
much money. We ask the salesman to show us a
line of Tapestry Carpet, telling him that although
we want a cheap Carpet, yet we do not want a
common or ill-patterned thing.
At once you have placed before you a range of
Tapestry Carpets at iji\ yard.
Surprisingly low though the price is yet the
patterns are good and the Carpet most service-
able.
A best spare bedroom next calls for attention
and something deeent is demanded. Will you go
3/-or 2/9? Youihinkfora moment and ask to
be shown a line at 2/-, The pattern you find quite
to your satisfaction and as the quality is all that
can be desired you select at 2/-.
A sitting room long keeps you doubtful whethe r
to use Linoleum or Oilcloth or Carpet. At last
you decide in favour or Carpet. You incline for
Brussels but are tempted to inquire whether a
cheap Brussels at 3/- will wear as well as an ex-
cellent 1 apestry at the same money. Tne sales-
man, if honest, will at once decide the matter. A
best Tapestry at 3/. will look better and wear longer
than a Brussels at 3/- or 3/3. You elect to have ihe
best Tapestry in preference and at 3/-. You can
get ‘ Crossieys” very best from Lawlers. The
Drawing room can have a nice and effective
Tapestry Carpet if you thiuk fit, but will hanker
after one of the nice things in best Brussels, and
we would say have one by all means.
Best 5 frame Brussels Carpet can be had at the
Central Emporium at 3/9 per yard. An “ extra
super” at 4/-. But 4/6 turns out a carpet tnnt
will last for many a long year, and stand hard
wear too and may be had in all the icsthetic
tints.
Oilcloth and Linoleum, two articles of floor
covering which every one tells the other they had
bought so cheap at such and such a shop may be
had in abundance at LAWLER’S and in several
qualities.
Before touching the price, we would state that
the stock being imported diiect from the factories
is quite new aud that there is not one bad pattern
in the house.
But upon the ticklish and much vexed question
of pi ice we can only say customers judgment will
be sorely taxed and must be guided largely by the
salesmen who in turn are ruled by the reputation
of the makers.
There is nothing upon which one may be more
deceived than floorcloths. Raoging in prices as
follows: —
4d., 5d., 7d.,9d., lid., 1/6-, 2/-, 2/9, 3/-,
3/3, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6.
You are anxious to put down a good-looking clot-6
upon the hall and landings. You would like to
cover the whole of the space. Y r ou don’t care to
exceed 2/- a yard. Can you lay a good-looking
cloth at the money ? You can, you can get a very
good-looking cloth at the money, but there is a
great difference between a good-looking and a
lasting and durable cloth.
If you want a lasting and durable Oilcloth or
Linoleum you will have to pay 3/- at the very
least. If you want a really best, Naims Kirkcaldy
‘ super ”it will cost you 4/3, or 4/6. It cannot be
had for less, and indeed costs 4/- in any of the
London or provincial houses.
MattiDgs from China—plain or fancy or superior
and in best colorings. Lawlers arrange for special
shipments and the buyer in Hong Kong selects the
newest and best patterns.
Of fancy Matting, yard wide, Lawler’s can sell
if a roll of 40 yards be taken, a very serviceable
Matting at 6d yard, or will supply cut lengths at
7jd.
Then there is a range at 9d. 1/3, 1/6, 2/-, 2 6,
3,1:
Door Mats strong and heavily set with webbed
backs made of best fibre, all sizes, at lowest
possible prices.
For instance a mat weighing 91bs. 5/9, and
extra large door mats weighing 18ibs. 12/-.
Fancy fibre mats with wool borders 4/6 to 15/-.
Door mats or mottled slip mats 1/11 and 2/3 paten
Axminster door mats, superior line, 3/6.
Wool mats in fancy colors 4/6, 5/d, 6/6.
Large fancy j ute Tapestry mats 2 yards long
1 yard wide. 1/9, 2/6.
China slip mats with border and reversible,
2 yards long 1 yard wide, worked edges and re-
quiring no border 1/3, 1/6, 2/-.
Hearth Rugs in Tapestry. Fancy patterns 4/6,
5/9, 7/6, 10/6.
Ditto - in Velvet pile 13/6, 17/6, 21/-.
Ditto—The Soudan 13/-.
Ditto —The Oriental 20/-
Ditto—The large goat skin 15/-.
A line of Chinese clothes baskets with locked
lids, handles &c., in three sizes, at prices 7/6, 10/6,
15/-, does next occupy our attention and remark-
ably cheap we must in all honesty proclaim them.
It was our intention to have dealt with lines
and bargains to be met with upon the bedstead
floor and bedroom furniture floor, and to have
treated of the Drawing and Dining room floor but
space forbids so that we will have to refer to the?e
other floors in a future issue, our next perhaps.
But finish with the sth floor in this issue we
must.
Space now only enables as to briefly summarise
Curtains and Tablecloths.
Lace Curtains 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 21/-,
25/-, 35/-, per pair. Persian fancy Lace Cu tains
9/6, 12/6, 17/6, per pair. Madras Lace Curtains
13/6,17/6, 21/-, 27/6, 35/-, per pair. The aesthetic
and acceptable Kangra Curiains '4O/- and 50/-.
Tapestry Curtains 15/-, 25/-, 35/-, 45/-, per pair.
Table Covers. Fancy printed, 1/6, 1/11, 4/-, 6/6,
8/-, each. Ditto, Figured Clotb, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6,
21/-, each. Ditto, Oatmeal C.cth, 21/-, 24/6, 27/6,
each. Tapestry Covers 6/11, 8/11, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-,
25/-, 35/-, 45/-, each-
Gipsy and Occasirna Covers all piices.
Truly LAWLER'S Emporium 608 George-street
is a thoro agh and excellent and economical place
at which to furnish.


<37 4c
GEORGE ST, BRI3KFIELD HIIL, SYDNEY,
is the Only Address of the
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOGIITim
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICKS,
In fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every pescription of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Eignor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
mi mu mis,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a Bet,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Yiola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c,, &c.
o
ACCORDBONB, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
„ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
„ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
„ French Violin, with extra finished
oase, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£4 10s.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key... 35/■
,1 Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21 /■
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, (5/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality j 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the oolonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNBY,
THE AUSTRALIAN
jOAN, discount and finan-
cial COMPANY,
Limited.
■
m
HEAD
OFFICE =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1888.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 4a. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
all usual Banking Business. Current Acoounts
Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
kinds of Commercial Securities.
openei
all kin
GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AKD
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4£ per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M‘NAMARA,
SECRETARY.
fhfh
fhtghf
manufacturers
If IMPORTERS OF
‘HATS CAPS &t
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY
a
fV
a
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERGK
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE SHOWER BATHS.
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes for Race Horses.
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
*M.R I L B Y
: *'• (late of the Detective Foroe),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
US ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Abwonder* and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
unSdential Inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
tlvoroe. libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
'•ulon and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
•arriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Sent* and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
In the Detective Force of New South Wales, Viotoria, and
Few Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
ilsbe, he ll in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
xp (tuition and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
attend to all business entrusted to h nare
dhfh
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for even form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
'N
Scrofula on Neck*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsomr Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Ccticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cutioura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jeiiy for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and Wholesale
throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
iScArv id. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
si. ) j "Juticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
iiio : e>p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pet Twit)*
Prepared by the
Potter f 7 rug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.B.A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
Is the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain, all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medieine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution.— As there are In this market numerous inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s,
CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
B
RAD j&T,
NRWTON) fee LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNELL STREETS
rtgdg
£B5
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
Bound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con-
nell-street.
rhfch
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
FFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to matoh.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
dhfch
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sts.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
■\T OVELTIES In Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
_LI SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
fhfh
Drawing room cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Fuknitum Wasihouskmim,
Importers of High-arfe
Fnrnltnre,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
Drawing-room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
v »~
w
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed*
rooms. New designs oovered to order in
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-Btreet.
fhfth
Bedsteads, ail siseii
Niokel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and!
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
fhfh
SPRING MATTRASSES
Woven Wire, but
make) also, Spiral Spring-
Price, from tig, each,
ERADLBT, MBWTON and LAMB,


A Two-edged Argument.
“Lord Salisbury has just publicly stated that all the world was at variance with England on the subject of Freetrade. “That policy,” remarked his lordship, “is condemned by everyone but ourselves.” — Cablegram.
JOHN BULL: “I’M BEGINNING TO BELIEVE THAT ALL THE WORLD IS LIKEWISE AT VARIANCE WITH US ON SUBJECTS OTHER THAN FREETRADE, JUST LOOK BEHIND YOU, MY LORD.”


never travel without it.
mjv .jarorrsae?-
sgxdsg
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
EL-TIES MOSQUITOES
s ; aho *s:
TIME aui v£
IKDS DOGS
s
0
o
V
c >
T-
«r>
V
*
T*-
dgdbh
FELTON*GfUMWADfc,t£C v
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
jyjgf
S"W,
* HHMHdm i h iVn i
u
Goiof#Srx*r
+ATO
Trcacu
IFf/RfPS
f esro
/OSS (
dgdgd
lFACro #y. Ntvyjow
BRANCH C£ORC£ ST, SYON£Y
“BOOKS,”
Any Book You Want,
ROBERTSON,
ll * market street, gnunsv.
Woond-hand Books. Price of any book on application. Books lent by
mail to any part of Aas lia
w HAT IS YOUR HOBBY ?
O'
Ofte, ot . hap
s
: tk Z >oi*. * Poor sa'
*k* ann. Z
*Ow
onu T sa
S'
you>>
QU *k*v e
WS* h
1 5, niaf
sV te !
,
ma
XA
SC
w J
The -*oBt of every requisite
for a beginner is so low, it*will
surprise you..
Satisfy yourself iby a visit
to our
WHOLESA TJ®
PHOTOGRAPHIC
WAREHOUSE.
°UTNER AND 00.,
24 °’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
jli ,
OXJSE for Photographic Supplies
Southern Hemisphere.
oXJ K, IST El w CATALOGUE.
!^W e havy
Bead otl f aew Mnlar g in 8 Department in work, and shall be pleased bo
lists upon application to the trade only.
dhgbhdc
T. WILLIAMS & 00..
-Tv IMPORTERS OV
& Foreign Boots & Shoes
.j, Alio Manufacturer! of
Quality or Goods
2 ?8 an
IN THE ABOVE
HOCS
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branchesi
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and cam offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
AIA.DE BN £Y & C?
0 i '^2 —
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
,-XLa^^SU,
SHIRT MAKERS?*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECH AM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS
:
z
z
38
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth »
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pam
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, Short-
ness of breath, costive->
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX,
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
aa a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEE CHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the Bystem. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
lpng-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
■of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have ths largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
■ Hoarseness, and oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with ithe above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
: with any of -the above .complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pints a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’b Piles, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they : arc a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. ltd. and 2s. 9d,
each.—Sold by ail Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
ALLEE B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
orpasses alt others for its lasting and natur
4
TUB** Gold Mrn.ua—
-BARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
'or pre-eminent excellehce of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATT DE COLOGNE.
unequalled Cor it* strength and delightf
•agrance. it far ?urpa*se* the ntnceroi
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap Is superior to a
others tor cleansing and softening the skin
t is strongly and beautifully perfumed an
very lasting m use
Of all Dtalert, and of tke Manufacturer
3 & E ATKINSON,
24, Old Bono Stalst, London
Trade Mark-" White Rose” on“ Golden
BBmWB
ORiCIN A L
o
on
<■l
mZXZ
CJ
at
«-T
CD
p.
a
P
cP
rV
Laughs tt wtY
OBTAINED A
FIBST CLASS*: A ---J
OF.
HIGHEST BGORGE OF MERIT i
n
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD'.!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUC H’S
r Etc }v ror h t :**te wnat’CNAw
• p r i x e m e: d a i
MaNUFACTORED HYJAMES CHANMOH
Harbour 3 t Sydney
Sold fey All Crocefs and Storekeepers
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
'«TRIUMPH " THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon’s Roller System or Ftoir* Miuuicfl,
'/< Sole Agents I
E. C. ELLIOTT & 00.,
64» KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
IASraMATBMHMfISrCOUaHS
iH'j ALL tmm AFPE£TIGMS
* !■ [£L°aßej> ONt-S aY (VC
T HQM A-S IHQHA M.-l
M «■ tr wr M' A SU« S* X O JSi . B v#
D** RIDGE’S
FOOD
For INFANTS anq INVALIDS
Has an enortnoiis sate »n Knglandk
snd is now being introduced into tn#
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ttOYAL FOODMir.X-a»
CONDON. ENGLAND.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above la one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
WJ O H N S O N
# COOPER. SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED SAUBJR,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET. SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces mid Kegs, la law
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
HAIIfiHC KM All. ITS BRANCHES.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
■■
THE above has been known for some years as
being the oldest family and squatting hotel
In Queensland. There is a large drawing-room
exclusively for ladies, without extra charge,
Amongst other additions- lift and flre-proof stair-
oase, Invaluable acquisition to hotels. First-class
Chef, can cater in a very superior style. Electric
bells every room. Suite of rooms for families.
Hot and cold baths every door. Large banqueting
room. Sampler oom.
lid H. DANIBLLS, PrsprletOil
iwtml nuorar ihi un
250 PITT STREET.
AJ(
e^°s itB received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call,
this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend,
JAMES A.. TODD.


fuk*"
ROYAL
m*
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid o:
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
the® lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids ail decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, tbereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal B'aking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of .time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
whom'omh. Sold only in tins. Royat. Baking
Powr-KH Co., lOfl Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
JF*. R. JL*4ILR:KXJCtir,
IMPORTER,
Family "Wine avd ‘Spirit jMerch ant.
him him f~*| gg£P£;
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L, still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &o„ whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PR NC€ OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORG IS STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS
P
I
israw
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, f ~ .
AND.
60 .CLAREFTCE STREET, STDNfif;
Melbourne and London.
TKD CATALOGUES WITH PRIOR LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION, v
iLLU
CJHEAP and
GENERATE
K\
Spreader
MINE
_ _e to twenty-four<
Guaranteed to )
complications.-
teen towns to >
NOW FIRST I
FULL IMS '
D. K 1
FRIO
i Globe or Sh*
! B>aD °w"'h" f
8 Branc^Kowi
4 Branch Brass P
2 *
IRranc^rag^
Outside Lamp for » ot
Sector • > CTo’r,
Hall Stained Glass r
"^S-SSaS
Branch Bracket wm..
With Glob‘
ae Lamp,, I
Mines, W
Or Ohimn .
Candles ■•.
"apt,ha Lamp, ■**“
it Sperm Ca»d
.'aeh burner gi?
Naptha per gto
A
Address-^^„.^ w[
Address
- fe tctW
in»“ '
Insurance Co., >-
ASK YOUR GROOBR FOR
MALTED
J. 8. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“AM ORDINA.KY OUP OONTAINS MOB*
THAN A PINT OP THB BEST ALB 0»
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pi« and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <Sso.
®raßS and Beil Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmi thing, Blaekamlthing, Plumbing,
Gasfitfting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, foe.
Me Agents for Verity JBros., Patent Air Propellers, Rxkaast Fas Cowls, «as WUres, Heaters,
Warmers, de,
BON ACCORD WORKS,TAND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
FtJU. PARTtOOTAKB AND PRION ON APPLICATION.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABKRG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com
mereial Travellers, and others.
4 W Private Suites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors,
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
hats;! 9St
Bou® m
flO f i
PAliAUf at
CRAMP, PboP "® I '^ b »
r^TSs^‘>
rge Billiard
loes aa follows f
302
8 Doors
die®-^
""
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS,
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a health? action of the earns and delieht
aSd^SldaUy CW b6St * obtaiued by sri %
°f the Oriental
pleasing frag
highly betfeS
sop
Aii i«s;;s^KS
oial influenoe on the teeth and gums
pastes can possibly bo
a pure *ud
BOB?gritty
Ho other Odonto is genuine,
fair and OIL i» now aojd to a golden colour for
def ft :^ ,e^w^^VowliaSf«r
—fj on harden; London, and aroid spurious and pernicious imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Bros,, and JC. pßOsewr? St Co., Sydney,
OEM'
FIE 6
p R3E3 8q HIPTIOB ** are to
be found ,in the LIGHT AND
life,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
8. Ward & go.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
,76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
t V
gdgd
ffc
inei
tdrgdcg
0.
m
tgdgd
rgdg
tONFECTIOHER
mr
dgdgd
**? fjM »<SR-rs,lf St 4+
*£uu &*■ 4*&**s. ms!&si
***:*#**:;** ; #*?.>-##
mm l l ii Httl m ‘ »»»*
Quinn
FIBST
(B
. ‘tss&sßz
r«*» 1 -*&
|*#® sofAsK-
t»p°“sdS ■
ooaAwy ora
“ Technical College Laboratory, Sydney, 30th
October, 1886,—The Syphon -/United Water Oohi-
pany. —Gentlemen,—Having seen the process of
JBrated Water manufacture carried on by you,
v aad having examined analytically your product'
I can bear witness 1 1 its purity, and thorough
saturation with carbonic acid g.w. Chemical
analysis shows that your system of water purih
cation is as near perfection as can be.—l
*”* - ' mb ~
M
as
1,1 • SYOHEY,
BH
at) e
ouid W
