

The Bulletin
WHOEVER, WHATEVER, WHEREVER YOU ARE,
IT IS TO YOUR ADVANTAGE TO READ THIS.
L
cS,,. Choice Lines.
Si ... ««•
seatin’ - ... 010
- ... 0 0 9
::: ~ Sl \
::: - °l l
k;W!’>x - - oio
R&'witie - - Oio
- ... 007
- - 0 18
lh ' ... 0 13
;VW> s -dozK. ••• 0 2.0
... 0 10
S%v tm 023
RCS, S?* - - 019
.h' ttnß "• - 02 9
\V5 e qts. - -. 009
la. 3d o ... 0 2 3
y > 2o la * Bd *
Kbotff 6rent flavours,
S:^ l2 w B,Bd - and
tte'SX - 009
each n i o
wS*s£- ™s t i
Bsb ::: ~ ::: SIS
wMh - - ••■ 006
Vvfc.W’ .. ••• ... 0 1 0
KS’^S 6 -- ■" - 012
t . - ... 0 2 0
... 0 0 10
- ... 0 0 9
W\3qta. - ... 0 0 9
SK fl 4Vo ... ... 03 3
lhslb .. 8 ’ ilb tins ... 0 0 6
S\S»K- ■■■ - 020
SsSfiS* ::: ::: !S ‘S
::: ::: SIS
::: SIS
0 1 4
Ik,::: ::: ::: SIS
and ls - Bd -”'
|S;$::: :: ::: SS l
IWnjMata ■•■ - 010
- - 0 16
- ••• 0 2 6
EU% Sir. j ••• ... 0 16
&&W b if r ditß'lav" - 0 2 6
ft 1 V u Ck'Se Vors each... 00 3
«> V H - ... 0 1 6
&,>> tij * - ... 0 13
ftKNfc... - ... 0 13
- 002
ftK;VS 8 0 ... oio
' MSSfeS 6a “• ... oo io
»«> Wlu
««■••• 008
“‘•••MU ... 0 16
n *•• ... 0 16
••> ••• ... 0 0 9
•• ••* ... 0 16
... 0 18
Grocery.— Continued*
Vinegar, Tarragon, bottle ... ... 0 010
Vermicelli, lb. ... ... ... 0 10
Pish,
Fresh Herrings, per doz. ... ... 0 5 3
Haddocks » ... 0 10 0
Anchovies in Brine,, ... 0 12 0
Bloaters, Preserved „ ... 010 0
Cod Roes „ 0 6 0
Lobsters » ... 010 0
Mackerel, fresh „ ... ... 0 7 0
Salmon „ - ... 0 9 0
Ousters » 0 7 0
Clams » 0 7 0
Turtle >• ... ... 018 0
Sardines, in oil ~ ... ... 0 9 0
Herrings, Red, 2doz. in tin, per tin ... 0 2 4
Herrings, Kippered, per doz. ... 010 0
Fille sof boles „ ... ... 012 0
Bloater Paste, bottles ~ ... ... 012 0
Anchovy „ „ „ ... ... 012 0
Shrimp ~ ~ ... ... 012 0
Summer Beverages.
Citrate Magnesia, per bottle ... ... 0 010
Acid Phosphate, per bottle ... ... 0 2 6
Fruit Salts, per bottle ... ... 0 2 6
Hop Bitters (Utica), per bottle ... 0 2 3
~ (ljr. Soule’s), per bottle ... 0 3 6
Limejuice, quarts ... ... ... 0 010
„ Cordial, quarts ... ... 0 10
Lemon Syrups, quarts ... ... 0 010
Lemonade Powders, 12 in box ... 0 010
Raspberry Syrup, quarts ... ... 0 010
„ Vinegar, quarts ... ... 0 13
Syrup of Tamarinds, per bottle ... 0 13
Ginger Ratafia, per bottle ... ... 0 16
Beef Celery and Iron, large bottles ... 0 4 6
Drugs and Patent Medicines.
Horse Spice, 141 b. bag, ... ... 0 7 6
Holloway’s Ointment, per pot ... 0 1 0
Balsam of Horehound, per bottle ... 0 10
Cod Liver Oil, per bottle ... ... 0 2 0
Chlorodyne, per bottle ... ... 0 10
Disinfecting Powder, per tin ... ... 0 10
Kidney Wort, per bottle ... ... 0 4 6
Siegel’s Syrup, per bottle ... ... 0 2 9
Praiue Flower, per bottle ... ... 0 2 6
Seal Oil, per bottle ... ... ... 0 10
Pyretic Saline, per bottle ... ... 0 2 9
Painkiller, per bottle ... ... 0 13
PiUs, all makers, per box ... ... 0 13
St Jacob’s Oil, per bottle ... ... 0 2 3
Seidletz Powders (London), per box ... 0 010
Sarsaparilla, per bottle ... ... 0 2 0
Lactated Food, per tin ... ... 0 10
Embrocation, per bottle ... ... 0 3 0
Tonic Nervine (Marshall’s), per bottle 0 4 3
Orange Quinine Wine, per bottle ... 0 2 6
Epsom Salts, per lb, ... ... ... 0 010
senna Leaves, per packet ... ... 0 0 2
Tartaric held, per lb. ... ... 0 2 9
Cream Tartar, per lb. ... ... 0 2 0
Jamaica Ginger, per bottle ... ... 0 10
Fluid Magnesia, per bottle ... ... 0 10
Insecticide Kruse’s Is. tin for ... 0 010
Butter Colour, per bottle, from ... 0 0 6
Cheese Colour, quart bottle ... ... 0 2 0
...g _ _ HIM r
Tobacco, Dixson’s, per lb. ... ...' 0 3 9
Cigars, Manillas, per 100 ... ... 017 6
rigors, 100 in box. 12s to 475. 6d.
C garottes, per 1000, 17s.
Snuff, per lb.. 4s. 6d.
Wines, Australian, per dozen, 12s. to 365.
Perfumery—London and Paris.
Assorted, 2oz. Bots. ... ... ... 0 0 9
„ 3oz. Bots. ... ... ... 0 10
Musical Instruments.
Concertinas Each—4s. 6d., 55., ss. 6d., 65., 7s. 6d.,
9s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d., 215,, 255., 30s.
45 s., to £2O.
Accotdeens —7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 155.,
17s, 6d., 21s , 255.. 305., 405., to £5.
Violins—7s. 6d., 10s. 63., 155., 205., 255., 305., 605.,
to £2O.
Banjoes—ss., 7s. 6d., 10s., 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d.,
20s , 25s , 30s.
Musical Instruments. Continued.
Flutes-Is. 6<L, 3s. 6<L, ss. 6d., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d.,
10s., 155., to £lO.
Cornets—4os , 505., 755., 1055., 130 s. to £lB.
Drums— £3 to £5.
Harmoniums (in Walnut or Black and Gold), from
£9.
Pianos (Walnut, Rosewood, Ebonixed), £35, £45,
Organs—£l3 10s., £lB, £22, £25, £3O.
Dominoes, per box. Is. and Is. 3d.
Diamond Dyes. all colours, dye your clothes or
make best inks, packet, 6d.
Garden Pump, Fire Engine, and Lawn Sprinkler
combined, 10s.
Lawn Mowers, 40s.
Sewing Machines, fitted on inlaid walnut polished
table, with cover, 1265.
Tents, Tarpaulins, <fec-
Tents, each 12s. to 28s. 6d.
Flys, each 6s 6d to 20s.
Oiled Covers, per square yard, Is. 9d,
Tarpaulins, all sizes, 12s. to 110 s.
Horse Covers, each 6s. 3d. and 9s.
Water Bags, each 2s 6d and 3s.
Verandah Buckets, each ss. and ss. 9<L
Oilskin Clothing, lowest prices.
Verandah Blinds, bamboo, 7s. to 17s. 6<L
Water Filters, from Bs. 6d.
Water Filters for Taps, reversible, self-cleansing,
sizes in stock f, f, and one inch, price each
3s. 6d.
Paperhangings, per roll, 3£d. to 3s.
“ North Star " Washboards, solid zinc, last a life*
time, each 2s. 6d.
Agricultural—Garden and Flower
Seeds.
Our 10s. 6d. Collection includes 27 packets of
Vegetable and 6 packets of Flower Seed-
Our 21s. Collection includes 44 paokets of Vege-
table and 12 packets of Flower Seeds.
Collection of Flower Seeds, 12 varieties, for 2s. 6d.
and 5s
Complete Price List for Trees, Plants, Shrubs, and
Nursery Stock, post free.
Tanks, water, from 100 to 1000 gallons, fitted
complete, from per gallon.
Tanks, iron, 200 and 400 gallons, 40s. and 70s.
each.
Beer Engines, 1,2, and 4 pull, £2 10s., £lO 10s. and
£l6.
Champagne Stands, for bar counters, 355. each.
Ice Chests, 355., £4, and £5 ss.
Ice-cruam Freezars, 155., 18s., 215., 245., 275. 6d.,
325.
Garden or Verandah Seats, 325. 6d., 35a., 375. 6d.,
405., 425. 6d., 45 <.
Sausage Machines, Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d,, lls., 14s.
each.
Sausage Skins, per lb., Is. 6d.
Wringing Machines, 17s. 6d. and 18s. 6d.
Pumps, suction, 155., 15s. 6d , 16s. 6d., 205., 255.
Pump*, suction and force, 475. 6d., 555., 625. 6d.
Safes, meat, 10a. 6i., 13s 6d , 155., 16s. 6d.
Spades, garden, 6s , 6a. 6d., and 7s. 6d.
Tools, grafting, 4s. and 4a. 6d set.
Watches, Waterhury, 13s. 6d each.
Harvey’s Patent Lamps, 18s., 205., 305.. 375. 6d.
Hitchcock's Atmospheric Lamps, 275. 6d. each.
Climax Lamps 15s.
Toilet Services. 6 pieces, 10s., 12s. 6d„ 16s. 6d.,
17s. 6d., 20s.
Toilet Services, 5 pieces, 75., 95., 118,, 13s. 6d„
14s, 6d.
Tea Services, 40 pieces, 12s. 6d., 19s. 6d., 235.,
275. 6d. 32a. 6L, 375. 6d.
Cups and Saucers, white and gold, largest size,
dozen, sa. 6d.
Cups and Saucers, common, dozen, 4s.
Basins, dozen 35., 3s. 6d., 4a.
Teapots, brown lOd. to 2s. 6d.
Plates, large, medium, small, dozen, 3s , 45., ss.
Tumblers, 35., 3a. 6d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 3d., 4s. 6d.
dozen.
Wineglasses, 3s. tid., is., os., (Is., to 13s. 6d.
Claret or Hock Glasses, is. 9<L dozen
Milk Testers, pints, 3s. each.
Water Bottles, hand painted, red, each 6s.
Butter Coolers, hand painted, red, each 7s.
Flower per dozen Is. 3d. to is.
Saucers, per dozen Is 3d to 9s.
Bread Pans, per gal. 2s.
Boots and Shoes.
(Direct from Factory.)
Men’s Bluchers, ds. 9d., 65., 7s. 6dL
Men’s Shooting Boots, 11s. 3d. and 12s. 6d.
Men’s E.S., 6s. 6d., Bs., Bs. 6d., 9s.
Youths’ Balmorals, 7s. 3d.
Yout hs’ E.S , 6s.
Youths’ Bluchers, is. 6d., is. 9d.
Boys’ Bluchers, is. 3d.
Boys' Balmorals, ds. 3d.
Boys’ E.S., is. 9d.
Women’s Balmorals, ds. 6d., 7s. 3d., Bs.
Women’s E.S., ds. 9d., 7s. 3d.
Girls' Balmorals, is. 3d., ds. 3d., ds. 9d.
Girls’ E.S., is. 9d , ds. 6d.. 6s. 3d.
Children’s Balmorals, is. 6d., ds.
Children’s E S„ 35., 3a. 6d., 3s. 9d., is. 3d.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers.
Gun, 5.8., 8.L., from £4 to £8 10s.
Gun, D. 8., 8.L., from £4 Ids. to £45.
Gun, S. 8,, M.L , from £1 Ids. to £9.
Gun, D. 8., M.L., from £2 to £lO.
Rifle, Saloon, from £1 to £l.
Rifles, Sporting, £1 to £lO.
Revolvers from 10s. to £5 10s.
Colt's New Lightening Rifles, 16 shots—the
perfect weapon ever introduced, £6 6s.
Air Guns, £1 10s. to £2 10s.
Sportsman’s Requisites; all kinds.
Athletic Sports.
Cricket Bats, All Cane Handles, Ids. 6d., 16s. Cd..
17s 6d., 18s., 205., 215., 255.
Bats, Single Cane, 12s. 6d., 13s. 6d.
Bats, Double Cane, Ida. 6d., 16s. 6d.
Youths’ Bat*, Bs. 6d to 13s. 6d.
Matting Wicket £3 to £6,
Balls, Duke’s, 6s. 6d., 7s 6d., Bs. 6d.
Leg Guards, per pair, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.. 13s. 6d.
Gloves, Wicket, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 13s 6d. per pair.
Gloves, Batting, Bs. 6d., 10s per pair.
Stumps, per set, 75., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 13s. 6d.
Full List of Cricketer's Requisites on application.
Foo> balls, 6s to 17s. 6d,
Lawn Tennis Sets, Complete, £3 35., £4 is., £4
155., £8 10s.
Rackets, Ids., 17s. 6d
Balls, per dozen, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 125., Ids., 16s. 6d.
Croquet Sets Complete, for 8 players, 30s. bo £4 IQa.
Fencing Foils, Bs. 6d., 10s. od., 12s. 6d.
Dumb Bells, Is. to 7s 6d. per pair.
Indian C.ubs, Bs., Bs. 6d , 9a.. 10s., 11s., 12s, pair.
Skittles, per set, complete, £3 ds.
Cheese for Skittles, Is. 9d.
Horizontal Bars, 30a.
Trapeze Bars, 10s. 6d.
Boxing Gloves, per pair. 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 15s. 6d.,
17s. 6d , 20s , 22 a. 6d.
Bicycles, from £9 10s. to £2O.
Tricycles, Two Track £2O.
Tricycles, Tandem. £27.
Childrens)’ Tricycles and Bicycles, £6 each.
Bagatelle Tables, £32
Billiard Tables, £44 to £l2O.
Billiard Room Furniture and Sundries at Sydney
list prices.
Saddlery and Harness.
English Buggy Harness, 90s. to 2305. the set.
Yankee Bu*gy Harness, 60s. to 140 s. the set.
Colonial Spring Cart Harness, 84s. the set.
Clothing Ht rse Linen, 28s. suit.
Prince’s Check, 525. 6d. suit.
Kersey, 60s suit.
Collars, P.R. Buggy, 13s. 6d. each.
~ Yankee Buggy, 16s 6d. eaoh.
~ Cart, 11s. and 12s 6d. each.
~ Spring Cart, 12s. each.
Saddles —Engli sh —Riding.
Gents’, 50s to 120 s. each.
Ladies, 84s. to 140 s, each.
Racing, 60s. and 70s. each. &c., See., Sco.
f $ v
\k kinds of Diapery, Clothi g, Tinware, Iron, Ironmongery, Oils, Paints, Colors, Varnishes and Painting Sundries,
Bottles. Bottling and Mineral Water Manufacturing Requisites, India Rubber Goods, Watches, Clocks,
er y> Carts Waggons, Drays, Buggies, Express Waggons, Ploughs, Harrows, Cornsnellers, Churns, Butchers’
and Blacksmiths’ Requisites, etc , etc.., will be sent post free on application,
80 OXFORD STREET, SYDXEY,
and IMPORTERS’ FORWARDING AGENTS.
inquiries regarding goods or prices quoted should be addressed.
tar GOODS shipped to all parts op the colonies.


%
m
- f LUJSTR ATEO CATALOGUES ft PRICES POST FREE
.W.H.PALING&G 1 " 1 "
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
Wo,Organ# Music Importers.
largest stock and greatest Variety in Australia - giving the
fruhiiL-the Widest possible choice.-PIANOS fromfAo,i
bubUtihe widest possible choice.- PIANOS from £4o, ORGANS from £l2-
* PAYMENT ev monthly instalments TO SWT AU CUSTOMERS
PALING it &
HILL*
ANUFACTURERS
REiRIwU
7F.
/'
GoiDf*sr*ur
/
Trlalii
srrtntffts
tsrb
/ess
**AO OfflCC l FACTORY. NCWTOWN
BRANCH. CEORCE ST SYDNEY
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited*
m
IHIES-A-ID OFFICE s
CORNER OF MARKETAND YORK STREETS,
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1888.
rt A PITAL £lOO,OOO STERLING.
STERLING.
he
m «pon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
OVERDRAFTS “granted against deposits
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4h per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WBB BOm| SXnThT™ 0 ' 1
S X& SSS
laterMt for the period ol depo»U.
■Y ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, i_
H M'NAMARA,
rnfflßnT A EY.
CAUTION.
THE UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the United Horae Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a Bpuriouß nail, made in imitation of the
**Globe” nails, and which aro exported from
Germany. . . ,
The nails in question are made of inferiormetal,
frwd are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and, Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.R-S. nhrt n. Co„ and customers should take
that they get the boxeß so marked.
By order.
R. a HAZEON, Secretary. \
116 Cannon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well*
known reputation maintained.
TUPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
MT First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
MASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
A HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings :-The “Western Cham*
plon" saysi “I can recommend the Rockhampton
flxmnln to my western friends.”
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress— Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westport.)
Palace PamiJy H tel,
Corner op Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilate d
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
XCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor,
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
10 a.' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tio-
DctOREUX, Aching Painb in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Vv hy suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I In Bottles, Is., 2s. ss., and 10s.
CUBE FOfv BLIGHT
ROSE'S CELEB PRATED EYE LOT lON.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
fi. A. ROSS, Pharmaceutical Ohfmtet,
681 Geor are-street only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O'Connell
does not need to advertise at aiL His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. O’CONNELL,
f Edgar House
Comer Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.
E
-0H E ORIGINAL
0*
,0'
&
yflN 6AK tuc p (
WAUGHS *
OBTAINED A
f I|ST CLASS AWARfI ; ij
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
IS.THE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RECEIVED THE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZe M E D A L
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S t Svdncv
Sold by All Crocers and Storeftwpers
m
if
Hjp
as*
DI:XSON«SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
fiJ7&(2N A 6 0&3
conqueror
YANKEE DOOIU
na'ilroc
CHAMP,! 24"
X>TXS OH* SONS *‘° M
CUT.bTi„MS
gSSSwSSg
owsow « sens
OIMSO
onfsofj * sous
t>nrjo
Moiras*©
NSW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Contingent Hospita
Corps; also fronniminent Doctors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital.
ium
uwEue.
PIKE
MONK’S
MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
['Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See i
rMIOIDTIKI’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoee Mixta,
A positive ox. re. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bott e.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE, 5
2s. 6d. per bottle, 1
Sole Agents:
MATH* Y, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
ii Little Collins treet East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
QYMPIE. QUEENSLAND.
The Centrai Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms wit hcut extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (A 1 cock’s). First-class chef.
Charges striotly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office; Townsville, N, Queensland.
G. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling pnblio that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
tile SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on nnder his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persohs visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
I > Note the Address—
* I'M ICHAEL BOLTON
W™' (Of the Firm of Lowry Sc Bolton),
S' 'U S B|P RST HOTEL.
■ —t ■ —» MOUNT MORGAN.
rpilK REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Beret labour, stationery, and lime, writing mrfbh fatter
than expert pen-men, ana oondenting matter to iett than
one-half the tpaee ooonpied bp pen writing. Beautiful
nopiea map be taken in the uaual manner in the letter-press
■old wholesale and retail bp the (ole agents,
IMRAY fc 00.,
410 Keat-streeb
c
tfK
m.
manufacturers
Ir IMPORTERS OF
HATSCAPSic
438 CEORcT
SYDNEY
r <
it
GRAND
BUNDABBB 0,
Under New
0/
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM T
SB OW® B
PLUNGE AND
Good Stabling, and Loose Bo* 08
for'
DRAWING-BOOM V /
•hef<-
Having engaged a first- 0 I»s fl
to cater for the public In »
A T.ff. P. TB to
proa#
RUSTON _
PORTABLE BNGINBB
“TRIUMPH” THBASt^
—*— of fP' 1 '
Simon’s Roller System^
E. O. ELLIOT^
54t KENT
THE GREAT NOR T^^sjj!
-*T
K. HA-^V
13 °_? ?&*?,
orABB TB f %
WOTS, SPIRITS, Stf
?i
Carriage free by Bail or BW“jr, 0 w P»^ h r '
you please from the Us* * Ble0 d jrl* B
Bobertson-s, Walker or BOT®J k e'« *** ..
Dunville* Shamrock and « ur ..
Brian Bora Whisky " .< .•
Hennescy’a * Cognac •• <
Square Gin
Jamaioa Rum
Red Heart do.
Rea Heart ao. . B r:. <«. o»
Flasks Brandy brands‘jjd*
English Ales and Stout, beat d ,„♦»* . >
Port Wine for connoisseur» U
Port Wlnt and Sherry from
Best brands Whisky or BranW {l'M
£3 CASE
Superior ACCOM MOR":fro®
attention afforded to vi s lfc °tije WJ *J? efi* ■'
rooms are conducted under t» cb yU >
late of Wellington (N. 2.)» jj*o
Guests will receive ey er J' -iway* 0 ,
Wines, Spirits, and Beers »* w /
papers kept on file.* /)/ pr
m
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
Dllll DC
rtlHlrwi
f#J
MAC HP
s
J
/
'/
$
//
LOCOMOTIVES,
ESTIMATE®
Sydney:
111, nn street-
9
p


The Bulletin
vo. B—ro. 39 a ,
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1887.
Price,, 0 \
A Council of War.
GEN. GILLIES: “WE ARE GETTING ON BEAUTIFULLY. THAT IDEA OF YOURS OF COLONIAL FEDERATION FOR PURPOSES OF DEFENCE IS IMMENSEI IT PROVES
THAT WE ARE READY TO SINK ALL INTERCOLONIAL JEALOUSIES IN A COMMON CAUSE. NOW, I HAVE AN IDEA. MELBOURNE, YOU KNOW. BEING THE
MOST IMPORTANT CITY IN THE COLONIES, OF COURSE, HAD BETTER BE HEADQUARTERS."
GEN. PARKES: "HA-HUM— ER—I MEAN-THAT IS, AFTER ALL, PERHAPS, THERE IS NO IMMEDIATE DANGER. SUPPOSE WE TALK OF SOME OTHER SUBJECT OF
INTERCOLON INTEREST."


“THE BULLETIN”
(Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co.
Limited.)
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly . 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, Ac., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Eitef'dry communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
• NOTICE.
'""Bij sc/Vdim! direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1887.
Collar-and-Cuffs Morality.
That infernally thick-skulled and grossly
blockish bourgeois estimate of life and o.
social organisation which people have learnec
to associate with those unphilosophical anc
densely Philistinish journals, the Sydney
D.T. and S.M. Herald, is again and again
plethorically exemplified by inane, albeil
conceited, journalistic flapdoodle served oui
by the yard on questions which have severely
taxed the powers of a Charles Darwin or
of a Herbert Spencer. Never yet have
these “ respectable" compilations of diurnal
dullness, these philomaths of moral fiddle-
faddle, touched a social question without the
unvarying vapidness and blatant back-par-
lour and Sunday-school board-room twaddle
inseparably connected with the names oi
these organs of the mighty mediocrity of
well-to-do Bottoms and Dogberrys. These
papers manage—apparently with no very
supernal effort—to grovel along in the in-
tellectual dust so favourable to the menta]
and ethic obtuseness of their prosperous and
coarse-nerved clientele. The other day the
S.M. Herald sang softly, and sweetly, and
sapiently, and Christianly, and according to
its limited theological lights,, anent the
wickedness of permitting “ unmarried
mothers” to endure the racking pangs of
child-birth in the same sacred atmosphere
as the matrimonially parson-blessed and
finger-with-wedding-ring-encircled women.
This gave the pulpit-weighted paper a
chance to utter a great many highly moral
and truly edifying Ker-istian precepts which
cannot fail to do good—as good is under-
stood from the standpoint of the Congrega-
tionalist dissenting trader.
•" * *
Now the Sydney D.T. —which seems to
emulate the part of Square to the Herald’s
Thwackum, the one tooting the theological
trumpet while the other twangs the moral
jew’s-harp—takes up the pious theme and
discourseth thus humanely :
“ The police of the city are now displaying
praiseworthy zeal in hunting down inhuman
mothers who abandon their infant offspring.”
Memory of the woman whom Christ com-
mended to go her way and sin no more ! the
police are applauded in the columns of an
alleged intelligent newspaper in this age of al-
leged enlightenment for their “praiseworthy
zeal in hunting down ” —mark that, hunting
downl —unfortunate creatures whose crime is
too often forced upon them by the self-
satisfied, smirking, blastedly self-righteous,
superciliously virtuous agglomerate called
“ (Society ” of which the writer of the above
is a very fair specimen unit! Women who fall
—and according to “Society” all “unmarried
mothers ” are fallen women—do so because
they do not “ know enough.” They are
sentimental, loving, green, silly creatures.
They are ignorant of the dubious where-
abouts of the quack abortionist’s surgery, or
if they know of it, are too modest—yes,
journalistic compounder of moral “ society ”
platitude—too modest to call in the surrep-
titious aid of the unlegalised Balsamo.
They are exposed to all the cynicism of a
sneering “respectable” world, because they
were what “ (Society ” would term shock-
ingly ignorant of the simplest principles of
physiology—so carefully inculcated in the
modern belle whose mother moves in “circles
Belect and bong tongy ,” and around whose
cradle has been described a magic circle
bearing the mystic phrase, “ Get your girls
off before they begin to' wither.” The
“ hunted down ” ones have no such brilliant
fortune. Theirs are the scorn and the
suffering ; the “ Society ” sinners, scores of
them, sin on a scale of superior knowledge,
and sin, too, in much better fashion and
with considerably more taste. Hundreds of
women who hold their diamond-tiara’d heads
aloft in the blaze of “ Society’s ” gaslight,
radiant in beauty and clothed in the truly
superfine virtue of not being found out, are
a thousandfold greater offenders than the
quivering, trembling wretch who deposits
the illicit bundle done up in a newspaper—
mayhap a sheet of the Sydney D.T.—upon
the virtuous and unconscious doorstep of a
church deacon.
* * #
The D.T., however, goes on to say :
“ Children, whose dire misfortune it is to hav6
such parents, are, perhaps, better abandoned than
not; but that alters neither the lav/ nor the
morality of the case. Crime is crime” —Great
Scott, who would have thought it?—“ and society
must protect itself. And, accordingly, society,
as represented by the policeman, tracks down the
outcast mother and drags her to gaol. We do not
complain of this
No ! cheap moralist, we do not suppose
that you lie heavier, or eat lighter, for all
the hideous human misery the sad-faced sun
shines down upon. But what unconscious
satire!—“Society, as represented by the
policeman. ” Modern ‘‘ society ”is too mono-
tonously represented by the policeman.
Why quibble ? Tne “trap ” is useful for the
protection of “ Society,” which protection,
apparently, seems best asssured by tracking
down the outcast mother and dragging her to
gaol. The writer does not mind, however,
though the poor woman be an “ outcast” ;
“society must protect itself.” What
a pity, by the way, is it that the
writer was not exposed when an in-
fant. Society! Society !! Society !! ! “So-
ciety,” to paraphrase the historic utterance
of Madame Roland, “what inhumanities
are committed in thy name ! ” which, after
their commission, receive the gratified smile
of snivelling approval from society-subsidised
newspapers.
■K* * vf-
Again, quoting from this new Social
Purity organ a slab of unctuous moralising :
“Maudlin sympathy for women guilty of these
crimes would be, as everyone would admit, a bad
thing "
Ah ! facile compounder of sermonising drivel,
compiler of senile platitude, no one would
ever make so egregious a mistake as to
accuse you of sympathy, “maudlin” or other-
wise, with anything that suffers. The only
sympathy of which you are capable is sym-
pathetic admiration for the success that cul-
minates in a fat bank-book and a concretion
of meanness in mortar in,a mansion at Potts
or Darling Point, or amidst the clustering
foliage of Elizabeth or Double Bay. Finally,
a sop is thrown to the Cerberus of the oppo-
site sex, carefully sugared with words of
pretended respect for outraged womanhood.
Listen: — .
“ But it is useless asking the law to remedy the
injustice women suffer in these respects. Women
must first do justice to themselves. While a
woman with daughters of her own will receive
into her drawing-room the seducer of another
woman’s daughter, no matter how exalted the one
or how low the other in the social scale, that
women fprfeits all right to pity for whatever in-
sults she may suffer in common with her sex.”
Now, what is the D.T.-giving us ? If this is
the doctrine it intends henceforth to teach,
it will not long continue to hold the
of the chief moolahship in the sacred society
sect. This is a bitter saying, and a true :
Society trades off her daughters by operating
upon the lowest and most brutal passions of
her sons. The nudity of the pretended dress
which seems designed only to reveal as much
of the feminine body as it is possible to re-
veal without revealing it all, the subtle
aroma of rare blooms, the gauzy floating
drapery, the luxurious soft and silken
couches and ottomans, the delirious rose lit
privacy of half illumined conservatories, the
bewitching sound of sensuous music, the
intoxicating coquetry and tutored dalliance
of the female charmers ; all these things are
designed to entrap, and to entrap through
the medium of the passions. If not, what
are they for ? We have heard of a
‘ ‘ Society ” dame who married two out of three
daughters by surprising them, faux-fuyant,
with their lovers. The “ Society ” woman
decline to receive the seducer in her draw-
ing-room ! Pshaw ! the boudoir is the serve,
eh w ide of seduction. If the pretty moths
do occasionally singe their lovely wings they
must remember that they are playing with
fire. But if the D.T. wants to keep its
hand upon the steering-gear of the radiant
wreck called society, no more of this sacri-
lege. Society operates in dark and devious
ways, and ways unclean, to accomplish her
mysterious ends. She erects a glittering
shrine over a cesspool, and garnishes it with
curious filigree and tinsel work, and the
humble votary who bows and worships the
gilded image of the venerable old harpy,
Mrs. Grtjndy, must not rise from his knees,
as does the D.T., and begin to question her
morality.
» * *
The most heartless, the most callou3, the
most selfish and sensual and disgustingly
unsentimental period in English history, 0 is
that in which the “Merrie” Monarch, Sedley
and Rochester, Etherege and Wyciierly,
Vanbrugh and Farquhar, move across
the stage and pourtray the leading charac-
teristics of their generation. In the drama-
tic literature of that day every comedy turns
upon the relations between the sexes. The
leading characters are ever three—the hus-
band, the wife, and the lover. The husband
is always a poor, witless cuckold, only wait-
ing to be deceived. The lover is always a
dashing gallant who has never been known
to fail either in love or in war. All the
contempt, the ridicule, the pitiless sarcasm
are heaped by the playwright upon the poor,
honest, suffering husband. The triumphant
lover receives all the applause, all the lime-
light and coloured-fire illuminations, all the
glory, all the fat. The principle has con-
tinued down to the present day, only we
have shifted the ground of its application.
To-day we give the moral a commercial
point, and beatify the tale with a mercan-
tile adornment. But it is the Charles -the-
Second morality, nevertheless. We laugh
at honest ignorance and blunt but unsuccess-
ful plain-dealing. We genuflect to the cor-
rupt swindler if he be corrupt on a suffi-
ciently gigantic scale. We adoin with roses
the brows of him who has taken an unfair
fall out of his more upright opponent.
“ Secure the swag ! ” This summarises all
the law and all the prophets when read in the
fierce light of nineteenth century-business
notions of competitive success. The Press
never scourges the free and prosperous
scoundrel who drives abroad in a carriage
and sits on a dozen finaucial-trafficboards.
The Press waits till the scoundrel is no
longer successful. It lashes round and
demands justice after the law-courts have
finished with the collapsed bladder. But it
never worries much about the decencies oi
the case if the culprit be poor or an “ out-
cast.” It can howl and pant for blood, too,
when there seems a chance of shifting from
well-nurtured shoulders the responsibilities
of all the crime that is committed in the
world. How it does rally to the rescue or
the protection of its poor old wooden fetich,
Mrs. Grundy ! Its devotion would be
amusing were it not pitiable. This news-
paper press, with such vast possibilities for
the good of humanity, is, after all, only a
tamed tiger, a starved and craven beast of
prey, which licks the hand that beats and
half-feeds it to day, and to-morrow fills
the air with its fierce carnivorous roaring for
the blood of seventeen-year-old children who
have no scraps with which to placate its mas-
ter or to satisfy its own peculiar appetite—
save such scraps as are raked from the
garbage-heaps of unsavoury outrages.
* * »
The other day the D.T. published an
article of considerably over a column on
“ Commercial Morality.” With what frantic
haste does it stretch forth its feeble hand to
smite the impersonal offender ! With what
chivalric courage does it gird on its armour
to do battle with a shadow ! Its warlike
spirit is conjured up with much playing of
journalistic tom-toms when a ghostly abuse
is to be exorcised; when the foe is not
tangible, and when a whiff will dispel the
opposing argument into something less than
the pallid adumbration of diaphanous smoke.
But when the offender is rich and his offence
smells rank in Ht aven, the Sydney Press
maintains a stolid and mulish silence and
staggers along with its dreary old cartload of
commonplace drivel, like an apathetic Mus-
sulman oblivious of the nuisance of the hour
when from the muezzin comes the periodic
call to prayer. The distribution of the fund
subscribed by the public for the relief of the
Bulli sufferers is a case in point. It is broadly
current in Sydney that certain individuals
interested in the Bulli Coal Mining Company
have managed to secure seats on the com-
mittee for the manipulation of the relief
fund, and that these Bulli coal-mine share-
holders are so managing the publicly-sub-
scribed money as to bargain for the retire-
ment of legal proceed ings by the widows of
those men who are said to have come by
their death through alleged criminal negli-
gence on the part of the company. Now,
here was an opportunity for a little of that
“feather-weight” journalism the D.T.
affects so much to admire.
# * *
For some months past “ Society,” all the
world over, has been greatly agitated by a
remarkable piece of work undertaken by a
newspaper to right a wrong. The case was
known as the Langworthy case ; the jour-
nal was the Pall Mall Gazette. The
Sydney D.T. almost lost its ordinary bour-
geois poise over the matter, and began to
talk delirium about the beauty and holiness
of justice, and the power of the press for
good. Rut it soon recovered its vulgar pivot.
It made no attempt to emulate the Lang-
worthy case and the Pall Mall Gazette’s
action in connection therewith. The Bulli
widows were being denied justice ; more,
they were being denied food. It was deter-
mined to starve them out, or it appeared so,
unless they gave their promise to the com-
pany not to prosecute. Till they had money
they could not prosecute. 1 aw is costly, and
bread is more valuable sometimes than jus-
tice. Did any Sydney paper come forward
and advocate the cause of the women ? Did
the D.T. or the S.M. Herald announce
that they were prepared to receive sub-
scriptions for the purpose of forming
a fund wherewith to legally investigate
the cause of the terrible holocaust on
the altar of Capital which shocked and
stunned all Australia, from Carpentaria
to Spencer Gulf ? No ! Have not these
papers maintained the most stolid silence,
particularly so in the case of theS. M. Herald.
When they spoke was it not to give utterance
to some heavy chopped logic in favour of
those who have, and in opposition to those
who have not, to recite some wise saws and
exceeding ancient instances which might
have effected the legislative insanities of the
Kings of Israel and Judah, but which have
no application to the needs of to-day, and
which must have been moth-eaten and blue-
mouldy afar back in the ages of cromlechs
and dolmens, before Methusaleh was a
boy ? It is said that this course—this silence
and this opposition—arises from the fact that
certain shareholders in these newspaper com-
panies are also shareholders in certain coal
mining companies. How very human—or
rather, somewhat less than human—these
newspapers are after all !
* * *
What the “ Society ” paper, thd journal
of the morally and religiously “elect” and
“ select,” declines to do, is taken up in rough
and full-hearted fashion by a man, whose
one reason for existence seems to be’to m Ve
these aforecited journals somebody to attack
and calumniate. Mr. Ninian Melville is
no curled and perfumed darling of the Clubs
or the Points. He is a consistent democrat
a miner’s member, and—an undertaker. The
things of sweetness and light, the lions and
giants of thepapercamp, give himno kind word
for the good he does, but ever maliciously
twit him concerning his trade, and theclumsv
Premier of New South Wales, Falstaffian in
wit as in physique, manages to get no small
amount of facetiousness out of the Northum-
berland member’s mode of earning his daily
bread. Sir Henry Parkes should remem-
ber that we have fallen upon evil times which'
are crying for good grave-diggers. There'
are more botches and bungles above the'
earth’s surface than beneath it !
* * *
And of all botches and bungles one throws
its baneful shadow over the earth and extin-
guishes the remainder. Eclipse is first
indeed, in this instance ! The one thing that
bars the onward progress of reform is that
thing of shreds and patches, that effigy of
sentiment and sham-flam—Mrs. Grundy.
The one prolific hot-bed of abuse and social
disease is that modern growth of moneyed
interest and social folly miscalled tlve
“ Moral Pre3s.”
“Negroes and Nemesis."
‘ An American Citizen” writes in re a recent'
article in The Bulletin bearing the above head-
line •
“ The inference clearly is that the negro race is mereasiii
at such a rapid rate as to imperil the domination of the pale
face. How do you reconcile this with the following statistics
taken from Carnegie’s ‘ Triumphant Democracy,’ page 31:
‘ The proportion of the coloured to the white element neces.
sarily grows less and less. In 1790 it was 27 per cent, cf the
whole, in 183 j it had fallen to 18 per cent., in 1880 it was only
13 per cent. While the total white population of the country
has risen from ten and a half to forty-three and a half
millions in fifty years, the number of the coloured popula-
tion has only risen from two and a quarter to six and a half
millions. This steady decrease results from two causes.
First the coloured race receives no immigrants, but is re
stricted wholly to native increase for its growth; and second 1
it has been proved that although their birth-rate is greater
than that of the whites, it is more than balanced by their
higher death-rate. The increase of coloured people from 1
1860 to 1880 was but 48 per cent, against 61 per cent ic crease
of the whites.’ A little further on Carnegik expresses the’
opinion that ‘ the conclusion seems unavoidable that the
coloured race cannot hold its own numerically against the
whites and must fall farther and farther behind.’ Who has 1
made a mistake, your writer or Carnegie ? ’’
We should like to draw attention to two other
statements made by Carnegie in the same
chapter. In one the Scotchman admits :
“ The universal testimony is that the former slaves rapidly
develope the qualities of freemen, and exhibit, in a surpris-
ing degree, the capacity to manage their own affairs. Many
of them at once arranged at the conclusion of the civil
war—“ with their former masters to work a part of the'
plantation upon shares. Others bargained for the purchase
of strips of land. They are now quite orderly and well-
behaved, and much more industrious than before.”
In another sentence in the same chapter Carnegie
admits that —
“ It is too soon to judge whether, with superior knowledge
and more provident habits flowing from freedom, this exces-
sive death-rate will not be considerably reduced.”
Carnegie allows an increase in the native-born
white population of a fraction over 3 per cent, per
annum, an increase which cannot possibly be kept
up when immigration shall cease, and that there
is a strong presumption that it will cease within a
comparatively short period the fact that the land
is being rapidly absorbed by speculators and rail*
way-grab syndicates is sufficient. Says Henry
George :
“ For the very reason that our growth is so rapid, and our
progress so swift; for the very reason that all the tendencies
of modem civilisation assert themselves here ’’ —alluding to
the United States— ‘‘more quickly and strongly than any-
where else, the problems which modern civilisation must
meet will here first fully present themselves, and will most
imperiously demand to be thought out or fought out. . • •
One of the most, momentous events that could happen to the
modern world would be the ending of this possibility of west-
ward expansion. That it must some time end is evident
when we remember that the earth is round. Practically, this
event is near at hand. Its Shadow is even now stealing over
us. ... To feel the results of what is called pressure of
population, to realise here pressure of the same kind that
forces European emigration upon our shores, we shall not
have to wait for that. . . . There is plenty of vacati
land on Manhattan Island. But on Manhattan Island
human beings are packed closer than anywhere else in the
world. There is plenty of fresh air all around—one man
owns forty acres of it, a whiff of which he never breathes
since his home is on his yacht in European waters ; but, for
all that, thousands of children die in New York every
summer for want of it, and thousands more would die did not
charitable people subscribe to fresh-air funds. Thesocia
pressure which forces on our shores this swelling tide of mr
migration arises not from the fact that the land in Europe is
all in use, but that it is all appropriated. That will be our
case as well. Our land will not all be used; but it will all be
'fenced in.' . . . The great majority of those wishing to
settle, find it cheaper to buy, and rents in California and the
New Northwest run from a quarter or even one half the
crop. . . There is no further West. Our advance has
reached the Pacific,’ and beyond the Pacific is the East, wi
its teeming millions."
Considering that America owes the greater P arfc
of her increase in her native population to the
married couples who emigrate to her shores, and
that the Yankee, born and reared in the States, s
growing averse to marriage, with the stoppage 0
married immigrants—or, indeed, of immigrant* a
all—her outlook as a numerically progressive
nation is not particularly encouraging. "
would, however, draw our correspondent’s atten
tion to the fact that we never Btated that t 6
negro race would ultimately supplant the w
in America, as we certainly did not state as o
opinion the possibility of the Chinese supplants
the white race in Australia. \AII that was ®
dicated was that as in America thlp negroes oU
be a possible future difficulty, so
Chinese would cause prospective tST ( jle ‘


Carnegie is not quotable with exactituc
Henry George in a reoent article in
North American Review, when dealing w
“ Labour in Pennsylvania,” proved the
ceseful Scotchman, who is enamoured of
country in which he has made his fortune, to
incorrect in many of his statements, and illogi
in his deductions in more than a single instan
In the above quotation from “ Social Problem
as well as in many other places, Henry Geor
shows very plainly that the immigratory capac
of the United States has all but reached its lim
hence this item in the increase of its populat
will soon be nil. Again, the very increase of
whites is against them. The most prolific ra
who emigrate to America are the low and po
Irish and Germans, with numerous families,
tellectually of low standard, and, like the negro
prolific in proportion to their ignorance ant
poverty. They are merely pauper refuse—throu
no fault of their own—and hundreds go to t
wall in the struggle for existence. They cann
endure the same privation as the negro : hen
the darker-skinned man has the better chanc
In some of the Southern States the clima
is so unhealthy that only negroes can li
and work in it with impunity. The qu
tation from Carnegie simply shows th
the decrease in numbers in comparing the neg
with the white race is only one of comparison
regard to percentages, yet in quoting Carneg
the writer admits that the negro race in Ameri
has, duriDg 50 years, risen from 2] to 6J millio
without immigration. Then we must rememb
that these figures represent bona fide procrcatio
and that mainly since the emancipation of tl
slaves only a trifle over 20 years ago. Let th
white flood-wave of immigration dash against th
sand-bar of absolute prohibition, and we hav
those facts to consider : The negro, educate
and capable of greater hardship than th
white, marries and begets children, with
out much anxiety as to their futur
ability to procure a livelihood; while th
native-born white Americans are becomin
growingly averse to marriage and limiting the
families by artificial means. One boy and on
girl, two boys, or two girls, constitute the mode
American family. These just replace the fathe
and mother. Americans, as a rule excep
among the very rich or the very poor—live i
lodgings and hotels, and are disinclined to wha
English people call “ home life.” The America
wife frequently pursues the same calling after a
she did before marriage. She simply enters int
domestic business with a husband during th
hours she is not following her ordinary avocation
This tendency encourages celibacy both in men
and women, and Americans take refuge from un
fruitful and therefore objectless matrimony
divorce—frequent and unsentimental—and rov
round for fresh excitement in new alliances, which
-having, perhaps, nearly the complement of two
children- are usually childless. Reach the abso
lute limit of accomodation —which means unpur
ohasable land—and “Negroes and Nemesis” is not
whit over stated. The Negro is in every way on
a better footing, but being even now, notwith
standing the stupid equality brag of the Ameri
can constitution, of a despised race, he is incited to
greater exertion than he would otherwise be. He
is put upon his mettle. The Africans have given
the world a Toussaint L’Ouverture in military
genius ; to oratory a Frederick Douglas ; and
an African black in Sydney is prepared to knock-
out all comers at Foley's saloon in Gcorge-street,
for £lOOO a side. About two years ago the New
York Sun had the following anent Negro Progress
in the United States, which we cannot refrain
from quoting: —
“ Twenty years ago, at the close of the war, there were in
the Southern States 3,947,000 coloured people, and now there
are more than 7,000,000. Then there were in Mississippi
220,000 negroes; now 650,000. Then there were in South
Carolina 400,000; now more than 600,000. Five hundred
coloured babies are born in the United States every day. The
coloured population of the United States doubles every 20
years; the white population only once in 35 years. Eight
years will not have passed before the negroes will be in
numerical majority in some of the Southern States. At the
present rate of increase, in 1985 there will be 96,000,000 white
people in the United States, and 192.000,000 coloured people.
The day is not far distant when it will be a physical im-
possibility to continue the present practical disfranchisement
of the coloured man in the Southern States. In South
Carolina he has bought and paid for 270,000 acres of land
which he cultivates. In the South he pays taxes on 91,000,000
dollars of property. He is editing, printing, and publishing
106 newspapers, and yet of the 7,000 000 coloured people of
this country more than 6,000,000 cannot read or write."
The M'Sharry Arbitration.
Hi; must be what the Yankees would doubtless
call a “hardshell" optimist who car. view even
the outward and visible facts of the M'Sharry
dispute without serious misgivings as to the ten-
dency of the times. This is in many respects pro-
perly styled the age of progress par excellence.
Humanity is daily inventing and discovering new
methods of successfully combating the forces of
nature, and of utilising the material things fur-
nished by mother earth for the increased advant-
age of mankind. On the whole, perhaps, there is
also a movement in the direction of diffusing the
benefits wrought by man’s labour and intelligence
out of the crude substances and forces discover-
able by his well-nigh omniscient faculties;
though when one contemplates the existing lati-
fundia and segregation of wealth, side by
side with widespread misery and starvation,
t|ie outlook seems gloomy enough, in all con-
science. Nevertheless and moreover, as Isaak
/Walton puts It, a careful study of the times leads
Ibo the conclusion that in the all-important matter
Lf Justice the most progressive sections of the
ihuman family are making little or no headway,
l>£, indeed, they are not absolutely retrograding,
■'uatice is at once the foundation of social sta- j
biWy, and the initial cause of all progress. The
constant tendency of man is to break the bonds |
which hold aooiety together, and he is frustrated
only by and to the extent of the efficiency of the
machinery for the enforcement 'of rights. And
there are unquestionable proofs on all hands that,
so far from this machinery undergoing im-
provement proportionate with the general ad-
vance of knowledge and bettering of methods, it
is rather deteriorating, and it is hardly too much
to say that the possessor of a just claim and
merely a slender purse is worse off in these days
of boasted progress than he was a generation ago.
* • *
The history of the M'Sharry case certainly
gives colour to this belief. About two years and
a-half ago M'Sharry’s firm completed the con-
struction of a railroad for the New South Wales
Government from Murrumburrah to Young.
Owing to delays for which the Engineer-in-Chiefs
and other Government Departments were respon-
sible, the work was not finished within the
specified time, and the contractors were put to
heavy expenses beyond what they had calculated
upon. The District Engineer also contrived, by a
variety of extraordinary measures, to largely in-
crease the cost of construction and delay its com-
pletion. Then, after completion and approval a
considerable portion of the line was washed
away by a flood ; and herein lay the
main cause of difference between the Go.
vernment and the contractors. The Engineer-
in-chief coolly offered £2lOO to M'Sharry and Co.
to make good the damage, an amount probably
not in excess of a tenth of the sum required to be
expended. When this offer was declined, Mr.
Whitton assumed an arbitrary demeanor, and re-
fused to entertain the question of settlement for
the work performed. When pressed he threatened
to enforce the stipulated penalties for delay, not-
withstanding that the delay was obviously aud
demonstrably attributable entirely to the laches
of the Government. The amount actually in dispute
at this time was less than £20,000. The matter
came before the Supreme Court in Equity, and it
was at length agreed to submit it to arbitra-
tion. The award was made last week*
in the result M'Siiarry and Co. getting
rather more than they were prepared to accept in
full settlement in the first instance. Hence the
Public Treasury will have to suffer to the amount
of more than the original claim, and, in addition,
will have to pay costs to the tune of over £30,000!
From the point of view of the taxpayer, therefore,
the whole business is open to the severest con-
demnation ; and if Parliament does not insist upon
having the officials responsible for this enormous
waste properly punished, the utility of that insti-
tution as a public protection will be more than
ever open to doubt. But the direct loss to the
Treasury is by no means the worst feature of the
business. The evidence adduced goes to
show that the Railway Construction De-
partment is honeycombed with injustice,
and assuredly contractors will not forget the fact
when tendering prices for work in the future.
They will undoubtedly lay on a good percentage to
cover the risk of being arbitiarily forced into a
tedious and costly suit for the recovery of money
due to them ; and thus the public interests will
suffer to an incalculable extent,
* * *
The prevailing opinion among men experienced
in the ways of the N.S.W. Railway Department
is that their steadfast refusal to liquidate
M'Sharry’s demands emanated from the not
unnatural supposition that he would be disin-
clined or unable to fight the Government. Other
contractors in the past have quietly submitted to
gross injustice, rather than fall out with the
autocrats of the Railway Department; and there
were in M'Sharry’s case special grounds for
the belief that he would not venture on litigation,
which, whatever the issue, would involve him in
ruin. Itwouldreallyappear, indeed, that the official
mind fondly contemplated the project of starving
M'Sharry and Co. out These gentlemen have
built another railroad for the New South Wales
Government, and the final payments on account
of this work, about which there is no dispute,
have been for many months unlawfully withheld,
possibly because it was known that the money
was required as the sinews of war. There
is a way of holding back certificates Jthat ope-
rates oppressively against contractors, and disad-
against the real interests of the coun-
try ; but in M'Sharhy’s case the system seems to
have been carried to unparalleled lengths, and it is
to be hoped that the Department is satisfied with the
result. It has succeeded in well-nigh ruining the
firm which incurred its hostility. The struggle, ex-,
tending over nearly three years, has cost the un-
fortunate contractors in one way and another within
a few thousands of the amount of the award.
During that time—and for all time, so long
as the present officials remain in power—they
have been and will be debarred from entering into
contracts with the Department. They are left
with a large and costly plant, unsaleable in these
times of slack work, and valueless to them, since
they dare not engage in operations under the
functionaries they have combated and van-
quished. Their position calls for the sympathy
of all men imbued with a sense of justice. They
have gained one of those victories which is only
nominally different from a defeat ; yet the fact of
their having gained the day clearly proves that
they never should have been forced into fightiDg
at all.
* * *
What hope can there be for the community
which maintains such arrogant dictation and
systematic injustice as part and parcel of its
bureau ora tic policy? Plainly it must lose all
along the line in connection with works under the
control of this wretched organisation. The evil
is rendered possible, and ,is intensified by the
iniquitous system current for what is euphemisti-
cally styled the administration of justioe. If there
were cheap and speedy means of securing the
redress of wrongs, such wrongs as those remorse
lessly inflicted on M'Sharry and Co. woul
scarcely ever be attempted. Men, however do3poti
and indifferent to the principles of common justice
would shy at forcing others into litigation tha
would end quickly in a fair settlement. But, s
long as a law-suit is a ruinous business, whichever
way the result goes, men, such as the Czar
of this Railway Department, who are libe
rally supplied with "war material out o:
funds not their own, will not hesitate to create
wrongs, and laugh derisively at the vain efforts
of their victims to obtain redress. The Court o:
Equity broke down at an early stage of its inves-
tigation of this simple dispute, and thankfully
transferred the matter to three arbitrators. In
the hands of this board doubtless the questions at
issue would have been solved in a few days, if
they had been plainly stated, and the arbitra-
tors left to themselves. But the legal
fraternity, of course, could not permit
this, and money being forthcoming the
lawyers pounded away; of course they soon suc-
ceeded in complicating a very simple position.
When they did get to themselves, the arbitrators
were not slow to perceive the rights of the case. The
award is a fair one in the abstract. The amount
is just about what ought to have been paid over
two years since. It does not cover moro than was
originally due. To have reimbursed M ‘Sharky
and Co. for their enoimous losses, more or less
directly consequent on the arbitrary refusal of the
Government to settle the claim, the arbitrators
ought to have awarded a sum not: far short of the
£lOO,OOO demanded by the plaintiffs. But a settle-
ment on such just principles was hardly to be ex-
pected, taking the personnel of the board and all
the circumstances into consideration. The result
shows the necessity for making the Chief Engineer’s
department amenable to some authority other
than a so-called Court of Justice or board of
arbitration, as an alternative to the psrpetuation
of scandalous infringements of the commonest
rules laid down for the guidance of men’s conduct
in civilised society.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Garrett’s Little Game.
There is a great deal more significance in the an-
nouncement made by the New South Wales
Minister for Lands, that it is the intention of the
Government to remodel the land law, than a
majority of the public may imagine. The Bul-
letin contends that the land law iB fundamentally
wrong, but, assuming that it is otherwise, the
people who are directly interested in the question
have no real grievance of such magnitude as to
justify the repeal of the law, more particularly i:!
the colony is to revert to the old system, unde
which jobbery, robbery, perjury, forgery, and al
manner of crimes flourished so luxuriantly. The
only grievance of the pastoral lessees is tnat the
present law is restrictive to such an extent as no;
to appease their earth-hunger; they want very
large lumps, which they expect the public to
provide for nothing or less than nothing. If the
selfish squatters imagine that the influence of the
secret society which holds its meetings at Scott s
hotel, Melbourne, is going to lead to any further
robbery of the public of New South Wales they
are woefully mistaken. They are doomed to cer
tain disappointment if they suppose that there is
the least likelihood of Garrett’s promised bill in
their favour ever becoming law. It is not with a
view to afford relief to the occupants of Crown
lands, because they are entitled to such, relief that
tnia gospel of land law reform is propounded.
Those wily tacticians, Parkes and Garrett,
have a less worthy object than that in view. Tne
activity displayed by the champions of the Aus-
tralian cause of Protection, and the unmistakable
indications of growing public feeling in favour of
that principle, are viewed with dismay by the
members of the Government, a majority of whom
renounced Protection for the sake of place and
pay. It is true that Parkes and Garreit— the
latter with characteristic effrontery, considering
his uncertain attitude on the question a
few weeks before he became a Minister and
smote his chief with “ the red-hot brand
of shame’’—affect to despise the agitation in
favour of the “creature" Protection, but this is
simply a piece of political trickery. Neither of the
tricksters would hesitate about becoming an advo-
cate of protection to-morrow if he thought that
by so doing he could further his own ends, but
both have the astuteness to recognise that there is
a point of political degradation at which even the
New South Wales public might draw the line.
The Government have to serve their masters, the
Calico Jemmies, and the promised land bill is to
be the weapon with which they are to crush the
“creature.” The land bill is deliberately thrust
forward to counteract, if possible, the agitation
on the more important question as to whether or
not New South Wales is to be “ run ” by a syndi-
cate who will batten on the cheap labour of
leprous lecherous Mongolians, European paupers,
and American prisoners, while Australians will
be left to starve or else be the recipients of charity
from the Government. The Government know
that they cannot woo the votes of the electors by
voicing their own political virtues, and as for their
social virtues it would be ridiculous excess to at-
tempt to define; or defend them; they cannot
trade on the alleged vices of their opponents as
they did at the last election ; they dare not enter
into an open-handed Combat with the champions
of protection, and their only hope of averting their
own downfall is by raising a side issue. The duty
of all sincere protectionists is not only to agitate
persistently but also to expose the hollowness of
the latest trick of that slippery pair of politicians
Parkes and Garrett.
,ie VJ *
and ° Parkea’ new Magistrates.
week Parkes’ and his crew of turncoat
jKßters appointed no fewer than five hundred
new justices of the peace. With one or two ex-
ceptions, the whole batch consists of men whose
fitness for the office of magistrate is open to grave
doubt. They are for the most part politics 1 wire-
pullers who have earned distinction by more or
less political manoeuvring in the interests of the
KreCtrade gang. The Orange organisation is re-
warded for past services and propitiated in re-
spect of services in the future by the elevation of
all its chief members to the magisterial bonch ;
and all, or nearly all, the little popinjays
who hopped about during the last general
election, touting for votes to put the played-out
Parkes in power, are perched up on tne same
1 whi’ n platform of dignity and authority, For
the rest the new commission embraces scarcely
any name in which the people can possibly have
confidence. The state of things in which such a
monstrous exercise of Ministerial audacity can be
perpetrated assuredly is in need of immediate and
drastic reform. The example set by Parkes will
to a certainty be followed by his successors. If
his successors went the whole hog, and displaced
the tag-rag and bob-tail he has created into magis-
trates by an entirely fresh set of men, the
effect would not be serious. Bat we cannot
hope for such a praiseworthy measure.
What will be done is easily forecasted.
The next Ministry will simply select five hundred
supporters and put them in beside Parks s’ nomi-
nees ; and hence the public will ha<?e to suffer a
twofold, afflicrion. The old-fangled absurdity of
appointing justices of the peace is now converted
into a monstrous public wrong. The people
surely can tolerate the condition no loDger, The
ministers of justice in courts of first instance
should, and souner or later must, be elected for
short terms by the people over whom they exer-
cise jurisdiction ; and they should be paid for
their services. The people generally are far more
deeply concerned in the administration of the
minor courts than in that of the superior tribunals.
The police courts deal with the wrongs of the
poorer classes, who outnumber the rich by about
ten to one. Yet the business of these courts is
handed over to the management of a tribe of poli-
tical hangers-on, for the most part devoid of
attainments, intellectual or educational, qualifying
them for higher duties than the securing of votes
by means of long-sleevers and potnouse logic. If
Parkes’ insolent performance has the effect, as
we believe it must, of speedily bringing about the
desired reform, he will not have held office this
time in vain, It is by such abuse of power as this
that the eyes of the people are opened to the
necessity for fundamental change. The need for
reform in the mode of appointing magistrates and
udges has always existed. Now it is too urgent
x> admit of any further procrastination; and the
people am indebted to Parkes for at least this one
good result of what he is pleased to'call his honest
administration.
The Bottomless Pitt.
The painted face of the weary Goddess of Justice
again looks out on the public from the columns of
the Sydney press. More in sorrow than in anger
the Law—that true embodiment of every thing
that is excellent—has smitten John Samuel Pitt,
and that citizen retires from active manslaughter
for a period of nine months. On the same day
Edward Doolan, who was unjustifiably in posses-
sion of a silver watch and chain—presumed to be
worth £s—received a sentence of four years im-
prisonment ; and Arthur Cheesewright, who
had kleptomaniaed two horses and a saddle was
consigned to penal servitude for five years. We
trust that Mr. Pitt will take warning by the fate
of these two hardened and depraved criminals.
At present he ranks as a simple homicide; his
character is comparatively unstained, and when
in a weak moment he killed a little girl, the man
who embodied the law of New South Wales
exercised a kindly discretion, and did his utmost
to condone this first departure from the strict line
of rectitude. But if he fails to profit by the
warning—if in place of doing nothing worse than
killing another little girl he sinks lower and lower,
and finally in a state of ruffianly abasement steals
a silver watch and chain—he must understand
that the law will give him particular sheol. We
trust, however, that he may never come to this.
Justice in New South Wales is tempered with
mercy, and the admonition it has addressed to
John Samuel Pitt may ultimately lead him
to better things. Possibly if Edward
Doolan had fallen into the hands of
paternal justice when he killed his first
little girl, even he might have been induced to re-
form before he sank into the gulf of iniqnity in
which he now wallows ; who can tell ? But," on
the other hand, it must be remembered that there
are hardened criminals in existence who never
went through the preliminary stage of killing a
little girl, and thus grew wicked by degrees, but
who, even at the outset of their caret-rs. were past-
masters in villainy, and appropriated property
valued at 255. and upwards, and it may be that
Edward Doolan was a monster of this remorse-
less type. If so, he is beyond sympathy. For the
man who only kills a girl there is still hope, and
even at the worst he inflicts little real injury on
society, for there are girls in abundance every-
where, and the actual cash value of a little girl is
almost nil. But the man who steals a watch
commits an offence against “proputty," and
“ proputty” is as scarce as girls are plentiful. In
estimating the value of a going watch at five
times that of a girl, however, the law has evi-
dently attempted to strike an average, and has
done it badly. Under a legal system which re-
gards nothing but property, an article must be
appraised according to its scarcity, and while
little girls, whom nobody seems to own, are wait-
ing to be fallen over at every street corner there
are probably not ten unclaimed watches in the
whole city of Sydney. Now and then a girl goes
amissing, but nobody is much troubled about the
circumstance. Now and then, also, a .watch goes
astray, and then the whole police Bystem is con-
vulsed until justice is done. But, unfortunately,
the violence of the upheaval caused by the loss of
an article of jewellery valued at £,5 Is. is sometimes
permitted to obscure important issues, and Judge
Stephen’s noble effort to adiust the cases
of Pitt and Doolan on a purely cash
basis has not been so successful as it de-
served. The watch which brought the latter into
trouble was ultimately returned to its owner un-
injured ; the girl with whom Pitt was concerned
was also returned, but regarded as a girl she was
absolutely useless. In one sense, too, the loss
was irreparable. Girls may bo plentiful—so
plentiful, indeed, that tho law may be fully justi-
fied in valuing one at one-fifth the price of a silver
watch—but the same girl could never come back
any more. The watch might be duplicated, but
the girl never could. Consequently a girl ought
to rank as bric-a-brac, and however low an esti-
mate the law might place on the girl iu question
something should have been done to more effec-
tually deter John Samuel Pitt from fooling with
poisons which he did not understand. If he is
permitted to go on, he may, at some future day,
poison a girl of consequence, just as the slavey
who practises on the tea-service may end by
smashing an antique vase. Also, Edward
Doolan may at the next opportunity steal a
watch of some consequence, but then the watch
can be recovered and tho girl can’t. Perhaps in
view of all this there may seem to be some in-
equality in the two sentences—it is really difficult
to say. Possibly next time this pair are heard of
Doolan will have cleaned out a jeweller’s shop,
and Pitt massacred a whole boarding school, and
then Parliament may at last make a serious effort
to decide how many girls are equal to one watch,
and how 7 much cheaper it is to kill another man's
daughter than to steal his horse. This latter
point especially demands attention in justice to
the horse, and if it is not settled at an early date,
it is difficult to say what the world will come to,


The Case of William Roy.
Ijheque for £BO out of the sum received by The
illktin for the relief of William Iloy, has been
nded to the Mayor of Parramatta to be ex-
uded on behalf of the disabled soldier of Borke s
Ift. Some further donations are now m hand
immint acknowledged, £B4 4s 6d.; Amalgamated Shearer
■ M Mb ',l Pro P H KellyCoulton, 25., J
done. Is.; MaU Driver, 2s. 6d. ; Adam(n) G°°d Whiteman
: Friend, Is.; B. C. Brisbane, 10s. bd.; E L. Erwin, Bs. bd
ink-deeaultek Holt is in the gaol hospita
fferiDg from “ dyspepsia and ague,” As for the
■spepsia, why me have got that ourselves, thank
saven. It is our stcck in-trade, and enables us to
rite all the nasty thiDgs about the clergy whc
bless them '.—have, unlike us, faces all abloom
Lth the iron of health. As for the ague, the
an who has that, shakes, and it is somethin*;
jry like shaking that the erstwhile banker is ii
r. A great deal of fuss has been made over the
ct that the unhappy confinee has lost many stone
t weight; but didn’t the Tichborne claimant
se 12 or 11 stone in gaol? and didn’t it do lnm
ver so much good, and isn't he now in such
tcellent nerve as to be one of the world fi
est pigeon-shots? And it is nerve, not
it or muscle, that makes a man * IV ® —
il nervousness points deathward. ret the
nugeois idea of a fine man is on all-fours with
ie bourgeois idea of a fine pig. The ‘ fine man
the well dressed, bloated publican with the big
old chain and shiny tUe, the overfed, butcher-
•eking person in the buggy, the big, beefy,
ratal lump of hungry gluttony. The time will
ime—and may it come soon!— when all non-
srofulous deacons, aldermen, priests, parsons,
mk and other directors, and sich, whose abdo-
inal measure exceeds fifty inches, will be run
lto gaol for six months without the option, and
uched up with skilly or whatever other cheap
icker happens to fit their constitutional pecu-
arities. It’s quite an open question whether,
Eter all, our gaol system helps to keep in check
ie “criminal” classes. You put the half-used-
p glutton or drunkard or glutton-drunkard into
quod' ’ and you save him from himEelf.
r ou wash him, stop his grog, treat him to nice,
entle, Civil-Service-stroke exercise, feed him
roll, give him 12 hours’ sleep daily, and by-and-
ye he comes out like a roaring lion—with a
right eye, a steady pulse, and a cool hand, fit to
[ght for his life. Then he goes and marries some
ady or other in Woolloomcoloo, and the next you
iear of him is that he has “been on a bend,” and
s “ up again ” for “ thrashing the missus.” The
ight thing to do with habitual criminals would
ie not to put them into gaol, but feed and drink
hem up like the clergy and the churchwardens,
ind then pressure of a distended stomach upon a,
veak heart, or sanguineous apoplexy, or Brights
llsease, or jaundice, would soon make them go
rang. We are very bad with dyspepsia this
norning, thank you.
Che Sydney dailies are agitating for a commuta-
tion cf the four years’ sentence passed on Finney,
be young man who a little while ago deliberately
dred at his father six pistol-shots with tolerably
mod aim. Now that the dailies are in a forgiving
frame of mind, they had better think over a few
af the savage and unreasonable sentences which
have of late been passed en prisoners with their
unqualified approval. It no doubt smacks of
chivalry and severe virtue for a young fellow who
wants to defend his mother to take down the family
gun and pot the old man while the latter is under
the influence of James Hennessy and Co , and
on the other hand the act of the journalist who
would say even a tingle word on behalf of the cab-
man convicted on no tangible evidence of haying
committed indecent assault on a plausible little
pavement-trotter, argues a moral obliquity and
sympathy with crime for which there can be no
palliation in “ respectable ” society. But all the
same we now say that the more the sentence
(fourteen years and two lashings) passed by Judge
Windever on Sweet.man is contemplated, the
more unjust and unreasonable, not to say insensate
and cruel, does it appear to the level-headed and
un-hysterical man of the world. We wonder
whether the late advisers of Governor Carington
arc yet sufficiently ashamed of themselves to do
something in the way of bringing about a revision
of a sentence which under all the circumstances
of the case would do credit to no country but
Dahomey and to no epoch save that of the
lamented Mr. Justice Jeffreys?
♦
The English language is a bald and dreary thing.
Half the time when you want it it proves utterly
unequal to the emergency, and when some piece
of speechless idiocy, some blasting, gangrened,
glandered, leprous grovel that requires to be
dealt with in language warmer than a gaol-flog-
ging comes to the fore, our mother tongue always
happens to bo at its washiest, and is no more
suited to the occasion than a curate is to holding
hack against a bullock-dray. For instance, here
is an address by the children of Murga (N.S.W.)
Public School to the god Parkes, which is wo'th
the attention of anybody who contempla’es bring-
ing out a “ Handy Groveller,” or a “ Complete
Household Idiot,” or any similar work :
>• Murga, August 31, 1887. To our beloved Premier, Sir
Henry Parkes, K.C.Mfi, M.P Sir,—With what plea-
sure do we hail this auspicious day, when young and old are
able to praise Goo that He has permitted so venerable and
warm-hearted a statesman to visit amongst us, and trust that
tpe journey undertaken by you at your stage of life, a* d at
so uueropitious a season, will prove beneficial to you and the
country We, the children, do heartily thank you for the
many hours of self-sacr flee spent by j ou in maturing a plan
f, r ’he benefit of our education, and for the many lenient
alterations made in the Act, which enable our parents to
provide us with a good education without either expense or
me nvenience t > themselves. Let us always sing iu voices
of praise while there is s ich a valuable and fertile-brained
.aptain at the helm of State. As Mr. Gladstone is the
.-rest champion of English politics, so is Sir HENIiY the
great guardian of the colony's privileges. No doubt Sir
Henry, you noticed the natural resources of our district as
you passed through it; we aro able to produce almost any-
thing that can be grown in a nar.urally fertile country. Now
the only thing that is needed to complete this district s
l iability is your careful consideration of our requirements.
We all join in sincere prayer that you may 'ong live to watch
the State and guard her interests, and, when your end of
days comes, that you will have a clear conscience that you
have done a great duty to it young colony. We have the
honour to he most noMe Knig .t, your obeuient servants, the
scholars of Murgar ai d Nangar."
We would like to know the after fate of the cub
with the inky collar who wrote that. There is
just a char ce, if his mother is a muscular lady and
ihe stiap ho>ds out, that the miserable object may
yet be Baved
According to a statement in one of the Melbourne
daily papers, at the recent trial at Beechworth of
a Mrp. Mkphan for the murder of her sister, a
very painful scene was witnessed. Upon the
passing of the death sentence the prisoner became
very agitated and implored the presiding judge
to direct that after the execution her body might
be handed over to her friends, but His Hoi or
stated that it was not within his province to grant
her request. Now, why should this be ? To the
gratle Baahi-bazouk, or the peaceful cannibal-
islander, our alleged Christian laws must be of a
dark and bloody character. Surely the vengeance
of the law should end with the death of the guiltjr
!i of justice. Is it necessary to war with
rical sentiment and carry out punishment to
jry portals of the gates of heavenly mercy or
h despair ? It is often claimed that the law
y demands an eye for an eye, a life for a
that it is cold and dispassionate, and knows
>y in the mental torture of its sacrificial
ngs. Yet a judge cannot grant to a poor,
ic wretch whom he is about to flip into eter-
;he miserable amenity of being buried by her
Is after the satisfaction of an utmost-
ima-exacting justice has been appeased. It
D within his power, forsooth, according to our
irously constructed code, to tell the quiver-
overstrung, nervous, broken creature that
turial should be other than that of a criminal,
d the murdered woman speak, would she
md this cruel exaction of agony from her
r?
old Pre-eminent in Grief again. Per cable : -
ondon, Sunday.—Her Majesty t.he Queen has refused
the foundation-stone of the Aberdeen Infirmary, the
for which were raised in honour r f the Juhilee year,
lajesty's refusal is the result of her annoyance at the
not having been bestowed on the Imperial Institute,
r this, we take back all we said about poor
sn Tennyson and his mildewed, spavined
The ode was good enough for the occasion,
patient old poet has laboured steadily for 37
s fixing up little things in honour of the
lphs and their sisters, and their cousins, and
• aunts, aDd though in his sere and yellow
he is grinding his verse exceedingly small, he
ill as good as the occasion demands. When
50th anniversary cime round he perte-
»d a dizzy hunk of blank prose in which
stated that something might be done to
the scavenging business cn a better
ng in the year of Jubilee, and also that
lye might be kept on dead cats ; and many
cs—ourselves among the number—regarded
as a bald and unsatisfactory way of dealing
l the subject. But we take it all back. Any
is good enough for the sort of Queen de-
red in this cablegram. Within the space of
e months Victoria has anathematised two
iltals because the money spent on them was
sent to aid her Royal white elephant, instead
eing laid out to relieve hunger, suffering, and
jral pre eminence in grief ; she has graciously
Red £2 to a penniless woman out of
fortune of £25 000 which should have
l hers, as the next-of-kin and heir at law,
which had come instead to the Royal
srs, and she has taken up a collection
a the guests entertained in her own palace for
firs to the Royal stove. The partially bottled-
ivarice and meanness of 50 years has been let
ein this year of Jubilee, and, consequently,
British public find themselves between Ten-
ion and the deep sea. The poor old ode-
iger told them to “give their gold to the hospital,”
Victoria sajs, in effect, that she’ll see them
her if they do. But Tennyson wasn’t to
me. He has done his best to hold up his end
he log for 37 weary years, and now by way of
ard the Queen has gone back on his gray hairs
on account of that unlucky allusion to the
pitals, and has ordered an ode from a party by
name of Morris.
c all have our little missions in life. Miss
[jßa Swain, who started out for a walk with a
rchant captain and finished up in the Yarra,
l her little mission like the rest of us. She
s an instrument of Providence, placed in the
ids of the Mel-ourne papers. The Power
ich shapes our ends caused Miss Swain to
ect a slack time for the catastrophe. As a
ragedy,” she deserves so well of the local
tors that they ought to erect a marble monu-
nt to her memory. Underneath the inscription
ire should be a boy selling “speshal edishurs,”
relief. The story (or presumed story) of Miss
ain’s death has been told, retold, elaborated,
istrated, and elongated till the public begin s to
sorry that the poor young woman ever was.
d none of the gushers have a word of
npatby for Captain Moore, the man who
doubtedly wanted to save bis girl, but hadn't
5 presence of mind or the strength, or the ability
rob the newspapers of their “copy.” How
as Swain came to be in the Yarra will always
nain a disputed point, but that her elderly lover
mid have liked to see her well out after she was
doesn’t admit of reasonable doubt. This is a
iw of the “ tragedy” which the newspapers pur-
sely covered up because it might have a ton-
ncy to check business. Therefore Captain
30RE is, in a measure, a badly treated man. If
3 lamentable event had coincided with a war
ire or a railway accident the inquest would
,ve been put through promptly. Under the cir-
mstances ic appeared to be twice postponed in
e interests of the Evening Herald, not to
sntion the Australasian.
*ly three or four thousands for old Peter
ilor’s allowance on retiring from the Victorian
leakersbip. At the loss of an arm Peter did in
e Eureka Stockade days more for constitutional
ivernment than has since been done by any
her man in any Austral land. By-the-by, didn't
d Jack Robertson get ten thousand, and for
hat ? In remembrance of tbc gallant Laloa's
ru ?gle against Imperial tyranny, ten thousand
mnds should be rai-ed for the crippled veteran
T the miners of Australia. Which mining centre
ill speak first - Bal'a-at, Bendigo, Charters
owcr3, Gympie, or Croydon?
♦
[r Justice Stephen, of N.S.W., last week
dered the gentle gaol flogger to assist the moral
.fluence of the lav by scarifying an unfortunate
retch whose act, we are entitled to contend on
le highest sciantific evidence, is, in itself, irrefut-
ble evidence of the fact that the convict is, in re-
ard to his alleged crime, morally irresponsible.
Vhat are the medical men of Australia doing that
aey tacitly sanction the wanton savagery of a law
Pat pennits a man to be skinned alive merely be-
ius3 he is suffering from mental aberration ?
’logging as a moral agent has been much
eglectei rf late, but the traditions attach-
ng to the honoured name of Stephen seemed to
reshadow some such return to the brutal
net,bods of the convict era of Australian history.
Che judges who order fl gging-above all, flogging
n the case of unnatural offences — ad-
nire'he law which sanctions such an at,„ chaV 11 *- 1
hey are painfully alone in such sentime l^
-^vtu
The Queen i« studying 2?he
rest of the family are learning English.
""Sydney Marine Board seems to be run on
“blank warrants.” Broomfield and Moodie Bign
a heap of authorisations in blank, wnich are com-
pleted at convenience by Hixson and Lindemau,
and put into operation by ihe latter little coterie
whensoever and against whomsoever they choose.
Yet, in the face of such proceedings—which seem
only on all-four < with the action of the doctor who
signs a death-certificate before his patient dies
and hands it to the undertaker—some people still
adhere to the belief that the N.S.W. Marine
Board is a responsible institution,
CORRESPONDENCE
Little Jim’ (Brisbane) : The Bulletin's
dramatic critic acknowledges with thanks the shilling you
sent as a tribute to*bis talents. If you ever should chance
to feel that way again, or if you should suffer at any time
from symptoms akin to the above, don’t be bashful, but send
the money right along.. ‘ Log 'gram ’: Write to Geo. Robertson
and Co ‘ J. J.’(P.M.): If we knew your full address
wed send you an infernal machine for a birthday present...
‘ C.U.H.’ (Wee Waa) : Thanks ‘ H.’ (Wentworth): Please
transmit our thanks to the local chronicler of dog-fights, also
to the body-snatcher for their exertions on our behalf. We
really don t want The Bulletin to be in any reading-room
for people to read gratis.. .* George Errngy ’: This is the bes
shut we can make at your name. You have a signature like
a teetotum. Don’t you thirk that last yarn you sent was—
not to put too fine a point upon it—an insult ? 1 R.A.L.’ :
Steak item too tropical, the other too ancient
1 E. Layton’: We attach no value to the utterances of one
whose political career has been so ineffably contemptible a g
that of Mr. M’Koan ‘E. Lumley’: Whenever The Bulle
in finds the daily Press specially enthusiastic over any
thing, it always finds itself compelled to take the other side"
And it always comes out right in the end ‘ Native Aus-
tralian’: Thanks. See “Plain English.”... ,‘ Vinegar ’: Good
idea, which will be duly carried out ‘Alfred Martin’;
The Bulletin must modestly claim the credit of having
at ooce incited the Bulli sufferers to urge their claims in the
Supreme Court....‘A.T.W.’: W. J. Poulter indignantly
denies having offered £3OO to any widow who would with-
draw any claim she had against the Bulli Mining Co.; but
he says nothing about ary greater or lesser inducement he
may have held out by way of keeping things r ice and plea
sant. It isn't too late to be a little more explicit..' A. Mait-
land’ : The cool impudence of the D.T. in accusing Dibbs o f
economic apostacy is unparalleled in the literature of cheek....
‘ Tate Tin Mines': From an English point of view the British
troops are entitled to all the credit of winning Waterloo
From an impartial standpoint, it is perfectly clear that,
though the English might possibly have held their ground for
a time, they cou’d not possibly have decisively beaten the
French without the Piussian assistance. We presume it is
generally conceded that Waterloo was won firstly by reason
of the non-arrival of Grouchy’s 35,000 men, and secondly by
reason of the arrival of the Prussians. The subject is really
too old for debate 1 E.S.A’: Madness is not “causedby
religious revivals.” On the contrary, religious revivals are
caused by madness. Such affairs are incidental to and sympto-
matic of insanity of a more or less pronounced form....
‘ Democrat ’: We are tired of such examples of meanness
Jonathan ’: In addressing to us in phonetic terms your dig-
nified remonstrance, you overlook the fact that your joke
about fish-diet is the exclusive property of Mark Twain—or
the executors of Artemus Ward....‘A Bushwhacker’:
Thanks for rabbit item, also (in advance) for subscription in
aid of Roy ‘Constant Reader’ (Goulburn): Doesn't it
savour of spite'.' ...‘T.H.D.’: We are quite willing to print
your denial of the statement that a charge was made for
admission to the church on the occasion of the installation of
I)r. Corbett. But you needn’t try and make us believe that
money is never charged for admission to a R.C. church. We
have seen it paid ourfelves ‘A (Ironbarks) :
You are rather too remote from anywhere to be of much
interest ‘Subscriber’ (Com. Tr. Association): Such
things trouble us not.... 1 A Dead Level’: Will consider
your letter.. ‘E Dadd’: The point of the paragraph lay
in the innuendo that even if a man had only acorn-sheller or
a p jir of shears, a*-d worked it, his place was, for statistical
purposes, called a “ factory ” by the N.S.W. Free trade crowd.
‘ J.B. M‘A.’: Thank you. The penalty for publishing
such matter would be a plank-bed in gaol, to say nothiDg of
eternal disgrace....‘l.U.’ (Illawarra) : Much too long. A
condensation next week :..' Maritana on Skates’ : Our last
love-poet lies low in Rookwood. That’s all 'Broad
Arrow 9908’: Thanks for item ‘ W. G. Hunter' (Wagga) :
Many thanks, but we have already arranged for the Stan-
dard ‘Cricket’: No law to prevent you playing cricket
on Sunday in your own back-yard ? It all depends on the
size of your bulhdog and the texture of the legal func-
tionary’s moleskins... .‘Shearer’ (Milo): Item good*
verses no good ‘John Wilkinson’ (Forest Lodge):
You’re panning it mightily low down onus, anyhow..,.
‘ B.C.’ (Brisbane): Thanks for subscription for Roy. Your
idea is, we are afraid, impracticable. You parallel “God
Save the Queen” with “ Great is Diana of the Ephesians”—
h’m—but wasn't Diana a heathen deity Amalgamated
Shearer ’: Next issue if possible; see Bu lletin for Sep. 10...
‘Constant Reader’ (Bourke): Will print your statement....
‘ Thunder’; Yeur conundrum, " Why is the Evening News
ike a harp struck by lightning?’’ is as old as Ananias
W. H. P. Arden' (Anendale, Vic ): 1. Certainly an Aus-
tralian if not an European, and the papers make the mistake
of calling him one simply because they don’t know better.
2. Mr. Foote is the ssm eretary. 3. Write to the secre-
tary and ask Arm. 4. Idem. ... ‘G. Cowper ’: Parkes is
Haynes’ jxo'on saint, is he? Wait awhile, time works many
changes. Thanks for letter ‘Australian’: Economist’s
letters all Tommy-rot; we hope to have a leader on this sub-
ect shortly....‘J R’: If Parkes was a journeyman button-
maker from Birmingham, what of it ? We wish we had more
;o record in his favour. Youre wrong, sonny “E. More-
ton’: Your statements would be all very well wer.fi it not
known that the E. News' antipathy to M-. Theodore Bevan
is partly if not who ly due to a private business disagree-
ment ‘J.T.O.D.: Will keep fir an issue or tw0......
‘ C .therine R ’ (Sydn y): For a phrenologist you write
an awful fist, and we can’t make out what you are driving at
unless you send a diagram.
The Bioken Hil vsr Mining C >. me tn
enormous quantity H a for smel irg purposes.
They have to import u from Eng'and! Where
is the enterprise of iho colliery owners of
N.S.W.
The Sydney City Counci l proposes to cen-
tenniate by borrowing £400,000, and keep memory
green bv the annual payment of the interest.
Moßt public events in N.S.W. are celebrated by a
banquet or a borrow, and the rest are illuminated
by a cadge ; the sort of anniversary which is kept
by the repayment of old debts hasn’t come yet.
A gushing Jingo gentleman named Hardio
writes to the Melbourne Age respecting the
“ trampling down of British rights” in the New
Hebrides. He suggests: “The fteamer now
plying between Melbourne and Fiji might be got
to carry a mail monthly to Havanah Harbour.
This itself would do much to cheer and encourage
our friends there, and if we sent by that steamer
such a supply of food as the natives may ■ equire
to keep them from starvation, it would, to , large
extent, checkmate the French tactics.” Among
all the drivel about French tactics in the New
Hebrides we have not previously seen it stated
that those bad, hr Id men were starving the
natives to death. Even now we are sceptical on
the point. However, there is no doubt that Mr.
Hardie is thoroughly in earnest, because he wants
the Age to “take charge of any subscriptions
which may be sent to enable us to carry out this
plan.” A desorving cause, dear friends.
BRIEF MENTION.
I alii ia now spelt Bally.
133 Holden. —Miss Hold on.
.S.W. owes lots of things to Victoria,
ding the Boy Politician and the rabbits.
The Premier’s Secret ” is the title of a
book published in Melbourne. Why not have
d it “ Coin ” ?
We are glad to see that Mr. O’Rourke
it last got the third stripe,” remarks a Cook-
-1 paper. Suoh is journalism.
t an inquest at Paddington (Eng.) it
spired that a vanman, who accidentally drove
a child and killed it, worked nineteen hours
y.
he Sydney Tribune advertises that it
ains “jokes." Isn’t this very much like
ing the public’s thruppences under false pre-
ss ?
. N.S.W. bailiff lectured to a Mutual Ira-
•ement Society last week on “ The Distress in
ney.” By blood alone can such an insult as
be aveßged.
ome Salvationists have been gaoled for
shing on the Aborigines’ preserves in Gipps-
l (Vic.) They made a mistake in not calling
nselves missionaries.
‘ Copra Apostles " (Apotres du Coprata)
ie title by which the Presbyterian and Wes-
tn missionaries are known in New Caledonia"
i French have a fine gift of epithet.
L Collingwood (Vic.) parson preached a
non the other Sunday from the words,
nother fool.” The preacher's name was Porter,
other fellow’s name did not transpire.
Fwo “drunks” have escaped from the
ice in Sydney. They will not easily be re-
turd. It is hard to identify a drunk! He is
reastly like the general public, dontcherknow.
Cwo parsons refused to leave one of the
ts of the wrecked Tasmania to make room for
women and children. The Lord’s anointed
dently are not always anxious to interview
n.
rhe Maryborough (Q.) “ silvertails ” re-
ed to go to the local show ball because the
ces were lowered. If they try to carry out
3 principle in the next world they may find
mselves in Hades.
A.t a meeting of the Richmond (Vic.)
nistera’ Association, a member read a paper on
Vbat attitude should the clergy assume towards
> abnormal love of pleasure which is character
lc of these colonies ?” The same old antagonistic
itude, we gues3.
The farce of swearing a Chinaman by blow-
; out a match has been ridiculed by Wong
mg Ho, who says that nothing but the fear of
ath will make John tell the truth. In future,
i Sin should be sworn on that copy of. The
illetin wherein Judge Windeyer is represented
ping with a two-inch rope.
Mr. Shiell, the Sydney coroner, has gone
Melbourne for his honeymoon He will call on
3 brother coroner, “Dick” Youl, and they will
,ve a lovely time swapping notes about homicide
d manslaughter, and arson, and felo-de-se, and
rpses and things. And then Mr. Shiell will ra-
rn to Sydney and sit on people Ashed out of the
jautiful Harbour as before.
An agitation to curtail the Ang’ican ser-
ce is astir in Sydney. It is rumoured that, out
compliment to Bishop Barry, the service will
timately be cut down to a formal application to
[vine Providence to preserve us all from the
:adly sin of eating too much beef.
Advertisement from S.M. Herald :
Bucker-Read, 10th day of moon, Indian Christ-
as once a year, all the same English Christmas,
a this 30 th day of August one Indoo man, named
ut Ah Sing, was made Mahamotianby Falzdeen,
,s Mahamotian name Shake Allie. There was a
■ass band in attendance. Azadall and Falzdeen,
rincipals.”
The Sydney D.T. is evidently in luck, and
as struck another patch. Just as the Peat’s
erry and Westioghouse literature was becoming
lonotonous, Petersham came to the rescue with
smashing railway accident; and, though there
ms a lamentable absence of mortality, onr con-
amp. scored no lees than ten startling headings
nd sub-headings out of the Arst innings.
“Dr. Faucett,” writing and advertising in
he “respectable portion” of the country Press,
as his harmless little Aing at the Medical Com*
lisaion, and gives himself away rather cheaply
y decliring : “In several of the newspapers they
iave made me a; pear ridiculous, as they well
ould do.” This is the youth who, according to
he Commission evidence, was an engineer, gat-
Itter, houre-paiLler, pound-keeper, and bailiA’
lefore het>ltacall to “ rise up William Riley
.nd tackle the more proAtable business of a mid-
wifery specialist.
Isaac Selby, who has attained tonecale-
>rity in connection with the Freethought move-
ment in Melbourne, has been eDgiged by the
iundaberg (Q ) Anti-Chinese L9ague to lecture
ipon the Chinese question. Notwithstanding his
omewJhat Scriptural baptismal prefix, Isaac is
[uite a l-eligiou 3 and political revolutionist, and a
ecent. 1 cture which he delivered in Bixndaberg
icon the ‘ ‘ Monarchs of England,” nearly sent the
>ious and .r übilee-Testament-distributing section
>f local sassiety into Ats His lectures will doubt-
ess make the .anti-Chinese movement boom.
For ways that are dark and mysterious
he heathen Chinee has an undoubted rival in the
-Sydney D.T. In the time of the Sunny Corner
silver boom that journal was ecstatic. It in-
lulged in most extravagant predictions as to the
successful development of that Aeld, and, as many
people know to their cost, tho.se predictions have
not yet been realised. Last week the D.T. de
voted four columns to a “pub”’—the equal of
which could not be written by the most ex
perienced mining Cr. promoter—respecting a gold-
mine in the Bathurst district, on which the
owners place a greater value than the investing
public place on any other goldmine in Australia
exceoting Mount Morgan. Two days afterwards
a long article was published in which it was- re-
presented that Broken Hill “blocks” were being
Bold at a Actitious value. Why all this incon-
sistency? Is a “set” being made at Brok jm
Hills because “ our special ” who recently visit! ed
the Silverton district —about which Abigail staid
that he knew as much as he did about N/eW
Guinea—discovered that the lucky share hollers
are principally Victorians and South Australyanf>
and that the importers of Sydney have no int (greet
in the plaice ?


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Human Nature" ..P-15
Criterion Theatre.—” Romeo and Juliet “
Opera House—“ Amy Sherwin ’’ ■■
Exhibition Building.—Rotlei- Skating Rink - ■■
Her Ma.terty’s Theatre.—” Henry V.’’ • ><
Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, opened
last Saturday in the presence of all the crowned
heads of Europe, which is our amusing way of
stating that Governor and Lady Oarington were
there, also a number of Parliamentary individuals
of more or less importance. A gentleman, whose
style of composition makes ua think he is some-
' thing in the Lancer way, writes us six
; pages of manuscript to point out that there was
no one to receive the vice regal party—no usher,
no carpet on the pavement, and no respect gene-
rally, and that Lady Carington had to scramble for
her seat the best way she could; but as The
Bulletin’s nobleman was upstairs scrambling for
a seat himself and not finding one, he missed
this incident. Inside, Her Majesty’s was gorgeous
in paint and gilding, and with its two galleries,
its spacious circle, electric lights, wide stair-
cases, and splendid scenery, it is much too good
a place to be used for the production of
such a washed-out spectacle as ‘ Henry V.”
. Sydney has long ago had enough of Henry, who
■ was a mean, low cuss at the best. His fame rests
solely on the fact that he took a miserable advan-
tage of a foreign idiot, whose wife used to come
home with the milk, and whose son was a prema-
' turely bald individual with a large head; and when
at last the gallant monarch dropped on the de-
; feated Frenchman he found him in his shirt sitting
among the ashes under the grate, and keeping his
bleary eye on a mouse-hole. The English envoy
i tried to deliver a bullying message to the moth-
• eaten potentate, but the poor old wilted king, who
1 was at that moment under the impression that he
\ was a cat, only gazed at him solemnly for a
) minute, and then climbed in silence up the chim-
i ney and sat on the tiles. Occasionally, ho w ever,
. dunng his 30 years of dreary insanity, Charles VI.
\ would rouse up, and then he would refresh himself
i by running on all fours over the carrot bed, or
' would stay out all night in the back yard and hark,
and indite ukases in the hen-house ordering that
' the whole kingdom should be keel-hauled. He
1 died at last owing to an impression which had
1 come over him that he was an emu cr something
tearing through the wilderness towards a distant
land where there were lots of worms to live upon ;
being a conscientious mi. he cantered round th 9
palace for three days in hi j efforts to act up to
the character, and the over exertion killed him.
His eon, meanwhile, had found one of his mother's
mashers standing oh the bridge at midnight, and
had split his head open, and for the next year or
two he was besieged in a place where he could
get hardly anything to eat. Shakespeare garbled
up this pathetic story inerder to mike Henry Y.a
hero, but the man who would defraud a i\,yal
family in such straits was not fit to be touched
with a pair of tongs. Henry ultimately
croaked of causes unknown ; it is rumoured, how-
ever, that he was blown up by the explosion of a
barrel of dead dogs. He brought up his son to be
a prize idiot, and that unlucky offspring died in
gaol, which might be termed poetic vengeance.
George bignold, who represented this inhuman
compound of doggy meanness, managed to mate
him 100 a every inch a Ring—the s in of miserable
kin* they had in these days—and wore petti-
coats, but nobody wanted to applaud much. The
other actors were kept hopelessly in the back-
ground and got no show, though even under
those disadvantages Mr. Charles Hall, as the
French monarch in a sane moment, looked rather
the better i ing of the two.
#* * *
“The Pirates of the Savannah,” Mr.
Dampier s latest venture at Sydney Royal Stan-
dard, has many of the elements of a good melo-
drama. It is full of suddenness, and is replete
with the frame of mind that pervades a man
When he ha 3 soaped himself all over and then
finds that the water is cut off, and though it may
not be in every sense the sort of piece that en-
dureth in the caves of remembrance, there is
enough rapid and bloodthirsty transit in it to
keep it going. It is crowded up with pirates,
assassins, hunters, tigers, praying girls with long
hair, and noble-minded men who claw their way
gently up steep rocks and fall on tne fire-eating,
boiling-water-drinking brigand just as he is about
to throw a baby over a cliff, and then it is all up
with the brigand. In the firs ; act the pirate chief
hoists the gory shirt dipoed in molasses above his
uncle’s mansion, that relative having removed to
the shining river and left his will inside a book ;
and he gallops over the chest of a woman who
is lying by the roads’de calling for her che-fld.
if he had galloped a little harder he might have
killed her, but as he didn’t, and as she is
picked up by a fat man with short legs and
brought to a public-house, and as it the i tran-
spires that her child is all safe, and as the man in
t he background, who doesn’t seem to care tuppence
about the whole affair, has got Ihe will gummed
on to his chest inside liis shirt, things are sultry
for the pirate. In fact, after the first act every-
thing goes wrong with him. The three travellers
who are tied up and are about to be hanged on a
Friday get loose under the pretence that they
want to write a cheque for the pirates on a bank
where they have no account, and then they shy
bricks at the heads of these freebooters as they
puff wearily uphill, and completely disorganise
them ; the tourist whom the chief invites to stay
with him for a day or two mixe3 his liquor and
reduces him to the idiotic condition of Old Dog
Tray; the deceptive short-legged man goes
off with a woman whom his boss had
been keeping locked up ; and another effi-
cient malefactor absconds with a child. In
Short, when the gaffer of the gang awakes from
ilia liquor he finds himself a pirate in low circum-
stances sitting miserably on a doorstep with a
head oa him, and, after a desperate straggle, he
is sent to join his uncle beside the Beautiful S.
What the old man said to him when he got up
there is only a matter of conjecture, but it is
probable that there was a row. Mr. Baker per-
formed the pirate, and being dressed in red he
looked decidedly imposing. Mr. Dampier was
(the calm, composed man who wiped him out, and
when he wasn't wipiDg him out he went about
shooting tigers with great success : and Mr.
Dc?ffman excited general admiration as the
tourist wno was asked to stay for a day
or two. The rest of the applause fell
chiefly to Miss Dampier, who did some good
acting in a small and rather tearful part; and Mr.
received all that was over in his part as
an unnecessarily foolish Englishman who was very
sore through riding alt day ou a Bkittish mule.
Mr. Dampier closes at the Standard oa Friday,
*» Hamlet” being his last production.
AA AL Af- AA-
'%• W W i rfa
“ Homan Nature ” has now run for three
weeks at Sydney Royal, and is still going ahead.
This is a remarkable circumstance, but. yet not.
alt ogether unprecedented. The present, writer
also ran for three weeks on one occasion, ’and at
the end of that time lie was ahead of the fellow
who was after him, and he has managed to keep
in front ever since.
AT, JO, AA Af.
■7v 'Tv* "nr '/V*
“Pepper’s Ghost,” under the manage-
ment of Mr. St. Yincent, is now occupying Sydney
Academy. We pity Pepper, and we weep for the
Ghost. We have made a study of the hollow-
eyed spectre from childhood, and we may say we
were brought up under the shadow of the cheerful
cadaver, but never in the whole course of our ex-
perience did we meet such a poor, played-out,
snuffling goblin as the one which now promenades
in green spectacles at the Academy. Ic looks all
the time as if it wished it hadn’t died, and it goes
about playiDg tricks that are less amusing than
last year's dead cat. The performance concludes
with “ the vanishing of the manager,” but he only
fades away a little, and his desperate efforts to
fade completely are calculated to arouse sym-
pathy. Still this is in some respects the best part
of the show, and if it is in our power to lend a
hand at the fading process and help the manager
to vanish as completely as possible, we shall be
always glad to do so.
## * *
Plain Bill Holloway, from his watch-tower
at the Criterion, still sees the mighty host advanc-
ing and paying their half-crowns for a look at
Juliet. Miss Essie Jenyns has apparently got as
firm a hold in Sydney as ever, and her admirers
are like unto the cankerworm for multitude.
** # #
All things that are joyous and beautiful
must pass away in time, and Amy Sherwin is
shortly going to pass. She will vanish from
Sydney Opera House as
vanish the autumn
flowers from Syria’s land
of roses, which land, by
the way, grows hardly
anything but one cripple
to the square mile, the
rest being sand and dust,
and glare, and blasted
rock, and slow leathery,
flabby camels with teeth
that can masticate a
red-hot boiler. But there
is nothiog of the blasted
rock or the boiler about
Miss Sherwin’s melodies,
and her songs will be
very much missed when
she is gone. Wc wish
now that we had kept
the camel out of this
notice, for he is a <lis
gusting brute to run
into the same paragraph
with the Queen of Song,
but we hope she will ex-
cuse it. v* c feel upset
at the prospect of amy
Sherwin’s departure, and
that was bow the camel
got in.
dL JA-
*7l* 'A* TV*
“ Harbour Lights ”
and “His Natural Life ”
have beea si great a
success at Brisbane that
George Leitcb, whose
present season isore of
three weeks, finds him-
self compelled to post-
pone the production of
“ Human N a t u r e.”
Leitcb has scored im-
mensely as Tom Dos&i-
ter. and the Co. is ver-
dicted the best that
has appeared in Brisbane
for a long time.
JL JL ~\L
'rr w 'A*
The programme at
Sydney Aihambra has
improved a lot this week.
Johnny Cowan, whose
jokes were becoming odo-
rous, has been branded by
the management, and
the circumstance entered
in the day-book and ini-
tia’el, and his slouching
farce has given place to an amusing screed en-
lit.led “The Missing Link.” Misses Amy Morelli,
James, and Scasi conlr bute three rather pretty
ballads, and Mr Lawler's “Silver Bells ” and
Messrs. Moynham and Keenan’s “ Disgusted
Lovers” are admirable. We knew a disgust'd
lover ourselves once, but his story is too long
to ttll here; he ended, however, by being
scalped, and marrying his step grandmother who
afterwards eloped, in a Bath chair, with his son
by a former m irriage.
vV, .A/, J/,
W TV* *3v* *7Y*
Grattan Riggs took a successful farewell
benefit in “ The Octoroon ” last Saturday. The
St. Maur Co. were to have opened at the local
Gaiety on Monday, in ‘' Brighton.” Carrie Swain
begins at the Royal on 19th in “ The Miner’s
Daughter.” Major Dane is lecturing with much
acceptance at the Courier building.
## * *
Adelaide Royal re opened on 6th, Bland
Holt and Co. appearing in “ A Run of Luck.”
Messrs. Holt, FlemmiDg. and Glover, with Misses
Kate Bishop, Tracey, and Frederics, showed to
most advantage. Owing to the religious element,
horse-racing is so rare now in Adelaide that a
sporting drama is refreshing to the natives.
Locke Richardson opened at the Albert Hall on
3rd, and was successful. Hudson continues
gathering dollars at Garner’s, where “ Standing
room only ” is the legend.
** # #
“ Riggoletta,” “ Norma,” and “La
Sonnambnla ’ have kept business brisk at Mel-
bourne Royal for the past few nights. It is ap-
parent that Mr. Simonson’s company play better
into one another’s hands—make more “ little
marks”—than during their first season in the
city. The all-round form of the principals was
good enough at the outset, but practice has im-
proved it until now local criticism has settled
down into a running fire of commendation. Con-
ductor Hazon, Ciuti, Tagliavia, Cavallieri, and
Lazzarini are warmer favourites than ever, while
Pimazzoni, Cerne, and the others have found
fresh admirers. This is a hackneyed way of
spreading jam, but one mustn’t irreverently slap
it on to a really high-class entertainment.
JL 4L
Tv" I? If
For the moment Brough and Boucicault
are running two shows in Melbourne. They will
shortly pack up their properties and steal silently
away from the Opera House, but, meantime, that
smart trifler, “ The Pickpocket,” is sneaking all
he can of public patronage. “ The Butler ”to
follow. On Saturday the Busy B,s started busy
ness at the Bijou with “ Held by the Enemy.”
Under the new caterers things promise to be more
elegantly served at this theatre. It has been
swept and garnished. An unwonted profusion of
fiddlers sit under the footlights, and neat-handed
Phyllises flit around with bills of fare. “ Held by
the Enemy ” is a five-act drama without a villain,
and it smells of gore and gunpowder. The scene
is laid in a beleaguered Southern American city
during the Civil War. The plot is worked out by
a trio of Southern ladies, a virtuous spy related to
the family, a Colonel in command of the enemy,
the artist of an illustrated paper, a crowd of
assistant millingtary, and a corpse on a stretcher.
As a dramatic incident the corpse is chief among
a series of thrillers. It is “carried out” in a
scene of exceptional power. But regarded as a
whole, “ Held by the Enemy ” is a patchy piece of
work, least pleasing in the strongest parts. The
heroine, who prefers Colonel to Spy in spite of her
conscience, is as unloveable as the lackadaisical
soldier of her choice. Even the unfortunate Spy
is too rough a party to excite much sympathy
when he qmetly pegs out on his little stretcher.
Scenes interest more than players, and when
the curtain falls to a storm of applause there
is little disposition to call tbc principals in front.
The performance is hardly so finished as might be
expected from aB. and B. company. Ada Varley
Decker (no piefix on the bill) appears to be a
practised actress not happily placed in this in-
stance. Mr. Nelson Decker (nautical sounding
name !) does his little with an excess of vigour.
The other new arrival, Mr. Cecil Ward, has a
good stage presence and a voice like George
Darrell’s. About his sentimental love-making
there is less American colonel than British masher,
but he plays generally with a good deal of “ re-
served force.” As the volatile artist, who
‘ WE.
'yy£ caN\tL
0^
sketches battle as they should be fought, Mr.
Brough divides honours with Miss Boucicault.
Their light comedy courting is as natural as the
lilies of the field. Miss Homer scores in a small
part, and Mr. Leake cleverly avoids being ridicu-
lous as a faithful negro. It is hard for a burnt-
corked Briton to look as if he hadn’t escaped
from a Minstrel troupe. The assistant military
parts are fairly well filled ; and —take it altogether
—“Held b T the Enemy” ought to boom for
awhile.
#* # *
The warbling Amy Sherwin contemplates
including Northern Queensland in her Australian
tour. Northern Queensland is requested to be
joyful.
## # #
Sprightly Miss Leonora Braham, the Tri-
umvirate’s new prima donna, has been suffering
somewhat from rheumatism in ber dear little
throat She swathes it in flannel on retiring to
rest, and now feels ever so much better, thank
you.
X X JL X
■TV* *7V* TT* */v*
Bland Holt’s company were “sicklied o’er
with the pa’e cast of thought" when they reached
Adelaide last week. The passage round was
abominable, wind and waves preventing the
Cheviot from keeping time, and necessitating a
postponement of Bland Holt’s show. It was hard
on the company to reel ashore and find them-
selves billed for a “ Run of Luck.”
*# # #
Quite a gap has been caused in the ranks
of Australian coloured minstrels by the death of
Edward Amery, which occurred at his residence,
North Fitzroy (Vic.) on the 3rd inst. Poor Ned’s
fine bass voice was the only redeeming feature in
many a “ first part,” and now let us hope it is
being heard chiming in with angelic choruses
“ upon the golden shore.” Amery, who was held
in genuine respect by his associates, died in com-
fortable circumstances and surrounded by his
family. He was 54 years of age. „
#* # *
The health of George Rignold’s old white
horse was di unk at the theatrical feed last week.
Owing to its accident, however, the doctor had
ordered that animal to lead a quiet life for a few
days and avoid stimulants, so it did not turn up
to respond.
## # *
In an American tour of five months
Madame Patti has earned £71,000.
The Referee
Peter Jackson says he is under a year’s
engagement to a couple of sports, and will make
tracks for the States, unless the coloured Ameri-
can heavyweight, Godfrey, shortly pays his pro
mised visit to Sydney. Peter also says he will be
only too happy to meet Slaven, hat he is not
likely to get such a soft thing on, as Mick Dooley
still states his willingness to have another shy at
the Queenslander.
* » *
There appears to be something wrong
about the starting of two-year olds this season.
Of three races, two have been run twice over tho
course.
* * *
Large attendance and fine weather on
both days of the Hawkesbury R.C. Spring meet-
ing. On Thursday the Hurdle Race opened the
sport, when Speculation defeated the favourite,
Bound, by 10 lengths. Bowmont, at 7to 4 on,
was favourite for the Hawkesbury Guineas, but
he only managed to run into a place. Lava win-
ning by a length from Blayney. Morok won the
Country Purse from Leichhardt; Leumeah upset
Calculation by winning the Auction Stakes from
start to finish ; and the 5 to 1 chance Figtree ap-
propriated the September Handicap. On Si turd ay
Tilburn made a win of the Members’ Handicap :
and Aberdeen, at even money, defeated Pontifix
by a neck for the Hawkesbury Produce Stakes.
Cardigan, at 3 to 1, had most call for the Hawkes-
bury Grand Handicap, and he justified the
confidence placed in him by w inn >ug a
length and a half from Morofe, Leichhardt, three
lengths away, third. The field for the two-year-
old stakes ran or rather struggled over tho course,
Rosicrucian finishing first, but the starter declared
ho had not sent them away, and upon the second
time of asking Mr. Long’s much fancied filly
Consequence scored a win from Maggie. Fano
won the Disposal Stakes fcom the badly ridden
Leumeah, and the meet came to a conclusion with
a win for Kirkwood of the Ladies’ bracelet,
* * •
W. Byrd Page must be a bit of a high-
flyer. At the Biackheath Harrier Sports (Eng.)
he barely touched the bar with his hip in a jump
of 6ft. 3in. Fage is sft. 6fin. in height.
* * *
So far, Surrey and Nott3 tie this year for
the English cricketing championship.
* » #
Where is Bonnor ?
» « ft
A Sydney Lands Office Cricket Club will
take the field this season. It will be called tke
Three Star.
- « *
The Sydney cricketing juniors started
their season last Saturday with a match between
those old rivals, the Surrey United and the
Orientals. 'i he latter compiled 214 runs for five
wickets. Luland scored 65.
» » #
Last Saturday night Taylor seemed to
lead in the first five rounds of bis box to a finish
with Fogarty. But in the sixth Fogarty let out
with his right and fractured his friend’s jaw,
finishing the fight. Next Saturday night JWea
dows and Baxter meet “ to a finish,” when Mea
dows should prove the victor.
• # *
“Slaven refused to meet Jackson.’’—
Lyre.
Sure the darkies are finally freed,
And Liberty’s banners are wsiven,
For Jackson, stout champion indeed,
Can’t meet an opponent cnslaven.
* *
Early last week the sporting (fn’ae)
prrphet on one of our weakly dailies wiote
“ Tne ttar of the Hon. James White does not give
bright promise of being in the ascendant daring
the pretent racing season.’’ As a matter of
course, the Hon. James opened the season by
winning the two principal prizes at the Hawkes-
bury—the Guineas and Coufity Parse—with two
horses of his own breeding—Lava and Morok.
Nothing can he more reliable than our daily
oracles’ tips—to lay against.
* * *
It has been decided that the Caulfield
Grand National Steeplechase shall permanently rej
main at four miles, and that the added money
next year will be 1000 sovs.
* * *
The football clubs of Mortlake and Tower
Hill (Vic.) propose to settle the question of their
relative superiority by plajing a match at War-
nambool for £lOO aside.
* # *
A cow stopped a dog-fight in Bundaberg
(Q.) by charging the combatants and so separating
them. Apropos, the youth of Australia are not
yet civilised up to cow-level.
* * *
Sheet Anchor —who won the Melbourne
Cup of 1885, and has never done anything since
has gone to the stud. This will put backers out
of much misery.
* # #
Cannon and Ljnn are to wrestle what
looks like a gate-money five-style match at Mel-
bourne Alexandra on September 17th. When
they met before Cannon won by half-choking his
opponent in the Graeco-Roman event, and putting
him hors de combat. Nothing can well prevent a
repetition of that performance if Cannon so wills
it, unless Dunn gives the Graeco-Roman without
a struggle. The men hope that the sensation at-
tending their first match will ensure a good gate
for the return. This reminds us that when Miller
and Sail met in a mixed Groeco-Roman and
weight-lifting show, the Professor won by dis-
abling the Italian, who was an easy first with tie
dumb-bells.


Pepper
and
Salt
A reckless Vandal named P. D. Phillips
has shattered our old idol, Shakespeare, with a
little roll of original MS. This miserable deed
was accomplished at the last meeting of Melbourne
Shakepeare Society, when Phillips read a paper to
prove that the S wan of Avon was a blue Tory.
Tlis political views were shown tip in all their
Elizabethian hideousness. Quotations that would
turn the stomach of the Marquis of Salisbury
came trippingly from the tongue of Phillips. There
was no getting away from the force of his contention
that ’‘Shakespeare seldom fails to supply his aristo-
crats with comments npon the foul breaths, the
sweaty caps of the unsavoury multitude, but in
‘ Coriolanus ’ he exhausts the vocabulary of con-
tempt, and preseats to us a singularly vivid por-
trait of a patrician whom the very idea of the
common, people fills with irrepressible loathing
and disgust. Yet this disdainful contemner of the
p Q op ; e'is presented to us oertamly not in a man-
ner to estrange our sympathies.” Well, there is
a rude awakening from the sweetest dreams. We
always believed in Immortal William until Phillips
read that p *per Since then we have taken the
ior.g-adored bust from the manteleshelf, and
chucked it at the bull-pup in our neighbour’s
yard. A fruitful river fills our eye, and we have
gone into mourning for the Divine Williams of our
young imagination. As for the real article, the
aotual dead ’un Perdition catch our soul but
we don’t love him a bit—
Sir Graham Berry, Agent-General for
Victoria, is at present oa a visit to Sir William Arm-
strong, at his residence, Cragside, Newcastle."—
Age telegram.
The dramatists who have rampaged for so
many years about the loveliness of women in all
her aspects, from her hair down to her boots,
were probaKlv not acquainted with Mrs. Pipes, of
Auckland (N 21; if they had known that dis-
banded female they would have left the subject
alone. The rowdy city of Auckland, it may be
explained, goes in heavily for charity. Nowhere
is there a better show for the man with one leg,
the other having been chewed off by a whale in
the South Pacific, or for the widow with seven
BROWN (to Jones, of the Tramicay Department): “I CAN’T SEE HOW IT IS THAT THE
TRAMS DON’T PAY.”
JONES: “IT ISN’T THE TRIMS THAT DON’T PAY, IT’S THE PASSENGERS.”
children, of whom the youngest got the top of his
head blown away while discharging fireworks on
the 5 h of November ; and there is even a cordial
welcome for the healthy-looking fraud who has
suffered no external damage, but who says he
was Injured internally, while serving his country
in Afghanistan. But Mrs. Pipes has carried the
business too far. She came to Auckland a year
ago with a reposeful-looking husband and two
offspring, and the first thing she did was to
borrow four inf »nts from Mrs. Biver across
the road, and negotiate an arrangement by which
she received weekly rations for a widow and six
helpless children, one of whom was suspected of
water on the brain. Then she returned the cadged
family, and lent out her qwn pair and her husband
as well, and Mrs. Biver obtained an allowance for
six children also, together with medical comforts
for the bed-ridden Pipes, who was capable of run-
ning six miles with a stove on his back any day.
A few months later they revealed the arrange-
ment to Mrs, Danks in the next street, and she
borrowed Mrs, Pipes eldest girl and Mrs Biver’s
ditto, and appealed for assistance on the ground
that she had two idiot daughters and was utterly
penniless. When someone came round to investi-
gate the caso she stunned the borrowed children
with a board, and succeeded in making them
pass master as comatose imbeciles, and. this
transaction was also settled satisfactorily.
Then began a high old time, during which the
three ladies used to fetch their allowance home
every Saturday and convert the surplus into gin.
and all wont well until one unhappy evening
when Mrs. Biver, under the influence of drink,
threw Mrs. D,inks’s own child at Mrs. Pipes who
was coming along with her basket, and blackened
that lady’s eye with Its legs. Then Mrs. Pipes
threw a loaf through Mrs. Biver’s window, and
Mra. Blver said that Mrs. Pipes had been in gaol,
and threw it back, and hit Mra. Danks, who there-
upon stated that Mrs. Biver’s offapring did not
have a bath regularly, and told her to come out.
Then another loaf and a pound of tea went
through the window, also a leg of mutton, a boot,
soma sugar, two stones, an egg, an apple, a bottle
of vinegar, and a flat bottle that had held brandy,
and as Mrs. Biver still declined to emerge, Mrs.
Pipes captured one of her daughters, and chastised
her in order to harrow her mother’s feelings. Upon
this Mrs. Biver emerged and disabled Mrs. Pipes
by throwing two ounces of pepper at her head,
and having done this she got Mrs. Danks down
and ran a big knobbly hair-pin into her. Next
Mr. Pipes turned up and thrashed his wife on
general principles, and Anally two policemen
lifted Mrs. Biver off Mrs, Danks, and Mrs. Biver’s
daughter “fetched” one of them on the back of
the head with a bottle for his officiousness This
act tlie officer set down somehow to Mr. Pipes
and after he had clubbed that citizen two or three
times the whole crowd were run in. Upon hear-
ing of these troubles the Benevolent Society’s
officer came down to inquire into the condition of
15 children —two of them imbecile-who were
supposed to be left unprot ecled, and Mrs. Pipes’
daughter showed him where Mrs. Danks had hit
her on the head with a board and thus gave the
whole scheme away. And this is why the bed-
ridden Pipes now works for his living in a ginger
beer factory, and why Mrs. Biver hasn’t been able
as yet to pav for the repair of her windows, and
why Mrs, Pipes’ girl wa3 afterwards locked up
for two days in her mother's coal-hole, and it also
accounts for the rage of Mrs. Danks, who came
round and requested in vain that Mrs. Pipes
would give up her daughter for an hour or so that
she and Mrs. Biver might “go for her” jointly
throughout that periodi And it also explains a
lon of other things,which,have served to seriously
diminish the flow of charity in Auckland.
The Parliament of N.S.W. contains all the bsst'
men in the colony. Parkes is the leader of the-
Parliament. Therefore Parkes is the best man
in N.S.W. Humph! Poor N.S.W. !
The ratepayers of Leicester (Eng.) have’
been inspired to present a petition to Her Gr&-
cious, soliciting the honour of a Jubilee knight-
hood for their beloved Mayor, The petition was
answered with a cold, cruel negative. This Is,
doubtless a deserving case, so we shall take the-
liberty of dropping on one knee and tackling the-
Queen ourselves. Bring our Court-suit and m
guitar :
The Cooma (N.S.W.) young men singe-
their hair. They are afraid that they might be
come like unto Parkes.
At Maitland Quarter Sessions a Chinkie,.
who pretended not to savee, was asked by Judge
Dowling, “Do you know me ? “ Yes," replied.
John. “ Where did you see me ?/’ “ Never saw
you before,” replied the yellow fraud quite off his<
guard.
The Kennion (S.Av) Municipal Council;
scooped in a total of £3 ;os. sd. of revenue during
the past year. The clerk’s salary is £lO, and the
other expenditure told up £5 19s. sd. Like Parkes
they are going to let the deficit stand over.
Sir Charles Lilley, Chief Justice of
Queensland, when asked to adjourn the Supreme
Court on account of the funeral of the late
Minister for Works, said that attendance at a
funeral was a hollow way of showing sympathy
and a piece of hypocrisy to boot. We quite agree
with this. We once buried a mother-in-law of
ours, and the undertaker, who looked as if his-
heart were broken on the day of the funeral, called
for his cheque at 8-a.m next morning with a smile 1
as broad as Govett’s Leap.
That cocky little Prahran (Melb.) coun-
cillor, G. W. Taylor, late Mayor of the refined l
siiburb of South Yarra, has achieved distinction,
at last. He has been in London during the
Jubilee craze—perhaps in expectation of being'
made a C.M.G. for having offered £lOOO towards a-
Victorian Patriotic Fund, on condition that 20'
other people did the samo—knowing well that
Victoria didn't possess 20 such idiots at large..
The papers tell us that the great little man
managed to get On board the Malabar at the.
Jubilee naval review, and was privileged to fol-
low in the wake of the Royal yacht. Great
Scott !■ he must have been wanting to get an in-
troduction to Wales, and hint about “ a knight-
hood or something, old man,” When Taylor
made that celebrated offer of £.lOOO, a fellow
wrote to the papers, saying that the offer was a
noble one, and in order to mark his sense of ap-
preciation of the magnificent example he was pre-
pared bo give £lO,OOO to the Patriotic Fund, on
condition that 10' other persons did likewise. But
neither the 2ft with their £lOOO apiece nor the 40
with their £lO,OOO rolled uo, and the Patriotic
Fund suffered a loss of £131,000 sterling.
Robert Pope, who earns his humble eru»t
and molasses by acting as storekeeper on a planta-
tion at Mackay (Q.), is a humane man, and when
a sweep named Ali, who was working on the pre-
mises, was taken bad, he at once stood him a
quantity of castor-oil. Ali tasted it, and then he
gave a shriek and a heave, and there was a violent
convulsion inside his crust. Then Pope poured
out another forum of the loatnsome stuff,
and again Ali tackled it, and squirmed over it, and
then he got up solemnly, and cursed Pope, and all
his ancestors, and the oil, and the man who made
it, and all ihe man’s relations, and the house he
lived in, and the day he was born, and his ox, and
his ass, and his dog, and all his property. When
he had finished cursing, Pope got him down, and
dragged his mouth opan, and held his nose d.
emptied a third dose of oil into,- Vue wretched
Asiatic, and having got it fairly in. he knocked
the pai ients mouth shut and held him that
way tiU the matter was, settled. Ali w a , filled
with wrath at this treatment, and he put his be3t
brown leg foremost, , a nd went off to rake out a
summons against his benefactor. When the case
came on he smote hinaself on his upper chest, and
said the white man Lad loaded him up to there
with liquid fat, but tht> case was dismissed on the
ground that the rich fluid had been administered
for a purely benevolent purpose, and that Ali
wouid probably feel the better of it in course of
time, if he lived till ther>.
Weep as we unfold a story,
Freely shed your bitter tears—
Shakspeare was a bloated Tory,
William reverenced the Peers ;
He rejoiced o'er regal function,
Winked his eye at royal job,
And remark, in this coni unction —
William couldn’t bear the mob.
He was very fond of telling
(As you've seen above, perhaps)
How their breath was evil smelling
And perspiration soiled their cap 3
(In those days, the poet guesses,*
Of which shattered William speaks,
Workingmen had greasy tresses—
Odorisel their breath with leeks).
Phillips tells us all about it,
Paillips understands the Bard
Who has - deuce a one can doubt it—
Forfeited our kind regard.
What becomes of William’s glory
And his reputation fair,
If he was a bloated Tory ?
Vanished into thinnest air.
Weep for him 1 the bogus hero,
Never more revere his name—
He has fallen down to zero
On the little glass of fame.
Years ago to rest they laid him—
Had he seen this J übilee
Surely someone would have made him
William Shakespeare, C.M.G.
* The Bulletin poet—not Shakespeare.
A RAMBLING REMINISCENT RHYME.
Fortune is a fickle jade,
Pranks on us she’s often played —
Puts us in a pickle ;
Now she smiles, now she frowns —
Gad ! we’ve seen some ups and downs,
Fortune’s very fickle.
Some are lucky, some are not;
Fellows thrive, then go to “pot”—
Often die in ditches ;
Others, from commencements small,
Rise to lord it over all—■
Envied for their riches.
Call this rubbish ? Well, it ain’t,
We are full of fancies quaint,
Queer, and comic—very.
Throwing off this doggerel rhyme.
We are thinking of a time
When young Graham Berry
Sold potatoes by the pound
(Mercy ! how the years roll round ;
It was in the “ fifties ”
He set up that little store) —
What a change from days of yore !
Yet the “ gab ” a gift is.
Graham Berry—here’s his health !
Started not with worldly wealth,
Was not even well-born.
Does his life a lesson teaoh 1
Yes—if you can make a speech,
You’ll succeed in “Mel-bawne.”
He can'spin ’em by the yard
(There he differs from the bard—
Modest is your poet;
He, whose eyes in frenzy roll,
Keeps his music in his soul
Has trumpet, but can’t blow it).
To resume where we left off—
Graham came to be a “ toff"
By methods most erratic ;
With the “gabby ” gift endued
Once he swayed the multitude
W ith speeches democratic.
Then the darling of the hour
Lifted into place and power,
“Stumped” and stormed and “skited" ;
Providence appeared to send
Graham as the People's friend—
Tories fled affrighted.
Would that we had been, when young,
Born with very oily tongue
And principles elastic;
We had prospered then, maybe,
Quite as well as Mister B.
(Isn’t tb at sarcastic ?)
Talking is the game that pays
Best of any, now-a-days ;
Duncan Gillies, Deakin—
Others, too, that wo could name
Reached the pinnacle of Fame
AH through public speakin’.
to resiimb, though, onoe again—
Graham did not long remain
A democratic leader;
Like the goods he used to sell
He was fairly weighed, and—well,
Wherefore tell the reader 1
He has altered much of late—
Mixes with the snobbish great
At royal feast and pageant;
A titled Agent-General!
What a lamentable fall
That, from “ general agent ” !
After vending greens and fruit,
Lives to wear a Windsor suit—
A sword end v< Ivet breeches !
Visits lords, the papers say ;
Awful moral, well a-day 1
This little story teaches,
Holy Moses ! what a drop,
Once we bought at Graham's shop
A cucumber and salad ;
A democrat become a dude I
Tearfully we must conclude
This very touching ballad,
PARKES’ PATTER SONG:—“THE GREAT
HI-HAM.”
I have been misrepresented by some- persons dis-
conted who avow I’m egotistical, my elo-
quence a sham,
But these libels I will shatter, and I’ll- tell you
what s the matter if you’ll listen to the patter
of the Great Hi-Ham.
I lately had a notion to show loyalty, devotion,
and a lot, of other feelings to the people of
this land;
So with heart and brain elated, I a plan originated
for the building of a Centennial Mausoleum
grand.
The Press at first agreed with me, the country
felt the need of me. and all went well until
at last that horrid Bulletin
Denounced me as a blunderer, a public-money
plunderer, my project architectural a little
bit too thin.
My building I've a mind to stop, my plan I am
inclined to drop ; 111 try it for a little tomb,
the public purse will pay ;
But if they raise another row to their opinion I
must bow, and shelve my pretty cemetery for
another day.
To Freetrade ones I did incline, but lately I have
seen a sign that folks would like me to impose
some dues Protectionist.
So now Protectionist I turn, for revenues my
fingers burn ; perhaps they’ll wipe the figures
off that big deficit list,
I like all men to know my views, so when I have
no other news about my own pet projects, I
continually talk.
get the House to listen, and my eyes with
triumph glisten, as with impudence superla-
tive I take ’em for a walk ;
But some I never can get round, their blind-side
I have never found ; my poems and my
longest speeches never take them in.
I never take them by surprise, they seem to have
a hundred eyes—l'm talking of the readers of
that awful Bulletin.
They call me egotistical, my imagery mystical,,
the physiog. of a lion and the wisdom of a
lamb :
But I trust that with my patter, all their libels I
can scatter, and so that is what’s the matter'
with the Groat Hi-Ham.
Yours truly,
COORNEY.
Gracious Queen, to our petition
Give a little heed ;
Pity, pray, that Mayor’s condition,
Which is sad indeed.
Patiently he toiled and .toadied —
Freely scattered gold ;
Others are with honours loaded—
He is in the cold.
Oranges, and nuts, and lollies*
Milk, and buns, and tea—
Medals, mugs, and china dollies
To the kids gave he ;
All for nought he jubilated—
Surely it were right
Such a man should be created
Something—say, a knight!
He was eager in proposing
Every loyal toast
(All of this we are supposing) ;
When he played the host,
Oftentimes his voice has trembled
(Fancy paints the scene)
When he said to guests assembled,
“ Gentlemen, the Queen 1”
Must his fondest hopes be blighted—
Hopes be blighted thus ?
Even now he could be knighted,
Poor benighted cuss!
Gracious Queen, from our petition,
Coldly do not turn ;
Really, his distressed condition.
Gives us much concern.
You are sad when subjects suffer
(So the papers say)—
Would you let this poor old buffer -
Slowly pine away ?
Grovel merits some requital*
Make this worthy gent
Happy with a tinpot title—
It wouldn t cost a centi


PERSONAL ITEMS
Wadham Wyndham, the Inverell slaugh-
terer, was an ardent cricketer.
Randolph Churchill, says Paris Figaro, is
suffering from Bright’s disease,
J. Y. M ulligan, the veteran prospector, of
Palmer celebrity, is at Croydon, N.Q.
A Yankee is a person who always puts on a
bell-topper when he’s going to deceive an English-
man.
Mrs. Gordon Baillie’s . husband is Mr.
Bromby Frost. Her scheme appears to be also a
frost.
Dr. Louis Henry has been lecturing the
Melbourne people on “ Sausages." Not pork
sausages, you know.
William Gladstone died the other day at
Parramatta Asylum, Poor fellow! An unsuc-
cessful Home Ruler.
Morgan, late of Ma.ckay Standard, will
have what appears to be the best paper at Croy-
don—the Golden Age.
The Queen possessed not an acre of ground
when she started in business as a monarch, but
now she owns 20,000 acres.
Dr. Jefferis has been lecturing in Adelaide.
A local paper says that he will always be wel-
come. They are built that way in the holy city.
The largest owner of hotel property in
Melbourne is Mrs. “ Micky” Dawson, the mother-
in-law of Mr. E. G. Fitzgibbcn, the Town Clerk,
Charles Dickens has turned up at Adelaide
with a new publication, “The Australian Bee-
keepers’ handbook.” Charles ha 3 become as dry
as dust.
Judge Innes has decided that pigs are
cattle. His opinion on pork seems to have altered
since he bestowed his judicial benediction on Mr.
Kurtz Levy.
It is said that a distinguished Australian
politisian calmly proposes to offer his creditors five
shillings in the £, Eels, we presume, get used to
being skinned.
Fanny Carand ini's husband, Captain
Moreland, who presented a Juoiiee address and
casket of jewels from India to the Queen, has
been knighted.
Earl Lytton, ex-Viceroy of India, is just
going to publish “ After Paradise, or Legends of
Exile.' Well, he couldn’t expect to be Viceroy of
India always, doncherknow.
A country paper remarks that a good
dinner makes the Hon. Tom Garrett very com-
municative. Tom’s inspiration, he himself
admit s, is derived from John Robertson.
“Only two ‘O V against three dozen
‘Maos,' aud they call this a free country,” was
the summing-up of Paddy Wholahan after glanc-
ing down the list of nsw N.S.W. J.P.’s.
Sir Henry Parkes says he can conceive of
no more burdensome state of existence than being
in a British colony a faithful Minister of the
Crown, Self-praise is no recommendation.
Governor Wobinson, of S.A., attends the
Eight Hours' demonstration. His Excellency Lord
Caring tun invariably has an important engage-
ment on the date of the N.S.W. anniversary.
The late Billy Miles, of Queensland, whose
income was reckoned by thousands, commenced
life in Australia as a “ generally useful ” on a
station at the gorgeous screw of £2B per annum.
The Bev. J. B. Gribble, of West Aus-
tralian notoriety, has been appointed to Buili
Everyone to his taste, but were we a parson we’d
be more afraid of the widows than of the black-
fellows.
Mr. M‘Lellan, M.L.A. for Ararat, and
the Hon. Duncan Gillies, were maies in the early
digging days at Fiery Creek (now k, own as
Beaufort). Neither of them had ever any luck as
a miner.
Mr, J. B. Nicholson, who, as general
secretary for the Iliawarra Miners Union, worked
hard for the men’s rights through strikes and
disaster, intends to settle in the land of ihe stars
and stripes.
G. B. Barlow, the defaulting accountant
of the London Chartered Bank at Carlton (Vic ),
is the son of a much-respected clergyman. ’Twas
aver thus. The devil can t get hold of the gander
so he preys on the goslings.
From the Government Gazette “ Mr.
Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens to be member of
the Licensing Court for Wiicannia, vies Trollope,
resigned.’’ One is a son of Dickens, the other a
nephew of Anthony Trollope.
A verbatim report of the conference be-
tween Premiers Parkes and Playford would he in
terestiog reading. The latter talks about ’* spar-
rows’ ’eds and heggs.” Parkes goes one better,
and says, “ sparrers’ ’eds and heggs.’
A Western (N.S.W.) paper praises up a
farmer named Tomkins, who wears tweed manu-
factured from the wool of his own sheep. That’s
nothing. Tnere a e more persons than Tomkins
who wear their own wool. Parkes, for instance.
Earl Cairns (Gumboil) has returned from
New Guinea to London intact. Strange to say,
this diplomatic peer has no proposals to make
With regard to the holding of Papua. Gumboil is
Very chary of his proposals since he settled for the
last one.
Jay Gould is a placid, inoffensive, washed-
out-looking, slight little man, and appears not to
Weigh more than ninety pouuc s. Yet we know
several peisons who wouldn’t mind swapping
Places with him. The Czar, for instance, or Mud
■J. Haynes.
The dapper Phil. Benjamin, once of the
Argus, and for many years sub-editor of the
South Australian Register, arrived last week
Per Orizaba from London, where of late he has
been engaged in mercantile pursuits. Mr. Ben-
iamin may possibly settle in Sydney.
Mr Thomas iSmith, who arrived in Vic-
toria 37 years ago, died at his residence. Sc. Kiida,
last week. Tne fatner of the deceased gentleman,
™; r John Smith, was an intimate friend of Sir
" alter Scott, and superintended the building of
A-bootsford. Mr. Thomas Smith had been en-
sued principally in pastoral pursuits.
When Shepherd Inglis, of Ballarat, pleade
guilty to a charge of plagiarism, his loving con
gregation punished him by adding £2OO a year
his salary. The good paster, having just bee
honorably acquitted of a second charge of a simila
character, it is only reasonable that his sere
should row be cut down to the original figure.
James Tyson, the Bananaland Croesus, go
the worst of itinaSjdney Supreme Court cas
over some horned beasts the other day. Th
plaintiff (Robinson) bought—in a Pirkwickia
rense—3ooo head of cattle to be paid for o
delivery. James wouldn’t deliver, however, anc
Robinson, who was put to great expense and in
convenience over the affair, brought an ac ion fo
Preach of contract of sale. A bydneyjury de
cided that Tyson should pay £3OOO compensation.
Dr. Morrison, of the Melbourne Scotch
( ollege, is a squatter as well as a schoolmaster
and has been quite as successful in the one
capacity as in the other. He is associated with the
Hon. James Balfour and Sir James Macbain in
some very big pastoral ventures and the trio
manage to combine orthodox Calvinism with
shrewd enterprise in a manner which only Scots-
men can. The principal of the Scotch College is
the leader of the “evangelical” party in the
Scots Church, Collins-streer.
That gallant officer, Lieutenant-Colonel
C Smith, M. h.A. of Ballarat, has shaded off
his whiskers and now appears d la militaire
Talking of hirsute sacrifices, J. J. Casey, we
are reminded was the first to adopt this practice
after his trip to the Paris Exhibition At a later
day Lieutenant-Colonel Templeton spent some-
thing on barbers, but the attempt to look military
is not a success in this case. And at last our own
Lieutenant-Colonel Smith, the beloved of Ballarat
and Minister for Education in the Berry
Government has done it. Bless his heart and
cheek !
That genial soul, Theodore Fink, who
has been exhorting his Judaic co-religionists in
Melbourne to sacrifice their sordid pursuits to the
spiritual genfus ef their race, is a solicitor, and
senior partner in the firm of Fink and Best. One
of his brothers, W olfe, is a barrister —a sort of
cenny Purves; the other is Mr. B. J. Fink, M.L.A.,
land-speculator and financier. Law and finance
The N.S.W. Parliament opens next week.—M‘Elhone is sharpening his axe.
are, of course, purely spiritual avocations.
Theodore is a pretty good literary man, who
writes neat verges and knows more about the
lighter kinds of English poetry than perhaps any
solicitor on earth. That may not be saying much
for there’s very little poetry in parchment.
The N.Z, seamen have started in oppo
sition to the Northern Steamship Co. a line called
the Jubilee Steamship Company. We don’t cot
ton to the name Jubilee. Why not call it the
Shellback line ? But, perhaps, Jubilee is the
most appropriate, after all. It is good enough foi
stamping out.
An “unexpected” visit was made to the
Parramatta alleged Benevolent Asylum the other
day by the Premier. Everything was all right.
We shculd think so. To keep them so, we would
suggest that Sir ’Enry remain permanently in the
institution. It is the only guarantee which will
the public that the inmates are being
treated humanely.
The Croydon diggings, we hear, are getting
quieter now, but there are, as usual, a lot of
loafers about anxious to make a pile without
work. One man got seven backers at £2 a week
each, and in lieu of working at the seven different
claims hecaltnly contemplated the lot, his only work
being to draw his screw. Two other men paid to
keep a claim working got up three-quarters of a
ton in six months. They are going to crush at
the millennium.
The Braybrook (Vic.) Shire Council had a
bad quarter of an hour, the other evening. Hon.
members reared up in their excitement, and
pawed round, and called bard names, and re-
quested all and sundry to strut into the opwi air
and take it out in bruises. The burning question
under discussion was whether it was advisable or
otherwise to have all p gaand pigsties, and China-
men. and other noxious things removed by law
far back ouc of sight and smell. Braybrook’s
Councillors took sides on this all-important theme,
and discussed it with such vigour that the air soon
became thick with base insinuations, dust, and
foam. The common impression seemed to be
that, in the event of their sanctioning the mea-
sure, councillors would have to go away back
with the other pig-truck.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Horfis ain’t a bed of rosea.”—Habigle.
Crick says the Western rabbits “ welcomed
Abigail as their long-lost brother.”
No use sending any more oranges from
N.S.W. to the old country until immediately prior
to the next general elections.
The Melbourne trades propose a poll-tax
of £lOO on Chinese visitors. May we suggest a
saving clause in favour of Quong Tart ?
The new evening London Radical paper is
to have a high-flown name, the Clarion. Mr.
T. P. O’Connor, M P., is to be the editor.
Premier Parkes wonders how Forbes
(N’.S.W.) come 3 to have a gaol which is unoccu-
pied. An elector let the secret out in one word—
Coonan.
Haynes, the Decentraliser, voted for
Parkes’ Deadhonse, Haynes wants to decentra-
lise the living. How can he logically decentralise
the dead ?
W. P. Crick, at Bathurst, said he was
sorry Jago Smith was in Parliament, because Mud
J. Haynes might “spoil him.” The idea of spoil-
ing a man named Jago t
We arise to doff our hat to Judge Dowling.
He remarked the other day that it was a pity
£2 10 3, per week should be paid to a Chinese cook
while white men were starving. May his Honor
never suffer from indigestion !
We want to know under what statute a
Casino (N S.W.) man has been sentenced to two
montcs' gaol for speaking with a prisoner b;
means of a pipe ventilator ?
Mr. Atherley Jones, M.P., who wipec
the floor of the House of Commons with Horn
Secretary Matthews over the Cass case, is a so
of Ernest Jones, the Chartist poet.
Premier Parkes alleges that Protectio
would trample the divine law in the dust. Pooh
Why, the man who doesn’t pay 203 in the £— h
tramples the divine law in the dust, too.
The quantity of wool sent to Sydney las
year was less by 3,515.075 lbs than in 1885, whil
the amount sent to Melbourne showed an in
crease of 4,131,839 lbs., and to Adelaide o
5,047.323 lbs.
An auditor asked Mud. J, Haynes the
other day to modify his language. He was tolc
to go and talk to the bandicoots. From this we
gather that the man would have a better show of
politeness from the bandicoots.
‘’What does Decentralisation mean?’
asked one of Haynes' auditors at Tam worth the
other day. . John was staggered. Turning to a
friend at his side, he gasped • ” For heaven’s
sake, go and look it up in the dictionary.’’
When Theebaw, late King of Burmah,
imagined he had a Jubilee he used to cele-
brate it by sacrificing fifteen or twenty of his rela-
tions. The Burmese objected to this. But then
Theebaw’s relations weren’t German paupers.
AN.S.W. country journal considers that
the fulfilment of Parkes' programme for the com-
ing session would compel the House to sit until
the 21st century. Sir ’Eury, however, can obviate
the difficulty by adjourning to the Deadhouse.
N.S. W. Parliament opens next week.
The sub-editors of the dailies in the adjoining
colonies are rejoicing in consequence, The stock
heading “ Disgraceful Scenes in the NS. W.
Parliament, is in readiness for immediate use.
“Maister Speaker,” said M‘Lellan, the
irate Dove of Ararat, in the Victorian Assembly
the other day, “Ma deestrick has been shame-
fully negleckit. In fack I may say it’s got nae-
"Wfit' exclaimed the smiling Zox,
liasn t it got a lunatic asylum ? 5 *
According to the Bishop of Bedford
where the Church is active in England the
agricultural labourers vote Tory, bu; where
negiec: is shown in religioui mat;«r <, the lab >ur -r
vote straight for the Liberals. Consequent the
SSEKu”” “ h “"’“
The Bourke (N.S. W.) journal wants to be
Frawnois Habigle a side of kio that he can’t spel
palaeontology in three tries. The Bulletin bag
o inform that editor that Frawnois nasa'cye
squared our little account, and it is not desirable
&&552 “ tho me “ Mme *»*
The Sydney daily press has failed to inform
the public that the junbetting of Habigle and
William of Orange in the back-blocks was brough
□ a sudden termination by a peremptory tele
gram from Parkes, who was afraid that they
would say too much. Will Fra wncis risk another
£25 on a denial of this ?
The Gazette announces that the Queen
has “been pleased” to appoint the Prince of
Wales to the rank of admiral. This happy ap-
pointment leaves nothing more to be desired ex
cept. that it shall shortly please “Her Most
Gracious Majesty,” the head of the Church, to
make him an honorary archbishop.— Reynolds.
Rev. J. G. Paton expatiated in Mel-
bourne the other day on a recent “outburst of
secularism and infidelity” in Sydney. He alludes,
7 e v.! Up S. 030 ’ to the manifestation against the
Jubilee Tommy rot. His abho "'ice is against
infidelitj to royalty. A lot of th j o’-orgy worship
at that shrine. It pays ever so much better than the
Masters.
We mean to be good to our friends
was the memorable and oft-quoted remark
of the Honorable and sometimes Terrible Billy
Miles shortly after he, with Griffith’s lot, got back
to power in Queensland, about four years ago.
But the nepotism and corruption weren’t nearly
so bad as might have been expected from the
above rather singular announcement.
I The poor old King
of Samoa has been
scuttled by the Germans
and has capsized. For
some years past he has
been so hard up that h
has been compelled t
reign behind an umbrella
to hide the fact that he
had no clothes on, bu;
still things held up in
sort of way till the other
lay when a German
commander hit him on
;he bugle, and he wen:
)ver backwards. He then
whistled for assistance
md escaped through the
jack room of the palace
(vhere the pots and pans
tre kept, and was shortly
if ter wards seen making
or the interior. Ht
las since raised an army,
i at his prospects are not
r ery bright, and unless
ie comes over to Aus-
ralia and raises money
y lecturing on “ Ger-
mans I have Met," it is
robable that he will
nd himself in reduced
ircumstances.
Croydon turns out
old at a rate of 36,000
imces per year, value
100 000. The diggers
jend £500,000 in duti-
hie articles throughout
ie year which yields
25,000 through the
ustom-house to the Go-
srnment ; and the Go-
*rnment spend about
1500 a year on the war-
m’s office. The post-
fice pays its own ex-
mses three or four
Tli-S over. Result of
'ey don. £29,000 a year
ore to bui d railways
rough I! istane with
id to spend on desert
«... n j -«• , lines to ttie West And
| the Croydon-Normanton i ine ? Well, not yet—
[ let Billy Miles “ consider ’’ that. And
Duly Miles is dead, you know.
It is rather funny that the first man wh
tried to lecture the Croydon miners on ant
Separation got egg-pelted and flour-covered an
now the iast man who went in hot and strong fo
the North actually got cheered Only one digge
interrupted, and he was promptly expelled.
Mr. Thompson, M.P. for West Maitland
said last week that “ he hoped to go to his pnliti
cal grave with the banner of Freetrade flying
over him. We must congratulate the hon. gen
tleman on the splendid show he has of being able
to gratify his wish at an exceedingly early date.
Here are a few mild samples of oratory
from the Mudgee reformer, Haynes
> Wh wil v' hi , m on tlle ‘ 1 Bhall rub his nose in it
When he heard me, no corner was obscure enough for him
to dive raw ‘ I shook the table in my rage. ‘Parke* a A
me. Hollow Duffers.' ‘Go and talk to the wombats
flien<^’ •n > u al i c to bandicoots." * Arouad the
hoflowdiffe?5 Wll bef ° Uadthe prostrate fo ™ ox many a
And this is a legislator ! Oh, ye gods !
At the recent Cootamnndra banquet, Mr.
Drummond, a railway employd, stood up for
railways, which he stated were the safest means
of conveyance on earth. Last year 11 000 000
passengers were carried on the N.B.W. lir’es and
only 20 were killed out of the lot; “ besides ”
philosophically added Mr. Drummond, “if one has
to be killed, the railways would be about the best
place, as there is always a chance of conden-
sation.
In a recent speech, Tiger-slayer Inglis,
Minister of Education in the N.S. W. Government
who poses as an out and out Freetrader, quoted’
with much satisfaction, a passage from Carm gie's
‘Triumphant Democracy,” in which the writer
deals with the freetrade relations befcwee-i ihe
Stages. The quotation has no bearing wha ever
on freetrade as the term is understood by men of
tne Inglis ilk. The American’s protect themselves
from the competition of slaves and paupers in
other parts of the world, and that is all that is
demanded by Australians who are imbued with
the truly national motto. ‘ Australia for tha \u-
tralian?.


''fi Njy Guz-t
Sport ?
A VICTOR Y IDEA OF SPORT.


PLEASURE
""lO <n e HiOl/SAirp pEopLE
W H° V/ifwESSEDjtfjE o liAtfirfti ~fo(i 'ft/E BOOy of
n fill/' **'** a/ r Su/rt/Ay scpi- -'//* Zj.
-The Vl £ D^ii^
<9 0^
A jV.AS/.r/f''
?icmc
IDEA OF SPORT.


Society
We have always had a sort of impression
that Bhhop Barry knew the exact locality the
oleomargarine occupied on his little piece of
bread, and so much ’cuter has he becon e since he
last visited this continent that his wondersome
flock begin to think the only purpose of his
last trip to England was the study of new dodges
and “fly” games for antipodean use. He got
several miles ahead of the clerical crowd in synod
assembled, cold-decking them in gorgeous style,
and now he has made a brilliant effort to ringnose
the whole of his ficck in like manner. The Cen-
tennial Fund is his latest undertaking. It has
been started, like Mayor Young's Jubilee banquet,
about six months before tbe anniversary it is
alleged to signa'ise, but that is only bis little
London way of being previous to the ungodly,
who will take no thought to the Centennial until
the Centennial totes along this way. This year is
appropriate only to Jubilee Funds, but it will be a
cold day when Bishop Barry nails such a distress-
ful name on to any scheme of his. He knows
that Australians have an unlimited stock of pro-
fanity on tap for anything named “ Jubilee,” and
that’s why he decided to sample their patriotism
by labelling his ecclesiastical cadie the “Centen-
nial.” You bet the children of this world will
have to go to school again if they want to be any
wiser than the modern children of light. This
paragraph seems to have been written by a very
slangy and worldly member of the staff.
* » •
Rinking isn’t the game it is cracked-up to
be. The human frame is not built to open like a
hinge and then come down on a hard floor, and
this sort of amusement strains the muEcles, and
spreads the legs over an area of ground that
makes grace impossible, and takes all tbe elegant
bend out of the female figure. Up to the present
time one lady has b6en killed in Sydney, and
another has broken her ankle, while a third has
got her Corinthian nose fractured. All this
wouldn’t matter much if a lady could look nice
While being carried out on a shutter, but unfor-
tunately she can’t.
* * *
The Tenterfield (N.S.W.) ladies do not re-
quire the stimulus of a Jubilee to become charit-
able. They have just started a ladies’ “ non*
sectarian ” benevolent society. The name of her
Gracious is left out in tbe cold ; the Tenter-
fieldians are not going to help anyone to acquire a
bogus reputation for goad heartedness.
* * *
In England, a new game called “Ring
Goal ” is quite superseding tennis. “ Ring Goal! ”
Sounds like a slang name for marriage.
* * •
The attempt of the late N.S.W. Govern-
ment to kill off some of the surplus Civil servants
by allowing only 30 minutes in which to bolt their
lunch has been a failure. They are proof against
indigestion, and the time has been again extended
to 45 minutes. The extra 15 minutes is for mash-
ing.
* * *
Mr. T. N. Fitzgerald, the eminent Mel-
bourne surgeon, says that “ the contrast between
the chfidren in the lanes and alleys of Melbourne
and those in similar quarters of old world cities,
comes like a revelation to an observant traveller
through the absence of enlarged heads, curved
backs, depressed noses, and bent limbs among the
former.” Speaking as a surgical expert, Mr.
Fitzgerald says that Australian children are tbe
healthiest in the world.
* * *
Bishop Flowers Goe avers that marriage—
the state which permits a lady to go through a
gentleman’s pockets without being run in for
theft, and allows a gentleman to lift a lady
about by the back hair without being indicted for
assault —is “not a civil contract, but a divine
institution direct from God.”
* * *
A “prize girl” competition was held
recently in Queensland, at Millbrcok, the resi-
dence of the Hon. W. H. Groom. Nine young
ladies competed. Each girl had to sew some
white work, write a letter, and make a mutton
pie under the critical optics of the judges, who
were all grandfathers and too knowing to he
winked into giving the prize to the golden-haired
fairy who made pastry like flint and puckered
her seam. Luncheon was served at noon to see if
the girls put their knives in their mouths, or
tucked their serviettes in their collars —in which
■case they wouldn’t be prize girls—not much!
Two Toowoomba girls (of course) took the
honours, and the other seven went home and
kicked the cat all over the back yard to express
their feelings.
« * *
No less than 50 persons were discovered
to be travelling on expired monthly railway
tickets at the North Melbourne station one day
last week. We aren’t surprised. North Mel-
bourne is the place which declines to return to
Parliament anyone who is not a teetotaller and
lay preaohor.
* * *
A writer in the Cumberland Mercury
gave it out recently that Lady Carington’s ‘' At
Homes” would be more enjoyable if the ladies
would stay away. What did he mean ? From
what we hear, it’s the other sort whose absence
is prayerfully requested by a soul-wrung com-
munity.
• * *
To get your letters in Croydon (North
Queensland) you wait from half-an hour to four or
five hours, and sometimes have to give it best
without getting anything. There is one little hole
through which enquiries, telegrams, stamps,
letters, and papers, are received and delivered,
and this hole is all day long like a beehive, with
from a dozen to two or three hundred diggers
waiting for letters. There is one young man in-
side who behaves with wonderful coolness under
such trying circumstances. Mr. Ridge, the post-
master, has all the telegraphic part to do, some-
times for 24 hours at a stretch. The revenue for
telegrams is £5O a week alone, and the dirty
shanty that is called a post-office, without a single
window or aperture, save the hole aforemen-
tioned, is a proof of how the South governs (!!) the
North.
* * if
The Sydney Chapter House isn’t a safe
place to leave a parcel in. Perhaps because so
many clergymen have the entree. Whatever is
the reason, it isn’t as safe as the bank, as witness
this S M.H. advt. :
“LOST or stolen, from Chapter House, >St. Andrsw’s,
black bag-, contamine chess suit, &c.”
“ Etcetera f Whisky-flask, corkscrew, and cigars,
we presume.
According to the Evening Noose a Cork
Club is to be started in Sydney. For the benefit
of the uninitiated it mayj.be explained that a Cork
Club—in England at all events—is a gang of
sodden miscreants whose thirst rises up to heaven
like tbe smoke of a burnt-offering, and whose
souls are cracked and seared with howling, pray-
ing. begging, and cursing en every known and un-
known god for beer —for heaven’s sake, beer. The
members carry a cork apiece, and when two of
them meet they exclaim simultaneously, like a
voice crying in a brewery, “ Cork 3 out! ” The
one who hasn’t got his cork about him has to
shout, but the average member would sooner ap-
pear without his head than without his cork, and
the shouts are very few. Consequently a Cork
Club is generally a corporation with drought-
stricken innards and legs that are bowed down
through much chasing after stray members on the
A METALLURGICAL PROBLEM.
They were on board the “Sunbeam” after visiting the Mint, where they had been told
that all the carpets and the clothing of the operatives were periodically burned and the gold
extracted-thereby reducing the loss of metal to a minimum—Said Angelina (aged 5 years): “Do
they burn the sailor that takes the half-crowns, mamma?” “Why, what a strange idea, Angy I
What should they burn him for?” “Oh, so that the hospitals should get all the money that he
takes! That’s all.”
off chance that they have left their bungs at home,
and it wears a hunted aspect for it knows that
the other thirsty Corks are always on its trail and
bellowing for a drink. The only thing that can
heal a Cork Club is to have a bullock-team go
over it.
* * #
A few days ago we climbed to the top of
the Sydney post-office tower to see how it felt.
We ascended by means of fearfully spiral stair-
ways—which seemed endless —to the stage where
the clock is to be, and frcm Thence by perpendi-
cular ladders to tbe dome. The view from the
top is expansive and very giddy, but the observa-
tory is covered with glass and perfectly safe, so
far as falling out is concerned. We did not fall
out. From this height the tramcars looked like
coupled match-boxes and tbe ’buses like chips
drawn by fleas. The roofs of the buildings looked
dirty and untidy, and the streets narrower and
more corkscrewy like than ever. On the whole, we
don’t like Sydney proper from the post-office
tower. Beyond, where we see green paddocks
and blue sea the scene is enchanting. For a
bird’s eye view we require a city to be well laid
out—like Cabbagegardenopolis, for instance-
before it looks well. Sydney, with its come-by-
chance streets, can’t stand the test. But all this
doesn’t signify. If there is any sort of a breeze
going visitors to the tower will be too occupied
with holding their hair on to criticise the city
much. We could not hold ours on. It floated
away over George-street.
• * *
The well-known yacht, Red Gauntlet, be-
longing to Mr. Miller, of Melbourne, bas become a
total wreck at Port Darwin. The yacht was for-
merly the properly of tbe rich and ill-fated Mr.
Balfour, who died under such melancholy circum-
stances in Sydney a few years ago. And it was
on the Red Gauntlet that Mr. and Mrs Lang-
try (the Jersy Lily) went away for their honey-
moon.
•JO 7C
It is stated in the daily Press that the
luncheon at Adelaide Exhibition on the day of
the arrival of Sir Henry Parkes was given by Mr
NeiM. As Jawbone gets no salary it is not to be
expec’ed that he can provide such entertainments
out of his own pocket. Ought N.S.W. to be called
upon to pay for the “entertainment” of Parkes
when he is doing “ the grand ” in another colony ?
* * *
The general verdict of travellers is that
the best-conducted railway refreshment-room in
Australia is that at the Murray (S.A.) on the
overland line. The bill of fare is complete, the
cooking excellent, the attenoanee prompt, the
charges moderate, tbe civility almost overpower
ir.g. and the staff (girls) have the good sense to
keep their stock pleasantries in reserve until the
hungry travellers have satisfied their wants.
* * *
It is suggested that the time has now
arrived when the police should be supplied with
the photographs of Cabinet Ministers. It looks,
or at least would look, very bad for a member of
Her Majesty’s Ministry to be run up to Her
Majesty’s Police Court at 2 a.m. on suspicion of
beiDg drunk and disorderly. It is, however, im-
possible to guess why such foolish suggestions as
the above should be seriously made.
* * *
Judge Dowling, of Sydney, expresses dis-
approval of private bars upstairs in hotels. It is
so dangerous coming down, dontcherknow.
* -K- *
Late cablegrams state that that great
master of English prose, Ruskin, who—as amply
evidenced by the wild character of the letters
from him lately published in the Press—has of
late been a victim to serious nervous trouble, is
now so mad that he has to be confined in an
asylum. When quite a young man, John Ruskin
became interested in an unworldly maiden, seme
years his junior, whom he thought beautiful, ac-
cording to the rules and theories of art, and whom
he wooed on art principles He married her, and
treated her as if she had been a statue, admiring
her in a cold, abstract way, not altogether grate-
ful to a young woman of ardent temperament.
Months passed, their relations undergoing no
change, he contented, she discontented. Mean-
while he had engaged Millais, with whom, as a
Pre-Raphaelite, he was much impressed, to paint
her portrait. The susceptible artist was struck
by her beauty, and fell passionately in love with
her. But, loyal to his friend, he showed her only
the conventional reßpect that was due, stifling the
hunger of his heart. Ruskin was at last aroused
to his own marital defects, and to a sense of the
mutual love between his wife and the painter.
He acted magnanimously, deciding not to stand
in the way of the happiness of two persons who
were fitted for one another. Tne matter was
managed quietly, and in due time she was re-
leased from her matrimonial bonds, and became
Mrs. Millais. The celebrated artist having been
knighted, she is now Lady Millais. The three
have been good friends ever since. This item is
specially designed for the edification of the bald-
headed old gentleman who will marry with sweet
seventeen.
* * #
The Sydney city coroner has got married.
Verdict—heart disease.
* * *
A writer in the S.M. Herald complains
that the presence of ladies at Synodical meetings
is derogatory to the divinity of that august
assembly. When Adam preached to Eve there
was none of these objections. But then there was
only one woman in the world. Now there are too
many even for the parsons. Consequently woman
is divine no longer.
* * *
There was a time in the pious land of
Scoatlan’ when a young man who wanted to dis-
sipate used to go out to funerals, but when Mel-
bourne wants to enjoy itself it turns out en masse
to watch the police rakiDg for the corpse of a
drowned girl in the muddy, yellow Yarra. Last
Sunday week the Victorians rolled up by thou-
sands in omnibuses, cabs, carts, special trams,
and Bath chairs to watch the search for the re-
mains of Laura Swain, and every time a dog or
cat which had been wrecked on a snag was
brought to the surface a sort of pleasant thrill
went through the company, and mothers held up
their children to look at the relic which would
point a moral on the hearthrug no more. And
when at last the poor, draggled, disfigured re-
mains were fished out and disposed as decently as
possible on a litter, there was such a rush that the
police had to fight to prevent the corpse being
overturned and trodden under foot.
* * *
Dr. Youl, the Melbourne City Coroner,
wears an overcoat so constructed as to be
well-fitted for its office inasmuch as it covers him
from head to foot The Doctor has these coats
built for himself specially, and so one day when
he was visiting a patient and had left his coat in
the dog-cart he was pretty wroth at finding it
gone. He, however, cannily observed a cab-rank
close by, and treasured up the little fact in his
mind. Soon the weather got terribly cold, and
off the doctor started in his leisure moments to
inspect the cab-ranks in general, and the one he
had noticed in particular. At last his eye rested
on the familiar garment. “Where did you get
that coat, man?’ asked the doctor. “It isn’t
yours,’’ observed the man ; “look at the lining.”
“On, indeed!’ said the doctor; “new lining,
thank you; look at the sleeve under the arm.
Yes, my bit of red silk which I have sewn in on
purpose to identify. Quite sufficient. Hand it
over.” Cabby did so, and said, “ Well, you’ve
got your coat.” “ Yes,” said the Doctor Coroner ;
” and you’ll get six months.” And so he did.
* * *
There’s an exchange column in a news-
paper down South. A man asks whether anyone
will exchange 15 years’ file of the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald for a worn-out copper with a hole in
it. The postman got busy round this man’s door
at once.
* •
The Church of Scotland “ Year Book ” is
not a humorous publication, and therefore may be
taken as fairly accurate, one may suppose, in
what it chronicles of the Churches in the Land o’
Cakes. In the description of Crathie Kirk, where
Her Gracious attends service when at Balmoral,
the “ Year Book” ctironicles with joy that “ the
elders carry round the antiquated ladle, and the
Queen puts in her offering with the rest.” Of
cou»se this publication is treading on the borders
of the incredible, but we suppose we must believe
the story.
* * *
In Melbourne two women, fired with a
laudable and loyal desire to issue a new Jubilee
coinage, were caught in the act of manufacturing
a plaster cast of a new shilling wherein to mould
pewter coins. One of the female counterfeiters
was 70 years old. Women are poor forgers, but
as utterers they have no equal.
* * *
The annual ball of the Royal Yacht Club
of Victoria is to take place in Melbourne Town
Hall in the first week of October.
* • *
“Married men live longer and better
lives than bachelors. Among every 1000 bache-
lors there are 38 criminals. Among married men
the ratio is only 18 per cent. The fact that mar-
ried men live longer than bachelors is easily ac-
counted for. Single men of an uncertain age, as
a rule, neglect daily'exercise, and therefore in
nine cases out of ten— ‘ Young man, don’t you
feel well? ’—become victims to dyspepsia, &o , and
horrible maladies which—see pa'ent medicine
advts.—it brings in its train. O, relentless
demon, insidious and ruthless destroyer, how
many hearts hast thou wrung, how - many graves
hast thou filled 1 Vide Australian Medical
Gazette, 10th July, 1643. But we will be calm
and proceed : On the other hand a man, after a
few months (we quote this from experience) of
married life, learns to acquire such celerity of
movement in dodging crockery and fiat irons
that [To be continue din our next. Hearing on
the stair a sound of fairy feet we plant the
balance of this paragraph under the blotting-pad. 1
* * •
In the correspondence anent Judge
Cooper’s strike in N.Q., His Honor pointed out
that ices were absolutely necessary while on cir-
cuit in the North. And yet we never heard Pope
Cooper civilly remark from the Bench to a prisoner
in the dock : “Say, Mickey, will you have an ice ? ”
* * *
Addressing the Adelaide school children a
few days ago, Governor Wobinson had his speech
cut short by a downpour of rain. Ex-Minister
Bray then skipped forward and remarked,
“Although it is just beginning to rain, I think it
Is well that children in South Austral l 'a should be
taught the value of a shower of rain.” Wather
wough on Wobineon.
* * #
The Sydney Church of England Synod Is
becoming quite like Parliament and tbe Victorian
Presbyterian Assembly. Last week Mr. Water-
Jug Foster brought under the notice of “ the
House” “aqutstion of privilege,” Damely that
the S. M. Herald had said that some of the
members of the Synod were as bad as Gaunson or
M’Elhone. The Primate advised Foster not to
worry about what the Herald said. But suppose;.
The wild flowers are now out to perfection, and many busy
hands are employed in gathering and arranging them for
shows. Some very pretty Glass Stands, with a central tube
with 2 and 3 branches, plain and coloured, at 12s 6d. and
15s each, are marvels of beauty and cheapness They are at
Bray Bros , 102 and 404 George-street, and ate just what is
required at present, and fur roses when they arrive. Have
you seen the Bijou Fern Pots and Stands.*
ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Faria Outfitting Establishment
Mrs, McOathik, 86 and 90 King-street.*


W. J.’s motion had been carried, what would have
been the course of procedure ? What a sight to
see J. R. Fairfax, Curnow, and Cook at the bar of
the House !
• * *
Many a cheek turned pale when the Mel-
bourne newsboys first yelled “Suerclde of Miss
Swain! ’’ The m*«hers thought it was Carrie.
The Melbourne Sensation.
That tragedy we all deplore ;
To point its moral now remains—
She'll never see her Captain Moore ,
While both are parted from their Swains.
* * •
Says “ Pendragon,” of the Rei-'eree :
“We don’t know if it is libellous to call a man a
plebeian ; it may be in these days when the son of
a navvy becomes a peer of the realm on no count
hut the count of wealth, as amassed by the navvy
and not by the son.” That's a nasty jar for Lord
Tom Brassey and the people who thought Lady
Brassey showed such “charming eccentricity”
by riding on a costermonger’s barrow at Williams-
town. The architect of the family fortunes used
to tramp to work with a pick-axe aersss his
shoulder,
* a *
English papers tell us that the Duchess of
Cleveland has set the fashion of riding in Rotten
Row with a parasol. Bun that’s nothing. On wet
days the Duke of Cambridge has been known to
review troops from beneath the shelter of a
gigantic gingham. Such antics are the privileges
of blue blood.
* * *
Sir Henry Loch and Sir ’Enry Parkcs are
kindred spirits. They both dote on Freetrade and
believe in extending the suffrage to ladies. It
only remains for the Victorian Gov. to kiss his
Stella through the night and publish the circum-
stance in verse-form.
* * *
The London Referee comments on the
Duke of Hamilton’s get up at Newmarket July
meeting: “ It’s not everyday you can see a duke
who weighs 20st. in a ‘ blazer ’ and ducks, with a
white neckerchief round his throat in lieu of a
collar, and with his red and perspiring face
covered with a Panama hat about three feet in
diameter.” It is distressing to find that our
Randwick mashers don’t look a bit like dooks,
after all. The dissipated son of debauched parents,
there is not much to be said for the Duke of
Hamilton either in his private capacity or as a
hereditary institution. But he is a true aristocrat,
with a childlike faith in his native importance
which rises superior to questions of shirt-collars
and cuffs. Can anyone In Sydney sassiety say as
much for himself t After pausing for a reply, we
would mention that the Earl of Dudley appeared
at Flemington last year in white ducks Perhaps
he also sported a “ blazer,” but we don’t exactly
know what a “blazer ” is.
* * *
The Ambulance Association established by
Lady De Bressi at Rockhampton (Q.) has col-
lapsed. It was all very fashionable so long as tha
local snobs rubbed their shoulders with the half-
crown aristocrats, but since the Sunbeam s depar-
ture philan hrophyhas fallen into nowhere,and the
interest once manifested in the cure of snake,
alligator, and mosquito bites has considerably
cooled. They evidently want a resident nobility
in Rockhampton to keep up their energy in mat-
ters of this kind. The Brasseys would just suit.
They are used to the heat, and her ladyship’s
complexion would not suffer. Also, Mount
Morgan is close at hand, and everyone knows
what a number of half-crowns it contains,
* * *
According to Henniker Heaton, as inter-
viewed at Adelaide, “The Brown family have
been deposed by Her Majesty, who is now getting
Hindoo servants.” In other words, Her Gracious
is swapping Scotchmen for blackfellows. The
niggers are cheap and drink nae whusky. Neither
do they eat beef. Primate Barry has evidently
been talking to Her Gracious.
* * *
The horse that ran away with Miss Jervois,
'daughter of the N.Z. Governor, and threw her
into a rubbish-heap, must have been a
■churlish kind of brute thus to treat a lady.
Amongst scientists, it is now generally believed
that an increasing tendency to subject the aristo-
cracy to indignity is one of the leading charac-
teristics of colonial mokes. Lord Carington no
■doubt knew this when he brought with him from
England his high-steppers, who, having been
trained to treat the nobility with every considera-
tion, would never dream of dumping down their
burden among the garbage. By the way, it is
said on good authority that when Mrs. Bottles, of
the Point—Darling Point, you know —heard of the
accident to Miss Jervois, she sympathetically ex-
claimed : “Well, well! how dreadful! But
colonial life is rough, and the poor dear will in
■ course of time find herself quite manured to it.”
* * *
The Manly Wild Flower show opens on
‘2Bth Sept., and a good attendance is expected.
Very few people know one wiid flower from
another, but as it is the fashion to gaze in rapture
on the simple herb and strike an attitude of acute
goneness and say, “ How pretty!” the gate-money
will probably amount to something considerable.
* * *
Another grand skating carnival is an-
nounced for Thursday, 15th September, at the
Columbia Rink, when all the elite of Sydney will
be skimming round on wheels. Considering the
many difficulties inseparable from rinking, it
might be a good idea to set apart a day in each
when novices could practise on all-fours. Ladies
especially would find this a great assistance at the
commencement of their career.
* * *
The Union Club gives a ball on September
23. Like TotJger’s Boarding House, the Union can
d j the thing handsomely when it spreads itself,
and it is going to spread itself on this occasion.
* * *
On Friday (lGth September) the Governor
and Lady Carington will give a ball at Government
House. His Excellency also intends giving a race-
dinner on September 21. Judging from the name,
we presume this will be a horsey en certainment of
some kind or other, at which the guests will lay
the odds and the Governor will back himself
against the wall.
* * *
The missionaries have done much good
in New Guinea. They have spent £6O 000, and
have turned several tribes from eating roast
wnitefellow to drinKing gin; while the Govern-
ment has nothing to show for its expenditure of
£50,000 but a lock-up.
* # *
r J he Rev. Chalmers says that in New
Guinei, “ shells play an important part in the pur-
chase of wives, the former price of which was ten
arm-shells, 100 cocoa-nuts, and a large quantity
of sago. Since the Europeans have come there
the price, however, has been considerably raised,
and is now about double the former price,"
Humph ! We shouldn’t wonder. By and by the
Papuan will want soma rum in the sago given in
exchange for mademoiselle his daughter.
* * *
It is reported that Lord Sydney Carr
Hobart Hampton, Earl of Buckinghamshire, is
coming out to Australia with the Grosvenor Gal-
lery pictures for the Melbourne Exhibition. Tnis
individual is quite distinct from Richard Planta-
genet C. T. N. B. C. Grenville, G.C.5.1., Duke
of Buckingham and Chandos, and the
colonial girls are warned not to get the two
mixed up.
* # *
The ward room officers of the old-woman-
of-war Nelson intend giving a dance on Sep-
tember 28.
* * *
A deputation, headed by Sir John Robert-
son, waited on Mayor Riley at Sydney Town Hall
the other day, and presented him with £3BO
worth of citizens’ return-ball surplus. It included
a life-size diagram of the said Riley, a quantity of
diamond and pearl ornaments for the Mayoress,
and a lot of other articles. His Worship says he
is very glad there was a surplus, but there will be
A SKETCH IN THE CENTENNIAL DEADHOUSE.-A.D. 1988.
an awful row when Victoria hears of it, and wants
to know why the money wasn’t sent by the loyal
Mayor to the Imperial Institute. There, now !
* * *
The Bishop of Tasmania is in favour of
cards and billiards without gambling. Quite right,
Gambling should only b 8 practised at church
bazaars.
* * #
The Millennium has shown the tip of its
nose at Pi alba (Q.) In that happy, sleepy hollow
they ar# building an Undenominational church.
But wait until they get the parsons ?
* • • *
The siege of the Willow Tree Inn, Sydney,
has been a noble specimen of warfare, second only
to the battle of the Wattle Tree Inn which took
place at Collingwood Fiat, Melbourne, years ago,
and which the oldest inhabitant of the Flat de-
clares to stand unrivalled in the annals of Colling-
wood fights—which is saying a good deal as it
were. The late Tim Mahony, the corporation
contractor, the chief of one of the most power-
ful factions on the Fiat, got into a scrape, bagorra,
in the Wattle Tree Inn, Perry-street (which was
called after a bishop, by-the-bye), and earned
eternal fame for himself and the whole Mahony
crowd by the way that he floored his opponents.
First brandy flowed, and then—blood ! Mahony
was the head of a house of sons almost as numer-
ous as the patriarch Jacob's—big, muscular fel-
lows, who’d “lay you by the heels” as
soon as they’d look at you. Whenever
the Chieftain Mahony was put to bay, or
felt called upon to destroy an insolent
enemy, Tim tipped the word to “the bhoys,” and
presently the Mahonys came in full fores and
routed the enemy with great slaughter. At the
“Battle of the Wattle Tree” Tim was severely
wounded by a shell—no, a glass-bottle —that was
discharged at him. A Collingwood poet (for there
are poets on the Flat, there is a cabman
named Maguire who has thrown off some sporting
ballads in his time) thus epigrammisad the occur-
rence :
“ On Collingwood Flat., at the sign of the Wattle,
- Poor Mahoney flt the effects of the bottle—
The glass passed without, the P.B. down his throttle."
As .may be supposed, a man like Tim Mahony,
fond of a fight, be jabers, and often finding him-
self in the thick of a good one, frequently figured
in the courts, like. Here he had often to en-
counter the witty barrister, B C. Aspinall, and to
hear this Victorian Curran talk about Mahony
to a jury was as good as a play. Aspinall always
referred to Tim as “ Mahony, the retired Fenian,”
giving the long sound to the “ o.” Tim was a
good-hearted fellow for all his fighting.
* « *
At St. Jude’s Church, Randwick, on the
Bth inst, the marriage ceremony was performed
between Miss Phoebe Kidman, daughter of the
late Mr. Cnarles Kidman, and Mr. Nation, ©f
Melbourne. There was no obtrusive festivity on
the occasion.
* * *
The Sydney Reunions held the last dance
of the season at Needs’ Rooms on Tuesday, 6th
September, when 70 or 80 couples forgot a cold
and unsympathetic world in the delights of the
mazy dance. There were fowls —not skinny ones
—in the refreshment-room, and the cold ham was
a refulgent dream with'a, bone in it, and the
sedate, curly-tailed pig was there in various
aspects.
* * *
The unhappy Wadham Wyndliam, long
ere he married the amiable lady who, with her
children, met so dreadful a fate at his hands, was
engaged to marry a New England lady, whom he
most coolly and unceremoniously jilted, showing
not the slightest consideration for her injured
feelings. The jilt was a fortunate matter for her.
* *
At the presentation to Phil. Gullett on his
retirement from the editorship of the Suburban
Times (Redfern) Phil, is reported to have said
that “ Mr. Gornall ” [the proprietor of the Times]
“ had more inventive ideas in his head than he
had hairs outside it ” But that’s no uncommon
thing. Dr. Madden and Sir Bryan O'Loghlen,
the eminent Melbourne barristers, arc the baldest-
headed men outside of the masher’s heaven.
* * •
The numerous scenes in “Romeo and
Juliet,” as played at Sydney Criterion, must be bene-
ficial to the neighbouring publicans. Each fall of
the curtain is the signal for a stampede of
whisky-scented, thick-headed, low browed, heavy-
booted barbarians to the rear. Those who go to
the theatre to see the play are consequently much
disturbed by the return of these roysterers, who
burst in, talking loudly and redolent of cloves,
-just when Juliet is saying something particularly
saccharine.
* * *
Here’s a shilling’s worth of the Penny
Bennett
“ QENIAL, kind-hearted, accomplished lady, 28, of
good family, who has bat few opportunities of
becoming acquainted, d°sires to correspond with a kind-
hearted, upright gentleman, possessed of means; country
preferred. Address Governess, G.P 0., Sydney."
In other words, dear friends, we have here a
pretty ancient governess who wants to marry a
pretty rich squatter. And right here let us say
that the festive squatter, instead of marrying a
barmaid and fighting in consequence four times
weekly with four different Lotharios, as squatter
Gray SBems to have done, might do worse than
negotiate.
# # *
We have no lords or dukes in Australia
who hedge the coulisses of our theatres. This is
rough on colonial actresses, for many of their
English sisters have married peers of the realm or
got along otherwise for a term. Now, our
actresses never get a show of “copping” a
coronet. We have plenty of managers willing to
sub-let their theatres to any smitten scion of
nobility capable of planking down sufficient coin
in the interests of his particular charmer. Our
Agents-General ought to send along some unem-
ployed peers, and Lonsdale, also, who is out of a
billet at present in the chaperon line, may take
the hint and hasten here in a hired yacht.
* * *
The Jubilee address of the women and
girls of Victoria to the Queen ha 3 been signed by
50,000. The N.S.W. one was signed by only
90,000. There are consequently 30,000 more dis-
loyal women and girls in N.S.W.
* * *
The St. Andrew Masonic Lodge hold their
annual ball in West’s Rooms on September 20. We
have received a pink ticket with a red border,
decorated with herbs.
* * *
“ I notice yon advertise a collection of
virtue,” said a lady member of the Social Purity
Society to the attendant at Madame Hazard’s sale
of curios in East Melbourne, a few days ago ; “I
thought I would give you a call.” “ You mistake,
madame,” replied the attendant, smiling politely,
“it is a collection of vcrtu— virtoo. You know,
old picters and chiner, and sich. If it was the
other thing we could stow it in a ’at-box.” The
old lady took everything in in one comprehensive
scowl and stalked home in her cloth-shoes without
heels, vowing that there was nothing in the
world worth living for except cats.
* * *
The Public Service Act killed political
patronage in Victoria. Everybody says so, and it
must be true, yet the very juvenile son of an ex-
Minister of the Crown is holding a position as
judge’s associate, for which there are half-a-dozen
eligible men in the service, whilst he is taken out
of a solicitor’s office and asked to accept his £3UOa
year and perquisites.
The Melbourne Telephone Company has
been bought out by Government for a round sum
of £40,000. As the Company originally asked for
£86,000, the deal smells less fishy than many in
which Her Majesty’s Ministers dispose of the pub-
lic sugar. In the interests of morality, too, it is
well that the sale was effected. For a long time
past Melbourne telephones have been instruments
of the Evil One, causing much hatred and malice,
in addition to uncharitableness. Jones desired
perhaps to breathe some instructions about barbed
wire, or tinned salmon, or stationery, to Brown in
the next street. He rang up Exchange. “ Are
you there ?” came in a mellifluous murmur from
the maiden at head-quarters. “Put me onto
Brown, number 20,009.” said Jones Then the
trouble commenced with a delusive double ring
informing the sufferer that he wa3 “switched” to
Robinson. Jones would commence talking barbed
wire, or salmon, or stationery, and the other fel-
low would reply with loDg yarns about “ladies’
uppers.” Then both would blow “ d—d i”
into the receiver and ring off. Five
minutes interval, and Jones came up
smiling for another round. Another “ Are
you there?” of dulcet sweetness “ Con-
nect me with Brown,” said Jones. “You want
him again, all right”—this from the maiden in
mild exoostulation. Two rings and more Robin-
son. More curses and ringing off. Another in-
terval of five minutes. More “Exchange” and
“ Are you there 1” Two rings and more Robin-
son. More curses and so ad infinitum. There
was (and still is) no doing anything to speak of
with a Melbourne telephone. Many a young girl
lias lost the blush of innocence through Pa having
the wire laid on to his suburban residence. In-
stead of taking Pa’s instructions from the office
touching a postponement of feeding time, Cissy
would catch the echoes of distant blasphemy from
sources unknown. O! it was awful. If he can
but reconstruct that Telephone concern on a re-
ligious basis, the Victorian Postmaster General
will save more souls than a missionary.
* * *
Love is a devouring element which
bloweth whithersoever it listeth. It plays up
with mobled Queens (Isabella of Spain is a case
in point), and finds its way through the calm ex-
terior of fashionable jockeys like Tom Hales.
There never was a girl so amiable that she did
not exhibit symptoms of tender passion when a
blue-eyed masher of unmarried aspect lent her
half his hymn-book at evening service. Even the
policeman on his lonely beat is not proof against
the sweet appeal of Love, especially when it
carries a flask of rum in its ulster pocket. This
brings us to our point. Burglars and other arti-
sans are mere puppets in the adroit hands of
Venus. The Victorian police have “ copped ”
some letters intended for gentlemen languishing
in Pentridge, and these letters are rich in the
particular touches of nature which make the
whole world kin. One of them is signed, “ Your
true girl, Dark But this is quite prosaic
compared with the epistle of “ Pat ” to his “ Dear
Mick and Barney.” At the time of writing Pat
was just about leaving Melbourne for Sydney
on account of things in general being
“ red-hot.” Pat proceeds to say, “ I told
you in one of my stiffs that I was not
going with Bess, but that I was going with Sarah
Musgrove. Since then me and Musgrove have
split up. Of course you both know I am more
sneaked on Bess than any other bart, so very
naturally I sent for her to day to bid her good-
bye, as I did not want to part bad friends with the
old girl ,So she sent me a stiff and it knocked me
silly.” There’s a soft ’art for you. When the
ladies get their rights and sit on juries (they only
sit on jurymen at present) we foresee a good time
for Pat, however it may go with that nasty, for-
ward minx, Dark Eyes. What jury of matrons
would convict Pat on suspicion, after hearing his
pretty prattle about being “ knocked silly ” by the
“ bart ” ? Why, we almost cotton to the bloomin’
chump ourselves. “ Sneaked ”on Bess, is he ? It
won’t be so long before Bess will reciprocate his
passion by sneaking on him.
« •
M. Gounod has just composed a mass in
honour of Joan of Arc. Which reminds us that
it is about time Sir Arthur Sullivan or somebody
did something of that sort for Alfred the Great.
He’s been dead a good many years. Sir Salmon
Wilson, of Hughenden, should see to this.
* » *
They want to tell us Bookmaker “ Sutton’*
was “ presented ” at the Queen’s levee of July
16th. The probability is that the R. Standish
Sevier who toed the line was another member of
“ Sutton’s ’ ancient race. But, anyway, these are
levelling times, and we could overlook Bob’s in-
discretion, though one expects more family pride
from the man who plugged Beerthirst’s nose.
# * *
Sir Henry Parkes placed his venerable
knees under the hospitable mahogany at Govern*
ment House, Melbourne, last Sunday when en
route for Adelaide Exhibition. Before proceeding
to the drawing room, the vice-regal host worked
his distinguished guest into a quiet corner and said,
in his most winning manner, “ Now, do tell us all
about that little swindle of yours by which you
keep your Ministers and yourself gallivanting
through the continent instead of cutting out work
for the appreaching session.” “ Well,” said Sir
Henry, with his finger on his ncse, “ you see I
never like talking shop on the holy Sabbath.”
. * *
No Church of England ground is hence
forth to be leased to intending publicans, but no
sinners will be objected to by the sainted Synod.
This is an oblique compliment which will be fully
appreciated by mine host.
* •
“No pay, no pater noster.” Just so. It
was weak of the gentleman to think the Anglican
Synod would consent to throw all their church
sittings open without money and without price.
God’s church isn't yet quite as free as His Message,
and the entrances to cricket grounds are not the
only plans at which gate-money is a sine qua non.
* * #
The reverend gentleman who was hauled
up at Newtown, Sydney, last week on a charge of
wife desertion, seems to be a man born to trouble.
For many years he says his wife has gone on
dreadful, and in his old age he finds himself a
Presbyterian on his beam ends, with no church,
no congregation, no collection, no nothing. Dur-
ing the course of his married life Mrs. Clergyman
flew at her husband with a knife, and threw bread
at his head, and ran after him with a plate, and
said she would split him open. Also she stated
that she would do for him, and hit him with a
buggy-wrench, and otherwise held him up to the
public guffaw, and she concluded her career of
iniquity by suing the poor, old stranded parson
for £l a week maintenance. This, of course, is
theicv gentleman’s story; the lady heiself re-
presents that she is a patient, smitten angel whom
the parson has been trying to bounce into a pre-
mature grave, and that she only bears up under
her load of affliction by keeping a boarding house.
Each party said the other was a liar, aDd the
beak tore his hair and sacked the case in disgust.


Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P. for Canter-
bury in the House of Commons, who, with Mrs.
Heaton, arrived from England by the mail
steamer Rome, is to be banqueted in Sydney. We
presume that the gathering, which bids fair to be
a large and successful one, is intended to bo
purely friendly and non-political, and to mark the
promoters’ sense of the many good and generous
traits in Mr. Heaton’s character —the pro-
fuse hospitality he has indiscriminately ex-
tended to Australian visitors to England
simply because they were Australians in a strange
land ; and, no doubt, it is also desired to make
the affair a tribute to the undying energy which
bhs contributed so much to ye Henniker’s success.
So far, the movement will gain a large support,
but there had better be.no attempt to justify the
change of front by which Mr. Heaton, who went
to England as an Australian Liberal, has returned
a blue-moulded Coercionist Tory.
* * #
At Oakleigh (Vic.), the other day, Miss
Marion Tonks, daughter of Mr. Richard 'tonka,
of Oatlanda (Tas ), was married to Mr. John
James Lee, cf Rockdale, England. Mr. Lee may
take credit to himself for having secured a real
Tasmanian beauty—a race nearly extinct. The
lady was well-known in Hobart a few years ago
and greatly admired, the usual verdict on aspiring
beauties being then: “She is not a 3 pretty as
Miss Tonks.”
* » *
A young doctor who has lately bought a
practice in a country town came home in high
glee the other n'ght. “Da you know, my dear,’’
he said to his wife, “I'm really becoming quite
well-known here. The undertakers bow to me
already.”
* * *
At Oatlands (las.), on Ist inst., Miss
Marion Campbell, daughter of Rev. L. Campbell,
was married to Mr. Gilbert E. Butler, M.R.C.S.,
son of the late Dr. Butler, Speaker of the Tas-
manian House of Assembly. The bride was at-
tired in ivory poult de-soie , trimmed with tulle
and orange blossom. Her bridesmaids wore
pretty grey cashmere dresses, relieved w r ith dif-
ferent colours.
* * *
There seem to be only several things the
matter with Sydney Children’s Hospital. The first
is the aristocratic business—the arbitrary sorting-
out of the nurses into Browns and ‘‘Miss’ 1
Browns—the second is too much ornamental lady
superintendent, and too little plain “matron.” The
third is the absence of a resident doctor. The
fourth and most serious trouble is too much
Wilkinson. It would be well for the board to
procure the services of some fat, round and ruddy
widow on the shady side of,forty, who has made—
and eaten—lots of pies in—say—Devonshire, who
has never written a line of poetry in her life, who
doesn't know anyone who contributes to the news-
papers, and who has never heard of nervous
debility, to look after the kids. Then put up an
extra room at the hospital and engage some
fatherly-looking old bachelor doctor with blue
goggles as resident. The rest will he easy. In
the result, the doctor will marry the matron, and
the show will be run on family principles.
• * *
The Board of Management of Sydney
Children’s Hospital, it has been remarked, con-
sists of a number of gentlemen who wear petti-
coats, three cr four women who wear trousers,
and four legally qualified medical practitioners.
* * *
The other day we heard that George Dar-
rell was very angry with somebody for producing
a version of “ Tne Soggarth’ at a London theatre,
under the name of “ The Oath.” It was even
stated that George intended going home to take
proceedings against the wicked author of this
literary outrage. Now it appears “The
Oath” man is accused of stealing his plot from a
poem called “ Fa'her Roach,” which was itself
founded on a story written by Charles Lover
From this same story Mr. Finn, of Melbourne,
filched the yarn which he declared was the source
o' Gsorge Darrell's divdne worK. Among them
all Samuel Liver would appear to be the man
with the substantial gcievance.
* *
A pair of curtains costing £4O was re-
cently ordered for one of the Minis erial resi-
dences at Wellington, N.Z., but was rejected ss
not good enough by the mistress of the establish-
ment, and a more expensive aitic’e procured. The
rejected curtains are now lying in the Public
Works store awaiting the date on which they will
be utilised as dusters.
A social meeting of milkmen was held at
the Maison Dor6e, Melbourne, the other evening.
Several tcasts were propoted and honoured, but
not the slightest allusion was made to “ The
Pump.” Taere is no gratitude in milkmen. We
suppose they are not built that whey.
* * *
1 his is what a literary man, who went there
to make his fortune, says about Melbourne :
“It is a cold, hard, ud genial city. The wide, cheerless
streets ignore you. Tne great buildings stare with a thou-
sand chill unspeculati\ e eyes at you. Even the pr licemen
are too proudly indifferent to lick you up th ju, h you were
as druns. as the devil. It is no place for a man of tine feel-
ings to live in.”
From this we infer that the writer has not made
his fortune in Melbourne.
The Queen has “sacked” the Scotch
Browns and engaged the Indian blacks.
The Rev. Barnier was in the thick of the
discussion on the Reredos at the Sydney Synod.
But he was only one of many barneyers.
“ What kind of constituency should F.
Abigail represent ?” A rabbit burrow, of course.
Or a rabid borough might do.
Last week Mr. Bucknell, spiritualist, an-
nounced that he would “ lecture on his experience
with Mis 3 Woods.” It’s to be hoped Mr. B.’s ex-
perience was pleasant.
We have received the first number of the
Canterbury Courier and Burwood. Asbfield,
Croydon, Summer Hill, Petersham, Canterbury,
Enfield, Fivedock, Concord, Mortlake, Strathfield,
Homebush, Kogarah, and Hurstville Advocate,
and the bruise which now disfigures our dexter
eye is all owing to it, for the title of the no v
paper tangled round our legs as we entered the
office yesterday morning and brought us down.
That was the first we heard of the new venture.
The Canterbury Courier and to-be-continued-in-
our-next Advocate is a modest 8 page paper, and
contains a certain amount of reading which will
probably be found interesting in wet weather in
the suburbs. It is run by Messrs. Moss Brothers,
of Burwood, though how men of four letters
hope to tack againßt a south-east gale with such
a Bpread of canvas is more than we can compre-
hend, unless they take the name about in a dray.
Bishop Stanton had a packed t house on
Sunday, August 14, at Croydon, N.Q. In the
evening he preached a diggers’ sermon, earnest
and eloquent, without a trace of dogmatism of
any sort, and actually proposed that the church
to be started should be used as a reading-room
during the week. The miners like him, and listened
attentively throughout. The Bishop went to Nor-
manton on the Tuesday. He actually offered to
appoint a parson to be chosen by the miners !
Michael Quinlan, who was recently ac-
quitted on a charge of murdering his wife at
Hotham (Vic.), has been refused admission to the
Melbourne Benevolent Asylum. He informed the
committee that his friends refused to recognise
him, and that he was homeless and penniless.
He should have pleaded that he was a poor lone-
some widower with nobody to take care of him.
Quinlan has found to his bitter cost that the taint
of blood cannot be washed off by the verdict of a
jury.
General Post Office,
Sydney, Bth September, 1887.
CONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
CONVEYANCE being required for the Post
Office Mails, either by COACH or on
HORSEBACK, to and from the undermentioned
places, for one year (Ist January , 1.888, to the
31st December, 1883) or for three years (Ist
January, 1888 to the 31st December, 1890), (with
the exception of those lines for which a special
term is named) —persons willing to Contract for
the same are invited to transmit Tenders in the
approved form, before noon on Tuesday, the 25th
day of October next.
Tenders must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender
for Conveyance of Mails.”
For full particulars see Government Gazette.
Western Roads.
No. of
Times
per
Week.
TT CvAi
1. Parramatta Railway Station and Post
Offices, Parramatta, Baulkham Hills,
and Rouse Hill (5
And Parramatta, Baulkham Hills,
and Castle Hill, for two years only 6
2. From Biacktown to Prospect, and Pros-
pect Reservoir, via Boothtown, return-
ing via Veteran Hall 6
3. To and from Richmond and Grose Vale 6
4. To and from Upper Colo, Putty, and
Howe’s Valley 1
5. From the Post Office, Penrith, to Mulgoa
and Luddenham, and from Ludden-
ham to Mulgoa, Penrith Post Office
and Railway Station 6
(1. Railway Station and Post Office, Mount
Victoria, twice or oftaner daily ; and
Railway Station, Mount Victoria, and
Post Offices, Mount Victoria, Little
Hartley, Hartley, and Hartley Vale 7
7. Hartley and Lowther 2
8. Bowenfells and South Bowenfells (i
9. Be a Bullen Railway S.ation and Cullen
Bullen 2
10. Caper t.ee and Glen Alice . 2
11. Ilford, Waverley Station, Crudine, and
S of ala 2
12. Rylatone and Bylong, via Camboon and
Torrie Lodge 2
13. Mudgee, Eurunderee, Home Rule, and
Gulgong 7
14. Home Rule and Canadian Lead 6
15. Gulgorig, Lahey’s Creek, and Cobbora,
via Goodaman’s 2
16. Cobbora, Merrygoen, Mundooran, and
Gilgandra 2
17. Merrygoen, Binnaway, and Coonabara-
bran, via Caigan, Sunnyside, Popagam
dra, and Riveredale
18. Mundooran, Warrumbungul, and Bara-
d.ne, via Bundella, Yarragreen, Bear-
bong, Bidden, YoulbODg, Tooraweenah,
Tundtrbrine, Gamin Gumin, Tenan-
dra, Pacta, Wind gad gen, a_d Gooria-
nawa
19. Oheron, Fish R'.ver Creek, and Dack-
miloi 3
20. Railway S ation and Post Office, Kelso,
twice tr ofiener daily.
21. Bathurst, Peel, Wyagdon, Wattle Flat
and Sofala 6
22. Bathurst and White Rock 6
23. Peel, Clear Creek, and Limekilns 2
24. Peel and Millamuira 2
25. Hill End and Tamtaroora 6
26. Cow Flat and The Lagoon 2
27. Rockley, Swallow’s Nest, and Burraga,
via Sewell's and Warby’s Eagle Vale 1
And Rockley, Judd's Creek, and
Burraga, per Mount Lawson Road 1
28. Railway Station, Newbridge, and Post
Offic 3 , Caloola 3
29. B'ayney, Norton, Shaw, and Mount
Macquarie, via Five Islands 3
30. Mandurama and Galley Swamp 2
31. Wo f d s Flat and Canowindra, yia “ The
Islands” 3
32. Wood s Flat, Milburn Creek, and Mount
M Donald 3 or 6
33. From Mount M‘Donald to Darby’s Falls.
via Jordan’s, returning via Whitty’s 2
34. Millthorpe, Guyong, and Byng 3
35. Millthorpe and Forest Reefs 3
And Forest Reefs and Cadla 1
36. Railway Sration and Post Office, Orange,
twice or oftener daily.
37. Orange and Lucknow 6
38. Orange, German’s Hill, Cave Creek,
Cargo, Canowindra, and Cowra, via
Belmore 3
39. From Orange to Ophir, via Lewis Ponds,
Trewiclt’s' Station, Upper Lewis Ponds,
and Singleton’s, returniog by direct
road 2
40. Orange and Springside 2
And Springsid a , Cadia, and C’arcoar,
via Burnt Y r ards 1
41. Orange atd March 2
42. Orange and Canoblas 2
43. Cudal, Grega, and Meranburn 2
44. Murga and Bumberry 1
45. Condobolin, Cugong, and Eauabalong,
along the north side of the Lachlan
River 2
46. Eauabalong, South Mount Hope;, and
M ount Hope 1
47. Eauabalong and Nymagee, via Welsh’s,
Dine Diae, Ercmeran, Nangribone,
Conley’s, Overflows, Babinda, and
Rosett’s 1 or 2
48. Nymagee and Cobar, via Rock Holes
and Limekilns 1
And Nymagee and Cobar, via Priory
and Saearlegs 1
49. Nymagee, Sanely Creek, Gilgunnia, and
Mount Hope 1 or 2
50. Hillston, “ Mountain Well Hotel,” and
Mount Hope 1
With a branch mail to and from
“ Mountain Well Hotel,” Murroopa,
Ooombie, Merriwa Tank, Merribong,
Merri Merriwa, and Yathong 1
No. of
Times
per
Weelr
51. Molong, Boomey, and Warno
62. Molong and Cundumbul, via (larding
ton. (Main Road to be travelled in 2
times of flood )
53. Parkes and Bulgandramine, Via Gin*
naniguy and Coradgery 2
54. Dandaloo, Nyngan, and Cannonbar 2
55. Springs and Nenrea 6
And Neurea and Baker’s Swamp 2
56. Wellington, YeoVal, Mount Aubrey, and
Parkes 2
57. Lincoln and Alma 1
58 Dub’oo, Ten-mile Reefs, and Bulgandra-
mine 1
And Bulgandramine and Dandaloo,
for two yedrs ’only 2
59. Dubbo and Belarbigill 2
60. Gilgandra, Collie, and Merigal 2
And Merigal and Tenandra, Via
Bundella and Wonbobbie 1
61. Gilgandra and Collie, via Peter Smith’s,
John Marohant’s, E. Mahers, A.
MKechnies, James Markey’s, Bon-
nington’s, Looney’s, Whiteman’s,
Hull’s, Foran’s, Myall Park, Bulla
green. New Merigal, and Merigal 1
62. Coonamble and Baradine, via T. Keogh’s
Warrana Station, Magomodine Creek,
Mr. Ryder’s Calga Station, Gooria-
nawa, and Varney’s 1
63. TraDgie and Dandaloo 2
64. Warren, Mount Harris, and Carinda 2
65. Warren, Tenandra, Bourbab, and Coo-
namble, via Donohoe’s, on the Merri
Merri, and M’Mahon’s, on the west
bank of the Castlereagli River 1
66. Railway S:ation and Po3t Office, Nyn-
gan, twice or oftener daily
67. Railway Station and Post Office, Bourke,
once or oftener daily, as required
68. Wanaaring Post Office and Berawinia
Station, via Urisino, Elsinora, and
Thurloo Downs 1
Southern Roads.
1. Liverpool, Denham Court (on return by
Kemp’s Creek), and Bringelly, includ-
ing the clearance of the letter box at
Stanfield’s, Cross Roads 6
2. Narelian and Cobbitty 6
3. Camden and Brownlow Hill 6
4. Brownlow Hill and Werombl 3
5. Wollongong and Mount Keira 6
6. Dap to and Marshall Mount 3
7. Albion Park and Jamberoo 3
8. Douglas, Cataract, and Wilton 6
9. Oaks and Burragorang 3
10. Burragorang and Upper Burragorang
11. Railway Station and Post Office, Moss
Vale, twenty-two or more times a
week ; including the clearance of the
letter-receiver at the Railway Station,
six times a week
12. Post Offices, Moss Vale and Berrima 12
13. Moss Vale and Sutton Forest 7
And from Moss Vale to Sutton
Forest, on arrival of morning train
from Sydney 6
14. Mos 3 Vale, Burrawang, Robertson, Jam-
beroo, and Kiama 6
15. Moss Vale, YurruDga, Barrengarry,
Kangaroo Valley, Cambewarra, and
Nowra 6
16. Nowra, Terara, and Numba, via Green
Hills 6
And Numba and Comerong 3
17. Burrier and Yalwal 2
18. Marulan and Bungonia 6
19. Marulan, Long Reach, and Big Hill 3
20 Bungonia and Windellama 2
21. Long Reach and Green wich Park 3
22. Railway Staticii and Post Office, Goul-
burn, four times or oftener daily
23. Goulburn, Mummell, Woox'e, Gullen,
Grabben Gullen, and Wh?eo (includ-
ing the conveyance of letters, &c., to
and from the Wheeo Post Office,
Selmes’ Receiving Office, and the
Wesleyan Chapel at Wheeo. (In
times of flood, Contractor to travel
direct between Mummell and Gullen,
and to convey a branch mail to and
from Corbet’s, near the new bridge
over the Wollondilly and Woore.) 3
24. Goulburn and Currawang 3
25. Goulburn or Currawang Railway Plat-
form, as required, and Inveralochy 6
26. Taralga and Bannaby 2
27. Taralga and Currawoela 2
And Curraweela and Jerrong 1
28. Tarago and Lake Bathurst 6
29. Boro and Mulloon 3
30. Boro and Mayfield 2
31. Bungendore, Cross Roads , Molonglo,
and Foxlow 3
And Foxlow and Captain’s Flat 2
32. Queanbeyan Bulga Creek, and Uriarra,
via Yarralumla 2
33. Queanbeyan, Wdliamsdale, and
Michelago, if required 6
And Railway Station, Michelago,
and Post Offices, Michelago, Colinton,
Bredbo, and Cooma. Tenderers to
specify a price foe each service 6
34. Foxlow and Hoskins’ Town 3
A nd Cross Roads and Hoskins’ Town 3
35. Cooma and Bobundarah 1
And Cooma, Myalla and Bobundarah 1
36. Nimitybelle and Cathcart, via Railway
Bridge 1
37. Bombala, Cathcart, Candelo, Wolumla
and Merimbula 1
38. Bombala and Wright’s (Tombong), via
Bombala Station, Cambalong, and
Quidong 1
39. Craigie and Upper Quinburra Public
School 1
40. Delegate and Corrowong 3
41. Candelo, Meringlo, and Lyttleton, via
Benbooka Station 1
42. Candelo, Tantawanglo, Mogilla, and
Lyttleton 1
43. Candelo and Mogilla 1
44. Adaminaby and Rosedale 2
45. Braidwood, Charleyong, Tomboy, Nor*
riga, Sassafras, and Nowra 1
46. Braidwood and Monga 2
47. Braidwood and Little Bombay 1
48. Major’s Creek and Ballalaba 2
49. Major’s Creek and Krawarree 1
50. Bredbo and Ballalaba, via Wangarah,
Little Plain, and Anembo 1
51. Ballalaba and Krawarree, via Jerrabat
Gully 1
52. From Ballalaba to Braidwood 1
And from Braidwood to Ballalaba
and Krawarree, via Stony Creok 1
53. Moruya and Kiora 2
54. Eurobodalla and Nerrigundah 2
55. Tilba Tilba and Bermagui 2
56. Cobargo and Wandella 2
57. Bega and Candelo 7
58. Merimbula Wharf and Post Offices,
Merimbula and Pambrila 3
No of
Times
59. Eden And Tinibilitta t
00. BfeadalbanO, Parkbsboufne, And Mnr-
rilla 3
61. BrCadalbane add Collector 0
02. Breadalbane and Gurrundah 1
63. Railway Station and Pdst Office, Cun-
ning, once or oftenel’ daily
04. Gunning and Wheeo j
And Dalton and Wheeo 1
65. Rye Park and Biirrdwa 2
66. Rye Park and Five-mile Creek, via
Fro3t’s Farm arid Digger's Flat 1
67. Yass Bailway Station and Post Office,
Yass, (including the clearance of the
letter-receiver at North Yass), seven
or more times a week
68. Yass and Cavan, via “ Brassel’s Inn,’
Warro, and the Main Road, crossing
the river at Bloomfield 1
0!*-. Yass, Murrunibafeman, Jcir, Giunin"]
derra, Canberra, and Queanbeyan 3
70, Yass and Boambola 1
71 i Cavan and Wee Jasper (Police Barracks) ).
72. Murrumbateuian and Nananta ‘2
73. Bookham, Chidowkt, Bongongo, Arid
Tumut, via Smith's, Kioley’s* Rod Hill,
and Gbary’s, Wyangle i
74. Burro wa and Frogrrtoor 2
And Frogmoor and Reid’s Flat, via
Hovell’s Creek and Phil’s Creek 1
75. Marengo and Douglas Ga 1
76. Murrumburrali, Demondrille, Wombat,
and Young 6
77. Murrumburrali and Marshal M‘Mahon
Reef 4
78. Railway Station and Post Office, Young,
once or oftener daily.
79. Young, Wcddin, and Grenfell f
80. Young, Thuddungra, Morangarell,
Williams' Crossing, and Marsden s,
via Balabala 2
81. Young, Tubbul, and Morangarell, via
Memagong, Wedalliou, and Moon-
Bucea i
82. Young, Grogan, West Tenlora The
Rock), rind Temora, via Milong,
one year only l or 2'
83. Grenfell and Fdrbes C
84. Grenfell and Brdndah Creek 2
85. Binibi and W illiams’ Crossing 1
86. Marsden and Wollongough, via Talie-
bong 2
87. Railway Station and Post Office, Coota-
mundra, four times or oftener daily.
88. Cootamundra, Cowan’s, and Temora,
via Combaning 7
89. Coolac and North Gobarralong 2
90. Gilmore, Upper Gilmore, and Reedy Flat 2
91. Adelong and Mount Ad'•ah 1
92. Tumut, -lowering, and Kiaodra 1
93. Toonia and Khancoban, via Opossum
Point 1
94. Bethuagra, Mitta Mitta, and Yamma-
tree, 2
95. Bethungra and Ironbong 1
90. lllabo Railway Station and EurongHly 2
97. EuroDgilly and Wagga Wagga, via, Oura
and Eunonyhareenyha 2
98. Harefield a id Yathella 2
99. Junee Junction and The Reefs, via
“ Cooney’s Inn,” 2
And The Reefs, Sebastopol, and
Temora 1
100. Wagga VUagga and Brucedale 2
101. Wagga Wagga, i fownside, Merool Creek,
and Wollongough, via Marrar, The
Rocks (M'Doaald’s), Mimosa, Quan-
dary, Broken Dam, Mandamah, and
Wallandry
102. Wagga Wagga and Manpipla 3
103. Wagga Wrgga, Yarragundry, and Col-
liugullie 3
104. Wagga Wagga and Pullitop Station, via
Lake Albert, Gregado, Rig Springs
and Livingstone 3
105. Urana, Goonambil, Daysdale, Lowes-
da'e, and Corowa 2
106. .Tereelderie and Daysdale, once or twice
a week, as may be required.
107. Urana and Mr. Guest’s selection, 3 miles
beyond Boree Creek 2
108. Railway Station and Post Office, .Tercel-
derie, three firms a week, or once or
oftener daily.
109. Lowe3dale and Middledale 1
110. Yerong Creek and Muoyabla 1
111. Gerogery and Walla Walla 2
112. Gerogery, Walla Walla, and Walla
Homestead 2
113. Albury, Jiodera, Burrumbuttoek, Wal-
bundrie, and Mahonga 3
And Mabonga and Urana 1
114. Jindora, Ebenezer awl V alia Walla
Station 1
115. Howlong, Moorwatha, and Goombar-
gona, via the “Brocklesby Hotel ’ 2
116. Narrandera and Colombo Creek, via
Gillenbali, Cuddell Township, and
Yarrabee 2
117. Colombo Creek, Old Goroe, and Jereel-
derie, via Bn adore Head Station and
Yanko Station 2
118. Wollongough ami Condobolin l
119. Nine-mile Tank, on the road between
Whitto j and Mount fi lliott, and Mount
Ida, near the north boundary of
Renerembah Run 1
120. Darlington Railway Station and Dar-
lington Point Post Office, near the
river 7
121. Carrathool, Gunbar, and Hillston 1
122. Poolamacca, or Corona Station, and Cob-
ham Lake 4
Northern Roads.
1. St. Leonard’s, Gore Hill, Chatswood,
Gordon, and Hornsby 6
2. Manly and Newport 2
3. Newport and BarraD.joey 2
4. Wyong Creek Post Office and Yarrama-
long 2
5. Newcastle and Onebygamba 6 or more
6. Newcastle, The Junction, GlebBland and
Charlestown 6
7. Stockton and William Town 3
Charlestown and Belmont 3 or 6
3
6
and Belmont and Pelican Flats
9. Wallsend and Minmi
10. Hexam Railway Station and Raymond
Terrace
And Raymond Terrace, Lime-
burners’ Creek, Booral, Stroud, Teleg-
herry, Ciareval, Langworthy’s, Ward’s
River, and Gloucester
11. Raymond Terrace and Miller’s Forrest
12. Limeburners’ Creek, Aliceton Tea Gar-
dens, and Hawke’s Nest, via Covey
Creek
13. Gloucester, Barrington, and Copeland
North
14. Gloucester, Krambach, Tinonee, and
Taree
15. Gloucester, Nowendoo, Orundumbi, and
Waloha


No. of
Times
per
Week.
10. Tinonee and Kimbriki, via Martins,
Latimer’s, Monk’s, Chapman's, Moore's,
Murray’s, Weather ley’s, Mossman’s
and Smith’s 2
17. Taree and Forster 1
18. Wingham, Killawarra, and Woodside 3
19. Woodside KnorritFlat, and Nowendoc,
via Cooplacurripa 1
20. Kempsey, West Kempsey, Greenhill
Warneton. and Sherwood 3
21. Kempsey, Frederickton, Clybucca, Num-
bucca, Deep Greek, Fernmont, and
Boat Harbour 3
With a branch mail to and from
Nambucca and Nambucca Heads,
via Thomas Davis's Saw Mills
and the Lower Nambucca 3
22. Kempsey and Spencer’s Creek (Robin-
son’s Wharf 1
Including the porterage cf mails
to and from the Post Office
and steamers: and Srencer’s Creek
and Arakoon, for two years only 0
23. Pelican Island and Rainbow Reach 2
24. Nambucca and Boraville 3
25. Fernmount and Bast Raleigh 2
26. Post Office and Railway Station, East
MaiPand, five times or oftener daily
27. East Maitland, Largs, and Paterson,
travelling via Belmore Bridge in times
of flood 7
With a branch mail from and
to Largs and Wood ville 1
2 s *. East Maitland, BuchanaD, and Mount
Vincent 3
29. Paterson, Vacy, Trevallyn, and Gresford 6
30. Paterson, Wallarobba, and Dungog 3
31. Gresford, AlJynbrook, Halton, and Ec-
cles'-on 3
31. From Morpeth to Hinton 14
And from Hinton to Morpeth 7
33. Seaham and Eskdale 3
34. Dungog, Bendolba, and Bandon Grove 3
35. Bendolba and Underbank 3
36. Railway Station, High-street, and Post
Office, West Maitland, six or more
times a day, as required
37. West Maitland, Bishop’s Bridge, Cess-
nock, Millfleld, and Wollombl 3
With a branch mail to and from
Cessnock and EllaloDg 3
38. Whittingham, Vere, and Broke 6
39. Singleton, Scott’s Flat, Sedgefleld, West-
brook, and Glendon Brook 2
40. SicgletOD, BridgemaD, and St. Clair 2
11. Singleton and Rix’s Creek 2
12. The Bulga and Howe’s Valley 1
13. Glennie’s Creek and Goorangoola, in-
cluding the clearance of the letter-box
at Kermode’s; or. 2
44. Bridgeman and Goorangoola, including
the clearance of the letter-box at
Kermcde's 2
15. Muswellbrook and Wybong 2
46. Denmar, Baerami, and Karrabee, via
Rosemount, Richmond Grove, and
Bellmont 3
47. Kerrabee and Widden 2
18. Merriwa and Wollar, via Kellick 1
19. Caasilis, Old Twee, Coolab, and Binna-
way 2
50. Cassilis, Uarb r y, and Denison Town, via
Lamb’s, O’Malley’s, and “Piper's
Hotel ” 2
51. Aberdeen and Rouchell Brook, for one
year only 2
52. Railway S ation and Post Office, Scone,
including (he clearance of the letter-
re caiver at the Railway station, twice
cr oftener daily.
s’. Scone and Bunnan 2
54. Moonan Brook and Hanging Rock, via
Glenmore, Kllerston, Tile’s, Vine’s,
Corbett’s, Simpson’s, Glen Rock Shed,
Glen Rock Station, Barry Station, and
Glen Barnett Station 1
55. Blandford and Timor (Silver Mines) 2
56. Railway fetation and Post Office.
Quirindi 12 or more
57. Quirindi, Castle Mountain, and Walla-
badab, via Quirindi Station and Main
Road 6
And Wallabadah and Fairview 2
68. Railway Station and Post Office, Qui-
polly 2
59. Gunnedah, Mullaley, Rocky Glen, and
Coonabarabran, via the new Govern-
ment Road 3
60. Coonabarabran, Baradine and Pilliga,
via Yarragan, Gorah Kianbri, Merri-
wee, Erinbri, Merebenc, Wangan, and
Etoo 1
61. Coonabarabran and Tambar Springs,
via Bradley’s, at Baby Creek, Clay
Holes, and Saltwater Creek 1
62. Railway Station and Post Office, Bog-
gabri 12 or more
63. Boggabri and Manilla, via Iron Bridge,
M’uregor’s, Guest’s, Grover’s, Ded r-
er’s. Stewart’s Sawmill, Eather’s Pro-
visional t-chool, Dunstan’s. Shearer's,
Howard’s, Burton's, Dubois’, and
Barney Springs 1
64. Roggabri and Rocky Glen, via Ramsey’s,
Gullendaddr, Dona’dson’s. MTean’s,
Lower Arrowrame, Pebble's and Boro 1
65. Narrabri, Millie, Bumble, and Moree 6
66. Walgett and Goodooga 1
67. Moree and Mero>„ via Combadello 2
And Meroe and Burrendoon 1 or 2
68. Moree and Coocal, via Milburndale,
Luck sail. Barlow’s, Prairie Dale, Key
Uli, Fishmoye, Boonaldoon, and
Frank Wilmott’s 2
69. Moree and Talinoi, via w illiams’, J.
Cross', W. Cross’, R. Jurd’s, Lomax’s,
John Jurd’s, Walmsley’s, and G.
James's for one year only I
70. Welbon, Boggabilla, and Goondiwindi 1
71. Tamwor; li, Dungowan, Bowling Alley
Point, and Nundle, via Mills’, Woo-
loomon 4
And Nundle, Mounl Pleasant, and
Hanging Rock 3
'<‘ 2. Fomerton and Keepit 2
73. Manilla and Bendemeer, via Old Curindi,
U'kolan. Mundoway, Thom’s, Cain's,
Glen Barra, Watson’s Creek Tin
Mines, Longford's, Hanning’s, and
Blair’s, once a week.
74. Warialda, Wallangra, Yetman, Bogya
billa, and Goondiwindi (Queensland),
via Gcurnama, twice a week
75. Railway Station, Mocnbi, and Post
Offices, Moonbi and Bendemeer, three .
times a week
76. Bendemeer and Kingstown, by the old
mail line, r'a Green Valley, once a
week, for one yecr only.
77. Walcha Road and W a'cha, twelve times
a week.
78. Walcha Road ami Glen Morrison, via
Surveyor's Creek Staticn, Aberbaldie,
and Irgleba, twice a week.
No. of
Times
per
Week.
79. Uralla, Salisbury Plains Station, and
Salisbury Plains Receiving Office 2
80. Uralla and Rocky River 8
81. Tingha andStannifer 3
82. Armidale and Castle Doyle 1
83. Glencoe and Graham's Valley 1
81. Glen Innes and Red Range. (Contractor 2
to travel by surveyed road if required
85. Deepwater and Torington, via Nine
Mile 2
86. Bonshaw, Sunnyside and Tenterfleld,
via Clifton Station, Mole Station, and
the south side of the Severn River 2
87. B nshaw, Texas (Queensland) and Yet-
man 1
88. Railway Station and Post Office. Tenter-
field, once or oftener daily. Tenderers
to specify a price for a service twice or
oftener daily, if required.)
89. Drake, Lunatic itteefs, and Pretty Gully 1
90. Ocean steamers, as they pass up /and
down the Clarence River, and Post
Office, Maclean
91. Clarence River steamers and Post
Offices, Iluka and Yamba, as required
to meet steamers that arrive and de-
part, or that pass up and down the
river ; and Post Office?, Iluka and
Yamba 2
92 Clarence River steamers and Post Office,
Harwood Island, as required to meet
steamers that arrive and depart, or
that pass up and down the river, for
one year only.
93. Lawrence, Casino and Lismore, by two
or more horse vehicle ; or 2
94. Lawrence and Casino, by two or more
horse vehicle ; and 2
95. Caßino and Lismore, by tiro or more
horse vehicle 2
96. Ulmarra and Upper Coldstream 2
97. Grafton, South GraftoD, Corindi —
Clarence, Wooigoolga, Moonee Creek,
Coffs Harbour, and Fernmount, via
Small's Pine Creek ; or
98. Grafton, South Grafton, Carindi —
Clarence, Wooigoolga, Moonee Creek,
Coffs Harbour, Fernmount, and Boat
Harbour, via Small’s, Pine Creek 2
99. Grafton, South Grafton, Upper Kan-
garoo Creek, Bucca Bucca, and Nana
Creek, via Lower Kangaroo Creek and
Glenreagh 2
100. Coraki, Codrington, Tatham, Green-
ridge and Casino 2
101. Lismore and Dunoon 2
And Dunoon, Byangum and Murwil-
lumbah 1
102. Lismore and Wollongbar 2
And Wollongbar, Al&fonville, West-
bridge, and Ballina 1
103. L'smore, Goo'maDgar and Nimbin 1
104. Wollongbar, Cowlorg and Pearce’s
Creek, 1
105. Goolmangar and Jiggi 1
106. Murwillumbah, Tumbulgum, and North
Tumbulgum 6
And Tumbu'gum, Cudgen, and
Tweed II °ads, by steam launch, includ-
ing the por erase of the mai's to and
from the several Post Offices and the
steamer ; or 3
107. Murwillumbah, Tumbulgum, and North
Tambu’gum, by vehicle 6
And Tumbulgum, Cudgen, and
Tweed Heads, by boat 3
108. Murwillumbah and Brunswick 1
109. Tumbulgum and Cudgen Scrub 1
110. Billina, Emigrant Creek, and Tintenbar 2
And Tintenbar, Byron Creek (Camp-
bell’s). and Brunswick, via Hayttr’s
and Boyle’s 1
111. Ballina and Upper North Creek 1
Suburban Roads.
1. From Botany to Lower Botany and La
Perouse, via Coast Hospital 6
And from La Perouse to Lower
Botany and Botany 6
2. Railway Station, Kogarab, and Post
Offices, Kogarah, By 1 vania, and Port
Hacking, via Woniora 6
CHARLES J. ROBERTS.
Thbatrb royal.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
To night and every Evening until Further Notice,
at a quarter to eight precisely,
THE ROYAL DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Great Drury Lane Military Spectacle,
HUMAN NATURE.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
QBITBBION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor ... Mr. John Solomon
Shakespeare’s sublime love story has never
before been ) resented to an Australian public
with anything appro»cbirg the meritß of the pre-
sent production which has now entered on its
SECOND WEEK.
JULIET MISS ESSIE JENYN3
ROMEO W. J. HOLLOWAY.
Nightly Received wiih Unbounded Enthusiasm.
THE FURORE
created by the prerent revival proves the fact that,
with a SPECIALLY ORGANISED COMPANY
such as that under the direction of
Mr. W. J. HOLLOWAY,
the public delight in such breads from the mono-
tony of modern drama and farcical comedy.
Theßox Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J Holloway, W. H Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
K W
OPERA
HOUSE.
\ *> ier the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
LAST NIGHTS
of
Australia’s greatest Singer, who has created
the greatest senfation by her unrivalled
Singing.
Mi s AMY SHERWIN
Miss AMY SHERWIN.
| | KR MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.15 ; Performance 7.45 ; Carriages 11.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
Great and Triumphant Success
of
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
in
HENRY V.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co., where seats
can be secured six days in advance.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley's you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RINK,
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD (J ARRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RIDGELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening;
and mornings for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Uluminateid
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
SELECT MUSIC.
ADMISSION. ONE SHILLING,
SECOND GRAND SKA'ING RACE, FRIDAY,
September 9th, at 9 O’CLOCK.
Department of Fublio Works.
Sydney, September 13, 1887.
Tenders for public works ana
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of whioh is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu j
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to aooept
the lowest or any trader.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 31st August, 1887.
EXTERMINATION OF RABBITS.
IT is hereby notified that the Government of
New South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000
to any person or persons who vill make known
and demonstrate at bis or treir own expense any
method or process not previously known in the
Colony for the effectual extermination of rabbits,
subject to the following conditions, viz. : -
1. That such method or process shall, after ex-
periment for a period of twelve months, receive
the approval of a Board appointed for that pur-
pose by the Governor with the advice of the Exe
cutive Council.
2. That such method or process shall, in the
opinion of the said Board, not be injurious, and
shall not involve the use of any matter, animal
or thing, which may be noxious to horses, cattle,
sheep, camels, goats, swine, or dogs.
3. The Board shall be bound not to disclose the
particulars of any method or process, unless such
Board shall decide to give such method or process
a trial.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL,
Grand intercolonial cavalry
TOURNAMENT,
Under the Uuspices of the
SYDNEY LANCERS,
, at
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS,
Moore Park, Sydney,
on
SITURDAY, October Ist.
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Excellency
LORD CARRINGTON, G.C.M.G., P.C.
Twenty-one Events-including Cavalry, Artil-
lery, Infantry, and Naval Competitions, Mounted
Combats, Jumping Competitions, with and with-
out Sword and Lance, over Fences and Water ;
Tent Pegging, Lemon Cutting, &c.
ENTRIES CLOSE 19th inst.
Further Particulars on application to
“ SECRETARY,”
Cavalry Office,
PhiUip-street.
sd
of Sydney.
JENOLAN CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS,U
16 GEORGE ST between HuntcrST4C.P,o*
CLAREMONT, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—
A Private Medical and Surgical Home,
established by Dr. Tarrant, for the reception and
systematic treatment of patients of both sexes.
The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, desire the great advantages of a con-
stant medical supervision with the care and atten-
tion of a trained nursing staff. For particulars
apply to the Lady Superintend ant.
GBD.GBD.GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its P estige acd stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of o'her brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware ot Spurious Imitations.
Th« undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLdTcHMIDT & co.,
231, OLARENCE-STREET.
GBD. GrBD.
Wehavel.atge fhipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
m
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to ail the other
Corsets I have triea.”
Signed MARIE ROSE
Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Dorset
Will not srlit in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y & N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,"
in oval.
Three Gold Medals!!
.Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
ro WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons |
also,
Rum Sha :vy and Whisky PUNCHED! 8,
Hogsheads, Quarter casks, Spirit Kegs, 1 *o»
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE
S 7 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN,N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gent'emen and others. Private sitting room s.
Sample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
High-class Dentistry
at Reform Prices.
ART IFICIAL TE ETH
®JtSftSAET
MARSHALL BRO
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
■ - :
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous
gas, dally at 11.
iMANUFACTURING HATTERS |
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And ftt QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,


ETOU T ! ”
“Oh! mother, mother, I’ll never do what you
tell me not to any more.”
“Why, what’s the matter, child; what have
you done? ”
“ Why, I drank some milk just now, and then
I got into the cupboard and ate some pickles, and
the milk said to the pickles, ‘ Get Out! ’ and the
pickles said ‘ Not me 1 ’ and now they are having
an awful time.”
And her mother took her into retirement, and
applied St. Jacobs oil with a free hand and the
best possible results.
“ yyr ITH PLEASUR E.”
Under date Cooktown, loth August, 1887, Mr.
H. Fitz Gerald, Inspector of Police, writes:—“ R 9
St, Jacobs oil. Having suffered extremely during
the last twelve months, through an injury re-
ceived in falling from my horse, it is with pleasure
I testify to the extraordinary qualifications of St.
Jacobs oil, for alleviating pain.”
Made from pure malt and hops, gaining the
highest honors in all parts of the world, and the
approbation of all classes, is Clausen’s New York
Champagne Lager Beer.
There is much peace of mind and health of body
n store for you if you have not yet become
addicted to C, Cilbert’s Corn Flour.
Sweeter than kisses, more lasting than love, is
the fragrance of Blackwell’s Bull Durham Tobacco 3
and Cigarettes.
The owners of Water bury Watches, which require
repairs, are requested to note that the address of
the Waterbury Watch Repair Depot is 56, Mar-
garet-street. Just 56, and no other.
O MORE HEADACHE.
NO MORE NEURALGIA.
NO MORE LOSS OF HAIR.
Dr. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSH is an
honest remedy for all these troubles. It will pre-
vent Baldness, Dandruff, and Diseases of the
Scalp, make the hair grow long and glo3sy, arrest
premature grayness, and soothe the weary brain.
They are stamped with
THE WORLD’S APPROVAL,
and sold in live si/.es. No. 1, Is. 6d.; No. 2,6 s.
(id.; No. 3, Bs. 6d.; No. I, 10s. 6d.; No. .“>, 12s. 6d.
And if you cannot obtain them anywhere near
you we will send by post to any part of New
South Wales on receipt of price named, with 6d.
added for postage.
r ID -
Ik
They are very nandsome toilet accessories, and
their efficacy as transmittors of a permanent
electro-magnetic current is guaranteed.
Orders should be addressed, and remittances
made payable, to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
50, Margaret-street.
I’.O. Box 221,
A London ’undertaker calmly stated in
Court the other day that “ it was impossible to
make a man with a large nose look well in a
coffin.”
Whirroo! The Lancet says “it is a
curious scientific fact that all the elements of the
poison found in a rattlesnake are inherent in the
common Irish potato.” The “rattlers ” must have
crept into the spuds when St. Pathrick was boot-
ing all the sbnakes an’ toads out of Oireland.
As head of the Church the Queen gave
only one-fifth of the sum she bestowed on the
Imperial Institute to the fund for destitute
divines The logic of this is that it is five times
more important to prop up English royalty than
to prop up the Church of England. Mammon
first, Heaven next.
OW many leetle puppies vill it take to make dose oil,
Doctor ? said Hans Donnerkoupf, following the Doctor to
the door when the latter was taking his leave after pre-
scribing for Mrs. Donner-
koupf. Doctor : Puppies be
; I said poppy oil, not
puppy, you sauer-kraut idiot ?
Hans : Well, you did say
ze poppy oil all de same time
before, mein Gott, and if ze
poppy is not ze leetle baby-
dog zen what ze great Bis-
marck is it ? Why don’t you
learn to speaky ze Ainglish
like me? I vill make ze oil
out of ze dog, and you be
dam ?
The Duke of Marlborough is going to
marry again. The girl is an American, and will
wear cast-iron clothes whenever his Grace feels
inclined to kick.
Lady Brassey’s diary, it is cabled, is now
being published. She eulogises Adelaide and its
surroundings, and, no doubt says that the local
half-crowns are of excellent quality.
Snow-shoe racing is the latest sporting
sensation at Kiandra, and, according to the
Cooma Express, it is “fine fun.” We have little
doubt of this, for further along we read “ The
ladies’ race was started about 3 o’clock; Miss
Eastwood was leading for three-parts of the race,
when she came down, turning heels over head.”
Fan! Why, Buffalo Bill’s show is only a
pauper’s wake by the side of sport like that.
NOTICE-TO ALL Wl £o BEAD THE BULLETIN
OF 10th SEPTEMBER.
Enumerated below we give a number of s, for
goods as they appeared on the outside cover of The Belle-
tjx of Saturday last ..
Confectionary, doz , hand-made, lo n i n
Mushrooms, Pans tin .. •• •• , "
Meal, German, for Summer Porridge, 41b tins .. 01 h
Pate rie Fob; Gras, tin “ ''
Sauce, T- mate, bottle .. • • 0 U
Sauce, KUchings, bottle, dd. and Is.
Vineear, Sadragon, bottle nr?
Bed Herrings, per doz '* '{
Sa sapuiOa, per bottle ••
Cigars Manillas. pe- 1000.. .. vll v
Cigars 1000 in Tot, Ids. to //os. 6*f.
Perfumery— Assorted ?o«. Bots u •> »
„ 3oz. Bots 1,1 0 0
If our readers will refer to outside cover cf this issue they
wil< find correctly set forth, and aR they were re-
ceived from Messrs Aakew and Company by us. The errors
occurred in our office, »nd we are anxious in the interest! of
all concerned that this should he understood. Messrs.
Askew and Company, in drawing attention to the errors,
poi tout the quotations for G'lgcivs, which would involve
them in terious loss if orders were forwarded at last weeks
quotations- They are prepared to execute orders for any-
thing included in their advertisement at prices as they appear
in this issue.
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s. each.
Run, Nov. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2 000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Howe,’£l,ooo, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to be divided amongst them.
Address— 1 ‘ \Tattersall,
Care i f G. Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Summer is coming. All the Sydney
cranks—musicians and "sicli—have [out their hair.
George IV. spent yearly £5000 in clothes,
and after his death his white kid breeches lined
with white satin, and other garments, actually
sold in the heap for £15,000 !j
Mrs. (President) Cleveland has refused to
accept as a present a picture of Australian
scenery. Served the artist right, the disloyal
rascal. He should have sent his daub to Good
Gracious, who, as she doesn’t like to offend any-
body, doncherknow, never refuses anything.
Dear Bulletin, — I see that that most
erudite and reliable paper, the T. and C. Journal,
has every week a word or two, in fact, a good
many lines, about the Prison Puzzle, said to have
been considered soluble by Proctor. Although I
often find a grain (minim) of truth in the journal
in question, I cannot imagine that any mathema-
tician ever gave himself away by stating that he
believed there is a solution to a manifest impossi-
bility, But the Coonamble people have been
exercised for months by a conundrum propounded
by a tailor who has had free liquors up to last
week during the discussion of it. This is the
puzzle :—“ A little girl states that a certain boy is
the son of her father and of her mother, but that
she is not his sister. What is she ?” Last Satur-
day night the wit and wisdom of the town as-
sembled to hear the answer and to have a final try
at it. After six whiskies our decimal one repeater
(l-Sbh) of a man gave out that she could only be
one thing—viz , an extravasated little liar, and
tuch Jilsois the opinion of yours, Scotty the
Wrinkxer.
How to Gain Flesh and Strength.— Take after each
meal about a tablespoonful of “Scott's Emulsion of
Pure Cod Liver Oil With Hypophosiuiites.” It is
almost as palatable as milk, and easily digested. The
rapidity with which delicate children and sickly people
suffering from weakness and wasting diseases improve and
thrive upon this diet, is truly marvellous. As a remedy for
Consumption , Throat Affections and Bronchitis, it is un-
equalled by any other preparation in the world. Use it and
try your weight. All chemists sail large and small bottles.*
£25 Reward !—Lost on the overland express train —A
large Morocco Case, containing a number of gold, silver and
bronze medals awarded to tho Anheuser Busch Brewing
Association for the Sc. Louis Lager Beer. Above reward
wilt be paid on return to the agents, Butcher Fehon and
Co., Sydney.
The Progress op New South Wales —At present
are 1,407 miles of railway in operation; there are
11,639 miles of telegraph wire; 425 State Schools, with 1,161
Teachers. These statistics, though of a miscellaneous
character, te'tify to the growth and vigour of this youthful
colony. It is easy to understand amid so many worsing
classes and gr wing children, how valuable and useful a
medicine is which possesses the property of checking and cur
ing those diseases peculiar to New South Wales itself or in-
cidental to life generally. This however is the characteristic
of Freeman s Original Chlorodyne. and has secured for it in
New South Walt s a reputation of the highest character. No
other medicine has obtained a similar position in any other
colony and no colonists have spoken in higher praise of the
virtue of Freeman’s Chloroayne than the residents, the
manufacturers, the shepherds, and the miners of New
Zealand. Its value in the Nurserv and in Female Com-
plaints can scarcely be estimated.—Sold everywhere through-
out the Colonies. Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only.
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark an
Elephant.*
One of the best managed and larges t hotels in Sydney is
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Plaoe and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest plaoe in Sydney, The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices
THE! fourth chapter, and end of our self-imposed
task. It has been a duty undertaken on
account of those who have so long encouraged us
with their support. It was last Saturday we com-
menced the essay, and we pledged our reputation
to continue it, chapter by chapter, until we had
thoroughly exhausted the subject. We thought
three chapters would have sufficed, but find it
takes four.
Last Saturday’s issue saw the first part of our
essay upon HOW AND WHERE TO FURNISH
THOROUGHLY, SAFELY andEOONOMICALLY;
and in that issue, as the result of serious study
and careful deliberation we gave our readers a
descriptionjof the Carpet and Floorcloth floors upon
the sth storey of the Great Central Emporium,
Sydney.
We omitted giving the address in the first issue,
but do so now, viz., LAWLERS, 608 George-
street, Sydney. An old-established house, es-
tablished as long ago as 1860, and situate in the
centre of the city right between Liverpool and
Bathurst streets. A commanding and imposing
edifice, and stocked from floor to ceiling
Monday's issue treated of the extraordinary
stock of bedsteads, wire-mattresi-es and bedding,
upon the floor of the 4th siorey; and Wednesday’s
issue dealt exclusively with the Bedroom Furniture
upon the floors of the 3rd storey. And now we
have to treat of the Dining and Drawing room
furniture and Library and Office appointments
upon the floors of the 2nd storey.
This last chapter is the one that claims the at-
tention of our readers, and we will be as brief but
explanatory as possible. LAWLER’S Suites differ
from most suites met with in Sydney houses, and
remind us on account of their solidity and fulness
of upholstery of the suites made before the age for
slop upholstery became general.
We have had our attention called to a magnifl-
cent solid walnut diningroom suite with misletoe
carvings and carved and moulded legs set with
best coppered wire springs, upholstered throughout
in curled horsehair, and covered in tho best
Russian dressed real morocco, finished with
morocco binding and morocco-covered studs. The
suite was made for one of our well-known mer-
chant princes and was sold to him for £65. It
looked all out well worth 90 guineas, a figure one
of the furnishing salesmen declared he had re-
peatedly sold the suites at in London, Leeds and
Edinburgh. There is another Suite just being
completed in the factory, the couch and a few
chairs of which we were shown, and we have no
hesitation in declaring it to be the best upholstered
suite we have ever seen. No one with money
could resist it. It is a glorious suite, splendidly
finished and boldly conceived, and only £6O. It
would be cheap at £BO. w e felt bound to admit
that it was stupid purchasing at auction sales
when LAWLER’S celebrated light oak or walnut
or real mahagony specialty—the Emporium
Leather Suite at £27 10s., could be had direct
from the factories In Union-lane. There are
Diningroom Suites all made and upholstered upon
the premises in oak, walnut or Mahogany, and in
crimson or olive Utrecht velvets at £2l 10a. and
£4 7 10s. And there are mahogany and cedar
Diningroom Suites in the best English made hair-
cloth, or in Cockett’s maroon or green-colored
leather-cloth at £l2 lOs., £l4 10s. and £l7. LAW-
LER’S set their face against turning out suites in
hair-cloth at anything less than £l2 10s., saying
they would only have to resort to common German-
made seating if they were to manufacture hair-
cloth suites at a penny less than £l2 10s.
Our readers ought all to bear in mind the im-
portant fact that they can select their frames at
LAWLER’S and choose whatever covering they
think fit, and can call round at any time and see
the work in the upholsterer’s hands.
We would remind those who prefer the Austrian
Suites to upholstered Suites that they can have
one of those grand and luxurious Couches, the
Eugenie, at £3 195., and capitally suited for an
after-dinner smoke or nap they are. Long and
broad—a perfect nest of spiral springs, the head as
well as the seat being so upnolstered.
This Eugenie Couch of LAWLER'S, at £3 19s.
a perfect marvel of value and to show the esteem
in which it is held we have only to remark that
since LAWLER reduced the price from £5 ss. to
to £3 19s , the present low price—since he reduced
the Eugenies to £3 19s. he has sold 200 and odd of
them, or an average of five a week.
We have no intention of referring to Sideboards
or Dinner Waggons; nor were we inclined to take
up much of our important Saturday’s space with
Extending and Telescopic Dining Tables, buthaving
been shown a few very special lines we think It
our duty to name them.
Frst there is the Hotel Sideboard, 6ft. long, with
glass back, bracket shelf, enclosed cupboards and
drawers, all solid cedar, price £8 10s. Then there
is the Cottage Sideboard, with large glass back,
cellarette cupboard and drawer enclosed, brackets
for ornaments, &c., &c., £ll 10s. and £l2 10s.
There are Cottage Sideboards at £3 15s. and £5
ss. And for mansions a range of best made Side-
boards in walnut, oak and mahogany at £l7 10s.,
£25, £27 10s., £35. There are massive Sideboards
in pollard oak with all the latest improvements,
of bold design, faithfully built, with immense
bevelled glass back, collarettes, &0., &c., at £45.
Bookcases and Cylinder Writing Desks in oak,
walnut and mahogany. Dinner Waggons, in the
same woods.
A grand stock of elegaht Pierglasses and Over-
mantels.
But what surprised us most was the quantity
of Drawingroom Furniture, Suites, Cabinets
Brackets, Tables &c, turned out by LAWLER’S.
The turn-over of the establishment with its
different departments, its wonderful Boot and
Shoe floor, the Furniture, Carpets and Bedsteads,
the Ironmongery and Glass and China, the Drapery
and Clothing and Hats and Caps must be some-
thing extraordinary.
Upwards of 400 Drawingroom Suites turned
out in 12 months, and ranging in quality, style
and price from the simple but serviceable Repp
Suites at £lO 10s. to the prettiest and most
effective Occasional and Harlequin Suites
Parisian tapestries or plushes at £45.
As in Diningroom Suites, LAWLER’S will not
turn out anything under £l2 10s. so with
Drawingroom Suites, they will not touch any-
thing under £lO 10s. LAWLER’S hold that the
customer who pays more than £65 for the pro-
duction of the best of Morocco Dining-room Suites,
or above £5O for the loveliest and most charming
of delighful special things in Drawingroom Suite
deserves to be declared a “Tittlebat Titmouse’
and fit prey for high-toned but unprincipled
furnishing “Oily Gammons.” And we think so
too.
Time and space—that is newspaper space—i
pretty much like time and tide, will wait for
none; so that, although we would like to refer
to Cabinets. Whatnots, Music Can ter bur ys and
a thousand other articles, wo arc compelled to end
our essay by repeating at its close the words with
which we common ed—viz., that tho place at
which to furnish safely, surely, thoroughly,
economically and wel l is
LAWLER’S
t-ffj 1 '<m :-htuekt SYdnkv-


674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Is the Only Address of the
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling at LONDON PRICES,
In fact It is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every description of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No connection with any other firm.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampananfs
CELEBRATED
mu mu mu,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6,1/-, 4/6,
6/• and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Mar, &c., &c.
c
J3CORDEONB, at 7/6, 10/6, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
peolality i Miniature Aocordeon, double bellows,
strong tone 21 /•
M Ditto, oak wood patent steel notes,
«/■
10/6, 1 51; 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality j Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
~ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Speciality s Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/
Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key 21/
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality i Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/., 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality t 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum
furnished tta
NIGGER MINSTREL TI
Orders promptly atter
manta carefully packed
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to
p.O. Orders to be m
LOUIS
674 6E-
nd Fife Bands
oughout.
IPES FITTED OUT.
to, and all instru-
mt to any part of
rn of post,
3 to
TSEN,
- STREET,
JL
5#
V
.Eczema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
S 3
m
Scrofula on iNeck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles,, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat 'this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and goi
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, 11 How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns & Co., New South Wales,
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the li3ir, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable In treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
!For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
~ ; rt3 throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
'/iZ> Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fj-.C. Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
i>,c. Avp, 15 cents; Cuticura Re solvent, $l.OO
pci le.
Prepared by the
Pofipv f'TUSr & Chemical Oo . Ttostcm. TT.B A.
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA
la the Safest and boat Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
great medicine, and, our word for It, you will obtain ail we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are In this market numerous Inferior so-called Sarsaparillas’ the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
CAM BBS OBTAINRD FROM ALL OHBMISTS AND STORKKKKFKRS
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
MASON BROTHERS,
am
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Rent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A RTHENWA RE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CG.S
Cognac.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Genera,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Please Do Not Read This!!
IT DOES NOT CONCERN YOU.
THERE is NO excuse for any person of either
sex suffering from those unsightly disfigure-
ments of tho Face, Neck, or Skin, caused by
Pimples, Freckles, Moles, Warts, or any other
kind of skin disease, if they will only listen to a
few words of timely advice, and sit down at once
and write a full, clear, and explicit statement of
their case, enclosing twopenny stamps, when
they will receive a candid reply as to the length
of time that will be required to effect a cure, fee,
&c., See. Superfluous Hair removed quickly and
painlessly. Red noses restored to normal colour.
All communications held strictly sacred and con-
fidential. Address Edward I’. Hubbell,
Dermatologist, Box 852, G.P.U., Syduey, N,S.W,
Everybody \PI? M TT ’ Q
SHOULD USEJ 1 JCi Jll JCi JLi JU U
EXTRA SUPERFINE
FLOTTE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
RSI <i«nwa*-HT»«nT- Bvmst
SCHOOL OP ART HOTEL,
MAOKAT.
FNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
fgsd
STUDY ECONOMY
»nd
Have Four Umbrella Frames re-
covered and your
Parasoli re-lined and made Bqua
to Newi at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to matoh cos
tames Repairs nestle exeantef
AT,AN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
• REMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new linea
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &c.
Full particulars free on application. Addre
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
MONU M K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing!.
Design* and Estimates forwarded on reques
J. €UJfIfIM«HAM 9
**A*M-Bl**M, WvurwAitD-sftTT***. BYnwisw
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address :
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Quoons-stroet. A. COOPER, Proprietor,
B
RAD jIT,
L NBWT9N S As LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
w ARKHOUSKMKN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS
Nil:
POK PIANO! o RTE,
3900 guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves far
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by tfae.MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, varior g
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con
nell-street.
w
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
Bradley, Newton, & Lamb,
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites for dining room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
L
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring Sc O’Connell Bias.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
■\T OVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
t=.-
□
□
*53
Drawing room oabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUHNXUBI W ASBHOUSBIf AM,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
Drawing room furniture.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGaNY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Vfis U
Tt-i
OV KRMA N T K L MlRRORS.— Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, ab
all prices, BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed >
rooms. Now designs covered bo order fa
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty, Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O'Connell-street.
fg
BEDSTEADS, all atesr,
Nickel-plated and Bla( k
and Braes. Sreat variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
sdf
SPRING MATTRASBES
Wo yen Wire, beat
make i also, Spiral Sprint ■
Price, from lie, each,
S&&J8&SY! SSfWTOW mil L4MS,


Bulli Relief Fund Distribution.—“ A Shell for Thee and a Shell for Thee. The Oyster,” &c.


' MzcJLmjLwr 4* <OO.,
movrm< mamws,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS ,
Mf GEORGE SVREET, BYVNET.
o
o
<fl
s
IRONMONGERS
512
o
r
O’
NT:
s
SPECIALITIES i
Daria’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Alho Carbon Light
ELECTRO- PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
9AS COOKING STOVES j—LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS ft; WALKER'S
BRADEORTI'B WASHING MACHINES.
tea., tec,
NEVEITTRAVEL without it.
era
itj<iaxex> J'Jsr wv'jrcn v jboztsjb:.
gs
ALLNOXIOUSINSE
E *S ru ES BEETLES MOSQUITOES
0 °CKR0ACHES.AA < :AND IS
T t HE SAME TIME QUITE
birds dog
ANIMALS
m
■
r
dfg
SOLD
Kntins;
JPfi'AROi
1EM1ST$
AND STOREKEEPERS
y >»-) t. t ■ T
FELTON-CMMWAOE.VC®
-MELBOURNE
WAITED IN EVERY HOUSE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
sd
V*#-
s
A
> ■/(
I J
LANTERNS!
V
w.
{U 1 a« _
w 6 ® lo ea(^ 88 a < iv tmeilt of£above, [andj;have',the*,following| set Slides,l complete with
& Wif ' Ja C r' : *
i. 4 , T n 3 UeBt * Paris, Highlands of Scotland, Lowlands of Scotland, Biver
», p. Ireland, English Cathedrals, Pied Piper, Isle of W’ght, Pompeii,
ar 8e v ari SOe * Di ck Whittington, BolyLand.
18ty of Comic Slides, in all prices, suitable for Children's Entertainments,
AND CO.,
Graphic stock warehouse,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
mHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
JL Bydney Branches!
64 PITT-BTREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... w w 606,000
'The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITHD STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
VZZZZZJEEBEEL
A.A.DEBNEY SC?
€ •
IS HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SHIRT MAKERS?
'
r
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CjiA
PATENT
s
VJ
LLS
PI
«7
&
A
'■'k
Vt
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pam
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin ,d i sturbed s leep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
fcwfmiy maxmtgs. This is no fiction, for they have
done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
ihey wm he acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
For females of all apes these Pills ate invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should he -without them. There
is no medicine to lie found to equal BEECHAM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
of the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digest-«.n and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ’’ admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society ; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pille have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever Offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with airy of the above complaints give Bbchhi’i
Couch Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Cautioit. —The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each boi of the Pills
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St, Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
®ach.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
pr- win Sk '-f
fTIHB above Is one of the oldest Family ant
JL Squatting Hotels In the colony. Pricer
reasonable. Sample Room. F-I
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths,
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpassea all others tor its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Marats—
PARIS.1878, CALCUTTA,ISM,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
Is unequalled fur lu strength and delightful
fagrance. It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name,
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap Is superior to all
others tor cleansing and softening the skin.
It la strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting m use.
Of all Beaten, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, Box bom
Trade Mark—“White Hose’’ on“ Golden
m
n
/
Q
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
FOB
472 GBO3HGE STREET,
Opposite the Central Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s, Haymarket.
VIOLIIsTS,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15-. 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in cases, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strings, &o.
Speciality:
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O.
ooisr cb e tina s,
i/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ~
20-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 os.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 10s.
ACCORD SOTSTS,
In great variety, 7/6, to 70/- each.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
CORNETS,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 15s„ £lO 10s., to £l6 16a,
ELUTES, 1
8-key Concert, 40/-; Otbera 1/6 to 25/- each.
6-bey Piccolo, 16/* to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &c., in great variety,
IST PI AN 08 and ORGANS.
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
fgsdfg
1
The
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
AMR ALL gifaS
fNLT B
NG H
AM
fcfl A.»
u*
r
y RIDGE’S
FOOD
Por INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale ,n
and Is now being introduced into In#
Colonics.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
•s every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR«RIDGE’S W°YA*. FOOD MI*XS,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
W.
JOHNS
[COOPBR, SURVEYOR,
O N
'LIOKNBID OAUOJRt
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at OLKVELANII
W tV. fSTRBBT. SYDNEY,
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Talow
Casks, new and second-hand | also. Wins and
Spirit Regs, at lowest possible prices.
«AV«n« IK AU ITS BSAICHM
350 PITT STREET.
v t\
\ De Posits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
°i this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A.. TODD. *


ROYAL MWfif
MS'
>
m'c/j
*4KIN c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Fowdbb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
JP. R. LARKIN,
'IMPORTER,
’ Family 17 Wine and Spirit Merchant.
3* *i AJj
r —: _
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR. J
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY 111 THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE* J
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &a, whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL ,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.’
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
Atm
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
jjLLUSTRATBD CATALOGUBS WITH PRICK LIST, FRKK ON APPLICATION.
WALL ACM BROTHERS.!
4
•bATK, SHSffiT, *B'
c WISDOW aL V, ra | S W« J
White Lead, Oils, Cotaaw.
Paperhanglngs, Dadoes,
Maal lings, Bw*bowdt 8ef el»
Overmantels, SHvafla® ®
ITimtllS ULIS3 Old'Ll
281 GEORGS ST
—i»— —* a CGtlw
SPECIAL NOTICE.- r &®
•is above goods at a M n o?0 r
jftoea, being the stooh t
lerthwloir. _
nquMe will have P roffll,t *
CHOOL OF ARTS flal'J
-v_y Queensland.— The d
icensed under the
Every Company travelling
for the past 18 months has g eB9 rJ. %ij>
occupied this Hall, inclu ®w ar , (V
and Leltch, Thornton ana
Maur, and Grattan *Wg, ’ y ,
MacMahon’s Dramatic Comv «
jonciuded a brilliant and succa
Company played in the T p f es
igo, and Mr. MacMaho jj
lighly pleased with th ® a boo*
Managers are requested u niD
lefore opening to sec !V gecret®"'
rerms on application to —■"
s on appiicatiuu » ,
wsSr,
EOCKBAMP y.
s
tertainmenw,
upon application^
THOS * ' aND fl
MINING. MACHINE
Agent for
E. D-
MINING AND O°M
MININ® - q
CHARTERS TOWERS'
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
J. S. PRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AN ORDINARY OUP OONTAINB MORE AOTIVH
THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OB POB**^
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <s*c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Goppersmithlng, winninmiltihlMg, Plumbing,
Oasflttlng, Tank and Girder Building, Eleotrlo and Pneumatio Bell-flfcting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
Agents hr Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhanst Pan Cowls, Gas Fires, Beaters,
Warmers, At.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND~9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
Fun Particulabs and Priob on Application,
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABKRG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
W Private Buites for Families.
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HoTEL7Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINKS AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICKBT
BRANDS.
J. F. K. STKWART. Proprietor.
O'
Belle Vue
Opposite Parliament H° a9e
and Queensl»» d
FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODA
Lett ra and telegram*
prieior, «'
TION
A Waiter 3Ts otfl m
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
Rowlands ,
Maea^arOil
bu been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver, restorer and beantifier of
the human hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, of which most hair
restorers are composed and which ruin the health (vide Medics. papers), will keep fresh and
sweet in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses: it prevents hair
falling off or turning grey, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandriff, and renders tho
hair soft, silky, curly and glossy; it also stimulates the growth of whiskers and moustaches:
it is especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, and
can also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
which, after great time and trouble, has been especially prepared for the use of golden-haired
children and fair or gre.v-haired adults. Sizes 3s. fid.; 7».; family bottles, equal to four small,
A “ A ' fhr ‘
10s. fid.: and double rhat size, 21«.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR
Is a healing and refreshing preparation for
the face, hands and arms ; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
gJJgMthens the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask an where for
ROW LANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurions imitations und*'
Similar names.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
Sjfln Md Watn Eg.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNBY.
Perfect Perltjr Guaranteed.
PftFC PRESO RIPTIONS are to
■ ItCC. be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, fee. A copy of this
book will be Bent free, sealed. Address —
a WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockampton)
CONDUCTED on the same principle ae the
great Melbourne coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows:—6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d,
M
ft I h '* ¥
*** (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
?l« ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
absconders and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
■mfldential Inquiries instituted Evidence obtained in
livorce. libel, fraud, and inoendiary oases, for the legal pro-
'•arion and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
aarriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kent* and debts collected. From B. M. K.’s long experience
n the Detective Foroe of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Few Zealand, and established agencies in all part* of the
ttoba, he it In a position to conduct all inquiries with oaution
xpsuiti u a and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
-««p v attend to all bnrines* entrusted to b oars.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 209 pages l
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip
blons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Via
Guinness
FIRST
Eft
at
r«AO£
f/
BASS’
snr-w ptTl L»|ji*
COLONIC
W. BALCHI*
o.mm.r«Ul «** vaX ' 0 t
R oamm tiSiS%
WINK s^,l*
634 t« T o«* V*
Opposite Jfl® re oel v '
m Country Order* *»
otrrs
ts
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
IMPORTS R 8 OP
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
AUo Manufacturer* of
The Finest Quality or Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
MAC $
mOt S
Cigr&x ZDvrraja.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET,
fITSBO -*
iir fibst- cIjA
Plunge a®
Private Sitting * to °^e
Good Stable
JAB. **
