

The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No 376
SATURDAY, APRIL 10, 1887.
Price., bd.
A Purely Australian View.
TOMS OFFICER (to Chinaman, just arrived): “NOW, JOHN, HAND OVER TOUR POLL.TAXI
(showing his Hong-Kong naturalisation certificate): “NO SAVEE POLL-TAX. YOU LOOKEE MY PAPER. ME BLITISH CITIZEN.”
IS OF IGNORANT NATIVE AUSTRALIANS: “A BRITISH CITIZEN WHY HE’S JUST AB YELLOW AS THE OTHER BEGGARS.”


NOTICE
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which yon may pay by Poet Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that oity
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
rDBLIftBED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PnT-STRKKT, Sydney, N.B.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - - - - jSI Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - - - - O 3s 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 1887.
The Sawbath Question.
We don’t know the name of the Colonial
Secretary of Queensland, and have no
“ Greville ” or “ Pugh ” at hand from
which to obtain the information. Perhaps
it is Smith, and in that caso most probably
there is attached to it a baptismal prefix in
honour of that one of the Twelve whom the
Lord loved. And, assuming his name to be
John Smith, we think we are safe in further
assuming that he is at the very least a
K.C.M.G. Well, this Sir John Smith, as
we shall call him for the reasons above set
forth, is making a bold bid for enduring
fame. He is one of those reformers who
are none the less entitled to the gratitudo
of mankind because they operate in a nega-
tive fashion. The three most useful of the
long line of English monarchs, for instance,
were John, Charles 1., and James 11.
The first gave us Magna Charta, the second
caused the destruction of the theory of the
divine right of kings, while out of the
eccentricities of the third were evolved the
Bill of Rights and Responsibility of Govern-
ment to Parliament. Sir John Smith
evidently lacks the intellectual force re-
quired for positive reform ; so, like tho
kings we have mentioned, he has performed
the next best service: forward action not
being his strong point he has pursued a re-
actionary line of policy—and for this he is
entitled to the thanks of Australasia.
Already the effect has been most salutary.
The speediest way to accomplish a great re-
form is often to attempt to put in full
force and operation the system that stands
in need of reform. The particular ameliora-
tion likely to be achieved in consequence of
Sir John Smith’s performances at Brisbane
is in respect of the manner of keeping the
Sabbath. He has had the courage to put
the statute passed in the reign of that
brothel-keeper, Charles 11., “ for the
better keeping of the Lord’s Day ” into full
swing against all and sundry ; and the popu-
lar indignation is so intense and widespread
as to induce the hope that the Puritanical
idea of the way in which people should con-
duct themselves on the day of rest is about
to be superseded by a rational view of the
subject.
There is a peculiar characteristic of the
Australian public which here deserves some
little notice. If there is one thing they
suppose themselves to hold in high esteem
it is the right of self-government. The Par-
liament of the United Kingdom certainly
never was one whit better than it is to-day ;
yet if the Imperial Parliament of this
generation attempted to legislate for Aus-
tralia, the action would be resented as a
monstrous violation of Australian autonomy.
That is right enough, so far as it goes. But
witness the patience with which Australians
calmly endure year after year laws enacted
by English and British Parliaments that
were about the worst Parliaments ever
assembled at Westminster. Every now and
then some legal luminary rakes an old law'
out of that lumber-closet, the Statutes at
Large, the judges pronounce it to be in force
in the colony in which it is thus propounded,
and the people forthwith sit down under
and obey it as though it had the sanction of
their own Legislature. Only the other day
The Bulletin took occasion to comment on
the intolerable injustice inflicted on tenants
by virtue of a law passed in the reign of
George 11.. which law was suddenly sprung
upon New South Wales by some industrious
rag-picker of an attorney, and ruled by the
Supreme Court to be in operation. Nobody
has intimated a desire to have the judges’
ruling negatived by the Colonial Parlia-
ment. Men are rotting in gaol at this
present moment by reason of this infamous
enactment of a Parliament, composed en-
tirely of landlords, and a king who invariably
Baid “ yah ” for yes. Nor has anybody—
not even Sir Good Government Parkes—
conceived it his duty to sweep away that
remarkable product of the age of Charles
It — the ago, as Macaulay says, of “mingled
bigotry and harlotry ” the Lord’s Day
Observance Act. The Act is actually not in
force now in many parts of England itself.
The Metropolitan Sunday Trading Act re-
pealed it as regards fully one-fourth of the
population of the United Kingdom ; and it
has been specifically superseded in respect
of other parts of Great Britain. Yet the
Australian Colonies seem to be quite con-
tented and happy under this cast-off and
obsolete legislatorial freak of an outside
community. The phenomenon is funny,
almost incredible ; but it is undoubtedly
real.
• • *
It appears that this Sir John Smith, or
whatever his name is, was put in motion by
the parsons and other goody-goodies of
Brisbane. There, as in nearly all Australian
cities, the day of rest is a period of sepulchral
horror. Streets of closed shutters are the
liveliest visible objects. The inhabitants can
walk those melancholy thoroughfares and
read the signs over the doors, but beyond
that they can do scarcely anything. It
would seem, however, that peregrinating the
streets of Brisbane, with the thermometer at
OOdeg. in tfco shade, induces what the Scotch
call “an honest thirst.” The public-houses
are, of course, hermetically sealed. But
there were, until a week since, certain
fruiterers and vendors of :erated drinks,
who assayed to supply the cravings of
parched humanity. The clerical dander
was raised hereat, Smith, K.C.M.G.,
was interviewed, and soon the edict went
foith that the Statute of Charles the Lecher
must in future be rigidly enforced. The im-
mediate outcome of this measure was a great
public demonstration, at which it was re-
solved that the law in question was “semi-
obsolete,” and that a local law relating to
Sunday trading ought to be enacted. From
our knowledge of the people of Brisbane,
we feel sure they will not stop till they have
carried their resolutions into effect. When
Parkes put his veto on Proctor’s science
lecture—because, forsooth, it was to be
given on the ene evening of the week when
the toiling thousands would care to hear out
a discourse of the kind —the people of Syd-
ney were filled with indignant wrath. But
the people of Sydney cooled down again,
and soon forgot the incident. There is
always a difficulty in securing a sustained
political opinion in the mother city of Aus-
tralia. But we don’t think it will bo so in
Brisbane. We believe the people there are
in real earnest, and mean to carry their
point. And in anticipation of this desirable
result we tender the thanks of Australia to
Sir John Smith, K.C.M.G , for his share in
the work of reform.
If Queensland brushes away this absurd
legacy from an age when royal and aristo-
cratic debauchery and vice had perforce to
throw an occasional sop to Puritanical bigo-
try, depend upon it tho other colonies will
quickly follow suit. Even Parkes, who is a
believer in uniformity, and is always ready
to copy tho Aits of other colonial Parlia-
ments—for the reason, apparently, that he
is incapable of devising ono for himself—
even Parkes might pick up a Queensland
Sunday Trading Act and present it to the
New South Wales Legislature as an original
Bill. Anyhow, we feel convinced that the
example of Queensland will bo followed ;
for there is a very pressing necessity for a
change of the law all over Australia. The
theory of the existing law is that on Sun-
days everybody except the thorough-paced
scamp and outcast spends tho whole of his
time in watching and praying, and listening
to sermons. Yet there is not a city in Aus-
tralia in which the church-attendance repre-
sents a fourth of the population. What
are the other three-fourths to do on tho day
of rest ? Those who have comfortable
homes and can afford the oxpense have their
dinner-parties, and amuse themselves and
their visitors with lawn-tennis and things of
that sort in the afternoon, and in the even-
ing sit down to music, or a quiet game of 100
or napoleon. But these pleasures are not for
the vast multitude. The homes of tho
great mass of the people are not filled with
congenial atmosphere, and in this climate
the unquenchable desire is to go abroad and
enjoy the breath of heaven, and endeavour to
make the world yield a scrap of re-
creative diversion. One might imagine
that the State would be on the alert to aid
and assist this natural desire—that it would
do its utmost to aff >rd means whereby the
non-church-goers, who form the vast
majority, would be enabled to derive some
benefit from the weekly cessation of labour.
But it is different. The very classes requir-
ing to use public places of amusement and
instruction—inasmuch as they are without
private resources in this way—are the classes
that are hunted like rats by Government
for presuming to have any wants on this
so-called day of rest.
In Sydney the public-houses are all closed
on Sundays. Round the mean beer shops,
patronised by the working men, hover
numerous policemen. A poor and ill-attired
man has no more chance of obtaining re-
freshment in the city of sanctimonious de-
scendants of “old hands” than if he were on
an iceberg in tho Polar regions. But if one
belong to the “ respectable ” section of
society nothing is easier than to imbibe to
the heart’s content. Ihe hotels frequented
by the well-to-do drive a large and profit-
able business on the Lord’s Day, and nobody
is horrified. But if a little “pub.” in the
suburbs is found with its Bide-door ajar, th
keeper is dragged before the justices anr
heavily mulct, while even the customer
found on the promises are subjected t
penalties. Yet peoplo still cling to the quit
too excessively optimist theory, that Justie
is even-handed, and that the law is dealt ou
to the rich and poor alike !
We would like to see the Australia
Sunday made brighter and more attractiv
for the people generally. Nothing can h
more melancholy than the streets of ou
capital cities on the day of the week when
they should wear their most cheerful aspect
Even to laugh seems to he to infringe som
regulation, for we have known cases where
young men and women —respectable in the
true sense of the term, hut not up to the
standard of respectability insisted upon b;
tho stipendiary magistrates—have been ar
rested and fined for simply indulging in
mirth. The statement seems strange, yet it
is true. And, as a speaker at the
Brisbane meeting pointed out, the people
are driven, by this, maniacal effort on the
part of Government to drill them into
what parsons consider “ good behaviour,”
to mischievous lines of conduct. The
mere fact of a man being forced to
do Burreptiously what he ought to be
allowed to do openly, disturbs his moral
equilibrium. If you have to sneak in a back
door for a drink on Sundays, soon you will
acquire habits of sneaking in respect of other
matters throughout the week. And thon it
is a well-known principle in the guidance of
human desire that things are valued in pro-
portion to the difficulty in obtaining them.
A diamond of the first water is not so very
much more beautiful than a decent paste ;
yet it is rare and hard to get, and therefore
costly; • and so people covet the gem as
though it were intrinsically valuable. And
similarly the very difficulty placed in the
way of obtaining refreshments on Sundays
makes people thirst after them all the more ;
and hence in every city in Australia the
largest number of drunks to be found at the
police courts on any day in the week are
those congregated on the morning after the
day on which to sell drink is to violate the
law. Evidently a more intelligent system of
laws touching the “ observance of the Lord's
posed to hope and believe that this little
commotion at Brisbane is the beginning of a
movement on bthalf of the required amelio-
ration, and if so, assuredly Sir Joun
Smith’s name will in due course be inscribed
in the orthodox letters of gold.
Truth from the Pulpit.
TnE struggle between Labour and Capital, or
rather between would-be Labour and idle and
unlawful Appropriation, is beginning to mean
something, because the clerics of the old and new
worlds have joined in the glorious battle of the
poor for right. While the masses were content
to slave in this world, on the offehanoe of a crown
of glory in the next, the ecclesiastic, half-believ-
ing wbat he taught, never questioned the law-
fulness of the existing order of things. But
empty churches aDd hungering collection-plates
are wonderful eye-openers, and thus the priest’s
attention is directed for the first time in history
towards the people instead of towards their
rulers.
• • •
Some Church of England clergymen in London
and a Roman Catholic priest in America are
foremost iD this great fight for right and re-
tribution. The foimer point out the disease, the
latter supplies the remedy. These London
clergymen have seat to every Anglican incumbent
in the metropolitan diocese a copy of a remon-
strance in which the rich a*e charged with living
contrary to the doctrines of Christianity, with
wasting their livo3 and their wealth, with giving
nothing to the poor, with denying themselves
nothing. They are further censured for excusing
themselves on the grounds of political economy,
the decisions of the doctor, and the demands of
society. They are, in fact, urged to make a con-
cession in order that they may retain their state
and their station on the earth.
The offenders against God and Man are enumer-
ated as follows
“1. Possessors of knowledge, beautiful objects, or
luxuries, who do net share them with the poor. Owners of
houses and park-, givers of dinners, who invite to the enjoy-
ment of their best those only who can ask again. 2. Women
who carelessly wear fine clothes, without having inquired
into the possible cost in a sister's shame or death. Bargain-
mongers who forget that some ' < heap ’ things are too dear
for ‘human’ use. 3. Employers who take their profit and do
not concern themselves to know hjw the employed live. Men
who think that 5 per cent, is a law of God, and that the
body He created to be the temple of His Spirit can be fed,
clothed, and recreated on a few shillings a week 4. All who
have earned or inherited a livelihood and plead that they have
no time to make friends among the poor or to perform public
duties.
The appeal then proceeds to contrast the condi-
tion of those who are equally God's children ;
but it deprecates the use of force, because it fears
that by its employment the “poor would grow in
greed and selfishness, gaining with the wealth
many of the vices which have gone with riches,”
and these half-hearted but well-meaning reformers
hope that “the rich,moved to follow Christ them-
selves, may offer such sacrifices and make such
personal efforts for the sake of their brethren that
rich and poor toy ether may be able to live their
life as God’s children.
The movers in this remonstrance are evidently
in Teeniest, but their earnestness is characteristic-
ally respectable and Anglican. These fervid
reformers ask the’r brother clerics to “ bring the
matter, in all its terrible reality, before those to
whom they hare to preach," but they deoline the
responsibility of signing their names and possibly
braving the wratli of an autocratic Tory bishop
who would soon put down his heel ecclesiastica
on any such nonsense—from the episcopal point 0
view, of course. There is an inherent weakness,
too, in so kid-gloved and lavender-tied a phrase as
“will you, for the sake of Christ and His poor
warn such as attend your church, and commit an}
of the offences that we have named, that they
cannot call themselves in any full sense follower*
of t he Master ?"
* * *
Contrast with this the courage of that noble
American priest, Father M'Glynn' of N'ew York,
who boldly announced his principles, and staked
his future fate, by hisstand for the Right, in the elec-
tric light of the world, and who defied the Pope's
mandate in a manner worthy of Galileo. Father
M‘Glynn has. too, this superiority over the
Anglican clergymen of London : he not only can
detect and trace to its source the disease : he un'
hesitatingly names the remedy. Read the follow-
ing in connection with the London remonstrance
and we find that where the English clergymen
beseech a concession.’the American priest demands
a right, a retribution, and a restitution. In reply
to Archbishop Corrigan, he says :
‘‘My doctrines about land h*ve been made clear in speeches,
in reports of interviews, and in published articles, and I
repeat them here: I have taught, and I shall continue to
teach in speeches and writings as long as I live, that land is
rightfully the property of the people in oommon, and that
private ownership of land is against natural Justice, n.o
matter by what civil or ecclesiastical laws it may be sane]
tinned, and I would bring about instantly, if I could, such
changes of laws all the world over as would confiscate pri
rate property in land without one penny of compensation to
the mieoalled owners."
• • •
But it is something that clergymen of the
Church of England can be found to sympathise,
even faintly, and ever so half-heartedly, in a
movement which, disguise it as they may under
oover of all kinds of specious and plausible names,
is absolutely and pronouncedly Socialistic. In
view of such a remarkable development in the
recognition of the deep-seated social evils that
afflict the world, and that recognition evinced,
to", in the very stronghold of the enemy’s camp
the Church —itis not prophesying too much to fore,
tell the surrender of the outposts of the present sys
tem of Individualism in less time from to day than
the period dating back to theemaneipatlon of slaves
in the British dominions. Indeed, notwithstand-
ing all that is talked about the impossibility of
transforming human nature, and turning from
their channols the principles of human action, the
change which would substitute Socialism for
Individualism could not be more wonderful than
that change which has already taken place in the
minds of men, and which has substituted Darwin
for Genesis.
Henry George and the Sydney
Freeman’s Journal.
A priest is simply “ immense ” when describing
the Cardinal’s triumphal entry (with the accom-
panying ecclesiastical fireworks) into a one-horse
border town ; but when he sheds the electric light
of his massive intellect on the social problems
that challenge the advanced thought of tho pre-
sent day, and particularly when he endeavours to
untie the Gordian knot of land-tenure, ho shines
as an opaque and ensanguined failure. In a re-
cent issue of tho Sydney Freeman’s Journal
we have a clerical contributor “tackling ’’ a ques-
tion of which he knows little with a uniquo and
peculiar logic of his own.
The article to which wo refer is entitled “ Tho
London Times and Irish Land Nationalisation.”
It starts off with gorgeous contempt for the lack
of knowledge of the land-question in Ireland
usually evinced by the “average Englishman.”
This predisposes the reader to assume an inti-
mate aequain’anee with Ihe question on the part
of Father O’Hoolioan, which the article under
notice does not, upon closer examination, support.'
The rev. gentleman remarks : “ the Times cannot
understand why the Church should condemn
Socialism and yet refrain from condemning the
Land League. ‘ Attacks on the ownership of land
in Ireland’—quotes the writer from the Times—
‘ may be countenanced with impunity, but the
same policy would be exceedingly dangerous in
the United States. A cry for the nationalization
of the land is harmless in Ireland ... in the
United States it is odious. In other words, the
Times regards Mr. Davitt and Mr. George as
being in the same boat, and the Church as in-
consistent for not blessing or cursing both.”
* • •
And we reckon the Times is somewhat nearer
the mark that the good father supposes. The
Rev. O Hooligan is wrong, too, in assuming that
Mr. George teaches Socialism. He teaches, in-
deed, that the right to private property in land is
a fiction, and advises its abolition, on the ground
that by unlocking the land Socialism will be an
undesirable solution of the present Social diffi-
culty. But, as the writer has evidently never
read George, his lapse into the popular error con-
cerning the great American’s doctrine in regard to
land tenure is excusable ; only Father O’Hooligan
should not attack what he does not understacd
even in an iofinitetimal degree. He remarks :
" Th ? mistake arises from the fact that they are not in the
same boat; for ttere is this difference between them
Mr. OJSoituH wants other people's property and the Irish
want their own.
* * *
This reasoning—if it can be called such—is so
puerile that it hardly merits a moment’s serious
attention What.is true of land tenure in Ireland
is true of land tenure tho wide world over. If
the landlords hold land in defianoe of the natural
and inalienable rights of man in Ireland, they
hold land in every other country on the face of
the earth in defianoe of the natural and inalien-
able rights of man. To argue otherwise would be
to assume that the Irish held rights /to the soil of
an abnormal and peculiar a
remarkably Hibernian
from the cause of Ireland all
pathy of the whole world. of in-
land is true of America, of of Scot
land, of England, of of Egypt—not
v. i t hst anding the jo synip.-vi
enlisted against Arabi I!e^H iu i t he patriotic
Soudanese who fought u ,
the Mahpi.
The demented cieri^^*,, VPS


the track when he begins to deal with histori-
cal facts. Listen to this blatant assertion
” In America all private ownership of land is the result of
contract, by which the land has been conveyed for certain
valuable consideration—in other words, it came lawfully into
the tossrssion >f its present owners. To disturb this posses-
sion, as Mr. George proposes to do, would be unjust. But
in Ireland, the private ownership of land is the result of c(in-
quest, of murder, and of robbery, and those under whom the
present landlords claim did note-line lawfully into nossersion
of their land ; and this element of unlawfulness has run
through every link of the chain of title down to the present
holders, who, like the first Invaders, have _ possession, and,
like them also, have no right of possession.”
In America all private ownership of land is not
the result of contract by which the land has been
conveyed for certain valuable consideration ; it
has not all come lawfully into the possession of the
present owners. The richest iron-mine in
Pennsylvania Is now held In Republican America
under a grant given by his sacred Majesty
James 11. to William Penn Millions of aores
of American soil are held by absentee aristocratic
English landlords. In Ireland, aocording to
the wi iter, it is wrong to hold land under grants
issued by dead and foreign princes ; and it is also
wrong for English absentee aristoci atic landlords
to hold Ireland’s soil in defiance of the natural and
inalienable rights of the Irish people. We do not
attempt to deny it. But what is true of Ireland
must be of necessity true of America. Again,
thousands of acres of land in America have been
acquired by acts of conquest, of murder, and of
robbery. At this very moment a gang of land-
thieves are attempting to wrest from the Indians
the territory ceded to oertain tribes (and to their
heirs for ever) whose habitat was east of the Mis-
sissippi, on condition that they migrated westward.
What does the reverend gentleman call this»
• • •
The writer in the Freeman shows his
aboriginal Ignorance In the statement that Henry
George proposes to disturb the present possession
of land in the United States. In order that the
Fbe «M AN’S journalistic luminary may not fall into
a similar error at a future date, and thus bring
shame and ridioule to the hoary-headed but re-
spectable journal which delights In its own
special brand of Dalleyistic Conservatism, we will
give Henry George’s own proposition in his own
words. We quote from “ Social Problems,” which
book we would advise the Rev. O' Hooligan to
read:
” To ' appropriate ground-rent to public uses by means of
taxation would permit the abolition of all the taxation which
now presses so heavily upon Labour and Capi al. This
would enormously increase the production of wealth by the
removal of restrictions and by adding to the incentives of
production. It would, at the same time, enormously in-
crease the production of wealth by throwing open natural
opportunities. It would utterly destroy land monovitly by
making the holding of land unprofitable to any but the ustr.
There would be no temptation to any one to hold land in ex-
peolaion of future increase in its value when that increase was
certain to be demanded in taxes. Ho one could afford to hold
valuable land idle when the taxes upon it would be as heavy as
they would be were i' put to the fullest use. Thus speculation
in land would be utterly destroyed, and laud not in use would
be ,-ome free to those who wished to use it.”
* * *
This Is Henry George’s doctrine in a nut-
shell. And its plain statement squelches for all
time' the blatant babblings of writers of the
Freeman’s stamp, who attack and endeavour to
give an exposition of principles of which they
know not the merest rudiments. In dealing with
questions of current history, the rev. gentleman
is equally absurd in his statements, and, of course,
equally reliable He says :
“ The very principle whioh made her (the Roman Catholic
Church) stand by Hungary, Poland, and Ireland has com-
pelled her to condemn Mr. George.” . . . Mr.
George has no right, and she condemns him; the Irish
tenants have that right, and they are among her dearest
children.”
To read the foregoing anyone would Imagine
that Henry George was attempting to gobble
up the entire universe for his own special and
Individual benefit, instead of making a stand as
the champion of the natural rights of humanity—
the Irish included. #
But In paint of fact the Church does not oon-
demn Mr. Georgh The Archbishop of New
York did certainly suspend Father McGlynn, at
the instance of a New York political party, for
assisting in George’s election for the mayoralty
of that city, and even then, the cause of suspen-
sion was not for advocating a reform of the land
laws, or for adopting George’s doctrine. The
ostensible reason was the rev. father’s Interference
in politics. Again, the R.C. Church never con-
demned Mr. George The RC. bishops and
priests of Ireland are out-and-out Georgians.
The Bishop of Meath is one of George’s warmest
friends, and cordially supports the principles
affecting land tenure laid down in “ Progress and
Poverty ” and “ Social Problems." If, as George
in a recent issue of the Standard pointed out,
these principles were opposed to the Cathqlic
Church, Bishop Nclty could not hold them. The
Church' being in matters of faith universal. It is
absurd to speak of Catholics as schismatics—lt is
a contradiction in terms—yet if the teachings of
Henry George are opposed to the doctrines of
the Catholio Church, such would be Bishop
Nulty Bishop Croke, Archbishop Walsh, and
all the united hierarchy of Ireland.
* * *
As to the Freeman's statement of the Pope,
or rather the Propaganda, being inclined to bless
the Land League of Ireland, let us quote the
following little par. from George’s newspaper,
the New York Standard
“ The church of Patrick, the church of the days of Ire-
i A 1 rriAtv maintained a semi-independence of Rome, and
lt°wM “uTsubdue this independence th .t the first English
~T. received a Papal warrant to oonquer Ireland on con-
rimnn that he would compel the payment of Peter spence.
dltAon th t ™ li^itation9 ot English Government gained
t church at Rome a recognition which ltsdevo-
rion had never aUainSl by the appointment of an Irish Car-
dinal He (Cardinal Cullen) and his successor, Car-
-s;„r 'M-CaRE were as devoted to English dominance and
? intodte »• though they had been the direct
a„ n potarees of the landlord oligarchy. While Cardinal
M'CABE lived no priest in his diocese dared say one word in
public for the National movement, the single curate m
ffv.ii., Either Kane, who attended a Land League meet-
tog teiiJ impelled to publicly apologise and then with-
draw iiitS the Dominican order. On the death of Cardinal
thfl aDDointment of a tuccessor of the same kind
be lasers!) was only defeated by the determined
attitude ofthelrißh priests and people, led by such prelates
Archbishop Croke and Bishop Nulty. who, in uneqm-
as Arcnoisuuy Roman authorities that the oouree
vocal language, told the Konmn y the UoTernmen|
HHh c a““«
already oocurred on the Continent.
We suppose that the Freeman’s rev. gentleman
ja itoi; Castle ” Catholic, only without knowing it
character who talked prose ror
his e 1 ” lifetime in blissful ignorance of its being
Riirh ” er " i TO '- is another quotation from the
g“ AN ',Jtarbott>e to settle the rev. gentlemans
wee ‘inere is also
„ Truthful JamePfie Propaganda are a ret of Italian
80A..«)7/«?AC.te™- els
mg of N igS. v \ the doctrine of ' the land for the
against Ur ; j'* L day, a- himself knows how bitterly
people. MICIIAEI.9I cnt l 8 lt likely that they
they opposed J; h e Priegt M‘Glynn,' whom thru
would give any liea^ f hifl partiality to th* Irish
‘ :<> '^ d /,ulm^ ° U^ l^ish■uJ , 8 patriotic Irish prelate*, with
f''^o^gan‘!ia''and r the
j ‘(Sydney s own C .rdinal Moran )
who had been selected for the position. But this was done
by a practically united Irish hierarchy, consisting of an arch-
bishop and bishops, and under the opeu declaration that the
bishops, priests and people of Ireland did not propose to be
bullied by England through Rome any longer.”
• * *
This is about a big enough bolus for our suck-
ling land-lawyer at one time. In conclusion, we
note a remark of his which condemns his own
utterances about George absolutely and without
reserve He says :“ To read the London Press
one would think that the bare proposal to dis-
possess anybody in possession of land was some-
thing very immoral and un-English.” Dear
Father O' Hooligan, you’ve got it Hold it tightly
and don’t let go to brush the fly ecclesiastical from
your nasal heresy-detector. But, dearest father,
your remark applies equally well to Henry
George’s theory. In fact, your mass of verbiage
boiled down means that you consider nobody
should hold land unless he be both an Irishman
and a Catholic. We recommend Father O'Hooli-
gan to hook his crozier right into the big-hearted
sympathy of all friends of human progress the
wide world over, and he'll win Home Rule for
Ireland every deal. “ Pax vobiseum ! ”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Melville and the Miners.
Mr. Ninian Melville, M.P., expressed a wish
in the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly the other
night that the victims of the recent terrible Bulli
colliery disaster had belonged to that daily in-
creasing sec Mon of the community, known as the
“ Unemployed.” Despite the apparent brutality
of the remark, we beliove that it was merely an
earnest man's desire to apply a drastic remedy to
a virulent disease, and was, no doubt, proposed
in a spirit similar to that of Dean SwiK'rjs blood-
curdling suggestion for disposing of the children
of the poor in Ireland, by having them roasted for
the tables of the rich. One of the most pregnant
remarks oustomarily attributed to Christ, is the
saddening truism of “ The poor ye have always
with you," and, unfortunately, while poverty
keeps pace with progress, there is little prospect
of the attainment of that universal Utopian
mediocrity of means, which sanguine believers in
the progress of the race confidently assure us,
will preoede the Millennium. And it seems that
we cannot help ourselves. In the older countries
of the world, where s ciety is absolutely inverted,
where all the material prosperity is to be found in
the luxuriously idle strata of humanity, and a’l
the preventible misery and poverty in the work-
ing, or willing-to-work classes, the immediate
symptoms of social disease are the more readily
discovered and traced than in the colonies, where
we have not yet altogether assimilated ourselves
to old-world modes. And It is well for us that
we have a short period of respite. In England
alone, aocording to Professor Wallace, there
are three million paupers per year, “who are
actually unable to obtain a sufficiency of the
coarsest food and clothing to support life ; and
they form the failures from among a much larger
body, who constantly live from hand to mouth on
the scanty wages of their daily labour.” Else-
where, Professor Wallace places the actual
number of absolute paupers at 4,500,000 —“ more
than one sixth of the whole population—who live
constantly in a state of squalid penury, unable to
obtain many of the necessaries of a healthy exist-
ence, and one-half of them continually falling into
absolute destitution and beooming dependent on
public or private charity.” Then, of course,
there is the vast army of the poor not absolutely
paupers, but with whom existence is a precarious
and bitter struggle. And the deep-seated cause
of this unjust and ferocious oppression of the poor
by the rich is a matter of the growth of oentuiies.
In the old world at least “man's inhumanity t*
man ” has been steadily gaining enormity concur-
rently with the progress of civilisation. Its awful-
ness may faintly be imagined when we call to the
recollection of our readers the recently published
Parliamentary return—cold blooded and anything
but sensational—by which it was shown that one
man in every thirty in the United Kingdom
was on the brink of absolute starvation—
for him there was no work, no food, no place
—nothing but a grave in the nearest ditch,
from which he would be “chivvied” when
he lay down to die, for Inspector Buckett
would not allow even dying vagrants to loiter sus-
piciously on the highroads sacred to the wealthy
living. We have not reached this stage yet, but
we are well on our way. Only the other
da ’, in the capital of New South Wale 3, a
dfjected man, who had been seeking work for
weary hours, came worn and tired to his foodless
home. His wife hastened to procure him a cup
of tea, but his jaded spirit revolted from the un
earned drink. With the reply to her in-
vitation of “ He who cannot work neither shall he
eat,” he went out and hanged himself. And in
the glorious city of Sydney, another such tragedy
but lately oeourred. A young man—he was not
more than 30 years of age—by occupation a brick-
layer, died of a bullet-wound in the head in a
lodging-house in Castlereagh-street. For three
months he had been out of work, his little savings
had just given out, and he was ashamed of being
one week in arrears of payment for his board.
The descent is tin easy one—over population, no
work, no money, no food, dejection, suioide, and
finally the jury's absolution of social responsibility,
in a verdict “ to the effect that death had resulted
from a self-inflicted wound.” And so we cheer-
fully journey on Tophetwards, and Australia—
that free country over which Imperialists, and
returned colonists with their pockets lined, so
idiotically cackle—is joining in the march and
following in the wake of America, which latter
country, with her six millions of plutocrats and
paupers, is in a social condition almost as awful
as that of moss-grown Europe.
“Jump, Jim Crow 1”
The Sydney Daily Telegraph the other day
published a leader eulogising John Bright’s re-
cent speech before the Peace Society. The D.T.
cordially endorses all that the great denouncer of
War advances, but most particularly his wholesale
condemnation of the wars which have disgraced
England for the past fifty years—the measure of
Her Gracious* reign. The Rum turns a journalis-
tic somersault and almost swerves from off its
Parkesian pivot in jubilant acquiescence. But
what is the editor doing i Why does he allow
this Australian friend of Peace to make the belli-
cose D.T. a medium for the dissemination of this
contraband sentiment 1 Or, is it possible that the
erstwhile phrenetic advocate of an invasion of
the Soudan, the apologist for the shirt-sleeved
Mars of Manly, the suggestor of an Australian
Afghan Contingent, the denouncer of the
Machiavellianism of France, and the proposer of
an Australian fleet for the subjection of the New
Hebrides, is really repentant, and now wants to
“ go back” on the blessed old theory of ma’ntain-
ing the “ Mission ” with the Mitrailleuse 1 Surely
so great a reformation is impossible ! The D.T.
winds up its anti-bellicose blast with a shriek of
terror lest Sir Patrick Jennings and Mr. Wisdom,
in their capacity of representatives of New South
Wales at the Imperial Conference, should commit
the colony to the policy of war and Imperialism.
Bah ! Had the absurd theories of the Telegraph
found concretion in the policy of England a little
over a year since, French troops might now be
landing at Dover, or cannonading London, or
storming Barrenjoey, while the streets of Sydney
would be cleared by the sharp-shooters of New
Caledonia, the tricolour would be flying from
Government House, and the soft and musical lan-
guage of Racine and Moliere might be heard
from mustachioed lips and Gallic tongues in the
Union Club or the mansions of Potts Point. The
D.T.’s article is, however, interesting, inasmuch
as no better modern example is obtainable of the
eternal changelessness of change.
Christ Has Risen!
For eighteen hundred and eighty-seven years last
Monday the alleged followers of the meek and lowly
Nazarene have celebrated the awakening from the
sleep of death of their Master. For eighteen hun-
dred and eighty-seven years these same followers
have been doing to death and sending to that
same eternal sleep in the name of their Master,
every man for whose land or whose life they
lusted. For eighteen hundred and eighty-seven
years, last Monday, the message of a Saviour’s
Atonement has been contradicted by the roar of
cannon and the hurtling of arms, and the precepts
of love and goodwill have been accentuated by
the strokes of the headsman’s axe and punctuated
by the faggot, the rack, and the thumbscrew.
The pages of the Bible have been illuminated
with the lurid glare of burning cities ; the
doctrines of Christianity have been reserved
for the closet ; the scholiasms of fanatics have
been recited for the inflaming of the evil
passions of men and for affording excuses
for the commital of crime in the sacred name of
Christ —and this for eighteen hundred and eighty-
seven years last Monday. The whole history of
this period, notwithstanding its holy name, has
been a hideously crimson blot upon the scroll of
history, and, if possible, of a deeper and a more
ineradicable crimson than that of any other period
of equal duration since the creation of the world.
And all this grows worse day by day. What
will be the condition of humanity by the time we
reach our two thousandth celebration of Christ*s
resurrection imagination is powerless even to
faintly picture forth. Wealth continues to con-
centrate, population steadily increases, and
poverty is gaining upon population every year. The
world’s land is now nearly all conserved, and
vested interests are more effectually embastioned
with each succeeding decade. In the course of
but a few years, if population continues to in-
crease, Australia will ‘ take her place among the
nations of the earth and then— God help her! The
Easter salutation of the future breaks upon our
ear : “ Christ has risen 7 Let us weep ! n
Bought—and Sold.
The Imperial Conference, now sitting in London,
is beginning its noble labours under the best of
auspices. Hitherto it has appeared only as some-
thing shapeless, impalpable, and impotent—a loose
assemblage of politicians, half of whom are stupid
and the other half shady, gathered together for
the honour and glory of the British Empire to
talk vague generalities about things in general,
and to express attractive sentiments which can be
culled any day from the back end of the Fifth
Reader. Delegates were sent from the various
colonies to sit on the cushions and put their feet
on the table at Downing-street and see what the
row was all about. They were mostly men picked
at random ; some were sent to be out of the way ;
some war ted to see the aged mother and the old
home and the cow that they had not seen for
years, and were appointed in order that their pas-
sages might be paid out of the Treasury; some
wanted change of air ; and some wanted anything
they could get. Most of these individuals had a
sort of roving commission by which they were
authorised to commit themselves and the colonies
that they represented to any kind of foolishness
which might turn up ; some were hampered by
limitations of one kind and another, but as a rule
it was felt that they would be induced to
keep tolerably sober by the consciousness that
any stupendous act of imbecility and grovel
would be remembered against them on their
return to their old haunts in the Parliamen-
tary refre hment-room. I Unfortunately, how-
ever, it seems 10 have been forgotten that a
delegate—especially this kind of delegate—may
be bought, and when once the purchase has been
completed he is liable to commit himself to any-
thing. The buying process has already com-
menced, and though the colonial representatives
are going very cheap it must be remembered that
they are a cheap and sawn-off lot; consequently
the price is a-, high as anyone could reasonably
expect. Tie Darwinian Downer, of South Aus-
tralia, who had tears of emotion in his voice when
first he spoke to a lord, has been made a K.C.M.G.
A similar offer has been male to Mr. Deakin, of
Victoria—in this caso without success—and to
Mr. Wisdom of New South Wales. Upington of
the Cape Colony, who has been demoralised by
long association with cheeky Dutchman and
grovelling Hottentots, and Thorburn from the
fogs of Newfoundland have both grabbed eagerly
at the proferred distinction, and if rumour is to
be relied on almost every untitled member of the
crowd is to be fished for with the same bait. Sir
Robert Stout, of N.Z., the blatant teetotaller,
atheist, and democrat, who wept for joy as he in-
formed the Assembly at Wellington that he had
been made a K.C.M.G , is fortunately not present,
else the degradation which will inevitably follow
this wholesale bribery would be so much the
deeper and more disgraceful; but even without
that enterprising ex schoolmaster to setan example
of servile “ personal loyalty" the eoloriists are likely
to have sufficient cause to remember the Imperial
Conference. • One by one the delegates whom they
sent to proteot their interests, are being openly
and shamelessly bought, and in return for the
meanest distinction in Queen Victoria's gift, they
will probably vote for anything that is required
of them, from Imperial Federation down to the
granting of an annual subsidy for that shadowy
army of “swell” officers and ill-trained boys
which was licked by the Dutch farmers of the
Cape, and wiped out by the Affghans at Maiwand.
They have, it is true, been paid in advance, just
as the ship’s steward is given a tip in advance by
the mUth-travelled passenger who knows his way
about; b,ut the hope of favours to come will keep
them Bteady. Had the remuneration been in hard
coin it would doubtless have been served out on
the principle of “ cash on delivery,” but her
Majesty’s earnestness in paying for grovel to
come is explained by the fact that the distinctions
she has awarded ooet her nothing. How much
they will oost the colonies remains to bo seen, but
unless some check is put on the obeequi msness of
the men who have sold themselves so cheaply to
the Crown, the bill is not likely to be liquidated
before next Jubilee—if then. And not only have
the delegates mentioned sold themselves at a low
figure, but they have sold themselves stupidly,
blindly, and with a gratuitous imbecility that is
beneath contempt. Had they accepted “honours”
after the conclusion of the conference, they might
have posed as men who had greatness—of a pewter
brand— thrust on them; by grasping at them
before the proceedings were well commenced they
stand forth conspicuously as individuals who were
anxious to be bought before they should, by any
act of conspicuous incapacity, prove that they
were not worth buying. Her Majesty’s advisers
have evidently estimated these parochial creatures
at their true value ; a title, a presentation to the
Queen, and a dinner with two or three seedy
“ (looks, ” will be about as good a guarantee as any
yet invented for the continued stability of that
glorious empire on which the sun of grovel never
sets.
Pari iamentary Privilege.
In the early history of Parliamentary Government
in England, when there was a continuous and
desperate struggle on the part of the humbler
classes against the usurpations and the villainies
of the so-called aristocracy, when public plunder-
ing was done openly, and when other abuses which
required exposing existed, the members of the
House of Commons wisely asserted the right to
have all their utterances in Parliament privileged.
The rule which exempts an M.P. from liability
to penalties which he might incur as an ordinary
citizen remains to this day, and in some quarters
is regarded as one of the highest features of the
Constitution, but it will not be a difficult matter
to demonstrate that what in the initial stage of its
existence was a wholesome public power, has
degenerated into a personal weapon, the use of
which is neither more nor less than gross abuse.
We have frequent examples of this in our own
limited political sphere, and a particularly strik-
ing case in point occurred in the New South
Wales Assembly last week. The collapse of a
private Assurance Society under peculiar circum-
stances was the topic of debate, and reference
was made to the fact that three members of the
Honse were on the directorate. The allegations
made were decidedly unpleasant, and two of the
members in question felt it necessary to offer
explanations—the third could not do so becar ae
he was in the Chair. All that they had to say for
themselves was that they had been deceived by
another individual—to vigorously denounce whom
they availed themselves of their parliamentary
privilege. Sir Henry Parkes, for example,
said :
“This I do say—that beyond having been extremely
foolish in touching the thing at all, beyond being extremely
to blame for not ascertaining the villai.ious character of the
person who so robbed us, for he actually diverted cheques,
which we issued to pay particular firr.is, to bis own purposes,
beyond being extremely foolish in permitting myself to be
used in this way—l cannot bl*me nyself for anything, and
my own pain is much more severe to me than any body else.”
Mr. Garrard, another of the members impli-
cated, referred to “ the duplicity and dishonesty
of the extremely plausibVj young man who had
been mentioned. Mr. Inglis, although not
personally interested in the question, made re-
ferences to a “ clever adventurer ” and to misus
of cheques. What-we contend is that these are
remarks which oughc not to be covered by Par-
liamentary privilege. No public purpose—a term
which can be easily defined—was served, and,
further, the allegations made involve indictable
criminal offences. If Sir Henry Parkes knows
what he says to be true, why did he not institute
criminal proceedings ; In that way he could have
vindicated his honour in a much more complete
and satisfactory manner than by savagely attack-
ing a man under shelter of Parliamentary privi-
lege, thus leaving him absolutely defenceless. If
the man in question had been a public servant,
and the transactions in connection with a Govern-
ment office, there might have been some pallia-
tion for the course which was taken, but even in
such a case as that it ought not to be open to a
member of Parliament to make wholesale charges
against another man and be free from all legal
responsibility for his utterances unless he can
prove that he had even more than reasonable
grounds for supposing that the charges were well
founded.
The Bulli Fund.
The fund for the relief of the widows and orphans
of the victims of capitalistic greed at Bulli now
amounts to about £lO,OOO, and js likely to swell to
well-nigh double that sum. The public, having
provided the money, will now doubtless do as it
has done in numerous similar cases heretofore —
neglect to concern itself its to the manner of dis •
tribution and the time occupied in the business.
There are widows who should have been made
comfortable for life out of the bogus New South
Wales “Patriotic” Fund who are now near the
point of starvation. The contributors of large
sums to that fund, who had the management of it,
seemed to be anxious only to secure a return to
their own pockets of as much as could possibly be
saved, and refused to entertain claims that clearly
ought to have been immediately satisfied. So slow
and miraculously circumspect were the trustees in
considering applications for aid that appellants in
many cases abandoned all hope of deriving any
benefit from the Fund, and gave their claims up in
disgust. At least one trustee was also disgusted
by the methods of his con/crres, and resigned his
position as a manager of the money. In the case
of another fund, the persons appointed to distri-
bute the money conceived it their duty to inquire
into the moral conduct of the claimants, and a
local committee, consisting of a couple of parsons
and a magistrate, was brought into existence to
investigate the mode of life of the poor women
left widows. One can easily imagine the result.
Those widows who had attended church or chapel
regularly would be sure to be reported on as moro
doserving than others who had neglected their
“ religious duties.” But nothing can be more
abhorrent to an ordinary sense ef right than such
prying into the small details of a woman’s life as
a step precedent to paying her the money
subscribed on her behalf. The difficulty in
obtaining any reliable information as to how
these “ funds ” are dealt with is notorious. Aby
ne means insignificant amount was subscribed by
the public to reward the chivalrous and heroic
William Stanley for his share in the Mount
Rennie hanging business. For some reason not
hard to fathom Stanley suddenly found it incon-
venient to stay in the colony, and the treasurers
of the fund don’t seem to know where to find him.
Yet the subscribers have neither had their money
returned nor been invited to express an opinion
touching what should be done with it. In respect
to the Bulli Fund, the people have been neither
slow nor niggardly in affording help for the unfor-
tunate women and children, and it is the clear
duty of the managers of the Fund to follow the
example set them by the public. There
is no reason whatever why the money
at present in hand should not be divided
up at once, each widow receiving an amount
proportionate ti the number of cniidren depen-


dent on her. But these trustees will be
sure to let the widows fully understand and ap-
preciate the fact that they are recipients of
charity, that they must show with distinct pre-
cision to what uses they intend to put the money;
and, as in many previous instances, all the high-
spirited and independent and really more deserving
women will prefer to forego their claims on the
fund rather than submit to be treated as paupers.
In a couple of years’ time we shall probably be
told that there is a large surplus with which the
trustees don’t know what to do, as in the matter
of the Ly-ee Moon Fund. Why should there ever
be a surplus in a fund of this sort ? It is the duty
of the managers to divide the money among the
people for whom it is subscribed to the uttermost
farthing. If enough money is raised to yield an
average of £lOOO for each widow, every one of
them should have her share and be allowed to do
whatsoever she likes with it—the horror of the
plutocrats who invariably have to do with the
distribution cf such moneys at the thought of
enriching a miner’s widow to so inordinate an ex-
extent notwithstanding.
An Overlooked Scheme of Finance.
It is narrated that when that “ high and mighty
Prince Jambs,” whom the translators into the
vulgar tongue of the Bible held in such profound
veneration, got hard up for money, he invented
the order or rank of Baronetcy, and traded off
rights to the title of “Sir” to the vendors and
their heirs-at law on the male side, at the price of
£lO,OOO apiece. Ilis Majesty also gave the pur-
chasers of baronetcies (as a throw in) the right to
collar as many acres of Irish bog as the natives
would permit them to possess. That method of
finance is crude, yet it is better than Cocky
Burns’, taking it on the whole, and we are in-
clined to recommend a similar measure at this
juncture in New South Wales. Suppose for ex-
ample, the G.O.M. and Cocky Burns institute
titles of nobility as follows Three dozen dukes ;
five dozen marquises, 7i dozen earls, a like num-
ber of viscounts, and, say, a gross of barons. The
scale of charges for these titles could be made to
meet the times, and yet produce enough, and
more than enough, to extinguish the deficit.
Would-be dukes might be let in, say, at £lO,OOO
tm head, marquises at £7500, earls at £5OOO, vis-
-.punts at £3500, and common barons, like the
c Governor, at £2500. Now, if you foot this
PrC- ; - will find that the sum receivable on the
up jo.lfc of each title we have given will amount
number . v,an £liBGsj ooo, thus:—
to no less fl, Uik e s at £lO,OOO each .. ~ £360,000
. 3 dozen Marquises at £7,500 each 380,000
5 „ 'di Is at £5OOO each .. 450,000
7b „ eal ounfcs at £3500 each .. 315,000
7\ M vigfbon barons at £2500 each .. 360,000
1 gross com in;
V-al £1,865,000
the titles would sell like hot-
W e feel assured k wou ]a Boon at a prem ium.
cross buns and wipe off therf- ”[ A.,.~ —' •
That the sale woul(\. * the Fii " “mien, at a swoop
is plain. For some more euphonious titles
an additional charge might be made. We can put
our finger upon one member of the Assembly who
would readily pay double £lO,OOO to be styled the
“Duke of Woolloomooloo; ” and we could name
a score of others who would give an equal price
for the title of “Marquis of Wagga Wagga.”
There are a great many other picturesque names
that would doubtless fetch prices in advance of
those in the tariff above. What could be a
prettier title to travel on, for instance, than
“ Earl of Dead Horse Gully,” or “ Marquis of One-
eye Waterhole,” or “Duke of Tinpot Creek?”
Why, the scheme looks so goed that we really
feel disposed to register the idea under the Copy-
right Act, so as to secure a royalty from Cocky
Burns if he uses, as we feel assured he will when
he perceives its intrinsic worth. That it is an
infinitely better way of meeting the financial
difficulties than taxing the poor man’s beer and
tobacco is perfectly obvious.
We venture to suspect that Queen Victoria
will (as an item in the Imperial Federation
Conspiracy) be asked to give the “ Albert ” medal
—named after the German who was so well-paid
to be “ Good to those who distinguished them-
selves in the search for the entombed dead at
Bulli. Her Gracious, &c., &c., has been graci-
ously, &c, &c., to confer this gewgaw on Mr.
W. E. Baldwin, who is something in a bank at
Charleville (Q.), for his bravery during recent
local floods. The value of the ALBERTmedal is very
considerably discounted by its name, and as the
decoration is evidently going to be, as we have
already hinted, a part of the Federation swindle,
it will no doubt be as plentiful in Australia a few
years from now as will be the Soudan medals in
the pawnbrokers’ shops. When the wealthy Aus-
tralian wishes to “found a family,” he gives
£30,000 for the erection of a Univer3ity-hall to be
named after himself, or he presents afountain to the
citizens with his name on top in big letters, or he
promotes a statue to one of his relatives who
bore his own surname, or he fixes up a park
and stands as its goodfather. Kings and Queens
are not above such little dodges. The “Albert ”
medal, carefully treasured by the descendants of
the truly valorous or of the tolerably valorous
man who understands the science of advertising
and working the oracle, will serve to keep green
the memory of Albert, the obscure foreigner
whom the British nation paid to be a model hus-
band, long after Smith, the heroic first wearer of
the Queen-given bauble, has got so mixed up in
Sheol with the rest of the J. Smiths that the Evil
One himself won’t be able to sort him out with a
red-hot pitchfork. As will be noticed, it is only a
“ second-class” Albert medal which has been
given to Mr. Baldwin We presume that the
Albert medal of the first-class has been reserved
for Burdett Smith who so valorously held his
umbrella over the Royal Princes when they were
in Sydney.
The appeal by Robert Sutton, bookmaker,
against his sentence of 14 days’ imprisonment for
a suppositious assault apon an rggressive lordling,
resulted in a walk over for the plebeian. In any
case the miserable decision of a packed Bench of
magistrates must have been reversed by a higher
Court, but the fact that my Lord Deerhurst
failed to put in an appearance is significant.
Sassiety started a rumour to the effect that his
lordship had left Melbourne, but, as a’ matter of
fact, he was loafing around in the city when
Sutton was at Court, prepared with witnesses to
prove that he had been the victim of something
very like a job. The grounds upon which* Mr.
Panton made an “ example ” of the irreverent
bookmaker were these : He assumed that Sutton
hunted up the lord with a deliberate intention to
assault him, and brought two friends to enjoy the
spectacle. Not one tittle of evidence was ad-
but it was considered all-suffibient for sassiety
purposes. On the basis of this fragile assumption,
Mr. Pan ton is “understood to have built up a
horrible fabric of ghastly possibilities. Outside
the sacred precincts of the Court the worthy P.M.
explained that the interests of the State de-
If such a man escaped the consequences
of wilfully wrangling with an aide-de-camp,
what was to prevent him from assaulting the
sacred person of the Great Mokanna, Sir Henry
Brougham Loch ? The argument was as false as
it was grovelling. When the appeal came on for
hearing, the bookmaker was a* tended by witnesses
—the chief of whom was not available at the
first trial—able to show that while their man had
not premeditated a row, the noble lord had invited
friends to come and see “ the fun he would have
with Sutton.” Lord Deerhurst was well aware
this charge would be made against him when the
case was re opened—hence we say that his absence
was significant. Still more significant is the fact
that certain magistrates—most intimate with his
lordship—had been in favour of passing upon
Sutton a shorter sentence, which would have
precluded the possibility of an appeal. Mr.
Panton properly put his foot down upon this sug-
gestion, but he can congratulate himrelf on the
effect produced by the sentence as it stood. A
man who narrowly escapes gaol for doing nothing
at all to an aide-de-camp is not likely to try ex-
periments upon his blessed Excellency. If the
Bench failed in the end to make an “ example ’’
of Sutton, it succeeded in making a warning ex-
ample of itself.
At a Melbourne Town Hall meeting to help
alorg the Bulli Disaster Fund, our unbelieving
friend, Jos. Symes, took up arms against a sea of
sycophants, and, by opposing, nearly ended him-
self. Just as a resolution was about to be put,
the angular atheist hopped on to the platform and
asked permission to mor e an addendum. There
was a fensatiou. Governor Loch (who was on
the job with the resolution) gave the intruder
such alook that the “swagger" people, in the front
seats, expected to see Joseph drop down dead.
Mayor Cain, in the chair, clutched at an imagin-
ary sword-hilt, under the impression that he was
Sir William W t alworth about to annihilate
Wat Tyler. Then the company rose and yelled
at Joseph like a pack of hungry wolves. Here
was a loyal assemblage of well-fed citizens,
gathered together with the one grand idea of say-
ing “ditto” to Sir Henry Loch, and a long,
thin, spectacled Radical proposed to put in bis
addendum 1 They didn’t know the purport of it.
Whatever might be written on Joseph’s slip of
paper they were “agin it.” And the multitude
cried, “ Away with him ! ” But Joseph held his
ground, and the Governor gasped out the adden-
dum : —“ That, in the opinion of th's meeting, all
public moneys proposed to be expended upon the
celebration of the Jubilee, or upon the Imperial
Institute, ought to be devoted to the just and
merciful objects of rendering coal-mining and
other highly-dangerous occupations as perfectly
safe and wholesome as it is possible for science
and art to make them." The addendum was
unanimonslv damned, but Josy™' -Unwed tp
live. The bearding of Sir Henry Loch on his
own platform, though, has considerably disturbed
the upper classes in Melbourne. Next time Sir
Henry attends a public meeting, admission will
be solely by tickets issued from Government
House.
Imperial Federation, the organ of the league of
that name, naively remarks
” Sir Henry Holland, the new Secretary of State for .
the Colonies, has entered upon his duties in the spirit
which might be expected from a member of the Executive
Council of the League. One of his first ofliqiaj actß was to
receive the Agents-General at the Colonial Office, when he
took occasion to allude to ‘ the closer union of the colonies
with the Mother Country ’ as being a 'result desired by all'
Ministers do not speak so freely without weighing their
words, and what Sir Henry Holland said he meanß, and
will use his powerful influence to promote."
We can bet our life he will, and as to the result
being desired by all, there is no doubt about it—
by all the aristocratic dead-beats and pauper
hangers-on to the skirts of a played-out Imperial-
ism. This sudden love of the formerly despieed
colonies is the result of impecuniosity. The
“ dear old Mother Country ” is yearning with all a
mother’s love—for coin and human targets.
The Australasian complains of the decline of
the modern novel, and not without some show of
reasoD. We took up the other day a volume of
Macmillan’s Colonial Library, “ Sir Percival,”
by J. H. Shorthouse, and in half-an-hour so
sickened on the awful twaddle that we were
obliged to go out and buy a dog. This is tbp
brand of Jingoistic blather the author of “Sir
Percival ” ladles out to his devoted readers :
” I would cut out mr tongue rather than it should speak a
word that would imply disparagement of that ‘ thin red line’
that has won for the world priceless victories which never
would have been won but for that superb characteristic of
the Fnglish race, manifested as much in the peasant as in
(he noble. But, after all, there is something in the gift—
the supreme gift—of leadership, and there is a class in Eng-
land, history teaches us so on every page, without whom the
world’s victories would never have been won.
* Their graves are severed far and wide,
By mount and stream and sea.’
Civilisation pursues its beneficent march, forwarded, for the
most part, by this glorious English race—forwarded, too, for the
most part, by these little nameless wars. Three lines only in
the Gazette, but some bright young life is laid down with-
out a murmur—not a vulgar life, but a life the offsiering of a
family, the flower and type of the human raes— some home is
made desolate, with no thought save ’we have done that
which it was our-duty to do.’ ’’
We can only faintly falter, “Damnation! and
turn again to the latest volume df Zola’s gutter-
sensation. The Imperial Federation conspiracy
has its clutch even upon the novelist’s throat,
-*■ —
In the course of his exp’anation of his connection
with that little Prudential Assurance affair, Sir
Henry Parkes said it was true the society was
started without capital, and added that societies
of the kind never required any capital. “ One of
the largest mutual provident institutions in Aus-
tralia,” this financial genius went on to aver,
“ was started without a penny of capital.” We
would like to discover the secret of starting and
running a big life-assurance office without a penny
of capita). We would give Parkes a tolerably
handsome douceur for the requisite amount of in-
formation on this point. A barrister now practis-
ing in New South Wales wrote a little book many
years ago, in which he proved to his own
entire satisfaction that capital was an altogether
superfluous concomitant in a banking institution.
Several banks have, at different times, been
established, like Paiikss’ Prudential Society,
“ without a penny of capital,” but, also
like Henry’s little concern, they somehow
didn’t achieve any gigantic success. PArkes
ought to disclose the modus operandi whereby
what has come to be regarded as the “ needful ”
may be dispensed With. ’ We suppose his method
is applicable to more things than “Prudential” l
Assurance. Gan it be ehiplbyed in running a
daily newspaper ? 1 Is it of any utility in starting
and maintaining in vigorous life a toy-shop ?
TflE ByL'LETIM , ;' | has always been the uncom-
promising bheifiy ‘6t ‘tiiat ambideitrous indivi-’
dual, the typlcal'lhfyyet l , had his autocratic ally; ’
the typical landholder. Consequently it rejoices
i
but to live on the fruits of other people’s labours,
and who in addition to the prejudices of the land-
holder and the lawyer, have become saturated
with the r arrow bigotry of that far-off land to
which , the English Tory and his parasite, the
colonial toady, would seek to bind Australia for
evermore. The extract is clipped from the
Kapunda (S.A ) Herald’s London letter :
“ The other night, in the Middle Temple, a company of
young Australian*, who are qualifying for the Bir, were
earnestly engaged discussing the Socialistic movement They
began by referring to the celebration of Her Majesty's
Jubilee, all of them, with one exception, agreeing that the
Imperial Institute was the best form in which the loyalty of
the home country and the colonies could be expressed- The
dissentient, a gentleman well-known in Melbourne, whose
name I venture to mention is Mr. George I*. J. Hume,
strongly objected to the colonial governments having in any
way supported the proposed Institute, and especially having
voted *35,000 to that object—money which the people will
have to pay whether they approve of the scheme or not. He
contends that individuals should have been permitted to con-
tribute as much or as little as they chose, and that the
Governments ought not to have intervened in the matter at
all. But the controversy with regard to the Institute was
soon disposed of; that seemed quite a trivial affair compared
with the questions regarding land and labour to which
it led. On these latter, Mr. Hume maintained
that the land was a natural element essential to
the existence of all the living human beings on its surface,
and that therefore all mankind had an equal right to the land.
Moreover, he co tended that the laDourer could never reap
the full fruits of his labour so long as a large portion of the
produce of his labour was divided to pay the landlord for
liberty to apdy his skill and industry to the land and its
produce. In tins position, Mr Hume was supported by a
Tasmanian gentleman, who is an undergraduate of Cam-
bridge ; but the rest of the company said that the glamour
of Henry Georoe and Morrison Davidson had been
cast over them like a spell Several of them declared that
beth these worthies were Republicans, to which Mr. Hume
unhesitatingly replied, 'And so am I.’ With reference to
the representation of Victoria at the approaching Federation
Conference, called by the Colonial Secretary, Mr. Hume
asserted that'neither Mr. Service nor Sir Graham Berry,
although both have done good service to the colony in the
past, could be accepted as real representatives of the people
of that color y. That all the branches of the Anglo-Saxon
race throughout the world should entertain the most loyal
feelings towards each other a d the mo*her country Mr.
; Hu m e strongly insisted upon, but, at the s»me time, he thought
the separate colonies ought, when they came of age, to be
allowed to start independent establishments. The federation
he approves of ir a 'federation, *not of subjection, which is
what, in his opinion, is now being aimed at, but a filial and
fraternal federation. The u-nion of all the Engli-h-speaking
peoples, including of course the great Western Republic, is
what Mr. Hume aspires tabring about, and he does so for
the preservation of peace throughout the world—as a step
towards the establishment of that ‘ Parliament of Man,’
that ‘Federation of the World,’ under which the ‘war-
drum will throb no longer, and the battle-flags be furled.’
Reference was made to the Sydney Bulletin in the course
of this conversation, the majori y, who, I need hardly say,
•are all sons of wealthy men who own large tracts of Austra-
lian land, pronouncing that organ to be a disgrace to the
Australian colonies, and declaring that its publication would
not pe permitted for a week ip England As these young
men will, in a few jears exercise considerable influence on the
conduct of public aflfairs in Australia, I have thought it well
to report boldly tbe opinions they now entertain. The child,
we all know, is father of ihe-man. He grows and gathers
much, to be sure, but sti 1 he retains his identity.”
Mr. James Scandrett.
The accompanying portrait is a likeness which—
if the subject were w T anted by the police—would
enable even a green country constable to run in
Mr. James Scandrett, proprietor of the Kapunda
(S.A.) Herald. Mr. Scandrett was born at
Ballymena, County Antrim, Ireland, in 1836, and,
being of an enterprising turn, emigrated to South
Australia when only three years old. At the age
of 15 he was apprenticed as a printer, and after-
wards as a compositor, in the Government Print-
in Office, and aided to diffuse a lot of garrulous
stupidity through the medium of Hansard. In
1864, in company with Mr. James Elliott, he took
charge of the Kapunda Herald, and shortly
afterwards the new firm obtained possession of
the journal. The death of Mr. Elliott in 1883 left
Mr. Scandrett sole proprietor of a flourishing
paper, which with the aid of Mr. T. M. M‘Gly nn as
editor, he has carried on successfully ever since.
The Editor, Bulletin —Tn reply to “ Grazier's ” letter
in your issue of the 18th ult., with reference to the filling up
of AuB‘raiian waterholes and creeks, I would mention that
' there are other causes besides the stocking or over-stocking
of our lands, which may in part account for the s-me. In
the early days, and before tie lands were stocked, visitors'to
new country noticed that in dry weather their horses would
sink some inches, and even feet, although the ground wi.s
perfectly dry—the soil consisting, aB indeed most of our good
land does, of light materi 1, v anting in lime to give it close-
ness. Well, this soil never having been trodden down, and
being in many parts kept loose and open by the numberless
insect tribes bringing their borings to the surface, even the
water of heavy thunder-storms and continuous rains was
soaked up by the ground rs fast as it fell; moreover, the
heavy coating of grass on the land 3 then unstocked checked
the progress of the water, and storms and rains that would
now cause a flood, would in these days hardly make a fresh.
Since the lands have been stockeel th * ground has been
trampled down and hardened to some d*pth; moreover, the
innumerable sheep-walks and cattle-tracis throughout the
country act as conduc'ors to the storm-waters and c llect
them very quickly into the gullies and creeks, causing a rap r d
and heavy flaw of water, which wastes the loose part of the
banks, together with the dust and sand off these tracks, into
the water-courses. The main cause of the fill'ng up of our
water-holes is, of course, the breaking away of the
flats, which no doubt is- brought about 1 y the extra
flow of water, there .being nothing to hinder it. Ihe
sheep and cattle tracks, as I before said, act as
feeders to the gullies. Another help to the water is the
close feeding-off of the grasses by stock and the clearing of
our lands by stacking timber, &c. The water can now find
its level without these obstructions, and all tends to make a
rapid flow aqd high floods in heavy raies. To sum the
master up. Ifi the early days, rain-water that'would now
cause a flood would then have been mostly absorbed by the
porous ground, thanks to the delaying power of an abund-
ance of grass and fallen timber and the absence of. sheep or
cattle tracks, roads or paths, to guide it quickly*to the water-
couises. Again, in- the New England district, which your
correspondent .mentions, the squatters and farmers have
been obliged, to cut channels /unploughed, furrows to
drain swamp-lapd with a view to making it s\ve‘et and avail-
able- for pasture. These furrows in many cases are now
running' creeks and are cut away to enormous depths by the
'flow of water;,the tailings from these mustb,elp to,fill up
the holes in the creeks lower down. Again, many of the
rivers and creeks' have been quite filled up by the tailings
from tho-extensive sluicings carried cm by. the miners at the
> heads of, the waters, notably the the Peel, and
the Rocky Rivers, and many others I could mehtlop, where
goldfields are situated neai 1 Their sources. In many 1 pkrts the
.ofwners of propert y are taking measures’to prevent the whole-
sftbj destfrpotipe. of; their. by..storip.water, and t]ais is l done
by erecting fencing with plenty of small' timber in it'where
the break takes place and giving the water a turn; ethers are
tilling up the bveak-away with timber and boughs which col-
ORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desiie
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible lor the preservation er transmission ol such
MSS.
“ E. 8.” (Brisbane) : Received “ G.R.H."
(Brewarrina): Thanks...." Vox" (Brisbane): Sorry we oan’t
recommend any specialist.... "A.M.": Your metre is rough
a« a cow’s canter. You should only “ reflect" in prose
11 But through our hopes and fears
And unavailing tears
The great eternal nears.
And we may happy be
In the long eternity."
Why, that kind of thing would only be tolerated m a E.
News obituary “ W.F.C.": Our warning extends to all
consultations. The temptation to dishonesty is too great for
SIM out of 1000 sweep-promoters. We don’t know any
reliable person who has ever seta a big sweep drawn.
“ J.J.8." (Melb.): Call for your money on 31st April...]
« ’ U bought, did you, that there were only two
“ 18 " ia " libelled *" We know, dear sir, that there are at
least three hells (and a gaol) in the w0rd...." Ewcn Mac-
kinnon”: Of course some of the histories in que s
Mon are lying. In fact, they are all lying. Nine-tenths
of so-called history is bosh and the remainder ia doubtful
The ladies you mention died 700 years ago, so how can we be
certain of their names'.. ."Biyd's Water”: Please ask
Parson Fitohett what on earth he’s giving us? .. 1 ‘ Toady T’ •
What are you giving u 5!...." M.A.T.”: W-ite to Sm'
Herald shipping reporter...." Corso": You have the calm
impudence to try and ring in on us as or’ginal Charles
Mackay’s “ Never Grow Old to Me.”...." p." (Sydney) : Too
much pri fanity in your screed “ V.F.W.D." (East Mait-
land): Thanks. Have handed drawing to artist “TL*
(Balmain): Our usual unobtrusive frankness leads us to say
that your verses partake of the nature of nonsense . ~"Tom-
iti" (R’hampton): We are giad to Darn that the Inspector of
Nuisances in your sity of sin, perspiration, and mental
anguish has taken his degree at Cambridge. There is always
a good opening in Queensland for an educated man « Lex
Loci": Thanks. Question will probably be dealt with in
our next issue...." Yahdof ” : Reserved for future considera-
tion; you might try again... ."T.H.” (Coogee): We are
going to do you a great service by not publishing your
screed. Were your "pome" to appear in print, the
gentleman whom you seek to immortalise would be careering
Inlily about the verdant wolds of Congee thirsting for yoq r
b100d.... 1 P.T. (Queanbeyan): Call when next in town....
“ A.L.J." (Menangle): If a child is bom in Australia, he ot
she is an Australian. The nationality of the parents doesn't
count “Au Rcvoir ": We have read your letter with
much interest, but as you state in the introduction that it is
intended only for our private eye, we shall be glad if you will
Bend us an address to which we may forward it in order that
you may make such alterations as will fit it for publi-
cation. Shall be glad to hoar from you again
“ 8.T.”: We can’t deal in such trivialities...“ Wilemspievel ":
Don’t know what you allude to " W. 8.”: Call on 31st
April for your eoin “ Bushwoman Dora": Thanks
" G J.M." (Kogorah): 0h!...." Frank Anstey”: Mislaid....
" W.S.”: There are some now chums who set about regulat-
ing the affairs of Australia before they have been in the
country a week. Then they yo to cut- or eat—thistles in the
back blockß “Constant Reader ’’ (Fitzroy): Like your
cheek 1.." James Anderson ”: If the Ananias v. Sapphira in *
cident repeated itself in the way history is reported to do"
the only use for the Sydney D.T. office would be as a family
vault...." Lucifer” (Miller's Point): We have this time in-
troduced your “screed" to your relative, Tandstickor.
“ Simpleton" (Taree): Keep your money. Tipsters live on
simpletons like y0u....W. Fincher (Coburg): Mislaid; write
again—if you dare...." Maniac” (Goodooga): Send us the
,translation....G. Matson (Port Adelaide): You can't write
verse worthy to clothe your thoughts. Stick to prose, but
din t send us any, please ...Slide Valve: We can suggest
nothing further. There is no law in N.S.W. that is anygood
when a rich man perjures himself to cheat a poor man out of
his wage, and there is no law at all to compel the nephew of
a knight to be a gentleman. You might do some good ly
forwarding petitions, but we are more than doubtful
P. Duncan (Sydney): We don’t open the Bulletin office
each morning wi’h prayer. The S.M. Her ild did this a t
one time, but the practice was abandoned. It did not pay
for werr and teat of knee-caps ...Sorrow (Sydney): Re
ceived with thanks...." D. S. M'K. " : Thanks....
“ A Had Lot ” : You have sent a choice assortment of well-
known and interesting, but nevertheless unpublishable facts
“D H M." (Melb.): Have no space to chronicle the illicit
amours of S.A. lasses. The Bulletin is straight and plain
spoken—not nasty. We hold your verree over for the pre-
sent. Why not study your model to more purpose? You
have caught half of Burns stauxa, but you have missed the
other-the better half....“E. W. Bradford" (Toowoomba)
Thanks. Subject painfully worn, but we shall probably deal
with it finally in a future issue “Boxiania" (Balmain)
We will publish your verses-when Imperial Federation is
consummated between Great Britain and her colonies....
"Lex" (Brisbane): By and bye...,“A Citizen" (Marrick-
viHe): To be fully considered in due course...." Australian
Native ’: Thinks, but have not had time to worry through
lour voluminous screed...." Spy": Thanks; have had
enough of the subject for the present...." C. K.F.” (Wallaroo
6A ): Next week.
Miss Agnes Cruikshank, third daughter of
the late Mr. Cruikr liank, of “ Byron,” Inverell,
N.S.W., will shortly be married to Mr. Bonville,
a Ceylon coffee-planter.
Hore is a circular lately issued by an
Anglican minister labouring in the wilds o£ North
Gippsland (Victoria)
“ To the Members of the English Church at Omeo
i lains, Swift’B Crekk and Ensay
" Dear friends,—l very much regret to be obliged to in-
forrn you of the unpleasant fact that my active '
ministrations on Sanda b, among you, and our happy meet-
mgs together for prayer and praise, must cease for the
present, and until further notice. This step I have bean-
forced to take, not willingly, nor from any personal mc/yee
such as a desire to save myself" the fatigue occasion „W by
the long journeys on horseback ; but simply, tha' ~7? .no
means of travelling, and can find none. Thisy* Wall* 8 " at
first sight, a curious statement in a country yj wouKrspa' are
numerous and where the inhabitants , "credit"
deservedly, or otherwise, Ido not presv f . to ofbeing
a friend to a friend m need.’ Many b Ol
.7, "A
* ' ! (I
"IV horse v.rkM •..iK.aud ■
rest with good grass fredtK.faM;’" ise' her again ; and I
e “‘ 1 r t °L aCt 01 i th , 18 at “Aiiariißnptll’ as possible. There
then hl°a be ‘ l r e UOt i ance S"BF^M rt of some people 10 lend
their horses I cun t wondt i lim je t inexperienced
in the art ; and owing to of gome members
(who are subscribers to th. . tn ,i Stipend Fund)
to forward their amount t treasurer, I am prevented
front purchasing. How lamentable state of things
is to last remains with your^B s and the Church authori
ties.—'l am, your attached f ffend and pastor,
‘ ' “ Ha r’AIRBROTHER, M.A., T.C.p."
piteous appeal is proba


SUDDRY
SHOWS
One of the
most noticeable fea-
tures of a wet holi-
day-season is the
peculiar odour that hangs about
the pit of a crowded Sydney
theatre. This fragrance belongs,
not to the premises, but to the
larrikins who equash each other
in the effort to obtain sitting
room there, and after careful
study we have come to the con-
clusion that it is compounded chiefly of stale cigar
smoke and otto of billiard-room. Also there is
something in it which suggests the presence of a
wet dog, a stack of damp umbrellas, an intoxi-
cated pugilist, and a boiled sheep's trotter, and
the whole party seem to have gone out Ashing
and sat on the bait. Finally, ever all there is
spread an aroma of scent and hair-oil—the well-
known patchouli of our pawnbroker’s assistant,
and these assorted fragrances are all blended
together into one harmonious whole which is
worth bottling for future use. A small sample
will be sent post free for one guinea.
*# * #
“ Kerry Gow,” at Sydney Opera House,
Is described in the bill as a “ powerful domestic
drama,” and though the ordinary playbill is
generally such a liar that it is surprising it does
not fall down dead after the fashion of the former
Ananias, we note that for once it has come within
telescope range of the truth. But “ Kerry Gow ”
is more powerful than original. It begins with
the old story of a happy Irish home and a wretched
lawyer who is not worthy to polish boots for an
ape, who holds a mortgage over the joyous mena-
gerie and wants to square the account by marry-
ing the warm-hearted daughter. This party, of
course, is rich, and the noble-minded farmer is
bald, knock-kneed, shivery, and poor. The
lawyer, after a struggle with his better angel,
from which that high-flying fowl emerges the
worst-looking old hen on record, falls back on the
old device of swearing the true lover into gaol.
But a faithful peasant disguises himself in a cough
and a stutter and conveys a tile into the cell, and
the prisoner escapes into the back yard just
at the moment when his pardon comes to
hand. Some fellows are an awful ass. and this
prisoner is evidently one of them, for he skims over
wall and roofs, and climbs up tall chimneys and
slides down the other side, and gets through win-
dows, and publichouses, and other tight places,
when he might have gone home in a hansom cab
hired at half-a-crown an hour, and chewed tobacco
all the way. The mortgage, however, still hangs
over the troubled family, but they bet their last
cent on a certain bob-tailed nag. and when that
straddling beast conns snorting past the post with
the lawyer's puffing mule far in the rear, they
know that they are saved. At the present moment
we are unable to recollect what becomes of the
lawyer, but we fancy that he is found lying dead
in a paddock with his head pillowed on the re-
mains of an expired dog. There is only one indi-
vidual in the company whom we would like to see
fried, but for the sake of peace we won’t mention
his name. As for the others, Mr. Grattan Riggs
is good, though not quite so good as the last time
we saw him, on which occasion he was better than
the time before (remark slightly mixed) ; Mr.
Seagrave as Felix O’Urive is excellent, and Miss
Blanche Lewis is pretty and graceful, and re-
markably calm under a number of trying circum-
stances.
** # *
Victuals to a great extent lost their at-
tractiveness for us after witnessing the “ King of
liiamonds," at Sydney Royal Standard, and about
tho middle of the last act we felt in a manner
compelled to unhitch the lower button of our
waistcoat. The drama is another of Conquest
and Merritt’s productions, and consists of a good
story knocked together in a shapeless, bloodthirsty
fashion until it somewhat resembles a horse that
has bucked off its hide and is going about raw.
It is better, however, than many previous efforts
by these same full-blown sons of Belial, who are
generally as incoherent as the voioe of a prophet
heard through the bottom of a beer-pot. The
scene is laid in South Africa at the time when tbe
flash Dutehmen of the Transvaal so unjustifiably
smacked the British lion below the belt, and the
hero is a misshapen rowdy with shoulders that
rise above his bleary face and dishevelled head,
and a peculiar physical conformation which
would result in a clotheb-prop coming out quite
unexpeotedly at his mouth after being thrust into
the small of his back. This gentleman unfor-
tunately had seen his mistress kissing a colonel
some 25 years previously, and when the lady’s
son starts on a journey, accompanied by a Zulu in
a skimpy petticoat, he re veals the fact to his
master and sets that bHilvoiced Sootchman in
a blaze. The pair take two bottles of gin apiece
and start in search of the wicked officer, but the
wife gets ahead of them, after nearly wearing the
side of her head off with anxiety, and succeeds in
swearing him to secresy before her husband conies
in and seizes him by the leg and the hair. The
way things go wrong after this is disgusting to
contemplate, but, at a critical moment, when
half the characters in the story are about to he
blown up and the other half shot, when a pretty
girl in a neat frock is in a fair way for being
hanged on a false charge, when the Zulu in the
deficient petticoat has gone missing, and a blight
has come over the scene, the brutal and deformed
bullock-puncher finds that the girl is his long-lost
che-ild, and acknowledges with tears that he did
it. Then he goes out and performs an act of great
heroism, and coming back he seizes the Colonel
and squeezes him to death. The good characters
of the drama live happily ever afterwards, but
*■■*«« Colonel's innards have been all squoze to-
gether in a heap. Mr. Dampinr gives an excellent
representation of the vicious buiiock-driver, and
the rest of tbe cast is about as good as with
the exception of Mr. Lesion, who his
character was a misfit,
** * #
Bret Harte is having his Sunday but at
Sydney Criterion. “ The Miner’s Daughter” is a
hash of some half-dozen Californian stories, in
whioh “M’liss” predominates, with t* blood-
stained “ greaser ” from “Gabriel ConrdP” thrown
in; Colonel Starbottle is there, too; in a new
guise, find there is also a faint reminiscence of
“ Miggles,” Truthful one or two more
well-known characters. scene is laid, of
eourse, in the rowdy men are under-
stood to dig for gold Way, and cuss, carouse,
and whoop all night; wJHs unscrupulous villains
rake in the coin at poker Without cords enough to
justify their conduct, and- getj shot; where it is
necessary to keep a man on hand in every faro-
sarloon to wipe up the floor and heave, the corpses
out of the window; and where, in short, there is
a constant rush and scramble to get in at the
gates of Sheol, and half the population die with
snakes in their boots amid visions of green cats
eating alligators w r ith apple sauce. It was in
some such lively place as this that Old Bummer
Smith and his ragged Mab hung out, and it was
here that Smith gave up the ghost just as he had
struck gold enough to justify him in having his bald
head pasttdall over with diamonds. In his early life
Smith was so poor that he would have kissed a dog
for sixpence, and he didn’t live long enough to be-
come bloated by affluence. lie left his charming
daughter to rustle for herself, and this young lady
—represented by Miss Carrie Swain—did this to
some purpose by getting on the roof of a blazing-
courthouse and cutting her way through with an
axe, and by arguing the point strongly in various
other trying situations. What the “Miner’s
Daughter ” would be without Miss Swain we are
not quite certain ; with her it is a charming mix-
ture of comedy, pathos, and music that
nobody on earth could fail to appreciate, and,
in addition to its own merits, it gains by compari-
son with that insult to the human understanding,
“The Tomboy." Miss Swain’s actiDg leaves;
WE.
M\°°T vv,r nOIJT
"
hardly any perceptible room for improvement,
and she is well sUDported by the company, most
of whom look as if they had been drinking very
hard. This feature, however is quite unavoidable
in a Californian drama. Lastly, there is about as
much good scenery as the stage will hold, and its
realistic character shows conclusively that the
artist has kept sober all through the holidays.
“The Miner’s Daughter” promises to have as
long a run as a civil s;rvice clerk who is short in
the petty cash.
** * *
The Sacred Concert at Sydney Royal on
Good Friday evening was a success in every re-
spect, The freely-given applause of a large and
appreciative audience stimulated the artists to
sing with a verve and feeling that made the en-
tertainment most enjoyable, Signor Santinelli’s
rendition of Cherubini's ‘ ‘ Offertorium ” was
quite worthy of him, and De Alba’s fine bass voice
took the audience by storm in the “ Invocation,"
the encore which the people a'l but
insisted on was refused. Signora Tagliavia
and Signor Cerne pleasingly interpreted one of
Donizetti's duets ; and the attention with which
Signorina Rebottaro’s “Ave Maria ” was received,
spoke well for the young artiste. The quartette,
at the close of the first part, leads one to believe
that Signor Hazon not only has the ability to con-
duct but also to compose music eminently suited
to the voices under his control, The second part
opened with Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater,” and the
“ Cujus Animum ” and “ Pro Peccatis,’* were well
given by Signor Lazzarini and Buzzi respectively,
both being in good voice. Signorina Cavalleri, is
evidently recovering from her illness, as her fine
mezzo-soprano Was never heard to better advan-
tage. The public were pleased to have their
judgement of Signora Ciuti confirmed by her
splendid singing of the “ Inflammatus.”
# * >- *
There is no perceptible change at Sydney
Gaiety. The “ Evening Party ” and the rest of
the programme continues to draw good houses,
and Messrs. Cogill therefore let , them alone. If
the original Eve had taken the same philosophical
view of things, her descendants would not have
been wearing bustles and hauling yapping lap-
dogs about with bits of string at the present day.
** * *
The new Federal Minstrels at Sydney
Academy are as black as the coal hole of Sheol.
Three or four of the old company have reappeared
—among them Alf. Lawton and Beaumont Read—
and the former has possessed his soul of a joke
about a blind hen was fed on sawdust, and
which, in consequence, laid a suite of furniture.
A man who makes jokes like that should be buried
suddenly, unobtrusively, and without waiting till
he is dead. A precocious infant violin-sereamer,
who evidently regards himself as somebody in
particular, is a new addition to the troupe, and
Wainratta the wire-walker, a»d Madame Franzini
on her bicycle, are great favourites.
** * *
That clever actor, Mr. Arthur Redwood
Tovey, professionally known as “ Arthur Red-
wood,” died in a private ward at
Hospital,
wearying illness, at the early age of 30 years. Mr.
Redwood's loveable nature had secured-the con-
stant attendance at his bedside of many true
friends of all sorts and conditions—including alike
the most prominent citizens and the humblest
members of his own profession. His countless
friends in other places who had not the sad privi-
lege of seeing him ere he died, will be glad to
know that while he was in the hospital everything
which medical skill could devise was done on his
behalf. Thus has one more —the fifth —represen-
tative in Australia of the gloomy part of Deacon
Skinner gone over to the majority.
George Darrell will, it is hoped, be well
enough to travel from Sydney to Melbourne
within a month. Mr. Sheridan, the tragedian,
is also in Dr. Tarrant’s private hospital at Dar-
linghurst, suffering again from the bullet-wound
in the right forearm received by him in the
unoivil American war three-and-twenty years ago.
## # *
Willie Edouin was, we read, an ostler in
his father’s stables in Australia ; William Horace
Lingard was a waiter in an English restaurant ;
Joe Emmett was a bootblack ; Billy Emerson was
a salesman ; the late Adelaide Neilson served her
apprenticeship as a barmaid ; William
Florence, the comedian, was a news-
boy, and afterwards a stage super ;
John M’Cullough, the tragedian, was
a foundryman ; John Howson was the
first violinist in an Australian orches’
tra, and also studied for the ministry,
the calling of his father.
** # *
The next time “ Struck Oil” is
revived, the fatal character of Deacon
Skinner will be played by a figure
from the Waxworks.
*# # *
The Sydney morning dailies in
all seriousness complimented Mr. Leo-
pold, stage-manager of the Italian
oppra, on the excellence of the “ new
scenery” in “Faust." The new
scenery, it appears, consisted of
an old setting turned upside down,
which showed the roots of the trees
in the air. A novel effect might bo produced
by similarly inverting Benucci.
AA AA AA, AA.
Tv- W 'Tv- •7V'
From the S.M. Herald :
“ Mr. Charles Wyndham this week found in his dressing-
room at the Criterion Theatre a handsome loving-cup from
the Prince of Wales.”
Now, if it had been a handsome, loving
** # *
A mighty crowd of sports rolled up to
welcome “ A Run of Luck ” at Melbourne Royal,
arid appeared to enjoy themselves. From a
practical turfite’s point of view, the drama is a
gorgeously embellished joke ; as a story, apart
from the ’osses, it is commonplace, disjointed, and
frequently dreary ; as a spectacle it is a howling
success. ‘ A Run of Luck ” doesn’t point an im-
proving moral, unfortunately. A happy ending is
arrived at by everybody to speak of planking
down everything they’ve got on a filly whose
starting price varies between “ odds on ” and
“ 100 to 1 against,” and who lobs in from three
palpable stiff ’uns. Virtue is rewarded by backing
the winner, and villainy presumably hedges on
the same animal and has a good day after all.
The man who lays against a filly at “ evens ” and
neglects to “ back it in at 100 to 1,”. wouldn’t be
a villain, so we guess that everybody won on
Saturday, barring a few bookmakers not mep-
tioned on the bill. A play constructed on these
alluring lines is not good for bank-clerks and gas-
rate collectors. It so incites to idiotic gambling
that we backed a “ double ’’ immediately after
tlio curtain fell, and expect to sink deeper in the
mire until we finally take to embezzling “copy”
and bring disgrace upon our honoured name.
The plot of this new and original is suggestive of
“ Flying Scud,” “ Formosa,” “ Taken from Life,”
and a few others. The heroines are Daisy Copsley,
spinster, and the Daisy filly, quadruped. Miss Bishop
was the human Daisy, but her equine namesake was
played (in tire 2nd act) by an animal entitled to
claim a 31b. allowance as a gelding. The villains
of the piece attempt to ‘ ‘ nobble ” both these
young fillies, but their machinations are defeated
by the other side. There are innumerable re-
ferences to “woman’s honour” during the even-
ing. Virtuous maidens are invited by strange
men to listen to giddy disclosures, calculated to
bring a blush to the cheek of a brazen image, but
nobody sees anything unusual in the proceeding.
Briefly, “ A Run of Luck ’ is beneath notice in a
literary way, and almost above criticism pic-
torially. As a work of art, it may be compared
to a turnip set in diamonds. The lawn at
Goodwood is so prettily painted that one forgets
to comment upon the presence of dtmi-mondaines,
sharps, and servant-girls right among the dukes
and duchesses. The paddock and course are so
pleasing that we positively enjoy a Stewards’ Cup
contested by four cab-horses. When the iockeys
weigh out in well-known colours, we pass un
noticed the singular fact that they are all carry-
ing the same weight in a handicap. The long-
winded dialogues of the first and third acts are
redeemed by the introduction of live pigeons,
horses, and a pack of hounds. Brilliant tableaux
are continually popping up to feast the eye and
drug our commonsenre. A word about the acting
at Eome other time ; there will be plenty of op-
portunities to discufs “A Run of Luck,” judging
from a first night's reception. Meantime, we
would suggest less talk and a “ Daisy Ally ” of
more blood and a different sex. We have seen
Ilamlet played by a lady, but the anomalous fact
wasn’t obtruded upon the notice of the audience.
## # *
Df. Neild read a paper before the Mel-
bourne Shakespea-e Society on April 1, asserting
that Julius Csesar did not die of the wounds in-
flicted at the base of Pompey’s statue, but of a
broken heart. The dear doctor, even in his
Shakespearian reveries, is nothing if not medical.
It will one day be proved, we expect, that the
little performance the King is supposed to have
gone through in “Hamlet" is quite a mistake,
and that Hamlet's father died of the colic; that
Romeo perhaps died of influenza through mean-
dering around in the night air ; and that Macbeth
was removed from this mortal scene by the Scotch
whisky of the period.
w* * *
One sorrow often cMfttes others, and the
terrible Bulli disaster the cause of m rch
subsequent Melbourne. Last
week three gave three dis-
tinct Tb nitre.
hero at present, but the public are not kindly dis-
posed towards this big house, except as a wrest-
ling emporium. Unles3 a parson comes to Mr.
Joubert’s rescue and runs the building a 3 a gospel-
miU, it is to be feared that the Alexandra will be
opened about as often as a family vault.
** * *
“ Pert and her Stepmother ” are still
worrying along together at Melbourne Bijou. We
mentioned last week that the piece suits Minnie
I aimer and her satellites. Minnie’s diamonds are
very effective in the tender passages, and her
exquisite costumes ” are powerful rignt away
through. “ The Pickpocket ”is still on the job
at the Opera House, and “ Haibo ir Lights ” have
been fasting at the Princess’s since about the first
Saturday in Lent. Last weeks are announced.
Happy Triumvirate !
*# # #
The Phils are in it, they are all about. A
cablegram says Phil Robinson is coming to Aus-
tralia to lecture to and write upon us. After
Forbes and Sala we are rather full up of journalis-
tic platform-strutters, but Phil Robinson is a man
of a different sort. “Our boys” will remember
how kind he was to them in the Soudan. We
have seen him over the flowing. Anyone with
less nonsense we have seldom met. His laughing
blue eye is never clouded with bilious secreiions.
He is of humanity, manly. And he can talk just
as well as he can write. Smythe is going to
en jineer Phil Robinson through the colonies.
I hil Beck is another of them. He mashes
up all the matrons by the way he makes love in
Harbour Lights.” He gets as many presents
and much more valuable ones than a young
curate. Off the stage, however, it is said, he
rather weakens.
* * •
Phil Day is convalescent, and can crawl
about Gollins-stiect. No finer actor ever came to
Australia, and we wonder he has not had a hand-
some benefit tendered to him yet.
Another Phil is the husband of Miss
Lillian Kelly, the rising young actress and song-
stress now playing in “Jack Sheppard” in
Adelaide.
But who is Phil Agnes l The publicans
of Melbourne are thirsting for his blood. P. A. is
writing about “Theßars of Melbourne” with all
the fervency of a reformed drunkard. He is pre-
sumed to belong to the Salvation Army. But it is
not so. The smart articles in the Evening
Herald are written by JO3. Pickersgill, Golds-
brough s Jos., the Yorick’s Jos., our own .Jos.,
who in his silvery old age is developing a more
unctuous humour than of yore. But whence this
nom de plumed “Phil” may be derived from
Pickersgill, but who is Agnes ?
## * #
o “, Rudd yg°re ” has had the obnoxious
y knocked out of it, and is now courting the
favour of the ultra-refined British public under
the modified cognomen of “ Kuddigore.” Mr.
Gilbert is keeping -his work alive in his old rule.
of the polite and terse letter-writer. The follow-
ing correspondence has lately taken place
“ PuMr Court, the Temple Newspaper and
Review.
, T , ~. ... “ January 28th, 1887.
near Sir,—lt is said in some quarters that in ‘ Ruddi’
gore you intend a sneer not only at the Unionists' cause"
but at the sentiment entertained'for the Nati nal Flag, and
that you levelled a similar sneer at the Throne in * The
Pirates ’ in the scene where the pirates yield at the mention
of the Queen s name. I should be glad to be in a position to
.give authentic denial to this.—Yours faithfully,
“ The Editor.”
To this remarkable epistle Mr Gilbert replied :
.... . “ January 28th, 1887.
»«■»—Your letter is an impertinence If there exists an
idiot capable of drawing the conclusion you suggest from any
incidents in my plays, 1 must decline to pay him the compli-
entering, directly or indirectly, into controversy
with him. I have neither time nor inclination to deal with
such maniacal babble. Allow me to compliment you on the
title of your newspaper. It is excellently chosen.—Your
obedient servant,
~ „... _ _ „ “ W. 3. Gilbert.
The Editor, Pump Court.
*# # #
Stuart Cumberland, for performing some
of his thought-reading experiments on February
15 before the King and Queen of Portugal, re-
a royal decoration. They must have some-
thing of tl>e same kind as the C.M.G. business in
Portugal.
ijfc
The Referee “ hears that G. W. Anson
has decided to settle in Australia. To this end he
has sent ror his family, and his household effects
and articles of bigotry and virtue will shortly be
sold by auction.” Apropos, G. W. A. was the
other day nearly settling permanently on a seven;
by-two estate in N, X. He was in a boat, which
capsized, and he sank twice ere being rescued,
** * *
“ Sims Reeves, the tenor,” Fays an Ameri-
can paper, “has undertaken a concert tour of
Australia, in spite of his 65 years.” It ought to
read, " because of his 65 years."
** * *
Mrs. Langtry opens in Sydney next Sep-
tember.
** * *
According to Annis Montague, there is or
WU3 until lately in Orange (N.S.W.) gaol a 34-year-
old warder with a tenor voice which for range and
sweetness is unsurpassed in the world Why don t
the managers trot him out 1 But perhaps he is
kept to torture the poor prisoners.
## * *
The New York Tribune says of Sardou’s
“ Theodora ” : “ It is odoriferous of lust, filth, and
carnage.” We predict a big boom if it be pro-
duced in Sunny Australia.
jt 'ft dt'ix
It is rumoured that the Triumvirate intend
shortly bringing Emma Abbott over from America
with a full company for a season of English opera, a
Mr. Brough’s advent in Sydney heralds th^H
coming shortly of Fanny liobina and troupe.
Minnie Palmer i 3 architecting a crazy quilt,
all her admirers arc requested to
best si 1 k neckties to aid in Us construct
receipts for the pasi half year at
amount to over t;l7,000. This,
expenses, means a profit of
cent. di\idcnd ..Davie
which wo sorry to
a
AgSL
JSA j
lyH
comedy -


Peppcr
Salt
George Bower, late of Sale (Vic.), is a
tricky young man with a passion for matrimony.
He was originally the lawful husband of a lady
with six children in another part of the colony,
but he slipped out by the back way one dark night
and betook himself to Sale. He joined the choir
of the local Primitive Methodist Church, and his
beautiful rendering of Sankey and Moody’s stirring
refrains greatly accelerated effective worship in
that little corner of the “ hoard's ” vineyard.
There was a demure young lady with soulful eyes
singing seconds in the same choir. George and
she often went halves in a book, and as their
voices blended in exquisite harmony, their fingers
touched, their souls united—they loved. They
married by and bye, and continued to trill rounde-
lays in the Methodist choir. Mr. Bower supple-
mented his good work in the cause of trewth by an
occasional oration from the temperance platform.
He gave the demon drink “ particular fits ; ” and
the good people of Sale marked him down a nice,
God-fearing young man, and would have trusted
him with their lives or even their umbrellas. But
suddenly George took a change of air ; he did not
stop to shake hands or bid a fond farewell—he
skipped without any unnecessary display. Simul-
taneously with Mr. Bower’s exit a strange police-
man appeared in Sale, but that was merely a coin-
cidence. George next turned up in Benalla,
where he had just established his fame for lowly
piety and completed his arrangements for his
wedding with one of Benalla’s fairest daughters,
when a coarse, vulgar policeman hit him on the
head with a baton and led him away to a dungeon.
It makes us kind of sad like to find that
the Queen’s income from the Duchy of Lancaster
is not as much as it might be. A lot of disloyal
tenants have fallen behind with the rent, and as a
lot of others were showing symptoms of the same
complaint, Her Gracious “ found it advisable ” to
make reductions amounting to £2OOO. But there’s
worse than that. The Tory journal from which
we extract these harrowing facts, goe3 on to say:
“ Though we had such destructive storms in the
winter of 1886 the total sum arising from sale of
wrecks on the shores of the County Palatine was
only £4 4s. Bd., which was of course handed over
to Her Majesty as Duchess of Lancaster." That’s
bad luok for the Queen. 11l winds, indeed, were
those of 1886—not to blow her any perquisites—
and moons about aimlessly with a considerable I
expanse ot flesh shining through his clothes,
cursing and praying turn about. The praying has
naturally drawn a considerable amount of atten-
tion to him, and at last he has been identified as
the moving ruin of an old sharebroker who was
had on toast in the early days of the field, and
who, consequently, cleared out in disgust. Some
20 or more years ago he was doing a large busi-
ness on the Thames, and one day his office was
invaded by a lanky thing of shreds and patches,
bruises, bangs, and rags, who said he wanted to
sell for £2OO his interest in the Yankee Doodle,”
or some such claim a few miles distant. There
was gold in the mine somewhere, said these re-
mains of an old digger, but he couldn’t wait to
dig for it any longer. The broker noted the thing
on the broad page of his intellect as ‘' another
blessed wild cat,” but he agreed to look for a pur-
chaser and tho wreck shuffled out. For two
months after this the old man looked in every
day with a heartrending groan, to see if his
property was disposed of, and then at last
he disappeared. A moith more passed, and
the matter was almost forgotten. Nobody
wanted to speculate in the “ Yankee Doodle ” at
any price. But one cold, wet afternoon the people
of the township were startled to see a long, sloping
individual who seemed to be made up of mud,
hair, and general decay, tearing through the
streets at a fizzing pace, and panting out as he
flaw along “ Oh, Lord 1 Oh, Lord 1 If he haa fold
it I’m ruinedl” He rushed into the broker’s office
like an earthquake, and gasped out with a long,
white face, “ Have you sold that share of mine i
Oh ! for Heaven’s sake, don’t say you’ve sold it I
We've struck gold—gold—the best I ever saw."
As he spoke he pulled out a handful of magnifi-
cent specimens, and the*, when the broker told
him with a knowing grin that he had closed with
a buyer “ just an hour before,” and proceeded to
write out a cheque, he sat down and tore his hair,
A NEW INDUSTRY.
“YES, OLD FELLOW, I’M MAKING A FORTUNE. I GO ABOUT INSULTIN’ PEOPLE,
GET ASSAULTED, AND DROR THE DAMAGES. SPLENDID GAME.?
and cursed the day he was born. He
sobbed and swore by turns ; he spoke of
his sick wife, and denounced the putrid pirate
of perdition who was taking millions from him for
a miserable £2OO ; he refused to take the cheque;
but at last the broker shoved it into his pocket and
threw him out, and then, while a confused mass
of rags, boots blasphemy, and soaked digger
rolled in the pavement, he danced a jig in his back
room and fairly chuckled with joy. Next he got
a horse and galloped through the blinding rain to
view his new acquisition, which proved on
closer examination to be a hole seven feet deep,
wit h a dead goat at the bottom. The rush of ex-
cited diggers which he had expected wasn’t there,
but a small boy was loafing round, chewing toffee,
and when the broker pulled up and prayed that
the grave of that swindling digger might be de-
filed, this youth handed him an obscene letter
from the vendor of the property. The story ends
here.
Joseph Robinson, of Wellington (N.Z.),
is a young man who has met with an obstacle
and been blighted while yet in the full whiz of
goes on as he Is now doing he will probably be in-
terred at the expense of the parish. According to
the hard and dry facte now before us, it would
appear that some three or four years ago Joseph
was roaming about the desolate suburb of Ken-
sington, Dunedin, and, meeting an attractive girl,
he ranged alongside and started a one-horse
acquaintanceship. The young lady was too small
to kick, but she told her brother, and that gentle-
man (may he have a jubilee and an equestriam
statue I) harshly knocked the fluff off Robinson
with a waddy. Robinson after this remained in
solitude until the skin had grown again, and then
prosecuted the individual who had so unkindly
smashed him, and the magistrate, whilo heartily
congratulating the fiogger, and hinting that
he would have done the same thing himself,
felt compelled to fine him one shilling. 'the
Dunedin Evening Star, a live paper which
is always ready for a fight, reported how the bad
boy Robinson had been spanked and what had
followed ; it also published some letters in which
it was hinted that that gent.—rather than
gentlemen—should have been flogged by a pro-
fessional instead of by an amateur ; and it other-
wise “ persecuted ” him, and owiug to the
injury sustained by his foolings, he went to bod
and lay there for 21 months. Then he got up and
sued for £50,000 damages with a view
to wrecking the Star for good and all. He ad-
mitted in his examination, however, that he had
been pelted with stones, bricks, and other signs of
unpopularity, and had been threatened by several
individuals, armed with horsewhips; also, he had
been “clouted” and knocked about, and he
failed to prove that he didn't deserve all this.
Joseph, accordingly, lost his case, and the costs
which he has to pay appear to amount to some
£l2OO. This is ratlior a long figure lor speaking
to a girl in a lonely and sloppy Buburb, and with
the waddying and the 21 months in bed thrown
in, it is calculated to lead a man to the benevolent
asylum, or the hospital lor stray dogs, or some
such refuge in his old age.
George Hume, formerly a pupil at that
most conservative of public colleges, the Mel-
bourne Grammar-school, is now one of the most
brilliant writers in the extreme Radical press of
Scotland.
It has just been discovered that Mount
Victoria, in German New Guinea, is an active vol-
cano. The mountain was in full eruption the
other night while the N.Z. cutter Spey was pass-
ing from Finsch-haven to Cooktown ; the flame so
brightly illuminated the sea on an otherwise dark
night as to make the smallest objects plainly
visible The deck of the cutter was strewn with
ashes, some of which were preserved and shown
to Captain Liljeblad, late of the Ellengowan.
In private conversation with a Cooktown
gentleman, the other day, Baron Von Schleinitz,
Governor of German New Guinea, said that he
would not now allow any outsiders to prospect his
territory, as the authorities had already quite
j sufficient information as to the country's resources.
Some land had been sold to persons of Vf-rious
nations, but no one would be permitted to settle
pending the receipt from Berlin of full reply to the
official reports, which, among other things, in-
j timated to the Imperial Government the discovery
of payable gold and several other minerals,
j Apropos, there is very little doubt about the
yiUimate discovery of p’enty of payable gold in
wears a
|
A RAMBLING RHYMK.
TOPICAL AND TBOPICAL.
Lordling went up like a rocket,
Came down like a stick —
Out of sorts and out of pocket,
Tradesmen won’t give tick ;
Bother with a vulgar Vandal,
One who made a book —
Went to court, created scandal,
Had to take his hook.
Lordling lost an easy billet—
“ Though the pay is ‘ love,’
Lets of others glad to fill it
Thundered forth the Gov.
Not a bit of good a-fretling,
What is done is done,
Other swells have gone a-batting
And haven't always won.
“ Doosld noosance, beastly riliDg
Thing to get the sack ”
Comfort find with gentle, smiling
Fair ones, at Toorak ;
Lordly soul with sorrow laden
(See Edgar Allen Poe)
Sure to win a radiant maiden —
Heiress, doncherknow.
Bet in haste and pay at leisure
(Very grand old saw);
Never mind a Gov.’s displeasure,
Never go to law ;
Muse is getting most unruly,
Senseless rhyme and crude —
Best respects, yours ever truly
Now we must conclude.
WRECKS TOR HEGINA.
Ye mariners, bold and brave,
Who plough the briny seas,
In ohoosing a watery grave
Just do be careful, please ;
Your duty it is, as men,
To one of the softer sex,
To let Vicky enjoy the ben.
Of anything nice in wrecks.
She badly wants a “ line,”
So founder off the coast
Of the county Palatine —
There give up the ghost;
And, like faithful subjects, cry,
As you pass in your checks :
“ What a pleasure it is to die,
Our Sovereign gets the wrecks I ”
Pickings are few of late ;
The total in “ eighty-six ”
Was four pounds four and eight—
Better, of course, than nix,
only a paltry sum
Her Majesty to annex,
wnat, might have come
the annual sate of wrecks !
bold and brave,
to
Hkc. indeed
Hftk
ggk i
«Bl
HOW HE STRUCK IT.
A miner bold was One-eyed Dick,
His taste in hair was red ;
He had a mate, whose name was Mick
M‘Guffln-eame is dead.
You know the usual ballad style—
How men not worth a cent.
Well this is different,
One day, the day make a pile ?
And shorter, that Dick
covet
So quietly
PERSONAL ITEMS
Edison, the inventor, is reported to be
dying of pulmonary disease.
Now that Dilke has come in for £150,000
he will start a daily paper in London.
Henry George has a son about 20 years
old who acts as his private secretary. He will
never inherit any land.
Queen Victoria ha 3 been presented with
an umbrella by the people of Glasgow. It is ex-
pected to lost till the reign is over.
The principal topic of conversation in
Noumea just now is the expulsion of one of the
foreign consuls from the club. It has created a
great scandal.
The Presbyterian church of Victoria will
soon, under the will of John Hastie, of Camper-
down (Vic.), have the pleasure of clutching the
sum of £lll,OOO.
It is rumoured that a number of English
aristocrats are about to visit Australia. Parkes
should at once hurry up with his Bill against the
introduction of foreign criminals.
At a meeting of mining men in London,
the Hon. Jonah Perkins, of Queensland, said his
name “ was not to be found on any bad concern."
Of course brewtog is not a wicked concern.
Chief Justice Darley has been knighted
at last. We are sorry to see a brainy man who is
as honourable as a lawyer can be, accept a bauble
which sits most easily on a retired grog-seller.
Mr. Andrew Goldie, the New Guinea
trader, at present in Sydney, has in his possession
an entirely now specimen of the bird of paradise,
which, it is said, is destined for Melbourne
Museum.
There is one thing to be said in favour of
the Parliamentary portraits which the Down and
Gumtrxk Jernil- trots out weekly. Each portrait
shows us what the man, whose name is under it,
doesn’t look like.
The famous—we suppose it will be best
to say famous—Mortimer-Franklyn is now living
in luxury at Kensington Gardens, London.
Many of his Molbourno creditors meanwhile are
loading a retired existence on rather low diet.
Tom Garrett, the N.S.W. Minister of
Lands, refuses to see any lady who calls upon him
officially, if unaccompanied by a man. Thomas,
however, sometimes finds it convenient to Bee a
member of Parliament when he calls quite alone.
Mr. W. E. Armit, of New Guinea cele-
brity, who of late has been editing the Cooktown
Courier, has made another start for the Unknown
Island, which he attacks this time from the South-
East end—t.e., from the North-East of the British
possessions.
“ Mr. Orlando Jones, of Parrs matta, who
some years Bince was sentenced to a heavy fine
and imprisonment for alleged blasphemy, is
dangerously ill.” The Judge who sentenced Or-
lando is in excellent health. Mysterious are the
ways of Providence I
The late (rather than lamented) Aaron
Waxman, usurer, of Melbourne, left behind him
£101,300. He began life in Victoria as a fell-
moDger's man, and went on scraping skies to the
end of the chapter. His will began: ‘I, Aaron
Waxman, gentleman." Shemarbonee I
The Mayor of Richmond (Vic.), has
tendered his resignation, beoause the council re-
fused to vote £2OO towards giving the local
youngsters a grand bun and tart gorge in celebra-
tion of the Jubilee year. The Bulletin cordially
congratulates Richmond on having got rid of
him.
Mrs. Langtry, it is rumourod, will next
June beoome Mrs. Freddy GebhardL As Mr.
LaDgtry has not contributed to the Bupport of the
Jersey Lily for a period of three years, a divorce
will be granted—by an American Court. fA late
paper states that Mr. L. has “ considerately died
of delirium tremens.”]
Some of the papers have a paragraph
about a row- between Henniker Heaton and
Blake, M.P. The Bulletin hears on pretty good
authority that the story is a pure invention. By
the way, It is stated in one Irish paper that Hen-
niker “ U at present so ill that it is feared he will
have to retire from politics for at least a time.”
A depution of local niggers in loin-cloths,
See., waited on Parkes, at Sydney, on March 30,
and Sir 'Enry gave them a lot of good advice!
Among other things he told them not to drink
rum, for if thoy did their black beards would be-
come white like his. We have often wondered
what it was that made Parkes’ beard become that
oolour.
Dr. Brownless has at last been elected
Chancellor of the Melbourne University, but only
by a bare majority. He has been Vice-Chancellor
for 29 years, and what would hsve been a gracious
act a few years ago when Bishop Moorhouse and
Dr. Hearn were elected over his head can only be
taken by the ex-Vice-Chanoellor now for what it
is worth.
Irish admirers of the Earl of Aberdeen
will be sorry to hear that his Lordship takes a
great interest in the work of young men’s Chris-
tian associations If he also wears the blue
ribbon and goes in for “ social purity,” we must
really give the noble Earl best. Of course it may
be possible for a peer to keep virtuous under these
trying circumstances. A bank-clerk can’t.
The latest about Ouida is that she receives
her visitors at half-past 4 p m, in her Cinquecento
villa framed in acacias. She dresses in pale pink
satin, with slippers and stockings to match, and
wears a huge, red silk sash. The visitor, be-
fore entering the drawing-room is given a recep-
tion in the hall by an army of dogs of all species
and sizes, the pets of of theUdose:'
Mr. Claries-the N.S.W. Minister of Jus*
ticeone of the most extensively advortised
me ?wthe colony, and the papers are tilled with
an d paragraphs about the “ reforms ”in his
department. It is not generally known, however,
that t hese items of news are carefully written up
in the Crown Law Offices and sent down to the
newBPap er . editors—notes of admiration and all—
for inaction.
*Joh%p l ll on appears to be a name inextric-
ably U p with prosecutions, generally on the
Consequently, when we read that
John Dillon w«k, coiner to nrosecute for the Crown
B, we were surprised.
lat is worn by the
osecutor who wears
cd. There is a little
iSS strike* the im-
rerds :—“Holt, the
gone stark, staring
ore a Minister of the


Crown would have visited him, if he had not been,
a Holt ; but being Holt, the whole ot the profes-
sional machinery of the Government is brought
into play to ease the pain in his poor head. The
world is improving, surely."
The Melbourne University Medical School
was started 3rd March, 1862, with threo students,
viz., Patrick Moloney, William Carey Itees, and
Alexander Mackie. Both Moloney and Rees
became medical men, but Mackie, from being a
medical student, became a clergyman of the
Presbyterian Chnrch, and was assistant to Mr.
Strong in his quasi-orthodox days. Mackie has
now returned to medicine and is again at the
Melbourne University finding sermons in bones
and (we hope! good in everything.
There are indications that, at this feast of
the Jubilee, the Governor will be besought to re-
lease unto us Mr. E. B. Holt, ex-manager of the
Bank of New Zealand. Without wishing to make
light of the four stone of superfluous flesh which
Holt has dissipated during his confinement, we
would beg leave to wag our “'beard of formal
cut ” over a much more remarkable ‘ ‘ modern
instance." Arthur Orton lost seventeen stone
while in prison, without exciting anything but
ridicule. By the way, an Argcs telegram states
that “ a commission will be appointed to enquire
into E. B Holt’s sanitary condition.” This con-
veys an impression that the prisoner U merely to
be disinfected.
Captain Liljeblad, lato of the New Guinea
Govommentschoonor, Governor Cairns, but better
known as the long-time successful commander of
the missionary schooner Ellengowan, has arrived
in Sydney. The captain has done splendid service
as the pioneer navigator and hydrographer of the
Dark Island, about which he probably knows as
mnch as any man living. He says that he does
not anticipate that any competent future ex-
plorers will meet with insurmountable difilculty
in orossing New Guinea, provided that they
render themselves independent of the lscal native-3’
carrying services. As inter-tribal war prevails
the Papuan of one district will never manfully
enter the territory of an enemy ; and as Malays
and Arabs have boon provod utterly unfit, to carry
on local exploratory work, nothing remains, in the
captain’s opinion, but to procure the services of a
set of picked natives from Fiji, accustomed alike
to a similar climate and to mountain-work. Cap-
tain Liljeblad is most enthusiastic about the
future of New Guinea, and is confident that the
island contains inexhaustible sources of wealth.
He indicates the Rev. Mr. Chalmers as the best
posslblo loader for any further expedition, and has
great hopes of Mr. Armit making important dis-
coveries in the region of the Normanbys and
Louisiades, which he describes as most beautiful
and wealthy islands.
There were few of the women of Connec-
ticut in the last century who did not keep some
sort of diary. An entry in one of those diaries
shows what events were recorded, and also how
witty some of the girls of the period were : “ 1790.
We had roast pork for dinner, and Dr. S , who
carved, held up a rib on his fork, and said :
• Here, ladies, is what Mother Eve was made of.'
“ Yea,' said Sister Patty, ‘ and it’s from very much
the same kind of critter.’"
Tenderfoot —“ You are 4 Bloody Jim, the
Western Terror,’ eh f Why, you and I went to
school together, and you were the biggest coward
tn the whole town." Bloody JltiA ‘‘l am yet.
“ I suppose, though, yotl hav'e become a dead
shot I" “ NO. I’Ve got an old pistol, but 1 never
load it. I'm afraid it might go off.” "Yet yoti
make your living at highway robbery ?’’ “ Yes."
" How do you manage ? ” “I tell ’em to halt,
fork over, and they fork."—Murxan Paper.
Old John Ruskin recently denounced the
profession of arms as "dramatic and deoora-
tive." —
Professor Pepper, of ghostly fame, has
just woo an aotion at law, in Brisbane, and con-
sidering how few men win anything now-a-days
he deserves to be congratulated. The professor is
a man who Is obviously built for brains only, he is
go towering about the head and so dwindling
towards the feet; and he is remembered chiefly on
aooount of an attempt he made to call down rain
at Eagle Farm, some years ago. In the present
oase he agreed to buy some land from William
Widdop, but W. W. being informed by “ the
spirits ” that there was gold on the property at-
tempted to back out of the bargain. Guided by
a husky heavenly voioo Widdop started mining in
partnership with three others, each partner taking
a fifth of the profits, and the remaining fifth being
reserved for the angels. The angels didn’t stand
any of the loss, nor did they do any pick-and-
shovel work, so this arrangement was rather a
one-sided affair. The wife of one of the partners
—a lady between 60 and 60 years of age, who ex-
peoted shortly to give birth to “amlraouious ohild"
—appointed herself trustee for the angels, but sho
died without giving birth to the expected infant, and
thentheghost of Emanuel Swedenborg popped upat
a seanoe and put his bony finger on the pie. He
inserted his sausage-like initials in the agreement,
and either on his own behalf or on that of the
angels aforementioned he seems to have bounced
the partners for a share. The deeds after this
fell into the hands of Mrs. Widdop, who refused
to part with them, and her husband was there-
fore forced into the belief that she was “ in league
with the Philistines.” What with the Philistines,
Swedenborg, the angels, the 60-year-old woman's
baby and other things, however, business seemß
to have been pushed on in a half-hearted way, and
the profits were so small that the way the apostles
rushed for an interest in the olaim appears quite
unaccountable. Finally, Professor Pepper has
closed on the whole morbid syndicate and forced
them to oomplete the promised sale, and Sweden-
borg and the rest *#« grabbing ghosts are left
osA in tbb cold.
You are right enough, John Ruskln,
There’s a deal of “ sock and buskin
In the military business,
And the way that it is done—
Gallant officers and troopers
Correspond to ‘ stars” and supers.—
The ones get many “ notices,”
And the other ohaps get none.
But “ stars” come to the front, sir;
They have to bear the brunt, sir,
Of their little mimic battles,
So we usually And;
While, in battles reallj gory,
The men who get the glory
Send supers to the footlights,
And play their parte behind.
When the soldiers' plays are ended,
And the curtain, Peace, descended,
Who gets the publio plaudits,
And the honours of the war ?
Not the privates, maimed and bloody,
But Yon Moltke in his study—
That’s the dif. ’twixt a dramatic
And a military star.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The only thing Melville refuses to bury—
the hatchet.
One more. The Molong Express has be-
come protectionist.
At a great Jubilee meeting in Liverpool
(Eng.) Town Hall there were tour persons present
besides the reporters.
A FELLOW FEELING.
DISMISSED CIVIL SERVANT [?]: “HAPPY RELEASE! THEY AT LEAST WERE NOT
TURNED OUT TO DIE OF SLOW STARVATION.”
Parkes believes in allowing Civil servants
to hold municipal offices. He believes their in-
telligence is quite equal to the strain.
Canon Farrar complains that the English
have made 100 drunkards to one Christian in j
India. It seems sad, but then it’s so English, you j
know.
Farm labourers in the English midland
counties have had their wages reduced from 15s.
to 13s. per week. The Freetrade machine crush
ing human beings again.
The N.S.W. whoat yield for 1886-7 is an
extraordinary one, 337,669 ac es having given an
average of 17J bushols per acre. Already we seo
the good effects of eleoting Wise for South
Sydney.
Jennings’ taxation system is beginning to
bear fruit. It has increased the revenue for the
first quarter of 1887 by over £222,000, and the
Ministerial “horgan” calmly claims this as a
triumph for the Hi Ham and his Ministry.
It is calculated that about 9000 more
artisans will be thrown out of work in N.S.W.
next winter. This estimate is based on the state-
ments of employers who announce their intention
of either reducing their staffs or closing up their
factories entirely on account of the ruinous nature i
of “ freetrade ” tariff.
Wright, Heaton, and Co., it is reported,
will be/again put on their trial at some date
whioh is not yet visible on the distant horizon.
Things are going on so slowly, however, that when
at last they are once more arraigned they
will} all probably put in an appeal for mercy on
thoground of senile debility.
In a moment of enthusiasm the N.S.W.
Premier once said he “ admired ever} thing Glad-
stone had ever done ” Up to date Gladstone has
not returned the oompliment, but then he has
only a vague idea float!":* in his brain about one
H. Sparkes, whom he thinks he has either heard
or dreamt of as an eminent bushranger out in
Australia.
From the Wellington (N.Z.) Evening
Press :—“ More elegant extracts at Sydney !
Dibbs calls Parkes a liar, and says he nought
Wisdom and Jennings for £lOOO apiece! Pa/kes
says Dibbs has the dirtiest character in the
colony! Dibbs says he won't soil his hands dis?'
ing Parkes ! That’s the country where the*
larrikins, isn’t it 1 ”
The N.S.W. country Press is rat U "fig from
Parkes. Fifty per cent, of the shifty Henry’s
journalistic supporters already Vant to know
why he has sold them over ms promised
propeity-tax, and half the other i;f t y aye asking
bow it is that this tariff is adjusted to Crush
IN.S.W. industries, and protect those of every
other country on earth at the colony’s expense.
The S.A. elections have resulted in the re-
turn of an almost entirely new Parliament. Free
traders and fiscal waverers have been ignominously
rejected in all quarters, and the next S A Parlia
ment will contain a greater proportion of Protec
tionists than there is even in the Victorian Par-
liament. It is plain that Protection will soon be
the universal fiscal law of Australasia. Federa-
tion of the colonies will soon follow, but federa
tion beyond that will become an impossibility.
A paper like the Sydney Freeman’s
Journal should refrain from such a thundering
story as the statement it made last week about
John Gavan Dufl*y being rejected for Dalhousie
(Vic.) because of his support of the Irish cause.
The boot was on the other leg. The Irish electors
voted “ agin ” him last time because he held aloo?
from Irish movements in the sister colony, think-
ing they were not aristocratic enough, but he has
since learned a lesson, and Dalhousie has for-
given him and taken him back.
The Whitehall Review (which, being a
Tory paper, run by a wealthy egg-merchant,
might be expected to look at the other side of the
question), protests against the women of England’s
Jubilee offering to Queen Victoria taking the form
of a statue to the Prince Consort. There arc
enough such statues, says the Review, which
adds: —“ Jubilee celebrations ought to represent
feelings of thankfulness.” But wouldn’t a statue
of Albert the Well-paid represent feelings of
thankfulness—thankfulness at being rid of him ?
The proposal of the present N.Z. Ministry
to “resume” some £50,000 worth of land per
annum has put the poor old Argus in a twitter,
but the Earl of Aberdeen’s speech in favour of
Home Rule for Ireland has knocked it all of a
heap. Two leaders published in that Tory journal
last week were triumphs of fallacious reasoning
and contorted truth. The great ocean of en-
lightened thought come 3 creeping in over the
shingly beach of ignorance, and the Argus with
its little broom is ever trying to sweep back the
advancing waters. A literary Mrs. Partington.
Extract (now first published) from a private
letter written in October, 1859 by the late John
Bowie Wilson :
“ You wish to know my 'pinion *>t Parke*. Politically, I
think he is honest, and at heart, a Liberal, bur this is in a great
measure counteracted by his excessive vanity and self esteem
—which often make him take very questionable means t •
attain his ends. He fancies himself the Napoleon of Au-tra
lia, and that no sacrifice is too great to be made provided he
is elevated to power as he could then nut all >hi !gs to rights,
which will never be done till then. He thinks he is a man,
and all other men are mice, and that it can be of no couse
quence to crush a few others to attain the high and noble
ends at whicn he aims. He is revengeful when he imagines
he is injured, as all vain men are.”
Dibbs made a hot attack on the Parkes
Government’s policy last week. He demon
strated that the Government got into power
on the strength of unfounded denunciations of
their predecessors, and that beyond question they
were doing what they charged the previous
Government with doing—departing in every parti-
cular from their hustings policy. The speech,
although lengthy, bristled with good points, yet
the Sydney D. T. devoted less space to its report
of it than it did to its condemnatory leader. The
latter dealt with the weak points, the former
omitted all the good ones.
Editor Bulletin.—l write to point out
to the correspondent whose letter appears in
your issue of the 2nd April, headed “My
Country,” how much he or you, or anyone, has
to expeot from that over-rated politician, Hen y
Parkes. Read Henry’s communication to the
Nineteenth Century (No. 87, May, 1884, p.
867) and there find how prepared he is to join
Australia to the Imperial Parliament, which
simply means handing over our libe'ties to the
tender mercies of a i ation whose whole, sole, and
'nhounded freedom (Onsists of allowing the land-
Vnopolists aud ca’ ' alists to gather and ap-
/iprittte- toAhcJr-O’ 'pe all the hard earnings
of the poor or produ- , except such an
amount as will bare’ d body together.
Beware, I say, of t bearing the
title of knight. 1 the
world have be k tb
button-meki
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a eon,
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
Democracy as the Australian National Creed.
Payment of Members.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
Protection to Native Industries.
The Election by the Australian peoples of the
Governors of the Australian colonies.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin waff
started seven years ago with no capital but brains*
and has become a vast property, because It por*
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news'-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalist*
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent ha*
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th*
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had afc
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, it*
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliance*
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new typo
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has yet seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Au 4
tralian journal which, throughout its career, ha*
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal wt.cli denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause ot
half the misery which now devastates British
humanity. Against tho claims of avariciou*
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
tho dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by tho people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin la
not connected with any other paper, and th*
matter it contains is all specially prepared by it*
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the inly pa i-r sold
by runnel's ■i . :he -root-- cvcr.v Australasian
capital, is the most w idely-circuiated of all paper*
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundarit*
that so closely restrict other journals to th*
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, tho stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sholler of Torre*
Straits, and tho digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once th*
most popular city publication and the organ of tho
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based
At least ten copies of The Bulletin are sold in
Sydney to every one of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold im
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchalleng*
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one man to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Amu
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Au.
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office
twenty shillings sterling in advance —which you
may pay by Post-office order, one-pound note, or
stamps of any Australian colony—you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. Cheques and Orders payable to
J. M. HARDING.


rifcc/from j?m fo/fa/f vri
a/'/’be /ateo ei/e/2
/fat arise/,fe
J) a ri'
tfe-en au/~an
o/e /er r. of-JW/bfare/o 6e?/o 6'*.00-corett-
' /-O Cr?4oc/ /& ac6*rS (eJ//S~
Mintif-er Znjy7/S/on a. ns/A- of
yoj ? <Je/7 Z/ZZe//you ea&a£/«“ * S
Ad yef one of 77/ese 7/yer Sty ru ? s _y
1 77rpy are OcOAuZ/y ComforAa-
dfe 4
cc/Zon/onee fee/a rc/s Jfe.
Cqj/- ofC/ro^'cCt/vg fu e/f-or
JcStoofs Cent/<?/ ot/s //<? -
/barf men f Co/// 6e d/S -
Co/rf/rrurc/ for/fieO#*)'
ait
po* l V w-oV CO- tV )
M’f<V
W*'Ai
5$V
:'Y vt<
f>er Co*t/i cfectucfee/fro n,Ac
y v falar/etoj 6oft 'nc< fe artc/fejnate
. <y S,yr ” #>e sers/ce t c«
V *«//. »°neS~S7Z* 7o«y4e>f
X * ** '"/£">*•' "7 JeZrree T.rtf
* a Sf«> oS</»TO„
Sexz/'f-tyfrS' '
Orer-fZ* u s c/acs a/~e /£ c/a ’%<?//- otbrt
Scrci66,/Tja; cc//c’t- Aau./-S '
ce £ £/n m a rr/e c{ f?t/$ f/~£ $ 3 esf o** 0 **
'V°us e- y-enf cl7so U)/rfc/rc*u??i- - Try A/cccA
Wocd tfferrr A ocD Ootv f/~ri*cf' €<. 7e&n 7o j&
The N.S.W. State [?] Retrenchments.


The Boozers’ Strike.
“Ir conclusion, I strongly recommend the working-men of Sydney to strike against this monstrous proposal on the part of the pub[?]cans (who, after all, now only have to pay
extra duty of 25 per cent.) to double the price of liquor to their customers.” —Sydney D.T. Correspondent.
BOOZER BROWN to Boozer Jones): “WE'VE ONLY GOT TO HOLD OUT FOR ONE SOLITARY MORNING, OLD MAN, AND THEY’LL BE (HIC) BOUND TO COME TO TERM!."


Society
The Chineße war-ships are at hand, and
with them a horda of jellow men in bine coats
and brass button*. In a week or two, no doubt,
we shall have “Humming 13ee " and Co. telling us
that the eldest daughter of Montmorenci Jumbuck,
Esquire, of Holts Point and the back blocks, i 9
about to marry Navigatiog-Leiutsuant Hi Yah.
Lots of lsss likely thirgs happen, and, far the
matter Of that, a womin might as well marry a
Chinaman with a yellow face, green eyes, and a
pigtail, as give her band and heart to a red-haired
white man, with a squint and no assets barring a
healthy appetite and brass buttons. They make
you as good blue cloth and brass buttons at Pekin
and Nankin as at Bradford and Brummagem.
• * *
The Sydney Mobninw Herald :
** WANTED, in private school, competent lady
housekeeper, who would supervise studies of
boarders, and give inusic-lessona; st»te salary.
Alpha, Post-office, William-street.”
Thla is too modest. We likewise want a house-
keeper, to do the washing and teach French ; a
knowledge of Chinese would be considered an
additional recommendation, as onr oook, who has
Just come from Limerick, doesn’t quite understand
English. There are in our household only 10
children and four cows, and we make our own
butter. A little girl is employed to nusse the
baby, so when not engaged in ironing, sewing,
“Choring,” belting logs, scrubbing, &c , &c., the
hoflsekeepef weuld have ample time to ground
the ehildren in music as far as the rule of three,
mathematics up to the fourth conjugation, French,
German, Hlndostanee, Boer-Dutcb, Spanish, See.,
&0., aa much as she can.
• • •
A queer foreign sensation has been caused
in Newcastle (N.S.W.) by the arrival of a Mrs.
Lee Tong, a Chinese lady, closely veiled. A local
paper says, “Her dainty silk polonaise and
mincing gait excited much curiosity amongst
those who saw her toddle along the gangway.”
• • *
Adelaide Exhibition is to be opened on
21st June. Only Lord Carington and Sir H.
Loch of the Australian Governors will be present.
June 21 is, however, the date when Victoria will
be celebrating the jubilee, and it is therefore
doubtful whether Sir H. Loch will, in the end, be
able to go.
• • •
It has suddenly*- been recollected by some
of the Roman Catholics of that Bishop
Goold in his will distinctly left\his successor his
carriage and horses. What Dr.\ Carr will want
with two vehicles they cannot unVlerstand. Re-
specting carriages, it is said that Caraiinal Manning
is a queer man. The toadies of his 1 diocese have
three times given him a carriage afnd pair. He
always accepts the gifts, but in a verly stupid way
every time sells them and builds [churches and
schools with the proceeds. But tlApn Manning
was never In Australia- \
ff • # \
Grafton (N.S.W.) has just had \ grand
Raster festival In aid of the Church of England
Cathedral Building Fund, and the prelinVnary
advertisement stated that “forty young! and
handsome ladies” would take part. If \fhat
cathedral has got to be built by mashing it Sbad
better not be constructed at all. W hen a chuncli
wants funds it is a mean, unchristian dodgeuo
raise the wind by inducing 400 brainless dudes (p>
oome to a festival ini order that they may wink a.
40 young and handsome ladies, and he winked at
in return. Places of worship have been built
before now by means of rallies, lotteries, euchre,
horso racing, and seven-up, and by thank-oiler-
tags from bookmakers, gin-sefiors, liars, prize-
fighters, confidence-men, and dog-fanciers, tut
this winking business is a little too much.
Where’s the Bishop ?
• • •
Mudgee Hospital I*ll was a great success,
both from a social and a financial point of view.
There were present few strangers, but the taste-
fully deoorated room was comfortably filled. A
variety of effective costumes were to be seen,
notably a “Mary Queen of Scots” 1 Miss Lawson
In black and yellow, Miss Ttndell In canary lace
and satin. Miss Nardin In white net, Miss Mary
Cox in black and pink roses, Miss Mabel Cox in
cream and lace satin. Miss Neville (as “Mary,
Mary quite Contrary’’). Mrs. G. H. F. Cox in
white satin, Mrs- H. Lowe in buttercup satin and
lace. Miss Crossing In black, Mrs. Lonergan In
shot silk, and Miss Hazeltlne In peach tulle. Very
few gent’emen appeared in fancy dress. The Hos-
pital ball Is expected to be established „( C annual
celebration. ” \.
• • # \
Apropos of the advent of the Chita^ gf,
fleet. At a late reception of the Chinese MinVi 3ter
’ ington the doors of the supper-room
„ dosed in an hour because everything eatable
was "gone. A Chinese servant seated at the d|™ r
said, with a repressive gesture, to an officer of iV e
navy who was gracefully entering : “You no < V
go in. Yon havee thlee times allyleddy,” and t L
officer gracefully retired, \
• • * '
The Deerhurst case will hang over yet ft ■'
a little time. The point as to whether Deerhurs
can be made to play Sutton’s costa of the appea
has been made the subject of a case to be stated
by Judge Cope for the Viotorisn Supreme Court.
The question has not been stated whether Deer
hurst can pay them if they are o-dered against
him. Very likely Sutton, with th. magnanimity
a bookmaker can on occasion show to an Eng-
lish lord, will forgive the “nobleman” the
amount,
• • *
The letter which was to have been pro-
duced against ViicouDt Deerhurst had he ap-
peared in the Sutton appeal case was one written
by him to a lady upon a little matter of finance.
It is nearly always best to say “ lady.”
No divorce is allowed in the Salvation
Harmy. This, however, did not prevent the
Happy Dinah of a barracks down South giving
her husband, “ Praying Biil,” particular “ Haile-
‘ujab ” at the hour of eleven, the othe; evening,
o the great annoyaude 61 the next*docr people*
“ Blood and Fire," the watchwords of the Army,
were tame compared to the silvery anathemas ad-
dressed by Happy Dinah to her spouse. Dinah hav-
ing in the end tried to wash the front windows of
their habitation with him tied on to a broom-
handle, Bill was only too glad to seek salvation,
the Lord, and above a’l a policeman down the
street. A public reconciliation-service has been
held. Amen.
Acting on Don Cwsar’s saying, “To the
Devil with Holy Week,” the Church of England
people opened their Fancy Fair at Forbes on
Thursday, the 7th instant. All the bon ton were
there, including the Mayor and the town band.
The fanoy dresses were, as a rule, effective.
Switzerland was well represented (Zurich particu-
larly so), and a “ Gipsy Maiden’s ” eostume was
correct and most attractive. “Miss Mischief"
and a " Spanish Girl ” appeared on the scene on
the third night of the show and proved that the
penitential season had but enhanoed their charms.
* * •
The- following is heard in the principal
fish-shop in Melbourne nearly every Friday in the
year. They call out the orders thusly : “ Murray
ood and oysters for Father OHowlagaln.” ‘ ‘ Right,”
answers the packer-up. “ Big schnapper for Deem
M’Squash.” “Correct." “The same, price 155.,
THE EQUILIBRIUM.—IN SYDNEY.
CUSTOMER: “WHAT’S THAT?”
PUBLICAN: “BEER. YOU CALLED FOR COLONIAL BEER, I THINK? WELL, THAT
THERE’S A EXCISED GLASS OF COLONIAL BEER! SIXPENCE, PLEASE!”
for the Very Reverend O’Greedy.” “ Right you
are,” answers the packer. And when Bridget
O'Flannagan comes by knowing sh* cannot afford
to buy any fish and that poor Pat will have to
consume potatoes and salt-herring once more,
'perhaps the thought comes into her mind that it
is easier to go to Heaven onschnapper and Murray
cod with the collection-plate agitators than on
imported herring with Patrick.
• * *
Lord Dudley backed Nelson for the
Autumn Stakes for a heavy amount—and lost, of
bourse. We believe he ante’d up just like any
common person. Lords are evidently Un*
ftving.
r * * *
That accomplished lady, ‘ ‘ Humming,,
runs what she calls a “ Questlon-Jipj^ ; } le
Sydney Daily Teiegraph. hand
into the box aforesaid a^^- o xtract the following
go ms :
'j_* of Eyelashes —‘ A Civil Servant’:
_ "lining the tips of the eyelashes once a month.’’
“ Improvement in Figure.—’ A Country Subscriber': Send
to for a pair of corsets supplied with ideal bust-
improvers.”
We quite understand the kind of female who
needs anterior inflation. She never deceives
us: we can always “ spot ” her a mile
away. But who, oh who can be the civil
servant who applies to the fascinating “Hum-
ming Bee” on the subject of his eyelashes?
Egad, if the N.S W. Civil Servioe continues to go
to the devil at its present rate, the unhappy C.S.
won’t be able to afford to have his eyelashes cut,
even once a quarter.
The Dudley limp is quite the correct thing
in Melbourne and Sydney sassiety circles.
k Minnie Palmer’s latest “ speciality” is rid-
ling about Melbourne on an angular white hone of
age, it is distressing to see Minnie on
Shat substantial animal. We had always thought
d rat the flossy little darling took her outings on
till a back of a butterfly, directing its serial course
w |ith cobweb reins.
\The Grand United Order of Free Garden-
er 4 of Australia have fixed the locality of tho
len once and for all time. At their bsll in
Melbourne Exhibition building, the Free Gar-
(i(’ni,.rs arranged a charming little Eden on tho
platf
orra. Biblical students w ill be interested to
hear! that the vegetation was distinctly Austra-
lian, tree-ferns and kangaroos being prominent
qii (he landscape. Half hidden by pot-
U ar ) and parrots the figures of Adam and Eve,
in th very act of doing the historical apple-trick,
l® n i. an air of reajism to the scene. But in the repre-
sentations 6? the grand old gardener and hia wife
! their free descendants went wrong. They made the
; illustrious couple cream-coloured. Now, if there
were kangaroos in Hdenitis certain that our first
parents were as black as the devil who tempted
them.
It is now stated that Lord Castlerosse
(who has just been married in England to the
Hon. Miss Baring) was shipped “home’’lest he
should wed a eertaui Melbourne lady.
Kogarah Masonic Ball takes place this
Friday evening at the local School of Arts.
• * *
Some yoars ago Bill Hogg was the awfully
plebeian title of a stockrider and general station-
hand in the Macleay district (N.S.W.) Lately,
however, he filled the more important position of
barman and all-round servant at Cooper's Hotel,
Frederiekton, on the Macleay, and was popularly
known as “William;’’ no one ever caring to
know whether he had a second name or not. To-
day his extremely numerous and affectionate
acquaintances are proud to salute him as “ Sir
William.” It appears that William has recently
received the welcome intelligence that someone
has stepped out “at home,” and the quondam
stockman and barman has stepped into a
baronetcy. Sir William married a daughter of
the late Mrs. Campbell Kerr, of Kempsey, and
those who know him best declare he will prove to
be as good a specimen of the British aristocrat as
they make now a days. W'e are not quite sure,
however, whether the people who say that mean
to be effusively complimentary.
A Bowen (Q.) correspondent reports that
there Is a parson In that town who goes about
with bare feet. It isn't a vev- good district for
shoeless apostles either, - °Sbe a "week
the good man gives or „en he tries to pay an
unshod pastors] vlB it across a piece of rough
basaltic SOUTiiry. The correspondent further re
JW-irthat he doesn’t like to see a muddy foot
attached to the body of the clergy man who comes
round to talk heaven to him, but that Is no doubt
a matter of opinion.
• * *
Mr. Timbury, who is said to be 'something
In the piano and trumpet way at Townsville <Q ),
recently left that town of sin and syndicates, and
a gusher with a talent for plentiful outpourings
was requested to write an address, expressive of
the sorrow felt, at his departure. This is how the
document began:
” Dear Timbury,—ln the garden of life, friendship is one
of the flowers that have not a speedy growth. It is a vara
nuts which, to reach perfection, requires to be planted in *he
soil of deep esteem, and to be nourished by kind and genial
Intercourse. During your stay in Townsville you have culti
vated this flower with great success, and it is cur desire to
present you, on the eve of your departure, with this bouquet
of deep and sincere friendship, which, far above jewels rich
and rare, is one of the most valued gifts man can give
or reoeive, for it carries with it a fragrance of love, honour,
and respect. These we offer with the full knowledge of your
glad acceptance, and the recognition that you deserve more
than we ask you to accept. M
Something ought to be done with the nauseating
person who wants to plant a bird in a garden.
A Representative Australian was directed
to Waterloo Station, London, the other day. ‘‘ By
j Jove,” he exclaimed,, “was that where the battle
| was fought ? ”
• • *
Lord Oarington, we are told by a New-
castle (N.S.W.) paper, Is only out here “for the
| benefit of N.S. Wales, whioh sadly wants a
Governor.” Indeed! We always thought that
Lord Carington was “out here ’ simply because he
had found it necessary to roduCs his domestio ex-
penditure. This is the reason why every
" aristocratic ’’ governor comes here.' , Does the
Newcastle man think that a peer nursed-Ip the
lap of Paph<an_ luxury, privileged even to'be
” chummy ” with “ Wales,” would loave an
atmosphere permeated wtth flummery, for no
other reason than that he might by residing at that
evil-smelling. Badly-drainbd old vice-regal humpy
offMaoquarie-strcet, confer “benefit” on a colony
w.th a oonvict past—a colony which every English;
“nob” has been taught from his cradle ta
despise and loathe and abominate ? Not much.
Carington finds his local environment so detest-
able that he Is compelled to supply himself by
every English mail-steamer with a fresh consign-
ment of something to talk to—something from
Piooadtlly, doncherknow; something that will
remind him that there still is, far away from
Sydney, a dear, well-washed old world of eyeglasses
and lemon-coloured gloves, and blue-blooded
drawls, and hot house grapes at a sovereign a
pound, and all the gorgeous rest of It : a world
In whioh the retired publican with a handle to
{the end of) his Dame or the similarly ennobled
ex-oattle-dnffer Is not even privileged to smell the
hem of your Pactollan or Poole-made robes.
Faugh ! Carington, high up among a set who
were the idols of the women and the envy of
the men, coming to Sydney to confer benefit on
the colony. What are you giving us, you New-
oastle man!
WOMAN ITEMS.
Parkes’ budget doesn’t tax brooms.
She saw four hairs in the butter at the
hash-house. “ Thanks,” she said sadly, “ but I
prefer my butter bald,"
When Sara Bernhardt was asked as an
album-question, V‘ What is your favourite animal l*“
she unhesitatingly replied, “ Man.”
Messrs. Spiers and Pond will cater at
Adelaide Exhibition. London barmaids are to bo
imported for the occasion. Hooray!
We read of a woman who “ goes out and!
chops wood with her husband." It is customary
to use an axe, but he may be an unusually sharp
man.
The Tambo (Q.) young men and women
were complaining that it was so long since any
minister had visited them they couldn’t get
married.
“ Don’t be a fool,” she said with a snap,
to her husband. “ Why didn't you tell me that
when I asked you to marry me ?” he replied, and.
silence fell upon that house.
A young Brisbane lady has been lecturing
about “ hell, limbo, and purgatory." She hasn’t
been there herself, but it is supposed she was,
married to a religious editor.
He : “ You don’t sing or play ? Then, I
presume, you write or paint ?’’ She : “ Oh, no t
I m like the young men we meet in society—l
simply sit around, and try to look intelligent.”
The Modem Marriage.—Maid-servant ;
“ What do you think? The mester kissed the
missus this morning, after two years of married
life.” Man-servant: ” Great heavens ! waen’fc
she looking ? ”
“My face is my fortune, sir !” indignantly
said a heavy young lady when her suitor tried ta
sound her financial prospects. “ Well, it is a
pretty large one,” he murmnred, as he groped,
for his hat to get home.
The actual presentation of the complaint
for divorce of Her Royal Highness the Princess
Louise against her husband, the Marquis of Lome,
has been stopped, for the time at least, through,
the personal efforts of the Queen.
She: “Darling, I know not what moves
me so absurdly to-night, but I feel Idiot enough
to love you—oh, so very dearly." Masculine
Brute : “ H’m, you’re hungry, come on to the re-
freshment-room.”—Journal Pour Hire.
According to a provincial contemporary, a
Western (N.S.W.) lady has three babies —not
triplets—the first of which calls a Chinaman papa,
the seoond owes its existence to a blackfellow,
and t he third has a skin white enough to claim an.
English dad.
Sir John Lubbock has been libelling Aus-
tralian women thus:—“ Kissing is unknown to
Australians, New Zealanders, Papuans, Esqui-
maux, and other races.” If SurJohn were only a
Sydney Lanceah, what a widely different opinion
he would hold !
“We will lock up your husband, Mrs.
Mmldoon,” said the Binoh, “for ill-tieating yon
in this way.” “ Better look up the whisky, and
let poor Pat go," was Mrs. M.’s answer ; and then
she added in an aside, “ Not that it wud be safe
In your Honor’s cupboard.”
Mrs. Langtry is JeUuur.aome interesting
Rturiae Sfiout the poet Joaquin Miller. She des-
cribes in one of them a reception given in her
honor In London, where he appeared in a red
flannel shirt and top-boots, and strewod a pocket-
ful of rose-leaves on tho floor before her.
“ I’m sorry to say there are no seats,
madam, ’ said he. [He was hanging on by his eyej
lids In a tram-car, as a lady tried to orowd past
him] “ I know it." replied she, sweetly, “ but I
should like to get In as far as the middle of the
oar, as my improver is outside in the rain.”
Queenolatry in “ loyal ” England. A
“ lady ” recently wrote to Her Gracious asking
her to forward to the writer the hairs that Vic.
oombed from her regal scalp—the idea being to
tie them up Into ornamental twists, for sale to
genuflexioning flunkies at a church bazaar.
Since the Colin-Campbell revelations
came to light, the question that is agitating tho
“upper crust” of English ' ‘ sassiety ” is, “How
cau keyholes be dispensed with ? ” The party
who successfully wrestles with this will fill a long-
. felt want amongst some of the upholders of Eng-
land's greatness.
There was a fire at Ponsonby (N Z.) the
other day, and a lady who woke up on seeing the
blaze, clutched her husband and aoreamed,
“ George, George, get up and put on your trousers
—here’s the Judgment Day oome!" George now
wishes to point out that he won’t require any
pants on the Judgment Day.
Mrs. Caudle, of Ashburton (N.Z.) is in
trouble. She and Mrs. Broker heard Mrs. Sandoe
speaking of “ the dirty woman next door," and go-
ing out to take a survey she found that that lady
was drunk, “ not’elplessly drunk, yer honner.only
tiger drunk.” They took a mean advantage of
the situation, and spanked Mrs. Sandoe.
A Ballarat (Vic.) lady left her perambula-
tor and baby standing on the pavement while she
stopped to inspeot a daisy of a bonnet in a shop
window. Presently the Infant began,to howl, and
when at last the fond mother to- ' sr*elf away
from her inspection of the hr she found
that the little cherub was be.. -a a goat.
His wife ought to know : Mr ) H.—
“ Great heavens, Cranston ! Don’t deny A- 1 I saw
you kiss her." Mr. B. (stiffly)—“ Yo- u ai, mis-
taken. She kisa*l m 2.” Mrs. H.—“ i-Bufe whyud


I let her!" Mr. IL—“I couldn't be rude tx» a
Mrs. H. — “ But why did she wank to kiss
i ” .Mr. H.—“l can’t imagine. You ought
now.”
'he apex of amiability. Old January was
ed at a late Sunday dinner with his sweet
ng wife, May, when the door bell rang,
oodness gracious 1” exclaimed May : “ what-
r shall Ido ? It's our dear now minister, and
i been eating those horrid onions." "Never
d, my love,” replied her super-agreeable
use, “ you needn't kiss him this time, for a
nge."
t is feared that Mrs. Mackay of California
1 outbid Queen Victoria at the sale of the French
iwn jewels in May. Both moan to rise early on
occasion. The upstart American woman,
o evidently possesses an inoffably vulgar soul,
io time ago got an overooat made of the short
on foathors which grow just under the bill
tho bird of Paradise. It took thousands of
ds to m ake Mrs. Mackay’s coat, which oost
700 !
They do divorces better in France. By
ans of a recent enactment, 330 couples were
it adrift in one day to look for new wives and
Bbands. We would suggest this scheme to
rkes before he appoints at other judge. Let ’us
ve a field day for divorce, another for libel, and
on. The judges might be paid by results, so
it the one who untied the most knots would
aw the biggest Borew. The idea is good, but
r law is not built that way.
A young woman at Burslem (Eng.), who
s been married for only five months, has applied
: a judicial separation on the ground that her
isband will not cut his toe-nails, which are of
normal length. She says she Is “ scarred from
ad to foot" by them. How the gentleman
inaged to aim his toe-nails at hor scalp is not
ited, but It Is reported that an Act of Parlla-
snt is to bo passed by which this person's
et will be tied together In order to prevent him
eking.
Said his mother at breakfast : “ You made
l awful row ae you came in last night, Henry.”
es, mother, I did ; I was very late and very
oary—late at the office, donoherknow.” “ True,”
marked the long-suffering maternal parent,
but I rather like It. When the umbrella-stand
knocked over with a grand crash and a man
unifies up-stairs a step and a half at a time I
now It must be one of my sons, and not a burg-
r. That comforts me 1” Then he broke his egg
Ith a groan.
We oommend this par., from a Hull (Eng.
iper to the Australian snobs who are dying to
resent Her Most Gracious with a jewelled head-
leoe :
“ A middle-aged woman woa charged with stealing a quan-
ty of maize from a ahed. In defence the prisoner
■oved that sha had only been confined a few (lay- ami had
> food for hersell and children. Under these extenuating
rcumstauoes she was committed to gaol for sue vetks l"
fhat, we ask, has the gilded Victoria done to ame-
orate the condition of the poor and lowly of her
wn sex who have not had the good fortune to
along to a ravenous German Royal Family ?
Our dear old friend, “Mrs. Dr. Potts,”
as reoently been in trouble in the gallant Irish
own of Cork. She opened a series of health-
jetures there in February. But the " profession
etermined to boycott her. A large number of
ledical student! forced their way into the hall,
nd, by means of exploding gunpowder and
irge squibs, and indulging in other noises,
ompelled the lady lecturer to retire. They then
orced their way to the platform and threw about
of skeletons, etc,, with which it was
a tended to illustrate the lecture. The police, as
i matter of course, arrived too late to be of
ervice. Hooray for Ould Ireland !
The Duke of Marlborough was lately asked
f it was really true that he was in love with Lady
lolin, and if he had intended to marry her if she
lad got her divorce. He replied with perfect
rankness that neither of the assertions was true,
idding that Lady Colin was of a cold nature, and
hat he never had any feeling for her but that of
riendship. Ths duke said he did not think she
vas the kind of woman who would attract men in
my other way, notwithstanding her beauty.
Moreover, there was an insuperable obstacle to
heir marriage—namely, they were both too poor,
rhe duke is In straitened oircumstances, and he
•eally cannot afford to marry a woman who has
lot a large fortune of her own.
The female book-canvasser is In full blast
n Sydney just now, and one especially beauteous
nember of the craft is said to have been success-
hl with pretty nearly every barrister in Went-
vorth-oourt. The other morning a certain well-
mown man met a lady on the North Shore ferry-
mat, and in three minutes by his watch he had
itruok up a talking acquaintance. The lady was
lothing loth to have a chat. In two minutes’
nore she was talking away at a lively rate, and
he man was enchanted. Suddenly she drew
tom her satchel a small and suspicious-looking
rolurne, and fastening our friend to his seat with
i killing glance, she opened her batteries of ap-
peal. The great journalist was horror-struck.
[t suddenly flashed across his brain that that he
rad made a mistake ana mashed a book-agent.
At Liverpool (Eng.), a woman was brought
ip before Judge Hawkins for bigamy. She had
married young, and her husband had starved her
ind walloped her until at last a separation ensued.
Some years later the woman married again ; she
was not able to support herself, and when a
moderately respectable man offered to take care
of her, she yielded to the temptation. Then
her first husband prosecuted her, but his face
lengthened when Judge Hawkins calculated that
30 minutes' imprisonment would meet the case.
A little of this sort of common sense would go
well In N.S.W. The results of a criminal sitting
are generally so stupid and brutal that many feel
inclined to vote for the abolition of judges alto-
gether and would prefer to run the criminal
courts of the c,lony by the combined wisdom of a
horse-doctor a fortune-teller, and a dog fancier,
with a far mer fir a court of appeal.
she marriage of the “ Marechale
Cath<A ine ( General Booth's daughter, to “Co'cmel’
clib jArn at the Salvation Harmy barracks in
there was a curious scene. The young
womt®, tali andi excitable, as well as a comely
creati? 0 ’ soon »s the marriage was over sang a
sons of «Weh one! line was not very encouraging
to the uew'y-majiried husband. The line was,
“ We'll fight an|d never tire,” ana to illustrate
her meaning i*iar«ridly fashion.she squared off at
her husband i*- , . dodging her
head and st» mcrev het M the acd with much
aniHi- Kotcent., the i t ter •\kmsiderably. The
immense crowcWji P er B h°uted It was
too much for eayS > t ’°f ture ° f v ,, Gene ™ f<
T,„ th He dra* the w £t his venerable spouse,
tkeylparrelf^es,"merrily at each other.
When tnat tire“ aboth couples began a
frenziqd breakd ° n t 0 each others
Waists. t") 1 ■ -v
EXPERIENCES ON AN EXTINCT COMIC
PAPER.
(BY PHIL. FLYNN.)
Looking back is seldom a pleasant thing.
This is probably the true reason why mo3t old men
are cynics. Without attempting to further develope
this theory, I will merely say that seven years are
too long a retrospect for the majority of men to
gaze at with feelings of real pleasure—particu-
larly if those soven years have been spent in pri-
son or on the comic Press. How Bmall a part are
they of the life of an elephant, or even a orow, or
a pike ! how great of the life of a man, not to
mention a woman ! A wise Roman (I suppose he
was a Roman) once said that Art is long and Life
short, and his remark has survived the temples
and the tombs of his race. How humiliating, for
Instance, It is to think that a toad has oenturies
of years—some persons are bold enough to say
oenturies of cycles—of existence given it to spend
morosely in the middle of a rock, while a Shakes-
peare is cut off at the age of 53, when he was pro-
bably Just beginning to learn how to write in a
manner that would give oomplete satisfaction to
Mr. David Blair, of Melbourne.
# * *
Gating down a vista of seven years I see
at the ond of it the figure of ft young man carry-
ing a carpet-bag. He is entering the capital city
Of a neighbouring colony, with his mind firmly
made op to oarve for himself a name in literature
there or perish. He is full of high ideals and
noble asplrfttlons. He hfts more money in his
“George Wilson has been sent to gaol for six months for being found under the bed
of Mr. Sheridan, the tragodian, at the Oxford Hotel.” —Daily Paper.
THE TRAGEDIAN NOW MAKES A PRACTICE OF PROBING UNDERNEATH HIS BED
WITH A “PROPERTY SWORD BEFORE RETIRING.
I ticket than he has ever had at one time since,
t was borrowed. He is determined to do the
ight thing and tell the truth though tho heavens
hould fall. Reader 1 why should I conceal the
act ? I was that young man. lam ead when I
hink of it.
• • *
I brought with rno a loiter ot introduction
rom a trombone player, who had a brother who
vrote for one of the Melbourne suburban papers,
md was looked upon as a prodigy of intellect by
ereral who knew him slightly. The volatile
Tombone-player oonsldered this fact amply jus-
ifled him in addressing literature at large as an
jld friend. I believe he would hare cheerfully
rolunteered to give me a letter to Lord Tennyson
ur to the editor of the Timbs If I had been going
to London, and would have been pained if I had
refused to take It. As It was, however, he was
able to keep more within the limits of hia in-
fluence. The note I took from him was addressed
to a publican, who had onoe been a litterateur —-
or, at leaat there was a tradition to that effect
current among his friends.
* * •
I entered the hotel with a light step, and
ajked for the landlord. A drowsy-looklng yonng
woman informed me he had not yet oome down.
I may say It was early in the morning, shortly
after the oonntxy train had oome in. I Bat down
to wait for him.
There are few things I know of that are so
depressing as the appearance of a bar in the early
mernlng, before it has been washed out, and the
windows have been opened to let the deoayed
smell of stale drink escape. The full bottles on
the shelve*, touched by the dim light, look livid
and ghastly as though they were thinking re-
morsefully of the ruin they were going to cause ;
I the empty ones appear as though they were suffer-
ing from a prolonged spree an their own con-
tents The flies hang, either dead or drunk, on
the window-curtains. Everything looks squalid
and guilty and miserable. The bar in which I sat,
however, was, though not quite a palace of joy,
rather an exception to the rnle. A humorist had
evidently been at work in it. His humour was,
perhaps, not of the most delicate and gossamery
kind, but it was, at any rate, imaginative and
free. Some people might have gone so far as to
call it Irreve-ent, A human tibia, for instance,
whioh a friend of his (abcdy-snatoher, I suspected)
had presented to him, he boldly labelled “ Thigh-
bone of Bishop Patterson,” and hung it on the
wall, with a legend appended telling how the
martyred prelate had begged with his last breath
that this muoh of him should be seDt to his friend
——, “ In memory of old times."
• * •
While I was gazing at this outrage, the
author of it (as I afterward* learnt he was)
entered). He was a stout-built man, with a small,
round head, and a birdlike eye. He had a voice
like that ef a cockatoo. I presented the letter to
him and he read it hastily—l may say it was
written in a beautiful flowing hand— till ho oamo
to the signature Then ho positively barked at
me. “ Why the fellow,” he said, referring
to the writer of the letter, “ owes me five pounds,
money lout 1” My Spanish caatie became an im-
mediate ruin. For the first time in my life I felt
what it is to be an orphan in a strange la>nd If I
had met the trombone-plai or at that moment I
would have assaulted him till he died. But the
publican turned out to be a good fellow, and pro-
mised to take me round with him, on the Satur-
day night following, to a place which was the
focus where all the free-lances of light literature
met, and bandied brilliant jest and sparkling re-
partee. All the mad wags and wicked wits of the
oity, ho said, assembled there, and the atmosphere
was so surcharged with the electricity of intellect
that only a seasoned Joker like himself could stay
in it., without dangor, for any length of time.
This frightened me somewhat, but he said I need
not be afraid—he would seo that no harm hap-
pened to me while he was there. 1 arranged to
stay at his hotel for a few weeks, and drank a
glass of absinthe with him. It was the first time
I had evor tasted absinthe, but he assured me
that it was the only stimulant for wits, and that
all those I was about to meet hardly ever drank
anything else. I subsequently discovered that
this was merely a graceful play of fanoy on his
part, and that the beverages held in most esteem
by those light-hearted Bohemians were rum and
beer.
* * *
The eventful night came, and with a pal-
pitating heart I accompanied my merry host to
the place where I was to meet the professional
pers\fieurs of the metropolis. It was at the office
of the Joker— that was not the name of tho paper
but It will do as well. The office was Just large
enough for the editor to stretch himself in with-
out breaking through the partition at one end, or
the street window at the other. At the back was
a room about as largo as a police-van. I have
never been in a polioe-van, but I guess from out-
side appearance that one of these vehicles
would contain about as many people as the
back-room of the Joker office. As I entered
I was conscious of a number of faces peer-
ing dimly through a haze of sm ke, out of
whioh came bursts of cachinnation caused by, I
suppose, some flash of wit or shaft of sarcasm
from one or other of the assembled wagk. I was
Introduced and greeted as a long-lost brother, by
the editor, and very cheeringly by the staff. I
sat down In the darkest corner and silently sur-
veyed the environment. There was a small table
—or rather counter, as it was used as such on
publishing days—upon whioh were two bottles of
whisky, two bottles of brandy, and a rack con-
taining a doaen or two of soda and lemonade. The
editor was the founder of the feast. When I be-
came more familiar with the gossip of the oitloe I
learnt that he did this in imitation—as nearly as
he ccruld approach to it—of the weekly dinner of
London Punch, ret which the cartoons for the fol-
I lowing weok are (or were) discussed. I may as
well describe him before going further. Ho was
a light-built, ehirrupy man, who always laughed
with his eyes and his teeth. He had thin, smoke-
ccdoured hair, combed back over his forehead, and
twisted into two neat little curls at eoob oar.
These two little curls were the result of about
half an hour's work at least every morning
before he left home. He had very little beard or
moustache, but wbat he had was soft and fleecy,
and, 90 to speak, seemed to be an lntlma ion in
hair that his intentions were amiable. And indeed
they were. The finest Joke—to a person with a
dear mental palate—that ever appeared In hie
paper was his own Dame printed ns Editor and
Proprietor. He would not harm a fly—l have
seen him, when I afterwards went to live
with him, take a flywrut of the butter on the
Mp of his forefinger in the most tender way,
and yet his chiefest Joy was to gather together,
and preside over, a gang of conspirators who wera
sternly determined, if epigram, or comic verße, or
cartoon, could do it, to upsat the Government and
wreck the Constitution. It struck me as a very
strange thing then, but I have seen quite as
strange things since. He told me once, when I
asked him what oaused him to buy a cotnio paper,
that the reason why he had done so was
that he had, before he came to Australia, written
a little paragraph or pun—l believe it was a pun
—for London Punch, and U was printed. The
memory of this lay dormant in his mind for
many years, until he had made a nioe little sum
in commercial pursuits, and thought it ttae to re-
tire and lead an easy life. Just at this particular
juncture he had the misfortune to see an adver-
tisement in one of the daily papers, offering Tiik
JUkKr for sale. Then he remembered that he
had once contributed to London PUNCH, and, re-
garding the recollection as a happy inspiration,
staightway communicated with the advertisers,
and bought Trta JoKsn. It was Indescribably
funny, and yet pathetic, to hear him tell this. The
leader of the laughter in the room was my friend
the publican. From the few days’ experience I
had had of his conversation I did not consider that
he was, even remote iy, allied to madness. Hut it
seomed that the rest of the company did. I began
to get,their measures.
*
There was a young man with fair hair,
parted in the middle, and eye glasses. He was
one of the nicest fellows I ever met, and wrote
most sarcastic verses about the changing fashions
in ladies’ dresses. He was a olerk in one of the
Civil Service Departments, and a mainpropof the
Joker. I believe he was also famous for his
comic acrostics. A very mad wag, indeed.
Then there was a fat man who always
came to the meeting in evening dress. He was
theatrical critic for one of the daily papers, and
used to drop in when he had seen enough of
whatever plays were on at the theatres. He was
a big white-and-red efflorescence of good humour,
and was ready to laugh at anything. He was
never known to make a joke in English, yet he
bore the reputation of being a profound humorist,
gained by his capping a story told, or a joke
made, by somebody else, with astringof gibberish
which he would persist in sayiDg was Greek—
attic wit he called it He was another pillar of
the Joker.
But the most interesting figures in the
collection were the two cynics. One of these was
the artist, the other the caustic writer who did
Call the slashb g work for the Joker. They were
as mildewed-looking a pair as you could wish to
see. Both were small and lean ; both were mis-
anthropical, and both gave their whole attention
steadily and silently, to the whisky. They des-
pised the rest of the company. They even des-
pised each other. One night I saw both of them
sit down and empty a bottle between them. The
artist was leaning forward with his eyes half shut
and a sneer on his lips ; the other sat with his
head thrown back against the wall, and his glazed
eyes fixed in scorn on whomever happened to be
speaking. One of the company suggested some-
thing or other as a subject for a cartoon for the
next issue. The idea was received with applause
by all but the two cynics. “ Muck ! ” said the
artist. “Pah!” said the other Diogenes, snap-
ping his fingers and lurching over his chair among
the bottles under the counter. He remained there
until the meeting broke up.
* • •
Later in the evening a young man with
black hair, that curled over his collar, and a brisk
way of talking, came in and spoke emphatically
in favour of having some eartooD, which ho hat
previously suggested, put in the paper that week.
I took quito a fancy to him at. first. I thought he
was the poet of the staff. He had largo, soft eyes
which to me looked dreamy with poetry, till
discovered they were ooly dreamy with whisky
I -Went to board at his home afterwards, but dt<
not enjoy myßClf much, as he had another gues
There most of the time. It seems hard to soy it,
but. the guest was a bailiff.
It was, even as it seemed to me then
with the glamour fresh upon me, a grotesque sigh
to see these weary little wags » eeting in conclave
to sir ike out of their combined intellects some
thing that would amuse the public, and make i
ill with laughing till the next uproarious issue oi
the Joker oame out. But they were very, verj
happy, and. perhaps, were better off than If the;
had been much wiser and wittier.
« * *
After my introduction to the editor,
be oame a regular contributor to the Joker, and
I think, in a modest way, helped as much as any
other member of its brilliant staff to hasten the
decease of that influential journal. Indeed, some
of them said I did more, on acoount of my going
to live with the editor, but this was at his own
request, and was not an emanation of malice from
me. They also said I ate the young man with the
dreamy eyes out of his house and homo, but that
was, If possible, a still worse calumny. The time
payment bailiff did that for him.
The most terrible disillusionment—and
lam now speaking in all sincerity—which lex
perienced was, when I attended the symposium
for the second or third time, to find myself looked
upon as a droll—an exceedingly funny fellow—bj
men whom I had been told where the leading
humorists of the city. It was almost enough to
make me turn gravedigger. I wish it had been
quite enough. I would have been a merrier man
I to-day.
My fate was sealed after that first night
at the Joker office. The paper died, of course
and the editor took to fowl farming, but I have
remained on the comic Press ever sinoe—a trad<
as dreadful as that of the samphire-gatherer— an<
am now prematurely old and grey, tottering t(
tho tomb out of which I have exhumed so many
original jokes.


Keferee
Messrs. White and Long had a day out on
the opening Saturday of the A.J.C. Autumn
Meeting, when their representatives carried off
every flat race on the card, Mr. White winning
the Sires* Produce Stakes with Abercorn ; the St.
Leger with Trident, and the Trial Stakes with
Aberdeen; whilst Mr. Long appropriated the
Autumn Stakes and Doncaster Handicap with
Honeydew and Abner respectively. The second
day was as disagreeable as the first was perfect,
but the rainy weather failed to prevent some
12,000 people from seeing the running for the
Sydney Cup, for which Honeydew and The Jewel
left the paddock equal favourites at 5 to 1.
During the running Nelson came down on his
knees and threw his jockey; and the winner
turned up in the 10 to 1 chance Frisco, who beat
Kitawa by three-quarters of a length, Tom Drown
three lengths away, third. Plutarch won the
Flying Handicap; Lava won the Maiden Stakos;
Matador at 5 to 2 defeated Abercorn, who started
at 5 to 4 o/i, for the Champagne Stakes; Faugh-
a-Balingh won the Selling Plate ; and the First
Nursery Handicap was annexed by Dcva.
And now the Sydney papers are saying
very nasty things about Mr. Lo. g.
* # *
The “fight to a finish ” between Slaven,
champion of Queensland, and Costello, of
America, was most disappointing. So much had
been heard of Co-itello’s teriiflc right hand that
the affair was looked on as a foregone conclusion
in favour of the American, and it came rather as
a surprise when eleven o’clock arrived just in*
time to prevent Slaven from scoring a win. In
the first three rounds Costello certainly established
a lead, but in the fouith Slaven staggered him
with a right-hander on the jaw, and the remainder
of the 31 rounds reso.ved them* elves into a mere
walking match. Whfn Jackson and Lees
fought they ran. The two undtr notice
walked, al hough it is only due to Slaven to
state that he seemed willing and anxious to light,
exchange a hit or two, but it was only when
Costello was jammed in a corner and Slaven
rushed him, that any blows were exchanged.
The excitement ran high towards the finish, when
Foley stated that the fight must finish by eleven
o’clock, and as C stello was very, very weak, and
went down on the slightest provocation with his
eyes fixed on the clock, the hour struck just in
time to prevent Jack Thompson from losing his
voice, Larry Foley his temper—and Costello the
fight.
The National Association of the Amateur
Oarsmen of the United Suites have invited the
Victorian Rowing Association to send a repre-
sentative crew to compete at the annual regatta
to be held in July next on Lake Chatauqua,
Jamestown,. New York State. It is not likely
anything wlil eventuate from the invitation, as
the Cabbage Gardeners find it quite hard work
enough to raise funds for the Intercolonial race.
A world-renowned long-distance runner
came to loggerheads with his trainer the other
day. and ihe ped. now walks about with a mouse
under either eye. His slogging is not up to tho
standard of his running.
* * *
The little interest excited in Australia by
the performances of Hutchens, Myers, and G» orge
must be somewhat of a take-down for their noble
selves and their admirers in England and the
States. A mistaken idea evidently prevailed
abroad that the land of Beach was flowing with
milk and honey for champion athletes of all sorts
and conditions, and thatany transparent “ barney”
would suffice to draw a big crowd. Expeiience
has proved the contrary. There might have been
some money for Hutchens to pick up if he had
performed with any approach to consistency, but
the Myers George game was so evidently “ gate ”
from the outset that the public were not to be
drawn. Australia - and the fact can’t be too widely
known—is not much cf a country for professional
peds., oarsmen, or even cricketers, unless they are
right on the job. When the Hanlan furore wa3
at its height, few people troubled themselves
about the Canadian’s match with Laycock on the
Nepean. Shrewsbury and Co.’s failure to pay ex-
penses in Victoria can be partly attributed to the
fact that they “fooled about” with the weak
teams that opposed them. And so with the peds.
If there were a genuine ring about the “ matches ”
of Hutchens and the two ex-amateur*, then we
might have seen a revival of interest in the sport
which deservedly languishes in this country. As
it is, they will return from whence they came,
sadder and wiser men Yet, while the public are
very smart in most cases, it is astonishing that
they roll up in their thousands to see bicycle races
hich half the competitors are as “stiff” as
jokers.
The march of civilisation. That intelli-
gent animal, the dorg, is well looked after in Eng-
land, At a recent coursing meeting a bitch put
jut the middle joint of the inside toe of her near
hind-leg, and a surgeon was brought from London
by special train to put the damage right. If it
had been a deg-fancier instead of a dog who was
dislocated he might have gone on one leg till the
nilienninm before anyone would have fetched a
rnrgeon by special train on his account.
It is reported that the celebrated Geehmg
earn of footballers lias split up into rival religious
'actions. The Holy Bible has done much for the
neiancholy Victorian town. It has dried up social
ife, choked commerce, and depreciated the value
)f property by more than 50 per cent. If it has
mcceeded in killing football this is but a further
iroof of the power of the Blessed Word.
The “ seven-style ” wrestle between
Donald Dinnie and Dunn, duly came off at Mel-
loume Opera House on Saturday afeernoon. The
in was advertised to commence at 5 o'clock, but
the company was so limited that the gladiators
waited for 40 minutes in the vain hope that
another “ bob ”or two would trickle in. As they
were then under the painful necessity of
doing something, a dreary farce commenced with
“ first fall to Dunn.” Dinnie won the next. Dunn
pulled off the third, and then Dinnie actually
made it “ twos all.” Then Dunn had his turn
again, only to be followed by Dinnie, with his
turn. Five waits had so helped proceedings along
that by the time the dispirited athlet.s turned
up for the “ final,” Brough and Bouci-
cault wanted the stage for real business.
Fifteen minutes grace was allowed for a
little more exciting tumbling; then the gas
was turned down, and the referee announced the
draw” which had been as inevitable as rent day
from the s’art. There was as much hooting as
conld be expected from a congregation of 70 all
told, but otherwise this dec'sion seemed to give
general satisfaction. Both of the men sweated
considerably during the performance, and Dunn
nearly succeeded in wrestling his trunks off him.
Take it altogether, they were kind to put them-
selves so much out cf the way for a crowd that
didn’t pay for the hire of the theatre, not to men-
tion training-expenses and elcetrras. Nobody
could expect a really desperate finish at the price.
Most of J. L. Sullivan’s slogging has of late
been done in his challenges. “His injured arm,” say s
a sarcastic contemporary, “ is improving, and it
is thought he will be able to resume his literary
labours soon."
A Bar netopolis.
The New South Wales Colonial Architect's de-
partment has altogether outlived its usefulness.
If Colonial Architect Barnet does not think so, we
do ; the audacity of his statement that things
architectural go on in England, America, a-d
A CONVINCING REASON.
MR. MELCHISBDECH: “WASN'T YOUR FATHER A JEW, MY BOY!”
“NO.”
“SORE?”
“QUITE SURE.’
“HOW DYE KNOW?”
“OH, BECAUSE HE WORKED."
The above appeared in a recent issue of “The Bulletin.” A Jewish reader of ours is
kind enough lo continue the dialogue:
“WHERE DID HE WORK?”
“IN GAOL.”
“WHAT WAS HE IN GAOL FOR?”
“FOR SMASHING MOTHER’S HEAD AND BOOTING HER NEARLY TO DEATH.”
“SO YOUR FATHSR IS NOT A JEW?”
“NO! HE’S A CHRISTIAN.’
“GOT ANY BROTHERS?
“HAD ONE."
“WHERE IS HE?”
“OH! THEY HUNG HIM. HE WAS ONE O F THE MOUNT RENNIE CROWD."
“WAS HE A CHRISTIAN?"
“YES. —SO AM I.’
other colonies precisely as they do in New South
Wales, is outrageously obfuscating. We could
tell this T-square warrior something about big
public works in the Dominion of Canada and the
state of New York, but let us stick to the imme-
diate kingdom of Her Gracious. Who in thunder
holds a position in England equivalent to
that of Colonial Architect in New South Wales ?
Did not Sir Charles Barry build the Houses
of Parliament, and his son Edward put the
finishing touches to them ? P.d not the
latter build the additions to Wilkins’ National
Gallery ? Was not the magnificent reading-room
of the British Museum built by Sidney Smirke
from plans submitted by Panizzi, the chief
librarian? Was not the Foreign Oltice the work
of Scott; the Indian Office, of V\ yatt; and the
new Law Courts, in the Strand, of Street; the
Albert Hall the product of the brain of Captain
Scott, inspired by the one and only Consort; the
Natural History Museum, of Captain Fowke and
Waterhou c .e; and were not the wings of Somerset
House by Smirke and Pennethorne ? And so on, to
the length of a Scotch parson’s sermon. And Mere
not many of these enormous works gained in
either public or private competitions—to the im-
measurable advantage both of the public and of
an arduous and honourable profession ? Yet
here is the ci r y of Sydney being converted
into a mere Bametopolis—all the pubHc build-
ings as undistinguishable in character as a
litter of blind puppies—with the sole exception
of the Post-office dolls that have made Australia
the illustrated laughing-stock of the whole of
creation ; while our own native architects got
never a show beyond the perpetration of a stucco
pub. or the fleecing-3hop of a soft goods sham.
The stone used in the facade of Sydney Post
Office alone would have paved the way from the
Colonial Architect’s Department to Sheol in a
straight unbroken line, and the gas burned in
some of the public offices at noon in midsummer
would print sufficient copies of The Bulletin to
illuminate all priests and deacons, and enable the
supporters of old Parkes to teach their grand-
mothers to suck eggs.
BRIEF MENTION.
An Arms Bill —Dailey.
Visibly affected—the N. S. W. beer-drinker.
“ Our only General ” (thank Heaven!) —
Richardson.
Wanted to know —why Parkes doesn’t put
a tax on phiz, as well as on beer ?
That insurance, not to say assurance,
affair, lets us all know what a Neo-Liberal is.
“ Tho deceased declined to ask any ques-
tions," writes a Hobart m?.n in reporting a local
inquest.
It costs more to get stout now than before
the fiscal statement of Burns.—Joke by one of the
unemployed.
A child was born in the Collingwood
(Melb.) lock-up the other morning. It has a good
case for illegal imprisonment against the authori-
ties.
“Our Stinks” is the heading of a
Southern World (Q.) sub-leader. Some writers
think that everything appertaining to them is of
general interest.
From the Queenslander Children’s
Corner :—“Olinda slept very soundly until nearly
midday. Then she got up, and went to take a
bath as usual.” There now !
The virtuous Geelong (Vic.) people object
to Sunday boats, because it is a well-known fact
that Noah hove to his ark and anchored on the
Sabbath, and Jonah's whale did a loaf.
Adelaide and Melbourne being now joined
by a railway, those of tho Adelaide peoplo who are
out of gaol won’t have any more excuso for
stopping in such an awful hole of a place.
“ Wanted to borrow, a Vacuum Pan, for
experimental purposes.”—S. M. Herald adver-
tUement. We ttrongly recommend the advertiser
to apply to Hon. C. J. Roberta, M.P., C.M.G.
“ Henry George says the time will come
when no man will be allowed to own land which
he does not use.” Then shall we see men wash
the earth from their faces, because they use it not.
At Ballina (N.S’.W.) it cost a man £2
for carrying a gun on a Sunday. Had he carried
a quart of local whisky—a much more dangerous
weapon, by the way—the fine would be about five
bob,
Tha members of the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly object to the proceedings of the House
being opened with prayer. Why, the week’s pro-
ceedings in Darlinghurst gaol are opened with that
same.
There was probably more truth than the
advertiser meant to let out in the tailor’s ad. in
the Sydney D.T. which read: “Wanted, two ap-
prentices, who will be treated as one of the
family.”
The Sydney Daily Telegraph recently
published a letter giving a lot of detailed infor-
mation of “ How to bring about the Millennium.”
We know how to do it. Suppress the Sydney Daily
Telegraph.
John Ellen Clydesdale is the mixed name
of a Sydney insolvent. John must feel queer
sometimes, for the first of him is a Chinaman, the
second a woman, and the third a horse. This
licks the Centaurs.
Says Marcus Clarke : “ The dominant note
of Australian scenery is Weird Melancholy.” A
stranger, writing to us from a Surry Hills’ hash-
foundry, says that he has noticed the same thing
in the potatoe-pie there.
Three men were brought up at the Police
Court, St. Kilda (Vic.), last week for bathing on
the local beach. But the charge concocted by
the local bobby read “insulting behaviour in a
public place with intent to commit a breaoh of the
peace ! ” This is she longest way of describing a
bath we over came aorc3s.
“ The sign of the times. There is scarcely
a hotel in Sydney not for sale.” Unlike our
valuqfl contemporary,The Sydney E. News, we
don’t choose to accept every publichouse as an un
erring financial beerc meter.
The/Queen would like the English ladies’
Jubilee Offering to take the shape of an equestrian
statue of the Prince Consort. Now, why? Be-
cause he was a beggar, and when you put a
beggar on horse back. &c.
Sydney Evening News says : “ Politeness
consists in the art of kneeling down before people
without dirtying oneself." Can this be a personal
recollection of some of Alfred’s European experi-
ences, or a direct special wire from llenniker
Heaton ?
The Rockhampton school children are
each to receive a Bible with Her Majesty’s auto-
graph to commemorate her year of Jubilee. Now
that the Queen has kindly condescended to endorse
the Word of God it must become most precious to
all loyal souls.
A country naturalist reports that a flea
one-sixteenth of an inch long can jump 20 inches.
This is a remarkable fact, but we have known a
bank clerk who was oft. Bin. long and £5OOO short
to jump 1100 miles. Which, in our opinion, is the
most astounding flee yet recorded.
Says the Sydney D. T. in a recent
leader :
” The function of the press in regard to ali such inquiries
as the one which has just taken place in the Lands Offlee is
simply that of criticism. We are outsiders and eannot become
insiders.
Exactly. They are outsiders.
“A son of the late R. Clarke, for many
years member of the Legislative Assembly for
Sandhurst, has been arrested on a charge of
burglary,” says a Sydney paper. Why should
they mention that the man’s father was a member
of Parliament ? Do they wish to insinuate that
burglary is hereditary ?
A man went into a branch of the Sydney
Government Savings Bank the other day and was
called upon to sign his name in his bank-book.
He complied by signing “Mr. So and So.”
“ There ! ” said the postmaster brusquely, “ that’s
not correct! Sign your Christian name !" “ That
I’ll be shot if I’ll do ! ” returned the other indig-
nantly, “ ain't I a married man!" Fact.
At the late Lithgow (N.S. W.) show, alady
competitor had some pickles and ginger-wine ex-
hibits, and at the back of them on the wall was
the following inscription :—“ Thanks be to God
which giveth us the victory.” This we take to be
the first instance on record of a deity acting as
judge of ginger-wine, although, in olden times,
some of the gods condescended to act as referees
at sand-jig contests.
Rev. C. F. Forscutt, evangelist, late of
America, baptises the saved by rinsing them in
the waters of the Macquarie (N.S.W.) River, after
which they retire to change their improvised
bathing-suits in a two-storey tent close by, satis-
fied that they are within measurable distance of
the Promised Land. The only obstacle to the
entire success of this scheme in Australia is the
frequent scarcity of water. Irrigation will have
to precede salvation.
A young man, whose bearing bespoke
lowly piety and becoming deference towards his
spiritualmaster, humbly tapped at the door of Christ
Church manse, Ballarat, and besought alms, but
failed to touch the heart of the hard and haughty
menial who answered his call, tfleparting, he
noticed a pair of black, broad cloth pants sunning
themselves on the lawn, and murmuriDg that as
he could not get alms he would take legs, he
lifted the clerical pedal-wraps, and’ pledged with
an irreligious Israelite the pants of the venerable
Archdeacon Julius, presuming that as an Arch-
deacon is clothed in grace breeches were an un-
necessary encumbrance. The young man, who
has two names (been married twice, we suppose),
has been arrested, and stands convicted of rob
bery from the parson.
It is said in Melbourne that a well-known
bookmaker has offered a ColV- .-street medico
£25,000 and h'~ • '•Mighter’s, * in marriage.
Apropos, it is stan di». -jy, the pa Vi w hile B g o one
of the hook-nosiK, a ',her\?" a J 3O w dice with a
squatter. After t£^ ly !rtterV“ ]t 0.000. they
tossed “ double or qr nl *,” thoU St being that the
squatter handed ove.° the dtpls of a terrace of
houses in Melbourne worth £2 "000.
“I HELD HER HAND.”
I held her hand in mine the while she sat
And looked intently in my earnest face :
Her soft, warm breath my check did gently pat,
As, with a gallant, unassuming grace,
1 -held her hand.
She gave consent—that made it still more dear -
Not as if I in some ill-mannered way
Advantage took of " .Mamma ” being near
T* grasp a goodly chance. 60 I could s«y
I held her hand.
Not that I loved her fondly ; but ’twas gold.
And diamonds, too, to watch her girlish glee,
As she maintained an innocence untold,
While others there, as well as “’|Ma,” oeuld see
I held her hand. . \
Alas, poor me ! At last the sad dfjy cami
When she refused ; and oh, the, joy I’ve hissed !
An expert now, she plays a winning game. '
But when a novice at the gamie of whist, >
I held her hand,,
THE JU[?]GH


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
£3T Printed Receipts on tße light-green paper
uppiied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
he Bulletin.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 12, 1887.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PL BLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
THE Honorable JAMES SQUIRE FARNELL
Biography and Portrait.
See Sydney Quarterly Magazine for Maroh.
TURNER and HENDKRSOJj, Publishers.
Agricultural protection, by j. Reid.
New number of Sydney Quarterly.
Tnrnftr and H«nd«rsma.
WICKED
Our latest original “In Memoriam ’
poem :
Oh, dear “ Fly ” Bib, you’ve left us,
Art before the golden door }
Steal the latch-key, use the “ Jemmy,”
As you did in days of yore.
Queen Victoria will be glad to hear that an
Auckland (N.Z.) firm of tailors has determined to
make the most of her Jubilee year by oflering £5O
for the three nearest guesses as to the number of
beans in a jar. The jar is to remain sealed till the
end of i he year, when four scrutineers will reckon
its contents More Jubilee address is to be
slung at Her Gracious “from the women and
girls of Tasmania, of all ages, ranks, classes, and
beliefs," This is comprehensive enough to include
Legislative councillors None could be found so
lowly in Maoriland as to circulate the Jubilee Im-
perial Institute poor-box, so the brilliant idea of
making the postmasters do the begging has been
struck The son of an English baronet is grub-
bing trees near Orange (N.S.W.) He is grubbing
his aristocratic ideas out, too Henry Murray,
of Melbourne, made a mistake. He tried to rob
a policeman in plain clothes The Kolan River,
near Bundaberg (Q.) recently rose between 70ft
and 80ft. within 2i hours In view of the ap-
proach of winter the Bundaberg (Q.) volunteers
have just been supplied with their summer tunics
Cooktown (Q.) boasts of being the only town
in Australia which is not gfting even to open a
drain in honour of the Jubilee The warders of
Pentridge are getting up an agitation for shorter
hours of duty. The prisoners are equally dissatisfied
One can now go from Sydney to the beautiful
Hawkesbury by rail Mount Morgan G.M. Co.
has divided £50,000 for the quarter ended
March 31 During the passage of the Ormua
through the Red Sea two male passengers, we
read, died of “ apoplexy b-ought on by a too
abstemious drink-diet.” The Brisbane Tele-
graph (edited by Parson Brentnall) says Sir
Samuel Griffith is a great man. Psalmyell has
fallen as low as that The covered-in space at
the coming Melbourne Centennial Exhibition is
to be 15 acres. Competitive designs are invited.
Reckoning the Legislative councillors and
Brisbane editors at 50 000, the female population
of Queensland up to December 31, 1886, was still
less than 200,000 Wright, Heaton, and Co.
were the successful tenderers for the conveyance
of stores at N.S W. Easter Encampment. Their
figures varied from 25 to 50 per cent, above those
of the lowest offerer, but there is one that tem-
pers the wind to the shorn contractor who is in a
mess over his wool freights.
** % *
A French dictionary is announced con-
taining the true of all the naughty slang
words in Zola's books. ..At the ball. She: What
is a waltz?” He: “A kiss dance.”— Journal
pour Hire. ... The Dowager-Duche3Sof Cambridge
is now completing her 89th year. And it s a
melancholy fact which needs no comment: the
country still supports her The identical Zulu
who killed the Prince Imperial has been met with
by Dr. Einwald, German explorer in A fire i. He
is inconsolable that he did not make the Prince
prisoner instead of killing him, and so obtain a
rich ransom The latest thing in London comic
songs is one yclept “ Oh, why did I wear a fur
coat?’ dedicated to Dr. Bird An enterprising
American tradesman recently advertised his wares
by celebrating a wedding-service in his shop
window. He rewarded the venturesome couple
with a suite of bedroom furniture The Pope is
said to have started a printing-office. There is
some chance of the devil being converted—the
printer’s devil 30,000 needlewomen in London
earn from Is. 3d. to 2s. per day of up to about 16
working hours Miss Lucy Tempest, of London,
has left her fortune to a home for lost dogs, on
condition that the motherless pups fast on each
anniversary of her death The consumption of
alcohol has decreased 30 per cent, in England
during the last 10 years At a festival in Pans
lately, 500 persons visited the sewers. Strange to
say, they were not celebrating the Jubilee It is
now reported that the last man who shot at the
Czar came within a few inches of putting him out
of his misery “ Madame,’ said the tramp,
“ I’m hungry enough to eat raw dog. Well,
she responded, kindly, suiting the action to the
word, “ I’ll whistle some up for you.” He left
Melanite, the new French explosive, is said to
have 10 times the power of nitro glycerine, and
100 times that of gunpowder. Boulanger has de-
cided on the immediate manufacture of 210,000
melanite projmp ties A statistician declares
that, while thJfcnnual increase of the population
is less than 2®r cent., the annual increase of
physicians is Mre than 5J per cent An English
paper smartly ,but falsely says that “ Gladstone’s
intellect has always had the whiphand of his con-
science.” 7 Cartridge-cases,” says Von Moltke,
“are the safest of papers, in a- State's financial
dealings.”
Hurley, of Hartley, and Dan. O Connor
inro riii.rtn< u ship as auctioneers. Brim-
PROTECTION IN PARAGRAPHS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
1. The more a country produces, the richer it is.
2. The natural producing forces of a country
are men, land, coal, iron, stone, clay, rivers, ports,
water, and wind-power, &o.
3. The artificial producing forces of a country
are steam-engines, railways, steam boats, power
ooms, blast furnaces, rolling mills, electricity, &c.
4. The consequence of Protection is—domestic
industry.
5. Agriculture and manufacturers must go hand
in hand—or neither can prosper.
6. Land per se has no value till cultivated —
most of its products are of little utility till manu-
factured.
7. Natural and uncontrollable circumstances
are with the manufacturer, but against the
farmer.
8. Mutual vicinity is essontlal to the producing
powers of agriculture and manufactures.
9. The majority of a nation must be considered
before the interests of any particular class.
10. Unlimited and indiscriminate Imports are a
curse to any country.
11. Neither Political Economy nor Freetrade
can approach the neighbourhood of “ The Exact
Sciences.”
12. Great names supporting great theories
often become rebuked and exposed by experiment
13. England's boundless wealth has ever with
it her hopelesk" poveity and Ireland’s starving
myriads.
14. Superior mental capacity has a morbid
fascination for system, which often misloads.
15. This fascination whilst flattering the pride
and indolence of mankind—stifles inquiry and re-
search.
16. Men grown grey in asserting certain
doctrines will never confess them michievous or
erroneous.
17. Truth must therefore be eown in young
minds.
18. No man advocates a theory without mixiDg
up something of himself in his advocacy.
19. The idolatrous worship of the blind devotee
satisfies the soul of the pilgrim, but excites the
pity of the unprejudiced observer.
20. Artificial Protection is as necessary to man
in the aggregate as to him individually.
21. Families, as well as communities, would
lapse into barbarism if unprotected by judicious
laws.
22. Political economists never produced “ corn
in Egypt,” or “fat pastures in Holland”; they
“ shot without aim, and hit the mark ” in ruining
and depopulating Ireland.
23. Paying for imported goods by goods ex-
ported, halves productiveness with foreigners and
deteriorates the productive labour of the colony.
24. You can create and sustain markets by
manufacturing in your own country all her own
natural products.
25. Everything you export is net gain to the
foreigner who receives it, and creates and sustains
foreign markets.
26. The distribution of the price of any manu-
factured article benefits an incalculable number
of persons and trades both directly and indirectly.
27. Two or more domestic producers, mutually
exchanging their products, create a market for
each other’s goods.
28. “ The gross value of every product of indus-
try is national net income.”
29. Capital spent in production reproduces
itself.
30. Double rents, double profits, and double
wages are got where local industries are en-
couraged.
31. Double net gain, and double home markets
for all other commodities likewise result.
32. Iteciprocity was a fond dream, and is so now.
33. Never prefer the farmers and millers, the
artisans and labourers, of another country to your
own.
34. No resource is half so valuable or per
manent as the improvement of your own lands.
35. A duty on imported corn is Dome by the public
at large. The removal or non-imposition of
that duty is thrown on the occupiers of the land.
3 i. Freetrade raises the value of money, and
sinks prices Protect ion raises prices, and moder-
ates the value of money.
37. Freetrade raises the amount of the National
debt, and increates taxes just when the people are
least able to bear the extra cost.
38. Freetrade, by increasing capita', forces a
keenness of competi! ion that lowers both profits
and the rate of wages.
39. Want of employment by all the people is the
chief characteristic of Freetrade.
40. Unless Freetrade be universal, you cannot
be sure of a market for any surplus product you
may have.
41. If you have only one Freetrade market then
that is against your best interests.
42. The perpetual repetition, without contradic-
tion, of the doctrines of Freetrade have almost
made them to be beli ved by the average English-
man.
43. A generally diffused system of Protection
concentrates the industry of each country in its
own soil and indigenous materials, industry
flourishes, wealth increases, and population
multiplies.
44. Without it, population, industry, and
wealth become circumscribed to certain small
limits, and gradually decay of inanition.
45. What the Act of Union did for Irish manu-
factures at the beginning of the century, the mea-
sures of 1846 did for agriculture as effectually
later on.
46. The farmer living near the manufacturer
finds a res y m irket for all his crops, even the
most peri l»b i, and recuperates his soil from the
ordure of the town
47. The manufacturer also finds a ready cus-
tomer for his coats, shirts, stockings, implements,
and machinery.
48. Protection tends to inventiveness, the cul-
tivation of genius, dexterity in all handicrafts,
and ample comfort to all.
59. Public wisdom provides for the future by
directing industry into those channels that it sees
will be ultimately benefloial to the while com-
munity.
50. By doing so, or rather in doing so, it must
overrule that cupidity that would seize upon
everything for mere present or temporary ad-
vantage.
51. Protection is the one thing that will prevent
monopoly, create rivalry, and secure certain
developments to manufactures.
52. Protection is essential to ultimate cheapness,
quality, aud plenty. Burke says : “ Make things
dear that they may be cheap.”
53. New countries require Protection to develope
54. “ The truest gain of every country is ample
wages to the labourer. The labouring classes are
the nation."
55. Protection to an Australian moans to look
after the interests of Australia first.
and presumptuous assumption of the care of Pro-
vidence over the whole human race, baring the Aus-
tralian.
57. Cobden's prophecy, “ That if all countries
practised Freetrade, all countries would be
gainers,” is now proved to be but a metaphysical
abstraction and one that no practical statesman
can legislate upon.
58. The whole of the partisans of Free Trade
have been speculative or literary men—real, prac-
tical workers have never in a body supported it
enthusiastically or actively, although they have
passively acquiesced in its theories.
59. Five years after England had adopted the
principles of Free Trade, and when she held her
first great Exhibition in 1851, there was not in
transept, or nave-side, or gallery, one single trophy
ofl a great manufacture to be found that was not
the direct result of Protection.
60. Protected manufactures are everywhere
healthy and robust—those under Freetrade sickly,
stunted, precarious.
61. A nation that grows its own food, and
manufactures for itself, prospers.
62. Protection must be the spontaneous out-
come of public opinion—more than the result of
any Parliamentary enactment.
63. “ Individuals know their interests better
than the Government, and may and should be left
to take care of themselves.”
61. Under the strictest system of Protection,
maintained consistently for centuries, England
built up her trade until she had the largest foreign
trade in the world.
65. She could never have done so under any
system of political economy that has ever yet been
announced. Most probably she would have been
as Ireland is had she attempted it under Freetrade
principles.
66. Protection would discriminate as to whether
it would put any import duty at all on—
(a) Articles which our climate or soil could not
produce
( b ) Articles which we could produce, but at a
disproportionate cost.
(c) Raw materials which we do not possess or
possess in insufficient quantities.
( d) Produce of our sister colonies, or of the
mother country that might be necessary
for our agricultural or industrial improve-
ment.
(e) Food necessary for the sustenance of the
people.
67. Taxation —except that part of it which goe3
to pay the interest due to the foreign bond-holder
—does not impoverish a country. The taxes,
direct or indirect, with that exception, remain in
the country, and in some way or other arc shared
in by the whole community. They are a mere
transfer of va’ue.
68. The larger a community is the cheaper is the
cost of Government.
69. Imports and exports are no absolute criterion
of the wealth of a nation. One must look at
the domestic trade also to make any just conclu-
sion.
70. It is the unregistered home production and
home trade doubling and quadrupling over and
over again than has created the unexampled pros-
perity of the United States.
71. Cheapness attained by low and inadequate
wages of labour is a murderous and suicidal
cheapness.
72. The produce of cheap foreign labour markets
imported into a country ruin the best of all mar-
kets —vir., those which are created by the expen-
diture of the local working classes.
73. Protection warrants quality in a thing, but
Freetrade breeds “ shoddy.”
74. Protection means placing yourself on a
level with the rest of the world—it acts as a pre-
mium on insurance.
75. Political economy was called by Thomas
Carlyle “ The Dismal Science.”
76. Low wages threaten both industry and
wealth.
77. An increase of one shilling a day in the
average wages of the working man would amount
to millions in a year.
78. Increase in wages means increased indus
trial activity— the creation of more wealth, and
effectual development of natural resources.
79. Deep wisdom lies in the precept “Thou
shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the
corn.”
80. Without production you can neither con-
sume nor buy.
81. It is wrong to marshall into the hostile camp
the producers and consumers. Every producer is
a cfltisumer, and every consumer iE either a pro-
ducer, or liviDg out of the income of a producer.
82. One energetic and practical man can, by
using his knowledge, banish poverty and want of
employment from a whole district.
83. Hring man and the land together, and you
develope an all-sufficing and super-abounding
plenty.
Steali V am on’y half a trade. De oddah
half am hidin’.
A movement is on foot in Sydney to give
a farewell ball to the hospitable Admiral Tryon.
Captain Cooper, A.D.C. to Sir William
Hamilton, Governor of Tasmania, lias already had
enough of Hobart, and wishes to join the galaxy
of talent on Lord Carington’s staff.
Advertisement from the Cairns (N.Q.)
paper:—
tt T>EAD it ! Remember it ! Paddy Paton, of the
Sydney Hotel, Abbott-street, Cairns, is pre-
pared to give all working men from the South a good
comfortable home and three square meals a day for £\
per week. Toff*, £2 10s. per week, and not particular
about having them at that price. Gvetima call and see
for yourselves. J. Paton.”
There seems to be a cold day and a
slippery evening in store for the Mount Morgan
West Gold Mining Company (Q ) A London
shareholder has applied to the Court of Chancery
to help him out, and the Judge ordered that his
name should bs s’ruck off the share list, and his
money returned with interest and costs. Further-
more, he unkindly remarked that the affair was
an audacious fraud —which seems like hitting a
limited liability company when it is down.
The N.S.W. Government and the accused
carrying companies had another “over” last
week. Which reminds us that one of the most
extraordinary developments in the alleged fraudu-
lent N.S.W. railway system was Station-master
Harpur’s document, wherein he gave the Byrock
staff credit for discovering a “ fruitful source of
loss.” We presume that the parent tree which
bears so strange a “fruit” must have been a
“switch” grafted upon a main “trunk” line.
New South Wales has a population of
1,030,762, and in 1886 she spent £5,131,792 in
alcoholic drink, or at the rate of £4 19s. 6d. per
bead. Jn the United Kingdom in 1885 the drink
expenditure was £2 7s. lOd. per head ; in the
United States, £1 13s. 6d. In 1885 the N.S.W.
drink-bill was £5,477,234, or £5 Us. Bd. per head—
12s. 2d. more than last year. “ This reduction.”
says that earnest temperance advocate, Rev. F.
depression in trade. Men have not had so much
money to spend. The Fecond is the work of tem-
perance advocates.” We agree with Mr. Boyce,
but are much afraid that the twelve shillings’ re-
duction was due to the hard times, and the two-
pence to the teetotal arguments.
From the Sydney Evening Noose’s daily
puff of the Down and Gumtree Jernil
“ Why ladies blu«h is explained in this week's Town and
Country Journal.”
It is, Alfred, it is. The whole thiDg is explained
in the Jernil. Lady Colin Campbell and that
breezy creature, the Beeress, have made the fact
quite plain through the agency of your columns.
Bary Jade Hicks, of Mount Rennie, has thrown
the light of her intellect on the question, too, in
your valuable paper, and Dilke has helped ; and,
taking it all round, you have put your Brain into
the problem and solved it. “ Why ladies blush ”
is explained not only in this week's Town and
Country Journal but in every other issue that
we have met since the day when that great mis’
fortune first befell a Christian land.
Those bullioned warriors, the N.S.W.
volunteers, spent the Easter holidays falling over
their own swords at the Middle Head encamp-
ment. The officers, who were supposed to be
practising for an actual campa?gn, brought tables
and chairs with them and then slouched about in
painful uncertainty as to what to do with their
feet and hands, and when by chance a soldier
saluted they didn’t seem to know how to resDond.
The soldiers got leave to go up to Sydney to eat
their Sunday dinners, and if the Czar had come
along while the meal was in progress it would
have been all up with the City of the Beautiful
Harbour. The Evening News correspondent
makes a sporting offer to surpi ise and capture or
break up the whole force any night with the aid
of 100 Permanent Artillerymen, but so far his
tender has not been accepted.
David Buchanan has returned from Lon-
don to Sydney He says, among a lot of other things,
that, despite the ruin which is overtaking British
manufactures, the London papers will publish no
articles or letters in favour of Protection, for they
superstitiously worship the fetish of Freetrade.
From our personal experience this statement is
absolutely true ; besides, is not Freetrade a fetish
in Australia ? The Cobden Club is now quite
inert, practically dead, while the Fairtrade
(Protectionist) League is a gigantic living organisa-
tion with more money at its back than the Corn
Law League had in its palmiest days. Lord
Salisbury, the British Premier, is a Protectionist,
and told David so in a private letter. Mr.
Buchanan complains that there is no courage in
the English public men : Gladstone, he firmly be-
lieves, turned Home Ruler in fear of dynamite,
and his followers in the House of Commons fol-
lowed him simply because he was Gladstone,
without the smallest or remotest re'erence to
the justice of the principle he attempted to
maintain. The Tories under Salisbury are
timid and nervous, and have no deter-
I mined purpose, or clear and definite policy.
I They will be driven to grant Home Rule as Mr.
Gladstone has expounded it, and when that takes
place it will be, prophesies David, the signal for
as fierce and bloody a civil war as ever convulsed
any country. “ The North of Ireland will rise in
its might and be largely reinforced from Scotland
and England, and officered by numbers of England’s
ablest generals : and the result will be a struggle
that will ultimately put an end to all further
agitation in Ireland.” Mr. Buchanan, being a
Scotchman, can’t for the life of him see the
humorous aspect of this question, which is:
Heaven help any army officered by England’s
“ ablest ” generals. David, whose talk is still full
of adjectives of the “monstrous” and “diabolical’
genus, avers that lie simply wiped out Trades
Union Norton in London. This, however, we
choose to regard, for a lot of reasons, as a mere
Dawvidian allegation which wouldn’t, if panned
out in the everlasting river of Terewth, average
even the faintest colour to the dish. Norton can
slang-whang just as well as the Horse lhief’s
Friend.”


H B
VER D I C
T
A viscount most noble was he,
Mr. Deerhurst, the young A.D.C.,
Who came all this way south
To be slapped in the mouth,
Just for using a capital D.
The Beaks—all of noble birth, too —
Did their deeded to pull the lord through,
Wi'h Lord D. on the Bench ;
(Lady M. said in French!,
That's just like the lickspittle crew.’*
“ They always send me to the cells
Though it isn’t a fit place for swells ;
But Button's not full,
He’ll get them by the wool
And fit ’em with foolscaps and bells.”
The judge thought of more than be said.
When he turned the case tail over head :
For Sutton was there,
But the viscount —Oh ! where
Had that haughty aristocrat fled ?
There’s nothing much worse than bad law,
When toadiee and beaks serve it raw j
But a Judge knows no fear,
Who drinks Clausen’s Beer ;
It’s the best that the world ever saw.
"pi IGHTEEN TO ONE.
The latest thing out in sewing machines is one
that will gladden the hearts of bachelors. There
will be no more any necessity to borrow a needle
and thread from the countesß who washes the
oups and sauoera and makes the bed, no more the
familiar howl of angnish when the needle slips off
the button and buries itself up to the hilt in your
spine. The new machine is portable and inexpen-
sive, but it is guaranteed to sew on any sort of
buttons as fast as 18 girls could do the same work
and to sew them on with far greater security.
The inventor being a gallant sort of man claims
no other advantage over the girls but that, and
cheerfully admits that when it comes to a question
of sitting up with a young man after the old
fossils have gone to bed, eighteen of these
machines can’t begin to do the work of one girl.
The machine has not yet been publoly tested
though, and the betting at present is sJightly in
favor of the girls, with the knowledge that there
is nothing like competition for bringing things
down to their level. As an instance of this we
may mention the 18 competitors who entered
what they called samples of Lager Beer at the
Philadelphia Centennial to compete with the
world’s favorite brand of Clausen’s New York
Champagne Lager. The result is now a matter
of history. Clausen’s Champagne Lager eame out
No. 1, with the others all over the track, and
Clausen’s Champagne Lager has been No. 1 from
that day to this. The reason of this is its perfect
purity. No chemicals are nsed in its preparation
or preservation. Its live condition in the bottles
is secured by the corking process invented by Dr.
Pasteur, of Paris, which has the effect of destroy-
ing all yeast particles and permanently preserving
the brightness of the beer. Clausen’s New York
Champagne Lager Beer has never had a rival and
never will.
fJIHE WISDOM OF THE &EIIPENT.
Some of the simplest facts connected with the
preparation and manufacture of what the world
eats and drinks every day are precisely the ones
about which the consumer is painfully innooent.
As a natural consequence he is led astray by some
glaring puff into the purchaie of rubbish, with
the not uncommon result that he has barely
sutiicient time left at his disposal in this woHd in
Which to regret his folly.
A stately Government official, who has been for
some time engaged in the arduous but noble
struggle to give a high social tone to his suburban
surroundings, has reoently had the misfortune to
pass through a small single-barrelled sort of indis-
position, sovere enough to enable him to get a
fortnight’s leave of absence and do a little neces-
sary gardening. The resident doctor, who has
acquired a long experience of these cases, pre-
scribed the customary harmless pill and a diet of
muoh comfort, Including a bottle of Clausen’s
New York Champagne Lager Beer twice a day.
The patient objected to the beer on the ground
that he had been drinking some other brand of
Lager, which had disagreed with him, and he was
assured that LagerS was a chemical production,
but he had no objection to a good honest colonial
wine at HOs a dozen, which he knew was the
pure unadulterated and unfortified juice of the
grape 1
Then experience, in the shape of the doctor,
came to the resciie, after thie fashion “My
dear sir, you are possibly correct in your sus-
picions with regard to the particular brand of
Lager Beer you have been in the habit of using.
It was probably a chemical preparation, and there
are many sueh, but you oan always identify them
by the abominable taste they leave in the mouth.
On the other hand, Clausen's Champagne Lager
Beer is proved by the analysis of Mr. George
Francis to be a pure malt and hops beer in most
excellent condition, and free from any contamina-
tion of false ferments It was exposed by the
analyst to the open air for a week, without getting
in the slightest degree offensive or sour. Its abso-
lutely perfect oondition when the cork is drawn
is due solely to the scientific system of bottling
practised by the Phoacix Bottling Company and
not to the preeence of any ehemical ingredients—
a fact amply substantiated by the analysis The
air in the neck of the bottle is simply exhausted
by asteaming process before the bottles are corked.
I prescribe this beer because I knowite valne, and
because I see its beneficial results in my practice
every day.’’
The patient has now fully recovered, and may
be seen any day at his office duriDg the regulation
hours. His opinion of Clausen’s New York
Champagne Lager Beer is that it is the purest and
most wholesome drink and the best tonic ever in-
troduced to Australia.*
HOLT'S RELEASE RECOMMENDED.
How about the poor {cilow who was sent to
gaol for ten years! Do any of the Ministers of
Justioe call npon him with the same sympathy ?
Echo answers, “ No.’ One was a banker, and the
other only one of the common people—one has
influence, the other not any. The way of the
world. Yes ; the bigger the rogue the less is the
crime Taking £lOOO is called a case of genius ;
£2OOO, shortage ; £lOOO, litigation ; £5OO, insol-
vency ; £6 0 irregularity; £lOO, corruption ; £5O,
embezzlement; £25, dishonesty ; £lO, thieving ;
205., total depravity. Taking one bottle of the
famous St. Louis Lager Beer, war on society.*
Traveller*, when arrMn* in Sydney, know not where to
seek accommodation, the kaowinc ones toll the eabaian to
drive direefc to the Great Nortfiem Hotel, and
Charlotte-place, where they findootafortable aoooaunodafcieu
and the be«t meals supplied by any hotel in Hydja*#. The
shilling luncheon there is the talk of the town.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other iaaeets
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. ftd., U.,
is. 6d. Rifrney, 141 Kkxg-ctaeei. *
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CSPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
'th inf-
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioea.
STOP RIGHT HERB!
JOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costa but 30b. and Is a joy for ever
The Autophone le a wonderful little Instrument
which, while It weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the paita ef most difficult music. On
it a child ean correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wnlch at present consists of ever
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marohes, popular songs, fee. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively places. iST It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little sard holder fer convenience
in Binging. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the ftamlly circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week It has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra musio sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“ Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘R. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in exoellenoe that of any o.
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in perform an ec to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other oelehrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28/1870.’’
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating balanee. Ne horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the prise of the case. We
can’t and won't sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company dnas not make such things.
Nora. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore ttflver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... 42 10 8
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... 42 0 0
Elgin National Watch Co.'• Keywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face 43 0 (J
Same Watch In hunting case ... 4" '0 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’a oompensating-balanoe, patent-
lever, open crystaljface, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pitent pinion, fee. ... 43 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-ease 3 15 0
Ladles superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting ease ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... 410 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at asoending prices up to the finest in the
world at 440 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
Is tbs latest triumph of
Sdenco. It is s noble
GOLD
alley, pwsossin? the exact lustre, heauty
and eadurasce of sterliaj Sold. A legi-
tiaato nso his boas found for this noble metal, by
vwHng It into Jowollery of the most exquisite de-
lirii. The Oriental Gold Co.,
bae
luge ocnsigwneeta if these lovely goods, which they
eeK at a fraction of the oost of Storting Sold Jo*oil ol7.
Ho one can detect the difference. Send Cor a
Priced CataloKnc, or for one of tbefbt-'
lowing wmiphos, all of Oriental Sol*—
Brooches, Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant.) Brooch, 7e. 6d. | Gent’s
Albert, Is. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain6s.; Jewelled, 75. 6d.s Locket
sst, Jewelled, Ladies’Alberts
IBs. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
C€Hf
fteixHh wre on approval, Jffhey don’t
-please, rtftvrit nninjared by the First
Hail, And we repay the cash, lets postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY GH AMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
Faroe* a sent anywhere Jsy non*.
An unfortunate Brisbane editor dodders
about “the dear old country where the sun never
sets.” We suppose he means the Empire- As
for England, it’s the dear old country where the
sun never rlsee.
Lithgow is about to be incorporated.
Here is a chance for the Boy Politician to grace
(we believe that is the word) the Mayor's chair.
A boy mayor would he a change for the better, as
thOFe dignitaries are generally old women.
This is the way the Wagga (N.S.W.)
Advertiser reports that a Chinaman's lop-eared,
hybrid moke bolted with a cartload of fertiliser
early in the morning :—“ Yesterday morning, just
as Orion was leaving the portals of the sky, and
as old Sol was beaming down upon a distinguished
son of Confucius, the early hdbitves of Fitz-
maurice-Btreet were started by the Trojan strides
of a distant strain of Tocal or Yattendon, and the
slight Borean thunder of a spring-cart under full
AFTER THE BATTLE
OLD GENTLEMAN: “AH! GRAND HOUSE GOING UP HERE. WHO’S BUILDING
THIS J—SOME RICH SPECULATOR, I SUPPOSE?”
STONEMASON: “NO IT AIN’T, SIR—IT BE A GENTLEMAN AS HAS JUST TURNED
INSOLVENT.”
' weigh. John’s cart and horse had taken a Celes"
tial flight bridgewards, until the shafts of the
machine broke, much to the satisfaction of the
distant swain.’’ We wish to remark to the writer
of this par that he is a fiddle-headed fool afflicted
with dictionary on the stomach.
During the Maori War, one of H.M. ships
threw a few shells in the direction of a native pah
on the East Coast. One of the shells, which fell
on a soft sand-hill, did not explode, and was dis-
covered some time afterwards by a detachment
of Te Kooti’s followers who were on the war-path.
As they were short of amunition at the time, they
thought they oould turn tha find to practical
account by melting it and making a lot of bullets.
Accordingly, they lit a large Are and rolled the
shell into it, then sat down in a circle round It and
waited results. They bad not long to wait. When
the rest of the war-party came up, there was a
great tangi held over the numerous fragments
and pieces of heads, legs, arms, and shattered re-
mains of well-known friends that were lying about.
A bit of good hick came to Honora Dris-
coll, her daughter Ellen, and Miss Mary Ann
Noonan, at Hotham (Via) last month. Honora's
husband died—it was St, Patrick’s Day (may the
Heavens be his bed)—and without any delay
caused by unavailing grief and affliction (for what
are tears ?) Honora calmly started a subscription
to bury him. Money having been get in—we re-
peat it was St, Patrick's Day—Honora, Ellen, and
Mary Ann repaired to the public-house and spent
it drowning their sorrow. In the midst of the
hilarity they took care not to forget the dead man
and sent for the police to bury him. The police
arrived on Sunday, 20th, during the_ progress of a
triangular duel or small Tel-el-Kebir between
Honora and her mates. Fined £l. And their joy
was turned into sorrow in the end. Sic transit.
A correspondent of ours had a few drinks
recently with a celebrated N.Z. chief, whose cheer-
ful reminiscences of family history threw a 50 horse-
power olectric glare on the manners and customs
of his immediate progenitors. The chief’s grand-
father was a man of very mild and gentle
manners, a great lover of peace—in fact, a perfect
John Bright. A neighbouring tribe happened to
take some liberties with hig crops, or horses, or
female relatives, and the chiefs son, who was the
opposite of his father in disposition, strongly
urged the old man to take measures against the
aggressors. Faithful to his peace-at-any-price
policy, the chief besought the son to calm himself,
and, prophesying disaster, resolutely declined to
have any hand in the proposed expedition.
Tlie son, howover, who was headstrong
and impetuous, marched off with hi)
father’s best warriors, soon made mince-
meat of his enemies and returned laden
with booty and prisoners. The old man
was Immensely pleased with the success of the
foray. He was delighted with the fatness and
number of the prisoners, and no doubt antici-
pated a big spread. In his oiliest accents he
praised his boy for the valour, talent, and heroism
he had displayed; but instead of bending his head
meekly to receiving the paternal benediction, the
young warrior jumped in the air, and yelled in
choice Maori lingo : “ Why, you nnsanguinary
old humbug, you refused to help us, and would
not have anything to do with the business, and
now you come round to butter me up and say
what a good boy I am. Why, you old hypocrite,
you’re not fit to live ! ’’ and with that he shot
his father dead on the spot, and “ became Chief
himself.” Smart fellows, these Maoris.


rpHE BANK OF NEW ZEALANO.
I Sydney Branches:
61 PITT-STREKT. and 538 GKORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... ... ... 628,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNIT * D STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Ceminer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
AGENTS WANTED
to sell the I’ictorial History
of the World. Tho best
and fastest selling book ever published.
The work embraces full and authentic accounts
of every nation of ancient and modern times ;
including the Rise and Fall of the Groek and
Roman Empires, &c., &c.
Send for descriptive circulars, and full particu-
lars, NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY,
367 Pitt-street, Sydney, NS. W. 4
&
o
Vi?*
0
i* 1
5* Y
6£°
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames re-
covered,
Parasols re-lined an®fcr*ie eqna
to New. si
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match cos
turner Renairs neatly eT<*n**d
13 HUNTER STREET,SYDNEY.
je-'--*SSpr<a- s
SHIRT MAKERS?
'ah/
NANtf FA*?—£ ££g
*IMPOR /
HATSCAr/SX
4&sa*tl Oitptctra
A
$
&
Theatre royal.
Under the Direction ot
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgiove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THURSDAY April It,
BELXSA RIO.
Friday, April 15 BARBER OF SEVILLE
Saturday, April 16 ... FaUST
Prices—Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls,
os,; Stalls, Is ; Family Circle. 2s.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
SURPRISING SUCCESS
SURPRISING SUCCESS
EACH NIGHT. EACH NIGHT.
The great HOSE A EASTON, Banjoist and
Comic Artist, appears in this hall, in coniunotion
with Messrs. JOHNNY COWAN, SAM KEENAN,
the great Soprano Miss BEATRICE JAMES, and
the other members of the company, numbering
30 Artists.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
I A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
T ARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
1J Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
m
*
DiRJ^fiASQ^
»ils :
APuRATOfTf
To Woak, Ncrtons Invalid*, and others
seeking Health and Strength.
DR. RICHASS,{??iar n En g .and.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, No.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large class of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure, I do not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
,ife-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduced the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this scarely ever being suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the l-ight
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the Si-ainary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered ney; and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Oalvdnic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every case
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, and I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPRING STREET (off Pitb-st.. Sydney.
Guinness’ Extra Stout
FIRST QUALITY,
'M
BASS’ PALE ALE,
SOLB PURVEYORS to the
COLONI AX MB INDIAN HHIIITIM
LONDON,
Bj Special Appointment,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES 1
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTON & GO
Commercial Piamberi, Rond-street, IriM'
The fresh food and iob company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DBPOT
No. 23 ROYAL ARCADE*
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, fca,, wtU
light refreshments.
At this Branoh, orders may be left ftr deliver;
by their earts.
They have also takes over the Agency ft
“ KOUMISS." so hlghlj recommended Id pulme
nary cemplalnts,
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00., LIMITED
Head Office 21 Harbour •rtree'i
Stables
Faotory
Liverpool-street
Mlttagong
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE.”
MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cnrea Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Prioe 4/8.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W.; London, England,
DR. O'CONNELL has Removed from his old
quarters, Opposite, and has been compelled
owing to hiy»r:i\alth and age to alter I'is hours of
consultation to 10 a.m. till 2.30 p.m. daily;
Saturdays, 10 a.m. till noon ; no consultation on
Sundays or holidays. Dr. O’Connell needs no
advertising, as all of his patients who have con-
jlted him, and have been cured of lost vigour,
health, and vitality, will make it known to their
friends, who can write and be cured.
Address —
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
57 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
lIATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited
89 COLLIN S STREET EL, MELBOTJBNB.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers,
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches —Chapel-st., Prabran ; Brunswick-st,, Fitzroy ; Bay-st, North Brighton; Dundas-pl., 8.
Melbourne ; Burwood-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office —20 & 22 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 80 PER CENT.
a rag xxss) CS'inty /<?^<9
P 17CKEM / * /??
C4ie/ a
rfn m ~***^-~
Af
ILLUSTRATION (In reduced sine) if J2l Order to bo found In tho
“LARGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
ADjUY, NRWTON, ft LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AMD
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C'CONNKLL STREETS
Ww-
■
" PIANOFORTE,
3&OO guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril art
te:-.s, In handsome oase.
Free at rail or wharves for
sash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS o t PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERB
Bagatelle boards, Portable, vari« us
aizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Coi •
nell-street.
me
CANVAS FOLDING
C'JTS, for cam pic g
out. A cheap occasional
bed —light, strcng, and
handy, 10b 6d.
* rad ley, Newton, & lamb,
Bentwood furniture.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Ac. Bradley, New
ton, and Lamb.
Full suites (or dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, ar.d DINING CHAIRS, f U
to match.
D
W
INING TABLES, with patent extendind
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES,
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
I C K
CHBSTB,
all sizes.
From iT«,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &*.,
VERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
■\TOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
1.1 SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
o'Connell-Btreet.
ALL-MIRRORS and BRACKETS, novelties
TT in Plsah and Velvets, and in all Woods,
from ss. 6d. each.
Elegant Venetian mirrors, richly
enamelled, in colours. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamh.
Drawing room cabl
NETS, Early EnglUh and
Chippendale deslgsr,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
fUUHTPI ■ W/RE'JOrSE mil
Impo -tars of High-art
Jtni nilure,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
"P|RA WING-ROOM FURNITURE.—The latest
■ r development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite, examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR,
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connall streets.
d
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.— Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices. HR ALLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Gonheil
streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BiUWTKADB, dll uni
Nloksl-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions at)
lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and!
THE MINISTER’S POODLE.
The following skit, by the late William
Forster, was recently travestied by Sir Henry
Parkes at Denillquin, the application being made
to Mr. Barbour. The person castigated hy Mr.
Forster was Gray, M.P., who was at the beck and
call of the late Charles Cowper :
“ The Minister's dog was a poodle Gray,
And ne dogged tne Minis er night and day ;
He ran upon errands when he was bid,
And he fetched and he carried—this poodle did.
The c iuse ne*er troubled him —wrong or right—
The poodle was ready with bark and bhe;
He took every job as it came in his way;
And no job was too dirty for poodle Gray.
The poodle was little, and round, and fa*,
And his nose was a good one for smelling a rat.
At a country club he was taught rare tricks,
And tutored in liberal politics,
For a nod or a wink he'd take the floor.
And yelp and growl for an hour or more ;
Though death to his heare s, to him twas play—
For a patriot poodle was poodle Gray.
A neat whipper-in did the poodle make—
He’d have whipped his own dad wh,‘n a vote was at stake.
The Minister’s herds he could whip together,
And muster the strangers in troubled weather—
Would rouse the slow-coaches at night from their beds,
And bring to the scratch the pumpkin-heads;
And the long-ear'd sort he d start to bray,
And join iu the chorus would poodle Gray.
The servants sit in the servants’ hall,
And the dogs may eat of the crumbs that fall:
But our poodle bargain’d for knife and fork—
For a slice of the loaf, and a draw of the cork.
Of jobs there are always enough and to spare,
And the poodle comes in for the lion’s share ;
And the people it is through the no3e that pay
For the keep of such varlets as poodle Gray.”
This was the text of the sermon At Bishop
F. F. Goe’s consecration at Westminster Abbey
24th February :—“ As they ministered to the
Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, ‘ Separate
me Hirnabis and Saul for the work whereunto I
have called them.’ ’ There was a dinner, how-
ever, after the ceremony, in spite of the tex% we’ll
be bound.
Rev. Sterling, Presbyterian minister of
Bundaborg (Q ), appears to have a high concep-
tion of oomplunsatiry remarks. Speaking at a
farewell meeting to his Wesleyan fellow-labourei
in the vineyard, he expressed his belief that the
latter was ’ almost good enough to bo a Presby-
terian." Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.
The big sensation in Ballarat (Vic.), is a
family of largo, unusually largo, children. There
are three of thorn, one 12, another 9, and a third
six years of ago. They weigh altogether 33 st. 11
lb 3. Curiously enough, their inclination to
a'fect alder manic proportions does not seem to
atfect their intelligence.
Stray dogs are giving much annoyance
to the people of Hobart (Tas.). Australia would
bo happy to take them in exchange for her stray
jords.
Seven wills, disposing in all of over
£300,000, were proved in London the other day.
The total amount left in charity was £MO


Rival Subscription-Li sts.
THE TWO WIDOWS ; OR, JUBILEE versus BULLI. To which will you give your money
