

The Bulletin
CORNER OF HUNTER AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY.
a
TJEib
■r ■ T
I I
111
n
-dr innraHL
Hi
I
iCURTIN
T. CTITECTELT.
Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles. Large and well-
-oedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance, Comfort of Guests first
r abion, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements
Perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams receive prompt attention.
V j. CURTIN, Proprietor.


%
OmTIATEP CffTALOfiOESlgiaCt* fOSTfftEE-
H.PALING&G 11 *"
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
FiANO.ORGANf MUSIC IMPORTERS,
br9est Stock ind greatest Variety m Australia - sivtn£ the
friNif Tha Wide if possible choice.-PIANOS from £4o,OROANS from £1?
* PAYMCtfI Tf MONTHLY' .INSTALMENTS TO SUIT AU CUSTOMERS
VXDUS PALING SvG PALING it 0?
spfd
esro
/ess
GouHHSrxttf
Trcacu
RFfUYfRS.
ujm.
7
mrm
fiiTuOr
mn
dEE
m
MiTiRWCiIiORS
TKDWH
2
uuau
MAO OfflCC l FACTORY. NCWTOWN
BRANCH. CCONCI SI SVPHCY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY.
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
CORNER Of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
I i -
Incorporated by Act op Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
She Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Yann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
The dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders a the
last Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
was as follows: — ~ _, .
Dividend paid to the rate of 12J per cent.
per annum *w» r* 1. 1 - t. ,J' Kmi E
Boons paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent.ji^^.
6 „ U per cent) A
" C r- >- r~
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
Agencies'ln London and throughout the worlds
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINBT DEPOBITB
OP DEEDS.! tailr ..
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowed t
At Call, 4 per cent.
8 Months, 5 per cent.
0 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent. _
WISH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OP
BIX AND TWELVE MpNTHB.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
portion of their deposits without notice, and
Will be allowed current interest for the period of
deposit. - « ni
The Share Register Is still open, and Intending
Shareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, formß of application for Bhares,
fee., fee. 1.1 lAI I . Jfc-,
f I **"• ' ” r
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS^
H. M‘NAMARA,*iu»^
SECRETARY 1
THOS. BUOKLAND,
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AQIBS
Ohabtkbs Towkbs.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineer*, Lincoln!
„ „ Langland'i Foondry Co., Melbourne, VU
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGBN7,
Mining Exchange,
charters towers, qubbhslahd.
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
»nd
Hare yonr Umbrella Frame* re-
oorered and your
Paraiol* re-lined and made eqna
to New, at *■:»
J. SULLIVAN'S,
fill George Street,
Briokfield Hill, between
lilrerpool and Bathurit Street!
Paraiol* made to matoh eoi
Isaac* Kanain neatly ezsratef
WIT.T.S 1 HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and [Families will find the old well*
known repntatlon maintained.
IMPERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
kir 5
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
te Of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
MU' First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings «—The “Western Cham-
pion" Bays i “ I can recommend the.Rockhampton
MafKf" 1 " to my western friends.'
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.!
Proprietress —Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood. |
First-class Family and Commercia£Hotel.
USE MOONEY’S iiCORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
L_ 0 --AA
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle. 5 w i m
Posted to all parts of the colonies free on receipt
it rtamp&UL^Elgwiy.
Chemist, Cootamnndra7 N.S.W.L
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilati d
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JjIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
lo fci' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doeobfux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
W hy Buffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
Thiß Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty tolbe the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
H. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Georsre-atreet only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored hetdth and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the oharges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr. J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Corner Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.
*
ORi
N A
BAK M/tf
P
%
6?
v/AUGH’s
0,
OBTAINED A
Fl|sT CLASS AWARtf |
!• •*' ' J
WLHEST DEGREE OF MERIT »
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
receivedthe international
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChanmon
Harbour S t Sydney
CSoMtyAll Crocers and SForekwpem
w
fyWv
-
4 2^
DtXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
DIXSON '& SONS’ CONQUEROR
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF
into New South Wales, and hence the B rea
of their brands. »i„
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco
Australia. nfPlOJf
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, cH
gold leaf. mtytUß®
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL Ml
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1
10,000 per hour, the choicest Vb*'
and Paris rice tissue. Full size* 80
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 c '® ar
NEW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital.
fjojgo
HONE’S
pile mixture.
2a. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute,
is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
IMZOUSTiKI’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A positive core. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
nVEOdSTEZ’S
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle,
[Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins tkeet East,’ Melbourne.
mining exchange hotel,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloock’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junk., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland,
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY EROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address —
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry ft Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL.
MOUNT MORGAN.
rgrfh
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
l »bonr, rtatlonerp, and Hate, writing aanoh tutor
“* n . "fPej* pen-men, and eondenilng matter to leu than
ena-hall the epaoe oerapied bp pen writing. Beautiful
*°2?is b® taken In the uiual manner In the letter-pren'
wholeeale and reUU bp the iole wento,
IMRJLY fc CO,}
<lO Kenb.gbrea6.S2
€.
'Sk.
tK
iIANUFXCTURCRS
t IMPORTERS OF
■ i. ~
HATS CAPS U
438 CEORCE ST
(SYDNEY
f
n
f
GRAND
bundabe* 10 '
hot^
Under New Manas
-SB o°^
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN T
for* 808
PLUNGE AND SHOWED
Good Stabling, and Loose Box® 8
DRAWING-ROOM FOB &
Having engaged a flrat-cla BB ® ’ B tfl o,
to cater for the public in a firs 1 ’
ALF. P. THOJ^.
BOSTON PROCTOR &C °'
•• TRIUMPH " THRASHING
Simon's Roller System or
Sole Agents« Q()o
E. 0. ELLIOTT
54» PENT
THE GREAT NOR?#®?2**^
GHA&LOTTB-PLACK AND "V
H AN N ■s>
■r
WHIS, SPIRITS, and fJJSvrffeJ
o-sasgssi^jss's&'H
you please from the list of l° w ' gooWf.h
Robertson's, Walker or ****££& Ir “
Danville's Shamrock and Burke s »•
Brian Boru Whisky ..**«•
Hennessy's * Cognac ” r
■■ *** ii •" *"
Square Gin _ - ' -
Jamaioa Rum '
Red Heart do. .. .• '
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies TL j*. pi
English Ales and Stout, best bra fS u<U
Port Wine for connoisseurs ana *• f g»J
Port Wine and Sherry from
Beat brands Whisky or Brandy tt , 0i
A 3 CASE ALSO A Tr»’ ,
Buperior ACCOMMODATION tJ)e cO oo‘f |gj, ijjyj
attention afforded to Visitors fr minion f/jfor
rooms are conducted under J£® h *2jil be » ,
late of Wellington (ST.Z.), which W> c “ ft
Guests will receive every on *** x
Wines, Spirits, and Beers always
papers kept on file.* ■
Qf^
if
_ #'S
: : it
;
ll»' e v i»
hjk
neß'
MAC!
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS*
LARGE
STOCKS
WITH
ALL
newestd^
HIGHEST FINIS
LOWEST cM
CPA'
*
A
w
y
ROBERT COC
SOLE
Sydney:
111, Pin STREET.
m
0 e
Kl^


The Bulletin
v ol B~No. 400,
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 12, 1887.
Prlofl, 0(1.
The “Queen’s Fund" Trick.
litis
jlu. tYori fS<i
FvnO.
* o iIV /Ka
«>»y
*ra Ca*(L 2
£3


“THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum Atl Os. Od.
Half-yearly ... ... ••• 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ••• ®
Cheques Drafts, Ac., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. V. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SaTJRDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1887.
The Australians for Australia.
Oliver Cromwell, England’s intelligent
despot, was an enthusiastic if rough re-
former, whose example New South Wales
electors would secure marvellous benefit by
following. “For shame! get you gone!
Give place to honester men ; to men who
will more faithfully discharge their trust,”
he said to England’s contemptible Parlia-
ment on the 20th April, 1653, when, with
these words and a file of soldiers, he
dismissed from their positions the trai-
torous crowd who had forfeited their
right to legislative position. They were the
degraded remnant of a bygone and disgrace-
ful era. Some of them had been of service
in time past, but their only remaining re-
commendation was the somewhat dubious
record of former achievements. They were
become an obstacle to national progress ; a
barrier against the achievement of national
greatness. A similar state of things now ob-
tains within New South Wales. An im
potent Assembly plays an empty farce of
legislation in the presence of a disgusted
paople ; with its present personnel it has de
graded beneath the level of public contempt,
and is practically useless, save for the pur
pose of blocking a national instinct of pro-
gression of which it has no knowledge and
with which it has, and can have, no sym-
pathy. Its “leading” members base their
renown -and draw their power from the
blotted and blurred records of a past which
speaks more eloquently of their shame than
to their credit; and the rest found
their repute upon the blind and gener
ally corrupt subserviency with which they
cringe to and fawn upon the “lead-
ing ” members who can only lead back
towards the dark, dismal and disgraceful
past. But all are aliens to a national senti-
ment which is rapidly growing in strength
despite the efforts of the Legislature to
restrain the ideas and thoughts of the people
within the narrow bounds of the rum-sta ; ned,
leg-ironed period of our history. Dr.
Cameron Lees was perfectly right in de-
claring that the taint of convictism was
noticeable in New South Wales : it runs
breast-high in the Assembly, and is rank and
oppressive in the Council. Not that any of
the members of either Chamber have ever
been among the chain-gangs, however much
certain of them might have deserved such an
experience, but in their thoughts and expres-
sions they betray the demoralisation wrought
in the “copper-top” and “silver-tail” era.
They review the free and fair present with
minds that belong to the time when the
whole colony was one gigantic gaol. Not
only in sentiment but in point of character,
or rather the want of it, are they as a body
unworthy of the electors whom they profess
to represent. Disgraced and fraudulent
insolvents sit with men who have carved
fortunes out of every species of infamous
trade. Politically notable men with morals
borrowed from the buried cities of the
Biblical era, rub shoulders with men whose
known mental deficiency is the only thing
that is known about them—men with the
gross minds of the bourgeoisie and the im-
becile brains of a decayed aristocracy.
Habitual drunkards whose record is verdi-
grised with the occasional mania of delirium
tremens sit with hopeless lunatics of the
prohibition order. And the broad arrow of
jobbery, of corruption, or of political*
swindles is indelibly stamped on the habits
of nearly all. Many of them only abstain from
robbing at the instigation of others because their
time happens to be fully occupied in planning
and executing robberies of their own.
* * *
Review of the members individually of
either House would prove the foregoing
generalisation to be perfectly just and per-
fectly true. It is not possible for a journalist
to compile a black-list of the infamies and
crimes of some of the members, nor to im-
pute the plain motives of manifold political
actions ; therefore the evidence submitted
must necessarily fall short of the foregoing
averments: but enough can still be Bhown to
prove the wisdom of directing public atten-
tion to the urgent necessity of abolishing
the present class of legislators and bringing
in a new crowd who will not altogether dis-
grace the country. Foremost in any such
review the idol of the daily Press, Sir
Henry Parkes, must appear. His record as
a private citizen may best be gathered from
the annals of the Insolvent Court ; his
liabilities in his two bankruptcies and the
present assignment prove his utter reckless-
ness in speculations, and his carelessness in
casting upon “friends” the burden of his
losses. He has received nearly £20,C00 as
salary from the State, but his extravagance
has dissipated sums far exceeding that
amount. And his political history is on a
par with such business transactions. It is
admitted even by his admirers that his power
for nearly two decades has been drawn from
the carefully-fanned flame of sectarian
bigotry ; latterly his sway has been the
outcome of a popular delusion made
possible by the blunders and malpractices
of his opponents, Admittedly he
has alternately championed and opposed
every great public movement, and he has
been idolised and denounced in turns by
every daily paper in Sydney. There is no-
thing in his Parliamentary career sufficiently
creditable to atone for the disgrace of his
semi-political business transactions. Next
to him may be counted Mr. “Cocky”
Burns, whose capacity may best be gauged
by his hideous blundering with the finances
of this year. Of any other public fame he
may have we do not now write ; it is weary
work describing nothing. “ Honest ” John
Sutherland merits a pitying allusion. What
he may have been once it is not necessary to
describe ; what he is now need hardly be
stated. Let his age and his growing infir-
mities be an excuse for the fact that Parkes
cannot trust him to answer a question in
the House or receive some deputations in
his own office, although he (Parkes) asks
the public to trust this poor, tottering
creditor of his with Ministerial office. Next on
the list of Ministers is the “ Hon.” Garrett,
whose boast it has been that his avowal of
one day is not to be regarded by him on the
next. The degradation of New South Wales
politics could hardly receive stronger proof
than Milburn Creek Garrett's retention of
office. The public memory is short, but it
is not capable of forgetting the public career
of this man. And no greater shame could
be fixed upon Parkes and Garrett than the
shame of their present union. Each has
vehemently and Bincerely described the
other in terms impossible except to those
who speak from behind the shield of Parlia-
mentary privilege. In so doing they were
probably right. It may be that each recog-
nised in the other his own political alter ego,
and on such grounds alone can the reason
of their present union be discovered. Francis
Abigail is a worthy member of the Parkesian
crew. Having won some public support
by his supposed vigour in detecting jobbery
he was lifted to office, and almost imme-
diately opened his official career by perpe-
trating the Bulli job, whereby a proved in-
competent—Mr. Mackenzie, to wit—was
maintained in a position which he had justly
forfeited. Professing large sympathy with
the “ poor man,” Abigail yet allows it to
be stated that he is a director of the usurious
Australian Banking Company, whose treat-
ment of the necessitous we have previously
described. But Abigail may console him-
self with the thought that he will not be the
most contemptible member of the Parkes
crew so long as Messrs. Clarke and Roberts
are his colleagues. The latter pair are well
enough known to pass without lengthy de-
scription. The one a traitor to the political
principles he used to profess ; the other a
lucky rum-seller, whom the C.M.G, ribbon
adorns as appropriately as the blue ribbon
adorns a prize onion. The Hon. Inglis is
happily suited in his present political com-
panions ; to him fluency of speech seems to
have been given for the special purpose of
revealing an astonishing paucity of wisdom.
Of him the best that can be said is that he
has never been accused of perpetrating any
gross job—mild praise indeed for a Minister.
Of B. R. Wise many good things were
prophesied. His advent was to have marked
the dawn of a brighter and purer day in
politics. He, a high-born, nobly-nurtured
English youth, was to have inspired mem-
bers, by the force of his example, to honester
and more honourable efforts. But the fact
has been otherwise. To the foolishness of
youth he has joined, in his public perform-
ances, the covetousness of old age ; instead
of lifting politics above suspicion, he has
caused, by unwise action, suspicions to
darken and deepen : his honourable instincts
seem, since his accession to office, to have
been overborne by a form of disingenuous-
ness which affixes a new stain upon our
public life. There is nothing in point of poli-
tical honour to distinguish him from any one of
his colleagues.
# * *
Contemptible from any point of view as
the New South Wales Ministry are, there
are few members of the present Opposition
who can afford to denounce them. G. R.
.Dibbs was too recently branded by Accoun
tant Thomson to have recovered his fitness
for membership ; and even if that matter
and the matter of dunipcars and his late
wonderful conversion to Protection were
forgotten, he has rendered no public service
for which he could be worthily remembered.
At the best he is but a reckless blunderer.
Mr. J. P. Abbott has wits keen enough, but
he has missed his destiny in coming to
Parliament, where his whole record has
been one of blustering, hesitancy, cowar-
dice and evasion. And so we might go
through the whole list of members right
down to John Haynes, and by so doing
show that the Parkes Ministry, despicable
as it is, is really in its personnel not much
below the average of the whole House. The
monotony of such a work is sufficient rea-
son why it should not be undertaken. Nor
would it be possible to find expressions
capable of describing the microscopic politi-
cal abilities of such men as Tonkin, Black,
Holborow, Ball, and their intellectual
peers. It must ever remain a mystery why
such men were able to delude the electors
who have committed to them the trust of
representation.
* * *
The causes of present political degeneracy
in New South Wales are not necessary to be
now stated. On previous occasions we have
shown that sectarian strife, sedulously
fomented by the Premier himself, and the
absence of any clear leading issues, are chiefly
responsible for the existing state of Parlia-
mentary degradation. Our present purpose
is rather to show the necessity of making a
clear sweep of the ragged and politically
dirty crowd who are now endowed
with legis’ative power, in order that men of
true Australian sentiment may have oppor-
tunity of guiding the affairs of this great
continent. In no other colony are the legis-
lators so vile as in the mother colony of
the Australias, but all the Parliaments are
at fault regarding the larger interests of
Australia. Each Parliament seems to glory
in perpetuating mean, narrow, intercolonial
jealousies, and every Australian Minister,
without a single exception, appears to be
more or less devoted to the work of main-
taining this territory as a mere province of
England—a market for her goods, a rubbish-
heap for the refuse of the United Kingdom.
The openly-purchased Imperial gew-gaw of
knighthood is more valued by Australian
“ statesmen ” than the highest approval that
can be awarded within one own States : the
“ Well done !” of a Rosebery more regarded
than the applause of all our own citizens.
The statesman who is capable of placing
England second to Australia does not now
exist in these lands : the Minister who can
find any higher pleasure than that of
grovelling to a duke is not yet
visible. “ Australia for the Austra-
lians ” is a motto that should ever
be esteemed, but “ The Australians for
Australia ” is no less Important. Under
the prevailing policy this land is the water
shed of a stream of wealth and power which
flows on to the United Kingdom. The life-
blood of the Australias is drawn by the Im-
perial vampire ; the true interests of these
colonies is made to subserve Imperial pur-
poses. Electors must rise to a right sense of
their responsibilities in these matters ; when
they do so the shoddy legislators of New
South Wales, and the narrow-minded Imperia l
lackeys of the other States, will be under
the necessity of confining their attention to
business which concerns themselves alone.
The broad lines of a true and patriotic Aus-
tralian policy are beyond their narrow range.
To as yet unknown Washingtons must be
left the task of guiding our States to their
manifest destiny : of fostering that national
sentiment which, by its growth, shall over-
bear and destroy the narrow and mean
questions which now are subjects for the
profitless wrangling of our parochial poli-
ticians.
The Usurer: the Workman’s Enemy.
“The Chairman (Mr. John Hurley, M.P.) now ad-
dressed the meeting at considerable length, pointing out the
satisfactory position of the Company, and congratulating the
shareholders on the very successful results of their first
year’s operations, and stating his conviction that a great suc-
cess was assured to the Company as it was established, and
filled a publicly-required and long-felt necessity. Whilst to
our shareholders he could safely affirm from the knowledge he
had acquired of the Company's operations, that the future divi-
dends would he such as to somewhat surprise them, at the same
time adhering to what must be considered (from the tem-
porary convenience afforded) only fair and legitimate rates
to borrowers. Referring to the Company as a field for in-
vestment, he was strongly of the opinion that nothing safer
could possibly exist, as the advances were made solely upon
sound and tangible securities with large valuation margins,
a policy which, if strictly adhered to, could not but always
result satisfactorily and profitably to our shareholders.”—
Extract from the report of the Australian Banking. Cos.,
Limited.
A periodical called the Australian Building
Societies and Mortgage Companies’ Gazette
last week ventured upon the fearsome task of
defending the action of Hon. Frawncis Habigail,
N.S.W. Minister of Mines, in posing as figure-
head of the “ Australian Banking Company a
pawnshop which grinds the faces of the poor.
And the Gazette does not write at random. Its
information is declared to be at first hand, a repre-
sentative of the paper having obtained the state-
meat of defence from Abigail himself. The first
excuse put forward on behalf of the Minister is
that he “ was induced to identify himself with
the Company on the importunate solicitation cf
several friends who represented to him that its
object was to render assistance to a large class of
impecunious people who would otherwise be
preyed upon by the 60 per cent, gentry.” As to
this plea we can only say that The Bulletin on
the 22nd October showed the Hon. Abigail that
the “60 per cent, gentry” were tender-hearted
philanthropists compared with the institution
which he has the disgrace of directing—an institu-
tion which was so rapacious and remorseless as to
actually charge a poor workman interest at the
rate of at least 120 per cent, on a loan secured by
bill of sale over his horse and cart. If Abigail
was ignorant of the methods of the Company at
first, he must know all about them now, yet
to-day (8th November) his name still appears on
the directorate in the “Back’s” advertisements.
The apologist Gazette continues: “In his
absence from Sydney, and (we understand) with-
out his consent, he was elected a director; but
has not had leisure to attend more than one or
two meetings of the board.” This is very paltry
and very thin. If he was elected “ without his
consent,” his acceptance of office, shown by his
attendance at board-meetings, is equivalent to
previous consent. He was elected on the 28th
July, and he has been advertised as a director
every day since then, yet his apologist claims for
him that the election was made “ without his
consmt ” ! Ye gods, what an excuse 1 And,
moreover, the Gazette will not dare to deny,
even upon the strength of first-hand information,
that Mr. Abigail, during some months past,
has been registered as the holder of 500 shades
in the “ Bank.” He, at any rate, will bene-
fit, or was in a position to benefit by
the extortionate sums wrenched from needy bor-
rowers. The plea that he only attended one or
two board meetings cuts both ways. If he, being
a director, so "grossly neglected his duty to the
public regarding this institution which, by ap
pearing as a director, he recommended, his offence
of negligence is not less shameful than participa-
tion in the “bank’s” management would have
been. Every director is responsible to the public
for the bona-fides of the company over which he
presides ; whether, by his neglect, he permits
improper proceedings to result, or whether he is
directly a party to such proceedings is practically
immaterial to inquire : he is morally responsible,
and legally responsible also, in either case. “ He
who permits oppression shares the crime.” And
the broad fact that Abigail still permits his name
to be advertised on the directorate sweeps away
all the sophistries of the Gazette. To plead ig-
norance in the face of our article of the 22nd
October is absolutely absurd. Further we
are told that Mr. Abigail has “already written
to the manager demanding an explanation,
and has jjalso requested the auditors of
the company—who are certified professional
accountants—to reply to “our quoted strictures
on the A. B. Coy’s, system of book-keeping.” But
as Mr. Abigail’s name is still on the directorate
it is only fair to conclude after the lapse of. 17
days that the explanation—which we would very
much desire to peruse—has been supplied and has
been deemed sufficient; regarding the system of
book-keeping followed, as evidenced by the
balance-sheet, our article of Idst week should
sufficiently show the breadth of criticism to
which that system is liable. As a further excuse,
the Gazette reprovingly urges that it is unfair to
hold a director responsible for the details of
management, and goes on to state that extreme
care is necessary in the selection of a manager.
There might be palliating force in this point, ex-
cept for two reasons: first, because it was not
the details but the principles of management
which The Bulletin reprobated, and second, the
Gazette does not show that extreme care
was taken in the selection of a manager.
Abigail’s apologist should have shown that
the illustrious Mr. Malcolm was selected with
extreme care, and that his whole commercial
career was complete justification for his appoint
ment. These facts, doubtless, could have been
proved, but no effort in that direction was made
by our critic. Lastly, THe Bulletin is charged
with having condemned Mr, Abigail Unheard.
Whether that is true or not, he seems to hate
become fully reconciled to the situation. There
is heavy responsibility involved in publishing a
groundless charge: we accepted that responsi-
bility with full knowledge of its weight. But if
Mr. Abigail has been unjustly treated, we are
willing to publish his defence to the extent of one
whole page of The Bulletin. We will not play
any larks with his M.S., but will correct all the
spelling, and, if he desires it, touch up the gram-
mar a bit. The space is entirely at his disposal.
We have no grudge against him : true, he owes
The Bulletin £25 for having shown that he once
posed as a Protectionist, but we have forgiven him
that amount. If he can prove that he is clear
in the matter of the Australian Banking Com-
pany a fount of minion is at his disposal—minion
is the type that would fit him best. But until he
does furnish that proof, and until his cO director,
John Hurtey, M.L.A.— John Hurley, who
once introduced into an Australian Parliament an
Anti-usury Bill —we shall regard them both as
men who have degraded, by their connection with
this concern, the positions they hold, and have
betrayed public confidence in their reliability.
The three golden balls should not be permitted to
grow upon the legislative sceptre: a pawnbroker
whi’e in business would not be selected as a
member; no man should be in the seat of a
Minister during the morning who might, by reason
of his position as director of a pop-shop, have to
check 100 per cent, bills of sale over second-hand
sewingmachines or vegetable-carts in the afternoon.
Public confidence and popularity is apt to depart
from men who direct 100 per cent, loan and
pawnshops and hold shares therein, and for these
reasons it is necessary that Messrs. Francis
Abigail and John Hurley should at once pubilcly
announce any defence they may ha\ o regarding the
transactions of which we have written.
Postage-stamps of new pattern are to be
issued as part of the N.S.W. Centennial com-
memoration. Premier Parkes ought to see that
anew pattern of receipt-stamp—bearing his own
portrait— is also issued on this occasion.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
What is the “Godly" Press giving
us?
We call the immortal gods to witness that the
S.M. Herald winks a wicked eye at the practice
of cock-fighting on the Sabbath day. Read this
startler
“ Perhaps you have never seen a pit when the birds were
game and the backers confident ?"
We would smile at the naive assumption. But
read on.
“ Such exhibitions are brutal.no doubt ——Oh! rest tran-
quil ; lam not going to defend them; only, you see, if birds
will fight, and if men will back them, why—fowls have
fought and men have betted since the beginning, and will
probably continue fighting and betting to the end.”
This from Saturday’s issue, and written by a
flippant wretch who affected to perceive two
butchers—in what, we presume, was cold blood—
carrying birds to the cockpit on a recent Sunday
morning! The descent to hell is easy, but who
of those who knew and groaned over the Herald
of old would credit such a fall from grace ? We
will never look in the face of Dr. Jefferis again
without distrust of that faraway look in his holy
eyes—>
As though he saw through time and space,
A cock-fight in a distant place.
But that is not all. The old lady had the bearing-
rein off completely on Saturday. Here’s another
slice of her. Talking of Cameron Lees, who
smartly wrote in the Scotsman that we were as
proud of our harbour as if we dug it out our-
Belves, we get this in an editorial : —
“ If this had appeared ancraymously we would say it was
written by a careless, shallow, ignorant, credulous, muddle-
headed globe-trotter ”
This diarrhoea of adjectives is too bad. To heap
up qualificatives in this unscientific way is jejune
and crude, but it is distinctly bald-headed all the
same. It lends a tender human interest to
Herald reading. Even the gentle cow-boy didn't
leap at a bound to his mastery of invective, and
neither the Herald nor the cow-boy can touch us
when we take the lid off. But it’s hopeful—re-
assuringly hopeful. We have some epithets on
file in this office to which our contemporary may
one day be very welcome, if it persevere. But we
give these quotations to lead up to something that
comes after in another part of the same glittering
issue. There was another unhappy wretch flogged
the other day, and mirabile dictu ! —the Herald
disapproves. The Bulletin has condemned this
relic of convictism from the first; but then we
always had a sneaking weakness for cook-flghting
and lurid epithets. We did so distinctly on the
ground, ami ngst others, that the creatures flogged
were fitter subjects for an asylum or a hospital.
But hear the Herald ! The victim is called a
“ weak, pitiful creature,” not a brutal ruffian this
time. At the thirteenth stroke the doctor ordered
him down. Our excerpt says that “ mentally -
diseased persons,” fit subjects for the opinion of
“ medical experts,” are usually the flogger’s vic-
tims ; and that we sometimes
“ torture the miserable victims of mental disorder. But then
they are generally poor and friendless people, so it doesn’t
matter.’
From this the sequence—the patent ingenuity of
leaving such men at the mercy of magistrates,
acting independently of a jury—
Ha“ It is an extraordinary thiDg, when you come to think of
it, the powers we put into the hands of a couple of men
whom we only value at Jt‘Boo a year .... You will
generally find that the accused is expected to make out his
innocence instead of the prosecution being called upon to
prove his guilt."
All this is quite true, but how did The Herald
find it out ? Was it by reading The Bulletin ?
This is not the only direction in which this paper
has educated its contemporaries, and though it
flatters us to see that our seed has not been cast
upon barren soil, we cannot bub grieve with the
judicious at the manner in which the Aged has
fallen away. There is enough frivolity, slang-
whanging, and commonsense in last Saturday’s
issue to make the remains of dead-and gone sub-
scribers turn in their untimely graves.
♦
An Australian Horror.
Judge Windeyer is coming back refreshed and
ready for further labours in the way of thinning
out criminals from the population of New South
Wales, and on his return the case of the convict
Newman, whose life sentence forms a part of the
gay farce of Mount Rennie, will be considered
afresh. Circumstances have at last led the au-
thorities to tacitly, if not openly, confess that this
wretched boy had no share in the alleged outrage
which, thanks to the effusive testimony of a pave-
ment-trotter and a guttersnipe with a smudged
character, added to the brutality of the New
South Wales law and the miserable incompe-
tency of Governor Carington, handed over four
children to the hangman, and, having had no trial
hitherto, Newman is now to be indulged in the
luxury of an informal inquiry into the merits of
his case. The other alleged violators of Mary Jane
Hicks, formerly of Sydney, and now of a New Zea-
land reformatory, had at least some semblance of a
trial—as the word “trial” is understood in New
South Wales; Newman had none. He had no
counsel except such as was assigned him by the
Crown, and assigned counsel have no money to
spend in getting up evidence. He was slow,
stupid, and partially deaf; he had no idea of the
system of subpoenaing witnesses, and he had no
one to look after this matter for him ; and when
he came into Court he looked round with the
helpless aspect of a caged animal In the presence
of deadly danger, , expecting that somehow
or other the witnesses on whom he relied
would spontaneously arrive and be ready
to save him. So ignorant was he of
the nature of his position that he did
nob even appeal to his own assigned coun-
sel, but addressed himself piteously to the lawyer
paid by or on account of some of his more for-
tunate companions. “I want my witnesses,” he
wailed, helplessly; “I want my witnesses, and
they’re not here. Can't you do anything to help
me T’ The empty farce of verbally summoning
the witnesses was gone through, but name after
name was called out and no one answered, and
then the prisoner, stunned, bewildered, and utterly
helpless to move on his own behalf, sab
down—and then stood up to be sentenced to
death. No doubt if he had appealed loudly
enough the polioe would have been de-
spatched to look up the missing evidence,
and had this been done the daily Press would
have declared that the demands of justioe were
fully satisfied. If one or two policemen had been
sent out at the last moment in search of evidence
to destroy their own carefully-prepared case for
the gallows, it would have been the utmost that
could have been done to save a boy’s life from
the hangman. But even this little was left
undone, and the energies of the force were ex-
pended only on the work of smothering the ugly
Past record of Mary Jane Hicks, and bringing
that worse than dubious character in a white-
washed condition to the witness-box, and in try-
-IQg to keep Stanley straight for the few weeks
he was wanted, and ohoking off the tales which
that flying Munchausen related about his ad-
ventures when he was kidnapped and marooned
at Newcastle. Amid all the se adverse circum-
stances Newman went like a dumb, driven victim
to the slaughter. His deafness rendered him
unable to fully hear the evidence brought
against him, and his assigned lawyer’s de-
fence consisted of little more than an
appeal for mercy on the ground that
his olient had had no chance and no real trial.
Had the case been one where £lO or less was in-
volved it would have, no doubt, been adjourned
to admit of the witnesses being found and brought
forward, but human lives go fast in New South
Wales, and cash goes very slow. In the informal
trial which followed, the Cabinet was equally di-
vided, and Lord Carington —the fount of mercy,
and the holder of the Queen’s prerogative—ulti'
mately went with the section which voted for a
savage vengeance unprecedented in the history of
civilisation. Newman escaped the gallows, and
was sent in chains to life-long penal servitude, be-
cause his doomed companions, before stepping
on to the gallows, testified positively to
his innocence, and what is asked on
his behalf now is a fair enquiry in which he will
not be pitted, virtually single-handed, against the
police, the Crown lawyers, the smirched damsel
of the pavement whose ugly antecedents were
covered up that her evidence might bear the
additional weight which attaches to an unspotted
character, the whitewashed Stanley, who dare
not collect the testimonial subscribed on his be-
half, and whose mysterious arrest for forgery—
with his subsequent discharge—is yet unexplained,
and the whole weight of the daily Press howling
for blood—blood at any price. It is too late to
talk of the miserable lads who were hanged in such
haste lest the country should repent of what had
been done, and it can only be hoped that
the deep damnation of that holocaust may
serve as an example which will save the lives of
others. Australia might borrow something from
the much-ridiculed judicial system of America in
cases like this. The Chicago Anarchists who,
after months spent in appeals, are at last to be
hanged for their acts of a year ago, will be exe-
cuted because, rightly or wrongly, the great bulk
of the sentiment of the country is decidedly
against them. Had even half that time been
allowed to the Mount Bennie convicts, New South
Wales would have had time to grow ashamed of
the slaughter she was about to commit in defence
of—not female virtue—but the merchantable
article which the harlot vends at Cvery street
oorner of a great city.
+
Protection and War.
A desperate random kind of argument much
affected by modern Freetraders is that war is
caused by Protection. The exact meaning of this
mysterious assertion has never been explained
closely enough to be reached by guesswork, but
the converse of the statement —that war causes
Protection, has riveted itself on the outside edge
of a slab of solid truth. After terrific, wasteful,
and ruinous wars most nations have been forced
to go in for a solid, all-round system of Protection.
But, far from discrediting the policy, as the
“ Freetrade grincer,” the Hon. Wise, desires it to
do, this fact is in reality a magnificent testimony
to the righteousness and benefits of Protection.
For if this policy is the only one capable of sus-
taining a ruin-stricken nation, it is evident
enough that Freetrade, if good at all, is only good
when the nation is in so prosperous a state as to
be able to sustain any policy. But war, be it re-
membered, is not the only thing capable of com-
mercially debasing a nation, and as the devasta-
tion of battle is the cause alleged by the local
Cobdenites which has rendered Protection a ne-
cessity in the States, Germany, and France, so it
may happen that the devastation of other in-
fluences—Freetrade, for instance—may render the
former policy a necessity for New South Wales.
Precedents of this kind are abundant. Canada
was driven to Protection when Freetrade had
driven her industries into the States ; the States
were forced to protect themselves when English
competition had achieved the ruin of Ameri-
can internal trade. Each of the Austra-
lasian colonies is in one of the various
stages of a similar evolution ; and Eng-
land herself, crippled in her home trade,
and retrograding in her every industry, is rapidly
verging towards a similar state of things. Her
ruined farmers have been urging a Protective
tariff for years past; her manufacturers are now
seeking for protection against the foreigner in
colonial markets; and her are to-
day raising a vehement voice against the bastard
system of Mill and Cobden which is rapidly
achieving the ruin of their industry. And, in view
of these facts, we are not wildly anxious to deny
the fact that ruin and depression in any nation
are usually followed, and abolished, by a Protec-
tive policy. We give the Calico Jimmies the full
benefit of that truth, but, as a kind of set-off,
would claim their unwilling attention to that
other no less evident fact, that in the history of
any nation it will certainly be found that sooner
or later Freetrade is followed by ruin and depres-
sion. This is so in the history of New South
Wales. The ruin which has compassed some
trades, the depression which has long resided
upon others, and the Great Deficit Bird which
casts its gloomy shadow on a fertile land, are
in very truth the causes which shall shortly in-
dice electors to disperse the Freetrade crowd to
the uttermost ends of the political earth, in order
that other and wiser rulers may grant to the State a
patriotic policy of Protection to native industries.
4
The Victorian Chinaman.
The Victorian Government has resolved to take a
preliminary step towards dealing with the spotted
leper. Their latesb ukase sets forth that no more
naturalisation papers are to be issued to the alien
who eats his chow-chow beneath the shadow of
the Victorian flag, and the legal fraud by which
the soiled dog-eater and kitten-soup man from
afar off is turned into an Australian without even
being washed is thus done away with at once and
for ever. The tripe-coloured dodger will shine no
longer at the polling booth as a “ Blitish citizen,”
and when he comes to Melbourne in order to
“ oatohee him stamp ” for a few short years and
then return to his native flowery land, he will
have to dispense with the disguise in which he
has been wont to cover his yellow soul, and
appear in his own natural character. He has
been tried as a white man, and he has even en-
deavoured at times to persuade himself that he
was one by calling himself Donald Macitikrson,
or John Ah He Smith, or he has changed his
Aiti Lin into A. Flynn, but Victoria has grown
weary of him in this capacity, and as he is also
making the colony pretty tired in his own natural
aspect he may regard this ukase as a hint that the
time is near when he will have to flee. Perhaps
when he is prohibited equally as a Chinaman, an
Australian, and a Hongkong Englishman, he may
eDjoy a short though merry existence as one of
the lower animals by coming in on all fours and
paying his dog-tax, but if he reaorta to this expe-
dient it will only serve him for a time. Victoria
w|ll soon get tired of his midnight bark, and it
will probably be found that he is worse as a dog
than he was as a parody on a human being.
Coming, as it does, so soon after the visit of the
blusterous General Ho, the decision of the Victorian
Government ought to serve a useful purpose as a
warning to the opium-chewing Asiatics who have
put their trust in the promises of that petticoated
warrior, and if the other Australian colonies will
promptly follow the example thus set them, hispur-
pose of fitting Australia for the Chinese will prove
somewhat less feasible than he lately imagined.
The Chinaman’s attempt to turn himself into a
white Australian by a legal fiction is insult added
to injury, and we trust a sense of the extent of
the insult will accelerate his expulsion. Besides,
the transition is too violent to be good for him.
Let him go back to his Middle Kingdom and turn
himself into a monkey, and work slowly up
the Darwinian scale as the white man himself
had to do. Then let him come back to Australia
a million years hence and try again.
The Late Carl Feilberg.
The outline of events which go to make up the
limited biography of our friend and brother jour-
nalist, Carl Feilberg, editor of the Brisbane
Courier, appeared in these columns several
weeks ago, and have been more or less inaccurately
repeated in other newspapers. Nothing resembling
the real man, such as the inner circle of his friends
knew him, has appeared elsewhere, or is likely to
appear. He was small in stature, and rendered
smaller by a stoop that was almost a hunch. His
little head was covered with close black hair and his
face by a thin moustache and beard. He wore spec-
tacles, being almost blind of one eye and very short-
sighted of the other. This resulted from his once
well known fracas with an American in Cook-
town, who revenged himself for an exposure oj
his malpractices in Feilberg’s paper by a sudden
attack with a whip-handle struck violently across
the brow and eyes. Feilberg was stunned and
made helpless on the spot, but a few days later,
when he had sufficiently recovered to see a few
yards before him, the plucky little man challenged
his assailant to fight him over a handkerchief 1
The Amerioan left Cooktown ruined, and is since
dead. Feilberg was an interesting example of a
genuine cure of phthisis. He had a large cavity in
one lung when he landed in Australia, and his several
years' stay in the Barcoo as storekeeper on a
station left him with no further respiratory trouble
than a short wind and incidental phlegm spitting.
He was a Dane by breedingandbirth, and never for-
got or forgave the Prussian invasion. His hatred of
Germany amounted to an idee fixe, and he made
every paper he wrote in a vehicle for denunciation
of Bismarck and the Prussians. His contempt
of the Irish (by whom in Queensland he was
known as “that damned Feilberg”), which also
arose from his early acquaintance with individuals
of the nation, was of a similar character. He
believed them to be utterly incapable of self-
government ; but it says something for his love of
the light that when, some two years ago, he was
brought into contact with one on whose observa-
tion he thought he could rely, and who emphati-
cally denounced the iniquities of the Lsnd laws
in Ireland, he allowed his paper to be led round
and admit this. His visws on the Land question
in Queensland were based on the settlement of
peasant proprietors by land-grants. He wrote every
article against Dutton’s Land Act himself, and it is
not too much to say that he ruined any reputation
the man or the measure bad enjoyed. He was a
moderate Protectionist after his return from Vic-
toria, and was slowly modifying the Courier’s
Freetrade platform when he fell under the in-
fluence of an American alleged disciple of Henry
George, and the platform was restored, The
circle of his friends was a very small one, and
this, it is to be added, was his wish. His life was
spent in his home and at his office. On Sunday
mornings and afternoons those who shared his in-
tellectual life were wont to sit in his broad
verandah, discussing things more or less ve-
hemently, while the whole small circle might be
seen at his fortnightly Sunday-evening “At
homes.” His religious views were, in a quite un-
dogmatical sense, agnostic. He felt that the
Christian miracles and dogmas were discredited,
and the force of its ideas mostly played out, and
he was hostile to the parsons in consequence, as
more or less spiritual quacks. He was a president
of a secular vigilance lodge in the crisis of the
educational question But he had no belief in
any of the modern creeds, and held
that the look-out into the future was a
sad one. His opinions in all things were
most decided, and enunciated with an amus-
ing certainty, but he could not b 8 unaffected by
any new or better knowledge that was brought
before him, and this would presently appear in
modifications and even occasional conversions.
He was utterly simple and unaffected, and the
kindliest of the kindly. He was loved in the
office for his obstinate loyalty in defence of any-
one attacked or in a scrape. His ceaseless little
charities were all done in the dark, and had the
extra merit of coming from a purse that was
never too full. As a journalist, he was neither of
the old school nor of the new, but represented
here, as in his spiritual beliefs, a period of tran-
sition. He conducted his paper after the played-
out model of the London Times, and the Brisbane
Courier, like the Melbourne Argus and the
Sydney Herald, was a shining example, from
the reader’s point of view, of a maximum of
trouble required to get a minimum of news.
Feilberg had not the gift of personal attraction—
nay, rather the reverse—to strangers and acquain-
tances. But those few who got tc know him
well found also that they had got to love him.
He passed quietly away in his sleep, alone, no one
suspecting the end was so close, and the world is
the poorer for his going.
*
We were prostrated with grief on learning that
Spurgeon had seceded from the Baptist Union
because its younger members are beginning to
lose faith in the doctrine of everlasting torment.
The news came upon us like a hundred of bricks,
knocking the Irish question, the New Hebrides
difficulty, and the Imperial Institute clean out of
our bewildered brain. A certain sense of impend-
ing evil went all down our back. We have suf-
fered from want of appetite, dimness of sight,
and general debility ever since. Out here in Aus-
tralia, forsooth, one can afford to take most, of the
European troubles in a philosophical spirit, but it
is painful to hear of anything serious happening
to the dear old mother land. And our idea is
that if Spurgeon has really given up the
Baptist Union on account of his reverence for that
fine old institution, hell, the fate of England is
sealed. The Constitution must rapidly go buDg.
A London cablegram in last week’s Australian
daily papers says that Lord Selborne avers he
cannot support Gladsione in his Irish policy, as
it “ practically means spoliation and anarchy.”
“ Spoliation ” —a good word. The dictionary
tells us that the word “ spoliation ” means,
amongst other things, an act of plundering, rob-
bery, deprivation. Now Lord Selborne, the
pensioner, has been “plundering” the British
Exchequer for the past 14 years, of five thousand
pounds sterling per annum as a reward for having
served under this same Gladstone as Lord Chan-
cellor of England for eighteen months ! Seventy
thousand pounds sterling he has thus “deprived"
the British Treasury of. He was an English bar-
rister before his “ennoblement,” and known as
Roundell Palmer. We like to hear a greedy
lawyer-pensioner talk of “ spoliation.”
+
Aquilla Sharply, a sober and moral member of
the Y.M.C.A., bought a little plot of land in the
genteel suburb of Toorak (Melb.), and built thereon
a pleasant villa residence. Aquilla smoked not,
neither did he drink—gambling of any sort he
held an abomination in the sight of the Loard.
But having read somewhere in the Blessed Book
that marriage is a holy state, this steady-going
young Christian wooed and won a maiden who
would soon have become Mrs. S., if Providence
hadn’t otherwise arranged. Aquilla’s method of
preparing a home for his future bride was sim-
plicity itself. At nightfall, after reading the
usual chapter, he would slip his Bible in his
pocket and prospect the neighbourhood He
found that the Loard provided timber, window-
sashes, doors, venetian-blinds, galvanised iron,
mantelpieces, grates, and other necessaries for
whomsoever chose to collect them from unoccupied
and unguarded premises. In answer to fervent
and prolonged prayer, Aquilla even discovered a
horse and buggy by the roadside, also a bicycle
and a wheelbarrow. The bicycle he rode to
Y.M.C.A. meetings, and the wheelbarrow was a
source of much comfort when he went col-
lecting the herbs and flowers that grew
in other men’s gardens. The horse and
buggy were special blessings from on
high, enabling Aquilla to remove furniture on
easy terms. Now it was a looking-glass he
brought home—then a sofa and an easy-chair—
anon the bridal bedstead. But when domestio
arrangements were completed, and all was in
readiness for his love, lo ! the Loard put it into
Aquilla’s heart to remove a darned incriminating
pair of carriage-wheels from a stranger who
sojourned near. They were identifled, investiga-
tions were made, and one by one people came
forward to claim bits of the villa residence. By
this time the young man was wearing the mar-
tyr's crown in quod, charged with larcenies. It
was a clear case of religious kleptomania (on his
counsel’s own showing) and yet they gave Aquilla
four years’ hard. And thus “ a most rigid, moral
and exemplary life ” is blasted in its early spring-
time, while thousands of drinking, smoking,
gambling young villains who never go to church
are furnishing on the hire system and flourishing
in sin.
*
J. L. Purves, the Melbourne barrister, is very
much disturbed by the presence of French con-
victs in the New Hebrides. They can put no
briefs in his way, and they offend his Imperial
instincts altogether. To a man like Purves, who
knows what “ bounce” will accomplish and bully-
ing bring about, it is incredible that France is
allowed to stick to the New Hebrides in spite of
earnest protests from the Australian Natives'
Association. He can’t think what England is
doing—ignoring Graham Berry, slighting Ser.
vice, and even closing its ears to the roar of
Alfred Deakin. And in his dilemma Purves
has lifted up his voice and prayed for “ one brief
day of that great and glorious Jew who led the
fortunes of England some little time ago.” “If
they still had (this is Purves' professional opinion
without a fee) the man who took Egypr, who
seized Cyprus, &c., &c.—if England had that man
for but one hour—she would have the New
Hebrides ; and if there was not a man of that
stamp in England, then let them get one in Aus-
tralia by all means.’’ Be-e-autiful 1 But we can-
not erijoy another five minutes of Beaconsfield
because he is dead, and Sir Salmon Wilson lives
in ’is ’ouse. Neither do we think that England
has any more great and glorious Jews on hand.
So there's nothing for it but to look around the
local market for the stamp of man we want.
Purves it is.
4.
The tenth-rate pseudo-Jingolstic “Imperialism,”
which certain snobbish influences have brought
about in the Queensland Defence Force, has had
some pretty comments already, and there are
more to follow. Colonel French, an “ Imperial
Service ” officer who bosses the “ Land Forces,”
has several times come into collision with the
civil authorities owing to his supercilious, over-
bearing ways, but so far the private friendship of
Sir Samuel Griffith has pulled him through.
The Gayundah, the Queensland gunboat lying
idly month by month in the river below Brisbane,
has been turned into nothing more than a floating
club for its “Imperial Service” officers, who
think it is the correct thing to treat all colonials
with the genuine British bounce. Then Lieutenant
Hesketh was found to have entered upon some
queer pecuniary transactions, including the bor-
rowing of money from his men, and was
dismissed. And now another officer is asked
to refund the Government £lO9 and resign. Both
the Lieutenant and the officer last referred to
of course, talked big about “Imperial Service
rules,” and all that, and Hesketh had the colossal
cheek to deny the jurisdiction of the court that
convicted him. Now, is it not about time “ Im-
perial service ” officers should be made to under-
stand, once for all, that they are simply employes,
like the Civil servants, or anyone el6e, and that, if
they do not behave themselves, they will be sent
packing further ? It has been an open secret for
long in Brisbane that the mismanagement of the
Queensland “ Naval Department” was frightful,
and that the accounts would not bear auditing.’
Instead of attending to the work at the office, the
place was turned into a sort of smoking and
louDging-room for the “ officers ” and their female
sassiety friends. The “Imperial service '
people seem to have an idea that they ought to
be the objects of peculiar consideration. The
gods alone know why! A more useless, badly
painted, figure-headed fet of idling obstructionists
is nowhere to be found in the inhabited globe.
Wherever they have had the chance they have
thrown cold water on all improvement and exten-
sion of the Defence Force as a really national
institution. The British Army is not a first-class
model to begin with and to go on with. These
British officers we are honoured with are for the
most part not first-class members of it. All the
British Army has done these 17 years has been to
timidly imitate the German, and the “ Imperial
oflicers” who come to Australia are generally
those who had no chance of making a splash at
home. Colonel French is a theoretic soldier who,
so far as we can ascertain, has never seen war,
and the same is true of the Queensland naval
officers. This crowd must be shown that we only
employ them to earn their wages by real work, or,
if they won’t do it and won’t keep civil tongues in
their heads, why they may go to England
again.


POLITICAL
POINTS
HeydonV“ Creation ” —The N.S.W. Pro-
tectionist Union.
A Marylebone (Eng.) magistrate has stated
that starvation is no excuse for stealing.
At Wardell (N.S.W.) there is some talk of
getting up a subscription for those to whom
Parkes owes money.
Signs of the times. The reduction of the
N.Z. Governor’s screw and the income-taxing of
the Governor of South Australia.
The Evening News is preparing to “ turn
dog "on Parkes. This is a sign that the Hon.
John Sutherland is about to retire from the
Ministry.
The Age is afraid that Gladstone will dis-
integrate the Empire. Yet Gladstone is not
behind the Age. It’s the age (also the Times)
that’s behind Gladstone.
Haynes, M.P., seems to pride himself on
the fact that he has never been outside N.S.W.
This is a merit he shares in common with the
gum trees and bandicoots of his electorate.
In a post-guzzling oration the other day
in London Sir Graham Berry said that the union
of the Empire was the hope of the future. Very
near it. The hope of the future K.C.M.G.
Truth will out, sometimes. Parkes pub-
licly calls his most strenuous supporters “ fools,"
They 6pread-eagle his measures in their speeches,
but vote for them en masse. We mean en ass.
Says the Wellington (N.Z.) Anti-China-
man :—“ Hook LI Yah Bros, is the name of the
slant-eyed gentlemen starting a large store and
stinking cabbage and leprosy-distributing depot in
Wanganui."
Ninian Melville, M.P., objects to the
N.S.W. Premier “grunting and groaning” in the
House. Melville, as an experienced undertaker,
knows that the symptoms are not genuine, and
that’s what riles him.
A Sydney paper, wishing to compliment
Abigail, says: “ The little man has a habit of
going straight for the people.” The little man’s
“ bank ” has a way of going for the people to the
tune of 120 per shent. per annum.
In N.S.W., nowadays, every alleged
charity meeting breaks up with cheer 3 for
“ Parkes and the Queen.” One of the causes of
the great Wolsey’s downfall was his unfortunate
habit of saying “ Myself and the King.”
Two hundred and fifty Chinamen have
lately arrived in New Zealand under engagement
to work in local coal and other mine 3 at 6d. per
day. The N.Z. Freetraders must rejoice at this
the latest development of their beloved theory.
The report of the evidence given before
the Commission appointed to enquire into the
purchase, for £29,000, by the Parkes Government,
of a piece of land at Circular Quay, Sydney,
which land, it is alleged, would have been dear at
£9OOO, will be a startler.
Walker, Victorian Commissioner of Cus-
toms, holds that tombstones are luxuries and
liable to import duty. Walker will now probably
propose an excise duty on coffins. We should like
to hear Undertaker Melville, M.P., of the N.S.W.
Assembly, on the question.
The N.S. W. Government have picked out
the best-paid officials as those who are to travel
free by rail. Says an old showman : “ Blest if
they haven’t made loafers of the very swells we
count on as safe to fill the dres3-oircle and the
private boxes nearly all the year round ! ”
“ New South Wales may yet pay dearly
for Sir Henry Parkes and Freetrade. The hon.
gentleman has managed to create the impression,
or, in fact, establish the belief, that he is indis-
pensable to the country, and that the breaking up
of the Government would be a public calamity.”—
Evening News.
Morehead, M.L.A. of Queensland, is a
man of considerable language, and his speech is a
running river of gruesome compliment. He got
to loggerheads recently with the Ministar for
Works, and likened him to “an ill-conditioned
cockroach foraging in pigeon-holes to detset the
actions of his predecessors ”
Here is a staggering fact. Every day the
politicians of N.S.W. waste in dilly-dallying over
the bringing in of “anew Rabbit Bill," at the
very lowest computation 250,000 rabbits are born.
On the basis of the price to be paid in future for
rabbit-killing—viz , ljd per head—this means
between £l5OO and £l6OO daiiy !
In some of the N.S.W. gao’s the prisoner
who weakly announces himself as a Deist is
“ punished” by being preached at by the minister
of some more fashionable persuasion ; and the
Minister for Justice thinks it would hi a clear
“ waste of time and money ” to bother about any
convictions save those duly arrived at in court.
Says the Melbourne Age in a leading
article :—“ Even if our armies are reoruited from
the sweepings of the gin-shop and the gaol, they
fought at the Soudan a 3 wall as they ever fought
at Waterloo and the Crimea ; and have they not
turned out heroes like Gordon and generals like
Wolseley.” Hum Iwe wonder which of these was
swept out of a gin-shop and which out of a gaol ?
Those who talk bosh about the advantages
Australians derive from a political connection
with England are hereby requested to explain in
what way it is an advantage to be called upon to
pay for the work of transmitting the mails for
which England received the postage ; and also to
say, if this is the sort of thing we are to get in a
mere bargain, what are we to look for in a matter
of rule ?
Under the head of “ Amusements ” in a
Sydney daily journal we find advertised amongst
the speakers at an r ,Orange demonstration Brother
John Haynes, M.P. It is most apropos that the
Mudgee man should be advertised as an “ amuse-
ment,” bub, by the piper that played before Moses,
all the holy water blessed in the colony Bince the
first pair of leg-irons landed won’t wash out the
iniquity.
Fiji boasts of a recent enacbment by which
the indulgence of the nigger in “heathen prac
tices” briegs down on him fine, imprisonment,
and public flogging. This law is not entitled
“ The Bashed Cannibals’ Conversion Act," but it
ought to be. Or else “ The Skinned Heathen’s
Shortest Road to Heaven.” How would that do ?
Or “ The Ignorant Niggers’ Flogging and Salva-
tion Bill.”
A correspondent of a N.Z. paper writes as
follows :
11 Like many young men who take an interest in politics, I
should like to know how it is Freetraders manage to avoid
the following question—Seeing that a first-class quality of
wheat can be nurchased in India at 9d. per bushel and
landed in N.Z. at 3d per bushel freight, or Is. per bushel in
all, how do the Freetraders propose to save our wheat-
growers from ultimate ruin ? Ihave just arrived from India,
and know the price I have mentioned to be correct."
When England and not Australia i 3 in
question the Argus can admit that the agitation
for a greater share of the rights of existence to the
working classes is a sign of moral elevation, not
degradation. The newspaper in question is show-
ing signs of conversion, which are comforting, if
genuine. Perhaps some day it will acknowledge
that people in general, besides wool growers and
smuggling merchants, have rights even over here.
A little notice in a Sydney paper informs
us that “ Murrill Creek Station on the Lachlan
has been sold in Melbourne." Now why, oh,
Pulsford, is it that every time a valuable N.S.W.
squatting property goes into the market it is sold
in protected Melbourne, instead of in Sydney, the
flourishing capital of New South Wales, and why
do almost all the wealthy N.S.W. squatters reside
in the benighted colony of tariffs and financial
darkness 2 We would be glad to know.
Parkes, it is easy to see, is really sick of
his State-house scheme, and is “sorry he spoke.”
Any reference to the projected edifice in which he
was wont to take such premature pride riles him
terribly. The proposal now sits right down on his
manly chest every night, and nothing would
please him better than to see the scheme, as well
as the subject, buried for ever in the black vaults
of eternal oblivion. The State-house, for all
practical purposes, is dead as real Freetraade.
Pardonable curiosity is being exhibited in
the Victorian Parliament over the question of
Chief-Secretary Deakln’s expenses during his re-
cent trip to London. The audit commissioners
discovered that a sum of £l6OO set down for
“forage ’’had been absorbed for “travelling ex-
penses,” and there are grounds for believing that
this item indicates the key to the mystery. After
all, more euphemistic names than “ forage ” have
been given to ministerial malversations before to-
day.
The Parkes Relief Fund is not a boom.
When it started it was asserted that £25,000 could
easily be raised in a single week, and yet a whole
month of uproarious begging has only brought in
a mean, miserable £4OOO, half of which has been
contributed in a dozen large sums contributed by
individuals directly interested. Hence the tears
which fall upon this printed page ; hence, also,
the snufflings and the nose blowings, and the
anguish which is being drowned in the fiery tide
of drink.
Considerable surprise was recently mani-
fested in Melbourne over the fact that while the
London correspondent of the Argus referred to
perpetual pensions as having been bestowed “ on
Court Courtesans and their offspring ” ; the ditto
ditto of the Age quoted with approval an artiole
in the Standard, in which the local optionists are
held up to opprobrium and derision. It is more
than probable that the double mistake arose
through the man in London putting the letters into
the wrong envelopes.
By confessedly treating the political
offender O’Brien, M.P., as one of “the lowest
criminals,” Balfour is teaching Russia and other
Powers a curious lesson without considering how
soon they may batter the instruction. By-the-bye,
did Howard, the Philanthropist, leave any lineal
descendants 2 and it he did, what are they doing
in England just now? It is forgotten that
Kossuth was, as only a political offender, treated
by the British authorities with the most dis-
tinguished consideration.
Shepherd Jefferis says “there’s a decided
effort on the part of the ecclesiastics of a leading
church to exercise direct and continuous influence
in politics, and an equally decided tendency on
the part of a class of politicians to court this in-
fluence as a force to help or retard their own de-
signs.” How innocent the good pastor is ! Doesn’t
he know that while the Romans openly preach
politics from their altars, all other denominations
preach theirs in Orange Lodges ? Every clergy-
man who is an Orangeman is ex officio the chap-
lain of his lodge.
The Celtic Home Rule Club Is the latest
political organisation in Melbourne. Its object is
to bring the influence of the Irish of Australia
and their sympathisers to bear as far as po'Bible
on the question of Irish nationalism and to oombat
the sodden Conservatism of the Argus and the
“ respectable ” press in general. At the Argus
office, of course, the new association is regarded
as a league of bomb-throwing assassins and
Fenians, but the names on the committee-list are
a sufficient guarantee that the Club does not
intend to blow up the premises of that heavy old
journal just yet.
Mr. Patterson, M.L.A. for Castlemaine
(Vic.), was very severe on Mr. Pearson, Minister
of Education, the other night. Whatever else
Mr. Pearson may be he is a scholar, and whatever
else Mr. Patterson may be he is not. He is a good
many other things else. If we were in the House
Mr. M. H. Davies would probably object to our
saying what these things are, or wish us to with-
draw them. But we cannot help thinking in this
conjunction of a Bathurst politician who when
some educated candidate—this was years ago-
referred in his speech to Matthew Arnold, inter-
rupted him with “D a him! Who’s Mat-
thew Arnold ? ” The poor man thought Matthew
was a J.P.
Under the accursed blight of Protection
(sa-casm) several woollen midi have recently been
founded in Melbourne, and the est kblishment at
Wiilfamatown has just received the bonu3 of
£5OOO offered by an asinine Government steeped
in financial darkness (also sarcasm) for the first!
10,000 yards of worsted cloth produced in the
colony. When will any factory in the enlightened
land of New South Wales (the word “enlightened”
i 3 put in by way of derision) go and do likewise.
The mother colony ought to do something to
show that she is progressing, even if she should be
reduced to offering a Government bonus for the
1 first 10,000 people ruined by a pawnbroking estab-
lishment in which a freetrade]Minister is a share-
holder.
“ John Potts ’’ is not the kind of name
that can more than half-fill the trump of immortal
fame. His initials would crush the life oub of a
Washington, and it is probably owing to this fact
that the Anti-Chinese apostle who owns the cog-
nomen has not yet succeeded in evicting the hatred
Celestial from this fair land. Mr. P. has written
a pamphlet about his anti-Chinese trip through
Queensland, but from this production we learn
little except that Mr. P. was several times
hungry and frequently thirsty during his tour.
We grieve mightily thus to write of one who is
working in a good cause, and we grieve further
because, judging from the style of his brochure,
we are inclined to believe that he is not the sorb
of youth who is ever likely to benefit that cause
to any very considerable extent.
The explanation offered in defence of the
granting to Pyrotechnist Pain of the right of ad-
vertising on tne Sydney Government tram-motors
—“ viz , that any other citizen who would bring to-
gether (in the people's Domain) a concourse of
8000 or 10,000 persons would undoubtedly have the
same privilege ’’—was a mere evasion of the ques-
tion, for neither Pain nor anyone else ever guaran-
teed any concourse of the kind. And even if such
guarantee were given the gross wrong done to the
public by demanding from them admission to their
own property would remain intact. In the words
of Edmund Burke, “ men may be sorely touched and
deeply grieved in their own privileges as well as
in their purses. Men may lose little in property
by the act which takes away all their freedom.
When a man is robbed of a trifle on the highway
it is not the twopenoe lost that constitutes the
capital outrage.”
THERE IS WISDOM IN A NAME.
A rose by any other name does not always smell
as sweet.
Wise means Wise
And Want means Want,
Now study our conclusion:
Wise is Attorney-General
While W ant is in seclusion.
The Referee
For Beach’s sake it is to be hoped he does
not hold his younger rival Hanlan as cheap as
most of the Australian dailies and the majority of
the general public do. The former Beemed quite
surprised last week at Hanlan rowing clean over
George Brett in a short spin. On public form
Beach must win, but Hanlan can soarcely be such
a cripple of his old self as to cause surprise when
he rows over an amateur —though the latter be a
good one. One thing is certain—it will pay Han-
lan to win if he can.
* * *
If Beach is as forward in his work as the
dailies make out, he will be as stale as a week old
bathbun by the day of the race.
* * *
We are afraid Sir Henry Parkes’ £5OO for
a National Regatta has fallen into bad hands —so
far as sport “ for the people ” is concerned. Of
the committee of 25 nominated no less than twelve
hail from the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron.
■* * *
Wales is the coming Blackham.
* * *
There was some right-down-to-the-ground
slogging at Foley's on Saturday night. Fitz and
Williams, both powerfully-builo young fellows,
went through 24 rough-and-tumble rounds before
a draw was declared. Fouls innumerable were
passed over by the referee of the evening, who
appeared to tolerate anything but biting and
gouging. Gorman and Meadows had a slashing
six rounds in the opening bout of the £5O middle-
weight competition. Meadows, a scientific boxer,
hurt his right hand in the third round, and, for
the remainder of the contest, fought Gorman with
the left hand only. Meadows dealt severely with
the powerful Gorman, and was declared the
winner. Next Saturday night the competition
will be concluded.
* * •
The last English tour cost Lillywhite,
Shaw, and Shrewsbury £lOO each.
* • *
Hanlan may be ex-champion oarsman, but
he is certainly champion scooper-in of the dollars.
He wants the Bananalanders to give a purse of
£5OO in connection with Trickett. If the Rock-
hamptonians have such regard for Trickett, why
not hand him the monkey ? They might just as
well as give it to Hanlan, for that is what the
“ purse ” will really amount to.
* • •
“Professor” Miller went to America by
the Alameda. We wish the burly William better
luck than ho is likely to meet with in the States.
He is not getting any younger.
* * *
The Nooze says Sardius only started out
of bravado. The owner had a wager of a few
centuries that the horse would start. Nice sorb
of bravado this for the owner.
* * *
Affliction has laid its heavy hand upon
that fine plucky young athlete Con. Dwyer, the
Australian native bicyclist, who has for a good
while been unable to get work and is now very ill
indeed. The Bulletin will be glad to forward
to the proper quarter any subscriptions which
may be sent to its care.
* * *
A £5 investment on each of Gorry’a
mounts at V.R.C. meeting would have brought a
handsome profit. Which reminds us that the
other “ fashionable light-weight," Fielder, won
two events on Thursday. This boy rides like an
artist, but hardly promises to bs such a compact
little nugget as Gorry is at 17 years of age.
* * *
The M.C.C. were mortally afraid that
their imported team would b 9 beaten by South
Australia in the first matoh of the tour.
* *
The “demon” Spofforth walks abroad
now without attracting a passing glanoe from so
much as a small boy. Trickett is almost as for-
gotten as the Deluge, and Hanlan’s boils exoite no
more present interest than the Plague of London,
i How fleeting is all athletic fame 1
*1 The grand old horse Maribyrnong has been
gathered to his sires.
* * *
That spectre who whispered “Tranter”
to a dreaming Bulletin poet was probably re-
ferring to next year’s Melbourne Cap. Ghosts are
miserably uncertain in their dates. In Shadow-
land a year is a mere nothing.
* * *
The Earl of Buckinghamshire told a Mel
bourne Herald interviewer that the Hill at
FlemiDgton “is a distinct boon for the middle
classes.” He didn’t say whether the private
luncheon in the grand stand was a distinct boon
for the aristocracy.
* * #
The Ballarat division showed none of their
supposed cleverness in connection with the Mel-
bourne Cup. They were represented by Meteor,
Oakleigb, and Recall, starting at 4,8, and 12 to i
respectively, and, as might be expected under
such circumstances, neither of the batch was
placed.
* *
Mick O’Brien, who won the V.R.C.
Derby of 1881, the Melbourne Cup of 1885, and
the Caulfield Cup of 1886, had not a mount in
either race this year.
* * #
When Tom Osborne, the English jockey,
was at Flemington in the spring of ’B5 he picked
Dunlop as the most racing like in appearance of
all the horses on the training ground.
* * #
A boy in a Sydney drapery warehouse won
a cool thou’ on Melbourne Cup.
* * *
The news of the winner of the Melbourne
Darby was known in Wellington, N.Z., before the
jockeys had actually pulled up. Fact.
* * *
The first, second, and third horses in this
year’s Melbourne Cup race were bred in SA.
Vic., and N.S.W., respectively.
• * *
Of the 29 Derbies run in Victoria Hales
has ridden four winners, Morrison three, and
Stanley three. No other jockey won more than
one.
* * *
There is a malicious rumour to the effect
that the man who prompted Parkes to offer a
yaohtiDg prize at Centennial time has a big idea
of winning it himself.
* * *
Two remarkably clever descriptions of the
race for Melbourne Cup have become historical.
One was called “ A White Heat,” and was written
by that eccentric genius Herbert Palmer, of the
Melbourne Press and the Salvation Army. The
other was a metrical account of the great contest
written In imitation of the “Falls of Lodore,” by
Marcus Clarke. It was published in 1874, when
Haricot won the Cup.
* * *
Carlyon begins to look very like being
White’s best three-year-old over a decent distance!
Anyway, the colt has won has last three races,
while the belauded Abercorn has cut up very in-
differently.
* * *
One of the queerest satires on the ad-
ministration of the law in N.S.W. is found in the
fact that a policeman, one Jones, who drew Dun-
lop in one of Tattersall’s sweeps won £4500 by the
success of that horse in the Melbourne Cup.
Policeman Jones is said to have fainted with ex-
citement at the hotel where he had been awaiting
the result of the race. Sweeps are illegal in
N.S.W., yet everybody knows perfectly well that
“ Tattcrsall ” has this year handled no less than
£90,000, the commission on which, at 10 per cent.,
gives him the handsome little income, so far, of
£9OOO, besides the interest on money in hand,
which would help to pay expenses. * The fact
that people will gamble whatever may be the law
is fully recognised by the Continental nation®,
whose Governments take care to afford guarantees
for the bona fidcs of all advertised lotteries. In
Australia this result has been partly brought about
by the survival of the fittest lottery, which
seems to distribute its favours with impartiality.
The winner of the £4500 prize in another of
Tattersall’s £lO,OOO sweeps was a carter. How-
ever, it is time the present sweep-law were either
enforced or abrogated. The Victorian authorities
seem to have succeeded in abolishing public racing
sweeps in their territory—and, furthermore,
in diverting much of the sweep-money into the
pockets of the bookmakers. It must be added
that most of the Victorian racing-lotteries were
rank swindles, just as the bulk of the N.S.W.
minor sweeps were rank swindles.
Lady Parkes is ill.
Last week a “ distinguished ” N.S.W.
politician gave to the Sydney Soup Kitchen and
Night Refuge a donation of five shillings. To the
Parhes testimonial fund he gave nearly a hundred
times that amount.
Mr. Charles Metcalfe, who is known as
having been, among other things, one of the best
amateur half mile runners that New South Wales
has produced, was last week married at Goulburn
to Miss Rodd, the popular young lady of Sydney
tennis celebrity.
The recent fall in Bank of New Zealand
shares has proved a perfect god-send to several
well-known Sydney and Melbourne speculators,
who, having bought right and left when the stock
was at its very lowest, are now in clover.
Most of the Bathurst (N.S.W.) aristocracy
would seem to have baoked the wrong horse for
the Melbourne Cup. Almost every buggy and
carriage which enters the town now has a nice
pile of home-made butter in the boot, which is
sold for 6d. a pound. This enables the Upper
Ten to keep the wolf from the door—and wolves
appear to be rather plentiful out West at present.
Only a score of auditors rolled up to hear
Premier Parkes lecture at the New Masonic Hall,
Sydney, the other night, on Parliamentary
Government. “ The grandest figure in the Aus-
tralian political world ” was frozen out and the
gate-money returned. The fact is that nobody
wants to hear Sir ’Enry on the theory of parlia-
mentary government. They know too well what
his practice is.
Mr. “Tommy” Foster, son of Mr. Waiting
Judgeship Foster, has been temporarily appointed
to the vacant N.S.W. Crown Prosecutorship. As
the young gentleman is understood to have in-
herited his respected pa’s intense hatred for gin
and sich, the appointment must be regarded as
satisfactory. The conferment on a lemonade-man
of a N.S.W. Crown Pros"outor hip must, how-
ever, be regarded as a ruthless and iconoclastic
trampling upon the traditions uf the office.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal Written in Sand p. 14
Criterion Theatre.—" Cymbeline “... „
Alhambra Music Hall.— Sacred Concert
Domain —Pain’s Fireworks
V.M.C A. Hall —Amy Sherwin
Alhambra Music Hail —Minstrelsy
Her Majesty s Theatre.— "Held by the Enemy" p. 15
The strange old story of “ Cymbeline,”
which dates from the days when our esteemed
forefathers went abouto in bathing attire, and
when blue men with spiked clubs dined on un-
cooked meat under the forest shade, is drawing
good houses at Sydney Criterion, The exigencies
of stage art make it impossible to adhere strictly
to fact in a drama of this description, and so
Cymbeline is represented as a monarch in gay
togs, with a palace and a throne and an arched
gateway and an army in elegantly-coloured shirts,
and his daughter wears dainty costumes and
jewellery of barbaric workmanship. It is best to
forget, of coui ae, that the British monarch of that
forgotten era had hardly any clothes at all, and
instead of being perched on a throne, had merely
the right to camp on a dry spot while his fol-
lowers sat down in the bitterly cold slush of anti-
quity, and that his troops were painted a sky
colour and caked with mud. Facts of this kind
are better left out. Also some other facts in
“Cymbeline ” have been toned down, as they in-
clined, in their original form, to injure the sensi-
bilities of the ladies whose dresses are cut so low
that their tendere3t feelings arc exposed to the
air. Shakespeare’s language, at times, was
of the kind that men are flogged for using
in New South Wales, and therefore he re-
quires to be edited a lot. The part of Imogen
fell, of course, to Miss Kssic Jen} ns, whose beauty,
pathos, and hair all combined to make it one of
her best performances; arc! Plain Bill Holloway,
in brass armour, was better than usual as Leona-
tus, though he was somewhat ponderous, and put
his foot down with a vigour whioh made the
“mountain pass in Waleß” totter and reel. Mies
Jennie Maynard, though blessed only with a
microscopic part, looked as if she would some day
p.ay leading characters. Belarious, as wrestled
with by Mr. Robert Inman, showed a solemn old
nobleman to the best advantage, and Mr. Richard
Stewart and Miss Ni'a Steele, as his two sons,
completed a gallant trio. Our natural benevolence
alone prevents us saying that we cared very little
for Cloten, and that the Romans were a seedy
crowd-every man of them, so we will conceal
our sentiments beneath the gaibof hypocrisy and
make no remarks concerning them. The scenery
wa3 good, if the Romans weren’t, and scenery is
worth more than Romans any day.
*# # #
That skimpy little comedy called “Written
in Sand,’’ at Sydney Royal, did very little towards
relieving our now chronic biliousness. If we had
chanced to have our family hyaena with us, we
would have cheerfully turned it loose on the stage,
and then we would have laughed in fiendish glee
as we watched it lunch upon the leading features
of the one-act Bhow, and start down the street
with the torn-off head of the darksome villain in
the black suit, held between its teeth. “ Written
in S v-id ’’ is not a very good comedy or a very bad
one it i 3 an irritating medium article, which
is good enough for a man in excel-
lent health, but which harrows the soul
of the pork - fed critic. Following it
however, came that delirious farce, “ Nita’s
First," and the baby was thrown about even more
recklessly than usual, and torn up by the roots,
and cast to the four winds of heaven, and left
about in cabs, police stations, and workhouses.
But it was a fraud of an infant at the best, for at
critical moments it took to barking in its cradle,
and we never yet met a baby—unless it were a
dog baby—that had acquired that habit. If a
rat had come on the stage we are inclined to think
the alleged offspring would have got out of its
bassinette and chased it with its tall flourishing
in the air, and thereby imparted a blase and aim-
less aspect to the scenes of turmoil which ensued.
Fortunately, however, the treacherous and flabby
little pachyderm was scared into silence by the
frantic demonstrations of a man who pretended to
be the dog’s uncle, and the proceedings went on to
the entire satisfaction of the audience. Even our
pork dinner ceased from troubling after a while,
and we felt vainly in our pockets for a flower to
throw at Miss Isabel Morris in token of our undy-
ing admiration. Amid a good company, which
did its bast all round, it is difficult to make dis-
tinctions. Miss Watt-Tanner, Miss Isabel Morris,
and Miss Docy Mainwaring (as a rusty old maid
with a horse countenance) did a lot for the piece,
but, in spite of the smallness of her part, we give
our vote to the last-named lady for the sake of
her modest and unobtrusive gruesomeneßS. Mr.
Hans Phillips, as the cheeky boy in the turn down
collar, tied fully half the remaining laurels round
his noble brow, and Messrs. Anson and Beck
scrambled for the rest, and got them. “ The Red
Lamp ” is to appear shortly at the Royal.
** # #
“Held by the Enemy,” that rolling tide
of warlike devilment, 6till ranks as the best play
before the Sydney public, and the exhauited
scientist, whose head is splitting from his efforts
to calculate the quantity of food necessary to lift
a male adult 10,000 feet finds surcease from
sorrow in watching Mr. Nelson Decker being
blown up. He blows up better than any other
actor of our acquaintance, and we trust that as he
scuds along the weary paths of existence amid
bombs, crackers, shells and other explosives, he
may always find something soft to fall upon, and
may not knock his head against anything as he
goes up.
## # #
The presence of three bones and three
Jumbos gives a recherche aspect to the scene at
■_rdney Alhambra, where the fragrant nigger is
mways laid on regardless of expense. Amid a 1 jt
sweet melodies, Miss Beatrice James's “ Mar-
\r7 D , aw ” and Mr Percy Shannons “White
mgs ” may be said to arrest the bun. and Messrs,
eenan and Moynham have reproduced “ The
lottentots,” an amusing parody on the greasiest
ace upon earth. The closing farce of “ The
oopers" sends Mr. Frank Smith’s audience away
humour, and then they hurry home to
avoid being stuck up in the street for a subscrip-
mn to the Parkes Testimonial.
|( # * * *
‘ The Unknown ” will be played at Syd-
ey Gaiety to-night (Thursday) for the last time.
hl«t, i a tear over the du ,t of Mr. Dampiers
gh-class lunatic, which has made an enduring
impression on our mind, and go on to mention
coat George Lash Gordon’s “Night Birds” will
dir D P s oduced on Saturday under the author’s
b»si supervision. If the audience wants him
ans- ’ therefore, be will be on hand. Sydney
bafn 6n ?v 8 have tried 60 oa ll a good many authors
or th ? cur tain who have been dead 300 years
dnf« ’ they Variably looked hurt when the
wtu k dld not appear, but this time the victim
be there like a lamb at the sacrifice.
Owing to the spread of refinement and
civilisation and the purifying influence of the
gospel, the proprietors of the Manly Aquarium an-
nounced a glorious Bharkand-stal light for Sun-
day last, as a prelude to the concert. The pro-
ceedings were a great success, and the combatants
chewed off each other’s features on the blessed
Sawbath in a way that was satisfactory to all the
ladies and gentlemen present. Next Sunday, it is
rumoured, a Congregational minister in bathing
costume is to fight six large catfish in a tank of
boiling water, but the report has not yet been
confirmed.
*# # #
That universally popular actor, Mr. H. R.
Harwood, is shortly to be married in Melbourne
to Miss Docy Stewart, a lady who has made her-
self a favourite, not only on account of her own
talents, but because she is the sister of the ador-
able Nellie whose Yum-Yum can never pass
away. Miss Dooy Stewart occupies a leading
place as a pantomime and burlesque artiste, and
is a native of the City of the Scrumptious Har-
bour. The hideous blight of the N.S W. tariff
system has, however, forced her to seek happi-
ness in another land. Protection keeps the pretty
girls in the country, while Freetrade scatters
them abroad over the earth to gladden other
shores, and all it gets in exchange is hump backed
thieves with one leg shorter than the other.
## # *
“Patience," at Adelaide Royal, has been
another triumph for M iss Leonora Braham, who
took the title-role and the cake and the house by
storm. Mr. Vernon, as Bunthorne, and Mr.
. re dericl, as the Colonel, were really excellent
impersonations, and Mies Alice Rarnett, who
played Lady Jane, requires no praise, for every-
thing she does is done well.
Mr. Dnnoan Young made his
first appearance as Grosvenor,
and orea'ed a good impression.
Three nights of “ lolanthe ” will
close the season. Tommy Hud-
son’s troupe at Garner s Theatre
1b as attractive as of old, and
the rest is emptiness and
Y.M.C. A.
* # #
The cablegram last week
that Jenny Lind is dead reminds
one of the celebrated libel action
brought by her husband, Gold-
schmidt, against Public
Opinion, which, with other
papers, inadvertently copied
from an American organ, edited
by a lady, a paragraph averring
that he had separated from his
wife after squandering her
money. That was all, but it was
enough to cram the court-house
with duchesses, marchionesses,
and countesses, many of whom
attested to the unhappy relations
existing between the songstress
and her hubby. But the real
fun didn’t come in until plaintiff
was placed in the witness box.
In reply to the few questions
put to him, he swore : “ In place
of squandering my wife's for-
tune, I trebled it by judicious
speculation ; I never gambled ;
I never drank; I don’t play
billiards; I don't even smoke.”
He almost at once got a verdict
for £7OO, and, to lessen the costs,
the proprietors of the other six
offending newspapers eaoh sent
a cheque for a like amount.
The lot was givento the London
charities.
* # *
Melbourne shows had a
good time last week, in accord-
ance with annual custom. Not
quite so good as they might have enjoyed if th
books had left more spare cash in the market, bu
pretty lively considering. Theatres at Cup tim
fetch ’em anyhow-either as outlets for winning
or as antidotes to gloom. Generally the latter
At the Princess’s the fascinating fable of “La
Mascotte” had peculiar attractions for stone
brokers, and biz. was brisk enough for the Trium
virate to renew their bill until this Saturday
“ Modern Wives ” still holds on at the Bijou, aiir
there is joy in the Opera House over the “Com
bination,” which draws uncommonly well. “ Fly
ing Scud,” with Dunlop (or a quadruped faintlj
resembling it) specially engaged, has been warmly
appealing to prevailing passions at the Nugget,
and a fair share of the golden harvest is
steadily gathered in by Coghill Brothers and
Silk Stockings. Wild rumours are abroad that
money was refased at the Waxworks on Cup
night, and they say that the figures can prove
this. But a wax image is never to be relied on.
All this while Italian opera is winding itself down
at the Royal, and finally stops next week. If
“LaGioconda" (first time in Australia) catches
on as expected, it will about see the season
through. Mr. Slmonsen has anticipated this
blessed consummation by arranging a change of
cast for every second night.
## # #
“ The School for Scandal,” on a scale of
splendour running quite 60 ounces to the pound,
opens at Melbourne Bijou next Saturday, 12th,
with Tltheradge as Joseph Surface. In order to
acquire the necessary last-century tone, Brough
and Boucicault’s company are sleeping in wigs
and patches. And that eternal “ Mikado ” turns up
once more at the Princess’s.
## # #
We read that the Bishop of London has
cast out a clergyman who apologised for ballet-
dancing. Ihe Bishop probably wants the ballet
to wear knee-breeches and gaiters, though he can
coolly take stock of a duchess stript to the belt at
a dinner table presided over by the very visib]
head of his church, who is also half naked on th
occasion.
## # #
A class of ’Murkan cigarette manufacturer
has popped into trouble in New York for issuing
with their packets, a miniature photo, of a lady
“ "? y . abbreviated get up, and placing under
neath it the name of a well-known and respectable
actress, who generally wears more than Bern
be sued for 8 a sirenic leer - Damages are to
*# # #
From the Echo :—“ We give a litera
translation of a paragraph which we read in the
Paris ligaho of August 1, just to hand ‘M.
Henri Kowalski, the pianist-composer, whom
l ana has known, has now been conducting since
two years the Conservatoire of Music and the
Philharmonic Society of Sydney (Australia ) In
consequence of a concert given on June 22 for the
benefit of the poor of that city, and which pro-
duced 25,000 f. (£1000), M. Kowalski received from
the municipality a gold medal and a certificate,
stating that the grateful city bestowed on him the
title of citizen of Sydney.’ ” Ananias, where art
thou ? Also, where are the £lOOO and the gold
medal and the certificate, and what does the Paris
Figaro imagine our retired Bungs are up to 1
The grateful city of Sydney is not built that way.
#* * *
Mr. B. N. Jones, of Sydney Opera House,
Is a lucky man. He bought a theatrical wardrobe
at auction for £ooand shipped it to Brisbane. It was
injured by sea-water en route, and B. N. Jones
has just recovered £750 18s. 3d. damages Re-
mark heard from the gallery at one of Amy Sher-
win s concerts up country : “ Well, thank ’Eaven
Bill, I dont think any of them dashed hama-
chooers will ’ave the cheek to sing arter
earing that gal.” Bland Holt and Co.
are playing to paoked houses in the steep
and sloppy city of Dunedin (New Zealand)
Charles Middleton, of Sydney, sword-swallower,
took in too much sword—viz., 26 inches—the
day, and perforated his stomach. It is not ex-
pected that he will ever swallow a Bword again.
Miss Amy Sherwin gives two more farewell
) concerts at Sydney Y.M.C.A, Hall on the 16th and
j 18th inst She got an immense reception in the
back-blocks, and at Young (N.S.W.) three donkey-
loads of flowem were thrown on the stage Mr.
| Pain is advertised to burst into fireworks at Bondi
Aquarium by way of adding yet another at-
j traction to that salubrious lesort “Lily” Lang-
| try has had a new piece built for her. The
| period is the 16 th century, and in one act
she wears man’s clothes and fights a duel
| Nellie Stewart is journeying back to us again!
Rapture! Minnie Palmer recently told a
Murkan reporter that she thinks “ there is no
place like California.” “My Sweetheart ” medi-
tates appearing in “ rerlous business ” some day.
Well, she has attempted serious business. Isn’t
she married ?
The Empire Hotel, at the comer of Pitt
and Hunter streets, is one of the new institutions
of Sydney. It is a splendid building, with a com-
modious bar, a fine billiard-room containing two
of Alcock'B best tables, comfortable smoking
rooms, and a labyrinth of lofty, elegantly fur-
nished apartments above. Tnera are sitting-
rooms, bath rooms, on each floor, and a lift
connects the upper storeys with the basement.
The kitchen is plaoed in modern fashion at the
top of the building. The Empire is already noted
for its excellent table and first-class liquors, and
should speedily become a favourite resort of
visitors from the country and the adjacent
colonies.
Emperor William has, according to the
polite cableman, “ abdominal cramp.” Small
boys who eat too much fruit and things call i
something else.
Judge Owen, who has recently sacrificec
himself for £2OOO a year and a seat on the Equity
Bench as Chief Judge in that jurisdiction in
N.S.W., was entertained at what is alleged to
have been quite a toaey feed at Gunsler’s, on
Saturday night. Saturday night is a really good
time for a Bar banquet—doesn’t interfere with
business, for a senior barrister can always recover
in one day, while It doesn’t matter whether the
average junior keeps unsober for a fortnight—
nothing would interfere with his business much.
Of course the hffair was livelier than a train-cob
lision. A barrister is to a bot'le of champagne
as a bull-seal is to a young shark, and when the
reason for encircling the fluid is the recognition
of the most popular judicial appointment upon
which the Southern Cross has ever shone, the
ceremony isnecessarily performed with enthusiasm
verging upon ecstacy. Yet, in spite of all these
inducements, we have grounds for stating that
every one of the company was capable of calling
for a cab when the joyous gathering dispersed.
Last week Beak Abbott had 100 dog-casea
at Redfern ('ourt, and wanted to polish them off
In 100 minute?. They were all called over first
and those who pleaded guilty were fined and sent
away happy. Then the ease of “ Caesar Smith 1 ’
was called by the sergeant. Lawyer Richards
was presently on his legs : “If your Worship
pleases, l appear for the defendant, and I have
a good defence.” “What is it?” says Abbott;
do you deny the dog was there ?” “ No, may it
please the Court,” deprecatingly replied the
attorney; “far be it from me, sir.” “ Then the dog
was registered, I suppose ?” suggested the beak.
No, your \\ orship,” said Richards, “I'm sorry
it wasn’t, and in the light of subsequent events,
I deeply regret that such was the case." “ Then
the defendant mußt be fined,” thundered Beak
Abbott. “Oh, no, your worship, you won’t do
that—l submit that your worship, when you've
heard the defence, cant do that." “ Then let’s
hear the defence,” roared his worship; “don't
kesp us here ail day. I have 74 more cases to
gee through in 70 rninu eV “ Well, I submit to
the Bench,” said the lawyer, ‘ 1 that this ca-e must
be dismissed, as hes dead" “But the hanging
of the dog doesn’t relieve your client from
liability to be fined for having an unregistered
animal on his premises on the date mentioned in
the summons.” “Oh, it's the defendant that's
dead, your worship.” “ Yis, plaze the Coort ’
chimed in the sergeant, “ but did he get the sum-
mons before he died t That’s the paynt 1” Case
dismissed.
Our old literary friend, Mr. George Black,
has started a labour bureau at No. 5 Tattersall’s
Buildings, Hunter-street, Sydney. Mr. Black is a
talented writer and a “straight” man, and we
only hope he succeeds in his business as he de-
serves.
TO HEBE.
0 airy nymph of the compelling manner ;
O chestnut Circe, charming all that you sell,
Yet hast for him that holdeth not a tanner
Refusal.
Are you an angel ?—is it inspiration,
Promethean Are, the landlord bribes you to sell ?
Or do you vend the fire of red damnation
A few sell ?
0 Hebe of the hair ! bright, gay, glad, handmaid,
What is this seeming nectar that you do sell,
Is’t genuine stuff, or only bogus, and made
Of Fusel ?
A certain Crown lawyer named Healy
After Cup Day imbibed rather freely,
So up at the Sessions
He used such expressions
That he upset the Coort,
He did reelly.
MORAL.
Now members of the Devil’s Own
H ho ve not yet quitted drinking,
And whose wild oats are not yet sown,
This pome should set you thinking.
!( you within are copper-lined,
Just liquor when you’re asked to
But if you’re not, you soon will find
That clients all have passed you.
The poet sings “ 0, dulce est ”
“ Desipere in loco,"
But, lake my tip, you’ll find it best
To drink—say tea or cocoa.
Still, if you must go on tho bus!.
I temember our quotation :
When at your worst shun Darlinghurst.
< >r quit your avocai ion.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
n„S» ff '!’i an S - E “°alyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation
Pnntai* i umb v ag ? (pa, , ns ‘ he back >- &c Purely vegetable.
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood All principal
Substitute* 1 * 1 itorekeepres - Prioe ' 2s - 6d and 3s. 6d. P Take P no
The "Moldacot” Sewing Machine is a marvel of in
genuity and a wonder to those who have used it. A perfect
Sewing Machine, complete in all details. Not larger than an
ordinary pipe and the price 17s 6d. Without precedent. See
it and be convinced.
Y A L
Theatre RO
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
IMMEDIATE and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of the SPECIAL REVIVAL of
WRITTEN IN SAND and
NITA’S FIRST.
Prices as usual.
rickets for all parts of the house at East way's Hotel.
RITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Shakespeare’s Majestic Play.
CYMBELINE CYMBELINE
CYMBELINE CYMBELINE.
The Principals
RECALLED EVERY ACT,
THIS GREAT PRODUCTION
is the theme of universal admiration.
MISS ESSIE JEN YNS
8S
IMOGEN, PRINCESS of BRITAIN.
W. J. HOLLOWAY
as
LEONATUS POSTHUMOUS.
The Box Plan at Nicholson a muslo warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W.H. Manning
MONTY BROWNE, Manager
Alhambra music hall.
George-streetj Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
IN OUR THIRD YEAR
m IN OUR THIRD YEAR
THIS GREAT AMUSEMENT ENTERPRISE
of the SEASON.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR.
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR.
received nightly with a Ripple of
LAUGHTER,
Swelling into a torrent of
APPLAUSE.
New Faces, New Songs, New Dances, New
Specialities.
Minstrel Shows Come and Go, but we Go On for
Ever.
Popular Prices:
Orchestra Chairs, 2*.; Stabs, la.; Balcony, 6d,


Pepper
And
Salt
Suicide, in common with other necessaries
ot life, is getting cheaper. Miss Taylor, of Mel-
bourne, tried the other day to carve her head off
with a penknife, and the magistrate, after care
fully considering the case, resolved that the ends
of justice would be met if she paid her cab-fare to
the hospital. This is as it should be. Suicide is,
in the strictest sense of the term, a private enter-
prise, and as it is generally undertaken by per-
sons of small capital, it should not be expected to
pay more than fair working expenses. The prac-
tise of imposing heavy fines taxes the unsuccess-
ful suicide most unfairly, and allows the pros-
perous one to go free, and, moreover, it introduces
a discouraging element of uncertainty into the
business, which destroys public confidence in the
corpse. A moderate fixed duty might not be ob-
jectionable, but the present system is little short
of disgraceful. What we would suggest is that all
intending suicides should be examined and stamped
by a proper officer, and any person committing sui-
cide in an unstamped condition might then be dealt
with as an unlicensed entertainment. At present
it is not uncommon to see a lady hauled out of
the water in an insensible state, and
kidnapped to a strange hospital by a
policeman to whom she had never even
been introduced, and the officer who thus inter-
feres with a matter in which he has no concern,
Instead of being reprimanded, is generally deco-
rated with a medal as if he were a prize dog at a
show. Under a proper financial system, however,
a despairing individual who had been sufficiently
stamped should be apologised to and thrown in
again, and any suicide who is annoyed by uniusti-
flable interference should be authorised to swim
ashore and lodge a complaint with the authorities.
Other improvements might be suggested, but
whatever system may be ultimately adopted it is
certain that the present haphazard method must
be speedily done away with, and the suicide, like
the man who is struck by lightning, or the patient
who has apoplexy in the street, must be protected
from the officiousness of amateurs who, without
possessing the slightest technical knowledge, pre-
sume to interfere with the comfort of respectable
citizens.
* * *
Is there a man living who has never read
the pretty little Sunday-school story of the youth,
born of poor but honest parents, who left his
home at an early age to seek his fortune in a
strange land, in the hope that he might one day
return loaded down with riches, and gladden the
heart of his poor old mother when she was on her
last legs and had lost all her teeth ? He csrried
with him a bible in his breast pocket, and a
Sunday-school ticket tied up in a red nose-wipe,
and after many years he came back in a tail-coat
and a hard hat, and knocked at the old cottage
door and found an Irishman living there who told
him to go to heaven. Then he discovered that the
old woman was in the workhouse, and he straight-
way went and fetched her home in a yellow ker-
ridge and two horses, and she lived to the age of
102 respected by all who knew her. It is a good
old yarn, and it has just come true once more.
Many years ago a Spanish youth came out to Aus-
tralia sucking his crucifix, and started to make
money, and after a long period of toil he went
back rich to his native land and hunted up his
long-lost mother. She didn’t know him, of
course, but she gave him lodgings for the night,
and told him about her absent son, and he told
her that he also had a mother, and that he was
going home with a fortune to gladden her declining
years, and then he gave her a purse filled with
gold, and went to bed thinking how he would sur-
prise her in the morning by falling into her arms
and screaming “ Mother 1” But this climax never
came off. He didn’t fall into her arms in the morn-
ing—in the middle of the night he fell out of bed
with his head split open. The fond relative whom
he had come back across the sea to repay for all her
loving-kindness had gone for him and divided
him up with a meat-axe, and his Australian home
saw him no more. Then she took all his coin and
buried him in the cellar, and went and had a
glorious drunk with the money- and let the secret
out, and was convicted. This is a terrible warn-
ing to Australians who get rich and go home to
their mothers. It is safer to let the old woman
slide.
* * *
A serious financial question is just now
agicating the usurious circles of Sydney, and a
money-lender seems likely to lose £2O before the
sky clears again. The pore, smitten creature does
business on a basis of o per cent, (per month),
interest deducted in advance, and things made
agreeable for all parties, and this is the first time
he ever made a bad debt. A country clown with
long legs called on him and wanted to borrow £lOO
on the security of certain deeds, the loan to be
repayable in two years, and when it was explained
to him that the interesht would be £l2O in all he
said it looked rather steep, but he supposed it was
all right. The three-ball man assured him that
monish was tight, and he said he had been tight
himself and knew what it was like, and then he
signed the mortgage and handed over his deeds.
Next the accommodator of the human race ex-
plained that the interest was deducted in advance,
and the customer smiled cheerfully at this, and
considered that it would make things much easier
when the time came for paying up. But his smile
died away when the Jebusite put on an evil grin
and asked him for £2O, and he said he hadn’t 20s.
of loose cash in the world, and the Jew said,
Holy Moses! it vas a shwindle, and he would sue
him for the dwenty ; if he shtand Buch 1035e3 his
peeziness would go proke. Then the borrower
asked where in the whole colony was his loan
of £lOO if he had to begin by paying away £2O,
and his jaw dropped when he was reminded that
he had signed an agreement by which the interest
was deducted in advance, and that after deduct-
ing as much of it as could be deducted from £lOO,
he had still £2O to pay, and was also required to
square up the original advance at the end of two
years. He said he hadn’t had any advance
and that there was a liar in the shop, and
the broker said that when he had paid
the £2O he would have had the ad-
vance all right, and, great Abraham! did
he want to sheat a poor old man? The bor-
rower melted a little at this, and said perhaps it
would be better to give him back the deeds and
let the transaction ne off, as the:e seemed to be a
misunderstanding, and the lender said he would
give them back on receipt of £220. What in
heaven did he wanb £220 for ? Veil, vhasn't
there £lOO for the loan mit the interest taken off
in advansh, and then there vash £l2O for the
interesht mitout the loan added to it, and even
then he would be £2O out, and he would
I end his daysh in the workhoush, for he losht the
| commission and the shtampsh. Where in sheol
did the commission and the stamps come in ?
Well, washn’t there commission of 2| per shent
for his trouble in procuring the loan and
What loan? Living Moses! the loan of £lOO,
I of coursh, which he would have when he had
I paid up the twenty poundsh for the interesht
1 taken off in advansh. Thish wash highway rob-
I bery, it wash. “ Looky here,” roared the frenzied
I country-man, “either you give me that £lOO or
I these deeds, or I’ll clean out your office, so I
will!" “ S’help me, you’ve got the £lOO and you
I owesh me £2O for the interesht, and now you
I vantsh to preak my premises h. Poleesh! Murder!”
I and the Hebrew backed into a corner and waved
the ruler in a panic. Then there was a free and easy
I struggle all over the office, but before it was half
I through a constable came in and grabbed the bor-
AN IMPOSSIBLE SUPPOSITION.
SCHOOLMASTER. “NOW, TOMMY, SUPPOSE YOU WHRE TO BUY SIX CABBAGES
FROM A CHINAMAN"-
TOMMY (promptly) : BUT WE NEVER BUY ANY CABBAGES FROM A CHINAMAN.”
rower, and hauled him away to gaol. He got
three months for assault and attempted robbery,
and his land has meanwhile been sold for arrears
of interest, and the “ uncle ” thinks he'll be about
square provided he can recover that £2O when his
victim comes out of prison. Failing that, he
means to “ shue ” him for it, and he has despon-
dently written off the commission and the stampsh
as a bad debt. It is the only item on the wrong
side of the profit and loss account, and he looks
at it sadly every day and says he will shertaiDly
go proke.
# * *
The aged chestnut aboub the “ lambsd-
down ” shearer is on the wing in the Far West.
A giddy old fool recently deposited a £SO-note
with the landlord of a fusel-oil asylum, and it
rained snakes for 12 days and 12 nights. At the
end of that time his relatives came attsr him, and
found him sitting on a lithograph of Her Gracious
Majesty the Queen, and havlDg dragged the pal-
sied old derelict off the sketch, they asked for the
trifle of change. Then they learned with amaze-
ment that their doddering uncle had poured £53
worth of liquor into his face in less than a fort-
night, or about 180 drinks a day, and that there
was a balance owing to the publican. A jury
afterwards taxed the bill down to £45. From
this story it becomes evident that a great reform
is wanted in the back-blocks. The shearer, no
doubt, must get tight, but the system of getting
tight wants alteration, and when we get into
the ’Ouse we intend introducing a Bill to
provide for this. Under the N.S.W. Shearers’
Cheap Booze Act every bush publican shall be re-
quired todeposit with the local magistrate anaunual
tender for keeping shearers tight for any period
from one to 14 days, and when a shearer wants to
make a beast of himself he shall be compelled to
apply to the Court, and then a contract shall be
drawn up specifying how long he is to he kept
drunk, how drunk he is to be kept, and all the
rest of the details. The magistrate shall then
take charge of all his assets, out of which he
shall pay the amount specified in the contract,
and during the currency of the agreement the
patient shall be inspected daily by the
police to see that he is as drunk as he
ought to be. A small commission may be levied
for inspection—say 2J per cent. Wheh the pro-
ceedings are completed the shearer shall be re-
moved to the lockup, and there boarded, at the
rate of 4s. per day, until he is sufficiently re-
covered to travel, when he shall be washed and
have his dog fed to the satisfaction of the Bench
and the balance of his money handed over to him,
and the contract under which he got drunk shall
be filed in the office of the Clerk of Petty Sessions.
A minute of the proceedings shall also be sent to
the adjoining districts, in order to prevent him
getting tight more than 30 days in any year
within a radius of 200 miles. This measure, we
are convinced, would supply a long-felt want in
this thirsty land.
* * *
The busy season for sunstrokes and the
found-drowned approaches amain, and it behoves
us to lift up our voice in warning to the stout,
elderly gentlemen who hasten to lave in the
rippling flood, leaving the only clothes they have
out with them upon the emerald sward at the
mercy of the centipede, the rude, intrusive bull-
ant, and the predatory larrikin. To be left out in
the hot, murmurous woods, miles from home,
with nothing to protect the complexion from the
rays of a summer sun but a few eucalyptus-twigs
and a turn-down collar, is the most delicate posi-
tion we can conceive for a man of sensitive
temperament and exaggerated obesity. We call
to mind the sad story of a portly little man who
filled the honourable and responsible position of
superintendent to a one-horse chapel in a small
Victorian township. One sultry day in December
he headed a Sunday-school picnic out in the
wild woods, and, being very susceptible to heat,
’ere noonday he was almost baked, and deter-
mined to have a swim in spite of all and
sundry. So, following the river up, far beyond
the hum of revelry, he disrobed and plunged
headlong in the tide. The good man had not been
in soak many minutes when about a f core of
frisky heifers came gambolling along, and started
to sport with his wardrobe. They rushed it all
aboub the place, and, sorting it out, each selected
a scrap, and diligently butted or chewed, just as
their fancy directed them. With the energy of
despair the superintendent flew up the bank, and
tried to induce the juvenile cows to browse on
more succulent items than his scraps of apparal;
but one bovine, more blithsome than her com-
panions, rushed to his embrace, and her frontal
lobes colliding with his diaphragm, he was bom-
barded down the bank again, and, ’ere he could
recover himself, a brindled heifer was careering
across country with his go to meeting coat
dangling on her short horns, followed by another
with one leg of his linen pants in her first stomach
whilst the other leg flaunted in the breeze. After
chasing other live stock that had taken to sundry
portions of his raiment, for two weary hours, the
worthy superintendent recovered a turn down col-
lar and half a boot. Oar portly hero did not return
to tt e picnic party ; it hunted for him, but as his
own class of young ladies assisted in the search,
he hid in a hollow tree, and waited till the huge,
purple sun had fallen in the West. Then he
wandered up-stream till he struck a farm. It was
painful indeed for a man of his fine feelings to
have to skirmish round the outskirts of a farm-
house in the gloaming, watching for an oppor-
tunity to offer an unsympathetic, boorish rustic,
his kingdom for a chaff-bag ; but stern necessity
urged him on, and late that night the superin-
tendent dadged home tohisanxious family, attired
in a suit lent him by a long thin settler, who,
hearing of his visitor’s connection with the Sunday-
school, wisely determined to exact security for
the loan —and got it in the shape of the good
man’s gold-padded set of teeth.
* * *
It is reported that in King David’s latter
days, when his blood had grown thin and liis head
thick, he took unto him a young and buxom hand-
maiden. The historian of that day does not state
whether David was compelled to assign his estate
in consequence. Probably he avoided that diffi-
culty by imposing a tax on Syria-cured bacon.
• * *
Let the moral hotelkeeper lend his volup-
tuous ear to this tale Away in the mountainous
wilds of GIppsland a little one-horse company was
going about in a one-horse way, playing two-night
seasons at each stopping place, and at last they
arrived with their flour-sack of properties at Dead
Man’s Hollow, or some such place, and put up at
O’Hoolihan s pub. There were six of them—three
hard, dogmatic barnstormers and their wives, the
latter being all described in the bill as “Miss,” in
accordance with the wonted custom, and
O’Hoolihan listened with awe when he heard the
leading man rehearsing in his bedroom and saying
gimme death in preference to disgrace, while his
wife fell with a hard, dry, thumping sound on the
floor as she tried a new attitude for a faint.
Next night O’Hoolihan occupied a front seat, but
as the play went on he began to glare at the
actors, then at the bill, then all around him, and
finally in the middle of the last act he jammed his
hat down nearly to his shoulders and left. When
the company came home they found they?
bedroom doors locked, and when they asked
what sort of game this might be, O’Hooli-
han arose solemnly, and placed a play-
bill on the table. “ That’s why yer doors are
locked,” he said with awful sternness: “Now
either them young wimmen goes into one room
and ye three play-actors into another, or out ye
go. Ye’re smart now, ain’t ye ; ye thought ye’d
pass yerselves off fur dacent married folks, but
there’s yer own bill forninst ye to show what ye
are.” The company threatened to heave the
mangled remains of O’Hoolihan over the cliffs,
but the landlord's moral character ODly grew
stronger under these difficulties. “ Oh 1 they're
yer woives, are they,’ he said ironically—“ then
I'd have yen know that this is a respectable hotel
and a pious community, thanks be to God, and out
ye go." And out they did go, Hamlet first on his
head. Iago and Macbeth on top of him, while
their wives fled of their own accord, and their
tights and other properties came through the
window, And as the company stood in the
muddy street with the drooping skies shedding
tears upon their heads a contemptuous voice in-
side was heard to remark, “ Yer woives, indeed ;
I'd loike to duck the shameless hussies ! ”
* * *
Deer Bulletin.— I’m anonedukated man,
an’ this is an old koionyal eppisod what I’m goini
to relate. 2 men sot upon a fense. The flour of
koionyal shivalry had assembled on the margin of
hour butiful arbor. The best blud of the Sonny
Sowth was goin’ to welter in the burnin’ desert
sands of Ejip. Well, as I sed, these 2 men sot
upon a fense. Old Sol was beemin’ down on
Dailey’s braves what was Departin’—goin’ away
from the shores ov our butiful arbor to let daylite
into the Darknes3 of Ejip, what the old profit
called Ejipshun gloom. Theharmyof Horsetray-
liar Feliks, in fact, was arrayed in all the gorgis
panoply cf War. Well, these 2 men sot upon a
fense. Near them was a hold kove in a hold
brown stable jacket and pants and weskit to
match and he had on a werry seedy hold wide-
awake hatt. The speckedtaters ad hassembled
in multeytocds to cheer and ’ooray and sool on
the dauntless falanks what was goin’ away
to put kold steel into Ejipshun darkness.
2 men, as I sed already, was a sittin’
on a fense. Well, time was called, and
the bugel sounded “ all a-bored.” The
speckedtaters that had mostly kongretated
on the Tarpinway and swarmed into the Guver-
ment domain begun to cheer. Grand old Dailey
smiled on his legions, an to see him smile was
like looking at a gap in nature on a Sunday
mornin. Well, the awful moment had arriven.
The climax had come, and the apex of kolonial
glory was kulminated, when all at once the hold
brown cove sings hout at the topp of his voice,
“Get off that fense.” “Wot for 2’said 2 men
who was a settin on the fense ; “ we ain’t agoin'
to get off.” “Oh, ye won’t,” the old brown cove
rehitterates. “Then I’ll'ave yer putt horf,” and
he hitched hisself up and went hof at a tret in
pursoot of a peeler. Great Henry, it was the
Guvnor hisself - Lord Augustus Hayloft, K.C.B.,
Guverner of N.S.W., &c., See., inkognito. While
Egypt trembled in the balance, a Lord, Guvernor,
See. , was looking for a bobby, perhaps, to ’ave 2
men thrown off the Tarpin rock, or drowned in
the 'arbor for only sittin’ on on old 2 rail fense. A
fact, as witness his signature.— Anonedukated
Man.
The way of the commercial traveller seems
to be hard in these times, judging from the re-
marks of a vagrant pirate with a sample bag who
ca led at this office last week, and handed us the
following letter. It is from a flippant grocer on
the Darling, and expresses his feelings at being
asked to settle his account: —
“ Dear Sir,—Your little account received. I find, on
looking at my books, that in the last three months my debt,
according to your statement, has reduced itself by 133. lOd.
despite the interest This is very pleasing to me, and proves
the truth of the old saying, ‘time works wonde-s,’ and so,
indeed, it does ‘All things come to those who wait’ is
another old truism very applicable in this case Now, it is
certain that by simply waiting I shall be clear of debt, even-
tually if not sooner; this waiting game is one I can play to
perfection, and I am at present waiting for a chequ°. I have
wa'ted 40 yeare for a turn of the tide, and consider myself
the most exemplary waiter to be found in cr out of a restau-
rant When I mention waiting for a turn of the tide you
must net th'nk me a tide waiter (seems paradoxical), for
none of my family were ever connected with H M
Customs unless you call dodging the dut : es a
sort of connection. In concluding, I trust you will
see the splendid chance you have to wait Remem-
ber the patient Job, and be truly thankful you have a per-
manent job on hand. I am afraid by the tone of your letters
[they are all on the money question] you allow woildly affairs
to crowd out the spiritual wants of your soul, and taking it
for granted that the parsons of W are, as per usual,
wolves in sheep’s clothing, I feel justified in offering good ad-
vice and consolation, viz., 1 Lay not up for yourself treasures
upon earth where moth and rust doth corrupt,’ &c ; also,
‘ Take no heed for te-morrow, saying what shall I eat or
what shall I drink ’ (rum, of course.) Moreover to wit:
‘ Blessed are the poor, for it doth take two men to rob a
pauper, one to give him cash and one to take ic away ; y ea >
thrice blessed are the poor, for the parsons let them rest, but
“go through" the rich man, and cry, “ The Lord gave and
the Lord hath taken it away ; blessed be the name of the
Lord.’ I hope these random readings from the old and new
vfrsion will make you look backwards, onwards, upwards, or
anywhere but to me for money. If I ever get hold of the
stuff it will be invested in missionary work, said work to con-
sist of giving bread, beef, and blankets to the starving
white heathen at our doors, and keeping in reseive Biblef.
battle-axes, brandy, and bayonets until such time as the dis-
tant niggers ask for them. —Yours as ever and for evermore,
Dead Broke "
“ The members of the Ballarat Stock Ex-
change sang the National Anthem as a protest
against the socialistic tendencies of the day.
Why not add an encore verse as a protest ag t'ast
rigging the eha T e tna-ket 2


PERSONAL ITEMS
There was until lately a public-house in
Gulgong kept by John Wesley.
The Rothschilds have found £4,000,000
for investment in Melbourne city property.
The ex-kiog of Ou4h, who pegged out
lately, left seventy children and two widows.
The Bathurst P.M. has judicially decided
that it is not insulting to call a man a sinner.
Two of the principal butchers in Bathurst
(N.S.W.) are named Mutton and Bullock. In
Melbourne years ago there were two named Corn-
well and Blade.
The editor of the Banking and Insurance
Record is now also monetary and commercial
editor of The Argus.
Cardinal Moran’s palace at Manly contains
100 rooms—one for His Eminence and ninety-nine
for the just who need not repentance.
Sir Patrick Jennings has got “a public
reception ’’ at Cardiff. They thought his name
was Jenkins, and that he was a Welshman.
Professor Mica Smith, of Ballarat (Vic.),
is an eminent mineralogist. There is an un-
finished look about his name which is irritating.
Why can't he have it altered to Mica Schist ?
Miss Selwyn, the step-daughter of Colonel
Hu ghes -ll allotD’s first wife, and the lady of the
atest high-toned scandal, is a niece of Bishop
Selwyn, the first Anglican Bishop of New Zealand.
Bookmaker Robert Standish Sevier (Sutton),
Beerthirst’s friend, is a somebody in England. He
has been presented at Court, and is a member of
Boodle’s, one of the most exclusive London clubs.
All his lifetime Sir Charles Gavan Daffy
has been complaining of ill-health, and now he s
over 70 years of age and has been married thrice.
We were shown last wesk an autograph letter of
Mr. Duffy’s—as he then was—written in Dublin
in 1854 33 years ago—in which he states that he
was about “to leave England in searth of health.”
When Judge Hick-
man Molesworth was at
the Bar he was remark-
able for the frequency
with which he used the
word “ gentlemen” when
addressing juries. A
brother barrister once
checked a speech to a
jury by Hickman, and
found that he used the
word five times a min-
ute, and in the course
of a speech lasting an
hour uttered the word
* 1 gentlemen” 300 times!
When, some years
ago the late Marcus
Clarke gave a bogus
detailed account of a re-
cently-erected scientific
apparatus in Melbourne
Herald office, by which
the race for the Cup
could be witnessed with-
out leaving the office,
(poor Moxon, the accoun-
tant, was for days be-
■seiged by callers who
wanted to be allowed to
inspect the machine. On
another occasion, Hard-
log (now a water-rate
collector in Melbourne)
wrote another scientific
-skit for the same paper,
under the name of “ Dr.
Gnidrah" (his name re-
versed), and subsequently
received letters from
professors in Germany,
: requesting further infor-
mation.
The late police-ser-
geant Abraham Fenton,
of Collingwood, Mel-
'bourne, was an enthu-
. siastic amateur preacher,
and for 20 years ran a
conventicle of his own in
’Saokville-street, Colling-
wood. When a drunk or
a “ vag.” came before
*the local beaks it was
always a good line to
promise to ‘ ‘ take the
i pledge from Sergeant
'Fenton, yer Worship,
and go to church reg’lar
—like to Sackville-street,
yer Worship.” The surest
road to promotion for a
Collingwood policeman
was to drink Yan Yean,
and go to the Rev. Fen-
i. ton’s bathel. A few
years ago every sergeant
of any length of service
about Melbourne was
made a sub-inspector,
but Fenton was left
severely alone. Chief
Commissioners Standish
and Chomley knew very
well that no large body
of men could stand the
austere and ascetic Abra-
ham.
In reportorial circles the utmost surprise
r is expressed at the readiness with which the edi-
tors of the Sydney dailies allow Bishop Barry to
write begging advertisements in the news columns
of the papers.
Mr. Schey, M P., of N S W., thinks
■ there should be some particular Centennial links
at Botany Bay, because “ most of our forefathers
landed there.” In this delicate matter it is beat
' for each man to speak for himself.
Sir Robert Wisdom, K.C.M.G., is on his
-Tvay back to Australia, fully restored to health.
By-the-way, Bob Wisdom’s big brother, who is
• something in the N.S.W. Railway Department, is
a shining light in the Never-touch-its.
The Barcaldine (Q.) publicans have boy-
cotted the local paper for saying that there were too
many publichouses in the town. They consider that
stopping the editor’s grog is striking the Archi-
medean lever in its most vulnerable part.
Meade, the lately-deceased crier of Mel-
bourne Court, started study years ago with Hodges,
the barrister. Poor Meade, however, only developed
into a Court crier, while the keen-witted Hodges '
became one of the leaders of the Common La w
Bar.
It is pretty plain that Mr. C. A. Good-
chap, the present N.S.W. Commissioner of Rail-
ways, who has as much Parliamentary influence
as any man in Australia, is to get the chairman-
ship of the N.S.W. Railway Board under the new
regime.
It is the immediate duty of the N.S.W.
| Crown Law authorities to take such steps as will
I in future prevent “ Crown Prosecutor ” being re-
I garded as a mere synonym for delirium tremens.
Habitual drunkenness should not be tolerated
even in the hangman.
The colonel of a Western (N.S.W.) regi-
ment of volunteers—a “Soudan hero”—works at
his trade as a saddler, and is not ashamed of it.
His charger accompanied him to the scene of pos-
sible slaughter and returned with him—the only
horse that did return.
Percival Ball, the Melbourne sculptor,
who has been commissioned to execute a statue of
Wallace for Ballarat Botanic Gardens, is in some-
what of a quandary. He is not quite certain
whether he should represent the Scottish hero in
the act of scratching himself.
“Painted Soldiers ” was the term applied
some few years since by Sir Henry Parkes to the
N.S.W. Permanent Force of artillery. We no:e
that the head—the figure-head in this instance—
of the painted soldiers aforesaid has now sub-
scribed £lO to the Parkes tribute.
A Parisian gentleman has had a couple of
card- cases made out of skin cut from the corpse
of the murderer Pranzini. Dr. Brouardel, who
dissected Pranzini, was “ charmed with his
strength and symmetry. The rogue,” he said,
“was built to live a hundred years.”
In a Western (N.S.W.) town there is—in
the humble but useful capacity of maker of a
well-known baking-powder—a nephew of the late
Lord Iddesleigh. And at a back-blocks public
house we met the third son of a wealthy duke, in
the humble but useful capacity of ostler.
Teetotaller Nimmo, the Victorian Minis-
ter of Works, recently christened a dredge the
“ME TOO.”
HENRY PARKES: “ALAS IAM A RUINED MAN!”
N.S.W. : “WELL, YOU’VE HAD PLENTY OF MY MONEY."
“John Nimmo," after himself. There are two
excellent reasons why he should have done so. A
dredge works in the water and stirs up a good
deal of mud —and so does godfather Nimmo.
A further indignity has been heaped upon
the head of poor old Pontius Pilate. They want
to make out that he was born in Scotland, while
his father was Roman governor of Perthshire.
One thing is certain, anyhow—Pontius was
cautious enough to have come from the Far
North.
K. Donovan, owner of Dunlop, the Mel-
bourne Cup winner, keeps an hotel in Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, where all the R.C. priests
from the country put up. On Sundays Mr.
Donovan wields the conductor's baton in a
suburban church choir. Who says sport and
gospel won’t mix ?
“Dr.” John O’Connell, a well-known
medicine man of the fakir order, aged 85, died in
Sydney last week of “ natural causes ” —to wit,
old age and Dr. Creed’s progress report on quack
doctors. This “ doctor,” however, died poor, a
his “ secretary ” swore he had less than £1 to hi
credit in the bank.
The Rev. J. S. Walters (Unitarian), is
: probably the only Victorian clergyman who dares
! to acknowledge openly that he visits Flemington
course. However, several members of the black -
j cloth brigade were seen on the lawn on Cup-day,
the most prominent being the burly and jolly Mr.
Fellowes, of Toorak.
The lambton (N.S.W.) people the other
night testimonialised citizen Croudace. Alderman
Higgs orated on the occasion, and took occasion to
remark that “ the meeting that night was to do
honour to and recognise the efforts of one, who, so
to speak, took the bull by the horns and made the
wilderness to blossom as the rose."
Mr. Isaacs, the Melbourne barrister, is
one of the coming leaders of the common law Bar.
Only a few years ago he was a clerk in the Pro-
thonotaTy's office. While there he read up hard,
and has now more solid law in his head than
some men who have been at the Bar for 30 years.
He is a Hebrew, and was born at Beechworth.
The convict Newman’s case will not be
considered by the N.S.W. Executive Council un-
til Judge Wir deyer returns from his long globe-
trotting expedition. Newman has had to wait for
Judge Windeyer before now—when that amiable
and dignified luminary adjourned the court a
couple of times pour chauffer Vestomac in com-
pany with Governor Caring ton and a lot of alder-
manio feeders.
Tne shareholders in that famous Queens-
land gold mine, the Day Dawn P.C., have just re-
ceived the money for which their property was
sold in England. There were only nineteen share-
holders, six of whom represented three-quarters
of the interests. Some of the cheques were stag-
gerers ; two got £103,000, while four received the
trifling sums of £51,000, £38,000, £25,000, and
£19,000 respectively.
Patrick Jennings, -John M‘Elhone, and
John Norton are three more or less distinguished
N.S.W. politicians. Well, last week three non-
politicians named Patrick Jennings, John
M’Elhone, and John Norton were fined for
drunkenness at the Sydney Central Police Court.
A new sort of ioke, this—taking the names of the
great in vain. We shall next find some unprin-
clpled drunk giving his name as Alfred Barry or
E. J. H. Knapp.
Says the Narrabri (N.S.W.) Herald: —
“Mr. Gus. Williams, J.P., took his seat on the
Bench for the first time on Saturday, and in the
absence of the members of the Bar was compli-
mented by Sergeant Meagher on behalf of the
police, upon bi-< appointment as a Justice of the
Peace ” The Binch congratulated by the foorce l
Won’t the six hundred and odd disappointed ap-
plicants for J.P.-ships grind their teeth when they
think of Gus. William's glory I
The most recent globe-trotter guest of
Governor Loch is handicapped with the names
George Edward Stanhope Molyneaux, Lord Por-
chester. He is 21 years of age, and heir-apparent
to his father the Earl of Carnarvon, and a lineal
descendant of the polite Earl of Chesterfield. It
was this polite Chesterfield, by the way, who said,
when a young lady slipped in a ball-room and fell
flat with her face to the ceiling, “ Never mind,
my dear, practice makes perfect.”
The Mayor of Venice this year is a de-
scendant of Dante, and bears the same name—
Dante Alighieri. He has, so far, shown no signs
of possessing any poetical abilities. The Mayor
of Sydney traces his descent in a direct line from
the inspired bard who wrote “ Rise up, William
Riley,” and bears the same name—Riley. We
have not heard that he has shown any of the
genius of his immortal ancestor, either. Perhaps
he writes poetry in secret, and is ashamed to have
it known.
When the great divorce case Malpas v.
Malpas was being heard in Melbourne, A. P. Sulli-
van, the N.S W. squatter, denied that he was
justly made a co-respondent. “Now, Mr. Sulli-
van,” said Parves in cross-examination, “ suppose
you had an intrigue with a friend’s wife and were
made co respondent in a divorce suit, what would
you do ? Would you deny your guilt, or betray
the lady?” “Mr. Purves,” replied Sullivan, “I
can’t give you an answer to that question. You
put to me a state of circumstances so impossible
that I am utterly unable to give an answer.”
Old Billy Cummins, who at one time
owned a lot of land about Bathurst (N.S.W.)
and represented East Macquarie in Parliament,
took a contract at per yard to make the road be-
tween the city and Kelso, and a right good job he
made of it, for it is now, after the lapse of many
years, one of the best in the colony. The Govern-
ment—the contract was very loosely drawn —
wanted to pay per lineal yard, but Billy demurred,
and claimed on the square, and got it. Which re-
calls a story told of an eminent English manufac-
turer, who has a handle to his name. He was
the owner of the whole town near his works, save
one little bit which belonged to a Quaker. The
big man wanted this piece, and agreed with the
owner for it, the price being that amount of sove-
reigns which could be plaoed upon the ground.
When the calculation was being made the manu-
facturer wanted the sovs. laid flat; the Quaker
wanted them edgeways, to which the big man
wouldn’t assent. “ Then,” said the Quaker, “ the
town belongs to thee and to me "
The Old Wi f e and the New.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He sat beneath the curling vines
That round the gay verandah twined,
His forehead seamed with sorrow's lines,
An old man with a weary mind.
His young wife with a rosy face,
And brown arms, tinted by the sun,
Went flitting all about the place—
Master and mistress both in one.
What caused that old man's look of care?
Was she not blithe and fair to see ?
What blacker than her raven hair —
What darker than her eyes might be ?
Were her curved lips not ripe and red,
And white aB pearls her flashing teeth ?
Who e’er saw such a handsome head
Pinged round with such a raven wreath ?
Had she no heart whose tendrils he
Could thrill, or one that nothing melts I
,(Such hearts there are), or, could it be,
She had a heart —for someone else l
Who knows ? The old man bent his head ;
The sunlight on his gray hair shone,
His thoughts were with a woman dead
And buried, years an<ji years agone
The good old wife who took her stand
Beside him at the altar-side—
An,d walked with him, hand clasped in hand,
Thyopgh Joy and Sorrow till she died—
Then she wp,s fair as heart’s desire,
And gay, and supple-limbed, in sooth,
And in pis veins there leaped like fire
The hot red blood of lusty youth.
She stood by him through shine and shac(e,
And, when hard-beaten, at his best,
She took him like a child and laid
His aching head upon her breast.
She helped him make a little home—
Where once were gum-trees gaunt and stark,
And bloodwoods waved green-feathered foam—
Working froirfdawn of day till dark,
Till those tall forest-trees did frame
A vineyard that the gods might bless,
And what was savage once became
A Tadmor in the wilderness.
And how at their first vintage-time
She laughed and sang—you see such shapes
On vases of the Grecian prime—
And danced a reel upon the grapes.
And ever, as the years went on,
She kept all things with thrifty hand,
Till never shone the sun upon
A fairer homestead in the land.
Then children came—ah me! ah me !
Sad blessings that a mother craves !
That old man from his seat could see
The shadows playing o’er their graves.
And then he closed her eyes at last,
Her gentle, useful, peaceful life
Was over—garnered with the past:
God rest thee gently, Good Old Wife 1
His young wife has a rosy face,
And laughs, with reddest lips apart,
But cannot fill the empty place
Within that old man s lonely heart.
His young wife has a rosy face,
And brown arms, tinted by the sun,
Goes flitting all about the place,
Master and mistress both in one.
But though she sings, or though she sighs,
He sees her not—he sees instead!
A gray-haired Shade with gentle eyes—
The good old wife—long deal—long dead.
He sits beneath the curling vines,
Through which the merry sunrays dart,
His forehead seamed with Sorrow’s-lines,
An old man with a broken heart.
VICTOR J. DALRY.


THE
Impending Crisis
J\ tADY - MADE A a/D ' o *s tf/rj- &'
M vi u^ f ' |J
\ ,<A'
Am " » ! PP'
-HA ! /)
7 A i v! j
TJe Cfa:*
•V
A JL- lf) j J \l\ /
Voice /"’r Vy <“ Ui 7
' //\ Jr,^
w 4 r A
. 7
e J. c * r C ov dil ' ot? ■ r
b e - . ir? ffe r Tuv“'^ a '
»f r. -- p*:; u 7iC
,l? ■ £C e«« ,, ;/' f )/l /°’' tt b"”> £ Pf
i "W3“ V'
THE CO[?]G WOMAN.


,/„ my /,/** ’ a9 ' /"“,.
i'jfil 1 be co 4)A 0 "' shouJLLr$ houJLL r
‘ -f be fc
y Ik
Yr i /i%— r
AA A!"
J u rey IS
d u)p cXoO U)iTT)
Chi Icier,
ww»^ £R '
h r
PARLIAI^CNT
EIIZA SKINNEK .
The Nor Kinc, man S
Candidate
Uuoip WA “ihilNCj .
f Vote for
> Her !
Ct) Ct s' t f* re - J op.)
'/? a 9 Cl ‘ i, jl' i/fere^
Jj e }^ y S>X^ r^c^ets-
f’ C AsAr /'^
/ pce s /h/ s/& A& r/fa.'*? e/? f~ '
e / £>^C / 6 & r- e eS'/<T y&Ad <fooS&-
k ~9 ll ? CL y/ /p 7£ e 7?eft-es/)fr>e.ip/'
4*, GuJe. ,
/tyjA/- /fjFS'f-7>£~S *77 aA/,
G WOMAN.


Society
At the V.R.C. Spring meeting of last
year, when the Hon. James White’s racing star
was in the ascendant, it was beautiful to observe
such of the old English nobility as happen to be
temporarily located in this beastly country walk
with him into the paddock to see his horses
saddled. The successful owner’s society was in
great demand at that time, and the “ nobs ” loved
him dearly. But this year, after Derby and Cup
days’ results had proved the Hon. James to be
temporarily out of luck, it was particularly
noticeable that the Government House party were
not a little bit interested iu him or his horses.
They had dropped their money over the ‘ ‘ blue
and white,” and felt in no mood to be even plea-
sant to their former protege. The outside public
also lost heavily by th 9 successive defeats of
Trident, Morok, Abercorn, Enigma, Cranbrook,
and Lava, nevertheless there was a big cheer
from flat, hill, and stand when, on Thursday,
Carlyon got home in front of Algerian—the more
fancied of the pair. Mr. White seemed very
pleased to find that the vulgar crowd could be
enthusiastic at his poor little win purely out of a
kindly feeling towards the old colours. Hales, too,
brightened up for the first time during the meet-
ing, in which he was generally overlooked in
favour of the great god, Gorry,
* # *
“ Lady Loch regrets that she will be un-
able to receive visitors at Government House on
Thursday next.” This announcement appears so
regularly in the Melbourne dailies that we fear
her ladyship is feeling awfully bored by local sas-
siety. At first the “ popularity” game was amus-
ing enough. On Thursday mornings the Go-
vernoreis underwent a course of dumb-bell exer-
cise, and braced up her muscles for a handshaking
match. But by degrees she wearied of the un-
grammatical adulation of a crowd of heavy-
weight females in their best gowns. The same old
twaddle was repeated each successive Thursday,
until dear Lady Loch knew what every woman
would say to her next. In sheer weariness of spirit,
she tried an “ indisposition ’’ for some few weeks.
And when that excuse had been worn threadbare,
Lady L grew reckless, until now she merely
“regrets that she will be unable,” &c., without
troubling to give any reasons.
* * *
On Oaks Day, at Flemington, no vice-
regal femininity put in an appearance, and the
Lawn was as deserted as a cemetery at midnight.
# •* *
After wrestling with a few hundred re.
ports of swagger balls and high-toned weddings
in the daily papers, we have discovered the grand
secret of toilet literature. Maidens on the right
side of five-and-twenty are always “ prettily
dressed.” Young matrons are “ charmingly
robed,” and well-preserved middle age is “ be-
comingly attired.” But when you read that a
lady was ‘ handsomely costumed ” you can bet
your last dollar that she is in a fair way to cele-
brate her oentenary year.
# * *
( |The way of the transgressor being in any
case more or less hard, nobody will be sorry to
hear that the estate of ex-Banker B. Holt will
not only pay all claims against, but will give Holt
at least £lO,OOO by the time he completes his
sentence. Holt’s assets are being carefully looked
afl er by level-headed friends, whose efforts in the
direction of saving the ex-banker from absolute
financial ruin are being greatly aided by the
splendid success, present and prospective, of
Rosehill racecourse, in which the erring banker
has an interest.
* * *
A recent visitor to the colonies, a Free
Kirk “ meenister” named Cameron Lees, writes
to the Scotsman, running us down more viru-
lently than anyone since Arthur Sketchley. The
rev. doctor is evidently brimful of the proverbial
national regard for the “saxpence”; he found
travelling here very saxpens ive [ls this a goak?—
Ed. B.], and consequently viewed everything,
even Pinchgut, with a jaundiced eye. He com
plains of the water, as if a Scotchman, and a
“meenister” too, could possibly be a judge of
such a thin and flavourless beverage. The
whisky, however, was to his taste, possible be-
cause, owing to the silly Australian custom of
“ shouting” for strangers, he could get gloriously
exhilarated for nothing Let us pitch the doctor a
Btave. “ Yich Alpine MacCallum Mohr, a strain
on your pipes.” (Mac is The Bulletin’s bag-
piper.)—
To the Rev. Dr. Cameron Lees.
When again for the pen you’ve the nationa
itching,
Beware! le3t you’re earning, not kudos, but
switching;
For ’tis said, and with truth, that you, reverend
doctor,
Have of frightful misstatements and fibs been
concocter;
So this tag to your travels just hammer on, please,
That the most o! your yarn, Doctor Cameron’s,
Lees.
* * *
' Alfred Bennett, of the E. News, having
monopolised the Sydney matrimonial market and
the baby‘shamble, the S.M. Herald has started
into another line of business, and hopes by
keeping only the best brands and by attention to
business and civility to customers to merit a con-
tinuance of the patronage of its friends and the
public generally. This is an ad. from the Herald
which we respectively submit for the considera-
tion and consultation of Primate Barry, Cardinal
Moran, James Fairfax, Pastor Jefferis, and John
M’Elhone
tt WILL the young Lady, in second mourning, who at
2 p.m. yesterday left Ocean-street 'bus and then
went into shop to purchase tram tickets, kicdly write to
gentleman, with newspaper, who sat next her. Strictest
honour and confidence. Paris, Herald Office.”
Very Parisian!
The will of Father Stack, late of Vic-
toria, who died in France the other day, was
proved in Melbourne last week. The estate —all
personalty—was sworn at £14,798. Of this sum
the testator left £13,198 to various hospitals and
other charities in Victorian districts where he had
been stationed from time to time. He bequeathed
nothing to any distinctive Catholic charity except
the St. Vincent de Paul’s Orphanage, South Mel-
bourne, in which suburb he had resided for many
Tears after his retirement from clerical duties.
# * *
The first Sydney newspapers were of a
very primitive order. Thus the Sydney Gazette
of Thursday, February 20, 1823, contains the fol-
lowing announcement :—“The ship Brixton,
Capt. Lusk, arrived from London on Sunday,
16th. She left England on September 15th. Just
six months on the voyage. Passengers : Mrs.
Rowe, wife of Mr. Solicitor Rowe ; Mrs. Emmett
and daughter, wife and child of Mr. Wm.
Emmett, who begins to be colonised from his long
residence among us. these gentlemen are id be
congratulated upon the long-looked-for arrival
of their wives."
* * #
The Rev. Inglis, of Ballarat, is going
“ home ” with a hatful of sovereigns presented to
him by his loving congregation. Ballarat Star
says “ Mr. Inglis’ labours date back nearly 30
jears, and have been marked by such a spirit of
Catholicity and self-denial as to win for him the
sympathy of all classes.” Just so. Mr. Inglis
carried his Catholicity and self denial to such a
pitch as to—some years ago—prefer preaching the
sermons of others instead of hia own. He called
them his own, however, merely as a matter of
form. This is one of the most touching instances
of unselfishness we know of. By the way, it may
“GINGER.”
not be generally known that it is the custom in the
Presbyterian Church to increase the salary of
ministers £l5 a year for every child born to them.
Mr. Inglis has carried off this premium thirteen
times. There's not much self-denial about that.
It is better to be in the church than on the Press.
A journalist is generally mulct about £l5 a year
for every addition he makes to the collective in-
tellect and hunger of the ear.h. And his family,
if he lives long enough, usually runs from 14 to
22
* * *
While Governor of N.S.W. Lord Augustus
Loftus was served With a writ for £2OOO, to which
no defence could be made, and four Sydney
gentlemen planked down £5OO each to relieve the
poor old gentleman. Did they ever get the
money back t
* • *
The original Bible sent out with the first
fleet to Botany Bay is kept in an iron safe in St.
Phillip’s Church, Sydney. May We suggest that
it be included m some way in the Centennial
rejoicings ?
♦ * *
The public awaits with much curiosity the
arrival in Sydney of that expensive bauble,
Boehm’s latest statue of the Queen —or rather,
the Queen’s latest statue, by Boehm. It will be
erected just outside the Insolvency Court; Parkes'
statue will probably be set up one of these days
just inside the Insolvency Court. Boehm’s work
aforesaid, we may safely predict, is to show us
what Queen Victoria, the dreadfully plain, dumpy
little Dutch-built lady of four feet eight or nine,
j s not now, never was, and never will be, either
|in this world or the next. Leading artisbs who
j cared more about their heads than their reputa-
! tions, paused ere faithfully drawing or modelling
Henry the Eighth’s repulsive obesity in his own
time; and, as it is claimed for Art that she is
eternal, we may be quits certain of seeing Vic-
toria Regina lengthened as if drawn out by the
rack, and attenuated as if by a course of ten
thousand Turkish baths.
* * *
The Anglican Primate threatens that such
members of his church as may advantage them-
selves of the unloosing provisions of the new
free-and-easy Victorian and New South Wales
divorcB-laws will be deprived of the right
of being re married by any C. of E. priest. Ac-
cording to this, the Primate is only prepared to
obey the Queen, who is also the Defender of what
remains of the Faith, so long as H.M. does every-
thing he wants her to do. We shall see. It may
be all very well to excommunicate individuals,
but it isn’t so nice for the clergy to excommuni-
cate the wedding fees.
• * *
This is the sorb of slobber that Sydney
D.'f. publishes for the women, and then in another
column demands for them the franchise :
‘ You certainly looked very bad, dear,’ said Helen. ‘Do
you thiok it would be too dreadful to offer Sir Adrian tea at
a quarter to four ?’ with a glance at a flue old eight-day
clock. ‘Do you ever take tea, Sir Adrian i ’
‘A teapot is the favourite companion of my studious
hours,’ answered Adrian ‘ May I ring the bell for you ?'
‘Yes, please; and you wont laugh at us and call us
washerwomen for wanting tea so early?'
‘lpromiße to do neither; but were my brother here I
would not answer for him. He is very severe on my womanish
passion for the teapot.’
' Is he very different from you? ’
‘ Altogether different.’
‘And yet you are twins. I thought twins were always
alike.*
* I believe we are alike in person, except that Valentine
is handsomer, stronger and bigger than I. But it is in tastes
and charaoter we are unlike. Yet, perhaps, after all, it is
mostly a question of health and physical energy. His robust
constitution has made him incline to all athletic exercises
and manly sports, while my poor health has made me rather
womanish. lam obliged to obey the doctors, were it only to
satisfy my mother.’
“ If Mr. Belfield is as nice as you are, I am sure we will all
like him,’ said Mrs. Braddeley, frankly. ‘ I hear he is abroad
just now.’
1 Yes, he is iu Paris, en route for Monte Carlo; but I don’t
think he will be long away. lie is very fond of hunting, and
won t care to miss tio much of it.’
# * #
A man advertises in the Argus (Melb.) of
27th nib. for his set of teeth which he lost at
Albert Park. See how
teeth seem to plague the
human subject from first
to last! We could write
a romance on this adver-
tisement. Suppose as
Edwin (senior) stooped to
kiss Angelina’s (junior)
iily hand in the dark-
ness, Edwin’s costly set of
molars had dropped out.
Suppose further that,
being too ashamed to look for his lost gums in the
mud, with a few and hurried words of muttered,
not to say mumbled, adieu, Edwin had fled. We
don’t believe anything of this sort took place in
the Albert Park misfortune, but the Argus ad-
vertiser wants his teeth, and seems determined to
let people know.
* * *
The Lithgow (N. S. W.) police-officer, whose
prosecution of a workingmen’s club for ‘ * illegally
selling liquor,” seems to have rested on no better
b asis than that the club was not run by fashion
ably-dressed non-producers, got a well-deserved
snubbing. Lithgow, by the way, is the place
where a woman under arrest was lately made to
scrub out her cell before she was tried. Too many
policemen scarcely try to conceal their contempt
for the working-classes.
* * *
A Governor, whenever he visits, whether
lb’s a shabby new post-office or a wretchedly-
managed hospital, is always “ pleased with what
he saw.” The authorities, on the other hand, are
generally pleased with what he didn't see.
• * *
Caterer Skinner’s supply of drinkables for
Melbourne Cup week was 2800 dozen of bottled
beer, 228 cases of champagne, 7000 dozen of
aerated waters, 144 cases of spirits, 150 dozen of
wines.
* * *
Here is a little gem from Max O’Rell :
“In his daily litanies the Scotchman enters into the most
tnfling details with careful forethought j the list of favours
he has received, and for which he has to return thanks; the
list of the blessings he wishes for, and will certainly receive,
for God cannot refuse htnt anything—all this is present to
his prodigious memory. He dots his i’s, as we say in France;
and if by chance he should happen to employ a rather far-
fetched expression, he explains it to the Lord, so that there
shall be no danger of misunderstanding what he asks for—
he corners Him. Thus I was one day present at evening
prayers in a Scotch family, and heard the master of the
house, among a thousand other supplications, make the fol-
-1 owing‘0 Lord, give us receptivity; that is to say, O Lord,
the power of receiving impressions.’"
Some day, perhaps, Max will come out to Aus-
tralia and size up the colonists. He won’t be so
much worried by prayer out here.
# * *
An enterprising Yankee, who has jusb
started business in Sydney, announces that he is
ready to sober-up any intoxicated person in five
minutes. He has located Ms establishment just
below the Supreme Court —for the convenience of
some of the Crown Prosecutors, probably.
* •
The shareholders of the old Magdala Com-
pany at Stawell (Vic.) are happy now—oh! so
happy. For 20 years they wrestled with the
depths of the earth till they got their claim down
2500 feet, and then they put down a 500-fcot bore,
making 3000 feet in all, and never a cent did they
get. At last, when they had spent £130,000 and
dared not go down any farther for fear of getting
right into perdition and giving the Evil One a
chancs t o get out and rush the property, they gave
up, and sold their hole in the ground for what it
would fetch. Then the new owners went and
found a 25 foot reef running 1§ ounces to the ton,
j ust a few feet from where their predecessors had
left off, and the old shareholders are so glad to
hear it.
* * •
The New Victorian Speaker, Mr. M. H.
Davies, who is a shareholder in the local D.T.,
gave a banquet to the reporting-staffs of the
Melbourne dailies to celebrate his accession to
the chair. What a glorious quartette !—the pious
Davies—a “cross between a parson and a local
preacher” - “ Brains” Cunningham, of the Argus ;
G. A. Allen, of the Age. who ought to make his
friends drop the sacred alias by which he is
known at the Yorlck Club ; and the quondam
humourous Morgan, who has become downright
dismal since he became chief of the D.T. staff.
Great »*>cotfc! how did they pass the time when
the corned beef and cabbage were disposed of ?
Did the speaker give a comic song or one of
Moody and Sankey’s hymns ? Did Cunningham
tell anecdotes of the kings and nobles ho and
Deakin met in Europe ; or Allen relate his adven-
tures with the Kelly gang ; or Morgan ask his
boss in a weak moment for an increase of screw ?
* * *
At a recent meeting of the Victorian
Licensed Victuallers’ Association, President
Stutt passionately asserted that “ he was satisfied
that the public would never allow themselves to
be debarred from their liquor on Sundays.”—
It is a joyful thing to see—
For those who love the cheerful cup,
And like sometimes to go upon the “ burst ”
(But that, of course, is neither you nor we) —
Mr. Disinterested Stutt set up
As champion of the public thirst.
* *
At present there is at Sydney University
one female medical student in the third year.
She attends the same classes and dissects in the
same room, and on the same body as the male
students ; attends the same work in the hospital
as the male students, and with them; and is
present also at operations with male students.
There is no provision for separate courses of
lectures, dissections, or hospital practice for male
and female students.
* * *
For some reason or other the Earl of
Buckinghamshire does not seem to belong to the
Melbourne Government House “set.” He scrupu-
lously avoided the vice-regal enclosure at Flem-
ington on Cup Day, and it was noticeable that he
only recognised the gentlemen of the party by
a curb nod. His lordship, however, seems to be
very popular among the better class of Melbourne
Bohemians.
* * *
The barbers of London have held a con-
vention for the purpose of discussing the present
epidemic of bald-headed men. One artist in hair
thought that beards were at the root of the
trouble, and another pub it down to the criminal
neglect of our infallible restorer at 23. 6d. per
bottle. But the general idea seemed to be that
the steady falling off in the human wool-crop is
“ due to the great intelligence of the man of the
present period,” producing a certain weakness of
the head-akin. Being a bald-headed cuss ourself,
and holding a poor opinion of Parkes, we are
inclined to favour this last theory something con-
siderable.
* *
Yet we are also inclined to believe that
matrimony is accountable for absence of hair,
especially when it is absent in big round patches.
Billiards, too, is very bad for the top of the
head, and so is backing stiff ’uns. There was not
much horse racing and billiards in our grand-
fathers’ time, and though they got married, they
were not so much married as the present genera
tion. We could write pages and pages about
bald-heads as bearing on the Social Purity ques-
tion, but there is only just time to catch our
train. In conclusion, we will give a word of
advice to young men : If you wish to preserve a
good 'ead of ’air, don’t wear your ’ats in the
hofiice. It is an assumption of authority which
slowly, but surely, widens the parting.
• * *
The latesb yam about “ a certain British
peer who suffers from kleptomania,” is that he
purloined his countess’s false teeth and hid them
in a boot. His valet (who empties the boob every
night and restores stolen property to its rightful
owners) thought that those teeth belonged to
another lady and sent them off to her by special
messenger with one of the politely-worded notes
which he is always supplied with against similar
emergencies. It was not until the Countess had
enquired for her teeth and the messenger had
been kicked by the other lady’s husband that
things were straightened out.
* * *
Perhaps the most ridiculous feature about
this yarn is the careful suppression of the certain
peer’s name. If a plain Jones or Smith sneaked
somebody’s “mouth’’ and put it in his boot, or
took away silver spoons from a dinner party and
dropped them in his water-jug, the papers would
cut small jokes about these eccentricities until
we were sick But the Earl of D ’s (there
now!) mania is covered up. His political
maunderings are accepted as pearls of wisdom
we are inflicted with long leaders on his sound
common sense and moderate views. And when
he winds up a brilliant speech in the House by
carrying off all the available umbrellas belonging
to dozing dukes then sassiety shuts its eyes and
the press is silent Bahl If ever the “certain
British peer ” come 3 to Sydney and “lifts” our
glass eye when we’re not looking his name and
titles sha’l be printed on the front cover of The
Bulletin in six-inch capitals.
* * #
Acorrespondenbwrites us from Melbourne:
“ The difference between the cock on and the cock off his
own dunghill was beautifully exemplefied the other day in a
case heard before the Supreme CLurt A well-known bully-
ing lawyer had been for nearly an hour cross-examining a
medical witness, and into that hour he managed to cram
more insinuations, gibes, and sneers than even he is usually
capable of. The lawyer, in fact, was in great form and
fairly surpassed himself. At the close of the cross-examina-
tion the court adjourned for lunch, and our legal friend
blissfully unconscious of any danger, made for Menzies’’
where the big man of medicine was awaiting him The
scene that ensued will not be very readily forgotten by the
three or four score of witnesses—the terrible wrath of the
irate doctor, the livid features of the whilom valorous
man of horsehair, and the crowd that had instinctively
formed a ring round them ; but the cock was off his dung-
?u 11 l aa ., d , oWn ' “ d T ? v , en the shower of adjectives
that fell like hail from the Irishman s ready tongue failed to
make him ‘forget himself ’ One of the crowd who, without
a movement of his facial muscles had watched the whole
affair, remarked as the barrister at last succeeded in making
his escape: ‘Well, well, I aint ‘ad such fun since
pa died. Then, suddenly altering his mind he turned
tO . the r d ?, ct P r and shook him warmly by the hand
with, Well done, sir; but you should have given him ust
one. His example was followed by a score of strangers.
The advocate did not forget the above little incident in his
speech, but the judge saw through it, and, in his summing-
up, dressed him down very warmly, adding that nothing but
personal spite could account for the learned gentleman's vin
dictiveness, and the Argus, the next morning, gave a ver-
batim report but for these remarks, which were carefully ex
cised—that, no doubt, comes of being brief -d by a paper
From one point of view, all this is very satisfactory, but from
another tis anything but so. Iu the absence of cock-fighting,
rat-pits, and bull-baiting, which the extremely moral people
of Victoria have forbidden, the spectacle of legal bullies
badgering a nervous and defenceless woman in the witness-
box, with irrevelant and brutal questions, has afforded a
constant, cheap, and congenial entertainment ”
* .
Extract from an advertisement published
by a Melbourne slop-emporiumAs the world
increases in wealth and knowledge, so the desire
What a place for contemplation is 402 and 404 George-
street There is the embodiment of men’s thoughts. See
there is a story in the Pu’-Buit of Pie-.sure, there the Pro-
tection of Innocence, here the amusing tussel between the
Child and ihe Dog, and the sequence. There the statue of
Shakespeare, Schiller, Belcher, Holmes Ryle, Parker,
Burns, Dickeris, Locke, Newton, and Milton. Leaving these,
we turn to the artistic works in articles made more espe-
cially for use, such as Dishes, Jut's, Tumblers, Cups, and al
kinds of Sets used for the replenishing of the inner man.
Rbay Bros’, are the Proprietors.*
FRECKLES.— These unsightly subcutaneous discolora-
tions are of two kinds—the “ Summer" or temporary freckles
(Ephelis and the permanent variety (Lentigo). The former
is generally due to a darkening of the epidermis in small
oval patches (“Summer Freckles”), or extending over a
larger surface (“Tan or Sunburn”), while permanent
Freckles (or Lentigo) are deeper seated, and remain even
after the epidermis is completely removed. Clements
Frecklebane is an infallible cure, and will eradicate the
worst case of Freckles withouti njuring the akin or com-
plexion. Sold by all chemists. Wholesale, F. M Clements,
141 King-street Newtown.*
Ladlei would do well to attend the great lale of the leaion
now on at the London and Parti Outfitting Hitabliihment
Mr«. McOathrTf 88 *nl 00 Kira-itrest-*
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—A Private Medi
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for the 1
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes'
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms l
derive the great advantages of a constant medical super
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff.-
For particulars apply to the Lady Superintendent.*


of every thoughtful person increases to be fashion-
ably and neatly dresred.” Sheol! In other words,
every “ thoughtful person ” must have a pot hat
or a gown of gobelin-blue with a bustle the size of
a small haystack, or life has no more charms for
them. We fancy we can hear the following dia-
logue between, say Plato and Socrates (who were
considered pretty thoughtful persons in their
time):
Socrates.— Thou lookest somewhat down in the mouth
to-day, O Plato ! What aileth thee? Hast thou lost faith
in the divine Eidolon’—(Aside) Whatever the Phlegethon
that may be.
Plato.— Not that, not that, O skilled in dialectics. That
which gueveth the soul of Plato is a greater and a graver
matter. Ai ! Ai!
Socrates (uore anxiously).—What may it be, O Zeus-
browed ?
Plato (pointing to a new gown hanging on a peg).—O
Socrates, my artificer in cloth hath been here, and—(sobbing
wildly)—may Cerberus seize him ! he hath brought a gown
of last year’s pattern. Ai! Ai!
* * *
“ Rough on Rats ” should be encouraged
as a genuinely democratic poison. It is prima
facie evidenoe of a humble and unpretentious
frame of mind to kill oneself by absorbing it, and
any man who does so must have a mean opinion of
himself. No bloated capitalist would thus enter
the kingdom of a syndicated paradise.
* * •
Piease inhale as much ozone as your lungs
will hold without danger and read this gorgeous
marriage “ ad.” from the Age :
“ COLLINS—JONES.—September 28, 1887, at St. Thing-
amy’s Church, Melbourne, by the Rev. Joseph Henry Tabor,
Constantia Florence Josephine Alice Lesley, second daughter
of the late Arthur Church Collins, M.T)., of Melbourne, Vic-
toria, granddaughter of the late K. England, Esq , High
Sheriff of St. Anthony s, Prussian and Spanish Consul-
General, to Richard Cowrie, of the Public Works Depart-
ment, eldest son of Peter H. Jones, Esq., of Baltimore,
TI S A."
Only fancy! Miss Constantia Florence Josephine
Alice Lesley Collins, granddaughter of a High
Sheriff and double-barrelled Consul-General will,
in future, be only plain Mrs. Jones !
A fair Sydney fashion
scribe informs a sickened
public that at Melbourne
races “Mrs. A. B. C.
Blank exhibited her usual
good taste,” &o. Really
this is monotonous. We
were quite tired of read-
ing the very same thing
about the very same per-
son a quarter of a cen-
tury ago.
# * #
How inadequate is
the English language at
times! A Sydney lady
scribe says that “ the
charming Lady Carington
will take a recess with
her lovely children at her
beautiful rural home at
Moss Vale.”
W
* *
Lady Loch wore her
previous Cup dre3s at
Melbourne Cup last week.
Several other ladies did
ditto, only it wouldn’t do
to tell them so.
• » *
Primate Barry re-
cognise the solid advan-
tages that ought to accrue
(to the clergy) from an
established church in this
country ; but he at length
seems painfully aware of
the fact that it would
take something more
than an address in favour
of the Queen's Fund to
make the godly plank
their coin in New South
Wales. So far, his Lord-
hip’s Centennial Fund
is drawing like the pro-
verbial blister on the
tombstone.
In re the proposal to raise Governor Loch’s
salary a Melbourne newspaper • correspondent
writes :
“ Sir Henry Loch has got a name for hospitality, hut bia
hospitality is not of an expensive kind. He gives a good feiv
At Homes in company with his good lady and an occasional
hall (the cost of which is defrayed by a grateful country.) Sir
Henry’s entertainments are noted for the number of the
gu»Bts, the quality of the floral decorations (borrowed for the
occasion from the Botanical Gardens), the quantity of thi
sponge cakes, and the gallons of cucumber water to wash
the former down with. Champagnes and spirits are con
spicuous by their absence, and as for a bit of a chicken, it is
as forbidden at the vice-regal ball as pork at a Rabbi’s feast.
Previous to Sir Henry's advent the Mayor s balls given iq
Melbourne were famous for the sumptuous suppers which
accompanied them. Now, alas ! the vice-regal example has
extended to the civic magnates, and Cinderella dances, wi*h
sour claret-cup and stale sandwiches, have usurped the place
of balls and suchlike extravagant superfluities. And jet
Government wants to increase fcir Henry’s salary. Bah!
* « *
There was one terribly painful feature
about the legal scandal which made things so
warm in Sydney last week. When the Court got
demoralised through the Crown Prosecutor coming
in drunk and hiccuping over the table, a good
deal of confusion arose, and the jury rushed the
judge’s, lunch and demolished the lot. It wasn’t
much, either, among so many. What the judge
did when he found everything gon'>, barring the
bones, is not known. Probably hs sent the
gaol-dogger out for a tart. A great deal
of fuss is being made over the fact that a Crown
lawyer was drunk in Court, hut the papers that
are now trying to palm off such an incident upon
the public as a unique item of intelligence ought
to get a pinch for stale news.
H # *
Bev. G. Walters, of Melbourne, lectured
on “ Woman’s Influence in Society ’’ a short time
back, and, in a moment of poetic frenzy, observed
that it was “ woman’s mission to war upon war ”
The local Herald printed the lecture, but knocked
all the inspiration out of it by making the clergy-
man utter the prosaical, matter-of-fact remark,
■“ it is woman's mission to war upon man ” But
we must not abuse the poor printer. He put in
what was mo3t natural. As a married man, he
had probably been there himself.
• * *
Sir Henry Lcc’i came out strong last week
in the shape of a race-ball, aid Melbourne
Government House was thronged by 1500 guests,
all eager, excited, and tolerably sober. The ball-
room was decorated with flags, banners, shields,
bayonets, cutlasses, scalps, and grass, intermingled
with shrubs and various kinds of mule provender,
and the entire house was adorned in addition
with flowers borrowed from the Botanical
Gardens, Chinese lanterns, and gas. The hair,
aco ding to the D T. report, was generally worn
high on the head, which ii about as good a plac i
to wear it as we know of, and keops it from get-
ting into the taturs. The best-dressed women, ib is
further stated, wore traineddresses andharmonious
petticoats, and the corsages were in the Y form.
Among the guests were a mu-quis and mar-
chioness, two earls, one countess, two plain lords,
one female described as “ Lady,” a baronet, an
admiral, and a gallant officer-not the grocery
officer who commands the local fail-back militia
out West, but a genuine individual who howled
for blood in India, and thought nothing of sticking
two black soldiers and braining a rebel cook and
chambermaid behind the kitchen door before
breakfast. The gaudy scene was shaded off by
supper which ensued about midnight, a 1 idy, as
a rule, doesn’t look so nice when she is eating as
at some other times, bub this rule doesn’t apply to
countesses, for they don’t make the gobbling noise
over their food which is characteristic of some
low-priced personages. The proceedings closed
without any fatalities.
. * *
“ Ladies’ boots are to be worn low this
season,” in order, we presume, to prevent the
tops from showing above the fashionable ball
dress.
• * •
The bustle is gradually subsiding, but it
will be many a long day before the average female
will be able to enter a crowded room without
first reaching round to feel if an imaginary pro-
jection is square.
An English high-church pastor with a
taste for art has painted a huge picture of a
demon dragging Gladstone down into hell. It is
rather a striking work, and it takes well and
gives pleasure to all. The two figures are rushing
with immense velocity down a red-hot pit; both
are on fire, and they are mixed together in a wild
whirl of arms and legs and wings. Gladstone ap-
STILL THEY COME.
MRS. MULDOWNEY (to the visiting priest) : “WELL, YOUR REVERENCE, HAVE YE SEEN ME LASHT NEW
BABY?”
HIS REVERENCE : “NO, MRS. MULDOWNEY, AND I NEVER EXPECT TO.”
parently is remonstrating and attempting to hold
up, but the demon won’t let him. This picture
has bean exhibited a good deal at Primrose Leagu
meetings and high-ohurch bazaars and muffin
scrambles, and has been universally admired.
Bitter must be the reflections of Henry
Sharland (who a few days ago got three months
for the hideous crime of having no lawful visible
means of support) when he remembers, in his
lonely cell, that the punishment would probably
have been no greater had he sent the arresting
constable to the hospital by scalping him with
half-brick. Lost opportunities—but we’ve got no
time for moralising now.
Postmaster-General Derham, of Victoria,
lives at Albert Park, and there are a large number
of modes of conveyance which will take you to
his house by different routes. Mr. Derham has
thus got into the habit of asking his visitors,
“ How did you come out ? ” The other day a re-
porter met him in Collins street and stuck him up
for news. The P.M.G. gave him some, and then
absent-mindedly enquired : “ How did you come
out? ”
A Sydney commercial went Sorfch and
reached a town which had an hotel but no sample-
room. After exploring the place without success,
he then consulted the landlord and got a better
show. The latter said there was no hall as “he
knowed on,” bub there ivas a church, and as the
parson was a good sorb of fellow, the commercial
might have that, especially as it had not been
consecrated. The parson was applied to and he
proved to be a good fellow. He raised no objec-
tions, and the commercial gob the church on con
dition that he cleared out by Sunday. After
doing a good turn of business he proceeded on the
Saturday to the gospel-shop to pack up his
samples On the way he met the parson and told
him his intentions. “ Oh, never mind that,” was
the reply; “come and have a glass of wine
whioh was excusable considering the heat. The
pair adjourned to the landlord’s hostelry, and
wine followed whisky and whisky followed wine
with such rapidity that the commercial voted the
thing slow, and suggested cards. The thing was
no sooner said than done, and a new pack was
produced. The pair sat there all th 9 afternoon,
and darkness did nob see them parted. Next
morning—Sunday— they were still playing, but at
half-past ten the tinkling bell of the church gave
them a surprise. “By , there is the
bell! ’ said the clergyman, jumping up, “ I must
be off. ’ And off he want, and preached a rattling
good sermon. This is not the first instance of a
“ sky-pilot” rushing off card-stained to the pulpit,
but our present parson is advancing with the spirit
of the age, and doesn’t make a gambling shop of
the vestry.
Ttie other day a Redfern (Sydney) insol*-
vent said he hd neglected to register his dog
because it belonged to the official assignee. The
Bench fined him, and thus decided that an insol-
vent can own a dog This should be consoliog to
Iremier Parkes. Ha can still keap possession of
Habigie, Roberts, Clark, and Co.
The Victorian Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Co., Limited, have issued to their share-
holders 10,000 new £1 shares at a premium of £1
the whole £lO,OOO premiums going to the re-
serve fund. To pay £lO,OOO for the privilege of
holding £lO,OOO worth of shook is a financial
transaction rarely chronicled. The old £1 shares
have buyers at £7 !
Another illusion gone. Out of the 46.000
Jews in London, no fewer than 11,350 received
a.d last year. Until we read this we thought
there wasn’t a Jew on the earth who hadn t
money to lend at five minutes' notice. Probably
these pauper Jews have anticipated the advice of
Mr. Theodore Fink and given their attention to
literature and art, instead of pawnbrjkinz and
U3iry. Th ) moral i 3 p ain.
Newspaper Ohaff.
The rival editors at Lithgo w have been chaffing
each other. J P. T. Caulfield, the Boy Poli-
cial, of the Mercury, has abandoned the “ Tit
Bit ” column, in which he slogged mysteriously
at people who seemed to consist of nothing but
initials, and let the light in on the amatory in-
trigues of the local “ hunky kid,” the slavey at
the pub., and the “ bloke” round the corner. The
Poet Farrell, of the Enterprise, congratulates
him in the following gorgeous f verses
“ We’re unmanned —so much emotion
Weighs us down, we can but weep—
Ah! our tears would Ail the ocean,
0 verflow the briny deep !
We have never felt so solemn—
Never known such stress of pain
For that treasured ‘ Tit Bit’ column
We shall never see agaia !
“ Think of that, alas ; but think of
What the ruthless Boy has done—
Never more our lips shall drink of
That pure fount of wholesome fun—
Never more a happy truant
From the weary tasks of Thought,
Shall we revel in the fluent
Paragraphs by slaveys wrought I
“ Never more, as to a bridal,
Shall we skip to meet the boys
(Ah! it makes us suicidal
Thinking of those bygone joys);
Never, keen as famished vultures,
Shall we swoop upon the heap
That was going past to Coulcher’s
And obtain one on the cheap !
‘ ‘ Ah ! such blows as this have been our
Cruel, bitter, changeless fate !
So we sadly muse as in our
Silent room we ruminate
As across our memory flit bits
Of the ecstacy gone by,
The exceeding comic Tit Bits
That have almost made us die !
“ How we’ve pondered on the riddle
Of who that slim chap could be
With hair parted down the middle,
On whose amatory knee
Bob the Chucker’s girl was sitting
At the party at the Flat I
How with sides with laughter splitting
We’ve endeavoured to get at
“ What the red-haired girl was doing
All that Sunday on the hill,
Or why Wall eyed Peter’s wooing
Seemed to be at a standstill,
Or why Ikey didn’t tackle
Long Mulrooney at the Ball,
Or what any of the cackle
Could have been about at all !
“ How the choice things here unmuzzled
Oft have put us in a fog,
How Jack Slack has left us puzzled,
And the girl from Hollow Log !
How we’ve hungered for the paper,
Waiting through a weary week
Just to know what was the caper
Mary cut at Yorkey’s Creek 1
“ But, alas ! these things are over,
Never more while life shall last
Shall we read of Sarah's cove, or
Billy’s girl—their day is past ;
Never more, ah, never, never
Shall we chuckle as we read
Various multy items clever
In this multifarious screed !
“ How we’ve wallowed in and gloated
O l the dazzling wit that flashed
From the paragraphs devoted
To the * mashers’ and the ‘ mashed.’
Many a time—ah, many and many—
Have we wilted with delight
Over things that Sal or Annie
For this column U3ed to write 1
“ Here the housemaid, all dishevelled
Resting from the mop and broom
Shafts of cunning scorn ha 3 levelled
At that rascal Joe the Groom.
Here the female cook indignant,
Leaving good ‘ Titbits ’ to burn,
Has essayed with quill malignant
To give Bob the Boots a ‘turn I ’
“ Here the Editor full often
* Socked it on ’ to ‘ chap 3 ’ and ‘ blokes
Till our brain began to soften
Working out the hidden jokes.
Here, in days gone by, we’ve revelled
In the graceful verbal flow
Of the crushing charges levelled—
Though at whom we did not know.
“ This, all this, will never gladden
These our eyes again on earth.
Is it wonder that we sadden,
Or is this a time for mirth 1
Why should not our grief be v. cal
At the loss of these loved Bits
Wherein many a person local
Many a time has gotten * fits ? ’
“ Let us study the position,
Let us look at it and weep—
He who gave us all a ‘ dishing ’
Has for ever gone to sleep.
He who slogged has put his shirt on,
He who writ lain down his pen
And a Tit Bit about Gurton
Shall be seen no more of men !
“ This thought tears our heart to ribbons,
And may send us on the drink—
Never more will Dr. Gibbons
See his name in Tit Bit ink.
While this earth whirls in its orbit
Fleeing wildly round the sun,
Hint of Henry Proudfoot Corbett
In the Tit Bits shall be none !
“ Never syllable of ‘ Masher ; ’
Not another word about
Brisbane Doyle or Dr. Asher,
Johnny Connell, Hughes, or Clout!
Nothing more—a rusty pin sent
Through our flesh would cause less pain—
About J. C. Jones or Vincent
Shall be seen in there again !
“ Never shall we read and learn ’em
These light hearted flippant things—
Vale ! Vale in eternam,
Tit Bits; Dust are clowns and Mugs,
Dust are ‘ mashers’ and their ‘mashes ; ’
Blokes ’ and ‘ donahs,’ fools and wise,
All things here are dust and ashes
Save the Litiigow Enterprise.
“ Vale ! Bitter though your loss is
This is certain—ye are gone,
We have all to bear our crosses ;
Let us try to worry on !
Dearest Tit Bits, how we miss thee,
None but loving hearts can tell—
(No — if we drift into this, the
Evening News can write as well)
“ J. P. T., in this new sorrow
We condole with you, and say
‘ May a worthy bright To-morrow
Dawn upon the dark To-day :
May the disinfected paper
Shine with wisdom and with wit ;
At the Muckery’s dead taper
May the Mercury be lit 1 ”
A Birthday Ode.
The Prince’s Birthday once again
Has come to give us joy,
Then let us shout with might and main
For Vicky’s eldest boy 1
Let each Australian loyalist
Quaff deeply of two ales ;
At Rad. and Rebel shake his fist,
And shout hurrah 1 for “Wales ! ”
Chorus :
Hail! and all hail! Imperial lamb !
On this thy natal day.
We loyal Subjects of thy dam
Shout hip ! hip !! hip 1!! hooray !!! !
Let spouting Socialists declare,
As Hyndman’s crowd have done,
That Royalty is but a snare,
Delusion, and so on.
Yet we, Australia’s loyal sons,
Heed not such traitors’ tales,
We charge our glasses and our guns
And empty them—for “ Wales ! ”
Chorus—Hail, &c.
Let virtuous Stead disclosures make,
And give the world a shock,
Such scribes as he can never shake
That faith which firm as rock
Australia’s loyal children feel
In the eldest of the males
Whom “ Vicky ” bore to Albert leal—
The glorious Prince of Wales.
Chorus—Hail, &c.
Let Mordaunt and Lord Colin slide,
We care not what they say,
The Prince their stories has denied
On oath, hip ! hip ! ! hooray ! ! !
And if the letters that he wrote
Give colour to such tales,
Nathless will shout Australia’s throat -
“ God bless the Prince of Wales.”
Chorus—Hail, &c.
Though tradesmen tell their tedious tales
How Bertie’s bills go bad,
Our royal chick don’t mind their wails
He’s used to them, egad.
He does not care a single damn
For bankrupt courts or gaols,
Why should he ? John Ball standeth gam,
And pays the bills for “ Wales.”
Chorus—Hail, &c.
Let pious parsons pray and preach
“ God bless the Prince of Wales,”
While demagogues may loudly screech
Of starving London's wails.
Our loyal hearts may feel consoled—
Gaunt Famine’s tiger nails
Shall never fix their fiendish hold
On the noble Prince of Wale?.
Chorus—Hail, &c.


“The Bulletin”
ILLUSTRATED HISTORY
OF
BOTANY BAY.
AUSTRALIAN HISTORY FOR AUSTRALIANS
INTRODUCTION
Every year in Australia sees another stage in the formation of a population as different from
that of thirty or forty years ago ss that of the United States of to-day is from the early
Spanish settlers, or the Pilgrim Fath9rs of New England. A history of Australia has not
been written for the new people —yet. These new people are the nucleus of the coming Aus-
tralian nation-not the descendants of old Imperial officialdom, or of the people whom that official-
dom ruled. Unfortunately, however, the traditions of the past survive in Australia, while the
events that fathered those traditions are forgotten. The result is that Young Australia finds
itself dominated by the surviving remnant of a class whose history will make the Australian people of
the near future burn their records and pray for a tidal wave.
* W *
A look-out on Australia to-day will disclose a strange state of things. Upwards of three millions
of people, in one of the fiaest countries in the world, have a chance in the struggle for existence
the peer of which no other spot on the glohe save Eden has ever seen. But these three millions of
people, with their popular democratic institutions, are governed in the interests of a small class by a
little knot of men who rule in the name of the people but cn the lines of the strictest and nar-
rowest conservatism. We have in Australia our manhood suffrage, vote by ballot,
the jury system, popular legislatures, and all the marks of an advanced political
spirit. Yet side by side with these we have rankly flourishing and openly encouraged, all
the inequality of social conditions, the invidious class distinctions, the great monopolist property
in land, the old fendal spirit in our property laws, and the mark of the same old familiar bloody
hand in’ our psnal legislation, that the free institutions we have just named were deliberately In-
vented by English Liberals as political weapons to destroy.
* * *
The crude anomalousness of all this is patent. But it only requires to be looked at through the
hlssory of the past to be at once whistled down the wind. We have clothed the ass’s body of
social conditions and feudal-law traditions in the lion’s hide of pseudo-democratic institutions.
When the lion is expected to roar, we only hear the other animal bray. We are still
ridden by the influence and ruled by the lineal descendants of the squalid officialdom of the
grisly past. The whistle of the la3h and the clank of the convict’s chain are still distinctly heard,
though fifty years have passed away since transportation ceased, and a democracy of freemen
has been settled by immigration in Australia. The reason is, in a word, that the men of the class
that came into existence under the Imperial regime made the most of their time. They founded
family fortunes, and became territorial magnates and lords of the soil, They seized on the owner-
ship of land, and established the principle of such ownership, and so consolidated a power and an
influence that have enabled them to hold their position up to the present, and to buy up the dangerous
leaders of democracy, body and soul.
* * *
Australian public spirit touched it3 highest level in Victoria under Graham Berry when he
swept the country from end to end on an election cry for the bursting-up of big estates. That is
the pivot on which the Australian politics of the future will turn. But the question wlU never
st and out in a white l’ght until Young Australia learns who the founders of big estates and vested
interests were, and how these estates and interests grew. Young Australia will never learn
that until the history of the past is candidly and fearlessly told. But when it is so told, and the
lesson learnt, then YouDg Australia will have also learnt the profound truth that these colonies
will never get rid of the taint of a squalid officialdom, built up by the exercise of gaolers’ authority
over a herd of cruelly abused wretches whose crimes were outweighed by their expiation, until
the Imperial connection which rivets the past on the present for ns becomes an exploded myth,
and these colonies of ours form federated states under an independent Australian flag. The Im-
perial connection keeps the Past in its place. While it continues the public life of Australia
will continue to be ridden by the horror of the past—the nightmare of our history—as Sinbad
the Sailor was by the Old Man of the Sea. Australia's own history, fairly told, alone can strip
the bandage from her eyes. When that is once done the Imperial connection must go.
* • *
This is why The Bulletin is going to tell the history of Australia from its own point of view.
The past has been veneered over by wealth from the gold discovery, and by free institutions that
came full fifty years before their time. The Bulletin is going to scrape off that veneer. It
is time that the theories of the people who want to engraft British feudalism on Australia were
tested by a cataclysmic visitation of fact. Flying literary visitors like J. A. Froude mercilessly in-
struct us in our domestic concerns in the light of a ten days’ experience of one side of one
narrow colonial clas3 alone. Two or three Australian politicians meet in the cabin of an
English admiral and concoct a conspiracy by which British militarism shall be engrafted upon
our system for ever and a day. Shotted rifles menace a public meeting because those who
object to an address to the Queen on her Jubilee outnumber those who don’t. Politicians who
claim to hold democratic faiths threaten drastic legislation to crush the advocates of unpopular
views which are unpleasant to the ear of official authority. And a surviving representative of
Vandemonia proposes in his old age “ a whiff of grape ” as his prescription for Young Australia
when she writhes under the intolerable burden of her Old Man of the Sea. All this would be a
screaming farce if it were not so gruesomely serious. Oar people s ignorance of our own people
is abysmal. Wa have had poets and politicians, preachers and pseudo-patriots, penal laws and
public institutions of a c’ass the like of which—thank the gods!—have never been seen before
since the crust hardened on the earth. These phenomena spring from certain pre-existing causes.
If the hair of the reader should happen to stand on end when we tell him what these grisly causes
were, we are not to blame. We did not make our history. We only tell it. We merely flay the
carcase cf the hybrid and moribund monstrosity now on our demonstrating table, and dissect the
congested organism underneath.
“D.”
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
th THE BEST QUALITY a BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
A SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
1 persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
U 231, OLARENCE-STREET.
ass
GIB'D.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WtiULFSALE ONLY.
jrfhjncdgh
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have triea."
Signed Marie R6ze.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Dorset
Will not split in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y & N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,"
in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
HKR MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Leasees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7. ; Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
THE GREAT PLAY OF THE YEAR 1887,
entitled,
HELD BY THE ENEMY
HELD HY THE ENEMY.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
YM. C. A. HALL.
• Under Vice-Regal Patronage.
FOR TWO NIGHTS ONLY.
WEDNESDAY, 16th NOVEMBER.
FRID IY, 18th NOVEMBER.
TWO FAREWELL CONCERTS,
prior to her
DEPARTURE from SYDNEY.
AMY SHERWIN
AMY SHERWIN,
Australia’s Greatest Singer and Most Popular
Artiste will appear for positively the
LAST TIME
before a Sydney Audience.
Full Particulars on SATURDAY.
Admission: Reserved Seats, 55.; Galleries, 3s.
and 2s,
Box plan now open at W. H. Paling and Co.’s,
Limited.
HUGO GORLITZ, Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers. 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CL 4.SSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
sfdgv
Hish'Glass Dentistry
at Reform Prices
MARSHALL BRO s
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas daily at 11.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov*
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the auantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen, —I hae great pleasure in recom>
mending Row’s Dan elion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelved by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them,
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
Bilious affections, liver com-
plaints, SICK HEADACHES, DYS-
PEPSIA.
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES.- A mild, prompt,
and effective remedy. There is scarcely any
disease in which purgative medicines are not re-
quired, and much sickness and suffering might be
prevented were they more generally used. No
person can feel well while a costive body prevails ;
neglected and injurious symptoms soon show the
sufferer that disease is gaining upon the body, and
fatal results often follow which might have been
prevented by timely and judicious use of RAN-
DERSON’S LOZENGES. For they correct the
whole system, quickly dissolve in the stomach,
being more mild, prompt, safe and uniform in
their operations than most aperient medicine. As
a family medicine to keep always by you in case
of sickness they are invaluable. Old and young
alike may take them, being pleasant and agreeable,
so that children are saved the unpleasantness of
taking medicine. Sold by all Chemists and
Druggists.
Prepared only by
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY, Sydney.
OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTER 3 PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is each an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of tha colony, composed of Wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relievo you ?
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &c.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
HOTEL KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 45, 47, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Centrally
SITUATED
, AND
ACCESSIBLE
TOAUTHELEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
eswgfdf
noTFj
SOUTH
OFTHE
EQUATOR
1
WSL
/WIL
flUff
■
m
a.
IL
g
S 3
!!!!!!!!!ii«iiiiiii
*
DAN
c»
ll
IS
TURK MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Gold Plunge and Shower Baths, COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Rending, and Corresponding Room. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. 11. DANIELL.
WILL Mrs. E. BRUNTON, late rews agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney.
£5 ■■ £5
THE sum of &5 will be given to any person
sending in the three most appropriate
Shakespearian quotations ra
“SIR HENRY PARKES,"
Full particulars as to whereabouts of quotation
must accompany eaoh List. Any recognised edi-
tion allowed.
All Lists to be in not later than the 26th inst.
Address, enclosing 2s. 6d., to “ Shakesperian
Student,” G.P.0., Sydney.
The name and address of the successful compe-
titor will be published on December 3.
dh
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whio v
Tenders
oan be received
at this office
Annual Contracts, 1888 —Har-
bours and Rivers Branch.
Supply Awnings, Sails, Tents,
&c.
Supply Anchors and Chains |
Supply Brooms, Brushes, &c.
Supply Castings
Supply Portland Cement
Supply Copper and Lead Pipe
Supply Engineers’ Stores, Nos. 1
and 2
Supply Hardwood and Colonial
Pine
Supply Oregon, Baltic, &c. |
Supply Indiarubber Goods, Can-
vas Hose, &c.
Supply Ironmongery
Supply Kauri Pine
Supply Oil, Paints, &o.
Supply Plate, Bar Iron, &c.
Supply Rope
Supply Shipchandlery
Supply Steel
Supply Surveyors' and Archi-
tects’ Materials
Supply Wrought Iron, Angle
and Connecting Bucket-links
Supply Wrought Iron Manufac-
tured in New South Wa’es | Tuesday,
Supply Wrought Scrap Iron November 22,
Forgings at 11 o’clock.
Supply Coal delivered at Fitzroy
Dock, or on board Dredges
and Tugs, Sydney Harbour |
Supply Coal for Dredge and Tug,
Lake Macquarie
Supply of Coal at Wollongong
Conveyance of Coal from New
ca3tle to—
Bellinger River
Clarence River
Hastings River
Macleay River
Manning River
Moruya River
Nambucca River
Richmond River
Camden Haven
Cape Hawke
Conveyance of Coal from Wol-
longong to—
Moruya River
Shoalbaven River
Construction of Wharf, &c., |
King’s Creek, Clarence River j
Construction, &c., of Iron Road- |
way Bridge across Bye Wash
from Prospect Reservoir
Additions to Courthouse, Mur- I
willumbah
Annual Contract, 1888.
Colonial Architect s Department.
Supply of Building Stone,Sydney
Gaol
Supply of Building Stone, Parra-
matta Gaol
Supply of Building Stone, Mait-
land Gaol
Sweeping Chimneys at Victoria
Barracks, &c.
Supply of Coffins
Emptying Privies, Victoria Bar-
rac ks &c«
Winding, &c., Clocks Public
Buildings, Sydney
Supply of Furniture
Ditto Chairs
D:tto Carpets
Ditto Blinds
&c., Pyrmont, Darling Har-
bor
Erection of Bridge, Wilson’s
Creek-road, Bexhill to Trenten-
bar (exclusive of supply of
Ironwork) |
Wharf, &c., Hereford - street, [
Stockton, Newcastle Harbour j
Tuesday,
November 29,
at 11 o’clock
Tuesday,
December 6,
at 11 o’olook,
Construction of Wharf, &c., op-
posite Frederickton, Macleay
River
Tuesday,
Decembr 13,
at 11 o’clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amnßement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly Bports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, nr you miss Foley's you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
of jSydneg.
J£NOLAN "CA V£S:BL UEtMOUNTAINSA
SIGICEORCE SI- jrrvraN HuNTtASTieC.P.Q*
riflfn
ifUn
WATCS,
A HANDSOME
GOLD WATCH
GIVEN AWAY.
This is a genuine
offer, and no humbug.
Send add.ess for full particulars to
R. B. JONES,
P.O. Box 570, Sydney.
BLACK’S LABOUR BUREAU,
5 CORRIDOR, TATTERSALL’S BUILDINGS,
Hunter and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Householders, Hotelkeepers, Stations, supplied
twelve months for ONE GUINEA. A Com-
fortable Waiting Room.
QXJEEIsrSL^TSIID.
Millar, carter, and co„
Shipping and Forwarding .Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queens'and.
OLLOW A Y ’ S PILLS,
A never-failing remedy in all Derangements of the LIV KR
and STOMACH, they may be u«ed with perfect confidence
by young and old.
Their world-wide fame for the last fifty years is a gti irantee
of their efficacy. Thousands of testimonials, from princes to
peasants, attest ilnir mar-e'lous virtues.
Manufactured only »t 78 New Oxford st , London,
itar Purchasers should look to the lab, 1 on the .Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street, London, they
are spurious.
s.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker,
296 Pitt-street.
Skra
lg|p
Jggjyjjfc ;*>\i... * -"
h.VVitiosrt. T’TffßpfiuL/N O/linfr* auo fiac. Monet
296 PjttV
Marquees on Hire,
Advertising Cheats !!!
“ lb has become so common to begin an article,
in an elegant, interesting style,
“Then run it into some advertisement that we
avoid all such,
“And simply call attention to the merits of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters in as plain, hone:t
terms as possible,
“ To induce people
“ To give them one trial, which so proves their
value that they will never use anything else.”
The Remedy so favorably noticed in all the papers,
Kligious and secular, is
" Having a large sale, and supplanting all other medicine.
~ “ There is no denying the virtues of the Hop plants, andthe
proprietors of Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters have shown
great shrewdness and ability * *
“la compounding a medicine whose virtues are so pal-
pable to every one's observation.
Did She Die ?
“ No!
“ She lingered and suffered along, pining away
all ihe time for years.”
“ The doctors doing her no good
“And at last was cured by this Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters the papers say so much
about.”
“ Indeed I Indeed !”
“ How thankful we should be for that medi-
cine.”
A Daughter’s Mise y.
“ Eleven years our daughter suffered on a bed
of misery
“ From a complication of kidney, liver,
rheumatic trouble and Nervous debility,
“ Urder the care of the best Physicians,
“Who gave her disease various name?,
“ But no relief,
“ And now she is restored to us in good health
by as einple a remedy as Dr. Soule's American
Hop Bitters, ttat wa had shunned for years
bsfore using it.”—The Parents.
Father is Getting Well,
“ My daughter says :
“ How much bet ec father is since he used
Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters.”
“ He is getting well after his long sulferiog
from a disease declared incurable.”
“ And we are so glad ttat he used your Bitters,
—A Lady of N. Y.
OT None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisoous stuff
made to imitate the above.
wtedtg
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
EIDX N BTXDBtGKET-
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
In bulk
and case.
Best EKRR
in the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TSIE BEIGHTOISr OE TST.S-W-
-HAVING been thoroughly renovated this Favourite Summer Resort is now replete with all con-
veniences, and prepared to receive Families lor the season Special Room 3 for single Gents.
Elegant Suites and Single Rooms with either Private Table or lablc de Hote. Transient visitors will
receive every attention. The Table is supplied with the Best the Market affords. The Cellars stocked
with the Best Wines and Liquors procurable. Large Commodious Dining Room, suitable for Private
Suppers and Dancing. For Terms and Particulars apply
MRS. KILMINBTEE,
CLARENDON HOTEL,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.


Poor old Juggernaut is nob half the man
he used to be. His celebrated Festival is dropping
down to the level of our Guy Fawkes Day, and
instead of dozens of naked natives flinging them-
selves under the wheels of his Car it has become
necessary to hire coolies willing to pull Jug. along
for a consideration. All the grand heathen cus-
toms wither under the cynical stare of civilisation.
Go into a Sydney Joss House when the Chief
Leper is carving a roast pig, and what do you
see ? Little enthusiasm, little idolatry of a warm
and generous nature. The religious feelings of
the Johns have become blunted by chunks of road-
metal, and Christian attacks on their wheelbar-
rows. They loaf on to the little matin front of
the porker, and take their bit of crackling with a
derned agnostical grin.
In the early, pre-railway, King Cobb days
a certain bishop and a fellow-passenger, whose
name began with a large O, were travelling on a
Western (N.S.W.) road. Towards evening the
driver pulled up slick opposite a swollen, impass-
able creek and close to a wayside shanty, where
they got out to camp for the night. His lordship,
by way of starting a conversation and at the same
time maintaining his dignity, observed : “I say,
Pat, you’d ba a long time in the old country
before you slept in the same room as a bishop.”
“ Bedad, I believe so," replied Pat; “ and by the
same token I’m thinking that you’d be a long
time imthe ould country, too, before they’d make
a bishop of yez.” His lordship engaged in silent
prayer for the rest of the night.
GREAT
CUP
RACE.
rjIHE
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER ... 1
Won by a distanc3 from a big field of competitors
who were never in it from the start, A more
dejected-looking lot of cocktails than the losers
never shambled homefrom a funeral, the precession
being fitly terminated by those sorry screws Fusel-
oil, Alcohol, and Saltwater.
THE BEER FOR THE CLIMATE.
THE BEER FOR THE P OPLE.
THE BEER FOR THE TOWN.
THE BEER FOR THE COUNTRY.
In the interests of HEALTH, TEMPERANCE,and
MORALITY,
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER
IS THE PUREST,
THE BRIGHTEST
THE BEST
THE MOST WHOLESOME.
IT IS THE BLUE RIBBON BEER
OF THE AGE.
A NON-INTOXICATING INVIGORANT,
WITHOUT A PEER.
CLAUSEN’S CHAMPAGNE LAGER BEER
is kept in ice at all the leading hotels
In the colony,
And can be ordered from
Messrs. Mason Bros., Limited, Fesq and Co,,
Tooth and Co., Allt and Co,, Burrows and
Gleeson, Lucas Bros., R. Butcher and Co., J.
T. and J. Toohey and Co., Tidswell, Wilson, and
A. Thompson and Co., C. Bath and Co., Cooper
Nathan, and Co., Darcy and Co., A Rowan and
Co., Tucker and Co,. Steward and Co., and others.
I
/
X
•v
bl
#
I
THE
WATERBURY WATCH.
A PERFECT TIMEKEEPER.
KEYLESS.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
ACCURATE.
Runs 28 Hours wjtii One Winding. Regu-
lates to a Minute a Month. Rarely Gets
Out op Order. Repairs Never Exceed
2s. 6d.
Watch Words
FROM THE PRESS.
The “WATERBURY” has been more highly
spoken of by the Press than ANY OTHER WATCH
ever produced. The following are selected from
hundreds of similar notices :
The Watchmaker (Lond), —“Guaranteed to
give a maximum of results in timekeeping at a
minimum of cost.”
Manchester Examiner—“A splendid time-
keeper.”
Manchester Courier— “ They are admirable
timekeepers.”
Birmingham Post—“ Keeps accurate time, and
is a good-looking and handy watch.”
Glasgow Herald— “A good timekeeper.”
Glasgow Citizen—" A good timekeeper."
Leeds Mercury— “ Keeps excellent time.”
Sheffield Telegraph—" Never has a better
article been produced for the money.” .
Newcastle Chronicle— “ Areal timekeeper.”
Bristol Times and Mirror - “Handsome in
appearance, and a marvel of horological mechan-
ism.”
Bristol Observer —“ A surprisingly good
watch.”
Northern Evening Express— “ A marvel of
cheapness, and a good timekeeper.”
Halifax Times—" A real watch, of good
appearance, and which will keep excellent time.”
Edinburgh Express—" It keeps time wonder-
fully.”
Pictorial World—" Our own experience is
that the watch is perfectly reliable.”
Freeman’s Journal ( Dublin) —“Serviceable
to all. Altogether a capital article.”
Dublin Evening Telegraph—" Extremely
good timekeepers."
Belfast News Letter— “An excellent time-
keeper.”
Belfast Northern Whig— “Anexcellent and
reliable timekeeper.”
Weekly Times (Lond,)— “The famous Water -
bury—a favorite all over the world for accuracy
and good appearance.”
CAN ANY OTHER WATCH PRODUCE
TESTIMONIALS SUCH AS THESE?
IF IT CAN, LET IT TROT
’EM OUT.
TWO ORGANS.
Regulate first the stomach, second the liver; especially the
first, so as to perform their functions perfectly, and you will
remove at least nineteen-twenthieths of all the ills that man-
kind is heir to, in this or any other climate. Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters is the only thing that will give per
fectly healthy natural action to these two organs. “Maine
Farmer."
New Bouth Wales —This colony at the present time
assists a larger number of Emigrants from Great Britain
than all the rest of Australia put together. The climate be-
ing hotter than in other parts, disease here assumes a sub-
tropical character and we find Fevers of all kinds, Diarrhoea,
Dysentery, Cholerine and Cholera prevail at certain periods
The Chinese in New South Wales have long since learnt,
thanks to a kind-hearted nobleman who employs many
hundred Celestials, that the easiest and most successful
method of cutting short and curing these diseases, is at once
to take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne which in the majority
of cases arrests the further progress of the malady, or to con-
tinue it according to the directions until the disease is cured
—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
having “ Freeman’s " only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.*
One of the best managed and largest hotels in Sydney is
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Plaoe and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the oosiest place in Sydney. The shilling lunoheon
there is immense.*
Tattersall’s Monster Consultations.—Rosehill Handicap,
run November 12 2000 subs, at 205.; also, Sir Joseph Banks
13th Grand Handicap, 5000 subs, at 20s. each, now open, and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-
street.*
Consumption, Bronchitis and General Debility
will yield quicker to the regular use of “Scotts Emulsion
of Cod Liver oil with Hypophosphites,” than any
other remedy known to Medical science. Read the following:
“I have prescribed 'Scott's Emulsion’ and have also taken
it myself, and can fully endorse the opinion that it is both
palatable and efficient, and can be tolerated by almost any
one, especially where Cod Liver Oil itself cannot be borne.
- Martin Miles, M D , &c.
Stantonbury, Bucks, Eng.
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.
A LAND-GRABBER FRIGHTENED.
A man stopped at Bonrke a few days ago and
thus addressed an old fellow who stood with his
arms resting on a fence: ‘Do you live here?"
“Don’t see me dying, do you?” “Ah, you are one
of the funny men I have heard about in this
neighborhood. I want to know the names of
several people. Where is J. B. Honeysuckle?”
“Dead.” ‘ Ah, what was the matter with him”
“Sick.” “ What kind of sickness?” “Dry fever.”
“Let’ssee” (consulting a scrap of paper). “ Where
is T. W. Snicker?” “Dead ” “What did he die
of?” “Dryfever.” “Humph! Wheracanl find Sim
Snodgrass?” “In the graveyard.” “Dry fever?”
“Yes.” “Do you know anything about Bill
Slivers?” ‘ Just laid him out.” “ What was the
matter with him?" “Dry fever.” “My friend
I came into this neigborhood to buy land.” “We've
got the finest country on earth. Yes right here,
I’ve got 800 a. that I’ll let you have cheap.” “How
does it shape?” “Al." ‘How is the water?”
“Best in the world." “Land rich?” “Yes.”
“Tan you get any St. Louis Lager Beer in the
place?" “Any quantity. Some just landing.’’
“ How is the neighborhood in the way of health?”
“Finest you ever saw.” “No chills?” “Not
one. In early days there was just one case ; he
shook himself to death. He lies two and a-half
miles above any burying ground.” “ What about
those fellows that died with dry fevers?” “ Oh,
them fellows ; why, you see we had a terrible dry
spell here the past three years, and it was time
they did die.” “ I don’ want any land this time.
Come and join me in a glass of that famous St
Louis Lager Beer. I leave by the next train.”
Summer ! Hookings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt-street.*
MRS. PARTINGTON SAYS
Don't take any of the quack rostrums, as they are regimental
to the human cistern; but put your trust in Dr Soule’B
American Hop Bitters, which will cure general delapidation,
costive habits, and all comic diseases. They saved Isaac
from a severe attack of trip d fever. They are the ne plus
unum of medicines. “ Boston Globe.”
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HEN 11Y THOEPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee.
THE most elevated and central position In Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies' Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel is now under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by careful atten
tion to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney.
LOOK AT THIS.
Not more than 5 of any one size will be sold to
any one customer, as our object is to make the
prize bargains general, and we again repeat the
prices are for October only, and for above named
parcels.
What more usef al than Chests of Drawers. Jus
read this aloud and go fume and fret at having
bought elsewhere than Lawler’s.
70 of those handy 4-drawer Chests of
Drawers, £l5 0
100 of those useful large 7-drawer
Chests of Drawers, £2 5 0
100 of those Sideboard looking Chef-
foniers, £2 2 6
20 Large 6 feet glass-back sideboards, £8 10 0
But again we repeat not more than 5 of a line will
be sold to any one buyer.
Gently, gently. We spoke of revolutionary
rates, and we mean to the letter to prove our
prices revolutionary to the hilt.
25 English Ash, full 1 feet Wardrobes,
with silver-plate glass-door, and
flitted with hang up compartment,
and deep drawer under, £7 15 o
25 Fullsize English Ash Marble, and
tiled back Washstands, 2 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Dressing Tables,
glass, drawers, See., 2 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Pedestal Cup-
boards, 16 6
25 Fullsize English Ash Towel Rails, 4 6
50 Fullsize English Ash Cane Seat
Chairs 7s. 6d. each, the two 15 0
£l5 1 0
Phew!—Ask any one else to touch it in single size
in Pine even at £lB.
We are on the job in Upholstery, and simply
invite our friends to call, as space will not admit
of chronocling a few special bargains where so
many prize bargains abound.
But our confidence in the matter of bargains in
Upholstery, is so strong that great though the
temptation is to avail ourselves no farther of the
press, yet what we have done, what we are doing
and what through great, marvellous, October we
will do, is excuse sufficient to break through al
resolves.
Suites for Drawing-room in solid Wal-
nut, and spring set, frames all
close braced, upholstered in
very best manner in own
factories, and covered in Tapes-
try of silk and wool, gimped and j
corded, and finished in first-class
style, for the sum of £l2 10 0
Will bring more money under the hammer. Could
not —and herB let us say it’s worth the while of
those who read the statement to go through
Sydney houses and judge for themselves, the
above suite could not be got in Sydney a brown
cent less than £lB 10s. Yes, the suite is of 9
pieces. But hold on searchers after “ bargains"
we will give you a surfeit of them at Lawler’s dur-
ing this great October sale.
Look at this ye joyful widowers' who purpose
furnishing again.
Suite of 9 pieces, upholstered on the
premises, webbsd from frame in
best manner, and with best web,
spring set and upholstered in
olive terry, the small chairs hav-
ing upholstered panelbacks, ... £8 10 0
How is it done? Well, that’s not the lookout of the
buyer. Let the buyer buy, and buy quickly,
whilst bargains of the kind are before him, or as
sure as the sun will shine to morrow he’ll have to
plant down his sweet little £l2 12s. for the suite
above referred to at Lawler’s at £8 10s.
The £24 10s. suites in Tapestry and plush—and
where can such a selection of frames and furniture
coverings be seen—yes, those charming suites will
only be £lB 10s. during this sale.
There are some 20 suites upon the floor at £35,
which will be sold during this sale at £25 10s.
But those who want the best Dining-room suite
in Sydney, massive, bold, handsome, glorious,
something in solid Walnut and in real morocco,
here’s a line worth coming to look at.
Massive Dining-room suite in solid
Walnut, upholstered through-
out in curled horse hair, and
covered in real best morocco.
Value, £9O but at October’s
sale. £57 10 0
This could not be repeated, so there’s no use of say-
ing that it could. The frames alone are worth
£3O.
And sideboards and Dinner waggons and Tables
to match.
Gilt Pier Glasses, during sale, 255. od,
Walnut and Amboina inlay Pierglasses ~ 155." Od.
Black and Gold Pierglasses, ~ 37 5 , 6d
Large Ditto 553, od
Very Large Ditto „ 85s. Od
No exageration to say worth half more than
asked during sale.
This column is about ended. For the good of
those who read we say bear this important fact
in mind that we offer no old stock, ill-fashioned
and damaged, for the simple reason we have none.
There is not an article that will be on show hat
has been 6 months in the warehouse.
Look out for bargains, for by the immortal ve
and all his juniors we will make Lawler’s October
sale, and all the Emporium wondrous bargains
thing to be talked of for years to come.
Watch for the ready-made clothing advertise
ment and the bargnins in that department.
Boots also, and drapery. Carpets and on
mongery, all will get their turn, and by thijnde
they will speak;
The place at which to knock spots off “ ire
and all “other” sales is Lawler’s Emporium
Call in thousands. Write and you will
attended to with the same promptness as
person.
For October only, this sale of Lawler’rJ
but its a terror,
LAWLER’S
608 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.


XmcLportam/t!
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OJSTX-.VT
HISM IVSTEUHEfT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
JHEAPER THAN EVERI
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6, 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
» Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
/B, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 26/-
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
(Genuine Lacheiial Anglo German ... ... 35/
i> .» steel notes ... ... 50/
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow,
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
fe/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
SpeOlality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality t 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete In case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
TOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
mu Tim mums,
Which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. eaoh
Also,
BVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &0,, ftc.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the oolonles.
Enquiries attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY)
wtetg
#
m
-Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CORE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
zr>r
Scrofula on Neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itohlng and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application o
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin anc
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
•icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
K. Town* <fc Co., New South Wale*.
CUTICURA RESOLVER , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever,. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
IZealaud. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
inu Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Urug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.B.A.
S6S
m
adstg
The
‘POTSHOT*
Camera,
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is email, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up and atrociouely effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The ‘‘POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “DETECTIVE Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
:
LIMITED,
263 to 209 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents (or
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
oNDM K N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Rallingi.
Dailzni and Eitimates forwarded on reqnH
* J. CDmifiMß,
*eA»M-»*»***i WTITW ARD-»«0AB»I STOKE*
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street. A, COOPER, Proprietor,
Everybody \PT?MT7T T 7 Q
should use/ I u ill n L L O
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOT7E!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
fill CJao»a«-HT*B*T. Syonbv.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
THE SCIENCE OF LIFE,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip]
tions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for thin
valuable work. Address i Doctor W. K,
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic,
BRADiST wnw-vail, a LAMB
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
OABINETMAEERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and ("CONNELL STREE’ S.
LARGE STOCK Of PIANOFORTES by the
MOW CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
WL
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o.
I f:
Full suites for dining-room.—sidit
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
swgtdh
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY.
And a complete assort-
ment of Bent Wood
Furniture the best make
only.
sgh
□□
RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS,
EARLY EhGLISH
n
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Drawing-room furniti re.—The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid with
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection is
solicited. Spring and O’Connell streets
I
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. -Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bee •
rooms. New designs oovered to order Is
material,
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty.
fsg
-OEDSTKADB, all gtaei
■*-* Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass, Sreat rarletr,
Bedding,—All deaorlptiona t
lowest rates,
fsdg
SPRING MATTRASSSi
Woven Wira, bsu
make | also, Spiral Sprint •
Price, from lie, sack.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.


BRIEF MENTION.
Berry, the English hangman, claims to be
“ Civil servant.” He does the ocoking.
Parkes stands in the light of the grave.
He also stands in Melville’s light—the light of the
undertaker.
“ A sacred baboon over five feet high ”
has been added to Sydney Zoo. And yet there is
no vacancy in Parliament.
The Bill to Abolish Distraint for Rent.
The law of distraint is a large important and ancient portion of English law. ... The persons chiefly affected by the abolition of distraint would be the poor tenant,
not the landlord. I feel constrained to do all I can to prevent the bill from coming into law.”— Attorney-General Wise’s speech against abolishing the noble English law which
allows a landlord to act as his own judge, jury, and executioner.
TENANT (in chair): “HERE, FOR HEAVENS SAKE TAKE THIS OLD SNAG OUT. I CAN’T STAND IT ANY LONGER!.’
ATTORNEY-GENERAL: “AH WE MUSTN’T REMOVE THAT TOOTH. IT IS A WEL-LESTABLISHED OLD TOOTH; A MOST RESPECTABLE OLD TOOTH. IT IS THE
FRIEND OF THE WORKING MAN!'
Rev. J. Whale has been elected president
of the Queensland Baptist Association, We sup-
pose the J. stands for Jonah.
A Melbourne doctor says that the sale of
“Rough on Rats” should be restricted. The
medicos are jealous of their successful rival.
We hear that the Zulu chief, Dinizulu, is
showing “signs of serious discontent.” These
Irish are always doing that. This will bear con-
sideration.
Things are getting hot in Europe, and it
is becoming doubtful whether it would pay better
to he Prince Ferdinand of Bulgaria or one of
Parkes’s creditors.
The last straw. The other day we saw a
Chinaman going around selling soap. After this
we shall not be surprised to see an onion travelling
with otto of roses.
A flag-pole fell out of a first floor window
in Bourke-street, Melbourne, the other day and
struck a pressman on the arm. He claimed
damages and got them. If it had struck him on
the head, the ether side would have been entitled
to damages.
A Sydney pawnbroking business Is adver-
tised for sale in the E. News. In view of recent
disclosures, we are prepared to name more than
one politician whom this ought to suit.
The Church of England Synods in Aus-
tralia sre held on the lines of Parliament. Quite
so. The other day one member of Goulburn
Synod called another member “ a liar.”
Since the Melbourne Cup was decided, It
is noticed that the fashion in pocket-books is that
they are worn shorter and lighter, and a decided
taste has set in for aluminium jewellery,
From a Sydney suburban weekly : “ The
deceased was thereupon remanded for seven days,
and was again brought before the Bench on
Wednesday last, and dismissed, on the recom-
mendation of Ur. Strong.”
The Australian Catholics have sent to Pope
Leo XIII a gold chalice weighing 17oz. and a
casket of Australian woods mounted in silver and
gold, as Jubilee gifts. The Australian publi-
cans who wanted to send the old man a keg
of their mnrdering gin as an additional present
were with difficulty choked off their fell purpose.
The “Escaped Nun,” in her “Life,” says
she is “ married to God Almighty." If that’s the
case she ought to follow the new mode and style
herself Mrra. O'Gorman-God Almighty (it sounds
like an introduction, be jabers !)
A Sydney suburban nuisance-inspector
has lost an action against the boss of a vicious
dog because the gentle animal didn't bite him “ in
a public place.” The public place of a nuisance
inspector is, we suppose, his nose.
A young fellow found a purse containing
£9OO at Bondi the other day, and the owner came
along and rewarded him with one shilling. There
can be no doubt as to which of these two will
make the most sucoeesfol politician.
Magistrate Abbott disposed of 126 cases
in 102 minutes at Sydney Central Police Court
the other day. With a little more practice Mr.
Abbott will be able to adjudicate at the rate of
two drunks per minute. A magistrate who can
only send them to Black Maria at the rate of
1 4-17th drunks per minute ought to be aßhamed
of himself.
The anniversary of the battle of Inker-
mann was celebrated the other day in Sydney by
a little knot of much-medalled veterans. Ser.
geant Dalton, the well-known and opulent orderly
of Governor Carington, presided, and made his
annual oration, which has now become quite an
institution and is known off by heart in every
well-regulated evening newspaper office. The
caravanserai where Dalton and his comrades
swapped reminiscences was until lately patronised
by the coroner as an inquest-court for hospital
corpses. How grimly appropriate i


IE isxgfg a co.,
I IRONMONGERS',
MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
611 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
Sir
s
IRONMONGERS
512
o
<*
V
a
%
REG?
c e.
m>
$
s
SPECIALITIES l
inti' Sevlie Machine, Asbestos fire-proof Faint, Albo Barton Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
SAB COOKING STOVES i—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER S ’
BRADFORD S WASHING MACHINES, fto., fto,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
tmt mirmjEt'sr JBrozrsm.
mS
SESf
EFFECT UALLY DESTROY
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS FUES BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES/* 1 AND IS
AT THE SAME. TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOG
FOWLS OR OTHER^
ANIMALS W
w
dsf
WbyALLCHEMIST:'
Pand STOREKEEPERS
WHOUSfIIt
TEUTON'CRIMWADEUC 0
-MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
** for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
A LOVELY SKIN.
Boft ' smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms can he* be obtained
rmoaln Af.tU ? nd (?£“* cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed to
skin cannot possibly haye any good effect on it. and by using b
Rowland a’
JCalydor
ttbrnl?AfbojfclUfi re^re shing preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
6 fitWn* iii^„o 0 0 . f a Unun l r or ™ Bnd damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
*ater, ai r °T hn . e - ss of ‘t® skm caused by cold winds or the use of hard
burns, di sc °mrations chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
Pleasant la."!? ren 4« r s a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
it is sharing will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin;
ln « redien ‘»’ «“ »® " ith impunity on the
•ize a t 2s. 3d ls - 6d. and Bs. 6d. per bottle; bottles of half the usual
" promo “‘ 5 ~ w * 1 « “•
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO
to the breath. Ask anywhere ioi
. .London. and avoid cheap, worthless imitations.
whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
for ROWLANDS' articles, of 20, Hatton
le and Retail Agenta— Elliott Bros,, and E. Prosshb Sydney,
°OT3
T. WILLIAMS k 00..
IMPORTBBS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alio Manufacturer* of
Th* Finest Quality of Goods in the abovb r.nra^,
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HOES
E SODA WATER.
the
In into! Waier Co,
p B „f CH HiLL « SYDNEY.
e°t Parity Guaranteed,
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
life," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. AiMi^bb—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
THE bank OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branchesi
64 FITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fond ... ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Comraer
dial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
o, Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAIVTS PILLS
%
*
PATENT
PILLS
$
a
*
*
&
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerrons disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches od
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac, The first
dose will give relief in
tarraty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have
it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
<ww»estly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
<ykay will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
■required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BEEOHAM’H
FELLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
mt the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and 8
few doses will be found to work wonders upon tb®
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring hack the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ PACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and on© of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham's Pills have ths largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PIUS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pills stand unrivalled ; and any one labouring undei
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
eitolic for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
oarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Bet any person troubled
with any- of the above complaints give Bsxohak’s
Ooue-H Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
Oxtmoir.—The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beeoham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
mmc above Is one of the oldest Family and
JL Squatting Hotels in the colony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Gold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tbrks Gold Manats—
PARIS, 1818; CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumts
FAGR-ffiA &, CY-MBIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar f ragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents,
ATKINSON’S
CELEBRATED EATT DE COLOGNE
id unequalled for its strength and delightful
odour It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER,
an exceptionally fine perlume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. A K. ATKINBON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden
Lyre.”
Guinness* Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALOTt
Si
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS to IIH
COLONIAL AND INDIAN UMIDHttRi
LONDON.
By Special Appointment,
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN JOHNSTON ft CO.,
CtßMdflsl Chamber*, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, NAW.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every train.
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREKT
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out Of
.Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle ae the
great Melbourne Coffee Palaoe. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows: — 6s. per diem, All meals Is. fid.
fvdg
Or
Twr «,
■ftrEEJi Sifter,
lIS
f«i.T «Y
NOHAM
stas a
MSA
bdcb
The most welcome discovery of
MODERN TIMES.
A CURE L for PULMONARY CONSUMPTION.
To the consumptire, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affections of the lungs, this notice is of
vital importance, for this remedy will effeot a
perfect cure of the most stubborn cases. < v ,: "'i
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish*
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers.
On application for reference we will send the
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
it has cured.
The Consumptive Cure can be obtained from the
office of Wit.liam Ford and Company, No. 1
Australia-street, opposite Courthouse, Newtown,
Sydney. Sent to any part of the Colonies. Price,
7s. 6d. per bottle. And where may be also ob*
tained The Cure op St. Vitus’ Danoe, by ex*
temal application, which disease it will cure
within eighty-four hours.
T RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS anq INVALIDS
Hai an enormous sal® Jin England,
fid la-aow'belng introduced into^tha
Colp4‘-°-* v
*®ta aupplsj
aa WarjT wiae jcertainiy
250 PITT STREET.
J
ixed Deposits received at best Current Bates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at <Tn.il,
ess off this Society ,has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders reoeive 14 per cent, per annum dividend,
JAMES A. TOED, Mana&bb


?«‘* v YrI < WF
ROYAL
6
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, aaleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with rapunity. Maintains ltß full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powdbb Co,, 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
mat *w* - JSk. •«a» lar tr m.T
JET' m JKZmtm £
IMPORTER,
Eamily Wine and Spirit Merchant.
FCNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM,
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT Is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES
SPIRITS, &o„ whieh are sold bjr the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORG E STREET, SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
WALLACH BROS.’
Nirw
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AKD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and - London.
I uLDSTRATED OATALOOUBS WITH PRIOB LIST, FBBB ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS,
VENI, VIDI VIOL
For Asiatic Posing and
combining softness and brilu
mm -jj (Photographs of
GHARLEIM9NT ft f*>
ARCADE
“STAND PRE-EMINENTLY^!^
*GO THOU AIDJDO LIKEWISE^
QUM MER. with its heat,
effects, is on us, and one of tbe g re frflC
we may enjoyfis a delightfully co a( }ditilo®
bath, made more luxurious by tn
little “Sea Foam Shampoo. Eo ~j and 11
and you will find it a most bene o iean3e_
giving adjunct to the toilet .M tbe ffl
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave of,
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Rbig . Q { the
head, and has the endorsement w*
medical anthorities. The w Cllu „
Shampoo” are registered, and t 0 fcW
imitation of same will be Pfose c j, o niist*
extent of the law. Sold by prfefl 0 yjS
dealers in toilet articles at the
shilling per packet. Please try
will never regret it, —,
THEATRE BO***
ROCKHAMPTON. p
THE above is the only B*
Rockhampton for holding _ e0 g«|«“
other Entertainments, and can
any term upon application to g
The Wonder of
a OLEMAN and Sons,
Cooi
Vy awarded First Prize rj'jstjCU
tion for their PURE VOLAIi AstW 11 ?
OIL. The only known cure tor 1
affections of the chest. We “ a . e f o re
testimonials than any medicine 8
This is a genuine article. P° s r; a
on receipt of stamps. Price, 1 • „ oa<
Agents, Hoffnung & Co.; B!lU
ASK YOUR QROOHR FOR
FRY’S MALTED
COCOA!
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AH ORDINARY OUP OONTAINB MORB AOTIVH FROPBB«P8
THAN A PINT OP THH BEST ALB OR PORTBR"- I^*
ALLAJf A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS Of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, JSgo.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppersmlthlng, Blaokamlthlng, Plumbing,
Gasflttlng, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
fiele Agents for Verity Bros.* Patent Air Propeller*, Kxhanst Van Cewl*. Bns Itm, Heaters,
Warmers, tfee.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY,
Full Particulars and Psion on Afflicaxios.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com
mercial Travellers, and others.
MT Private Suites for Families. *■&
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
BARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
\ BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
Belle Vue
HntalW 0^
Opposite Parliament Houses,
and Queensland C3®®*
" o l^
FIRST-CLASS FAMI&* f
accommodation
’ """"" --etff
A Waiter Msets BvWT
Letters and telegrams
THIS SPAOBS RESERVED FOE E. ROWLANDS.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Of AILTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
Clgrax IDI-srsixa.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
:R. OLIfFORD,
CASTLERKAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN.N.S.W.
■7IIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
ij gentlemen and others. Privatesitting rooms.
JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
FITZROY HOTEL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
m FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
M , KILBY
(late of the DeteotivelForoe),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Offloe,
II ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY
Absconders and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
lonfidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained In
livoroe. libel, fraud, and inoendiary oases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
gents and debts collected. From R M. K.'s long experience
a the Oetective Force of New South Wales, viotoria, and
Sew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
jlob*. he it in a position to conduct all inquiries with oaution
and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
attend to all business entrusted to b oare.
1
>FTEa before fcoastaohs and Whiskers, iefore after
W',
Copyrighted.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this t
land will do it on either bald 1
'head or bare face. ■ Forces
heavy Moustache in from. 2 to ,
4 weeks and ytever fails.2o,ooo*
young men already wear full
Copyrighted.
beards, having used Ito 3 pkta. No injury, easily allied, certain
in effect. Packets, 1* (yd. each, 3 for 3.9. (>d., pout paid, sent under
cover, free from observation, Address. Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Box 730. G. P. 0., Sydney, N S. ir.
Tagtoffiitf
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT
WIEBENEKB WATCHE D WIEBENER’B WATO
r ''
w ▼ ... JL . „JI. ...J I V— Jr A* ™ — ■ — S~M*m V K_y W w -A- An. V/ .A., JL. ri* w ▼ .A. .M JK. J JLLf.-L.ii 1 1 A a jk. J V ▼ /m.... JL-
O amount of competition reduces the demand. Their reputation for reliability is unassailable, Reduction in price * c
i quality. Q-GRBVA, itiHglistii and W*Bitcllolf, of proved qualities and results, in sterling cases, Iron* of
)gram, Crests, Inscriptions engraved. Country orders oromotlv and faithfullv AXAnnWI w
• • —>. —, T/T «« ui ctuu results, m sterling cases, l
Monogram, Crests, Inscriptions engraved. Country orders promptly and faithfully executed, well packed, and pos
Estimates and prices by return post.
334 Ohm cm<3-ei ran?, fSxriDisi-iEi-sr.
ted & ee
