

The Bulletin
Vo). B~Ko. :■9l
SATURDAY, JULY 30, 1887.
Pflo-., Til,
mC c iK
Wm
myS
■S' 1 '
ho^ e
f r Ld)
blood* j f
ru. r
(°lf e^l
,— Tie/'if'lS faid 7saf~/}/s /too
nSopi Took a. df/fereiy/~
yfte. Ga.se. apti ScOore ufap
CC r/@ /-eu&pgc
Tp/s /psuf/~70 7se S re X
W\
~^7(/ct /'//a f </ei*6bn ///s/oy*//orrSs Tufote.
yßai-afTeT or/’/s?e. Jiss77//pO> T &T /stoy _
mami
H
. —/Incf *So ~7/ft ur? lorVct
// AatSe To^jroce&cf.
7j
That Parliamentary Duel.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PUT-STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THUMB TO SUBSOBIBTOBB
(Payable tn Advance, only)
Per annum - « - - Os On
Hait-yoarlF * “ - - 0 12b. Ota
Quarterly - - - - O 6s. 6d
a h money orders, cheques, and registered letters
■pjiyabl to the proprietors.
The Bulletin Newspaper Company, Lim.
to whom orders Cor the paper, advertisement?,
end remittances are to be addressed.
NOTICE.
By lending direct; to The Bulletin Office twenty ihilltogt
tterling—which you may pay by Post Ofdoc Order, One-
pound Note, or itamps o f any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to yon every week (or
• year.
This offer is nut open to residents of Sydney. In that city
Che Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely In
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter
Cere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JULY 30, 1887.
A Daily Hansard.
The success of Democracy depends mainly
«n two things—the education of the people
and the int rest ta\cn by the citizens in
public affairs, ihe time has gone by when
the division of a nation mto two classes, a
very large and a very small one, the latter
born t > com.iiarid and the former to obey,
was considered the acme of political wisdom.
Just as ihe be ief in miracles is giving way
bef« re the pressu;e o modern science, so the
assumption that the power and the right to
govern are the exclusive property of any
class is going down before the inexorable
logic of common-sense. In face of the fact
that the hereditary poet, philosopher,
soldier, or scientist, is an obvious absurdity,
it is remaTable how ihe idea of an heredit-
ary ruler ever came to be accepted of men.
The rhymester who could demand public ap-
plause for Lis Jarg< n because his father
wrote “ Childe Harold ; ” the naturalist who
looked for scientific recognition of his crude
theories because one of his parents gave the
world the “Origin of Species,’' would
quickly be brought to his proper level by
universal laughter. Even the village con-
stable’s son, whose ambition it was to follow
in his father’s footstaps, would find that the
principle of heredity did not extend to
policemen. But the piince or noble, how-
ever, unfitted by nature for any mental
strain greater than that required for guiding
a cab or garnishing the blank walls of a
country town with highly ornate announce-
ments, is considered fit to shape the policy
of a great nation or extend insolent patron-
age to those the strings of whose shoes he
is unworthy to unloose. It is marvellous.
• * *
If Democracy, then, is to hold its own, and
become in time the world’s political shib-
boleth it must see that the citizen has
education brought to his door—forced upon
him if necessary—and that every inducement
is held out to him to take a part in public
affairs. Failing this, the government of the
people by and for them serves will become so
insensate and corrupt that any change, even
to a line of sovereigns of the Guelphic pat-
tern, will be a welcome one. But in order
that a person may know what the country’s
representatives say and do ; why they ac-
cept or reject certain measures, and the rea-
sons they assign for doing so, he has either to
attend ihe Parliamentary debates or trust to
the public Press for a fair statement of what
takes place. For reasons too obvious to be
more than mentioned, it is impossible for all
but an insignificant portion of the com-
munity to adopt the former course. To the
Press reports of Parliamentary proceedings,
then, the vast ma jority of the people has to
louk for information as to how the country’s
business is being cunauoted. Bearing this
in mind- —remembering me vital importance
of ihe issues at stake—it would not be too
much to expect that journals which pre-
sumed to place before tne puolic a fair pic-
ture of legislative doings would sink ail
personal and party feelings in the patriotic
desire to “nothing extenuate nor set down
aught in malice." bo far, however, from
sucti being the case, it is notorious that if by
‘ the tratu ” is meant “ the whole truth, and
nothmgbutthe truth, ’’then thereportof every
Parliamentary debate placed before the public
by the daily Press is false. Indeed, it is not
too much Co say chat the object appears to
be to set before the reader what did not
occur rather than what did. In saying this,
we must not be understood to mean that
any journal knowingly atcrioutes to a mem-
ber words which he never exprtssed. But
just as false an impresfion can be conveyed
by subtraction as by addition. Omit a
qualifying or a modifying paragraph,
sentence, or-clause, and it is possible to make
the mildest Speaker wanton" in thb bloodiest
sentiments —the closest reasoner in the
tniidesk nonsense. We are not among the
admirers, if any there be, of Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy. For the sake of a pinchbeck
title, contemptuously thrown him by a
Government he bad reviled and which had
placed him in the dock, he proved that
under the garb of a patriot beat the heart of
a snob. But when, some years agtt in Mel-
bourne, he said at a public banqViet that, in
certain circumstances, he would still be a
“ rebel to the back-bone and spinal marrow,”
and when the atiaoiliousTory journals lefi out
theexplanau >ry corn ext and plastered him w ith
iitera y garbage, they merely exhibit* d in an
extreme form the tendency of Australian
periodicals to jettison justice and truth at tne
Leek of personal or political malignancy.
I Nor is this disregard of the ordinary
canons of fair play confined to the reports of
proceedings in the legislature. It spreads
to those which purport to give a just account
of what takes pike t at public meetings of
every description. So great has the evil
become that now if a reader desires to obtain
an entirely erroneous impression of the
speeches made and the arguments put for-
ward at a meeting of citizens convened to
consider any subject, his best course is to
read the newspapers carefully. it is not a
little amusing to attend such a gathering and
compare what his eyes saw and his ears
heard on the previous evening with what the
Press employees saw and heard on the same
■occasion —or rather what the far-seeing
'editors, who were not present, assume to
have taken place. It is far from improbable
that such a reader would say to himself
“ this is not the meeting I attended ; 1 must
have gone to some other in mistake.” The
weighty words and close reasoning of one
speaker—words and arguments which moVt d
the audience to enthusiasm—are scientifi-
cally condensed to “ Mr. So-and-so made a
few remarks *' : the dreary platitudes of
another are stripped of their more obvious
inanities, inserted in a new setting, which
somewhat relieves their puerility, and given
to the public in a form quite different fr<>m
that impressed on them by the orator. In
Melbourne, some, if not all, of the morning
journals peisiatently refuse, or have refused,
to report the speeches of certain members,
spoke they never so wisely. It is not quite
so bad in Sydney, but, judging by the way
things are proceeding, the journals of the
City of the Beautiful Harbour bid fair to
overtake, and even pass their Southern neigh-
bours, Is it a matter for surprise then, that,
so far at least as Parliamentary reports arc
concerned, the legislatures and the country
should decide on putting a stop to this flag-
rant abuse ? Is it to be wondered at that, a
number of witnesses having been examined,
the first recommendation in the report of a
lately-appointed committee of theN.S.W.
Assembly should run : “ It is expedient to
print, publish, and circulate a daily issue of
Hansard.”
* * •
When the proposal was made to place be-
fore the people a trustworthy record of Par-
liamentary work it was met by a scream of
disapproval from the daily press. This was
only to be expected. When a grocer is
thriving by the sale of welt-sanded sugar, or
a butcher through the public inability to dis-
tinguish lamb from mutton, he naturally re-
sents the appearance of a rival who engages
to supply the genuine article. This, as we
have said, was to be looked for—it is but
human nature. The real drollery of the
affair consists in the reasons advanced by the
journals lor their opposition. It is not often
that people or periodicals “ give themselves
away ” so cheaply. We have examined mostof
those reasons and will never again speak dis-
respectfully of the Asiatics who fire off
crackers during an eclipse of the moon to
save our satellite from being devoured.
Here are a few of the arguments put forward
gravely and sincerely to show why a daily
Hansard should not be published :
The newspapers are obliged to condense
speeches or nobody would find time to read
the latter. (2 ) From long experience, re-
porters and editors know what the public
want and supply it accordingly. (3.) Id is
wrong for the Government to spend money
in performing work which private enterprise
is able and willing to do. (4.) If members
were fully icported they would talk for
ever.” Let us examine these reasons. If
by condensing were meant the leaving out of
superfluities and repetitions so as to present
the speech in a readable form, no great
objection could be made. Tie moat col else
and practised speakers will seldom bear to
be reported verbatim. But a certain propor-
tion and impartiality should be shown in the
reducing process. This has never been the
case. On the contrary, the whole of in-
different speeches have been given because
made by certain men, while the whole or the
most telling parts of really fine ones have
> een suppressed because made by others.
This is notorious. Let us put the case
in this way : An artist supplies an en-
graver with a picture containing half-a-dozen
figures. It has to be reduced. Imagine the
unfairness of lessening it, if such could be
done, so as to leave some figures undiminished
where others were either brought down to
microscopic dimensions or entirely oblite-
rated. It would be no longer a fair copy of
the artists work. But this is precisely the
sorb of reproduction daily presented by the
press of the work done in Parliament. We
have known instances in Melbourne where
during a whole session and even during a
whole Parliament the sound arguments of
certain representatives were passed over iu.
silence because the speakers happened to be
objectionable to particular journals which
impudently claimed the righ’t to suppress
what they liked-, fin'd present trie 'public with
the residue labelled ‘‘Proceedings in Parlia-
ment.”
«■ * *
The second reason urged against the pro-
posed publication is simply Cyclopean in its
ingenuousness. It says in effect : —‘‘ So you
want to know what goes on in Parliament,
do you ? Well, you won’t. We editors and
reporters know what’s good for you a g od
deal better than you do yourselves. That
you’ll get, and if you don’t like it you’ll
have to go without. Tell you everything
that happens! What next? Like the
pampered charity boy, you’d only come up
again with your little spoon for more. ’
Once an honest Scotch sailor, duiiug a severe
engagement, was oiderid by the surgeon to
throw an apparently dead comrade over-
board. “Give me a chance, Sandy,” said
the wounded min, opening 1 is eyes; “I’m
not dead yet.” “D your irapidenco,”
repponded the sturdy Scot, as he sent the
dissatisfied grumbler through the port-hole,
doesn’t the doctor know better than you 1 ’
In the matter of Parliamentary reports the
long-suffering public is merely a type of the
wounded sailor. If common people are once
allowed to say what ails them or what they
desire there will be an end of all progress.
Let us not be misunderstood. We do not
deny the right of a journal to publish a
garbled account of any meetmg whether in-
side Parliament or outside. But we most
emphatically deny its tight to put forward
such a lopsided picture as a borre’et one.
Every citizen who has a vote is entitled to
know how his representative acts and speaks
in the Assembly. It is suspiciously like
what, in vulgar language, would be called
“cheek” for a journal io deny that right
In a word, it should not be left in the power
of any Press combination to practically
silence a Parliamentary representative.
* ♦ *
Objections 3 and 4 require little notice.
However able private enterprise may be to
place before the people a faithful picture of
their members’ proceedings, it has never
done so yet and never will. If there are
some things that may safely be left to trade
Competition there are others which demand
listate interference. Mure especially is this
the case when it is found that private enter-
prise, after years of trial, has been found
lamentably Wanting. Expurgated and care-
fully prepared works have their advantages.
They aie useful for Sunday-school children,
or for youths and maidens on the coh-
fines of puberty. The man i f maturb
years, however, prefers the article as
it came fresh from the author’s hand :
the speech as it came trippingly or
hesitatingly from the orator’s tongue.
That members, if fully or fairly repotted,
would talk against time is not consonant
with probability. On the contrary, it is lar
from unlikely that the certainty of seeing
to-nighi’s words in to-morrow’s paper would
prompt some to conciseness and some to
silence. Sail if things came to the worst,
Parliament has the power to push its busi-
ness in spite of opposition, however factious.
After fairly estimating the strength of the
arguments in favour of a daily Hansard
and the weakness of those against it, we
have but to congratulate the committee on
the wisdom of its finding, and to express a
hope that, ere long, some means will be dis-
covered for placing every morning before the
community faithful records not of Parlia-
mentary debates alone but of all public
meetings.
The Abolition of Juries.
On one of the last nights cf the late session of the
New South Wales Parliament Mr. Julian Salo-
mons, who has had 25 years’ experience at the
Bar and holds at present the position cf Vice-
President t£ the Executive Council, told the
members of the Upper Chamber in that colony
that—
“ If he were asked what single reform would be the one he
wou’d put his firger on and sty that that alone would tend
more than anything else to prevent litigation, to prevent
speculative actions, and facilitate the administration of jus-
tice, both as to celerity and cheapness—it would be, except in
certain cates, to abolish juries altogether."
Fully four years ago Sir Alfred Stephen, speak-
ing in the same Chamber on the same subject,
used even stronger language. He said that no
one could go into a Court without observing that
jurymen were not the tame now as in years gone
by— (in the good old days anterior to manhood suff-
rage, no doubt.) “ At present,” ho went on, “maty
are really incompetent, for want of intellectual
power, to form a correct opinion upon circumstantial
evidence, or to reason upon any controverted point;
they are, in fact, unfitted for the great duty the
country imposes upon them.” It was in marked
harmony that at about the same time Mr.
Shackell should move for a r e ormation of the
jury system in Victoria ar.d that a char ge in some
direction was admitted to be necessary by the
Legislature of Queensland. Mr. Salomons re-
stricted his idea of reform to juries in civil cases,
but unless some special class of civil cases is set
out it is hard to make the principle cut cleanly.
It was, if we remember rightly, the recognition of
this difficulty that made Sir Alfred Stephen
advocate the sweeping away of juries altogether.
But Sir Alfred Stephen is not more emphatic
than is Judge Hayne, an .American lawyer
of eminence and a frequent writer in the
North American Review. Mr. Hayne says
that the time has come for dropping trial by jury.
A judge who passes opinion upon the law is, he
maintains, competent to pass opinion upon the facts.
The difference between Judge ILynk and Sir
Alfred Stephen is that the latter thinks jurors
have degenerated and thus rendered themselves
unfitted to discharge their duties, whereas in the
mind of the former the old and special functiens
of the jury have passed away. History to an ex-
tent is in favour of Judge Hayne. There is no
longer a despotic sove eign silting insecurely
among intriguing politicians who in turn sit in-
securely among intriguing henchnun. The judge
has been emancipated from the influence both of
politician and of king, and hence one of the reasons
for the intervention of a jury has disappeared.
♦ * •
But whatever differences may exist among the
advocates of abolition as to why juries should go,
the extent to which they agi eo makes it clear that
the sj stem of trial fry jury is in rerious danger. In
these times of rapid change, when the leading
lawyers of a community come to one mind upon
anything, efieet is quickly given to opinion. It
behoves the community, therefore, to be ever
walohiul, unless it is willing to give away the
essential part of the right cf self-government ;
for self-government is but a sham if a community
will sit listlessly by and leave the shaping of laws
to a lew men eminent by rank, or . position, or
even by talent. In this case the danger is that
the jury system will be talked to death by judges
auu barristers before the people are aware; The
charges levelled at it, without any remohstranbb;
set it up as the caitse of Inost tf ilib evils against
which thb world cries. When speaking entire
e'ebasion referred to, Mr. Salomons Said that the
abolition of juries “would do away with one-half
the actions at law and reduce the lime required to
administer justice to one-lourth of what was
now necessary.” These were tempting b.ds
for the votes of waverers. But they were
hollow. To reduce the time required to ad-
minister justice to one-fourth of what is now
necessary should mean to reduce our staff of
judges, prosecutors, and other officials to cue-
fourth of their present number. A reform like
this is not likely to emanate from Bench or Bar !
Hut ihe Vice-President’s estimate of the reduction
of time to one-fourth is founded on his estimate of
a r eduction of actions to one-half. Mr. Salomons
is certainly more expert amorg statutes than
among figures.
* * *
No bhe knaintaihs that our jliry system ia per-
fect. Jurors (like judges,! have been stupid, ig-
norant, crass, prejudiced. A judge missed one Bf
the twelve out of the box at an ass Be, and "dii
asking for an explanation was told by the foreman
that the man had gone home, but had left his
verdict behind. It is only the other day that a
Tern ecsee jury found, “that the said infant came
to his death by premature birth.” Lord Eldon
tells of having won a bad case because a jury-
man was drunk. We ourselves have seen a
capital case decided while half the jury
were asleep. Mr. Salomons himself detcribes
a case which he won against the evidence b;cause
of the religious convictions of a majority of the
jury. These cases are all credible. But bad as
they are, they do not justify the death of the
system. On the other hand, Sir Alersd Stephen*
Mr. Salomons, and the others studiously avoid
allusion to qualities in the system which deserve
perpetuation. Juries have contributed largely to
the amendment of the Criminal Code. They have
done more than any other collective body to para-
lyse the arm of barbaric vengeance, masquerading
as law. When the Statute Book empowered a
judge to hang for the stealing c£ a few pounds
the jury often baulked him. This is at-
tested by Sir James Stepben. When it was
a capital offence to steal to the value of £2 these
men refused to return a verdict of guilty. It is
recorded that on an old woman being proved to
have stolen two sovereigns, two half-sovereigns,
and thirteen shillings the jury returned a verdict
of guilty to the extent of 30 shillings. Jurists of
eminence in England admit that it was such
obstinacy that forced the Legislature to amend
and repeal. Ferocity, once it gets upon the
Statute Book, is often hugged by the Bench. Dur-
iLg all the penal days no judge ever expressed a
desire to have a lav authorising him to shed
blood repealed. While he had a text to go by he
hanged. It is here judes did service. This is the
service Mr. Salomons ana Sir Alfred Stephen
ignore. Jud* e Hayne, tao, argues in vain unless
he can show that now all barbarism has been
wiped from the Statute-Book.
* * •
There is certainly much to complain of in the
way business in managed in Australian courts.
It is not juries, however, who are the prime
offenders. It is our legal processes that are
too complex. Pleadings become interminable,
and the jargon in which they are expressed
bewilders men of common-sense. We have
he arc judges’ charges, which drove back into
darkness the few plain sentences that fell from
he witness-box. We have heard a charge as
simple in into.- t as “ If io be ns you think the man
stole the cow you’ll flud him guilty, and if so be
as you don t you’ll let him run,” quirted with £0
many adjuncts that if read by the eyes as the
jurors had to take it into their eais, it world
have been impossible to tell head from tail. These
are common reesons for the befcggiig of juries,
and the chief re aeons why cases come up again
and again, and are never ended, A closer rela-
tion between the jury and the witnesses, and less
intervention of 'solicitors, counsel, and judges,
would result in better justice and less confusion.
This is the direction reform should take. The
people should beware when they discover that,
instead of meditating on a reform such as this,
judges, ex-judges, and judges-.lect are working
up specious arguments to gcad the Legislature
into abolishing jury-system.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“An Artificial System.”
“J- B. B.” wjitea a short epistle to The Bulle-
tin on the subject of Fiea trade, in which he
points out that Protection is a purely artificial
system, and that under natural conditions Govern-
■ ment should have no more right to interfere with
commerce than with religion. We regard it as a
kindly action on “ J.8.8’5.” part to write to us,
and in return we will endeavour, as far as pos-
sible, to agree with him. Protection, as he rightly
■ asserts, is a purely artificial system, it is an effort
on the part of man to improve on Nature, and to
“get the bulge” on the doctrine of human equality;
and it is a worldly scheme to tinker with the con-
■ diLiens under which man was created, and to give
Australians the start of their fellow creatures.
We are willing to admit this and a lot more all in
a heap. And not only is Protection artificial, but
■all civilisation besides. Whisky, for example, is
an artificial improvement which enables us to
H drfeik barley instead of chewing it hard. A
•clipped horse or a cross-bred sheep is an at-
tempt to improve on Nature, and all the
luxuries of life from government down to clothes
are artificial. So, too, are royalty and aristocracy ;
they create artificial distinctions, and the natural
■condition of things is that every man should be
unclothed, free, and equal, but, unluckily, equality
has been turned upside down, and the levelling
process which is now going on tends rather to re-
duce the civilised man to the level of the bar-
barian than to raise the barbarian to the level of
his civilised brother. In other words the free ad-
mission of English goods into Australia must ulti-
mately reduce the wages of the Australian work-
man to the same standard as those of the im-
poverished Englishman, and the free admission of
Indian goods into England, will, when India be-
comes a great manufacturing country, drag
the Englishman down to the level of the
coolie, and the coolie under Freetrade
may one day find a lower depth still
through the competition of the Chinaman. Con-
sequently, Protection in Australia is an artificial
system, and a flying in the face of Providence,
and its end and aim is, by forcibly reducing
foreign competition, to preserve one spot in the
Pacific where the workman will be able ro keep a
little above the level of the brute. Universal
Freetrade must ultimately bring all things to one
level, and as it is too much to suppose that
4,000,000 of Australians can raise to their own
standard 000,000,000 competitors in Britain, India,
and China—to say nothing of the other inhabitants
of the globe—it only remains to shut out these
competitors as far as possible and create in Aus-
tralia a little world of our own. According to
a recent issue of Imperial Feeeration, New
South Wales—
" Whatever may be the effect upru her own internal
economy, has bestowed a generous boon upon the moth°r
country in throwing open to her merchants and manufac-
turers a practically free market for their goods to the value
of £12,000,000 a year.”
Even an English Freetrade o-gan thus candidly
hints that New South Wales is giving hsrself
away for the benefit of Britain, and as all the
“generous bion ” which Australia has to confer
is not large enough to go round it might perhaps
be as well to keep it for ourselves. Twelve
millions per annum will not do much to elevate
the vast outer world, while the same sum would
be of incalculable benefit in New South Wales.
♦
Pasjodaa and Printing-Presses.
At Sydney, the other day, a deputation, headed by
Messrs. Luscombe and Richardson, waited upon
the Chinese Commissioners in reference to the
Mongol immigration curse. The S.M. Herald
■said it considered “ chat there was surely no neces-
sity for the deputation,” and added ;
" Our visitors must not attach too much importance to the
fussy gentlemen who gave them a bad quarter of an hoar.
■ • - Mr Kichakdson and Mr. Luscombe are very fond
of posing as tne only persons in the community who ready
have its interests at heart; bat whatever interest they repre-
sent thev certainly do not represent the people of New
•South Wales when they bother the Chinese Commissioners
with imaginary grievances."
We, on the contrary, consider that there was a
strong necessity for the deputation, that the
grievances were not imaginary, and that if no
body else would tell the Wung Ho and the Bung Hi
that their leprous countrymen were not wanted in
Australia the thanks of the community are due to
the men who did. the S.M H, had it lived—
no, lingered—in the days of the meek and lowly
N«zarene would no doubt have discounted the
holiness of His life by the meanness of His garb,
the poverty of His estate, and the magnitude of
His inabhhy to float a loan, and would possibly
have referred to Him as a “fussy” gentleman of
no particular standing in “society.” We can
readily imagine how very different in tone would
have been the S M.H.’s editorial had the deputa-
tion been led by Dr. Garran and Bulli-bygones
Liosd. This deprecatory brand of comment used
to be extensively indulged in by the Victorian
Press in reference to poor old Hugh M'Coll, the
apostle of irrigation on the “ other side.” M'Coll
was a stumpy little body, with a “ canawl ” drawl,
who cultivated no ten acres of immaculate shirt-
front, and who fished for golden opinions with no
three fathom of watch-chain cable. But the
S.M H. makes a curious admission for a “ logical”
Freetrade journal:
“No one, of course, wants to see a great influx of Chinese;
no one would like to see Australia, or any part of it,
swamped by Chinese or foreign races of any kind. We all
Qesire to be a British community, in fact as well as in name.
But became this is our wish, there is no reason why a few
ousybodies should rush into the presence of our official visi-
f°«;B,und implore them to exert themselves when they return
to China to keep their people at home."
Now, what “ logical ” right has a Freetrade
journal to object to competition from any quarter?
And is the S.M.H. not rounding on its old policy
of cheap labour, and what would cheapen labour
in many branches of industry so much as fan-tan
competition? And how does the Herald know
that we want to be a “British” community?
And if so, where does the objection to the Chinese
come in ? The Chinese inhabitants of Hongkong
and their step-brothers, the Burmese, are, like
ourselves, subjects of the British Empire, and
would form, therefore, an integral part of any
British community. Coming to the next part of
the Herald s paragraph, “the reason why a few
busybodies thould rush into the presence of our
official visitors,” is because Sir Henry Parkes
and Governor Carusgton and Mr. Jamieson and
Sir Henry Loch will not tell their marmalade-
tinted serenities that we do not want their de-
graded countrymen, ihe bilious-coloured off-
scourings of their yeilow-ochred empire here, and
because if somebody did not remove a false im-
pression Bung Hi and Co. might report to the
rest of the mandarin trash that the people of Aus-
tralia were all Orangemen, Primrose-Leaguers,
and Chinese. We certainly fail to see why the
‘olflc.al” character of “our visitors” should
protect them. The more “ official ” they were,
the greater the result, we should imagine, in
memorialising them. Suppose the Herald desired
to prevent a motion affecting the rates of postage
on newspapers, would it interview an “unofficial ”
individual ? But the Herald cannot conclude
without furnishing a very good reason for cutting
the painter that joins England to the colonies.
Listtn to this J—
’’ China has more to comnlaia of than we have. The
Chinese have cut out some of our workman in the cabinet-
masing; bus as Consul LT Tsmg pointed oufi, English
steamers quite monopolise the coasting trade of China, co
the great injury of the poorer class of the native people,
whose living depends upon that trade.”
In other words, England robs the Chinese of his
rice, therefore we should permit the Chinese to
rob us of our bread. But why draw the line here ?
England crams opium down the throats ot the
Chinese—we ought certainly not to object if the
Chinese endeavour to demoralise our children in
their own fashion. Bat if we in Australia are
to suffer the retaliatory measures of those who
are compelled to endure the injustice of England,
why should we hesitate to run up our own flag
and stand on our own policy, answerable to others
for our own follies and our own crimes, without
becoming a sort of scapa-goat accomplice after
the fact? The Sydney D.T., which a few months
ago highly approved of Pakkes’ re Sued and
witty remark on the subject of “tarantula”
whiskers, now continues in the same vein. It
does not attempt to argue, but shelves the ques
tion in this ingenious fashion :
~ “B would be interesting to know the light iu which
General Wonu Yujsto Ho would be prepared to regard the
prospect of an ex:easive influx of Richardsons and Lits-
combbs into China.”
The D.T. would have talked thus about the
prophet Hbzbkiah himself. Had the D.T. been
published in the days of Socrates, it would have
d welt on that philosopher’s ugliness, and as he d.d
not wear “ tarantula-whiskers ” would probably
have gone into ecstasies and written a number of
devilishly humorous things about the sage's
broken nose. And there are a number of things
that General Woxa Yung Ho would perhaps re-
gard with even greater aversion than an influx of
Richardsons aud Luscombes Into China. What
would the General think of an influx of journal-
ists who wrote democratic leaders one day and
Tory leaders the next—who kow-towed to a
Governor who, in this so-called nineteenth cen-
tury, could sanction the hanging of seventeen
year-old boys ?
Dr, Garran aud Payment of Meoabars.
Dr. Garran, ex editor of the S. M. Herald op-
posed iha Payment of Members’ Bill in the New
South Wales Legislative Council because he be-
lieved it “likely to deteriorate the tone of
political life.” Shade of Aaron Burr I What
does Dr. Garran consider a satisfactory death . f
degradation? Looking at the House of Repre-
sentatives, as it is at present constituted, we must
confess that we are rather sceptical of any pis-
sib e further deterioration. Indeed, it is just
within the bounds of probability that paym t lit of
members, by weeding out a few mentally doting
land-owners and their parasites, and making i:
possible for clever poor men to take up a bold and
independent stand, would have the effect of
giving us a popular Chamber the like of which
has never before been seen in New South Wales
There are, doubtless, poor enough men in the
Assembly at present, but as they are obliged to
live, they live by selling their votes to those who
are able to buy them. Does the Doctor think it
just barely possible 10 ge t more genuine deteriora-
tion than this? In the same speech he propounds
a beautiful little Tory theory of his own. Listen,
the mouth indeed is Dr. Uabran’s— but is not the
voice that of the Svdney Morning Herald ?
1 The BUI would create a number of State workmen, aud if
one O’’these workmen preve-ted w irk in the gang In which
he was employed, instead of forwarding it, would he deserve
payment ? ”
The doctor concludes he would not. Bub what
sheer nonsense ! Such a principle as this, if ap-
plied would destroy all representative govern-
ment. No one would dare oppose the rule of an
iniquitous majority without making himself liable
to have his salary stopped. This would give ab-
solute control to the ministry for the time being.
We take it that in a representative government
men are paid to oppose. Suppose the principle of
payment of members had applied to the Lrgisla-
tive Council during the recent debate on Parkbs
Centen.m ii House lunacy in that mausoleum of
antiquities. Dr. Garran himself would have been
a victim to its application. He very well knew
that Parkks’ Centennial Hall a oho me would pass
He knew that a majority of the members were in
favour of it, and yet as a matter of principle “ he
prevented work in the gang in which he was em
ployed instead of forwarding it,” and hence he
would have deserved no payment. The very
basis of parliamentary government is govern-
ment by talk—the government of an able
ministry tempered and modtfled by an able opposi-
tion. Ac sof Parliament are the outcome of de-
bates. But Dr. Garran would make debating
penal. All the talk should be confined to hurry-
ing a pet government al scheme , hrough the House
It is indeed questionable whether the application of
cloture rules has not a tendency to utterly destroy
parliamentary government, say, as Macaulay
comprehended it. As to whether a man obstructed
political work or not would be decided by the
government interested in pushing that particular
work through, or by a speaker with strong minis-
terial leanings and sympathies. Yet very often
what is denominated obstruction turns out to have
been in the best interests of the country. Mtrl
who would have opposed the Soudan farce—had
members ever a chance of opposing it in the
House—would at the time have been termed
obstructionists, yet what was the feeling ot the
country subsequently on the Soudan lunacy ? By
what Dr. Garran would lerm obstruction Messrs
Melville and Walker obtained the inclusion of
working miners upon the Bulli disaster commis-
sion of enquiry, which Abigail positively refused
to do until such pressure was brought to bear upon
him, and it would be possible to quote dozens,
nay hundreds, of instances in which obstruction—
so called—has been productive of the greatest
good to the best interests of the nation. There is
one thing, however, which a refusal on the part
of members to do should merit a stoppage of their
stipends—when they get them. The Legislative
Council has bean long moribund, and will soon be
completely deceased It shoutd be buried. Any
member of Parliament who would refuse to give a
hand to the digging of a grave capacious enough
to contain so much monumental incompetence
would most certainly deserve no payment I
♦
Dr. M'Glynn and the Sydney D.T,
Dr. M’Glynn is one of the most popular and one
of the best abused men in America. He is a
tend-national!zer and a socialist, and denounces
William O'Brien because he does not go far
enough in denouncing Lord Landsdovvne.
M ‘Glynn’s fine, broad, massive Irish face is just
now a semaphore of freedom, and his attacks upon
the right of private property in land are ringing
through the States, and terrifying the propertied
as much as they are delighting the poor. Of
course, many Roman Catholics are landowners,
and these have the entire sympathy of Archbishop
Corrigan, of New York, who has been instigated
a stop to Father M'Glynn’s political
philippics by managing to have the liberty-loving
priest summoned to Rome. Dr, M’Glynn refused
to go, and subsequently suffered excommunica-
tion. The Sydney D.T., with its poor, fatuous
half grasp of everything under the sun, from
fmnerial Federation to Parkes’ scalp-lock, rushes
into print with a leader in which the sympathies
of New South Wales Roman Catholics are en-
listed in advance against Dr. M‘Glynn by an at-
tempt to show that the socialist priest
was excommunicated by the Pope because he
was a land-nationalizer, whereas he was excom-
municated for a breach of church discipline. The
D.T. shows its stupid bourgeois estimate of every-
thing in the shape of progress by stating that
Dol linger and Hyacinths “each went down
under the crushing blow of a single anathema,
just as Dr, IVPGlynn goes down now.” Why
does not the DT. add, “and as Galileo and
Bruno went down in times past ?” for the D T.
places too high a value on the tallow-chandler
brand of prosperity to recognise the success of
those who triumph by self-sacrifice. A career
crowned by a 0.M.G.-ship and a mop of white
hair it can appreciate, but the pursuit of truth
for its own sake it cannot understand. Judged
by the D T.’s standard Socrates was a drivelling
old noodle who did not know upon which side his
bread was buttered, and Andrew Marvel was
little better than a lunatic for refusing Charles’
guineas. But apart from the ethics of political
morality adopted by the Sydney D T. we think it
cannot be too widely published that Dr. M‘Glynn
has been excommunicated by the see of Rome, not
because he is a believer in the doctrines of Henry
George touching the land question, but because
he refused obedience to his spiritual superior
when summoned to Rome. It is absurd to sup-
pose that the Pope is so clumsy a diplomat as to
fly in the face of such men as Archbishop Walsh,
Bishops Nulty and Choice, and in fact the whole
Irish hierarchy, if not the whole Roman Catholic
section of the Irish nation, on a question shared
by them in common with the priestly socialist of
New York.
+
Lepers and Lais.
The colonies are at last reaping some of the hues
tunable benefits accruing from the introduction of
Chinese. Two cases of leprosy were the other
day reported in Melbourne to the Central Board
of Health, and the patients were not, in this
instance, lazarettio Mongols but Australia i
women. Tneae wretcued demireps are said to
have contracted this sickening and tragical
disease during their disgusting c.-habitation with
ihe rice-eating, fantan-besoddeued opium-soaktd,
pig-tailed heathen who represent the “yellow
agony” in Australia, and suggest an almond-
eyed and nauseous ombination of filth, madness,
death, and Oriental Orangeism. Now that these re-
pulsive, primrose-hued reptiles are handing on their
paralysing touch from our trade to our daughters,
we sha'l probably awaken to tie gravity of the
situation Cainese gardeners grow our vege-
tables, and fores them with the feculence of death
and disease into a puirescrnt luxuriance. Drenched
vyith the ba'efui stimulant, they reek on the
dinner-table—.mall coflins are served out to
children in helpings of cabbage and shrouds are
munched wi h relish wl h tae perhaps nottoo-
well-washed lettuce of the vesper meal. Chinese
cabinetmakers manufacture our chairs, which
come fresh from the haunts of nameless abomina-
tion into the homes of the unsuspecting. Touch
its varnish gingerly and burn your clothing after
casting it forth, for a grisly though an invisible
Death is already sitting there. Chinese wash our
linen, and clothes mauled with fingers of nasti-
ness are hugged to our cleanly flesh—we embrace
a mysterious death in the folds of a garment. The
Chinese must go! and take with them their
abominable vices and Hideous plagues. Australia
may be a spacious territory, but mere is no room
within its boundaries to swing a pigtail; no tpace
on its surface for a lazar-house.
The Grand Unification Fad.
It is really too utterly utter to listen to Consul
Griffin “ poking borack ” at W. B. Dali ey,
P.C., and the Imperialists. The Consul knows
his men. The only thing that goes down where
W. 8. Dalley is bossing the champagne and
chicken is something smacking of “ a tightening
of the bonds,” “ Unity cf the Empire,” “ common
race and civilisation,” and so foith. It does not
hurt the astute Consul, and. Americans can just
manage to stand it without a broad grin, so the
grand uniflcation-of-the-race fad is regularly
trotted out whenever the American representative
thinks it time to wind up an oration and give the
reporters a good show for a break down of “ap-
plause ” and “ cheers.” Consul Griffin never
tells his auditors that one-eighth of the population
of the States is descended from African blacks
tom from their fatherland and forced upon the
American colonies by English companies ruled
by royal and princely shareholders. Do these love
the unifleators 1 He does not tell his audience
that one-saventh of the Americin nation is of Irish
d- scent, is of men whose fathers were forced by
b’codyiawsto choose between starvation and serf-
dom or exi'e. Do these love the unification ?
Rather would they not die in the last ditch to
oppose it ? Consul Griffin does not remember
the five millions of Germans and G rman-
descended Americans. He forgets that some of
lha oldest states in the Union were first peopled
by Dutchmen, as in New York ; by Swedes, as in
Delaware ; by Spaniards, asm Florida, New Mexico,
and California ; by Frenchmen, as in Louisiana.
He does not say that each of these nations has
since sent thousands of emigrants to the States ;
nor does he remember that Norway, Russia,
Poland, Bohemia, Switzerland, Mexico, and South
America are each and all represented in the
States —some counting thousands and other
hundreds of thousands, and not a man among
them caring more for W. B. Dallby s grand
scheme than for a dead mule. Consul Griffin
dees not tell his listeners that of the Americans of
pure Anglo-Saxon origin not one in a hundred
has ever heard of the new grand chimera, and
that, of those who have, there would not be a
corporal’s guard, beyond the dudes of New York,
in any State in the Union to support it. Unifica-
tion of the Race, O, Consul Griffin ! Yes, indeed
Unification of jam and butter.
Dyeing Lies.
We received an invitation to dine the other day,
and having managed to lease a dresa-suit we ac-
cepted it. We entered the glittering temple sacred
to the goddess of edacity, and took onr seat
amongst the radiant worshippers. The appear-
ance o£ the table was more beautiful than a land-
scape from the brush of Claude. The florist had
been at work, and twinkling fairy-lamps, like
mammoth glow-worms, gleamed from parterres
of many-coloured flowers. Steel and silver flashed
in the gaslight, and the subtle odour of pure
exotics breathed from a vase in the centre of the
board and filled the room. The fair were present,
and our heart beat rapturously. Bright eyes of
all colours, burnished tresses of all shades, red
lips, pearly teeth, swan-like necks and snowy
bosoms dazzled our eyes and dazed our brain.
Woman’s soft luxurious laughter rippled around
us and smote our ears with a sense of rvepen-
thean languor. We dreamed, and the guests
at the dinner-table faded into our re*
Terie. We seemed to be ones more in
Madame Tussauds watching the clockwork
movements of the waxen figures there. And as
we looked, oblivious of the duty of feeding, we
became gradually aware that the machinery was
not altogether in repair. The blushing blonde
into whose soulful eyes we gazed wore a frizette
which worked with aggravating rhythm to the
tune her jaw was playing on the edibles. Her
fair neighbour, one remove, crushed her food
with hireling molars. The ravishing brunette
angel on our left, beside the rings upon her
fingers and the chains about her neck, indulged in
the additional glory of gold-plated teeth. One of
the charming heart-stealers on the opposite aide
of the table seem to culminate in bust, which
smiled scornfully back on the attenuated limbs
that fianked it. The purpose of her existence was
evidently the cultivation of a bosom, though you
can get them ready made, warranted to palpitate
and yield to exterior pressure, like those with
which Nature rarely endows her children, at a
cheap figure at any lady’s mercers. But the men I
Ah ! the men! De Ponsonby Snooks of the
Lands wore stays, and plainly showed it; Blod-
gers’ head was surmounted by a wig two shades
lighter than his whiskers ; and Barber Dk Pole,
the radiant Lancer, dyed both hair and moustache)
but the roots were gray and gave the lie
to the artifice. Facias Capias, the comfort-
able little lawyer, whose well-digested dinners
hung in rolls of fat about his neck, gloried in a
violet-black pair of whiskers of which one had re-
ceived less attention than the other and drooped
like a weeper from the rusty hat of a mute on
half-pay, as if in mourning for its mate. All was
deception, yet deception that deceived nobody.
And this reminds us of Scotch Robin Macduigle,
whom age could not stale nor custom wither.
Through troubles many, and years more, he cara-
coled gaily, yet care nor time bleached a hair of
his red head or whitened a hair of his tawny
beard. “ Bow fresh, how well Ma duigle
looks!” said all his friends; “and the troubles
that man has seen, a<id getting quite aged, too 1”
True, but Macduigle was a canny S -ot—vain,
pernaps but not vain enough to be a fool alsoi
Macduigle dyed-but dyed red He stuck to
the natural tint, and it gave him not away in his
old age. At this stage of our reminlscential
reverie the blushing creature by our side gave us
a soul-entrancing lonk and requested something in
a suodued murmur. With the hot blood surging
to our cheeks, firmly and gently we replied, * * No,
thanks ; we never use hair-washes and we never
dye!” And that glittering mansion, with its
radiant company and gilded servitors, now knows
us no more for ever.
—*
Talk about the Queen’s English 1 If it really was
Carinqton in person who drew up the message
with which the New South Wales Parliament was
prorogued there is at least one noble lord who is
not great at composition. The words “ upon,"
measures, and “effect” are repeated until
they are threadbare, and when the Governor
describes Parkes Headhouse Act as “a measure
of such peculiar interest specially appertaining to
the parent colony ” he maxes even Frawnqis
Habigle sit up Clause three starts by an
allusion to ‘ the several measures which
you have passed into law with such marked
unanimity——.” Marked unanimity, mind you ;
marked— mighty Pompey I of course it was
‘marked,” seeing that the loaves and fishes
haven’t given out yet. “ Every care will be taken
in forming the great Park and in the erection of
the national state house to consult the wishes and
secure the approval of Parliament,” Just
so The national State House ”is explicit
anyhow —as explicit as “ mounted horse
cavalry” would ba—and, as to the great
Park, why the great Parkes will look after
it. Clause 5 contains something about an “ im-
portant province of material progress” which
wants to be read slowly and with a slight snuffle
to bring out its beauties. “ The Parliament and
people of New South Wales, in harmony with the
popular feeling at all times, have fully shared in
the enthusiasm of their fellow-subjects throughout
the Empire in the celebration of the Jubilee year
of the glorious reign of our beloved Queen.” This
is the one comforting sentence in the whole dreary
yarn. The Parliament of New South Wales
is “ at all times ” in harmony with the popular
feeling and when the members call each other
crawlers and reptiles and thieves, we presume the
popular feeling is with them, even then. Bless the
popular feeling!
Two attorneys have been “pulled” to the Ade-
laide Supreme Court for having made £6OO of a
trust estate disappear. They kept it three years
without investing it- except in their own waist-
coat pockets— and they then assigned their estate
to creditors and the money “ was lost.” The Full
Court has “ censured ” one of the erring attor-
neys and suspended the other for two years.
What a lot of “censure” Mr. William Sikes
wculd put up with for £600! There was a time in
England, and not so very long ago either, when a
man would be “suspended” for half-an-hour for
the three-hundredth part of that sum.
+
Tins is what “Pendragon,” of the Referee
said about that blasphemous Jubilee Thanksgiving
Service which coat £17,000 ; “ There would be no
need for spending a penny of the public money if
the Queen were to go quietly and reverently to
Westminster Abbey on the 21st June, or on as
many days in the year as she liked for the matter
of that, to take part in any thanksgiving service
she chose. ... But to make it a pompous
ceremony, an occasion for vainglorious posturing
and courting of adulation from weak-brained and
self-seeking parasites, is akin to the offence for
which Pharisees were denounced nearly nineteen
centuries ago.” That is so. But “ Pendragon "
while justly commenting upon this particular in-
stance of royal humbug, omits to point out that
the Queen never engages in any public function
unless it is made an occasion for the vainglorious
posturing which he derides. Royalty, as The
Bulletin has often enough declared, only con-
tinues to exist by virtue of its tinsel accessories
and its artificial glory. The Queen dare not walk
quietly into Westminster Abbey and go through a
form of prayer like an ordinary human being. la
a mo k-private capacity she may attend a secluded
Scot ch church and play at being 'umble without
endangering he*- position. But if it were publicly
admitted that Her Gracious is the same as anyone
elec in the sight of the Almighty the monarchy
bubble would burst right away. So long as the
Church of England Service includes special
prayers for the Queen and her offspring there is
nothing incongruous about such a ceremony as


that of last month. Victoria is Queen by the
Grace of God, and it is absurd to criticise any one
of her actions from a secular standpoint. Nay,
there is something fitting about the recognition of
her spiritual endowments in God’s own house.
And, looking at what we have written, with
satirical malice aforethought, it strikes us that
we have advanced the very arguments which
parsons invent in defence of the Westminster
mummery.
It is decidedly unfair that George 111. and Lord
North and his coadjutors should get from the
■Sjdney dailies the whole credit of the rebellion
that led to the Independence rf the United
States. Causes were at wo k before they were
horn which made that event a certainty. They
merely precipitated events. The independent
spirit of the colonits caused alarm in England be-
fore the close of the seventeenth century, and
later on, in 1701, the bids of trade declared
in a public document that ‘‘The independency
the colonies thirst of er is now notorious.' 1
In 1703, wrote Quarry, “ commonwealth
notions improve daily, and if not check-d in time
the rights and privileges of English subjects will
be thought too narrow.” Again, in 1705, it was
said, “The colonists will in process of time cast
off thoir allegiance to England and ret up a
government of their own ’’ ; and, ‘ By degrees it
•came to bo said by people of all conditions and
■qualities that their in creasing numbers and wealth,
joined to their great distance from Britain, would
give them an opportunity in the cturse of some
years to throw off ,thtir dependence on the nation
and declare themselves a free state, if not curbed
in time, by being made entirely subject to the
Crown.” One more : “ Some great men professed
their belief of the feasibleness of it and the pro-
bability cf its some time nr other actually coming
to pass.” All these sta'ements were written
before George 111. was out of the nursery.
Mr. John Farrell the well-known Australian
poet, has just taken a new departure and is now
the proprietor and editor of the Lithgow (N.S W.)
Enterprise. “ Hastily throwing over his shoul-
ders the mantle of his predecessor—inside out per-
haps—he faces the music and makes his little
speech.” The principles of the Enterprise he
sums up as follows :
41 We bring to our task an ur curbed spirit, a heart that has
large pitv for all human wrong and sutfermg, a tolerably
clear brain, a tolerably e'ear c mscience, and a Den which
will only write from the well cf Truth. With us journalism
is not merely a means of livelihood—it is a great and honor-
able callinv, one for which we have some fitness, and of
which we have endeavoured to render ourselves worth! rby
pears of close commur ing with the minds that have busied
themselves in seekirg to unravel the problems of life, and
break down S"me of the iron vails of misery that shut it in.
We have been a dweller on the heights with the phiksoph rs
•and political eco/ ornists, aid we have not walked through
the world with deaf ears and downcast eyes We have
looked, and listened, and understood, and remembered; we
have quest! ned, and reasoned, and analysed, and found
certain results. And these results we will lay before all men
as various occasions arise, not dogmatically as one who says
“These cannot be gainsaid,’ but, withal, having the thought
that they will not be disproved. And whatever seems to us
the best for the largest {art cf mankind, that will we help
with all our strength, lifting up a voice of protest and condem-
nation against all measures whiohareunjust and i jurious to
.most. . . . We shall strongly advocate Protection, as we am
satisfied that it is the inevitable future policy of N.S.W.,
and one that will co much to restore to this co'ooy the pros-
perity lost to it by years of villainous misgovernment
We shall strenui usly labour to support a Land Tax, which
will be a mouty of Hunky George’s great scheme of Land
Nationalisation— he grea'est and noblest doctrine ever
preached to men since Christ was upon earth. As we in-
tend to lay the whole cf Georges philosophy b fore our
renders shortly in a series of articles dea ing exhaustively
with his writings we need not dwell further on the subject
here. We will favour no religious body or sect To us ‘the
trappings and the suits’ in which Christainity may bedecked
seem of small consequence The true and divine morality of
the S. rmon on the Mount is ( verywhere and always true and
divine, and the man or woman who tries sincerely to follow
the teaching of Christ, whether as Catholic or Protestant,
or any other thing at all, deserves our respect, and has it. It
is high time that the wor cl recognised that ro two minds are
constituted absolutely alike, and that therefore no two
people can entirely agree upon any matter which cannot ba
absolutely demonstrated. Upon this subject, also, we
have much to say hereafter, but wa shall say
it in a spirit of the widest tole-anoe and
largest brotheiliness. inviting correction where we err,
and accepting it thankfully. Republicanism we hold to be
altogether tbs best and manliest form of Government yet
devised, and the one that must prevail in years to come
among the f eest and highest peoples, although the naa'ter
is but a minor one in the presence of many other questions
now before us. . . . Finally, the Enterprise is going
to be a big, strong, manful paper, instinct with the spirit of
these times and of the oiuntry, fighting for all that is good,
end against all that is bad and giving all that is doubtful a
chance to toe the mark and explain its'lf. And when we
‘ back down’ before anyone or anything that deserves repro-
bation ; when we stand silent while any wrong is being
wrought of which we know ; when we cringe in Lont of any
iham, whether it carries the golden cceptre cf Sovereignty
or wears the tin crown of Republicanism, or is robed in
ermine or sleeved in lawn, or in any way masqueriding as a
power or a system,‘O then be bold to say Bassanio is
dead. ”
This is the sort of writing we have never before
seen in a New South Wales provincial paper.
On 26th January, 1787. the first British convict set
his hoof upon Australiah soil. Perhaps we ought
to say the first pair of British convicts, for the
chances are that two of them were attached by
the leg, and hobbled on to terra-firma simul-
taneously. Anyway, on the above date was laid
the foundation of that moral dung heap which it
took uss years to clear away, »td of which a faint
odour still remains to remind us cf an unhonoured
past. And now, by all that’s nasty! this 26 h
January has been pitched oren as a naiimal Fete
Day, at the instigation of the penny-wise Premier
cfYict iia. We are officially desired to keep in
remembrance an event we would fain fotget, just
to feed the vanity cf a man who is an Auitraiian
to his Auger tips. Duncan Gillies’ brain has
teen in Jubilee labour for months past, and at last
it is delivered of this ricketty idea. If a national
Fete Day were bedly wanted we mi.ht arrange to
get drunk on the anniversary of the day when im-
ported convicts were finally barred Bat we
could afford to reserve our high jinks for the De-
claration of Australian Independence. This pro-
jected Apotheosis of Convictism is disgusting.
«
At the opening of the Unitarian Church, Mel-
bourne, last v>eek, Coief Justice Higinbotham
was severe on the orthodox organisations :
“In all oth r churches save the Unitarian said he, the
conception of God ‘is presented in forms wuich make
rational faith in it impossible. In all other systems of
religious be;it f the reason of man, perplexed by piradox
stunned by contradictions, and shocked by visions of arbi-
trary injustice and cruelty attributed by seeming authority
to the character of God, is reduced to a state of imbecile
inaction !' ’
The D.T,, organ of the Melbourne clergy, here-
upon remarks that “it does not become the Chief
Justice to publicly assault the creed, the institu-
tions and the teachers of the Christian religion.”
But why should not the Judge have a fling at
these things ? If they are proof against his shafts,
they won’t suffer. Besides, as r l he Bulletin has
often shown, the orthodox clergy don’t ready teach
the Christian religion at all. Example ismore power-
ful than mere precept, and the heads of the soi-
di*ant Christian clergy and their immediate
entourage, whatever they may say on Sunday, act
all through the year as though there were no God,
no Heaven, no hell, no anything except bank-
shares and land-syndicates and duck and bottled
ale, and trips to England or the N.Z. hot lakes in
the luxurious saloons of the mail-steamers. We
don’t wonder at Mr. Higinbotham attaching him-
self to the Unitarian body. The Unitarian clergy
are all men of eminent ability, and can talk
cleverly. The Judge hears twaddle enough in the
courts five days a week to render it inadvisable
that he should be worried by the word-without-
deed bunkum of the conventional pulpit-
thumpers.
With all his ability, Mr. David Gaunson, M.L.A.
of Victoria, is one of those evil minded persons,
far too numerous in these days, whose very exist-
ence is a menace to society, and against whom the
well dispos d ought to wage war to the knife.
Oa the specious. but nevertheless transparent,
plea of taking an interest in the welfare of some
juvmile Vicorian malefactors, Mr. Gaunson,
who, we regret to hear, is a native of Sydney, in-
dulgid in certain vituperative reflections on the
character of an absent man, Mr. Justice Win-
deyer, LL.D , &c., of New South Wales, which
we feel sure will be resented by all who hold in
respect that distinguished jurisprudent and em-
bodiment of justice. Not content with describing
His Honor as “ a scoundrelly, cowardly ruffian—a
disgrace to the Australian Bench,” “ a cruel,
bloody-minded man,” and so on, he went so far as
to refuse to pursue the orthodox Parliamentary
cour e of withdrawing the expressions, and
stoutly, not to say scornfully, rejected the sugges-
tion that a retractation was demanded in the cir-
cumstances. The worst feature of the case is
that the Ministers of Justice and Mines of New
South Wales, together with several other mem-
bers of the New South Wales Parliament, were
present in—for some unfathomable reason—the
Distinguished Visitors’ gallery, and were for a
time forced to listen to the audacious and
malignant utterances of the viperish Gaunson,
hurled, as they were, against one held in high
esteem in various parts of the New South Wales
capital. Chief Secretary Deakin —who has, we
are glad to notice, been much improved by per-
sonal contact with the Prince of Wales —very
properly styled the attack “ cowardly.” If Mr.
Gaunson is brave enough to come across the
Murray and repeat his vindictive charges against
Justice Windkyer, no doubt the law will be
promptly put in force with the beneficent aim of
inflicting salutary punishment on the slanderer ;
and if the law in esse is not sufficiently punitive,
no doubt Vice-President Salomons will quickly
in’reduce a more Draconian law, from motives of
friendship for Justice Windeyer, if not in the
interests of the New South Wales public.
The Case of William Roy.
We have received the following subscriptions in
aid of William Roy, (he soldier who now lies
p iralysed and blind in Parramatta Asylum. Ad-
ditional sums will be thankfully acknowledged:—
Unknown, 45.; Sympathy, 2*. 6d.; Adam Petrie, £2; T.
Wylie, Eastern-road, S. Melbourne. 10s. 6d.; Two Friends,
£2 ; E Skinner, 65.; Josephs, 4s. ; Percy Aarons and bis
F'lends, Mandelsohn's Hotel, Goulburn, £1 14a. 9d.; E.
Hansen, £1 ; Admirer of The Bulletin, 2s. 6d.; Sympathy,
Broughton Creek, 5a.; Bulletin Newspaper Go., LT, £5;
Sympathy, 2s. 6d. ; Friend, ss. ; G.C. si. ; T.R. ss. ; D.C;
2a. 6. : T.B. 2a 6d. ; G.B la.
BRIEF MENTION.
A fire-eater.—Minister Inglis.
A Car in st on handicap—The name of
Smith.
New name for New South Wales —Kanga-
Roosia.
Austerelashia would be a comprehensive
title for N.S.W.
Reason in rhyme —“Special wire ” rhymes
with “ special liar.”
Never seen in a country correspondent’s
letter : “ Shearingia in full swing.”
Brunswick (Yic ) Police Court. Lawyer :
“ Speak up, witness.” Rival lawyer : “ The
magistrates have ear?.” First lawyer : “ Yes,
they have ears.”
Brennan’s torpedo (Australian invented)
can hit objects at long range. What a charity it
would be if it struck on the man who manipulates
our cable news I
A Bible has just been sold in London for
£2650. Why, you .‘might steal one at 99 houses
out of 100 in Australia, and it’s long odds the loss
would never be discovered.
Police Magistrate to Cairns (Q.) witness ;
‘ Does prisoner live near you ? ’ Yes, your
worship; so near that he has only spent five
shillings for firewood in eight years.”
A Glen Innes magistrate fined a white
man one shilling for shavirg off a Chinaman’s
pigtail with the Chinkie’s own consent. Wait till
next the barber hacks our beauteous jaw.
A concert at Lithgow (N.S.W.) was an-
nounced to conclude with a farce. Instead of the
farce it wound up with “ God Save the Queen.”
Nothing like carrying out the programme.
! (Some of the Melbourne State school
children knock at the doors of private houses and
offer their slates for sale —twopence each. We
guess the young innocents have a’raady pawned
their Jubilee Testaments.
A man died suddenly in Melbourne, the
other day. He was a cook in a restaurant. “ The
doctor was of opinion that the symptoms were
those of poisoning.” We make no comment. It
might not have been the hash, after all.
At Brunswick (V'ic.) Police Court. Pri-
soner ; “I was goin’ for a constable whin I met
wan goin’ for me. I don’t mind bein’ summoned
for any damage I have done, bekase I haven’c done
any.” His name was O’Loghlen, of course.
“ Where will Her Majesty’s dust be de-
posited ? ” is a current question in the Melbourne
Herald. Her Gracious will deposit her dust
wherever she can get best security, and the
highest rate of interest, or we’ve been mistaken
in her all along.
Observation heard at a Salvation 4rmy
meeting the other day: “To hear them
howlin' you’d think Godelmity was deaf.” This
is another cheering sign of how the teachings of
the Harmy are sinking into the hearts of the
masses and bearing beautiful fruits of piety and
godly discourse.
At Geelong (Yic.), the other day, a man
was kiilel by the gable wall of a new church
falling upon him. The coroner s jury brought in
a verdict of accidental death. Should it not have
been “Died by tho visitation, &c?” But that
shows you how much they know about religion at
Geelong.
CORRESPONDENCE
Xhjs Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when tht
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of snob
MBS.
“B. Marsland”: Why not revert to the old
name—“ Botany 8ay?"....* - E. Max”: The Bulletin
may be “ infeiior in the comic line” to the Melbourne paper
you name. But then The Bulletin doesn’t want to look
comic. When it does it will join the Primrose League.,,,
Sport”: A Sunday newspaper may be "specially copy-
righted, but this does not give it the privilege of annexing
repoits without acknowledgment from a daily contem
porary...." Tradesman ”: You should consider it an honour
for a lords daughter to purchase anything from you ...
E.S.A.": There is no law to prevent people making fools
of themselves. If there was, how would the Imperial Fede.
ration ists pass their time? “M.L.C.”: Quite right. All
the “ funny paragraphs ’ to which you allude originally ap-
peared in The Bulletin, and were annexed by the London
papers from which they are now re-quoted by the Sydney
Press. The Bulletin matter is only good in the jaundiced
eyes of the Australian dailies, when it has taken
a sea-voya~e and been deprived of i*s label
“P. W. Nicolaon Thanks very much...." Geo. Collirg-
rdge”: No doubt as population increases in the district
reached by Middle Harbour your proposed canal will be
carried through ; hut at present there is no population to
accommodate. Your argument that the canal would increase
the value of the water-frontages, as sincere advocates of
land nationalisation we scout with indignation...." Bush-
man You asked for advice and for criticism. You got
both. You must not be pe.ulant if neither pleases you*
You understand the miseries of your own position well
enough, but you are ignorant of the miseries of the free-
lance contributor or even the permanent hireling of the
Press. You talk charmingly, but ignorantly, of the delight
of teaching men. Would you like to teach what you did
not believe ? Are you aware that nearly all the able press,
men of Sydney are Protectionism? They are employed on
journals in teaching the doctrines of Freetrade
They must teach what they believe to be false or starve.
Would you like such an existence ? (2) Confusion
is sure to arise unless you write your nom de plume upon each
separate contribution...." W. B. Wilson”: (1.) Write to
editor. (2 )Of court e you will have to pay postage. (3 )
Yes, if you had a watch you would not send it to a black-
smith to get its mainspring welded. (4.) According to the
weight of the b00k...." Ger 0.”: Thanks....“A Name for
hew South Wales”: Thanks! an old Grecian suggests
.ffele-nerth, and a sanguine Latinist Libeitasia....“ J.F."
(Wentworth): Very good, but Jubilee literature is becoming
putrescent, andisno w onlycultivatedbythe Primrose League
. E. W.”; It is idle to attack systems without pillory-
ing individuals. What would be the use of denouncing cor-
ruption in general terms? Would it not be ten thousand
times as effectual to hold up some polideal thi f, caught
red-handed, to the public gaze?... .“P.D.W.” (Penrith): No.
.... M.XJ.B. : Vou take us for a M.tJ.G. Your 1 young
man’s* verses are too thin...." A distressed Woman” You
make serious charges and yet give no proofs “ M-.M .E”:
The Moran incident already dea’t with...." Patent Press”;
Thanks “J. W.” (Redfern) ; Thanks...." constant K. *
(Kilmore): Why didn’t you enclose clipping with letter?....
IS. (Albury); Many thanks...." Pica": A hopeless
mystery.... ' A Looker-On” (Bega): One large pumpkin per
annum is enough for us. Send It to the Noose and they’ll
reward you with an article entitled 1 The Spud since the days
of Aaron "F.CJ.” (Adelaide): We are quite aware
that Skipped by the Light of the Moon *is an adaptation of
A Gay City, and it was G. R. Sims whom we wanted to
kill. To oblige you, however, we are epen to kill the adapter,
also “ A.R.” (Sydney): You mentioned twice in your
letter that the only promotion the British private without
means could accept was that of Quartermaster or Bidi-’g-
master. We struck out a needless repetition—that was all.
You assert, by the way, that British officers seldom or never
snub a ranker. What about Lieut. Tribe, the first ranker so
promoted, who was insulted and bullied until he deserted in
sheer despair?.." J. D. Fitzgerald ": Next week, probably...
" L.W.’: The “judicial humourist” whom Ko-Ko has got
on Iv’s list is not Hawkins, but Baron Huddleston “J?
Mayne”: Ask us something easy, please. Ask us, for in-
stance, how it is that the E News doesn’t absolve the
Queen from its insinuation about the spoons "H.R.C.”.
Many thanks. You might write to Mr. Abbott, S.M., of
Sydney.... “E. Langford”; Yes, it will come off about the
time when Governor Carington shall sit up late to read
Parson Currey’s Jingo poetry “St. Henry”; An old gag.
....“Sigma” (Mudgee): Try Mr. Foster, William-st eet ..
“Paul Prate”: Who says we don’t? If they get less of it
than the others, it maybe beoarso they are less worldly and
less hypocritical. We aren’t afraid of “ hearing from ” anyone
...." P.J.S.”: The publication of your verdict-records would
cost us a few thousands—likewise a little ga01...." Constant
Reader” (S. Melb.): We are sorry. The publication was an
inadvertence...." No Snails”; We 11 don’t encourage that
goed work, the Queen’s Fund,” simp’y because it is designed
as a means whereby the Queen, the richest and most avari-
cious of women, shall get credit for a benevolence that she
has always taken care never to exercise at her own expense
In other words, we don’t support the “ Queen’s ” Fund be-
cause we object to false pretences and despise from the
bottom of our heart that spirit of toadyism which alone can
ensure financial success for a purely political movement
started under the guise of charity “James Monro’
(Melb ): Please send full address “M.H.G ” (Prahran) -
(X.) Yea. (2.) Yes, Hop. s portrait. Thanks for sketch ...’
‘ An-admirer-of-your-prinoiple-and-sorry-that -1 - have - been-
considered-too-straightforward-for my-tmployers”; This is
the longest name we ever ran a two-foot rule along. Man of
many syllables, we have sent your screed to the rope-walk to
get it unravelled...."Nona ’: Nonsense.. .“Ex-bagman” -
Thanks; but you have got it mixed “Donald Blaine”•
Thank you lor the jam, but it is too thin to call us “a man
of unbounded generosity and impartial criticism,” and then
to ask us for a specimen of the latter. You pan it low down
on us when you consider us capable of j idging of such
matters * in general,’ as if the point in “particular ’ wasn’t
quite in _ our way. We love you, Donald, but not your
•’poetry."....“ D.T.": Mislaid, somehow; write again ...
- Christian Knoblanche": Thanks for suggestion..." R.1.P.”:
Right you are, the Orange orators on the glorious 12 h July
made no attempt to explain William of Orange’s—not Ginger
Clarke—complicity with the Glencoe massacre; Macaulay
with all his genius could not exculpate William 111 ...
‘ Landrail”: Will read carefully...."H. Langdon" (Hill-
ston): Many thanks..Camera': Our microsopic operator
is still dissecting your copy.... * A.Z.’: Now, what would you
expect? Tcanks for extract ...‘Camera’: Your lines on
Parson Steer are fair, we are pondering over them...,
H.A.L’: ‘The Distant Drum ’is vigorous, but some of the
lines are faulty; it is worth re-writmg....‘ Hannibal Chol-
lop : Your verses are not bad, but they are very—very long.
.... George’: George, you mustn’t! ‘Cornstalk’: The pro-
posed Union is broad in its aims, and Republican in its sen-
timent, and Protection is only one of the planks in its plat-
form. Why not call it simply the Cornstalk Union?....
‘ H.A..K.’ (S.A ): They have promised to publish awards
shortly. Unless they do so, we are done with them....
‘G.F.T.’; By and bye....‘Real Bulletinist’ (Jubilee
Soup Camp: Shortly ‘ W.B.R.’ : Ditto ‘E.
Lanyon’: No one cm yet ‘tell positiv»ly whether Ex-
plorer Stanley has been shot or n0t.’....' Imail (Sydney):
We don t admire the surpise party so much as you do, some-
how It is a vulgar Yankee invention, originally devised by
old cats of both sexes who appreciate it because it enables
them to put their friends in awkward positions, and root out
the skeletons in the cupboards of their neighbours ‘ Dock
Labourer,’ ‘W. S. Nicholas’ (Bundanoon), ‘J F. Hassett-
(Minyip, Vic.), ‘Bushman’ (Griffiths Point, Vic), ’Festus’
(Koroit, Vic), ‘James Munro’ (E Brunswick, Vic.): Re-
ceived ‘ H W.’: Received 1 M.J.S ’ (Glebe); Please
Ca 11... .[Many commumcatiohß held oVel.]
Lalya.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Coy she sits, bent down,
Her fingers strike the strings
W ith the broken and canght-up rhythm
Wherewith the snake-drum rings.
H«r back-hair is wound on the top,
Her ivory neck is sweet;
Her jacket’s snow-white, her trousers blue,
How dainty her up-turned feet.
Lalya, I cannot say
What is thrilling my poor heart so ;
But, if you’d only lift up your face
And look, I think you’d know.
FRANCIS W. L. ADAMS.
Canton, China.
When a poor devil of a reporter makes a
which lands hi- p oprietor in' o a trumpery libel
action is it the square thing for the proprietor to
insist on the scribe paying the damages ?
Abigail, Clarke, and the other dis-
tinguished N S Welshers, who have been honour-
ing Victoria and South Australia with their pre-
sence, justly complain that free breakfasts were
not provided for them en route. A free train
minus a free breakfast Is indeed an insult, and
diplomatic representations ought to be made at
once on the subject by Paikes
The following ad., recently inserted in the
Sydney dailies, evidently contains a neat take*
down for some one :
<< TWO GENTLEMEN called at my place, one of
whom titled himself Inspe-tor of the Board
of Health, and had called to inspect my premises.
Cert iinly you shai, I replied, but I do not think that
fentleman understood much about cows, as he asktd.
)id we feed them on oaten chaff and corn? but 1
told him no; I feed my horses with that, but rny
cows I feed with good lucerne hay. bran, and grains.
F. Scholes, Dairyman, Cross-st,, Double Bay.”
Land-sale tactics were shown up in a
Melbourne court last week. A man who acted,
on his own admission, as a decoy-duck, had a first
allo ment knocked down to him for £72. Subse-
quently the vendor swore that the transacicn was
genuine, and a*tempted to rti’h his decoy into
taking up the allotment. Decoy refused, and land
was put up again and sold for £4. A law suit for
the odd £6B resulted in nothing but costs against
both sides and a solemn warning for the public.
Editor Ward, a word in your ear. Yout
news is first-class, and your paper is well worth
a penny. Your Imperialist and Republican
articles, like your Pro-trade Pree lection leaders,
suit all classes of the community and supply a
long-felt want. Your la id-grab and railway ac
cident charts are, on the whole, very good—wi'h
the aid of Johnson’s Atlas and a decent knowledge
of geography they can be fairly comprehended
But for Heaven s sake drop your portraits, and,
above all, your fashion pictures, which disfigure
your paper.
The burial of dead paupers has been
elevated to a science in Sydney. The other day a
grave was dug by an economical undertaker, but,
as it was found to be too shallow to escape the
mourners’ eyes, a coffined corpse underneath was
resurrected and temporarily hidden in the bush
close by. Then the grief-stricken relatives came
and went, and the corpse which had been taking
the air was returned and placed on top of the
newly planted one, leaving only six inches of
earth above. There the corpses lie until the crack
of doom, subject to the inquisitiveness of hungry
d°ga and susceptible ghost-seeing Evening Noose
reporters.
Mr. James Scott, a Melbourne suburban
solicitor, has a distinct grievance against the
little local “horgan” which supplies Richmond
with its long-felt want. Poor James is grieved in
spirit and sore all over because the “horgan”
omits his name from reports of police-court cases
and other public festivities in which he scores
heavily. For a long while James bore his burden
without complaining The wilful ignoring of his
eloquent appeals to the Binch on behalf of lone
and larcenous widows he passed over. Tae
‘horgan’s” sinful silence on the subject of his
skilful handling of cross-summons cams between
the looal cats-meat man and an intoxicated chim-
ney-sweep provoked no protest from James. But
when he poured forth a torrent of Demosthenesian
eloquence at a ratepayers’ meeting, and the per-
fidious “ horgan ” merely said “ another speaker
supported the resolution,” then the proud Scot!
determined to be avenged. To melt a multitude
of ratepayers to tears and to be rewarded with
such a disgusting “notice”-it was too much!
No star performer em’d sit still under a one-line
criticism of that descrip ion. So James sued the
“horgan ” for “ wilfully and maliciously auppieis-
ing matter to the injury and prejudice of plain-
tiff.” We don’t fancy that a cold and cruel law
allowed any damages in this case, but if James
likes to supply The Bulletin with snappy
resumes of h's boycotted orations we’ll pat ’em all
in—at usual advertisement rates. We sympathise
with any man suffering from suppressed matter,
but at the same time it is only fair to say that
myriads of wild-eyed poets are in the same pre-
dicament as James
The Excelsior Class, run in Sydney by Mr.
Marsham M’Carthy, is undoubtedly a highly
creditable and praiseworthy institution. It per-
forms some very useful services for poor and
friendless city Arabs—among other things pays
their fines when they are run in, and thus obviates
the unpleasantne "8 of durance vile. Mr. M’Carthy
has been getting on very well with his class, and
of course is anxious that his good work should
be known ; so he has Lords Carington and
Brassey up to see the boys tumble and hear them
sing “Sick to your Mother, Tom,” and other classic
ditties. Carington was vei y “ g-eat ”on the occa-
sion. The boys were all introduced to His Excellency
under their professional names—such as “Roc-
kets,” “Taffylegs,” “ the Woolloomooloo Bobby-
chaffer,” and so forth —and it was a c ise of
“ bands all round ” And it goes without s -ying
that the Jubilee fad was dragged in by the noble
patron. To each of the youngsters the chief visitor
presented a brass token in honour of the 50th
anniversary of the Queen’s reign, telling them he
hoped they would frequently gaze lovingly on the
piece of metal, and never without bearing in mind
the closing words of his advice, which were:
“Tell the truth; fear God; and, above all,
honour the Queen.” One member of the class,
who rejoices in the sobriquet of “the Ultimo
Devilskin,” has since been inquiring whether it
wouldn’t do as well to honour the federated Aus-
tralasian Republic ; but this young reprobate is
evidently a candidate for the gallows, and should
he at once subjected to a Darleyistic stamping-ont
process. The throne is quite safe so far as the
Excelsior Class boys are concerned, and no doubt
when her Gracious Majesty is duly acquainted
with this fact she will send a “ collect ” cable-
message signifying her Royal gratification. Truly
this is a loyal community.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—” A Run of Luck " p, 14.
Criterion Theatre.—' 'Pickpocket ”
Opera House—“ True to the Gore"
Gaiety Theatre—” Boccaccio"
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
Exhibition Building.—Roller Skating Rink ..1
There was a good house at Melbourne
Bijou last Saturday afternoon to hear Phil.
Robinson tell how the British murder their black
breddren. Physically and intellectually the lec-
turer made a good impression, although, oddly
enough, he looks less warlike on the stage than
off it. We would suggest chain armour and lime-
light. Mr. Phik’s style ia light and airy without
being obtrusively culchawed. A better elocu-
tionist than Sala, he falls behind the plump vete-
ran in flow of language. But. he ia altogether a
more loveable war correspondent than Archibald
Forbes. Which reminds us that Philip, while
poking borak at Forbes’ falutions of hair-breadth
escapes and royal hobnobbiogs, contrived to keep
himself fairly in the foreground of his pictures.
Perhaps that was inevitable. It would seem that
a special’s watchword is “ front ’’—toujours
“ front.” From a humanitarian point of view,
”On the Warpath” is not much more improving
than a speech from the Throne. Mr. Phil, labours
to throw a halo of romance round dirty work.
He gets fifty laughs at the expense of the black-
man’s ignorance of scientific slaughter, and then
sets about the glorification of English “ victories.”
The Zulus’ great coup at Isandulah was a cruel
massacre of our gallant heroes, doncherknow.
And that puny little Prince Imperial is moulded
into a demigod by skilful Philip. We are now
informed that “ when the brave boy turned at
bay and calmly awaited his fate, the Zulus were
stiuok by a something in the expression of his
face which might have told them that he was the
son of a king.” This is poisonous rot. Even the
idiots who accept blue bio:d as a natural pheno-
menon couldn’t find much “ grace of God ” about
little Louis—the weak-faced son of the knocked-
outrephew of a low born Corsican adventurer.
Moreover, we have been credibly informed that
the youngster was asse-
gaied from the rear—
there now! Mr. Robinson
ia a pleasant, genia l ,
talented gentleman. But
he has mixed much with
a misguided millingtary,
and become a Jingo with
a big big J.
#* * *
Geo. P. Hawtrey’s
“Pickpocket” is one of
those farcical little come-
dies of whichmodern play •
rights have given the
world an ample supply,
in obedience, evidently,
to the demand of modern
play-goers ; and. it must
be added, it is remark-
ably good of its sent.
Fun runs through the biz.
from start to finish, and
a praiseworthy point in
the scheme of the thing
is that there is no appar-
ent straining to secure an
overshadowing “char-
acter,” with the rest
mere satellites. Probably
Mr. Thornton vs ouldmake
a great deal more out
of Andrew (the waiter)
than young Dion Bouci-
cault, and not many
players would push up
tie part of G egory
G umb’edon like H. R.
Harwocd ; while Osmond
Hewett might in other
hards than Fred H.
Faye’s th k into ir s’gnifl-
cance ; but as pretf Lttd
at the Sjdney Criterion
tie ‘ P.iktotket” cer-
tainly ptssesses the meiit
tf distiibuting the labour
and the kudos with
even-handed justice over
tie performers, to the
exclusion of none in par
licular.
The story, a flavoured rechauffe of a Ger-
comedy, dea's with a varie y of amusing
e Jiodea and situations conaequmt upon a series
of blunders and mistakes. Frederick Hope (Mr.
Ribirt Inman) is the uxorious and jealous darling
of a young and loving wife (Miss Florence Tre-
T olyan), ths only bitterness in whose cup of joy
at the outset consists in the too constant presence
of Aunt Marla (Miss B. Romer). But Osmond
Bowel t, a merry hearted young fellow to whom
everything is “ ripping,” presents a note of in-
troduction just prior to the departure of Mrs.
Bops and the aunt on a visit to the sea-
side, and Mr. Hope contrives to make himself
believe that Hewett and Mrs. Hope entertain
some naughty intentions—a belief which is con-
firmed by Hewitt’s racing after the ladies in a
eab to ascertain the exact locale of their exour-
son. Hewett had another reasen for seeking the
formation in question, however, because
ueda Grumhledon, a maiden fair to see, for
whom he had “ conceived a passion,” was, he knew,
& bout to proceed to the same resort, accom-
panied by her hypochondriacal uncle, Gregory
wumbledon. Hope, filled with j ealous suspicions,
determines to fo'low in disguise ; and the action is
transferred holus bolus to the East Ciiff Hotel at
Jfastbome, where Osmond Hewett gats mistaken
l or a Pickpocket and Mr. Hope, who follows the
disguise as an artist, for a lunatic; the
gaiter And ew and old Grumhledon make a lot of
side-splitting play, and finally, after, as the bill
“ a fs, “doubts and fears’’and “gathering clouds”
or nethe “ sunshine after showers,” with beatific
appiness spre id broadcast in the future of all,
OWn even to the hypochondriacal Grumhledon.
* * *
Hiss Florence Trevelyan ia well-suited in the
Part of Mrs. Hope She kisses her “darling” spouse
a manner calculated to give one an exalted idea
, connubial bliss, and to render i atural her hits-
an h 8 otll erwise inexplicable jealous fear lest
°tbef should gain an entrance wßhin the sweet
main of her heart. Miss Boucicault is, of
- urse, graceful and charming, and makes the
‘iU• -)f apart not intended to have much in it.
b 0 Pickpocket” ran 300 nights at the Adelphi,
d should have a satisfactory lengthened
eor at Sydney Criterion.
* » *
Boucicault’a Andrew was very quietly yet
toiM, e ® played, indicating throughout a
on? . oft ße true histrionic cultus. The waiter ia
i those oddities one sometimes meets In
“®lnes remote from the madding crowd; and
young Dion makes the character splendidly
humorous while studiously avoiding exaggeration.
Uproarious mirth is occasioned by Mr. Harwood’s
hypochondriac. Sufferers from the “incurable
affliction ” to which Grumbleton is a martyr could
not well adopt a more hopeful line of treatment
than spectating the performance of the self-
impostor, who is perpetually in the toils of a
lexicon of imaginary ills and consumed with dark
forebodings of a summary break-up. Mr. Laye s
“Pickpocket” is finished from beginning to end,
and evidently the result of careful study and an
artistic gift of no mean order.
** # *
Another brilliant change at Sydney Alham-
bra on Monday. Crowded houses continae.
** * *
“Boccaccio,” at Sydney Gaiety, is put on
and performed better than that delightful opera
has ever been in Sydney before. Miss Ivanova
unwittingly slaughters the dudes, and Verdi
shines as Boccaccio’s chum. Crowded houses and
a full treasury.
jf. JL
W T
“ True to the Core ” has not been a
financial success at Sydney Opera House, though
it is a tolerably meritorious production, with a
strong cast. The incidents and situations are full
of interest, but they appeal rather to the un-
sophisticated patriotism of the English provinces
than to the prevailing sentiment in colonial cities.
Martin Truegold (Mr. B N. Jones) combines the
occupations of pilot and inn-keeper at Plymouth
at the time of the attempted Spanish invasion of
England. The Armada arrives off the coast on the
day on which Martin took to wife the Rose of
Devon (Mies Kate Vinson), and he is drugged by
English sympathisers with the Spaniards and
carried off to the enemy’s flagship, together with
his bride, where, to save their lives, he
consents to pilot the vessel into Ply-
mouth Sound, with a mental reservation
however, in favour of casting her on the Eddy-
st me Rock. This he does with consummate skill,
and only himself, his bride, Marah, a Gipsy girl,
Wallet, a soi-disant pedlar, and some of the
traitors are saved. Truegold effects the rescue by
fs
A THING HOP. SEES WHEN HE IS OUT (IN THE COUNTRY) WITH HIS LITTLE GUN.
swimming to an English ship, but before he is
allowed to do this an oath is extorted from him
not to incriminate those who carried him nolens
volens to the Spanish gallieon ; and the circum-
stances being against him, he is convicted at Ply-
mouth of treason and condemned to death
Finally, Wallet, who is really a Cranmer in dis-
guise, peaches; and Queen Elizabeth turns up
and makes Truegold a K C.M.G., the real traitors
are marched cff to durance vile with the prospect
of a long drop sticking out, and those who deserve
happiness attain it by a royal road. The acting
of Mr. Jones, Mr. H. C. Sidney, Miss Alice
Norton, and Miss Kate Vinson (the latter a new
acquisition to the Sydney stage) was all that could
be wished ; but nothing could make the production
attractive, and after a remarkably brief career it
has had to give place to a more popular piece.
** * *
At Sydney Royal, “A Run of Luck,”
which has already made several millions for Bland
Hole, will, on Saturday, be supplanted by “Alone
in London.”
** * *
A dramatic and musical club has been
formed by the employes of the Government Print-
ing Office, Sydney. One of the objects of the club
is to give entertainments in aid of charity.
A/-
"TV* '/V* ‘TV* W
A special feature of the new aquarium at
Bondi will be a pond for the reception of sharks.
Sosays the Nooze. Hitherto we have only heard the
Noozk reporters’ versions of shark yarns, but now
Alfred Bennett will have a chance to go down and
lend his ear to the poor sharks, and hear what
they have to say about the Market-street staff.
W W *7V*
Ernest Hutcheson, the Melbourne musical
prodigy, celebrated his 16bh birthday on the 20th
July. He is making satisfactory progress at the
Leipsic Conservatorium, and now speaks both
French and Gorman with fluency.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou the new comic opera
“ Babiole ” has no more “go ” than a lame tor-
toise. There are fifty-six reasons why this puerile
perversion from the French can t get along any-
how. Firstly, the show is too weak—secondly,
the support isn’t strong enough. Tne other
reasons are embodied in those two. Thus it hap-
pens that Grade Plaisted is smiling her sweetest
at empty bsnehes, and the robust Harding is
chucking his falsetto notes into unsympathetic
space. If we said anything pleas inter than this
about “ Babiole ” the truth would not be in us,
and we should have to render an account later
on. Let the dailies barter away their immortal
souls for managerial gratitude. “ Princess Ida ”
is fetching them without creating & furore— which
is francais for money turned away. Miss Col-
bourne-Baber has improved on her first attempt;
and Mias Aggie Kelton puts more laurels on her
fair young brow every night. She does it, too,
in a happy unassuming way, which indicates that
she is amiable as she is beautiful. Last week we
forgot to mention Mr. Elton as a leading factor in
the trouble. He is in charge of the patter sorg
department, and makes up a combination of Quilp
and Richard the Taird. The imported talent is
hardly opening out in harmony with preliminary
puff’s—but then nothing does. All this while
“Little Jack Sheppard” is running up another
good score at the Opera House. After Miss
Robina nobody breaks more hearts on an average
than Miss Emma Temple, a graceful fairy, whose
arms and other extremities have mastered the
poetry of motion. Talking of fairies reminds us
—anyhow, it’s convenient to put it in that way—
that Professor Anderson is dabbling in the black art
at St. George’s Hall. His “ basket trick ismystio,
wonderful—but the magician retires this week.
#* # *
Martin Simonsen’s Italian Opera Com-
pany (says our correspondent) have been ap-
pearing at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, to
very good houses. Tne productions so far have
been “II Trovatore,” “ Lucia di Lammermoor,”
“ Rigoletto,” and “ Don Giovanni.” The Joran
family have been giving concerts at the Exhibi-
tion, and the only other place of amusement open
is Garner’s Theatre, where the Japanese Village,
with the Faust Family, are “ dragging on ” to the
end of a fair season. The Fisk Jubilee Singers
have left for Queensland laden with the dollars of
the godly.
** * *
Speaking of the Simonsen Opera Com-
pany, the Brisbane Courier innocently observes :
“ In two of Donizzeti’s operas they have achieved
great success ‘ Lucia di Lammermoor ’ and
‘ Lucrezia Borgia ’ were the betes noirs of the
season.” Evidently Sydney is not the only place
where the prize-pumpkin and police-court re-
porter is expected to finish his day’s work by reel-
ing off a learned critique on a high-class musical
performance. The man who writes betes noirs
for bonnes bouches is, however, a genius of the
first water, and has evidently a brilliant career
before him—if he doesn’t trip over his ears and
sprain his neck prematurely.
TP TV TV* TP
Miss Amy Sherwin has scored a distinct
success in Tasmania, the natives receiving their
countrywoman with much enthusiasm—bands,
serenades, and cheers greeting her in all direc-
tions. Toe Hobartians have exhausted all similes
expressing sweetness in trying to describe her
voice, and her audiences may increase if the
Hobart Theatre Royal becomes elastic —not other-
wise. Herr Johann Rhodes, the violinist who
accompanies her, has become quite a favourite in
the little city. Mr. Arthur Sherwin is also in the
company. He is tolerated for his sister’s sake.
*# * *
Carrie Swain is doing “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin” at Melbourne Alexandra, and “ Streets of
London ” fills the Royal up to the bunghole.
•R* TP TP
Mr. J. J. Macnamara, the talented
N.S.W. amateur singer and composer, has joined
the Carrie Swain company in Melbourne. “ Mae.”
possesses an alto voice of great purity and cul-
ture, which, by the way, very much resembles
that of the fair Carrie herself.
** * *
The Bulletin much regrets to hear of the
insolvency of that good and hard-working actor,
Mr. G, P. Carey.
## # *
R. S. S., the much-travelled, left Mel-
bourne last week by the Te Anau to meet the
Rev. Charles Clarke in New Zealand.
w w 'Tr
The Holloway-Essie Jenyns Co. are
having a pretty successful season in “ Hoodman
Blind ” at Brisbane Royal, with no sign of striking
their colours for the present. “ Called Back ”
was put on for the last time at th e Gaiety, on the
23rd, by the Kennedy Dramatic Co. On Monday
last the Gaiety was invaded by the Jubilee Fisk
Singers, or the Fisk Jubilee Singers, who are the
only people chat still mention J abilee and live.
The Keferee
That astute Hanlan has won his second
match with Gaudaur. The cable tells us that
‘ the latter became disabled in the race, that it
was rowed in the dark, and that the whole thing
is looked upon as a fizzle,” but the fact remains
that Edward is now “ Champion of Ametica,” and
upon that title he will travel should he start
away without again meeting Gaudaur. Thus,
while Hanlan is raking in the dollars, William is
resting on his oars and honors, An athlete’s fame
is fleeting- Trickett’s was, so was Lay cock’s—
and yet they were both idols in their day. We
doubt if more than a few scores of people know
to-day that Edward is running a public house in
Queensland, and Elias ditto at Pyrmont. Larry
Foley ever kept his eye on the main chance, and
as a consequence is the only athlete pasu his day
who is before the public. Should Beach again de-
feat Hanlan a fortune awaits h'm in the States
without risking a dollar. But if he doesn’t
! Well, no man, however good, can last for
ever.
* » *
In view of the disqualifications and repri-
mands just ladhd out, the ‘‘mixed meeting ” at
Sydney has turned up trumps in the interests of
bona-fide amateur bicycling.
* * *
The Melbourne Bicycle Club have given
forth rather a startler in the announcement that
the principal prize at their November meeting
will be of the value of £3OO. Had Bennett not
teen under forced retirement he might heve fore-
gone his stated intention of retiiing from the
track. And, by the way, it does now appear as if
the inspired par, we referred to a couple of
weeks back, mentioning Bennett with a host of
others as starters at the Suburban Club’s meeting
was a little premature.
• * *
Swan and M‘Laren start next Saturday
afternoon, in the new Masonic Hall, Sydney, a
fifty-mile match for £25 a-side. Fifty miles is a
test of endurance without the brutality of ihe six-
days’ wobb.e, and deserves encouragement from
the public.
* * *
The final heats of the Floyd light skiff
handicap were pulled on Saturday afternoon, and
resulted in a win for Wulf, who carried 70ib.
Floyd is a New Zealander, and carries on Joe
Donnelly’s old shed at Glebe Point. He deserves
the success which attended the handicap under
notice, for it is from the powerful class of men
who compete in these races that we may look for
embryo Tricketts and Beaches.
* * *
Foley’s was crowded on Saturday night to
witness a couple of fights “to a finish.” Jerry
Marshall, a coloured lad, knocked Bishop to a
standstill in ten rounds ; and the fun commenced
when Quigley and Neil faced the music. For 18
rounds did these weight-knights of the Pyrmont
Quarry pound at each other, making terrific
lunges which, when they by accident reached
their destination, were not of sufficient force to
leave an imprint in the proverbial pound of butter.
Marshall, the hero of the first bout, is from Ne w-
castle. He is quick on his feet and shapes well,
and promises to show some good work on Metro-
politan boards.
* *
The crowd showed big dissatisfaction over
the decision in the final of the Carington Handi-
cap on Saturday night. J. Rowan was declared
the winner, but the majority of the onlookers
thought Budd had won, and gave mouth ac-
cordingly.
* * *
The number of falls at Liverpool on
Saturday would imply that the course in its pre-
sent state is not a safe ground to race and risk
mens’ or—what are as a rule considered of more
value in sporting circles—horses’ necks upon. Au-
dacious, Gipsy’s Warning, Astrover, Thaokhambau,
Moorbank, Cuirassier, all came dawn. 'Jhe riders
all escaped with more or less of a shaking, but
Mr. Oxenham’s likely Gipsy's Warning had to be
put out of her misery with a friendly bullet.
* * *
The Victorian Trotting Club is to be sued
for the stakes of a race which their judge awarded
to the wrong horse. Everybody sympathises with
the owner, who happened to be the victim of a
palpable mistake, nevertheless the infallibility of
a judge’s decision must be upheld if race meetings
are not to degenerate into wrangles. Tnere are a
hundred close finishes every year, over which the
public are equally divided in their opinions as to
the winner. The judge’s decision is accepted
without any talk of legal proceedings. The fact
that there was not a close finish at Elsternwick
Park, and that the absolutely last horse’s number
was hoisted, doesn’t affect a principle which must
be maintained in all sporting events.
* * *
Cannon and Connor are to have another
Graeco-Roman wrestle in Melbourne about the
middle of August. Thera will be a good display
of ferocity, real or simulated, and probably a lai ge
attendance, attracted by the hope of seeing some-
body choked. Talking of wrestlers, the big little
Italian, Sali, recently succeeded in doing some-
thing remarkab-e with a 1041 b. dumb-bell. It
was an interesting performance. Bat there are
plenty of 4st, boys capable of working a machine
whicn could knock the Signor’s “ record ” into a
cocked hat.
• * *
The three race-days in Melbourne the
week before last were bitterly co.d. .And yet
the Scriptures say that the wind is tempered
to the shorn lamb.
• * *
Lord Carington, Sir Henry Loch, Phil.
Robinson, and tne rest of the aristocracy were on
Royal Oak for the Grand National Steeplechase at
Flemington. The Governors were t iken with the
name of Mr. Pearson’s horse. Anything “royal,”
doncherknow.


Pepper
And
Salt
Mr. Bilton, masher, has been sued by
the barmaid of a Melbourne hotel for £5, money
Fnt. According to the masher’s own statement,
he filled the bumper fair until the goddess, at
whose sbnne be liquored, left him no change out
of £l5O Whaievn* might have been the original
amount of his casJi in hand, it went. It was
engulfed in the remorseless till, and Bilton was
left with nothing but a lime kiln thirst. Then
did Hebe (according to Mr. B.) say, ‘ Drink,
puppy, drink; and I will pay the reckoning.
Evidently he misunderstood the terms of the fair
maid’s invitation, because, after drinking another
£5 “on the never,” Mr. B. got his little sum-
mons to appear. They gave the squeezed-dry
masher seven days’ grace to collect the needful,
but now comes the pathetic part of this yarn. The
bar-lady displayed a marked revulsion of feeling
for her old customer. She said he “ wanted kick-
ing.” It was a grand truth, hut ungraciously
proclaimed under the circumstances. Doesn’t
every young fool, or hoary idiot, who drinks pizon
at a barmaid’s bidding, deserve to be kicked 2
(The poet, after getting five shillings on account,
went out and bought a nosegay for the new bar-
maid at the Mugs’ Paradise—the little dark thing,
with a fine pair of eyes and one dimple).
* * *
“ It is believed that if a vice-regal resi-
dence is erected on Centennial Park, the value of
the building sites the Government intend to sell
will he so increased that the entire cost of the
palace, and sr.tate House, would be provided by
sales.”—(Daily paper.)
Even doing business on a cash basis
doesn’t pay now in N.S. W. A ready-money tran-
saction nowadays, consists in one man buying
good-, from another, and the other man burning
him for four months in the hope of getting the
coin and at the end of that time he is rewarded
wi*ha p st-dated cheque less discount, and when
the cheque is dishonoured the seder is generally
slad to take a slow bill for the amonnt, and call it
souare T his sort cf trading doesn’t seem to
beget confidence and all sorts of rumours are
about The other day a big Sy. ney Arm, of un-
doubted solvency, held a meeting of shareholders,
and straightway the report went about that their
creditors had been called together and that a hurst
was impending. Then a rumour arose that the
Aim was prepared to give £500 to discover the
slanderous wretch who was undermining their
credit, and following this came a whisper that
they had offered another £500 for the capture ot
the man who first said that they would give £500
for the other man. And this kind of joy is called
commerce.
There is ia row in the police department of
a far northern town. A vigilant bobby was on his
“ bate ” at the first hour after midnight, that hour
when morning lingers in the lap of night and
won’t get off; and the last drunk has departed
and left the streets to darkness and to him. Sud-
denly he heard a creaking and a jar of hinges
which seemed to come from somewhere “ beyant,”
and then the hobby said io himself, “ Bedad,
there’s a publican breaking the Hact.” Two long
strides and he was at the corner, one more and he
was “forninst that dhure,” and when a burly
figure that smelt of tripe and whisky, tobacco,
pig’s feet, gin, billiards, ham and eggs, and other
worldly indulgences, lurched heavily out, he col-
lared it and shook it, and backed it against the
wall while he turned his bull’s eye on it. ‘ ‘ Shtro-
nary conduck thish,” gasped the collared object
feebly, and then the hobby dropped his lantern
with a shriek, and exclaimed tragically, “ Och, me
prophetic sowl! me shooparier officer.” “ She
tish,” responded the inspector, “ whatsh meaning
thishyer violence ? Zshush bin inshpek-k-
-king publishoush in ac-hiccordansh dooty.”
“Faith an’ ain’t it rather late to be insh-
peckting ’em now ?” remonstrated the full
private, apologetically, “ I thought ” “Shush
so 1 You thought, did you ? Don’t you
shee zsher’sh nushings like coming on zshese
wick-fefc-ed publicansh like shief in night when
zsh»y don’t shpeck you. Zshat’sh time ter
shample ’dultry—mean ’dultrashun. An’ now
been an’ offered violensh to shooperior offiaher in
exshecooshun of his dooty. ’Port you to Gov’-
ment to morrer er-er orrer.” And he did it, too.
For one brief moment the hobby considered the
advisableness of running in his chief, but he
couldn’t screw his courage to the sticking-point
and the opportunity was lost, and next morning
the unhappy constable was suspended for being
drunk while on duty and using language calcu-
lated to cause a breach of the peace, combined
with an assault on his superior, and further com-
plicated by his being found in a public-house at a
late hour, and at the end of the week he was
ignominiously sacked.
* * *
The Sydney D T. says that “ the decom-
posed remains of a child which recently strayed
from Bourke have been found in the bush.” If
decomposed remains are going to indulge in this
Wandering Jew sort of behaviour Creed’s Crema-
tion Bill is evidently a necessity. When next the
heartbroken widow visits the grave of the d ar-
departedit would be (prudent for her, be'ore shed-
ding a tear, to ascertain whether the beloved de-
composed remains have not strayed over to the
next lot to “ see a man.” Some trouble may
be saved if strolling corpses will accept this inti-
mation that their haoics are known, and for the
future they are requested to paste a notice “ back
in ten minutes” or sorm thing to that effect on rheir
tomb-stones. w bat a lively old lime there will
be in Parkes’ dead-house when the decayed residue
of the hon. member for seems the corruption
going on in the casket of one of the ex-Miaisters
for Lands, and strays over to request the rem-
nants of that statesman to gather themselves uo
and come outside and have the earth wiped with
the remainder of their adjective no;© 1
North of Townsville lives Smiler, a publi-
can, who is also an undertaker. The floating
population which supports the whisky-mills of the
trans-caprioornian region have hitherto been dead
against such an arrangement, but our friend, the
publican aforesaid, has succeeded in convincing
his clients of the conveaience a«d respectability
of being decently buried when their cheques
are cut out' instead of roaming off with the
usual coup dc grace in the shape of a botTe
of rum, to die of jim-jams in the howling wilder-
ness. No doubt, “ the funeral of Mr. J. Jug-
gins will move from his late residence, the
Shearers’ Arm?.” &c . reads a trifle more high-
toned than “found dead in the bush,” and ih s
has doubtless gone far to convince the
dwellers of the Mudville district of the ad-
vantages of such an arrangement for their
convenience. The hearse stands at the rear of
Smiler’s pub , and in the off-season is used as a
fowl-house, and occasionally as an extra bedroom.
The history of this cheerful vehio'e is shrouded in
mystery, but it is popularly supposed to have
been seized many years ago for goods sold and
delivered over the bar, as within the memory of
the oldest local liar the ghastly object has always
be-n sold with the house as a fixture. The
present proprietor has so far only obtained a
third share of the undertaking business, as
the corpse-case is supplied by the local carpenter
and the horses by a Chinese cabbage purveyor,
who, when he has blacked up his mokes for the
occasion, heads the procession as chief mourner.
Apropos, when we were in Far Northern Queens-
land, years ago, we one day asked Billy Little, J.P..
the local butcher, for an afternoon's loan of his
meat-cart—then the only wheeled vehicle on the
goldfield. “I can’t do it, my boy,” replied
Billy; “we’re going to bury Long Jim Hopkins
to-day, and we’ll want it to cart the poor devil to
the creek.”
* * *
Billy and Sarah, two unlucky niggers, re-
cently got drink in a N.S.W. country town, and
the magistrate hunted out a few appropriate re-
marks from the hind-quarters of his mind, and
threw them at them. This is how the Sydney D.T.
puts it; —
Billy Murray and Sarah Murray, aboriginals, were fined
20s or seven days, at the Police Court on Wednesday
for drunkenness and disorderly conduct Billy had come
into town with 9dwt. 2gr. of gold, which he sold for
10s 6d . and he spent the proceeds on grog The magis-
trate said he could not see the benefit of preserving this race
from extinction.”
From the remark a lot of things become apparent
*&■
A SUBURBAN ROMANCE.
1. This is Mr. Fittles, the rising young tailor of Marrapatta,
taking leave of Her after a most enjoyable evening.
2. If one will walk backwards while he throws kisses to the
girl of his heart, one must not be surprised if accidents occur.
There’s many a trip twixt the kiss and the lip.
3. It is highly unromantic to have to go back (after taking a
most gallant leave) to the girl of one’s heart to be scraped and
generally repaired by her.
all at once. When one blackfellow gets drunk
the whole aboriginal race should bo extinguished,
but a hundrtd thousand white men—beaks,
aldermen, members of Parliament, end softgoods-
men—may be carried home from a loyal banquet,
cnokefull of turkey, grease, and champagne, and
c-rucked in at their respec ive doors, and ’eft
wallowing in the passage, and hobedv even hints
that the gorged beasts should be pollaxed—still
less that the whole white race should be wiped
out on their account. For our own part we
can t see why that beak should be preserved
from extincti cl, and, accordingly, we a e pre-
pared to supple him with a cofiiu a,d a grave
at rates that will defy competition.
The splendid old clipper Thermopylae has
again arrived in Sydney—afeer a 72 days’ passage
from Portland, Eng.
Says Modern Society “ One of tie
most trenchant newspapers wriVrn in the English
language—the Sydney Bulletin. ’ -Thanks.
A WARNING TO BILTON.
Dear boy, you had your little burst
And lived in clover;
She loved you very much, when erst
With festive fizz you slaked your thirst;
But now you are a thing accurst
Your dream is over.
Ah we 1 How blushing Hebe laughed
And called you “ funny,”
When twenty drinks a day you quaffed
And planked the cash for every draught!
But now—you’d better go and “ graft ”
And get more money.
She’s smiling at some other bloke—
You bet your dollar ;
She’s laughing at his little joke
(That other sawney “ on the soak ”),
But as for you—you’re stony broke
And out of collar.
Dear Buton, while your time you spent
In chaff and “ guiver ”
Across the bar, your substance went,
And, though at first a - perfect gent,”
Her feelings changed when she had lent
You that ’ere fiver.
No memories of the roaring past
Her conscience pricking,
Your gentle Heba looks aghast
At one who went the pace so fast,
And says—it’s come to this at last !
That you want kicking !
Bar love is but a fleeting joy—
An empty pleasure;
With whisky do the gods decoy
The fools they purpose to destroy,
You drank in haste, so now, dear boy,
Repent at leisure.
TO SIR ’ENRY.
Yes, build a Palace on that Park Centennial !
’Twill be a source of perfect joy perennial
For high-toned citizens, who would so love
To dwell adjacent to the darling Gov.
Sassiety would strive, by hook or crook.
To get a little site —a chance to look
Upon his home—to live so near the rose
And catch its fragrance when the zephyr blows.
Sir ’Enery, prithee, hark to our advice,
Erect that palace—snobs will pay the price.
There let the Governor himself assure
Your scheme’s success, by being as a lure
They’d come in swarms, attracted by the bait,
And buy those freeholds, ’Enery, sure as fate.
Thus gathering snobdom in a certain place,
From which an honest man could turn his face,
We ask you, hirsute ’Enery, who the deuce
Would say a Governor couldn’t be of use?
* * *
That lavish creature of impulse, Duncan
Gillies, has been giving more rein to his imagina-
tion. At his suggestion the 26th January is hence-
forth to be observed as our great national holiday.
The day we celebrate I
That glorious day, by Jove I
When convicts crept ashore at Sydney Cove
These shores to desecrate —
When soldiers marshalled to the beat of drum,
A choice assortment of Old England’s scum.
This the occasion which, in years to come,
Our sons must venerate ?
The day we celebrate 2
Old times it may recall
To such as flourished in the legal thrall
And now can jubilate ;
But Young Austi aliens, who’d forget the shame
Which, erstwhile, darkened their fair country’s
fame
Will call the day when first the felons came—
The day we execrate.
A DISAPPOINTING DENOUEMENT.
From a late paper:— “An elderly man
named Charles Hang committed suicide at Ade-
laide to day. A bottle of strychnine was found on
the body.”
Give us our time-worn harp again,
And, to its solemn twang.
Let us strike up a dismal strain
Concerning Mr. Hang.
We read about his suicide
With quite a grievous pang,
To think a man could have so died
Whose name was Char les Hang!
He had a chance, which few would sligh f ,
Not e’en a slope-eyed Chang,
To prove, in death, his parent’s right,
And lost it -this poor Hang.
The man who dies up to his name.
For him, you bet, will clang
The tocsin of Immortal Fame—
It won’t for Mr. Hang.
He will not, on long winter nights,
By any bard he sang
(Or sung), bar this one, who, sirs, writes
For rum—will Mr. Hang.
Had it been said of him that he.
At a rope’s slack-end, sprang
Into the Dim Hereafter, we
Would have hurrahed for Hang.
Or, if he’d given a send-off to
His spirit with a bang.
And of his brains made a rdpout,
We might have pardoned Hang.
But like a poisoned rat to die! —
We say it with a pang.
The unities are outraged by
This miserable Hang.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
To Cardinal Moran : “ Who’s yonr hat-
ter? ”
Hall, the Tivnaru pois mar, is dying of in-
somnia consequent on asthma.
Parkes now admits that he wrote “The
Beau eons Terrorist, and other” (alleged) “Poems.”
Justice Williams, of Victoria, is shaky in
his orthography. He spells '‘cheque” c-h-e-c-k.
Gaunson rsays Victoria “ now possesses
the most charming Premier the country has ever
had
Mr. Garnet Walch is engaged in compiling
a biographical work to be entitled “ Victorian
Vignettes.”
It is cabled that the Crown Prince of Ger-
many’s throat is better. He can now talk mit hie
mudder-in-law.
“ Timotheua placed on High,” in the Mel-
bourne Argus, means “ Tim. Willoughby up in
the press loft.”
The Melbourne Age says that “ Swin-
burne, in truth, out-Zolas Zola himself in the
business of Zolaism.”
There are two attorneys in Melbourne 1
who object to taking an oath—Siev wright and
the gigantic M‘Kean.
Lord Lansdowne’s name is Henry Charles-
Keith Petty Fitzmaurice. This name should
suffer a reduction of at least 40 per cent.
Chief Justice Hinginbotham is sen of a
Chinaman. That is to say, his father kept an
extensive china and glass shop in Dublin.
From the Mudgee (N.S.W.) Post:—
“Ruskin the eminent critic is supposed to be
dying. He now lies in a critical condition.”
Purves, Q.C., of Melbourne, says that
any man who is worth his salt has been drunk
some time or other. Mr P. has a large practice.
The Duke of Edinburgh’s appetite is>
described as the eighth wonder of the world.
H.R.H. is developing traces of Imperial purple im
the wrong place.
A motion is again before the Victorian
Assembly that the widow of Marcus Clarke be
granted £lOOO in recognition of his services tc
Australian literature.
Ruskin intends
abandoning the work,.
“Our Fathers Have
Told Us,” which he
was writing, as he says
the new generation
cares nothing about its
fathers.
In poet Bracken’s'
bankruptcy schedule ap-
pear the following items
“ I. A. Moses, money
lent, £5B ; M. Abrahams,,
do., £37 ; I. Cohen, d 0.,.
£27; Jacob Levi, d 0,,.
£23.” Hooray!
Maxim, the ma-
chine-gun man, who has-
Just had an audience
with the Czar, describes
him as a bald, intelligent
and vigorous man, with
an open face and a beau-
tifully clear eye.
Dr. Madden, the
Melbourne barrister,
doesn’t think there is
very much harm in the
use of the word “ damn."
He says that he occa-
sionally lets slip that ex-
pression himself.
It is cabled to the
Herald that Mr. Spicer
is on his way to Aus-
tralia. Now, Mr. Spicer
is a Congregationalist
and makespriminsr-paper
for the S. M. Herald.
That’s all.
At a recent authors'
dinner in London, The
chairman : “ Gentlemen,
1 rise to propose the
health of Napoleon Bona-
parte. He deserved well
of our profession; he
hanged a publisher,”
N e wdegate, the bi got,
had a last fling at the
Pope in his will, it is
stated. And still Mr,
Pecci goes on gammoning
to read his book aud
eating raaccaroni as if
nothing had happened.
Wales does not seem
to be a favoured name
just now. N S. W, seems
anxious to discard it, and
it is rumoured in some
quarters that Albert Ed-
ward would no; object
to a change of title.
Somebody peeped
into the Prince of W ales'
carriage the other Sunday
just as he was driving
off to church, and
found him combing his
hair. Thai’s a job which
ought not to take long.
Thomas Carr Ireland, a son of the late
R. D. lieiand, Q.C , died at St. Kilda (Melb.) last
week Dick's best known son—R.chard deCourcy
—is practising as au attorney at Horsham (Yic ).
Admiral Tryon has been appointed
“ Director of Transports.” They no doubi thought
thac his Botany Bay experiences had specially
qualified him for the post. You don’t see the
joke, eh?
Mr. John Norton has promised to lecture
at Balmain on au eariy day in aid of William Hoy.
:he broken down and neglected British soldi r
now in the Parramatta so-called Benevolent
Asylum.
A person, representing himself as the
Hon. Somebody, member for somewhere in the
House of Commons, has been expeued from the
Northern Giub, Auckland (N Z.). having failed to
estab ish his identity.
Mr. Els ion, the Melbourne engineer who
c't the Railway Department in a huff, and was


subsequently Acting City Surveyor of Melbourne,
is at present on a visit to Sydney. He is accom-
panied by (he inevitable oigar.
G. A. Sa'a, aft r being connected with
the Illustrated London v 7 b\vs for 25 years, has
ceased wriiii g for that p >pir. Since the death,
in Australia, of his worthy wife, the veteran has
become but a shadow of his former self.
A canvasser int-rviewei eich and every
member of the N.S. W. Ministry to ask them to
become subscribers to a o.lining work on
Victoria and her reign, They a l refused. And
yet some of them can find money to speed on
beer.
A Melbourne paper says Governor Caring-
ton’s face looks one "vast substantial smile.’
H R.’s face doesn’t strike Sydney people like that.
The constant elevation of the Governor’s eyebrows
and nose invests him with a sempi'ernal air of
frozm surprise.
Perrin, who died the other day, left
£665,000, all made out of Worcestershire sauce.
He might have said, with Colman, the milltoaai e
mustard man: “I have made my fortune, not
out of what was used, but out of what was
left on the plates." ‘
Phil. Robinson is evidently an artful per-
son. He now tries to make out that Melvin and
Latnbie, the Australian war correspondents So the
Soudan, “ saved some of the scouts from massacre
and the army from a surprise." Lamhie, C.M.G.
—that would sound well
Mr. J. L Parsons, Government Resident
in Northern Territory of S.A., was succes-
sively a draper’s assistant, a clerk, a Baptist
M-nister, an importer, a broker and agent, and
Minister for Education. His present billet is
about the best financially.
Melbourne ARousaccusesProfessorTucker,
of the Melbourne University, of having used “ in-
sulting language towards science,” because he
called the latter “ loveless and dispiriting, con-
cerning itself with mean and beggarly elements.”
Larry Foley says it’s nu such a tiling.
Thus the N. Z. Herald : “Oar respected
townsman, had the misfortune
to brpak his leg on Sunday evening last whilst
coming down stairs. Anew one is being made
by one of onr coachbullders for him out of a piece
of well-seasoned hearc of kauri ” Smart folki
those New Zealanders I
Young Loogstaff, the Victorian artist, is
to be banqueted at his native townshio, Shepoar-
ton, before hs departs for a three years’ study in
Europe, It seems that Mr. Longstaff was rather
rash in selling * B caking the News” for £lOO.
If ha had held off, the picture might have com-
manded double that figure.
People down South are wondering whv
that Jubilee honour has not arrived for Town
Clerk Fitzgibbon, After the “ Jnbilemua” ede it
should not be far off There are two ways of look-
ing at this. Who are the more entitled to com-
pensation of some sort -the man who wrote the
■ode, or those who read it 1
A prisoner named Heariiy, under sentence
in Pentridge Prison (Melb.) for life, has b en
■ordered three months additional impiis nment
by Panton, P.M., for objecting to wear the regu-
lation knickerbockers recently introduced as con-
vict dress. We presume the three months
■“time” is cumulative on the life sentence
Death is no respecter of persons. Every
day we hear of the decease of some great man
whom the world can ill afford to lose. Julias
Caesar, Shakespeare, Aaron Waxman, Hanniha 1 ,
and Napoleon were just as mortal as th? meanest
of us. Which reminds us that the train, bearer
'to the Lord Chancellor of England has just parsed
away,
Mrs. Gordon Baillie, who is applying for
■a grant of land in Victoria, whereon to settle a
thousand of the Skye Crofters has much to con-
tend with Ic see os that J. S. Batters once ap-
plied for a lease of the same land and paid a sma 1
■deposit on the off-chance of getting it. J.S, B is
■now willing co accept £5OOO in satisfaction of his
'prior claim.
Senior-Constable Hoey, for a quarter of a
■century orderly to Coroner Voul, of Melbourne,
was once asked what kind of nen on earth the
■doctor used ? (Youl and ex-Justice Moleswotth
■are the joint champion illegible writers of the
world.) “ Well, it’s like this,” sez Hcey, “ he’s a
'handy bit of a pen that he takes the depositions
with, and then a damn big one that he sign h s
mame with.’
A quarter of a century ago, Hibbert New-
ton, the barrister, who has re appeared in court
■ after 20 years’absence, was engaged in nearly every
case in the Melbourne County Court. Bindonand
Newton had nearly all the business of the place
to themselves Later on the briefs fell to G. P.
■'Smith and Quinlan. Hood succeeded Smith.
Hoad and Frank Duffy now pretty well monopj-
dise the work.
Joseph Bosisto, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., o p
Victoria, got an invitation to an Exhibition ban-
quet in Adelaide the other day addressed to plain
Mr. Joseph Bosisto. He rejected it with the
scorn becoming to one who had bossed two exhibi-
tions in Victorian interests. Joseph should have
been made a K.C MG. After all, whafs the
■ good of being a C.M.G. if every fello v is allowed
'to dub you plain Mister ?
A drunk at the Melbourne City Court
once offered the reporters half-a-crown apiece to
keep his name out of the papers, but the Press
was not to be corrupted. One of the pressmen
thus sought to be bribed was Gilbert Roberts, of
the Age, who afterwards became a theatrical
manager (old Haymarket Theatre), and died a
few years ago on an island of the Pacific, where
he had thought to become rich by working guano
deposits.
There is a solicitor in Sydney, now not
over burdened with practice, who, in the early
■days of Melbourne, was frequently obliged to hang
this notice on his office door ; “ No more business
<can he taken this term.” There is also in Sydney
an attorney (bibulous) who, when down South,
used almost eternally to hai g on hi* door a notice
stating Thar he would be “ back in five minutes.’’
<Ooe day a wag of a law-clerk pocketed the notice
■ aforesaid, and pinned it on to the parlour door of
he little pub round the corner.
It is cabled that “ Earl Percy, the eldest
son of the Duke of Northumh rland, has been
raised to the peerage ’ i.e., he has been made a
peer in his own right. Earl / ercy, indeed!
There is not in the Duke ot Northumberland or
in any of his family a solitary drop of Percy blood.
The family name, even, is no longer Percy, but
Smithson ! Here indeed is a satire on the fustian
which trades itself off upon a confiding public as
“noble” As the Anti Jacobin savagely hath it,
“ Duke Smithson of Northumberland.”
An official high in the Victorian Railway
department boasts of having saved £48,000 a year
to the Government of the colony by which ho wi ,
formerly employed, and of having received a
valuable presentation upon leaving his late posi-
tion. Some of his enemi s have now ascertained
that the valnable presentation was a walking-
stick A walking stick, by the way, was the
form in which David Buchanan and some other
peonle who couldn’t see a jrke testimonialised
their friend Henri Rm’-efort when he was leaving
Sydney''
Herbert Peel, son of Sir Robert Peel an
unde-graduate at Balliol College, Oxford, smashed
a window at Hertford College, and threatened *o
punch the blanked head of the local superinten-
dent of police. The Vice-Chancellor fined the
culprit one guinea, remarking that “ the defen
dant’a conduct was not what was expected of
members of the University.” Ob Exeter the
same day a common, vulgtr, impoverished rough,
not the proprietor of an historic name, was
ordered three months’ hard labour for threatening
to nunch a petty constable.
J udge Wmdeyer, .Neild’s successor, liasnow
lost the iawbone —to Jack Want, who has run rings
round all colonial orators in a speech extending
over seven days! Forty-two fobd hours of ta’k»
in which he uttered no fever than 479 845 words,
many of them of strange sound and mysteri-
ous meaning. Jack d' - d all this iu his opening
“I NEVER TAKE ANYTHING IN MY WHISKY.” SAID THE BACK-BLOCKS ALDERMAN
AS HE ENCIRCLED THE GLASS WITH HIS LARGE HAND. “ NO,” REPLIED
THE LANDLORD, “YOU NEVER LEAVE ROOM FOR IT.”
speech for M'Sharry, plaintiff in the big railway
arbitration case, the total costs whereof, so far, are
just about £30,000, and he was being paid for his
talk at the rate of 50 guineas a day. Arbitration
is so much cheaper than law, you know.
It is related that one night a certain
accomplished Melbourne journalist (in company
wi h Telo, Marcus Clarke, and some others of
that kidney) was fumbling at a pawnbroker’s sign
in Bourke-street with the view of hanging the
balls on the public Treasury, when a goodmatured
policeman cpme up and interfered. “Iflwos
you, sor,” he whispered to George, “I wou'dn't
bother aboutthesedamn balls, becauseowld Lazarus
Tl kicS up a blashted shindy about them in tbe
mormn’ ; but if yez go down Bridge-road way (it’s
not on my bate) Mist her O’Toole, the gr ice-, has a
lovely coffee-pot over his dhoore ” George and
party started for Bridge-road.
Here is an advertisement (from the S.M.
Heraxd) purporting to be signed by the Hon. F.
Abigail, Minister of Mines in toe Parked Govern-
ment (why wasn't he made Minuter of Edu-
cation ?,» :
>< ][ HAVE this day appointed my son, C. J. Abi-
-1 gall, to act asmypowercif attorney duringmyab-
sence from Sydney. (Si met) Francis Abigail
Qeorge-street, July 20, 1887.”
This is the very first time we have ever heard in
all our life of any man acting as “a power of
attorney.” We have heard of a man acting as
attorney. Perhaps that is what was meant by
the person who drew up this advertisement for
Frawncis. We hope so, anyhow.
Like his chief, Judge Higinbotham, Judge
Williams is a Unitarian. The only other dissenter
on the Victorian Supreme Court Bench is Judge
Webb, who is a Biptist Rev G. T. Walters, the
pastor of the Unitarian Church, is one of the most
intellectual and cultivated clergymen in Mel-
bourne, singularly modtst and full of good sense
Ho reads his sermons which are well prepared,
and his public readings from the American
humourists are superb. G. T, says hs reads
Mark Twain in private for the benefit of his
heabh. The congregation at the Unitarian church
is very varied, ai d the same faces are to he seen
there regularly : H. G. Turner, xbe banker ; James
Smith, of ihe Argus ; Inspector Pewrress, of the
Police Force; Wyoert Reeve, the actor; and
so forth.
“ The late Archbishop (R.C.), of
, always breakfasted on oysters,” -writes
a correspondent of an Australian religious taper.
Pooh ! Why there are lots of veople who always
sup on oysters, and they aren’t half so good as
was that Archbishop, either.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Dibbs—Jibs.
In Darkness.—John Bright.
Paralysed. —The N.S.W. Asylums Scan-
dals.
Harpooned.—The member for the Mur-
rumbidgee.
The Irish Crimes Bill is now law, but it
will never be Justice.
Dibbs’ defection has created a large deficit
in the Freetrade ranks.
The N.S.W. railway service is over
manned. The Victorian service is over-boyed.
Lord Brassey is a strong Home Ruler.
Her ladyship is not. She never stays at home,
NZ, owes £90,000,000, and annually
sends four millions out of the colony as interest.
In Victorian State-schools poor children
are to be supplied with dinner at Government ex-
pense.
Useful Gladstonians are the sons and
brother of John Bright. And the old man calls
himself a Unionist.
John Bright once described the Times as
the organ of the devil upon earth. The whilom
reformer now dancss to its music.
The Sydney tramways, managed by Go-
vernment, at present lose £lO,OOO or £50,000 per
annum in interest on capital invested.
David Gaunson is hammering away in the
Victorian Pariiament to stop the express train to
Brighton. David lives at St. Kilda now.
“ The Royal assent has been given to the
Irish Crimes Bill.” Cable. Not the only crimes
royal assent has been given to, either. Bill.
The Sydney D.T. published a leader the
other day called “Australian Oranges in Eng-
land.” But why so silent about English Orange-
men in Australia ?
Henry George wants the exiled Scotch-
men to assist their Highland brethren. Sandy is
too canny to pjy money that will probably go in
rent to the lairds.
They are trying very hard to make out
that the “ Britt.” on the Jubilee coinage isn't the
resale of German ignorance as to the proper spell-
ing of “ Britannia.”
Lawyers and journalists—the bane and the
antidote— dominate N Z politics. Apropos, the
most dangerous of all politicians is the lawyer
who is a pressman.
David Buchanan has modesdy consented
to stand for Mndgee (vice Mr W. . Wail who
intends resigning) if the electors don t put him to
the worry of canvas-mg.
The W eeklv Dispatch (London) attributes
O’Brien’s treatment in Canada chiefly to the Op-
position of toadying politicians who have their
eyes on Jubilee decorations.
Explorer Stanley writes that the foreigners
are superseding British traders in Africa. Will
somebody kindly tell Stanley that they are super-
ceding British trade in England ?
L. L. Smith, of the Victorian Assembly,
made the startling disclosure the other night that
Douglas, of New Guinea, had a Gatling gun, and
L. L. wants to know if Douglas is empowered to
declare war.
L. L. Smith, M. L. A., wants to know if
the heads of divers niggers on pointed sticks were
presented to the Deputy-Commissioner for New
Guinea as curiosities, and also whether the
British are “head hunters.”
Mr. Edward Combes —too good a man to
be called “C M.G ” — states that he has always
been an ardent believer in Protection, and that he
means to try and re-enter the N.S.W. Assembly
as an advocate of that principle.
An excited Melbourne orator the other
day asked whether the eagle towering in his pride
of place stopped to "play second fiddle” to a
common jackdaw? This simile was just too
much for the orator and the audience.
The Times reporter who sent the news of
the Glenbcigh evictions to that journal was dis-
charged without an explanation after 22 years’
service. The news wanted by the Tim is out-
rages by the tenants, not by the landlords.
The Tasmanian Government is putting a
£25 pell-tax on commercial travellers from other
countries. The drummers, some of whom so
cordially detest The Bulletin, will yet need its
assistance to save them from the fate of Chinamen.
The Tasmanian Government have offered
Mrs. Gordon Baillie a lease at Flinders Island for
her colony of Skye Crofters. The island, which
comprises 500,000 acres, is well wooded and
watered, and eminently suited both for farming
and fishing.
Wellington. N.Z., possesses a big brained
individual who has fired off a pamphlet that only
deals with “Retrogression F;eetrade and Protec-
tion, Nalicnalisai ion of the Land, and Analogy
between Irela-d and Canada” As the price is
moderate it ought to satisfy any literary glutton.
Tne N.S.W. country press awakens to the
growing danger of the establishment in Australia
of foreign rule. The Macleay Argus, in a stirring
leader of 9th July, takes up the battle-cry of
democracy trumpeted for.h by The Bulletin,
and re-echoes ihe sentiment of “Australia for
the Australians.”
Any evicted Irish tenant whs dares to
seek shelter in the empty house from which he
has been eje :ted is liable r.o six months’ imprison-
ment with hard labour under the Crimes Act.
This law his been framed by those who profess to
sympathise wish outcast London.
A Daily News (London) editorial (accord-
ing (o latest cable*) says:—“Steady emigrants
are readily employed in Australia.” Well, a'cer
all, you have to go abroad to get infor < ation
about the country you live in. We can see with
cur mind's eye that editorial writer in Sydney
eh ulderii g his way for a soup-tick it with the
usual crowd.
Chief Secretary Deakin didn’t take a title,
but he has been nobbled by the Imperialists all
the same. Speaking the other day about the
wonderful Exhibition they mean to have at Mel-
bourne next year, he said, “ Such is the recogni-
tion the colony now obtains that the Prince of
Wales had consented to preside over the delibera-
tions of the commission!”
A man in advance of the times is L L»
Smith. M.L.A., who moved for the discussion of
a uniform Australian tar ff in the Victo ian
Assembly last week. The proposal was defeated,
but will soon loom up again when the present
N.S.W. Government have declared that the “ old
worn out ” principles of Protection are alone fib
to save the country from general desolation,
Parkes, probably owing to a newly-deve-
loped sense of the e ernal fitness of things, ex-
cused himself from attending the Sydney anti-
coercion meeting. He said, however, that ho
sympathised with it. A little while ago he at-
tended a big Orange meeting (with his tongue in
his cheek) “for ihe purpose of saying that,
though not an Orangeman himself,” &c. That is
how things are worked in N.S.W.
Father M‘Glynn is a thorough land-
nationalist and a logical man. He condemns
O’Brien, who, he remarks, is “ himself a landlord
at heart. It is only a question of 10 or 25 per
cent, between O’Brien and Lord Lansdowne.
They are birds of a feather. Mr. O’Brien black-
guards Lord Lansdowne because he cannot jew
him down 25 per cent, O’Brien admits that Che
land belongs to Lord Lansdowne. We say it does
not belong to him. We therefore intend to take
it from him,”
Freetrade has snuffed out another big
English industry. German suga--bounties and
German Protection have forced Messrs. Schwartz,
the biggest sugar refiners in Eng aud, to close
their works and discharge 1600 men. The British
Government have wakened up, however, and
latest cable advices state that they have
threatened the Germans with retaliatory duties
on all German goods admitted into dear old Free-
trade England. This ought to make the ghost of
Cobden sit up and snort.
Habigail, Clark, and others of the
brightest, N.S W .Parliamentaryintellects,attended
the rival show at Melbourne last Thursday night.
From the calm elevation of the Speaker’s gallery
they heard David Gaunson reckon up Judge
Windeyer as “the who sab on the
Mount Rennie case until the jury were asleep,
and then . , . . These aspersions upon
the administration of Justice in N.S W. quite
upset Clarke. It was as much as Habigail could
do to prevent him from publicly requesting Gaun-
son to “come outside.”
In its news-summary for Europe the S.M.
Herald, of 21st inst., utterly ignores the anti-
Coercioa meeting held in Sydney Domain, while the
Orangemen’s resolution of sympathy with coercion
appears under the heading of “Social." Only a
few days previously the Herald was virtuously
indignant when its impartiality in another direc-
tion was called in question. There are sins of
omission as well as of commission, and one can
tell a deli cerate he by shutting one’s mouth.
W hat have the Fairfaxes got to say for themseivea
on the present occasion ?
About the most dignified and complex re«
buke on record is ihat Jace.y addressed by John
Harley, M.L.A, to the editor of a Lithgow
paper which nas ca led upon him to resign :
■‘The people demand a ruler and cry for Parkes; you
declaim against the people's acclamations. Parkes sup-
presses those who are not only rebels to our Sovereign form
of Government, but rebel against the supreme Majest* of
God. You become their sponsors and decry the action of the
Government in their attempt to protect decency arad order.
Parkes upholds Monarohial • overnment; von ,ry for an
Australian Eepuolic; au.i so oa I might write seeing the
crystallized transparency that surrounds the hale caaals of
your life."
“Crystallized transparency 1 ” Does John alludq
j.o a bottle ?


DEAD
HEAD
D£Ai)
head
W X
I
2
3
IF ir ir 11
Dead
Oeao
A d.
Di£ ao
HLA I)
#
*
Kr
OtLßtcJ
What we may expect after the inauguration of Copeland’s scheme for giving free passes to all members who have been elected to three successive N.S.W. Parliaments.


Jv MflrfMl UP CavHT*/-
eou s e+frarect.
/> off.rc< ' / o/ '/yt/Tenx r& 5 J"/^ £
cJ7a
SOV'T* ~ jy •s*/£'-
frecy "
To THE Lwp °F
Ki/s/c,
0
// r >
B , ,nti utP*
M t >a , ,i 0 a
f , ufi*L-e** J r^ m
re3°" e tji‘ sc
fiet .. f
|yJ,o t i c E •
THECP»iit M fM 6 £R m ,
™S% RE* NOT H«mC,
Deem HEARD f n °^J' wte
THE of
'J lS
fearfd «*«
RASHLV TAKEN A TURK-
ISH bati4
&
~.pfi x
ill ;/ and c/ar£c V'l/. e ? Jt e raM//j
'/ ZTV&sZ-
* f '
TffcCoUNßy MEMBER Aw
: .
'Jkok^fpoL p Oj 7fe reee/>nop
'Con)ryiftk,t Ip I^ e fit if
jb/ace (fis c/ees/y/cA: iHupts
U C( cross /fris pere
r/'rer fop a. / in> Sfe/s/fiy across -
a 00/ cDjf/'/e you r&. $/r>K'o
fpa/Tzr os e I /esf/osle * rf/rSf
Of If's <S'c,g- T’ospe ry?.
-dSf.tajy
In 0/trcdor
.JVM i
Y^r
V
rti
ii*V*rVS f e fr ry />ro>-
/ b * o-r' / ; < •
’< j/e*>* 6 tfS &/> &^ e
fjztrSU'-** * t
Of Sp/J>/Ms, a- tier/./ffotdj) <*/y
>T}a.y
' / j Of fye see ess dy Ju' & 'O 3
;f / °o* °P J / ee - ■ yy./ c
' —' *■/.„
f
VE RNd N
Ku'* 0
1 ’
X Cep.*/’ipr J-l-S
/pos/~ $ooc? 7-*
The Recess


They are marvellously pretty and cheap, and it is not sur-
prising that Messrs. Bray Bros, of George street, opposite
the Jtint Stock Bank, have sold some hundreds of them.
Get one before they all go. ::
The eye has to be pleased, the right tone has to be heard
and clumsiness to the touch avoided if you would please
connoisseurs in China and Glass, such as is kept at those
shops, 402 and 404 G;orge street.
Ladies would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Paris Outfitting Establishment.
Mrs. McCathie, 86 and 90 King-street.*
We are pleased to see that some of the leading Tobacco
nists have taken up J. B. Pace’s Tobaccos, so that all lovers
of the weed have a treat in store, as it is the finest tobaoo
imoked in America.*
Society
Lady Carington is to lay the foundation-
stone of the culchawed and noli vie, tangere An-
glican temple of High Church proclivities to be
vulgarly known as St. Stephen’s and to be situate
on the B (gecliffe Road, at 3 p m on the 30th inst.
The deah Bishop is due here—he arrives per
saloon and-the-best-of everything ’Frisco steamer
—on the 27 th.
* * *
Mire joy for the hospitable Governor who
absolutely refused to go to Hongkong. Says the
S.M.H in re Biron Bob’s visit to Hie city of Ade-
laide :—“ A programme of interesting events has
been arranged in view of tli i visit of L 'rd Caring-
ton, incluiiog a ball at G ivornmeat House ” We
can imagine Sir William's feelings. “oh, dear,
dear me ! confound these pet ambulating Gover-
nors ! Why, I’ve only j ast got quit of ihe Lochs
and now here’s Smith coming over ! Uninvited,
too! and I've got to shell out to amuse him !”
♦ • *
In a swell Sydney drawing-room. First
lady: “You went to Tasmania last summer,
Mrs. ? How delightful.” Second lad? :
“Yes. We enjoyed our visit immensely.” First
ditto: “And how long did you say?” Second
ditto: “Oh, wa hibernated three months, my
dear.” Verbatim.
Of 2730 books borrowed from Ballarat
Free Library last year 2560 were novels,
* * «
“Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —Who is Lord
Brassey when he takes off his title, and what
good has he done for Australia ? A lot of us are
anxiously waiting to know. —Yours, Yerong ”
* * .
Quotation from one of the elegiac and
epitaphical poets of the Melbourne Age :
“ This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life elysian.”
* *
The London Times says that the beauty
of the women at Ascot on the Cup day is nowheie
in the world to be equalled, except perhaps in
Melbourne on the Fiemmgton lawn on Cup day.
Good gracious! We are tolerably vain people,
and can eat much marmalade, but we have lived
in England as well as in Australia, and have been
at Ascot as well as at Flemington and at Rand-
wick. You do not see such women at Melbourne
as you see at the fashionable English race-meeting,
and you never will see them until the Australian
-climate changes, and the dear creatures who live
here take more exercise and eat less beef.
* ♦ «■
She went to be vaccinated. Now, she was
notoriously fond of terribly decollette dresses,
“ Don’t mark me where it will show, doctor,” she
«aid. “Then,” he sadly murmured, “I’m .afraid
you’ll have to swallow it.”
* * «
“ First of all,” said the Night Honorable
De Breasi, K.C. 8., at the dinner given in his
■honour by the Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron,
“and above all things, they were Englishmen.’ 1
Right you are. There were very few bona-fide
Australians at that mutual-admiration feed.
* * .
To reduce your travelling-expenses, be-
come a titled personage. Says the 8. M Herald :
—“io-day Lord aud Lady Brassey, the Hon. T.
Brassey, and the Miss 3a Brassey will visit the
Blue Mountains They intend leaving by special
train, which has b sen placed at their service by
the Government, at half-past 8 o’clocx in the
morning.” On the nod—as usual! while a bank-
rupt colony, with thousands of unemployed work-
men and a few hundreds of sacked Civil
servants and their wives and families getting
•more helpless and threadbare every day pays the
piper But there is always a Nemesis somewhere.
The notice goes on to say, “ Sir Henry Parkes
will accompany the distinguished party /”
Near Tuapeka, N.Z., the other day, a pre-
possessing young lady known es “ Connemara
Kate’’took for better or worse a rich, square-
built, Chinaman who spoke passable English.
When the knot was knotted, Kate raised the
wind by borrowing some coin Bom John and then
ordered him home to prepare dinner, clean up the
house, and mate everything leady for the
marriage feast John obeyed, although he had
his own opinion about the bride s conduct, and
set his house in order About 7 p m. Kata marched
in with some half-dozen of her hairy-toothed re-
lations, any one of whom could have easily wipe!
the flu re with J>hn, and took possession of the
premises. They were inclined to be troublesome,
so when they desired the Celestial boss to retire
from the table he stood not upon the order of go-
ing, but slid into a back room while the company
gorged itself with his rcast turkey, plum pudding,
and wines Dessert was hardly over when a
squeamishness about the region of ihe epigastrium
seized each reveller, and a general stampede ea-
sued, John and some more almond eyed villains
meanwh le surveying operations from a safe re-
treat. Next morning the gentle bride was seen
seated on the doorstep appealing for admissio i to
her lord and master of the shaved head, who
calmly smoted his pipe and seemed to look for-
ward to a life of married bliss.
* * *
Cids and upstarts so much affect first-
clans carriiges in England that most gentlemen
now travel second. Tne other day a porter ex-
claimed to a well-known public man, “ The
second class is full up, sir. I'm afraid I'll have to
ask you to ride first-class.”
* * *
Mr. A. Mac Something, of Rockhampton
(Q.) loved variety in driving. We do not mean that
he drove standing on his head, or backwards, hat
he didn't like to see the same animals in the pole
too often. Si he looked round for something
different that could pull, and passing over the
common cr garden eow as being too unoeithetic
altogether, he smarted a team of kangaroos, emus,
and dogs, all of which he broke to run in double
harness, and now when one Rockhampton man
tells another that “Mac. is in with ihe litt’e
buggy.” the other man says quite calmly, i y What’s
ho drivin’?” and the fl-st man replies without a
shadow of emotion, “ The speckled and the brown
emus. Tells mo, too, that the off-side kangaroo
has a spavin.” P.S.—They have excellent rum in
Rockhampton.
• * •
In Sydney the other day a prominent and
well respected citizen, who is much manied and
not unconnected with many jcl'gious and philan-
thropic movements, found that it was necessary
THE MAYOR’S BALL.
“WHY, BOB, WHAT’S THE USE OF YOU GOING! YOU CANT DANCE.”
“NO, BUT I CAN EAT, CAN’T I?”
to pay £l5O or so to a giddy lady who has a hus-
band and is of a litigious turn of mind. Tne fact
of the matter was he had been writing to her
many affectionate epistles, beginning with “ My
own dearest” and concluding “ Your owneas
Mackenzie,” and it was expedient to get back
these Wlefs-doux into his own possession. A
hundred and fifty was a stiff price, but it was no
d rabt with a deep sign of relief that he tore up
tae precious documents and flipped the fragments
of cream-laid Government paper into the dustbin.
But he won't be so satisfied when he discovers in
a few days from now that the treacherous female
did not hand the letters back until she had had them
carefully photographed, full size. As the Ameri-
cans say, “ The apparatus can t lie.”
* * •
At last the milk is out of the cocoa-nut.
Parkea has a scheme on to build a new and
gorgeous vice-regal residence near his great State
Charnel House—the idea being that such a draw
to flunkeyism will make the Centennial Park lots
go off at a high figure—though the building foun-
dations will be not less that 200 feet or so below the
surface.
♦ * -II
This advertisement, from the Melbourne
Herald, partakes in equal quantities of the gay
and the demure;—"Board and residence for
gentleman with young widow lady.” But she
might have added, “ No other boarders,”
A lady hurt her foot rather severely at the
Melbourne Medical Students’ fancy dress ball on
Friday, 15th inst. As there were over 200 doctors
present, and the lady was very handsome, the
injury was attended to, without fee, at once.
* * *
The lady who was once the wife of Adam
Lindsay Gordon is now the wife of a station-
manager, and the mother of eight children. Two
lines from “ Lockdey Hail ” are suggested by this
fact. You can find them out for yourselves.
* ♦ *
There has been a large decrease in suicides
in Melbourne lately owing to the insanitary condi-
tion of the Morgue A man may be very tired of
life, but after drowning himself he doesn’t like to
be spread out on a table to catch his death of
cold. The Herald has taken the matter up
vigorously, in the interest of a large number of its
readers who are in the habit of shunting them-
selves off in this way regularly, when the season
comes round for Mr. George Arthur Walstab to
write articles upon the Eastern question.
* * »
According to “ The Peerage for the
People,” published in 1837, Lord Carington’s
family is probably of Jewish origin. The original
baron, a Tory, said the Spectator, “ was created
first an Irish and then an English peer, by Mr.
I Pitt, in consequence of his wealth He assumed
the title of Carrington ’to create an impression
that he was connected with the ancient family of
Smith which formerly hire it, but with wh oh he
had no other affl ii y than a common descent from
Ada u Ihe fact was, adds the book above
quoted, be w*as a of Pitt’s, and hie
Parliamentary interest was worth having. He
re turned the two members for Wtndover, one for
Wycombe, and one for Midhurst.
* * *
The D j Bressi and 00, got an effusive wel-
come at Newcast’e, N.S W.—they were absolutely
deluged with fulsome compliments born of certain
extremely young champagne. The noble gaug
being now i Q Brisbane, we present that city
wi h our deepest congratulations on a card with a
mourning border and a “ There is sweet rest in
Heaven ” motto.
♦ * »
At Annidale (N.S.W.), as only two ladies
attended the meeting called to inaugurate a local
branch of the “ Queen’s ” Fund, the Mayor
decided to abandon the project. That Mayor will
never be a C M.G.
• * *
General Whitmore wired to a major in a
certain dis rict of New Zealand: “Forward all
submriptior s towards Imperial Institute at once.”
The reply came : “ Haven’t subscribed a red cent.
Not a stiver. Many regrets. Better luck next
time.” “ Next time” looks vague. It may refer
to next jubilee.
* * *
Mrs. Bonanza Mackay’s new cloak, to be
entirely made from the little bits of beautiful
green plumage found around the bills of birds of
Paradise, will, it is estimated, cost £2750. Mrs.
Mackay has despatched two expert marksmen to
New Guinea, where they are now engaged in
wholesale slaughter. Mrs. Mackay, we read,
gave five dollars to a Californian charity the other
day.
• « *
The bogus “ Queen’s ” Fund is progressing
in Melbourne. It languished for a time, but the
Fitzgibbon came to the rescue with the whole of
his tribe, and now the coin is rolling in merrily
The very day after the subjoined list was read
there was quite a rush of subscriptions :
Mrs. Fitzgibbon .. .. .. .. ..£lO 0 0
E. G F.tzgibbon ~ .. .. .. .. io 0 0
John Fitzgßbon .. .. .. .. ..100
E. G. Firzeibbon, the younger .. ..100
Thomas Gibbon Carew Fitzgibbon .. .. 10 0
Maurice t itzgibbon .. .. .. .. 10 0
Giib rt James Fitzgibbon.. .. .. 10 0
* * *
The latest Sydney fashion—it came from
dear old Hingland—is to flounce into the Cathe-
dral during service followed by year crowd
arrayed in sailor hats with flowing ribbons. You
are dotted all over with soup-plate brass buttons,
| and on your breast is conspicuously labelled the
name of your “yot.”
• « *
The holy city of 4 delaide has been in a state
of high excitement over the arrival of
Mayor Riley, of Sydney, Mr. Riley has no doubt
seized the opportunity of discussing with E. T
Smith the oversight of which Her Gracious has
been guilty in the matter of Jubilee titles.
* * <*
Lady Cariogton recently sent £3 to a Mrs.
Bissel, who had presented Mr. Bissel with triplets.
Nobody sent Mr. Bissel £3, however. Merit is
seldom rewarded.
That dear man, Phil Robinson, the dash-
ing war-correspondent, advertised that heads of
young iadies’ seminaries might book dress-circle
seats, at half price, for his Melbourne lectures,
This looks as if Philip were tired of chronicling
slaughter, and intends doing a littlo kiting himself
whilst in Australia.
• • *
Thus spake the Sydney Morning Herald
of 22nd inst: “ At the bazaar in aid of the new
Baptist Church, at , the proceedings will be
enlivened each evening by suitable solos and
chants by members of tne Church choir with piano
accompaniments.” Enlivening! Rather! Chants
to a piano accompaniment beat a dog-fight hollow
for fun.
♦ * *
It is significant that the day after Casper-
son, the Sydney telegraph-manager, was missed,
the water police were frantically dragging round
Cremorne for his dead body, while hts brother
clerks, whom he had “touched” for sundry trifles*
were cursing h in back to the 47th generation, and
lamenting to their friends over “ the man who
had cleared to China.” They all about it at
once, but it took two weary days and nights sand-
raking and hauliug to convince the police that the
missing lightning dodger was not “ making earth
somewhere at the bottom of the beautiful harbour.
Some time ago an edict went fo;th to the effect
that any officer caught dabbling in the money;;
lending profe-sion would be instantly dismissed*]
Who are Cnsperscn’s creditors, and what did they
charge per shent?
* * ♦
The Australians drink a lot of alleged
whisky", but very little or the genuine malt article
finds its way down their throats for all that, Not
long ago the agent of a Scotch whisky exporter
visited Sydney to into the absence of
account sales in respect of large consignments
that had been made. The consignees had sold
scarcely any, and the little they had parted with
was traded off at a price much below what the
liquor was worth in the English market. The
whole of this whisky (the name whereof we re-
fuse to advertise gratis) was therefore re shipped
to London. “ Any rot-gut was good enough for
colonials,” the agent declared.
* * *
Sir Henry Parkea promises that, if his
wishes prevail, women shall get the franchise next
session. Stella, of “the Rocky Mountains’ height,”
did not waste her kisses. The minx was after a
voc,
* * *
The Brisbane branch of the Castlemaine
Brewery Company was recently floated as a
limbed liability company, capital £187,500, in
£150,000 shares of 255. each In one day applica-
tions for over £400,000 were received in Brisbane
and Melbourne alone, and they have been shower-
ing down in cartloads ever since And yet poor
Bishop Webber has to pray, and plead and
threaten, and swear (ecclesiastically) for a month
to raise £5O for his new cathedral. Oh! this
wi-i-icked world,
* * *
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts wears a skin-
tight envelope of flesh-coloured silk which covers
her body from her throat to her ankles She con-
trives in this way to hide all the ravages and
wrinkles of age, and to wear her gowns decollete,
though she has never been summoned to Court
since her ill-matched marriage.
• • *
The feud between Joseph Hinds Weeding
snd Dr. James Marmaduke Rose, M.P. for North
Melbourne, hes asmmed another phase. The
poor, lone baker has had Dr. James Marmalade
before a court of justice once more, charged this
lime with assault and ba’te’y, Weeding’s woeful
narrative sets forth that he was prowling round
the premises of Dr. Rose, hunting up evidenca
which would enab’e him to secure his coveted
divorce, and, peering through a crack, he dis-
covered the pious medico and Mrs. Weeding
sitting on a couch fondling each other and calling
each other ducky diamonds, whilst Mrs. Rose was
patiently scorning pots end pans in the kitchen.
This struck Mr. Weeding as improper and unjust,
so he worked the knocker, and requested the
doctor to hand over his lawful weeded spouse, to
save further trouble and law expenses ; but the
doctor objected, and called Mr. Wooding hard
names and placed his head in chancery in order to
get his left well in on the baker’s bread-basket.
Mr. Weeding pushed his claim, and the women
came out and joined in the fray, when a tiresome
ten minutes ensued. The grass- wid ewer was
kicked up, choked, and scratched, and mauled,
till he felt it was about time to die ; then they
threw him out and danced on his Sunday hat —so
he says. Dr. Rose, M. P., says it is all a giant lie,
and quite convinced a lot of the people in court
that It was. But he didn't quite convince the jury.
Purves, Q C., lately remarked that “it
is a most sublime act for a man to make a woman
his wife.” This, however, wasn’t said in the
Divorce Court when James wanted to undo the
sublimity.
* * *
Baronet Clarke, says a Melbourne paper,
went to Loch's fancy ball rigged in an extraor-
dinary garb, and with his sandy heard dyed for
the occasion the jettest black. The contrast be-
tween the raven beard and the white court wig
made him a very conspicuous figure. A friend
approached him, and after the usual greeting
enquired what character the baronet represented
‘ ‘ I am, ’ was the reply, “an ambassador to the
Court of Sardinia.” “ You look it, Sir William-
yon look it,” enthusiastically exclaimed the
friend, as he gazed upon the baronet. “ I declare
I never saw such a perfect sardine in all my life.”
Sir William smiled with ghastly gratitude, and
mentally erased his friend s name from the list of
his visiting acquaintances.
* * *
A new word has reachedi s from England,
and we hasten to make our readers familiar there-
with. The word is “ Bounder.” It is used to ex-
press the latest type of snob and in face to the
uninitiated the difference between he bounder
and his congeners, the smb and the cad, is
invisible, but to the trained eye the bounder is at
once apparent. Ho is Che latest product, evolved
as it were from the original type of snob, and is
gifted with more aggressive objectionable fea-
tures ; for instance, the man who brags about an
invitation to an exclusive ball is a snob ; the man
who, not being asked, cadges for an invitation, is
a cad ; but the more daring genius who, being un-
invited, goes on somebody else’a ticket, is a
bounder; the man who asks a lady for a dance,,
and, on being told that her programme is full, ex
presses abject and unnecessary regret is a snob;;
but the man who, under the same circumstances,
says: “What, is your programme full?” is a
bounder. The man who wid not join a set of
Lancers to make up the needed number because'
he “ never dances square dances ”is a snob ; but
he who seizes a partner and boldly wa’tzes to-
whatever music may happf n to be going on while
the ancers are in progress is a bounder of an ad-
vanced type. So, too, the man who will not play
tennis with ladies is a snob ; but he wxo makes
his partner go into one corner of the court while
he riots over the balance of it for the edification of
the spectators is a b under Again, a man who
is asked to dinner, and replies that he is asked al-
ready “to Sir Gorgius Midas ” is a snob ; he who
does not answer in the hope of me mwhile getting
a better Invitation is a cad ; but he who. getting
scent of the festivities, comes uninvited and
brings a friend is a bounder. From these illus-
trations our readers should be able to detect the
fypunder when met with, and if they want further
guidance let them refer to the account of Mrs.
AT POTT’S POINT.
The eloquent young masher spoke
Unto the fair hostess,
"Whose silk-clad ankles slyly peep~d
From ’neath her sat'n dress.
“ I tell you, madam, on my word.
Those monstrous pears, you see,
Had stalks as thick as ’’—here he paused
For lack of simi.'e.
And then his eye lit up : he caught
( The gleam beneath her dress—
“ Those pea r s had stalks as thick, ma’am, as
Your ankles—nothing less.”
She spoke no word; she made no sign,
But from that chair the bright,
The eloquent young masher plunged
Into the howling night.


The combination of ingredients used in making Rowley’s
Oough Emulsion is such as to render it the beat-known
remedy in the world for Oonghs, Colds Asthma, or Bron-
chitis. Itoanba obtained direct- fromW. M. KowMtir.iOhemist.
Boarke -ttrset, East Melbourne. Price 3s, Bd. per bottle, »nd
tiam all ahaaists.*
Dr. Frederick Ware, having returned from an extended
tour of the Continent and America, brings with him all that
is new in Dentistry. Dr. Ware has Resumed Practice, and
may ha consulted at Kidman's Buildings, comer George and
Market street*. Take Lift.*
Perkins’ ball as told by Michael Angelo Titmarsh,
and there in the person of The Mulligan, drawn
as only Thackeray could draw Mm, is the bounder
pure and simple.
• * *
Modest curate : “ Jonah, my brethren—
well, Jonah—spent three days and three nights
in the whale’s—in the whale’s society.” We
guess he did.
* * *
The publicans of Bundaberg (Q.) have
decided to boycott all persons employing or deal-
ing with members of the Biue tlibbou or S 1 a-
tioa Armies. A short-sighed policy, truly. The
Salvation Army drum is the thing that drives
men to drink.
* * *
Mr, James Watt, of Ashfield, late a
farrier in the Australian Contingent, and an old
South African comrade of William Koy, suggests
that a military concert be got up on behalf of the
disabled man. Mr. Watt has visited Roy at
Parramatta Asylum, and found him, as the Com-
mission reported, helplessly paralysed and hope
lesaly blind. Onr correspondent justly remarks
that it is disgraceful that so brave a sold er should
be allowed to remain in such poverty and distress.
* * •
“ I heard a good story yesterday,” re-
marked a Melbourne reporter to his chief. “ All
right,” replied the latter, “put it shipshape, and
credit to Lord Brassey.”
* • ♦
More barons ! The Marquis of Drogheda,
who sits in the House of Lords as Baron Moore, is
about to visit Australia. Thank heaven, he
hasn’t got a yacht!
# #
The “four fresh cases of small pox” in
the Anderson family at Sydney, remind us that
it is almost as easy to cultivate complaints as to
grow cabbages. That any mortal man can put
himself into the condition in which he is moat
likely to acquire any mortal disease he has made
up his mind to get admits of no doubt at all. Any
doctor experienced in smallpox (which few Sydney
doctors are) knows that funk is its most prolific
source. We once lodged with a man who removed
his mother-in-law from this terrestial globe by con-
stantly insisting that she showed the preliminary
symptoms of typhoid fever. After hearing of her
sad condition every day for a month, the old lady
collected the requisite number of germs and died,
thanking her dear John for the timely warnings
which had enabled her to truly repeat.
* * •
The little-way-back town of Horsham
(Yio-), together with its wife and its dog, has got
a bitter and everlasting grudge against Governor
Loch, and this is how it came about. A few
weeks ago Sir Henry promised to go up there and
open the local onion show and lay the foundation-
stone of the new curate, and a neat programme was
drawn up on foolscap, showing where the fire-
brigade, the Council, the infant school, and the
brass band were to take a hand, and where the
grovel was to come in. Bat it arose out of the
fathomlesness and cussedness of things that his Ex-
cellency and suite arrived about six hours ahead
of time, and instead of the gifted menagerie who
should have been present there was no one to re-
ceive them except a frowsy porter, an unkempt
small boy, a scalded, distempered dog, and a
young woman whose jaw was tied up owing to
toothache. Also there was a magpie which had
learned to talk and which d d the whole pro-
cession to dash, and expressed a wish to see the
entire what-you may-call-it boiling in eternal
thingamy. The party had no sooner arrived at
the pub., however, than the news spread, and
then there was wild he-hysterioal confusion in
Horsham. A coatless tradesman who had some-
thing to do with the Council got filled up with the
idea that there was no time to lose, so he crowded
himself into his cart, and galloped madly
away, he didn’t know where, to do he’d quite
forgotten what, but bent on getting some-
where and doing something somehow at an
instant’s notice. The local blacksmith, amid
bitterness and profanity, dragged his clean boiled
shirt on top of his working attire, and a groggy
imbecile, who passed for the oldest inhabitant,
gobbled fatuously in the background. Finally,
after everybody had fallen over the whole town, a
hastily organised deputation of local nobs who had
forgotten all their carefully prepared speeches
showed each other into the vice-regal presence,
and breathed hard, and said something in a far-
away voice that seemed to belong to a total
stranger at a great distance. What their remarks
were even they never knew, but just at the
critical moment, when the last alleged orator was
trailing feebly into silence, an individual of remark-
able presence of mind pushed his way to the front
and t>aid, “ Howdy, your Excellency? Fine day.
How’s the rest of ’em ?” Then he also collapsed,
and the function ended, and this is why everybody
in Horsham —barring only the frowsy porter, and
the small boy, and the scalded dog—feels that he
has been swindled and regards the whole system
of Imperial Government as a fraud of the most
villainous description.
* * *
As we are always thirsting for knowledge
on matters of etiquette we would ha glad to know
if arisrocra'ic ladies in England are accustomed
to receive their guests without rising. Some of
them do this when they visit Australia, and it
would ba interesting to learn if these are English
home manners, or simply English manners for
Australian consumption.
* * *
At a North Queensland port, the other
day, a prominent and most elaborate Civil
servant lost his travelling bag. It was found
by a constable and opened at the police
station, and the contents were two pairs
of gloves, a tooth-pick, a bottle of moustache
dye, five packets of cigarettes, a pot of rouge, a
shoe-horn, a box of cachous, a set of false teeth
set in gold, and a bottle of corn-cure. This cata-
logue was duly published In the local press so that
the man who lost the bag irrght know the things
were all there, but someho w he seems to have got
discouraged and never called.
* * *
A story of Bendigo in the fifties, and it’s
as true as you’re there. At the time of which we
write a variety company was at B mdigo theatre,
headed by a lady whose pretty face, graceful
figure, sweat voice, versatility, affability, and
general witchery, &o , had captivated every man
within a day s journey. One beautiful morning a
picuio, composed of the members of this company
and several Sandhurst men, one or two of whom
are still extant, went into the wild woods. It was
a deMghiful little excursion, and they camped by
Bullock Creek, then a limpid stream, running ha-
tween verdant banks crowned with blossoming
wattles. The horses were unharnessed, cloths
spread, and the party went in for revelry ; but the
day was extremely hot, and after four hours of
ramp and riot, several light repasts, and plenty
liquor, the masculines became torpid; three or
four of them found cool places and sleo r , the
others lolled in the shade and gaz d dreamily into
the blue ether. The Hebes found this decidedly
slow, and after a whimpered coafab they ad-
monish'd those of the sterner sex not to follow
them on any account, and strolled together along
the banks of the stream Silence now reigned
supreme arround the gentlemen, and those who
had remained awake so far gradually yielded to
the somnific influence of their surroundings, and
siumbered peacefully. The holy calm was dis-
turbed in about twenty minntes by a chorus of
wild, tremulous shrieks coming up from ihs band
of the creek. The men started to their feet,
ruboed their eyes, and gazed vaguely at each
other. Again and again the agonized yell pealed
amongst the trees, and it gradually dawned upon
the men that something was wrong, and they
broke for the scene of the outrage, through scrub
and saplings, over a little hill, and arrived on the
spot in a band to And—well, really we don’t like
to tell, but we suppose wa must. The ladies had
gone in for a bath, and Bullock Creek was famous
for its leeches—that’s all.
. * *
"It does seem hard that a lady who has
spent a fortune in endeavouring to benefit her
kind should bs successfully sued by her milkman
for his little bill.
• * *
An ingenious Melbourne man got three
days for stealing beer last week. He was caught
in the act. He bad a long India-rubber lube
which was attatohed to a hogshead of tanglefoot
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
NEW CHUM: “SAY, WHY DO YOU AUSTRALIANS CALL ENGLAND THE MOTHER
COUNTRY ?”
AUSTRALIAN: “GUESS IT'S BECAUSE SHE’S OUR DAM NATION"
on the premises of the Carlton Brewery, and then
passed out through a crack, and the inventor sat
in anadioining lot. and sucfced up the XXX like
mother’s mils. He acknowledged being fond of
his pipe. Fancy having beer laid on to the
premises!
* * *
A very large and well-known coterie of
fashionable ladies in Brisbane take a long and re-
freshing B. and S. —mixed in the liberal propor-
tions of half and half on arising from their
luxurious couches at 1130 am. or thereabouts,
and thereafter during the day indulge in a variety
of tipoles too numerous to particularise. So
much so that the matter is how a grave public
scandal. Yet Sam Griffith says he thinks the
time has not arrived for extending the suffrage to
women.
* * *
A Kilnaore (Vic.) journal siys that at a
local tea-meeting Bishop Goe “ went from table
to table, and freely conversed with those present.”
What joy!—
What matter if the tea was weak,
The buns like chunks of dough ;
They went to hear the Bishop speak—
They went because of Goe.
» • *
A theatrical divorce case is on the carpet
in Sydney. ’Xwas ever thus,
* * ♦
Mathew Burnett, Gaorge Perry, or some
other temperance reformer should ask Sydney
City Council what it means by sending a man I
with a piecfl of an old cornsack to wipe the public ’
fountain drinking-cups. Not that it concerns us j
personally. We never touch it.
* ♦ #
The charming children of Mrs. Gordon
Baillie played some pianoforte pieces at a Mel-
bourne newsboys’ concert the other nignt. Tne
little ones are dreams of juvenile loveline s, the
second daughter being the original of Millais’
“ Cherry Ripe.”
* * *
We can excuse some of the London people
for being “loyal.” It is stated that Waterloo
Bouse, the drapery establishment immortalised by
Gilbert
“ A pushing young particle,
With ‘ What’s tne next article V
a Waterloo House young man.”
—was let out to Jubilee Day sightseers for an ag-
gregate sum of £2OOO. Small windows, command
i ing a good view of the procession to Westminster
Aobey, fetched £5O apiece. Ye gods I Fancy a
man paying fifty pounds for the privilege of look-
ing at a Queen and a swarm of princelets whom
he helps to support!
• * *
At Sc. John’s Church, Burro wa, on the
13th inst., the Rev. Canon Gwynne, 8.A., cele-
brated the marriage of Mr. James Crombie,
manager of the local Union Bank, to Bessie,
eldest daughter of Mr. W, J. E. Wotton, P.M.
The bride was charmingly attired in cream satin
and lace with veil and wreath to match, her
bridesmaids being the Misses Amy, Sissy, and Elsie,
her sisters. The church looked like a Urge bower
tastefully festooned with flowers and evergreens.
Tue bride was given away by her father. “M n
delssohn’s Wedding March” was played at the
conclusion. After a sumptuous wedding break-
fast had been discussed, and the health of the
happy pair toasted, they started for the honey
moon to Sydney amid a storm of rice and general
wishes for their happiness.
* * *
A fine fat girl is on view at Melbourne
Wax Works. The damsel is a daughter of the
chief of the Bona tribe of aboriginals, and is con-
sidered exceeding fair to look up -n by such as
understand these matters. To alien eyes she is
about as fair as a hundred of coals. Neverthe-
less, as she gracefully reclines in a mia-ma, par-
tially bare and partially not, the chieftain’s
daughter is a startling contrast to the wax
figures. At the interesting age of 19 she weighs
23st. and measures 56 ft. (or incaes) round her
little chest. She speaks English fluently, but is
“ shy with strangers,’ says the attendant. When
The Bulletin avowed ardent love, the maiden
drooped her eyelids and bla-hed a regular Indian
ink. She was so shy you can’t think.
* * *
In aN S.W. up-co mtry town, the other
day, a jovial commercial traveller smashed a
tooth-brush tray. The landlady charged him in
her bill with the price of the whole set to which
it belonged He carried all the other pieces down
stairs one by one, and smashed them over his
buggy wheel before driving off.
During a recent trip of one of the N. S B,
Co's, steamers a noble lord and his two com-
panions did much to further dispel the once popu-
lar delusion that the aristocracy are a spendthrift
lot. Whenever this little party felt the pangs of
thirst upon them his lordship would march boldly
to the bar whilst his chums lingered in the rear.
Having ordered a whisky-aud soda, with as much
lemon, ics, bitters, &c., as could ’be got for six-
pence, this representative of the old nobility
would bee on his rear-guard to advance, and
then, having poured th e mixture into three glasses,
they won d drank to the prosperity of the Com-
pany ror twopence apiece.
• * *
A juvenile fancy dress ball given by the
Mayor of Hobart, Mr. Gearies Harbottle, in the
local T.iwa Hall, on the 30th nit, was a “ real good
time ” for a great many youngsters The children
proved quite au fait m the arts cf dancing and
flirting—exactly imitating their elders—and many
dresses worn on this occasion were exceedingly
pretty.
* * *
The other day, in George-street, Sydney,
an overdressed masher whom we don’t know fol-
lowed a girl whom we do know, and whom he
didn’t know, but whom he, it was quite plain,
ardently admired. At last he mustered up im-
pudence enough to speak, “ Are you Miss
alaxe ? he enquired, with tremulous artlessness,
raising his hat the while. Replied she smilingly,
and with an air of interested surprise : “ Oh, dear
me ! Mr. Smith, I declare —you are Mr. Smith,
are you not?’’ “Yes,” said he, delightedly; “I
am.” “Ah,” said the girl, “I thought so. ifou
look like it." And then she left him.
* * *
It was the same girl, poor and pretty, who,
while feasting her eyes on the diamond bracelets
in a Collins street shop, was approached by a
venerable swell, with closely-cropped silver hair
and a dye-fixed moustache. “ Ah,” he exclaimed,
“ how do you do, my dear?” And then, seeing the
thunder in her face, “ I hope—really —I hope—l
hope 1 haven’t made a mistake.” “Yea, you
have, sir,” was the quick answer; “you have
evidently mistaken me for your youngest grand-
daughter.” And off he hobbled to the Melbourne
Club.
* * *
Of course every woman who reads the
above will smell her bouquet, elevate her eyes,
and solemnly remark: “Your girl-friend seems
to have a great many adventures.” Quite right.
Every girl who is good-looking—and good-
natured looking— has many adventures “if she
does the Block.”
* * *
Down in South Australia an unfortunate
Irish lady recently received a Providential visita-
tion in the shape of triplets, and, considering how
much trouble it is to get up and canter at 2 a.m.
with one baby—let alone three- she naturally
considered that the £3 bounty would come in
handy. And this was the way a hide-bound,
stony-hearted official received her application ;
“ There ia nothing in the statute law of South Australia to
provide for a reward for the production of population in the
! hape of triplets.”
And, as if this wasn’t enough, another red-tapeist
must needs perpetrate a second “minit” on top
of the first, and his production ran thus :
“ The native industry in question must rely upon other
sources for any necea ary encouragement, as the Government
have no funds available for the purpose.”
After that it is about time to give up the thank-
less baby industry and encourage the importation
of Chinamen, The pig-tailed heathen, filled with
unfathomable guile, can be delivered in good
order and condition at one-third the cost involved
in rearing an able-bodied colonial.
* ■ * *
Don’t blush I We are about to tell a
little story about an artist’s model and the editor
of the Argus. Not a giddy story. A narrative
so pure in tone, so refined in style, and breathing
such lofty sentiment that it might be thundered
forth at a mothers meeting. To proceed. A
leading Melbourne artist was hard up for a girl-
mode!. The subjeat in hand is a street scene, so
he wasn’t looking round for a soft-eyed syren of
voluptuous proportions, but for a nice everyday
article ia a walking-dress. He wrote out his ad.
—“ Young lady, tall, wanted for an artist’s model.
Apply, &0.,” and handed his slip across the argus
counter. The brow of the officiating clerk
clouded as he protested that he must submit such
an advertisement to the high priest of the Taber-
nacle. It pained him to think that “ artist’s
model” sounded like something of a “question-
I able character.” Suppressing an inclination to be
ill, Mr. “ Brush ” elected to send up his slip to the
editor, and — it was declined. Just think of that,
ye gods 1 The Argus, trembling for the modesty
of the bibulous squatter and dropsical city bugs
who bol-ter up “ h’our paper,” refused to accept
an artist’s advertisement for a monel ! Yet we
mustn’t blame the editor. Ha knows well enough
that his subscribers are pretty hazy about every-
thing but vested interests. If the average “ dis-
tinguished colonist” read that harmless line in his
“ horgan,” he’d say, “Bust me! Here’s a cove
hadvertising for a gal in a state of nuddity,”
* * *
The Duke of Cambridge is hard of hear-
ing, and, like almost every other deaf man,
speaks very loudly when he shouldn’t. At a
banquet given to the colonial delegates by the St.
George’s Club, his Grace was seated near Mr.
Alfred Deakm, who evidently did not appreciate
the high tone in which the Duke discussed things
in general. Alfred turned to a quiet-looking
military man who sat oeside him. and remarked,
“ How loudly the old Dime talas !’ she gentle-
man nodded assent, and Victoria’s youug repre-
sentative went on making some more remarks
rather uncomplimentary to the “old Duke.” He
was j ist getting into a more decided criticism
when the gentleman interrupted him and said,
“ I do not wish to take you at a d sad vantage, and
sal think you ought to know that the Duke is ray
father. ’ The gentleman was Captain Fuzgeorge.
one of the Duke’s sons.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs, John Hardie threw open the
hospitable doors of Louisville, Darllnghurst, to an
army of dancers on the 19th. The dresses were
remarkably elegant.
H.M. ships Nelson and Swinger left for
the islands on tbe 20th. The Opal has also cleared
for New Zealand, and the Diamond leaves for
Noumea on the 29tu inst. Potts Point is now
completely at the mercy of the Germans.
« *
The Commodore and officers of the Ger-
man warship Bismark gave an enjoyable dance or
board last Satmday. The big guns were coveree
out of sight.
* * *
Mrs. Mereweather invited a crowd oi
skaters to the Columbia rink on Monday last
The falls were not very numerous.
» * *
Holloway, the pill man, was of the same
kidney as other advertising philanthropists. H«
founded two charitable institutions at an outlay ol
more than a million, bequeathed thousands to out-
siders, and cut off his sisters with next to nothing
at all. Ono of them luxuriates on an allowance
of “ five hob a weak !” This is a fair specimen o


rH BA T R E ROYAL.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
.ucnoco, o»ui. uarar.
IMMEDIATE aud EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Drury Lane Sporting Drama,
A R N OF LUCK.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway's Hotel.
lhambra music hall
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
Minstrel Shows come and go, but we go on
for ever.
EVERY EVENING.
BRITANNIA’S BOWER,
THIRD YEAR, THIRD 'YEAR of
this Great LAUGH CREATOR of MODERN
TIMES,
MASTER COMEDIANS
MUSICAL CHRONOMETERS of MINSTRELSY.
Minstrel Novelties than were ever before
CONCEIVED or DREAMED of.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s j Stalls, Is; Balcony, 6d.
KW OPERA HOUSE.
Under the Management of Mr. B. N. Jones.
EVERY EVENING.
TRUE TO THE CORE.
Miss ALICE NORTON,
Me. H. C. SIDNEY,
Miss KATE VINSON,
Mr. B. N. JONES, and
FULL DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
George-street, Haymarket.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee ... ... ... Mr. John Solomon.
Director and Proprietor... Signor G. Verdi.
Manager for Sig. Verdi... Mr. J. S. Smith.
Stage Manager ... ... Mr. George Dean.
THE PEOPLE’S THEATRE.
THE PEOPLE’S PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
THE PEOPLE’S PRICES, 3s„ 2s , la.
NOT A SUCCESS, but
A GIGANTIC TRIUMPH for
VERDI’S ENGLISH OPERA COMPANY
in VON SUPPE'S BRILLIANT
OPERA COMIQUE,
BOCCACCIO
HOUSE CROWDED TO OVERFLOWING.
Hundreds Unable To Gain Admission.
Conductor LEON CARON.
Leader Mons DE WILLIMOF H*.
la consequence of the extreme length of the
Opera, doors open at 7. overture at 7.45 sharp.
JOPi DAVIS, Business Manager
0 RITBRION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’3
NEW LONDON COMDEY SEASON.
INSTANTANEOUS and MOST PRO -JOUNCED
APPROVAL Oy
THE PICKPOCKET.
Mr. Dun Boncicault, Juu.
Mr. F. H. Lake Mr. Robert I Oman
Mr. G. Lash Gordon Mr' E. Haygarth
Mr. George Bryant Mr. W. Benson
and
Mr Henry R. Harwood
Miss I'Tortnee Trevelyan
Miss Boucic.ulo
The Comedy produced under the sole direction
of Mr. DION BOUCICAULT.
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper Circle, 25.;
Gallery Is, W. J WILSON, Manager.
gYDNKY EXHIBITION BUILDING.
THE COLUMBIA ELITE
ROLLER SKATING RINK.
Open Afternoon and Evening to the Ladies,
Gentlemen, and Young People of '- ydney as a first-
class POPULAR AMUSEMENT, where good
order and decorum are i igidly enforced.
The largest Amusement Palace in the world de-
voted exclusively to SKaTING.
2000 Pairs of the Finest American Skates, and an
acre of the most beautiful skating surface,
are at the disposal of lovers of this
FASCINATING AMERICAN SPORT.
Mr. H. J. WALLACE, the Premier Roller Skater
of America, has been engaged, and will appear
every evening in a graceful and elegant perform-
ance of Artistic Skating.
ADMISSION-ONE SHILLING.
THEATRE KuYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Is the only Licensed House In
Rockh*mpton for holding Theatrical or
other Entertainments, and Can be engaged for
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee.
T
0 THE SPORTING PUBLIC.
HOW TO WIN A FORTUNE.
Consult the Original and most Successful
TIPSTER
. of the Day,
PREMIER,”
Who gives the
BEST AD VICE on ALL SPORTING EVENTS.
SEND for PREMIER’S Great
HAWKE3BURY HANDICAP TIP,
Also
GRAND DOUBLES
on the
HAWKESBURY AND METROPOLITAN.
Premier's “DARK ’UNS” for the Spring
Events are doing well.
ONE TRIAL will PROVE the GENUINENESS
of Premiers Advice.
Send for list of Winners, &c.
Terms are
ONE GUINEA for the WHOLE SEASON.
Address ’‘PREMIER,” Box 1166, G.P.0., Sydney.
All Money Letters M ust be Registered.
the brotherly love of a man who paid £BOOO for
Edwin Long’s “Babylonian Marriage Market ” to
hang on the walls of a home for lunatics. An
attempt was made to prove that Holloway was
himself a lunatic when he made his will. It failed.
The lucky pill-manufacturer was no more mad
than certain colonial philanthropists who spend
fortunes on high-sounding fads, and write ten
letters explaining why they can't give ten shillings
to some hungry applicant.
* •
There has been a lot of controversy of late
about bad cases being refused immediate admis-
sion to the Melbourne Hospital. The proprietor
of a local hospital for sick dogs anounces that
‘ cases will be admitted at all hours.”
* * #
Grafton held a splendidly successful
second subscription ball on the 13th. Fifty
couples managed to reach the ballroom in safety,
although the Sunbeam could almost have been
navigated in the streets. The dresses were be-
witching.
* ♦ *
Mr. W. M. Neale, the English solicitor
who comes from Coventry, where it is alleged he
has been indulging in wholesale forgery, con-
tinues to be remanded from week to week. A
policeman has been sent from England to take
charge of his corpus, which should be pretty lean
by the time he arrives, as the Bench only allows
him £2 for his maintenance. Another “ smart
capture ” they say. Very smart, truly, when the
absconding gentleman’s description and ship were
cabled to the newspapers, even.
* * *
Lord Carington, the Mayor and Mayoress
of Sydney, and a few other guests, dined with Sir
Henry and Lady Loch at Government House,
Melbourne, on the 18th.
A BIRD IN THE HAND.
YOUNG PERSON (to Unemployed, Who has been given some “relief ” work, i.e , wood-
splitting): “MISSUS SAYS WILL YICH AKE,A GLASS OF BEER BEFORE YOU
BEGIN THE JOB OR AFTER YOU FINISH!”
UNEMPLOYED: “WELL THERE'S BEEN A GOOD MANY SUDDENT DEATHS
LATELY, I THINK I'LL TAKE IT NOW.”
Lady Caringtcn. L°rd Shaftesbury, and
party, attended the last concert of the Zeroini
Quartette on the evening of the 18 h
• * ♦
Sir F. M. Barley ard. Lady Barley enter-
tained Lord Brassey, Hon. Miss Brassey, Sir Henry
and Miss Partes, Sir Wm. and Lady Manning,
and others, at dinner, on the 16 cb.
♦ ♦ *
The Australian Club Ball comes off on the
29; h inst.
* ♦ ♦
At Nithsdale, on the 22nd inst., the
Sydney Private Assembly ball was carried out
successfully.
* » *
Sydney Mercantile Roving Club scored
its twelfth annual ball on ihe 13rh inst., at the
Town Hall. The Mayor and Mayoress started the
dancing, everything passing off brilliantly, the
Merc, being assisted and abetted by its fellow-
clubs.
* * *
Tamworth’s benedicts wound up a series
of dances on the 14th inst., in the local P. A.
and H. Association’s hall, which was transformed
into a tastefully-decorated ballroom by the artistic
taste of their lady friends. The dresses were
gorgeous, and the refreshments (cooked by the
ladies) calculated to make the matrimonial market
hum.
* * *
When the Japanese war-ship was in Syd
ney harbour the Japs, were in great request, and
were made social lions of. One fair lady was dis-
coursing eloquently to a somewhat stolid Jap.
about the excellence of Japanese fans, &c. Oae
Jap. didn’t understand a word, but he knew what
to say. After allowing the regulation time to
•elapse, he bowed his head in token of assent, and
j said enthusiastically, “ Yes, it is indeed a very
Beautiful Harbour.” He fancied nothing else
could ever be talked about.
* * *
Lady Carington is at home this (Thurs-
day) afternoon at Government House. We doubt
if his Excellency is.
* * *
Captain and Mrs. Bennett held a dancing
party on board the Thessalus on the 19th, or
rather the dancing party held the Thessalus.
♦ * *
Miss Halloran, daughter of Mr. Henry
Halloran, C.M.G., who was thrown from her
horse last week at Asbfleld, Sydney, and sus-
tained a very severe shaking, is, we hear, able to
be about again.
» * *
An original drama entitled “ His Last
Victory,”in two acts, and the comedietta “ Ruth’s
Romance,” will be presented by amateurs on
August Ith at Sydney new Masonic Hall in aid of
a charity.
South Australia, according to Governor
Robinson, “recognises New South Wales as a
mother and sister.” S. A. always was crooked on
the prohibited degrees question.
Here’s a sample of the much-boasted
N.S.W, retrenchment scheme. Under the heading
“Civil Service Board,” in the Blue Book, we find
that the amount paid to junior officers for 1886
was £l9O. This year two of the clerks have been
dispensed with, and a saving of £l2O per annum
in this particular branch effected As a set-off
against this, however, we And that the top salary
—that of the secretary to the Board—has been
raised from £5OO (1886) to £6OO per annum for
1887, so that the greater part of the money saved
by sending two poor devils of understrappers to
the right-about has been swamped in swelling the
already fat salary of the secretary.
Mr. Joey Creer, M.L.A. of N.S.W.,
says, in all seriousness, that “the greatest event
since the creation was Christ’s coming into the
world ; the next greatest was the event when
King William crossed the Boyne ” Mr. Creer op-
poses Home Rule on the ground that if Ireland
should obtain it all other parts of the Empire will
follow suit. Such is Mr, Joey Creer, one of the
democratic members for Northumberland.
Mr. Henry William Mortimer, a real old
identity, died in Melbourne last Thursday. Mr.
Mortimer landed in Tasmania in 1825, as a free
settler. Fourteen years later he crossed the streak
and started business in Melbourne. They elected
him one of the first aldermen of the city in 1842,
hut his digestion wouldn’t stand the strain, and
he soon retired. In his time Mr. Mortimer tried
gunmaking, whaling, farming, butchering, and a
few other lines. He owned the first vessel built
on the Yarra hanks, and had a hand in starting
most of the old charities which still exist in Mel-
bourne. He also floated a church or two. In a
word, Mr. Mortimer was a good all-round men,
and a decided credit to our climate. He died a
nonagenarian, after leaving England, for his
health’s sake, eixty-two years ago.
A saving of £25 a-yw.—Large additional premises.— Mae
shat l Beothees have opened a large central City Dr g
Empo iu n in ueorge-st., where prescriptions are dispensed at
reform prio-a Drugs, Patent Medicines, Toilet Requisites,
&c are sold in em -ll quantities at wholesale prices. To enable
them to d • this they have the popular cash svs’em,
whereby a uniform low rate can be charg'd for e erything
of i ha highest quality. Maeshai i Beothees Pnatma-
ceuticai Chemists and Drug Importers, 410. Geoige-st., 2
doors from Kiug-st. Arcade; and at 106, Mirket-st.; also,
Reform Dentistry Establishment, 133 Ehzibeth-st., Sydnev.
N.B —Their popular specialty, Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, is
still carefully prepa-ed from the choicest d ugs procurabli
on the Lonaon mark; t.*
The latest Salvation Army yam.—Halle-
lujah lass beating on a tambourine calls three
times in a loud voice : “ Will you come ! ” The
Captain inquires “ Who to ? ” also three times.
“ To my husband the Lord ! ” is the answer thrire
repeated. An Irishman sandisg by remarked:
“ Well, my gur.l, you’ve married into a gocd
family, but I don’t think your father-ia-law will
ever invite you to tay I ”
Editor Bulletin.—Sir,—ln a late issue of The
Bulletin you aay, in reply to " Martin J.’ : “ Y,s, Muil-r
did confess that he murdered Briggs. There is no d r.bt
whatever about it.” I think myself it is very very doub f 1
if any confession was made. I recollect the circumstances
well. The so-called confession rested solely oa tne taa e
assertion of the German Lutheran chaplain, and I thought
then, as I think now, that it was all pure invention got up to
curry favour with tin authorities. Muller never conh sstd
the whole time he was waiting execution, but when on the
scaffold just as the cap was being drawn over k>is face he
whispered something to the chaplain who stood by him. The
chaplain sprang back, exclaiming : “ Thank God, he has
confessed ! ’ and at that instant the drop fell. According to
the chaplain, Muller whispered the words : “ Ich haba es
gethan ”(“ I have done it.”) How are we to know that he
did not say ;“I am innocent.” The story of the chaulain is
altogether inconsistent with the demeanour of M ill ar dur-
ing tho whole time of his incarceration from the day of his
arrest to the day of hi* execution He was convicted on
circumstantial evidence of the flimsiest character, and I for
one firmly believe that he was entirely innocent of the crime
imputed to him.—Yours obediently, W. E. Harcourt,
Moonee Ponds, Vic., 9th June.
Dear Bulletin, —On receipt of your paper
of 2nd July containing a picture of King Biliy of
Wulla Mulla, I showed same to Scraunch Jock,
King of Walorak, and gave him to understand
that it represented him interviewing Her Most
Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria. He at once
seemed highly elated, the more so when I added
that he now had titles at his disposal whenever he
thought any of his subjects deserving of the same.
So he called them all together, and told them,
“Big pfeller Kaween bin send ’im word along
him g bbem blackpfeller tital, S'pose you come
alongah camp likith morning, I gib it along every-
body.” He was then supplied with C.M G and
K.C M.G. medals cut out of greenhide, which each
recipient was to wear next his heart in remem-
brance of our Moat Gracious Queen. So now it is
quite common to see blacks knocking about tho
Darling with C.M G. sewn on that part of their
clothing which faces west when the nigger looks
east Some good-natured darkies have conferred
either or both these dignities oa their gins. —F.
Hill.
IMPORTANT STEP BY TEE
GOVERNMENT.
It is not very often we find the Government
acknowledging the good sense and acepting the
lead of a private citizen. This has clearly been
the case with regard to the parcel post system
now to be adopted by the Sydney Postmaster-
General, commencing on July 1, the practicability
of the whole thing having been proved to the Gov-
ernment by Mr. T. M. Alcock, the well ktown
Waltham Watch Agent, Haymarket. Sydney. The
Government had proof poidve from thuir own
colleague, the Post mast er-G<mcral, th »t valuable
goods, such as the Waltham watches and jewellery,
could be ssnt with absolute safety all over Aus-
tralia by means of the post, and it seemed
ridiculous to suppose that other articles of mer-
chandise of less value could not be sent through
the post as well. The fact is, our Government are
slow to introduce anything new. It has taken the
Sydney authorities three years to sea the whole
thing worked out practically. Mr. A Icock intro-
duced the thing on a most elaborate tcale on his
return from a visit to the great Waltham works
at Massachusetts, U.S. A., about four years ago.
it will be remembered from the telegrams and
other announcements in the papei s at the
time that Mr. Alcock made special arrangements
with the famous Waltham proprietor to receive
large consignments of the celebrated Watches
direct from the packing room of the works—not
second-hand —and it became necessary for him
to introduce an innovation, so that he could reach
a business constituency not cod tired to Sydney,
but embracing every individual in the whole of
Australasia. It struck Mr. Alcock that there
could bo no objection to the great postal system of
the United Sta es being adop ed, whereby from
the moss obscure town in the States, by means of
the post, a cons-tituency numbering fifty millions
can be reached. He was introducing to Australia
a Watch which all experts and scientists and all
newspaper men, captains, surveyors, and other?,
had pronounced as the wonder of the age, and he
resolved on establising a business wi h all Aus-
tralia through th» jost. and from the lime of
starting till now, as m my as between 40. 0 and
5000 Watthams, gol-i i stiver ladies and gents'
Witches have been sent to a 1 p iris of the southern
wo.l ■, Tnere v\as scarcely a cjmplaint, as it
could hardly have be n otherwise. Mr. alcock
actually accepted the x capon ability rill the Watch
was s if-.'y d diver ed into the hands cf the buyer.
The O iver mint no v sesiog the warxiug cf the
whole system in the case of a prxva'e business
man have adopted it, arid great developments
may be expected ftoin i -.. But undoubtedly the
credit of ihe waole thing rests wiih Mr. T. M.
Alcock It has built him up a gloxixus business.
One ef the sights of Sydney is his establishment
at the Haymarket, Sydney. It’s a picture cf
dazzling brilliancy, and in front from morning to
night th ue is alwa; s a gathering of city people
(nd new arrivals looting at the display. The
establishment is most anistically aiM with lavish
expandi uxo decorated outside; wnila from the
windows is shown a guttering display of diamond
and other jewellery, Watthams, English levers,
etc , the whole forming a p cture brighter and far
more beautiful than is to be seen in any establish-
ment in Sydney or Melbourne. 'J he excellence of
the Waltham Watch is now beyond dispute, and
any mail day consignments cf there Watches may
be seen being opened just as they were packed at
the great Waltham works, i>x Massachusetts.
There is no second hand work, no commissions to
wholesale jowellery importers in Sydney. The
Watches are seen ed at below wholesa o prices
under Mr Alcock s own contract, personally mac e
with the Waltham prop meets, and, of course, the
Australian public get the benefit; and car airily
no man ever treated the far distant public witlx
greater attention, or in a mure honourable way.
In point of fact, when a man has written for a
Waltham, Mr. Alcock has b nxgbt it for him, in
other words he accept the personal responsibility
for the whole business This is really tbe explana-
tion of the enormous business done over such an
enormously wide area. Here by every day’s post,
gold and silver watches, chronometers,, &c , are
to be seen being sent away with guarantees ail
over the Colonies— to Brisbane, Gympie, Charters
Towers, Townsville, al parts of Victoria, New
Zealand, West and North Australia, Tasmania, the
Fijis, &c. The whole thing worked out so
satisfactorily and so extensively is really a business
phenomenon, and Is a matter of public as well as
private importance It points to the inevitable
recognition always obtainable from the people for
mercantile probity, and also to the thoough
practicability of the parcels post system, which is
one of the greatest boons ever won for the Aus-
tralian people.*


A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HAL T , Rockhampton,
Queensland. —The above Hall is duly
icenscd under the Queensland Theatres’ Act.
Every Company travelling through Rockhampton
for the past 18 months has (with one exception)
occupied this Hall, including Messrs. MacMahon
and Leitch, Thornton and Harrison, Harry St
Maur, and Grattan Riggs, with Mr. Chas.
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company, who have just
concluded a brillimt and successful season. This
Company played in the Theatre Royal two years
ago, and Mr. MacMahon expresses himself as
highly pleased with the arrangements in this Hall.
Managers are requested to book at least 14 day
before opening to secure uninterrupted dates.
Terms on application to the Secretary.
Sydney Bicycle Club.
THE Sixth Annual RACE MEETING of the
above Club will be held at the Association
Ground, Moore Park, on SATURDAY, 3rd Sep
tember next.
J. WILKES,
297 George-streeb. Hon Sec
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACK AY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for oommer*
cial travellers and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. Y, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
WILLS’ HOTEL. Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
, BMOVBD to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &c.
Full particulars free on application. Address :
R. B, JONES, 6 Bridge-st, Sydney.
FiTZROTT HOT.3L,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
£3T FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
ADELAIDE.
ELDER’S WOOL AND PRODUCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
CAPITAL £200,000.
STOCK SALESMEN,
WOOL AND SKIN BROKERS,
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Everybody 1
should use/
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUS!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
•181 Hvnwa t
JMPBRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
t3T First-c ass Family and Commercial Hotel.
£25
IN PRIZES
IN PRIZES
£25
“NATIVE S’ PLUG K.”
GRAND A.N.A. WORD COMPETITION.
First Prize, £l5; Second, £5 ; Third,
£2 10s; Fourth, 80s; Fifth, 20s.
The above prizes will be given by the BUILD-
ING COMMITTEE of the ST. ARNAUD AUS-
TRALIAN NATIVES, to the competitor who can
form the greatest number of modern English
words out cf the letters comprised in “Natives’
Pluck.” No obsolete words, or historical, geo-
graphical, or proper names will be allowed. No
letter to be used twice in one word. Competitors
must enclose list of words, with name and address,
and state number of words on each list in a sealed
envelope, together with a postal note, money
order, or stamps, of the value of two shillings,
addressed to the undersigned. Such listys will be
received up to 6 o’clock p.m., on WEDNESDAY,
AUGUST 3rd, 1887, and opened the following day
in the presence of the Committee of the St.
Arnaud Branch of the A.N A. The names of the
winners will be published in the Australasian,
Sydney Bulletin, and local papers.
WILLIAM O’DONNELL,
Hon. Sec.
GOLD. NOTHING BUT GOLD!
Read, Cut Out and Keep this Adverttsement for Future Reference. It will Pay to Follow Advice Given.
THE GREATEST BOLD CITY IS THE WORLD
VERY SOOX WILL BE
CHARTERS TOWEES, QUEENSLAND.
Unfortunately for Then selves Southern People un'il Lately have Known Very
Little About It.
EnglLh Capital-‘s are row and wiil Continue I-vesling Millions in the
PURCH ASE of CHART! RS TOWERS MINES.
Dhe Public o f every Class c m Saf. ly Invest Irom °ne Pound <o 3 i housand Pounds with
the Certainty of Gaining an Enormous Profit
Here is a (Vpe in Point—One Amongst 1 housands ;
THE BLACK JAC A SHARES.—We strongly advisi d our Clients to Buy wh“n shares
wee obtainable at a very low pri e. Take the following figures and facts which are s rictly
Ire:—
By I ujers’s price Ic-day per share, not Ess than fOs
By nin« dividends paid by the mine, seme over, none urn'er a
shilli-g, say
L°ss
To t mount paid for application money and caTs till mine em-
inence J to pay dividem s per share
Or a NET PROFIT on COST
Of
SIX THOUSAND PER CENT.
This mine is not much over than a year working It j 3 paying di idends, and will con"
t rme to do to prnbab y durin.' the h es of the shareholders. Tie holders of these shares
believe tl ev will be sold f r £3 a share at an eariy date.
We o ly mention the ease of this mine as an example and car of man*.
It is n t a suitable investm.nt now for peopl > with small rae»ns who want quirk and cer-
tain large profits on a small outlay of a few pounds, or even one.
High pri:ed shares a*e only suitable as an investment f r the richer c’asses.
HOW A WORKING via IST MADE A FORTUNE
~„M r 5; T --. wo'king for wag.s over 12 months ago, bought 300 shares in a mice here for
£ 3, and after paying fjw monthly calls
These shares only cost him altogether £l3. which he paid by monthly instalments thus
not feebnr or missing the amount from bis earnings. 1 ’
For thes .■ sh res Mr M—— erp os to -ec ive in a few months 'he sum of £l2OO and he
already received m f mdends about £l5O He hints it poss.ble he may vet more than
Look’at'thesTfimA fr- “ enorraou3 return fdr an ou ' l i y cf £l5 within a Utile over a year
B/ sale of 300 shares at £4 per share .. .. Aio n n n
By dividends tecnvel '' ' ‘ * 150 0 o
Less
To original cost cf shales, calls, and all other expenditure
£1350 0 0
15 0 0
Close up to ££ooo per c in*, P/0fi£1335 fo £l5 looks strange, but it^true.
Taere is eve>y opp rtunity lor -11 p r ons . f tveiy cl its to invest la-ge rr small amounts
mm nniFirSa w.fh/.oro, t. G f g lining great profit“ “ 8
from £1 upwards, with cer at t'
" e guarantee if our adnoe oe’folloVd that lost is impossible
Wi make No Cha-ge for Buying or Belli ig, for Advice, Telegrams or
Gorresf onr.ence.
Everyone Should Write for Particular*, Sent Fr. e
Xead ng menace sof the Mein urne, Sydney and H.bhane Stock Exchange will trstifv
from their extensive dealing! with and pels nal knowledge of o ir firm *
Tnat we are most Reli i Te Adviser" and Straight f rward in «.ur dealings
Where c unis send us money for discretionaiy investments on their 1 ehalf we exercise
the utmost caie, No remittance f hnuld be u der£l. No stamps to be sent Chernies
Toata notes, &c., to be mossed “ Bai k cf Australasia *' Correspondents r plied *o tin
mediately, letter er wire ““
AG-BITTS WANTED- LIBEEAL PAY,
nsroTß ista-hvcib -A-Hstid addbess =
dc COMPANY,
Charters Towers, Quaensland.
Department of Public Worss
Sydney, July 26 jBB7.
Tenders for public works ant
SUPPLIES
TENDERS are Invited for the following PL BLlt
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which Is kept at
every post-office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the successfu
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unles
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whlo 1
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Construction of Wharf, &c.,
Tatham, Richmond River
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Pilliga
Fencing, &c., Courthouse, Bur-
rowa
Supply of 1000 Cubic
Sandstone Ballast at Molong
Station
Supply of 1000 Cubic Yards
Sandstone Ballast at Cargo
Road or Berenore Station
Erection of Bridge, Fell Timber
Creek, Road Mandurama to
Guby Swamp
Erection of Bridge, Wyong
Creek, Road Bumble's Hill to
Murray’s Run
Erection of Bridge, Cedar Brush
Creek, Road Bumble’s Hill to
Murray’s Run
Erection of Bridge, Tenterfleld [
Creek, Mo)esworth-street, j
Tenterfleld (exclusive of sup- |
ply of Ironwork)
Erection of Br'dge. Mullet 1
Creek, South Coast Read (ex- 1
elusive of supply cf Ironwork)
Supply of Ironwork for Timber I
Bridges, Tenterfleld Creek, |
Mullet Creek, and Glendon I
Brook
Construction rf Engine and I
Boiler Hou e, &0.. Contract |
1, Lismore Water Supply
Construction of Covered Reser- I
voir. Contract 2, Lismore |
Water Supply
Supply of Ironwork and Free- j
tion of Iron Bridge over Mur-
ray River at Mulwala
Additions Lockup. Camper lown
Erectten of Frotbridge, Plum-
bago Creek, Fairfield
Erection of Bridge, Little B : l'a-
bong Creek, Road Little Bela-
bor g to Tutnberumba |
Alterations to Post and Tele-
graph Office, Richmond
Supply of I'-onbtrk Railway |
Sleepers at Murrumbidgerie
Supply 3000 tons of Blue Metal
at Da’-lmg Harbour or Botaav-
road Siding (Railway Depart
meet)
Construction of Six Cars for Sans
Tramway
Tuesday,
August 2,
at II o’clock.
Tuesday,
August 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Waiting Shed,
Construction, &c., Engine,
Pumps, and Boilers, Contract
3, Lismore Water Supply
Supply, &c, of Reticulation
Pipes, &c., Contract 1, Lis-
more Water Supply
Tuesday,
September 6,
at 11 o'clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO..
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreion Boots & Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality or Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st, Sydney.
MB£S
df
sdfs
df
DIRECT IMPORTING CO.
FOR
HI
ITEHITS.
472 GiOBGE STREET,
Or posite the Central Markets;
and at
705 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Anthony Hordern’s. Haymarket.
Fiolins,
7/6, 13/6 12/6, 15-, 20/-, 25/-, with Bow.
Violins, in ca°es, 30/-, 35/-, 50/,
Violins, in cases (superior), 70/- to £5, including
Tutor, Resin, Strirgs, &c
Speciality :
Old Violins, £B, £lO, £l2, £l7, £2O, £25, £3O.
Concertinas ,
4/6, 5/6, 7/6. 8/6 to £25/-.
20-key Anglo-German, hy Lachenal. £1 17s. 6d. ,
20-key Anglo German, by Lachenal, steel notes
best make, £4 ss.
22-key Anglo-German, by Lachenal, steel notes,
best make, £4 10s.
Ftccordeons,
in great variety, 7/6, to 70/- earh.
Special Line—Steel note, with wood case,
£1 17s. 6d.
Cornets ,
50/-, 70/-, 84/-. £5 155., £lO 10s., to £l6 16s.
Flutes ,
8-key Concert, 40/-; Others. 1/6 to 25/- each.
6-key Piccolo, 16/- to 35/-,
Banjoes, Guitars, &g., in great variety.
P.O. Orders will be promptly attended to.
JgJXCBLSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-atreet,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINKS, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents tor
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. S DRIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
.. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
nraii
■
THOS. BUCKLAND,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln;
„ „ Langland's Foundry Co , Melbourne, Vic.
Listen to Your Wife,
The Manchester Guardian, June Bth, 1883, says
At one of the
“ Windows
Looking on the Woodland ways ! With clumps
of rhotodendrons and great masses of May
bkssoms !! There was an interesting group.
It included one who had been a “Cotton
spinner,” but was now so
Paralyzed ! ! !
That he could only bear to lie in a reclining
position.
This refers to my case.
I was first Attacked twelve years ago with
“ Gocomotor Ataxy ”
(A paralytic disease cf "trve rarely ewr cured)
ai d was for several years barely able to got r *bont,
At d for tha last Five years not able to attend to
my business, al hough
Many things have been done for me.
The last experiment, being nerve stretching,
Two years ago I was voted into the
Home fur Incurables! Near Manchester, in May,
1882.
lam no “Advocate”! “For anything in the
sha e of patent ” Medicines ?
And made many objections to my dear wife’s
constant urging to try Hop Bitters, but finally to
pacify her—
Consented! !
I had not quite finished the first bottle when I
felt a change come over me. This was Saturday,
November 3rd. On Sunday morning I felt so
strong 1 said to my room companions, “ I was sure
I could
Walk)
So started across the floor and back,
I hardly knew how to contain myself. I was all over the
house. lam g'i"ing strength each day. and can walk quite
safe without any
“ Stick ! ”
Or Support
I am now at *ny own house, and hope soon to be able to
earn my own living again, I have been a member of the
Manchester
“ Royal Exchange"
For nearly thirty years, and was most heartily congratulated
on going in the room on Tnursday last. Very gratefully
yours. John Blackburn
Manchester,; (Eng.) Dec. 24, 1883,
Two years later am perfectly well.
Prosecute the Swindlers ! I
If when you call for American Hop Bitters ( see green twig
of Hops on the white label and Dr. Soule s name blown in the
bottle), th“ vendor haurs out anything but American Hop
Bittei s refuse it and shun that vendor as you would a viper;
at d if he has taken ycur money for anything else indict him
for <he frai d and sue him for damages for the swindle, End
we will pay you liberally f u the conviction.


One of the best managed and cleanest hotels in Sydney i
the Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling luncheon
there is immense *
Oh, how refreshing, palatable and reviving is a draught o
cool water with A merican Hop Bitters in it, to a fever patient 1
See*
Tattersall.s Monster Consultation, Bank Handicap, run
August 1, at Canterbury; and the Spring Handicap, run
Randwick, August 27; eac h 2000 subs , 20s. now open and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care 6. Adams. Pitt-street.
If the Sufferers from Consumption, Scrofula,
Bronchitis and General Df.b lik will try Scott's
Emulsion with Hypophosphitbs they will find imme
niate relief and a pe manent benefit. The Medical Profes-
sio" in various countries of the world, universally declare it
a remedy of the greatest value; and as it is very palatable,
it can be readily taken by the most sensitive stomach and
will never fail to give the sufferer relief and comfort.
Barge and small bottles at all chemists.
Balsam of Virginian Prunes a most effectual remedy
f nr the Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Influenza, Hoarseness
Bronchitis, Shortness of Breath, &o. Rigne y, late Mitchell,
King-street.
NOTICE!—Beware of young Wine. Drink only Hookings
high class selected old vintages, for invalids, 43 Pitt-
street.*
HE IS STILL LIVING.
I held his letter in my hand.
And even while I read,
The lightning flashed across the land
The word that he was dead.
How strange it seemed I his living voice
Was speaking from the page,
Those courteous phrases, tersely choice,
Light-hearted witty sage;
I wondered what it was that died,
The man himself was here
Only just two days ago
Drinking St Louis Lager Beer.*
Fever in New South Wales is f’r less frequent among
the Colonists and Gnmese than formerly This is owing to the
discovery by them of the curative properties of Freeman s
Original Chlorody ne. This valuable medicine chi cks theprog-
ress and rapidly cure» all forms of Fevers and Ague, so pre-
valent at certain seasons of the year in many part' of N S.W.
By the older Colonists it is regarded as a household remedy,
and employers of large bodies of workmen always keep a good
stock of Freeman's Chlorodyne on their estates Sold
everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having
“Freemen’s” only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
Temperance clergyman, lawyers, ladies, and doctors use
American Co.’s Hop Bitters, as they do not intoxicate, but
restore brain and nerve waste.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF WINTER GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prloes.
rpHE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAY..
The great question of the d~y v-ith the public ia
what are tne banks going to do with rh money
now in their vaults, amounting in coin ana bullion,
toneless a sum than sixteen millions sev-nty--
three thousand one hundred and ninety-two,
pounds sterling (16.073,192).
' The ingenuity of the different bank managers,
and directors will now be taxed how to keep divi-
dends from going down.
Well, for the information of the public and the,
safe guidance of all bank managers and directors,
we will explain. But the information must be
kept strictly private, as it is of a confidential
nature. It is best imparted in its naked truth,,
and as it came under our notice.
DRAMATIS PERSONAS.
All the Sydney Bank Managers
AND
All Bank Directors.
Scene: A bank in George-street, near the Post
Office.
Present: 1 he aforesaid Dramatis Personae.
He Yclept “Tom’’ —the North Shore “King,” in,
the chair.
Emperor William, of Pitt-sueet (a chiel weel kent)*
in the vice chair.
The chairman, having called the meeting to,
order, said,—“ Well, Gentlemen, the public are,
anxious to know, doncherknow, what WE are go-
ing to do to ASSIST the country and the
COUNTRY’S TRADE with the sixteen millions,
now in our vaults.
Of course you are all aware that the increase in
deposits for the year just passed amounted to na
less a sum than £7,016,380 sterling.
“ Yes, I repeat gentlemen, no less a sum than
£7,016,380 ”
Chorus of Voices:
“And every POUND bearing INTEREST.”
The excitement was intense —chairs shitted, feet,
shuffled, and heads sagely shook being the chief
manifestations.
But the tableau had yet to come, for a voice
broke in fr.m the far end of the board room say-
ing, I knew how it would be. 1 have repeated to
myself tin e after time that these contamination
circumferenced BUIlDING SOCIETIES and
thrice-doubly blansed LAND BANKS would bring
trouble to OUR DOORS and RED COED dividends
to our poor and unfortunat o shareholders. And—
But at this juncture one of the “princes,” whose
bank was known to have made rather heavy
advances to one of the aforesaid societies for the
express purpose of purchasing 500 acres of utterly
worthless mud-slush swamp, at once turned ill.
Instantly King “Tom,” that truest of Falstaffs,
ordered a brandy and soda, which the sick one
drank, much to the annoyance and disgust of that,
man o’ temperance and guid works —the Pitt street.
Emperor W illiam himself, man.
The meeting was then adjourned until that day-
week at 12 o’clock to enable the managers to go.
and buy LAwr BR’S
BLACK SILK HATS at 10s. 6d.
MASHER BOOTS at j 2s. 6d.
WHITE SHIRTS at Is 9d.
SILK UMBRELLAS at 9s.
FROCK SUITS at 65s.
SuCKS and COLlARH and CUFFS.
With the view to their appearing in the same at
their next meeting, as it was more than probable
several of their Melbourne brethren would bo
present, and it was necessary for them to look
“ O.K.”
LAWLERS <608, GEORGE-STREET),,
LAWLER’S, SYDNEY.
BEDROOM FURNITURE.
LAWLER’S BROWN FURNITURE.
The largest stock of
HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE:
in the Australian Colonies
SHIPMENTS ARRIVING
BY
Every incoming mail steamer
OF THE
BEST AND LATEST LONDON DESIGNS;
608, GEORoE-STKEET.
THE BRIGHTON SUITE,
Japanned or Decorated Suite, co< sis ting of Ward-
robe, with glass door. Chest of I drawers,
with glass and jewel drawers attached, Wash’J
stand with marble top. Towel Horse, and 2
Cane Chairs, £9 10s.
THE LONSDALE SUITE,
Japanned Oak, Made, or Satinwocd, consisting of
viz.. Wardrobe, with bevelled glass dior.
Chest of 5 drawers, Toilet Table, with bevelled
glass, Washstand, with marble top and tile
back. Pedestal Cupboard, Towel Horse, and 2
Cane Chairs, £12 10s.
THE JUBILEE SUITE,
Suite in solid American Ash, consisting of viz.,
4-drawer Wardrobe with glass door. Toilet
Table, with glass and jewel d awers, Wash-
stand with marble top and tile back, Towel
Horse and 2 Cane Chairs, £18 10s. —EX.CBP
TIONAL VALUE.
THE OSBORNE SUITE.
Suites in American Walnut or Ash, consisting of,
viz., 4-drawer Wardrobe with glass door.
Chest of 4 drawers, with glass and jewel
drawers attached, Washstand, marble top and
tile back, Towel Horse, and 2 Cane Chairs,
£22 10s.
THE BEACONSFIELD SUITE.
Suites in Ash or Walnut, consisting, viz., 4-drawer
Wardrobe, with bevelled plate doors. Toilet
Table, with bevelled glass, Washstand,
with marble top and tile back. Pedestal Cup
board, Towel Horae, and 3 Cane Chairs, £25
*to £37 10s.
THE MONACO SUITE.
Handsome Suite in Pitch Pine, viz., 6 drawer
Wardrobe, bevelled glass door, Toilet Table,
with glass attachtd, Washstand, marble top,
Pedestal Towel Horse, and 3 Cane Chairs,
£45.
THE WINCH®-TER SUITE.
Elegant Suite in Ash or Walnut, viz,, 6-drawer
Wardrobe, bevelled glass door, 4-drawer
Pedestal Table and Washstand, Pedestal Cup
board, Towel Horse, 3 Cane Seat Chairs,
£70.
THE PORTLAND SUITE.
Massive Suite in Ash or Walnut, viz., 6 drawer
Wardrobe, glass door, 4-drawer 4-leg Table
and Washstand, Pedestal Cupboard, Towel
Horse, and 3 Cane Chairs, £42 10s.
WE INVITE INSPECTION
TO OUR
IMMENSE SHOW ROOMS,
WHKRE WILL BE FOUND
THE MOST COMPLETE STOCK
OF
EVERY DESCRIPTION
OP
HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE.
J. LAWLER,
608, GEORGE-STREET
NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN.
The Centre of the Acutest Agony is reacted by
St. Jacobs oil.
Acbes. Pains, and all Bodily Ailments succumb
to St. Jacobs oil.
The world-wide reputation as a certain cure for
Rheumatic Complaints belongs to St. Jacobs oil.
Backache and Toothache are banished by the use
of St. Jacobs oil.
Sprains and Strains disappear as if by magic on
the application of St. Jacobs oi l .
Bruises, Burns, and Swellings are soothed and
vanquished by the timely use of St. Jacobs oil.
HOUSEHOLD ACCIDENTS are insured against
by having ST. JACOBS Oln in the house.
From the four quarters of the globe, from all
parts of Australia, from ihe Holy Land, the
Sandwich Islands, the New Hebrides, New Guinea,
and all habitable parts of the known world, the
Proprietors of St. Jacobs oil are in receipt of un-
sought, but most positive testimony to its value
as a pain curing remedy and healing appliance.
It has taken the highest prizes wherever exhibited,
and firmly established itself as the bast domestic
remedy in the world for rheumatism, neuralgia,
backache, and a host of minor complaints which
are the daily cause of so much misery and suffer-
ing.
£lOO REWARD.
A cash reward of £lOO will ba paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., the proprietors of St Jacobs oil
dr by their accredited local representatives in
Various parts of the world, to any person producing
proof that the testimonials published by them in
regard to St. Jacobs oil are not strictly genuine.
Sold by chemists and druggists everywhere.
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales, Elliott
Brothers and Co., Limited, Sydney.
COMFORTABLE ADVICE.
LA.DIE3 should use DR. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC
CORSET. It is a gentle and pleasant support >
encircling the waist with neat and accurate fit, and
aiding by the vitalising properties of electricity the
functions of the nervous organisation. Worn by
the principal Royal Families of Europe, by the
elite of American and Continental society, they
are daily endorsed by over one million ladies, and
as they do not exceed in cost the ordinary goods
of other makers, without the electric or thera-
peutic value of any kind, who will refuse to give
them a trial ?
GENTLEMEN,—If you have any pain, ache, o
illfeeling from any cause, if you seem “pretty
well,” yet lacis energy, and do not “ feel up to the
mark ; ” if you suffer from disease, we suggest to
you to at once try these remarkable curatives.
They connot, and do not, injure like medicine.
Always doing good, never harm. There is no
shock or sensation felt in wearing them. There is
no waiting a long timefor results ; electro-magnet-
ism acts quickly, generally the first week, more
frequently the first day, and often during t! e first
hour they are worn their wonderful curative
powers are felt. Get one of Dr. Scott’s ELECTRIC
BELTS.
Ladies and gentlemen, —You can at once stop
that falling hair and bring back long natural
resses of youth by using Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brush. It seldom fails, and is vouched for by
most eminent authorities. It will also cure Head
ache and Neuralgia in 5 to 7 minutes.
The Brush handle is made of a new odorless
composition resembling ehony : a combination of
substances producing a permanent electro-mag-
netic current, which acts immediately upon the
Hair Glands and Follicles; This power can
always bo tested by a silver compass which accom-
panies each brush.
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASOSOIATION,
56, Margaret-street, Sydney.
My first is in water, but not in bury ;
My second in claret, but not in sherry ;
My third in temper, but not in cross ;
My fourth in flower, hut not in moss ;
My fifth is in raven, as well as in crow ;
My sixth is in beauty, but not in show ;
My seventh in useful, as well as in use ;
My eighth is in pear, but not in juice ;
My ninth is in fiery, but not in heat;
My whole is a watch that no other can beat.
’Tis sweet to hear the watch-dog’s honest bark
Bay deep-mouthed welcome as we draw near home;
’Tis sweet to know there is an eye will mark
Our coming, and look brighter when we come,
’Tis sweet to hear the dinner-bell’s soft chime,
To feel quite certain we shan’t have to wait;
Because we know that Water bury time,
Keeps dog, and eye, and cook, from being late.
If your Watertaury Watch meets with an acci-
dent send it to the repair depot established by the
company at 56, Margaret-street, where it will be
repaired for you at a cost varying from 6d. to
2s. 6d. according to requirements.
C. Gilbert’s Cornflour is pure, being made from
maize grown specially for the purpose. Remember
this when you are purchasing.
Dixon’s Everlasting Axle Grease, made from
American Graphite is better than any you have
ever used, either for light or heavy draught.
Blackwell’s Bull Durham Cigarettes and
Tobaccos, from the Golden Belt of North Carolina.
Winter or summer, wet weather or dry, there is
no drink so well suited to the climate and people
of Australia as Clausen’s New York Champagne
Lager Beer.
Dear Bulletin, —The squatters of the West
can’t pay a rental of a penny per awe. So they gay.
Could• t you suggest that th- Minister for Lands should in-
spec' the country for himself during the recess ? He won the
ducked in the Darling We are not all mad All of us have
not perjured ourselves before the Land Courts Look here.
The.squatters wpre all petitioning the Gtovernment some time
b.ack for a rabbit-proof fence to be erected between Bonrke
g,ne Barringun Now, when the Government offer to attach
rabbit-proof netting “ free, gratis, and for nothing,” to all
existing fences between the points named, some of them
want compensation , and on’t give the'required permission
without it. Let the Government xiswrte their run”, taking
their sworn evidence at the Land Courts ag a basis of valua-
tion. One squatter low down on the Barling is malting more
out of rabbitting than out of wool By hanky-panky work
and selling rations he is clearing £ISOO a year out of the
rabbits and the Government Lord !if you only knew how
the ropes are being pulled.— Rabbitter.
m
THE REASON WHY.
THE SWELL: “HAW! WELL, BOY, HOW DID YOU ENJOY YOURSELF AT THE
GOVERNOR’S TREAT?”
THE BOY: “O, THEY DIDN’T AX ME. I SELLS THE BULLETIN.”
They seem to be sadly in want of amuse-
ment at Narandera (N S. W.), or else the Ahgus
of that sleepy, dusty, dreary hollow has turned its
cockroach upside down when it wrhes thus : —“ It
is reported that several rabbits and traces of the
pest have been discovered recently at North Berry
Jerry. About a fortnight ago seven were found
on Messrs. Seckhold and Swan’s land, and Mr.
Crighton, the nabbit Inspector, has placed a
trapper on the spot. The spectators within the
covered enclosure numbered 1100. Tremendous
enthusiasm was displayed by the spectators, the
proceeeings passing off with complete success.”
Now what sort of country must it be where 1100
spectators gather amid tremendous enthusiasm
because several rabbits have been discovered at
North Berry Jerry? Is this the Narandera idea
of humour ?
The first warship ever acquired' by an
Australian Government, the Yictorian steam
sloop Victoria, was sold at Melbourne last week
for £275 The Victoria brought provisions to the
Gulf of Carpentaria in hopes of meeting the ill-
fated Burke and Wills expedition, and carried the
Victorian contingent of volunteers to the N.Z.
war. It was said that Joe Melvin, of the Mel-
bourne D.T., was the first Victorian war corres-
pondent when he smuggled himself to the Soudan.
That was not so Howard Willoughby was cor-
respondent of the Melbourne Argus at the seat
of war in NZ. Willoughby is still on the Argus
staff and regains his perennial youth.
In the interests of civilisation, Quebec has,
it is cabled, been partly burned down. This will
give the dirty dilapidated old city a chance to be
born again in a decent sort of way. For a cen-
tury or so Quebec has been waiting, like a bank-
rupt tradesman, for a good fire to put it on its
legs again.
Colonel Sargood, a statesman, soldier, and
softgoods dealer—especially a softgoods dealer—of
whom Victoria is justly proud, declares that
“ there was no more legitimate work upon which
public money could be expended than that of cele-
brating the Jubilee.” Anything which promotes
the consumption of calico and gunpowder would
no doubt be approved of by the gallant “ Sort-
goods.” _____


G74r
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD Hid, SYDSEY,
is the Only Address of the
DIRECT SUPPLY
IMPORTING RIRECT,
and Selling ab LONDON PRICES,
In fact it is the Cheapest place for buying all kinds
of Musical Instruments and every pescciption of
Fittings, and purchasers will do well before buying
to compare our prices with others.
No' connection with any other firm.
Sol© Agents in Australia
iron
Eignor Zampanatns
CfiLBSRAI'Et)
stum mm»
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 1/6,
5/■ and 6/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d, Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &0,, &o.
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality j Miniature Accordeon, double bellows,
strong tone, 21/-
„ Ditto, oak wood, patent steel notes,
42/-
10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Tyrolese Violin, with case, bow, and
instruction book, 35/-.
„ Italian Violin, with case (lock and key)
Bow, Tutor, and extra set of
strings, £2 10s.
„ French Violin, with extra finished
case, full mounted bow, Tutor,
2 extra set of strings and fittings
£1 10s.
uwcet/mu
1/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 10/-, up to £l5.
Speciality : Steel noted Rosewood Concertina
in box with key 35/-
• Splendid Organ-toned Concertina,
in box with key... 21/-
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
£3 3s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
for £2 10s.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquities attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN.
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
THE AUSTRALIAN
LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY,
Limited.
EtIELAJD =
CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS.
syDneY.
INCORPORATED, JUNE, 1886.
CAPITAL, £100,,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £31,661 Is. STERLING.
THE AUSTRALIAN LOAN, DISCOUNT AND FINAN-
CIAL COMPANY, Limited,
transact all usual Ranking Business. Current Accounts
opened, Drafts issued, Bills Discounted, and Advance upon
all kinds of Commercial Securities.
GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received
AND
Interest Allowed
At Call, 4i per cent.
3 Months, 6 per cent.
6 Months, 7 per cent.
12 Months, 8 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHS.
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole or portion
of their deposits, without notice, and will be allowed current
interest for the period of deposit.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
H. M'NAMARA,
SifC&ETMY.
m
MANUFACTURERS
ir IMPORTERS OF
HATS"CAPS i*
438 ceTrce sr
SYDNEY 1
-- [ " - ‘
■■ 1 -
f-
■'i)
tttp
*✓
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERGK
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM IN THE COLONY.
PLUNGE AND. SHOWED BATHS.
DRAWING-KOOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a first-class chef, I am enabled
to cater for the public in a first-class style.
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
US ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
£ bjoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kind! of
.safldential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
iroroe. libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro
suion and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
Marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Sents and debts collected. From R. M. R.'a long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Few Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
ilabe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
spauJti.n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
" •♦ten'* to all business eotnutod to h oare
Good Stabling, and Loose Boxes lor Race Horses.
ALF. P. THOMAS,
Proprietor.
M . RILEY
0
// mm
S'".
Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
Td:j
V/
Scrofula on I\eck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching: and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and goi
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood 1
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVEI, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE- Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re»
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists aud wholesale
throughout Australia, Tasmania,and ISTew
-It ;!• Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
s':■ 1 . luticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
’•r;.- -•.vp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
Prepared bt the
V'ti if'*- '-rneS < liemio«l Co . Boston. TT « *
THE GREAT BLOOD PURIFIER
BRISTOL'S SARSAPARILLA
la the Safest and best Purifier of the Blood and Humors. It is infallible in its power
to cleanse the Human body, and where it is used according to directions, there can be no
unclean Eruptions, no Pimples, no Blotches, no Boils, but instead thereof a Clear Smooth
Soft Skin. The fact is of the first importance to Ladies who take pleasure in A FINE
COMPLEXION. No cosmetic, no wash or lotion will so surely give you a beautiful skin
as will the use of
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA,
and to those who are already afflicted with any skin disease, we say in all good faith try
this great medicine, and, our word for it, you will obtain all we here promise.
Full directions how to take this most valuable medicine will be found on the label of
each bottle.
Caution. —As there are In this market numerous Inferior so-called Sarsaparlllaa' the
Public who desire this great Blood Purifier should be careful to ask for Bristol’s.
OAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
m A D j & T,
NIIWI3S, Sc LAM B ,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and CCONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY oHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
Self-adjusting hammock
Patented.
CHAIR
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. t3t We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
sd
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl
oas sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Statlohety Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles fO*
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
S 3
:
BSt
Drawing boom cabi
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FUKHIIUXa W AKEBOUBKIIBir,
Importers of High-art
Fnrnitnre,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
fs
OOP PIANOFORTE,
dwOw guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brll ant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb,
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
df
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB,
Spring & O’Connell sta.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH ft r
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
Uni, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street
sd
Bedsteads, ail sisei
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Cannell and Spring Streets,
fsd
SPRING MATTRASSKB
Woven wire, bar t
make i also, Spiral Sprint *
Price, from lie. each.
WVWW »«»4 Mtin
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pina Tables, from
I3a. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20a. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 lOs.l Clothes Horses, from 10s. Sd.
Writing Tables, with drawers, from SQs.
BRADLEY, &BWTON. and LAMB


Al
W M “\
fsd
“Graciously Pleased.” —Again.
“Her Majesty has been pleased to give the Royal assent to the Irish Coercion Bill.”— Cablegram.
