

The Bulletin
MARSHALLS
Tonic Nervine’
(EEaiSTEEED.)
The Great Tonic Health Restorative of the Soothers Hemisphere,
Is a Warranted CURE]for all Diseases arising from
mm
II I
in
, Toman, or
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers in Town and Country.


$ CRTALirooia. rfiacw
W.H.PALINO 8cG UM,e
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
N \
r
V
f MUSIC IMPORTERS.
larseslstockinllreatesV/adety uiAustnalia-stvtn§ the
r HJalkJUie
* PAYMENT *V MONTH IV TO SUIT All CUSTOMERS
PALING &<5 , PALING it &
ARDMAN BROS.
iiiyinniifLrrrngmmmiiiminnrinrrTii
H
COiINiTiH'AG'TiORS
m
Office l FACTOffy. t/CWTOWH w BRANCH. CCOffCl ST. SYOA/CY
GoiPf*Srx*f
«*•
JRCACI£
RFf/NfPS
THB AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE i CORNER of MARKET and
YORK STKEETa, SYDNEY.
XNCOEPOttATED BV ACT OF EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J, F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, EBq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq
last Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12i per
cent per annum
Sonus paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent.)
.. „ 6 .. 11 per cent 1
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advances
upon all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed: —
At Call, 4 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent. ; 12 months, 7 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'KaMaEA, Secretary.
THOS. BU UK LAND,
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL Abl»»
OHA.xS.TBBB Towbrs.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineer!, Lincoln s
„ „ Langland't Bonndn Co,, Melboum,
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGBH,
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QDEENSLASI
COVERED.
STUDY ECOHOMf
»nd
Hue tour Umbrella Frame* n-
oorered and four
Paraaoli re-llned and made eqna
to Mew, al
J, SULLIVAN-8,
Ml George Street.
Brickfield Hill, between
Ul*er®ool and Bafchcrit Street*
s araiola made to matob «m
nwu Remain naatla exaewkel
ILLS' HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland,
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
travellers and Families will find the old well*
lues reputation maintained.
TtMgFBIIIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SAD AH EATON,
He ol Muswellbrook and Rockhampton,
Flret-olass Family and Commercial Hotel.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
ALFRED LISTER. Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete wltfei every comfort and convenience of
modem time® for the travelling public.
NORTHIUjIBERLAND HOTEL, GympieT
Fibst-olass Accommodation fob Visitobb.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
GiTJEEISrSI-i^lSriD.
Millar, carter, and co„
fShipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency,—-John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers. Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
ROB ert BUTCHER & CO
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out. Ot
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue Hclti,
BJRIBBAINB.
Opposite Parliament Houses. Botanical tftsuStas,
and Queensland Club.
FLKST-OLASB FAMIL* HUTBi.
ACCOMMODATION con Dft,
A Walter Meets Every Steamer,
■tn n and
yxietor,
telegram* pleas* adA*««a ►(!>
*, V. COLL UK,
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets*
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house In the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
Excelsior hotel, charters towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected In above
wn, situated corner of Gill and Church-Btreets.
W. M. &OUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
TO a,l Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tio-
Doloreuz, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to c be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared b» the Bole Froprletoii
8. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohimlst,
681 George-etreet only.
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarp aulln, Oilskin Maker
• 296 Pitt-street.
I
ta&b&vijH OfiMUt mjiP
M 6 fiftsr
Marquees on Hire,
THE ORICINAL
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HICHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD.!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUC H S
KtCt IVtO THt IN? CRN AT I ON A l
PR ItE MEDAL
BYjAMEsDlAflttOtt
Harbour 'S t SroniT
Sold b> All Crocer* and Storekiepen
w
ess
DIXON & SONS
TOBACOC WORKS,
SYDNEY.
T'VIXSON & SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTOR?
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES TB®
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF Imported
into New South Wales, and hence the great sale
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacoo I®
Australia,
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPION
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 machine made,
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian leal
and Paris rice tissue. Wiill size sold by all
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarettes.
MKVB' ZEAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
» TiiB'i'IMOWI i Alift ir-'TTV
Jfrom the Soudan Contingent Hoapits
t Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
it _ Stndentslfrom Sydney Hospital
3:4“:4$54
5—44.. "~1‘m“
'17: ',—':_2:;';i
325521.35? " I
£253.;sz -' 7 f3» 91x99.
“:4 ‘ Y,“ :44} ‘ 4‘
c “W W ;
;( J‘Iw\\\\l»§§ with“ '
\ \\'\Q:‘Q‘w\ - \ '
, T "\
L1 ‘ A-»3.'_;-"“..‘..'.‘_.' ’
MONK'S
pile mixture.
2*. 6d. per Bottle.
Aik for it and take no mbititnte.
ti an invaluable oure. Seel
2s. 6d. pec bottle,
[Sole Agents j
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY:
r i and ;- ~
44 Little c°lL|Nb tbeet East,, Melbourne.
MOISTDKI’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoee Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per botblej
[MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE.
MINING EXCHANGE .HOTEL,
ku.'*6YMPIB, QUEENSLAND.
win
1 Jtoi u Om"
trt
The Cbntkal Hotel. Private Sitting Room,
Rendezvous for all parties engaged In mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOW NEVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
a HANRAN, Junk., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office: Townsville,.H. Queensland.
G. S. CURTIS,
Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR, BOLTON (of the firm of Lowrs and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling publlo that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge ol
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, oentrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STARLING for (he aooommodft<
Mon of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCB
within five minutes walk of the Hotel. Coaches
DAILY VBOM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note she Addkbbb—
„M I 0 » AB L BOLTON
(Of the titm of Lowry Is Bolton),
8 UfN B U R 8 T HOTEL,
TTTW MOUNT MORGAN.
rpHB REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
B»*ei labour, national*, and Mas, writing mnoh farter
Usan expert pen-men, and etmdenilng Matter to leu than
one-half the tpaee occupied b* pen writing. Beautiful
•opiei mm be taken In the uiual manner In the letter preee'
Bold kiMnlb,
IMMAT ft OOtf
41*
fgf
c
WANOncTUftCRS
*IMFO
ORTERS
or
HATS CAPS&t
4JB CEORCE s
SYDNEY
’H i
4
rpo PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNT*#
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything in Sydney, send to
R. GIBBINGS & Co.,
C3-ETSI .A-GKEUSTTS, -
OF
323 GEORGE STREET-
SYDNEY.
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED A 1
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
M OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QNEENSLAND-
Under the distinguished patronage of Hip EX'
celleney Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Accom® 0 ’
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. Fro®®
the balconies a splendid view can be obtained
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a ffi"
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passed®*
and mail coaches daily from Rockhampton flD °
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, P r0 ’
pritor, of the firm of Monckton and Co.
JVLOTJ ITTT^IVEOZRG-^ISr-
QUEESBLAND IiTIOHAL HOIfl"
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up,
is now reaiy for the reception of visit 0 ® 8 '
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprietr '
JAY’S PRINuE OF WALES HOTEI*
ST. KILDA.
THlSflrst class Hotel offers superior accom® o **®,
tion to visitors aad residents, being in a health*
and central position, fronting the Bay, near E°’
planadj and Beths, and within five minutes'
of the St. Kilda Railway Station Private suit®
of apar ments. Ladies’ drawing room. Gentle® o ®,
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths witb° tt
extra charge.
BLACK’S LABOUR BUREAU^
i and 5 CORRIDOR.
TATTERS ALLS BUILDINGS.
HUNTER AND CaSTLKRKAGH STREETS,
““ rfO
Owing to other engagements these Premia oo
LET, Furnished or Unfurnished, with imm°d ia
entry. „
AGENTS WANTED
To handle our fast selling linea. Special indu°?
ment offered to first-class salesmen.
Full parcioulars on application to
18. TOiTES.
6 BRIDGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
~'vlec/' (, /
cMkNKS x
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
POMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COST!
ttfMOH
lIMVI
maB' oH
gNV
jfjHVHO
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGB,
ESTIMATED FOB COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER
AGENI^
Sydney:
111. PITT STREET.
Melbourne
22, KING STREP 7


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 413
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1887.
Price., Od.
FUSSY PARKES, HOW FAT AND PROSPEROUS HE WILL BE WHEN HE HAS EATEN ALL THE CANARIES!
<e Do you see the sly
Cat ? ”
“ Yes, I see the sly
Cat and the Blrd-eage
There is a Bird' in the
cage, and its name is
Crown Lands."
“ Do you see the
Bird-cage now ?”
“ Rather ! I see
the Bird- cage and
the sly Cat; but
where is the Bird?”
Ask the eat!


“THE bulletin,"
Tlie National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO ,
Limited.
THE
CENTENNIAL BULLETIN.
— ♦
TO AGENTS AND READERS.
The 26th day of January, 1888, being the
100th Anniversary of the day when our fore-
fathers landed at Botany Bay, “ THE
BULLETIN ” will CENTENNIATE on the
19th lost, hi a SPECIAL NUMBER of un-
usual magnificence.
All orders for copies of the CENTENNIAL
“ BULLETIN ” should be sent in before 81st
instant.
+
“The Kiillelin” Christmas Number.
“THE BULLETIN” Newspaper Co.
regret that they have been unable to fulfil
many orders (amounting in the aggregate to
at least 16,000 copies) for extra supplies of
ihe Christmas Number of “The Bulletin.”
The demand was so unprecedentedly great that,
although the Christmas edition was larger
than in any former year, ihe supply fell so far
short of requirements that the entire number
had been sold out by half-past six o'clock on
the morning of publication, copies being dis
posed of by retail vendors on the following day
at at least double the published price.
For the information of readers and adver-
tisers, it may be mentioned that 9360 copies of
11 The Bulletin’s ” Christmas Number were
sent to Queensland alone on firm order, and
that just on 13,000 extra copies were ordered in
advance by Victorian agents, many of whom
have since unavailingly wired for further sup-
plies, As an illustration of the widespread
character of “ The Bulletin's” circulation, it
may be stated that 5800 copies were taken by
New Zealand, over 2)00 by Tasmania, and
1100 by Western Australia; that a South
African Agent wrote two months since remit-
ting the money for 200 copies of “ The Bulle-
tin” Chrismas edition for sale among the
Australian miners on the local goldfields; and.
that ISO copies are sold weekly by a single Lon-
don agent. Not a copy of “ The Bulletin ”
Christmas Number -is now procurable in any
quarter —a statement which cannot be made in
regard to the special edition published by nny
other weekly paper. On the day after publica-
tion the Sydney Bookstall Co., whose first sup-
ply was 2900 copies, had sold out, and applied
for 800 additional copies, which could not he
obtained. These are square, solid facts, cap-
able of verification.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, IEBT.
The Future Rulers of the World.
The undoubted fact that the world’s dry
land amounts to about fifty-three million
square miles and the world’s population to
nearly fourteen-hundred millions of people,
is in no way surprising. Or, at least, if it
surprises at all, it is by reason of the great
extent of the ground and the Bmall number
of the inhabitants. With a little less than
twenty-seven people to the square-mile, a
little more than twenty-four acres for each
maDj woman, and child would seem to be
the present allowance. Say that one-sixth of
this amount—a pretty wide margin—was
unsalted for cultivation either through
northern snows or tropic sands, there would
still remain twenty acres for each person
now above ground. Considering the
numbers who in various countries have to
derive their sustenance from a single acre, it
is not too much to say that the present
population of the earth is absurdly below
the globe’s carrying capacity. It is not,
however, with this suggestive fact we have
here to deal. The time is rapidly ap-
proaching when men will pause to think —
they are doing so here and there already—
how it comes that, on a planet capable of
supporting in comforb twenty times its pre-
sent population, the great bulk of those now
upon it are doomed to wearing work while
the cunning few have but to play, with a
fair prospect of having a sempiternal frolic
in the world to come. This, after all, is the
great issue forcing itself daily to the front—
why A, who co. ; s nothing, and is incapable
of doing anything useful, should not only
live well but actually govern B, who works
his fingers off’ and his soul out merely to sup ■
port Ain inglorious idleness. It may be that
A can explain, can show how necessary he is
in Nature’s economy, just as the stomach
proved its usefulness in the body ; but, so
far, it must be admitted that he has never
tried to do so, or has failed ignomuiously
when he attempted the task.
* * #
What we have now to deal with is the state-
ment, made in a recent issue of a London
paper, that, in a few years (bar accidents),
one-third of the world’s dry land, and nearly
a third of its people, will be governed by the
grandchildren of the present King of Den-
mark. This monarch, it will be remembered,
stands unrivaUed as a matchmaker. One of
his daughters is Empress of Russia, while
another— Tennyson’s “ Sea King’s daughter
from over the sea”—would be England's
Queen should anything unfortunately occur
to cause-a vacancy. King Christian's son,
too, rules the Hellenes, and, long ere this,
has, no doubt, considered how neatly Al
bania and Macedonia would round off his
dominions on the north should the final
struggle for the sick man’s fast-disappearing
heritage occur during his regime. Chris-
tian himself is sovereign of a little peninsula
which, with its tiny neighbour, Holland,
may possibly disappear when next the Ger-
man mastiff opens his hungry jaws. Life, in
either of these Bmall countries, must be un-
comfortable whenever M. Bismarck has a
bad night’s rest. Denmark and Greece,
then, may bb left out of the reckoning, for,
even should they preserve their indepen-
dence, their territories and their populations
are so small that no account need be taken
of them. It is to England and to Russia
we must look in trying to estimate the
chances of Christian’s grandsons becoming
King of the one and Emperor of the other.
To start with Russia. The present ruler
of that mighty Empire is so secure upon his
throne, and so enshrined in the hearts of his
people, that every street through which he
drives requires to be lined with troops,
every house he passes occupied by infantry.
When he undertakes a railway-journey to
appear in person at the ancient seat of his
Empire, every conduit and tunnel has to be
searched, every furlong of the route guarded
by vigilant Cossacks; while, that nothing
may be left undone to tliow bis confidence
in his faithful subjects, half-a dozon dummy
trains, with dummy Czars looking pleasantly
from dummy state carriages, reduce the risk
to a minimum. In none of the principal
streets of his metropolis dare he appear ex-
cept in the centre of a battalion, that, in its
turn, is surrounded with police spits, who,
dressed as peasants, receive their “Little
Father ” with a filial demonstrativeness at
once genuine and touching. Nowhere in his
vast Empire is his person free from
outrage except when surrounded by
chevaux-de-frise of lances. Nor are things
much better when he remains in
the bosom of his family. For him all the
pleasant associations connected with the
word “ home ” have no meaning. His
palace is a fortress few are allowed to
approach. He is a prisoner, not a ruler, in
his own country. Yet, in spite of all the
precautions taken for his safety, threatening
letters fall from the folds of his serviette at
table, warning missives find their way under
his pillow. A few months ago—so the
generally-credited report goes—he arrested
ihe approach of a high court official by Buf-
falo Bill’s effective plan of sending a bullet
through him. The officer’s manner did not
please the Czar, so, to prevent any unplea-
santness, the latter wisely adopted the
Colorado system of getting the lead on first.
Nothing approaching in grim ludicrousntss
the everyday life of the ruler of all the
Russias haß been seen In Earope since
Louis XI. barricaded himself in the castle
of Piesais, or, nearly two hundred years sub-
sequently, Cromwell changed his bedroom
every night after having perused Colonel
Titus’s famous pamphlet “Killing no Mur-
der.” Considering everything, then, the
chances in favour of the Romanoffs long con-
tinuing on the Muscovite throne are not
very encouraging. Within the last few
months the Emperor’s advisers, dreading
the levelling doctrines leavening the mind
of “ Young Russia,” have made a decided
attempt to roll back the tide of freedom by
proscribing education. They say, and say
i ru’y, what English divines have preached
for centuries, that knowledge has a tendency
to make persons dissatisfied with the station
of life “ in which ib has pleased God to
place them.” Our eighteenth century p as-
fcors ascended in droves the back-stairs of
St. James’s to pour into courtesans’ laps the
money to buy bishoprics. Having secured
mitres by their conspicuous learning and
piety, their next step was to Impress on
their flocks the heinousness of desiring to
rise above the position in which an All-Wise
Creator had fixed them. It is the same in
Russia at this moment. The monarch, the
aristocrat, and the priest, the three great
enemies of mankind, have taken fright at
the thought of the young Slav’s thirst for
knowledge and have cut off the supply. But
they dallied too long—they should have
begun earlier. Enough good seed has now
been sown over Muscovy from the Arctic
Circle to the Crimea, to materially lessen
the chances for King Christian’s grandson.
» *
*
Let us turn to England. British mon-
archists have much to to thankful fir. But,
above all, have they to thank the kind fate
which gave a daughter instead of a son to the
Duke of Kent on that May morning in 1819.
The accession of a female alone saved the
Monarchy from the contempt into which the
five preceeding reigns had brought it. It
may, of courre, be said that nothing cju’d
wreck an institution which even the bestial
Georges and the meriy-andraw William
could not destroy. Figns were not wanting,
however, that another sovereign or two like
the fourth and fifth Guelph would have
brought the patient British people to con-
sider whether even the Creator was justified
in always choosing such instruments to work
out His inscrutable designs. It was the
appearance of a young and virtuoas female
upon the throne that did so much to mend
legitimacy’s crutch. But there is a wide-
spread impression amoßg those best oompe-
tentto give an opinion that, cn the retirement
or decease of our present gracious Sovereign,
the institution which owe 3 to her so much
will bs asked to show cause why afresh lease
should be granted to it. The persons res-
ponsible for the foregoing opinion, coincide
in thinking that the Prince of Wales may
succeed in reaching the apex of the political
fabric, but that, whether his reign is destined
to be shore or long, it would le pretty safe
to prognosticate a very shorb one, or none at
all for his weak-minded son, the grandson of
KiEg Christian, Dcuing v hat is called the
Victorian era men have travelled far and
fast. The delicacy that prompts them to
ignore the old-world absurdities of a Court
wl e i presided over by an elderly lady, wo aid,
in these days, quietly give way in presence of
a Court where a middle-aged or a young man
was Sultan.
Ths character of that ascetic personage, the
Prince of Wales, is now fairly well-known
to the British people. Notwithstanding
that he stands so deservedly high as a man
of absolutely pure morals, it would be folly
to ignore the fact that he is not so strong on
the intellectual side—in a word, that he is
not a profound man. From what is known
of his eldest son, too, the opinion is becom-
ing general that his contribution to the
stream of European intellect will not cause
it to overflow. The question, then, that will
probably press for solution about the time
of the next coronation will be, “ Do we, the
British people, get the worth of our money ?
Assuming that a monarch is necessary, would
It not be possible to procure a bettt r article
at a cheaper price?” Even should this
question not become unduly prominent when
the next occasion arises for the Archbishop
of Canterbury tousj the coronation chrism,
it will certainly come forward with a bound
on the subsequent occasion. Men, in fact,
are beginning to sea that if monarchs are re-
markable at all it is in being, as a rule,
rather inferior to the average man. Ib is
when once firmly convinced of this that the
question naturally arises, “Why not ob-
tain the best sample instead of putting up
with an inferior one ? Why give half-a-millicn
a year to a young man who could guide a
cab much better than an Empire, when
trained and mature statesmen can be obtaiied
for a few thousands ? ” If there is anything
more delightfully humorous than to see a
young man with a vacuous face and a slant
ing forehead, whose proper place is in the cor
set department of a drapery store, engaged
in holding the balance between the great
contending parties in a mighty State, we have
not heard of ib. Compared with this mammoth
joke the best efforts of these pests of society,
comic writers, are commonplace and dull.
* * •
From what has been said it would appear as
if the grandsons of the astute Christian are
by no meam sure of coming in fir the r third
share of the earth’s surface. Indeed, in the
language of the stable, the odds are
considerably against them. So far, at all
events, as England and her ctlomes are
concerned, the time is almost ripe for a
governmental change in the direction of
common-sense. Ib is quite time that people
who, when they require to take a journey by
rail, insist on having all the stations en route
closed to the public, should be turned ad rife
to make an honest living in some humble
sphere for which they are adapted. Thefuture
rulers of the world will be neither Guelph nor
Romanoff, Hapsburg nor Eohenzollern,
but intelligent and mature men of goodreporb,
chosen periodically by the people to carry
out the latter’s wishes. Two of the greatest
nations, one in the Eastern Hemisphere and
the other in the Western, have already
grown out of that abject state of mind that
sees nothing humiliating in clothing a vulgar
or ignorant man or woman with the attri-
butes of a god. And, surely, the time is
almost at hand when Swinburne’s famous
lines, slightly altered, will become a cosmo-
politan anthem :
“ Clear the way, my Sires and Madames,
You have had your day.”
Australia Feeds Corruption.
“ I find the air very salubrious,” said Lady Car-
teret to Swift shortly after her arrival in Ireland.
“Don't let the Government hear you say so,
madam” answered the Dean, “or they 11 tax it.”
And such was ever the wont of British
Governments, for the British tax-payer has
alwajs been an excellent milch cow, dull,
bovine, submissive, lactescent. Of late, how-
ever, he has made some stir. A Civil
Service Commission has been issued to
inquire into the extravagant expenditure of the
Departments of State. Just fancy! The little
games of the aristocratic permanent officials rudely
inquired into! It i9 too shockbg! Among the
departments thus op ned to investigation, it will
be found, if the Commission does its work honestly,
which is doubtful, that the particular department
in which jobbai y, corruption, waste, mismanage-
ment, incepacity and wholesale swindling have
reached high-water mark is the Admiralty.
Lord Randolph Churchill, “ the aristocratic,
democratic, acrobatic’ statesman, having fallen
into a auk recently wiih his party, played a
scurvy trick upon them by telling tales out of
school. In a smart speech—for he Is a clever little
chap, al! houghhe Is alord-he told the open -mouthed
British tax-payer some secrets about the Navy.
His revelations amounted to this: that millions
on millions of pounds sterling, voted during many
years past for the construction of ships of war
and the materials to furnish them with, after pay-
ing a libeiat toll to the aristocratic managers of
the Department, were muddled away upon designs
and plans which proved to he hopelessly unworki
able and useless. The Government dockyards, in
consequence, are littered with curling cutlasses,
guns that burst, sheila that refuse to burst, fuse
that won’t work, electrical appliances that go
wrong, gear of various kiids that has no earthly
use, all produced at outrageous expense, accord-
ing to plans and designs farn'sbed by the sons,
sons-in-law, uncles and cousiis of my lord llie
Kail and his grace tbe Duke.
* * *
And then the accounts he gave of the great
ironclads, produced at the ccst of half-a-million
a-piece, and subsequently requiiing another
quarter of a million or so to make them seaworthy
in calm weather ; they made the B. T. draw in
bis breath and feel as if there was an earthquake.
It vas pi.iable to see the anxiety with which the
poor wretch awaited the results of the “ Jewbiily”
review of the navy, and more pitiable still a
htndred times to hear his crow of flabby triumph
when all passed off with only the bursting of a
steam-pipa, which mangled half-a-dczen marines.
Why, he actually turned upon little Randy, and
expostulated with him fer his rash statements
[N.B.—The Royal Navy was at anchor during the
entire review, and the weather was calm.] The
First Lord of the Admiralty, however, was not so
cock-a-whoop as the B T., when questioned in the
House of Commons. On the contrary, like Uriah
Heap, he was very 'umble. He admitted the truth
of. Churchill's statements. But more astonish-
ing still, he subsequently confessed (under pres-
sure) that he was powerless to put an end to this
intolerable state of things in the Department of
which he was the head, owing to the influence of
‘ the families concerned.” The British Admiralty
is rrn in the interests of—England ! Psha, no !
In the interests of “ the families concerned ” —the
noble lords who dance at State balls and lavish
laces and jewels on thsir women, while hunger
withers the vitals of the children of Demos.
Although the B.T. is calmer on the matter of
naval expenditure since the Jubilee “triumph,”
one never knows when he will cut up rough again,
and perhaps refute supplies ; and a 3 it is a wise
plan to make provision for the rainy day, the
coble lords, with careful forethought, do so charac-
teristically. They cast their eyes upon Australia,
young, rich, ignorant of “official” ways, and at
once they see their chance of doing a clever stroke
of business. A few snob-statesmen nobbled, the
‘' loyalty ” crank turned on, some polite despatches
from the Colonial Office, and the thing is done.
Australia sends her goodred goldto be sweated first
and then muddled away by “the families con-
cerned,” and in return ste gets a few more de-
crepit hulks like the Nelson which notoriously
cannot weather with safety even half a gale !
it * *
This was the plan. Most fortunately hes Queens-
land spoiled it for the present, but it is to be
deplored that the men who crushed this black-
guard attempt to bolster up the most corrupt
departmentin the corrupt British service with Aus»
tralian money, are now going about among their
frisnds and declaring that they opposed the
Naval Forces Bill to “ spite Griffith,” and not
because they objected to its principle.
See what it is to be governed by snob states-
men ! The bliss of it! What a keen bargain
they are wont to drive with the manufacturer
who stocks their warehouses, but to apply the
same principles of business to public affairs and
save Australian coin from the Admiralty cess-
pool—spirit of loyal y forbid it! No, no. They
may be forced to do their duty to their country to
“spite Griffith,” but they are too true to the
lofty and enduring principles of snobbery even to
dream of such a thing for the mere sake of vulgar
Democratic Australia,
• * #
Things have come to this pas 3 in 4 ‘ Democratic ”
Australia that ib Is a surprise and relief to find
one man of courage and integrity in all the broad
land. After tim hogwash we have been deluged
with lately, Chief Justice Hioinbotham's plain
speaking to Lord Carnarvon comes like a bracing
sea breeze on a muggy day in summer. If we
had a few more such men as the ab e and truly
Aust-alian “Chief ” we would not hear again of the
Naval Forces Bill, or of British effoits to milk
the country in order to nourish official corruption.
“Fifty-Thousand Pounds.”
Going up the Parramatta River, just past Cocka-
too Island, on the left shore, you may see a beauti-
fal piece of land about thirty or forty acres in
extent, well-grassed, but wholly unimproved. Ask
one of the steamer-hands and he will tell you
that that is the bio of land over whichthere was a
lawsuit recently; that the owner took it years
ago for a bad debt of £800, and that it is now
worth £50,000 ; that a lawsuit was brought to get
possession of it, but that the claimants were de-
feated. That is the history of it: now think over
what you have been told. Many years ago the
owner took it for a bad debt of £800, and it is now
worth £50,000. There are no improvements on it,
therefore the owner did not give it the added
value, which comes simply from the rise in land-
values everywhere. Alongside is a favourite
suburb where land is eagerly bought at
five and six pounds per frontage foot.
The owner, therefore, can sell out and get fifty
thousand of the little gold counters which we call
sovereigns, but which really represent men's
labour and ingenuity. He can henceforward live
at ease ; he can command tho services of a retinue
of servants; he can eat up the produce of the
labour of scores of men, all by reason of
his £50,000 : that £50,000 is a tax l*id
on the community at large and paid more
or less by every member of it. You, O reider,
whatever you are—clerk, shopkeeper, lawyer,
'bus-driver, stockman, squatter, school-teacher—
you and we and all of ui are paying this tax: our
labour goes in parb to support ourselves, in part
to the general estate, and in part to make
up this £50,000, and similar sums, to land
owners, and what right has the owner of that
land to receive that money? None whatever I
He chose, long ago, to invest £800 ir a property
reburniag no interact ; if he h*d used the


land ha could have had his interest at 1(
—aye, or 20 or perhaps 50 par cant., but he h
left. tha land Idle, and so cannot grumble a
get log no annual return for his money. i
oourae, he is entitled to get his £BOO back ; but
he entitled to any more ? No, a thousand tim
no 1 Why should you and I give our labour anc
our children’s labour, and live in poor houses, anc
work early and lata, and toil and pinoh and co
trive, to make up this £50,000, or that of any oth
landowner? Why should we harg this millston
round our necks ? Why should we pay this colo
sal tax ?
* * *
To the untutored in such matters, the injustl
is not at first apparent. They don’t see how th
fifty thousand is paid by the general public. Toe
say : “ The man who give 3 him the money is th
only one to look out. The servants whom
afterwards employs, and the tradespeople fro
whom he buys with the £so,ooo—they all get th
worth of their work and their goods, and they ar
not hurt.” Wait a moment, and we will show yc
as clear as the sun at noonday how this mone
falls on the general public.
* * *
The land at first belonged to the State, and wa
sold for a mere trifle. Passing through variou
owners it got at last to our friend, who gave £BO
for it. There it stopped. The State progressed
the land, which, like the air, is needed by, anc
should therefore be the properly of all, was re
quired for all purposes. It was wanted for dwei
lings for the population, it was wanted to
wharves, it was wanted for gardens. Stroll dow
the poorer parts of Pyrmonb and the Glebe, anc
see the filthy, dir by dwellings of the poorer classes
see the little children playing in the yards, s
called, 10 feet by 20, These people wanted tha
land, and all around it land was used and occupied
and prices went on and rose. This bio o’ land ad
vanced from £BOO to £50,000, and where did th
increase come from ? Did the owner add it to th
land ? No 1 If there had been no more progres
in N.S. Wales, no more work, no more demand fo
land than when £BOO was the prloe of It, would i
have advanced la value? Of course not. To what
then, is the increase due ? To the labou
of the whole population which has trans
formed what was once howling bush into
a populous suburb. If the people of New South
Wales had not built Sydney, had not worked anc
worked, building the suburbs, extending com
munlcation, improving natural opportunities, tha
bit of land would never have risen in value.
Therefore, we, the people, added the value, and ye
we pay i n , to the landowner. Do you see lb now'
Leb us make it even clearer. This land is very
suitable for a park, and is the only available land
in the vicinity. It is proposed that the Govern
ment resume the land for that purpose, Should
this be done the country will pay to the owner
£50,000 to buy back a piece of land for which the
country only received originally a few pence. It
is evident that in this event the £50,000 will be
paid by the community at large; the debt-
burdened citizens of New South Wales will add to
their load of debt, and will hand over to one ol
their number (who, for all that we know, may
never have lived one day in the colony since he
took that land for the bad debt of £800!) the result
in money of the work of hundreds of them,
simply to get back a right to use a piece of land
which belonged to them originally, and which has
not been in the slightest degree improved—a
sensible proceeding surely.
* • «
What is true of this piece of land, is true of all
freehold land. We should never have parted
with it, but, having done so, our next course i 3 to
consider how to correct the error. In a former
article, on resumption without compensation, it
was pointed out by The Bulletin that a land-tax
would cure this evil; but, to do so, a land-tax
must be so severe as to amount to a resumption.
A small tax would only intensify the evil. There
Is no middle course between absolute resumption
and absolute dominion by the landlord, and this
we promise hereafter to demonstrate. We have
dealt here solely with the question of the justice
of private property in land, and have shown it to
be unjust. The same thing ha 3 been urged in our
columns so often as to be almost a truism to those
who have acoepted the doctrine, but there are
many people who think that any questioning of
vested interests is a sacrilege To such we would
say: Do you consider you are fairly treated in
having to give up a share of your earnings to buy
this park and make up this £50,000?
A Matter for Regret?
At the recent banquet to that travelling bagman
of Imperial Federation, Lord Carnarvon, it wa
emphatically asserted that it is a matter of grea
regret that the United States separated from
Great Britain. As this is a statement which i
becoming rather common, it would be well if i
were carefully considered by the people of Aus
tralia, to whom it is a matter of special interesb
If an event is to be regretted some misfortune or
loss must be connected with it. Hence, if the in
dependence of the United States is regretable, it
has occasioned some loss or misfortune. If it has
who has suffered the loss ? Let us see.
* * *
Had those who are now the sixty millions of
American citizens remained fellow-subjects with
the forty millions of Europeans under the Crown
of Eogland, there would now be a power under the
sceptre of Victoria such as ha 3 not been seen
s ince the world began. One hundred millions of
Anglo-Saxons subject to monarchical and aristo-
cratic institutions would form an Empire that
would dominate and terrify the rest of the world.
Yet what would the mighty race of American
freemen gain by forming the central pedestal of
such an institution ? It is their great fortune to
be able to wrap their souls entirely in the solution
of the grand problem of how best to ensure for them-
selves perfectpeace, happiness, and prosperity. Sup-
posing that, instead of exclusive devotion to ques-
tions of this kind, they were compelled to devote
their thoughts and resouroes to the destruction of
the South American Republics, and so make their
Imperial wire-pullers masters of the whole Ameri-
can Continent; suppose they were engaged in
planting the flag of Britain from the Persian Gulf
to the Chinese Sea; were busied in driving the
Dutch out of the Indian Ocean ; were pushing the
Russians back into Siberia; were expelling the
French from Africa; or were generally snubbiog
or hectoring the foreign world : What would they
gain? They would gain what the Roman people
did when they had subdued the world, and that
was vice and corruption, loss of the very idea of
human liberty, beggary and starvation for the
masses, and fabulous wealth for the satrap classes.
Results such as these would be a sorry exchange
for that perfect peace, the world’s respect, the
rights of man, aid th'ss cindit’o s of life which
ensure ai equal chance cf cjmf Jr; and happiness
to the vast bulk of the citizens of the Republio.
Now, theirs is the lob where—
One moves in silence by the stream,
With sad, yet watobiul eyes,
Calm as the patient planet’s gleam
That walks the clouded skies.
“ Along its front no sabres shine,
No blood-red pennons wave ;
It's banner bears the single line—
‘ Oar duty is to save.’ ”
And should they change this for a fate where—
“ One marches to the drum-beat’s roll,
The wide-mouthed clarion’s bray,
And bears upon a crimson ccroll,
‘ Oar duty is to slay.’ ”
But, perchance, it may be said that a hundred
millions of Anglo Saxons under a monarchy would
not necessarily spend their time in bullying and
crushing other peoples. To this the reply is that
the foreign career of Britain, under royal and
aristocratic guidance, has been one long scene of
aggression ; so much so that she has always been
either hated, feared, or despised, and has never
yet gained the esteem of a single power, either
weak or strong. Her pathway round the world
ha* bean a track of blood, and to main-
tain it she has pauperised Ihe massis of her
people, and has benefi ed none save her merchant
princes and her hereditary idols To these, it is
most true, it would be an immense advantage
had they American swords to increase their prey ;
and, better still, if there were no splendid example
to the subjects of Victoria of how well mankind
can do without hereditary monarchs, lords, and
privileges, Looking at the matter in this light,
one can well admit .that the separation of the
United States has been a great misfortuae. It
will be another such mi.fortune when the Austra-
lian States shall learn to despite a position of sub-
jection, and shall follow in the line 3 of the great
Republio. Especially may we say so now, when in
addition to providing fat billets for a contingent
of the insolvent and pariah section of the British
aristocraoy, she is furnishing a subsidy of £120,000
per annum to maintain a much greater number cf
them or their offspring. God speed the day when
this new misfortuae shall come : for then, and not
till then, will the light of Australia arise and
shine.
PLAIN INGUSH.
Bishop Barry and “Intolerant
Sectarianism”
I would rather have the narrowest and most intolerant
sectarianism than the easy toleration of a supercilious or
sceptical indifference."-Bishop Barry, as reported by Daily
Christi anit y in’Australia, and particularly Chr
tianity in N.S.W., is fortunate ia having, a 3 tie
exponent of the latter-day phase of its aim 3 anc
aspirations, and the guardian of the temporal anc
spiritual interests of a very important section o !
the Kingdom of Heaven upon earth, no leas
master of sophistry than Alfred, by the Grac
&o , ecclesiastical “ boss ” of Sydney and sace
dotal director of the Anglicans in Australia,
course, the brand of Christianity preached by th
welt-fed Bishop is a very different thing from t le
Christianity practiced by Him of old, who said :
“Feed my Bheep.” Bishop Barry says:
never give money in the street.” Jesus refused
the protection of Peter’s sword and declared that
the cause of God wanted no aid from mat.
Bishop Barry organises campaigns of illogio
spouters and insolvent politicians, and seeks
bolster up the falling cause of sectarianism
“ shores ” filched from the scaffolding of Christia
Defence lunacy. Christ said : “Take no thought
for the morrow, what ye shall eat or wherewitha
ye shall be clothedbut Bishop Barry dances
from Dan unto Beersheba, or from Tenterfleld
Wcdonga, from Wilcannia to Newcastle, with
ohrism-washed saucer in his hand, soliciting func s
for a new cassook. There are fe w who dare cha -
lenge comparison with the founder of the Christia
religion. Bishop Barry doesn’t attempt to. H
is not so ambitious. He is perfectly willing t
take his place with Alva and Philip of Spain
with Bloody Mary and Bishop Bonnor, with Ner
and Caligula and Domitian, with Catherine d
Medicis and Charles IX. and Louis XIV
of France, with the persecutors of the Waldens;s
w ith the Inquisitors in Spain, with the Puritan bigot i
woo hunted down the Quakers in America, wit a
the Russian peasants who hate and slay the Jew
of to-day, with the Mohammedans wao kill a
who will not submit to Allah and his prophet
with the Esoaped Nun and Sir Henry Parkes
and, in short, with narrow-mi aded and “ intoleran:
sectarianism” of all and ovary description what
ever, wherever it may be found, for logic canno
afford to make any nice differences between th
sects which, according to Bishop Barry’s taste
may or miy not be “judiciously” intolerant
Indeed, Bishop Barry is now doing what the
Church has in efface done long ago, although i i
does not make audible admission. Bishop Barry
has renounced Christianity. He has entirely
shown Organised Churchism to be what it is—an
engine for spoliation. He has cleared it by his
recent utterances of that spirit of charity which
has alone hitherto recommended it to men. He
fancies that the world has become so accustomed
to Christianity that it will bs tolerated without
its outward veil of lave and sweetness, long after
it has outlived its original motive force. He has
disrobed it utterly. He ha 3 shown us its modern
brutalised aspect in all its hideous nakedness.
Christ said: “Love your enemies, do good to
them that despPefudy use you.” aishop Barry
says : “ Hate your enemies.” He has shown the
people of Australia that he is not at all deceived
by the fetich he pretends to worship. Charity t
Spirit of love! No fear I “I never give
money in the street," and “ I would rather
have the narrowest and most intolerant sectarian-
ism than the easy toleration of a supercilious or
sceptical Indifference.” Of course you would,
Bishop Barry You live on that sort of thing.
“ Intolerant sectarianism ” enables you to dwell
in a princely suburban mansion, to daily feed on
sumptuous dishes your alleged Master never tasted
or even sniffed the savour of. “Intolerant sec-
tarianism ” enables you to appear in a splendidly
appointed cathedral, in imposing state, clad in
embroidered canonicals, and the same spirit of
bigotry you affect so much to admire aocepts your
lightest utterance as a GoD-dellvered revelation
from the Infinite, But still, Bishop Barry, you
are foolish to make such admissions, for the faith
still lives in some whom it is not wise to unde-
ceive. To such you have proclaimed: “I never
give money in the street,” and, “ I refuse to exer-
oise toleration to an adversary.” In other words,
you have no charity—neither charity for the mind,
nor charity for the body. You are selfish and
ca’lous, and stupidly honest enough to admit it.
Christ said: “Feed my sheep,” and Bishop
Barry adds—“on brickbats.” Christ said:
“ Love one another.” B shop Barry says : “ Hate
one another, bat especially hate the fellow who is
bo sceptically indifferent about fcis soul that he
will not pay me for looking after it.’ Yet this is
the spirit of Christianity at the present day. If
you would know how far it has sunk, behold
what Christians will tolerate from their professed
leaders without rebuking them !
Cremation, or Quicklime?
Now that the world is getting crowded up by live
men, it might be advantageous if the dead could
be induced to sit a little closer, and take up less
room than heretofore. Modern cemeteries appear
to be arranged for the express purpose of spread-
ing out the deceased and filling the largest pos-
sible area with useless bones, and coffins are made
durable and strong in order to pressrve the en-
closed remains to pollute the earth and air as long
as possible, while the ground which they occupy
is badly wanted for growing cabbagee. The
marble monuments of the white man’s graveyard
hold down not the silenb loveliness of death re-
garding which poets have raved and painters
have spilt gay colours for so many years-but
masses of semi-fluid putrefaction, and the busts
and inscriptions, the broken columns and stony
vases and other adornments, are canted to one
side by the expansive force of the malarious gast s
arising from below. The remains of youth and
beauty are planted beneath the soil in the name
of Christianity and decenoy, to be slowly eaten
away by the crawling things of the earth in the
slow course of years of decay, horror, and loathe-
someness, and yet public sentiment persistently
regards any process by which the accumulated
ugliness of the tomb may be abolished as something
unnatural and disgusting as well as un-Christian.
Under the present system, the man who dies on the
gallows gets ahead of the gilded monarch who
passes away in his bed of state. The one is en-
cased in quicklime, and in a few weeks his bcdy
is resolved in'o odourless earth as sweet and pure
as the grassy, daisy-strewn surface of the moun
tain side ; the other is shrouded in a triple coffin
and left to degenerate into a thing of unspeakable
uncleanness—a parody of a human being hidden
beneath a velvet pall. The present system of
burial is maintained chiefly as an adjunct to the
doctrine of a bodily resurrection, and the Christian
mode of preparing for that resurrection is to trans-
form the human frame into a bucketful of evil
slush - a strangely-ludicrously unacceptable offer-
ing at the gates of pearl. Ic is more than time
that the burial customs which the nineteenth
century has borrowed from the barbarism rf the
first should be abolished. Cremation, so far, has
made little progress, but quicklime is cheaper and
equally effective. A few weeks ago the grave of
Henry Wainewright-wlio was judicially mur-
dered for his brother’s crime—was opened, and of
the remains of that humble, unwept, unhonoured
martyr nob a vestige remained, and Lipski, who
was interred in the same grave—the ruffianly
murderer sharing the tomb of the innocent victim
—has probably by this time also turned into earth.
The devouring force of quicklime destroys all the
horrors of the charnel-house, and when a
law is passed requiring the coffins of the
dead to be packed with this substance
the dead will leave more room for the living, and
the surface of the cemeteries will no longer yawn
in huge cracks through which belch forth tho
vapours of disease bred by the second death be-
neath. The old, pathetic gag of dust returning
unto dust is a delusicn and a sham ; it is not dust,
but a mass of poison—one part human being,
three parts festering corruption - which returns
to mother earth, and it is on behalf of this appal-
ling compound that the opponents of burial-re-
form lift their voices on high. The old Conser-
vative always give) his vote on behalf of the
hoary uncleanness of the pa3b merely because
it is an old and well-established stench from the
chai nel-house of antiquity, and meanwhile this
particular tradition is fouling the earth, and flliirg
the air with malaria. Cremation or quicklime
the choice at present lies between the two, and
the latter, as the simplest, cheapest, and most ra-
tional remedy for the present evil, ought to win.
Government by Goths and Vandals.
The proposal to cut up and sell to private
speculators a considerable portion of the
lovely see eery of the Fitzroy Falls (N.S.W.)
is the last hideous blunder of a Govern-
ment which is headed by an insolvent poet and
tails off in a gilded whisky-seller. The ostensible
author of this act of sordid Vandalism is, of
course, Mr. Thomas Garrett, ex-printer’s devil,
ex-compositor, ex-land agent, and now Minister
of Lands in New South Wales, but the act is
merely a part of the policy of every Government
of which Henry Parkes has been the he id.
Whatever God has made and Parkes has had a
chance to sell, has been sold ; the sordid bard of
Brummagem has spared nothing that has come in
his way, and while he, the hollow-hearted importer
of nigger-labour, was compounding shoddy verse 3
about the beauties of Nature, he has turned the
lovely shores of Sydney’s land-locked harbour
into cash, and cut up the mountains and the
borders of the lakes into three-cornered allot-
ments. He would have sold the Isles of Greece if
he had had the chance, and made dog-eared poetry
about their ancientlegends and their weirdloveline ss
while they were under the hammer, and it Niagara
had come within the reaoh of his Gothic intellect,
he or his friends in the land-auction business
would probably have advertised It as a convenient
village site with a water frontage. In the
present case, however, the Parkes Government
shows not only its wonted hog-like insensibility to
everything except ready-money to pay for Dead
Houses, Queen’s statues, Wardour-street brick-
ci brack and other expensive follies, bat
it has been guilty of a brutal and high-
handed outrage upon the vested rights of a free
nation. Some tan or eleven years ago the land
surrounding the Fitzcoy Falls was set aside as a
National be enjoyed by the people for
ever, and this rJght, supposed to be sacred and
inalienable, has been secretly cancelled by one
stroke of the pen. The property of the nation is
enjoyed by the nation only so long as the Parkes
Administration does nob choose to lay violent
hands on it, but when it suits that body of gin-
sellers, poets, pawnshop-directors, and ‘‘red-hot
brands of shame” to annex the public parks, with-
out even going through the empty form of asking
for Parliamentary sanction, the aged Hemperor
and his satellites are in their glory. A few months
ago they tried the public sent ment by temporarily
closing Sydney Domain (to please Carington and
Co.) for the benefit of an itinerant showman who,
to make money, was ready to allow the crumbs to
fall from his table into the gaping mouth of the
“ Queen’s Fand,” aid, as this outrage (which in-
volved scores of suffering hospital patients being
aroused from their morphia laden slumbers by the
bursting of bombs and the rashing of rockets) was
endured in comparative silence, they naturally con-
cluded that the way was open for their favourite
policy of sp fliation. The encroachtr entupon the Fitz-
roy Falls 10-day eatabUshesapiectdenjwnich may
be followed up to morrow by the sale of the
Sydney Domain itself, and the conversion of that
solendil park into a wilderness of bricks and
mortar, ia ordtr to fill a tre isury wnich has bcea
emptied by pandering to Imperial fads and by
costly drivel in the cause of Federation with the
greeiy, debased swashbucklers of a foreign people
across the sea. The nation which endures in
silence the plundering of the Fitzroy Falls reserv
with its surrounding beauties of cliffs and gorges
and alio ws the grandest saenery in Ne w South Wales
to be cut up to form a fifth rate village, with a
gin-shop at each corner, and a scattered array of
weatherboard cottages, ditty back-yards, unkempt
hens, goats, pigs, muck-heaps, and the other
dingy surroundings of a petty up-country town-
ship, has forfeited all right to protest against the
seizure of the Sydney parks and their conversion
into dreary streets and festering lanes. The
antiquated Vandals who are responsible for the
iniquity now being perpetrated will lay their un-
clean hands on the Sydney Domain when the oc-
casion comes, and with their new-made precedent
to support them there is no visible reason why a
second act of political thieving should not be as
successful as the first.
-♦
Ihe Argus declares that the number of super-
numeraries employed in the public ser-
vice of Victoria shows a falling, off when
compared with the number of appoint-
ments really made, because these men are only
engaged for three months, whilst, formerly, they
were employed permanently. In its anxiety to
bolster up its pet system, it overlooks the fact
that the supernumeraries” of old days wero
really permanent hands who could not obtain
their classification owing to the tradition limiting
the stall to the size it had at the commencement
of responsible Government. The number of per-
manent appointments made to the Service is as
g-eat as, or greater than, that of all appointments
under the old regime, and the temporary assistants
a-e additional—to say nothing of the fact that all
the old political and other supernumeraries are
now cn the permanent staff. We are no
advocates of any form of patronage, but
the present Victorian system is Star Cham-
ber patronage, which is worse than the
old political, for that wa3 known and open, and in
some degree neutralised itself. The fact is that,
under the sway of a secret, arbitrary, irrespon-
sible, and too often lawless despotism, not amen-
able to the corrective influences of public opinion
and free discussion, the public servants have
become disheartened, and cannot perform so
much work as they did formerly. In the old days
they braced themselves and got over an emer-
gency by their own exertions ; now they are too
much disgusted with the state of affairs to do
anything of the sort, and call for the “ three-
monthers ” to pull up arrears,
<►
St. James Gazette is a spiteful and impotent
organ of disappointed Toryism, whioh nobody ever
sees outside high-toned Conservative circles. It
has a circulation of more than 17 copies a night,
and its pronouncements, which in London reach
few people bub the old bald-headed glutton who
ultimately dies of apoplexy in his chsir at the
Carlton Club, are regularly cabled to Australia
and accepted by the stipendiary liars of the daily
papers as English “ public opinion.” Well, the
James’ Gazette aforesaid has just discovered
that English women are dissatisfied because
English men now-a days are such poor fellows as
actually to be ‘ thrilled with effeminate pain if an
injury 13 done to the skin of a cat or of an Irish
Tebcl ! What nice, gentle, humane creatures
English women must be, then ! We quite long
for some of them out here 1 Wouldn’t they love
Judge Windeysr, and wouldn’t they pet the
drunken police magistrate who believes so in the
cat ? The man who would capture their affections
would not be the fellow with the check clothes
and the weak chin and the beautiful moustache,
but the frowning ruffian who was seen to grin as
he ordered a hen-roo3t thief up to the triangles.
From a London Conservative paper —Life—
which says what the more adroit dailies only dare
to think :
Perhaps the English, and above all the London, backers
of sedition-mongers in Ireland are not aware of the fact,
quoted by Lord Hunky Biitjoe the other day at Peck-ham
that there are 150,000. families in the metropolis who haw
only one room to live in. Eor that single room, in a grimy
back-street, and generally in a wretched state of disrepair, a
rent is paid of from half-a-crown to four shillings a week,
and no deductions are to be got from Land Commissioners.
There is far more wretchedness and destitution in East
London alone than there is in the whole of Ireland • but
then the sufferers are unromantically law-abiding English-
men, whose misery cannot be used as a political weapon.
I 3 the patience of the Englishman who lives in
one room with his wife and children, while Lady
Brown and the Marchioness of Potts-Point are
stripping themselves to the waist and having
diamonds sewn on to their shoulder-straps-ig the
patience of that Englishman a virtue or a vice !
Which would be the nobler Englishman—he who
fought at the barricades for his wife, or he who
tolled to find for his landlord rent-money to be
spent in debauching the daughters of the work-
man ? Is not this blue blooded writer merely
pointing out to the London starveling what a dull
stupid, driven bullock the Englishman is l '
“ Tummy's ’ forty-seventh birthday lastmonthpro-
vided the Argus with another opportunity for lick-
ing the feet of that tottering idol, monarchy. Aus-
tralia was congratulated upen “enjoyiog whatever
prestige may be said to come from association
with an ancient dynasty which boasts a long line
of kings.” The Jubilee mummery was Lkened
to a touoh of Nature making the whole British
world kin, and so forth. We can pass all that
stereotyped Tory gush as harmless. Bub the
Argus slipped in one dangerous lie which re-
quires to be suppre-sed. “In spite of an
independence and love of equality which is
almost aggressive, the American people hardly
coaceal their reverence for rank and their regret
that they have nothing of the sort themselves ’
Great Washington ! When have the American
people—as distinguished from a clique of
gilded globe-trotters— expressad any longing
for a House of Peers and a Royal Family ?
Ha 3 any one Oi the thousands of newspapers in
America ever dared to advocate the introduction
of rank ” into the community ? Because, forsooth,
Mrs. “Bonanza” Mack ay buys her way into
court oiroles, and Miss Chamberlain’s mamma
takes her fair daughter all over Europe after
u. ■ T Argus would have us believe that
their flunkeyfled spirit animates fifty millions of
free-born people, and that the American Ambas-
sador to Eogland is ashamed of his official uniform
being a plain dress-suit. Australia we have apower«
ful • royalist ” press, legislatures mainly com-
posed of ignorant British-born grovellers, British
Governors bclste ed up by local Kuights-yet the
people are Demooratic to the core How much
more so the Americans, whose official representa-
tives at foreign courts are prohibited from wear-
ing other ttai citizen’s garb, and whose Pre-i-
-dent recently refused a weddiog-pre3ent from the
Sultan of Turkey, on the ground that its acceptance
would be opposed to the spirit of the National
Constitution !


HISTORY OF BOTAHY BAY.
There is a strikingly dramatic picture given
by Dickens in “ Great Expectations.” You re-
member bow ha describes the capture of Mag witch
and Compeyson on the marshes ; and then how
Pip from the shore watches the marines rowing
through the fog to the lonvict hulk lying out
upon the gloomy water. One of the soldiers
carries a torch, which gets dimmer and redder
through the mist as they go. How the boat
reaches the ship. The re-captured convicts
are helpsd on board. The marine throws tee
torch hissing and spluttering into the sea. There
is a quick flash—and all is dark again. It seems
to the boy that tha lives of those convicts have
gona out with ic. But both Dickens and Pip
were wrong. The unhappy con vices’ miserable
lives were recommencing. They held wonderful
unexhausted capacities for the endurance of hellish
torture yet.
* • *
The system under which transportation
was first carried on was a disgrace to tae British
name, and, go far, it was consistent with tha rest
of this grhly story. The work of carrying con-
victs was entrusted to contractors, who received
sixpenca per day fo each convicts fool--allow6nce,
beside a tonnage rate. Io would be impossible to
believe the stones told ot tie wolfish greed of
these contractors, if they were non borne cut by
State papers and recorded facts. The longer the
voyage lasted, the longer the contractors drew
their miserable allowance, and these sixpences
were, of course, saved in cases where the convict
died. Thus a businesslike understanding was
established, under which the human cargoes died
off like rotten sheep, Tha figures tell the story.
Dr. White, the colonial surgeon who came out
with Phillip, wrote some reports on this subject.
“Of the 939 males,” he says, in 1790, “sent out
by the last ships—the Surprise, Scarborough, and
Neptune—26l died on board, and 50 have died
since landing ; the number of sick this day is 150,
and many who ara reckoned as not sick have
barely strength to attend to themselves; when
the last ship 3 arrived we had not 60 people sick in
the colony.” One hundred and sixty-four
convicts died on the Neptune alone. In 1802,
66 convicts succumbed on one voyage between
Cape Town and Sydney. Dnricg the first eight
years of settlement upwards of one-tenth of the
convicts died on the voyage. The caravan-tracks
across the desert are marked by the bleaching
bones of beasts and men, but the track of these
convict ships across the ocean might have been as
easily distinguishable by its line of floating
corpses.
This was not all. “ Floating hells ” was
the name the convict-ships soon earned. Crowds
of convicts were thrown into the holds, with little
ventilation and without superv sion. Brutality
and irons were the only means used to enforce
order. The wretched vessels employed were not
large enough to accommodate the number of con-
victs whom the greed of the contractors and the care-
lessness of the Government forced cn board. They
might well have felt themselves handed over to
the irresponsible tortures of fiends. If any were
over tortured and died in consequence, they were
easily thrown overboard. There was no difficulty
about that. Herded like pigs, but not half so
well fed; half-clothed, end robbed on board of
any comforts a kind hand might have provided
for the voyage ; chained to a dead body, some-
times, or to a dying man. and flogged into mutiny
and out of it at the caprice of a drunken skipper,
these unhappy convicts, in their despair, often
preferred the gaping maw of a hungry shark to
the horrors of the prison-ship. The shark, at
least, would use no more violence than was neces-
sary.' But the records show that these drunken
skippers tortured their victims because they
liked it.
* * *
If the condition of the men was bad, that
of the females and children was worse. Under
the savage laws of the time women and g rls,
often of gentle lives and honest parentage, were
found on board the women’s ships. “ Not a few
of the convicts,” says Bon wick, “ were mere boys
and girls of from 13 to 15 years of age.” This is
the one touch of horror wanted to complete the
revolting picture. The rest of the shameless
story is best indicated by another quotation. Iu
1800 Captain Bertram, writing about these floating
Gomorrahs, has this : “ The captain and each
officer enjoy the right of seleotion Thus they
continue the habit of concubinage until the convicts
arrive at Sydney town. Bach sailor or soldier
is permitted to attach himself to one of the
females." The reader can fill out the picture for
himself.
# * *
Surely no den of infamy or lair of vice
and crime ever equalled the scene presented by
the hold of one cf these prison-ships ! The hor-
rors of the slave-trade have made men’s blood
boil with indignation, and the smug virtue of the
bourgeois Briton even induced John Bull to relax
his purse strings—an exaggerated excess of emo-
tion !—to put down the foreign iniquity. But
what story of the slave-trade ever equalled in the
graphic intensity of its horrors the unholy abomi-
nations carried on with white men and white
women and girl o as the helpless victims for nearly 50
years under England's own flag? These wretches
were criminals it is true ; but they were men,
women, and children stil'. Their crimes were often
petty offences by contrast with the outrages of their
gaolers, or in the light of the British criminal code
of to-day. But the smug hypocrisy which would
have freed and Christianised the black man had no
merciful thought for them. What Mumbo-
Jumbo fetich or Oriental fanaticism has ever
evoked greater horrors than these-results of the
boasted British civilisation under a Christian Par-
liament and king? Surely none. By its
fruits you may know it.
* * *
We read sometimes in the stories of the
slave-trade how the negroes were forced on deck
to dance to the music of a pipe. This was for
exercise. It was thought wrong to depreciate
the market-value of the labour on board by sap-
ping its strength in idle confinement. The con-
vict men and women also danced on board some-
times. But it was to the music of the boatswain’s
“cat ” It was considered a treat for the sailors
to be allowed to flog the convic s But it was a
refinement of luxury to flog women. The noble
creatures pleasantly contended for this graceful
privilege. If any woman-convict objected to the
arrangement described by Captain Bertram—as
some rustic Devonshire girl convicted of stealing
apples and transported by some booby squire
might have done—she was at once flogged into
submission. If this was not done on the direct
charge, another was easily invented. But, as a
rule no misunderstandings arose from idle
Bcruples in this matter. If a drunken officer
wanted a man or woman, girl or boy, flogged at
tho yanzwav for his amusement there was ro
trouble about a trifle like that. But I ho b*ifc
results in this direction wore obtained when the
ships carried a guard of recruits for the New
South Wales Corps on board. These were artists
in vice, in their own squalid way. Often they
were placed in charge of a women’s-ship. The
Juliana, for instance, carried 226 women. One is
not surprised to find that the voyage lasted 15
months. The wonder is that it ever finished in
the usual way at all.
* # ©
One ship carried 36 pairs of handcuffs and
200 basils with chains for use on the voyage
Many convicts mads the voyage in irons all the
way. It saved trouble. Charges of attempted or
intended mutiny were trumped up. Governor
Hunter mentions a case where, “ in consequence
of soma conjecture that they meant to seize the
ship and murder the officers,” the whole cargo was
ironed for the whole voyage. ‘‘They lo k most
wretched from their long confinement," he adds,
with simple nearness. On the Marquis of Corn-
wallis, in 1796, an intended mu iny was disc!o.-ed
to the captai aby a convict. The captain could
only induce the soldiers and sailors to spare lives
by tempting them with the offer of a wholesale
flogging, in which each should take his par . “At
11 o'c oc k we commenced flogging these vi Inns
at the grngway, and contiim d engaged or that
service till 42 men and 8 women received tfieir
punishment.” Tne Lady Shore left E a gland for
Sydney in 1798, with a reinforcement for the Naw
South Wales corps, and 60 female prisoners, The
voyage was an orgie from the stara. at length
the so diers mutinied, seized the ship, which was
carrying provisions for the colony, and murdered
the master and first mate. They carried on a
wild career of license and debauchery on the high
seas wi h their floating bagnio of convict-women
fra time, and then sailed to Rio Ja eiro, and
handed the ship over to the Portuguese Governor
there. The captain of the Hercu e 3 fired volleys
into the hold of his ship in expostulation with tae
convicts there confined. He was tried for murder,
convicted, and—fined. A revolt of convicts in
Sydney Harboor was once quelled in this way.
Shotted blunderbu-ses were often fired in’o the
holds of vessels. Naked women fought there like
fiends, and men festered in their filth like worms.
But, in the end, a fair proper ion of this hazar-
dous colonising material reached Australia.
* * •
It is calculated that fifty thousand convicts
left British ports for Botany Bay during the fifty
years that transportation lasted, Ttey did not
all reach their destination. The horrors of the
voyage for some years decimated the depnrtes ,
The Black Hole of Calcutta was only a trifling in-
cident in comparison with this tale of torture long
drawnout From the reports of Dr. White we g ither
something of the horrors these “ floating hells "
carried into harbour. When he went on board,
as it was his duty to do, he found dead bodies
still in irons below, amongst the crowds of tho
living. Herrs is what h 8 found in another place :
“ A great number of them were lying, some half
and others nearly quite naked, without either bBd
or bedding, unable to turn or help themselves. The
smell was so offensive that I could hardly bear it
Some of there unhappy people died after the ship
came into the harbour, before they could be taken
on shore. Part of these had been thrown into the
harbour, ani their dead bodies cast upon the
shore, and were seen lying naked on the rocks.
The misery I saw amongat them is inexpressible.”
“ It is distressing,” says Captain Collins—one of
the few humane men the early settlement knew—
“ to see the poor creatures daily dropping into the
grave,” “ I shall never recover my ace sstomed
vivacity and spirits,” said Captain Hill, after a
voyage in a convict-ship. Bat now the end of the
long voyage was reached at last, and the survi-
vors were abotui to enter into the inheritance Pro-
vidence had destined for them. Let us see how
they got on there.
This is what 6. R , Sims has to say in the Referee
about the new polica persecution o£ the London
unemployed “ There are a few people generou3
enough to admit that it would be better to sup-
press the starvation than the starvers, and that
the beat way to limit this constantly-recurring
danger (Trafalgar-square gatherings) is to treat
the disease in its first development instead of
poleaxing the patient in its final stage.” Coming
from a man who has studied the poor and their
poverty, these words are significant. Land-
owners, capitalists, and Tory parsons who choose
to regard destitution as a dispensation of Provi-
dence and a means for keeping down the rate of
wages, who smile at the notion of making laws
for others than the influential class —cm further
read what Sims has to say about the first develop-
ment of the gnat social sOra —“ Ti e pour of Eng-
land are preyed up in by their landlords, by their
tradesmen, their pawnbrokers, their pu oilcans,
and their bankers. The y are exploited and cheated
in a hundred ways ; in earning their money, in
spending it, and in trying to save it. Half the
earnings of the poor are lo3t to them for lark of
that legislative projection which they have a
right as citizens to receive. The reason of this
neglect is that until lately they haven’t made
themselves objectionable." Here is an answer to
the highly respectable people who protest that
the unemployed are only damaging their
cause by “disloyal” demonstration, es though
my lords and gentlemen ware panting to “do
something,” provided only that the hungry ones
do nothing. But while the masses were content
to groan beneath their breath, priests, peers, and
politicians made this patient silence an excuse for
babbling about national prosperity under tte
glorious British Constitu'ion. How can the un-
employed damage their cause with the wealthier
classes, who never advanced or supported it by
word or deed? What boneficant laws can be re
paalei on account of thasa demonstrations, when
(as Sims puts it) the poor are suffeiing ftfr lack of
legislative protection, simply because they haven't
hitherto created disturbances? And now they are
making themselves nasty it will be well for the
born Tories, and the “loyal, law-abiding citizens,'’
who have become Tories as they accumulated
weallh, to meet the situation with wise legislation
Dimtging their cause, forsooth I No liberal poli-
tical measures —Reform Bills, Irish Church Bill,
Abolition of Purchase in the Army Bill—have
ever been passed in England until the
masses began to pull up park palings and
make themselves exceedingly “ objectionable ”
:
At the late Carnarvon banquet, in Sydney, the
“noble lord” from England poured out his soul in
admiration of the Soudan piracy, and nearly broke
his neck in bowing to Parkes— who sab next him
—as one of the distinguished apprentice brigands
who got up that much-bung ; cd piece of gratuitous
bushranging, and Parkes reclined in his chair,
with a simple smile on the dreary waste of his
countenance, and accepted all the gush in agree-
able silence. When a lord was bowing to him
and scraping up the dust with his hind leg in
honour of an undertaking which he (Parkes) had
cursed, and kicked, and thrown mud at from start
to fini h, ’Enery Parkes was not the man to
rise and state that he wasn’t the butcher to whom
the credit ’ w 'as due—not much. Moreover, he
probably full mat the p, LUolan who im i oiStii'crl
the Naval Defenoe Bill could not very well com-
plain about being credited with the attempted
murder of a few half-armed Arabs, so he swal-
lowed his alleged principles, and smiled his ad-
herence to the bloodthirsty doctrines of Plain
Billism as pleasantly as if he had been a scalp-
hunting Buffalo Bill from his youth upwards.
He even went out of his way to allude to Car-
narvon. as a “ Liberal,” and he didn’t look as if
he meant it for a joke either. And yet Carnar-
von voted against electoral reform and Irish
liberty, and voted in favour of Coercion and
bayonets. What a Liberal —ye gods !—for Parkes,
the apostle of good government, to gush over 1
♦
At this sacred season of goodwill and charity the
truly pious alms giver delights to see his name in
print. The Arhus is a favourite advertising
medium for Iflgh-class benevo'ence, and the editor
was awfully busy last week taking Xmas cheqms
and pa r agraphirg senders’ names. Even the
May or cf Melbourne sought a fre e ad. from the
Argus like the rest of them. All of which
reminds us than the miserable compositor is a
thorn in the flesh of such as delight to assist
their fdllo tv man in this roundabout way. For
ins ane--,, a Mr. “Popping’s” cheque for certain
charities was yroparly acknowltdged in ail but
one small particular. The comp, served up the
name as “ Pupping.” And there’s no doubt the
Recording Ac gel would have put the cheque to
the credit of a bogus “Pupping,” if the real
Samaritan—looking in next day’s paper to see if
be had got a prominent notice —hadn’t spotted
this blunder. A devil-may-care spendthrift might
think that it makes no difference who sends a
cheque of that sort, so long as the poor and needy
put it finally away in the form of plum-pudding,
but Popping, with his eye fixed on the Great
Hereafter, knew better. So he wrote to the editor,
and the editor kindly mentioned next day
that “by a typographical error Mr. Popping's
name was printed as ‘Pupping,’ in connection
with Ihe charitable gift acknowledged from that
gentleman.” And lest the Recording Angel has
overlooked the Argus correction, The Bulletin
begs to remind him that Popping— P-o p p-i-n-g
sent the cheque. Thefe mistakes and corrections
are unfortunately common, but if anyone likes to
send the poor Bulletin a thumping gift
for its own private consumption, that man shall
see a proof-slip of our grateful acknowledgment
before it appears. There shall be no typographical
eriors in connection with his disinterested charity,
you bet I
Editor Bulletin,— Sir,—With yourfelf, I do nob
behove in the disgusting and brutal punishment
of flogging, and on Xmas Day my mind was much
occupied (while listening to a sermon on the
theme of ‘God’s Love”) with the case
of the miserable, soft brained wretch, August
Gabriel, lying under sentence of punish-
ment by flogging. I thought that the preaoh-
ing of peace on earth and goodwill to men
was somewhat out of hirmony with the irra-
tional aiministration of the lash to the back
of a poor unfortunate crank of a foreigner,
however degrading and vi'e his offence.
On Sunday afternoon I set myself to the task of
deprivlrg ihe flogger of his victim. I prepared
notices of appeal, and on Monday morning served
the c'.erk to the convicting justices and the officer
of police prosecuting in the case with the notic s,
and at 11 15 a.m. had the pleasure of handing to
the lockup-keeper at Woolloomooloo a warrant
under the hand of one of the convicting justices
directing the raspi e of the santenca until the de-
termination of the appeal. In my opinion, the
means tikan ia this case to stay the administra-
tion of the lash will virtually make the law cb3t-
lete, as under the New South Wales Criminal La w
Amendment Act, sect’on 417, it is provided that
floggings shall be inflated during the term of
imprisonment awarded , which Is to be not less
than six, nor more than ninety-six hours. Should
the Judge at Quarter Sessions uphold the con-
viction, how can the flogging be carried out, as
the law requires it to ba administered within the
space of 96 hours after conviction ? Yours truly,
Lex.
An early N.Z. Missionary used to tell the
following story of his soul-saving experience
among the Maories :—“There was a baptism of
converts one morning, and among ths candidates
was a young man of the Ngapuhl tribe, who was
knqwn as a ‘ pour an gi ’ (which is equivalent to
h9ing ‘ rff his Kadoova ’). Well, it happened
that a young wag of his acquaintance, by name
Torenoa, per uaded the candidate for baptism
that as he had tssted human flesh as a child, and
was therefore guilty of the heinous crime of can-
nibalism, the ordinary application of baptismal
water was hardly sufficient, and that he should
have soap rub'-ed into his cranium. The neophyte
agreed that the suggestion was Kapai, but when
he submitted himself to the manipulation of
Torenoa, that humorist, being tempted of the
devil and of malice aforethought, deliberately
rubbed into hi 3 hair the contents of about half-a-
box of seidiitz-powders. The consequenoe was
that when the baptismal water reached the
disciple's hair it produced a miniature geyser, and
he, almost maddened with fear, rushed out of the
sacred edifice of raupo, followed by his fellow-
tribesmen. It wa3 a long time before I could get
any more candida'es for baptism.”
We deeply sympathise with Rev. John
Jones, who was recently ejected by a draggled
child of sin from his pastorate among the niggers
of the Loyalty Islands. Be was peacefully revising
the Scriptures one bright summer morning when
a soulless Frenchman came in and ordered him to
shunt. “Wot?” said the staggered Apostle.
“Git!” said the Frenchman ; “Marchez! Sacre!
Goddam! Gerrout! Whiz!” There was" nothing
else for it, and the saint whizzed. “As a Bri’ish
citizen,” he said faintly, “ I protests agin this
’ere Outrage.” “Shoo !” retorted the Gaul, as if
toe good man had been a hen in a yard, and the
Rev. John Jones solemnly Dtit on Bis hat and took
his umbrella, and went on board the French war-
vessel in the harbour. The rest may be told in
his own pathetic words :
The first lieutenant took me into his cabin, gave me writ-
ing material, and asked me to write out a list of what more
I needed. I seat my servant to seek for some sermons and
other manuscripts and some shoes. The latter he found,
but failed to find the former.
That was all he wanted—a few sermons and some
shoes. He didn’t even send back for a toothbrush,
or an extra clean shirt, or anything—he was ready
to face the world with his old discourse in one
hand and his boats in the other. And, as it hap-
pened, the imbecile nigger couldn’t find the old
discourse, and the belated apostle was shunted
with only the boots. If he had forgotten to put
the silver spoons in his tail-pocket it naturally
follows that they were left behind. Perhaps he
hadn’t even a handkerchief—who knows ? These
things make U 3 weep. We know how hard it is
to have to start life afresh with nothing but some
shoes, and when we cleared out under pressure of
circumstances we hadn’t even an aggravating
darkey to send back in search of our old sermons.
And if we had he wouldn’t have found them. We
never bad any sermons.
CORRESPONDENCI
D G. Thompson, Wombat: Camera’s address is
79 Denlson-atreet, Newtown Aron: There were no re-
porters around when the American Constitution was framed,
Thats why the E. News and George Washington are at
variance.. .A.lx: Because the Anarch'ats were sentenced by
the jury, not the judge, according to the law of the State of
Illinois.... .L.S.D.: Are your remarks intended to be about
anything in particular, or are you merely writing to us in an
off-hani fashion on general principles?. ...HonUSiiverton):
Since reading j our letter we have great faith in a shovel as a>
means of calling sinners to repentance.. .B. (Murrumburrah)c
Abjectly local. What girl are you trying to squish?. ..Nemo:
The grievance you mention is one that can only be healed by
a club. Admonph the swindling pound-keeper, and then
hit him two or three times in a soft place.. .C.F.S.: You can't
hold, stronger convictions than we do concerning tfse
mercenary an! cowardly character of the daily press
S.A.: The population of London is about 5^200,000....C.5. ;
It takes £lOOO to convert a Jew to Christianity. It takes a
pawnshop-directorship to convert an Orange politician into
a Jew Hackle Birnie (Melbourne): But for its claim to
sacreine's, it would be suppressed as an obscene publica-
tion.... A Lady in the Country: "Parkes Land ’ has been
already used up. So have “ Parkestralia,” “Parkesadel-
Phia,” "Parkpsylvania,” " Parkesomania,” and any number
more W.G. (Narrabril: Thanks. Good item Tax-
payer (Wellington, N.Z.),; Much obliged. ...J. (HillstonJ:
Map too complicated for general public .... Arne
thyst (Oberon): Too soulful! Too much wai1!.....
Gaffney : All nonsense, which your own letter entirely dis
proves. Send the items along and we ll fix them K.M.:
Very good, indeed. ...Joseph Coll: No, we do not 1 now the
name of the misguided wretch who wrote “ Home, sweet,
home!” We should like 1 1 know so that we might include
him or her in one grand comprehensive curse against all
publie and private nuisances.... Peter Roberts (Cooktown,
Q ): The history, of the colony is to be found in various
volumes by King, Phillip, Hunter, Barrington,
Collins, Therry, Mudie, Cunningham, Eeid, &c. No
one work gives a comprehensive sketch Hue: Pleaso
kindly forward a translation of your phenomenal mysticism.
.... Eed-Hot Eepublican: It is only a question of afe w years
longer. The onward march of Socialism has already been
heard in the strongholds of petty tyranny. The sort of
cmatures that ao excite your spume are only second-rate
parasites. They live on the waste and refuse that Capital
casts aside after its spoliation of Labour J.R. : The
greatest condemnation of Preetrade is that it is British
trade. Why should Australians consent to pauperise them-
selves in order to swell the inordinate profits of the Batisfa
manufacturer or the calico snob-gentlemen?....lnvisible
Certainly, otherwise they cannot pay 3 per cent. A chairman
of a board of Directors is one empowered to act for the
Board if he is also the manager, otherwise he is
simply one appointed to preside over their deliberations
Unit (Maryborough, Vic ) : Many thanks for letter... .Lex :
Thank 3 for skstch, which may be used.... A.L.: The Eng-
lish army is not yet armed with the repeating rifi; A.C.
(Waterloo): We have already answered your question. The
net tonnage of Great Eastern is 13,344 ; the gross tonnage,
18,915,.. .K.M. : See letter foryou....Rhymingßab : What
do you mean by such rhymes as "plagues," "agues,” with
‘ leagues " and “ intrigues” ? Still too thin C A.E. :
Will consider. [Many answers crowded out.]
In th ir seoni innings against Lily -
hi e s Eleven, six Victorian batsmen were sent;
back for an aggregate score of six runs.
After a well-contested game N.S.W. worn
the intercolonial cricket mateh by two wickets,
and one run, the scores being : Victoria, Ist in-
nings, 35;seo0nd innings, 266 ; N S.W,, Ist in-
nings, 102 ; second innings, 8 wickets for 200.
When Slugger Sullivan reached London
there was such a crowd at the railway terminus
that he endeavoured to escape in a funeral coach.
Even then there was no rest for the Slugger, be-
cause heavy weights crowded into the coach
until the bottom fell out. This is fame indeed,!/
The fielding of the Yictorians white
Shrewsbury and Co. were making 624, waj never-
really bad, generally very good, and occasionally
brilliant. In fact, up to the time when the score
stood at 500 for four wickeds, there was not an
easy catch missel. The all-round quality of the
bowling can be imagined.
Ab a bush ciickc.-match. Bowler (appeal-
ing for very questionable catch) : “ How’s that ? ’
Umpire: “How long’s he been in?" Chorus
“Five-and-t.wenty minutes” Umpire: “Hout.”
Two minutes later. Bowler appealing for palp-
able catch at wicket from batsman’s first ball).
“ Hpw’s that V Umpire : “ Oh, ’ang it man, give
the chap a chance can’t yer ?. Not hout!’’
From a,, financial point of view the Vic- 1 -
torian Football Association were quite justified in
refusing patronage to Lillywhite’s projected team.
of English footballers. It would be impossible to
stimulate interest in a game which now draws as,
many as 20,000 people when a big local match is
on hand. If the Victorians ran rings (as they-
probably would) round tha visitors there would
be no additional interest apd gate-money In club
contests And if, perctance, the Fngllshmen took,
the shine out of colpaial football, then the game
would droop apd wither as cricket has ever since
the fourth Austral an Eleven destroyed our-
preatige. No member of the Association had the
pluck to admit that the Victorians take no inter*
est in any sport in which they are not presumably,
Ire eminent. But they know well enough that
football would go pretty well bung If it dawned,
upon the public that men from England, or any of
the other colonies, could do better than their own.
pets.
“On Tick” says:— Your caution, last*
week, to never play euchre against two telegraph
operators, or against one when a second can see
your hand, is good, but it is not “ the ticking that"
does it, as you suggest. The modus operandi is
this. One clerk plays while his mate, who merely
looks o- , sitß with the victim at the opposite end
of the table. Both the lightning-dodgers stretch
their legs under the table so that the toe of the-
non-player rests on that of the player. Then, by-
means of long and short pressures, which act
as the long and short sounds of a Morse
recorder, the hand of Mr. “Juggins” is carefully
and quickly telegraphed to his opponent, and the
usual result follows. The tapping on the table.
game is played out, but the silent pressure system
can scarcely ever be detected. A short-hand code
is also used, such as “KtD.” for the king of
diamonds ; “ H. 2 “ for the deuce of hearts, and-
so on ; and by these means some of our smart
dot-and-dashers are able to stand the retrench- ,
ment racket with comparative equanimity. An-
other mode of card-telegraphy is worked by longs,
and short winks of the eyelid, but this is no>
nearly so safe as the other.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Robinson Crusoe '• 15.
Criterion Theatre.—" Little Jack Sheppard”.
Her Majesty's Theatre.—“ln The Ranks■■
Opera House— All Star Novelty Combination*...—... „
Alhambra Music Hall— Sacred Concert .......... „
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy ................. ■■
Domain— Pain's Fireworks
Academy— Maccabe —— ■■
We wobble aimlessly for words to express
our feelings after witnessing the production of
“In the Rinks” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
Language, we understand, was given to enable
the enraged public to conceal its thoughts, but all
the language at our command cannot hide our
sentiments on the subject of this much-advertised
screed in five acts. Its claim to originality is
crushed at the very outset by the arrival of the
rich and cantankerous uncle from abroad —the
same uncle who has been arriving from abroad
ever since the days when the “School for
Scandal" was young, and the next time that
uncle arrives from abroad we mean to imbrue our
hands in his gore, and forward his ears to his
solicitor by book-post, and send him home in a
hand carb, carrying his head in a portmanteau
and his eye on a fork. Apart from the uncle, the
chief motive power of the play is a human being
caked with dirt—a compound of gin and slimy
ferocity atti'ed in dish-rags, and possessed of a
voice like a young pig in its death agonies—who
also arrives from abroad, and blows the inside cut
of the uncle. The old man was fooling round in
the neighbourhood of a damp waterfall at mid-
night, so his fate is just what might have been
expectel. A young man who has dene little, so
fir, except endeavour to suppress a tendency to
tears, goes a’-d enlists about this time, leaving h’s
wife to take In plain sewing, and be preyed upon
by the assassin dressed In dish-rags. He is the hero
of the piece, and is terribly gone on the legs of his
soul. Any man who wasn’t a hero would have
taken a billet as light porter, or turned pr aoher,
or pirate, or dog-fancier, or something, ani looked
afrer the poor little girl who had trusted her fate
to his hands, but he loafs about in a red uniform,
and goes into convulsions which pay no dividend
in the barrack-sqnarelwhea he learns that his wife
is dying by inches in a dingy back street with
hardly anything to eat and a hungry murdorer to
feed out of her earnings. Finally, of course, the
uncle with the inside blown out of him come 3 to
the rescue, and lifes this haughty pauper out of
the gutter, the high toned imaje being too useless
to do anything for himself but strike fat attitudes
of grief at tuppence a day. There are 37 charac-
ters in ihe bill, and about 50 miscellaneous
stragglers, but the business of the whole crowd is
merely to show off the shining virtues of the high
polite village swell, who can’t even wheel a cats- !
meat b arrow for a living.
The only characters
which are really essential
to the drama are played
by Messrr. Rignold,
Hall, and Sterling Whyte
and Miss Kate Bishop,
and we are half inclined
1 o think it would be an
Improvement if the parts
of the firßt three were
struck out The quartette
play sufficiently well—
Miss Bishop in particular
—but we have heard the
dromedary tramp ot this
same “ original” story so
often that it bas become
a weariness to our suffer-
ing soul.
«c <7- ifc
Messrs. Brough and
Biuoicault have reap-
peared at Sy.lnty Ciite-
lion with “ Little Jack
Sheppard,” and the air is
filled with mire “ri-
toorel. ’ Already the
song haß begun to eoho
through tie slushy
streets, and we are being
slowly tooraled into the
dusty tomb by the melody
of an unfeeling ge aera-
tion of email and thank-
less boys. The only
change visible in the bur-
lee que is that it is faster
and madder and louder
than ever it was before,
that the characters bang
each other about the
head more recklessly
than they used to in tie
midst of the pea-green
mist which rises from a
raving, heaving congre-
gation, and ihat Pastor
Jefferis next door is more
excited than he has been
jet, and is more and
more convinced as to the ultima'.e destination
of Johnny Solomon's soul. But the cruncher of
Bln is at a discount when “Jack Sheppard” is
about, and unless he puts his choir in tights he is
not likely to regain his lost ground, while the
charming Fanny Robina survives. Miss Florence
Harcourt is as pretty as ever ia the part of
Thames Da-rell, aad Mr. Roycs fills hi 3 old
character of Blusskin with a'l his old velocity,
till he resembles a whirling spider possessed by
seven devils of drink and insanity. Mr. Brough,
unluckily, is not present in his former rdle of
Jonathan Wi'de, but Mr. Charles Brown is
almost as frantic as he used to be, and
the other characters are loud and voluble
enough to satisfy any average audience.
*# * *
The Christmas festival of 1887 has been
the dreariest and most mutton-headed shivoo
which Sydney has seen for many years. All the
world has been drying its pants by the fire ; the
city has been a saddeniag vision of slops and um-
brellas, damp cats, damp kittens, and damp dogs,
soaked goats weeping under verandahs, sodden
horses being walloped through the streets, and
the escaped Christmas hen coughing in croupy
accents among the coals in the back-yard ; and,
on top of all this, we forgot to get in any beer on
Saturday n'ght, and had to celebrate on pump-
water. Mr. Dampier, howaver, seemed to bear
up pretty well amid this accumulation of aggra-
vating sorrows, and the five-act drama, “ The
World against Her," went smoothly at the
Gaiety. The man who wrote it was not abso-
lutely maddened by genius or crushed to earth by
the weight of his own head, but still he has pro-
duced an average melodrama, which might have
been a lot worse if it had wanted to very badly.
An injured wife, who is wreoked and divorced
through the machination s of Mr. Baker, has the
dark shadows of her life lightened a little by a
moral Punch-and- Judy man whom she meets
roosting In a damp wood amid toad 3 and other
varmint. He scares away her enemies by blow-
ing the squeak which serves as Punch’s vocal
organ, and, though in low circumstances, he
nobly places the last drop of beer at her service,
and informs her that he and the missus and the
kid and the dog will never abandon her. He
is as good as his word, too, and at every
crisis in her fate he comes softly stealing round
the corner like a holy hymn in a dirt-coloured
overcoat, and after refreshing his memory by
spitting on his hands, he lets himself out against
the chest of the enemy with a crash. There is a
wild convulsion of dirty boots, squashed hat, and
dlseased-pig-tinted overcoat; collars and cuffs, bits
of Baker, and f ragments of Baker’s dirty pal from
the cellar fly through the air, and then the deceiver
gees down In a heap Mr Lestoa let loose a
flood of inimitable drollery as this b3nefi
cent Punch-and- Judy proprietor, aid Miss
Lily Uampler infused a lot of pathos iato
the character of the divorced wife, who, by the
way, is rather like “East Lynne” turned upside
down The last twelve months have effected a
vast improvement in this young lady's aotieg ;
her artificialities have bsea rubbed off and her
voice has improved, and another year of similar
progress should see her a star of no mean propor-
tions. Mr. Dampier played an enraged husband,
who ought to have been kicked for h<s inherent
stupidity, and Mr. Bak r repre en ed a party who
ought to have be.-n bijkel anyhow ani everjhjw
for hi 3 attitudes, his snort, and his stagey aff sta-
tion. The scenery was ev.-n ahead of “Alta's”
usual standard, the London street in Act 111.
being a marvel of board y and accuracy.
** * #
Plain Bill Holloway says that never in all
his wildest dreams did he anticipate such a success
as he hes mot with at the Criterion Theatre
Sydney. From this we gather that Bill is very
much more modest when asleep than when he's
awake.
*# * %
“ The way was long.
The way was hot ;
The minstrel sang tremendous rot-.”
From an alleged song by a Chinaman.
The above remarks borrowed from a C lina-
man —and a Chinaman’s remarks are quite good
enough for the occasion—convey a feeble idea of our
feelings towards somejehiid—or children —of song
who are responsible for the bid parts of “ Robinson
Crusoe,” at Sydney Royal. According to the bill,
the sons of Belial in question are Messrs. Maltby
and Vincent, but, judging from internal evideice,
we prefer to lay onr triple cur e and whole-souled
anathema at the door of a certain Civil servant,
who«e Muse is of the Postleth waits order edited
by Uncle Pumbleohook. If he will call at The
Bulletin office any day before 12, the above-
NOTHING FOB THE HAT.
HORNY-HANDED ( seeing Parkes take off his hat): “HI! MISTER, DON'T TAKE OFF YER TILE IO ME. I HAVEN'T
GOT NOTHINK TER PUT IN IT.”
mentioned curse will be handed to him. A fine
Roman hand has filled a once attractive story
with an ass-load of knoc c-bnee’d lscal gags, which
even the refining influence of two monkeys—
one striped and the other plain— one dmkey,
one dog, a large-slzei cit, one pretty cocky,
several niggers, sailors, Irishwoman, cannibals,
demons, lions, tigers, kangaroos, c’ccodiles,
and neg’ectad loafers, ani other items of intslle:-
tual refreshment aid fool for the mind, is
unable to counteract in any visible degree. Aged
puns dating from the time when man nad a tail,
and U3ei ts lie negligently in the mui shying
cocoa-nuts at his fellow-creatures in the tree-tops,
have been resurrected and passed off on a blinded
generation of cripples, and du3ty witticisms,
which were old before man was sufficiently ad
vane;d even to have a tail, and when the ances-
tors of the human race used to sand-paper their
heads against a tree, are presented at the Royal
as new and original. There are lots of good points
about the programme, and ihe scenery is as pretty
as anyone need wish, but the human brain is
blasted by moth-eaten gag 3 and joke 3 before it has
time to take these things in. Miss Aggie Kelton
makes a lovely Crusoe, Messrs. Greville, Warner,
Fred Garnett, Sam Poole, and Fred Dark supply
lots of comedy, and the three Cottiers sink to a de
graded level as a mule, a dog, and a cat respec-
tively. and —we weep for the human race—they
look more natural as this menagerie of beasts that
perish than maiy people we know do as human
beings. And we have sunk so low that we flid
ourselves writing dramatic criticisms on a donkey
and a dog. Tne thought is too much—we will
finish this notice next week.
*# # #
Mr. John L. Hall opened a season at
Sydney Royal Standard on Saturday night with
“ Our Girls," and played splendidly under circum-
stances which were calculated to spoil any camel’s
chance of entering the kingdom of Heaven.
Almost unsupported by a oompany which, In a
general sort of way, ought to have been washing
dishes in a sixpenny restaurant, which could
hardly be trusted to swear coherently at a oat
unless the cat stood quite still for the purpose,
and which would certainly have lost its way if it
had tried to go round the corner without a dry
nurse to look after it, Mr. Hall played his part
as Captain Gingah, in a way that deserved un-
limited success, and dragged the ruck of his
following through without the disaster which
they deserved. Two members of the company—
Mr. W. Arrowsmith and Mrs. M. A. Melville
—are net included in the above remarks,
neither is Mr. J B Steele, for he was only pre-
sent iu the bill and not on the stage, but the
balance are free to consider that our allusions are
meant for them We trust that the public of
Sydney will roll up freely tp the Standard this
week ; a show in which one man is so good as Mr.
Hali and in which a lot of others are so unspeak
ably bad is a fund of unlimited amusement, and
as an additional inducement we may mention that
the proceeding s are over shortly after 10. It was
just 15 minutes past that hour when we escaped
onSiturday howling “Mad dorg ! ” in order to
c ear a way foe our fl ght, and we reached home
to’crably sober about 11.
** # #
The All Star Novelty Company, at Syd-
ney Opera House, and Fred Maccabe, at the
Academy, both played during the holidajs to
large and uproarious audiences. At both places
we endeavoured to obiain a vie w over the heads
of a frenzied multitude and saw—noth'ng. We
e; espsd with the remaias of our hat, and with
our eye in a comparatively undamaged condition
The same remark’, but in an aggravated state
and interspersed with blasphemy, apply ts the
Alhambra which was filled till the sides of the
building bulged out and the whole structure
opened and shut like a concertina. This fact is
attest.d by an auctioneer who never told a lie.
** * #
The Coogee Aquarium, which opened last
week, is the only tnieg recorded during 1887 that
wasn’t under the patronaga of Lord Caringtcn The
Hon. Ingas, howaver, made a few remarks, after
which the band of the First Regiment let soma
music out of itself, and a swimming contest took
place. The building comprises a concert-hall to
accommodate 2000 persoos artgiller/, organ loft,
ref reshm ant-stall, fish-tanks, lawn, seal-pond,
penguin ditto, swimming bath, and 2j acres of
ground. Inglis opened the whole lot in abont five
minutes and didn't turn a hair.
** * *
Owing to the washy condition of outward
things the brilliant show which should have been
he'd at the Asti field Recreation Ground and
Garden Palace, during the holidays, ha 3 been
postponed till to-night (Thursday). A cycling
display by electric-light, a concert with the Naval
Artillery Band pounding its immortal soul out on
the big drum, and blowing its vital organs into
sundry wind instruments, a huge firework display
by Pain, and 3000 lamps to light up the grounds,
together with facllltes fir all the civilised wo Id
to skate till it breaks its collar-bone and two or
three of its legs, are a few of the features of the
programme.
#* # #
Miss Augusta Dargon (Mrs. Pierc y) is
returning to the stage.
*# * #
Melbourne shows were rather on the loose
all last week, and if The Bulletin wasn’t
bubbling over with good will towards men it
might say something derned unchristianlike about
some of ’em. But it is better to drown bitter
memories in the wassail bowl—to forget and
forgive everything except Simonsen’s Italians,
who didn’t sin and therefore need no repentance.
Tnose distinguished furriners will trill and quaver
for ihree more weeks at the Alexandria, and then
they set sail for Naples, where black-haired trou-
badours live on penny ices, and pallid
macaroni hangs despondently out to dry
from bedroom windows, along with blankets and
the week’s wash. To properly appreciate the
subtle flavours of macaroni one must go to
Naples. But this is be3ide the question. Boxing
Night was to hail something new at the temples
of art. “ Jack and the Beanstalk ” at the Royal,
“Erminie” at the Princess’s, “Sophia” at the
Bijou, and joys unspeakable in the minstrel de-
partment. There is no change at the Opera
House, where a deep-chested crowd is wallowing
in the wild wickedness of a cussed crimey
drammer called “ Current Cash.” When this was
produced in Sydney, the Nooze and the Herald
liked it so muoh that the management wisely put
their notices In pickle for the Melbourne public to
swallow If they will. And, at Christmas time,
every description of current trash is swallowed
greedily. (To be continued in our next.)
## # #
A London theatrical journal speaks of
“ Australia—the actor’s golden land."
## # #
The Townsville (Q.) Herald devotes four
columns to unlimited lavish gush of the “Mikado,"
as evolved by Grade Plaisted, Harding & Co.
## # #
Emma Abbott, the American opera singer,
stood up in her pew and made a speech defending
her calling in a Tennessee church the other
Sunday, after the presiding devil-wrestler (who
was no doubt in league with Emma on the occasion)
had finished a “sermon,” denouncing the the«
atrical profession. - This is about the best free ad.
on record!
#* # #
After appearing with great success at the
Adelaide Exhibition, Miss Amy Sherwin
give a farewell concert in the Town Hali, where
she met with a great reception. After the per
formance “the Nightingale" was serenaded
The godly citizens turned out in large
numbers, as the performance cost nothing,
Tommy Hudson is straggling with a pantomime
at Garner’s Theatre, and Nelson Dicker is runnirg
“Held by the Enemy" at the Royal.
## # #
They were playing “ Shadows of a groat
City” at the Princess’s Theatre, London, and the
sensation scene was in full blast. You remember
that scene-two men and a baby are on a bit of a
rook in New York Harbour, and the vi.lain pre-
pares to chuck baby into the briny. “ Wou’d you
d-own the little innocent?'’ says the other man.
“Unless tbe little innocent can swim,” says the
villain. Wt 11 it was just at this point that ; n
expectant mother in the upper boxe3 became lo
excited by emotion that she increased the popu-
lation on the spot. Toe manageress, Mis 3 Grace
Hawthorn, stood godmother, and her treasurer
also promised and vowed three things in the little
stranger’s name. If there's anything in first
impressions, we gues3 this upper-boxes baby will
have water on the brain.
## # #
Fanny Litldiard returned by the Zea«
iandia. George Leitch has paralysed Napitr
(N.Z ) with “ The Madman,” and the papers ate
raving about his glittering eye, and his short,
sharp howl of uncanny mirth. The “Greatest
Show on E irth” (Barnum’s, of course,) i 3 now run
without a clown. Alas I John Haynes is pre ty
nearly the only clown left, as we deeply regret
to hear. Remenyi, the great violinist, has gone
down to the sharks and
whale 3 on the coast of
Madagascar. The report
that Mrs. Langtry had
turned religions is indig-
nantly contradicted. She
is as sinful as ever she
was. Biand Holt has been
booming “A Run of
Luck ” at Wellington
(N.Z.), wi h the sugges-
tive p irts cut out. New
York critics say that the
new star, Genevieve Lyt-
t n, travels on her head,
while Mrs. Langtry tra-
vels on her neck and
bosom. Both seem rather
awkward modes of loco-
motion. A circus got
wrtekedia a railway
smash at St. Louis
(U.S.) the other day,
and the lions, tigers,
ticket takers, and other
wsld animals got loose.
0„e leopard ate a hotel-
keeper, and died in a
few minutes An operatic
manager ejected the re■
porter of the Bendigo
(Vie.) Independent from
bis show because the
notices weren’t good
enough. We have met
the same experience our-
selves frequently, and
have learned 15 different
ways of being thrown
downstairs on our head.
The only remedy is to
write worse notices after
each throwout.
# # *
A certain Sydney
manager upon going
behind the scenes of h s
theatre, the other nigtff,
found there a masher
talking to some of the bal-
let-girls. The man ager re •
quested the masher to quit, which he did, and
the former then learnt that the latter was very
ri 'h, and a good patron of the theatre. “I don’t
care,” said the Thespian tyrant. “It he was as
rich a 3 Creosite, he don't come behind ray scenes.”
From Friday n ! ght until Tuesday morning all de-
livery of mails was suspended throughout the
colony of New South Wales, and this in a country
where traios are running for the major parb of the
time to a'jicent colonies, with which business
is hourly being transacted. This may be the New
South Wales Postmaiter-General’s notion of bus!-
| ness, but he should recollect that a letter-delivery
is not like a gin-mill. You can close a bunghole
ia a whisky cask without much harm being d ne
to anybody ; but it is different with a post-office
delivery window. People can lay in their stock of
glucoss and lus 1-oil and compound concentrated
essence of damnation on Satuiday night, but you
omnot go to the letter-shop as you can to the
grog-shop and lay in a supply ot correspendence
to last over the holidays It is all nonsense to
talk about the postman. The country ia not so
mean as to refuse to pay for relays or shifts iu
times of great pressure. The fault lies entirely
with the management. Probably Mr. Roberts
is anxious to throw a sop to the Civil servants
whom his master Parkes has recently so greatly
offended. This little game is evidently in the
interests of the official body, not in the interests
of the men who trudge round in red coats for a
meagre enough wage. There is no occasion to
stop all public business to curry favour with a
section of the community recently unjustly out-
raged by the Government, and the sooner Mr,
Postmaster-General Roberts learns that the
G.P.O. is nob absolutely on all fours with 'he
public houses the better for the security of his
billet.


PEPPER
Salt
David Henry —a distinguished gentleman
acquainted with a person who has a friend that
occasionally makes advances in money for a small
consideration —is expected back in Melbourne
about the 7th January. David has been seeking
relaxation from business cares in America, for a
weary, weary time. Pass the Jewa’ harp :
O ! mashers in Government offices,
O ! fast going fledglings in banks,
O ! money-from-home-getting novices,
Who get up to lunatic pranks ;
O ! squatters not come to maturity,
Friend David is crossing the main,
And, if you find proper “ shecurity,”
No doubt he’ll assist you again.
Control your impatience—for presently,
Once more from the old office-chair,
He'll smile at his clients so pleasantly,
With a father-and-motherly air ;
He’ll joke you about all your capers, and
Say “coin is exceedingly tight” ;
Then probably pass you some papers, and
A pen will put everything right.
Sing hey, then, improvident novices,
For David, the friend of the J. ;
Make haste to implore his good offices
To drive all your troubles away ;
Provide him with proper “ shecurity ”
Some deeds or another “ good ” name—
And don’t let a thought of futurity
Prevent you from playing the game.
* * *
They were going over the municipal ac-
counts in a Western Council, and the aldermen
were lost amid a labyrinth of police-rates, water-
rates, lighting-rates, cleaning-rates, dog-tax,
horse a’sessments, and the like. At last the
Council came to the surface of the accounts to
breathe, and an Irish member “shtruck the flure,”
and suggested that in future “ all them oitems
should be brought undher wan dishtinct
nucleus.” As he spoke another knowledgeable
jintilman opposite fixed a pitying eye on
the descendant of the ould Munster kings,
and, when he had finished, the other man
rose. “ It’s fokis y’mane, Oi'm thinkin’,” he ob-
served euperc'liously. “Oi mane eggsackly fwhat
Oi say, “roared the reformer; “an’ Oi’ll shtand
to me nucleus, Mishter Chairman, an’ Oi pity tbe
neglectid eidicashun av the bogtrotter beyant
who doesn’t know the difference betune a nucleus
an’ a fokis.” The enemy rose excitedly at this
crisis and said that some aldermen were “as ig-
gorant as a baste,” but he was called to order, and
business was resumed.
* * *
The great Jem Smith and the great Jake
Kilrain went —so tbe cableman says—all the way
to Rouen to fight a hundred and six rounds, end-
ing in the inevitable “ draw.” Pshaw ! Are you
listening, Larry Foley and Mister Burke?
At Swift Creek (N.Z.), the other day, two
little snuffling babes were christened with water
brought from the River Jordan. Also, by way of
adding to the impo3icg aspect of the show, the
vessel in which the ointment was contained had
been bought in the “ street which is called
Straight,” at Damascus, and the local paper states
that these two circumstances combined, also each
of them viewed singly, or regarded in connection
with the other, or any of them viewed anyhow,
may be considered as a “happy augury” for the
future life of the squalling infants. P'raps so !
Who knows? The Jordan is about as big as the
Yarra, but it lacks the comprehensive atd well-
preserved stinks of the Dirty River, and the street
which is called Straight is a corkscrew way, laden
with garbage, and only about wide enough for a bull
to turn round. But it doesn’t take much to pile up
the enthusiasm of a plou3 paper, and so the N Z,
editor gazes in holy ecstasy at the cracked brown
jug which was bought from a dirty Turk in a lane
strewn with slush and dead dogs, and then pour 3
out his overladen soul in half a column of solemn
meditations.
« # *
The prize curaer and swearer of the N.Z
Assembly has been suddenly and silently anni-
hilated, and his flow of cheerful Billingsgate is
heard no more. A few days ago Henry Smith
Fish, M.HR,, was a raging terror in the House,
but a certain large, peaceful, sleepy, silent mem-
ber—a sort of legislative cow ruminating in the
shade —went for him, and the squashed and
trodden-on Fish became a shapeless mass. There
was no row, either, and no abuse ; the Bleepy,
bob-tailed country member did not speak, and
when the trouble was over he peacefully dozed off
again, but now Fish will stop in the full blast of
his profanity and sit down whenever the bumpkin
statesman oawdles into the House and looks at
him. There is a great calm in the Lower House
now that Fish is abolished, and the men who
used to get up excitedly and state that Mr. Fith
Smish was a disarrace to the country, and who
never could get * he name right when th9y were in
a hurry, are having a rest. And all th's time the
man who extinguished the frothing cf Fish’* exu-
berance preserves his holy calm and puts on no friil»,
but whenever the uproarious paperhanger starts
on a new crusade he wanders over to him, and
sits down by his side and weeps. He never
speaks, but he looks at FLh with a world of
speechlets sorrow in his eyes, and large tears ro
down his cheeks, and when the rowdy house-
decorator makes a j eke his sob 3 become audible.
When he can’t get a place alongside Fish, he rears
his towering frame behind him, and snuffles in his
ear, and drops the evidences of his woe on Fish’s
head. The prize Billingsgate? of the House
presently begins to lose his sarses under this in-
fliction ; the patient misery of the man alongside
is too much for him, and he collapses ignomini-
ousiy. It is a good dodge, but it wouldn’t work
in Australia. Pol'ticians who are ac ustomed to be
stunned with a club don’t appreciate silent grief,
* * *
The narrow, debasing theory that a horse
can’t be a Christian ha 3 had its day, and it is
time for it to give place to a nobler and more en-
lightened doctrice. We have ourselves seen
many a horse that has a better prospect of going
to heaven than a lot of men we oould name, and,
for the sake of a goed show in the Hereafter we
would rather be a moke than a politician any day.
Apart from other evldenoe, however, our theory
of a horse’s Christianity is sufficiently confirmed
by what happened the other day to Ah Suey’s
A FISH STORY.
MR. NOODLETOOZY (who always makes a point of “ noticing" children): “WELL,
CHARLEY, MY FINE BOY, WHAT HAVE YOU BEEN UP TO, TO-DAY?”
CHARLEY: “FISHIN’.”
MR. N. : “FISHING! USUAL FISHERMAN’S LUCK, I S’POSE?”
CHARLEY: “NO FEAR! WHY, I CAUGHT A GREAT BIG FLATHEAD. OH, AN
A WFUL BIG ONE! HE WAS AS BIG AS—WHY, HE WAS ACTUALLY AS
LONG AS YOUR FOOT!”
dead body, at Reedy Creek (Vic.). Suey had sud-
denly croaked, from causes unknown ; perhaps he
had been eating some of his own cabbagee, for the
ways of Providence are mysterious, but th's point
doesn’t signify. At all events, he was gone, so
the local Melville put him in a coffin, and the
coffin in a cart, and started to drive him to the
cemetery. Ah Huey’s pal, executor, adminis
trator, assign, and sole heir, Jimmy Ah Kow, sat
wseping and chewing tobacco on tip of the coffin,
and the procession moved along like a cheerful
symphony. The horse didn’t know the degrada-
tion that had teen put upon him. He was an
elderly animal of dauntless courage and great
velocity, and he had sat down on bis tail so often
and so hard that there was only a little stubble
left at the end of his backbone. If the Chow
in the cart had only kept quiet, things
might have gone on all right to the
end, but the Chow who con keep quiet
hasn’t yet been born, and presently Ah Kew
commenced to jaw fond endearments to the de-
ceased in the box. Then the horse, which had
been moving along with the stately stride of an
emperor drawing a hand-cart, suddenly stopped,
a look of astonishment passed over its face, and it
turned round and fix=da reproachful gaze on its
owner. From him it glanced at Ah Kow, and
then it braced itself up, and, with a heave that
nearl/ heaved its immortai soul out into ihe
middle of the road, it landed the loathsome
foreigner in the dust. Another noble effort, and
the coffin shot 20 feet in the air and came down
on the chest of Ah Suey’s executor with a whop
like an earthquake. It was the wor3t shock that
James Ah Kow had ever experienced, and when
his breath returned he raised his voice and
walled, “ You muchee go to hellee ! Take off um
box ! Ah Suey no bloomin’ good ! Me no billy
him any mole! Pitch him col pee over
fencee! ” When at last the remains were
removed from the top of Kow, that yellow
imbecile got up and walloped his dead rela-
tive with a log till he was hauled off, and finally,
he refused to follow the deceased any further, and
sneaked home through the twilight sobbing and
carrying his eye in a brown paper bag. As for
Ah Suey, he was thrown in o a grave without any
ceremony amid the unseemly laughter of the horse
that had chucked him out, and the splintered
wreck of the coffin was bundled in after him,
while his soul, if he had a soul, dusted serenely
along the heavenly road to sleep ultimately with
the epirits of h’s fithors, where their pig tails
wave ia the breeze which blows upon the
shores of the crystal sea. This little moral reflec-
tion is inserted, of course, on the off-chanoe that
Ah Suey had a soul, but if he hadn’t the horse
which dropped him on top of his countryman, cer-
tainly had.
* * *
At Koroit (N.S.W.) recently a teamster
was fined 20s. for driving a wcol-waggon through
the town on Sunday, contrary to the Act of
Charles the First of blessed memory, who lost hia
head. Of course Charles, even while he had a
head, d'dn’t intend the Act to apply to Australia,
for he never knew that there was any such place,
but that doesn’t count The English Parliament
never repeals any of these imbecile laws of the
past, consequently there are enough old Acts in
existence to prevent a man doing anything at all,
and the older and the more stupid the Act the
more Attorney-General Wise respects it as a
venerable snag of antiquity. Under these circum-
stances, we have resolved on taking a serious
step in order to bring about a reform. We intend,
in the first place, to get hold of a promising Irish
youth of simple aspect, and send him to Oxford,
there to be stuffed by bores with erudition and
miscellaneous ’ologies, until all the Information of
the past is festering in his ring-barked brain.
Then we will bring him out to Sydney and get
him made a policeman, and he will walk his
weary “bate" and try his best to look like a
plain, common, mean, ordinary, unenlightened offi-
cer, until, in a thrilling moment, he sights a drunk
conducting himself contrary to the provisions cf
some unrepealed enactment passed in the reign of
Harold Harefoot or Canute the Hardy, or busting
up the “ statoots ”of King Stephen. Upon this he
will straightway proceed to enforce the mangled
code, and about noon the next day that astonished
drunk will be put into a suit of armour and
mounted on a cart-horse and ordered to prove his
innocence by trial of bat le in George-streat,
Sydney, with the Mayor for an antagonist, while
the Inspector of Nuisances blows a big trumpet
and Barou Carington acts as judge of the field.
Meanwhile a suspected perjurer will be trying to
prove his innocence by staying under water longer
than the officer who made the charge, and George
Rignold will be solemnly carried out of town on a
rail under the Act which declares all actors to be
vagabonds and public nuisances One policeman
stuffed with antiquarian lore could make more
racket in Sydney in a week than the city has ever
before seen in 12 months.
The ugliest man in the known world is an
Eastern prince. Conscious of his misfortune, no
looking-glasses were hung in his palace. Visiting
a neighbouring prince, the ugliest of men was ac-
companied by his vizier, and they came face to
face with a mirror, when both bursb into tears.
“ Moderate your grief, my faithful friend,” said
the prince, “ you see lam quite resigned.” “ Oh,
it is not that, my noble master,” replied the vizier,
“ you have only sceir yourself for a single instant
—I have to look at you every day.”
At a recent N.Z. rcai-boird meeting,
the chairman placed a bank-book on the table,
and, while he was talking to one of the members,
another member took up the pass-book and ex-
amined the entries. “Thunder and lightning!”
he cried, as he noticed the overdraft, and read the
amount out load, “ where, in the name of Roths-
child, ba3 all the money gone to ?” The chairman
clutched the book, and looked at the cover.
“ Bhoys,” he said solemnly, “ keep it dark. This
is my own bank-book. You now know my posi-
tion. Come and let’s have a drink before we
begin business.’ And they went out ard drank
sucoess to the O.D.
A fight of great moment and pith
Took place between Kilrain and Smith,
Though neither man won
Both were fearfully “done” ;
We wonder what vim they fought with ?
Alas for Jam Smith and Kilrain !
Their claims to be bruisars are vain ;
Rounds a hundred and six,
Terminating in nix—
The “ sport” Is indeed on the wane !
Since the match between Heenan and King
It is plainly a case with the ring ;
Of the prfza-fighting race
There is only old Mace
Who is worthy their praises to sing.
Bury the ropes and the stakes
Along with these Jemmys and Jakes ;
The game is U.P.,
For it’s easy to see
That the latter-day battles are “ fakes.”
P RBONAL ITEMS.
Sir George Grey, though not fond of news-
paper reading, never misses his Bulletin.
It is stated that Lord Carington once
started a newspaper in England and lost £2OOO a
year by it. We shouldn’t wonder.
Fitzgerald, the N.Z. Auditor-General,
bosses the whole Civil Service, which irreverent
jokists therefore say “ is subject to Fitz.”
A reputed brother of the Grand Old Man
keeps a store in a Western N.S. W. town, and if
features count for anything he must be one
The late lamented John Sheehan, of N.Z.,
once said that *' he liked a good strong healthy
public opinion, even if it took the form of rotten
eggs,”
The Northern Miner impudently re-
marks that Cardinal Moran’s Master wasn’t met
in the old days by a “large party of gentlemen ”
in a Government “ yot.”
A younger brother of Count de Lesseps
has just died. It is not generally known that the
great French engineer, who is now 82, is a cousin
of the ex-Empress Eugenie.
The N.Z. Justice Department has pen-
sioned off H. C. S. Baddely at £225 per annum.
This is the beak who sentenced two boys to gaol and
a flogging for stealing a few apples.
Rev. J. H. L. Zillman has forsaken the
pulpit for the press. He now edits a Darling
Downs Journal and calculates saving every soul
who reads his paper on a Sunday morning.
Lady Blunt (wife of Mr. Wilfrid Blunt,
who has just been sent to gaol by the Tories for
speaking at a proclaimed public meeting in Ire-
land) is the granddaughter of the poet Byron.
Mr. Thomson W. Leys, editor of the
Auckland (N.Z.) Star, has written a book on the
Tarawera eruption, which goes to show that it is
the biggest affair of the kind since Job got well.
An Auckland, N.Z., solicitor has just
done the Pacific slope. Boodle variously esti-
mated at from £lO,OOO to £30,000. He was a
shining light of the “upper suckles,” and but re-
cently married.
Madame Limouzin, who has upset all
France, and involved many high personages in
disgrace, is short, slim, lame and hump-backed.
She is great granddaughter of the distinguished
General Kieber —and has a smile. That i 3 all.
D. B. Walker, the ex-sollcitor, who un-
derwent such a terrible keel-hauling at the hands
of Mr. Justioe Owen, in a recent will case, was a
shining light of the “Never Touch Its’ at
Kempsey, N.S.W.—Not the accursed drink this
time.
Of the members of the present N.Z.
Ministry, Atkinson was formerly a “cockatoo,”
Fergus a recalcitrant divinity student, and latterly
a railway contractor, Mitohelson a cirpenter,
Hislop a lawyer, Fisher a compositor, and Richard-
son a surveyor.
A son of Dr. Ornithoryncus Bennitb, the
veteran naturalist, is collector of water rates to
the Auckland (N.Z.) Corporation. Which remind s
us that there is an “eternal fitness” in the fact
that a ecion of the Doctor’s family should be a
“ beast with a bill."
A certain well-known Maori member of
Parliament has a white wife who occasionally
goes on an animated bust, gets run in, and uses
unladylike language in broad D o aegal. Her husband
ia a strenuous supporter of the new Divorce Bill now
before the N.Z. Parliament.
A Melbourne paper says that Co’onial
Secretary Deakin sometimes speaks as much as
1,300 words in five minutes. Pooh! We have
heard the man in front of a three-legged calf-and-
bearded-lady-show speak twice as many words in
the same time —and more to the point too.
At Wellington, N.Z., the proprietor of the
Wairarapa Standard is being sued for criminal
libel. He is accused of having pictured a lively
scene in which a rival inkslinger went off by
spontaneous combustion, leaving behind him
some Maori half-oaste children and a liquor-
funnel.
To Captain Daveney, Secretary of the
Northern Club, Auckland, belongs whatever
credit attaohes to elaborating the scheme for
settling di?charged soldiers in the colonies, which
has just been adopted by the Imperial authorities.
This is the gentleman satirised by Froude ia
“ Oceana.”
A New York paper irreverently speaks of
old friend, Harold Bellow, as “ a gentle-
man with a mass of tangled iron-grey ringlets, a
handsome face, bandy legs, and a bBcorseted
figure, known to the stage as Harold Kyrle
Bellew, but whose father bora the coy name of
Higgins.”
He Cbar’es Lilley, Chief Justice of
Queensland, is very anxious to forsake the ermine
for the Senate. He has grown weary of interpre-
ting statutes, and longs for the more congenial
atmosphere wherein the laws ate framed. He
eays he shall be ready to render his services shoul i
the calls of patriotism demand them.
Po or Edinburgh has bean had once more.
The very latest is that he gave a lunch recently
on board his flagship to a lot of Mediterranean
swells, and when it was over they saw him
through the cabin sky light going round the table
and putting a pencil-mark on each decanter at tie
wine-level, that ha might know if the fervanta
stole any of the slops.
Mrs, Marcus Clarke purposes publishing
by subscription a complete edition of the scatter! d
works of her husband, including descriptive
sketches of the early days of the colonies, tales of
the bush, imaginative stories, life-pictures of the
lower Bohemia of Melboarne, humorous, satirica’,
and critical sketches, versei grave and gay, in
one handsome volume
Chance shapes our destinies. Vogel’s entr/
into politios was quite an accident. As a journal
ist he was sent to report a Parliamentary nomina-
tion, and there being only three persons at the
affair—the returning officer, a dead-beat, and him-
self —Yogel induced the dead-beat to nominate
him. As there was no other candidate he was
declared duly eleotei.
A Murcin exchange says that Maxwell,
the condemned murderer of Preller—he was ar-
rested at Auckland, N Z —was visited by large
crowds of people in St. Louis gaol. Many asked
him “ Are you the feller that put the other felle.’
in the trunk ? ” and, on being told cnat such was
the accusation, they remarked, “ Gosh, you don t
look like a cuss wat u’d do ib ! "
An old-fashioned English solicitor came
before Sir Redmond Barry once as a witness, and
in cross-examination was asked where he was on
a certain date, “Am I obliged to answer the


question, your honor?” “Certainly,” “ Well, I
hid retired inti the confidence of the sheriff
“In other words,” said counsel, “you were in
gaol for debt,” “Yes.” “Avery polite way of
putting it,” sail his Honor, who was himself the
pink of politeness.
Hon. John Johnston, M. L.C., of N Z ,
who died the other day, was worth half-a-mill o 1,
and was the head of the governing family of
Maoriland. One son, the Hon Walter Johnston,
was Minister of Works ; another, Charles, was
member for a Wellingcoa constituency ; one
daughter is the wife of Hon. Dr. Grace, M L C.,
and another is married to Mr. Pe ceval, member
for Christchurch. Hon John was a Protestant,
but his children were ail brought up in the
Catholic faith.
Marcus Carke made one or tvo strange
errors in his first ver ion of “ His Natural Life.”
There are two version?, one published in the
Australian Journal’’ and theother in book form.
In the former, in describing Me bourne and tbing3
in ’55, he alludes to the “ disreputable ante-cham ;
her” to the Th’a re R jyal, Bourne street,
“ known as the vestibule.” It was not till 60, or
thereabout, during the tenancy of, Spiers and
Pond, that the entrance hall to the theatre was
named the vestibule, and it was so named by E.
P. Hingston, brother to the elobs-trotter and
afterwards agent for Artemus Ward.
The Archbishop of Canterbury (£15,000
a year paid quarterly, and two palaces) is of
opinion that the lot of the 600,000 starving suf-
ferers of London “ might be alieviated by spiritual
consolation.” He also gave an entertainment the
same week to a number of earls and countesses,
&c , at which claret-cup, champagne, ices, straw-
berries and cream, and the like were served up on
the lawn. Winn Canterbury entertains the peers
of the realm, it will be observed, he doean t alle-
viate their lot by “ spiritual consolation ” Liqucr
is more ia their line than a chapter from the New
Testament, telling how the Lord hadn’t one red
cent in Galilee.
When Commander Cameron, the explorer,
after hi 3 return from Central Africa, was dining
with Marshal MacMahon, he thought it polite to
speak on geographical subjects. As the Marshal
had never heeded geography, save for military
purposes, since he was a boy, he soon got out of
his depth. Talking of Australia, he said : “What
a prodigious country, to be sure I I remember
when its capital, San Francisco, was like the
babe unbora!” This was in the smoking room.
The Vicomte Emmanuel d’Harcourt whispered,
“ Melbourne. Marshal —San Francisco is in Cali-
fornia.” “With all my heart,” cried the host.
“ Let it be in California, since you say so. Parole
d'honneur / ce brigand d'Harcourt sait tout /”
Such a sensation was never witnessed in
the new Law Courts, at Melbourne, as on that day
when young Dick M’Dermott —age, 19 ; weight,
eight stun ; height, 4ft llin. in his socks —went
round the courts and offices thirsting for the blood
of poor Purves, Q C., of the colossal intellect and
manly frame. Little Mac’s father, Townsend
M’Dermott, had been, as alleged, insulted by J.
L, P. in the robing room. Townsend is now
getting on to three score and ten, and young Dick
undertook to do the punching as proxy. The pair
at last met outside the library in the quadrangle,
but the mill didn't come off, and half-a-dozen
sporting barriers, who had slid rou- dthecorridors
to have a quiet look at the contest, want back to
Court weeping.
Messrs. F. E. Rogers, C. E. Pilcher, and
“Jack” Want, who have just taken “Silk,”
were told by the N.S.W. Chief Justice that he
was glad they had done so, as it made way for
eome of the bsitfiess juniors to earn a crust.
Which means that if any unfortunate suitor
requires the services of either of the distinguished
triumvirate he must employ a junior counsel with
him, as etiquette demands that a Q.C. shall rot
appear alone in court When the late Judge
Fellows (Vic ), was at the bar Sir William Stawell
told him he ought to accept aproffe*ed judgeship,
as he monopolised the chief business cf the courts
and kept other good men back Fellows took the
hint, but not until Government had increased the
sa’aries of the judges. Protection with a ven-
geance.
Wilson, the night-soil contractor of Auck-
land (N.Z )—strange as it may seem—is an accom-
plished musician. Once upon a time he owned a
rare old fiddle—a genuine “Strad,” it was sup-
posed to be. When his Royal Sordidness, the
Dake of Edinburgh, wa3 in the colony, some tuft-
hunting toady borrowed the violin from Wilson
and lent it to the Duke. It was such a capital
instrument that once the Duke had got it he could
not find It ia his heart to part with P, and the day
the Galatea sailed he had not returned it. Where-
upon Wilson chartered a waterman’s boat, boarded
the Prince’s vessel, and gave H R.H. such a
tongue-lashing before the local magnates who had
come off to do a valedictory grovel that the un-
happy German was o ;ly too glad to hand over the
instrument.
Sir Robert Molesworth, ex Justice of
Viotoria who retired from the Bench about two
years ago with a pension and a knighthood at the
age of 80, and whose days were thought to be
numbered, has bec.me quite rejuvenated. He
has been devoting ail h's spare time to iiovel
reading, and now the gay youag spa k fs going
in for dancing and comic singing The other
night Robert had a big party at his house in
Upper Hawthorn, and quite out-dii the lively
Judge Hickman, his favourite child, in his
hilarity. Topp, the Equity man, who was out
there, says that old M »ley actually sung the
“Judges song’fr m “ Trial by Jury,” and as an
encore gave the Chancellors ditty from “ lolan-
the.” Robert Wa’sb, the Crown Prosecutor, who
is an old chum of Sir Robert’s, declares he was
never more astonished ia hi 3 life since he heard
the late Jo3eph Henry Dunne sing one o! Mooiy
and S inkey’s hymns.
Like all working-men’s representatives
Charles Jardine Don—who was by trade a stone-
mason—when elected for the ultra-democra ic
constituency of Collingwood Flat (Vfc)
threatened to take his feat in the Assembly in .his
working clothe \ aprOD, and all; but when the
day came Don appeared In solemn black with kid
gloves to hide the horny hands out of which he
had made much political capital, in fact he looked
like a mute at a respectable funeral. He once
called a squatters’ Ministry a lot of political
“Shicers,” and when called to order explained that
he did not understand the meaning of the word.
Don scon, however, got tired of combining hard
work with legislation, and kepb a litt’e tobacco
shop in big Bourke-street, near the House. He
soon after degenerated into a pub,, was said to
have shaken hands with wealthy squatters, but
eventually became played out, and died in
obscurity. Of his colleagues in that Pari ament
one—John Edwards, the younger—is dead, and the
other Geurge"Milner Stephen—is faith healing in
London.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. is to remain N.S.W. So Parkes
says. God save Australia!
Signs of the times. The present N.S.W.
Government are giving away billets as fast as
Po33ible.
N.S.W. is just now spending less loan
money than before. It is intimated, however,
that she is goiDg to spend a little more land-money!
Nothing can be more charming than the
serious manner ia which a certain N.S W. legis-
lator always as3urei the Speaker, in the broadest
Scotch, that he is a Scoatchmon.
The four curses of N.S.W. The Parkes
Government of land-jobbers, the Chine te, the rab-
bit plague, and—greatest curse of all—ohe apathy
and Ignorance of the natives of the colony.
In the N.S.W. Assembly last week the
divary Wall arose to call attention to the presence
of leprosy in Honolulu. But somehow nobody
took any notice of Wall. The House is accus-
tomed to worse things than leprosy.
Billingsgate Fish, of the N.Z. Legislature,
has struck a new refinement of the English
language. In speaking of the Upper House
he described it as “ that other place to which I
refer but which I must not allude to.”
The New Zealand Ministry have reduced
their salaries by £3OOO. The Premier now re-
ceives £lOOO, and hts Ministers £BOO a year.
A MARKED MAN.
LOQUACIOUS BARBER: “YOU MAYN’T REMEMBER ME, SIR, BUT I HAD THE
PLEASURE OF SHAVING YOU WHEN YOU FIRST CAME TO SYDNEY—A LONG
WHILE AGO!”
CUSTOMER: “INDEED! YOU MUST HAVE SHAVED SO MANY FACES SINCE THEN,
THAT IT SEEMS STRANGE YOU SHOULD RECOLLECT ME, IN PARTICULAR!"
BARBER: “AH! YES, BUT I NEVER FORGET MY OWN PARTICULAR RAZOR-
MARKS!”
Parkes, in his scheme of retrenchment, leaves his
own colleagues’ salary at about double the New
Zealand rate.
NtwZealand is the only Australasian colony
which cares nothing what New Sou'oh Wales calls
herself; bu r ', shuuld Parkes put a 'at on dairy
produce, then Maoriland will arise and give him
a taste of reciprocity with a “ dooty ” on coal.
In the course of Premier Parkes’ recent
lectureon “Parliamentary Government,” he stated
that the President of the United States possesses
more absolute au'hority than even George 111. in
his most despotic days. This isn’o lying. It is
only ignorance.
Colonel Tottenham, a Tory landowner in
Ireland, has been screwing £lB a year out of a
poor tenant whose rent was recently reduced to
£2 s s . by the Royal Commissioners. Sixty per
shent fades into ins'gniflcance beside such an
extoition as this.
One of the early N.Z. Ministries was
known as the “ White Shirt Ministry,” because
Mr. Thomas Forsaith, the Premier-expectant, on
being hastily summoned by the Governor, craved
a few minutes’ delay, until he and his colleagues
had put on “ biled shirts.”
We learn that when the Vie'orian Speaker
formally presented Governor Lech with the Appro-
priation Bill for 1887-88 “ His Excellency duly
assented to it.” Considering that it included the
Governor’s special appropriation of an extra £6OOO,
we guess he oordially assented.
A British grand jury appealed the other
day to have Mr. Triumphant Democracy Car-
negie imprisoned for writing that volume. Con-
sidering that Mr. Carnegie is an ironmaster
resident in the United State?, the appeal seems
peculiarly asinine—even for a British grand jury.
The Recorder refused to take the case up.
Mr. Carter said, In the Victorian Assembly
a short while ago, that “ he had read the history
of the world since the teetotaller Adam lost Para-
dise, and he did not know of avy teetotaller that
had ever done any good for the world.” We do
—Malcolm 111., of Scotland, who made a law
pun’shirg sellers of intoxicating liquor with death.
Eh, Mr. Carter ? You would have had a bad
quarter-of-an hour then.
Tnus touches the S.M. Herald’s per
fnmed Loudon “special” on the unemployed
difficulty:
There is a growing opinion that ere long both sides will
court a battle, and when that takes place there will bs an
end of the cap of liberty and the black flags for some time to
cone.
Just so. An end to the black flags, perhaps, but
not to the cap of liberty.
Says the Northern Miner :
The general election is looming nearer ; the party cries are
numerous and various; the Freetraders and the Protec-
tionists are already lifting their banners. But there are
more important issues before the country than any trade
questions. The question whether Queensland—whether
Australia shall remain a mere appanage of England, a rub-
bish heap, to shoot her diseased poverty and crime; a fat-
tening paddock for her used-up diplomats to browse in, and
wax fat as colonial Governors ; or whether this and the
other colonies shall effloresce into the full bloom of that
national life already stirring into activity in every nook and
corner of Australia.
All of a Budden Germany finds that she ia
unprepared for war. The repeating rifle with
which h*r infan*ry has only recently been
thoroughly re-armed, Is now found to be of too
large a calibre, heavy, clumsy, and impracticable,
as compared with the lighter, better-finished, and
more deadly weapons with which the French and
other European nations have been providing
themselves. Her whole vast armies must be
re-weaponed, at an enormous expense, and an
inevitable de’ay. Not even the stooks of the old
rifle 3 cm be used. Germany, therefore, can not
afford to go to war at the moment in the face of
Buch an enormous disadvantage.
The NZ. arliament is beginning to pro-
test against the constantly-recurring item, “ Re-
pairs to Ministerial Residences." “Sardine-
opener, &c., 95.” is one of the things they kick
against, also “false bottom for range, os. 6d.,”
an impression having got abroad that there is
enough false bottom about the Government with-
out paying for any more. “ Gas-fittings for
theatrical stage, £2 9s. lid.,” is also considered
rough, to say nothing of “hire of piano, £lO 45.,”
with “ hire of piano, £7 10s.” thrown in, aßd
“hire of piano, £8 0s 6d.," “hire of piano, £7
105.,” “ hire of piano, £3 5a.,” “ freight on piano,
9s. 8d.,” “packing piano, £1105.,” “ tuning piano,
155.,” into the bargain. “Child’s bath and rat-
trap, £1 4s. 6d.,” makes the Legislature boil over,
there being an impression abroad that the Minis-
ter’s child ought to be washed at his own expense,
and if the nation must wash it in future the
squalling brat will probably be inverted under the
pump. “ Pink and gold breakfast-set, £3,” sug
gests that the Government likes to have its vic-
tuals comfortably, and “ rose for Director, 25.” is
a mystery which no one has yet fathomed.
Thus the Earl of Carnarvon at the recent
dinner given in his honour by the Imperialists of
the Beautiful Harbour :
I would have you know that we know your statesmen well
by name, and that we fully appreciate them. (Cheers.) We
honour them as the honoured representatives of your own
constitutional system—(cheers)—and I am sure that no party
or political feeling of those who are bound sometimes to
think differently upon public affairs will make it undesirable
for me to say that in the present Prime Minister of this
country you have one whose age, whose experience, whose
knowledge cf public affairs, well merit that he should be
known throughout the leDgth and breadth of the Empire.
(Cheers )
When you read this over carefully and prayerfully
you will discover that it makes mighty fine
sarcasm.
Francls Adams' Novel, “Madeline Brown’s
Murderer.”
The S.M. Herald of a recent issue contained a
severe and absolutely unintelligent notice of a
lately-published realistic and sensational noveJ,
by Francis W. L. Adams, entitled “ Madeline
Brown’s Murderer.” Of course, the Herald un-
conditionally condemned it. Whisper but
the words realistic and sensation’ into an
English ear and visions cf Zola ard
his echool, of Gaboriau, A. K. Greene, and Hu?h
Conway are conjured up. Mr. Adams’ book is
certainly sensational, but so also are all the
notable successes in fiction cf to day the wide
world over Realistic it is just as certainly, but,
somehow, critics of Eoglieh nationality always
think of one sort of realism, and only one sort—
the realism of nastiness. Zola discovered
that durghilis were profitable investments. He
consents to keep his nose over a cesspool fer
so much a sniff. Adams, on the other hand, is only
rea’i3tic as an artist would be who painted the
nude figure. He suppresses nothirg essential to
his picture, but neither does he exaggerate in
order to pander to the depraved taste of chronic
libidiency. He is artistic throughout, his colours
are strong, his drawing vigorous and accurate.
The book enthrals. The study of detail involved
in its composition must have been immense. The
broad, essential generalities are given, but the
reader feels the wealth of mental vision in the
author of which he has reflected in the novel
only the high lights and tense shadows. To the
superficial Philistine, Madeline Brown, the
heroine, is an immoral, albait beautiful, sorceres ;
to the student of character, she is the pure, un-
sullied child of Nature, ignorant alike of virtue
and vice, who blooms and expands like some rich
exotio of her own Southern land, indifferent to
society’s opinions or the cut and-dried logic of
systems of theology. She typifies the warm,
glorious, panting South, as her hard, dry, matter-
of-fact husband, Raynor, typifies the North, with
all its Yankee directness and narrow intensity.
There is antagonism throughout the book between
these two —the antagonism existent always
between artiflcialised man and virgin Nature.
The warm-hearted journalist, Stuart, the
enthusiast in art and life ; the cynical, human
Randall; the theologically-fettered Hildyard,
with his spasms of assertive sensualism ; the de-
voted Florence, with her brooding sacrificing love ;
are all firmly and consistently drawn. The plot
is enchainiDg in its interest, and the workmanship
is that of a poet. If the book is not a success in
Australia it will be because it was produced in
Australia, and lacks that charm of meretricious
farnees which the distance-worshipping oolonist
attaches to the spawn of the English press,
Men living in Australia who have, during their
residence in a colder clime (or owing to the
bad example set them by parents born and bred
in the Old World) contracted the habit
of feeding mainly on carbonaceous foods aredaily
issuing invitations to Death to come and take
dinner with them. Visit the house of any aver-
age Englishman, living in Australia, on Sunday
afternoon. “Me. Bull is asleep! Mr. Bull
cannot be disturbed ! ” You insist, and Mr. Bull
comes to t*e door, his stomach distended—like
that of an iguana’s after a gorge—with plum-
pudding and roast-beef. His eyes are bolting
dyspeptically out of his head, his cheeks are
bloated and puffy, and his breath is steaming out
of him tainted with his diurnal swill of whisky-
and-water. One day he runs to catch a tram !
Verdict, disease of the heart. Why not the
true cause, syncope, the scientific title for stomach
on the chest? People remark with surprise,
“ Mr. Smith is dead ; such a fine big man ! died
suddenly : just after eating such a hearty meal,
too ! Wonder what could have been the matter
with him ? ” The explanation of all the trouble
is in that “ hearty meal.” In 99 cases out of a
hundred of alleged, heart-disease, that much-ma-
ligned organ has been perfectly healthy, and fully
capable, withproper usage, of lasting out the ordin-
ary human span of life. The true complaint is usually
syncope, consequent upon the distension of the
stomach interfering with the action of the heart.
This reminds us that the pre c ent Lord Lucan, of
Balaclava fame, was brought up by his father on
the Cornarian principle. He is now 87 years old;
he has served in the British Army 71 years, and
he has lately been raised to the rank of field-
marshal. His father, the late Lord Lucan, found
himself at the age of 60 a victim to heart disease,
the result of a life of carelessness and dissipation,
but managed, by adopting at that advanced age
the Cornarian method of existence, to prolong
his life 30 years, dying at the ripe old age of 90.
According to the theory of Cornaro has the pre-
sent Lord Lucan lived since his cradlehood. He
takes but little food, and that little accurately
measured out to him day by day. He is now pro-
bably the most active man of his age in England,
and thisi3 the result of having lived scientifically.
Of course, it may he objected that existence by
the method of Cornaro would be the existence of
a vegetable. A man would be the absolute slave
of habit, Very good, but would such existence
not be preferable, after all, to the greasy life of boa-
constrictor repletion and gorge, which so many
pursue and which unfits a man entirely for the
discharge of the duties of life and frequently results
in premature death? Certainly, it is better to
live the life of a vegetable than to live the life
of a h r g ! __
It is better to take a bed at a good ho tel,
or even to put up at Government House, than to
go to sleep on the Melbourne wharves. A labour-
ing gentleman by the name of Davies sank down
to slumber on Queen’s Wharf the other day, and
when he woke up he had no boots. The wonder
is that he had any legs. There are chevaliers of
industry who haunt those wharves who. if they
had found him, would have thought nothing of
robbing him first, drowning him afterwards, and
subsequently claiming a reward for finding the
body, and winding up by stealing it from the
morgue and selling it to the medical students for
dissection. Very thorough in their work are
these gentlemen. Mr. Davies ought to consider
himself a very fortunate man.
General Sir George Stoddart Whitmore,
oommandant of the N, Z forces, resigns at the end
of the year and goes to England to write a book
on the Maori War. General George is a little
1201 b man with a nose “ tip-tilted like the petals
of a flower,” but he is true grit. The way he
harried the natives in the Arawera campaign was
a caution and made the Imperial forces green with
envy. He would take his corps of hardy bushmen
into the forest-clad mountains for weeks, all the
provender being a little flour and what pigs they
could catch. On one of these expeditions an
officer suggested that the column should return to
the coast as the men were worn out and some
of them infested with vermin. “ Lousy, sir, are
they ? ” said Whitmore, “ Damn it, so am I! It s
honourable to be lousy in pursuit of the enemy.
Devil a step do we go back till we have a slap at
Te Kooti.” And Whitmore had his way, and his
persistence and courage led to the complete sup-
presion of the rebellion on the East Coast.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1887.


Cur Christmas Cards.


Society
When the dulcet voice of the milkman is
heard beneath the eaves of Sydney Government
House with his long-drawn jowl of “Milk!”
Lady Carington’s sweat face puckers up into a
frown which gradually melts away, and is suc-
ceeded by a smile, for she cannot but feel all a
patron’s interest in any and every milk-cart in
NS W. Nearly everyone has heard of her lady-
ship’s rheumatiz, but few know the origin of the
complaint which has furnished so much “ copy ”
to the sasslety papers, and it is worth recording,
for it is the history of a wife’s heroic devotion. It
was at Moss Vale, The Governor was expected to
come hurrying up from the South in hot haste, so
the proud vice-regal steeds were brought forth
from the proud vice-regal stable and clothed with
their proud vice-regal trappings. But the
steeds, notwithstanding their noble birth
and their haughty lineage their great
grandfather had been an Abigail, which, being
translated, means 200 per shent—refused to “git,”
and the coming hum of the train smote upon the
ears of the pampered menials and they looked at
each other and grinned. Nearer roars the
Southern train, more petrified become the haughty
steeds of noble lineage, more exasperatingly
albeit passively satirical the pampered serving-
men. Lady Carington was in despair when a
milk-cart hove in sight and brought solace to her
heart She hailed that milk-cart and arranged with
the humble swain that handled its steering-gear
to be driven to the railway station. In mounting
the high and difficult step Lady Carington in-
iured her knee. This is tbe origin of the vice-
regal rheumatism. It will be remembered that
Lady Brassay once rode in a vegetable-cart, and is
now regarded as the patron saintof the coster frater-
nity in Australia, much iu the same manner that
Lady Carington is held ia sacred esterm as the
patron saint of the ehalk-and-water brotherhood.
We think that henceforward no milkman with
any sentiment of chivalry, any capacity for
knight-errantry would be guilty cf an ignoble
or plebeian sin—such as watering the milk, for
instance, or leaving the lid of a can on
the cart seat when a shower of rain is
falling. There is, however, in this connection
something truly inexplicable. Lady Carington
is popularly suoposed to lead fashion, and jet
we have seen no wive 3 of wealthy Potts Pointers
riding in milk-carts. Perhaps they did all their
milk-cart work years agone, and are not now
anxious to revive that flower that bloometh when
Autumn’s leaves are shed.
Governor Carington, when on a recent
visit to Maitland, N.S.W,, wore a simple citizen's
walking costume ; the aide-de-camp, who accom-
panied him, was togged out in a’l the aluminum-
ated radiance of a tabbed uniform, epaulettes,
befrogged and e mbroidered j acket, sheeny lace,
sword, pipe-clay, red-ochre, and other molecules
of gorgeosity too numerous to mention. The
simple bucolic mind just wrapped Itself in rap-
turous ecstasy around this radiant creature, mis-
taking him for Carington, and entirely lost sight
of the genuine Gub. Now, wouldn’t it be better
to run the vice-regal position purely on the fancy-
dress principle, and hire a man at so much a day to
wear the war-paint ?
* * *
The Bondi Aquarium management has
recognissd the true value of spangles and uni-
forms. It advertises its show per medium of a
horse caparisoned with a display calico sign, and
navigated through the streets of Sydney by a man
fully equipped as a volunteer Lanceab, one of the
crack corp 3 whose glorious privilege id is to escort
Governor Carington through the streets. The
wonder is that anything so like the gim crack
Saturday soldier could be put to so profitable a
use, but the future possibilities of the lanceah,
considered in the light of a novel and telling
advertisement, are now simply incalculable.
* * •
Admiral Fairfax, during hia stay at Auck-
land, is to sojourn at Government llouso. This is
the princely mansion tha* 1 , through defective
drainage, nearly cost dear old Gov. Jervois and
family their precious lives. The only repairs
effected up to latest date 3 were the plugging-up
of a few rat-holes and the applica’ion of a weak
solution of whitewash to the coach and other out-
houses. This is renovation with a vengeance,
and is possibly owing to one of the many howls
for retrenchment that have lately filled the air,
bub even a choral society yell would be preferable
to the pestiferous odour wafted through one's nos-
trils from the festering rubbish-pits tha'i under-
mine the palatial residence referred to. We wish
the Admiral of the fleet a very happy New Year.
* * *
Lady Loch has gone to sniff the breez s of
Mount Macedon, and “ will be unable to receive
visitors on Thursday until farther notice.” Lady
L. finds the country residence a pleasant refuge
from sassiety troubles. Moreover, fife is cheap on
the mountain top.
* * *
How the salt cf the earth c'ings together !
A Victorian J. P. walked into the shop ot one of
his Melbourne tenants ard demanded three weeks'
rent. The shopkeeper had been paying up regu-
larly for six years, so he pleaded for a little longer
credit from the dispenser of justice. Then the
great man waxed wroth, and declared (on his own
admission), “ I will have it out of you, or out of
your hide.” On the strength of this, the J. P. was
summoned for using insulting language, but the
Bench Btcod nobly by their order, and dismissed
the case with costs. Of such are the men who
sentenced Bookmaker Sutton to II days’ for dun-
ning a lord.
* * •
After all, the world is a bigger place than
we thought it. The Sir William Augustus Con-
greve, Bart., who died in Sydney the other week,
under an assumed name, was numbered with the
“lost nobility ” in Debrett’s Baronetage of 1872.
He never communicated with his English friends,
but quietly sunk his identity among a people who
are ever on the alert for gentlemen with handles
to their names What an example for the scores
of C.M.G s who toil, scheme, and fret for a paltry
knighthood ! But hold 1 Perhaps Sir William
Augustus had good reasons for keeping himself
dark t
* * *
Scene: The wilds of Sydney. Time, 11.15,
and a wet night Masher picks up an umbrella
that has fallen into the gutter, and a male voice
says, “Thank you.” Masher, ('etting the’brellar
gracefnlly drop into the gutter again) : “ Oh, beg
pardon, thought it was a lady’s.”
* * •
There is a refreshing absence of “side”
about Lord and Lady Fitzroy, wbo arrived in
Sydney per Britannia. Lady F. and her daughter
(a damsel fair to look upon), engaged rooms at a
hash emporium when they first landed, but
removed temporarily to Government House, at
CariDgtcn’s especial request. By the way, these
Fitzroys must be related to the eccentric Admiral
A TEST OF PEDIGREE.
“IS BABY AS WELL-BRED AS MY DOG?"
“WHY, YOU FOOLISH CHILD, OF COURSE HE IS.”
“WELL, WHY DON’T YOU HOLD HIM UP BY THE EARS AND SEE IF HE’D SQUEAL!”
Fltzroy, who issued weather-propheoies some
twenty years ago. The gallant Admiral went
Nap. on a prediction which failed miserably, and
in despair he suicided.
* * *
Some time ago, when an escaped lunatic
was holding high ravel, and creating consterna-
tion in the neighbourhood of Paddington Barracks
(Sydney), be being armed with a revolver, and
taking an occasional pot-shot at the passers-by, it
was thought advisable to bring him to his senses
by wounding him, and search was made for a ball-
cartridge, but not one was to be had at the bar-
racks!
* * *
An Irish Earl keeps a pub. in Sydney
under an assumed name. Better chat than being
shot at from behind a hedge.
* * *
A soul-thrilling Incident happened on board
a Parramatta River s’eamer in the gloaming the
other day. A blushing newly-mariied couple-
fresh from either the altar or the sbirt-sleeved
registrar—came on board at one of the jetties,
while a troop of friends pelted the usual compli-
ments of blasd boots and tte snowy Chinese
vegetable, at their heads. Another pair—mani-
festly unmarried—sat opposite these Bwains and
tittered satirically as they watched the bride and
groom dimly visible thro' a shower of falling
missiles, supposed to ensure good luck in all sorts
of ways. The boat, however, in moving off,
turned round, and those misguided enthusiasts on
the shore teeing the dim outlines of the unmarried
pair, mistook them for their proper victims, and
with unabated vigor Bhowered them with the
festive grain and the wretched hoof boxes i !
They didn't titter satirically then. Their blushes
“burnt uron the cheeks of night like a rich jewel
in an Etbiop's ear” and they fled below.
* * *
This is said to be the worst conundrum
on record. The Queen of Raratonga, in the South
Seas, cuts her nails once every seven years. Why
does the year in which the nail-cutting takes
place resemble her regalia? Bacause its her
“ pare-off-her-nail-year.”
* # *
When the Mariposa touched Auckland,
en route to ’Frisco, an elegantly-attired journalist
interviewed Louise Davenport as she negligently
reclined near the taffrai). His “gag” was that
some trashy scribe had reported the fair actress as
having lately discarded widow's weeds in favour
of another ticket on the totalisator of l'fe. While
sunning himself in one of the lady’s most engage-
ing smiles, and mopping his sympathetic proboscis
with a dirty proof-sheet, the fascinated ink-slinger
gleaned that the “ Mamie L, Sheridan” referred
to was the divorced wife of the much-married
and deeply-lamented “ W.E.” After dilating on
many hair-breadth ’scapes twixb flood and divorce,
Louise expressed a desire to be only known for
the future to a cold world as “ Mrs. Louise Sheri-
dan,” until
* * *
Their inevitable destiny must be fulfilled.
Danmosthenes O’Connor and Apollo Burdett Smith
have been appointed on the N.S W. Centennial
Celebration Commission. Bacon and Beauty.
* *
Young Bryant, of the big match-making
firm of Bryant and May, is an enthusiastic mem-
ber of the Four-in-Hand Club. The London
correspondent of a colonial paper, describing a
recent gorgeous meet of the Club in Hyde Park,
remarks innocently that “ Mr. Bryant looked
very striking on the box" of an elegantly-ap-
pointed coach. Which reminds us that James
Epps, of Homcepathio Cocoa fame, has two
daughters in society who go by the sobriquets of
“Grateful” and “ Comforting.”
• * •
Rsv. J. F. Ewing, of Melbourne, con-
siders that women are more moral than men.
This is, no doubt, why so many godly curates
prefer calling on their piouslady parishioners when
the comparatively wicked husbands are out.
* # *
A much- moustachioed Sydney man, who was
engaged to a rich and well-known girl, has let his
beard grow, and has been jilted in favour of a
banking man with a mustivey. From which it is
fair to argue that the winner is generally the fellow
who displays most cheek.
* * *
When the Earl of Carnarvon lent the
light of his countenance to the ColtiDgwood Free-
masons, his lordship was conducted to the lodge
by five P.M's, including Bro.her Jack Saqui,
bookmaker. This is mentioned by way of re-
minder to the public that no Freemason bookie
will lay a stiff’an to a brother craftsman if the
brother first tips a Masonic wink. A good Mason
must be a good man, yerknow, and no good man
would wilfully rob a brother. Which suggests to
us that if all mankind turned Masons, this would
be a good, good world. And yet how these Ma-
sons do hate one another !
• * *
At a Church meeting held during Christ-
mas week in Melbourne, the pastor called upon a
g-ntlemen to speak, whom he designated a
“ pillar of the Church.” The “pillar,” in the oourae
of his remarks, observed that he was a family man,
and had about eleven children he believed. This
guarded statement fairly brought down the house.
* • *
The Duchess of Cumberland, sister to the
Princess of Wales, has recovered from her tem-
porary aberration of intellect, and now the noble
lady is just as wise as ever she was. Truth
to tell, note of the King of Denmark’s
daughters suffer from foroe of intellect. The
Prinoess of Wales, in particular, hasn’t one idea in
her pretty little head beyond costumes and bon-
nets. For four-and-twenty years the English
people have been “ idolizing”—as the newspapers
put it—a woman who has done nothing, said
nothing, orthought of nothing which could give her
a claim to the undoubted popularity she enjoys.
But the Princess is a “ pleasing person,” and this
is reckoned good enough in a country whose
people are so dull as to consider that
Her Pre-eminence in Grief would be a
pattern Sovereign “if she only showed herself a
l'ttle more.” There the charming shallo w-braint d
Princessf atcTes them, Shs does show herself at the
theatre, oftentimes she shows as much of herself
as can be expected of any modest Princess.
There comes a period in the life of every
fat man when the desire to get thin, and have
a waist again, him with masterful in-
cessancy. He visually consults some other fat
man who has achieved in a degree the object of
his concentrated aspirations, The adviser has lost
several pounds in several months, How did-he
do it ? What was the formula he followed ? Was
it diet, or exercise, or boTi ? All tk ese questions
a r e eagerly asked, and the aspirant toward the
s’ender graces of his youth sighs as he contem-
plates the martj rdom that lies before him. He is
lazy; he must take violent exercise. He is a
prodigious feeder ; he musb be almost; barmecidal
in his meals. He is fond of long toddies, and can
gu’p claret by the pint. Tte least possible indul-
gence in fluids of all kinds is most earnestly
recommended to those who wculd grow thin. No
wonder, then, the prospect lcoms up gloomily
before him. But, since he cannot button his
gaiters without severe bodily effort, and since his
friends have begun to accost him with that
familiar and most odious salutation “Hello, Fattyl”
he prepares himself for the sacrifice: usually the
fat man feels the impulse to shed a portion of his
superfluous flesh. In thespringayoungman’sfancy
lightly turns to thoughts of love. In the autumn
the middle-aged and obese go in for a severe course
of training. There is a clique of fat men in every city
who exercise together, consult the scales together,
compare increase and reduction, and are wroth at
the intrusion of any lean man. They work like
heroes. They life, and twist, and run, dressed in
heavy flannels. Toey get into machines of the
most tortuous character, especially devised for the
reduction of the abdomen. When they get on the
scales in the morning and note a pound off, their
plump faces are wreathed in smiles. If the truth-
teller should mark the other way, they begin,
with a piteous groan, to struggle again with the
machinery for flash destruction and musoular de-
velopment. This exercise, which is followed by a
cold shower-bath, induces, as a matter of course,
an enormous appetite. When the fat man steps
forth fresh and invigorated, the appetite of the
traditional ploughman is not 8 circumstance to his
overpowering desire for meat and wins. Nature
clamours for the replacement of the moisture she
has lost. He pauses for a moment before his
favourite restaurant. He sees within his cronies
with their napkins tuckad under their chins,
gorging and guzzling in an ecstacy of gastronomic
bliss. He knows what the result will be if he
yields to temptation. The door is opened to admit
a guest. A breeza from the kitchen salutes his
nostrils. Fiesh and blood cannot stand it, and in
a minute he is between the knife and fork, ready
for action, while a cooling piat of claret tickles
his parched throat. And when, filled to repletion,
he leaves the restaurant, he s’auddc's to think
how the scales in the morning will proclaim to his
brother athletes the enormity of his sin.—Ex-
change.
* * *
An unfortunate wretch named Higgins
drank himself to death in N.Z., tbe other day, and
a publican has a claim against bis estate for about
£250 worth of champagne and other
luxuries, alleged to have been consumed
by the dead man in the space of about four
months. Boniface isn’t likely to get it, however,
as, thanks to the interposition of Divine Provi-
dence, the lawyer who was trustee in the estate
has skedaddled to ’Frisco with the boodle.
* * *
Two years ago Joseph Hamer was a leading
sassiety man of a certain N. X. city. He was sec-
retary of a big mercantile concern, was married
to the daughter of a leading merchant, and aired
a lovely tenor voice on many public oc-
occasions. Helgho! what a lot of Josephs go wrong;
True to the traditions of his name, this particular
Joseph got a thousand or so behind, and slipped
off to ’Frisco —that Alsatia of “gone-bung”
colonials. Californian papers to hand by the mail
show that he has not turned over a new leaf in
Murker. Under the high-sounding title of Geof-
frey Hamlin, he joined a big Baptist Church,
became the leader of the ohoir, made love to four
soprani and two contralti, and has just been
“ fired out ” for misappropriating the “ sorew ” of
the leading lady singer.
# * •
The Marquis of Drogheda and his wife,
like the Earl of Carnarvon and ditto, visit N.Z,
after the New Year. As there has not been a
real live “ Markiss ” in the Land of tho Moa and
the Maori since the portly descendant of the
bucoaneering Phipps quitted her shores, the
Droghedas may excite some passing interest;
but, truth to tell, New Zealanders do not exactly
worship at the shrine of Aristos. Lords are a
trifle common in that colony, and the people
don’t enthuse worth a cent over titular distinc-
tions. Lord Reldhaven was, until recently, bailiff
to the R M. Court, Oamaru, Sir Richard Burdett
is gum-digging in the North, and a cousin to Lord
Derby officiates as chef de cuisine to a bushman’s
mess.
* * #
Sydney E. News has expressed the opinion
that “the Social Purity Society might, with advan-
tage to the publ'c, take up the subject of some of
those very objeotionable advertisements that are
handed about In our streets.” We consider this
to be a genuine good idea, and when the Sooiety
is quite through with the job in question, it
might take a look at the baby-for-sale notices,
also the fortune tellers’ “ ads.,” the card from the
clergyman who is willing to cure epilepsy for 13
stamps, the appeal of the single gentleman who
wants a good-looking housekeeper “not over 25,”
and the scream of the patent-medicine vendor
who fills his puffs with unnecessary details about
the human inside, all of which, and a lot more,
can be found any night in the columns of the
Beunett’s paper. One single copy of the Nooze would
keep six Social Parity Societies going for a whole
year.
• • •
The members of Melbourne Shakespeare
Society have decided to introduce the “ musical
element" into their little monthly meetings. They
have struggled hard to swallow their Immortal
William in a dry state, endeavouring to find new
depths of meaning in every exclamatory “Ho!”
and to discover fresh food for thought in subtle
analyses of the character of Banquo’s ghost—l ut
some of the less reverent members began to g b
restless, and the necessity for lubricating proceed!
freckles, ta N, SUNK l R Jf,
and all species of Mphelis and Lentigo are spots and patches
of ferrous colouring matter deposited.beneath the epidermis
or external skin. Many useless remedies are sold, but
Clements’Precklebane is, bo far, the o:ly effectual care_
Easy to apply and non-injurious. A proper use is sure to
cure. Sold by all chemists. City agents, Washington H.
Soul and Co. Post, free from F. M. Clements Chemist,
ewtown, N.S.W., for 2s, lOd. in stamps.*
Among the many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, comer of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. ML
Shalvey, has spared no expense to make his hotel the first
in Sydney.*
J. B. Pace's and Oo.'s Bangle Errnd smoking Tobacco
he most deliciouß smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
ounnoisseur* to be the most delicate In flavour. Prepared go
that the combustion Is perfect. Burni out to the last
particle with a pure white ash. Try it.


ings with harmony became painfully apparent.
At present they are sticking religiously to Shakes-
pearian songs and glees, but these will soon he
worked out. Then they will descend to senti-
mental ballads and further gravitate to comic
ditties with arousing chorus, And the day is not
so far distant when this soulful Society will be-
come a nigger- show, the worthy president brand-
ishing the tambourine, We can see it coming.
* * *
“ Scabby ” Moffat, a well-known squatte*
of a bygone age, having built a palace befitting a
wool-king at his Hopkins Hill (Vic.) property,
offered the use of the establishment to the Duke
of Edinburgh on the recasion of that canny per-
sonage’s first visit to Victoria, Moffat was a bache-
lor, and earned his unsavory bogoomen from the
fact that his was one of the first (if
not the first) runs in the colony infected
with scab, which fact he carefully concealed.
This led to a well-remembered piece of election
doggerel—
“ Scabby is his name,
And scabby is his pocket,
Scabby is the man
Who votes for Scabby Moffat."
The magnificent house which he built has au
entrance hall in which it is said a team of ten
bullocks, dray and all, can be turned. While
awaiting the acceptance by the Dake of his offer,
Moffat walked into the hook-store of Jameß
Caples in Collins-street, Melbourne, and, in'imat-
ing that he had one room set apart as a library—
by the way, he could neither read nor write—pro
ceeded to g've an order for books. Old Caples,
knowing he had a wealthy man in front of him,
after a profuse use of the snuff-box, made en-
quiries as to authors, bindings, &c , &c, but
Moffat did not wish to be pestered with any such
paltry details ; he gave a general order, very
concise, but which suited Caples to aT. “ Send
two ton, or thereabouts, and post the bill to the
cluV’ Moffat died shortly afterwards at Point de
Galle on his return from England, never enjoying
the new house or the “ two ton.”
* * *
“ Sweetly fascinating English manners ” is
a lately coined phrase from the gushing pen of a
lady scribe attached to one of the daily papers.
San Francisco is a
dear place to die in. The
’Frisco undertaker who
embalmed and coffined
the body of Bishop, the
New Zealander, who was
shot at ’Frisco by a Mrs.
Vow, charged £lO4 for
his services. Bishop left
his coin to an Auckland
pawnbroker, and that
cold-blooded deliberate
business-like worthy had
the corpse brought to
N.Z. for identification.
BLhop’s widow is con-
testing the will.
• • *
There is going to
be much trouble in
clerical circles at Auck-
land, N.Z. A rich old
Irish lady appointed one
“holy father” her exe-
cutor, but on her death-
-bed made a second will
naming ano her holy
father for the office.
“Holyfather No. 1 in-
tends to oppose probate
of the will. “ Lay up for
yourselves treasures,”
&c.
* * *
The “dis'ressed Irish
landlord ” is now getting
up a certain amount of
sympathy by sending out
finery, heirlooms and
articles of vertu for
auction in Sydney, and
the original harp that
once throiigh Tara’s
halls, etc,, is for sale up
the street, The dis-
tressed Irish tenant can’t
get up sympathy on this
bans, as the pig, poor
ciaythur, can’t stand a
sea voyage, and he has
nothing eke to send.
Lady Carington’s Queen’s Fund collection
has, so far, realised £BOOl. That will give at,
say, 5 per cent, x-10U a year, which won’t be
much for a committee of loyal ladies to cackle
over every week.
* # *
A recently-elected New Zealand M.P.
has a wife with a wooden leg. During the
election contest in which her husband was re-
turned, the lady stumped the country on his
behalf with great success. When the resulb of
the polling was announced in her presence the
crowd called for three cheers for the new M P.,
three cheers for his wife, and three times three
for the wooden leg. The leg responded with
great vigour.
• * *
The Duke of Manchester, Lord an! Lady
Ftzroy, and the “Hon. W. Forrest” had the in-
estimable joy of travelling out to Australia in our
own Nellie Stewart's cherished company. Most
of the Sydney papers would doubtless put this
par. the other way round, but, in our opinion,
there is more joy fora “juke” to travel with Nellie
than for Nellie to travel with a duke.
* * *
At a Werris Creek (N.S. W.) fancy-dress
ball one of the ladie3 went as Hamlet ! The local
editor, who evidently thirsts after the ballet,
says that “ Miss ——— is always happy in her
choice of characters On this occasion there was
no ex:eplion to the rule in her role of Hamlet ! ”
* * *
You remember the old story about the
lady who complained of men bathing on the
beach in sight of her windows and, when they
went further away, said she could still see them
with a telescope 2 Well, something not unlike j
occurred in South Melbourne last week. Two
ladies sent a letter to the Council complaining of j
men bathing on the beach. It transpired that the
ladies could not possibly have seen the men unless
they had gone oat of their way to do so. Coun-
oilier Larhin stated that “ in one instance, when
15 or 16 residents were about to enjoy a plunge in
a secluded locality, a lady deliberately planted
herself in the way, and the w'ould-be bathers had
to go without their morning dip.” She must
have been a perfect lady ! Thera is a good sug-
gestion here for enterprising advertisers. They
might pay some of (hese South Melbourne bathers
to let out their hides for advertising articles of
ladies’ apparel, In these days, when even the
face of South Head is used for advertising drapery,
it seems a pity to waste so much valuable space.
* • *
In her magazine, Dress, Mrs. Annie Jen-
ness Miller disousses (with the editorial “we”)
* 1 our garters ”
Four years ago we very reluctantly gave up a pair of spiral
wire garters, worn below the knee, which held our stockings
perfectly smooth, and did not interfere wi ■ h perfect circula-
tion, this spiral arrangement having no relation to the nerve
and muscle-paralysiug elastic garter. But we were told any-
thing worn around the leg was in the nature of a ligature,
and must he abandoned; so away went our comfortable and
satisfactory spirals, while we plunged into a mild form of
rioting in different styles and patterns of attachments re-
commended as “ improved and hygienic.” We were seeking
truth in detail, and discomforts only added to our zeal to
find just the right thing at last. One after another of these
harnesses did we wear, until satisfied that none of them ful-
filled the requirements of a perfect stocking-support. The
stockings were held firmly ? Yes; but every one of these
attachments brought pressure to hear somewhere where it
ought not to be, causing the wearer not only bodily discom-
fort, hut positive injury. Our advice to women is to have a
good, substantial silver garter of the spiral pattern made,
since the silver will wear for years and can always he kept
bright and shining; and as the garter gives readily with each
movement of the leg, h cool and light, and brings no steady
pressure upon any sensitive part, it is a great improvement
over anything else we are familiar with, and our knowledge
of supports is thorough and comprehensive.
* * *
On the Clarence (N.S.W.) River a lot of
alleged Christians were lately sued for pew-rent by
the holy father—who must be also an alleged
Christian. It is time the parsons hung out
placards, “ Souls saved at reduced rates.” “ Try
our two-3hilling Devil killer.” “Piety for
family use at nominal prices.” “Pew-rent”
really amounts to all this.
- * *
Lord Grey de Wilton and Lady Alice
Josephine Bertie became engaged to be married
the other day, and agreed that any boys who
might be born of the marriage should be brought
up in the faith of their father, who Is a Protestant,
and any girls in that of their mother, who is
a Catholio ; but the Pope refused to ratify this ar-
rangement, and so the marriage is off.
* * *
Sir William Robinson, Governor of South
Australia, has been appointed Governor of Queens-
land. The people of the former colony are, no
A SATISFACTORY GUARANTEE.
OSSY-LOOKING GENT: “IS HE PERFECTLY QUIET?"
STABLEMAN: “QUIET! I SHOULD THINK HE WAS QUIET; HE'S JUST THE THING FOR YOU. WE’RE
JUST THINKING OF SHOOTING HIM!”
doubt, glad that he is about to “ move on " with
his music, bnt it is very rough on the Queens-
landers. It is hard enough to attend a levee and
eat flint sandwiches, but to have to listen, with
an appearance of delight, to the Governor playing
atrocities of his own composition afterwards
amounts to little short of martyrdom.
* • *
Says a Sydney paper :
A surgeon of Pari* laced a rabbit no more tightly than
one of his pitientß is laced ; the rabbit was killed in a week ;
another rabbit only moderately compressed where ladies
Toluntarily compress themaelres lived under the operation
two or three weeks.
Here’s a way out of the rabbit difficulty ! Make
all the female bunnies wear eighteen-inch cor-
sets ! We will now apply to Minster Habigle for
the promised £25,000 reward.
A level-headed lady send* to The Bul-
letin one or two original cynicisms :
An engaged girl never quite knows whether it’s
the ring or the man she’s in love with.
When a woman is married, she always wants
the man she i ejected to come and see her "as a
friend.”
Never pique your wife by egling the chorus at
the opera. It is ever so much better to escort her
to her seat—plead business—and go round to the
stage-door.
* * *
A t a recent Sunday school picnic, held
somewhere in Queensland, they got up a cricket-
match—ladies versus gentlemen—and it was a
remarkable sight to see the local Chadband side
in with the girls as a matter of course !
* * *
“Does the butter offend you, that you
look at it so spitefully ?” said the Spring-street
hash-lady to her newest boarder. “ Oh, no,
madam,” he replied, blandly. “ I was only trying
to get its hair off.”
* * *
According to Statistician Hayter, during
the 18 years ended 1885, the women who married
Chinamen, down South, included 160 Victorians
53 from other Australian colonies, 56 English an
Welsh, 25 Irish, and 15 Scotch. Scotch girl
therefore, do not fancy Chinamen. Two can’t play
at economy with any great success.
* * *
The Melbourne papers during Christmas
week were filled with advertisements for lost
geese and vanished turkeys. The man who would
advertise for a lost goose at Christmas possesses a
simple childlike faith in the goodness of human
nature which would make old Scrooge turn in his
grave.
* * *
The Adelaide people turned out and
serenaded Amy Sherwin—because she stayed at
Government House. If she had put up at a
Bligh-street boarding-house she might have waited
till she was as old as the undertaker who interred
Moses, and no one would have come along to scare
her out of bed with a single tune.
•k * *
As we have already remarked before, the
British nobility ought to be admired at a distance
of (say) 14,000 miles. A tall, raw-looking, gawky
young man, with a Polynesian nose, dissipates
the Australian’s story-book ideal of a belted earl.
• * •
In a late issue of the Age somebody ad-
vertises for a lost grey wig. He’s a poor man who
can’t keep his hair on at Christmas time. We
know it is a man because the wig is grey.
* * *
The Dook of Manchester’s deck chair, in
which he dozed and dreamed during the passage
from England, wa3 carefully labelled across the
front. This arrangement relieved the Duke of any
necessity for entering into explanations with
plebeian passengers, who might otherwise have
jumped the chair without knowing any better.
Better to label the chair than label the Dook.
* * *
Recent disclosures throw a little light
upon the value of a Melbourne University degree.
The tutor of a plucked candidate goes to the
examiner and points out that the plucked one is
connected with some of our most distinguished
colonists, and that there must have been a mis-
take made with his papers. Then the examiner
says: “ God bless my soul! I'll give the papers
more careful consideration.” Hitherto hidden
beauties are discovered in the candidate’s answers,
and he is passed right away. This is only an
official irregularity at the worst. But with re-
jected candidates at minor Civil Service exams.,
it is quite a usual thing to interview the Minis-
terial head of the department, and solicit another
chance. Then the Minister says, “Humph!
What’s your name ? Snooks, eh ? Any relation
to old Simon Snooks, of the Western District!
Nephew! Well, take this note to Mr. . . .
and I daresay he will enquire into the matter.”
These little things comprise the “ colonial ex-
perience,” without whioh many an unfriended
new-chum has to whistle for his daily bread.
* * *
Almost evtry woman is a snob at heart,
and poor Jenny Lind was true to her Bex. Th 9
good old creature expressed a wish that two keep-
sakes might be buried with her—one a patchwork
quilt given by the children of the United States,
the other an Indian silk shawl presented to her
by the Queen. The wonder is that a woman pos-
sessing Buch sublime faith in majesty didn’t ask
Pre eminence in Grief to give her an order for
Heaven. Then, on Judgment Day, Jenny might
have thrown the royal shawl across her shoulders,
and tripped up to St. Peter with the royal war-
rant—“ Admit bearer to the Kingdom. (Signed)
Victoria Regina et Imperatrix.” But it’s a shame
to ohaff the memory of (he dead singer just be-
cause she went to church regularly, and found the
Queen to be a prominent featnre in the service.
Any orthodox pietist-man or woman—must
necessarily he a blue Tory. The Court Circular
and the Litany are run in one and the same in-
terest.
* * *
From an ear-witness we have a truly
painful account of the Dock of Manchester's
speech on board the Britannia. Before reaching
“our Beautiful Harbour” the Dook broke out
into after-dinner oratory. He desired the company
to charge their glasses and drink the gallant cap-
tain’s health. Everything went swimmingly for
the first three sentences, but after that tne ducal
brain seemed to become addled, and His Grace’s
speech got mixed up with the British Empire and
the obliging stewards. By the time the Dook
had finished not a soul knew whether he was to
drink the health of the captain, the stewards, or
the Empire, but as the Dook quite forgot to order
fizz for anybody besides the nobs the point wasn’t
argued out. Passengers in general filled the
bumper fair with cold water and drank “ Con-
fusion to dooks.”
•. * •
Herr Kahler’s picture of the “Lawn at
Fiemington on Cup Day” is giving much comfort
to the Melbourne aristocracy, esrecially the
favoured sitters for portraits. Even to an unpre-
judiced eye the work is good—too good for such a
painfully unclassical subject. It is built upon the
unsubstantial basis of 1887 “ fashions,” and will
excite little but ridicule in 1897. The abolition of
bustles and the re-introduction of trained skirts
would kill Kahler’s picture in twelve months,
we’re thinking. There has been no enduring
charm about woman’s dress for the last fifty years,
a statement which any young man will appreciate
after studying a picture of his mother painted
about her honeymoon peiiod. Or let him try to
admire a photograph of the Princsss of Wales,
taken when Albert Edward had wcol on the top of
his royal head. At the risk of distressing
the reigning beauties on Fiemington lawn,
we must point out that actresses know better
than to “dress” thirty-year-old—aye, or ten-year-
old—comedies in strictly historical costume. Lady
Teazle may be fixed-up as she was in Sheridan’s
time, but nobody plays Lady Gay Spanker in the
garb worn when Boucicault didn't write “ London
Assurance.” There’s a cough-drop for dear Lady
Loch and the rest of Herr Kahler’s distinguished
customers ! The apparently unchanging costume
of perfid'ous man is in almost the same had way,
for who can now believe that Frith’s “Darby
Day” isn’t a vulgar caricature! A knight in a
plumed helm is a joy for ever, but a dude in his
stove-pipe hat is only a thing of beauty until
another variety of rim is introduced by the
hatters. We who write this are still fairly young
and charming, and quite capable of killing at ten
paces with our Sunday clothes on. Yet can we
remember the time when Edwin went a-mashing
in “peg-top” trousers that would, nowadays,
ensure the wearer’s arrest for being of unsound
mind.
* * *
Brock Is inflaming the Jingo minds o? the
Victorians with a counterfeit presentment in fire-
works of the Russian Fleet at (he Heads. After our
brave defenders at Queenscliff have shelled the
Fleet they send a Brennan torpedo right into the
Russian Admiral’s eye. Brook is now preparing
a grand al egorical device —the kangaroo sitting
on the Czar's stomach.
Dear Bulletin,— "One feature of the Hughes-
Hillatt scandal seems not to have been even remotely
touched upon by the hundreds of newspapers—English and
Australian —which have considered it necessary to add to the
attractiveness of their columns by publishing a full, free, and
particular account of the entbe business. Everybody has a
deal to siy about the terrible wrong suffered by Mrs
Hughes-Hallett, &c., &c., but nobody seems to consider that
Miss Salwyn has anyona but herself to blame; in fact, very
small sympathy is wasted upon her at all. Vet, looked at
fairly and euuarely, she is the only one who has suffered an
irretrievable injury, and that, too, through no particular
fault of her own. Caged up in an uncongenial atmosphere,
surrounded by a depressing!? Puritanical environment, living
with a relative whose harsh and Unsympathetic governance
was nigh unbearable, she naturally turned to this cultivated
man of the world, with his interest in her welfare, personal
and financial. Can she altogether be blamed ? Now she is
ruined, socially acd matrimonially. Why? Simply because
she learned to love a man without first obtaining tbe s-< cti
fying mumble of society's white-tied and black-coated f< ti .
--ihe parson. The constant and inevitable recurrence of
these instances surely point to a re-estabiishment of the rear,'
riage state od some other than the present basis. Why
should not woman be made the civil head of the family ?
All Bills providing for ihe extension of divorce tend to un-
sanctify marriage, and to regard it more and more as a
purely civil contrivance and no specially-benisoned scheme
of the Divinity. Let us scout the notion of the sacredness
of marriage in one drastic act, and institute the whole busi-
ness as a civil contract, and not a religious rite. And if a
contract, why not a contract for a term of years, or a term
of months ? Such a course would abolish, in one sweep,
wife-desertion, illegitimacy, divorce, &c., &c. Unions based on
a lasting sentiment would always be in vogue, and would, as
now, continue for the lifetime of the contracting parties,
only they would subsist on a moral, and not on a merely legal
basis. The State would then relieve the wife of all obliga-
tion to bus for the maintenance of her offspring by making
the husband accountable directly to the authorities. lam
convinced this is logical, and that it would work admirably,
only the Pharisees will persist in blinking everything that
seems antagonistic to the teachings of Modern Society.—
Yours, Skotoh.
« # *
They put it to a boy in Melbourne County
Court whether he knew the meaning of taking an
oath, and the youngster said “ Yes, don’t tell a lie
in court.” Most Australian boys have a much more
practical grip of the subject, and know that tak-
ing an oath means talking like father when the
dinner isn’t ready.
* * *
The Earl of Buckinghamshire worked
another ad. for his Grosvenor Gallery show by
inviting the newsboys of Melbourne to a free feast
on ’igh art, The urchins have become so ee3thetic
now. Quite too-toa and intense. You can see
them flopping at the corner of Collins-street with
a lily in one hard and a parcel of Bulletins 'in
the other.
* * *
Some choice Langii'j ana :
When the contents of the little Langtry house in Park
Lane were sold, and the social career of the famous Jersey
beauty came to an end, all the fashionable London world
gathered to the auction of her effects, and were considerably
surprised at the revelations of the luxury within that modest
little domicile. The house was Email, but everything in it
wa3 of the very finest and most expensive duality. The
damisk was as thick and shining as white satin, all the
beautiful Belfast ted linen was embroidered with a double
“ L,” and many of the sheets acd pillow-slips were edged
witn lace. The hangings, rugs, embroideries, and furnishings
were of the richest, and ail the domestic appointments ex-
quisitely dainty and costly This passion for luxury is an
integral quality of the beauty's nature. She can not exist
without it, and will have it at any cost. The moment she
settles dow i anywhere it begins in three days to show itself
in all sorts of charming adjuncts, and her New York house
was a perfect marvel of costly loveliness. Her piano was
draped with an India shawl, the card-trays and ash-receivers
were richly enamelled, the rugs were of the moat expensive
furs, the candlesticks of solid silver. Every detail, every
appurtenance, had an intrinsic money value apart from what
b. it possessed, and, as for her personal appointments,
they were fitted for the use of an empress. All the fittings
of her travelling dressing-case are in gold and the heaviest
crj stal, and ivory, shell, silver, and porcelain, made into the
dainty and luxurious toilet devices that only Parisians can
manufactuie, furnish forth her bath-room and dressing-table.
The same daintiness and splendour extend themselves to her
wardrote. Mrs. Langtry never wears silk undergarments,
but has an unlimited supply made of the finest and sheerest
of batiste. An order sent home to her from a big importing
house, the other day, contained two dozen of everything,
made of batiste, in all the delicate shades of blue, lilac,
pink, and cream, trimmed lavishly with crisp laces, and tied
with tiny ribbon bows of the same or c f contrasting colours.
The petticoats were, many of them, in colours also, though
the majority were white, and were flounced nearly up to toe
waist with many ruffles of lace and fine hand embioidery.
With this order, weich included night-dresses, dressing
sacques, and underwaists, were eighteen pairs of corsets.
These were of shades to match the underclothes, and, while
not vary much trimmed, were of the thickest silk, and frilled
around the tops with lace. They are all made to order, and
are to wear with special dresses, giving different effects in
the length of the waist, &c. Mrs. Langtry is, as she
grows older, just a little inclined to embonpoint,
a consummation she dreads, and her corsets
are made, just now, with extra care to con-
ceal the tendency. She has measured her waist, just so
many centimetres, and her corsets are always laced to come
within that measurement every time she put 3 them on. She
looks very charming in her morning neglige, which consists
of a slate-gray Chinese r@be of China silk, lined with white
c. It is embroidered heavily with gold, and has the
hanging square sleeves and broad girdle of the Chinese
womans garb. She wears a little white and gold ’keicfnef
folded about her throat, and over this laps the robe showing
a little of the white beneath. She sticks a pearl-tipped dag
ger-pin in the breast of the dress, twists her hair in a loose
knot on top of her head and impales it with a golden shaft
tipped like the pin in her bosom. In it she does not look a
day over twenty-five.


BRIEF MENTION.
The root of all evil —The onion.
Uninsured—Judge Docker’s premises.
N.S.F.—The Queen’s and Parkes’ Funds.
Hash is the pabulum for practical men—
hasheesh for dreamers.
No extra drunks during Christmas in
Sydney. Due, doubtless, to the moral aspect of
Free trade.
A Chinese lady startled the Hay (N.S.W.)
ladies the other day. They had never seen such
small feet.
John Haynes, M.P., rays he will come to
the front some day. The ‘‘front’ 1 has already
come to John.
At Goulburn (N.S.W.) Court. Solicitor :
“ Were they respectable people 2” Witness : “No,
they were navvies.”
Joe Bragg, reformed thief, j ast acquitted,
has been drunk again. This comes of getting too
near Crown Prosecutors.
A constable named Truthaway is a member
of the Melbourne force There’s a whole encyclo-
pedia in a name somet'mes.
Sydney E. News commenced a paragraph
recently : “ Our respacted District Court bailiff.”
—Is it for much, we wonder 2
Twenty-two of our destitute Imperial
brethren Indian niggers— are camped outside the
police-court at Goulburn, N S. W.
Last week a lost bottle of whisky was ad-
vertised for under tha heading if “ Missing
Friends ” in a Melbourne paper.
A Wilcannia alderman has got four months
for thrashing his wife. He mistook her for the
May or during the course of debate.
Premier Parkes warns young men against
“ tte biPer bread of the Civil Service.” It may
be bi ter, hut it’s a pretty good loaf for all that.
Grocers just now without the bounds of
Temp rance Township (Vic ) drive a roaring trade
in bottled beer. Let the good work of demolition
go on.
Hanlan subscribed £10 to the Beach
tribute fund. Peach, in return, subscribed, in a
mo3t dignified manner, 10 guineas to the Hanlan
fund. There is nothing like liber *lity.
During a scene in the Fitzroy (Vic.)
Police Court, the other day, the lawyer for the de-
fendant invited the Bet ch to come outside. He
wanted to take the law in his own hands.
A Melbourne paper says : “Unfortunately
the obstruction was observed, else an aceident ac-
companied by loss of life may hive even mated."
Which comes of employing undertakers as re-
ports! s.
Sydney insurance agents have no sense of
humour. Instead of waiting on the Minister for
Justice they should have sent a deputation to
Judge Docker requesting him to insure hia life.
He would leave them alone after that.
Professor Spenc r, of Melbourne, is going
to lecture on the “ Evolution of Australian
Anliralp.” We hope he will not forget to print
ous how the country editor was evolved from the
wombat and the politician from the dirge.
An overlander to Cr ydon relates that be
was chased up a trea by a huge Brake (Even'
Nooze size), where he remained three days, until
the varmint d ed from sunstroke. All the snake-
juice had evaporated wren he came down,
JohnNtr'.on is wii iog Jingoism for the
Sydney E. News He claims that the Loyalties
belong to England by r-ght of d seovery. He foi-
gets that if this held true with regard to Aus-
tralia he, John Norton, would now he a Dutchman.
An intelligent German has, we read, in
vented a new kind of chimney, which can be
taken down and used as a cannon in time of war.
What the world wants tow is a new kind of
geteral, who can be put up and used as a chim-
ney-sweep in time of peace.
Walter A irey interrupted Haynes, M. P., the
other day, when the latter was orating at Parra-
matta, and the Mudgee geophagisc got mad and
called him a circus-ctown, Tnis is about the most
transparent case of professional jealousy which
has yet come under our notice.
Says a Sydney paper : —
When a shark has a full stomach it is not a dangerous
c eature, and you might swim near him, and even kick him
on the nose, without running the risk of being torn to pieces.
Of course. It is only when the shark has “ a
breadless home ” that he is anyway dangerous.
AGoulb ain(N. ; S. W,) jury fixed up a beauti-
ful verdict the other day A man was changed with
forging and uttering. They found that he had a
perfect right to draw the cheque, which wasn’t,
therefore, forged, but, on the othe.’ hand, they
foond him guilty of uttering it. Some jurors are
born lawyer?.
“AUSTRALIA’S" GRAND CONSULTATION.
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP, January 26, 1888.
5000 subB. at £1 each. First Horse, £2500 ;
Second Horse, £1000; Third Horse, £500. Starters,
£500; Non-Starters, £500. To be divided amongst
them. Subscribers are requested to apply early
that the fortunate drawers of horses may have
time to hedge. Persons making application for
Tickets are requested to register all letters to en-
sure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes for reply and result.
Address : “ Australia," care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconist, Victoria Cigar
Divan, 315J George-street, Sydney.
ASHFIELD RE REATION GROUND AND
GARDEN PALACE.
CHRISTMAS CARNIVAL WEEK.
THURSDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 29th.
Special Engagement of the
KINGSLEY BROTHERS,
PREMIER TRICK BICYCLISTS of the WORLD.
Owing to the Inclemency of the Weather the
Opening of the Kingsley Brothers and Pain's Dis-
play will be POSTPONED until Thursday Night.
PAIN’S GORGEOUS ILLUMINATION OF
GROUNDS.
Gigantic Display of Fireworks.
Admissission : GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, la.
The Whole Grounds Illuminated by Electrio
Light.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager,
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the oomfort and amusement of his patrons,
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reaoh of all who
desire a knowledge of the sdenoe of self-defence.
Classes now open.
Whks in Sydnby, i» you mss folk's you
Havb not SSI bin the oity.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
sharebroker,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Clgrar Divan
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
PS ALUS.
(REVISED),
HEAR this, all ye people, and give ear all ye
invalids of the world, bell’s bitters will
make you well atd to rejoice.
2. It shall cure all the people and put sioknefs
and suffering under foot.
3. Be thou not afraid when your family Is
sick, or you have Bright’s disease or Liver Com-
plaints, for bell’s bitters will cure you.
4. Both low and high, rich and poor know the
value of bell’s bitters for bilious, nervous and
Rheumatic complaints.
5. Cleanse me with bell’s bitters and I shall
have robust and blooming health.
6. Add disease upon disease and let the worst
come, I am safe if I use bell’s bitters.
7. For all my life have I been plagued with
sickness and sores, and not until a year ago was I
cured by bell’s bitters.
8. II e that keepeth bis bones from aching from
Rheumatism and Neuralgia, with bell’s bitters
doeth wisely.
9 Though thou hast sores, pimples, freokles,
salt rheum, erysipelas, blood poisoning, yet bell’s
bitters will remove them all.
10. What woman is there, feeble and sick from
female complaints, who desireth not health and
useth bell's bitters and is made well.
11. Let not neglect to use bell’s bitters bring
on serious Kidney and Liver complaints.
12. Keep the tongue from being furred, thy
blood pure, and thy stomach from indigestion by
using bell’s bitters.
Words of Warning and Comfort.
1 If you are suffering from poor health or
* languishing on a had of sickness, take cheer,
‘ if you are simply ailing, or if you feel
‘w eak and dispirited,
' without clearly know-
' ing why, Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
‘will surely cure you.”
If you are a minister, and
have overtaxed yourself with your
pastoral duties', or a mother worn out
with care and work, or a man of business, or
labor, weakened by the strain of your everyday du-
ti ’s, or a man of letters toiling over your midnight
work Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters will
most surely strengthen you.
If you are suffering from over-eating or drinking,
any indiscretion or dissipation, or are young and
growing too fast, as Is often the case,
'* Or if you are in the workshop, on the
‘f.rm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
1 that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
‘ ing, if you aie ol rt ,
‘ blood -•’hln and impure, pulse
1 feeble, nerves unsteady, faculties
, waniDg, Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bi'ters is what
‘you need to give you Lew life, health, and vigor.”
If you are costive, or dyspeptic, or suffer-
ing from any other of the numorous dis-
e sea of the stomach or bowels, it is your
own fault if you remain ill. If you are wasting
away with any form of kidney disease, stop
templing death this moment, and turn for
a—cure to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters,
If you are sick with that terrible sickness,
Nervousness, you will find a “Balm in Gilead"
in Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
—If you are a frequenter, or a resident of,
—a miasmatic district, barricade your system against
—the scourge of all countries, Malaria, Epidemic,
—Bilious and Intermittent Fevers by the
use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow skin, bad breath Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters will give you fair skin, rich
blood, the sweetest breath and health. j6500 will be paid for
a case that they will not cure or help.
A Lady’s Wish.
‘ Oh, how I do wish my skin was as clear and soft as yours,
said a lady to her friend. ‘ You can easily make it so,
nswered the friend. ‘ How V inquired the first lady,
'By using Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters that makes
pure, rich blood, and blooming health. It did it for me a
you observe.’
SMOKE AND OHEW
TZl r ~ ■
ABMYmd HIT!
TOBACCO.”
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
cP.
inf-{NIH
. Nix/Y '
é
53$]
CUT 3 OBACCOS.
On receipt of P. O. Order for £1 Is. we will
immediately forward 31bs. VULCAN MIXTURE
in Mb. Packets, noted for its fine flavour, together
with a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE in
case. And a nice TOBACCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS’ CHRISTMAS BOX,
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MEERCHAUM PIPE,
and
Jib. finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the oclony upon receipt of
P. 0. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us, and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. 6d.
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-street, and you will find we
have the largest and best assortment
of
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, PIPE 3, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MAToH BOXES,
and
Ail other articles apertaining to the trade.
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKS.
COME,
If only to inspect these. We have almost every
kind of stick obtainable, from the
stately
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying in price from 6d. to £1 Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements,
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line.
We can furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUTTING COMB
to
an American, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We recommend'you to send for one of onr razors,
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
for
hairdressers.
N.B.— Hair made up in any design,
OWEST PRICES, WITH DESPATCH.
geaiq i mm,
Tobacconists’ ami Hairdressers*
Simdryinen,
680 & 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
CUT THE ADDRESS OUT,
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend those BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will dud
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England,
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
E
mm
1
a .■
HOWS
tlHi
3/6
lOSEPHSOFS OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT In the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO "ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson's Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, See. ,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROWS
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
“I, GEORGE HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water,
and I hope others suffering from the same com-
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT
215 Pitt-streefc.
“ Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, befor
me,
(Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P."
Then try them, and ask for ROW'S STEANE
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW ROW and COMPANY,


Centrally
SITUATED
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEAOIK
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
daniell’s imperial hotel
If
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
HcyrnsouTH
V 1 f g OFTHE
equator
Siii
.)
Tin
um
{MS
l
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c
Private Suites with Luggage Room attaches for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magniloent view of the Brmbane River and
ravaie bunes win. gy, MaM m Hingß an 4 stower Baths. ST COMMERCIAL ROOM,
finl fri nnr fikp
Apartments will receive prompt attention.
C. 93. HAJriEIX.
Gent]
J A b
TH IA! K e X 0
Under the Direction of
Messrs, Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam, Lazar.
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
or
Harlequin and the King of the Cannibal Islands.
Prices: —Dress circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Circle, Is
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Baymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
GREETING 1 OUR PATRONS.
IN OUR THIRD YEAR.
WITH the COMPLIMENTS of the SEASON.
TBI3 FES 'IVE TIME,
COME AND SEE OUR OHiNGHS.
OUR CHRISTMAS FIRST PART.
OUR CHR’STMAS SECOND PART.
OUR CHRISTMAS BUJKLESQUE.
OUR GOLDEN SHOWERS.
SANTA CLAUS SANTA CLAUS.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
A
CADEMY OF MUSIC,
Lessee and Manager ... F. E. Hiscocks,
HAPPY NEW YEAR TO ALL.
What is Christmas without
MACCABE!
MACCABE’S ENTERTAINMENT,
BEGONE DULL CARE.
ORIGINAL PERSONATIONS and SONGS.
Prices : 35., 25., and Is. Reserved Seats, 4s.
c
EtIIEBION
THEATRE.
Solo Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager Mr. Joe Divis.
“ Sieging too ral li ooral li addity.
“OH! SUCH FUN.”
BURLESQUE. BURLESQUE. BURLESQUE.
A GENUINE and GENERAL RECEPTION
greeted the whole of
Mr. BROUGH S and Mr. BO UCIC AULT’S
most efficient
BURLESQUE COMPANY.
THE OLD FAVOURITES as POPULAR as EVER.
Miss FANNY ROBIN A
Mr. W. WAROE
Mr. CHAS. BROWN
and
Mr. E. W. ROYCE.
Box plan in the Office of the Theatre where
seats may be reserved from 10 to I.
HKR MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
Sole Leasees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BTSHOP.
Prices, 65., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson's and Co. a.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
O
pera house.
Corner of York and King Streets.
Frank Clark Lessee.
THE HOLIDAY RETREAT.
he overtaxed brain, weary of business worries,
seeks relief where the
EYE IS CII ARMED.
We offer you that
EVERY EVENING.
F. M. CLARKS
ALL STAR NOVELTY COMBINATION.
CHASTE, REFINED ELEGANT.
Performance at 8 sharp ; terminates at 10.20.
Admission —Is., 35,, and Is.
Box plan at Nicholson s.
P MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
e
OOGEE AQUARIUM
AND
SWIMMING BATHS,
GRAND OPENING DAY,
FRIDAY NEXT,
December 23rd, 1887, at 3 o dock.
UNDER THE PATRONAGE
OF
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD CARING TON,
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
PAIN’S
FIREWORKS
Alhambba music mall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
THE
CENTENNIAL INTERCOLONIAL
EXHIBITION.
To be held by
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES,
AT MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
from January 24 to January 31, 1888.
ENTRIES In all Sections CLOSE on SATURDAY,
JANUARY 7, at 4 p.m. £5OOO IN PRIZES.
There being some SEVEN HUNDRED (700)
FIRST PRIZES in the List, exclusive of all
CHAMPION PRIZES, and Seconds.
For Advance Condensed Prize Schedule see
“Town and Country Journal” of December 10.
“ Sydney Mail” of December 10. “ Tribune ”of
December 16. Complete Schedule (in pamphlet
form) giving full information, may be obtained
from the various Agricultural Societies through-
out the colony, and from the SECRETARY,
Hunter-street. JUDGING DAY—TUESDAY,
JANUARY 24. Grand Opening Ceremonial by
His Excellency, Lord Carington, on WEDNES-
DAY, JANUARY 25, at Noon, Various Lines of
Coasting and Intercolonial Steamers have agreed
to carry exhibits to and fro on payment of freight
one way, and the council hope to obtain from the
Government Special Concessions on Rail Carriage of
Exhibits and Visitor’s Rail fares. Exhibits bred
or produced in Australia will be in Competition
for Centennial Special and Champion Prizes, also
for the Regular Schedule prizes.
ADMISSION—Members Free on Presentation
of Ticket. Judging Day—Non Members. 2s. 66. ;
Children, Is. All other Days—Non-Members, Is.;
Children, 6d.
The EXHIBITION will be Open at 11 a.m., and
CLOSE at 5 p.m. Each Day.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Tattersall’s Buildings, Hunter-steeet, Sydney.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modem principles
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments Besit o
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraul Lift for Guests a
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegram?
receive prompt attention.
J. OURTiH, Proprietor.
READ
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“ Australian Land Nationalise!".”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
JOESIST rAKEBLL.
IT is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. It
object is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform to d
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get it, and induce others to do so. Everybody interested in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
TflE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND EOit SPECIMEN COPIES.
TiTASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
fJL HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
WftFßldo Gleanings The “Western Cham-
!on" sayß I “ I can reoommend the Rookhampton
I «,«onlo to my western friends.'
FITZBQY HOTUXe,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
m FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra oharg?,
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation,
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, OOULBURB, N.S.W.
1711R3T CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
i nple rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor,
hiTTsea-water baths.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Cap’ ain Kenny’s Baths, St, Kllda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effec's.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
A Blessing in every Family
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London,
igr Purchaasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
wm
HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
EY
FAILTH
IMPORTERS ORAI
WEWESTSHA
RAPE
m
And at QUSEN STKEI®, BEE BA'
JUST IMPORTED,
500 GRIOKET BITS,
1 AIC nn on and Cheapest
IU/O tJcLUJLI, in the Market.
All-cane spliced Handles In 16 pieces,
TENNIS RACaUETS, B.ALLS, &c,
Equally Cheap and Good.
BURUOUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George St., Hunter St, Sydney.
O M . B B Is 1
(late of the DeteotiTe‘Foree),
Bslvata Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
IS ROYASL ARCADK- SYDNEY,
Absconder* and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
saaSdsatial Inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained In
Slearoa. libel, fr..ud, and inoendiary ease*, for the legal pro-
vision and others. Copies of will*, certificates of birth,
saamasa, or death, obtained in any part ef the world
Santa and debt*; collected. From F.. M. K.’s ions experiencs
s a tb? Oeteefeive Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Saw Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
lafea, he i* in a position to conduct all Inquiries with oautlan
' xp&iiUuE and strictest seoresy, wad to faithfully.. and
eeatti!* 4? attend to all business entrusted to h ears.
AFTEfI BEFORE
Copyrighted. \
h.cns;a:he and WhiskerS!
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this
\>ind toill do it on either bald
'head or bare face Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2
4 weeks and never fails. 20,000'
young men already wear full ~r . .
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain
in effect, rackets, ]». Gd. each 3 for 3«. Cd.; /mid, sent under
cover, free from observation , Frank Douglas, &cde ,40ent,
/ft>3 T3O, G P. 0., Sydney, N 8. IF.
BEFORS AFli-'
%
Copyrighted


gvjh
WORTHY AMBITION,
The Glasgow Evening News has the following
on a subject which is daily increasing in impor-
tance in all parts of the world:—“lt is the
ambition of all working lads to carry a watch,
and there is no reason why it should not be grati.
fled. The lever is beyond their reach ; and, in nine
Cises out of ten, so is the ordinary Geneva make.
They must have something considerably oheape r,
and the Americans, as usual, have solved the
difficulty. The watch of the Waterbury manu-
facture is cheap, and a few weeks’ savings would
enable your youngest artisans to purchase one.
It is a substantial piece of workmanship, has a
white enamelled face, is a good timekeeper, and
in size does not go beyond the ordinary silver
watch. The metal of the cases is nickel silver,
and the other materials of the watch are light and
durable. One of the chief features of the Water-
bury is that it is composed of less than one half
of the usual number of parts in the old style of
watch, and the arrangement is so simple that the
whole apparatus can be easily cleaned or re-
pa'red."
The WATERBURY WATCH is a stem-winde r
anl will run 28 hourj. The cam is nickel silver,
and will always remain as bright as a new silver
dollar. The watch has a heavy bevelled edge and
crystal face. The works of the watch are made
with the finest automatic machinery. Every
watch is tested in varying positions, and is per-
foot before leaving th 9 factory. Each watcb is
put up in a handsome new improved satin-lined
case, for safe transportation through the mails.
So well-known have these watches become that
thousands are buying them in preference to high-
priced watches. The Company are now making
2000 watcees each day. You would imagine the
whole country was supplied by this time. By no
means. This is the Merchant’s Watcb, the
Farmer’s Watch, the Traveller's Watch, the
Clerk's Watch, the Miner’s Watch, the Laborer’s
Watch, the Boy’s Watch, the Schoolgirl’s Watoh
—in fact
EVERYBODY'S WATCH.
And everybody is buying it.
The Wholesale Dealers in Sydney are Messrs,
T. Willis and Co. ; Feldheim, Gotthelf, and Co. ;
and S. Hoffaung and Co.
LOST, IN GEORGE-STREET.
Somewhere in the vicinity of seven balls yester-
day forenoon a comfoi table-looking man of the
agricultural species monopolised a large share of
the side-walk in George-atreet, opposite the
Markets. He had his wife with him, and an
inquisitive-looking boy about six or seven years
old. The gras3 seed was in the man's hair, and
the fragrance of the eucalyptus followed in the
track of the group as they wandered widely irom
shop to shop. Then he met an old mate, and with
a curt “ You stop here old woman, I'll be back in
a minute," disapneared in the crowd For a few
minutes she vibrated between three shops, and
then she missed the youngster, who, at that
identical moment, was worshipping at the shrine
of a dissipated-looking monkey on top of a wheezy
organ which was inviting the crowd to “ Gather
at the River.” The deserted wife and mother
created quite a business like stir in the street for
about 10 minutes, when a constable came to her
assistance. His instincts took him straight to the
boy, and by the time they got back to the try-
sting place the husband and father had arrived.
With a stony stare he surveyed the passers-by in
search of his loved ones. Then a familiar voice
reached him with an emphasis on the adjective,
and he modestly explained that he had nob been
drinking, only “ me and Jim had a bottle of that
Clausen’s Lager Beer. It’s wonderful. Come on,
old woman, and we’ll go and have another." But
when he heard of the delinquency of his Eon and
heir all the poetical justice of the man’s honest
nature was aroused “So you left your mother,
did you sonny, to go for a monk oy ? and me only
gone five minutes to see a friend. You’ll get toko
for yam for this, you see if you don't, the minute
I get you home, and you don’t come outside again
this Christmas till you go into the train.” The
stream of her reproaches was thus turned into
another channel, and as they vanished in the
direction of the promised nectar she had that
firm connubial grip of his arm wh’ch no tingle
man outside the force could sue essfully imitate.
Burlesque Actress (on her way to the
wedding of a sister professional): “ Wake up
that horse, cabby. I want to be in time for the
wedding ; but if you drive at this rate I shall be
too late for the divorce 1 ’
Sadi-Carnot, the new French President,
is descended from the great Carnot, general, mili-
tary engineer, and Minister of the First Empire.
The Carnots are a race of soldiers, authors, and
scientists, and to a man they are staunch Repub-
licans.
I In Siam some of the people eat day.
The same here. We call them land sharks.
Afterwards—when they take to talking of “ Lord
so-and-so who dined with us the other day”—dirt-
eaters.
A nervous curate was struggling through
his first Eervice, “Not one tit or iottle of His
word shall fail," he announced, as he mopped his
forehead, and there was a titter. “I mean nob
one tottle or jit shall pass away," he explained
hurriedly.
Do not be Discouraged,
Even if you have tried many remedies for your
kidney disease or liver comp aint without success
it is no reason why you should think your disorder
incurable The most intractable cases readily yield
to the potent virtues of dr. bell’s bitters
It is a purely vegetable compound, which ac’s on
the kidneys, liver and bowles at the same time,
and thus cleanfe3 the whole system. Don’t wait,
bub get a bo tie to-day and cure yourself
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica and
other analogous affections should try Freeman s Original
Chiorodyne, a m' diciue that has, since its introduction in
1844, been employed on a very large scale both by the
Medical Profession and the Public iu every part of the
habitable Globe, with unvaried succes. Since its introduc-
tion into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman’s
Chiorodyne has beeD considerably enhanced, and is now re-
garded as the.most eflicient and valuable medicine that has
ever bean introduced into the Colony. The Profession pre-
scribait; Missionaries prefer and use Freeman’s Chiorodyne,
and people leaving any of the principal ports for the interior
it variably take a sufficient Bupply to last them a twelve-
mouth.—Sold i very where throughout the Colonies Insist
upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they
are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant *
Tattersall’s Monster Consultations.—Carrington Stake a
run December 31, 2000 subs at 20e. each; also Tattersall’s
Cup, run January 2, 1888, 2000 subs at 20s. each. Both
events now open and filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care
G. Adams, Pitt street.*
WOMAN NEVER THINK.*
If the crabbed old b“ chelor who uttered this sentiment
could lut witness the intense thought, deep study and
thorough investieaiion of women in determining tbs best
medicines to keep their families well, and would note their
sagacity and wisdom in selecting Dr. Soi le’s American Hop
Bitters at the best, and demonstrating it by keeping their
families in p< rpetual hea'th, at a mere nominal expense,
he would be forced to acknowledge that such tentiments
are baseless and false. “ Picayune.’’
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
" I DON'T WANT THAT STUFF,”
Is what a lady of Boston said to her husband when he brought
home pome medicine to cure her of sick headache and
neuralgia, which had made her miserable for fourteen years
At the first attack thereafter it was.administered to her with
such good results, that she continued its use till cured, and
made so enthusiastic in its praise, that she induced twenty-two
of the best families in her circle to adopt it sb their regular
family medicine. That “ stuff is Dr. Sou'e's American Hop
Bi ters. Standard.”
THE M.P. AND A CITIZEV.
An M.P. who had not long been elected was
called upon by a citizan, who presented a petition
for a noble cause, at the same time bowing very
low to the new-made member. “How times have
changed,” mused the office-holder. “ A few
months ago you would not even notice me on the
fctreet. Now you bow before me.” “Make no
mistake," replied the citizen. “In Australian
politics we bow to the office, not always to the
man.” All the old politicians have long under-
stood this-just as much so as when they shouted
the famous St. Louis Lager Beer on election day for
their friends.
Commence th. 3 Year Right.
Don't make too many resolution, but hold on
like grim death to those you do make If your
physical system is out of order you should attend
to that at occa, for it’s no use trying to keep a stiff
upper lip when you kidneys or liver are taking the
courage out of you. If you lave really made up
your mind to turn over a new leaf, commence the
year by taking a thorough course of the celebrated
DR ball’s bitters. Thous inds of paople testify
to its goods effects for kidney diseases, biliousness,
piles, constipation, &c.
Consumption, Wasting Diseases and General
DebitiiY —Doctors disagree as to the relative value (f
Cod Liver Oil and Hypophosphites the one supplying
strength and flesh, the other giving nerve i ower and acting
as a tonic to the digestive and entire system But in
“ Scott s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil with
Hypophosphites ' the two are combined, and the effect is
wonderful. Thousands who have derived ro permanent
benefit from other preparations have been cured by this
Scott's Emulsion is perfectly paUtable and is fasilv
digested even by those who cannot tolerate plain Cod Liver
Oil. Sold by all Chemists, two s'zes, large and small *
m
TQ
ƒgf
e
Largest
28*30 in the Colony.
BRIDGE STT C Vfl l\l F V
WORKS 227"- 229 r.lOR&f ST ’ U 1 U,,L '•
This BEER
awarded ab
Adelaide Ex-
hibition has!
PmGomMmmn.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
EIDIIST BURGH.
R. CUNYNGIIAMK, Bond-street, Sydney.
in bulk
and oase
Best BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BEIGHTOK OH 1 TT-S-W.
AT the CLARENDON' HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &c , are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors comfort able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MBS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Lawler’s Centennial Prize Gifts in
Hard Cash.
lab. Glﬂ'l'. £50 Cash.
2nd. Glﬂ'l‘, £20 Cash.
31d. GIFT. £15 Cash
uh. GIFI', £10 Cash.
60h. GIFI'. £5 Cmsh.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
23d. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
These sums,
less 10 per cent,
will be paid to
the winners,
the 10 per cent,
going to the
Industrial
Blind Insti
tute, Boomer-
ang-street, one
of whose in-
mates will
draw dupli-
cates in the
presence of
several well-
known citizens
12:. em, aw
2nd. GIFT, 320
3rd. um, ms
4m. GIFT. mo
6th. em. as
BUY FREELY FROM BUY FREELY FROM
TO DAY OUT. TO DAY OUT.
AT
LAWLER’S
FIRST CHRISTMAS AND CENTENNIAL
CARNIVAL
in the
NEW EMPORIUM, 608 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
Country customers will reap the benefit as well
as oity customers, because they can write for the
ILLUSTRATED Catalogue, containing BOOTS,
CLOTHES, CARPETS, LADIES UNDER-
CLOTHING, IRONMONGERY and GLASS and
CHINAWARE, BEDSTEADS, FURNITURE, &c.
let. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4 th. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Grateful for
the share of
support accor-
ded them since
the NEW
CBNTKAL
was opened,
LAWLERS
have deter-
mined to sig-
nal is e the
months of DE-
CEMBER and
JANUARY by
giving away
these gifts to
those who pur
chase.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
s;h. GIFT, £5
Arid in addition to these Gifts, which may fall
to you my kind reader, bear this important fact
in mind, LAWLER'S extraordinary OCTOBER
sale prices will apply in every department
throughout the house.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Yes, in ad-
dition to these
gifts you have
the wonderful
bargain prices
of October.
The prices that
set SYDNEY
by the ears,
and doubled
LAWLER’ S
business in a
bound.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GTFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Every PURCHASER will have an Equal In-
terest The little girl who buys a thimbie. The
housewife who buys a cup ana saucer, or a knife
and fork. The young man who buys a pair of boots.
The youth, man, or boy, who buys a suit of clothes.
The lady buying corsets or mosquito-net curtains.
The couple furnishing.
Ist. (SIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £lO
5 th. GIFT, £5
ALL, ALL,
ALL will re-
ceive a num-
bered invoice
which they
will please
preserve until
January 31,
18S8. It will
be upon the
production of
the numbered
bill or invoice
that the money
will be given.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, 15£
4th. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
BUY YOUR BOOTS AND SHOES WHERE YOU
WILL STAND TO GET A £5O NOTE
THROWN INTO THE BARGAIN.
Buy your CLOTHING Men where you will get
a pocket-liner in the shape of a £5O NOTE.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £!0
5 th. GIFT, £5
Bay your
UNDER-
CLOTHING
Ladies, at
LAWLER’S
during Decem-
ber and Janu-
ary. Get all
j our drapery
and other
wants, and
have several
interests.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4 th, GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
A snug sweet £5O, ladies. There’s a lot in that.
Furniahat LAWLER S, andgetyour Carpets there.
FurnishatL AWLER’S, andgetyour Bedding there.
Furnish at LAWLER’S, and get jour Ironmon"
gery there.
Furnish at LAWLER’S, andgetyour Curtain there.
If you are in the country you can furnish through
the Catalogue as well as if in person in Sydney.
EACH PURCHASE gives an EXTRA INTEREST.
LAWLER’S Emporium prices during the
“ October ’’ Sale were the talk of Sydney and the
wonder of the trade. During DECEMBER and
JANUARY those Marvelous prices will apply.
£5O in the Itching portion of a man’s palm is
an exciting pinch of snuff. IT CAN BE YOURS,
aye, as certain as the sua shines bright to-day,
because YOUR RIGHTS ARE CO EQUAL with
the other purchasers.
CALL OR WRITE. CALL OR WRITE.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
X-i a Txr lei’s.


ImD.porta3cn.t I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OISTJ-.'^Z'
mm hstmkit
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
3HEAPER THAN EVER I
-
w
ACCORDEONS, at 7/0, 10/6. 12/0. 15/-, 17/0, 21/*
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
Z bellows, 27/6.
m Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
oordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
am
10, B/6, 7/0, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/-, 17/0, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German ... ... 35/-
„ „ steel notes 60/-
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality! Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Conoert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete In oase,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
Whloh can be sent post free for 2/6, 8/-, 8/fl, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones In proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. eaoh,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Huitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., Sc.
Brass and Drum and Fife Banda
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully paoked and sent to any part of
the oolonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
p.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET.
■YDNBYJ
(lltﬁcura
Vi-,//
Vitou 'i
/, mm
JEciem on Scilp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V/
Scrofula on Neck.*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
•with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three closes of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
■icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and goi
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood I
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
R. Towns Sc Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVER , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggets throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
jl.-ibj Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
tnc- ic/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pci bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter Drug; ft Chemical Co., Boston, TJ.B.A.
The
‘WA
m
POTSHOT’
Camera,
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographio World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up, and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
observed, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridioule every
incident included within the Bcope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “DETECTIVE” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
&
LIMITED,
203 to 209 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Mare always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
SARTHENWARK
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO. S
Cognac.
„. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Monument
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing!.
Duignl and Eitimatei forwarded on rsQUII
J. CVMNII(«iUA£3,
SlUl!4nill, WYSrTTA.RD-B«CAMi STOWS?
W'E can reoommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best In Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address l
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-streeb. A, COOPER, Pranrlefen*
BECOITBFIELD HOTEL
(West Beach),
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
THE above beautifully-situated hotel haa re-
cently been greatly altered and improved,
and is now ready for the reception of guesfs.
Situated immediately on the shores of the Bay,
yet it is within five minutes’ walk of the St.
Kilda Railway Station, so that visitors, while
enjoying the luxury of a sea-side residence, can,
within 20 minutes, be in the busy centre of Mel-
bourne. Convenient access has been made to the
extensive promenade on the roof, from which
magnificent views can be obtained of the Bay
and Shipping, Government House and Albert
Park Lake, Mounts Macedon, You Yang, and
Dandenong Ranges.
E. A. COOPER, Proprietress.
PERCY GIBBS, Manager.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages l
bound in doth, and contains over 100 prescrip
bions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address > Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
ffillsfcbabh Streets. Melbcnrne Vie.
Bbabaky. MSWISK, n LAMB
(In liquidation),
FURNITURE ana PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AWD
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPR NO and C'C ON NELL STREET
■“v-
FULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OH AIRS.
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match.
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAjR
Patented.
m
a
This chair adjusts Itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositiona
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. KS W e can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. 6d.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up
holstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o.
TpM
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PKDKSTA
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw*
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ru er and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
•nr- it-
D
RAWING ROOM OA
NETS,
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
Mo3> CELEBRATED MAKERS.
A, ‘Q/ “x KEJJW‘DK,
I ‘ _T ft $217
‘ \
AU3TRIAN OHAIR
In
great Variety,
And a complete aaaOr j
ment of Bent Wo
Furniture the best thako
only.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bet.
rooms. New designs covered to order lv
any material.
R
lELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN,
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest
' ful, a specialty,
‘1‘!- ‘
1"
‘ W
WT"-
. _. lg; .3
“Inugf ::_‘vj-:$\}
i; ‘vzg‘é‘m-
TJSDBTKADB, all alcci
Niokel-plated and Blaok
and Brau. Oreat variety.
Bedding,—All desoriptlom it
lowest ratei.
fgf
SPRING) If ATTRASSBfI
Woven Wire, boil
make i also, Spiral Spring •
Prloe, from Us. oaetr,
CHEAP FURNITURE,—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ) Dining Tables, from 30s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.i
Oheßts of Diawers, from 40s. j Wardrobes, from
80s.) Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.) Cedar £lde»
boards, from £BIOM Clothes Horses, from IBs. BtJ,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from fi 9s.
BRADLE Y~ NEWTON, & LAMb7
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS


MR. LYNCH, MURDERER.
[A PSYCHOLOGICAL STUDY.]
One of the most grisly narratives in all
colonial history is the confession made by
Lynch, theN.S.W. murderer, to Mr. Bowen,
Police Magistrate at Berrima, upon the eve
of his execution for the assassination of
Kerns Landregan, in the year 1842. Lynch
was transported from County Cavan, Ireland,
In 1831 for 14 years for robbery, and arrived
in Sydney by the convict Bhip Dunvegan
Castle at the close of that year. Ris father
came in the same ship, transported for life
for manslaughter. In 1835 Lynch, junior,
was tried for murder, he having, with others,
beaten a man to death at Berrima, and thtn
burnt the body ; but the prosecution failed
by reason of the drunkenness of the chief
Crown witness. In 1842 Lynch was put on
his trial for the murder of Kerns Landregan,
of which crime he was convicted, and for
which he was executed. He condactei his
own case with self-pcssession, coolness, and
remarkable ingenuity. Thtre is only one
parallel to the story of Lynch in all modern
history, and that is the story of the Thugs, as
told by Meadows Taylor N everthe lobs, Lynch
is described as having been a man with the
winning ways of a good fellow. He had an
eye to the sanction of the most respectable,
religious, and even kindly motives in the com-
mission of his most atrocious crimes, or when-
ever the pious opportunity offered. Here is
his confession :
“ Lynch first minutely detailed the circum-
stances attendant on the murder of two persons
whom he met on the road, and whose company he
joined. These two persons—one a black boy—
wpre driving a dray belonging to Mr. T. Cowper,
laden with bacon and other articles for the Sydney
market. Lynch killed them with an axe as they
lay asleep, hid the bodies under a heap of stones,
proceeded to Sydney, and sold the articles on the
dray; and on his return up the country
in sole charge of this empty dray, he proceeded to
state, he fell in with two Erasers (father and son),
and thus describes his manner of making their ac-
quaintance and his mode of dealing with them :
“ ‘ While encamped (he states) at Bolland’s, at
the Stone quarry, the two Frasers came up with
Bawtree’s horse-team and dray. We sat together
by the fire, had a great deal of talk, and, as usual,
I told them as many lies as suited my purpose,
and managed to get from them an account of the
whole of their and their master's concerns, as well
as of the valuable load they had on. But I had
then no intention of doing them any harm. We
travelled together next day, and I was enabled to
afford them great assistance in getting on their
tired horses, for neither of them could drive well,
and I was clever in the management of draught
cattle. We encamped in Barg i Brush, by the
side of the road, and a cart with two men and a
woman afterwards joined us. When we were all
lying down, and, I believe, all but myself asleep,
a man on horseback rode up and made particular
enquiries about Mr. Cowper's dray, describing it
exactly, and telling the whole history of its disap-
pearance, as well as that of the driver and the
black boy. I lay still and did not speak a word,
but Fraser, the old man, got up, between asleep
and awake, and answered something at random.
The rider then asked the distance to the nearest
inn, and went on. “Whew!” said I, “this is
sharp work —this will never do—l must get rid of
this dray and obtain another somehow.” I had
the whole night to think over the matter and to
form my plans. So in the morning I went under
the pretence of looking for my bullocks, but in
reality to drive them away into a deep gully.
I strangled the dog belonging to Mr. Cowper’s
bullock-driver, and stayed away long enough to
allow the other cart with the two men and the
woman to leave, knowing that the Frasers —who
seemed greatly to desire my company from the as-
sistance I could give them in managing their
teams —would wait for me. When I returned I
told them that my bullocks were nowhere to be
found, and I had no doubt they had gone to their
own home up the country beyond Berrima. I
consulted with them what I had best do, and we
agreed that I should leave my dray there, since it
was nearly empty, and go on with them for the
bullocks, as they offered to take the few things
I had on their dray. We encamped for this night
on a flat on the other side of Cordeaux’s Hill.’
“He did not tell me,” writes the magistrate,
why he allowed the night to pass without perpe-
trating the intended murder of the Frasers, but —
‘ In the morning,’ said he, ‘ young Fraser went
over the ridge to get in the horses, and I volun-
teered to go with him and assist. It was cold, and
I put on a pea-jacket—not to keep me warm, how-
ever, but to conceal an axe which I held under my
arm. When I got up to young Fraser, I had no
difficulty in obtaining the opportunity I wanted.
I gave him one crack on the head, and he just
dropped like a log of wood. If people knew how
easy it is to take away life, things of this kind
would happen oftener. I then returned to old
Fraser, who remained with the dray, and began
yarning to him. After a time he began to wonder
what had become of “ Wully.” I had my axe all
right, but would not strike until I could make
sure. At last he turned his head, and down he
went. The next business to attend to was the
getting rid of the bodies. I dragged the old one
some yards out of the way, le3t persons passing
through the flat might come upon it, and then re-
turned to the body of the son. With a spade I
got from the dray I dug a hole and buried him ;
afterwards I buried the father in the same
manner.
“ ‘ By the time I had finished, the day was far
advanced, so I thought it better to stop there for
the night. By the evening of the next day I got
to Mulligan’s. I had no notion of trusting them,
or indeed anybody, so I amused them with an ac-
count of my being hired to drive up the dray for a
gentleman in Sydney. The family consisted of
the old man, Mulligan ; Mrs. Mulligan, who lived
with him, but was not his wife ; her son, a lad of
about 18 ; and her daughter, a girl of about 11.
Mrs. Mulligan, seeing chests of tea on the dray,
said she was out of tea, and proposed to buy a
chest of me. At first I reminded her of the bad
faith they had kept with me before, but pretended
at length to bargain with her. But this was only
my craft, you should know, for I had no notion of
letting her have any of the property, I only wanted
to know how much money they had in the house.
She said they had £9. We did not come to any
agreement, hut I let them hope they would get
some of my master’s property. The next day, in
the afternoon, I pulled out a note (£1), and sent
to Gray’s public-house for rum to treat them. In
the evening we drank together and got very
sociable, but I took care not to drink much. Well!
thoughts were in my head, and the time was
walked out of the hut. It was a clear, cold,
windy night ; I looked up at the bright moon, and
I prayed to Almighty God to direct me 1 I said
to myself, I am an injured man, and the Mulligans
have defrauded me of what I perilled life and
liberty to obtain. That fellow, when I was starv-
ing in the Berrima Iron Gang, has often passed
me by without so much as giving me a shilling,
when he had many pounds which were justly
mine in his hands. And now, would it not be
right that they should lose all they possess as a
judgment upon them for withholding his own
from the poor prisoner 2 Heaven guide me and
point out to me what to do. Well, I went into the
house again, and we had another glass of rum
round. Now, it was a cold, windy night, so I
took up the axe and said I would go and cut a
few barrow-loads of wood for the fire, if John
(meaning the young man) would wheel them in.
We went out, and had some talk whilst I was
cutting up. He said that Mulligan was an old
man, that he should have the farm at his death,
and that God Almighty would soon take him away .
adding, that if he did not he (John) would give
him (mayhap) a helping hand. I was shocked to
hear him speak in this way, knowing how near he
was to his own departure out of this world ; so I
said, “ Ah ! John, you should not speak in that
way, you don’t know what may be in store for
yourself.” At this time he had taken in two loads
in the barrow, and was come for the third. I had
just finished my work, so I took the axe, gave it a
backhanded swing against his skull, and threw it
down. I threw a quantity of boughs over the
body, and went back to the hut. We had another
glass together, and the mother inquired for her
son, I said he had offered to go into the bush to
see if my horses were right. After a time she be-
gan to wonder that John did not come back, and
to be very fidgety. This bothered me. She also
mentioned a dream she had the night before : she
thought she had an infant child, and that she had
seen this child horribly mangled and covered with
coming on; I began to feel very disturbed, and I
A NECESSARY QUESTION.
REPORTER (to Insolvency Official): “I WANT A COPY OF PARKES’ INSOLVENCY
SCHEDULE."
OFFICIAL: “WHICH ONE?"
blood. I hated this old woman, for she used to
toss cups and balls, and could foretell things. Well,
nothing would satisfy her but she must go to the
door and cooey. She cooeyed for John, but no
John came : and at last she would not even drink.
Then old Mulligan said, “ Perhaps the lad is lost
in the bush,” and took his gun outside to fire, for
the purpose of directing him as to the position of
the hut. It did not suit me to have neighbours
drawn to the house, so I said to Mulligan, “ You
had better not fire ; people will come, perhaps the
police ; and if we are to deal it won’t answer that
the dray should be seen here.” “ Truth, lad,
that’s a right thought of you,” he answered, and
instead of firing folded his arms, holding the gun
with the muzzle pointing up. Well, there was no
quieting the old woman, and I had my eye upon her
inside, at the same time that I was standing by
Mulligan outside. I saw her take out a large
knife and conceal it in her own clothes, and then
give it to the little girl. There was no time to be
lost. I had left the axe on the ground when I had
cut the wood, but my own, with which I had such
good luck with the other four, was in the dray ;
but then, how to get it without showing my in-
tent ? But I never was at a loss in the scheming
line, so I pretended that a dog I had got was
troublesome, and took him to tie him to the wheel
of the dray ; this gave me an opportunity of get-
ting the axe and placing it unperceived under my
thick coat. By this time the old woman, who
seemed bewitched, would be content with nothing
short of going outside and looking for her son.
She went towards the spot and began moving the
boughs which covered the body. Now or never,
thought I. I prayed God to help me!!! deter-
mined to succeed or perish in the attempt, and
kept my eye upon Mulligan, who was close beside
me. He turned his head —one blow and down he
went. I then hastened towards the old woman ;
she was in the act of returning, having found her
son’s body; but playing the cunning, she said,
“ Lord ! what brings the police here ? There are
three of them getting over the fence.” I was not
to be gulled that way, so I gave her my foot, whioh
staggered her, and then brought her down. Non#
now remained but the little girl : the poor little
thing that had never done me an injury, and I was
really sorry for her. I went into the hut where
she remained, and I said to her, “ Now, my little
girl, I will do for you what I would not do for the
others, for you’re a good girl ; you shall have ten
minutes to say your prayers.” ’
“ Here,” says the magistrate, “ Lynch paused,
as if he had a difficulty in going on. I suppose it
might be a feeling of remorse, and I could easily
imagine that the scene of the [child begging for
life must hare bsen a most pitiable one. I there-
fore ended the pause by saying —‘ In short, you
killed her, and with the axe.’ He said, ‘ I did ; ’
upon which I bade him proceed. ‘ I now,’ h#
said, ‘ began to consult with myself as to the
best mode of disposing of the bodies. If I buried
them in a frequented neighbourhood like that, it
was likely that the graves might be discovered.
There were plenty of wombat-holes near at hand,
but it would be troublesome to carry off all the
bodies, and the native dogs might, pull them partly
out. I felt an aversion to the thought of burning
the bodies of my fellow-creatures—it seemed such
inhumanity ; but then I considered that the poor
things could feel nothing, and that it was little
odds to them whether they were burned or buried.
I therefore put them upon a heap of logs close to
the house, where the Mulligans had been burning
off a piece for potatoes. When the fire was well
made up I was surprised to see how the bodies
burned. They flared up as if they were so many
bags filled with fat. It was an awful thing to
stand alone in the dead of night and to see the
four bodies burning to ashes. By morning there
was nothing left but a heap, like of slacked lime ;
I took it up in my hand, and buried it in another
part of the paddock. I may have left, perhaps,
some ends of bone behind. I then burned the
greater part of the Mulligans’ clothes, and made
such alterations in the house as I judged neces-
sary—for I had still a difficult card to play, and
must satisfy the neighbourhood that I had be-
come rightfully possessed of the farm, horses,
and cattle.
“ ‘ The first thing I did was to go to Gray’s inn
and ask to see him. On his coming out I inquired
of him, with seeming concern, what kind of a
man Mulligan was in his dealings. I knew his
answer would b» an inquiry why I asked. I said
that I had just come from Sydney, where I had
met Mulligan and concluded a bargain with him,
but that he had failed to deliver the cattle as he
had promised. Knowing by Mulligan’s papers
the persons to whom he probably owed money, I
took care to go to them and make similar in-
quiries. Some of them seemed to look down upon
me as a kind ©f flat, and that Mulligan had taken
me in. I acknowledged that I had lent him a
valuable mare, which had cost me eighty guineas,
and pretended to look very blank when it was
hinted that perhaps I might never see my mare
again. Some thought that the whole thing was
made up between Mulligan and his landlord,
“ Smith,” for some fraudulent purpose of their
own.
“‘I then went to Sydney, called at the Gazette
office, and, pretending to be Mulligan, paid for an
advertisement in his name, to the effect that,
his wife having absconded from her home, he
would not be answerable for her debts. I then
wrote several letters in his name to persons in the
neighbourhood of his farm, being chiefly about
money matters, for I had collected enough of his
affairs to he able to word them in a suitable man-
ner. When I returned to Wombat Brush all these
things were told me as so much news, and I ap-
peared to he a victim. I afterwards wrote a let-
ter to myself, in Mulligan’s name, as from Illa-
warra, and employed a man to put it for me in the
Campbelltown Pest-offioe, and this I shewed about.
The stupid fellow, however, not knowing my
meaning, put it in the Liverpool instead, and thus
the postmark,’ he added, smiling, ‘enabled you,
sir, to detect the trick after I was apprehended.
But it answered well with the neighbours. A man
on the next farm, who at first troubled me with a
great many awkward questions, was at length so
satisfied that all was right, that he wanted me to
marry his daughter.
“ ‘ I have mentioned these things all at ohce to
account for my being allowed to enter, without
dispute, into the possession of the Mulligans’ pro-
perty. I succeeded in throwing dust into every-
body’s eyes. Even the officer of the Mounted
Police, and his three troopers, who called at the
hut a few days after the murder, went away quite
satisfied. But before I took all these steps I went
down to Appin, with a light cart and two of
Bawtree’s horses, to fetch up Barnett and his
wife, who had been fellew-servants with me at
M'Kvoy’s there. I had promised, when I parted
with them, if I met a situation they would like I
would let them know. I accordingly described to
them the Mulligan family, and hired them in
Mulligan’s name. I left them the cart and one
horse to bring them up. I selected them because
they were immigrants, and simple people. They
would believe anything you told them. I had
thereto e no difficulty in accounting for the ab-
sence of the Mulligan family. I told them that
Mulligan and his wife had had a row, and that he
had turned her out, and that he had been obliged
to go to the Five Islands and hide, on acoount of
a horse found in his possession which was all
wrong (that is, stolen).
“ ‘ I was now comfortably settled, made im-
provements on the farm, determined to clear and
fence an additional paddock, and intended to live
honestly, and do everything fair and square ; but
I was obliged to go down the ooantry and settle
things with Smith, then the landlord. He was a
knowing shaver ; but I was as knowing as ho, so
we arranged matters to the satisfaction of us
both.
“ ‘ Returning home on one occaaion from Syd-
ney, on the 18th of February laet, I encamped on
the north side of R&cor-baok. In the morning,
while on the point of starting, I was met and ac-
costed by a strange man who seemed to be very
free and open in his conversation, and said that
he wanted to get out of the way, and that it
might not be known Where he was going.
“ Why ? ” I said ; “you do not look like a bush-
ranger.” “ No," said he, “ I’m an emigrant from
Ireland, and have just quarrelled with my wife,
and have sworn never to live with her again.” I
wanted a man to help to put up some fenoing.
Now this was a pretty (£.e. strong-built) man, and
had the look of a good man for working, and, be-
ing simple enough to all appearanoe, seemed just
the fellow to suit me. I spoke him fair ; and after
some more talk, I hired him for six months for
£l5. This was Kerns Landregan, the man on
whose aocount lam about to suffer. At the time
I speak of I had not the most distant intention of
doing him an injury. We proceeded together to-
wards Berrima. I gathered more from him on
the way ; he said that he and his wife had earned
together as much as £8 per week, up the country,
during the last harvest. On mj saying it was a
large sum, he said that ho could work against any
man, and his wife was accustomed to work too.
£he used to bind the sheaves for him ; on his part-
ing with her he had stuck to the money (that is,
kept it himself). I said, “Is she your lawful
wife?” He replied, “Yes.” “Andean you,”
said I, “defraud your own lawful wife of the
money she has hardly earned by the sweat of her
brow ? I would myself take a musket and rob
upon the highway, sooner than be guilty of such
cruelty. ’ I tried to persuade him t-o give her
some of his money, but he was obstinate. When
we passed Bolland’s, where his wife was staying,
I saw her, while he hid himself under some clothes
in my cart. I then again tried to persuade him
to give his wife her own proper share, since he
had parted from her, as he declared, for ever.
But he had no feeling for her, and my heart be-
gan to turn against him, and to feel a hatred for
him as a selfish and hard-hearted man. When
we got to Crisp’s, he hid himself again ; and on
my asking all about it, as we got on the read, he
gave me an aocount of having accused Mr. Crisp,
before the magistrates, of stealing a bundle that
he had left at the house. From his account I
perceived he was a kind of lawyer, and fond of
court. Besides, on getting better acquainted
with him, I found he was by no means simple, as
I at first supposed ; but had a deal of cunning
about him. I was sorry that I had hired him,
and would have got rid of him at once ; but, as
ill-luok would have it, having nothing about me
but orders, which I could nert get cashed at Stone-
quarry, I had borrowed a one-pound'note of him.
I tried everywhere In vain to change my orders
during the day, but could not; I was even obliged
to borrow another one-pound note from hirm
Towards sundown, two men with bundles joined
us on this side of Nattai Bridge, and expressed
their intention of camping with us for the night.
But this did not suit me, so that I spoke roughly
to them, on which they were offended and went
on. We encamped (Landregan and I) on the spot
well known to you, sir, and then I began to think
what I should do ; I was greatly agitated, and
could not close my eyes, while the other fellow
slept like a pig. What was I to do ? If I took
this fellow with his law to the farm with me, it
would certainly be my ruin ; for, after using his
wife as he had done, he would not stop at inform-
ing against me. Even if I got money in Berrima
(which I could do), and paid him ills two pounds,
telling him at the same time bo be off, he would
have me up to Court for a breach of agreement,
and then the magistrate might ask questions. We
had been seen together by so many people on the
road, that there would be great risk in killing
him ; but, everything considered, it seemed the
safest and best plan after all. He deserved it for
his ill-usage of his wife, and he had some money
in his pooket, although It was not for his money
I killed him, I passed the night thinking over
these thoughts ; and on the next morning, after
putting to the horse, I set my eye upon him. He
was a powerful-made man, I —small, as you see I
am ; and he had boasted to me that since he
was fifteen or sixteen years old he had never met
the man that could throw him. Well ! my man,
thought I, I fancy I shall be able bo settle you,
notwibhstanding your fine limbs. He had just
laid down the tomahawk with which he had been
cutting a little wood to make up the fire. I took
it up without his perceiving me. “ Now I must
mind what I’m about ; for if I do not hit fair, and
he tackles me, I shall be done.” He sat astride
on the long log cm which our fire was, smoking
his pipe, thinking of nothing ; his head was a
little turned from me : I gave him one blow, and
he fell, and then another when he was down, but
the first settled him. I then hid the body under
some bushes, where it was found next day, strip-
ping off all the clothes to the shirt, and hiding
tnem. I intended to have returned as soon as I
conveniently oould, and buried the body ; but my
time was come, and I can see the hand of God in
my detection—for I well remember taking off the
belt (the discovery of which in my house was the
strongest thing against me at the trial), and
throwing it into a small hole of water ; but after
perceiving the end of it above the water, arid
fearing to leave it there, I pitohed it into the caat
and never thought of it sinee. This was Sunday:
I rsturned home,3 and on the Tuesday I was ap-
prehended by your orders. Yen know, sir, how
by degrees everything then eawie out.”’


MeLSAN BBO&, BIGG * 00.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
ill GBOROB 8TRKBT, 8YDN1T.I
f
VJ
Sir
O
6
IRONMONGERS
12
5
x
r»
V
o
*
REGv
*
4
b
SPECIALITIES!
Ditli' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fin-proof Faint, llbo Oarbon Light
ELECTRO- PLATBD WARE, CUTLBBY, TOOLS.
■AS COOKING STOVES l-LEQNIS FLETCHER’S, JBANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, ftO,, ftO,
TKTXX-X-X.AA£S’IS
miffl TEISI FOWDEB
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TKA-C4KES, PASTRY, &c.,
ARK
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
r BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, f s*^
BOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF POUND'.
f?owland£,
Maea^arQu
h**been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver, restorer and beautifler of
Khehaman hair; it is warranted free from any lead mjneral wiUkMD fresh and
restorers are composed and which ruin the health (vide Medicai paper ), nrevents hair
sweet in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses, ltgreventshalr
falling off or turning grev, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf_ or dandnfif, and renders the
hair soft, silky, curly and
It is especially recommem
can also be had in a
!
for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, and
GOLDEN COLOUR,
which, after great time and troublo, has been especially prepared for the use of
children and fair or grev-haired adults. Sizes 3s. 6d.; 75.; family bottles, equal to four sma ,
108. 6d.; and double That size, 21s.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR a healing and refreshing preparation for
the face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS' ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
strengthens the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
KOWLANPS' articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid Bpunous Imitations unde'
similar names.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Brop,, and E. F robber ft' Co., Sydney.
*
T. WILLIAMS & 00.,
IMtOKTBKB OV
h*iTF*a A ITomign Boots A Show ;
41,0 MUDlMlonn at
rm» Winmi qc*un or (Joodh is thb abovb Lura*.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney
HOIS
OE
©
©
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY.
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, Ac., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET,LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
1, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON.
GENUINE SODA WATER.
the
•jjhu M Water Cg
'• OH U BOH HILL, BYDNHY.
—_ Perfect! Purity Guaranteed.
LQT3
PB-ESORIPTIONB are to
He found tn the “ LTOHT AND
for tibe epeerty core of Nerrroin* J>e>
* n ® Kindred LMBoauee, Ac. A copy of chti-
it*** will be sent free, sealed, for six penny
Addrees-
B. WARD ft CO..
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 ETnnfcer-itre**’ Sydney,
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE."
Marshall s tonic nervine
Promotes Appetlte a
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility.
Bold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 1/8.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Brmnnr, N.aw. j London, Rnot.avd.
THE BANE OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branchesi
04 FITT-STREET, and 588 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital m ... £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... M m 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
olal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CH4
0
%
SP
*
PATENT
PILLS.
8
3$
Are admitted by thou-
■and* to b* worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerroue disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The first
dose will give relief in
twsrtty mlautei. This is no fiction, for they have
tat it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
Mntstlv invited to try one box of these Pills, and
they trill be acknowledged to be
"WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Ter females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all groat humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is mo medicine to be found to equal BBHSOHAM’B
JTtCIiB for removing any obstruction »r irregularity
si the system. If taken accosding to the direction’s
given with each box they will soon restore females of
all ages to sound and robust health.
Tor a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and *
few doses will be found to work wonders upon thi
most important organs of the human machine. They
atrsnffthen the wnols muscular system, restore ch*
l®ag”s»t coinplexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
•mteraotng all classes of society; and on* of the
o»sss. -guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Swsofcam’s Pills have the largest sale of any patens
Medicine in the world.
SvtECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
.a® a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
fe-•V'seaesa, and Oppression of the Chest. They
«p>. s-iily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
cc teraafching which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
wish any of the above complaints give BrxoKxjc’s
Oo'traaPn.LS a trial.
Ta» most violent Cough will in a short time be
*emt»ved.
—The public are requested to notice that
*h* words “ Bxkcha.m’B Pills, St. Helens, *' are on the
jkivernment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
ff not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and Bold wholesala and retail by
«s* proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
t.Bncaihire, England, in boxes at is, l|d. and 2s. 9d.
each.—Sold by ail Druggists and PsAsht Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
H.B. —Full directions are given wM* cmnA few
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland.
THE above is one of the oldest Family'and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior acooram idation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. CO MPTGNK, Proprietress.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY'
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals-
PARIS, IS7B; CALCUTI A.IW,
for pre eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBiniUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or tlieir Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the mowth and
improving the appearance of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harm Jess
kerchiei,
Of all Dealers, and of the Manure carers
J. & E. ATKJNSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
Mark—^“ White on“ Golden
Lyre.’*
Everybody \
SHOULD USBJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA. SUPERFINE
PLOTJE!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
N«rw Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERT LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERT GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
111 Ssous-nirai. Sydney
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR FIFES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT <ss 00.,
SSI, OLARENOB-STRBBT.
obs. ass.
We have Large Shipments of this BBAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Bhipmen coming forward
WHOI El ALB ONLY.
Guinness' Extra Stoxt.
FIRST QUALITY,)
w
»Aor
BASS’ PALS ALE.
SOLB PURVEYORS fee th>
(wumuk aid nrDiAW imßioieK
LONDON,
By Special Appointment,'
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN P JOHNSTON * CO.,
Ctßßirels! Chambers, BoadMlrivt, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, Sco.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,’
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W,
~ First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plnnge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampbon),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d,
E
.9
K
c-ACT' I
ASTHMA.BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
_ PREPARED ONLY BY <3<V
ITiwmas Inqham.T
LaTTR O C K H A M P T P>f
E
a
3* RIDGE’S
FOOD
INFANTS ind INVALIDS
»!»
cm
AN
I «!• »** *”«]*(s*
n>duc*4 Into it#
«•»
)V»LJ pl]
E CAN KJffiCOM.MEND
DB. E3XT C3-HUNT ZEUS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
Aa the moßt central and well appointed .of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Notb the Address-
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPIOVIENf AGENCY.
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable in-
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street,
BRISBANE.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE.
Corner of *
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
ofjSydntffc]
JENOLAN CAVES. BLUEMOUNTAmS^
316 CCQRCE Sl'jiciMHwJliwitmfirACLEA
TRY OUR CHOICE
“LOO'G SHAN TEA,"
In 1,2, and 61b. Boxes and upwards,
Suitable for CHRISTMAS GIFTS ;
Also a nice assortment of
CHINESE ORNAMENTS, &a
QUONG TART & CO.


ROYAL
L VSSUIt
my ra3i
mr/j
6
POWDER
Absolutely Pure,
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
aa caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains itß full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co.,
N.S.W.
P. IiARKIN,
WHLOESALE AND RBTAICi
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS
3 Bottlea Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
3 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Rum
1 Bottle Old Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3,
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George-street.
' WHOLESALE AND RETAhTsINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.'
JSTHTW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AMB
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED OATALOOUHS WITH PRIOR LIST, PRRB OH APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VBNI, VIDII not.
For Arristio Posing and Effective Lighting,
combining softness and brilliancy, CM
Photographs of 4
GHARLEMONT 'A CO.
SROYAL ARCADE,)
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALON®*
,i)2
BO THOU AM BO LIKEWISE I
SUMMER, with Its heat, dnst and dep&gjM
effects, is on ns, and one of the greatest lnxtw*
we may enjoyjis a delightfully 000 l and refresh" 1
bath, made more luxurious by the addition ®
little “Sea Foam Shampoo." Follow the direct)!®®
and you will find it a most beneficial and he»*|*
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will cleanse®*
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them delightfnn
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, &0., of
head, and has the endorsement of the high**
medical anthorlties. The words “Sea Fo*,
Shampoo” are registered, and any counterfeit"'
imitation of same will be prosecuted to the P**
extent of the law. Sold by all chemists
dealers in toilet articles at the low price of
shilling per packet. Please try one package, *
will never regret it
THEATRE ROYAJU
ROCKHAMPTON. '
THE above Is the only Licensed HOW* "
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical
other Entertainments, and can be engaged **
any term npon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Tie Wonfler of tiie Age. "
COLEMAN and Sons, Cootamundra, W*?
awarded First Prize at the Adelaide
tion for their PURE VOLATILE EUCALYJM,
OIL. The only known cure for Asthma a® l * „
affections of the chest. We have more
testimonials than any medicine before the I®®
This is a genuine article. Posted to any add*
on receipt of stamps. Prioe, Is. 6d. and 2s.
Agents, Hoffhung & Co.; Elliott Bros. Drug
T. F. WIESENER, 834 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATCHES, Jewellery, Instruments for Christmas presents. Watches for ladies, gentlemen, and boys, at all prices. Jewellery, the latest styles and designs in gold and ail*®*
at very low prices indeed (quality being in all cases guaranteed). Opera and Field Glasses, Drawing-room Clocks, Thermometers and Barometers. For professional gently
men, Microscopes, Mathematical Instruments in presentation cases, Telescopes, &c. For Boys studiously inclined, similar iastruments at moderate prices (always in stock), make
capital present, and lead their tastes into good, and keep them out of bad channels. Buy from the Manufacturer and direct Importer, and save middlemen’s profit. The °*
established name is sufficient guarantee for quality and good value. Please remember WIESENER’S Steam Factory and Shop—
-334: GEOBGB &THEJE3I7, STZ IDIETIErSr. _
GRAND BOOKS FOR PRESENTS AND SCHOOL PRIZES.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS. ALL THE NOVELTIES OF THE SEASON NOW ON VIEW.
BEAUTIFUL PHOTO. AND SCRAP ALBUMS, WORK BOXES, WRITING CASES, FANS, SCREENS, &c.
MUSIC —Newest Pieces, Songß, Dances, Glees, Christmas Carols, Anthems, Part Music, and Presentation Volumes.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET. _
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and Bouse Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, ate.
Bran and Ball Founding, Finishing, An Metal Work, Ooppersmlthtna. BlaokenUthlng, Plumbing,
Caafltoting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and "PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, Ac.
Me Agents fe« Verity fena, Patent AfirPrnpeUers. Exhaust Van Mwb, «m Him, Itatwi,
Warmers, da
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY
you. Ptmcmußi aim Psion m Anw.ratvw*,
ALFRED LAWRENCE and Co*
130 COLLINS-STJEtKET, WEST,
Melbourne,
91 PITT-STRKET,
Sydney.
BREWERS and iErated Water Makers Machinery and Appliances. Becks on Brewing and Cot&
making. Dr. Grlefendorff a Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Grlefendorff a Bohemian Hop
Dr. Griefendorffs Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Grlefendorff a Quinine Wine. Utica and Munchen
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignozote for lining
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saocharometers,
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Hop
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, See. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of
“ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND SPD»*
TRADE REVIEW."
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE. ]
BEACOBSFIELD HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melbourne.
Hi i
******
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
LEA &PERRIWS SAUCE
SAIJO
In consequence if Imitations if THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA (JCE which art calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label m every bill if
bears their Signature thus —
O'
without Which m Utile of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS 1 Sauce, and see Name eat Wrapper, Label, Pottle m
Stopper . @ ITholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse »
*"» London , <s re., bfc. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Agents : Montbeiobb Joseph & Co., : David Cohen & Co., Sydney,
TayloHßrtf
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY 8£ OBTAINED iN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY
NOTICE.
WILli Mrs. E. BRUNTON, late news-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on tbe ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, If in Sydney.
TO JOBBING PRINTER 3 ' *
——• — a ftP®
To be sold, a large quantity of Old
Cases, useful for country newspaper, • A
M Bulletin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-street.
