

The Bulletin
lkjMelio^ ow and Company, of Sydney, have submitted to me samples of their Dandelion Bitters, which they claim to be
Q £° 0t save necessary additions as are required to preserve them and make them agreeable to take. I have
V e y and conclude that the}
THE PUREST -A. IST ID BEST TOISTIO ANYONE C A.IST TAKE.
these Bitters to be taken two or three times a day—a wineglassful for an adult, smaller
quantity for children, after meals.
x BI f LITY ’ DYSPEPSIA, RHEUMATISM, AND CUTANEOUS AFFECTIONS.—The action of Dandelion, more especially upon the Liver and Kidneys,
le for removing all impure secretions than any other medicinal plant known. Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find these Bitters invaluable.
THEY PURIFY - TECS BLOO D AACSriD LIVER.
READ THIS REPORT.
From WM. JOHNSON, Analytical Chemist to the Government of Victoria.
Melbourne, May 28th, 1886.
aua conciuue tma they have been faithfully compounded, and that they really contain the cinstituents from
t° Ina(^e • Dandelion is famous as a remedy for Liver and Kidney Complaints, and at the present time is largely
% sin* P res ent instance, being judiciously combined with aromatics, the remedy is agreeable to take and more con-
l °Qlach than the raw medicine.
LU
(Signed) WM. JOHNSON - .
and Co.
it + Uaroi Datic herbs, with the addition of sufficient spirit to make the preparation keep
"«ohe OC ~ 3 3 T—it XI. il.„ x: __ ...U _ T>*xx . l n •
Technical College Laboratory, May Bth, 1886.
I have examined the sample marked Dandelion Bitters, and find that it is composed of the active principles of
as good as any, and better than most of the preparations sold as Bitters, both in composition and flavour.
Yours truly, (Signed) WILL. A. DIXOxNT.
~Q y READ AN EXPRESSION OF THANKFULNESS RECEIVED BY THE UNDERSIGNED
be . en obliged to take medicines of different kinds for affections of the liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general debility, feelings of nervousness, weari-
k khn Urie lritS ’ and 80 on ’ but all without producing any beneficial effect, till at last being recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS, which happily I
<1 (j] !% and wonderful effect and change in my system, and has removed from my mind the horribly depressed feeling and former condition of bodily ailment
* onr l6nc . ed * or 80 man y years
Pportunity to make known the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs, respectfully yours,
. . “ MARY TERRILL,
roy Vj °W ami n, “ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
fCV X Com pany, Sydney.”
R I • ’ “ Scone, August 2, 1880.
sin ce
f rm and soothing to the chest and stomach in the early morning. From their use I 1
1 ° Btate w Pak I have written if it will help others who suffer from weakness to try them.
rec eived by E. Row and Co.
tyh i
le v,
respects.
“ THOMAS BARNES.”
X
“ Melbourne, September 30, 1887.
k atl d ga,v 0 0 kP r ’ lan^s DOW’S DANDELION BITTERS, although I thought at first I was going to be very sick; My friend was as sick as a dog, so I took the
0 nim a dose, which gave him relief at once. Others on board also took Row’s Da * "
Dandelion Bitters, with great benefit.
, “HENRY BRIDGEMAN.”
iwXr v ihg snff “ September 27, 1887.
' t u,t ered for many years from affection of the liver, and having tried many different remedies without effect, I was induced by seeing your advertisement to
a mij lB .'. i arn glad to say that the benefit I have derived from them has far exceeded anything I. have taken before. lam well known among the medial pro-
dwife for the past 23 years.
“(Signed ELIZABETH WATSON, 37, Dixon-street.”
tvxxe<3. Oan.l3T 1037- tlx© Proprietors,
ROW AND COMPANY.


kW.H.PALING&G™"
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
fLUJSTRATED CRTALOCUE3 ftPRICES'POST FREE
rao,Organ f Music importers,
r largest stockand §reatest Variety I'n Australia - sivtns the
- PIANOS from£4o, ORGANS from£l2-
* PAYMEfft BY MONTHLY INSTALMENTS TO SUIT AU CUSTOMERS
Wmfcfcfe PALING SiG PULING It C?
sdf sd fsd fsd
■v
'qjss
S&JiU/JJV
jijvjv/
akr*
fjaXAS*JO7OJ
SHiuniavjnNV
v
imuiiniimuntmUitMHHMi
IMREfIimOH
head Office i factory. Newtown
BRANCH. CCORCf ST. SYDNEY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE :
CORNER of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A. iAI I M r —> W .
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
RThe dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders a the
st Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12J per cent.
per annum -
Bonus paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent)
„ 6 H 11 per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Current accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
Agencies In London and throughout the world
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOBITS
OS' DEEDS.
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowed i
At Call, 4 per cent.
3 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONDS ADDITIONS TO DEPOBITBIOP
BIX AND TWELVE MONTHB.i_£:
i Es<‘i"" r_j
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
Or portion of their deposits without notice, and
will be allowed current interest for the period of
deposit.
The Share Register is still open, and intending
Shareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shares,
fco«, &C.
BT ORBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY
CAUTION.
fHK UNITED HORSE-SHOE & NAIL CO., Lmd.
CUSTOMERS of the United Horse Shoe aud
Nail Company are cautioned against pur-
chasing a Bpurious nail, made in imitation of the
“Globe" nails, and which are exported from
Germany.
The nails in question are made of inferior metal,
end are not so well finished as those of The United
Horse-shoe and Nail Company, Limited.
All boxes of The United Company are branded
U.B-S. and N. Co„ and customers should take
care that they get the boxes so marked.
By order.
R. S. HAZEON, Secretary.
115 Cannon-etreet, London, E.C.,
June, 1887.
WILLS’ HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and 'Families will find the old well-
known reputation maintained.
I - E RIA L HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
late of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
MT First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
ASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
(Vayside Gleanings :-The “ Western Cham-
>n" says l “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
.aonlo to my western friends.’
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress — Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
USE MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
■ B
Price. 2s. 6cL. per bottle. 1 !
I
Posted to all parts of the colonies free on receipt
of Btampß. |
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootamundra, N.S.W, 1
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
o &i ( . Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tio-
Doloreux, Achins Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 George-etreet only.
DR. O’CONNELL has removed to Edgar
House, No. 8 Bligh-street. Dr. O’Connell
does not need to advertise at all. His patients,
grateful for their cure and restored health and
vitality, and thankful for the sympathy shown to
them, and also the moderation of the charges,
advise their friends to consult and be cured.
Consultation (by person or letter) free.
Dr, J. O’CONNELL,
Edgar House
Comer Bligh and Hunter streets,
SYDNEY.
■OH£ ORIGINAL
U RN Bak/,v c
WAUGH'S "
\rr
Caucus
OBTAINED A
r IKST CLASS AWABO .!
OP ■ I
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT ;
JO
■i, '"■K
■* tvr-
ISTH E BEST INTHE WORLD !•
1 NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S 1
REC El VED THE INTERN ATI ON A W
PRIZE MEDAL j
Manufactured byJamesChanhon
Harbour S t Sy onev
Sold by All Crocefs And Storekwpers
m
&
w
DIXSON&SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
-pvIXSOIT& SONS’ CONTQL m t oBACOO
not only® manufactures MOI
THAN ANY OTHER, but CO*
AMERICAN
into New South Wales, and hence
of their brands. aaJ - *
CONQUEROR, greater sale than ~
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODG® Ei
gold leaf. t o'\ t TAl j
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, OR 1
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S N°
10,000 per hour, the f
and Paris rice tissue.
retailers at 3d. per packet
NEW ZEAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital.
fs
MONK'S
Pile mixture.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute,
is an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
IMIOISriKI’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcee Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per bottle.
ivrodsriKi’s
NEURALGIA MIXTUPE,
2s. 6d. per bottle, •
Sole Agents:
MA-THVY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins treet East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room,
Rendezvous for all parties engaged In mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland,
Q. S CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry ani
Bolton) wishes to inform the nnmerom
friends of the Firm and the travelling public tha
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge o:
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henoefortl
be carried on under his personal supervision,
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every oomfor
and convenience to greet them on their arrival
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THB
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aooommoda
tlon of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCE
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coache(
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry ft Bolton).
SUNBURST HOTEL
MOUNT MORGAN.
HE
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Bays* labour, itationerp, and time, writing muoh fatter
Mian expert pen-men, and oendenting matter to leu than
one-half the tpaoe oooupled bp pen writing. Beautiful
eopiet map be taken In the ntnal manner In the letter- prett
t Sold wholeaale and retail bp the tole agent*,
IMRAY fc CO # J
<lO Kent-sweet. \
c
y m
/A
XZ\
«lAKUFAtTUR£RS
»IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPSJc
438 CEORCESr
•SYDNEY % t
iHOTP*
GRIND „
BUNDABEB
Under New
~ TtJ T#®
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM
PLUNGE ANDJ3H° WSB
Good Stabling, and Loose B°
,
Having engaged a
bo cater for the publio W " jC j
ALF. P- T®
iUSTON PROCTOR &
ORTABLE
RIUMPH ” THBASB Jj#
w’s Roller SyßTE**__° r
So i"«vrT 4
F. O. ELLIOT- 1 {P F,
64T KENT ST
SihbV-
K.
THE GREAT NGR^^
Charlotte-place ”l|i
HAW
1 DO o?Sfel«,
VISES, SPIRITS, aM !s*?s£?*
DELIVERED
Carriage free by Railor
yon please fr
. w pr l ' , “'^ri'
omtbelistof^Pg^
Robertson's, Walker or RO»» < 8
Danville's Shamrock and « ur * „
Brian Boru Whisky *»
Hennessy’s *jDognao - ,
Square Gin _ - Z <J.
Jamaica Rnm .. - I
Red Heart do. .. or*
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies . n ds Vjm
English Ales and Stout, best s , nV# _
Port Wine for connoisseurs a
Port Wint and Sherry from, # j ro ß>
Best brands Whisky or Branuy
Guests will receive every » i wa fS 1
Wines, Spirits, and Beers »‘ w
papers kept on file.*
MACHI
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENCINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
STOCKS
large
Signs
WITH
newestd
HIGHEST
AT
COST
Si
LOVV
<
/j
$.
LOCOMOTIVES, T uG A<^
estimated
ROBERT COOfJJSs
soiEA sa—
r 1
Sydney;
111, PITT STREET.
22.


The Bulletin
Vol, 8-No 403
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1887.
Price.. 6d.
A Tough Job.
SHODDY-NEWSPAPER EDITOR (sol.): “MY PRESENT TASK IS TO AGAIN PROVE THAT PARKES AND POLITICAL PURITY ARE ONE AND THE SAME
THING, ALAS! I REMEMBER TAT HUGH MILLER, THE GREAT SCOTTISH GEOLOGIST, AFTER A LONG LIFE SPENT IN ENDEAVOURING TO
RECONCILE GEOLOGY AND GENESIS, BLEW OUT HIS BRAINS.”


" THE BULLETIN "
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Co
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, dem and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary comniunlcations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald
Notice.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1887.
Dives and Magdalen.
Ip there is one subject out of the whole c
ceivable range of subjects on which a m
might be expected to restrain his tendenc
to self-righteousness, and speak with, if no
a sense of Bhame, then, at least, a man
regret, that subject is the female sacrificec
class which the police know as “prostitute
and the so-called religious people as ‘ ‘ fall
women.” The degradation of women com
from the East. Other things come fro
the Eist —pests, the product of lust or filt
or of both, which hive decimated t
humanrace. Tyranny, unparalleled for cruel
and petty malignancy ; that religious fanat
ism which all over the earth has made t
name of Goo, whether as Jehovah or Alla
a curse worse than the pests ; these thing
too, come from the East. Whatever civi
sation has grown in the Ea3t has ended
the degradation of women. Whatever civ:
isation has undergone the Eastern influen
has done the same.
* * *
In the early days of every civilisation, wome
have always had their place. Beside ti
august figures of patriarchs, all over ti
world are to be found the almost equal!
august figures of their wives and daughter
In every mythology—(and what is a myth
logy, but an idealised and exaggerated pi
ture of the lives and desires of those wh
made it?)—the goddess is the equal of th
god, and often surrounded with a superio
halo of age and sanctity. The mythology o
Greece is the first among the civilisations o:
the West, and in it this is completely th
case. Let us go further. Homer is th
record of our earliest actual civilisation, anc
what shall we say of the Homeric women 1
Helen, Penelope, Circe, Calypso, Andro
mache, are full complements to Achilles
Odysseus, Agamemnon, Ajax, Patroclus
In the same way, in the more legendar
treatment of all this by the Athenian drama
tists, such figures as HSschylus’ Claitem
nestra, as Sophocles’ Antigone, as Euri
pides' Electra, need not fear comparison
with the Agamemnon, with the JEdipius
with the Hippolvtus of the same writers.
* • »
But note. The influence of the East began
to make itself felt in Attica (as it never did
■par parenthhe, in Sparta), and the degrada
tlon of women folio wed. At the very tim
these poets wrote, the Athenian women hac
been more or less consigned to seclusion
What ensued ? Prostitution ; at first in the
more elevated form of hetairai or “friends,’
over which the name of Pericles’ Aspasia
has ca3t such a glamour ; and then in the
purely commercial form which has branded
Phryne and Thais with the name of “glori
ous strumpet,” which Webster, the Eliza-
bethan dramatist, has bestowed on his
renowned Yittoria Corombona, “the white
Devil.” It was the same with Rome. The
degradation of women by making their rela-
tions with men partake of the nature of a
commercial transaction, wherein the women
were the goods and the men the purchasers
thereof, everywhere has ended in the same
way. Let us, however, pass by the Celtic
races—France, Spain, Italy—and turn to our
own Teutonic stock.
* * *
Here, just as elsewhere, the mythology
and early poetry bears unmistakeable evi-
dence of the dignity and equality of women
with men. Beside Woden and Thor comes
Freja (she is the goddess of Friday, “Freja's
day,” as Woden ami Thor of Wednesday
Thursda y)» aad in that great collection
of Teutonic legend which we know by the
name of the Niebelungen Lied, or Song of the
Niebelungs (or elves), beside the supreme
hgures of Sigurd and Siegfried stand
Gudruna and Brunhild. Tacitus, the
first historian of things Teutonic, notices the
freedom and equality of both men and
women in the daily life. The Britons were
Celts, and yet before the Romans conquered
them, and before Christianity followed
its train with its inevitable stigma of
Eastern origin, as it were, in its tail, t
dignity and power of the British wome
still remains to us a reality in the name o
Boaoicea. Then in turn the Britons we
conquered, and either exterminated or drive
into Wales, Cornwall, and Scotland by tl
Saxons and Angles, who also in their tur
were slowly Christianised. The who
genius, however, of the nation was so essen
tiilly opposed to the degradation of women
and the Onristianity with which they wer
brought into contact was one so much mor
influenced by the New Testament than b;
the old—by the teaching of Jesus, who wa
a Socialist and universal man, rather tha
by that of Moses, who was an Eastern anc
essentially a believer in priest-caste—all tin
brought it about that the degradation o
women proceeded but slowly, and prostitu
tion did not attain in England to the organ:
sation and general recognition which it die
in the Celtic nations of the Continent. Ba
with the Reformation things changed. Th
Old Testament re-asserted its influenca
The Puritans modelled themselves on the
Jews, and on nothing did these fanatics pou
out the vials of their wrath, temporal anc
spiritual, their punishments and disgrace
and their denunciations of a fature hell, witl
more fervour than on sins of the flesh. Then
first this hateful phrase of “ fallen women ’
aroie. Then first the Puritan’s hatred o:
secular power (except in his own hands)
found an equal hatred of sexual indulgence,
to bracket the two together, in company
with the incarnate principle of evil, in the
famous phrase “ the World, the Flesh, and
the Devil ! ”
* * *
Thus the degradation of women, as a prin-
ciple and a system began. Women used to
be looked on as, at best, necessary evils.
Through Eve (acc irding to the childish Eas-
tern fairy tale) had come “sin, and death,
and all our woe,” and therefore she was more
or less accursed and inferior. This is Milton’s
view, and Milton is the glory of the Puri-
tans. But, if the necessary woman, the
legal wife, was this, what has the religious
crank to say for the un-nece33ary woman,
the “ unchaste ” woman, not to mention the
prostitute? Let history reply. The New
England statute, still extant, which forbade
a man to kiss his wife on the Sabbath, has
had its fellow in the persecution, the deliber-
ate thrusting down of every “ unchaste ”
girl for close on three centuries. Yes,
society, society dominated by the noisy dog-
matism of the religious fanatics, has, for
close on 300 years been doing its best to make
desperate every “ unchaste” girl, to turn her
into a professional prostitute, and then to
beat her down into a gutter, and keep her
there, till her wretchedness was over for
ever. Every form of religious infatuation
has persevered in this damnable part, and
perseveres. The rabid ascetic has joined
hands with the respectable mole whose com-
fortable home and early marriage, where
£ b. d. were “ no consideration,” have made
him so easily virtuous ; and in the same
alliance with these we have the hypocrites
of both classes, the human slave-dealers
who have satisfied their lusts easily and
cheaply in the present condition of things,
and are, therefore, naturally enough, utterly
opposed to any change.
We have considered this question of the
degradation of women historically. We
have seen how it has risen, how it continues.
Let us clinch our little historical study with
the concrete example from which it springs.
* * *
On the afternoon of last Saturday week
there took place an opening ceremony of the
Magdalen Refuge at Cook’s River, Sydney.
Roman Catholicism was represented by
Cardinal Moran ; the World and the Flesh,
by Lord Carington and a train of fashion-
able ladies and gentlemen. No one has any-
thing to say against such refuges. All de-
pends on the temper in which they are
carried on. Society sacrifices to its lusts and
conveniences a whole class of women. It
can at least spare them the mockery of the
unspeakable wrong that has been wrought
upon them. No real man , we repeat, would
have had the effrontery to make this an
occasion for the display of self-righteousness.
But the religious ascetic is not a man. Listen
to him :
“ Cardinal Moran, addressing the assemblage,
said The voice of charity appeals to you to-day
in behalf of the most unhappy of God’s creatures,
the most homeless and forlorn of outcasts, the
poor fallen, but repentant woman." (Applause).
The key-note of the performance is struck !
The wretched man is going to gush out an
advertisement of the goodness and kindli-
ness of “ charity !” That is all. Every-
thing else is subordinate to that, truth
included. How revolting! Listen, then,
once more to the stock religious gloating
and grovelling over the “ miserable
sinner ! ”
“Weighed down with miseries, the anguish of
her soul is intensified by the thought that the
home of her innocent childhood is for ever closed
against her. When her mind goes back to the
threshold of that cherished home she sees a father
whose grey hairs she had dishonoured, a mother
in whose heart a beloved daughter’s shame has
killed joy for ever, joyous friends, the playmates
of her youth, who now shudder at the mention of
her name.”
Now, anybody but a religious crank knows
quite well that the cause of nine out of ten of
our girls “ going wrong ”is j ust this—the mis-
ery of their homes, the meanness and tyranny,
temporal and spiritual, of a father whose
grey hairs, of a mother, whose gormandising
heart, bear on them, if anything does, th
stigma of untold wretchedness and sin. Th
Australian prostitute class is fed by the cla
of the seduced, and nine out of ten of thes
girls succumb to the attraction of passio
from the disgust and despair of the wear;
and dreary Australian middle-class home life
* • «
To proceed. "Who, again, except are
ligious crank, would talk that old ante
diluvian rot about the “intoxication o
guilty delight ” of the life of the prostitute
It is quite too thin, all that ! The life of th
prostitute is a wretched life, and its exces
is the once more, of its disgust anc
despair. A simple statement of whab ;
prostitute has to go through any week woulc
perhaps cure even a religious crank of hi
ideas of “ the roses and raptures ” of the
vice of the streets.
* * *
This is all Cardinal Moran had to say
(excepting greasy self-righteous congratula-
tion), and he said it over and over again, seem
ingly with a lingering gusto over the pictures
of “ the life of excitement which they ” (the
prostitutes) “ have made,” their “ passions
so violent and unrestrained,” and the rest,
natural enough to the religious ascetic.
Imagine Jesus talking like this to Magdalen
(who gives her very name to the perform-
ance), or to any other of those “sinners”
with whom it was His reproach that He
“consorted!” Think of His speech to the
woman taken in adultery ! But, then, Jesus
had nob to make His terms with “society,”
but was its bitter foe to the bitter end.
That makes all the difference 1
* - *
For shame’s sake, for the sake of manli-
ness and common honesty, the man who
presided ” over all this had to say some-
thing, by way of qualification or protest,
lest the whole affair should seem a “ put-up
job ”in behalf of religious “ charity 1 ” Let
us forget the irony of the fate which placed
Lord Carjngton in the position of presiding
over the opening of such an institution-let
us forget a lot of things in considering the
fact that from his lips fell the only support-
able words spoken on this unsupportable oc-
casion :
... CL _ a h our charities, this one, I venture to
think, is the one most closely connected with our
common Christianity, and it is to my mind a
touching and beautiful sight to see the hand cf
fellowship and kindness held out to our poor
sisters, who, in many cases, have been more
sinned against than sinning. It is not very hard
for those who are in easy circumstances to keep
straight before the world. You all remember—
all who have read Thackeray at all events-that
Becky Sharp thought that she could have been
a good woman on £5OOO a year, and we should
never sit in judgment and forget the troubles and
temptations of the very poor.”
This is right so far as it goes, and, though it
does not go very far—indeed, though it goes
but a very little way—it is pleasant to think
that the right key- tone to all this, the right
temper in which it should be approached,
though touched and notified so late and with
so uncertain a finger, yet was touched, was
notified.
Quis Custodiet Oustodes? The
Political Patriot’s Reward.
When Melville, M, L. A., in admitting that he
had received £25 for assisting certain business
through some N.S. Wales Government department,
excused the act by saying “ A member of Parlia-
ment must live,” a virtuously indignant Press ve-
hemently and Johnsonianly denied the necessity.
A howl of scornful denunciation rewarded his
candour; he was upbraided for covetousness,
condemned for his want of patriotism, and a pious
protest was raised against such demoralisation of
politics. His sin is long past, but is neither for-
gotten nor forgiven. Certain writers still affect a
haughty contempt for him on account of this well-
remembered and oft-quoted transgression. But
Melville is not without imitators in the New
South Wales Parliament. The Attorney-General
hastens to emulate and exceed the Melville
offence. Mr. Wise j oinsin the plea that “Members
must live, and in his case the necessity prompts
him to take a 60-guinea brief from one of the
subordinate officers in his Department. For that
sum he undertakes to conduct a case, not for an
unfortunate constituent who has sold some land
to the Government, but for the Government itself
of which he himself is a member. And the fact
of his being a Minister robs the plea, which Mr.
Wise borrows from Melville, of all its force!
The Attorney-General already gets £l5OO a year
from the State, but this sum does not satisfy him,
even with the income derived from the practice of
his profession added; he must dip his hands
deeper yet into the public revenue by ac-
cepting fee 3 which, in all human probability,
he could not have obtained had it not
been for his Ministerial position. “ Members
must live," was Melville's apology; “Min-
isters must live in princely affluence ” is
the revised version of Mr. Wise. Needless to
note that the Press applauds in the “ Freetrade
Grinner” the strongly developed tendency shown
in its incipient stage by the Protectionist sinner.
Mr. Wise is member of a Ministry which must be
kept in office, not on account of any alleged merit
of its own, but because of the alleged demerits of
the Opposition. Freetrade must be supported at
the cost of the public purse : at the cost even of
p ilitical repute. As in the name of religion hein-
ous crimes have been wrought, so for the sake of
Freetrade must shameless political abuses be sup-
ported.
* * *
It is said that on legal grounds the Attorney-
General’s action can be justified. A barrister’s
acceptance of a retainer is not, it is said, an
“ agreement ” within the letter of tZZZZ
of theN.S.W. Constitution Act. ThisVfl\ BeCtion
quibble that a police-court lawyer w . he klnd «
was a sneak-thief and whose tie was ° lie,lfc
Muscovy ducks, would be prone to tab Palr 0f
not the broad argument of a statncm 6 ’ is
tested by the measure of common SPr ! R an ‘. And
once seen to be untenable. A barrtet ’ lfc ia at
such is the disgraceful conditoa *5?
law is not obliged to appear for th« i tralia “
whom he receives a fee ; he is not « C ent fr °m
sible for any loss which his neglect re3pon ‘
but his acceptance of a retainer is htJ ccasi °n,
an agreement nevertheless, alchouah tn° DBent to
ment be one which he may break with.. Be-
ring liability to his client. But if !, thout lncur-
third-rate barrister-we are Bnd
not of potentialities-like Mr. Wise were 2 uacta-
such an agreement to appear, his loss in so J r ? ak
would be more than the loss of the doing
of that agreement. A first-rate man mayneti 10 "
business with impunity ; he is i J 7 negl ®ct
and his skill is a shield to his dishon P e ? Bable>
a forensic understrapper like Mr. Wise iXi but
to keep his engagements or else lose £ 1.!
to a more reliable rival. And even fw Ctlce
men who neglect to keep their agreemofi t ' rate
cheats are sometimes forced by v lth
they cannot resist, to renounce theFr fees d„ Whicb
der an agreement which they have broker,
it is contended that precedents justify the rmv Ut
designed by this ingenious young
statesman. Precedents in N.S W • hnt h, urtl
prior to 1873, the date of a ParliamentaryVeStf' 3
in condemnation of this very practice. Preceded
in Queensland ; but there the Opposition rnemh 4
have constantly opposed the doubtful pSif
continued in spite of their protests. Praresi ?
in England ; but there the Attorney General
a member of the Cabinet. A choice array of Ira
cedents truly to cast as dust into the eyefs of
tonished and indignant laymen. Such precedent
may silence but cannot satisfy, the men who se!
in this new departure made by Mr. Wise » „al
danger fo the purity of Australian public life
* #
And further, Mr. Wise attempts to strengthen
his position by an ad misericordiam appeal “ The
salary and patent-fees together used to be" £Sinn
Now that the fees have been taken away T nniv
get £l5OO. The test m m t be made «p7Seh.“7
is the substance of his pathetic appeal. £3l on n
year, with patronage and perks, is Mr. Wisp's
estimate of the annual worth of Mr. Wisf’s shin
ties. We doubt whether the South Sydney elec-
tors would rate him so highly as that, but even so
there is nothing in this mean apology for an ex '
c . uae - B8 !“ g a Miniater d °es not prevent the
Attorney-General from attending to his private
practice. He is now better advertised than ever
in his life before, and his Ministerial duties do not
prevent him from appearing for ordinary clients.
Even though his salary as a Minister is only £l5OO
a year, the profits of his private professional prac-
bice added thereto bring his income to a figure
which it is not likely ever to have approached
before. Then why should he be allowed to add to
a sum which he could not earn, if patriotism did
not induce him to sacrifice himself on the Sybaritic
altar of Ministerial position ? And his allusion to
the former emoluments of his position lis unfor-
tunate, inasmuch as it recalls the remembrance of
his predecessors in office. He is the successor of
W. B. Dalley, of Sir James Martin, and of
Edward Butler ; they were men of surprising
ability and attainments, besides which those of
the ' Freetrade Grinner ” are insignificant and in-
comparable. He is merely a perky youth of some
four or five years’ standing at the Bar ; the
Hobson s choice ’ of a Premier who offered him
a portfolio because no one else could be found to
succeed the tricked and deluded Foster ; £3OOO
is nearly double the amount which the Premier
himself receives ; is Mr. Wise so far superior to
Sir Henry Parkes ? W e would smile.
* * *
The most serious outcome of the whole affair is
the comprehensive opening which it makes pos-
sible for all manner of corruption. This result
was clearly not contemplated by Mr. Wise, bub it
is very real nevertheless. Every barrister in the
House can in the future be made a grateful pen*
sioner of the State. As the Attorney-General can
take briefs from the Government, such briefs can
also be given as a reward to any other barrister in
the House. And not here does the evil end. If
a barrister can accept emolument from the
Crown, so likewise can a surveyor, a doctor,
or any other professional man. This opens
up a wide vista of corruption in the
hereafter when the colony shall cease per-
chance to be blessed with “ commercial free-
dom and honest Government Every member
can then be exposed to the temptation of a bribe
ia the form of a fee. So careful have previous
Parliaments been in this matter, that no member
of either House sitting on a Select Committee has
been permitted to accept the fee paid to commit-
tee-men who were not M.’sP. Such service by a
member was voluntarily and gratuitously ren-
dered. But henceforth there Is not the slightest
reason why these fees should not be paid—espe-
cially to sun porters of the ruling faction. Mr-
Wise can prove that such payment would not
evidence “ an agreement ” within the 28th section,
and therefore no liability can attach. In view of
these things, it seems an absurd waste of energy
to pass in New South Wales a Payment of Mem-
bers Bill; if members can pay themselves, ato
Wise, there is really no need that the colony
should pay them any regular salary. And the
honorarium method of the Attorney-General
would —under a less scrupulous Cabinet—have
the advantage that those members wtuld bs best
paid who best served the Government of the day,
while wicked and obstructive Oppositionists would
be starved into meek and useful submiasiveness,
And by such means a working majority for the
Government could easily be obtained; in the
English Commons each member represents merely
1 660th of the voting strength of the House, but in
New South Wa T e 3 each member is nearly sIX
times as important, being l-124th of the Assembly 9
strength. To secure a majority then it would be
necessary to bribe only one-sixth as many persons
as in England.
*■ # *
These are considerations which probably have
not yet presented themselves to Mr. Wise. H®
i* a young man whose mental breadth is never
likely to be charged as a sin against him. A little
too much prosperity has perverted and dethroned
such reflective powers as h'6 is said to possess. B®
can only contemplate one theme—the surpassing
worth of B. R. Wise; he seemingly can only see one
object—the personal welfare of that same youth,
therefore when a chance of adding some easy
hundreds to his present large revenues presente
itself, he just went for those hundreds withou
apparently giving a thought to the political evi
certain to result. Evil to the country, for oorruF
tion has been relieved of an efficient curb; evu
himself, for a greedy,[grasping, grabbing politic l ®
is certain to have a sudden termination to 11
career as soon as his covetousness is revealed an
discovered.


POLITICIANS AND PAWNSHOPS.
“ A PEOPLE’S BANK.”
THE AUSTRA.LI A.N BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
1. Its origin. 5. Its Directorate.
2. Its History. 6. Its Literature.
3. Its Objects, 7. Miscellaneous.
4. Its Operations. 8. Its Critics.
I.— lts Origin.
In the early months of 1886 one J. H. Nathan sat
in Ins office. No. 32 Sydney Arcade. He was, so
far as we can make out, the leading spirit of the
“Australian Financial Company,” and from
aught that is known to the contrary comported
himself with the dignity worthy of so
responsible and enviable a position. Critical
men might think No. 32 Sydney Arcade too
small to hold so large a concern ; but it held J. H.
Nathan, and he was most of the “ Australian
Financial Company.” He may have been a hope-
ful, even smguineman, but while bearing, appar
ently upon his own shoulders, the weight of so
magnificent an enterprise, lie can hardly have
anticipated the gorgeous future outcome of hi 3
phenomenal energy. But as fortune always
favours the brave so success ever rewards the
energetic. Mr. Nathan’s commercial capabilities
did not escape the eyes of his peers in the art of
money-making. There came a time when others
demanded a share in the income of the “ Austra
lian Financial Company,” and this share Mr.
Nathan gladly gave—for a sufficient consideration,
as hereinafter stated.
2. —Its History.
On or about the 23th June, 1886, certain gentle-
men instructed a Sydney solicitor to draw up an
agreement. By this agreement Mr. J. H.
Nathan ceased to be the controlling mag-
nate of the “Australian Financial Company.’’
He divested himself of his incorporated glory,
and subsided into private life, taking with
him as a consideration for his descent 10,000 fully -
paid-up shares in the “Australian Loan, Dis-
count, and Financial Company,” which rose
butter 11 y-like from the chrysalis of the “Austra-
lian Financial Company,” There is a careless
truthfulness about this agreement (registered with
the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Sydney,
and visible to anyone who holds a shilling), which
must commend it to unprejudiced perusers.
Therein the “promotors” (a Dictionary does not
seem to have been held by the parties) assert that
the “Australian Financial Company” has been
in existence for sometime, and that “the gross
profits— 1 gross ’ is here a good word —in every in-
stance have never been less than thirty pounds per
centum, and, in some instances, as in cases of
Bills of Sale, at, and even exceeding one hundred
pounds per centum per annum ” —a high testi-
mony, as our italics must show, to the business
capacity of Mr. J. H. Nathan and anyone
who may have helped him to conduct the
operations of the “ Australian Financial
Company.” In the light of this gorgeous
fact, it is no wonder that the “promotors” of
the “Australian Loan, Discount, and Financial
Company ” decided to take over the “Australian
Financial Company ” at the extraordinarily cheap
figure of 10,000 paid-up shares in the new
concern. It was, indeed, a wondrous bargain
at the price, and the only matter for marvel in the
transaction is that the Australian Financial Com-
pany allowed Mr. Nathan, or rather, that Mr.
Nathan allowed the 30-to-100-per shent Australian
Financial Company to go for so seemingly inade-
quate a price. Oa the same date—the fateful
89th of June, 1886 —the Articles of Association
under 37 Vic. No. 19, seem to have been drawn
up, with the list of shareholders attached. In
this list, as filed with the Registrar, the name of
the Hon. Francis Abigail, Minister of Mines, who
latterly seems—from the prominence given to his
illustrious name in the concern’s newspaper-ard-
other advertisements —to have become grandmas-
ter of the business, does not appear among the array
of shareholders ; but on the of page 9, and
near rule 61 he is stated, on the authority of
the company s then secretary, to be a “ Provincial
Director.” In the printed Articles of Association
of the Australian Loan, Discount, and Finarc at
Company, as issued to our representative, it ap-
pears from article 61 that Messrs. John Kidd,
M.P., and Francis Abigail, M P., were bot>>
“Provincial (sic) Directors ” of the A L D and
F. Co. The wisdom of getting two “members” on
the “ Provincial ” directorate will be at once ao-
parent; members of the ’Ouse being acquainted
with each other, these two would certainly be able
bo do a large, if not a profitable, business among
their fellow-legislators. A good high-class pawn-
shop is the most pressing necessity of the N S. W.
Parliament at the present time Therefore, icisevi
dent that Messrs. Abigail and Kidd bad Urge op-
portunities—far be it from us, however, to insinu-
ate that they availed themselves thereof—of in-
creasing the business.o f the office wh'ch they were
appointed to direct But this is a diversion from
a purely historical view of the “ Australian
Banking Company, Limited ” We digressed
where the “Australian Loan, Discount and
Financial Company”—we just revel in these
names, they are so comprehensive and magnifi-
cent-registered itself under the Act 37, v >c., No.
19. From the directors’ report, dated the 20th
July, 1877, there seems to have been a cessation
of business immediately after registration of the
‘Australian Loan, Discount and Financial Com-
pany,” for it is therein stated that—
-11 The present preirises of the company were first occupied
on the 17th October, 1886, hut it was not until the 9th day of
January that operations actually c unmenced, since wlii’h
date the gro’s transactions of tie company have amounted
to the considerable sum of £181,893 3j. 21.’’
Naturally the gigantic success of the company
—£2597 having been returned as “ net profit ”
stimulated the directors to propose an extension
of the business. Their suggestions to this end
were several. One, contained in the fourteenth
Paragraph of their report, was to the effect that
“ any balance of the company’s stock should be
placed on the market.” The nominal capital of
the company was £lOO,OOO, and as. according to
the directors’ report, £Bll was sufficient to pay a
half-year's dividend at the rate of 12& per cent
per annum, it would seem that only about £l3 000
of that capital was liable for such dividend. The
suggestion in paragraph 14, therefore, would seem
to be ample for the immediate prospects of the in-
stitution. Nor did their pvoScionc j and f ethought
stop at this point ; they further appear to have
expressed themselves as follows—the passage is so
beauteous that we quote it :
“ We would also strongly urge that an alteration should
be made in the name and capital of the company. There
seems to be a very strong objection, both lsic.) amongst de-
positors, customers, and many shareholders to any word ap-
proaching ‘ loan.' We would suggest that the name of the
Company be altered to ‘ the Australian Banking Company
(Limited),’ and that the nominal capital be increased to
£500,000."
The Directors evidently looked for a wider
extension of business than the paltry £BO,OOO
or so of uncalled capital in the A.L.D.
F. Coy. would suffice to provide for.
£480,900 was, it wculd seem, very much
nearer the mark, therefore the shareholders (as it
appears from a printed sheet kindly handed to us
over the “bank's” well-polished counter by a
much-whiskered official, and purporting to be the
“Minutes of the Annual General Meeting” of
July, ’B7) on the motion, as it is stated, of Mr.
Troup, seconded by Mr. Ferguson, and supported
by Mr. Lines and Mr. Mlery, agreed to this exten-
sion of the Company’s nominal capital. And
further, out of respect to the “very strong objec-
tion, both amongst depositors, customers, and
many shareholders,” the meeting further decided
to change the name of their institution by eliminat-
ing “ any word approaching ‘ loan,’ ” and thence-
forth the concern sailed under the most re-
spectable and patriotic name of the “Aus-
tralian Banking Company (Limited).’’ These
minutes contain lhe latest published official record
of the history of the Cjmpany. Following upon
the motion changing the title, the minutes contain
an account of the election of Directors, from which
it appears that for the two vacancies on the board
three gentlemen were nominated as Candida' e»,
viz., the Hon. Francis Abigail, M.P., Mr. John F.
Martin, and Mr. Sydney Birdekin, M P., who,
as the world well knows, is a capitalist reputed to
be a millionaire, and forms one of the Parkes
party in the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly. The
latter was not one of the chosen—in this connec-
tion Chosen is an excellent word —Messrs. Abigail
and Martin being the selection of the members pre-
sent. Then a vote of thanks to the Directors and
staff was passed, and it is further allegedinthe re-
markable official document now under review that
Mr. John Hurley, M L. A., chairman of the meeting
spokc “at considerable length” “congratulating
the shareholders on the very successful results of
their first year’s operations, and stating his convic-
tion that a great success was assurt d to the Com-
pany as it was established, and filled a publicly re-
THE WORKMAN’S PASS-BOOK.
quired and long-feltnecessity.” What the italicised
words mean we are unable to guess in twice, but
they are doubtless pregnant with deep signific-
ance. Mr. Hurley nexo asserted (according to
the same minutes) that he could safely affirm to
tbe shareholders tha\ kno'uledge he
had acquired of the Company's operations the
future dividends would be such as to some-
what surprise them.” We cordially endorse this
statement. From the knowledge which we have
recently acqui ei of one or two of tbe Company's
operations we are prepared to believe that a whole
lot of persons beside tbe shareholders will be sur-
prise. A vote of thanks to the chairman and
his suitable response thereto smarted the Company
fairly along the extremely profitable path, along
wh'ch it is, according to advertisements in the
Sydney daily press, now trending.
3. “Its Objects.
These may best be gathered from the published
papers of the institution. In a general way, of
course, it was created to occupy the vacuum re-
presented by ‘ the publicly-required and long-
felt necessity," and its particular objects are
manifold. Thus, in an advertisement in the T.
and C. Jouknal of the loth October, 1887, pur-
porting to bo the advertisement of the Company,
the public are informed that, “It is essentially a
Bank foe ihepeople,”— chiefly the hard-up People,
we presume-—and that, “ The business of this
Rank, though differing in some respects from tbe
operations of >he chartered Banks, is of a much
safer and more profitable character.” The words
we have italicised are noteworthy. The “char-
tered Banks” will be gratified to leatn on such
high authority that their business differs, even if
only “in some respects,” from that of the Aus-
tralian Banking Company. Limited ; and they will
further bedeeplyinte rested to discoverthe nature of
this “much safer and more profitable” business.
As it is “a Bank for the People,” the names of
Francis Abigail and John Hurley, M’s.P., and per-
petual patrons of the people, are well placed at
the head of what the ad., with quaint, but under
the circumstances, not incomprehensible disregard
for the Queen’s English, calls the “ Directory.”
another paragraph of the advertisement states,
that “The merhod adopted in makiog advances is
upon a 10 per cent per annum interest basis,
together with a sliding scale of commission upon
each transaction according to its nature.” That
this bans bas not b3en strictly adhered to (except
so far as the sliding, upwards, i 3 concerned) is
vouched for as a fact by eome of the customers of
this bank, who have confided to us the story of
their connection with the institution.
4.—lts Operations,
To here detail many facts and figures regarding
the operations of the Australian Banking Company
would be manifestly imprudent. The risk of
making an unimportant error in the statement is
sufficient to prevent any attempt in this direction.
We will, therefore, merely take one of the trans-
actions within our knowledge; that one alone
should be a sufficient warning to the public. On
or about the 15th March, 1887, a respectable and
diligent tradesman in one of the suburbs applied
to what was then the Australian Loan, Discount,
and Financial Company for a loan cf £lO for six
months, offering as security chattel property
valued at about £l5. The loan was granted. The
interest was to be £3 for the half-year, an d repayment
was to be made at the rate of ss. per week during
that term, and the remainder when the term
ended. He seems to have been fairly regular
with his instalments, as will be seen from the
photograph of his pass-book herewith; he paid up
£0 10s. during the term, and then owed £3 10s.
balance of the loan not cleared by instal-
ments, and £3 agreed upon as interest, but,
as will be u "diced by the last entry, it took not
£6 10s, but £8 17s. 61. to clear his little account
on the 20th September. Wheher the extra
£2 7s. 61. was “ commission on a sliding scale ”
alluded to in the advertisement, or whether in was
as he affirms demanded on account of solicitors’,
valuation, and registration fees, and cost of pass-
book ic is unnecessary to enquire. The mere fact
that he had to pay such an amount proves the
assertion before quoted that the business of this
bank is “ of a much safer and more profitable
character ” than that of the Chartered Banks.
Our informant asserts that this extra £2 7s. 6d.
was a compromise made on account of a
larger claim, but of this we have now no sufficient
documentary evidence. Taking the transaction
as it stands, it reveals an apparent imposition.
£3 interest on £lO for six months is, as any school-
boy knows, sixty per cent, per annum, so that this
transaction hardly seems to stand on the boasted
10 per sbent basis. But as the borrower paid
back ss. per week there would only be an average
amount of £6 15s. owing during the term ; £3
interest on £6 lot. for s’x months approximates
00 per cent.—a very fair sum considering that the
bank is publicly said by flaring and uncontra-
dicted advertisements in the newspapers to have
“ the Hon. Francis Abigail, Minister of Mines,”
and Mr. John Hurley, M.Ti.A. for the Litbgow
miners, at the head of its directorate, and is al-;o
said to be essentially a “Bank for the People.”
Loaded with this huge burden of interest the
client might well have been excused from further
payments. That such was not the case we have
already shown. The fees charged amounted to
23 per cent, and the interest to 90 per cent, per
annum of the loan ; he paid £5 7 a 6d., or
say one hundred and thirteen per cent., for the
loan of an average sum of £6 15?. for S'x months ?
“ More fool he ! ” will be the popular comment,
but what was ihe “ gullible dolt” to do? If he had
not paid what this high-toned Bank chose to
exact from him he would have been deprived of
his means of livelihood. When once needy men
are attracted into such bargains, they become im-
potent to do aught but obey their 60 per cent,
taskmasters. And, in the present case, the names
of such “ friends of the paople ” as Messrs. Abigail
and Hurley at the head of the prospectus, are
sufficient to allure men into financial pitfalls from
which escape is often hopeless. It will be
noticed that this transaction was begun with the
Australian Loan, Discount, and Financial Com-
pany, but concluded under the auspices of the
Australian Banking Company. The stamp placed
over the final entry is that of the latter institution.
To prove that the Bank, when changing its name,
did not also change its principles, we need only
refer to the prospectus now being issued to intend-
ing shareholders, and advertised also in the T.
and C. Journal, of the 15th inst., page 788. The
prospectus states clea-ly that, “ Notwithstanding
the change in capital, the operations and trans-
actions of the Bank will still be conducted upon
precisely the same principles as heretofore,” &c.,
&c. It was the same loan-office all the time,
although in deference to the tender susceptibili-
ties of some of its “respectable” supporters, it
cut away from the title any implied reference to
the golden-ball industry on the 28th July last.
5. —Its Directorate.
In the array of high-toned gentlemen and poli-
ticians alleged to have accepted the positions of
Directors, this much-named Company has ever
been glorious. Among the "Provincial (sic)
Directors,” according, to the printed Artioles of
Associa i n of the A. L. D. and F. Company, there
are the names of John Kidd, M.P., and Francis
Abigai l , M.P. ; J. F. Martin, Esq., M. B.
lust,, C.E. ; G. B. Thomas, Ksq., solicitor;
P. J. FarrelJ, and J. 11. Nathao, W squires,
merchants; 11. P. Palser, Esq., merchant; A.
Murray, Esq., tea merchant, and many other
personages of high commercial and other renown.
The first five working directors are stated to have
been Messrs, Farrell, H. C. Roberts, Nathan, Mur-
ray, and Mathey, and to these, as it would appear,
were subsequently added Messrs. John Hurley,
M.P. (the Lithgow miners’ friend), and C. S.
Gillett. It is just possible that some of these
names may have been inserted without sufficient
authority, but being inserted the concern just had
to boom. Fancy a bank having 15 “ Provincial
Directors,” not one of them of less rank than Esq,,
not doing well! It had to go, and apparently it
did. Now its “Directory” is alleged, in the
newspaper advertisements, to include the Hon.
Francis Abigail, M.P., Minister for Mines ; John
Harley, M.P., and Messrs. J. F. Martin A
Mathey, John Vann, J, H. Nathan, and John
Scott—Esquires, all of them. Each of these
gentlemen, according to the Articles, must be the
holder of not less than 500 shares, and must have
been registered as the holder of not less than 20
for at least three months prior to his election.
Friends of that gifted man, the Honorable Francis
Abigail, Minister of Mines, will rejoice to know
that, in accordance with this article, he must
have at least a £5OO slice in this profitable con-
cern ; it is consoling to think that even if deprived
of Ministerial position he could still profitably
officiate as the poor man’s three-ball friend by
virtue of his advertised position in this institu-
tion. And the fact that he is stated to be a
Director encourages the thought that the Parkes
Cabinet was well chosen. If it contains one man,
Parkes, to wit, who knows how to borrow, it also
contains one man, Francis Abigail, who, from his
assured experience as a “bank” director should
know well how to lend—on a sixty-per-shent-
and-slidiog-scale-of-commish basis. The Parkes
Ministry started existence under “1.0. U.”
auspices ; it threatens to fall within the shadow
of the three golden balls. It may be that the
Honorable Francis Abigail, Minister of Mines
is really not so much mixed up with the affairs of
the Australian Banking Company as advertise-
ments would seem to indicate. It may be that
though his name heads the list of D v e ;cors in the
newspapers he is utterly unaware cl .no well-pub-
lished fact, and that he knows nothing of the
marvellous rapidity with which interest accumu-
lates on loans made by the stoutheartedly philan-
thropic institution which claims him as one of its
bosses.. But if these things really are so, if he
really is innocent of the nature of the business he
is supposed to overlook, he ought to make that
fact public by renouncing the fame
awarded to him, taking libel actions against
those who have fraudulently used his
name, and liberally compensating all who
have been lured into a usury trap by the
glitter of the venerated cognomen of the
illustrious Parkes’ colleague. Plenty of
ignorant people, on reading the advertise-
ment, would take their horses and carts to
Ihe A.B. Co. right away and expect to find
Abigail in a stall ready to lend at least
twopence more on each article than any
other person, who was not a friend of
the people, would be willing to advance.
6.—lts Literature,
V* o are justified in giving a separate
heading to this subject, for the institution
bas a literature, thank Heaven, peculiarly
its own. A. literature that tolerates in a
Directors’ Report five paragraphs out of
twenty beginning with “We will now,”
an expression which seems to have been
borrowed from some place where they use
the No. 1 collection hymn-book ; a litera
lure which permits directors to declare
that they have been comparatively unable
to do something; a literature that oalls a
directcrate” a “directory,” and charges
the accurate Hurley with talking about a
‘‘publicly required and long-felt neces-
sity a literature which regards “an ad-
denda as a correct phrase. Other eccen-
tricities of similar character we cannot
spare lime to _ notice, but if there be any
Australian citizen who is making a collec-
tion of literary bulls and eccentricities wo
can confidently recommend for his perusal
the advertisements and reports of the
Australian, Banking Company, Limited.
7.—lts Critics.
Without observation or comment wo
present as the opinion of one critic the fol-
lowing extract from the Australian Bank-
ing AND iNSURiNCE RECORD of the 16th
August la it The paragraph found page 172
of t hat paper is as follows :
"We have received the balance-sheet, directors'report, and
ini antes of proceedings at the annual general meeting (held
at Sydney on 28th July) of the Australian Loan, Discount,
and Financial Company, Limited, Sydney. The accounts,
which will be found on another page, are of bo extraordinary
a character that we consider it our duty to call attention to
them. First dealing with the balance-sheet as it is given to
the world, we find —Liabilities: Paid-un capital, £20,096;
fixed deposits, £8798; gross income, £2597; total, £31.492.
Assets: Investments, £18,303 :secured overdraft*, £1971;
bills discounted, &c., £4575; suspense account, £3; formation
expenses account, £1299; furniture, brokerage, advertising,
Sc, £2259; salaries, assurance, Sc., £984; dank balances,
£56; c sh in hand, £2041; assets balance liabilities. There
is no profit and loss account. The whole of the gross in-
come, as it is called in the balance-sheet, is treated as “ a
net profit of £2597 10s 101." in the directors' report, and is
distributed as follows: Carried to reserve fund, £1000;
carried to furniture and formation expenses account, £500;
dividend to shareholders at the rate of 121 per cent, per
annum. £811; bonus to depositors of twelve months (2 per
cent.), £118; bonus to depositors of six months (1 per cent.),
£3O; cirrieu forward, £l3B, We will reconstruct the ac-
counts b iefly as follows .
Liabilities. Asset,s.
Capital paid-up .. £2O 096 Investments .. .. £18.303
Deposits 8,798 Secured overdrafts.. 1,971
Bibs discounted, &c. 4,575
Cash at banks and
on hand .. .. 2,097-
Deficiency .. ~ 1,948
£28,891 £28.894
Profit ani> Loss.
Expenses as shown by Gross income.. ..£,2597
italics abova .. .. £4,545 Debit balance ~ 1918
The company's affairs are thus nearly £2OOO to the bad, and
yet the management distributes nearly £2BOO, giving the
shareholders a divide d, and the depositors a, bonus. The
accounts are duly audited, b it it appears to us that, as a
professional matter, auditors should rt fleet before passing a
halance-shcet in the form adopted by this company. Such a
balance-sheet is always liable to abuse. At the same time
the audito-s are not responsible for the directors ca'ling the
“gross income” a “ net profit" (which further on ia the
report is stated to be an item “ actually paid and received
cash results," whatever that may mean, “ not the same as is
usual with building societies ”). So elated is the manage-
ment at its “ cash results,” that it has obtained the sanction
of the shareholders to the style being altered to “ The Aus-
tralian Banking Company (Limited)” and to the nominal
capital being decreased to £500,000. The directrrs state
their convictio a that their proposals being accepted, “ the
company's stock would immediately be at a considerable
premium." Investors sometimes do extraordina-y things,
but can any be found in Sydney to pay a premium for
shares in a company which treats its gross income as net
profit?’
B.—Miscellaneous,
As every day is advanciog the cause of
woman suffrage we are pleased to note that
the Australian Binking Company accords the
fair fex an authority too • often denied it
elsewhere. No less than four matrons are said to
have been present at the meeting of the 2sLh
July, an 1, although they do to have
taken the floor on any occasion, wo do not doubt


bat that their presence was felt. A clergyman,
the Rev. A. M‘Clinchie, la also said in the
printed report to have been there, whether oc-
cupied in a promising search for the Lost
Ten Tribe 3 or not does not distinctly appear. It
is idle to speculate on such themes. There is one
thing in connection with the Company’s trans-
actions which we have not hitherto noticed. It
is the code of rules regulating repayments,' &c.
The rules are printed in the book of which we
have photographed two pages, and they seem to
be just about as stiff as the interest charged in
some cases. Thus, if a borrower omits to pay an
instalment on its due date, he is, by Rule 1, made
subject to a fine of one penny per week (8j percent,
per week, or <3420 per cent, per annum) for every
shilling left unpaid F the borrower gets one week
io arrears, he will be written to and charged one
shilling for each letter—another proof of the safe
and profitable character of the business conducted
by the A. L. D. and IT. Compaay when these rules
were framed, and continued by the Australian
Banking Cjinpany. Erch borrower is to be fur
niched with a pass-book (cost, one shilling), and if
he lores it another pass-book will be given to him
in exchange for another shilling. EVary bor-
rower changing his place of abode must give
no ice thereof to the manager within one week,
or else forfeit one shilling.
* * *
Such are some of the notable features of the
Australian Banking Compaay. And such are its
directors. Contrasting the business transacted
with the position of some of the men said to be
responsible for its control, it will be admitted that
one or the other ought to be changed. Mr. B R.
Wise ia amending the Insolvency laws —will the
Hon. Francis Abigail, Minister of Mines, under-
take to amend the laws relating to Banks of
Deposit ?
Parkesiana.
Premier Parkes's speech, in reply to M’Elhone,
was a remarkaole performance. It disarmed the
Opposition for the time, at least, and if it did not
carry the House with him, it obtained f-r him
a large amount of sympathy. No one knows
better than he how to play upon the weak feelings
of his audience, when to provoke a laugh, or
when to drop a tear. Nothing in its way could
be more suggestive of the dying gladiator than
his reference to his King LEAR-like position:
“As for me, it matters little. I am poor ; I am
old ; I stand, as it were, in the light of the grave.
I use the word advisedly, for I would rather die
to-night than live to morrow, if I could so choose.
Nothing is now more attractive to me the
repose of the grave ; it cannot long be far off/’ At
the same time it is perfectly certain that “ the
re pose of the grave ” is not by any means the one
thing that Sir Henry sighs for, and that he could
easily have mentioned a good many other things
which would be much more attractive to him
than a funeral procession—even to his own Dead-
house. #
The real hollownes3 of his position was pain-
fully evident when h 9 attempted to defend his
appointments to the Upper House. “In every
hatch of appointments for which I am responsible
there have been men representing different shades
of opinion ; but while I hold that doctrine, am I
to exclude the appointment of a worthy man,
17 erely because he has had some monetary rela-
tions with me ? And because he is appointed, is
t he infamous conclusion to be drawn that he has
been appointed for a monetary consideration?
That, in a community like ours, would destroy all
horourable relations between men. We could
rot exist, because there is scarcely any person of
c jnspicuous ability who would not be excluded, if
Eucb cons derations as these prevailed.” To test
the value of these pretty sentiments, we have
r tly to mention the names of four men whom
Parkhs appointed to the Legislative Council a
few months ago—Vickery, Watson, Pigott,
aTl fl —with each of whom he had, ac-
cording to his schedule, monetary relations at the
time they were appointed. But nobody had dis
covered th'-ir special claims to a seat in the Counc’l
np to that time, and then it was whispered by ma
1 nant tongues that their claims were at least
partly of a monetary description. The schedule
gives privin-facic a certain amount of colour to
t he rumour, but Sir Henry would have us believe
lha ■, in each of these cases, a m in of “ conspicuous
abili’y ” was appointed for purely public reasons,
and we are bound to accept his word de a pite the
u f jitunatene3S of ihe coincidence.
* * *
Then, again, as regards the appointment of his
co'leagues Clarke, Roberts. Abigail, and
Sutherland - the line of defence was exactly the
same, and with no better results. He admits that
he was indebted to each of these po'itical cyphers
raid shameless fiscal apos;a"e t when he distributed
his portfolio t to the interne surprise and disgust of
his o ra supporters; but he dispu es the ‘ ‘ mo etiry
consideration ” in each case, and insists upon the
« conspicuous ability ” of his meD. The air of
triumph with which he denied that he owed
Roberts £2500, and brought it down to only £2OO
was worthy of the immortal Mantalini. It did
not occur to him that the exact amount of the
debt was not a matter of any importance when
the honour of the country, as well as his own,
was involved in the question at issue. It is noc
ciough that CUesar’s wife should be virtue is—
gv e atould even refrain from driving to Coogee
with a strange man while her husband is a", the
o Tice. The charge made against Parkes. according
te M Elhone’s privileged statement, was one of
corruption in its worst form —that of carrying on
an infamous traffic in the highest offices of the
S ate. It is no defence to such a charge to say
fiat the actual amount of the alleged “ coaside a-
tion ” was only a tenth part of the amount sup-
pised. The plain admission that there waa in-
debtedness in all the cases referred to was enough
to involve him and his col eagues in suspicion.
• * *
The only thing in the nature of a parallel that
histo-y affords for such a case as thi3—and we are
free to confess that it is more suggestive than
exact-is Sir Francis Bacon’s lamentable
exhibition before the House of Lords. Anyone
wbo will turn to Mac aulav’s account of it in his
essay on Bacon will And some remarkable coia-
cd-nces, and coatras s, too, between the great
C ja'icel'or’s las’; dying tpeech and confession, and
the rhetorical bravado of the distinguished Premier
of N S W. “ Bacon addressed to the Peers a letter
which the Princeof Wal- s condescended to deliver,
la this artful pathetic c imposition, the Chincellor
ackaowledgid h's guilt in gua-ded and general
jeiiti ’ and while acknowledging, endeavoured te
pahia e it.’’ But finding that the Peers were not
amenable to the influence of soft soap, in the shape
cf pathetio reference to the repose of the grave,
poor Bacon was compelled to swallow his physio,
ard in another letter he admitted the truth of the
accusation against him and threw himself entirely
on the mercy of the judges. “ Upon advised con-
sideration of the chargee, descending Into my own
conscience, and calling my memory to account
as far as I am able, I do plainly and ingenuously
confess that I am guilty of corruption, and do re-
nounce all defence " We, of course, do not say
that Parkes makes a Baconian confession, or
that there is any real resemblance between their
cases or their offences. Sir Henry admits that
appearances a e presumably against him, but he
strenuously denies that it Is possible to draw
from his conduct any inference damaging to his
reputation as an honest politician.
* * *
There is eertainly a superficial parallel
to be found between these extraordinary cases
—the marked impartiality displayed by both
men under the m'st discour igi-'g condi-
tions Bacon d'd not sell justice al
though hs took money from suit us. His
victims found to their cost that money did not in-
flnence the even cours3 of justice in thi Court of
Chancery. So. too, it appears that the monetary
relations admitted to exist between Sir Henry
ard the men whom he has e 1 evaded to office at
different times, have never affected his views as
to the political fitness of thiogs, because he has
borrowed with the strictest impartiality on all
sides. With his latast breath he has to dus that
“in every bitch of appointments for which I am
responsible, there have been men recresanting
different shades of opinion ” and wbat he says is
true. Somey ears ago, when Ihe Kiama Ghost was an
exciting topic of discussion, Dalley —then at the
height of his oratorio il powers-created a great
deal of amusement by a speech in which he
quoted large'y from a schedule filed by Parkes
shortly before, in order to show how wonderfully
impartial he had been in his monetary relations
with politicians. Every shade of opinion was as
carefully represented in the list of creditors then
as It is now. There was not even a suspicion of
favouritism, and the fact reminded Dalley of a
passage in Macaulay, in which, describ'ng Marl-
borough’s pecuniary transactions, h i said that he
took money on all sides without any respect of
persons—whether it was a million francs from a
foreign prince, or twopence hilfpenny from a
British drummer-boy. There is, at least, one
thing to be said in his favour —and it sounds like
a le*t-handed complim?nt— Parkes has been so
impartial in the matter of appointments that not
even political gratitude has inflected the disbursal
of his patronage.
The magnanimity with which Sir Henry chal-
lenged the Opposition to “ come on ” and fight it
out as a party question, was quite on a par with
the lofty scorn with which he repudiated the idea
of appealing to a court of Justice for redress
against his libellers. “This infamous conclusion,”
said he, “is well-known by every one to be
utterly unfounded ” ; but nevertheless he would
have nothing more to do with jurymen. His ex-
perience of them in the Webb case was, no doubt,
so unsatisfactory that he was resolved to forswear
them for ever. Not even the command of the
Crown Law Officers would tempt him to take his
chance in the witness-box again. The Crown had
conducted the prosecution in the Webb case,
although he was not then a Minister of the
Crown ; but even with that powerful machinery
at his back, the result did not equal what we
may be permitted to hope were his anticipa-
tions. It was not in very good taste, by the way,
on the part of a Premier to state openly in Parlia-
ment that he had no confidence in the administra-
tion of justice, even in Crown prosecutions ; bur.
if Sir Henry distrusts jurors and judges, he
places imp’icit confidence in the discriminating
justice of a servile party vote. He dared the Op-
position to try conclusions with him on the spot,
knowing, of course, that he had a majority in a*>y
event, and that, whatever the collective opinion
of the House might be on the merits of the case,
it would not consent to break up the Government
for the purpose of deciding a question of libel or
no libel. The House has no means of investigat-
ing the truth or falsehood of alleged libels against
ar yof its members. Now, if we contrast Sir
Henry’s eagerness to submit the matter to a
party vote on the one hand, with his and
his Attorney-General’s resolute aversion to
a criminal trial on the other, we have
a means of gauging his own opinion as to the
chances o? a stand-up fight before a jury. Is not
that the kind of conclusion apt to be formed by
those of the public who, unlike Sir John Robert-
son, have had no means of personally satisfying
themselves of Premier Parkes’ unswerving
honesty and conscientiousness ?
* *
The conduct of the House in this matter is a
singular instance of its flexibility when a mere
question of principle is concerned- There is very
little room to doubt that Sic Hknry’s seat in the
Assembly became vacant, in terms of the C insti-
tution Act, the moment he signed the deed of
assignment to his ceditors ; and the very fi'st
s’ep that should have been taken —and which
certainly would have been taken in the case of a
private member—wa* to move a resolution de-
claring the scat to be vacant Then the Speaker's
writ for a new election at St. Leonards wou'd
have fol’owed, and it would have been left
to his constituents to re-elect him or not,
as they m’ght please. That was the pro-
per, straightforward, constitutional course to
adopt; but instead of that the House
quietly ignored tho Constitution Act in deference
to the Premier’s defeats position and the con-
venience of party. Tne members of the Opposi-
tion, no doubt, were, naturally enough, restrained
from taking any action at the time which might
have the app’arance of “jumping on a man when
he’s down ”; but sentimental considerations are
wholly out of place when the integrity of the Con-
s’ itutiou is concerned. The object of the enact-
ment that a member forfeits his seat on becoming
insolvent is to prevent the scandal which would
otherwise attach to his position ; for if one mem-
ber of the Legislature can retain his seat af cer de-
claring his insolvency, every other member may
do the same, and then we might, peradventure,
live to see a whole house full of jovial insolvents.
At the very least—and if only to save appearances
—the question whether the seat was vacated
should have been referred to the Committee of
Elections and Qualifications to determine form-
ally and judicially. Whatever their verdict might
have been, it would have served the very useful
purpose of showing that the law of Parliament is
no respecter of Under the circumstances
the matter will no doubt be brought before the
Supreme Court in the shapo of an action against
Sir Henry to re 30ver penalties for h’s haviog sat
and voted while insolvent.
[SirHENftY ParKES, having b.en informed that his seat
was to be challenged by resolution, his resigned, with a view
to enabling hi road-and-bridge consti'uency, St Leonards, i o
ratify his proceedings But it will be widely held that the
i sues involved, which not only affect Parkes but his
eolleagues and the whole Parliament ard Parliairen'ary
system of the country are of far too momentous a character
to be decided off-hand in a hole-and-corner way by a
“rushed" election. The question at issue iB not so much
whether Parkes shall be a member of Parliament as
whether he shall be Premier, and whether he and his Minis-
terial associates are fit to wield Governmental power ]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sava Parker Prom His Friends.
Sir Henry Parkes has (for the severalfch time)
gone up the spout—this time just prior to the
passing of his own Ministry's Bankruptcy Law
Amendment Bill. He is not, it is held, technically
speakiDg, ai insolvent, and consequently he is
not compelled to resign his seat in the N.S.W.
Assembly. As a consequence of this he was
enabled last week to expound his views on
honesty and a number of other matters to the
listening members of the N.S W. Assembly, and
in a speech—one-quarter whining apology, one-
quarter bravado, and the rest a mixture of wrath
and pathos about his own grey hairs—to state his
views on a number of subjects, among which the
contemptible virtue of paying 20s. in the £ was
tbe most conspicuous. “ Are there not pro-
curesses of innocent women for ihe basest pur-
poses,” he demanded, “who pay 20s in the £?
Are there not men who are guilty of the vilest
crimes under heaven who pay 20s. in the £?’
This kind of honesty, accordirg to Parkes, is a
very mean virtue indeed, although when money
is owing by the public to the Calico Jimmies, who
are the mainstay of his party, they regard it
as the greatest and noblest trait in the human
charac er. Many of Parkes’ supporters, how-
ever, prove by their lives that they are
of his way of thinking, and many more,
though they have paid 20s. in the £, have
not been over particular how that 20s. was
obtained. In this matter Attorney General Wise
evidently lacks the courage of Parkes’ opinions,
and when declining to take proceedings against
the papers which reflected so strongly on the
Premier’s debts and the manner in which they
were incurred, he took shelter behind the far-
reaching fortification of his own comprehensive
Ignorance. He “did not read the Sunday
Times,” and knew nothing of the allegations con-
tained in that paper regarding his chief, and he
did not propose to bring obscure country and
other editors into prominence by setting in motion
against them the cumbrous machinery of the
criminal law. Such a thing, according to this
young man fresh from Europe, had not been done
in New South Wales for many years, from whioh
we presume that Mr. Ringnose Wise, in the
plentitude of the things he doesn’t know, has
never learned how, some three or four
years ago, his predecessor in office, Attorney-
General Dailey, instituted criminal proceed-
ings against a printer named Webb, who had
levelled at one Henry Parkes the foulest charges
ever slung at a politician south of the lino. Pro-
bably he never read the evidence in that famous
case, and consequently he may not be aware that,
after two trials, Parkes’ counsel failed to con-
vince a jury of Parkes' countrymen that the ac-
cusations against him were so utterly devoid of
truth as to call far the immurement of Webb in a
dungeon. Still, Mr. Wise's conduct is perplexing.
If he is so utterly ignorant of the recent history
of the country he helps to govern, how is it
that he hesitates to enter upon his duty of in
the C mrt defending Parkes from the new
avalanche of charges levelled against him, and
considers it safer to leave the heartless old
man to defend himself by whining re'erences to
tbe grey hairs which Webb dragged so low! And
if he is aware of the sweet revenge which Dailey
wreaked on his political enemy by undertaking his
defence and thereby loading him with threefold
ignominy, why does he appeal to precedent as his
reason for leaving his chief in the lurch 1 If Mr.
Wise is really in ignorance of the evidence brought
forward in the case of Webb, it is time for him
either to refresh his memory regarding it—or else
to read it for the first time. His ignorance may
possibly furnish excuse for his past conduct in sit-
ting as Parkes' colleague, but nothing elss can,
and when his mental darkness has been enlight-
ened he must either abjure the unclean thing or
else identify himself with it and be judged by the
company he keeps. Also, he should commence a
painstaking study of the Sunday paper which he
has ro much neglected, and ask himself whether,
in view of the blasting statements which it con-
tinues to publish, and professes to support by
documentary evidence, there is not now an urgent
necessity for putting the ponderous engine of the
criminal law into immediate motion. So far, the
only step taken on behalf of Sir Henry Parkes has
been for the relief of his pocket; the relief of his com-
mercial reputation has been completely neglected.
A v’gorous effort has been initiated to raise a
subscription on behalf of the necessitous Hi Ham,
and his creditors are kindly lending a hand.
Whether enough will be ra'sed to pay 20 s. in the
£ to all those who have trusted Sir Henry from the
commencement of his career to the present d»y Is
more than doubtful, and considering Parkes's
lofty contempt for the dull, commonplace virtue
of solverscy—the b’and of an ignoble eoul, the
sordid sentiment whioh leads stupid, plodding
citizens to pay their debts in full—it is hardly
likely that the contiibutio is of the public will be
applied to any such purpose. The Prenr'ers
friends etill allege that their .white-headed fet'c'i
is a necessity ; the country, they assert, cannot
do without him, and therefore tbe bottomless hat
must be passed round on his behalf. It is a pity
that the long-drawn-out farce cannot be cut short.
If Parkes's party can prove that their leader is
inlispsnsable to the country it would be better
that his necessities should be met at once by a vote
of anything up to £lOO,OOO from the public
treasury. His creditors could then be paid in full
and induced to belch forth no more unfounded
libels, and the balance remaining after the per-
formance of this act of retrospective integrity
would enable the Premier to keep his place and
continue to save the oountry from plunging into
the aby«s, If Parkes is necessary to the country
the country ought to pay for him; if he is not
worth paying for let him go—in one act. If his
friends believe only od e-half of what they say
they will move for an immediate vote on their
leader’s behalf, and Australia will then be spared
the spectacle of a Premier, who retains his seat
simply through his good fortune in being a few
days ahead of his own Ministry’s Amend'ng
Insolvency Aot, accepting charity in hls
old age. New South Wales has suffered
disgrace enorgh without this final addition
to her sorrows at the hands of a man who
publ'dy is eo virtuous and self-sacrificing that he
objects to members of Parliament being paid for
their services out of the Consolidated Revenue.
♦
Young’s Ignominy.
Despite the exhibition of his own fathomless
ignorance and want of tact made by Speaker
Young in the N. S.W. Assembly the other day,
that gentleman is apparently resolved to adhere
to the position in which he has so successfully
h eld himself up to public derision. Probably, as it was
Parkes whotookhim away from the seclusion of hls
produoe-store to make him what he is, he regards
the white-headed Premier as the person ohiefly to
blame for the troubles whioh have ensued, and if so
he is about right. The great Ki-Hara hardly ever,
by any chance, makes a political appointment whioh
does not bear the outward semblance of a job, and
for selecting the halt, the lame, and the blind, and
pitching them into high office, he has no equal in
the Australian colonies. A lot of Speaker Young’s
life has been spent in counting eggs, and weighing
potatoes, and barneying over carrots, and he has
had many a hairbreadth escape from being sucked
in over a line of beans, and in his calmer moments
he can almost always tell oats from bran at the
very first go, and when it comes to raising a point
ef privilege with a Chinese bargainer, or rul-
ing an old woman out of order when she wants
to trade off a keg of ghastly grease as prime butter,
he has few equals; but these things don’taltogether
qualify a man to be Speaker of a Legislative As-
sembly. Neither does a long and varied experience
in boot-uppers make Abigail a Minister of Mines,
any more than an extended acquaintance with
long beers fits Roberts to be Postmaster-General,
yet Parkes precipitated both these men into the
yawning void of Ministerial aggravation, seem-
ingly for the express purpose that their profound
knowledge of beer and boots might be placed at
the disposal of the Cabinet. Parses' fatal knack
of appointing every accommodating Ignoramus to
high office is responsible for almost all the con-
spicuous failures who now draw big salaries from
the public purse in New South Wales, and Mr.
Young, who continues to hold the Speakership
after he has degenerated into the Aunc Sally of
the Lower House, probably consoles himself with
the reflection that he is no worse than the rest.
No doubt wnen Parkes drops on some one even
more stupid and more hopelessly incompetent
than he, Mr. Young will be sent back to the con-
genial gloom of the egg-repository, but till then
his billet appears to be pretty safe, and he will
continue to deliver his amazing decisions from
the chair, and lose himself in a fog of precedents
which have no more to do with the case under
discussion than the sale of donkey-feed has with
the spectrum analysis. The produce business
is no doubt an honest occupation, but it is not
elevating to the mental faculties. As a demo-
cratic paper The Bulletin in no sense objects to
any man occupying the chair of the Assembly
because he trades in eggs and bacon, but it objects to
Speaker Young because, for all practical purposes
the eggs and bacon might just as well be in the
c nairas he. N.B.—Orders for vegetables promptly
attended to.
Sydney Daily Telegraph is gradually taking
up the position of censor of political conduct, and
occasionally It waxes very wroth with politicians
whose career refuses to square with abstract poli-
tical principle. The other day the D.T. demanded
in a fierce philippic that the incompetent Speaker
Young should leave the chair. But Speaker
Young never buys a pig in a poke, and point-
blank slid “he wouldn’t.” A few days after-
wards, the same journal made a similar demand
off Attorney-General Wise, but Wise likewise de-
clined. At last the D.T. turns its bull's-eye on
Premier Parkes himself. For the length of one
column and a half it would seem that the hungry
cry for vacation would be heard—but it isn't
The D.T. admits that Sir Henry, as a matter of
principle, should resign, and it gets hold of this
point and accentuates it and rubs it in and rivets
it down, and then clinches it with burred washers,
and—finally gives it up. It would be better, says
the D T., that the principle should go to ultra-
marine-tinted oblivion than that the country
should lose Parkes' great services. But where
are we to draw the line ? Would it not be better
at once to Bay that great statesmen ere exempt
from the operation of the Decalogue ? Then comes
the question, “How great?” According to tnis,
principle in politics is a farce. Expediency is the
only political principle. For instance, what does
the alleged Freetrade of New South Wales
amount to ?
+
Hugh Miller, at the end of a vigorous life, blew
his brains out. The trouble was a theological
one. Genesis and geology wouldn't mix. Arguing
from analogy, a like conclusion might consistently
be expected for Editor Ward, of the Sydney D.T.
For months has he endeavoured to account for
Parkes’ erraticisms of conduct by rules de-
duced from conceptions of abstract administrative
rectitude, but it won’t do. Bring in the horse-
pistol and load it with a double-leaded leader—
there’s no other recourse — Parkes and Political
Purity will not amalgamate. Tne only wonder is
that the attempt has bee a persevered in for so
long. It argues a ghastly rectangularity of brain j
convolution in a man that he cannot see the
humour of plaiting out Premier Parkes’ life on a
political Bible.
The other day, in Victoria, a man was charged
with bigamy. He was living apart from his flut
wife. Hts second wife considered him “one of the
best of husbands,” and declined to bear evidence
against him. On her own showing the first wife
had refused a reconciliation on the grounds that
she had lost all faith in her husband. Yet the red-
tape desit e to punish for the transgression of a law
which has more real existence in the statute-book
than in the nature of things, sends or will even-
tually send, this man to gaol. It does not mend
the first wife’s fortunes, it certainly destroys the
second wife’s peaoe, hope, and happiness. To
what end ? Simply that a man should ba punished
for a questionable offence. Questionable, because
the Deity has approved, according to Christian
ministers, of polygamy. God cannot lie. What
He once stamps with his Divine approval He
stamps for all time. To assert otherwise is to say
God is mutable. This, from the Christian’s stand-
point, would be blasphemy. Says some one:
“ But times are changed, laws are to be observed
from motives of expsdiency.” We reply that no
expedient can be framed capable of putting aside
Divinely-appointed law. But, suppose the Sydney
D.T. is right, suppose it is better that a Premier
Bhould govern in the face of a broken principle on
the plea that the country suffers less from a trans-
gressed principle than it would from the rule of
the Opposition 1 Very good. Is not this case of
bigamy one of those cases in which the com-
munity would suffer less from an unpunished
offence, than, all the circumstances considered, from
a punished offence ? Mind you, we are not here
apologising for bigamy. The average workman
finds it quite hard enough to support one wife in
a country ruled by a shoddy ring. We are only
trying to be logical. We have proved that the
N.S.W. “ Freetrade Press ’’ should openly defend
polygamy.
Some additional contributions in pid o
the William Roy Fund will be acknowledgco
next issae of The Bulletin.
A J.P. in Western N S.W. recently
ascended the bench and granted himself 8
hawker's license. When remonstrated witb, *
sa d he had lived 20 years in the district, and
ought to know what was what. And so he did.
We never met a J.P, who didn’t know waat was
what, but we have never met one who knew what
was law,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Harbour Lights p. 15
Exhibition Building.— Roller Skating Rink .» ..
Royal Standard Theatre. Minstrelsy 14
Criterion Theatre.—“ Much Ado about Nothing ” „
Her Majesty's Theatre.— “Called Back" ,<®
Alhambra Music Hall.— Burlesque „
Opera House —Brighton „
Domain —Pain’s Fireworks „
It is difficult to reckon up the number of
things which have been thrown out of the
Wandering Jew” in order to turn it into the
drama which, under the title of “ All For Gold,”
Is now running prosperously at Sydney Gaiety.
The whole Society of Jesuits is shucked out into
space ; so is Adrienne, and her nigger lover, and
her venomous aunt—who afterwards went off her
old grey head, and the lunatic asylum, and the
cholera; also the dog, Goliah—the dull giant
whose eye was knocked out with a wooden shoe,
sundry Thugs, the crowd who mashed the head
of Father d’Aigrigney against the wall of the
Cathedral, a youth with snakes in his boots,
Herodias, and many more. Seme of them are no
great loss, but others are badly missed. Father
Roden, the flabby old priest who dined in a cellar
on carrots—the man with the long nails and the
broken teeth and the t mile— might at least have
been spared, for the frowsy Hebrew who has been
inserted in his stead is the weakest of all substi-
tutes, and moreover, in the absence of the priest,
the story goes pretty much to wreck. Fortun-
ately the Wandering Jew himself has not
been altogether wiped out. He is a very
subordinate character, but he is still
there the same old self-reliant, walking
Oanaanite and moveable Mutual Loan and Dis-
count Company, all rolled into the person of one
old man, who drags out his 1800 years of existence
as his own three-ball sign and bill-of-sale in the
wilderness. The acting, however, makes up for
many of the things that have been bounced out of
the drama. Mr. Dampier’s Dagobert Boudin is a
splendid delineation of the old soldier of the Em-
pire, and the two very small ladies—Misses
Phoebe Levy and Amy Davis—who play the parts
of Lily and Rose Simon, afford one of the best
specimens of childish acting we have ever wit-
nessed. Mr. Boothman is a fearfully and wonder-
fully inoffensive missionary in these days when
the itinerant apostle makes the niggers work 16
hours a day on his account and owns a three-
storey house with empty champagne bottles scat-
tered for two miles round. Also, Mr. Baker gives
a hideously exaggerated picture of Morok, the
lion-tamer, and can’t even ask a stranger to
pass the bread without putting ber-lud into his
tones. The rest of the cast is about up to the
average high-water mark.
We paused on our road towards old age
and the poor-house—or else the lunatic asylum—
to call in at Sydney Opera House where the long-
drawn-out and popular St. Maur is playing a new
oomedy called “ Brighton.” This piece reminds
us in places of “ The Professor” and in other
places of “ Pink Dominoes,” and in some more
places it reminds us of some other things, but the
total result is disappointing. The hero, Sackett,
is a man with a pair of legs that run in the
family, who is engaged simultaneously to three
girls and a widow. One of them has apa who
has been three times insolvent, one is the daughter
of old Yanderpump, and the widow is a thing of
joy whose hair accidentally got into his mouth in
a conservatory, and whose first husband married
her beoause he was taken by the beautiful way
she fell out of a trap along with her first lover.
The first lover is also taken by the way the hus-
band fell out of the world altogether, leaving all
his money behind him, and with his laßt accents he
warranted his weeping relict to be sound and free
from vice, and calculated to drive a man off his
head in double harness. The remaining girl to
whom Sackett is engaged has got a husband
already. To any ordinary man, who, like our-
selves, has struggled through the tempest of
youth, and in his sere and yellow leaf has hung
his scalp on a nail in a quiet hermitage and re-
solved to spend his old Bge in taking steps to
dodge the eternal roast, these would seem to be
quite sufficient, but Sackett goes on till there is a
girl to whom he is engaged undressing in every
bathing machine, and her hair is drifting into
every basin of soup in the city, and her feet get
into every blanc mange at every picnic for miles
around. But even if the author had slung in 1100
more girls and each one had worn her dress low
enough to show 1100 times more of her shoulders
than the whole crowd in the bill, he couldn’t make
“ Brighton ” a great success. Nature meant this
literary Zulu to earn a precarious living by hold-
ing up mahogany tables in his jaw in the presence
of a large and fashionable audience, or possibly
he might rise to fame by driving an umbrella into
the Emperor of Russia and then opening it among
his vitals, but his name will not be remembered
in comedy. The company deserves something a
little better than this playful kittenism in four
acts. Mr. St. Maur, as Robert Sackett, is light-
some, airy, and attractive as of old ; Mr. Palmer
is intensely amusing as the deaf old Vanderpump,
and Miss Florence Seymour is improving every
day. Misses Marie Witton and Leighford
are also nice in a modified sort of way, and if Mr.
Chanter were a little less stiff, and Mr. Harris not
quite bo stagey, and Mr. Whitford didn’t look
quite so much as if he wanted to fly and get out
of the whole affair, the company would be an
eminent success. We nearly forgot to mention
that the Guv'nor was present on the opening
night, and yawned quite a number of times.
Will some artist kindly draw a page at once on
Governor Carington’s artistically-concealed yawn ?
#* * *
At Her Majesty’s Theatre the beautiful
George Rignold has at last scored a genuine tri-
umph. As Paolo Macari, in “ Called Back,” he de-
serves to be remembered long after his “Henry V.”
shall have withered away in the great desert of
forgottenness, like the much-manured carrots
Which our Chinaman raised last spring. The slimy
conspirator has been badly treated of late by a
race of bounced curates, dustmen, and other
pirates, who have essayed him at different times,
and made of him an object that wasn’t fit
to be looked at, but on Saturday night Mr.
Rignold took him up gently and shook the files off
him, and transformed him back into the old,
unctuous, well-dressed, well-bred, half-defiant,
half-Heep-like ruffian that he used to be before he
Was smashed up by the coal-heavers of the stage.
Mr. Charles Holloway also woke up Dr. Ceneri from
a prolonged sleep, and set him to work again in
good style at planting spring-guns and man-traps
in the Czar’s hash. Miss Kate Bishop made a de-
cided hit as Pauline; and Mr. Brian Darley rose to
the level of the occasion a good part of the time in
the part of Gilbert Vaughan. The rest of the
time he didn’t rise so much. A few remarks
Which we intended making with regard to Mr.
Plumstead are held over in a sympathetic spirit, as
it is just possible he may be an orphan. We never
like to bear hard on orphans, the present scribe
himself having been fatherless ever since the old
man’s lamented exit. The rest of our enthusiasm
Is reserved for the scenerv, which was exquisite.
## # #
The Sydney Alhambra continues to look
up, and the present programme is as good as any
that have preceded it. Perhaps it is even a little
better—we really can't Bay. When we plant our
remains on the front seat we generally commence
drawing mental portraits of one or other of the
pretty girls on the stage till we begin to dream
about her, and then the door-keeper comes round
and asks us to kindly stop snoring, and we awake
with a yawn the size of a piano, and find the per-
formance just finishing.
#* # #
“ Much Ado about Nothing ” is announced
to succeed “ Ingomar ” on Wednesday, at Sydney
Criterion. Judging from the results cf last
season, it certainly ought to be a success. At the
same time, it must be remembered that we ought
to be a duke. And we aren’t one.
## # #
An alleged deputy of Messrs. Treseder
and Bartlett informs us that they have started
the sale of bouquets at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
and ladies who wish to present a floral tribute
will now be spared the labour of carting their o «rn
vegetables.
## # #
At Sydney Royal, Phil Beck absorbs a
large share of the glory in “ Harbour Lights.” He
plays the good young man from the sea with
much artistic ability, and Messrs. Vincent and
Herbert Flemming play the two evil land-sharks,
Nicholas and Frank Morland, and are hissed by
the gods because they do them too well to suit the
gallery morals. Dora Vane, as represented by
FASHIONABLE MODESTY.
BAREBACKED PARTY (from Porkview Towers , who sees Essie Jenyns in tights for the first
time): “O THE BAREFACED THING!”
Miss Isabel Morris, is rescued from the goody-
goodyism which generally characterises the emi-
nently pious girl of melodrama. The rest of the
characters have comparatively little to say, so
they may be permitted to perspire, which is
exactly what we are doing ourselves at present.
#* # *
We dropped iu, the other day, at Bondi
Aquarium. Ib is a pleasant spot on the edge of
the cool sea-waves, and surrounded by what w«s
once a great expanse of rock and sand and naked-
ness, but which is now being rapidly changed
into lawns and gardens. The main building is
devoted to the sardine, the catfish, the shrimp,
and other denizens of the depp; they are not
very numerous as yet, but the stock is fast in-
creasing, and some curious specimens have a place
in the menagerie. The placid sharks bask by
themselves in a pond on the hillside, waiting for
babies, twins, or other offerings from a grateful
public, and a little further on the seals also play a
lone hand. There is a water merry-go-round, and
a lot of other things, including a camera. This is
a sort of Infernal machine in a dark hub, and its
apeciality is that it casts reflected pictures on a
sheet by which the visitor can see at a glance all
that is going on within a quarter of a mile. What
we saw in that camera would have burst up seven
ha PPy homes, and turned seven wives, one mother-
la -law, two grandmothers, an uncle, and 22 chil-
d ren out into a cold, unsympathetic world. There-
-1 ore we will keep it dark.
## # #
A considerable' improvement has come
over the spirit of the dream at Sydney Royal
Standard. The Binging in the “ Melbourne
Cup” is excellent, thanks to the melody of
Percy Shannon, Willie Warner, and Miss
Annette Scasi, who is prettier than her name,
and has small feet and white teeth, and a smil
that is like a fall in the price of eggs. The aero
batic Trevor Brothers also seek for sudden deatl
at the Standard now by falling down from the
roof to the stage and then falling up again, ant
the burlesque, “ H.M. Mud Barge, North Shore,’
with Hosea Easton as Sweet Little Gutterpup, is
a reliable success. Also there is a baby clown—
but owing to the heat and the flies we must stop
and put our baking head under the spout.
## * *
The military concert in aid of the Roy
fund takes place at Sydney Exhibition Building
on the night of the 27th.
## # *
Grattan Riggs, we are sorry to hear, has
been ill at Mudgee.
W TT* W
Pain, the firework demon, will start again
in Sydney Domain to-night (Thursday).
#* # *
“Modern Wives” —a story of comic
quarrels and sweet reconciliations between those
whom the parson has joined together—is doing
good biz. at Melbourne Bijou. The comedy is
adapted from “ Le Bonheur Conjugal,” but the
adapter has so conscientiously laboured to put
away all superfluity of French naughtiness that
very little human nature remains, It represents
young married men and young married ladies as
plunging into a vortex of despair during a separa-
tion of three short weeks. The husbands become
lean and hollow-eyed in a vain struggle to enjoy
bachelor life—the wives And grass-widowhood in
the home of a wealthy pa to be a burden unen-
durable. This is greedily swallowed by maidens
who read poetry-books in bed, and it also thrills
the untutored hearts of their fellars. But such
as have tasted the sweets of matrimony and
“ fairly copped the flavour,” follow the workings
of this plot with one shut eye and a hollow-
chuckle. “ Modern Wives ” is pushed right along
by Brough and Boucicault's company and stage
manager. The men are aotive on their feet, and
the ladies throw heavenly light on ridiculous
situations. Mr. Brough and Miss Romer play the
heavy parents with an airy touch. Mr. Cecil
Ward (who was oppressively sentimental in
“ Held by the Enemy ”) is now free and frisky to
a pleasing degree, also other pleasing things about
this youDg straDgsr are his duck of a moustache
and his O I such lovely eyes. Mr. F. Laye does
all that’s required with neatness and disoatch ; so
does Miss Trevelyan. And Miss Boucicaulr,
called upon to show “ temper ” in its early SpriDg
aspects, goes one better than she has ever gone
hitherto. Small parts are waltzed through by
Mr. Boucicault, Miss Emma Temple, Miss Robina,
and others whom the gods love. Down to a boy in
buttons, and the furniture and fittings, everything
has a polish on it. Therefore, “Modern Wives”
will continue to point a misleading moral until
after that Cup for which so many “ morals ” have
been pointed that one can’t think what to back,
unless it s Tranter at a nice long pries. At the
first blush this doesn’t sound like a theatrioal
item, but now is the time for criticising the
sundry shows of performers on four legs.
## # #
•‘La Fille du Tambour Major ” brought
back prosperity to Melbourne Princess’ on Satur-
day. All in a hurry Mr. Harwood emerged from
seclusion to assume the honours and titles of the
Due de Della Volta. There is only one Duo, and
John Wallace is his Marquis Bambini. Sundry
Arthur Orton chaps have tried to pass themselves
off as those same noblemen in Europe, but the
miserable impostors are soon found oub, and the
world forgets them. Out here “ Tambour Major ’
is a popular opera supported by two actors who
can t sing worth a cent. When the music dries
up and the stage is left to that dear Due with his
meandering Bambini—then the opera reaches its
summit of success, From among the rest Mr.
Knight Aston stands out conspicuous for his
make-uo as the Major. Miss Colbourne Baber’s
cultivated voioe is wasted on the music of the
name part; and Miss .Aggie Kelton must grow
smaller by degrees and less beautiful before she
can be taken for a little drummer-boy. Supers
and scenery are liberally put on.
** * #
Italian Opera still draws good crowds to
Melbourne Royal when the spirit moves them,
bat more than one of the songsters have shown
symptoms of overwork. Signora Tagliavia’s vocal
tubes are a little rough inside j ust for the moment,
as was pro try evident in “Faust.” Miss Julia
Simmons made a first appearance as Siebel in this
opera, and succeeded well enough in a quiet way.
Mr. Simoneen hopes to work the oracle with
Ernani,” four nights this week.
#* * *
Coghill Brothers at one hall and “Silk
Stockings ” at another are filling long-felt wants
fuller than ever these Cup Carnival times, while
the pretty little Nugget has changed back from a
rkating rink into a full-blown home of mellow-
drammer. The Vivians are piling on four-act
agonies in respectable style, assisted by a com-
pany which includes some capable members of
the profeshun. Melody and light comedy prevail
at the larger Melbourne theatres, but the Nugget
keeps strictly to suicide and sudden death. You
can sup on horrors for a shilling at this estab-
lishment.
## # #
At Brisbane Royal, the “Mikado " retires
on Saturday to make way for “La Mascotte.”
Carrie Swam, who closed her season with a bar-
rowload of dollars, will soon be en route for
Sydney once more ; and Emelie Melville, who
reigns in her stead, is playing “ Masks and Faces ”
to pretty good audiences.
## # #
At Adelaide Royal, the “Mikado” is
drawing immense audiences, which goes to show
there is still some coin left in the righteous city.
Of the new faces appearing in the opera Messrs
Leumane andFrederici are decidedly acquisitions
while Mies Leonara Braham, as Yum-Yum has
fairly captivated the Adelaide dudes. The caste
all together, is a strong one. “ Pirates of Pen-
zance ” next.
## # #
‘ ‘ Pretty Mrs Armstrong ’’ (a Mel bourne girl
who was educated at the local Ladies’ Presbyterian
College), seems to have scored a great success in
Europe as an operatic vocalist. This fact is cal-
culated to make the Presbytery sit up and snort.
## * #
J. F. Sheridan (Widow O’Brien), E. 0.
Dunbar, Mark Kinghorne, and Miss May Living’
stone are playing at the Gaiety Tneatre, London
in Fun on the Bristol.”
*# * *
Alice May (Mrs. G. B. Allen), well-known
as a comic opera-singer in the colonies, died sud-
denly of brain-congestion, at St. Louis, U.S., last
August. She was 40 years old, and a native of
England.
Speaking of that cheeky little ballad, singer
who appeared under the name of Lily Langtry at
Bathurst, reminds us of another festive damsel
who toed the footlights in Melbourne as Miss
Burdett-Coutts. We reckon the Baroness is just
about old enough for the ballet.
Victorian Supreme Court has just nullified a con-
viction made by alleged “justices” at Huntly
against an engine-driver for “misconduct in bis
hired service,” said misconduct being that he left
after giving notice to the chief engineer instead of
to the manager. The court acted well. But it is
abominable that a law should exist by which a
labouring man is indictable like a criminal for rt •
linquishing his situation at any moment he thinks
fit. What is it but to say that the man is an ab-
sconding slave, and the mere property of his em-
ployer until the engagement is formally released ?
If ihe employer thinks fit to terminate the contract
without notice is he pursued with a “ conviction ”
and branded as an evil member of society ? On the
other band altogether 1 and the workman can con-
sider himself lucky if he is able even to maintain
a civil action for any notice-fee at all. It is high
time that this miserable, serf-making, money-
toadying provision should be expressly repealed,
Or at all events be fair, and if it is necessary to put
the “ man ” in gaol when he looks elsewhere for a
better bargain, do the same by the “master.’
If there is anything in the dream of “British
justice" it was surely shown in the trial of Mr.
O'Brien at Mitchelstown, when the counsel for
the defence set forth that a hostile Government
had deliberately suppressed the true version of
the alleged seditious speech, and the Court there-
upon, without fear or favour, adjourned for the
purpose of causing a proper investigation to be
held, and permitting due evidence to be obtained,
upon such an important point in the case.
At least one might possibly have imagined so.
What was really done was to eject the counsel for
the defence for speaking the truth in a non-formal
way, and to find the prisoner guilty in the absence
of aDy bkilled defender, whilst the Crown had a
professional champion all through. The Bench
throughout took up a position of antagonism to
Nationalists, and were profuse in their efforts to
arrest each and every of them throughout the
trial. And this is termed “impartial justice.”
Since the removal of the ad valorem duties, the
export and import trade of Sydney has begun to
boom. This fact wi 1 doubtless be mentioned
wicn feelings of pride by Treasurer Burns in the
’Ousa, and iu case he neglects to mention one of
the great causes of this sudden activity, we may
as well explain how it comes about. Many of
the Sydney merchants have a large stock of mer-
chandise on hand in unbrosen packages, on which
merchandise the ad valorem duties were levied,
and paid with much regret. These packages are
now being shipped off to Melbourne, and the
duties previously paid are refunded to
the happy owners under the name of
drawbacks—according to the ordinary cus-
tom In such cases—in order that the exporter
may not be placed at an unfair disadvan-
tage when selling in a foreign market. And then
the goods come back again in the same steamer
which carried them away (never having been
taken out of the ship), and are re-imported
under the blessings of a Freetrade tariff. By a
special arrangement, shipowners take the pack-
ages on their double journey at a rate of 14s. per
ton, and thus all parties are satisfied. Treasurer
Burns might as well take note of what Parkes's
supporters are about in this matter, or there wld
be another unaccountable shortage in his next
financial statement.


Pepper
and
Salt
As the N.S.W. Agent-General’s Office
contains not a single clerk who has ever been to
Australia, it is not to be wondered at that the
Emigration Information Office, which is a Govern-
ment institution in London founded to supply
prompt and reliable ignorance to persons about to
leave for the colonies, is doing a great work.
Already it has dumped down more new chums in
the God-forsaken parts of the earth than are ever
likely to get back again, and when anyone calls
to inquire about any place that the office knows
nothing about —and it knows nothing about more
places than any other institution ever heard of—
the inquirer is informed that it is in the interior
of Australia, or South Africa, or Canada, just as
the junior clerk happens to be fesling at the
moment. The last man whom the office took in
made his inquiries by letter, and was informed
that Victoria was the capital of South Australia,
and Melbourne the chief seaport of New South
Wales, and then by way of helping him to get
there, the Department shot him down in New
Zealand. The knowledge he had acquired carried
him as far as a humpy somewhere on the West
Coast, and then it left him suddenly, and he now
waits for further instructions, and spends his
spare time in reeling out complex and hideous
anathemas on the Emigration Information Office,
and on fine days he climbs a hill and stmins his
eyes across the heaving waters in the vain hope
that Melbourne (N.S.W,) may heave in sight on
the distant horizon. But it never does heave, and
he expects to die in his lonely exile.
* * *
Wong Chin Foo, a contributor to the
North American Review, implores us to come
to Confucius before it is too late, dear friends.
W, C. Foo has knocked about among the Board’s
anointed in his time, and he finds them no more
reliable than a time-payment clock. He thinks
that the modern Kerrist’an would sail his immortal
soul for an extra 2. 1 , per cent., and never does
good without wanting it charged up to Divine
Providence on his tombstone. All of which is a
lot too terrew and deserves prayerful considera-
tion. Let us give the leper his due
Hans Boschenheim, of the Tweed River,
knows little English, and when Frau Boschenheim
was taken ill the other night ‘ 1 mit von pain in
der shdomag,” her screams were awful. In her
first convulsion she bale Hans fly for medical a ! d,
and a few minutes later a German in mufti might
have been seen hanging on to the local chemist’s
bell and praying to that public servant to come
down. He wanted paia killer, soothing syrup,
rough-on-rats, corn-solve at, dog medicine, horse-
medicine, cat-mcdicine— anything that would re-
lieve his smitten frau, and it was with difficulty
the chemist prevented him grabbing a quart of
soap liniment and flying away to administer it
right off. “What’s the matter? 1 ’ he said,
peevishly; “What’s happened to you? Who’s
ill? Don’t go on like that, Keep steady, can’t
you ? Sainted Bismarck! will you tell me what
you want, or else clear?” “ I vants zonoething
for der shdomag; zomething zat will goep her
from doubling cop and yelling like von cow-cat
fool with von pig-head,” gasped Hans. “ Oh,
pain in the stomach, is it?” said the chemist,
quite calmly; “is the patient an adult ?” “No,
it is not von adult; it is von—she, vat-you-gall it
—von adultr'ess. Vill you give me de medicine
ka-vick ?”
* * *
Australia has something to boast about
that we didn’t know of. According to a speech
delivered by Dr. Verco at the Adelaide Medical
Congress this continent is ahead of Europe in the
matter of hydatids, and a mysterious disease
called ptygerium is all our own. Abo the com-
plaint called “ Barcoo rot” is an Australian spe-
ciality, to say nothing of “ fllaria,” so that we
have an opportunity to die in great agony in
various ways that the benighted European never
heard of. We can only hope that Australians
won’t begin to blow too much over these advan-
tages. Though this continent may be the home of
the priceless ptygerium, the colonists should still
preserve a modest demeanour, and might even
drop a tear of sympathy for the poor old mother
land which hasn’t any fllaria and is short of hyda-
tids. We can sympathise with her. We have
visited that weeping country, atd if we hadn’t
taken a hydatid along with us it is difficult to
desoribe how lonesome we would have felt. Ex-
cepting our own there wasn’t a reliable one within
miles of up.
* * *
When the gifted Smiles wrote his work on
“ Self Help,” he may have been abreast of his own
times, but his book doesn’t seem to suit the re-
quirements of the present day. We have looked
through it carefully and we dan find nothing in it
that applies to the case of a man-name at pre-
sent unknown—who visited a lonely house near
Melbourne, the other day, and helped himself to
a chest of drawers, a sofa, fender and fire-irons, a
watch-dog, 16 hens, a tortoiseshell cat, 101 b. of
mutton, 36 eggs, some .jewellery, a quantity of
plated cutlery, an “ Encyclopedia Britanniea,” a
clock, three white mice, a tame guinea pig,
sever, sh’Vs, a silk dress, a belltopper, two coats,
IJ, pairs of boots, a bronze figure with nothing on,
a vase, a desk, a workbox, an earthenware dog,
an easy chair, a steel-trap, and a blanc mange
which hadn’t yet got cold, and who also sat down
on a tart, and broke three windows, and emptied
about 501 b. of assorted food on the drawing-room
carpet and then jumped,on it. This is ab.ut ihe
most comprehensive case of self-help which has
come under cur notice for seme time.
• * #
Government analyst thinks that the
majority of Sydney brewers use genuine hop 3.
However —
Though genuine hops may be used for that stuff
’Tis better to booze at the pumps,
For those dreadful long beers, if imbibed long
enough,
Will soon produce genu ire "jumps."
Often we’ve watched with the deepest regret
A toper his tanglefoot swig—
He may “twig the hops,” but its wiser to hot
That the simpleton soon “ hops the twig.
For bland, picturesque innocence—the sort
of innocence that would go naked on all fours and
not be ashamed—commend us to a daisy of a
temperance apostle named Richardson, who was
one of the witnesses examined by the N.S.W.
Drink Commission. For 40 years that gentleman
JUSTICE TEMPERED BY SPORT.
FITZROY(MELB.) BENCH (to muscular person with barber's pole stockings and black eye) :
“YOU ARE CHARGED WITH BEING DRUNK AND DISORDERLY, AND
ASSAULTING THE POLICE. WHAT DO YOU PLEAD?”
MUSCULAR PERSON: “I PLEAD THAT I AM A FOOTBALLER, YOUR WORSHIP.”
(Prisoner instantly discharged without a stain on his character.)
has kept his soul pure and undeflled, but he has a
sort of general knowledge that there are females
in existence who —but we will let• him speak for
himself:—
“ Mr. Richardson has no personal knowledge of these ba-s,
but he believes numbeis of respectable citizens have been
shocked bv being decoyed into private tars presided over by
women: that he was ioformed that there were women
there with whom arrangements might have been made ; that
the dresses were unbeoomiDg, and that some of the girls sal
on the men’s knees and threw their arms round their necks.”
From this we are inclined to imagine that some-
one has been stufliog the poor old child, and has
led Richardson to stultify himself on mere
hearsay evidence. Consequently, we rise to ad-
monish the old teetotaller. There aren’t any such
women. If Mr. Richardson will, in pursuance of
his enquiries into the N.S.W. liq lor-system, step
into a private bar and ask a girl to sit on his knee
she will bellow for the police and glvehimin charge
as a rude man. and if he endeavours to assail her
affections with the tear of sensibility he will get
thrown out. A private bar is simply a place where
coffee and buns are distributed, and where the
chaplain of the establishment rises to make a few
Christian remarks every half hoair. Also the
eldest barmaid hears the customers say their cate-
chism. The fast that there are a lob of girls about
some of these places has led wicked teetotallers to
draw uncharibab’e inferences when they ought to
bed rawing the baby abou t in a peram' ml ator instead,
but the fact is that the girls are employed to prepare
illuminated Scripture texts, for which there is a
great demand. As for the assertion that the
dresses are unbecoming, we have no patience
with it. No doubt the sombre bonnets and veils
which manv of the young ladies assume as the
mark of their saeved calling are not picturesque,
but we have no sympathy with the wanton old
bald-head who persuaded Mr. Richardson
to lodge that complaint, simply because he
the baldhead had a morbid craving for
tights. If Mr. Richardson had only taken
the trouble to enquire a little further before
he started out to blast a noble enterprise his
name would not have stood so good a chance as it
does of being covered with the objurgations of
posterity. The bar is the one institution in the
great country of New South Wales which is
watched over and kept pure by the best
efforts of a paternal Government. Before a man
is admitted to it he has to undergo three years of
continuous study, and during the last twelve
months he is not allowed even to engage in
any other occupation lest he should become
demoralised, but is*require 1 to devote his time to
sublime and holy v sntamplatlon of the bar iteel
—also the barmaid. At the end of that time, if he
is found worthy, he is admitted, but not other-
wise. Yet, in the face of all these precautions,
Mr. Richardson would have us believe that men
are “decoyed” into the bar—in fact, that they
can rush in any time —and that when they
are in girls in sh'-rt petticoats sit on their
knees. With this astounding piece of absurdity
before us, we can oHy demand feebly if his mother
knows ho is out? We would like to ask Mr.
Richardson, in a quiet sirt of way, what his idea
of Heaven mav be. Does he think it is made of
stone and holds about two gallons, or doe 3 ho look
forward to spending an eternity amid Ely-ian
fields of perpetual verdure, pervaded by everlast-
ing girls in tights ? It looks like it, judging from
the way he goes on during his pilgrimage on
earth, and we can only urge him to repent before
it is too late, or the chances are that, instead of
his vision being realised, he will find himself in a
very tight place indeed.
* * *
One of the saddest stories we ever read is
that of the sea sickness which fell upon William
George Powell, of Seven Oaks, in the Macleay
district of N.S.W., and brought his honoured
name into the lee-scuppers. William George
traded in pickles and other edibles for about six
months, at the end of which time he fell in love
with a farmer's daughter, and ultimately he sold
out his buiiuess for £lO9O to her brother and her
pa. As he owed £l7OO, this bargain did not pre-
mise very well for his creditors, but, like a true
hero, he put the money in a cash-bex, and started
for Sydney by sea, with a view to paying what he
could. He did not get a draft became he possibly
had never heard of such a thing, and he d d not
give his wealth to the care of the captain, proba-
bly because he thought that gentleman might be
tempted to keep it and cover his crime by
heaving him into the briny deep. So he
sit on deck with his cash-box, and pre-
sently he found that he was going to heave
up hia whole im mortal soul. Bounding over
the deep didn't agree wish him ; there was
nothing of the sea-howe in his composition, and
he had a sensation of goneness in the region of the
epigastrium. But even while he weltered in agony
on the deck he continued to clutch his precious
box ; he wallowed with it in the trough of the
sea, and when he begged the stewardess with
tears in his eyes to throw him overboard, he still
had it, and he meant to sink with it down to the
darksome emerald caves where slimy things crawl
with long jointed legs over the ribs of sunken
ships anl the carpet of drowned men’s bones. Bat
at last the riot that was goiDg on in his inward-
ness became too much for him, and going to the
side he rested the box on the rail and threw up all
engagements and everything that made life worth
having in one prolonged yah - yaw—yaw - yah—ah
—aw ! When this act of public worship was over,
and he raised his head, the cash was missing. It
had gone down to join the leviathaD, the sea-ser-
pent, the winkle, and the whale. There wasn’t a
cent left for th 9 creditors, unless they were pre-
pared to dive and wrest the money from the crabs
of the great deep, and William George has gone
into bankruptcy.
• * *
The Evening Noose's conundrums are growing
stale and unprofitable, and the public, who used
to rush for the paper to find out why John Haynes
was like a yard of tripe, or something equally inter-
esting, now laß guidly let the question slide C onun •
drums can t go on for ever, and by the time the
Noose rises and explains that it is because no re-
spectable person would have it on the table, public
interest in the Escaped John and the tripe is worn
to the bone. Under these circumstances it is with
due diffidence that we rise to propound a conun-
drum of our own, and if no answer is forthcoming
we will not feel offsnled. It is base! on a little
event which happened a short whi e ago in a little
town far up the Darling, and the circumstances
are voiched for by a commercial traveller, an in-
surance agent, a faith-healer, and the oldest in-
habitant. There were two publicans in the town —
one was named Schultz and the other was Higgin-
botham —but in spite of this the supply of liquor
ran out last summer, and the inhabitants were left
to parch. After a while Higginbotham raised
five gallons of rum -as for Schultz he raised no-
thing at all—and for two solid months the
whole town rioted in liquor at Higginbotham’s
bar, and still that five gallons did not fail, Hig-
ginbotham failed himself, however, owing to land
speculations, and then he sold out his stock, con-
sisting of the remains of the rum, to Sohultz, and
for three months more the town riotsd at Schultz's
bir and the l’quor was s f ill there All this time •
no more had been received, but all the same when
Hans Boschiter started a pub. in a new township
five miles away, Schultz sold him 50 gallons of
rum, and then another month passed away, and 1
the public quenched its thirst with Schultz and
got raging drunk on the premises of Hans Bos-
chiter, and the keg continued to hold out. Bos-
chiter, meanwhile, had no liquor at all except
what he bought from Schultz, and Schultz had s
only some 12 gallons which he obtained from the
derelict Higginbotham, and Higginbotham started t
with five gallons, and Heaven only knows where
he got them originally, for wild horses would not
draw the secret from him. Consequently there is «
a conundrum somewhere in the story, and the ■
Evening Nooze reader, who is weary with
puzzling out why Parkes is like an Asiatic com-
positor driviog a cart-load of meat, may try to
solve it if he feels so inclined,
# * *
Somehow when a good man goes into •
politics his character always suffers. For instance
there was an election In Qheensland about a fort-
night ago, and a few days before the poll, as the
Government candidate was sitting peacefully in
his office thiokiog over things, a big, excited man a
came in with a stick behind him, and asked him
if he was the blossom who was running this show
as the friend of the working man ? He was. And i
“ wasn’t he the particular boojum who was going
to make this a white man’s country, and no more
darned coolies?” Just so. “Then what the
eternal thingammy have you got a splay-footed
old mud-head of a kanaka digging post-holes on i
jour property for?’ yelped the big elector,
“What’s your game, anyhow?” and he gesticu-
lated wildly with the stick, but the candidate
never turned a hair and ODly said in a bewildered i
sort of way, “ What ! Is there a kanaka digging
post-holes on my land ? ” and then he looked the <
visitor sadly in the eye and waited for an explana-
tion; “Thar is. A darn, baggie-backed, bungs-
kunkated son of an old Polynesian hen’s thar’ a
takin’ the bread out of the mouths of us white -
men. And when I arksed bina for whom he was i
agrafting the old cat-headed geyser sed you,” and t
the voter stopped with his mouth open to await a .
reply, while the candidate got up with his mouth
opeD, and feebly screamed out: “Me? Did the'
wretch say me?” “Yes, you! I sez, ‘ Who’re >
jou workin’ for, you old tobacconist’s image?’
and he sez, ‘F6’ Miss’r Ashe, the liar; Miss’r'
Ashe, that go to Parlyment bymeby, beat him
other fellow, you know. Miss'r Ashe, the liar, the
barristy, good fel'rMiss’x Ashe, he make it plenty,
good for kanaka gent bymeby !’ That’s what lie-
said, boss. Fack ! And you call yourself the friend!
of the working man and hire this stag-footed old
executioner to dig post-holes for you. Come out-
side till I leather you,” and the voter danced
round in a frenzy. But the candidate rose
lolemnly and extended one hand and put the other
in his bosom, and spoke in sad, impressive accents
thus : “ This,” he said,” is a low, scurvy trick of
the Opposition to ruin my election. It is too bad
altogether. The degraded mongrel shall be
ejected at once—if necessary with violence, and
the men who placed him to work on my property
will be called to account. My friend, calm your-
self.” And then the horny-handed elector re-
lented, and threw his knobby stick out of the
window, and cried: “ I thought you was straight.
I knowed you was. Gimme your paw again. I'll*
vote for you and so will all my pals,” and, after
shaking hands several times over, he fled down-
stairs and disappeared. And when he was gone
the candidate lay on the table and laughed till he
rolled off into the waste-paper-basket. But why
he did so was never explained, aid the hiring of
that kanaka is likely to remain a mystery till the
Day of Judgment.
The Down and Gumtree Jernil offers
prizes for tales which it eays are to be judged by
a committee of selectors. This Icoks as if sort of
sheep’s tale 3 were anticipated.
Writing on oleomargarine, the Argus
says, “We are prepared freely to forgive all its
hypocrisy if It would only achieve something to
revive our drooping tallow-trade ! ’ What an
avowal of Conservative—can we rightly say
‘' principle ” ?
The Anglo-Saxon prospscting claim at
Limestone, 40 miles from May town (Q.), has ;
just te n sold in England for £20,000 through Jack
Madden, of Thomas Madden, Cookt ran and Port
Douglas. A recent crushing of two tors gave 170 oz,
gold, £3 10s. per ounce.
A highly-respeetable citizen and ex-banlc-
manager met a former western client, now a
commercial traveller, and, button-holing him,,
whispered that he “could lay his hand on £4o'
of his (the commercial’s) money, but wanted a.
slight com. oc £lO to reveal the whereabouts of
said cash.” The startled bagman, who was nofc
such a fool as he looked, asked for an hour to
consider the proposal. After racking h's brains
for 50 minutes, an inspiration struck him—he
remembered his friend’s former position as bank-
manager ; went to (hat bank, enquired, and found
a balance of £42 to his credit, which had been
there three years unknown to him The cash was
immediately drawn, the black mailer despoiled of
his £lO commish , and now it s very dangerous
to ask this highly-respected citizen whether he
can “ put you on to making £4O for a slight con-
sideration !’’
The Earth, a London m mthly paper
whose mission i a to prove that this vale of tears is
flat and not round, is now almost the only sur-
viving souvenir of all the tommy-rot that has dis-
figured this year of Jubilee, For our own part,
we think the Earth is quite an unnecessary pub-
lication, as the Jubilee, the Noose, the D.T,, the
Imperial Federation movement, Pastor Jefferis,
and the escaped Ayoub Khan ore in themselves
quite sufficient proof that the earth is flat, and is
tenanted by flats as well. Besides, these old in
spired saints—Basi', Ambrose, Chrysostom, and
Augustine—all declared it to be flat, and they
ought to know, and wbat is more, we were once
acquainted with a man who crawled to the edge
and looked over. As far as we are concerned,
however, the shapa of the earth doesn’t matter
much, provided we can hang on and make a
decent living, and so far we have managed that
much, with an occasional lift from our inspired
un:le.
Chin Foo, although your ways are dark,
Like all your nasty nation,
’Tis plain (from more than one remark)
You’ve grasped the situation ;
Full often have we cursed your race—
’Twill only manly be then,
To own you’re free of one disgrace
In still remaining heathen.
“ Kerristian” folk, we must admit,
Have merely these ambitions —
By hook or crook to “ get a bit ”
And die in good positions ;
And if they give away a pound
Or two upon this planet,
The facts they want (when underground)
Engraved upon their granite.
Though John’s an evil-smelling cuss
(Which rather sounds like libel)
He might be made a little wuss
By taking up the Bible
And acting like believers do ;
So, therefore, we agree then
You show your common sense. Chin Foo,
In still remaining heathen.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Penny Wise and pound foolish.
The funds of the Primrose Ltague go to
pay the election expenses of the Tory boy-aristo-
crats.
M‘Eihone, M.L.A , legislated the other
night in the N.S.W. Assembly with orly one
sock on.
The Salisbury Government are organising
an “ Intelligence ” Department. This will supply
a long-felt Tory want.
Parkes will now be able to proceed in an
absolutely disinterested spirit with his Insolvency
and Property Tax Bills.
One of the most important Freetrade in-
dustries in N.S.W. is the manufacture of Free-
trade articles for the country Press.
Secretary Sutherland pictures Parkes as a
slave to office. Not very far wrong. Sir ’Enry is
the sort of slave who loves to hug his chains.
AN.Z. paper wonders how any decent
man can be found to follow Parkes. The explana-
tion is that Parkes won’t follow any decent man.
“ Is Parkes going to support the Austra-
lian South Pole expedition 2” It is quite plain he
doesn’t intend supporting a Sydney (South) poll
expedition.
The Bulletin repeats that there is only
one way to end the political difficulties of New
South Wales. Shave Premier Parkes, and the
rest is easy.
The business of the late Alderman James
Carey has fallen into able hands. The latest Irish
informer “’ is a convicted thief, an army-deserter,
and a drunkard.”
Chamberlain proposes to promote the
cause of Liberal Unionism in Ulster. The latest
cablegram is that his tour is likely to create a
corner in sticking-plaster.
Close on a million workmen are out of
employment in Freetrade Britain. In other words,
England is supporting a million of foreign work-
men in preference to her own.
A Thames (N.Z.) elector nominated a
parliamentary candidate on the ground that “ He
was a gentleman who had qualities above the
human and the average kind.
Five million more letters are posted annu-
ally in N S.W. than in Victoria. This is clearly
due to the persistent way in which the Free-
traders are dunned for their little accounts,
The latest jibe at the proposal to bestow
free railway passes on retired members of the
NSW Legislature is that some of the hon.
gentlemen’s parents enjoyed a similar privilege.
Attorney-General Wise says he never
reads the Sydney Sunday Times. Now we come
to think of it, it would never do for a member of
the holy Parkes Ministry to work hard on the
Sawbath.
Says the Bundaberg Star (Q):—“ The
very first principle of democracy is co-operation ;
and this cannot exist between the feather-brained
delegate of an European monarch and the sturdy
toilers of this embryo Republic.”
A N S.W. up-conntry paper says that
Mud J. Haynes, M.P , is the “ Apostle of the
Interior —when he has a dish of ham and eggs be-
fore him.” We don’t wonder at this, for is he not
a disciple of the great Hi-Ham 2
The clients of the Prudential Life Assur-
ance Company, whom Parkes promised should be
paid in fall, are joyfully looking forward to a
dividend out of the Cilico- Jemmy-promoted sub-
scription for the Kiama Ghost man.
Griffiths’ decentralisation will never do in
Queensland. If there’s half a million to the bad
with the wholesale plundering cf Northern re-
venues, how much deficit would there be with
only the Southern duties to play with ?
Speaker Young would, no doubt, be de-
lighted to give Mr. Tom Garrett half his salary if
he’d only let him alone. T. G. always riees osten-
sibly to support the Speaker, but the Chair fancies
it doesn’t want so much out-door relief.
“I propose to allow myself to be nomi-
nated,” said M. H. Davies, when he was dying to
be made Speaker of the Victorian Assembly. In
other words, M.H.D. might have said, “ I intend,
sir, to allow myself to draw £l5OO a year and to
receive a K,C.M.G.-ship.”
In a recent letter, so says the Evening
News, Sir Henry Parkes described the Parlia-
ment of N.S.W., with doubtless a keen eye to the
mental capacity of his own colleagues, as a num-
ber of babies.” Apropos, most of the babies in
Sydney seem to be for sale.
An indignant Melbourne elector proposes
that members of Parliament should be compelled
to travel in special railway carriages marked
“ For deadheads only.” Respectable people would
in this way avoid the risk which attaches to as-
sociating with bad company.
Said Premier Parkes the other night
“ i represent a great and living principle—
(Ministerial cheers)—a principle which is making
this colony the leader of the Australia?.” (Cheers.)
To what principle did the speaker allude 2 To the
principle of chronic bankruptcy 2
The other day, Brother W. F. Schey,
M.L.A., addressing a suburban L.O.L , congratu-
lated them on the increased number of Orange-
men in the N.S.W. Parliament. Now we want
Brother Habigle to return thanks for the increase
in the loan-office and rabbit-peat.
The system of sitting only three instead of
four days in the N.S.W. Assembly has proved so
blessed a boon to the public tbat they are already
clamouring for an extension of it —the boon, not
the time. It might be well to try two days ere
long, and some are of opinion that one day per
week would b 8 quite enough until after next
general election.
Edward Wilmot Pechey lifted himself up
and orated, at the opening of Pittsworth (Q)
railway, on the uselessness of keeping the public
lands for fu.ure generations to revel on. A local
scribe, who heard him, remarks that “ he kept on
addressing posterity until soma one, fearing that
ho was going to keep on until bis audience arrived,
got him to shut down the valve.”
Major Atkinson, the head of the NZ.
Administration, is a Protectionist. The Protec-
tionists carried 53 seats and tfce Freetraders 31,
the remaining 11 members being doubtful. This
is what the Sydney Freetrade Press exul an’ ly
deicrites as a great Freetrade victory.
During 1880 eight Engl eh trades’ unions
—the engineers, carpenters and joiners, steam-
engine-makers, the irenfoueders, th« boiler-
makers, the pattern-makers, the blacksmiths, and
the London compositors—expended £213.937 to
keep their unemployed from starvation.
M‘Guire, Major Atkinson’s opponent for
the Egmont (N.Z) electorate, declared at his
nomination that when he went to church the
priest who officiated, and whose face “was only
fit to win a prize at a dog-show,” denounced him,
and told the people not to vote lor him.
Now that it is quite the thing to throw
water on that drowned social rat, Colonel Hughes-
Halletf, M.P,, it is cabled that the clergymen of
his electorate have petitioned him to resign his
feat. That’s just the way. Trust the gentle
shepherd to kick a man when he most needs
mercy.
Echo declares that Parkes has
never known the moment when some fcratch
party cf Protectionists, partly recruited from his
own side of the House, might not trip him up.
There is, however, no danger from this source,
Parkes will avert it by turning around snd trip-
ping up Freetrade.
Mud J. Haynes is of opinion that one-half
the Opposition, “if they were where they ought
to be, would be in the dock.” But then, men are
not all where they ought to be ; if they were,
some members would be in the bath-tub at least
once a month. The compositor will kindly put
this item under the heading “ Personal.”
Sir Julius Yogel let loose a little political
anecdote when addressing the Wellington elec-
tors. He said that on one occasion, when Major
Atkinson and Mr. John Bryce were travelling
together, the former received a telegram in
cypher from their mutual colleague Sir John
Hall The Major had left the key to his cypher
at home beside his corkscrew and other garden
THAT MEMORANDUM.
“As an example of special pleading, the memorandum submitted by Attorney-
General Wise to the N.S.W. Elections and Qualifications Committee would maintain
the reputation of a much older member of the profession, and should materially contri-
bute towards advancing that of a young barrister.”— E. News
tools, and he was compelled to request Mr, Bryce
to translate the despatch. Bryce did so, end the
message was : “Let me know what you are doing.
Look after Bryce. He is not to be trusted.”
Iho Queensland sugar industry is getting
into rather a desperate state. What with Conti-
nental competition, Kanaka commissions, perpe-
tual official harassment, and the fall in the price
of sugar, Separation must come up there, and as a
Freetrade colony, the non-manufacturing North
can get a good price for its sugar at Melbourne.
Stout’s defeat for Dunedin East, by a
majority of 29, wa3 due to the opposition of the
local press, and the religious element-strongly
Presbyterian—combined with his connection with
Sir Julius Vogel anl his acceptance of a .title. It
is rumoured that he intends to enter into partner-
ship with a we 1-known legal firm in Melbourne.
The increasing demand for English capital
In connection with Australian ventures has its
had side for certain. Of course those who invest
the money will presently demand the control of it
to a more p ofitable expenditure by employing
their own and similar countries’ pauper labour.
Then, like Egypt the betrayed, and Ireland the
enslaved, Austral a may have her eyes opened.
The funniest sight seen in the N.S.W.
Assembly during Parkes’ apology for his latest in-
solvency was that of Alfred Allen, M.P., whose
misfortune it is that he looks like a diminutive
red headed caricature of the man with the mane.
Alfred was deeply affected at the well-calculated
snivelling of his master and fellow-poet, and gave
vent to his grief in tears as b’g as horse beans.
Sir Psalmyell Griffith, the Queensland
Premier, following in the wake of the great
Hi-Ham of N S W., has interdicted the holding of
sacred and classical concerts on Sunday evenings.
Psalmyell being the son of a parson, and a
“• local” himself, naturally objects to any compe-
tition with the pulpit, even in t lie form of rational
entertainment which thj people are prepared to
pay for.
Not content with such titles as Knights,
Dames, and Companions, the Primrose League
soars into such high falutiu’ names as “'Knight
Commanders of the Grand Star,” “ Marshal's of
the Grand Star,” &c. The new decorations will
not surprise the Sydney League, one of whose
members, # at least, is already a Knight of the
Three Star.
In Henry George’s paper appears this
let ter :
'• I am a barber and by persistently scraping faces I have
scraped together enough money to build a little house—not
one big enough to hold tenants, but with just room enough
fur myself When 1 found r had money enough to build, a
house, I began to look for some mud to build it on, ant 1
went to a man for whom the Lord made lots of mud, but he
wanted such a price that 1 would have to mortgage my labour
for years to come. So I wdl have 1i wait until some fellow
patents seme kind of a grappling hook by which I c »n haDg
rny house to the sky, hut I am afraid the landowner under
neath will demand space or air ren\ claiming that I shut off
the sun and rain. In this case 111 have to wait till it rains
titles, and then perhaps I can grab one.”
Parkes may well exclaim ‘ ‘ Save me from
my friends,” many of whom, out of the fulness of
their sympathy, are crediting him with deeds
which he has never performed. The stale lie
about his being the founder of the existing N.S.W.
Education Act—the principles of which he warmly
denounced less than a month before the introduc-
tion of' the measure—is again put into circulation
through the medium of the daily papers. People
are not to be bamboozled by such miereprosenta
tions, and the publication of them must have a
tendency to defeat the object which prompts it.
Mr. Oarruthers, M.P. for Canterbury
(N.S,W.) has got a big leg in for the £25,000 rabbit-
extermination prizes. His specific, confidentially
mentioned to a couple of dozen of his supporters
in “ public meeting ” at Ashfield assembled, is to
“ settle 600 or 700 men upon every square mile of
tin infested country.” There is billions of solid
sense in the suggestion. Not only would his pl9 n
kill the rabbits, but it would raise the population
of the colony to about 980,000 000. The advantage
of this course would he obvious. N.S W. would
then be about twice as densely populated as Eng-
land or Belgium, and these teeming patriots of foe
back block could, by changing their diet, easily
manage to exist. They would have to eat one
another, that’s all.
The Wh'ffler, a N,Z. humourist, has been
addressing the Blenheim electors. At one of his
meetings he requested those who had bought a
supply of sick eggs to remember that he was not
yet a sitting member. On being saluted with a
dead cat he said the elector who had attacked
him in such a pussinal way must be an unfeline
brute and full of pur-ity and spite. Could any of
the audience inform him why that dead Thomas
resembled Ba on Tennyson ? (Cries of “Yes!”
“No?” “We give it up,” &e.) Well, he would
tell them. It was because it had lost its mews.
At this stage the audience had to sit down and go
to sleep. When .he awoke the lights were out,
and only the dead cat remained to hear the rest
of the speech.
As a closer of boot-uppers Frawncis
Habigle is justly famous, but as a mining Minis-
ter he is a remarkably unobtrusive potato indeed.
As an example of how much he doesn't know on
this subject, he recently refused the application
of Mr. J. H. Harris, an old Western miner, for a
share of the prospecting vote, on the ground that
“ the area he proposed to prospect was too
limited.” It was only 150 square miles in all, but
Abigail, in the depth of his mineralogioal research,
fancies that 20 square miles a week is about the
area wlitch an energetic digger should cover.
Perhaps Eome day, when an ex-miner is in power
and Abigail wants a subsidy in his boot trade, it
will be refused on the ground that he can’t make
150,000 pairs a day smgle handed, and then he
may begin to rea'iso the size of the joke which he
has perpetrated,
The decision of the N.S.W. Elections and
Qualifications Committee in the case of Attorney-
General Wise is not to be wondered at. The com-
mittee are directed by law to act according to
“good conscience, apart from technicalities and
legal quibbles ” The majority of the m- mbers of
the committee being lawyers, their “ good con-
science” necessarily directed them to the verdict
that a lawyer's fee is not an “ emolument,” and
that the acceptance of it ii not an “ agreement"
in the ordinary or legal acceptation of the term.
The absurdity of this decision is shown by Mr.
Salomon’s case. He lias a general retainer of
£2OOO n year from the Crown. The acceptance or
this binds him morally, if not, legally, not to ap-
pear against the Crown. Could there be a more
distinct “ agreement 2 ’ The clear duty of parlia-
ment is to see that the arrogant pretensions of the
wig-andgown gentry are not upheld, and to pass
a Jaw abolishing the assumed privileges under
which barristers am at liberty not only to break
faith with private individuals, but also to wallow
unmolested in the mire of political crookedness.
THE AMBULANCE—A THOUGHT IN THE
SADDLE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I have been in many a fast-run race,
And have seen white splinters fly
From the panels struck—when each rider’s face
Is set, and his lips are dry ;
When the wind that blows from the heathery
heights
Comes not swifter nor more keen
Than the thundering hoofs of a field that fights
Where the stirrups flash and gleam—
When a man must ride with a head and nerve
That is cool and brave and stout,
As the gamest are apt to stop or swerve
If the jockey be in doubt,
For those who are horsemen know right well
That in spite of brag and talk,
When a fence is in front a horse can tell
If the rider means to baulk.
I know what it is, in a race half-run,
To feel the pull grow slack,
And to have to bustle a horse that’s done
At a panel too sound to crack—
When the foam that flies from his jaded lips
Is stainiDg the silk with wet,
And his gallant blood each spur-head tips
With the hot and crimson sweat.
I've known in my time most that men can feel
Oa the flat, or over sticks,
When the whip-stung favourites sway and reel
Where the colours flash and mix.
But I tell you straight, though I’ve had my share
Of falls where death may be found,
For limb or life I had ne’er a care,
’Till my erffin raced me round.
’Twas my luck to ride the day that they first
Brought out the ghastly thing,
And I, as it happened, was up on the worst
Of mounts —on a brute named Sting,
A horse that I felt would give me a fall
Were the pace made slow or fast,
And who shied like the deuce at its dead white pall
As the waggon lumbered past.
To stand in the course like a grim, grey ghost,
Or a lean-limbed bird of prey,
Watching its victims who stood at the post—
Waiting to hear “ They’re away !”
The flag went down, and I dashed to the front—
’Twas the only way he’d race,
For ’though he was slow at the heel of a hunt,
At first he’d a field outpace.
He went at his fence like one at a brook,
Altho’ it was stiff and sound ;
As he struck fore and aft, I chanced to look—
The waggon was rolling round.
God knows I had plenty to think of and do—
Sitting, and keeping him straight;
But, spite of myself, forever in view
Glittered the wheels of my fate.
So round and round, in a course of its own,
It waited and watched its prey—
So far, though the field had smaller grown,
Each jook had got clean away—
And, as we raced for the fence at the bend—
(The ambulance racing too),
I felt that with me it was “ bellows to mend,”
And somehow I fancied it knew.
Swaying and hungry it hurried across,
As though someone’s die was cast,
And so it was, for my mad-headed horse
“ Turned turtle” with me at last.
It carried me in, at least so they say,
This waggon ghastly and weird,
That had haunted a heart with dread that day,.
Which little before had feared.
Men boast of meeting and talking with death,
’Mid scenes of carnage and strife,
When their blood is up, and the battle’s breath
Has fired the calm of their life.
But I ask their best, could any man face
Grim doom under aspect worse,
Than when riding a three-mile steeplechase
In company with his hearse i
KENNETH MACKAY.


THE MARTYR TREE.*
Right through its heart the fire's red teeth j
Hal gnaw’d and torn their cinderous way ;
The sap still mounted from beneath,
Its tortured ribs to bind and stay.
And there the granl old tree remains,
In garniture of glistening leave 3,
Rejoicing in the winds and rains ;
But o’er the past it never grieves.
And still it rears its martyr fora,
And still it wears its crown of green,
And still it braves the thunder-storm,
Though through its heart the fire has been.
*Verses [vide " The Beauteous Terrorist and other Poems ”
—Oteo. Robertson and 00., 1885) believed to have been
written by Parses, who, if the author, was at the lime, as
usual, evidently thinking of himself. The stanzas are “ad-
dressed to a turpentine-tree on the Blue Mountains. The
bash-fires had burnt a hole through its giant trunk large
enough to admit fthe passage of a man; yet it was flourish-
ing in growth and oliage.”
The Martyr Tree.


a7 Ze>- 'firs : ty~~6,m ne
jf /a s s c‘/o 9 ia/f £g<>> / ’
I Odd '&] J, I
i J
€>47 —
\ 9 t *&bvT' , e
//V$ •
/
1 - 7t~
/«cf ' "
(t u
(/'on,* > <z° 4,
'Y* $
N\
r f/rj /y ? a y
Cl yet cfr&CiryS of
"Qoo/ 'S/ Jou/y '6 A'//
/ * 0/or/ Fn? /ur/p//p ‘ /pS/c/& £
cDoo cZer- £ou) Jere <£>cc7er// *?'/
O / o'/ /e«r /
‘/er.*
/ >, **» $ ** « *
( l/UQ- cl ra.il) cl t'ct/ ovo*-
7tjQ_ t+l9lll9ip*faun of-
fn
S* /// Y 0r 9 , 93> ■ / * ?]>*>-*- s
'TcTyAr ftj /tj ©_ Set. c4:yc* rcf r//«Z
Qop'ftcip £>u/g/- . // S poil>. f
" 'cs orroas CriKp of SorrZZ.
f-or Sf'f/f .
//e 7/> 7^/re, f /7c* 7er
/yore, £o7&/v/A;/ /'
Vou /£./ - 7sa f/S //
X **o<*#f r-
Why the Brewers Salt the Beer.


Society
DELBECK
REIMS
The leading topic of conversation in
Sydney during the past week or two has been the
private affairs of Sir Henry Parkes. The N.S W.
Orange Lodges, See., will now have an opportunity
of showing their regard in more than mere words
for their great protector, Sir ’Enry, by voting some
of their accumulated “yellow boys” to the testi-
monial being got up for the Hi Ham. Popular
applause goes a long way, certainly, but if you
want to test a man’s popularity, j ust get up a money
testimonial to him and judge by the result, this
reminds us that many years ago, when the present
generation were in long clothes, a money testi-
monial was got up for one Henry Parkes, a plain
man who owned a newspaper called the Ilmi ire.
In a far Western town one high-minded gentle-
man —still living • collected £lOOO, and handed it
over on condition that the plain Mr. Parkes
should retire from politics, and attend to his
urgent private affairs. Mr. Parkes accepted the
coin in his own plain and prosaic way, but seems
only to have formally retired from politics on the
occasion—whether to the country’s loss or not
we are not prepared to say. The late Henry
Rotton, M.L.A., and John Dargin (still m the
flesh) contributed one hundred pounds each to-
wards this particular thou !
* * *
Poor Lady Brassey ! She was a busy,
pushing woman, who contrived to make a little
bit of brain go a long way. She toured round the
world in a yacht that was a cheap show at two-
and-six a visit, and got her name printed on the
title-pages of books which were written by Lord-
knows-who. But her work is only just beginning.
Away above the little stars that sparkle in the
'blue dome of heaven, we think we see Lady
Brassey opening anew diary on “A Voyage in
Search of my Grandmother”—that mysterious an-
cestor whose picture (by Lawrence) provided the
subject for Miss Brassey’s costume at Lady Loch s
Jubilee balk The Bulletin jibbed at that there
old lady at the time. Truth has since confirmed
our suspicions touching her identity. And when
Rady B. has found a grandmother sufficiently like
the picture (by Lawrence) to swear by, she must
devote the rest of eternity to a search for the He
Bressis who came over with the Conqueror, and
planted a family tree for Lord Tom Brassey to sit
under. It’s pretty easy to buy along line of an-
cestors in this world, but when you have to col
lect ’em all together in the next, then comes
trouble. *
Melbourne Age, deploring the fact that
Australian artists receive scant encouragement,
says of colonial snobocrats “ These pay lavishly
for decorating their wives and homes, but very-
few indeed will invest in original paintings.
This sentence is ambiguous. Is a decorated wife
only a replica ? *
* *
Mayor Cain has decided not to accept a
return ball from the Melbourne citizens. He is
perhaps afraid that the people whom he, the other
night, regaled on stale pastry and lemonade, might
retur the compliment with heavy interest.
* * *
' When that good young man, Snoggins, the
shining light of the Social Purities and Y. M C. A. s>,
lit upon his wick el old father going around with a
voung lady who was not his wife to any peculiarly
alarming degree, he wrote to him that bis sms
were more in number than the hairs of his head.
The old man smiled sadly, and replied by a post-
card reminding his correspondent that early
piety had made him bald.
* *
It seoms queer, on the face of it, that the
late Hon. Billy Miles (Q ) who died worth £60,000,
should have left about 27 times as much to of
his daughters (and her children) as to the other,
whilst only £3OOO were devised to his widow.
* * *
The graceful curveting, the gcimbctdss, the
caracoling and circumfluent pircueUe/i of the agile
Sydney telegraph miesserger astride his red ho ~
snorting steed, when a group cf pretty girls
is standing at the nearest adjacent street-corner,
with its aggregate of tender feminine heart all in
a flutter of sympathetic excitement, are weird
and wonderful things to contemplate. When the
horse capers and indulges in chamois-spasms,
there are women somewhere in the immediate
vicinity. Mount young Mercury Morse on a
bicycle and you have no particular display on the
part of the machinery, but then the youthful dis
seminator of electric lies would stuff his
stockings instead of his horse with bran, and
trade on calves in place of caracoles. Woman
“bosses” creation, even with the telegraph-
messenger, who, engaged in the hollowest sham-
and-fraud-circular in the world, ought to know a
thing or two. But, to be practical—will some
hon. member please enquire how much per annum
is spent by the N.S.W. Government on horses for
telegraph messengers- and who gets the money ?
m * *
It appears from an advertisement on the
memt-card at a leading Sydney restaurant that
So-and-So’s champagne is “ very extensively
patronised by Her Gracious Majesty the Queen
and by Lord Carington.” Doesn’t this amount to
rank libel ?
* * *
It is awful to think of what may happen
to the Russians if they ever visit Queensland. The
Rockhampton Defence Force held a sham fight
the other Saturday night about three miles from
the town, and one whole company got lost in the
bush among the swamps, and never set eyes on
the others till they marched home at daylight
forlorn, draggled and covered with mud. They
had been fighting frogs and mosquitoes all night.
* * *
Says a gushing writer of the Mayoress of
Sydney’s Cinderella party
" Look where you would, the eye rested on some lovely
face or some beautiful form ; and late in the evening when
it had become the the * e of general remark, it was con-
fidently asserted that nowhere in the world among 1500 girls
and boys would you see a larger number of splendid-looking
and beautiful young women."
“Late in the evening” the girls looked more
beautiful, my dear, than any in the world. Of
course they did. They might look scraggy and
A LESSON IN MANNERS.
MR. DE VERE BROWN (in the cafe): "HAW! I WONDAH WHEN ONE OF THOSE
D-BARMAIDS ARE GOING TO FIND TIME TO SERVE ME?"
MISS HEBE SMITH: "AW! I WONDER, MR. BROWN, HOE YOUR MOTHER WOULD
HAVE LIKED TO BE CALLED A D-BARMAID WHEN SHE KEPT THAT
LOW POT-HOUSE AT LAL LAL?"
freckled next morning, or in broad daylight, but
just then the girls really looked splendid ; so did
the boys, and the apartments, and the Mayoress, j
and everybody, and the refreshment-room, and
and the reflection in the rr irror. Give us a gentle
breeze!
* * *
G. B. Allen, the composer (husband of
Alice May, the operatic prima donna who was in
Australia some 12 years ago) has recently returned
to Melbourne, and, above all other places on
earth, has settled down in Collingwcod. The
Fiat is becoming quite fashionable. His Honor
Judge Tommy Cope lives there now. One day at
the Yorick Club he propounded the following
conundrum to a large assemblage : “ Where d’ye
think I’m living now?” Bartrop said—aw!
“Toowack!” M'Kinley kindly suggested Pent-
ridge ; St. John Topp chimed in with the “New
Temperance Township ” at Flemington; and the
Vagabond guessed “ Picturesque" Footscray.”
“No!” said the judge ; “you’re all wrong. I’m
down in Collirgwood- not fir from Billy Tren with
and Henderson Africanus !”
* • •
Anglicanism is at a low ebb in Bundaberg,
(Q.), judging from the touching appeal made by the
tearful shepherd on a recent Sunday evening to
the stony-hearted congregation of his insolvent
tabernacle. The reverend gentleman stated,
inter alia, that on the evening of the preceding
Sabbath seventy coins had been deposited in the
collection-plate, of which coins no less than thirty-
four were threepenny bits, the devil’s own money,
while the largest representation of the image of
the Defender of the Faith was that graven on a
poor lonesome shilling. A sad state of things,
truly, to exist at the society church of so flourish-
ing a town as Bundaberg. Natheless the good
pastor’s appeal is considered rather a departure
from the doctrines of early Christianity. Yet do
the Bundaberg people require straight talk. They
have a most ungodly and assertive weakness for
free shows: even a first-class opera company
would perish there after the second night. So,
considering that they are thus economical in the
matter of amusement, it is not wonderful that
they yearn for a free ticket to the Golden Shore.
• * *
The latest true story from Melbourne
ought to be keenly appreciated by the Australian
youth, one of whom (aged 16) left his situation
for a better one, but owing to some misconception
another lad had been taken on at the latter place
instead. The position was critical for him, and
alarming enough. What was he to do ? Suddenly
a magnificent idea occurred to him. It. was still
early—he just walked over to the office of his
yesterday’s employer and answered his advertise-
ment. There was a sort of subtle exquisiteness
about this that was irresistible, and he succeeded.
For ouick readiness of resource and sublime auda-
city this beats Bismarck in an innings with
several runs to spare.
Brisbane girls have been glad lately.
H.M.S. Nelson and Diamond (familiarly Di )
have been soulfally posing in Moreton Bay, and
their gallant officers have become the joy and
pride of Qaeen-street and Kangaroo Point once
more. The gallant blue jackets also once more
make glad the hearts of Poll and Nancy, and the
fairer portion of the Brisbane community gener-
ally is as pleased as an ice-cream nobleman when
the thermometer rises. #
The “foreign” Consuls of Sydney didnt
much like Lord Augustus Loftus. It is related
that when he first became Governor ofb AW,
there were presented to him the Consuls 6f the
j various nations, and imag e! vg that these officials
ought to know something g f he languages of the
countries they represent* J, ae addressed each in
j the lingo of the country na h id. Tableau ! Only
' two of them were able to . jly to Lord Augustus
in the vernacular used on tie occasion. His lord-
ship has probably realised ere now that money
speaks all languages.
* * *
lady Louisa Meux, the high-born dame
who met with a strange man on Calais pier and
went with him to a London hotel, where he robbed
her of her jewels, demanded (in colonial phrase)
a nobbier whilst giving evidence in a case heard
at Middlesex Sessions the other day. It was
promptly given to her, but it was too weak ; and,
with the approval of the presiding judge, she sent
for the bottle, from which she helped herself to
more. She then swore in a truly patrician man-
ner, a 3 might have been expected. Mrs. Bill
Sike3 would, perhaps, scarcely have been treated
with such delicate attention. But circumstances
alter cases.
* * *
Sydney Evening News again :
“ M,ATl!lMONY.—Gentleman wishes to give advice to
unhappy married women. Strictly confidential.
A. B. C., G. P. Office.”
“ Strictiy confidential.” A. B. C. has been there
himself.
* * *
Joseph Fraser, the scalp-surveyor, has
started a series of articles in the Melbourne
Herald on “Husbands: How to Select Them;
How to Manage Them ; How to Keep Them.”
Not a word about how to collect them, you'll
observe. In the face of the fact that Victorian
youths don’t marry, the young women are apt to
liken this departure to giving a cookery-book to a
starving man.
«r • •
The goddess of Yankee gush and aesthetic
spread-eagleism thus disports herself in an Ameri-
can journal re Mrs. Langtry's bedroom and some
of the things she wears therein :
"The carpet is dull white and thick enough to hush the
footsteps of an elephant, and over it all Turkish rugs, as rare
in pattern and texture as they are velvety and yielding. The
bedstead is brass, so slender as to appear hardly strong
enough to support a fairy, but it is firm and solid, and wide
for all that, and capable of sustaining the Lily's weight
many times over. The bed is of unusual thickness, and
white as driven snow, the sheets and pillow-cases are linen,
and plain without ornaments of any kind, the quilt is lace,
lined with delicate pink satin and said to be worth some
thousands of pounds. At the head of the bed, between the
windows, stands the toilet-table, and that defies description.
If you can imagine an orderly confusion of white lace, fine
enough to pinch a woman’s heart with envy and make her
inc uth water, hair-brushes with gold and ivory backs and
handles, combs of silver, gold, ivory, tortoise-shell, and pearl;
heavily gold-mount d pe<fume-bottles, some of them a foot
high; hand-mirrors that dazzle to behold, hair-pins and
knick-knacks of ail conceivable descriptions, until you have
to drop into the nearest chair and heave a sigh, so bewildering
is the profusion—you may have some idea of it, bat only an
idea. You could not approach the reality, short of a long
day s close examination There are no powders, no paints,
and no pencils, the perfumes are simply eau de Cologne and
lavender water. There are two easy chairs of different pat-
terns and a rather tall dressing chair and a pink and white
satin lounge, and in the farthest corner, between the ward-
robe and the door, a solid silver wash-stand with a gold-lined
silver bowl and pitcher. The nightgowns in the wardrobe are
of almost transparent lawn, white as purity itself, long and
loose, and cf a classic simplicity that might well fit a Venus
'new-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill.’ Stacks of slippers,
boots, and shoes, heaps of hats, curious umbrellas, and
parasols, morning-. owns and wrappers, all scattered around
and filling up every nook and corner. On one side of the
bed-room is the dretsing-room, on the other the bathroom.”
Oar bedroom, we may mention, isn’t anything
like that We generally sleep in an overcoat, and
put our hat on our feet to protect them from the
flies, and th6n we tell the dog to go to Sheol, and
land with a dull, sickening thud on our stump
bedstead. As a matter of classic simplicity we
are prepared to gamble on this as being fully
equal to anything in the Jersey Lily’s wardrobe.
* * »
The colonies are making no provision in
their Anti-Chinese Bills for the free admission of
Chinkie parsons. One of the most gentlemanly-
looking clergymen in the diocese of Sydney is a
Chinese priest of the Anglican faith; and some
years ago there was a Chinese R.C. priest in
Victoria, the Rev. Father Ah Lee. He was great
at music, but gav e up the learning of intelligible
English as a hopeless job. When he “ said Mass ”
on Sunday and had to announce, perhaps, that
“Next Thursday will be a day of fast and ab-
stinence," he had to get this notice a week before
to study and rehearse. His Mongolian Reverence
used to teach the Gregorian music to the altar-
boys at the Melbourne Cathedral, but the young
wretches used to play up all kinds cf pranks in
class, and the only word of condemnation and
remonstrance in the vernacular which the almond-
eyed divine could master was. a forcible “ Hum-
bug /” When Patsy O Hooligan or young Tim
Fegarly became obnoxiously obstreperous, Father
Ah Lee would wave his arm wildly in space and ex-
claim in vehement protest, “Humbug! Hum-
bug I! Humbug !! 1” Sometimes, when the
church choir was a bit florid, he used to tell them
they performed only “ smusementmoosick.” The
Rev. Joseph Ah Lae some time since returned to
China. If he’s not poleaxed by his heathen coun-
trymen, he'll he poll-taxed when he comes back
to Australia.
* * *
The Auckland (N.%.) papers don’t like
Amelia Barrett. They say she is a mean woman
who takes the bread out of the poor reporter's
mou'h, Miss Barrett went amissing the other
day in the character of the maiden mid nodings
on ; she was seen one evening walking along a
lonely part of the shore, and next day her clothes
were found in a heap, and she had vanished with-
out a stitch upon her. Her boots and her stock-
ings, and so on, were neatly piled up
on the |sand, and there was a track where
two little bare white feet had trotted dawn to the
water’s edge—and then there was nothingness.
Amelia had apparently been swallowed up in the
abounding spaciousness of the far-off, and the
newspapers prin’ed an item stating that her soul
had fled, and all the nsxt day the police dredged
for her and found nothing except the place where
she had been. This result, however, was not
surprising, as Amelia was pretty well, thank you,
all the time, only rather cold, and about as mad
as a nice girl with nothing on could be, and if she
had been a man she would probably have cursed
the officious officers for their interference. She
had been taking a short cut for home along the
beach, when her best hat blew off into the water,
and she had taken advantage of tte darkness and
loneliness to take off her clothes and go in after it.
Then the tide took both her and the hat, and when
at last she got out she didn’t know where she was
or where her clothes were, and felt very much
inclined to sit down and cry. All that night she
LADY BRASSEY.
Died on board the Sunbeam, September 14, 1887,
and buried at sea.
'Rest for the striven in ignoble strife 1
So skilfully she worked small social schemes
'That .after patient waiting, “ Brassey a wife
Saw the fulfilment of her early dreams,
And lived to place upon her throbbing brow
The dear-earned coronet— which bauble now
A vain reminder of vain glory seems.
The false “distinction,” won by weight of wealth,
- Lives only for the winner's wasted day ;
For with the night comes mocking Death, by
stealth, .
To steal its treasures from the passive clay ;
No tinsel title can confer a fame
Beyond Death’s reach, nor money buy a name
Safe guarded in the nation s heart for aye.
Not e’en a monument of bold design
To mark, with pomp and circumstance, the spot
Where lies My Lady ! Still, the careless brine
Glideth a trackless way and telleth not—
Keeping its secret till, at summons dread,
The earth and ocean yield their hidden dead,
All, save a few, by all but God forgot.
Ye sycophants, who fawned upon her hand,
Murm’ring “ My Lady” with an envious sigh,
'The thickly-gilded great ones of the land
Are men as ye, the very hour they die ;
An earthly title, ’tis a worthless thing
In the immortal kingdom of that King
Who gives the stamp of true nobility.
E F.
Liberty is always pictured as a wore an, and generally with
a torch in hand. Liberty is offered any lady to visit Bray
Bros, in George-street, and the torches are tfce lovely Fairy
Lamps that there abound. The display of services for
Dinner-tables, Bedrooms, Kitchen, B e.kfaet, or Driwhig
fooms is bewildering in extensiveness.*
VRECK LES. —These unsightly subcutaneous aisoolora-
tions are of two kinds—the “ Summer” or temporaryfreckles
V Evhelis ) and the permirent variety (Lent%go). The former
is generally due to a darkening of the epidermis in small
oval patches (“Summer Freckles”), or extending over a
larger surface (“Tan or Sunburn ), while permanent
Freckles (or Lentigo) are deeper seated, and rcmam even
affcpr the epidermis is completely removed. Clements
Frecklebane is an infallible cure, and will eradicate the
" case of Freckles without injuring skin or com-
plexion. Sold by all chemists: Wholesal >, F. M Clements,
141 King-street, Newtown*
Ladle* would do well to attend the great sale of the season
now on at the London and Pari. Outfitting Establishment
Mrs MoOATHI*. SB and 80 Klng-»tr :q* ( *
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—A Private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms,
derive the great advantages of a constant med'cal super-
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing stall.
For particulars apply to the Laly Superintenden .*


scooted along the beach in search of her home and
something to get home in, and it was only at day-
break that she discovered her things, and then a
nasty policeman was taking them away. In an
agony of eniba’rassment she took to the water
again and spent the day part'y in the blue wares
and partly in the bu3h, till night came on onoo
more, and then she reached the family roof some-
how. The particulars are not stated, bat it is
suggested tha: a hat and a quantity of ferns go a
long way at a push, especially when a girl hasn’t
been able to get home to dinner, and is feeling
desperate in conssquence. But it was au awfully
promising tragedy spoiled.
* * *
The pulpit of Scots Church, Melb. , with
a salary of £l5OO a year and a house, is still going
begging. Of its former ministers, the Rev. Irving
Hetherington died a partly natural death ; the
Rev. Peter Menzles was killed by the Melbourne
Presbytery‘s and Dr. Charles S rung and Mr.
Dods were excommunicated by the same can
tankerous body of gilded Pnarisees. Mr. Hether-
ington, who was settled in Singleton, N.S.W ,
about half a century ago was an angular, ra n -
boned, hard headed o'd Scotchman, whose cbiifest
pleasure in life was to flout and defy the world,
the flesh, the devil, and the Melbourne Presbytery.
* * *
From the S.M. Herald :
i i T OST, about the 30 ih May last, while traveling by
express from Sydney to Melbourne, a Tin Hat-
box, containing bank deposit reoeip s, wearing appatal,
and other valuable documents. ’
There is a great rumpus in a certain
Northern township. In the family of a local mag
nate there occurred about three months ago an
interesting domestic event which, pending details,
was held to necessitate the tying-up of the hall-
knocker with white kid. Well, it no v appears
that a mistake wa3 made on the occasion, and
that the knocker aforesaid should have been tied
up with yellow kid. And thereby hangs a tale
and a divorce suit, though, judging from the
social status and nationality of the offender, it is
quite unlikely that damages will be claimed from
the co respondent.
* * *
The new figure of the cotillion requires six
railroad tickets for the ladies atd six placards for
the gentlemen. The gentlemen fasten the pla-
cards round their necks while the tickets are dis-
tributed among the ladies. Then the orchestra
plays a railroad galop and the gentlemen march
into the room snorting and whi tling in imitation
of a train. Brains are not required ia this figure.
# «*
The fact that on the window of a Sydney
private-bar is daringly painted the legend • ‘ Hard
Soft qui mat y pense,” recalls the fact that in
London years ago, when meek auctions became
very numerous, the Mayor caused to be issued
placards: “Beware of mock auctions!” ’Jhe
most daring of these gentry stuck one right up in
front of his rostrum. So is it often, “cheek”
carries the day,
* * *
He didn’t know her, but he loved her to
distraction. She was carrying a bulky parcel,
and he bowed and smiled and bowed again, and
trusted—aw—he might have the—aw—pleasure,
and so on, and with that he assumed the load and
walked by her side. They chatted pleasantly as
they went along, but when they reached the door
she suddenly froze up, and, instead of asking him
to come in, she gave him threepence But he was
equal to the occasion. He kissed the coiu raptur-
ously, and told her he would wear it next his
heart for her dear fake, and the last she saw of
him he had laid it down on the doorstep and was
kneeling before it with his hat off and his hands
clasped in silent adoration. They never met
again.
* * *
The latest socio-medical theory is that cor-
, sets tend to cause costal breathing in women.
“Admitting,” says the Scientific American,
“ that they are the cause o! e >st >1 br sathing, and
accepting the theory that costal breathing, is a
corrective of consumption, a p’eafor these articles
of attire ii at once established as preventives of
the dreaded malady. The possibility of this bene-
fit is increased by the consideration tbat men are,
on the who’e, more subject to it than women, and
that Indians seem peculiarly its subjects.” Here
is an argument tbat the dres3 refo-mers will have
to meet.
* * •
Mrs. Dugdale, the Melbourne champion
ipf lovely woman’s rights, says “ there could bs no
hell so fierce as compul-don to bear the embraces
of au unprincipled or drunken man.” That’s per-
fectly k’rect, and we hope the sex will be wa-ned
in time and refrain from in irrying man who
smell of spirits. But they won't. Spinsters are
brave—they S9ek ths bubble matrimony even at
the gates of Hell, like the gallant Six Hundred.
It’s almost a waste of time to sing to them :
Mrs. Robilliard, widow of the late Major
Robilliard, of H M.S. Nelson, returned to England
in the Clyde.
# * *
In c insequence of an illuminated. invita-
tion-card which we received wj girded up our
loins and attended a concert in aid of the
“Woman’s Fund”, which eventuated at the
Athenaeum Hall, Waverley, on the 12th. The j
“ Women's Fund ” we believe, is the same as the
“ Queen’s Fund,” but it doesn't generally bear the
former name, ss the Queen is tot alluded to as a
woman when it can be avoided. She is one all
the same. Thanks to the mayor il and guberna-
torial presence, the proceelings were of an tie-
vaed character, and the crowd stretched right
out into the street.
a * *
A very successful ball, in aid of the
Temps Refuge, was given at the New Masonic
Hall, Sidney, ou the 12th inst., under the
ausp’ces of a committee consisting of 100 ladies.
The ball wai given free, and Messrs. Needs sup-
plied the music gratis. Mayor Riley and Mrs.
Riley also contributed the light of their smile.
A concert in aid of the Queen’s Fund is
to come off at the Masonic Hall, St. Leonard’s, on
the 22nd, and as Mrs. (Admiral) Fairfax is pro-
moting the movement, it is hoped that a larger
sum will be realised in one night than Victoria
ever gave to charities in the course of her entire
existence.
• * *
A little ill-feeliog exists just now up
North, because a certain lady who had invited all
the first families to a hall received them in a hic-
cup and with her jaw in a sling. Consequently
brotherly love doesn’t continue. Her husband
The Charters Towers (Q.) police made a raid last week on a fan-tan den and captured
twenty eight yellow fiends. No handcuffs wore used. One John’s tail was Simply
tied to another’s. Great and far-seeing is Divine Providerce! Nature’s handcuffs.
Allee same, John—go long. Mukkeeilo!
was also suffering from the weather, and it tran-
ppired that toe daughter had locked both her
parents up during the afternoon in the hope that
ihey might sober up, but when pa began to knock
roa's head against the door she was compelled to
let them < ut. Such is life.
* * *
A Tasmanian recently announced that he
wished to purchase works of art. Accepting an
invitation from a ’ady to inspect some she wished
to sail, he found Uvem to be crude specimens of
her daughter’s wok He explained that he re-
quired painting i by men of undoubted repute in
the artistic world. “ Well,” she said, “if you
b"y these you can put any name you like on them,
no one will Know the difference.”
* * *
A London paper says :
Many of our gi Is are in the country now, and they are
h ivin t (by ww of a n-w excitement) guessing matches
They sit out ii the gu-cDn in their eveui-g flimseys and
gues3 whether i f . is a ladybird n- an earwig that is crawling
down their backs The nos", of umpire is eagerly sought for
by young and act ve man.
We fear this game will never be properly accli-
matised in Austra’ia The gM is not tnilt who
could sit and like this in a land of snakes
and centipedes
• * *
From the agony column of a paper in dis-
tant Germany :
“ A young and in her own estimation exceedingly pretty
lady, with musical tastes, and of good education, without
means, seeks for liar clinging ivy nature a strong firm oak in
the shape of a junior Civil Se-vice clerk "
There is poetry in that tender little notice, but it
leads ua to fancy that the German junior Civil
Service e'erk is built on a different model from his
Australian brother. The clinging ivy doesn’t
hang on to the latter to any great extent, and the
only vegetable that grows on him is grass.
The settlers in Chaffey Bros.’ Victorian
Irrigation colony will have to irrigate with water
alone. No hotel will be licensed on the property.
Says Sydney Echo: — “There may be
promises of further retrenchment, to be taken for
what they are worth ; but the clearest thing he
fere us is the prospect of fresh taxation.” Hurrah
for N.S W. Freetrade ! Another deficit to prove
“our prosperity.” Then—that “creature” Pro-
tection.
Dear creatures, turn your heads away,
And hide your blushiog faces,
But hear what Dugdale has to say
Of drunken men’s embraces ;
She says that Hell’s no': ha f so hot
As being forced to share tte lot
Of some too-fond, revolting sot,
Who in a maudlin sta‘e has got -
And you can bet your life it’s not
(We’ve often re on ouch cases).
There really is a world of truth
In Mrs. Dugdale’s wailings
(We are, ourselves, a giddy youth
With lots of little failing*-)
How can the women fiad delight
In husbands who get roaria? “ c g 'st,”
As they, poor darlings! clad in white,
The street-door open, la'e at night,
And see the ‘ beasts,” in drunken plight,
A-c iaging to the palings ?
Yet she who wants to ba a wife,
Of evil not afraid is;
No visions of con Jit-gal strife
E’er trouble single ladie3;
Their marriage-vows they glibly make—
A decent-looking, battered rake,
For better, or for worse, they take ;
Too late they learn the sad mistake,
From dreams of Heaven they awake
To find themselves in Hades.
J B. Pace's and Co.'s Bangle Brand smoking Tobicco is
he mo3t delicious smoke in the world, ack .owledged by all
c naoisscurs ‘■o v e the most de’.'cite 'n flav mr. Pr >pored so
that the combustion i 3 perfect Bur is out to the last
particle with a -jure white ash. Try it.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The English hangman’s latest aide-de-
camp is James Billington, a barber and Primitive
Methodist preacher.
The Sunday Times says that the only re-
semb’anci between Parkes and Cobden is their
abus 5 of the letter H.
Last week a mortuary announcement in
a Sydney paper commenced “Pooh.” Pooh was
the name of the defunct.
It may not be generally known that one of
Q reen Victoria’s uncles married a widow named
Buggin. Think of that, Buggin!
Three members of the Legislative Council
of Victoria have died withm as many weeks, viz ,
Messrs. Henty, Beaver, and Bromell.
The numerous creditors of Sir Henry
Parkes are unanimously in favour of his retainirg
his billet, and suggest au increase of salary as a
fitting mark of public sympathy.
Boy Politician Caulfield’s paper says
Russia has neither paupers nor workhouses No,
nor has it any boy-politicians. Whenever young
Caulfleldovsky begins to talk, they shift him to a
mining district —in Siberia.
Thadeus O’Kane, who now has two rival
papers to compete against instead of one, is still
equal to the occasion. His very latest is a remark
that the other two editors “ are only possessed of
a bowing acquaintance with the Queen's English.”
Sir W. C. F. Robinson, Governor of South
Australia, has sold t e copyright of his song “ I
Love Thee So” to Messrs Allan and Co., the
Melbourne music publishers, for £lO4.
They say that Duncan Gillies will soon
visit England as Agent-General for Victoria, and
complete bis career of greatness by marrying a
ducliefs. Up to the present Duncan hasn't quire
decided which duchess he will honor with his
hand.
One of the biggest holders in the Mount
Morgan Goldmine was, a few years ago, a boot-
black in a Queensland town. At an Ipswich
race meeting not long ago he blacked the hoots of
the hush whackers, cattle-stealers, and other nota-
bilities of the place. Now he is a millionaire.
When the Chinese Commissioners visited
Cooktowa they jaw the Mayor clad in moleskins
and wearing in his mouth a clay p ! pe. There-
of er, when his serene Excellency General Bung
Hi saw a rather dilapidated female carrying along
a couple of buckets, he asked, “Is that the Lady
Mayoress
According to the Hon. Tommy Bent —the
man who sees no pints in pertickler about Marcus
Clarke’s writius—there is a deal of “ corruga-
tion” about Jamas Service This must ba in-
tended to mean that James is up to snuff. Our
Dictionary defines the meaning of corrugation as
“ contraction into wrinkles."
Kev. Mr. Wiley (Anglican) announces
through the Cooma (M.S.W.) Express that as hii
various congregations in the dist ict have only paid
£3O out of £l5O promised for his last year's stipend
he is reluctantly obliged to leave their souls to the
machinations of the world, the devil, and the
flesh, and skip to a more appreciative parish.
Langrioge, M.L.A., of Victoria, says he
was on Ballarat when Lalor led the Eureka in-
surgents ; that the police have followed him
(LaDgridge) for his license, and “ that was the
only time he ever had a policeman after him.” If
rumour speaks tru'y, the burly member for Col-
lingwood once had a policeman before him —at the
toe of his blucher boot.
Johnny O’Neil, an old Towers miner, who
buiied the unfortunate Frank Stubley when the
latter pegged out on his way to the Croydon, has
gone over himself to the golden shore, ttubley
was interred wrapped in a blur blanket, and
doubled up in a shallow hole by the side of a
lone’y lagoon. So ended the lfe of him at whose
touch for years everything turned to gold.
Sir Horny Doughty Txchboine, the real,
genuine baronet, got married last moffih to the
dauiht r of another Roman Catholic bironet,
Poor o’d Orton—who is picking up a precarious
living by exhibiting himself along with a spotted
maiden and a six-legged cow—was not even in-
vited to the church. What was the use of him
having ‘ plenty of brains and no money ?”
The late G. P. Smith, M.L.A., the Mel-
bourne barrister (the Furves o! his time), used to
say lhat if he missed a loafer off the streets of
Melbourne he was bound to find him in the
Crown Lauds Office. And, by a curious irony of
fa e, Smith was walking with a man who wanted
ihe M.P. to get him a billet in the Lands Depart-
ment (which G. P. did) when he was shot by
Gerald S ipple on his way from the Supreme Court
to Parliament Houses.
Bond, the Queensland opal-man, has been
stuffing the Pall Mall Gazette with some
almighty adventures of bis on the Barcoo. On
one occasion, so he told the Pall Mall, when his
surveyor wanted a nip of whisky, th«y had to ride
170 miles out of their irack, end then only to find
a bottle of champagne and a bottle of orange-
i.itters in the bush shanty. This is altogether too
modest. We would like to hear the surveyor's
verson regarding the wl isky ride.
The Rev. Maurice Stack (R.C.), late of
Melbourne, who was “silenced” by the late
Aichbishop Goold msny years ago, died in France
la9t August. Fe and bis s ick were as well known
ia town as Mirani3 and his umbrella or Zox and
his whße vest. Some years ago Father Stack
sued Archbishop Goold in the Melbourne County
Court far a couple of hundred pounds said to have
been paid on Dr. Goold’s behalf many years before.
The cate was settled out of court.
Councillor Cain, one of the most unpopu-
lar mayors Melbourna has ever had, has made
yet another egregious blunder : he has arranged
for a Corporation in the new Anglican
Cathedra), which, ia all probability, will never be
use’? There is ro State Church in Victoria, and,
although Councillor Cain happened to belong to
the Chu”ch of Eavland, his predecessor, Aider-
man Ste war'', wa> a Presbyterian, and his suc-
cessor, A’dermau Benjamin, is a Jew.
Alderman Benjamin Benjamin, r he Mayor-
elect of Melbourne, was born in London in 1834,
t nd arrived at Melbourne when but nine years
. Id. The narrow-mi city fathers did not half
like electirg a Jew to the po-ition of Chief Magis-
t-ate ; but no otter councillor cared to accept the
financial responsibilities of ihe Centennial Exhi-
bition year. Alderman Benjamin, the first Jewish
mayor of Melbourne, will assuredly not suffer by
. omparison with many of the alleged Christians
who have preceded him in the office.
The veteran Sir William Manning having
i esigned through the weight of years, his place on
the Barch of theN.S W. Equity Court has been
accepted by the capable Mr. William Owen, Q.C.,
ibe worst that can be said against whom is that
ha is a Primrose Leaguer. As Mr. Owen had a
splendid practice (worth say £6OOO or £7OOO a
ear), and was very fend of holiday.*, the Bar is
not a little surprised at h’s having accepted
£2600 per annum-or rather it would have been
surrrlsed did its members not know that his
Honor has a son who is a ba-rister, and whose in-
ter. sts he wishfs to advance The tardiness of
udga Manning's resignation is understood to
ha e arisen from the fact that he was in hopes of
< eeing bis sen, M-. C. J. Manning, step into his
sh es.
Sergeant Fenton, of the Yictoriail Police
Force, who died the other day at Collingwood,'
wi ere he had been in charge of the station for
many years, was quite a character in his way. He
was one cf the flfiy constables who came from the
London force in 1853, and did much to suppress
that dangerous creature known as the Coiling-
wood larrfkin The sergeant was “converted”
some years ago, and tried very hard to extend the
means of g~ace to the junior reporters of the Mel-
bourne dailies, who had occasion to see him pro-
fessionally. He was the author of some hymns—
m<>ra remarkable for their piety than their poetry
—and be used to presentpnnted copies of these to
the graceless young dogs who were in the habit
of interviewing him about the local inquests and
tires. The go: d seed thus sown may have taken
rot, but, so far as we are aware, none of it has
ever sprouted to the surface up to the present.
Amongst the gentlemen recently appointed
to the Commission of the Peace is Mr. John
Faoran, of Giro oar. Thisgenlleman has a history.
Many years ago he was escort driver in the em-
ployment of Cobb and Co between Orange and
Forbes. He was on the box seat in charge of the
ribbons on the eventful day when Francis Gar-
diaer and his gang stuck up the escort at the
rocks ne r Eagowra Ihe gang obtained all the
go’d and decamped, separating in varrus direc-
tions Most cf them, however, were afterwards
captured and paid heavy penalties. Fagan ex-
hibits a hat through which a bullet passed as the
identical one he wore on the eventful day. Mr.
Fagan was for many years host of the Royal Hotel,
Care oar, and is now the owner of many broad
acre 3 and fat flocks. He i 3 a common-sense and
popular man, and delights at this distance of time
to patient listeners how he made the pace at
the Eogowra rocks in the good old days of Gar-
diner and Co May the decisions of the new
beak never b 3 overruled,
From a recent Sydney University exsmina-
tion paper :
‘ Ejcpl in the following: Bowed welkin: purflad scarf;
bud„;n doctors; glczing eourtety; swinkt hedger ; to imp
tfeir serpent wings. ’
What learned lunacy !
The widow of Constable Bowen, who was
shot dead by Moonlight’s gang at Wantabadgery,
has been sent to gao' for six months for vagrancy.
An axious pubic would like to know if the
children have receive! the benefit of the money
subscribe! for them
la the case of a public m v. a boarder, re-
cently tried at Cooktown (Q ), tha following bills
were produced: “ Board, from 5 h May till 14th
May, 9 days, £2 ; washing, Is. ; cigars, 33.” The
r si of the amount, which totalled £l3 Is,, was
for drinks, and ran ea fallows :
" On G;h May, £2 17s. 6 '. for 115 drinks; 7th May, £1 4s.
for 49 drink*: B'.h Vay, £1 Is for 42 drinks; 9th, for 55
ertikp; 10;h, 63drinks; llch, 27 drinks; 12oh: 8 drinks ; 13th,
52 drinks; and lltb, 3 drinks '
115 drinks in ona day, an! only Is worth of wash-
ing far tha 9 days would remind one of honest
John Falstaff s litt’e bill for bread and sack. The
Bench lowered the Cooktown boarder’s account
£9, from which we argue th it the Far Northern
Justices must be getting civilised.


The Referee
Joe Thompson deprecatingly says that
4 any little pie-shop man can start bookmaking in
Melbourne now-a-days by paying his £25 to the
V.R.C.” Well, supDOse he cam Shouldn’t the
pie-shop have the same privileges as the fish-shop ?
• * *
“ Oakleigh trains ” took a good many people
to Caulfield on Saturdiy, but the railway porters’
straight tip fell on ears that heard not. The
horse wasn’t popular with the public, except a
select few from Ballarat, wbioh reminds us that
the goods things ef this life are never properly
distributed, Gorry brought up Oakleigh just
before reaching the fatal turn, and the race was
all over, bar shouting. There wasn't much
“shouting” either. Not many Caulfield Cups
have been drier than the lasb. Oakleigh’s owner
won £ll,OOO in bets.
* * #
Volcano seems to be one of the worst
stayers that ever carried the blue-and-white—sig-
nificant colours on Saturday. After racing in
front with Menotti for about a mile, the favourite
finally won the Caulfield Cup in a canter—at the
wrong end.
• •
Tranter, whose praises were sounded in
last week’s Bulletin, beat Pakeha nearly as
easily as Carlyon did, over the same mile. This
was Tranter’s first serious try, and his perform-
ance makes him out to be dangerous for the
double—Derby and Cup.
* * *
In spite of the well-known fact that early
two-year-old form is more reliable than any other,
punters generally let Lady Betty alone for the
Nursery Handicap on Saturday. The same filly
was allowed to start at 20 to 1 before she ran a
dead-heat with Consequence, the preceding week.
Punters repeated their error out of sheer perver-
vity, seemingly.
• * *
The Sydney D.T. aquatic interviewer has
again been let loose. Last time Hanlan was in
Australia he interviewed the Canadian, who, see-
ing he had a raw hand to deal with, informed him
that the boat he was importing at the time was
2ft. 6in. deep aft. And that remarkable state-
ment appeared in next issue of the Rum. Ned
must have been at his old larks, for the D.T. on
Monday told its readers that Hanian’s new craft
had too much gamber, which would be useful
for a turn. They must have been giving the in-
terviewer a turn.
* * *
Oakleigh, winner of the Caulfield Cup, is
by Roodea, out of Adela. She started at 12 to 1,
nd, taking command when entering the straight,
Btalled off a rush by Remus, and won comfortably
by a length and a half, Dunlop running into a
place a length behind Remus.
* • *
Turner was at it again on Saturday, clean
bowling five Belvidere wickets. Ferris, however,
seems all out of gear this season.
* * *
In re the recent Sydney cricketing row,
the trustee man’s lucky star was in the ascendant
when the friends of the Association man held him
back. To the writer’s knowledge, Vic, as a boy,
was no end of a bruiser.
* * *
When Captain Jennings gets well, Larry
Foley will meet him with broadswords. Foley s
forte at that game is the upper-cut; we have not
yet seen a man able to stop him. He could always
get at Professor Miller, who is no mean swords-
man.
* * *
So we are at last to have a set-to between
Mr. Seale, the N.S.W. champion amateur, and
Buck, the Britisher. £lOO iB the value of the
trophy it is said the pair will box four rounds for
In December next. To make it interesting, it
should be lengthened to eight rounds.
* * *
CJzar Phil’s idea of encouraging sport on
the Crown Lands he bosses. He charged the
■Sydney Bicycle Club 33 per cent, gross takings,
Whilst every ground member was entitled to two
ladies’ tickets.
* * *
Mr. J. G-. Kennedy, the unfortunate
■crab-catcher of the io tercolonial race, promises to
make amends by becoming the champion N.S. W.
'amateur sculler, judgiog from the style in which
lie won the all-comers’ outrigger race at North
Shore regatta last Saturday from such oarsmen as
'Connolly, J. Thomson, and W. Matterson.
• »
The N.S.Y.S. opened the season last
Saturday, and a right merry one it promises to be,
what with Messrs. Want and Milson’s big guns
and a flotilla of new open and half-decked boats.
• *
Mailed accounts show that Lees was taken
“on the hop” by Goode when they fought in
England. In any case it was a mistake to back
Lees to fight at llßt.—it would have been better
had they pitted him against a heavier and better
man at catch-weights.
* * *
A newspaper man has suggested that
George Hill, the referee in the Beach-Hanlan
match, should read up the rules of boat-racing.
He ought to interview George on the subject-
after heavily insuring his life.
* • *
The winner of Botany Handicap turned
up in A. L. Cassimer, 20yds. ; time, 47 l-sseo.
• * *
Messenger has challenged Perkins.
Though a pretty sculler, we hardly think he is
class enough for the Britisher.
* * *
M‘Carthy beat Nolan at Foley’s, on
Saturday night, alter 13 rounds, notwithstanding
which McCarthy made but a sorry show for an
aspirant to the championship. They now talk of
bringing M. Dooley and Yankee Costello together
in the magic circle. The writer thinks Dooley
would beat liim as easily as Slaven did.
• * *
Henry Chick, a leading Tasmanian foot-
baller, has kicked the last goal of all. He caught
the Launoeston infection, and died from being put
into quarantine. But, take it altogether, we
fancy young Caick is a lot better off than the un-
fortunates who are examined twice a day for
“ spots” until they fly to the epidemic for relief.
* # *
George Fordham, who rode his first race
early in the “ fifties,” has gone to join poor Fred
Archer across tbe ahiniDg river. For a long series
of seasons Fordham headed the list of winning
jockeys in England, and the name of “ For-dam"
was reverenced by Frenchmen on their native
heath. Then Archer came along making records
that had never been dreamt of, and the cunning
little veteran was no more the mob's own idol.
About the time that he lost his first wife George
went in for such royal “ boozing” that he lost all his
nerve and a lot of his money. For months he was
actually afraid to get on a horse’s back, but sub-
sequently polled himself together and got to work
again. It was after his second coming that Ford-
ham won his first and only Derby on Sir Bevys,
his luck in the Epsom race and the Doncaster St.
Leger having always been singularly oub. Of late
he could not ride, and was, we believe, a pensioner
of Mr. Leopold Rothschild at the time of his
death. Stories by the yard will be spun by Eng-
"-folios we see
Wt' COMC Ollf
ll
lish sporting papers about Fordham’s past suc-
cesses and little follies. The story of Sabinus is
worth repeating. This horse, a tip-top public
performer, was tried for the Cambridgeshire
(Fordham in the saddle*, and apparently cut up
so indifferently that the stable didn’t fancy
his chance. But on the night before the
handicap, George looked upon the wine when it
was ruddy, and took 1000 to 30 Sabinus four or
five times. Next morning he sobered up, rode the
best race of his life, and brought Sabinus home a
short head in front of two dead-heaters. Then,
like a little fool, he let it get wind that the bets
he had made were so illegibly written down that
he wasn’t sure who laid them. Each bookmaker
in turn denied his liability, and few of the lookers-
on, who could have told something, would. How-
ever, evidence incriminating certain leading book-
makers was ready to be laid before the committee
of Tattersall’s, when Fordham funked making an
admission of having been incapable on the eve of
an important engagement, and preferred to let his
thousands go. As the owner of Sabinus had a
mere nothing on his horse, he was inclined to
chuckle over the result of the jockey’s cleverness
in faking the trial. But as times go Fordham was
passing honest, and never deliberately pulled a
likely winner. May the turf lie lightly on his
grave. #
Bishop Barry has been lecturing at
Ballarat, on the English-speaking races. But he
never dropped a word of information about the
great coming races—at Flemington. If the
Church’s foundation Is stable the Bishop might
disclose its secrets at a time like this.
BRIEF MENTION
Market-street —Baby-Market Street.
A Canterbury Cake— J. Henniker Heaton.
they say in N.S.W. that you can’t put an
old head on Young's shoulders.
Up at Narrabri (N.S.W.) there are 31
days in the month of September.
“ Why do the brewers put salt in the
beer!” To make the corpses keep in the hot
wCather.
Dubbo Liberal starts on its gilded career
with the assertion that “a bull-terrier is prefer-
able to a jellyfish editor.”
A last week’s cable calls Hamo Thorny,
croft, the sculptor, “ Amo." But what can you
expect from a Cockney wire ?
A Pootscray (Vic.) alderman called a
brother councillor “ the biggest liar under the
sun.” We like to see a man doing justice to his
subject.
Bishop Barry, who blessed the Soudan
expedition, now blesses the Parkes testimonial
movement. Like Wise, Barry knows little of the
history of N.S.W.
A Croydon (Q.) paper, by way of illus-
trating the futility of suppressing free speech in
Ireland, says that an Irishman would rather fight
any day than hold his tongue.
Shepherd Jefferis
says, “ Pat not your
trust In popular assem-
blies. Pitt-street Church
congregation is a popular
assembly.
A Croydon (Q.)
Chinaman, Ah Mow,
when summoned for as-
sault, cut his throat. He
was afraid of being
washed in gaol.
Parkes has received
numerous letters from
sympathisers. His credi-
tors, it seems, call for no
sympathy. They ought
to have known better.
A Brisbane contem-
porary has discovered
that female mosquitoes
only bite. This oughb to
reconcile many a perse-
cuted masher during the
coming summer nights.
*‘ A Salvationist ”
writes to the Armidale
Chronicle (N.S.W.) to
say that he prays for the
editor. This is what
makes some people think
that the Harmy is off its
chump.
Melbourne Argus
says:—“Two shabbily
d r essed but intelligent-
looking boys,” &o.
Which recalls S M.
Herald's remark to the
effect that at a certain
ooncert the singing was
good, notwithstanding
the costumes.
The Rev. G. Onions
lectured in a Melbourne
bourne suburb on the
Devil, one evening a
while back. A local re-
porter, unable to get out
of the old groove, Baid
that the rev. gentleman
showed an intimate
acquaintance with his
subject.
A. S.A. paper, com-
menting on a horse-acci-
dent in which a man lost
an arm, says that he
could have better borne
the loss of any other
member as he is a shoe-
maker by trade. Very
true; even had he lost
his head, Parliament
would have been open for
him.
Proceedings are
threatened against Arch-
deacon Slattery, o f
Geelong (Vic.), for per-
mitting overcrowding in
his church. That clause
in the Victorian Licens-
ing Act which requires
sleeping compartments to
contain so many cubic
feet per sleeper, was to-
tally disregarded by the
Archdeacon.
Poor Lady Brassey
was a contractor like
her recently-ennobled husband. Id appears that
she unfortunately contracted a fever on the Aus-
tralian coast, and failed in consequence.
The astute Quong Tart sent an apology
for not attending the Parkes Subscription meeting
at Sydney Town Hall. You can always trust a
Chinaman for looking ahead at least six months.
The Victorian Licensed Victuallers’ Asso-
ciation has decided to exclude the Age's repre-
sentatives from its meetings. We gave the Vic-
tuallers, licensed or otherwise, credit for better
sense than to deliberately alienate their best cus-
tomers.
A Queensland shearer writes to The
Bulletin, complaining that the travelling dele-
gates of the Shearers’ Union up there know neither
TtngHah, reason, nor common-sense, and some of
them can hardly tell a sheep from a goat. Ap-
parently the union is beginning to suffer already
from the “walking gentleman” sorrow, also
from too little practice and too much theory.
Rev. J. G. Paton, heathen missionary,
publicly related, in Melbourne, the other day,
how some of the New Hebridean native Christians
who were threatened by the French, “ betook
themselves to prayer, and, in answer, at the last
moment, Jesus brought to their relief H.M. vessel
Swinger, which prevented the burning of the
villages, and no doubt great loss of life. 1 ’ This
item reaches us, of course, per medium of that
godly paper, the Melbourne D.T. Its gorgeous
cant is nearly as funny as the Wesleyan Spec-
tator’s assertion that the Lord took a brief
against “ The Vagabond " in the late libel case.
CORRESPONDENCE
4 Suggestion ’: Many thanks. In due course
the Chow s v alt receive his reward....'Freethinker
(Nohmea): Next issue....'James Mackay’: The politician
mmed belongs to the “ ornamental" Irish patriots—who
always stand aloof from their countrymen n troublous
times....'Murrumbidgee Artist’: Yes, at twopence a week.
....'Brown': Received....‘ Drahcirp’: Not clearly drawn
enough for use....‘E. Masson’: The counsel who defended
O Farrell, the would-be assassin of Prince Alfred, were in
structed by Mr. Thomas Pavey, of Melbourne....' H.H C.
Held for consideration,....' Gambasino': Thanks. For
Christmas....'C.M.': The substance],of your complaint is
this :
“ The law condemns the man or woman
Wfio steals the goose from otf the common,
But lets the greater felon loose,
Who steals tne common from the goose.”
Layton’: Wrong. Latest returns show that while
Charters Towers averages 2oz. gold per ton of quartz, Gympie
realises enly 10z,...‘R. Lamb’ (Queensland): Will try to
give you space....' W.B.’: "What do we think of your out-
burst?” We think it is bosh. If " Cupid's dart has pierced
your heart ” you ought to go and get married. That will
cure you of writing poetry. No married man ever writes any
poetry unless he gets paid for it....'A.J.C.’ (Enmore): His-
tory repeats itself. We published the brother of your yarn
long ag0....' Unitarian' (Bundaberg): We cannot allow rival
churches to wrestle in our columns. If we published your
letter we’d have to publish answers from Glassites,
Hosanna Army men, Trinitarians, and all the rest....
‘Smith’ (Dennisoon): Thanks....‘H.W.’ (Sandhurst): An
account of the joke would look very mean in print....
‘ Honi ’ (Silverton): Too washy, too vague, too remote from
anything likely to interest a human being, and too much
like a Noose witticism generally... .'Green R*g': If your
ears are i l keeping with your writings they must obscure the
landscape 'Hackle Birnie’ (Melbourne): K'rekt
‘ I.M.W.’: We print two verses of your ungodly comment—
“ But really, to my thinking (as compared with other things),
The girls who scorn the snares of * private bars ’
Behave much like their sister who her fair arms almost flings
Around men s necks ac begging church bazaars.
If Hebe does a little ‘ mash ’ to carry off her wares,
She is called ‘ wicked hussy ’ for her pains,
But the girl who, to get money, ogles men at prim church
fairs
Is lauded—by the Bishop—for her gains.”
‘Alpha’ (Menindie): Your 16,000-mile-away pars are inter-
esting enough, but it takes us all we know to keep Australia
straight, and sometimes we are so tired that we go to bed
with our hat on our feet,...' M. Tandy ’: The innocents who
still contend, with reference to the Bulli disaster, that
widows don't know how to keep money, appear to forget how
that great exemplar, our Sovereign Lady the Pre-eminent in
Grief, manages to hold on to her own and other people’s
savings. They also forget that her Royal ma, the late
Duchess of Kent, contrived to leave an immense hoard
to her family, though her pickings were ridiculously
small when compared with those of her daughter....
‘Henry A. Lawson’: You are fast improving....
'Bert': Your poem is lacking in the essentials
of vigorous verse. Besides, where do you get
the modern belle who thinks of father and mother
before thinking of society's opinion of her actions ?....' H.P.'
(Guildford, Eng.): Burns sang the ' Mountain Daisy' ’tis
true, but that is not excuse sufficient for you to inflict a
‘ Budding Violet ’ upon us in a similar metre. Thanks
however, for clipping....‘Sydney View': Can’t get anyon
to read your long letter on philately by piece-work, so it
must wait till a time-hand has a slack week....'Jacka-
vandah ’ (Ulmarra): Will read....' Young Australia ’: You
mean well, but you are emphatically not a poet.
Arthur 0. Vaughan’: Thanks for clippings
G.R. Maclean': Thanks....‘Red Ink’: You insinuate that
Lady Hamilton must have been wronged, although she care
fully safeguards the secret of her wrong. We cannot see, ad
mitting this, that it invalidates her account of the intrigues of
George's Court. She is, however, not alone; the contempo-
rary literature of George the Fourth’s reign absolutely reeks
with the reflected impurity of his Court. Why not turn to
the records of the British Parliament alone, and read all the
evidence taken in connection with the Queen Consort's case j
You ask if one discreditable action can be laid at his door
upon other than Lady Hamilton’s evidence ? Not to men-
tion his numerous adulteries, his drunkenness, his want of
faith, his discreditable debts, and the general and habitual
effeminacy and lasciviency of his conduct, his cruel persecu-
tion of Queen Caroline, his attempt to suborn witnesses
against her, and his villainous behaviour to his unhappy wife
in the most trying circumstances of her life, brand him a
brute and a scoundrel through all the ages. As for
the sources, they are so many and so voluminous
that we have not space to mention them
‘ Ajax the Less’: Will probably use....‘Maidenly Modesty’:
Now, what are you giving us?....'Senex’: “ Chinese Burg-
lar” undergoing examination....‘J.C.H.’ (Binelong): True
of our alleged human nature everywhere; there is much
snobbishness in showing chagrin at a snub from a snob....
‘J.C.’: Idea too complex for representing in a cartoon....
‘ Henry Burton’ (Queensland): Received....‘William Gilles-
pie': What do you want to know, or is your letter a crypto-
gram ?....' Brown ’: The Chinese who compete on slave terms
makes slaves of us thereby no less than if they were the
slave-owners themselves. We hate them on that account,
for their slavery is voluntary; if they were forced, as are the
white men whom they injure, by Jingo greed, we might pity
them, but for self-degradation there can be no sympathy....
‘W.S.B.’: Froude’s historical veracity may be accurately
estimated by thestatements contained about Australia in his
“Oceana.”. ...‘William Maitland’: If the charges specifi-
cally made against Parkes in last issue of the Sunday
Times are untrue, th n ougut the publisher be at oucj in-
dicted for criminal libel, and sent to gaol. If on the
other hand they are true, ihenougnt Parkes be discarded for
ever by all honorable men, and above all by tne churches.
In any case, the action of those who denied a full hearing,
and a full report in ttw press, to M Namara, the workman
wno alleges that he has been cozened of his hard-earned
money, is one of the meanest and most dastardly suppres-
sions ever effected by the shoddy ring and the shoddy daily
newspapers, which in the past have, by their venal cowardly
silence, endorsed all sorts of crimes, from murder down. We
know nothing and say nothing as to the merits of
M'Namara’s accusations, but this do we say: If M'Nain ara
lies, there is a criminal law to punish him for his slanders,
and there were present at the meeting a thousand witnesses
to hear him speak and to testify against him when he should
be placed in the dock. If Parkes does not prosecute his
Blunderers criminally, the only conclusion possible will be
that N.S.W. is a community in which there is one rule
of conduct for the Premier and another for the public....
‘ C.O.W.’: You have our opinion to-day....'Earliest Sup-
porter ’: You object to our caricatures of Jewish usurers on
the ground that they “ bring religion into ridicule and pro-
long the difference that everyone of refinement is so anxious
to Bee eraoicated.” What connection ought there be between
usury and religion? The Jewish usurer—we say it again—is
the deadly enemy of his own race. The Jew has a brain
which is far too good to be prostituted for money wrung out
of the necessities of his feilow-mau. Has the Bulletin
ever had anything to say against the Hebrew who was not a
usurer? Does it not fight the so-called Christians who grind
the faces of the poor—the cold-blooded, pious hypocrites who
pocket the money made out of human bone-dust ?....
'E. Morson’: The Sydney daily newspapers are too mean to
give the other side a hearing. They do not dare to publish
the anti-Parkes letters sent them by correspondents ; by
their old game, suppression, they would make it appear that
the community has not a word to say against Parkes. They
did not even fairly report Monday night s meeting at Sydney
Town Ha11....'E. Clarke': Vide Mining and Separation in
the Far North,' by A. J. Ivimey, shoitly to be procurable at
any booksellers ‘ H.C.’ (Rockhampton): Good 1
‘ Drude ’ next week....'A Protectionist’: Mr. Wise has
been too well advertised already.


Centrally
SITUATED
. AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
1310 H nVMIdHI STI3INVO
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
«TE[
SOUTH
OF THE
»EQUATOR
Tfe
5
ct
F
a
SO
1
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS &c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of ladies, ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, ladies' and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. «sr COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Boom. All letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. H. ItAJiIELI.
Croydon goldfield will probably pan out
50,000czs. for 1887.
A prosecutor at Sydney Quarter Sessions,
last week, said he could take 60 drinks in a day
without winking. Modesty and sobriety are great
and admirable virtues.
A NEW DISCOVERY.
Hoffman’s Kuealyptal (mixture and injection) positively
cures all urinal and kidney complaints, inflammation,
gravel, lumbago (pains in the back), &c. Purely vegetable.
Contains no balsam (paiba), or sandal wood. All principal
druggists and storekeepers. Price, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. Take
no substitute.*
QRIISBION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr, John Solomon
TO MORROW, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20,
Grand Revival of
Shakespeare’s Glorious Comedy,
M< CH ADO ABOUT NOTHING
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING,
which was recieved last season by crowded and
[delighted audiences, with every
demonstration of approval.
BEATRICE Miss ESSIE JENYNS
BENEDICK W. J. HOLLOWAY
Supported by an exceptionally strong cast of
characters.
NEW SCENERY
has been prepared by Mr. Alfred Clint.
The Box Plan at Nicholson’s music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
OPERA HOUSE
Under the Management of B. N. Jones.
ELECTRIC SUCCESS of
HARRY SAINT MAUR
and bis
COMEDY COMPANY.
Tonight, BRIGHTON To-night.
Secretary and Manager, Mr. Paul Heighirgton,
for Mr. Saint Maur.
Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, Is. Box plan
at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse, George-street.
x> OYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
(Under our own management.)
Lessee and Director Mr Frank Smith.
Manager Mr. J. Grant.
OUR MELBOURNE CUP SUCCESS.
The rising of the Curtain greeted with a
Tumultuous Cheer from a Crowded
House, most gratifying to all con-
cerned.
THE BURLESQUE,
H.M. MUD BARGE, NORTH SHORE.
SATOR AREPO TERKT OP RA ROTAS.
W. and K.’s S. M and B. Company
EVERY EVENING,
Advice : Book seats early.
Dress circle, 2s ; Stalls, 25.; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Bruce and Massey’s, Pitt-street.
Carriages 10.30.
T> AIN’S GRAND FIREWORKS.
DISPLAYS and ILLUMINATIONS.
COMMENCEMENT
of the
SECOND SEASON.
PAIN’S FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN’S FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN’S FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT
and PAIN’S MAGNIFICENT ILLUMINATIONS,
on their usual
GIGANTIC SCALE
by
SPECIAL PERMISSION
of
The NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT,
in aid of
LADY CARRINGTON’S QUEEN’S FUND.
This DESERVING CHARITY
is now being
ACTIVELY CANVASSED
throughout the length and breadth of
AUSTRALIA.
CONCERT and ILLUMINATIONS at 7 o’clock.
FIREWORKS at 8 15 o’clock.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20.
JAMES PAIN.
Thbatrb royal
Under the Direotlon of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
until further notice,
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS.”
“ HARBOUR LIGHTS."
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway's Hotel
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp
NOTE OUR BULLETIN.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
IN OUR THIRD YEAR. WE STILL KEEP
HEAPING SUCCESS
ON THE TOP OF OUR PREVIOUS MULTI-
TUDINOUS SUCCESSES.
GLIDING ALONG UNDER OUR OWN
BANNER OF POPULARITY
WE COMMAND THE LEAD IN OUR
S UTHERN CLIME.
NONE CAN COMPARE
WITH THIS NEVER ENDING WORLD OF
FUN.
POPULAR PRICES.
Orchestra chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 7.45; Carriages 11.
Sixth Week and Continued Success of the
RIGNOLD SEASON.
CALLED BACK,
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Aotlng Manager.
C COLUMBIA ELITE SKATING RIN K
J EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the distinguished patronage of his
Excellency the Governor,
LORD CARRINGTON,
and the Elite of Sydney.
A. N. RIDGELY, K. A. SKINNER,
Proprietor. General Manager.
Open to the public every afternoon and evening
and mornings for ladies, from 10 to 12, free.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Beautifully decorated and Brilliantly Illuminated
by Electric Light.
ATTRACTIONS EVERY EVENING.
SELECT MUSIC.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-dafenoe.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley's you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
GO THOU AM DO LIKEWISE!
SUMMER, with its heat, dust and depressing
effects, is on us, and one of tbegreatest luxuries
we may enjoy {is a delightfully cool and refreshing
bath, made more luxurious by the addition of a
little “Sea Foam Shampoo.” Follow the directions
and you will find it a most beneficial and health-
giving adjunct to the toilet It will cleanse the
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them delightfully
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, &c., of the
head, and has the endorsement of the highest
medical authorities. The words “Sea Foam
Shampoo” are registered, and any counterfeit or
imitation of same will be prosecuted to the full
exrent of the law. Sold by all chemists and
dealers in toilet articles at the low prioe of one
shilling per packet. Please try one package. You
will never regret it.
ROSEHILL RACING CLUB.
WEDNESDAY (Prince of Wales’ Birthday)
9th November,
AND
SATURDAY,
12th November, 1887*
A.J.C. RULES.
FIRST DAY.
QUEEN’S PRIZE,
80 sovs. For Maiden Horses. Mile.
HURDLE RACE HANDICAP,
100 sovs. Two Miles.
PRINCE’S GIFT,
sovs., 125 sovs. added. 1 Mile 3 Furlongs.
DISPOSAL STAKES,
Winner sold for £6O. 7 Furlongs,
BIRTHDAY HANDICAP,
6 Furlongs.
SECOND DAY.
JUVENILE STAKES,
For 2 year-olds. 100 sovs. 5 Furlongs.
SELLING HURDLE RACE
100 sovs. 2 Miles.
ROSEHILL HANDICAP,
150 sovs. 1 Mile.
HANDICAP STEEPLECHASE,
126 sovs. 2 Miles.
CORINTHIAN WELTER
100 sovs. 1 Mile.
Entrances to close Monday, 24th October. 1 sov.
for each Race,
Weights published about 31st October.
Gates, Booths, &c., to be sold 31st October.
For full particulars see Programme to be had at
Rosehill Racing Club Office, 65 Castlereah-street.
Melbourne,
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY,
October 25 and 26.
GRAND SALE
OF
MADAME HORTENSE HAZARD'S
Wonderful Collection
of
MARBLE STATUARY,
Bronzes, Relics from Memphus, Herculanium,
Pompeii, Old Oil Paintings, Old Line Engravings,
Priceless Rare Old Books, Glas3 and China (late
the property of Napoleon), Beautiful Diamonds,
Roman Pearls, &c ,
By GEMMELL, TUCKETT, and CO.,
(Under instructions from the Executors )
At the Athenseum, Collins street East, Melbourne.
On view at her late residence on and after Mon
day 17 th.
Catalogues will be forwarded on application.
Sweep 2
50 sovs.
75 sovs.
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker,
• 296 Pitt-street.
6aV
»S .WtiptA. Trai* TgflpflvuN O/isn/s*UNO fiac.M*tKca>
296 h*Tsr
Marquees on Hire.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRaND
BRIAR ' PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of o*her brands as
THEBEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.,
231, OLARENOE-STREET.
GtBD. GHBB.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 17, 1887.
TBNDBRS for PUBLIC) WORKS and
SUPPLIBS.
TBNDBRS are Invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIBS. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offloe in the colony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the snocessfu
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken Into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly oomplied with.
The Government does not bind itself to acoept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to whlo's
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Supply, &c., of Iron Water
Tower, Balranald Water Sup-
ply, Cont. No. 1
Bridge, Little Forest Creek,
Road Ur ana to Deniliquin
Bridge, Sandy Creek, Main
North-road, near Muswell-
brook
Supply of Railway Stores for
year 1888
Supply of Sleepers at Narrabri
Railway Station.
Tuesday,
October 25,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge over Three mile Creek,
Road Wiicannia to Wentwdrth
Iron Boof Eogine House, New
Dock, Cockatoo Island
Manufacture, &c., of Single
Ladder Steam Dredge, for
Sydoev Harbour
Bridge, Lahey's Creek, road
Mudgee to Cobbarah
Bridge over Billabong Creek, at
Mahonga
Supply of Stores, Roads Depart-
ment, during 1888—
Ironmongery
Sbipcbandlery
Brushware
Cement
Iron-decked Culverts
Boats
Bridge, Ohio Creek, road Armi-
dale to Walcha
Supply of 10,000 Radial Bricks,
Narandera Railway Station
Purchase of Old Tramway Cable,
North Shore
Tuesday,
November 1,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply, &0., of Pipes, &c., for
Reticulation Balranald Water
Supply, cont. 5
Additions Post and Telegraph-
Office, Narrabri
Addi ions, Gaol, Lismore
Erection of Luckup, Moama
Bridge, CanooDa Creek, road
Bfga to Candelo
Tuesday,
November 8.
at 11 o’clock
Bridge over Goolmar gar Creek,
Brown’s Crossing, Road Lis-
more to Nimbin (exclusive of
supply of Ironwork.)
Bridge over “ Five Milf,” Warn-
nambool-Walgeft road
Do., “ Three Mile,” do., do.
Tuesday,
November 15,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Wharf, &c.,
King’s Creek, Clarence River
Tuesday,
November 29,
at 11 o’clock
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
The Wonder of the Age,
COLEMAN and Sons, Cootamundra, were
awarded First Prize at the Adelaide Exhibi-
tion for their PURE VOLATILE EUCALYPTE
OIL. The only known cure for Asthma and all
affections of the chest. We have more bona-fide
testimonials than any medicine before the public
This is a genuine article. Posted to any address
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s 6d
Agents, Hoffnung & Co. ; Elliott Bros. Drug Co ’
sd
JCNOLAN CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS, ®
3f6 GEOECE SI prryrcw Hwtcr s] #C.RQ*


A DISCOVERY OF GREAT
VALUE.
The London Magazine of Chemistry and Medi-
cine, in a leader, publishes some of the mo3t
remarkable facts in reference to the efficacy of a
marvellous discovery- The Magazine states that
eminent professional men in different parts of
Great Britain have, after the most thorough and
exhaustive tests, given it as their opinion that
this discovery is a positive cure for rheumatism
and kindred evils. Among other remarkable
cases they give that of one Edward Evans, in the
employ of Messrs Davey and Moore, the well-
known glass bottle manufacturers, who for twelve
years had been a fearful sufferer. He was treated
by some of the most eminent medical men, but
after treatment he was discharged as being incur-
able. He next went to Paddington lofirmary,
where he remained no less than six years. From
there he went to Buxcon Hospital, where he was
again pronounced incurable by the physicians, and
was eventually discharged. At that time his legs
and ankle 3 were swollen to almost double their
size ; his hands also were so enlarged that he could
caroely hold anything ; in fact, he was quite
helpless and was almost crazy with suffering.
Last June, at the suggestion of a friend, this
wonderful discovery, St. Jacobs Oil, was Japplied,
according to directions, and in the course of a
week the man was able to walk, and, for the first
time for twelve years, to have something like a
night’s rest. Ia a fortnight from the time of
using this Oil he regained the use of hi 3 limbs,
and has resumed work a cured man,
The Magazine, after citing other remarkable
cures, closes the leader by saying that it is not to
be wondered at that experiences like these should
arro3t public attention, and become the subject of
extensive comment on the part of leading
journals. Manchester Athletic News.
KEEP WATCH.
New South Welshmen. Your time is come.
Eternal vigilance must be your watchword. Keep
a .watch on every body. On your statesmen,
capitalists, clergymen, poliee, .journalists. On
yours si ves, on everybody. It is of vital impor-
tance, and it must be done if you want to protect
your hearths and homes, if you want your children
to have a future. The watch is “ The Waterbury.’ l
It costs only 13s. 6d. It runs 28 hours with onl y
one winding. It regulates to a minute a month.
It ra’-ely gets out of order, and when it does can
be repaired at a nominal cost. Buy it. Try it.
Wear it, Take care of it. Or live to regret it.
rjIHE PERVERSITY OF TASTE.
Nearly all fruits are pleasant to the taste, but
all are not eqally wholesome or nutritious. The
same remark applies to vegetables (provided they
are not grown by Chinamen), and almost every
individual has a decided fancy for some in pre-
ference to others. But with fruit and vegetables
alike, as with so many other comforts and luxuries
of life, there is an aggravating tendency on the
part of most people to hanker after those sorts
which are calculated to give them the most in-
ternal discouragement. Rarely doe 3 a medical
man prescribe just the description of diet the
patient yearns for. If a convalescent makes up
his mind that nothing but an under-done pork
chop or a Welsh rabbit will save him from a re-,
lapse, the doctor will be almost certain to pin his
professional reputation to diluted mutton broth or
thin arrowroot gruel. And in the matter of drink
the same exasperating contradictions are for ever
surrounding the conditions of daily life. The man
who thinks a lemon squash is the very best drink
known to fame is so constructed that he has either
to smother his inclinations ant drink rum or suffer
the most appalling agonies ; and the man who
prefers colonial beer to all other beverages has to
make a martyr of himself in favor of the squash,
because his clothes won’t stand the pressure to
the square inch which is engendered by beer, an d
because his wife says his nose is such “a perfect
fright” that she positively will not be seen in the
street with him. For the benefit of any or all of
these ive may remark that there are iust two
genuinely pu e drinks. One of those is spring
water, and the other, obviously, Clausen’s Cham-
pagne Lager Beer. The purity of the latter i s
established by analysis, and it is illustrated by
its taste, its sparkling brightness, and by the
wholesome, healthy, happy, and contented ap pear
ance f the people who drink it. This is no fable,
it is a matter-of-fact statement which can
be substantiated by application to any of
these well-known firms Messrs. Mason Bros ,
Limited, Fesq and Co , Tooth aud Co., Allt and
Co., Burrows and Glees on, Lucas B os., K
Butcher and Co., J. T. and J. Toohey and Co.,
Tidswell, Wilson, and A. Thompson and Co., C.
Bath and Co., Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcy
and Co., A, Rowan and Co,, Tucker aud Co,
Stewart and Co, and others.
James James, negro, aged 136 years, of
Santa Rosa, Mexico, is said to bo the oldest man
on earth. Let the oldest woman now step for-
ward, and declare she is over 28.
“ White is sbeadily going out of fashion
for wedding gowns,” says a fashion writer.
“Quite the most poetic bridal dresses are now
made entirely of flowers." The most popular
flower will, no doubt, bo the marigold.
A Wargaratta (Vic.) woman who suicided
last week was preached into a religious frenzy by
her father-in-law. The whirlgig of time brings
fls revenges. Hitherto it has been the husband
who was talked into frenzy by his mother-in law.
NEWSPAPER ART.
Slight; caricatures of “faithful portraits of the winners of the A. J.C. Derby and the
Hawkesbury Handicap,” &c., according to the DOWN AND GUMTREE JERNIL, from
(alleged) photographs. Doubtless the photographs were all right, but we think we see
how it is. The Artist has run ’em through the mule machine by mistake.
An aristocratic English bride who had
come out without her gun received, among
other wedding presents, the head of a mummy in
a glass case and a Spanish dog eight inches long
and warranted not to grow any longer. The days
when the useful flat iron was presented to society
brides have long since passed away.
A hint to murderers. At Guanajuato
(Mexico) a merchant took to fooling round with
the b r own-skinned darling of a soap manufac-
turer and soon afterwards he disappeared. That
was many years ago, and when he was gone the
soap-boiler married the brown-skinned girl, and
they lived happily together and brought up a
family and then at last he died, deeply regretted
by all who knew him. And on his death-bed he
confessed that he had boiled the merchant into
soap and thus he washed his hands of his rival.
Germany has a surplus of 1,000,000
women. Now we know why she can't keep
quiet.
The wife of a labourer in Devonshire
(Eng.)—they're alwajs wives of labourers—has
given b rth to five children within a year after
her marriage—triplets first, and twins eleven
months afterwards ! Should olive branches con-
tinue to come to this prolific pair at the same rate,
they will have a r ound them at their silver
wedding a family of 125.
From an English paper : —“ It is hard to
help feeling that drink must be one of the causes
of Irish poverty. There are 26,000,000 of persons
in England and Wales, and 5,000,000 in Ireland ;
but folly half a« many persons are convicted of
drunkenness in Ireland in a year as in the whole
of England and Wales. In other words, if we
allow for the disparity in population, we will And
that there are about 230 drunkards in Ireland for
every 100 in England.” Fearful—but wbat then ?
We were speaking on this very subject to an
Irishman fre j h from home not long ago. “I
know it’s bad,” he said, “ but if you wor to see
the state of things in Oirland just now, maybe ye
wouldn’t blame us. By , sir ’’—and in his
excitement he struck an iron fist with a palm the
slue of a bread-plate—“ we have to get dbrunk to
stand it.”
THE INNOCENT BARMAID.
A gentleman was yesterday seen entering the
private bar of a hotel in King-street just about
lunch time whose face was full, and so was his
body. He was a member of Parliament, so say the
whispers, and had a face on him calculated to
make a barmaid tremble.
“Looking up information against Sir Henry,
I presume?” said the dear Miss Alice, whose face
was full of congenial smiles.
“Oh, yes; do you know anything?” said the
member.
“ Well, to he plain—by the way, what is your
drink? You look as it you were aux'ons for
something. Ginger beer, soda, or that famous
ST. LOUIS LAGER BEER? They are all tem-
perance drinks?”
“ ST. LOUIS, please. Now, come—tell me all
you know about Sir Henry.”
“ We’l, the fact is all you cantankerous mem-
bers must be careful wbat you say about him.
I heard only a few minutes ago that Sir Henry
had a thoroughly trained bull pup in his back
yard, and was goiDg to invite all the members
who had insulted him the other evening to a cold
collation. The dog is not to be scan until he is
sure of his visitor, and is afterwards to bo sent to
Queanbeyan for a meal.”
“By Jove! that is valuable information. I
have been invited. What is to become of the
pup ? ”
“ Oh! his hide will go to the Upper Hunter to be
sold to the highest bidder. Hush ! don’t talk so
loud,” said dear Miss Alice. “ See that man
near the door with the big ears? " “ I wonder if
he heard you ? ” said the member. “If he could
not hear you with those ears he ought to take
them in.” And that is what a few of the mem-
bers are trying to do with the public. Another
glass of that famous ST. LOUIS LAGER BEER,
please. I stop at home.”
Lung Troubles and Wasting Diseases can be cured
if nrouerly treated in time, as shown by the following state-
meat from D. C Freeman, Sydney. “Having *-een a great
sufferer from pulmonary attacks, and gradually wasting
away for the past two years, it affords me p.easure to testify
that “Scott's Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Lime
and Soda has given me great relief and I cheerfully recom-
mend it to all suffering in a similar way to myself. In
addition, I would say that it is very pleasant to take. Large
and small sizes at all Chemists.
Summer, ! Hoekings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, doz —143 Pitt-street.
One of the best managed and largest hotels in Sydney is
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The Bhilling luncheon
there is immense *
Nfw South Wales and Freeman s Grig ,nal Chi.oro
dyne-It may he safely asserted that tin world is destmed
F„\ 0 „ a orP at deal more of New South Wales mining
enterprise possessing as she does all the most important
known metals and minerals in great abundance.. Mr Free-
man “he Inventor of the Original and only Genuine Chlo-o-
dvne has in deference to the wi-hes of his patrons and cus-
tomer in New south Wales made such ar angemin’s, that
"foni ” and new arrivals may oh'am his Cnlorodyne with
the ?rea® est facility i • all pirns of this important and rapidly
arowinvcolony. For Colds, Coughs Bronchitis, A«thma »nd
Consumption it has no rival.-So d everywhere throughout
the cSeS. Insist u on having “Freeman s' only. Reject
substituti s as they are worthless. Trade Mark an Ele-
phant.*
£lO 000 MELBOURNE CUP £lO,OOO
At 20s. each.
Run, Nov.. Ist, 1887.
First Horse, £5,000; 2nd, £2,000; 3rd, £1 000; Starters,
£1,000; Non Starters, £1,000; to be divided amongst them.
£2 000 MELBOURNE CUP £2,000
First Horse, £l,OOO, 2nd £3OO, 3rd £2OO, to Starters, £250,
Non Starters £250, to he divided amongst them.
Address — '.Tattersall.
Care i f G. Adams,
Tatterßall's Hotel,
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Cjogee.
fTTHE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
§_ Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies’ Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel is now under entirely new management, end the present prcprietor trusts by careful after ■
tion to business to make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney. *
LOOK AT THIS.
150 Long shaped, Chinese Cane Balcony
Lounges, 12?. 6d.
150 Chinese Balcony Blinds, complete,
with cord and rackpullie3, size 6x 8 6s Od.
150 ~ ~ size BxB 7s. 6d.
150 „ „ size 10 x 8 9s. 6d.
150 ~ ~ size 12 x 8 10s. 6d.
Not more than 5 of aDy one size will be sold to
any one customer, as our object is to make the
prize bargains general, and we again repeat the
prices are for October only, and for above named
parcels.
What more usefal than Chests of Drawers. Jus
read this aloud and go fume' and fret at having
bought elsewhere than Lawler’s.
70 of those handy 4-drawer Chests of
Drawers, £l5 0
100 of those useful large 7-drawer
Chests of Drawers, £2 5 0
100 of those Sideboard looking Chef-
foniers, £2 2 6
20 Large 6 feet glass-back sideboards, £8 10 0
But again we repeat not more than 5 of a line will
be sold to any one buyer.
Gently, gently. We spoke of revolutionary
rates, and we mean to the letter to prove our
prices revolutionary to the hilt.
25 English Ash, full 4 feet Wardrobes,
with silver-plate glass-door, and
fitted with hang up compartment,
and deep drawer under, £7 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Marble, and
tiled back Washs ands, 2 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Dressing Tables,
glass, drawers, &c., 2 15 0
25 Fullsize English Ash Pedestal Cup-
boards, 16 6
25 Fullsize Eaglish Ash Towel Rails, 4 6
50 Fullsize English Ash Cane Seat
Chairs 7s. 6d. each, the two 15 0
£l5 1 0
Phew! - Ask any one else to touch it in single size
in Pine even at £lB.
We are on the job in Upholstery, and simply
invite our friends to call, as space will not admit
of chronocling a few special bargains where so
many prize bargains abound.
But our confidence in the matter of bargains in
Upholstery, is so strong that great though the
temptation is to avail ourselves no farther of the
press, yet what we have done, what we are doing
and what through’great,, marvellous, October wo
will do, is excuse sufficient to break through al
resolves.
Suites for Drawing-room in solid Wal-
nut, and spring set, frames all
close braced, upholstered in
very best manner in own
factories, and covered in Tapes-
try of silk and wool, gimped and
corded, and finished in first-class
style, for the sum of ... .. £l2 10 0
Will bring more money tinder the hammer. Could
not—and here let us say it’s worth the while of
those who read the statement to go through
Sydney houses and judge for themselves, the
above suite could not be got in Sydney a brown
cent less than £6lB 103. Yes, the suite is of 9
pieces. Bat hold on searchers after “bargains’’
we will give you a surfeit of them at Lawler’s dur-
ing this great October sale.
Look at this ye joyful widowers’ who purpose
furnishing again.
Suite of 9 pieces, upholstered on the
premises, webbed from frame in
best manner, and with b ?st web,
spring set and upholstered in
olive terry, the small cha'rs hav-
ing upholstered panelbacks, ... £8 10 0
How is it done? Well, that’s not the lookout of the
buyer. Let the buyer buy, and buy quickly,
whilst bargains of the kind are before him, or as
sure as the sun will shine to morrow he’ll have to
plant down his sweet little £l 2 12s. for the suite
above referred to at Lawler’s at £8 10s.
The £24 10s. suites in Tape-try and plush—and
where can such a selection of frames and furniture
coverings be seen— ye 3, those charming suites will
only be £lB 103. during this sale.
There are some 20 suites upon the floor at £35,
which will be sold during this sale at £25 10s.
But those who want the best Dining-room suite
in Sydney, massive, bold, handsome, glorious,
something in solid Walnut and in real morocco,
here’s a line worth coming to look at.
Massive Dining-room suite in solid
Walnut, upholstered through-
out in curled horse hair, and
covered in real best morocco.
- Value, £9O but at October’s
sale, £57 10 0
This could not be repeated, so there’s no use of say-
ing that it could The frames alone are worth
£3O.
And sideboards and Dinner waggons and Tables
to match.
Gilt Pier Glasses, during sale, 255. Od,
Walnut and Amboina inlay Pierglasses „ 15s. Od.
Black and Gold Pierglasse3, ~ 375. 6d
Large Ditto ~ 555. Od
Very Large Ditto ~ 85s. Od
No exageration to say worth half more than
asked during sale.
This column is about ended. For the good of
those who read we say bear this important fact
in mind that we offer no old stock, ill-fashioned
and damaged, for the simple reason we have none.
There is not an article that will bo on show that
has been 6 months in the warehouse.
Look out for bargains, for by the immortal Jove
and all his juniors wo will make Lawler’s October
sale, and all the Emporium wondrous bargains
thing to be talked of for years to come.
Watch for the ready-made clothing advertise
ment and the bargains in that department.
Boots also, and drapery Carpets and ron
mongery, all will get their turn, and by thunde
they will speak.
The place at which to knock spots off “Fire 1
and all “ other ” sales is Lawler’s Emporium
Call in thousands. Write and you will
attended to with the same promptness as
person.
For October only, this sale of Lawler’s,
but its a terror. ,
LAWLER’S
608 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.


XaaQ.;p©xtem.t!
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OUTLET
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
q ® ® a @ ■ <2. (i a q
O
o-•«
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. IJa/B. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
~ Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/
~ ~ steel notes 50/■
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bov
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo
60s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10b.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in ease,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
BOMM YU mSIS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
Sliver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, fee., &o.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
fs
df
sd
iff
5S
-Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for even form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
255
m
V/
Scrofula on ]Necki»
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching; and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cttticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
•icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Core (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Ror Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
drojgHsts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and JSTew
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
Juticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ino i'c/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per TwttJe.
Prepared bt the
Potter tlrug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
The ‘POTSHOT’ Camera
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World, It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up, and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
observed, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
incident included wi'hin the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the c’ass known as “ DETECTIVE ” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can bs got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which ara pract’cally impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
K
263 to 266 Kent-strset,
Sydney,
Hava always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CQ,'S
Cognac.
«. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A, MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
0 N U M E N X
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Resigns and Estimates forwarded on reciues
J. CVMMNGHAS9,
HUiisnin, Wymward-ssuajl*, Btowsw
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Oimnna.Klironb. A. COOPER. Pronrinl.r.r.
Everybody \
SHOULD USEJ
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
2T 1 X=j O TJ 2fg f
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
. New Process Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
811 Gbobok>stsbby. Stony.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
FNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor*
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 presorip
blons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address i Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
ran. Vln.
B
RAD jjfc Y, I HIWISN, is LAMB
FURNITURE and FIANOFOBTB
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and ("CONNELL STREET
Full suites for dining-room.—side]
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match.
< ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
Gfi
■i:
as
If®
Mil'
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tlon, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. A3T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enab
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra,
D~~ RAWiNGPROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up’
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Imment
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finfoha
in Embridery, Plush, &o. BRADLEY, NEWTOJ
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell an
Spring Streets.
a
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
OUB sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg.
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
Enuc
□□
m
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
ffUBHIXUM WABBEOUSnUHIT,
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets,
fsd
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves fee
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
[MPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the~MOST
L CELEBRATED MAKERS.
fs
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS
In
GREAT VARIETY,
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB-
Spring & O’Connell sts.
|7IABY CHAIKS for Parlour, Library, or Bet*
smy material'. dOSiBnB 00vered 60 os?d “
CHAIR and COUCHTfci'
1 INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
s
T3OCKING BABY CHAIKS, .IwStW MM.
“coLSSS, B '“^Uw• Ne "* o, ‘- “*
df
Bedsteads, »h
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. ©Jreat Tarlety,
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BRADUtY, NaWTOW, m 4
lAMB,
Importers,
0 Connell and Spring Streets,
sd
SFEIN® MATTRASBES
Woven Wire, ba«|
raake | also, Spiral Spring •
Price, from lie, mch,
KRADEiSZg Hiwmw awi rim
CHKAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tabled bora
13a. Bd. j Dining Tables, from 20a.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27a. 6d.j Washstanda, frem 12a 8d »
Cheats of Drawers, from 40a.; Wardrobes, from
80a.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30a.; Cedar Side,
boards, from AS 10s, j Clothes Horses, from IQs. is.
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 80s,
BRAHLB¥. SBIWTOSff. and r.Aasa


Ginger Clarke says he is proud to be a
member of the Parkes Ministry. And the Parkes
Ministry is doubtless proud of him. Amen.
The Pall Mall Gazette heroine, Miss
Cass, is in hot water again. She has been and
got married to a young man who gave evidence
at the inquiry.
Sprinter Hutchens is credited with saying
one neat thing. “ It pays to be honest in the long
run, bub in the short run there’s no money in it.”
Our young friend, erst of Australia, Ben-
zon, the “ Jubilee Juggins,” has again been dis-
tinguishing himself in England. He laid £7OOO on
A Loan —and 100 Per Shen t.
—Vide “Politicians and Pawnshops" in this day’s Bulletin.
“Alone and Friendless.”
Parkes’ Speech.
a horse which lost the Ebor Handicap, and in one
night, at York, he lost at cards, to a “ turf com-
mission agent,” £10,200.
The Rev. Dowie, of Melbourne, who does
faith-healing in job lots, is down on sport like a
thousand of bricks. He finds, by referring to the
Scriptures, that betting is characteristic of the
Jewish race, and he proceeds to slang them up
hill and across country in consequence. He for-
gets that the same high authority warns us to
bear ourselves humbly and lowly towards our
betters.
■“Editor Bulletin. —In a late Issue you
toave under notice “Wolseley's Shearing Machine,"
wherein you state that “ any station hand,
rouseabout, or jimmygrunt, may use the machine.’'
Well, they may use the machine, but not properly.
No, sir—none but a skilful hand can use it effec-
tively. No one can shear a sheep unless he
knows how to hold a sheep, and if you do not
know how to hold a sheep properly you can never
shear a sheep ei her with machine or Bhears. It
will always require the same number of shearers
as hitherto. The shearers will not suffer by it,
but the squatters will gain—not that they will get
their Bheep shorn any better, but they may get a
better staple of wool out.— Practical Shearer.
Seymour, Vic., 12th Oct.
Apropos of the loss of the Derry Castle,
and the experiences of the survivors while sub-
sisting on clams on a desert isle, it may be men-
tioned that Australia can boast of the best ship-
wreck on record. In October, 1829, the Mermaid
was lost in Torres Straits, and the crew were
picked up by the Swiftsure, which sank three
days afterwards. The two crews were saved by
the Governor Ready, and, after being six months
at sea, their vessel foundered, and the three crews
took to the boats and were picked up by the
Comet, which struck on a reef and went down to
the kingdom of David Jones. Then the Jupiter
discovered four crews drifting about and took
them on board, and when she sank at the entrance
of Port Raffles Harbour the five crews got safely
ashore. If any other country can beat this record
without lying we shall be glad to hear from it.
The formation of companies with capitals
of a cool million appears to be Queensland’s pre-
sent fashion of publi hing her prosperity, and tell-
ing the world she isn’t dead-broke. M rant Morgan
commenced the little game a year ago, and the
confiding public testify to the modesty of the pro-
prietors by accepting its present value at eight
millions of pounds sterling ! (It will take “ a
power” of dividends to repay to the confiding
public its principal and interest.) Then came the
Extended Mount Morgan, who are going to pierce
the bowels of the earth in search of a lode.
Capital, a million— subscribed for several times
over. Then Tarangamba is put on the market for
the aforesaid cool million; and now we are
credibly informed that the owners of that strange
mine at Ravenswaod—full of every mineral under
the sun—is to be floated for a similar amount.
The Age says Parkes should resign.
The greatest and most profound statesman
of this or any other age, was, till a few nights
ago, considered by all competent judges to be Mr.
Duncan, member of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly. He sat in his place and said nothing-
said it with a look of sublime conviction--an air
of Sphinx-like solemnity, the parallel of which
has seldom or, perhaps, never been seen since the
days when Harpocrates was worshipped as God of
Silence. Gazing on him one felt at once the grand
veracity of those lines, from an old poet, quoted
by Charles Lamb: —
“ Still born silence ! Thou that art
Floodgate of the deeper heart,
Frost o’ the mouth, than o’ the m'nd." &o.
But all that, and with it all the belief in a vast
reservoir of silent wisdom, was swept away as the
dead leaves by the winds of autumn, or a cloud
of flies by the fall of a poley cow in the sultry
summer, when he opened his mouth and “ began
for to speak.” This is what he said" Mr.
Speaker, I have come in in the middle of a dis*
cushion, and I don't know what it’s all about, nor
how there should be such warmth displayed. But
I will say. and I say it as a duty to my constitu-
ents (Qaunson: Who constitutes you ?) I will say
(Gaunson: You will! (blandly) what are you
going to say ?) Mr. Duncan sat down. This is
all about the greatest and most profound states-
man of any other age.
The editor of a Melbourne weekly advises
“ Bes* ’’ to write of things round about her. We
are looking forward to an interesting posm on
orinolettes.


JBtfcXrJSLAJV JBJELOS., JRIGtGf A C 70.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MEHCBLAN T 8, i
Sit GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY. /
o
o
<5
s
IRONMONGERS
512
X
c»
O.
REG?
%
S
r*.
i
SPECIALITIES |
Darts' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fiie-proof Faint, Albo Oarhon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
BAS COOKING! STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER'S,!
BRADFORD S WASHING MACHINES, ftO., fco,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
iW JPFEBF JSOXJBW.
SES
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS|
ALL NOXIOUS INSECT^,
EETLES MOSQUITOES.
cockroaches and is
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
harmlesstobiros
FOWLS OROTHER'S4
DOGS
1?y
ANIMALS
' w \ 41
' /v*f
§
X
<fr ,<r*
/VW^
<?
SOLD'
ParAIICHEMISTf
AND STOREKEEPERS
ftMOUSAU
FELTON-CRIMWAPEUC®
-MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
** for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
LOVELY SKIN,
by <lks«wi^S mpl i < ? x . soft ’ smooth an, l delicate neck, face, hands and arms can best be obtained
(ttnainmeif ,eaden “ Ild Sjeaay cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed to
skin cannot possiM v have any good effect on it . and by using
Rowland a’
ICalyaor
S*poBed&> ’ h j*J in ? *i nd refreshin F reparation for the face, hands and arms of all
t&n, sunburn and dust of summer or the odd and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
Water mm i? 1 8 ’ , re^neBB *nd roughnes?* ,v f lhe skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
burns’ scaiuJ 6 ? K lm ples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
Pleasa’ni- me< * eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
it is wn ~a ™ r shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin;
skin of free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on the
01 tlle most delicate lady or child,
aize at 2s 3d <B ' M ' and 8s - P° r bottle; bottles of half the usual
.ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
R hu/i a ®‘°^ en co * our * or Alr -haired people.
p Ie KOWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
harden T% rance \° the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS* articles, of 30, Hatton
• London, and avoid cheap, worthless imitations.
o and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser &jtCo.,USydney.’ ! *
«TS
T. WILLIAMS * 00.,
IMPORTERS Of
British & Foreign Boots &" Shoes ;
Alio Manufacturer! of
The Finest Quality or Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
fsd
UINe soda water.
mi Water He,
HILL, SYDNEY.
6 Parity Guaranteed.
v^SHAIH
fciajc nervine!
NERVINE."
8 tonic nervine
Promotes Appetite.
CUrea - Ner v° PS Debility-
&nd Storekeepers—Price 1/fo
0nl * by
BROTHERS,
' Vv • : London, England
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of thia
book will be sent free, Bealed. Address—
8. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
"RIDGE’S
FOOD
edr INFANTS ANQ INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale m England,.
|nrt Is'adow being introduced Into the
Coionfcs.
CveryStorekeeperishouldgeta supply,
u &*ry wise jnootbejr"w.UA certainly
use dt.
DHU
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches!
64 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.000
Reserve fund ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private Bitting
rooms without extra charge.
(t Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MARTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAIVPS PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
truinea a Box for bilious
*nd nervous disorders,
such as wind and pan
in the stomach, sick
headaohe, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, oold
chills, flushings of heat,,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive
ness,scurvy, blotches os?
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c. The first
dose will give relief in
sw«nty sainotes. This is no fiction, for they have
don® it in thousands of cases. Kvery sufferer is
sarraestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and
fe®y will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
open all obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
is no medicine to be found to equal BE® OH AM’S
PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
«f the system. If taken according to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females o*
all ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whol® muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame,, These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,,
Beech ana’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
sued ioine in the world.
BEECH AM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression, of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Pule stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
stay of the above complaints need only try One Box
i*> prove that they are the best ever offered to the
fublic for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
of breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Bet any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Biiceix’s
Cou&h Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he
removed.
Cttmoir.—The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
each. —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers throughout the Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with ®ach box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
Oh i m
HE above Is one of the oldest! Family and
Squatting Hotels In the oolony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. W. COMPIGNK, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1 #7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BODQDET
ESS. BOUQUET
TKEVOL
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPEE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled for their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON'S EAO DE TOItETTE DE LONORES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors,
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturer* —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
. Trade Mark— '‘"White Rose ” on “ Golden
tea L rre.” A
&SOH/$
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And KB QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Guinness’ Extra Stomt.
FIRST
QUAUTYo
V
s
BASS' PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS tc tfe‘
COIONAI> AND INDIAN UIRmMi
ft LONDON,
By Speolal Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN JOHK&TOK l GO.,
Ctßvmfi) Oamlbui, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARRANDERA, N.S.W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train.
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Bookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne toffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows6s. per diem, All meals Is. 6d,
fsdf
Br
ANB
US
Sal 1 Wli
W.' SMA DHL': Mr rtC,
3 f M £} W> ’ w O M -[
p
I
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
RB. JONES, Importer and General Agent,
• REMOVED to No. 6 BRIDGE-STREET,
SYDNEY,
AGENTS WANTED to handle our new lines
Of fast-selling Subscription Books, &c., &o.
Full particulars free on application. Address
R. B. JONES, 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
THE MOST WELCOME DISCOVERY OF
MODERN TIMES. ,m,
A CURE for PULMONARY CONSUMPTION,
To the consumptive, and those who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorrhage,
and other affeetions of the lungs, this notice is of
vital importance, for this remedy will effect a
perfect cure of the most stubborn cases.
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this advertisement as the ordinary notice
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healiDg, causes easy
and copions expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers.
On application for reference we will send the
addresses and testimonials of those persons whom
it has cured.
The Consumptive Cure can be obtained from the
offloe of William Ford and Company, No. 1
Australia-street, opposite Courthouse, Newtown,
Sydney. Sent to any part of the Colonies. Price,
7s. 6d. per bottle. And where may be also ob-
tained The Cure of St. Vitus’ Dance, by ex-
ternal application, which disease it will cure
within eighty-four hours.
m
m
jrr.'i
STUDY ECONOMY
»nd
Have yonr Umbrella frame* re-
covered and your
Faraioli re-lined and made eqna
to Hew. at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
s*l George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathnrit Street*
Faraioli made to match ao*
Ranain neatlv biiiulil
TO STAND THE SEASON,
At Rosehill Racecourse, Parramatta,
Bonrie Charlie.
THE Famous Imported Hungarian Pony,
BONNIE CHARLIE, 11 hands high, by
Ponil from Match.
Terms, £5 ss. An allowance for any number
over three.
Only a limited number of Mares can be taken,
for which early application is necessary, to be
made to 65 Castlereagh-street, to Wm. Inglis and
Co., Horse Bazaar, or to Brush Farm, Eastwood.
JOHN BENNETT.


ROYAL MK/flt
SSSi
•j UK
*4KiN c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, Baleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweetef, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
f». iFt, Xj^LXCi»:j[j^r v
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED EOR.
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY IN THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE'
""' The SINGLE BOTTLJS DEPARTMENT Is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORG'S STREE T, SOUTH,
S7DITB7.
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
I C.LUSTRATKD CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI, Fla-
vor Artistic Posing and E ®, niano y, tM
combimng safeness and o
Photographs or
GHARLEMONT
ROYAL ARCADE:
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY
QCHOOL OF ARTS HALh, Sj
O Queensland. —The above yea A
icensed under the Queensland 1
Every Company travelling
for the past 18 months has (w* a
occupied this Hall, including o®%*
ind Leitch, Thornton and Rarw
Maur, and Grattan Rig# B ’ „ % ? b<j
MacMahon’s Dramatic Company. sea aott ‘ r ,jrf
included a brilliant and succe m tvfO gj
Company played in the Theatre
«o, and Mr. MacMahon WjgJnliflg
lighly pleased with the le"* I « jjM*
Managers are requested to bo ° ~o rr Q
»efore opening to secure _ fltar y. >
’erms on application to the »eu .
THEATRE ROV^
ROCKHAMPTON- .
rHE above is the only F^f^ n^Theat pi
Rockhampton for en«®<*
ther Entertainments, and oan
ny term upon annH nation to
THOS. BtJOKLA^
MINING. MACHINERY, ANR
Chabtebs TOW® #W.
Agent for Robey and Co., V Ibo0 *
~ „ Langland'* Foundry
E. D.
MINING AND COMMISSION
Mining Kxohast
CHARTERS TOWERS.
ASK YOUR QROOBR FOR
FRYS MALTED
J
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
" AJS OBDIN ARY OUP OONTAINH MOBK AOTIVI* PBOP«'"' r,BB
THAN A PINT OP THB BBSS ALB OB POBT*B
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmlthlng, Blaoksmlthlng, Plumbing,
Gaaflttdng, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
•ole Agent* for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhanst Van Cowls, das Vires, Heaters,
Warmers, 4a
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY.
Pull Particulabh and Pbiob on Application,
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
KT Private Suites for Families, to
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HofEL7GympieT
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
||oM
Belle Vue
bbisba^^ 1 '
Opposite Parliament Houses,
and Queensland d®
U° T^
FIRST-CLASS FAMH* 1
accommodation
A Waiter Msets B^erf
Letters and telegrams
prietor,
CO
e. J* l
please
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR E. ROWLANDS.
a
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &C., MADE ON THE PREMISES.
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET,LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON.
FXTZKOIT HOTBL t
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
JBT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
Cigr&x
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, 60ULBURN, N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
*M.B I L B Y
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
II ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY
Absconders and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
'Onfidenttal Inquiries instituted. Kvidenoe obtained in
Usoroe, libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
fusion and others. Copies of wiUs, certificates of birth,
aanriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
gent* and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in Mae Detective Force of New South Wale*, Victoria, and
dew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
{lobe, he l* in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
mpsuiUua and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully and
iroeipt jr attend to all business entrusted to h care.
afteb oefore Moustache and Whiskers.
BEFORE AFTER
Copyrighted. .
henwli h/ia'l ii/i tin,.,l
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,
ntd will do it on either bald
head or hare face■ Forres
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks arid never fails* 20,000
young men already wear full
Copyrighted.
beards, having used 1 to 3 pkts. A'o injury, easily applied., certain
in effect. Packets , (s d. each, 3 for C>d., post paid, sent under
cover , free from observation. Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Jiox 731). Q P. 0., Sydney, N S. H .
laglofQfri
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MA\ BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT
the c ° l '
0N y '
WIEdENER'S WATCHES. WIESENER'B WATG.fS'
NO amount ot competiti n reduces Uie demand. Their reputation for reliability is unassailable. Reduction in price
quality. Geneva, English, and American Watchea, of proved qualities and results, in sterling cases, from
Monogram, Crests, Inscriptions engraved. Country orders promptly and faithfully executed well packed" and posted W e 6
Estimates and prices by return post. 1 r '
U
of
334 BTZRZEI E3U.\, S'SrBzESrZETST.
