

The Bulletin
Assigned Estate
OF
>SHUA DAVIES AND COMPANY,
P'D’RCSASBD IB "2"
OF
George and Bathurst Streets,
SALE
COMMENCES ON
Thursday, November 24 m
we
j this high class drapery will be sold so cheap as to attract crowds to our shop
o teri ding buyers TO NOTE the following regulations, and thereby save themselves and
lenience and trouble
\ BULBS OF THE GBBAT LE
goods will be allowed to leave the premises until paid for.
goods will be delivered until the following day, after purchase.
{ close the doors each day between one and two o’clock.
you are wise, come to the great sale, say, from 8 to 12 o’clock-in the morning.
delay your coming until the best bargains are sold.
iley Brothers,
GEORGE AND BATHURST STREETS.


(tUWnAXEOCKXALPAVB,».«gSIg|y^S7-^^
%
iW.H.PALING &(§“**
! 356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY. '
fIAiIO,ORGAN f MUSIC IMPORTERS,
largest stockand SreatestVariety in Australia - fMng the
Wide impossible choice.-PIANOS from £4o, ORGANS from £l2
* PAYMENT SVM’ONtHLY INSTALMENTS TO SUITaALL CUSTOMERS
PALING PALING & G?
){ard man Bros.
5y<wg.i
bWI
MMTlORS
totojbj
33 Mimiu
©=S=
Gou>f*Snt*/
AJHO
7rCACI£
Rff/NfPS
m/Uf OfflCC l FACTORY. NCWTOWN
BRANCH. CEORCE SI. SYDNEY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE :
CORNER of MARKET and YCRK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
ffhe Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. F H.-’-uu, Esq.
John Vann, KBq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathsy, Esq.
>lders «,t the rate o 121 per cent.
Of 12 months (2 1-'
O „ 11 per cent j
The Bank ' -ansacta all u ual
. cpeuou, ~ >uiiLoU, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Securities.
AjMirriw. in London and throughout the world.
OVERDRAFTS GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.
Deposits Received.
Interest Allowed i
At Call, 4 per cent.
8 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 0 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS OF »»|fl
BIX AND TWELVE *- 1 .
Depositors can arrange to withdraw the whole
•r portion of their deposits without notice, and
will be allowed current interest for the period of
deposit.
The Share Register is still open, and Intending
Shareholders can obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
report, minutes, forms of application for shareß,
fcc., tto.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M'NAMARA,
SECRETARY
THOS. BUCK LAND,
MINING. MACBINERYr AhD OESBBII 10IM
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineer!, Lincoln)
„ „ Langlsnd'i Foundry Co . Mfibonrrt Vt>
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AfchM
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QLEBhBIAFL
/wM iMiw*
UMBRELLAS
BE COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Framei re-
covered and roar
Paraiola re-lined and made eQua
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Btreet,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathnrst Btreeti
Faravon made to matob «Oi
livi) Reoairi uiMka*
w
tt.t,s' HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well
known reputation maintained.
M.PERIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
be of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
First-olaes Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings The “Western Cham-
pion” says i ‘‘l can recommend the Rookhampton
Etesonlo bo my western friends.’
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress —Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
USE 'MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.
Prioe, 2s. 6d. per bottle, j
Posted to all parts of the colonies free on receipt
•f stamps. .
MOONEY, Chemißb, Cootamundra, N.S.W..
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
L SOVEREIGN BEMEDY
Oa' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
DoiOßKtrx, Aching Pains in the Limbs
wack, or Head.
W by suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM 8 RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary In Bottles, la, 2a Bd., sa, and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyea It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
itß agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Bole Proprietor,
fl. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohcmist,
081 Qeorso-etreet only.
WALDER, Tent, Tarp aulin, Oilskin Maker
296 Pitt-street.
%4'V .
A A
ISM
.^.ve
7*3*
-
S.h'tlftn. Tim* Ta&rni/uH On.tK.IN ant rt»t Mama
636 A*r ST-
Marquees on Hire.
ICINA
AK INC
P
aN
%
§9:
OBTAINED A
F 1 ST CLASS AWARfI |
:^'v Y • ' V V- 1
HILHEST DEGREE OP MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD !!
NONE OTHER BUT
' . LWA U.'<_= H’s
Recs 1 .vgiém £,fs~.12§-RQATI‘QNAI»¥
; * ‘P. :‘l-Zf'tfﬁ‘ﬁﬁiéil-iu..T
Manufactured b yJamesChanmon
Harbour 5 t Sydney
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
m
iia
DtXSOU&SQNS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
TXIXSON & SONS’ CONQUWW »
not only manufactures M j,
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSU
BULK OF THE AMERICAN lK * F
into New South Wales, and hence th® &
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTA
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1
10,000 per hour, the choicest w ,ll
w,tll size, s° ia
and Paris rice tissue.
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 C 1
lea-'
NEW ZEAIAND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students.from Sydney Hospital,
ﬁt“
gigsfé‘, A
iiii’r-iséﬁm
3‘5 -' ' I: 2%: (SI.
xv: ,7 ’~‘: : :. "-‘
'-:-*fjm‘l \r%?;;: =. .
1‘ M“ g, Fr: ‘ ‘
“{9\.-\\\‘y\\-\,\".‘;-F 5 “ ’ \'
\\.uw , ' . u‘\;‘
, ‘; 'vi' 1 \‘1' ‘
\ ‘1‘ Wm , - \m m,\
“,3. .x.
MONK’S
Pile mixture.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
U an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
IVLOI^IK^S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcee Mixture,
A positive o', re. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. fid. per bottle.
DB/COTSTK’S
NEURALGIA ffIXTUPE,
2s. fid. per bottle,
Sole Agents:
MATHEY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
ii Little Collins tbeet East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIK, QUEENSLAND.
The Centrai Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous fur all parties engaged In mining
business.
H G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and Bpirlts of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office: Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR, BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry ane
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public thal
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge ol
the SUNBUBBT HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and faring the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit
lng the oelebrated Mountain will flndevery apmforl
and convenience to greet them on their arrival,
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aooommoda
Mon of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel, Coaohee
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry ft Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL
MOUNT MORGAN.
HE
RBMINSfTOW
TYPE-WRITER
Baret labour, (taMtraetr. ie< time, writing mnota fatter
Ulan expert pen-men, and consenting matter to leu than
one-half the tpaoe oocnpled bg pen writing. Beantifnl
eoplet mag be taken In the utual manner In the letter-prett
Bold wholetale and retail bv tbe tole agenta,
IIfRAY ft CO,/
110 Kent-atreec.
dfd
A.
•RANUFXCTUR£RS
lr IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS it
4M CEO RCE ST
/SYDNEY
m
ft
BUNDABER 0
Undkb New MA^ AeKME:rfT
FINEST SAMPLE BOOM TOK
COI
iiA**
PLUNGE AND SHOW®* 1
for B® 0 ®
Good Stabling, and Loose BO*w
1 style-
,e^
drawing-boom
Having engaged a flrat
to cater for the publio In a nr®
ALF. P.
RUSTON PROCTOK &CO '
1 TRIUMPH " THBASBI 11 ® "
"""■ *■*
Simon’s Roll*# Sttst*** ° r
Sole Agent®' (jo'>
E 0. ELLIOTT
54T KENT ■ jjjjjJk
THE GREAT ’north®^.^
C H A.RLOTT E-PLACE AN» _ "
K. HA N ,
1 DC .^fe,#
wins, SPIRITS, ani
you please from the list of l° w p g c otflt h t o ' P jii
Robertson’s, Walker or Royal 3l %$Z ' uft
DunvilKs Shamrock *nd Burke I* - ' »ft
Brian Boru Whisky '* " * “ K
Henner y's * Oognao
■i *** ii
Square Oln _
Jamaioa (turn ' *h'pe r u.
Red Heart do - . II
Flasks Brandy and Whiskies -L U ot •• »
English Vies and Stout, best bra “ a |id<
Port Wine for connoisseurs ana Catr ~*/!
Port Wint and Sherry from 3CW- p
rooms are conducted under thei be »i s jwSLf i
late of Wellington (N.Z.), whieb^
Quests will receive every attention fc . o a
Wines, Spirits, and Beers
papers kept on file.*
- P (S'
, P%
VP
V
dfd
MACHINE^
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
fOCK^
LARGE
ALL
WITH
DESiCNS
EST
<
$
LOCOMOTIVES,
ESTIMATED
F<
11l
Sydney:
111, Pin STREET.
KlN c


The Bulletin
8 -NT3 403
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 20. 1887.
Price, 6<l.
POLICEMAN SALISBURY: "HUM! I S’POSE HE S TCO BIG TO PUT INTO GAOL


“THE BULLETIN,”
The national Australian newspaper.
Proprietors* BULLETIN NEWSP-AFBR C
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Svdxev, New Sout^Wales
teems to subscribers
{Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum, ... ... •••
Half-yearly 0 1.25. od.
Quarterly ® 6s *
Cheques Drafts, Ac., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. E. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
THE BULLETIN is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1887,
The Political Judas.
Even Judas has found apologists. This is
somewhat surprising, but not so surprising
as it would seem at first sight. The number
of people who betray is a large one, and
there are a good many of them who have had
wits enough to discover that the easiest and
most efficacious form of betrayal is with a
kiss Nevertheless we should scarcely expect
such shrewd men to own up to their little
trick. Nor do they. It is only a belated
fool here and there of the party, who in-
genuously makes indiscreet admissions and
helps us “ ex uno discerc omnes,”— to perceive
by the pattern what the block material is
like ! ,
As with individuals, so with classes.
The political Judas is ever to the fore.
He, is easily recognised. He is the
party in power. Formerly it was the
king the despot, who saluted his sub-
jects with a kiss, and then handed them
over to his armed mob. Then the nobles,
the aristocrats, wrung the power from him,
and learnt how to kiss and betray in turn.
On the wielders of caste followed the wielders
of coin, and the bloated middle-class which
France to-day knows as her bourgeoisie,
Ymerica and we as our shopkeepers, and the
whole world as the potent tribe of the Philis-
tines —stepped into the vacated iolc . They
have been the hardest masters of all.. Petty
tyrants always are, Under their rule,
society has been resolutely divided into two
camps —the classes and the masses, the pos-
sessors and the dispossessed. They have en-
listed both kings and aristocrats on their
side in the only too successful effort to rob
and degrade the masses and keep them so.
The English middle-class used the masses
in the Reform Agitation of 1830, to extort
the control of things from the aristocrats.
They succeeded. The Reform Bill of 1802
handed over England to the Philistines, and
swindled the masses. The fierce outbursts
of Chartism were the impotent effort of the
masses to gain their rights to make the
middle-class fulfil its promises. Then the
kissing trick was brought into play, and the
masses were banded over, tied and bound, to
the police and soldiery of Castedom and the
Pontius Pilate of the aristocrat tribunals !
* * *
The same was done in 1 ranee. I hat
brigand and cut-throat of empire, Louis
Napoleon Bonaparte, seized and retained
power there simply as the minister of the
Pililistines, as the preserver of law and
order.” At the first great International
Exhibi' ion of 1851, the two great European
middle classes jubilated. The Queen and
her Consort had followed their natural bent
and put themselves at the head of the
Philistine materialistic boom, and Tennyson
dragged his lyre through the gilded mud
to celebrate their triumph. But note the
peculiar abomination of all this. The
mask was still retained. The harlot
wo aid be a hypocrite. The tyrant would be
an apologist. “Mine,” said Louis Napo-
leon, “ is a government firm, founded on re-
ligion, justice, uprightness, love of the classes
irhich suffer” —“ Vamour des classes souff-
rantes!” Yes; while the most thorough robbery
and degradation of the mass of the people which
history has ever seen was proceeding relent-
lessly, British and French Philistinism have
neve. ceased to assure the world their rale was
prompted by “ the love of the classes which
suffer !”
* * *
In America, ax, the same time, the Southern
slave-owners repealed exactly the same cry
about their human “chattels,” and America has
not forgotten—AmeUca can never forget —
that, in the supreme hour of her agony and
national humiliation, tbj hour when rebel
flags floated before the walls of her capital
and rebel drams woke the echoes of the
streets, middle-class England and France —
Royal Qaeen and Imperial Emperor, gentle-
man and shopman, parson and priest, on either
side the Channel, openlyand exultantly urged
on the men who aimed that terrific blow at
American Democracy and American Unity—
the Secession War. Let the English Demo-
cracy and the Australian Democracy never
forget it, either. The middle-class has kissed
and betrayed our fathers in the past. Let the
kiss which it offers us in the present be
answered with a blow on the lips !
* * *
We Australians too often forget that we
are not socially isolated We seem to think
that the social problem of other nations —of
England, France, Germany, Austria, Russia,
even America—-is not ours. We lose sight
of the similarity of the law in the diversity
of its phenomena. The social problem,
properly speaking, is the same all over the
world—the degradation of the masses—and
that is as much ours as any country’s.
America used to think as we did. “ These
States,” to use Whitman’s grandiloquent
phrase, were never to know tyranny or war.
They 1 were to be the beacon of nations, the
model of races ! Well, at that very hour the
whole South was a horrible monument
of tyranny, and fratricidal war (as the
Old Testament says of the crime
of Cain) “was at the door.” No
matter ! That war righted the wrong !
Tyranny is over now, and “ These States ”
(always with a cap! al T and S, please) are
once more going to be the beacon of etcetera,
etcetera. Well, at this very hour the whole
land, north, south, east, and west, is a monu-
ment of a tyranny more horrible still—the
ruin of the democratic yeomen—the degra-
dation of the masses ; so that Henry George,
emphatically an economist and man of peace,
fears that things can only be righted by “ a
revolution.”
* * *
Why is this ? It is because everywhere,
again and again, the Democracy has been
kissed and betrayed by the middle-class—
because once more the political Judas, with
his Public Charities, his Sectarian Relief
Houses, his Distress Funds, his loud-
trumpeted, voluntary restitution to Laborn
of the pennies of the pounds cf which he has
robbed it—the political Judas once more
has successfully played his trick. Every-
where, we repeat, the law is the same—the
trick is the same. It is only the phenomena,
it is only the shape it takes, which are dif-
ferent. The Democracy is as much kissed
and betrayed to-day in Australia by
capitalists and landowners as it has been, or
is, anywhere else.
* * *
Let us take the latest local examples.
The recent riots in London have been of so
serious a nature that even “ the stupid
papers,” the out-and-out Tory organs here,
have had to take notice of them. The dear,
dull, old Sydney Morning Herald, like its
prototype, the played-out London Times,
has nod yet “dropped” to the Judas trick,
and the using of the Democracy as a cat’s-paw,
and so—bless it—it speaks straight out
for coercion and repression by force :
“If, as the Radical leaders threaten, there will
be another attempt to hold a meeting next
Sunday, the consequences may be painful; but
order must be maintained at any cost, and un-
happy as the resort to force is, it is sometimes the
only way that peace can be best preserved, and
the permanent interests of society upheld."
Up in Brisbane they are on the eve of a
general election, and it does not do to go
quite so far. We cannot use our teeth :we
can only show them, and explain that modera-
tion is really best, you know. Harken, then,
to the Courier, the local “ stupid paper ” :
“Not even the Duke of Wellington, with some-
what martinet views of the libsrty of the subject,
denied the prerogative of the Chartists to march
in semi-military phalanx through the streets of
the metropolis to a fixed objective point, and
there halt and indulge in frothy declamation.
. . . If discontent exists in the capital it is
better that it should have legitimate vent, and no
more innocuous method of allowing the masses of
the people to blow off the steam of dissatisfaction
could be imagined than in the silent assent to the
time-honoured privilege cf harangue
Taking advantage of these demonstrations, certain
Socialists joined hand in hand with the artisans
out of work, and foolishly marched to the Man-
sion House, displaying banners with the device
‘ bread or work ’ and hoisting Phrygian caps on
more or less greasy poles."
[Those “ more or less greasy poles,” par
parenthe.se, are good—distinctly good. Tney
show such an active imagination on the pare
of the pressman, hired, at so much a column,
to sneer at his fellows. But he forgets that,
if they were greasy, they probably got their
greasiness in the shops of his patrons, the
Philistines.] Well, so much for Annas and
Caiaphas, and what they have to say. It is
stupid enough, and detestable enough. But
for what is truly infamous and revolting, we
must call up the genuine political Judas.
Oh, Sydney Daily Telegraph, arise !
* * *
Listen, Judas is perorating :
“It is quite true that occasionally these socia-
lisfa'c gatherings have been attended by a. measure
of violence. Only occasionally, though. Socialism
is a vital force and a far-reaching organisation in
London. There, may be much error in the doctrines
they advocate, and some of their leaders may
overstep the bounds of truth and prudence in their
harangues, but it has long been believed that in
England truth is trusted to win in its own battles
and liberty is loved too much to b 8 interfered with
because outrages and indiscretions and intimida-
tions are perpetrated in its name.”
“ Dazzle my eyes,” as the poet says, “or do
I see three suns ?” No, you only see a galaxy
of tho patent J udaaian rhetorical fire-works,
And there are more to follow. The Govern-
ment that has prohibited these gatheriogs is
“ A Government which represents the privileged
classes in their antagonism to the masses.”
Wherefore, “ the present condition of
things ”
“ Cannot last for ever. It ought not to last for
ever. It is repugnanttothe spirit of Christianity.''
Step up, O crowd of juggling crows ! Judas
wants you. Judas tosses you on the ball.
The land-shark has spoken. The Heaven-
shark must clinch the argument !
* * *
“ 0, generation of vipers, who hath warned
you to flee from the wrath to come ?” Your
brains and stomachs, your schemes and greed !
But we know you ! Can any good come out
of you ? Do you care one jot or tittle for
the struggles and anguish of the poor and
rppressed, the plundered and slain? You
will barter in their pain and trade in
their agony and sweat ! You have made
civilisation—-the House of Mankind — a den
of thieves ! We know you ! But you love
to quote. Here is quota* ion for you—from
Shakespeare, your respectabilised expur-
gated Shakespeare :
“Impudent s'rumpet!
“ By Heaven, you do us wrong.”
“Are you not a strumpet ?”
“ No, as we are Christians .”
“ What, not a ?”
‘ 1 No, as we shall be saved,
“ Is it possible ? ’
“ O, Heaven, forgive us.”
“ We cry your mercy then !
We took you for that cunning , Philistia,
That married with Democracy!”
AUSTRALIAN CIVILISATION.
A GAOL FLOGGING.
BY FRANCIS ADAMS.
Rain, rain, rain ! Far on into the sleepless
night and morning I can hearitrustling on thecorru-
gated-iron roof above me, now softly, now thickly,
as the shower waxes or wanes. My thoughts, off
and on, turn to something which I am going to see
to-morrow. I am going to see two men flogged
in Darlinghurst gaol. I have never seen a man
flogged, but I know that the lash is held by those
who have suffered it to the full as worse than the
rope. These two are to be flogged for unnatural
offences. This seems to me to be, whatever view
I or anyone may hold of the use of the lash, an
abuse of it. It involves the whole sexual problem,
a problem fit to bewilder the greatest and wisest
head that ever sat on human shoulders. This is an
offering not to justice, but to pseudo-religion. These
men were not tried on the merits of v hat they
had done. The ascetic element of a faith based on
the contempt of matter—an unhealthy faith—here
sat in judgment on an unhealthy offence. The law
whichleavesuntoucbed the man who has fouledand
ruined a girl’s whole existence seizes on one form
of sexual bestiality, and wrecks vengeance cn it.
There are other forms which we all know are as
bad, but which we all know pass .unquestioned—
at least by the law. Granting all this (as it must
he granted), no one who has eyes to see with, and
senses wherewith he may understand, can feel
satisfied that these men will suffer, either justly or
well, the harshest and most degrading form of our
penal punishment. The physiologist would tell
us that their proper place was in an asy-
lum, not a gaol ; and a healthy and kindly life
the curative necessary, not the lash. Our own
intelligence would tell us that this punishment
could only make hateful and desperate the
sufferer, and that, just as the unhealthy and un-
kindly life to which he had been born, had bred in
him his offence (and the same is equally true of
you and me); so, if condemned to return to it, he
must needs be the worse for all this. No, his
punishment is clearly due to two things- firstly,
to an exaggerated pseudo-religious sentiment (I only
say exaggerated, not imaginary or false); and
secondly, to the effort of the public opinion that
has held this sentiments, to deter offenders by
terror.
* * *
Such are my thoughts as I lie here sleep-
lessly. Meantime, what are the thoughts of those
two men as they lie, probably sleeplessly, too?
The idea that the criminal feels that he is a
miserable sinner, and that the respectable people
are human acgels, is surely exploded. No one
can have known the poor of London, of Paris, of
Eastern Australia’s three capitals, as I have done,
and credit them with such stupidity. They know
well that they are what they are made, just as the
respectable people are, and that a change of plaoe
would mean a change of character. Do not
imagine that these men believe they are punished
justly. Do not imagine that they do not know
that, in the matter of sexual sensuality, you and
I are not much, if any, better than they. Our
faces betray us. Wives and husbands have this
tale to tell, as well as social outcasts and
their male associates. Let us not deny
it, because, what is the good? We only
show that we are not honest, intelligent,
earnest men, who, recognising the truth of things,
are trying, with God’s help, to make them better.
Jesus never denied this. Nay, it was because He
asserted it with such passionate force that the
Civilisation of His time slew him. No, these men in
their dumb incoherent minds, trapped and powerless
to avert the punishment they fear, brood over the
everlasting personal wrong. ‘ ‘What have I—-I done
that I should suffer all this, when thousands, who
have done as bad and worse, go free?” These
men cannot think—they can only brood. Like
animals ill-used, they can only nourish hate of
the whole human tribe that has ill-used them.
Whatyou and I know, they can only feel; but what,
in the long run, is the difference ? • The fullest ap-
plication of ill-use, and punishment for the re-
sults thereof, as sins against morality and civili-
sation, produced brave fruit indeed—food that
must encourage us in our noble task of social
repression. It was applied to the French “ lower
orders” in the 18th century, and produced the
French Revolution. It was applied to the French
“lower orders” in the 19 th oentury, and produced
the Commune. And it is being applied by us,
with some modifications (for which let us all be
thankful), no less in Australia than in Europe
and America. And what has it produced for us—
for us Australians ? It has produced larrikinism !
Well, my brothers, you two who are lying sleep-
lessly as I am—you in gaol, I in my home—all three
looking forward to that “ceremony” which is to
take place to-morrow —our thoughts are not in
reality so very different! I shall know that
wrong—that injustice which leads civilisation to
degrade men and then punish them for their
degradation—and you will only feel it athwart
your fear and anguish, and the after-hours of
impotent hate. I shall stand and watch you, and
think that I have as much call to be lashed on
those triangles as you. There will be at least one
man who will not look upon you as upon a show,
but as upon brothers, victims of the hideous
iniquity which here is called Civilisation. Raio,
rain, rain ! Will to-morrow be like to-day ? The
lampless, grey - clouded heavens, the driving
showers are its fittest accompaniments. Rain,
rain, rain 1
* * *
The clouds have broken by the morning.
The firmamental blue peeps through here and
there. Then the clouds close again, and then re-
open ; but at last, by afternoon, the character of
the day is fixed. Thin, lofty, white banks lie
along the sky beside great blue gulfs. The frogs
cease their delighted soreeohing, and croak more
soberly. The birds sing here and there—
“So pricketh hem nature in hir corages,”
as Chaucer says. Everywhere are those pure,
tender, jewelled tones which the Sydney atmo-
sphere excels in. Something of the close of the
summer’s day is upon things. It is five o’clock now
and the little group of those who are to be specta-
tors of the “ ceremony ” is gathered in the space be-
tween the outer and inner gates of the gaol. The
inner gate is of iron bars, and through it you can
see the interior. The interior is quite pretty.
Flowers are much cultivated there. The beds are
full of them. Green trees wave to and fro in the
gentle breeze, the birds singing in the boughs.
There is an effort to hide the iron gauntlet under
scraps of velvet. Nob a trace or a sign of a
prisoner ! As we are let through the gate, as we
walk along the well-kept paths, as we pass on
right into the heart of the prison—still not a trace
or a sign of a prisoner! We come to an inner
gate, and are kept at pause a moment. There
are five or six of us, of whom the strangers are
three reporters (myself one) and a well-fed, well-
dressed individual who has been brought here, he
tells me, by curiosity. Curiosity is a large word, and
once it was a noble one, as we find it in Latin and
still in French. But there is a smack of the
“butchered to make a Roman holiday” sort of
thing here, and that is simply loathsome. My fel-
low-pressmen, I learn, are of the order of cordial
approvers of punishments like this. So I stand
in silence, a little apart, listening, or not listening,
to the general talk. I can just catch the notes of
the birds in the garden. They come here on the
wind. Then we are let through, and pace on
again. It appears “these affairs” (to use the
accompanying warder’s phrase) are “ kept quite
at the back.” We came to a stop opposite a pas-
sage, through the door at the end of which
another warder comes, and almost immediately
the Governor is with us. A grey-headed man, but
still in the prime of life ; oourteous withal, and
with a kindly look!
“ Now, gentlemen 1” he says, and leads us
through the door, and we are on the appointed
spot.
Imagine an alley between two high, bare brown
brick walla. One wall is that of the prison building
the other is the outer circumambient wall. At
either end the corner turrets are visible, a sentry
in each, armed with his musket. Twenty or
or thirty yards up, fixed against the inner wall, is
a wooden frame. It is like a large towel-horse.
There is a cloth in front of it, on the ground.
Standing up against it, a bare arm tied up to either
post, his feet tied together in the middle, is a man.
His face is to the wall and a coat is fluDg over his
shoulders. Perhaps he has been waiting a little,
and it would be a pity for him to take cold ! His
shirt and hat are on the ground against the wall,
a little way off. As we advance, a warder, a
little stout, grey-headed man who has been con-
cerning himself with these things, removes the
coat. At the same time the man turns his face
and looks at us. It is not a man at all! It is a
mere lad of 16 or 17, with a pink and white face.
The face is the reverse of bestial or degraded. The
dark eyes are rounded with apprehension. We all
pause, and there is a silence. A bird begins to
sing. I lift my face, catching a glimpse of a great
space of an unfathomable blue sky overhead, and
notice a few straggling trees farther up the alley.
The boy turns back his face again. There is a
movement. The doctor has arrived. You would
think he was going to a garden-party at the
Governor's. He has just that look; but he has a
black stethoscope in one hand, and that bespeaks
the chances of business. Is it really necessary to
appear in an irreproachable bell-topper, frock-
coat, and high collar, on such an occasion ? Yes,
because this is a “ ceremony," and the doctor is one
of the officials. Civilisation expects this of its
officials. The Governor and he shake hands.
let us begin. The boy has said something to
the little stout grey-haired warder, apparently
(who is now standing to the left, passing his
fingers through the tangled locks of the maiden
cat), for his coat has been left on one of the bars in
front of him, and he has it now in his mouth. He is
going to be brave. He will need all his bravery. He
is white-skinned and slight; clearly, a sanguineous
temperament with a good admixture of the
nervous. He will suffer. Think of that, my
benevolent, respectable ascetics—the redoubtable
“classes” whose scorn of the flesh makes cold
your matrimony. Think of that. This “ sinner”
will suffer for his “ sin.” God has given him a
temperament which your punishment can reach
to almost perfection. There is a pause, while
another warder on the far side (he is to tell the
number of the strokes) takes his place. The bird
breaks into song again. The Governor makes a
signal. The little, about, grey-headed warder,
who is standing a yard and a-half or so off, his
feet together, suddenly flings out the lashes —
makes a curious, quick, forward ste’p with/ his
right foot, and the next instant the cat is
round the quailing shoulders ; the;re is a smothered
cry, the coat drops from the boy's mouth, and the
little, stout grey-headed warde,’.' is in position again
But whether the other warder cried “One,”
or whether the bird went on. singing or not, I can-
not tell you.
The lad’s back, shewing a mark like a faint
scarlet scarf, shaken and shudders like a quick-
sand in the tide- ‘ hen out whirl the lashes again
—the execute his dart,like the cuttle-fish
at Gilliatt. time the cry comes clear like
a shriek-* other day
Thet down the ex dissatisfied. He makes a
pause, olts ” deserve*
“ Speabhe confidencisays to the teller, “I can’t
hear theiad His Honoured.”
The exe/hey weren’t sing his fingers through the
lashes, make. • gain. Whirl —dart—shriek
—and recover! q rown ke machinery. The scarlet
scarf, however, ic°, n ning more defined.
“ Three!" - born >
Tnen suddenly th, re ?hy loses heart. He flings
his face round—the • Jyes like two black balls— the
mouth open, half paralysed. The lashes fly to
him, hissing faintl He flings his body in against


the frame, which shakos a little. The movements
are all spasmodic, and so is the shriek.
“ Foui'!"
‘ It is all over with him I The fascination of his
torture is upon him. His great apprehensive eyes
watch this dreadful machine which deals him out
anguish.
‘ ‘ Five!"
“My heart,” he eries, “it thumps !”
“Turn your head round,” says the Governor,
not unkindly, “ or you’ll get it in the face.”
“ Six!'
“I can’t, I can’t!” shrieks the boy, shaking all
over convulsively, The scarf is losing all its
lovely scarlet colour. It is getting an angry red,
but it is still quite symmetrical, you observe.
“ Seven! . . Eight! . . Nine /”
It is strange, but it seems to me as if he were
quite naked, tied loosely—a worm writhing fran-
tically as it is transfixed again and again with a
pin. My boy, this should teach you to love God,
and be a good man when you get out again. But
I wish you would turn your face away, and those
awful apprehensive eyes. They mike me wonder
if, after all, this is as edifying a “ ceremony ” as it
might be.
“ Ten ! ’
There! The Governor was right. You have
got it in your face. You may well flinch. Turn
round, foolish boy. This is all for your good, and
the good of sooiety.
“ Eleven ! . , . Twelve ! . . . Thirteen! . . .
Fourteen ! ”
The angry red has got blue now in parts, but it
seems as if that flue little civilising machine were
beginning to vary the pattern. The hiss of the
lashes is becoming more like a whistle.
“ Fifteen ! .. . Sixteen ! . . . Seventeen ! ’
Yes, there can be no doubt about it. But I
really' thiDk you should not be allowed to turn
your head round like that. I shall be seeing
those eyes of yours for ever. I shall not be able
to get to sleep. Turn round, turn round, for
God’s sake!
“ Eighteen ! . . . Nineteen ! . . . Twenty ! ”
God of Mercy, how much longer is this to go
on? ~
“ i> m !” he cries. It thumps !
Through the terror and the horror in his face
flashes for a moment a strange, 1 half-conscious
look of disgust, physical disgust. Then the exe-
cutioner darts at him again, and he cries out,
writhing and leaping like a carp on the hook.
“ Twenty-one! .... Twenty-two ! . "
It has got to this now, that I want to lift up my
face and look at that great spacs of unfathomable
blue sky overhead, but cannot. Those awful
eyes, gazing cn their torturer, chain me.
I would we could all sleep. I would w
could all be covered by a sudden death mist, anc.
be dead and utterly ended for ever and ever. I
would be better than this!
Twenty-three! .... Twenty-four! ....
I think it will never stop. The numbers will g
on. like devil’s tears-drop, drop, drop—till I g
mad. Then I see they they are loosing him, and 1
reali'zs the fact that this tender lad o
16 or 17 has had 24 lashes. It is horrible—jus ;
Bimply that, horrible !—and nothing can make
anything else. # #
They loose him, and he stands, his hanc
on his heart, looking as if he would fall. “ I
thumps!” The little stout, grey-headed warder
become once more a man, helps him, with kindly
attention, away off the cloth; picks up his shir
and hat from the ground, and flings the shir
round his shoulders. Either the touch of it on
the raw, bleeding flesh is intolerable, or som
feeling of wrath rises with the renewing life o
anguish, and the lad twitches it off him, and halt
away, stripped, with his lacerated back He hac
intended to bear it all bravely, and he could not
He had shuddered and shrieked before bis tor
mentors. He hates them. Recollect, this is
lad. He cannot see, as you and I can, that these
men —this courteous Governor—this dandified
doctor—these sturdy, silent warders—are merely
tools. He cannot disoern the hand behind them
But you—oh ! you —Society, who passed such
sentence on him, Itell you that the blood of that lad i
murdered soul stains deeper—marks more for ever
with the brand of Cain—on your soul than on that
of any other ! And you, O Judge, Society’s tool, are
no lad. You are no ignorant endurer of the wrongs
of your fellows. Ton have bad education —light—
the power to see and know. By heaven, it is those
who make you their instrument who should be
standing stripped at those triangles! It is they
who have been a sword in the hand of this
wretched civilisation of benevolence andrespectabi
lity which has robbed the poor of the worth of their
work—has paid them the wages of brute beasts
in the army of competition—has given them a life,
pittance on which it was impossible to live any
life but the degraded lifa that begets sin and
crime, and has then lashed or hanged them for it
But do not think this shall go on for ever ! You,
and those like you may, perchance, die in peace,
but you have sown .the tempest, and your chil-
dren shall yet reap the whirlwind. The mills of
God grind slowly, but they grind small. We be-
lieve in God —in goodness, in justice, in truth !
* » *
The pause is made the occasion for general
conversation, and presently I hear one of my fellow
pressman enunciating the opinion that the boy
was a coward. This leads to my blandly pointing
out the fact that the triangles are now empty, and
that, if my fellow pressman would care to try the
effect of four or five strokes on his own hide (with a
coat, waistcoat, shirt, and vest to cover it), I
Bhould have the greatest pleasure in the world in
seeing and putting on record how he bore it. But
my proposal was not entertained, and the second
victim appearing on the scene acted as a diversion.
He was a grey-headed old man, very much resem-
bling our old friend, the cuttle-fish warder. He came
along quite quietl5 r , no particular emotion on his
face, but the lips had an uncertain movement'that
betokened fear. He tcok his place, and held up his
armsto belashed withtheutmostdocility. Then once
more the two officiating warders fell into position,
and our group gathered closer together. I ha\ e
no heart to repeat the wretched business in detail
a second time. After three or four strokes the
old man began to mutter to himself, and at last
his mutterings became articulate, repeated ov ei and
over again : “ God, eh, God I and God have
mercy upon me !’’ We know no more of God
than that, in the everlasting words of Jesus, He
“is a spirit ’—an unseen force whose power we
can all feel, but every attempt to define which has
only ended in anthropomorphic blasphemy. That
God, then who is the conscience cf humanity, will
Borne day have mercy on such as that poor
lad and this wretched old. man, I
trust and believe. Wherefore, it is besb,
0 old man, that in your anguish you
should call on For to call on men seems
vain—at least, on tie men who can hear you cry.
The old man never shrieked or howled. He only
kept up that low mutt, ( { 7, which fell and rose
as the lashes hissed into L, back. He had twelve
strokes, and was then loosened and led away, and
we silently followed.
*
Once more in the garde Governor
courteously invited his visito partake of
whisky and water, but it wanted some-
thing different from whisky and water to take
away the taste I had in my mouth. Sol went
straight on, and out alone. But, inside the inner
gate, I paused a moment to look back.
There was the tall, strong prison-house,
and the surrounding buildings. There was
the pretty interior with its beds full of
flowers, the tall white lilies bowing gracefully,
floral queens of the place. Green trees wave to and
fro in the gentle breeze, the birds singing in the
boughs. And through it all I see two great, black,
ghostly, apprehensive eyes—l see the white, youth-
ful, quivering, lacerated body—l hear the agon-
ised cry, “ I can’t! I can’t! ” Then the clean-
shaved face of the grey-headed old man peers out,
and he lifts up his helpless hands muttering,
“ God, Oh God ! God have mercy upon me 1 ” I
turn away sick at heart. The outer gate closes, and
the lock clanks behind me. Let us write up over
the gates of this edifice —over the gates o£ the edi-
fice of Civilisation's Penal Power —what Dante saw
written up over the gates of Hell—
‘ Leave Behind all Hope. Ye Who Enter !’
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bread for England—The Centennial
Fund.
Australia is praised among nations for open-
handedness. From the bounty with which she is
dowered it has been said that she gives freely. It
is a by-word over the earth that to Australia no
one appeals in vain for help. Even effete and
phthisic organisations, which receive scant favour
in the country of their origin, come hither and
fatten like vampires on the bosom of this country’s
charity. Jubilee presentations, Imperial fads,
institutes and navies, governors for New
Guinea, Primrose Leagues, and various other
useless and parasitic contrivances, have sucked
freely without let or hindrance. Australia has
helped Ireland in her famines—she has even
helped the land of the leprous Chinese. Austra-
lia has never helped England. It is a reiterant
boast that we are mainly of English origin. We
boast of our race on holidays, and sing “ God save
England's Queen ” both in and out of season.
Some of the colonies are Freetrade in their policy
for no other reason under Heaven than that it ap-
proximates somewhat to the fiscal system
of the “ dear old mother country.” We are
madly loyal on princes’ visits and princes’ birth-
days, and we choke with crimson faces in a
fevrous paroxysm of loyalty to England
when utterance is made of federal movements
and enthusiastic appeals for a “ closer union ” are
mooted. We try feebly, most of us, to speak the
grand old English tongue—and some few succeed
after a painful fashion. Let us put all this lip-
loyalty to the test! Beneath the shadow of the
Lions in Trafalgar Square those whom we call
English and brothers are starving. They cry for
food—“ Bread or Work 1” But the alternative is
a mockery. They cannot eat “ work,” and instead
of “bread” the authorities in the Modern Baby-
lon are feeding London’s poor on the policeman’s
baton. “Let the hungry be fedl” said the
driveller Tennyson. You, comparatively for-
tunate Australians, can feed them 1 You have
more than you can eat! Your lot is a moderately
happy one. Your poets sing 'of your land that it
is one of milk and honey, and you never contra
diet them. For the sake of the past from which
you have escaped to this prosperous present, feed
your wretched English relatives. You, who boast of
England, let it not be a reproach amongst nations
that you disclaimed the family tie, in the hour of
her adversity. Many of you—yes, you, person-
ally—have felt that terrible grinding, yawning,
aching pain which men inadequately describe as
hunger. On the plains, in the remote bush,
you may have felt it, far from men, but it was
Nature’s sterility and not man’s pltilc3snes3 that
caused your agony. What must it be to starve
TANTALUS-like in the midst of rioting plenty and
profuse luxuriousness ? Some of you, again,
have hungered in London, and snatched, by a
happy fortune, from that hell in moroar, came
here to starve no more. Some of you have never
wanted and mayhap never will. Whosver, what-
ever you are, wherever you may be, give of your
abundance now to the nation from which you say
boastingly you sprung, of whose greatness you
prate, whose heroes you claim, for whose fortunes
you profess devotion even to death, for whose
continuance of love toward you, you pretend to
be so tensely solioitous. Give, and fittingly
celebrate your centennial, not in mortar—
but in bread. Feed, if but for a few days,
the pauper-Btricken thousands of England,
and for the evil of the pa9t hundred years of your
history substitute a noble charity to usher in
your second century. This bread-fund for E g-
land’s starving shall be the touch-stone of your
vaunted love for the mother Country. Take up
the challenge if you are English—if you are
human!
+
A New Brand, of losanity.
Attorney General Wise and Dr. Cortis, M.P.,
though neither of them ranks as a specialist in in-
sanity, have probably done more than any other
existing New South Wales politicians to educate
the public in the causes and mysteries of mental
disease. The theory on which their ideas are
mostly ba c ed is that the violent concussion of £lB
of his employer’s money against a well connected
youth with a reliable Parkesi' e member to speak
on his behalf invariably lea s to insanity and
makes the patient irresponsible for his actions,
while, on the other hand, the shock of 2 1 s. Gd.
coming against a young man who is not well-
connected and has no Parkesite voter to earwig
the Government on his account, leads to 10 years
penal servitude. As an example of this Mr.
PrUEN, of the Hail way Department, Bathurst
recently annexed £4B, and pleaded guilty, and
though a great effort waa made to get up sympa-
thy on his behalf as being “ a mere boy,” the
facts remained that he waa six feet high, and
aged 20, and waa thus three years older than
more than one of the four common, obscure,
ignoble youths who only last January served
in New South Wales as food for the gallows
as pendant sacrifices to the “virtue” of a lying
street-walker—as judicial offerings to the oath of
a bloodsoaked forger. But Pruen was ‘ 1 well-
connected,” and straightway the plea of “ in-
sanity ” was set up for his relief. Dr. Cortis
buttonholed the Government in dark passages,
and pointed out that Pruen s parents were
“ most worthy people,” and that his madness wai
clearly proved by the fact iliat he toox only £4B
instead of cleaning out the premises, and that he
took it in a lump instead of by slow instalments.
That i 3 to say, he was mad because he didn’t take
more, and he was also mad because he took so
much as he did; he was mad both ways and eiiher
way. The doctor, however, did not dare to ap-
pear in the witness box to enunciate his amazing
theories. Possibly he was afraid lest he might be
asked to define the madness of the burglar who
takes a chair and leaves a sofa behind, or who takes
the chair all at once instead of one leg at a time.
In Pruen’s case, most likely, Dr. Cortis gave his
political, not his professional, opinion. Instead,
however, of the Parkesite member being severely
censured by Attorney-General Wise for his shame-
ful attempt to tamper with justice before the case
had even come before the Courts, a minute was
straightway fixed up by Mr. Wise in which it
was suggested that Pruen should plead guilty
and be discharged, and the parents of the interest-
ing young patient being allowed to pay up he was
released. He was not sent to have his aberration
cured in a madhouse, be it noted, but was simply
sent out to, perchance, inflict the evils and in-
juries attendant on his peculiar kind of mental
disease upon his next employer. And here
the question naturally arises what hind of a
minute the N.S.W. Crown Law Office would have
fixed up had some valuable Government
supporter come to it before a trial to arrange
about having a prisonerharged ia p’acs of released.
The arrangement, if logically carried out, would
work equally well either way. Pruen is now
enjoying the sweets of liberty, and meanwhile the
lopsided goddess of justice continues to grow vir-
tuou-ly indigaant over the cases of other “ boys”
who have stolen eighteenpence, and in the absence
of a Parkesite member to shake up the fount
of mercy on their account they are sent to
gaol, and when their parents offer to pay
up they are told that it would be compounding a
felony and a sia against society. There is thus a
wonderful difference in different th’eves. The
youth who has a rich and influential father, and a
friend who votes the Parkfs’ ticket in the House,
and who embezzles without the slightest tempta-
tion, is the kind of lunatic who i 3 not responsible
for his actions, but not the kind of lunatic who is
sent to the Bafe keeping of an asylum, while the
youth whese steal is palliated by his necessities,
who has no rich father and no friend in the Ouse, is
the sort of madman who gets three years among
the ha dened ruffianism of the gaol, or if he
should escape as being mentally incapable, he is
speedily lost in the cool seclusion of Tladesville
Asylum. The machine of law is greased for the
rich by means of backstairs influance, and the
mode of greasing is evidently cf a kind which will
not permit cf the operation being publicly per-
formed, And while it is greased for the rich, it
is, as usual, strangely rusty for the poor. The
Government which releases Pruen without a
trial will not even take Newman’s chains off,
although his innocence now amounts almost to a
certainty. “ Justice ! ” Justice be !
4
The “S. M. Herald ” Excuses
Dynamite
A Correspondent writes :
“ The S.M. Herald labours heavily to prove that all the
Lon-’on unemployed riots are fomented by French and
G mi in anarcaists who persuade the hithe/to law-abiding
Bill Jones that Providence never meant him to watch his
wife and children starve in a da up cellar whi:e somebody
was gorging on chicken and champagne within a stone's
throw Strange the Herald does not object to the German
paupers who sit on England s throne and eat the chicken
and drink the champagne."
The Herald, however, labours not so much, in
the leader alluded to above, to prove the French
or German anarchistic origin of the riots, as that
the present condition of society is the best possible,
and ought to be maintained at the cost even of all
the horrois of wholesale butchery. It says in
effect that the present government of the world is
government by the fittest, and they have a perfect
right to resort to any and every means which
will embastion their rule. The fittest rule
because they are the strongest also, and the cun-
ningest, and the most crafty and unscrupulous
The noblest could never hope to rule, because
nobility of character unfits a man for sovereignty.
To take a low example, it is not every man who
has the gall to demand 200 per cant, on a blood-
sweating loan to a workman. The typical notion
of hells monarch is the ideal earthly king,
Christ— and with all reverence for His beautifully
Communistic and broadly human charac! or bo it
spoken—could never govern as a trrrestial ruler.
He said, with tremendous truth, “ My kingdom is
not of this world.” How could it ba f Look at
the things that govern, and have governed for
ages immemorial! Yet such immoral and heart-
less canaille are the Herald’s heroes and the
Herald’s gods ! Tae argument of the Herald
however, is an excuse for dynamite. Here it is :
If, as the Radical leaders threaten, there will be another
attempt to hold a meeting next Sunday, the consequences
may be painful; but order must be maintained at any cost,
and, unhappy as the resort to forco is, it ia sometimes the
only way that peace can be b st preserved, and the per-
manent interests of society upheld.
Of course, the foregoing presumes that society, as
at present constituted, despite the hideous wrong
which condemns 99 men out of every 100 to a life
of cheerless and uglesome drudgery, is the society
whose “ permanent interests ” are worth preserv-
ing. This is really the old, old argument dating
back in aniiquiiy beyond the legless legend of the
forbidden fruit—
That they should take who have the power,
And they should keep who can.
Some day the proletarian should he hold the
masterful whip hand, may make another applica-
tion of the Herald’s argument. The paper dare
not complain. The lithotribian master of the
situation would say that by force or fraud, or
cunning or crafr, he had a good seat and a short
stirrup, and that as the existence of the Hera d
was detrimental to the best interests of the
society which he represented, the great mob, the
vulgar and despised sans-culottcs, had decreed
that the office of the paper must be burnt down
and razid to the ground, and every stick of it
consumed with fire, &c. ; and the Herald dare
not complain, for they have already proved the
case against the weakest, and must abide by the
issue - no res'stance against any authority how-
soever constituted. On the same argument, the
fat, pursy parson who gobbles up the goodly gjebo
and refuseth to disgorge, shall rightly and pro-
perly be hoisted into Heaven with a hand-grenade
that the “permanent interests of society"—the
future dominant society, no matter of what
brand —may be upheld. The Herald’S leader is
an incitement and an excuse In advance for the
employment of explosive bombs. Mind, the logic
la the Herald’s, not The Bulletin's.
«,
“At Home."
The Anglican church organ, The Guardian, com
menticg on the Rational Divorce Bill of New Sou
Wales, in an article evidently inspired from th
church’s headquarters, observes that if the measur
is not vetoed, the “churoh should refuse to assist a
the re-marrisge of divorced persons, and shoul
repel them from communion and the participatio
of church privileges.” In other words, the ohurc
howls blatantly that the law must be reoegnisec
when it is a question of a freethinker carrying h:
views into effect, but it claims the power to ignor
it when its own pleasures are touched. Again, i
trusts that the veto may be applied, if only on th
ground that it would be inexpedient to have a dif
ferent marriage law in the colonies from tha
which obtains “at home.” So far as we are con
earned, Australia is “ home,” and we do not fee
called upon to frame our legislation to sui
tha snail pace of a foreign country, whether tha
country’s convenience is concerned or not. If tha
position obtains, however, and a foreigner is to
veto our measures on account of the traditions o;
her own country, it affords the very best argu
ment why we should not suffer any outside sove
reigaty at all. The same argument, too, might
have been used to deprive us of every other item
of social civilisation in which we are ahead of the
land that was not good enough for ‘' our ances
tors” to live in. Manhood suffrage, th 3 partial
(for as'yeb it is but partial) emancipation of labour
the negation of titles, tithes, and privileged
paupers, the institution of general education, anc
what not else, would be—where ? In short, the
sooner the right we have proved in these oases, to
manage our own affairs in our own way without
the interference of English or any other conveni-
ence-mongers, aristocrats, or theocrats, is de-
manded absolutely for all cases, the better for our
own progress.
+
Foreign Capital.
It is fashionable at present to assert that the new
craze for “ English capital ” to develops every-
thing in Australia, is a particularly bright idea.
We will proceed to show that it is not—or at least
that it is much brighter on the side away from
Australia. The land has got enough men to de-
velope everything that it requires for itself. It
has got enough food to maintain all those men,
and yet, owing to the artificial conditions of life,
the food does not come to them quickly enough.
Introduce an external stimulus to any particu’ar
industry, and some other industries must be in-
sufficiently supplied with workers, prices will be
artificially raised, and then there will bean inrush
of English goods as well as capital, slackening of!
the local industries still further, and depriv-
ing residents of the means of earning their
bread. In the same way it works back to the
farmers; their numbers are reduoed, and the
remainder make no increased profit in conse-
quence, because people are poorer and cannot
buy as much food as they need, and what they do
buy they have to get on credit and cannot pay
for. Traders fall in consequence, prices go up
from necessity, and fall without avail from stil
greater necessity; but they cannot harmonise
even at lowest with the public purse, fer earnings
go down, except in the few favoured industries
and endless complications ensue. If money wer<
not a god—if it were, as it purports to be, a mere
tally of exchange—what would be the use of in-
troducing any number of foreign tallies, especially
paying hire for them ? It is just the same whether
the foreign commodity be goods or the tally for
reckoning them. If it disturb the natural state
of events locally, it is as necessary in one case as
the other that there should be some measure
taken locally for self-protection.
4
The Traitor Gjrifflth.
Sir Samuel Griffith is in a disgraceful dilemma.
He has politically sold his country to an Imperial
purchaser, and now finds that the Queensland
Assembly has a natural objection to ratify the
bargain. He attended the Imperial Conference
flaunting the grandeur of his Premiership. Tory
condescension and a dole of Royal patronage fed
his overgrown vanity, and made him an easy
instrument in the hands of the Imperial gang.
They paid him his price of flattery, and he gave
in return the power which his colony had en-
trusted to him. From thenceforth he sold him-
self body and soul, and assumed to sell his colony
to Imperial purchasers. He went to England
professedly to forward Australian interests, but
the bribery he encountered was greater than he
could withstand, and he became a traitor to
Queensland and the enemy of Australia. The
only redeming feature in his conduot is Ills faith-
fulness to his corruptors: he has sold himself to
the Imperial devil, but with the honour proverbi-
ally said to prevail among one class of personp,
he insists that the contract shall be fully
performed at the cost of the colony which he
assumes to have represented in the bargain. Hii
treachery emphasises the danger to which Aue-
tralia is now exposed. Titles come from England ;
royal favours are dispensed to Australians at the
bidding of the dominant party there ; bribes which
no other power can bestow are in the gift of Eng-
land s Government, and under these ciroumstancej
Australian interests are constantly liable to be
made the subjects of bargains as morally corrupt,
aid a 3 politically disastrous as that to which th '
Traitor Griffith has made himself a party
Graham Berry ohanged from a bold Radical
Australian to a mean, drivelling Tory
when he was bought by a K.C.M.G.-ship. Dow-
ner, the Premier of South Australia, was so far
overcome by his emotion when in the presence of
England’s nobility at the conference, that he, the
fluent and eloquent, was obliged to rely
upon manuscript for the matter, and even the
words, of his speech; like obedient yeomen,
the Australian delegates yielded a meek
consent to a set of cut-and-dried proposals
and in all things did as they were Imperially bid.
And so it will always be as long as the present
system obtains. As soon as new men are raised
to power in the Australian states, they are bought
over by Imperial authority. Every Premier bes
his price. So far, flattery and knighthoods have
been sufficient to furnish traitors to Australia, but
if higher prices are required they will be tendered
before Imperial designs will be permitted to fail
through. A federated and independent Australia
is the only preventive against a continuance of
the present practice of corruption. So long as
there are Imperial bribes to be offered, so long
will there be Premiers to accept them, and just so
long also will Australian interests be sacrificed to
Imperial designs.


The Cost cf Australian Dependence,
Each of the Australian Assemblies now has a
chance of showing by its treatment of the
Naval Defence proposals, how much Australian
loyalty is worth for spot cash. There is no get-
ting away from the solid fact that, if the bonds
which bind the colonies to the mother country are
to be maintained at all—if, in fact, Australian
dependence is to be continued —some such tribute
must be yielded to the Imperial Exchequer, and
the present proposals are possibly as equitable as
could be expected. The matter stands thus :
Australia’s peace is entirely dependent upon the
inability of English Jingoes to run the nation into
war. As soon as that party are able to find a suf-
ficient pretext for breaking England’s peace, the
safety of Australia is endangered. Wnile the
present dependence of these States is maintained,
Australians must ever be ready to resist an attack
by any power which English Jingoism has pro-
voked or attacked. And, in the event of war, it
would be madness to rely on English aid. With a
small and ineffi' ient army, a navy demoralised by
corrupt and imbecile administration, Eogland
would have to draw upon every resource to pro-
tect herßelf in a war with a first-rate Power ; the
colonies would have to look after their own
safety. Therefore, it is necessary, under
present circumstances, that some such pro-
posals as those now under review should be
adopted with the smallest possible delay. It is
no use paltering with the question, If dependence
is to continue, its cost must be paid at the risk of
our qualified freedom. If no such defence is to
be procured, action to dissolve the present union
of the colonies and the “Mother Country” should
immediately ensue. There is no safe middle-path
of tolerance of the present position. An indepen-
dent Australia need fear no foes, and need re-
gard no war unless it pleased her ci'izens to make
one. We would then have the same defence as at
present— i.e., the ability to defend ourselves, and
this would be coupled with an immunity from
the danger of being involved in England’s wars—
a danger, very present, and very real, under the
present position of dependence. The prevailing
attitude of lccal Assemblies is very cowardly and
very mean. Members glory in the dependence of
Australasia upon England, but refuse to part
with the price of that state ; they talk boastfully
of a closer alliance, but decline to pay the cost of
the present alliance. Loyalty to the Empire is
not strong enough to produce the dcliars which
should stand as its evidence, and of loyalty to the
best interests of Australia—to the independence
of Australia—there is, or seems to be, absolutely
none. Members wish to be dependent still, but
refuse to vote the cash necessary to sustain their
condition in security.
♦-
Give Parkes a Penny I
Thebe are times when we wonder if even Parkes
himself is not ashamed o* the means which are
being adopted to raise a dirty little testimonial in
honour of his fifty years of icsolvency and
bungling. An average sum of Is 6d. apiece has
been screwed out of 334 poor, half starved wretches
at the National Park, while 380 semi-destitute
laborers employed on relief works at Narrate in
have been bled to the extent of some 2s. each, in
order that a sumptuous politician, who says he
only wants to die, may live, and buy bric-a-brac
and speculate in land. If all these 714 poverty-
stricken men have handed out the contributions,
which they could so ill spare, out of sheer love for
theglib land speculatlngpoiitician whose miserable
salary of £2OOO a year is so eminently calculated
to arouse the sympathy of the opulent pick-and-
shovel man, then we have nothing to say, but
when this great host of impoverished labourers
deny themselves actual necessaries that they may
enjoy the pure delight of helping Parkes, the rea-
sonable conclusion is that the man who dossn’c
help Parkes gets sacked at the first plausible
exouse. No doubt this assumption will be indig-
nantly scouted by the Parkes committee, tut re-
cent revelations have sunk the reputation for
veracity of at leastpart of that body very low. The
whole souled denial of the allegation that the cop-
pera of the school-children were being raked in
in aid of a politician to whom even the baby’s
penny seems welcome, did not fit very well with the
swarm of circulars distributed to almost every
scholar in N.S.W., and it will take something
more than mere denial to convince the public that
the sixpences and shillings subscribed by the
Mick Connors, Larry Coonans, and Patsy
Gallaghers on the Relief Works were the spon-
taneous offering of grateful proletarians who ha* e
nothing to be grateful for. Most of the sub-
scribers, strangely enough, bear Irish names, and
this wild anxiety on the part of the Hibernian
Catholic to subscribe for the blatant Orange
Parkes is, to say the least, suspicious. If it is
genuine charity, without any element of coerc’on,
then have the days of miracles come back. Don’t
tell us, please, that anybody named Mickey
Doolan votes the Parkes ticket.
-♦
The other night in the N, S.W. Legislative As-
sembly, John Haynes, M.P., for Mudgee,
introduced an amending Electoral Bill in which he
purposed to do away with the £4O propei ty qualifi-
cation for candidates. This is a genu’ne reform,
and undoubtedly one reform which was first
mooted by Hav nes. Whatever of credit there is
belongs to him, and that he deserves credit in the
matter, no democrat can deny. But Parkes, the
arch-plagiarist, who never originated aDythiDg
in his life, from the notion of secular education,
filched from Greenwood, down to the Railway Bill
prigged from Victoria's, fiercely snubbed his
humble follower, and bade him drop his Bill —leave
it to him (Parkes). Haynes rightly and properly
re'used, and of course had the pig- vote againßt
him. Yet this man Parices has the supernal
audacity to pose as a patriot, although he has
persistently blocked every good measure—when
he had the power—which he did not introduce
himself.
+
The Victorian Legislative Council, the House of
the Glutton’s Snore, has, up till lately, been a sub-
ject for irreverent jest. It has been called a
morgue, a fossil museum, a mummy chamber,
anything that conveyed the idea of vast antiquity
and more than ordinary deadne4s. But the good
old drowsy Saturnian reign is approaching its
close, and a new era is about to begin. Two
young men have actually got into this Abode of
Ancient Peace —Mr. C. H. James and Dr. LeFevre.
Both of these gentlemen, though labouring under
the misfortune of riches, are under 40 years of
age. It is quite reasonable to suppose that if
they had energy enough to accumulate as much
coin as would satisfy any five or Bix ordinary men,
and still remain young, they would have plenty
of energy to spare for publio duties. Qui vivra
verra. But we feel for the poor old gentlemen
whose pleasant slumbers are over— Macbeth hath
murdered sleep. We may state, by the way, that
both James and Le Fevre are in favour of the
£lO franchise. This is a sure sign that the days
of the Troglodytes in the Victorian Legislative
Council are swiftly passing away.
HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
It was England that first seamed the white
shoulder of Australia with the livid mark of the
lash. It is the people who wielded that instru-
ment of degradation, and their descendants, who
wish to “draw the bonds of Empire closer” to-
day. The Imperial connection is, thereto: e, a
shameful one.
* * *
It was not a pleasant problem that con-
fronted the British Cabinet just three years before
the French Revolution. A large proportion cf the
population, cradled into crime by poverty and ig-
norance, had been convicted of more or less
serious offences. It was clearly impossible to
hang them all. Earnest effort? had been made to
meet the difficulty in this decisive manner, but
even the best intentions sometimes fall short cf
adequate performance. The question was even
assuming a more irksome phase. An official com-
munication, dated from Whitehall, August 18,
1786, informed the Lords Commissioners of the
Treasury that the gaols were crowded, and that it
would be necessary to ship the prisoners off some-
where. The revolt of the American colonies was
a serious bore to my Lords of the Treasury, for
they had for some time past been adding a yearly
sum of £40,000 to the revenue by selling offenders
as white labour to the planters. Now that market
was closed, and the article became a drug on
tho purveyo. s’ hands. The experiment was
tried of sending a portion to the fever-coast of
Africa. So many died there that sentence of
transportation became synonymous with sentence
of death. But this was cheating the hangman,
and allowing a fine old British institution to fall
into contempt. This wasun English. Something
else would have to be done. Clearly, the Lords
Commissioners were deserving of every sympathy.
They received it in the shape of suggestions.
* * *
Humane men looked into the question in
the light of their environment, and in the spirit
of the country and of the age. They embodied
their results in a series of proposals that might
curdle the blood with horror But as it is in ad-
visable that the reader should exhaust his capacity
“Forty persons died on the voyage.”
for disgust before he comes to our own immediate
record, perhaps these are as well left alone. The
most merciful proposition was one suggestirg
transportation to Botany Bay. In 1787 a book was j
published called “ A History of New South Wales,”
the preface to which, written by a well known
Cabinet-creature of the period The Hon. William j
Eden—strongly recommended the Botany Bay J
scheme. What he there wrote throws light on the j
whole aspect of the question Criminals, when
their lives or liberties are forfeited to justice,
become a forlorn hope, and have always been
judged a fair subject of hazardous experiments
If there be any terrors in the prospect before the
wretch who is banished to New South Wales, they
are no more than he expects ; if the dangers of a
foreign climate are nearly equivalent to death, the
devoted convict naturally reflects that
offended justice, in consigning him to the inhospit-
able shores of New Holland, does not mean there-
by to seat him for his life on a bed of roses." If
the devoted convict in bis natural reflections ever
did lapse into that idyllic train of thought, he was
most woefully mistaken.
Mr. Eden was a philanthropist—save the
mark I —and a colleague cf Howard in a portion of
his work of prison-reform. One of bis recommen-
dations reads thus : “ The more enormous
offenders might be sent to Tunis, Algiers, and
other Mahometan ports ; others might be com-
pelled to dangerous expeditions.” All this time
the gaol-fever was carrying off its victims by hun-
dreds. Yet the process was not quick enough.
Mr. Eden was the first to announce the approval
of the Botany Bay scheme.
• * •
There was one other suggestion made
•which deserves mention. Australia, which escaped
from China by a tidal wave, and from the legen-
dary Chinese explorer by the foresight of that
astute navigator, was again placed under offer to
the Brother of the Sun. A pamphlet, published
in 1785, recommended that the American loyalists,
who still cherished tho Imperial connection, might
be transferred there. Prison labour was to be
placed at their disposal; but —“the settlers of
New South Wales are principally to be collected
from the Friendly Isles and China ; and the
natives, no doubt, may in time be brought to
unite in this society.” History repeats itself.
There is a class in Australia to-day which still
cherishes the Imperial connection like the Ameri-
can loyalists, and which would gladly stamp out
the Democratic element by drastic legislation, or
clear the way by a “ whiff of grape ” for the docile
Chinese cheap labour which might in time “ be
brought to unite in this society.” But this scheme
would not include the natives —aboriginal, or
otherwise.
# * *
Once this question of locality was decided,
the preparations were soon made. Viscount Syd-
ney, who was Secretary of State for the Colonies,
ordered a convoy and transports to be got ready.
On April 27, 1787, Captain Phillip received his
commission. In March the ships began to rendez-
vous at Spithead. On May 13 they hoisted sail.
The fleet consisted of a frigate and an armed
tender, six transport?, and three store-ships. It
carried 1015 persons—l 97 marines, 28 women, 17
children ; 558 male convicts, 192 women, 18 child-
ren ; and five controlling officers. The voyage
cccupied eight months. Some estimate of the
forethought lavished on the enterprise may be
gathered from the fact that forty convicts died on
the passage and within the first five months c f
settlement twenty-eight more followed them;
while sixty-six were under medical treatment,
and two hundred were unable to work. But, as
Mr Eden would have said, these unhappy
wretches were fair subjects for hazardous experi-
ment, and the overcharged British gaols had to be
relieved.
* * *
Arthur Phillip was the son of Jacob Phillip,
of Frankfort, who had emigrated to London, and
there earned a precarious subsistence as a teacher
of langu ges. His son entered the navy at sixteen,
and five years after was at the taking of Havan-
neh in 1761. Here he was made lieutenant, and
post-captain twenty years later. He saw service
in the French war, in the East Indies, and in the
employ of Portugal. A somewhat left-handed
testimonial to his fitness for his new duties was
borne by Lord Howe when his appointment
was under distussion. “I cannot say the little
knowledge I have of Captain Phillip would have
led me to select him for a service of this complicated
nature.” This eulcgium
appears to have com.
pletely established his
atness as a subject for
hazardous experiments.
His commission was at
once made out. He
laid in a private pro-
vision of two puncheons
of rum and twenty cwt.
of loaf - sugar, with
much port and porter,
and many deranters
and glasses—the official
record amply bears out
his care in this particu-
lar—and was soon as
ready to colonise a con-
tinent as he had been
to take troops to India
1o fight the French,
or to offer his sword
to Portugal. There was
no wrak prejudice or
delicate coyness about
Captain Phillip.
* *
Captain Phillip was
a man with views. In
his blander moments—
before he started, be it
observed —he appears
to have formed an idea
that the expedition he
was about to lead was a
species of prolonged
camp-meeting, flavour-
ed with an airy soupcin
of the Sunday-school
picnic. “ During tbe
passage,” he says in
onelette~, *’ I shall visit
the transports when
light airs or calms per-
mit, to see that they
are kept clean and re-
ceive the allowance
ordered by Government,
and at these times shall
endeavour to make
them sensible of their
situation.” His plans
for the future were
quaint to the verge of
the grotesque. ‘‘The
women in general,” he
went on, “ I shall sup-
pose possess neither virtue nor beauty.” This
is most ingenuously frank. But such a state
of things presented no difficulty to Phillip.
“It may he best if the most abandoned
are permitted to receive the visits of the
convicts in the limits assigned them at
certain hoars ; the rest I should keep apart by
permitting the men to he in their company when
not at work. They will, I suppose, marry.” Such
was the pastoral Arcadia that the first Governor
had in his mind's eye—an island valley of Hilion,
as it were, full of bowery hollows crowded with
lawny leas where never wind blew loudly, with
gentle shepherds ever piping as though they never
would grow old. The vision of the impossible
creatures who dreamt of being seated for their
lives on a bed of roses was about to be realised.
“ There shall be no slavery in a free land,” wrote
the future Governor, “ and, consequently, no
slaves." But Captain Phillip naturally did not
know as much of the history of Botany Bay as he
afterwards learnt. In the meantime, the extracts
will serve to show what the original intentions
really were.
* * *
The Governor reached Botany Bay first,
on January 18, 1788. The rest of the fleet came
up by the 20th. Phillip showed his good sense by
preferring Port Jackson to Botany Bay as the
cradle of the settlement. On the 26th all the ships
came round and disembarked their cargoes
at the mouth of the tank-stream. Like Phillip’s
plans, this has since degenerated, and become the
city sewer. Three royal salutes were fired, the
echoes of which will not cease to be heard until
the war-ships, for which the Parliaments of the
Australian colonies now invite the people to pay a
subsidy, salute the Australian flag before they
Anally sail forth from Australian waters. Every
man then received a pint of rum, and every
woman half-a-pint. A whirl of festivity ensued,
and the first Australian sun went down in peace-
ful summer splendour on a human hell. The
saturnalian orgie had commerced, and one of the
blackest chapters in the world's history was fairly
opened. The curtain rose on a new continent,
under circumstances of squalor and degradation
which never in all history had inaugurated the
career of a nation before. As we hastily cover
up and huddle away the historical picture that
shows us the close of the first Australian day, and
the pioneers that Britain sent us, sunk in their
loathsome revelry, we find it almost impossible to
realise, as Mr. Kingsley would have us believe,
that Providence designed the country for these.
“D.”
CORRESPONDENCE
‘D.J.A.’: A dargerous subject *S, S.’ (Ips-
wich) : Don’t you think Premier Griffith might have gone
for Protection when he was at the height of his power in
stead of playing it as a last card when he is tottering on his
last official legs? A lot of politicians do that. They come
out for Protection when the country is sick of them, after a
long course of serving the Calico Jimmies, and when they
lose, because the country is sick of them, then there is a cry
that Protection is once more defeated ‘ E.C.’ (W.): The
fact is of interest to no one, Eave the man who wishes it
published.' G E.B.’ (Fitzroy, Melb ): What is the good of
sending us a joke for publication when you have also to send
a letter on thick, green paper to explain the joke?.,..
‘ Gough': The Bulletin published a similar set of verses
on January 10th, 1885....' L.B.’ (Waterloo): Nonsense; only
within the past few months such great firms as David Jones
Hordern Brothers, and Hoffnung and Co., all of Sydney'
and within a stone’s throw of each other, hive considered it
a good business investment to build magnificent and costly
structures for trade purposes on leases ranging from 21 years
upwards. If farmers hell land on lease for agricultural
purposes they would be compelled to improve if they desired
to reap the fullest benefit of their holdings ~'R. Malen
(Dubbo) : The murder of her sister by Mrs. Mephan—re.
cently committed to penal servitude for life by the Vic-
torian Government—was a very bad murder, instigated by
purely mercenary motives. Capital punishment has
practically been abolished, so far as women ar
concerned, both in Victoria and New South Wales...,
' A.V.S.': Bather late, isn’t it? Will write you a note ”
‘K.R.C.’: Primitive Christianity, the religion of Christ the
Socialist, is a splendid faith; the alleged Christianity of the
rich clergy and well-greased bishops' is an unspeakably mon-
strous hypocrisy....‘Ajax': Then how comes it that the
editor of the Good Temtlak, the organ of the cold-water
party, condemns the action of Hutchinson, MP., Grand
Something or another, in giving permission to have the
Parkes begging-letter circulated in the lodges of the Order ?
‘Anti Snob’: The story has already appeared in The
Bulletin ‘Practical Shearer': Will appear soon
‘Cookery’ (Braidwood): letter for you at local G.P.O .. .’
*E J N.’: Weprefertodo all our own libelling ‘J.N.C ’
Excellent. Is it o iginal ?.. .‘J,Whiteflas.): Toyourcharg
of nil admirari we plead guilty. Letter for you at local P.O.
.'..•.‘0.0 S.’: How much does it cost, at six shillings an
inch, to advertise in all the daily papers lists of shilling con
tributions to the “ Tribute ?’....' E. Wickens’: "Local
Option” is regarded as empowering a certain well-organised
handful of people to prevent the vast majority from doing
anything they want to Drover :We know perfectly well
that the Australian (biehop always shunts his lisping, stutter
ing, blushing, clerical wrecks into the bueh pulpit, but we
can’t “ bring about an alteration” as you suggest. There are
not enough Anglican parsons who don’t lisp, and gasp, and
moan, and Etutter, and talk about " Bawabbas, my friends
to go round T.T.(Redfern): Yes, "Honest John,"is one of
the trustees of the Bennett E.tate, but that, cf course, lias
nothing to da with the ftct that the E. News has "turned
dog” on Parkes since he kicked against Minister Sutherland's
action re the locomotiv.-manufacturing business. It seems
very evident that ■* Honest John” had decided to have theen-
ginesmade at the N.S.W. Government workshops, butParkes
declared he would resign rather than allowtliistobedone.and,
t f course, the Bennett trustee party had to take a back seat
S.S. : No R.man Catholic has ever b en aprointei Governor
cf N S.W. or Victoria. Sir Dominick Daly, of South Austra-
lia, was a Roman Catholi’... Anti-Cant (Condobolin): They
must be a nice lot up yoi r wry. . .Stultus: We don’t know.
We cnly know tfcis that no more spelling-competition
prizes shall be advertised in this piper... Australian: You
mayn't have heard R.C. psiests preach politics, but
they do preach politics all the same. In Ireland
the pries's have had to fallow the people... .Sulorac :
Please S'nl afldr.ss... C.H.C : Thanks. Write again....
C.H.M. (Narandera): What are you giving us? S.M.G.
(Riley-street): If any more letters from you find their " plus-
able ” wsy into this office, we “ beleave ” a
lot of things.... Ruff and Toweer: Sunday-School
poetry J M. (Wilson's Creek, Richmond River): You say
you love poetry. Lit your passion in future be a clandestine
one. You certainly ought to blush to find it fame A.C.
(Rous): King-street, Sydney, will find him. The new'excise
duty of Treasurer Burns alters all the preceding Estimates
entirely....T.H.M. (Singleton): Unfortunately, we have
again been compelled to hold over the notice of your tea
fight Reader (Albury): Thanks for item. "Engineering
proclivities” is g00d...,H. M'Harg: No, we can't “find” in
our "much paper."... .Hedge Scholar (Wilcannia): You
may rest certain that if anything of moment occured in
Europe, The Bulletin would have mention of it, but you
can hardly expect us to reproduce the spawn of the cable
and the electric gossip of the hour. We read the
other day (in Thorean) that the latest news
of leal importance from England related to the
execution of Charles 1.... Lucius (Warne) : All
such societies are bound to do good, particularly if the
YouDg Australian sentiment is the bond of union
between the members W. H. C. Allen : Received
D. (N.Z.): By-and-bye....Honi: Willread ...H.H.C.: Will
ponder over ‘ Our Troubles.'. .C.H.C.: Thanks Write again.
. .Jacques : Good. ,F. Lamb: In times of domestic affliction,
people lose their judgment. Some people have little judg-
ment at any time... ,I’hren: Write to Turner and Hender-
son, booksellers. Sydney... .D.G C. : Please look in Peter
H. (T.): Next week A.C.: The moral of the case is that
you should always deal with a godly sharebroker... .Anti-
Flogger : Next week, perhaps.
Parkes and Co. hope, with the aid of their
pig-vote majority in the N S.W. Parliament, to
get the name of New South Wales changed to
“ Australia." This scheme, which will naturally
be most offensive to the other Australian colonies,
is no doubt regarded by the Imperialistic party,
including the present N.S.W. Government, as an
excellent means whereby to still further widen
the existing breach between New South Wales
and Victoria, and thus repress any tendency to
federation on an independent Australian basis.
ComiDg simultaneously with th§
place Australia at the mercy of a' °,Veign navy, to
be partly maintained out of onr own coffers, this
proposal is especially significant. The truth is
that when he aims at originality Parkes makes a
fool of himself. Ho is OEI7 on safe ground while
he continues to prig the tested ideas of other
people. Let us hope that this latest deliberate
attempt to make badjrlood between the Australias
will be suffocated py being sat on. Parkes’
poverty of pitiful. Why does’nt he
re christen this c 9 ay “ Hingland ” ?


SUNDRY SHOWS.
RorAL —"The Ked Lamp p 14
5 b Oymbeiine „
ALHAMBRA Music Haul -Stored Concert
athambra Music HALL-Miaatrelsy
Her Majesty 3 Theatre.—" Held by the Enemy " „
“My Partner,” or “ Mates on the Gold-
fields ”is to produced next Saturday at Her
M&iesty’s. Sydney. The title, somehow, does not
sound promising, and it c ills up old recollections
which we would rather not think about. The pre-
sent scribe had a partneronce on the goldfields who
disappeared mysteriously, leaving him his heir,
executor, and assign. This did not matter much
in itself, but one day an obtrusive lout came down
the shaft, and, ia a dark corner, he stepped on
something soft, which he declared to be the
missing partner. He went up, and told other
people about it, and a prejudice arose
which led us to clear out. At Sydney Criterion
“As You Like It” will be on the stage next
Saturday. Billiam Holloway’s season comes to an
endin another month, whichdoesn’tgreatlymatter.
Miss Essie Jenyns’ season also come 3 to an end at
the same time, which is a more serious affair by a
long way. The “Red Lamp,” at the Royal, will
be extinguished this Thursday, and on Friday Mr.
G. W. Anson will take a benefit—his first in
Australia—with a big double programme, and the
assistance of Miss Myra Kemble and Mr. N. H.
Douglas. On Thursday evening Miss Lily Dam-
pier also takes her first benefit in Australia, on
which occasion she well play Rosalind in “ As
You Like It,” with Larry Foley as Chawles the
Wrestler. The Governor and Lady Carington
will he present. Tne Bulletin critic also means
to have a benefit shortly.
#* # *
A powerful opera company will rage at
Sydney Royal on Saturday next, and the clamorous
bang of “ La Mascotte," assisted by onr beloved
Maggie Moore, Miss Colbourne Baber, Miss Aggie
Kelton, Knight Aston, W. Elton, and others, will
rBge like ths cry of a B-flat cat. We don’t wish
to say anything unkind, bat where—oh, where?—
is Fanny Liddiard gone, and what Is the use of an
opera company without her ?
## # #
Frank Smith’s No. 2 combination of nig-
gers opened a short season at Sydney Royal
Standard on Monday. One or two of the singers
proved to be pretty good, and one or two more
foundered like a battered wreck, and were left
adrift and helpless on the wild high (J. The con-
cluding extravaganza was a good item, and the
show is an admirable one for Newcastle, where
it opens shortly, and promises to do good busi-
ness. Mr. Snfith's other show at the Alhambra
is of a gorgeous character this week, and may be
briefly described as a thing of beauty and a jaw
for evermore.
*# # #
“ The Red Lamp,” now in its last week at
Sydney Royal, is a sad example of perverted
plagiarism. All its strength is derived from Step-
niak’s“ Underground Russia,” but the playwright,
to satisfy the ideas of poetical justice entertained
by the dress-circle, distorts the facts of history to
preserve the life of a— — Czar. The drama is a
pitiful pandering to caste prejudice, simply be-
cauee, now, the stage, like the Press, has become
the mere creature cf Capital. The American
iournalist ia the “ Red Lamp,” whose family
probably made a fortune pig-killing in Chicago, is
a prig of ilia first water. In the first act he
preaches revolution, and in the second refuses to
take the hand of the magnificent enthusiast,
Prince Alexis, atd informs Zazgulicthat the name
of his country—America—in his (Zazgulic’s)
mouth makes him shudder. This, in the face of
the fact that Washington was a rebel who had
Major Andr6 shot, and would himself have
probably been hanged had the English caught
him. Had English repression of the American
colonists been like Russian repression in tbe Czar s
dominions, the result would have been the same.
Then there is a General who puts the Czar before
his wife in his affections. This is the morality
of the modern drama. Prince Alexis, be-
cause he is sincere, is a dreamer. Zazguile,
because he is clever, is a scoundrel. In the last
act the Czar’s life Is saved at the coxt of the
Prince Alexis 5 , and. the latter's Bister hypocriti-
cally triumphs over her natural affection with the
phrase “ For Russia:! ” Her husband held his duty
to the Czar before his love for his wife, and she, in
turn, glories in ,the sacrifice of the brother she
pretends to love on the altar of autocracy. The
great fault of the present representation is that
nearly every character endeavours to speak
broken English, The French maid speaks not
the broken Russian of a F,ranch woman trying to
express herself In Russian, but the broken English
of a French woman trying to express herself in
English Her auditor, who is a Russian epurtier,
would assuredly have addressed her in French.
Mr. H. H. Vincent, who plays s?azgulic, a talented
and brilliant journalist, speaks with a painful
foreign accent. Mr. Vincent once played John
Ramirez, a Spanish half-breed, in “ New Babylon,”
and the curse clicgs to him yet. He gave U 3 the
same character ia “Jim the Penman,” and we
are nearly tired of his broken-down Mexican
verbalisms
## * #
A certain Sydney lady critic bewails the
fact that neither Miss Isabel Morris nor Miss
Pattie brown, who take leading parts in the
“ Red Lamp ” at Sydney Royal, has “ attempted to
gown themselves in superb Russian gowns.” Haw!
*# # #
It was at Sydney Criterion,the other night,
and we had taken a back seat to witness “ Cym-
beline.” Right before ns was planted the burly
form of a certain beauteous M.P., who once upon
a time, it is said, narrowly escaped a dukedom.
He slumbered peacefully throughout the piece,
except at two points—the bed scene, where Essie
Jenyns, attired only in the snowy robes of night,
reclines serapbieally on her downy couch, and the
concluding ceremonial wherein sundry heroes are
made C M.G.s, or something similar. Those
fetched him.
## # #
In advertising his first Sydney Sunday con-
cert, M.Kowalski billed his prima-donna as “ Miss
’* *, the only Australian soprano sfogato.” The
impression in most of the bars was that the printer
had secured the services of the musical daughter
of James Hennessy, Esq.
## # #
George Darrell has burst into blossom
again at Melbourne Royal in his familiar four-act
thriller “ The Sunny South.” The interests of
George and his dramas are so peculiarly wrapped
U P together that one can’t picture them apart;
therefore, it is mere vanity to conjecture what
might have been if the anthor-aotor-manager had
written something without the one grand purpose
of keeping himself in the foreground right away
through. Or if George had estimated his strength
like Henry Richard, and said—“ Since I cannot
play the lover to entertain these fair, well-spoken
days, I am determined to prove a villain "—then
we might have seen the curtain fall on vice
triumphant, and virtue down on its luck. If
the “ Sunny South” terminated like that, and the
plot included a few C.M G’s, a “distinguished
visitor,” and a “ disgraceful scene in the House,”
we might pass it as a representative Aus-
tralian drama, but at present it lacks local
colour. The company supporting Mr. Darrell is
good enough for the work, two blood-stained ruf-
fians who carry off the gyrul being about as
desperately wicked as they make ’em. That
gyrul Babs falls to the lot of the author’s very
particular relative, Miss Christian Darrell. The
lady is still fresh and verdant in her business, but
promises to improve with age after the custom of
her delightful sex. Humph! There was a deso-
lated dress-circle and densely-populated galleries
for Saturday’s performance, and the gods did
furiously rage because some “rag" wasn’t
* ‘ hup ” high enough.
## * #
“lolanthe ” —the airy fairy who was very
properly disgraced for marrying a barrister—suf-
fered another revival at Melbourne Princess's on
Saturday night. Miss Leonora Braham and Mr.
Federici give themselves unnecessary trouble as
Phyllis and Strephon, and are quite too funny for
their parts at times. Some of the others fall
short of old form, but with Miss Alice Barnett,
Ida Osborne, and a horde of winged divinities to
pull things through this best of Gilbert and Sul-
Fifteen-year-old Melbourne Boy (up for thieving) : “'Cordin’ to British precedents, yer Honor,
this evidence ain’t hadmissible.”
Beak (with a gasp): “Wha-at?”
Boy: “The hex party statement of the fitness, yer Honor”
Beak (again): “Wha-at?"
Boy (loader): “ The hex party statements of the last witness, yer Honor, ain't hadmissible evi-
dence as defined in the case of"
Beak (severely): “Boy, you have too much to say.”
Boy: “’Cordin’ to the fundamental principles of the Br[?]sh Constitution ain’t a prisoner allowed
to jaw in his own defence, as laid down in the case cf Moses v. Brown, tried at Liverpool
in 1867? As I was observin, the hex party statements of this witness, &c." (Boy is
acquitted as the only meins of suppressing him.)
livan’s operas is having a prosperous six nights.
“ The School for Scandal ” looks like filling the
little B : jou till Christmas, or longer if neces-
sary. Brough is on the sick-list, and the
veteran Cathcart has taken his place as Sir Peter
Teazle, without destroying the harmony of the
show. New “ first parts ” and wheeze 3 of modern
growth are sustaining interest in Frank Clarke’s
combination, wh'ch haa got ’em by the wool as
firmly as ever. Not the worst feature of tjiia enter-
tainment is the pearly-toothed masher who sits
in the middle and works up popular excitement
regarding the long-deferred jokes of the corner-
men. His counterfeited curiosity is courageous -
he has lifted interlocution into the realms of art.
A circus, under the management of Signor Agrati,
is pursuing its mad career with satisfactory
results.
## * *
Mary Anderson goes to church every
morning—to counteract the effect of playing in
tights.
#m # #
Binns, ex-hangman of England, gives a
fac-simile of an execution with wax figures. So
that the poorest youth in the land may now aspire
to the billet.
## * #
John Gourlay is prospering with “ Kin-
dred Souls" at Adelaide Royal, and the scene
where the troubled hero is forced to fly in female
attire, brings down the God-fearing city every
night. Major Dane is lecturing at the Y.M.C.A.
Hall, and the young Christians roll up in force ;
also Tommy Hudson is doing well with his tune-
ful menagerie at Garner’s Theatre.
## # #
When Fred Maccabe was coming over in
the ’Frisco mail-boat six of his fellow-passengers
became hoarse for life through attempting to imi-
tate his famous top note —half cracked kettle, half
broken down eat. Which reminds us that the
Plaisted-Hardirg Opera Company is now visiting
Rockhampton; also that George Darrell has
written a play for Carrie Swain. We don’t know
exactly how it reminded us, but it did Harry
St. Maur is in the small-pox infested land of Tas-
mania. Even St. Maur is grass, and be may have
cause to wish he hadn t gone there Miss Essie
Jenyns and Plain Billiam Holloway are going to
London next May, ?the latter with an idea, pos-
sibly, of paralysing Irving ; the Lynch Bellringers
are on the West Coast of New Zealand; Bland
Holt is at Christchurch (N. 2.), playing “ Alone in
London ” ; Geo. Leitch is touring Maoriland with
“ Harbour Lights,” and a lot of other people arc
doing other things in various places “ The
Golden Goblin," a piece which monkeys with the
infinite, is shortly to appear in London, and that
hog-chasing fr&ul, Buffalo Bill, is going to Paris
and Rome, where he will chew tobacco
in the Colißeum, and swear amid the
ruins of the mighty dead Ellen Terry is
getting fat. Henry Irving is getting thin
Mrs. Langtry’s agent is going to imitate his mis-
tress and become an American. The Americans
say they don't mind gathering the Jersey Lily
into the fold, but when it comes to roping in that
slab-sided image of a Keogh, they are inclined to
kick.... .Premier Barkes, who refused a few years
ago to allow Proctor to lectors on Sunday, now
permits music in the parks on the Day of Rest.
The report that Sir ’Eary was going to fight a
cuttlefish at the Bondi Aquarium, the gate-money
to go to the Parkes’ Fund, is now contradicted,
an a m.P , denies that he ever backed himself
to swallow a kitten in a pint of beer on behalf of
the same movement At Memphis (U.S.) a man
has sued for divorce on the ground that his wife
has become an actress This is taking time by
the forelock Johnny Rogers is going to give up
managing for Minnie Palmer, and starts in
business as a diamond-merohant. At least
he says so Mrs. Lachlan M'Gowan, one
of the most popular actresses in the colo-
nies, died last month at Auckland Miss
Emma Chambers arrived by the Mariposa
Miss Helen Dauvray (Little Nell “ the Californian
Diamond ”) is ill, and hard up, in America, and
the Yankee critics now say she can’t act. Blessed
is she who is down for she shall be sat up0n... ... An
amachoor company has been playing “ Lea
Cloches de Cornevllle " in Bathurst, and the local
Archimedean states that a bagman of grea
intelligence, who saw the piece on its first produc-
tion in Paree, declared the Bathnrst amateurs to
be better than the Parisian professionals .
“ Ruddy Gere ” is to be produced in Melbourne at
Christmas Webb, of Webb’s Marionettes, has
died of liver complaint somewhere m the oholera-
smitten East Mr. C. H. Taylor and Miss Ella
Carrington are playing ‘ Called Back, and Ould
reland,” in the South with considerable success.
BRIEF MENTION.
Vegetable diet—Roast^Chinaman.
Imperial schemers—Australian Premiers.
Answers to co-respondentß—Rules abso-
lute.
The Parkes’ Fund begging letters have
turned up in South Australia.
Reported that the Queen is involuntarily
growing chin-whiskers. God shave the Queen!
Premier Parkes proposes to give a new 1
name to N.S.W. Why not also change his own
name to Sharkes f
Shoal Bay, N;Z., was formerly the crater
of a volcano. In those ddys it was prdbably
known as Sheol Bay.
Nearly 400 schemes for rabbit-annihilation
have been proposed to Minister Abigail. Re is
now able to spell rabbit in one try.
David Buchanan says that Scotland
“ owes everything to John Knox." Isn’t this
rather ungenerous to the Duke of Argyle?
The days of the professional politician are
numbered. A German firm has invented a steel
clad bullet that will penetrate four inches of brass
Gladstone pronounces revenue with the
accent on the second syllable. Parkes pro-
nounces hopportoonity with the accent on the hop.
It is reported that “ the rats ” in Sydney
G.P.O. eat all the posted wodding-cake. Thoy
are believed to have digested MacNamara’s lease.
According to Beak Addison’s interpreta-
tion of the N.S.W. law, a shark is not an animal.
Of course not. He is either a lawyer or a land-
jobber.
“ Amount received for the Parkes Tribute
from the National Park Relief Works, in sums
from one shilling to one guinea, £25 55." Dog
eats dog.
The Melbourne Bicycle Club heads its list
of distinguished cyc'lsts with the name of Her
Gracious. Great Scott! fourteen stone seven
pounds, and a cyclist.
A Salvation soldier was tried in Tasmania
the other day for butting a woman with his head.
If the blood-and-fire warrior be not allowed to
butt with his head, what in thunder is it good for?
“ Where were the clergy at the burning of
the witches in Scotland ?” asked Mr. C. Young in
the Victorian Assembly the other night. Greas-
ing faggots and keeping the fire up most of the
time, we believe.
It is now the correct thing for the Chinkies
of Lower George-street, Sydney, to hold a Sunday I
night concert with open windows, through which
Europeans may see their white sisters revelling
with the heathen.
If Parkes keeps his word he will have something
more valuable than his good name to leave his
children. This reminds us of an incident in the
prosecution of Horne Toqke. Lord Eldon, the
Attorney-General, having occasion to defend his
personal character, declared it was his most
valued possession, and all he had to leave his chil-
dren. Here he paused while he wept copiously,
seeing which the Solicitor General followed suit.
Someone then asked Horne Tooke why Milfqrd
cried. “ Oh," replied the wit, “he is crying to
think what a small patrimony Scott’s children
wiU have to divide,” Our hoary-headed one’s off-
spring will, it is to be hoped, inherit something
more substantial.
The Parkes’ Fund is praotically a failure. The
men who regard Parkes as absolutely essen-
tial to the fiscal salvation of N.S.W. are not alto-
gether prepared to bear financial testimony in sup-
port of their alleged opinions. They resemble
somewhat the lip-baokers of so-called favorites
who refuse to risk a wager when driven into a
corner and nailed to an issue. By the way,
Bathurst's Tonkin, M.P., is as hone3t as men
are made in N.S.W. Taking the 125 sovs.—from
the Eas 1 ] Macquarie electors—he thanked them
effasively, and, having safely ensoonced the glitter
beneath his tweed encasements, advised them, jf
they had another 125 sovs. to spare, to give them to
the national tribute to Sir Henry Parkes. But
he wisely secured the specific before recommend-
ing the generic charity.
HUMAM RECKLESSNESS.
A singular feature in the make up of mankind
is the recklessness of life, which at times becomes
epidemic. Some foolhardy man sets the example,
as did Webb in his attempt to swim the rapids of
Niagara Falb, and immediately he has f llowers
the worldover whoflattempt dangerous feats from
which no benefit, pecuniaryorotherwlEe canensue.
But recklessness of life is not confined alone to this
class of people. We areall of usdaily encountering
a danger of far greater magnitude, which conceal-
ment for a time rob3oC its terrors. It is so in-
sidious in its approach, fastening itself with a
deadly grip on the body be'Oie any palpable
evidence is exhibited that the vitality is sapped,
our constitutions undermined, and we are made
wrecks, physically and mentally, before we have
been alarmed. We refer to diseases of the kidneys,
those subtle organs placed in our body to purify
our blood, and in connection with our bowels, to
eliminate all the waste material whioh the system
is daily throwing off- Dr. Dawson Williams says
urinaiy disease 3 are bscoming year by year more
common, and another eminent authority says that
dera’-gad kidney action is the cause of 93 per cent,
cf all the diseases which afflict mankind. Dr.
Ralfe makes a still more astonishing statement,
to the effect that if the water of people who
suffer from general disease was examined, 27 per
esnt. would be found to contain albumen. This is
a startling statement, and confirms the fact
that nearly every disease takes its origin from
derangement of the kidneys. That the disease Is
and haa been on the increase since the time of
Blight cannot be doubted, but that it has become
as prevalent as these statements lead us to believe
seems almost impossible, and the assertions might
well be doubted did they not come from such
high authority. The moral is a plain one, and is
simply this: To have uninterrupted health and
long life we must keep the kidneys in such a con-
dition that they can perform the laborious func-
tion nature designed for them. How to do this is
a question which for years we have looked in vain
for physicians to answer. Their endeavours to
discover a medicine which should have a control-
ling influence to prevent these disastrous results
have been fruitless But there is a remedy,
purely vegetable, whioh is almost specific in its
power over the kidneys, liver, and urinary organs.
This remedy is Warner’s safe cure. It has a
record with which no others can com-
pare, and ita marvellous power over disease is
confirmed by a mass of evidence given daily by
the colonial press.


Pepper
And
Salt
A certain Dr. Peebles — more power to his
tjrescrlptions ! —has sketched out a simple system
5f living for a hundred years and gliding down
the hill of life gracefully. The doctor, mind you,
imposes no ridioulous conditions on his disciples.
At a first glance some of them appear stiff, but
that impression wears off with study. For in-
stance, he softens the ordeal of rising at five in
the morning by allowing you to take as much
sleep as you want. That’s plain and straight’’or-
ward. You toddle off to bed with the roosters
and rise with their introductory orow. To live on
vegetables and light refreshments of the tapioca
family (washed down by nothing but filtered
water) reads pleasant enough for everyone but the
butchers and grog-sellers. The chief trouble lies
in this paragraph : “ Don’t insult Nature. If you
get angry, take a bath and go to bed and sleep ; if
the world abuses yon take extra sleep; if dyspep-
tic and discontented take a long, sound sleep, and,
waking, you will find all the world is smiling."
As far as we can understand, Dr. Peebles only
provides for anger in houses where the bath is
ready to hand and the bedroom adjoins. The man
who loses his temper out in the bush is placed at
a disadvantage. We once asked a Queensland
editor in an almost waterless district how he
managed to live there all the year round without
tubbing. “Ob,” he airily replied, “I take a
Turkish bath whenever I go down to Melbourne.”
He was the man who once, years ago, left
Riverina for Melbourne and went to Hosie’s
baths, and when they had shampooed
him for two hours they found that his
cuticle was growing over an Irish frieze
ulster. But there are no difficulties about
the final clause: “Exercise charity towards all,
control your passions, govern your appetites.
Develope and manifest a sweet and peaceful
spirit.” That’s the lot. And now for a song,
after which a shower-bath and long, sound sleep—
The Baptist Association of Victoria met in
Melbourne lately to consider matters calmly. The
chairman said he was sorry to have to state that
there had been a “ declension ”in the church
during the last year. Also, that “there were not
more than half-a-dozen—but there was that
number—clergymen in the Baptist denomination
who did not hold the doctrine of future punish-
ment." Half-a-dozen who disbelieve in Hell, and
he is surprised at the “ declension ” in the Church !
Why—but let us mould it in metre
We ask you this .—Now, ponder well,
And answer free—
If nobody believed in Hell
Where would you be ?
* * *
A little obituary lyric from the Melbourne
Age :
“ We’ve lost our little Thomas now,
The Lord carried him home;
He lent him to us for a while—
A sacred, precious loan.”
Pray, pardon our hardheartedness, but we really
must suggest, as a continuation, in the same com-
mercial style:—
We watched him lying calm and still—
We only thought he dozed—
Death had a mortgage on him, and
We found he had foreclosed.
Some persons whose heads are properly
screwed on have inaugurated a little enterprise
in Victoria, Which will doubtless enable them to
organise a respectable obesity and a largo t:nk-
account in peace and quiet, whilst less brainy in-
dividuals are working themselves to skin and
hair in order to be able to buy cheap chops and
keep abreast of the refit-collector. The persons
hereinbefore alluded to bake resolved themselves
into a holy, prayerful syndicate with one eye (the
glass one) fixed on heaven, and the other glued to
the main chance like an old man mussel to a pier-
pile. They have purchased a tract of verdant
country, bounded on the north by a rippling lake
and on the south by the dark and deep blue ocean,
in the peaceful bucolic region called Drysdale ;
they have split it into allotments, blocks, and
corner lots, christened it New Jerusalem, or
Golden Shore, or something, and advertised that
they stand prepared to sell to the sanctified for
cash, or on easy terms, one or more blocks in this
well-known and rapidly-improving district,
within ten minutes’ walk of the post office,
hospital, and the morgue, and commanding an
extensive view of over the way and round the
corner. ‘ ‘ The aim of the promoters," says that fervid
organ, the Wesleyan Spectator, “ is to provide
a summer retreat for Christian people.” Two
hundred Methodist clergymen and laymen have
secured lots. Religious services will be regularly
held during the season, reserves for which pur-
pose are duly specified on the plans. No pubs
will be allowed in the streets of the holy city, and
any man whose breath is burdened with fer-
mented or spirituous odours, trespassing within
A NECESSARY PROVISO.
“MAY I TAKE MY DOG INTO THE CARRIAGE WITH ME, GUARD?"
“YES, SOR; THAT WILL BE ALL RIGHT SO LONG AS THERE’S ONLY TWO OF YEZ
AND YEZ DON’T FOIGHT.”
its confines, will find himself liable to so many
pains and penalties that he’ll want to die on the
spot to save law-expenses. Every applicant for a
frontage must be possessed of a blue ribbon and a
family Bible ; must be able to pray off-hand, and
sing a hymn with becoming unction ; his charac-
ter must be up to standard—more than three de-
falcations and four fraudulent insolvencies unfit-
ting an applicant from becoming a citizen.
Corner lots reserved for clergymen, and a liberal
discount allowed to bishops and shining lights.
We have not been requested to give our opinion,
but we’ll give it all the same—we’d give more to
help on such a cause. We think this new float is a
glorious, philanthropic idea; some lonely, faraway
place where ranters and sleek apostles could get
to out of the road has long been a hard felt want.
We think the enterprising genius who opens a
pub. just beyond the border of the New Jeru-
salem will find his business go ahead so fast that
he won’t be able to keep his hat on, and we also
think that this holy city will produce more
divorce cases to the acre than any other spot its
s'ze under the sun.
» # *
“ Their Royal Highnesses the Princesses
Louise and Maud of Wales have recovered from
the attack of measles from which they recently
suffered”: -
“Mr. Walker read extracts from some
correspondence to show that the girls in that in-
stitution (BHoela Reformatory) had been beaten
with oanes for no offence and otherwise ill-
treated.”— Daily Telegraph.
After all, what is the good of a tombstone ?
No man that we ever knew of slept any happier in
his grave beneath the vine on account of the lies
above his head ; the stone doesn’t hold down the
lost cadaver worth a cent,, and the granite monu-
ment is a mighty life at the resurrection. Yet
men keep on planting headstones with the same
aggravated stupidity as of old, and while the de-
parted member of the Australian eleven is still
pounding with his bat at the golden gate his sor-
rowing relatives are engaged carving out on the
flat bosom of a melancholy block how many runs
he made in his earthly cricket-match, and how
death bowled him out at last and he passed away,
for ever stumped. Men, as we already observed,
keep on planting tombstones, and other men dig
them up. and scoop them out, and turn them into
hog-troughs. Years ago there was a little grave-
yard in a lonely spot near the Victorian border,
and half a dozen monuments related how the
underneath was speared by the blacks in forgotten
years, and how he died through the gore coming
out of him It was a poor, hungry, lop-sided, in-
solvent little cemetery, and it mouldered away
till there was only one stone left. Then old Bugg
ook uo the adjoining run, and scragged the last
lone In Memoriam” andturned itinto a grindstone.
It is still in use, and day by day “ Sacred to the
memory of ” goes whizzing round, and axes
and knives are sharpened on the virtues of the
deceased. “Erected by his sorrowing wife ” has
long since been ground to dust; “Blessed are
they that sleep in the Lord” was chipped away
when the old stone was rooted up and devoted to
its new service, but still that “Sacred to the
memory of ” whirls aboub with a monotonous
buzz from morning to night. If this should catch
the eye of old w ugg, he will take the hint
and give the relic a rest. If he doesn’t n,
chances are that he may find the owner , 8
round in tho no» world. „»d
his tombstone, and Bugg won’t be able to til hi
to him, Klve it
(Slow.)
If, in this here vale of tears,
You would last a hundred years,
( Quick,)
If you really want to be a centenarian —
Never taste a bit of meat,
But farinaceous vittles eat,
Or mix ’em with a diet vegetarian.
Sure, the only way to thrive
Is to quit your couch at five,
When the early morning air is very breezy ;
If much slumber you require,
At seven sharp to rest retire—
Then getting up at five is pretty easy.
Wine and spirits, beer, and such—
No, nor tea nor coffee touch—
Those liquors interfere with your longevity ;
When you feel inclined to weep,
Go and take a soothing sleep,
And waken in a state of happy levity.
If a fellow makes you wroth,
Run at once and have a bath,
Then tumble in and doze away an hour ;
Nature is insulted if
Anyone presumes to tiff,
And afterwards forgets to try a shower.
Love your neighbour as yourself,
Put all “ feelings ” on the shelf,
And govern every appetite and passion,
Then you’ll live three hundred years—
Bless us 1 how the prospect cheers—
Centenarians are sure to be the fashion.
OUR GODS—AT CENTENNIAL TIME.
We, like the ancient Greeks,
Bow at many a shrine
Where reason vainly seeks
For aught divine.
They deified as gods
Statues of pulseless stone ;
We worship soulless clods
Of brawn and bone.
Muscle is all we heed,
Brute force has trampled mind ;
Swift rush of boat or steed
Leaves brain behind
The one who wins renown
In schools of art and grace
Must yield the laurel crown
To Beach, or Mace.
Men in the older days
Honoured both song and sage ;
Low brows receive our bays
In this new age.
Brain begs in soleless shoes ;
Art dies, and brazen clods—
Gross things of busts and thews—
Rise as Our gods.
BLISS, INDEED!
We whitened with terror and shook at the kqees—
The Bulletin’s thoughts were far over the seas
While the Angel of Death roundabout our Louiae
And her sister maliciously hovered ;
For the measles is such a malignant disease;
But now we are happy again, if you please,
And chirrup like dickey-birds up on the trees—
Those maidens, hurrah ! have recovered.
The editor suffered with spasms of dread,
The office-boy hung his young carrotty head,
And (so says his mother) refused to be fed,
The artists wept oft at their easels,
When Louie and Maudie were ordered to bed,
With faces disfigured by patches of red
It seemed they must certainly die, but instead,
Thank Jove 1 they’ve got over the measles.
Mister Walker, legislator,
In his airy way complains
That the Biloela matron
Beats her naughty girls with canes.
Well, our captious friend 1 What would you
Have the worthy matron use ?
Would you have her burst her slippers ?
Or the matron’s husband’s shoes ?
We admit that methods differ,
And that efficacious pains
May be to naughty girls applied
By other means than canes.
Such matters as a cricket-bat —
The flat end of a spade—
A cowhide—or a saveloy
Have naughty girls dismayed
Before—and even yards of tripe
And tails of kangaroos
Have served the purpose—you perceive
The range is wide to choose.
Artistic bent will go for much
In such a case as th's -
For bold and picturesque effect
A spade is not amiss.
But, all the same, we don’t see why
This captious wretch complains
That the Biloela matron
Castigates her girls with oanes.
0 ar faith in institutions—
In our charitable schemes—
Has vanished with the last report,
Into the land of dreams.
Since that report has been hushed up
Or gone to feed the fishes ;
Why should the matron not use canes,
Or half-bricks—if she wishes ?
“SONGS OF THE ARMY OF THE
NIGHT.”
Herewith we introduce a few poems-now first
printed—selected at random from a rr.i,T C
to be published in Sydney within tie S
few weeks by Francis W. L. Ada\t«
a volume filled with the strong mear
poetry—such poetry as is seldom the lot of
to read. Too loDg have poets given their finct
thoughts to gild frivolity and to refine the w
than moonbeams of fancy. Too lorn? havo
sported “ with Amwyllis in the shade and
wi'h the tangles of Ne sera's hair”; but seldom
has imagination thrown its vivid light on tho
misery of men and chanted their wrorg 8 in h, f
fervid verse. At best, in Wordsworth it waii«
feebly of “ man’s inhumanity to mar ” and ro
turns to its Egyptian flesh-pot to feed and hi
fribble with the trifles that gratify the palate of
fools. These poems of Francis Adams' are Das
sionate and intense. They throb with love f r
humanity and hate for humanity’s oppressors
Here we have poetry seizing hold of life going
down to the bed-rock of sooiety and holding aloft
the quivering organism to the gaze of startled
men and women. In these poems the author
applies realism in impassioned verse, and plain
nervous, unvarnished Saxo a, to problems usually
relegated to the domain of crabbed and dry-as
dust philosophy. He throws all his forca into show
ing things as they are, and not as most poets do
as he would wish them to be. We want this
volume to boom throughout the land, if it -we™
called the “Beauteous Terrorist,” and were
written by Sir Henry Parkes, we should wish no
less. Not alone for the sake of its author, butfor the
sake of the book, we want every man and woman
in whose breast beats a sympathising human heart
to read it. There are possibly better poems than
those we have selected—our choice having been
restricted by circumstances to the first few pages-
—we can only advise everyone who reads them to
buy and study the volume :
EVENING HYMN IN THE HOVELS.
We sow the fertile seed, and then we reap it ■
We thresh the golden grain: we knead the’bread
Others that eat are glad. In store they keep it
While we hunger outside with hearts like lead.
Hallelujah'!
We hew the stone and saw it, rear the city.
Others inhabit there in pleasant ease.
We have no thing to ask of them save pity,
No answer they to give hut what they please. .
Hallelujah !
Is it for ever, fathers, say, and mothers,
That we must toil and never know the light '■
Is it for ever, sisters, say, and brothers,
That they must grind us dead here in the night?
Hallelujah !
O we whs sow, reap, knead, shall we not also
Have strength and pleasure of the food we make?
O we who hew, build, deck, shall we not also
The happiness that we have given partake?
Hallelujah !
TO THE GIRLS OF THE UNIONS.
Girls, we love you, and love
Asks you to give again
That which draws it above,
Beautiful, without stain.
Give us weariless faith 1
In our Cause, pure, passionate,
Dearer than life and death,
Dear as the love that sit!
Give to the man that turns
Trait’rous hands or forlorn
Back from the plough that burns,-.
Give him pitiless scorn !
Let him know that no wife
Would bear him a fearless child!
To hate and loathe the life
Of a leprous father defiled.
Girls, we love you, and love
Asks you to dive again
That which draws it above ;
Beautiful, without stain >;
II AGAR.
She went along the road;.
Her baby in her arms.
The night and its alarms!
Made deadlier her load.
Her shrunken breasts were dfjiv
She felt the hunger bite.
She lay down in the nighty.
She and the child, to die.
But it would wail, and wail,
And wail. She crept away.
She had no word to say,
Yet still she heard the wail;
She took.a jagged stone ;
She wished it to be dead.
She beat it on the head ;
It only gave one moan.
She has no word to say;
She sits there in the night.
The east sky glints with light,
4tnd it is Christmas Day!
Dubbo Dispatch states that the grandly
economical Parkea Ministry has spent £482,762
more than the Jennings Government, according to
1 he revenue returns for September 30.
The fate of Captain Cook’s ship, the
Endeavor, has now been decided. She was sold
out of'the British service in 1795, and subsequent y
found her way to America. In beating out of the
harbour of Newport, Rhode Island, she struck on
Brenton's Reef, and although fhe was hauled on
she wai, on examination, found to be unseaworihy.
end was consequently condemned and broken op.
The Thames police-hulk, which was lately though
10 be identical with the Endeavour, proves to he
the remains of Matthew Flinders' ship, the Inves-
tigator.
A swarm of well meaning windbags, who
make Sunday hideous on the Melbourne wharves
by what they call preaching the Gospel, we
brought before the Court the other day an
ordered to keep the Word to themselves for
future. Among them was an old frierd, w- ’
Gilliver Gee, who seemingly was in full bla. 9
those same wharves when Batman landed,
does seem rather hard that he should have hig
cloture put on him after all these years, bu
name was bound to tell against him at last,
fate was foreshadowed in it. Thus- G.A.G. •
He has been gagged accordingly. There is
in a name, after all. /
OUTSIDE LONDON.
In the black night, along the mud-deep roads
Amid the threatening boughs and ghastly streams
Hark ! sounds that gird the darknesses like goads ’
Murmurs and rumours and reverberant dreams
Tramplines, breaths, movements, and a little light —
The inarching of the Army of the Night /
The stricken men, the mad brute-beasts are keeping 1
No more their places in the ditches or holes *
But rise and join us, and the women, weeping
Beside the roadways, rise like demon-souls
Fill up the ranks ! What shimmers there so bright' >
The bayonets of the Army of the Night! ‘
Fill up the ranks ! We march in steadfast column
In waveriog lines yet forming more and more •
Men, women, children, sombre, silent, solemn ’
Rank follows rank, like billows to the shore’
Dawnwards we tramp, towards the day and light
On, on and up, the. Army of the Night! 1 ”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir Patrick Jenkins has kissed the Pope’s
tOo i woman claims £5OOO from President
of the L.V.A.j Melbourne, for breach of
Pr< rfdv Parkes is in very feeble health. She
. ilarly 73 years of age, and has been for 51 years
married to Sir Henry.
Dr Mackellar, and Mr. H. C. Russell,
t, NS W Government astrono ner, have re-
turned to Sydney from Europe.
w H Atack, manager of the N./. Press
iJoAatlon, leaves Auckland for Sydney imme-
diately to institute an Australian branch of that
Col Tohn Mitchell, who was transported for
coition in ’4B, said the drat thing he saw in
Hobart on landing was a kangaroo with its pocket
Pl There is a book -seller in Sydney who got
v.- first start in the trade through the accidental
purchase of a “Chain” Bible, which he sent to
Eondon and sold at auction for £l2O.
The first recognised reporter in the House
. T nrda i 8 said to have been Charles Windeyer,
Grandfather of the Mount Rennie Judge, and who
was afterwards Police Magistrate at Sydney.
Dan Mayne, the Bathurst editor, was
one of a noble baud of triplets who arrived at
winfiqor (N.S.W.) somewhere about the
thirties.” As usual, the “goodboys” died.
A bookmaker, says a certain N. S. W.
District Court Judge, is not necessarily a thief.
Do w would that read without the commas ? And
would the Judge take it as a compliment or
■otherwise? .
The M‘Elhone of the N.Z. Parliament is
iMr H S Fish, member for Dunedin. It is a
-Zck ioke that in London they go to Billingsgate
Ifor their fish, while in N.Z. they go to Fish for
■their Billingsgate.
Poor Feilberg, editor of the Brisbane
'Courier, said a few months ago When I get
■older and my brain gets worn out, they will get a
■younger man.” Fortunately, he died in harness,
as he wished to do. ......
Sir William M‘Arthur, head of the big
soft-goods firm, who has just died in London, was
the first member of the House of Commons to
■visit Australia, and was the first Irishman who
was ever Lord Mayor of London.
A large and valuable block of land in the
■City of Collingwood (Vic ), on which no improve-
ments have ever been made, is said to be owned
by a titled absentee who has never set foot on Aus-
tralian soil—the Marquis of Ailsa.
Sir William Clarke’s large prize for the
'best essay on a banking subject was won by Mr
<G Eagar, accountant of the B.N.S.W. at Mel
■bourne. Mr. Eagar is a son of Mr. Geoffrey Eagar,
■Secretary to the N.S.W. Treasury.
Mr. Justice Barton, who fifty years ago
.sat, on the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench, gave
£lOO per annum towards establishing churches
and schools in the colony. How much per annum
•do the present dispsn- era of justice give towards
social reform ?
The Marquis of Ely appears as a creditor
iin Lord Augustus Lotus’estate to the tuno of
£31,000, and is “ part’y «? ure *L JP
Governor is uncle to the ma kis We note also
that the little item, £3lOO, due to Lady Lcttus, is
‘ fully secured.”
'Of the present N.S.W. Ministry, Parkes
-was an ivory turner, Sutherland a ca-p inter,
•■Garrett a compositor, Wise a barrister, lag la .
bagman, Uobsr.s a publican. Clarke a financial
agent, Abigail a grindery vendor and dire o,or o a
i<l2o per sbent philanthropic institution.
‘Kangaroo’' Charley Armstrong, of
•Queensland, who made Buffalo Bill’s cowboys
■ green with envy by successfully backing them
buckjumpers, is the husband of Madame Melba-
“ pretty Mrs. Armstrong,” the singer—and prides
•himself not a little on his science wit a the gloves.
D. C. M‘Arfchu' - , who died last week of
•paralysis at the age of 80. was the money-
changer in Melbourne He went there )r om S/d
ney in 1837 to establish a branch of tha Bank of
Australasia, and was, until very iately, generM
■ superintendent of that bank in the
■ colony.
Twenty-five years ago one of the N.b.W.
"Stephen family was a judge of the N. Z
"Court. When he died, a member of the Auc Hand
'Provincial Council moved tha rndjournmen, of
• that body on the ground that there wera two
•things he had never saen—a dead jadge and a
• dead donkey.”
Here is a yarn Marcus Clarkeused to te .
• A mailman who was in the t ° , g
• through the bush 20 miles a day, and who always
• carried a bottle of whisky in his !them
• asked by a friend the best track fco , ta . ~
v were so many, “ Follow the whisky-b - >
' was the reply.
'Some of the English papers say that Hen-
• hiker Heaton will not return to Commons,
■ but will remain in Australia to complyTL whiZ
■ terms of the late Mrs. Bennett s will, u
'he succeeded to certain properties, cendiHonally
•on residing in Sydney. This is incorrec .
• niker returns per Ormuz.
An old Crimean veteran was hroug
1 before the Footsoray (Vic.) Bench the o er ay
' for vagrancy. He had borrowed sixpence from
1 somebody, and got slightly intoxicated o ,
■ niversary of the battle of Inkermann, in
i had fought. Who would nob shed his blood for
1 his country after that 1 Vive In gloire .
A correspondent writes stating that one
•of Parkes’ new Justices of the Peace is an old r,
whitewashed. He was convicted of riotous ® OI L
' duct same 18 months ago, and was then str
• the roll as a disgrace to the Bench. Be '
' ported to have celebrated hi 3 new promotion oy
subscribing to the Parkes Relief Fund.
A magnificent burst of Victorian oratory
v was nipped in the bud last wotA Shiels, t
1 smart young member for Divorce, had go it
1 as “ in the short space of one revolving
' when blunt Jack Woods reminded his honourable
! friend that the pale orb of night doesn t revolve
‘at all. This was applying the Woods brake.
Clever Phil. Day lies at the Alfred Hos-
i pital, Melbourne—»iok ever unto death.. Bay
unfortunately, is not a capitalist, and mo
1 relieve his keen anxiety for the future of his w
and children a subscription-list has been opened,
• headed by some substantial items. Mr. May ,
of Melbourne Bijou, is custodian of the cash, ana
will promptly acknowledge anything that is sent
1 along.
Jimmy Thompson, of Exhibition celebrity,
s going to start a daily evening paper in Mel-
bourne, of which Phil. Robinson is to be
the great Mokanna. The proprietors of the pro-
jected new paper, it is averred, will endeavour to
make the most of the fact that the Herald, the
existing evening journal, is partly owned by
people who aren’t of the same “ color” as J B .
PattersoD, Esq.
Major Atkinson, the new Premier of New
Zealand, raised a force of military settlers during
the Taranaki war of 1860. So bucolic were these
citizen sodjers, that it wes sung of them—
In the Taranaki war
The order used to be,
Not “ For-ward,”
But “ Gee up, Strawberree.”
Jeremiah Caesar Blank —that came will
do —wealthy N.Z. landowner, is a good Christian,
with a constant eye on the main chance. During
the Maori war he exerted his influence over
Wiremu Something or Other, a powerful Waikato
chief, and prevented him taking up arms against
the whites. He then “converted” him, got him
to will him 50,000 acres of land, and, when the
chieftain died, erected a wooden tombstone to his
memory, inscribed with the deceased's last words:
“ Let Jeremiah remain on the land.”
George Milner Stephen, the faith-healer,
and brother of Sir Alfred, was at one time a fierce
Democrat, and represented in the Victorian Aa-
semb’y Colling wood Flat with John Edward the
Younger, known as the “ Game Chicken,” and
Charles Jardine Don, a stonemason, who threa-
tened to “ drive the Victorian squatters across
the Murray with their own stockwhips.” Don
afterwards kept a pub. in Brunswick-street, Fitz-
roy (Vic ), and died poor, although it was said he
had shaken hands with the wealthier of squatters
during the passing of Gavan Duffy's first Land
Act.
M. Daniel Wilson, of the French War
Office, must b 9 an inexperienced young softy to
go and write forged letters on a year-late-water-
marked paper. Which reminds us of a somewhat
similar little incident that occurred five months
since in a certain Australian city. A too clever-
by-half gentleman—a churchwarden and Sunday-
school teacher, b 7 the way—who alleged that he
held several promissory notes made by a defunct
friend, threatened to raise considerable legal dust
It his claim was not paid. He took the preliminary
legal steps, trotted out the p. n.’s in question—
£llso in amount—and had them examined. The
date on the water-mark when held up to the light
gave him clean away, and he dropped the case
A FELLOW-FEELING.
RINGNOSE WISE (to influential embezzler): "YOU ARE DISCHRGED. YOUR GREAT
FAULT WAS YOUR WEAK MINDEDNESS. AND I SYMPATHISE WITH YOU,
FOR I'M AFFLICTED THAT WAY MYSELF, DON'TCHERKNOW."
like a very hot potato, then and for evermore.
paid the other fellow £lOOO to “say
nothing about it.”
W. G. Garrard, an erstwhile JS.b.W.
labour agitator, and who once contested a Sydney
Parliamentary constituency, is now engaged m
running in ccllarless dogs for the Auckland cor-
poration. He varies this amusement by writiDg
letters to the papers, and the eccentricity of his
orthography makes his lucubrations as fanny as
anything ny Josh Billings When he raises a
“ tennitfel pint” (technical POintl against an
“otfishil ” he is happy. Garrard does his canine
/.niw ine without fear or favour, ai witness the
fact that the other day he lassoed Resident
Magistrate Baddelley’s dog.
William Cres wick was an irascible tragedian
while in Australia, and particularly so with the
Utility” actors. One day, in a Melbourne
he lost his temper at reheawa', and
casting his eyes upwards cried, “ Great Heavens !
Js the race extinct 2 ” Then he said the actors
i , s
s“S IS* XZJEtJXL*
S told her that she “bought her actors by the
dozen. ; ,
Politeness costs nothing. A.JJurglar who
hard-up and apologising for his mie ess.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hans Barkes he had a barty,
Where is dot now 2
The populations of New South Wales and
Victoria are equal. But N.S. W. has 1000 more in
gaol than Victoria.
Mr. G. H. Reid, M.P., who is a lawyer,
and ought to know, alleges that the N.S.W.
Assembly is on the brink of damnation.
The Socialists call themselves “The Pro-
gressive Labour Party,” because labour progresses
so rapidly they never catch it.— Sydney E. News.
Mr. Wise says he threw up a practice of
£3OOO a year for the N.S.W. Attorney Generalship
with £l5OO and p3rks. “ Penny Wire and Pound
foolish."
The latest J übilee celebration is the swear-
ing in of 20,000 special constables in London “to
assist in preserving law and order ” among Her
Majesty’s loving subjects.
“ That the time has arrived when Chinese
cooks should bs abolished.” This resolution must
now be embodied in an address t<j the leading
hotelkeepers of Australasia.
Ninian Melville says, “We bury a man
before he becomes corrupt.” We do nothing of
the kind. If we did, the present N.S.W. Parlia-
ment would hardly be able to raise a quorum.
The very latest is that a brother-in-law of
a brother of a member of the N.S.W. Ministry—a
youth who was lately sentenced to a year’s gaol
for embezzlement —has, by some mysterious in-
fluence, b9en released from prison ere the expira-
tion of half his santence.
N.Z. Parliament, by 63 to 29, defeated the
second reading of a Bill to empower the electors
to choose their own Governor. Many who voted
against this “thin end” of the wedge of Repub-
licanism said they believed in the principle of an
elective Governor, but the time was not yet ripe.
Parkes was not over-pleased at the elimi-
nation from his Railways Bill of the doctrine of
chance Ticket-issuers ar.d other officials are not
to be appointed by the drawing of lots Lots ot
money will, nevertheless, be f ound useful in win-
ning preferment in the N.S.W. Government ser-
vice.
New Zealand doesn’t want Governors
of the spavined, played-out Downing - street
nominated sort. One day it will elect its own
and Sir George Grey says the Constitution of the
colony empowers them to do this. He ought to
know, as he drafted the Constitution. Hooray
for Hori!
Says the brutally and hopelessly ignorant
Sydney E. News Henry George, the
Socialist, may be expected in Australia next year.
as most people know, Henry George is not a
Socialist, and, like Bradlaugh, has been denounced
by some of the ultra-Socialists for his opposition
to their principles.
Ten years’ prison was the sentence awarded
William Robertson the other day at Sydney f °r rob-
bing an unemployed navvy of a clay pipe, a blunt
knife and a soiled handkerchief. William made a
mistake. He should have taken to Pobticaandthe
Insolvent Court, and become a law-abiding cham-
pion of the monopolist classes.
The Chief Justice of Queensland remarked
the other day that it seemed a princip e
with some people to p?le-axe a man when lie
arrives at a certain age. This, however, must be
regarded as the unthinking utterance of a legal
luminary who never made the acquaintance of a
N, S W. politician of the old school.
How horfis does change some politicians !
When in Opposition, Abigail, the pawnshop-
dire cto-, now N.S.W. Minister of Mines, had a
political eye like a sewer-rat’s, and a jaw that
nothmg could humble, Now, as he gracefully
reclines on the downy cushions of the Ministerial
benches and listens to the interest growing at the
rate of 200 per shent, he accuses the other side of
“ chatterosity.”
According to the apologetic London cor-
respondent of the S.M. Herald, Callinan, the
latest Irish informer, who is only a tramp, a
loafer, a deserter from the army, a convicted
felOD, a drunkard, and a police paid organiser of
outrages, “is not morally a worse man than
James Carey.” Of course, the inference is that
his evidence is good enough to hang Irishmen, and
hence the pious Herald mm rejoiceth accord*
ingly.
P.M.- General Roberts, of N.S.W,, offers
£lO for the best design for Centennial postage
stamps. The reward is too smal', It takes a
clever man to artistically crowd a postage stamp
with a crown and anchor, attiangle, cat-’o-nine*
tails, view of the Insolvent Court, Botany Bay,
Parkes’ photo., the gallows, M’Namara’s lease,
and all the other suggestive signs of the advance
which N.S. Wales hasn’t made during the last
hundred years.
A London correspondent of the Arguh
writes that the English Admiralty wnn'd be
averse to allowing Fiji to throw in her .u; with
any of “ the colonies," because—
In surrendering the Pi] is to an Australian Government
Great Britain would be parting with her only possssion in
the Pacific which could be available for strategic purposes in
the event of the great Southern colonies cutting themselves
adrift from the mother country in the future. The folly of
Great Britain in neglecting to take tip suitable positions for
defensive and offensive purposes throughout the Pacific is
now beginning to be appreciated.
Hooray!
Parkes scored one in magnificent style
when he heroically declared on Friday last, in the
N.S W. Assembly, that he would not permit the
State school children to be made instruments for
the extortion of doles of “ National Tribute.” Bub
the whole performance was hollower than a cir-
cus drum. The case stood thus : The hat had
been cm-ied round by hundreds of these children,
and had been returned empty as Parkes’ profes-
sions ; then, when it was fovrnd that the dodge
wouldn't work, the Grand Old Maioeavrer de-
clared that he would notallow his committee to
attempt it. That is the full measure of his self-
sacrificing magnanimity in this matter.
A Clermont (Q. ) drunk, -who was fined a
few days ago, ejaculated : “Thank God that thero
are the police to take care of a man when he gets
light"
Speaking of a recent N.S.W. accident, the
Noozk observes 1 “ The young man was an active
member and officer of the Lachlan Lodge, No 98,
1.0.G.T., and was perfectly sober at the time.'
Tnis is very solid sarcasm.
Patrick Fleming, of Melbourne, stabbed
his aunt the other day because she could not give
him money fer beer. She di d. The jury brought
him In “ not guilty.’’and he was acquitted with-
out a stain on his character. Justifiable h micide
was eviden ty what the jury thought of it.
A man must have beer though he has to wade
knee-deep through blood to get it. Pass the jug.
At Wallsend (N.S.W.)asagood-humcured
man was trudgiag hoimward, he overtook a
heavily-burdened old lady whom he gallantly
offered to relieve of some of her parcels.
The old dame assented. When her house was
reached he noticed that the window was brokeD,
and being a bit of a good Samaritan, sent a msu
round in the morning to mend it. Recently the
old woman died and left him the fee-simp'e of a
well-stocked farm of 1G acres. Wail send young
men now go about sekirg prayerfully for heavily-
burdened 1 14 ladies with b-oken windows.
The old gag about marriages btiog made
in heaven is becoming seriously undermined. The
other day a Primitive Methodist pounder from
the skies, who soj ourns at Bundaherg (Q ) until
his harp and crown shall be ready, performed the
marriage ceremony between a white woman and a
kanaka, and bade her take the nigger for better
or worse, for richer or poorer ; and with all his
worldly goods, consisting of a shock head, a dila-
pidated suit of clothes, and two muddy feet, he
did her endow. Then the happy pair drove away
with another nigger and a white woman to
whom he wasn’t married, and the four vanished
into sweet bl's3 beyond.
A violent convu sioo of the earth’s cruet
ha 3 upheaved things at Gabriel’s Gully (N. X.)
Ah Key took Ah Chow’s Irish widow on his knee
and asked her to be his darling instead of throw-
ing away her affections on the other scrag-headed
pagan, and she hid her blushing face on his
shoulder and whispered with tears of joy that one
blessed Chinaman would suit her as well es
another, and she didn't care a rap which leper
the had. At this moment Ah Chow arrived and
broke Ah Key’s arm and kicked him 16 times, and
hit the widow in the chest with a hoe, and bit
her ear, and tried to put hot cinders down her
back. He is in gaol now, and Ah Key is in the
hospital, and the widow sits on the knee of
another Chinaman, and they are to be mallied
shortly.
Editorial notice, quoted from the Kozukb
Shimpo by the Japan Mail: —“One of our
friends, desiring to provide himself with a wife,
requests us to submit to our readers the par
ticulars detailed below. We trust that the result
may be a speedy and happy match. The ca<
didate must be a Protestant Christian. She should
he fairly educated and understand English. She
should be graceful, tall, strong, and active. She
should be able to ride, or, if not yet skilled lu the
art of equestrianism, should have couraga enough
to p ractise after her man iage. She should be f com
fifteen to twenty-five years of age, and a virgin.
As to her property or social position, there are no
stipulations. On the other hand, the advertiser
possesses the following qualifications : - He has no
property, and is in debt, but has a definite hope
of emerging from his embarrassments. He is an
official of the Fifth-Class, Sonin rank, and is in
the receipt of First-Class salary. He has a pro-
spect of securing an independent maintenance
should he resign his present post; but in the
event of his failing to realise this prospect he
would be willing to grant his wife a divorce. He
is well versed in the Japanese and Chinese
languages, and can translate from English. He ;'s
strong, enterprising, and active, and neither
drinks nor smokes. He recognises the equal
rights of women, and promises never to treat his
wife in Oriental fashion. His age Is twenty-nine
years and three months; he has been ones
m-rrled, and has a child, which, however, has
be.n adopted into another famil..”


THE BULLETIN, SATUR DAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1887.
*
1 i 4, 4 ,
* vVte'
\U*U s' 4<
r L
m
il « A
' I '
I, i \
\S) i I
1
I ■ mh
( I* l^\V
,4 V» Os. V
*1 N 1
u
V?
J* u 4 <J '
7° N « w cl
s-ikT
'4k i 1 ;
X .£\%2 N t
~ N -V $ .«»
V> V « S V> $
* , si k
>* <
J
J*'
d
*
* 0
CN
O
>-
V*
id
*
*> .
<
jl ~ k V)
I 1 -vf"
i °47?° -fH
vo 2 tf <t ~
r\o d va< ~
. .s?*- ~ 'O'B \ J
*-. & <J \
n <d S 4.
£ 3
kO
Jlj£
n


THE SAME OLD AGONY.
>4
V
x \
, ti
x
I v*
I
•k
<N
A
if /
X
*1 M
jti
\*
,1 y> '
I
X
1
/ / V'
' * (
1* S«V
V 4V*
U) X <
*■ 1
V *> Xi
r r »Nii
* A <«2 V
z W ■ £" 4
< r
! lu ~ w r-
3,vvX 111
\ J I
\ \S* XX X
\
o N
~ X_ *4 <5- v§n x v s x
Q X.
\ 'i '2, v m\
N XX xi
XXXXX
\U\ SfsiV %A \
\\ |r Vo
\\ V \\»4i
Y\\ -csVtVU
\\ \ \ \ \ \ jV I
\v
X% \i *
v
£ < ,
• jj
(1 Vi
* ,
• 1
VjX
xx <
t? <t
> Cn v •
* U «» x *
vft S ,
0 kV
<N IPX,
v k V
\ \ «r> “*
<. X *
, ?b N
«v *'
I !*!< 4
M «j U
tI ? ;
' i
X f "
K • *n
w -U
S' t. 4, o / rtf
r* ■*• / ©
\ si U&
p &w/i
mp'//
3 / /
f/-* MW
H
r /
/ Jh
U ry^i
r
:3
V
i
V <
s s
X
s **
i i
*>
&
<
*
\o
t &
v f
• S *
v w g
\ £ >5
X
• N Nj
' 4 r
v * *
X !
■X


Society
The Marquis of Normanby, the good, old-
farmer-lookiDg gentleman who is on his way to
N Z. to pick up a young wife, is close upon the
patriarchal age of 70. His first wife was for years
an invalid, which fact formed a capital excuse for
the scanty hospitality doled out by the Markis
during his term of office as Governor of N.Z. and
Queensland. This good wife is not many months
dead. The heir to the title and to Mulgrave
Castle in Yorkshire—the family seat-is a parson
who is now Vicar of St. Mark’s, Worsley, Lan-
cashire. Another son is squatting in Queensland.
The Marquis brings a 43 years’ previous matri-
monial experience to the new wife Yum, Yum,
accordingly.
* * *
EteThe needy colonial Governor of the future
—should Imperialism be successful in obstructing
the consummation of an Australian Republic-
ought to manage a good brisk line of finance out of
the commercial disposal of his patronage. No
show is a success without it, and no doubt the
managers of various variety shows would be quite
willing to plank their coin if they once found
that the vice-regal smile, like everything else in
this world worth having, was a marketable com-
modity at so much per yard. According to the
amusement advertisement columns of the Sydney
papers, Lord Carington has taken under his im-
mediate patronage” ths Y.M.C.A Hall and Miss
Amy Sherwin ; ho b&s oxteudod bis allegoi
“ direct patronage ” to the concert for the aged
poor of Leichhardt, Sydney ; and he has likewise
donated a considerable chunk of his distin-
guished patronage” to Pain’s fireworks in the
Domain which latter delirium is also advertised
to be run in aid of “ Lady Carington’s Queen’s
Fund.”
* * *
The Bulletin still wants to know about
the testimonial which was got up in honour of
that smudgy hero, Stanley, of Mount Itonnle
notoriety. What has become of the money ? At
atest advices the Lieut. -Governor of N.S.W. was
filling the undignified position of stake-
holder, or bottle-holder, or something,
to a man who was more than sus-
pected of perjury, and who was
“ wanted” on a charge of forgery, and
now the whole question seems to have
dropped out of sight. Rumour asserts
that part of the public subscription
was used to pay back the amount of
a forged cheque traded off by Stanley
on a city hotelkeeper, and the rest—
where is it 1 Has the coin which was
ante-ed up by a grateful country to
thedoubtfulherogonetothe Queens
Fund, or the Partes Fund, or the Im-
perial Institute, or are Sir Alfred
Stephen and Mayor Riley stall taking
care of it as bailees for the sub-
scribers ? The country wants to
know. # ,
The Grosvenor Gallery Exhibi-
tion is just now the trysticg place of
that portion of Melbourne sassiety
which believes it has a soul for igh
h’art. A little handful of maidens
who abhor hustles and towards
the intense, have persuaded la to
fork out half-a guinea for a season-
ticket, and every afternoon they
glide down to the Grosvenor and
look for hidden beauties in long■ pre-
Raphaelite females m undress. Clerks
from Government offices also plank
down their hard-earned shillings, and
“do" the Gallery instead of the less
expensive Block. And parsons are
rolling up pretty freely to enjoy
Holman Hunt’s allegorical puzzle,
** The Triumph of the Innocents.
This Is a weird work, executed m
modern drawing-room furniture tints,
and pervaded by that particular ligh
which the artist discovered in Jeru-
salem. One sacred personage is
seated on a sage-green mule pulled
along by another sacred personage,
who** has olive-brown legs. Just
In front, a third sacred personage and
two other plump innocents are ™ akir ,|
•their way on what looks like the lid
of a shell-box. Nine plump innocents aU
in haloes) bring up the rear, and sundry varie
eated globes float through a peacock-blue atmos-
nhere In conception, colouring, and drawing
Holman Hunt’s masterpiece is an outrage on com-
Son sense, therefore its popularity with the c ergy
is accounted for. There are some pretty land-
segues in the collection, notably two by John
Smart, and a magnificent “ Too Late by Herbert
ftrhmalz But, take em altogether, the Gros
venor Gallery pictures are not likely to do much
for the art of painting in Australia, unless they
turn its young brain. It is only fair to the Mel-
bourne papers to say that they have not been
hysterical over this show, although bossed by a
real live Earl. We can confidently recommend it
as rather dear at a shilling.
If we may believe the cable, Valentine
Baker is dead ; the railway-carriage incident may
hn buried with him. Since 1875 there have been
S many charges of assault brought against inno-
ceat men so much maudlin sympathy wasted on
young females who were “no better than they
'ught to be,” that a re-action set in in favour of
£ Pliant Colonel beloved of the P/ince of Wales.
be admitted that Baker was only urn
But it n* far that, as a soldier, his punishment
lucky in so . Dickenson who caused
was excessive. giddy, hya terical good-for-
aU the trouble wa. « Bh S wed >« h . mßelf t 0 b 9 a ma d
nothing, and Bake assuming that he had
fool, and vain to doo. •
made an instantaneous conquest. The “ crimin-
ality ” of his assault was undoubted at the time,
whatever attempts at whitewashing may have
been made afterwards. No young man who has a
sister need drivel about “poor Valentine Baker,”
because, if there were many more like him, ladies
would have to carry six shooters.
• * *
Amy Sherwin and her company, in
journeying to Orange, rode down a steep hill, in a
crazy, ramshackle coach, behind a runaway team.
It was a refreshing experience, and several time 3
it seemed likely that the old hearse would hit up
against a tree, but it did not, and the tuneful
Tasmanian and her auxiliaries are saved to us
The trouble arose in consequence of the brakes re-
fusing to act, and, according to the Southern
Argus, when level ground was reached in safety,
to guard against a repetition of the skedaddle,
Miss Sherwin took off her c xpsnsive kid boots and
handed them over to be placed on the brake-
blocks. We are now wondering much why Miss
Amy, of all the goodly company, should have
parted with her tootsy-cases. Surely—no, no,
perish the thought I the bass singer’s must be ever
so much bigger.
• * *
Should you, at midnight or thereabouts, see
a groaning lady lying down in the park or streets,
don’t bend over her tenderly and raise her up.
SUNDAY SCHOOL IN THE BACK-BLOCKS.
LADY TEACHER (who has been reading the story of Dives and Lazarus, to small girl) : “LAZARUS
WAS THE POOR MAN. NOW, WHAT WAS THE NAME OF THE RICH MAN?”
SMALL GIRL (promptly): “JIMMY TYSON."
The best thing to do is to call a policeman. When
bent over by the unsophisticated, the groaning
lady frequently hugs the legs of the chivalrous
Samaritan And then, while she is hugging the
legs aforesaid, her “bloke” comes along and
“bashes” the Samaritan over the head with a
stone tied up in a stocking. Verb. sap.
* * #
In the vice-regal box at Melbourne Bijou
a “painful incident” was narrowly averted a
few nights ago. Lady , who is
rather short-sighted, commenced to wriggle out
of her low-necked bodies while divesting herself
of a refractory cloak. For innately, the noble
lady felt a draught, and clutched at the slipping
shoulder-strap just in time,
* * *
The moat palatial mansion in the fashion-
able suburb of Rand wick, Sydney, N.S.W., is the
Anglican Bishop's seat—“ Bishop’s Court ’—the
lordly freestone towers whereof look down upon
the broad expanse of the Pacific- Appropriately,
being a fisherman’s cot, it stands beside the eer.
And, by the way, the bishop’s see is about the
only thing remaining which reminds us that St
Peter was also a fisherman.
* * *
Thus a Melbourne Herald scribe, speak-
ing of Spurgeon : “ The greatest Christian orator
of this or any age. . . . returned from Men-
tone, whither he had gone for his gout.” So the
humble reformer who preached “ the Sermon on
the Mount " has been eclipsed by a man with the
gout. It is meet that the “greatest Christian
orator" should have the gout. Gout and latter-
day Christianity go hand m hand.
* *
For example (this from Sydney Daily
Telegraph) ■
Bishop and Mrs Goe, of Bishopsoourt. Melbourne, give a
large garden-party next Thursday, November 2i.
* * *
Before leaving the subject, it may be re-
marked that there is a magniflcentjOke in
the effusiveness with which the Melbourne
Herald applauds cleigpmen of the popular
Spurgeon pattern.
* * *
Here is a weird story. A Stipen-
diary Magistrate having been detected cheating at
cards at a swell club, found it expedient to resign
to avoid the degradation of dismissal. Now his
Washup had been very popular with the diggers,
from the fsct that he was a “ real good sort, and
had winked at their disregard of various portions ot
the minn* regulations. A few of the leading
spirits met to consider the situation. An en-
thusiastic admirer of the fallen dignitary was for
pas sic g a resolution that in the opinion of the
meeting there was nothing very heinous in sitting
on an ace of spades ; but the sense of the maiority
was that some more drastic action was necessary.
It happened that the Magistrate had one enemy,
a lawyer, who it was believed had acquainted the
I Minister of Justice with the circumstances of the
card-sharping incident, and after a lengthy dis-
cussion it was decided that on the gentleman of
the long robe the vengeance of the meeting should
fall. Assassination was the punishment agreed
on, and four fine fellows were told off to do the
job. The unfortunate lawyer was accordingly
waylaid, bludgeoned with a pick-handle, and left
for dead on the roadside. He recovered, however,
and soon after left the district.
# * •
That humane association of gentle fanatics
(worthy to be ranked with the Field Naturalists)
the Vegetarian Society of Australia, gave a great
leguminous banquet in Melbourne the other night.
The menu was remarkable. You could have a
preparation of anything that grows by calling for
it. Patties of green peas, parsnip pie, pumpkin
steaks, sausages of chopped herbs, and eggs done
up in the skins of young onions, tomatoes with
garlic sauce—these were the commonest things
on the board. I a was a mighty feast. After it
was over and the guests had risen up like so many
Nebuchadnezzira refreshed, an adjournment was
made to another hall where Miss Fanny E. Samuel
gave a brief address in which she told the company
that “ if they went immediately from flesh to vege-
tarian diet it would be injurious. The change
must be gradual, because if done at once their
bodies would rapidly fall away and they would
not be equal to it.” Miss Samuels accompanied
this statement with the artless admission that she
herself had not been precipitate in her change
from red to green diet. She was not yet by any
means a strict vegetarian. Here the company
smiled as who should say, “ This is good, sappy
humour; there is something of the leek stew
with a sprinkling of the mustard and cress about
this.” Then the meeting broke up and went out
into the streets oarrying with them a pleasant
kitchen-garden flavour that lingered behind them
long after they had gone.
* * *
A curious old Otago settler, reputed to be
enormously wealthy, ‘ ‘ pegged out ” a few weeks
ago, leaving his earthly possessions to his only
child—a maiden daughter of some forty summers.
Living in a remote mining district where women
were scarce and “hatters ” plentiful, the daughter
had saveral suitors, but the old man, who wanted
to save the wages o' a servant girl, always
managed to shoo them off with bad language, old
boots, an ugly dog, and other arguments.
When at last he had been duly planted
ia the local resurrection-paddock the sui-
tors gathered courage, made friends with the
dog, and renewed their attentions to the discon-
solate orphan. At this juncture, while the
neighbouring settlers were trying to figure up
how many thousands the girl was worth and the
suitors were spending money in hair-oil and con-
versation-lozenges, a dainty young clergyman—a
new ai rival in the district, who had dreamt
dreams of wedded bliss and a big farm—came to
administer the consolations of religion to the
fatherless one and warn the poor thing against
the temptations of the world and the danger of
being led away by the mercenary and unsanctifled.
To save her from any unholy alliance, the man of
many prayers offered himself up as a holocaust on
the altar of her affections, so to speak, and in a
very short time they were made one, dear
brethren, and would have been happy ever after-
wards but for another hitch which, alas, even-
tuated to mar their felicity. Sad to say, the old
man’s estate did not cut up well. His liabilities
exceeded his assets, and the holy young cleric
found himself the husband of an heiress who In-
herited by her father’s will some hundreds of
debts, with neither youth, beauty, education,
nor manners as a set-off. The old rivals have
teased to envy him.
* # *
At a fancy-dress ball given last week by a
Sydney draper’s employes to their “ master,”
that gentleman “ overdid the affair by don-
ning a yellow leno skirt, with blue corsets down
the outside.” Later in the evening he “ appeared
as a somnambulist, clothed in the garment of night-,
with the proverbial candle.” Faugh!
* * •
It is related of a certain well-advertised
colonial “dramatic author” that upon one occa-
sion he visited one of Her Gracious’ gaols in com-
pany with an actress. During their round of
iaspection they observed one particularly good-
looking young prisoner, and the actress became
anxious to know what he had been imprisoned
for. The author questioned the prisoner on the
point, who, in response, and smiling hideously,
said: “I am here for killing less people in the
world than you have done with your pieces.”
* * *
H. E. A. Allan, who died suddenly the
other evening at a church-meeting in Sydney,
was one of those few men one meets who acted
up to the motto, “ Deeds, not words.” His cut-
ward bearing was unostentatious to a degree, his
deeds of charity were thorough, and were known
to few save medical men and the sick poor. He
dmied himself that he might give more to others.
Ia contradistinction to the great majority of rich
men, he walked and gave away sovereigns, in-
stead of driving and giving shillings. He drank
no wine, but gave plenty to the sick. He has
been known to make up a set of books after office
hours in his own house, for a clerk who was ill
*nd unable to work; and he never once, in the
c urse of bis long life, turned his back upon
human suffering. He died a bachelor, and in his
■ ase, as in that of few others in this age of alleged
Christianity, the good that he has done is not in-
terred with his bones.
* * *
A New Zealand paper, while marmalading
a travelling concert company, remarks : “ There
was not a souchong of vulgarity about it.” This
reminds us of whea we were in Parry—berutiful
Parry ! and belonged to the zhongdarmay.
* * *
Thus a N.Y. paper on Mrs. Langtry
“Why, no female who ever crossed the Atlantic
has ever had so much scandal talked about her as
the Langtry. Ever since she took up with that
iittle Hebrew dude she has been on the down-
grade. She never was a woman of genius, and
now she is developing a glorious disregard for
respectability.” Significant.
» • *
Another “self-made ” man, of the usual
type, has just publicly declared that he began life
by working for 103. a week. That was poor pay,
and shows how little a man is worth before he hai
the sense to wear a gold cable-chain and a frock-
coat and a long-sleeved hat.
* * *
Snare, the Melbourne grocer’s boy, is to
have his legacy disputed by a daughter of Madame
Hazard from America. The easiest way out of
the difficulty is for Snare to snare the daughter as
well as the legacy.
* * *
In the latest spicy divorce case heard in
Sydney one of the co-respondents was a policeman.
The husband charged him with “ unrighteous ’j
behaviour.
* * #
John Henry Staurenghi, the Geelong
woolbroker and forger, who took a trip to ’Frisco
a while ago with a few thousands of other people’B
money, and was returned “on his ear,” has been
sentenced by the sympathetic Judge Quinlan to
Berve nine months in Geelong Gaol, just for form’s
sake. It must be nice for a fashionable prisoner
to find that his efforts to do the thing in style are
duly appreciated : it gives him heart, and he will
never descend to perpetrate a low theft. It does
away with the temptation which might lead him
to steal a leg of mutton or a loaf of bread, and
thus get into great trouble, and stain the family
escutcheon.
* * •
Miss Fay was driving a good trade as a
“medium” till the spirits moved her to hold a
seance at Blackburn (Eng.) The show hummed
along in a ghostly kind of way up to a certain
poino. Miss Fay had received messages from
Shakespeare, Henry the Eighth, and her poor deaf
aunt, but the public wanted a solid manifestation,
or their money back. That’s just the trouble with
’em nowadays—they want too much of it. Time
i , of their Ancestors in
The Ancient Romans placed o. ’«« 01
Ane A ... „* r i,.'’’Darted glory and mcen-
their vestibules as mementos of dt.varreuß »
T*lL riBing generation to folio.' right domg. Our
* . s Beat Bbos , 402 and 404 Geo rge street place m
Citizens B . f Au , thors, Preachers
their windows bust and figures ot au.
ln£l . . v „„lu -Reality. 1 Science, Art, and
Warriors, Philanthropists Youth Beau y, fancy .
rentiments that the general public ®ay ch«
Just now their windows are the most ait acti
FRFCKXFBAWE is an infallible cure for Freckles, Tan
unburn, and every description of Ephelis and JjCriil-jo t and
effects a cure by chemically changing the coloring matter
deposited under the epidermis or scarf skin, which is re
absorbed into the system and carried off by the natura
exeretory channels. Frecklebane does not injure the skin or
complexion. Bold by all chemists Special city agents: W.
H. Sml and Co., Pitt-street Price 2s. 10d., post free,
fromF. M. Clements, Ch:mist, Nswtown N.S.W.
Ladiei would do well to attend the great lale of tbe leaaon
now on at tbe London and Parii Outfitting Bitabllihment
Mra. UoOITHTr, « go Klns«tr.et„*
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney,—A Private
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both £
The residents, who are provided with separate
derive the great advantages of a constant
vision with the care and attention of a trained aw' JT”’_
Far particulars apply to the Lady Superintend
Medi


that a spiritualist could Batisfy a! crowded
anting by writing two lines on a slate, and show-
!“ jiifton’s name underneath. But of late - well,
anyhow Miss Fay did her best to amuse an un-
halleving audience by sending a dummy figure of
Wself floating through darkened space This had
L 0 n enough to paralyse ’em in other towns,
? t Blackburn doesn’t seem to have much : oul for
v,, supernatural at all. Just when the meeting
siould have said “Ain’t it awful!’ and fled
Righted, one fellow struck a match, someone
olse clutched hold of the dummy, and proceedings
terminated with the meeting chucking Miss Fay’s
embodied spirit at her silly little head. There’s
nothing left for her now but to come out to
Australia under the patronage of Chief Secretary
Deakin. # .
Alfred Bennett has started a matrimonial
c)lumn in his paper. In Saturday’s issue it had
h ! x advertisements, and each party wanted a
pirtner with means! # #
Lady Carnarvon, who is now visiting
Australia, is the Earl’s second wife. Ht 3 lord-
skip’s first wife is dead. #
Alfred Bennett is rapidly learning the art
of “ stringing on” his readers. Here is what one
may any day expact to find :—“ The ruffian then
want for his shrieking victim, scientifically
punched her classically-turned head drew copious
aTaams of vital claret from her delicately-chiseled
nose, skull-hauled her by her luscious nut-brown
hair around the gorgeously-furnished apartment,
and swore that if she did not consent to bs his
wife, the treatment would have ”
(to be continued.)
Is it any wonder
that a g.eat number of
people in England still
believe that we are more
than half black? An
English paper gravely
states that “Mr. Douglas
B. W. Sladen is already
favourably known to a
large public as the fore-
most Australian poet.”
The same public, no
doubt, believes we are
laying poison for the
others. All we know, to
speak of, of Mr. Sladen
out here is that he
wrote an “ Ode to a
Jackass ” (a blatant out-
burst of family pride), a
“ Sonnet to a Bridge,”
and a laborious epic on
the subject of rabbit-
catching.
•*
The King of Greece
is an economical young
man who has experienced
a long course of hard
times. When he was a
very small Danish prince
he bad to sew on his own
buttons and keep an eye
on his socks, and he can’t
give up the habit even
though he has become a
monarch. When he was
staying at Marlborough
House during the Jubilee
row he made himself a
public eyesore by bring-
ing his work-basket into
the smoking room at
night and fixing up his
next-day’s clean shirt in
the presence of the Bri-
tish aristocracy, and he
would hold up a pair of
stockings before the dis-
gusted Wales, and ask him if he thought they
were too far gone to be worth half-soleing, or if it
would be better to cut the leg off one and join it
to the foot of the other. Then he would set to
work and darn them in six places, and would sing
a little song while inking the bare spots on his
hat, while the heir-apparent pretended not to
know he was there.
* * *
The killing and interment of grovellers
is reserved as the joy oC our declining years.
When other earthly pleasures pall upon our senses
we intend to wale in the gore cf dead and dying
toadies, and stack up their mangled bodies, and
howl shrill tune 3 amid the dying groans of Smiths
who have gone back on their ancient family, and
Jenkinses who have bought a crest and say. they
came in with the Conqueror ; and we have hired a
special pirate to superintend the long-drawn-out
agonies of the men who give banquets, to lords,
and those who subscribe to the “ Queen’s ” Fund,
and carry carpet-bags for belated peers at railway
stations, and who are “ pre-eminent in grief,” and
who holler at “ loyalist ” meetings with a guard of
foreign bullies around them. They are all
on the list, and now we have added the N,Z. syco-
phant who wrote this to the lengthening cate-
gory
Our cable news this morning informs us that another of
the daughters of the Prince of Wales has made acquaintance
with the measles epidemic. It is to be hoped, for the sake
of their swee' lady mother —“lady mother is good—the
much-beloved Prinees3 of Wales, that tbe attack will be a
slight one, and soon pass away, leaving no serious dimcu ty
in its wake. The effect of having measles in the family
must awake old m’morhs in the mind of Albert Edward,
who wrote a kiad letter of sympa hy to the once celeoratea
Lady Mordaunt upon the occasion of measles making their
appearance on her ladyship. H> c mdol°d with her in her
misfortune, and said he had a vind recollection of the time
when he was laid up with that troublesome complaint. Just
before Lady Mordaunt was attacked by that complaint she
worked with her own fair hands a pair of pretty wool e •
aiuffiatees for His Highness, who doubtless has kept them as
a memento of that lady s interesting illness."
In the dictionary of grovel, when Lady Mordaunt,
of shady reputation, gets the measlfs, it is an
“interesting illners,” but let Mrs. Brown’s baby
catch it from her and it is on ly “ a common brat com-
ing out in spots ”
• * *
Lewisson, a well-known Auckland (N.Z.)
jeweller, who dearly loves a practio: 1 joke, was
one day seated in a hairdesser’s waiting for some
one 1 1 tonsorise him. While so engaged, a
dudiah-1 mking young man rushed into the shcp,
and, flopping himself into the chair, exclaimed
peremptorily, “ Shave me !” L. promptly “fixed
up” the customer, and having made ths usual
trad 9 remarks about the weather, he lathered
him, and then pol'tsly wishing him “ Good day,”
eft the shor.
* * *
The gianls of Genesis are being planed
down to very small dimensions. An antiquary
has just demonstrated that tha Britons of 2000
years ago averaged sft. 2in for males, and 4ft,
lOin. for females, and the further back the in-
vestigation goes the smaller the human race
becomes. It is calculated that under the
strengthening influence of three square meals per
day the stature of men is increasing at the rate of
l|in. per thousand years. The British aristocracy
is growing faster than this average, but then it
has nothing else to do. The Hou's9 of Lords and
the naked Patagonians are now about the tallest
and the most brainless of mankind.
* * #
“ Jehude ” writes “In a recent issue of
The Bulletin you say that ‘out of the 47,000
Jews in London, no fewer than 14,350 received
aid last year.’ This is probably true; but it
would be interesting to know how much of this
aid came from Christians. Jews are generally
liberal subscribers to Christian works of charity,
but the Christians are not so ready to reciprocate.
There is another side to the picture, however.
The lowest estimate of the annual income of the
London Jews is £3,808,430. which gives £B2 per
head for 47,000 persons. The average income of
the native population of the United Kingdom is
only £35, so that the Jews are two and one-half
times richer than the Gentiles. It is estimated
that 100 Jewish families in London have an in-
come of over £lO,OOO ; 1400 families an income of
over £lOOO, and 800 an income of over £5OO. Men
with incomes of over £lO,OOO a year are twenty
times as numerous among London Jews as among
London Gentiles ; men with over £lOOO a year are
nearly seventeen times as numerous, and men
with over £5OO a year are nearly six times as
numerous. This proves that wa Jews are still
rich, and there is no necessity for the Lion of
Judah to prop himself up against a fence before
he attempts to roar just at present ”
• •
*
We have received a cream-laid epistle
from the secretaries of the Parkes’ Begging Letter
Movement, in which we are requested to sub-
SPORTS AND PASTIMES OF CHILDHOOD.
FOND MA : “WHAT ARE YOU DOING WITH THE BABY?”
INNOCENT-IN-CHIEF: OH, NOTHING, MA; WE ARE ONLY PLAYING TRAM.’
scribe in aid of a slippery old man with £2OOO a
year and a great command of Billingsgate, and to
cadge on his b9half among onr acquaintances.
The two secretaries close by stating that it is
“needless to state the services of Sir Henry
Parkes to N.S.W.” We guess it is. Quite need-
less. By-the-bye, where are the services ?
* * *
Abdul Hamjd 11., the warlike and tightly
buttoned-up melancholiac who rules the harem-
trodden land of Turkey, has been a good deal
worried on his throne of late by the comic papers
of Vienna Sometimes they would show him tot-
tering on his doorstep at 4a. m., with his crown
tipped over his ear and his 1400 wives yelling at him
from the window ; sometimes he was in the snowy
robes of night, walking up and down the harem with
a manly tread in his efforts to hush the howling
heira-apparent; and again he was putting out a
six-foot-high milk iug proportioned to the size of
the family. He threatened war at last, and then
the Kaiser stopped the fun, and the Austrian
comic iournalists are now reduced to lampooning
Wales, and depicting him chasing ballet-girls In a
bath-chair.
* * *
A large deputation, all women, and headed
by a lady named Love, waited on the Victorian
Minister of Education the other day to tell him
that they want the liquor traffic battered against
a wall, pulled to rags by wild horf es, and then fired
out of the colony. “ Mrs. Love made an impas
slened appeal,” says a local paper. Isn’t this
bringing undue influence to bear ? Who can say
nay when love pleads passionately !
ft * *
We have received the following from N.Z. :
Dear Bulletin —The following villainous case in the N Z.
Courts may show you that even the N S.W. Divorce Bill
wants something to make it complete. A husband sued for
divorce from his wife < n the ground of adultery, and hy dint
of various things obtained a three-fourths verdict and a
decree nisi. He was thus freed from all obligation to sup-
port his wife, whose only crime is that the hubby is tired of
her, but for three years he has refused to apply for his decree
absolute, and thus set her at libe-ty to marry again. The co-
respondent, who was an old friend, would marry her and
provide her with a home if he had the opportunity, but her
affectionate husband finds amusement in the position bv
which she is neither wife, divorcee, nor widow, and leaves her
to starve in her enforced h-'melessness. The judge marked his
opinion of the verdict by giving the wife the custody of the
three children, and they also share in their mothers misery.
And the law, which blasted an innocent woman's character
and cast the co-respondent in heavy damages, has no
power to compel the husband to complete his case and
set his wife free. In view of this and other cases of the
like description do you not think divorce laws require
reform? In their present form they are simply an agency by
which a contemptible person gets rid of his wife and children,
raises the wind in damages by atrocious lying, and then wreak s
a life-lone revenge on his unhappy victims. Is this justice i
—Yours, &c., Maorilander (worse luck.)
The foregoing, though a purely cx-parte state-
ment, sets forth a condition of things which is
perfectly conceivable under the present law.
Our correspondent’s letter is here printed purely
on general grounds.
* * *
A story for Potts Point and Toorak.
Count Beust once said in the presence of the court
chamberlain at a small German court, where
knee-breeches were de rigueur: “ Whab a good
time that was when we were allowed to appear at
court in trousers 1 ” The pompous little official
immediately flew at him in a towering passion,
and said: “Trousers! I gave you credit for
greater attachment to the Royal family ! ”
• * *
John Benjamin Binns, an ex-hangman, is
earning a honest crust and pint iu England by
giving hanging exhibitions in a hall. A gallows
and all accessories oocupy the stage, and Mr.
Binns launches a wax figure into eternity every
night. The show is replete with realism, the
prices arB moderate, and good biz repays the
efforts o! the gifted management. Could not
John B. Binns be bribed to fetch his properties to
Australia, and take part in the Centennial cele-
brations, giving nightly free exhibitions for
adults only, and Saturday afternoon matinees for
the children? This, we think, would give the
populace a comprehensive grip of one of the
nob'e3t and most cherished institutions of New
South Wales.
* * *
“ Take that bill-board away from there,
boy ; don’t you see it arbitrates the light ?” Ono
of the Malapropistic manager’s latest.
• * *
An unwarrantable insult was put upon the
Mayor of Footscray (Melb.) last week. A “ de-
liberate attempt at suicide ” took place under his
very nose. Yes, a young surgeon tried to cut his
throat while the Mayor was actually looking at
him.
* * *
Mr. Marshall has obtained a divorce from
his wife, all on aocount of Fred Woods, the bi-
cyclist. Wheels and woe.
There is any amount of swelldom in Aus-
tralia just now. Kven such big people as the Earl
and Countess of Carnarvon have to play second
Addle at Government House dinners to the Drog-
heda?. Marchionesses before Countesses, my
dear.
* *
L. L. Smith, M.P., has moved in the Vic-
torian Legislative Assembly that a sum of money
be placed on the Estimates for the purpose of
enterta'niog distinguished personages who may
visit that colony during 1887 and 1888. This will
be interesting to Jack Burke, the newly-arrived
American prize-fighter.
* * *
Mrs. Malaprop—of Darling Point—ap-
proved greatly of '“Held by the Enemy,” except
for one thing. “ The noise, my dear, is something
tremendous," sail she confidentially to a lady
friend, “ so much of it must be bad for our nervous
cistern s.”
* * *
A certain well-known Sydney fair has such
an unlimited capacity for cakes and suoh like,
that when her admirers meet her, by appointment,
on the blook, they speak of it as a “mangez-vous.”
* * *
One William Wedlock, of Macleay River,
N.S.W., failed recently. We’re not surprised—
Wedlock is generally insolvent.
• • *
Mary Hug man tried to commit suicide in
Melbourne the other day. What a bitter reflec-
tion on the males over there that a woman with
suoh a name should be driven to such a pas 3 ! The
age of chivalry is several times dead.
• • •
Hosie’s Cafe, Melbourne, has just changed
hands for £85,000 cash. We remember Ho3ie’s first
start in the pie business, which was a very modest
affair. He was the pie-oneer of the “ Scotch pie
and ‘‘scone-and-coffee” trade in Melbourne—or,
rather his wife was. The old man kept a boot-
shop in Bourke street, nearly ooposite the Post-
Office, and the wife, having a little spare time on
her hands and an aptitude for making Sootch
pies, opened a small shop adjoining and modestly
put forth her “Scotch pie, 3d.,’ shingle. By
degrees the little shop was extended, and Jame°,
always with an eye to the main chance, flndh g
the pies paid better than the boots, gave up his
own trade acd occupied the space with the
“ pies." A few years and the pie trade had made
Hosie comfortable, and he thought of travelling
for new ideas. He found ready purchasers for his
business in Messrs. Dillon and Burrowes, who,
however, bound him down in a heavy penalty not
to open in the “ pie ” business within one mile of
the old shop. He went to England, picked up
many attractive nic-nacs, and returned to the
colony. A large, three-storied, blue-stone store,
recently vacated by Levy Bros., was to let. It
was within six doors of his old shop. Hosie got a
long lease and walked into the old establishment
and told Dillon what he had done. “ But,” said
I)., “you cannot do it—remember the panalty!’
“ Oh, well, here’s the penalty,” at the same time
planking the money in notes. In the new place
success followed on success, and to-day he sells
out one establishment for £85,000.
* * *
Which reminds us that the world-
renowned catering firm of Spiers and Pond -now
a limited liability company—who own estab'ish-
men’s all ove? England, commenced business in a
cellar in Bourke-s'reet. Melbourne. This place
they christened “The Shades.” and the hungry
traveller could get his humble chop served up
with a glass of Murphy s best colonial ale for the
democratic shilling. The upper portion of the
premises was known as the National Hotel and
was kept at or e time by a Goth, named Mooney,
who was much given to politics and stump
oratory, and whose gospel was “ A vote, a farm,
and a rifle.” Mooney afterwards went to Cali-
fornia, and Spiers and Pond, by easy stages, to
London and opulence.
* * *
R. J. Seddon, M.H.R. for Kumara(N.Z.),,
was recently described by a newspaper correspon-
dent as the “ performing bear ” of the N Z. Par-
liament. R. J. S. thereupon prowled round in
search of the scribe, wi‘h murder in his eye and a
clenched fist in his pocket. When he discovered
the correspondent, however, to be a pretty girl,,
nice enough to eat, a beatific smile stole over his
countenance. “Wait till I catch her in the'
lobby,” said he, “ and won’t I just give her a jolly
good hug for this !” And he did.
* • *
Senior-Sergeant Dalton, of Governor Car-
Ington’s escort, writes complaining of what he
regards as some unkind remarks in re his recent
en'ertainment to the survivors of Inkerman. In
reply, we can only say that The Bulletin f ally
recognised the sergeant’s kind heartedness and
liberaliby, and never intended to put its foot in
his eye in any malignant sense, and it observes
with regret that there is to be another dinner on
the 17th of June next, at which Sergeant Dalton
proposes to entertain bis fellow soldiers of Sir
Hugh Rose’s Central Indian compaign of 1858.
The Bulletin’s regret is based partly on the
fact that it can’t pronounce the hideous names
attached to those jaw-dislooatirg battles, and
partly on a sneaking regard for the poor Asiatic
who always got licked, and who, after all, was
merely fighting for his freedom the best way he
knew how. The present writer, by tie way,
has a little celebration of his own on hand
in June next—the 10th anniversary of the day
when he escaped from a fathom long Cbinamai
armed with a big shovel. He was on a Queens-
land goldfield at the time, and, being the
agent of a certain bloated Southern capi-
talist, he helped to own a machine-site on
a river bend. A body of Chinamen started to
tut a water-race right across it, and the writer
valiantly went up, and, grabbing the leader by the
lig tail, said, “ Hi! get out of this, you yellow idola-
tor.” Then the Mongol arose, six feet of him, and
solemnly heaved up a long-handled shovel and the
present sciibe fled. He came back afterwards
and argued the point with a gun, but what he
wants to celebrate is the 1 ime when he left so judi-
ciously and got away alive. If he can find the China-
man he will invite him to dinner on that anniversary,
and the shovel shall be stood up in a corner as a
memento, and if he can’t find the Chinaman he
will celebrate by himself. Ia either case, the
shovel will be planted in the corner, with a frill
round it, and when the spread is over it will be
put away among the family plate and handed
down to succeeding generation?.
Among Gov’nor Carrington’s engagements
for this mcnth are the Haalan-Beach rowing
match on the NVpean anl a mill'ngtary tourna-
ment at Maitland.
* * •
A certain Southern politician with a red
beard had an agreeable time in a coach the other
day. There were only four passengers, including
himself, and among them was a blushing young
creature of 18, who let him put his arm round her
waist. Then he tick’ed her behind a holy
Herald during a long 100 mile j >urney, and had
lots of fun. So had she. So had the other pas-
sengers.
* * *
Lord Cairns is going to marry somebody
known as Olive Bereno. Poor Gumboil I Poor
Olive!
• •
Captain Traill, A.D.C. to Sir Henry Loch,
will be married to Miss Summer at Melbourne on
the 23rd; also Mr. Farquhar Macdonald, of
N.S.W., will be more attached to Miss Clarke,
daughter of the Victorian baronet, on December 10.
* * *
A fashionable event takes place this
(Thu-sday) afternoon, at S'. Thomas’ Church,,
North Shore, Sydney, when the marriage cere-
mony will be performed between Mr. Beit, a new-
chum, and Mies Whitton, daughter of Mr. J..
Whitton, the N.S. W. Eogineer-in-Chief for Rail-
ways.
* * •
Government House, Sydney, will shortly-
receive another high pcilte contingent of visitors'
in the shape of the Marquis and Marchioness-
of Drogheda and the Karl and Countess of Car
narvon To representative Australians who are
anxious to catch the English “exint” an eligible
opportunity now offers.
The wedding of Miss Hannell.a well-known
Newcastle lady, to Mr. G. B, Smith, C P.S., at
Bathurst, attracted one of the largest audiences
ever tesn at a wedding in the coaly city.
* *
Cardinal Moran has no sense of humour.
He writes to the S.M. Herald 1o denounca John
joks about Ninian Melville and others
beirg decorat’d by the Pope, and bitterly alludes
to i; as a "clumpy and offensive imposture.”
There never was a prince of the Church who
could see aioke, excepting, perhaps, Bishop Pon-
toppldan, who wroto a book about the sea-
serpent.
# * *
A. young lady up country in N. S. W. was
ca3t for a minor part in a comic opera recently
played by amateurs. Her father, however, re-
fused to let her perform. ‘ My daughter,” he
remarked, “can play either Serpentine or Ger-
maoy, but she shan’t go on for no small-
beer parts. Why, the gal can Biog anythlnk in
‘Griffle Graffle. 1 ” The old ’un meant 1 ‘ Serpolette, ’
“ Germaine,” and “ Gitoflh-Girofia.
* * *
The kind-hearted teetotal crowd are now
uppermost in the joyous land of Kansas (U.S.)
The other day they got a chemist’s assistant con
vlcted of selling liquors, and in a spirit of
charity he was sentenced to seventeen years
and four months' imprisonment and a fine of
£4160.


The new recreation-ground and garden
palace at Ashfleld opens on Saturday, December
17, with a programe of athletic sports, a concert
and a display of fireworks. The proceedings wil
commence at 7 p.m., the grounds being lit up by
electricity.
Dear Bulletin, — I have been much struck with the
veracity of the N S W. Freetrade apostle, Pulsford, who, on
his return to Sydney,the other day, is reported by the Sydney
papers to have said : “There was no particular feeling in
Brisbane in favour of Protection “ As a matter of fact, at
his meeting here, which was poorly attended, the audience
would not listen to him at all. The value of the Brisbane
daily newspapers as leaders or exponents of public opinion
may be guaged from the fact that, although he was puffed in
preliminary pars and sub-leaders, the meeting- and, in fact,
his whole visit—was a complete fiasco, over which he must
have lost money. His lecture which, as I said before, could
not be heard in consequence cf the uproar, was reported in
txtenso by the dailies, so I suppose the “ copy ” was handed
in previous to its delivery. A few nights ago Mr. King,
M.L.C., delivered an address on Protect ion, when the Town
Hall was crammed. There are an enormous number of Pro-
tectionists in Brisbane, as will be proved at the next general
election, not far off, when “ Encouragement to Native Indus-
tries" will be the cry —Yours truly, H V.A. Brisbane, 12th
November.
The Moldacot: a novel and ingenious Sewing Machine
weighs less than lib. Perfect in all its parts, contains not a
single wheel, and will stitch from the finest linen to the
stoutest cloth. Its price is 17s. 6d. Marvelous ! Sale rooms,
Ashfield recreation grounds and
GARDEN PALACE
Manager ... Alfred Wyburd.
SUMMER HILL BICYCLE CLUB.
First Annual Face Meeting—Saturday, Dec.
17. To be held by Electric Light. Com-
mencing at 7 p.m.
PROGRAMME.
(Under the sanction of the N, S. W. Cyclists' Union.)
One Mile Maiden Bicycle Race (to be ridden on
roadsters, mini arm m weight 351b).—First prize,
value 5 guineas ; 2nd, 3 guineas ; 3rd, 2 guineas.
One Mile Open Handle ip.—lst prize, value 7
guineas; 2nd, 5 guineas ; 3rd, 3 guineas. Half-
mile 2nd clas3 Scratch Race —lst prize, value 5
guineas; 2ad, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. One
Mile Club Handicap (open to members of Summer
Hill B.C. only).—lst prize, 5 guineas: 2nd, 3
guineas ; 3rd, 2 guineas. 440yds. Foot Race (open
to all amateurs).—lst prize, value 5 guineas ; 2nd
3 guineas ; 3rd, 2 guineas. Entrance Fee for each
event, 2s. 6d. E. NICHOLLS, Hon. Sec.
Department of Public Works,
RS
Sydney, November 22, 1887.
for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are Invited for the following PUBLIC
WC RK3 and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Govirament Gazette, a file of which 1b kept at
every post-office In the oolony.
Tenderers may be In attendance when the Ten
ders are opened, and the name of the suocessfu
tenderer will be announced, If possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the loweßt or any tender.
Deters «a which
on ere
Nature 0! Works and Supplies. m be received
on this oﬂioe.
ANNUAL Comer, 1888.
Colonial Archleecu a Departments.
Construction 0! Wharf, 850., |
King's Creek, Clarence River
Construction, am, of Iron Rood~
way Bridge across Bye Week
from Prospect Reservoir
ddiblcne to Courthouse. More
willumhah
Repair). 8m. Quarters Head
Keeper. Mecquuvie Ugh:-
house
Supply of Fencing Material a: I
Nmebri Raliwny Station
Sum of Building Btoncﬁydnoy
Suwly 0: Building Shane, Parro-
malta Gaol
Supply of Building Stone. Moi:-
lund Gaol
Sweeping Chimneys oh Vicooria Tuesday,
Burr-mks, 8m. November 29,
Supply of Coiiinn no 11 o‘clock
Emptying Privies. Victoria Bor-
rncka. 8w.
Winding. M, Clocks Pubiio
Buildings. Sydney
Supply at Furniture
Ditto Choirs
Ditto Comm
Ditto Blinds
Masone' and Povlom’ Work I
Cnrpemtare‘ do.
Brioklnyorn' do. I
Siem’ ‘ do. .
mmmn‘ do.
Peintoreend Glazier-5‘ do.
Plumbers‘ do.
Binomitbe‘ do.
Supply of Ironmongery
Erection of Timber Whnrvee, l
:0 . Pymonb, Darling Her-
or
Erection of Bridge. Wilson's I
Creek-rend. chhiiioo'l‘renten-
int (“dram at supply oil I De'l‘nee‘iiiénty.‘I
ronwork com ,
Wharf, 6m. Hereford ~ street» no 11 o'clock.
Stockton. Newcastle Harbour I
81113110011] (or North Shore Trem-
war. 1333
Washing Li oen. Railway De-
partment. I388, GLS. 8: W.
Line I
Construction or Wharf, &o., op- |
ponies Frederiokton. Medcoy l
River
Finishing Trades at the Medical
School. Sydney University |
Bridge over (100an Creek, Road Tnesdey.
Cudgegoug to Home Rule Decombr 18.
Tenders for Ferries. 1888 at. 11 o‘clock.
Construction of 25 Paueoger Eo-
zines
Construction of 2:3 Goods En-
gines . I
Seagging, Mooney Mooney Creek
,._______..___——_
Pointing, ace" Muoquu'le Light.
House
Additions Gaol at. Grnfwn
Enlarging Vi’ioghnm Wharf. 850. Tuesday.
Erection of Court. House, Buila- December 20,
deluh at. 11 o‘clock
Bridge of Grewin Crook all
Paokotcroo (exclusive of mi)-
ply oi ironwork)
motion of Post: and Tammi
(Mice. I’iiliga.
JOHN surname.
The Wesleyan Missionary Society are pros-
pecting for gold in South Central Africa—this in
obedience to the command “Seek and ye shall
find.” But somehow or other the claims have
failed to pan out equal to Tongan cocoa-nut tree
property.
The Orient Co. ’s splendid steamer Ormuz,
this trip deliverd her London mails at Sydney in
29 days, the shortest time on record ; and the
officers are of opinion that she can travel evn
faster still. The best day’srun was 420 miles. Every
Australian should support the Orient Company,
who employ only white labour.
c
RITERIQN
THEATRE,
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
Shakespeare’s Maiestlc Play,
CYMBELINE CYMBELINE
CYMBELINE CYMBELINE.
The Principals
RECALLED EVERY ACT,
THIS GREAT PRODUCTION
is the theme of universal admiration,
MISS ESSIE JENYNS
as
IMOGEN, PRINCESS of BRITAIN.
W. J. HOLLOWAY
as
LEONATUS POSTHUMOUS.
The Box Plan at Nicholson a musio warehouse.
Bub. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
IN OUR CHRONICLE, EXTENDING NOW
NEARLY OVER A PERIOD OE THREE
YEARS.
WE have, THANKS to a GENEROUS PUBLIC
reached the
GOAL of OUR AMBITION,
THAT which CONFERS on US the PREMIER
POSITION in the
MINSTREL ART in this HEMISPHERE,
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR.
NIGHTLY CROWDED.
NIGHTLY REFUSING MONEY.
Minstrel Shows Come and Go, but we Go On for
Ever.
Popular Prices:
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
HELD BY THE ENEMY
HELD BY THE ENEMY.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager,
Theatre royal
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
LAST NIGHT
of the
NEW SOCIETY DRAMA
THE RED LAMP.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s Hotel.
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
DOMAIN
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPIOYMEiJT AGENCY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable in-
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street,
BRISBANE.
i' v,4'w- $ - ■-
.MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR “ PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231, OLARENOE-STREET.
GtBD. GtBD.
We base Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments ooming forward
WHOLBBALB ONLY.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith,
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRAND SACRED AND CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
Agricultural society of new
SOUTH WALES.
GREAT CENTENNIAL INTERCOLONAL
EXHIBITION.
To be held at SYDNEY, January, 1888. Prize
Schedules are in course of preparation and may
be obtained at end of current month from any of
the Secretaries of Agricultural Societies in New
South Wales, or on application to F. WEBSTER,
Secretary. Tatteraall’s Buildings, Hunter-street,
Sydney.
High-class Dentistry
at Reform Prices
Complete: sft
MARSHALL BRO?
DENTISTS
133 ELI Z A BETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas daily at 11.
A Blessing in every Family
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
tW Purchassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
ďfd ďfd
ofjSydnet/>
T: JENOIAN'CAVES. BLUE MOUNTAINS#
SI6JCEORC& jSi>rrwEtN Hunter STiC.P.O*
QTJE3E3STSIL.^ITID.
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwardirg Agents,
STOCK AND STATION .AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros , 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
“I Have Buffered!”
With every disease imaginable for the last three
years. Our
Druggist, T. J. Anderson, recqpimending
“ Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters” to me,
I used two bottles!
Am entirely cured, and heartily recommend Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters to every one. J. D.
Walker, Buckner, Mo.
I write this as a
Token of the great appreciation I have of your
Dr. Soule’s American Hop
* * * Bitters. I was afflicted
With inflammatory rheumatism i! I
For nearly
Seven years, and no medicine seemed to do me
any
Good!!!
Until I tried two bottles of your Dr, Soule’s
American Hop Bitters, and to my suprlse i am
as well to day as ever I was, I hope
“ You may have abundant success"
“ In this great and”
Valuable medicine:
Anyone! * * wishing to know more
about my cure?
Can learn by addressing me, E. M. Williams,
1,103 16th street, Washington, D.C,
1 consider your
Remedy the best remedy in existence
For Indigestion, kidney —Complaint.
“ And nervous debility. I have just”
Returned
“ From the south in a fruitless search for health*
and And that your Bitters are doing me more
Good!
Than anything else;
A month ago I was extremely
“ Emaciated!!!”
And scarcely ab'e to walk. Now lam
Gaining strength! and
“Flesh
And ha-.dly a day passes bub what I am
* * * * *
complimented on my improved appearanoe, and
it is all due to Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters !
J. Wiokliffe Jackson,
—Wilmington, Del.
*3T None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
the bottle. Beware of all the vilepoisonous stuff
made to imitate the above*
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult-
smaller quantity for children. UUiC >
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections. ’
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov"
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable. Q
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water For
young people about half the quantity twice a dav
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen, —I ae great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, v ith truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned :
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
R
MMImUUi
ďfd
lI I V
3 A
Row’s Steane’s Wine
is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite*
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
Row’s gteane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIES can tak
this when suffering from general debility, it
only a pure Tonic. Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURI rY.
“Having carefully examined a bottle of ROWS
‘STEANE'S ’ WINE, manufactured by Edwaru
Row and Company, I consider them avery w
some tonic, suitable for persons suffer mg
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any
jurious chemicals, too often used in such P P
tions They should become a favorite d
these warm climates. ,
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, analyst.
“Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Row’s Steane’s Wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits. . Evented
TEETOTALLERS will find this n ® wly a
TONIC answer all the purposes of a sum
without its intoxicating quality. It wJl food
the cravings of nature and cre f. te ® f 8 u nsur-
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is a
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS, g
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU Bill
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIB TORS ’
Edward Row & Comp 9,ll^
48 45, 47, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


(entrauy
SITUATED
* AND
accessible
toautheleaoinc
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
BRISBANE
H °T[[
SOUTH
or THE
EQUATOR
£2
m
S 3
u u
cJHLDANIELI
Ms
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE'
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS &c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Bentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, ST COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room.
All letters and Telegrams
for Apartments will receive prompt attention.
C. H. DMIELL.
LEA?PFRRI‘MS'SAUCE
SAUC
" Vi-"-
mm
In consequence $f Imitations ef THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated §$ decern the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers m that the Label m every bottle
bean their Eig?mi%m thus™*
: H€sS
itiCmC which TO hUU of m tdgimi WORCESTERSHIRE
SM UCE is genuine.
Ask jot LEA end FEEEiWS Saucer end tee Heme «* Wv#f&ss> %
Stopp e r lt%otesale and' far' Export by the Proprietors, Worcester p Crosse emeS
Biukweil, London, fy‘(„ t «**J by Gr&csrs end Oilmen throughout, the World,
Wholesale Agents : Montkfiore Joseph & C 0.,: David Coiien & Co, Sydney.
SMOKE AND CHEW
m md urn nun
lb
PKT
MIXTURE
m
a
rah
V Jietcu/ /
M
ho
G&TMduh
14
'ft
680
9*°}?
A
&
TO OUR TOWN AND COUNTRY FRIENDS.
Oa receipt of P. 0.0. for £1 Is. we will forward you 31b. of our celebrated VULCAN MIXTURE In
t b packets, which we can highly recommend as being the best in the market ; with this
MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE and a first class TOBACCO POUCH.
For 6d. you can buy the LARGEST and BEST
FLUG of choice TOBACCO sold in the Australian
colonies, made from the PUREST and BEST
AMERICAN LEAF.
The attention of squatters and storekeepers in
the country is particularly drawn to the ARMY
and NAVy brand of Tobacco, which we can sup-
Ply wholesale at price which defies competition.
AMERICAN LONG-CUT RUBY.
Ditto ROUGH-CUT RUBY.
Is. 6d. per. Jib. PACKETS, our own cutting
from best AMERICAN GOLD BLOCKS.
Guaranteed the Purest American Tobacco.
Our CELEBRATED VULCAN MIXTURE In
|lb. PACKETS, a successful blending of the
finest American Tobaccos, producing one of the
best smokes extant.
Is. Per PACKET of ilb. FULL WEIGHT.
All kinds of Sterling S lver-mounted BRIARS
and MEERCHAUMS always on hand. The Cele-
brated VULCAN BRIARS, CHERRYWOOD
PIPES, etc.
VULCAN, RUBY, AROMATIC TWIST, and
POCKET PIECES are the finest quality of Ameri-
can Aromatic Tobaccos imported. One trial will
suffice to prove their superiority to all other brands
of Aromatic Tobaccos in’the market.
6d and Is. Per PLUG.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
(580, 682, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Depot lor Camerons, T. C. Williams, and all the Best
Imported and Other Tobaccos,
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33. ElSrO-BITEI’S
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
As the most central and well appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.O ),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
WILL Mrs. E. BRUNTON. late news-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney.
A O-ood Night's Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLBY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the oomfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reaoh of all who
desire a knowledge of the solenoe of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, ir you miss Foley's you
Have not seen the city.
©
BURROUGHES & WATTS
OF SOHO SQUARE, LONDON, HAVE NOW OPENED
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY IN THE COLONY
For their world-renowned Prize Medal
BILLIARD TABLES l BAGATELLES
BILLIARD CUSHIONS RE-STUFFED ON THE PREMISES
By Patent Process (same Cushions as used by London Players).
CUES, BALLS and all other Requisites for tlie Game in stock, also
CRICKET, L4WN TENNIS, BOWLS, &c.
7, LITTLE GEORGE ST.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
,A 5 7‘“ 71;}:737 , ‘a/ I?
. Jy/ga'ﬂgg—AP
~11 igl". 1!? .'
'y 7‘ _7,, :~
ALSO
LSMBTON QUAY,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel ia constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well ventilated Bed roc ms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor. 1
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition First
Prize Gold Med ad.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
ZEIDI NBUEGH.
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
in balk
and case.
Best BEHIt
in the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OP IST.S.W-
, vi _ tv;, Fnvnnrite Summer Resort ia now replete with all con-
HAVING been ' receive Families tot the season Special Boom, tor tingle Gents.
venierices, and tore J'““ l Table or IMe dt Tfote. Transient Tisitors will
Elegant Suites and s.rit e Rm>n» with tb F ““, h B t tbc . Market affords. The Cellare stocked
w2£»d 'Large Commodious Dining Room, snltable for Private
For Term, and Partlonlars applv
MRS KILMINSTBB, Clarendon Hotel,
XVXXvD* 40* Kf > OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.


CHANGEABLE WEATHER.
The veritable oldest inhabitant says he has
never seen such weather as this since the En-
deavor let go her right bower anchor in the blue
mud of Botany Bay. Variable weather, variegated
with intermissions of storm and sunshine —the
deceitful calm which lulls into security and the
tempest which provokes profanity—tests the
temper and strains the forbearance of most of the
sons of men ; but it utterly demoralises a large
percencage of those who are addicted to rheu-
matism and similar afflictions. When the foun-
tains of the great deep are opened at the rate of
about six inches per hour, and a guileless man
who has been tempted forth by a stray ten minutes
of sunshine picks himself up in the middle of the
second act far from home, and without either top-
coat or umbrella, it is then, if ever, that he may
be forgiven for quoting from the wrong authority,
or turning over two leaves at a time in his hurry
to find suitable expression for his feeling. Were
it not for the knowledge that he has a certain re-
fuge to fly to, he would be apt to give away to
despair ; but his home is never without a supply
of the great pain conqueror—St. Jacobs oil—and
he remembers it in the midstof his denunciations,
and hurries off to the best friend humanity ever
had for the relief of all the ills that are brought
on by a thorough and unexpected wetting.
PURE WATER.
The actual value of water is known but to com-
paratively few people, certainly not to those who
live in well-provided cities where every room in
the house is fitted with a tap, and as much water
as is required can be drawn off clear and cold
whenever it is wanted. Ask the man who has
been cast away in an open boat out of sight of
land for a week without water bis opinion on the
subject; or suggest to the poor wretch who has
been lost on a trackless, waterless plain in Aus-
tralia a memory of his sufferings, and you will get
some idea of the value of the opinion expressed
by Dr. Johnson, who said that water was “ a
liquid for men to wash in and and for horses to
drink.” On the other hand, a great many very
worthy people continue to assert, in and out of
season, that pure water is the best and most
wholesome drink in the world. Perhaps it is—
for those who like it and believe they can get it
pure, and for such people the notion is a harmless
fad, which amuses them and dees nobody any
harm. But the beverage which most faithfully
answers their description is unquestionably Clau-
sen’s New York Champagne Lager Beer, the
honest and wholesome product of pure malt and
hops. In an editorial on the subject of the
Centennial awards at Philadelphia, published in
the Brewer's Gazette of October 15, 1876, we
find it stated that “for bottled Lager Beer Messrs.
Clausen and Son. of New York, bore off the palm.”
This refers to the First Priza and Gold Medal
which was taken over the heads of seventeen of
the biggest, strongest, and wealthiest competitors
in the world. It is not to be wondered at, there-
fore, that Clausen’s Lager leads the van in Aus-
tralia.
“I HOPE YOU WILL BE LENIENT WITH ME. YER WARSHIP,” WHINED THE
THIEF, AS HE PREPARED FOR SENTENCE; “I HAVE A GOOD MANY
DEPENDENT ON ME FOR SUPPORT.”
“CHILDREN?” INQUIRED THE BENCH.
“NO, YER WARSHIP; POLICE AND DETECTIVES."
Not many weeks ago, Morell Mackenzie
was knighted for “ curing ” the Crown Prince of
Germany of his throat-disease, which has now
turned out to be soft cancer. It is commonly
asserted that Sir Mac.’s previous professional
reputation was won as flukily as his handle.
Apropos, some of the dailies BS3ert that the
Crown Prince’s ma’ady is the result of smoking.
Are we to assume, theD, that H.R.H. has been in
the habit of wearing a clay-pipe in his larynx ?
Professor Pearson, Victorian Minister of
Education, and one of the finest scholars this side
of the line, was speaking in the Assembly the
other night of the necessity there was that State-
school teachers should be able to teach pupils
good English, when a mocking goblin on the Oppo-
sition side interrupted him with : “ What I teach
the innocent rising generation to talk English like
hat 1 (referring to Mr. Pearson’s Oxford drawl).
Ne raw, Pwofeseaw. Haw i
“^TERBURf
'
WvAi\ \N fi^
CO NTION.
The Time is come. The good Time so long pro-
phesied. BE ON GUARD, LET WATCHFUL-
NESS BE YOUR WATCHWORD. In these
days of political strife it is absolutely necessary to
keep a watch on everybody.
Keep a Watch on the Governor —
He will be none the worse for it.
Keep a Watch on Parkes—
He wants it.
Keep a Watch on Dibbs
He will be all the better for it.
Keep a Watch on the Treasurer, the Mayor, the
Bishop, the City Engineer, on the Civil Servants,
the Police and the Aldermen ; and keep a Watch
on yourself, for you are well worth watching.
This will be a gigantic task ; but it is a matter
of vital import, and it must be done.
The Waterbury Watch Company intend to help
you do it. They are now turning out complete
and perfect watches at the rate of 2000 per day
from their factory at Waterbury, Conn., which is
provided with every facility for placing and keep
ing A PERFECT WATCH on every man, woman,
and child in the world at a cost of Thirteen
Shillings and Sixpence for each person watched.
YOU CAN’T GET OYER FACTS, YOU
KNOW ; SO IT’S NO USE TRYING.
The Waterbury has been more highly spoken of
by the press all over the world than any other
watch ev r produced- Hundreds of extracts are
open for the inspection of the curious.
The Waterbury Watch is sold by all store-
keepers and dealers throughout the colony, and in
the event of accident it can be repaired at a
merely nominal cost at
The Waterbury Watch Repair Depot,
56 MARGARET STREET,
Sydney.
SHREWDNESS and ABILITY.
Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters, so in
all the papers, secular and religious, are having a large sale,
and are supplanting all othsr medicines. There is no deny-
ing the virtues < i the Hop plant, and the proprietors of these
Bitters have shown great shrewdness and ability in com-
pounding a Bitters, whose virtues ar° so palatable to every
one's observation.—“ Examiner and Chronicle.’’
New South Wales.— This colony at the present time
assists a larger number rf Emigrants from Great Britain
than all the rest of Australia put together. The climate be-
ing hotter than In other parts, disease here assumes a sub-
tropical character and we find Fevers of all kinds, Diarrhoea,
Dvsentery, Cholerine and Cholera p evail at certain periods
The Chinese in New South Wales have long since learnt,
thanks to a kind-hearted nobleman who employs many
hundred Celestials, that the easiest and most successful
method of cutting short and curing these diseases, is at once
to take a dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne which in the majority
of cases arrests the further progress of the malady, or to con
time it according to the directions until the disease is cured.
—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
having‘‘Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.*
One of the best managed and largest hotel* in Sydney s
he Great Northern, oomer Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find it the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling Innoheon
there nse.*
Tattersall's Monster Consultations.—Rosehill Handicap,
run November 12, 2000 subs, at 205.; also, Sir Joseph Banks
13th Grand Handicap, 5000 subs, at 20s. each, now open, and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-
street.*
Many peop’e refuse to take Cod Liver Oil on account of its
unpleasant taste This difficulty has been overcome in
"Scott's Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Hypophos-
phites. It reing as palatable as milk and the most valuable
remedy known for the treatment of Consumption, Scrofula
and Bronchitis has caused Physicians in all p’rts of the
world to use it. “I have found ‘Scitt’s Emulsion’ of
great benefit in the treatment of phthisical and s rofulous
diseases. It is extremely palatable and does not upset the
stomach, thus removing the gr»at difficulty experienced in
the administration of the plain Oil. „ ~ „
D. P. Kenna, L.R C.S.,
Surgeon, St. Vincents Hospital, Dublin
Large aud small bottles at all Chemists.*
A LAND-GR A.BBER FRIGHTENED.
A man Btopped at Bourbe a few days age and
thus addressed an old fellow who stood with his
arms resting on a fence: ‘Do you live here?’
“Don’t see me dying, do you?” “Ah, you are one
of the funny men I have heard a>3 out in this
neighborhood. I want to know the names of
several people. Where is J. B. Honeysuckle?”
“Dead.” ‘ Ah, what was the matter with him”
“Sick.” “What kind of sickness?” “Dry fever.”
“Let’s see ” (consulting a scrap of paper). “ Where
is T. W. Snicker?" “Dead.” “What did he die
of? ’ “Dry fever.” “Humph! Where can I And Sim
Snodgrass?” “In the graveyard.” “Dry fever?"
“Yes.” “Do you know anything about Bill
Slivers?” ‘ Just laid him out.” “What was the
matter with him?" “Dry fever.” “My friend
I came into this neigborhood to buy land.” “We’ve
got the finest country on earth. Yes right here,
I’ve got SOOa. that I’ll let you have cheap.” “How
does it shape?" “Al." ‘How is the water?"
“Best in the world.” “Land rich?” “Yes.”
“Tan you get any St. Louis Lager Beer in the
place?" “Any quantity. Some just landing.”
“ How is the neighborhood in the way of health?”
“Finest you ever saw.” “No chills?” “Not
one. In early days there was just one case ; he
Bhook himself to death. He lies two and a-half
miles above any burying ground.” “ What about
those fellows that died with dry fevers?” “Oh,
them fellows ; why, you see we had a terrible dry
spell here the past three years, and it was time
they did die.” “I don’ want any land this time.
Come and join me in a glass of that famous St
Louis Lager Beer. I leave by the next train.”
Summer ! Hockingß and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, d0z.—143 Pitt-street.*
MAINE NEWS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, which are advertised in
our columns, are a sure cure for ague, biliousness and kidney
complaints. Those who use them s w they cannot be too
highly recommended Those afflicted should give them a
lair trial, and will become thereby enthusiastic in the praise
of their curative qualities.—' 1 Portland Argus."
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of bhe Baden Baden Hotel, Ooogee.
THE most elevated and central position in Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies' Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience. Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel.
The Hotel ow under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by careful atten
tlon to business bo make The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney,
Lawler’s central emporium
608 George street, Sydney.
CABINET FACTORY—Kent-strest, City.
UPHOLSTERY WORKS-5, 5a,5b Union-lane
City
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY-Union-lane City.
STORES—Union-lane, and Globe. p,y-i
In addition to being COMPLETE THROUGH-
OUT FURNISHERS, ‘ LawlerV' are UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS. READ THE FOLLOWING DE-
PARTMENTAL LIST :
We will commence with BOOTS and SHOES and
CLOTHING instead of with FURNITURE and
BEDSTEADS, prices of which will be found at the
end of the list.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Infants’, 1»„ Is. 3d„ Is. 6d.,
&o.
SHOES LAWLER’S Infants’, 9d., Is., Is. 3d., &c.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Boys School, 2s. lid., 3s. lld„
4s. lid., &c.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Men’s hnd wearing, ss. Id.
5s lid., 6?. lid., 7s. 6d., &c.
SHOES LAWLER’S Ladies’ House, 3s. 3d., 3s.
lid., 4s lid., &c.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Youths’ Walking, 6s. 9d., 7s.
6d., 7s. lid &o.
SHOES LAWLER’S Dancing and Court, 3s. 3d,
800 IS LAWLER’S Ladies’ Walking E.S., 4s. 6d.,
4s. lid., ss. 94., &c.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Gents.’ Walking Laceups
7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., &c.
BOOTS LAWLERS Ladies’ Best Parisian, 13s.
6d., 153., 17s. 6d.
BOOTS LAWLER’S Gents.’ very best, 10s. Gd.
12s. 6d., 13s. 61.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Boys’ Tweed Knicker
Suites, 4s. 9d., 4s. 111., 5s 6i., See.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Bojs’ Extra Super. Suites
7s. 6d., 9s Gd , 10s. 6d., Sec.
CLOTHING LAWLER'S Youths’ LoDg Trouser
Suits, 10s. 6d , 12s. Gd., See.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Men’s Tweed Trousers*
33. lid., 4s lid,, ss. Gd.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Men’s Colonial Tweed
Trousers, 7s. lid.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Mole Trousers, is lid,,
ss. 6d., ss. lid., &c.
CLOTHING LAWLER S Splendid Bedford Cords,
14?. 6d.
CLOTHING LAWLER'S Trousers and vests,
Tweed 10s. 61., 23. 6d., &c.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Trousers and Vests, best,
155., 17?. 6a., 19s. 6d.
CLOTHING LAWLER'S Full Sac Tweed Suits,
183 6d., 195., 19s. 61., See.
CLOTHING LAWLER'S Fancy Tweed Sac Suits,
22e. 6d., 255.
CLOTHING LAWLER’S Best Sunday Suits, 275.
6d., 325. 6d., 355.
MERCERY LAWLER’S White Shirts, linen
fronts, 2p. lid., 3s. 6d., 3?. lid., &c.
MERCERY LAWLER'S Best White Shirts, Elyses
Cuffs, 4s. lid., See.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Hard Felt Hats, 2s. lid.,
3s. 6d., 33. lid , &c.
MERCERY LAWLER S Fashionable Best Hats,
ss. 6d , 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Hosiery, Braces, Um-
brellas, &c
MERCERY LAWLERS Fancy Washing Ties,
sid., 6id, each.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Studs, Pics, Solitaires,
Links, Sec.
MERCERY LAWLER’S Fancy Silk Ties and
Scarfs, 9d , is. each.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Ladies’ Night Dresses,
excellent value.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Ladies’ and Girls
Corsets, Is. lid. to 14s. 6d.
DR YPERY LAWLER’S Ladies’ Underclothing—
a special department.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Beautiful Prints, 2|d.
to 6d yard.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Cashmeres, Merinos,
Oftsh merettes.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Beautiful Dimities, Is.
4d. yard, worth Is. lid.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S 15 C/a. Parachutes, just
opened.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Beautiful London Para-
chutes, 4s. 6d. to 11s. Gd.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Splendid Stock of Dents
Gloves, just opened.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Ladies Beautiful Gloves
Is. lid., 23. 3d., 2s. 6d., 2s. 9d.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Needles, Pins, Thread,
Tape, &c., at less than cost.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Fashionable Ladies
Gloves, 33. 6d. to 4s. Gd.
DRAPERY LdWLER’S Mosquito Net, 120 in,
wide, Is Id. yard.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Laces, Net, Muslins,
Frillings, Sec., Sc c.
DRAPERY LAWLER’S Calicoes, Linens, Towel-
ling, &c , &c.
FURNITURE LAWLER’S Marble Washstauds,
full singles, 20s.
UPHOLSTERY LAWLER’S Drawing-room
Suites, £l7 10s. to £3O.
FURNITURE LAWLER S Dining Tables, II?.
Gd. to £lO 10s.
BEDSTEADS LAWLER’S Fall Massive Double
“Fourposts,” st)s. to 60s.
UPHOLSTERY LAWLER’S Couches in Hair-
cloth, 475. 6d., 655., 755.
FURNITURE LAWLER’S Sideboards, £4 155.,
£5 15s. £7 10s.
BBDSTffiADS LAWLER’S Full Massive Double
“ Half Testers,” 45?. to 555.
BEDDING LAWLER’S Thick well-made Double
Palliasses, 10?. Gd. to 12s. 6d.
UPHOLSTERY LAWLER’S Luxurioin Eugene
Couches, £3 19>.
FURNITURE LAWLER’S Large size Cheat of
1 Drawers, 475. 6d.
BEDSTffiADS LAWLER’S See tho Stout Keyless
Single Stump, 12?. 6d.
BEDDING LAWLER’S See the Stretcher, Chair
Bedsteads and Cushions, 2L?., 25?. 30s.
BEDDING LAWLER S Best Java Kapok Mat-
tresses, 305., 40s.
IRONMONGERY LAWLER’S Pots and Pans at
GLASSWARE LAWLER’S Tumblers, 2s. 6d.
dozen. ,
CHINAWARE'LAWLER’S Full Breakfast bets
17s. 6d., 19a. 6d., 255.. See.
IRONMONGERY LAWLER'S Kettles, Grid
Irons, Mincers, &c.. &c.
GLASSWARE LA LER S Cut Tumblers, bjl
each &c.
GLASSWARE LAWLER'S Butters and Sugars
Bid. each. , ■
EARTHENWARE LAWLER’S Cheavin s Filters,
“ beauties,” rls. Gd. to 28s. . .
CARPETS LAWLERS Best assorted Stock m
Sydney. . ,
FLOORCLOTHS LAWLER’S Nairn s Extia
Supers. 3'. lid. to 4?. 6d.
HEARTHRUGS LAWLER’S From 33. 3d. to
£3 3s.
Call or write.
Established 1860.
LAWLER’S
608 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.


J-y-»TL;pOX‘tgU33-‘t I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OISTLTZ*
musical wnmuT
direct supplt
association,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Bee to inform their many patrons and the public
fv,at as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER I
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 10/-, to £6.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
t» Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
18, 6/6, 7/6, 9/0, 10/0, 12/0, 15/-, 17/0, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/-
„ „ steel notes 50/-
7/0, 10/0, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Specialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow,
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
bI; 7/0, 10/-, 12/0, 15/-, 17/0, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality: Walter Howard Model Nickel Bapjo,
00s.
1/0, 3/0, 6/0, 0/0, 7/0, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10e.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
Bliding head, complete In case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
for
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
BOMU mis STEMS,
Whloh can be sent post free for 2/0, 3/-, 3/0,4/-, 4/8,
5/- and 5/0 a set.
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, Bd., 9d,, and Is. eaoh,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. eaoh.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
fluitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all Instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
,bidnbt;
Glticura
w
m
JEczem* on Sc»lp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
m
sv
Sorofula on riecfc»
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
•s pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
hook, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns A Co., New South Wales.
CUTICTTRA RESOLVES* , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
!For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
drugg’sts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
He A arid. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing ie/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
(potter Drug: St Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
W J 5
$3». \ \
\ “\ ‘
2.5 “\ ’ wig Mariam}.-
W'-. - _ .H \A-j:,;:§.¢
“ It ‘ 15-332.":
\"nv 0-3 ‘ ~§
3V! \xww
\\\\\ m '
«My:
"' \ '3 ' §“\ \ '§\‘~\\\~~
' ' *»\‘\§\,§
&
The
‘POTSHOT*
Camera,
Phntoeraw' io World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
TS the Latesb Novelty 1“ the Photog I enis and on eDemies . Six circular pictures, each about the
X up, and atrociousiy effective bol; wi:h mos t astonishing speed and perfect accuracy,
size of a crown piece, can be tasen on v lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
This Camera can under »' handg £J n to either reverence or ridicule every
obeerved, and the simple action or i s Qn The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
incident included within the scope s known ag “DETECTIVE” Cameras. At the same time
really serviceable msllament, of the c and pbotographs of pe ople and things obtained with
animmenseamountof fun can be g method. A limited number only have been
SHSt y attention „ the gene ra l public
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
photographic stock wahehousf,
32 O’OONNBLL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
&
limited,
203 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Hare always In STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY, _ _
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
KARTHENWAR
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO. 8
Cognac.
T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
ONUM K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing!.
MUIMRU 1 ' wrmrAiUMWinAM. Btiwb*
WB oan recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address J
Temple Building, George-st«jet, .six doors from
Queens-street, A, GdOPKR, Proprietor,
Everybody
should USE
IPEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
T
p Xj O TJ
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a m»i replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
811 Oioisi-RTun. Sychev.
SCHOOL OP ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHE£.
' Buggy meets every steamer,
I make comfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor,
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages'
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescrip]
tions Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address i Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, oorner Bourke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vio,
BRAD&K.T ft LAMB
(in liquidation},
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTR
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPR NO and C’CONNELL STREET
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MOSS CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, variou
sizes.
.
wr®c
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasiona
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES ’
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet,
WALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
F: r" ‘wgaw:nwﬁii r
' ‘1 a \ ‘
AUST N CHAIRS
In
GRBAT VARIETY.
And a complete assor;]
ment of Bent Wo
Furniture the best make
only.
"WALL CABINETS for Choice 01mm.
VERY ELEGANT.
“——-————_‘._.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir Md BOW-WINDOW
SUITES.
WALL-MIRRORS and BRAMTB, 110781111“
In Pluah and Velveta, and In all Wanda.
from 65. 66. each.
__._____ —.——_______
ELEGANT VENETIAN MORE. richly
enamelled, In colours.
' - :33:
in; 25:31: .._....1
U Aumnuuymly‘ 'l GD!
:IFEWH I:
"my as; ‘1: .I,
_ F,
41M. fl ‘ at
l .I iv:
L- V'ﬁ."iv'—1TT‘,, #4!
' W M1, v :
D
RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS,
EARLY El\ GLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Drawing-room furniti re.—The lates
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid -with
ooloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of inspection la
solicited. Sprißg and O’Connell streets.
1
OVERMANTEL MlRRORS.—Handsome,
fashionable designs in black and gold, with
side shelves; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bee •
rooms. Now designs covered to order fa
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rait-
ful, a specialty.
13%.:
It
1 ’ i“
,1, “4343*;
L “I" j‘ "
. '- :
I_"'"5
Bedsteads, ail sites
Nickel-plated and Blaek
and Braai. ffireat rarietf,
Bedding,—All descriptions »t
lowest rates.
ďfď
SPRING MATTRAB3KI
Woven Wire, beet
make i also, Spiral Sprint •
Price, from lie. eaei*.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS


The Referee.
Jack Burke, “ the Irish lad,” arrived in
Sydney per s.s. Mariposa. This pngUist obtained no-
toriety throughout the “scrapping ” world through
inaHng out five rounds against J. L. Sullivan.
This battle took place at Chicago in 1885, and the
gate money—always a large consideration in con-
nection with professional fisticuffs amounted to
17 OOOdols. “ The Lad” has also met and beaten
Kllrain, Miok Lsary, and other well-known
bruisers, and altogether has taken part in 100
enoounters with bare knuckles and gloves. There
is a Mrs. Jack Burke and a little one The
pugilist scales 1721 b , is 25 years of age, and is a
clean-limbed, active-looking young fellow.
• * *
Jack Burke’s objection to fight the cham-
pion Jackson on the score that the latter is black
won’t “ wasb.” Burke
is not an American, but
cornea from a country
where it waa never con-
sidered infra dig. for
even a champion —which
Burke ia not—to meet
a man of colour. The
mighty Cribb, after hav-
ing determined upon re-
tirement from the ring,
twice tackled and de-
feated the terrible Moly*
neaux, the black, rather
than chance the cham-
pionship going to Ame-
rica. Burke will And, as
others have done, that
reputation alone will not
draw dollars in Aus-
tralia. The Antipodeans
are “ mugs ” enough to
want to see a genuine
contest for their money,
and if Burke withdraws
his excuse and tackles
the Australian champion
we 11 bet our bottom
dollar they get It.
* • *
Old Tom Colebrook’a
hand has not lost its
cunning, as Ellis dis-
covered on Saturday
when Tom, in the Nereus,
defeated Ellis in the
Genesta, at the Balmain
Sailing Club’s race for
20 to 22-feet half-deckers.
The Hermione, an ama-
teur-built boat, ran into
third place, a good per-
formance, considering
the other Btarters in-
cluded the Triton, Guine-
vere, and Cynthia.
* * *
We are told that the
visit of an Australian
Eleven to England nex"i
season is to be of a purely
private character. It
must be borne in mind,
however, that a semi-
representative standing
has already b?en given
to the team in England,
it having gone forth that
they were going home
under the wing of the
trustees of the N.S.
Wales Cricket Ground,
and matches were made
with English clubs on
that understanding. As
the trip is to be made
purely for “gale,”, and
as a natural consequence,
trouble will probably arise
before the completion of
the tour, would it not be
aswell, in view of the
future visit of a genuine
representative team, for
the associations of the
various colonies to ac-
quaint the home authori-
ties of the real state of
the case ? The N. S. Wales
Association, at all events,
should move in the
matter.
• * *
Tom Lees’ second
fight with Goode, in
England, ended in a
brawl. The men wore
very small gloves, and
the affair was little bet-
ter than a prize-fight.
On this occasion Lees
weighed fully a stone
heavier than his oppo
nent, and by the time
four rounds had been
gone through both men
were pretty well at a
standstill. After a couple
of minutes’ fighting in
the fifth round, there
was a misunderstanding
as to the call of time,
and the men retired to
their corners, but Goode
finding out it was not
the timekeeper who
had called “ corners,"
walked over and struck
Lees whilst on his se-
cond’s knee. The ring was then rushed, and
the referee declared a draw.
• * *
Beach always sleeps soundly the Dight
before a big race, and on one occasion bad to be
awakened a few minutes before the timo fixed
for him to get into his boat. The late Dr. For-
tescue used to say : “ Beach is not an ordinary
man : he Is a cold-blooded animal.”
* * *
Rush has “ half an idea ” that Hanlan
will beat Beach,
* * *
The M.C.C.’s own particular team of Eng-
lishmen played to miserable business at Ballarat
last week, but it can’t be urged against them that
they fooled with their opponents, as Shrewsbury’s
crowd do when there is no direct inducement to
work It was within three hours of the time for
drawing stumps when Ballarat went in for a first
innings, yet their wickets were lowered as relent-
lessly as though the question of victory or defeat,
was at issue. Naturally enough the locals com-
pared the “ amateurs’ ” thoroughness with the
laziness of the professionals on a former occasion,
when they excused themselves by saying that
they “wiren’tgoing ti bowl their insides out”
because there was no show of being credited with
a win. By the way, little Peel, once only thought
of as a bowler, has developed into a useful bat,
always safe for a score against second-rates.
* * *
John L. Sullivan will visit Australia. It
is fervently to be hoped that Mud J. Haynes wilt
at once call him “ a hollow duffer ” or “a bandi-
coot on a burnt ridge.”
* * *
One of the latest additions to English
literature is the biography of W. G. Grace, by
one Brownlee, in which the champion is du’y
saturated with slobber. Amongst other great
feats, he is credited with having done, whilst in
AuatraUs, is one of ktlling ninety flies at one
smack of his gigantic hand on a Ballarat dining-
table. By the way, one of the ohampion’s “bests
“Out of the Mouths,” &c.
“NOW, TOMMY, YOU’LL GIVE YOUR LOLLY-MONEY TO POOR SIR HENRY SHARKES—WON’T YOU, TOMMY, DEAR?”
TOMMY : “SHAN’T. SIR HENRY SHARKES HAS EATEN HIS LOLLIES, AND EVERYBODY ELBE’S LOLLIES, TOO.”
on record ’’ is not noticed in the book. We refer
to the wine-bill sent in by Grace for the Victorians
to pay.
• • *
Hearn, the Maoriland sculler, is coming
to Sydney, to row Beach and Hanlan in a New
Zealand-built craft. The New Zealander expects
that he will Hearn a great reputation for himself,
and return with some coin.
• • *
This was pretty “ hot.” A lot of bookies
travelling by rail from Sydney to Melbourne
started playing nap. One of the crowd was a
notorious “ dry hasher ’’—wouldn’t go three unless
he hell ace, king, queen, and never went nap by
any chance. They got out for a drink at one
station, and the festive brethren “readied-up” a
hand for him. They dealt out to him ace, king,
queen, and knave of diamonds and the ace of
spades. They dealt to one of the others five
diamonds, calculating to get some amusement out
of their viotim’s face when he went nap and got
spun by the fifth diamond bumping his ace of
spades. He oame back and pondered over the
hand. The others were delighted. “Jacks
going three this time." “ Can't go lees than four
after thinking eo long, you know." At last he
spoke. “I'll go nap." “No fear.” “Think
again.” “Don’t do anything rash,” said the
humourists. Then the victim, who saw through
the plot and knew that someone had five
diamonds, calmly led the ace of spades, making
spades trumps. Of course nobody could take it,
and nobody of the lot had a second spade to be
“ floated in on his pink ear ” on the four diamonds.
Then they explained that it was a “ have," but
he didn’t take that view of the matter, and they
all had to ante-up. A double-header too!
• » *
The V.R.C. management has made a big
mistake in railing off the saddling end of the
paddock and chargin' an extra five “bob" for
admission to the “ biftcagre." Until last meeting
it was the Victorian's pet “blow” that a ten
shilling fee prooured him a full run of the Flem-
ington show, barring only the members’ and
stewards’ stands and the Gov.’s private box. This ,
privilege was favourably commented upon to the j
disadvantage of racing arrangements in the old i
country. “ Pendragon," of the Referee who is
particularly outspoken about the ten shillings for
this and ten shillings for that demanded from
visitors at Eoglish race-meetings, loudly praised
the Australian polioy of giving the public as much
a 3 possible for their money. Under its old system
the V. R C prospered well. The public never
grumbled at paying an extravagantly dear rail-
way fare to Fiemington, nor did they trouble
much when an extra sixpence was tacked on to
it some three years ago. But there was
general discontent over the Birdcage in-
novation, and natura’ly so It was as
though a theatrical manager had raised his
prices in the middle of a successful run, on the
ground that the public would stand a little more
squeezing. And this unpopular “ extra ” was re-
garded as the probable pioneer of others. Ere
long there may be an inner ring for the bookmak-
ing aristocraoy, and a vice-regal enclosure where
Lady Looh and friends can promenade in exclu-
sive state. All this may (nay, surely will) coma
to pass if the Club’s first “ try-on ’’ answers in a
financial sense. Bnt it is a significant fact that
the grand stand receipts on Cup day showed a
considerable falling-oif from last year, which
makes it appear that the birdcage experiment
didn’t answer up to expectations. On Darby day
when people paid their stand money under the
belief that it would go as far as of yore, the at-
tendance had been larger than ever. Evidently a
case of “once bitten, twice shy,” with a gaod
few.
• * *
Young Fielder rode the winners of three
races out of four at Canterbury on Saturday.
* • •
Billy Murdoch is practising hard in Mel-
bourne, and intends to make a big bid for a place
in the oombined team. It is probable he will
be one of tfco next Australian Eleven should he
show anything like form.
If both now keep to
their alleged resolves,
this Saturday must prove
a fateful day for the
rival scullers, Hanlan and
Beach, the latter hav-
ing avowed that should
the race be rowed without
accident it will be his last
effort, so it is now or
never for Hanlan to re-
gain his lost laurels. On
form and paper it looks
a thousand to one on
Beach, but many believe
the Yankee who rowed
Beach on the Parramatta
was not the phenomenon
who had previously rid-
den roughshod over the
world, and it remains to
be seen if Beach’s in-
creased years, and fresh
water and a fair tide
under the lighter Cana-
dian, will make any dif-
ference. A Sunday
paper says a lump of
lead is to be chuoked
into Beach's boat during
the race on Saturday.
An ounce of lead chucked
into the idiot who wrote
the par. would not be
put to a bad use.
* * •
Stoddart, who has a
reoord of 600 runs in
one week in Eagland,
seems to have carried his
smiting abilities out
here.
* * *
Mr. Fred. Hinchy
is a gentleman worth
watchiag by the selec-
tion committees. Playing
with Corio against Sur-
rey United he made 111;
and in a match, Tele-
graph Department versus
Evening News, he
made 134 and not out,
the innings to be con-
tinued. Three figures
against any bowling is a
good per ormance.
• * *
He is so fond of the
Turf that his every-day
day conversation is inter-
larded, adnauseam, with
sporting phraseology.
And the other day his
wife presented him with
a little daughter, and,
instead of communicat-
ing the faot to his
friends in a Christian-
like manner, he ac-
costed a leading
“Bport” at ths Club
rooms, and blurted out:
“Great news, my boy!
At last I’ve got a little
filly of my own I" “ Yon
don’t say so,” replied
the unsuspicious Turf
man. .Not your own*
breeding, of course 1 ”
* * *
Dan. O’Connor was
at the wrestling match
at Foley’s on Saturday
night, having for a com-
panion Jack Burke, the
British pugilist. By-the-
way, Dan., who was
Champion Hanlan's sha-
dow, was not at the
wharf to meet the ex-
Champion this trip. Can
Dan. know Burke is not
a champion ?
Gunn, the big cric-
keter, who was out with
Lillywhite laßt year, is
organising a team of foot-
ballers to “do ' the colo-
nies next season. He is
coaching l hem in the
Melbourne game, with a
view to meeting the Cab-
bage Gardeners at their
own fancy. Gunn plays
with the Notts foot-
ballers.
At last there has been a genuine wrestling
contest in Sydney. Connor and Cannon's meat
for the money-prize and cup, presented by Larry
Foley, showed the best bit of wrestling yet
in N.S.W., the lightning passes and cat-like
agility of such heavy men calling forth the wildest
applause fnm the onlookers. Connor looked
absolutely fit, but it was not so with Cmnon,
who weighed fully a stone more than his com
panion. The muscles of his shoulders and arn s
did not look at all well developed, although it
must be confessed that Connor’s brutn-like hug
scarcely made an impression upon the body of his
burly opponent. Cannon got on a “ strangling
hold during the second bout, and Connor only
managed to get away in time, the compression
being so great that it caused his nose to bleed.
Cannon says the N S.W. people require educating
to the wrestling business, but somehow we don t
think his strangling holds will have the desired
effect. The men scored one and one, and Connor
won the decider in 11 min. 7seo.


MeLMAN BMOB , BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
*l* aSOROi BIBKSI, SYtIKSY,
o
c
s
m
s
GERS
IR
NMO
512
yj
o.
%
C
S
859%
SPECIALITIES I
DaTli' Sawing Macblne, Asbestos fire-proof Faint, Albo Barbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
HAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fcO„ fed.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!:
BY TAKING
ran fluid mum
Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
TO ALL OTHES
(Vide Medical Testimonials , Analysis, &c., accompanying each bottle).
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S.
Sold in Bottles at Is 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
f’wprietors: FELTON, GRIMWADE & GO Melbourne.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
■white end sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gums, and delight-
fully fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
and using daily
fs>wland£
Odonto
or Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most rechercM ingredients of the Oriental
herbal, and warranted free from any gritty or d-leterions ingredients; it whitens and preserves
the teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gams, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise a
highly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes or
pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
non-gntty toott powder: such KO WANDS' ODONTO, has always provedifeelf P
v No other'Odonto is genuine.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL is now sold in a golden colour for
fair and golden-haired people aim oiiildren.
ROWLANDS K ALY DOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
the Skin soft,, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for KQWr.Aypy
detii * am tMulers
articles, of w Hatton Garden, London; and aroid spurious and pernicious imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bbob., and E. Fbossbb & Co., Sydney.
ODV3
T. WILLIAMS & CO
IMPORTERS Ot
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
. Alio Manufacturer* of
The Finest Quality or Goods in tbs above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
NOES
HOE
genuine soda water.
rp -pq--]pi
Wn tail Water Ci„
15 OaURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
fďf
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branchest
61 PITT-STREET, and 638 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
,5* N, F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
Prince of Wales Hotel,
MACKAY (QUEENSLAND).
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and families, private sitting
rooms without extra charge.
Billiard Room, plunge and shower Baths, large
Sample Rooms.
MAKTIN GIBSON,
Proprietor.
A V/QNDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAIVTS PILLS
9*4s.
V.
PATENT
PILLS
&
$
&
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches ob
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac, The first
dose will giv® relief in
minutes. Thlfl is no fiction, for they have
(tea® it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer ia
MumcsUy invited to try one box of these Fills, and
they wifi be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
jFor females of all ages these Pills are Invaluable;
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
ojpxsn all obstructions, and bring about all that is
acquired. No female should be without them. There
ia no medicine to be found to equal BEECH A M’S
9CLLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity
at fch® system. If taken according to the directions
given with each hox they will soon restore females of.
aU ages to sound and robust health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will he found to work wonder® upon the
moat important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whols muscular system, reatore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
Appetite, and arouse into action with the BOSSBTTB
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and one of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beecham’s Pills have ths largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
lIECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
salty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, lightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &e„ these
Fills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
Jo prove that they are the best ever offered to the
gratae for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
PoMseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
iSg'Wsdily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest,
They give almost "instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, whan neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give Baacstxit’s
CtoraoH Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time b«
amoved.
Oitraorr. —The public are requested to notice that
A® words “ Bekcham’s Pills, Bt. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not cm they are a forgery.
'Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
3h® proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, Bt. Helens,
Lancashire, England, in boxes at Is. lfd. and 2s. 9d,
csach.—Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
1 Dealers throughout the Colonies.
—Full directions are given with each box,
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above la one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prlcei
reasonable. Sample Room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths,
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
Burpusses all others for Its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mm als
PARIS,IB7B; CALC OTIA. 1 SSI,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBIDIUM
areot rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUliilNE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the mowth and
improving the appearance ol the hair,
guaranteed perfectly barn less
ATKINSON'S I'XOBXDA VATfiR
an exceptionally fine perfume foi the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choice*) t exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Ko«e” on “ Golden
Lyre.”
Guinness’ Extra Stomfc.
FIRST
QUALITY,;
m
i
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS t>S I*B
COLONIAI AHD INDIA* UHEBfSMi
LONDON,
By Special Appointment
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHiN. JOHNSTON I CO.,
Oiuutrffi) Chambers, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Haa On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE.
387 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S. V',
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plnnge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
Robert butcher & co.
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out 0 i
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
j, CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampton),
(CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
j great Melbourne Coffee Palaoe. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as followsos. per diem, Ail meals Is. Bd,
df
BBS
lit!
AF«f
MM
N
)
THE MOST WELCOME DISCOVERY
of Modern Times. A Care for Pulmonary
CONSUMPTION.
TO the Consumptive, and all who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, haemorr-
hage, and all affections of the lungs, indigestion,
and diseases of the liver and kidneys, this notice
is of vital importance, for this remedy is genuine,
having cured, and is curing, the most stubborn
cases of the above diseases.
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must,
not regard this notice.asthe ordinary advertisement)
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copious expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and ascimilate nourish-
ing food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers. References and every satisfaction con-
cerning it given on application.
The Consumption Cure sent all over the colonit-s.
Also ST. VITUS’ DANCE perfectly cured within
eighty-four hours.
The above remedies are obtainable only from
Wili iam Ford and Company. Office, i Australia-
street, Newtown, Sydney.
BRIDGE’S
FOOD
ion INFANTS and INVALID
n
<0
las an enormous sale jin KnglantV.
kod is now being introduced into the
Colonics.
tyfgySlOfKge get a supp! y,
wise rnotber'*wfU certainly
ule it.
JR. JUDGE-’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS*
LOJiDON. ENGLAND.
ns in ntii sums m m totm mbit,
250 F ITT STREET.
Fixed Deposits received at best Current Rates, 0 per cent, being allowed tor moneys at Call,
business off this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders reoeive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A. TODD. M*.*™


royal mm
fi
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royai Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins . Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
JP. R. 3L.^iLRK.XIKr 9
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choloeat Brands of WINES, SPIRITS
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR. *
Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R, L. still sell* the Best Glass of RUM
BRANDY, or WHISKY 111 THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE
"* The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT Is stocked with all the Leading Brands of WINES
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEO UGH STREET, SOUTH,
WALLACH BROS.’
JOiLHTW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK. STREET, WYNYARI) SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRIGS LIST, PRKB ON AFFLIOATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
✓ w
VENI, VIDI VIOL
For Artistic Posing and Effective
combining softness and brilliancy t 111,0
Photographs of,
GHARLEMONT A!
ROYAL ARCADE) _
'STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALOSj.
GO THOU AND DO LIKEWISE 1
SUMMER, with ita heat, hurt a»J JJ
effects, is on us, and one of thegreatee'
we may enjoyjia a delightfully 000 l an ~, ~t j o n of*
bath, made more luxurious by the na . oli a
little “Sea Foam Shampoo.” Follow the
and you will find it a most beneficial a “ O tM
giving adj unct to the toilet It will
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them d
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm,® “jjgjieit
head, and has the endorsement of ( jL jroaid
medical anthorities. The words f rfeltl or
Shampoo - ’ are registered, and any co fall
imitation of same will be prosecuted E M and
extent of the law. Sold by all che . 0 f on«
dealers in toilet articles at the low pr ygfl
shilling per packet. Please try oaepao »»
will never regret it.
THEATRE ROYAL
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Bieensed %i
Rockhampton for holding
other Entertainments, and can be 8“»
any term upon application to „
CHARLBS NA e «»l.
The Wonder of the AS O, weffl
COLEMAN and Sons,
awarded First Prize at the
tion for their PURE VOLATILE an d $
OIL. The only known cure for Astb bond'®?®
affections of the chest. We have mor fhfl pabn®*
testimonials than any medicine before> a( jdr®*
This is a genuine article. Posted to an* ga,
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d* a nrU g CA
Agents, Hoffnung & Co. ; Elliott Bros.
ASK YOUR
]R FOR
FRYS MALTED
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
•'AH ORDINARY OOP OONTAINB MORN AOTIVB FROPRRZIRB 09 *****
THAN A PINT OP THH BBSS at,» OR POR2KR.”—tAJTO**
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS Of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppersmithlng, Blacksmlthing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0.
•el® Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propollers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, fiat Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, At.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARH-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
Full PAnnouiAM and Pkiqb on Applioahom.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-olass Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
7*T Private; Suites for Families. ■*»
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Baggy meets every steamer.
HARRY MoCANN, Proprietor.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
Hot**’
Belle Vue
Opposite Parliament Houses, BdtanlO* 1
and Queensland Club-
FIRST-OLASS FAMILY
ACCOMMODATION FOB sO,
A Waiter Msets Kverf Steam®**
Adtelg t*
Letters and telegrams please ftCl
prletor,
a M
Si
THIS SPACE RESERVED TOR E. ROWLANDS.
SLICK’S LABOUR BUREAU,
5 CORRIDOR, TATTERSALL’S BUILDINGS,
Hunter and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Householders, Hotelkeepers, Stations, supplied
twelve months for ONE GUINEA. A Com-
fortable Waiting Room.
FITZROY" HOTBSL,
EAST STREET, ROOKAMPTON.
<•" FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
Cigr&x JD.lTra.xx
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
11 CLIFFORD,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN, N.S.W.
FIRST CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS. Proprietor.
« Wilt
A HANDSOME
GOLD WATCH
GIVEN AWAY.
This is a genuine
offer, and no humbug.
Send address for full particulars to
R. B. JONES,
P.O. Box 570, Sydney.
a.
iff, k i h m
(late of the Deteotlve'Force),
T
FvlTate Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
II ROYAL ARCADE!, BYDNRY,
Abieonden and wife deserters traced, and all kind* of
mnfidentlal inquiries Instituted. Evidenoe obtained in
Rlvoroe, libel, fraud, and Incendiary oases, far the legal pro-
t, ***S n others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained In any part of the world
Bsati and dabtw collected, From R. M. R.’s ioa. experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Viotoria, and
Raw Zealand, and established agenoies in all parts of the
{lovBt be It In a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
txpeulti an and strloteat seoresy, and to faithfully *nd
rosso* .t attend to all business entrust*,, to h ears
oeforb Moustache and Whiskers.
>EFOR£ AFTER
Copyrighted.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,
ytud will do it on either bald
head or bare face■ Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and n ever fa Us , 20, (XX) 1
young men already wear full
beards having used Ito 3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain
*n effect. 1 ackets , 1» Qd. each Sfor (id., post paid, sent under
"”*■ AdJLrees, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Copyrighted.
TayMßro 5
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
WAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE
T H L r 3 t f„“llpEe.X pttabMiS-rSJS I'™». H. MICROSCOPE (0 x 4, and CABINET * »/>«
12 Slides 3xl. 12 Glasscovers, 1 Box of Labels’ and 1 Snare Bi • P °v ”‘ tended ’ viz:—MOUNTING-CABINETS contains 3 tb
of about 2in Focus. Box 6 x 4 (mcloskig above when no? in iith W k eedlw ’ and . Tweezers, in strong Box with Slide Cover. MIC ' oU nt ° f
ceptacles for safely carrying and preserving specimen. Cabinet and Micro <Wrived s P©cnnen on while under examination, and any , a be °L to*
in coat pocket WITHOUT BEING TIED OR WRAPPED UP and will w c<^ ntnve and constructed so as to stand the roughest use in transit and « t no
10s. Postage to any part of the Colony, U. Weight, |lb Send slamps or P 0.0 ? " hUrt * beiDg accidentall y topped or sat upon.
334 GEORGEI STBBBT, ID IST
