

The Bulletin
Vol. 7-No. 362
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1887.
Price., 6d.
S>yDKey
Small Bores
IHE CHAMPW I3oßc
M Part BooK
doRC
'IE
IHE HAK-
-oveß-|bOßt\)
"fa SINITER'S
[3O RE
¥
\VeRISoSI
\ P>or£
% Youth FUI-
PoUTiT IAiV
\3ost
Ttje M^kal
to
Ctf'TifAU
'f IWop
Small Bores.


HIGH WATER MARK.
The Circulation of “The Bulletin”
Christmas Number is the largest ever
reached by an Australian Newspaper.
Eighty-two Thousand Five Hundred
and Sixty (82,560) copies haviag been
printed, and the entire edition sold.
THE BULLETIN.
FUBU8HE9 ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PlTT-STRKKT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance).
Per annum - - - - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly - O 6s. 6d-
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
ayable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
nd remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may paj by Post Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony— you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our oarriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
TUP BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1887
The Priests Pass By.
When in the days immediately preceding
the Christian era a man became possessed of
a devil he went out amongst the tombs and
the priest' - passed him by. When Jesus
Christ Game he bailed the man up and bade
the Devil come forth. Thirteen hundred
years hiter, when Martin Luther met
similar difficulties (for the great reformer
firmly believed that children were sometimes
begotten of the Devil) he had such impish
offspring cast into the river that the world
might no more be tormented of them. We
have gone back beyond the reformer and the
Christ now, we have reached a condition
similar to that of the Scribes and Pharisees
in the reign of Tiberius C.«sar. Cases of
apparent demoniac possession occur amongst
us and the priests pass by.
* * *
The Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney passed
but with a strong prayer for mercy. But
the Anglican Primate passed without a
syllable of prayer, without supplication or
examination or warning, passed the wilder-
ness of scrub where The tragedy occurred,
with the carriage-blinds drawn down, that
sensibility might not be shocked by painful
suggestiveness; passed the Darlinghurst
gaol with face close shut up as the lion
mouth above the gaping doorway ; passed to
the arrangement of the lilies and laurels in
the Cathedral, to a final rehearsal of carol
service ; passed as he passed the brothels of
Woolloomooloo a few weeks back, with not a
word for the wretched creatures, mewed in
their sweltering filth ; but a mind busy with
tho composition of rolling periods of eulogy
to be pronounced above the grave of a certain
great man to whom some amongst them owed
their irretrievable and meanly-compensated
ruin. The Anglican Primate passed by.
* * *
A few months ago that same Primate was
in the habit of passing the wilderness places,
the scrub coverts and the broken-down
houses where the larrikins’ clubs are ; where
they “gaff” and swear and fight and defile
themselves with all the power of filthy
language ; and whither bound then ? To
the Chinamen’s gardens at Waterloo to
make an effort for the conversion of the
poor, benighted heathen, to get them to the
church and, incidentally to the contribution-
box ; to use them for the customary show
business, nought less nought more, for that
Primate Barry had ever understood the
nature and depth of the Chinese plague in
Sydney is too ridiculous a supposition to be
for a moment entertained. Had the cul-
tured Primate evor penetrated the recesses
of their homes, seen their drugged, de-
bauched women lying insensate, exposed
lures to the lascivious eyes of the wanton
youths to thu cambium's
seen tilt; of women, tho
A
M A-h*- | | |
fl ' . ' Bl
JB W
JB fe
the cr<HHHHH||HHi||
Sydnefl
plant
great HHHHJhHHHHHHBBhHHHHHHI
po93esfl|HnHHHH||
But
as dopi<KjßHHHnH|H||
Anglican mission and who care to investigate
it now will need a microscopic power of ob-
servation to detect any difference. But is
there a difference in the Primate ? This is
the ghastly question. We are not aware of
any particular evidence of large-hearted
charity or noble self-sacrifice in the life of
Bishop Barry, but some of his more inti-
mate friends could doubtless point to in-
stances. This, however, do we know. Since
his mission to the Chinese the Primate has
developed, if not acquired, Chinese proclivi-
ties. The ordinary Chinaman becomes sick
or falls into disgrace, and all his friends and
relations turn their backs and are “ brother
belong to him” no more. Brother Boyce, of
the Anglican fraternity, one of the youths
now doomed in Darlinghurst, is surely sick
enough to attract the attention of the big
brother of all the Anglicans, and there is no
sign of any attention being bestowed, but
the pigtail of contemptuous or cautious dis-
regard sprouts from the Primate’s skull and
sick man Boyce is passed by. The Bishop
with his clergy pass, dignitaries of various
kinds be-robed and bedecked with him pass
to solemn functions, to gorgeous festivals—
pass one of the most awful missions ever
placed before Christian men, permitting
only some minor canon or obscure priest to
go in and minister to that one poor leper,
one of the six without the camp.
* *
It is a miserable, a sickening spectacle
when fully considered, as close an example
of the savourless salt as the world has
seen. For if it indeed be reasonable that
the New South Wales Executive and
Governor should be left undisturbed in the
performance of their solemn duty, had the
Church no mission to attack the conditions
out of which the offence grew ? Should not
every pulpit of the city have rung with
anathemas against every form of pollution
and vice ? Was it a time for Christmas
carols and New Year congratulations, or for
lamentation and sorrow that any Christmas
should find us under such stain and shame,
that any new year should dawn so fearfully
overshadowed ? Last, was not the chief
pastor’s place beside the chief sinner of his
flock ? And was he found there ? Do not
so wrong the pious man’s good taste ! Per-
adventure he was gone on a journey (to the
mountains), or on a visit (to Government
House), or to a feast (with distinguished
visitors). Those well-cut gaiters, that ac
curately draped portly form in the con-
demned cell ! Not unless some very distin-
guished person should be there who might
require dignified consolation.
* * *
And following in the wake of the Primate
they all passed by. The greasy Wesleyan s,
anointed and sleek, prosperous with the re-
sults of many lectures, passed by. By and bye,
when all the shame is buried they may make a
lecture out of Mount Rennie, but just now
it behoveth them not to obstruct the course
of the law. They affect horror at the
tragedy, and they imagine they are going toput
an end to it by adding tragedy to tragedy—
good homoeopathic doctrine, similia sim'Uitms
curantur. t It is easy doctrine, and does not
seriously interfere with the customary way.
Love-feasts and grace-meetings may still go
on, sermons be preached, and stipends come
in. It is just as well to be clear in explana-
tion to the respectable portion of the com-
munity that we do not hold them in any way
responsible for this foul deed. It is not in
us or of us, it is an excrescence, and we do
not know how it came to be there ; we must
cut it off. Was ever such ignorance or im-
becility or utter cant heard in the world
before ? Is the Obi priest, with hi a little
drum, a ranker impostor than the Evangelical
pastor with the Gallows in his hands and the
Cross beneath his feet, with his face like
Hint against the victims caught in their guilt,
but sickly with smiles toward the greatest
ruffian who ever outraged decency, so long
as he appears smoothly vested in broadcloth
and regular in his payment of dues ?
* * *
Independents, also, with man-of-the-world
Jefferis at their head, — nothing from them,
dumb dogs all, —eyes have they but they see
not, ears havethey but they hear not, tongues
have they but they speak not, for it is in no
wise convenient. Presbyterians by ones or
twos speak out, though the Presbyterian
bishop, Dr. Steel, halts on “ l dare not,”
the deed wrought by respectability over*-
masters him. No voice, no action in them
all. They stand helpless in the presence of
a great crime as, day by day, year by year,
in sight of the great pollution of Sydney
city, the toys and the tools of a dull respect-
ability, staunch to their patrons it may be,
but false to their Master and their Gol» and
to all the lessons of His life as to His dying
charge.
* * *
Rattle up tlve Salvation Army drums,
thero is life and human sympathy in them ,
but this dull, conventional, middle-class,
philistinish humbug of Anglicanism and
Methodism and Independence and Congre-
gationalism, let it drift, let it rot, as most
assuredly it must and will ; for here, brought
to as solemn a test, charged with as sacred a
as was ever felt by any chut- h in any
of tlffe world, it gathered itself as th<
" limbs of some hugt Octopus and
the dark careens, \.iico!e--s, sight •
'V " ’less a noble ar it mle sii rely for
V : Hkh of the
shown and at such a crisis, hut then he would
only discover what was long ago on record
for all broad-thinking men —the' “ Reformed
Churches ” of England and Australia are the
toys of respectability, not the ministers of
Christ ; and shall the toy rebuke its owner ?
As well ask shall the clay contend with the
potter ? It is enough that it be moulded
according to the conventional exigencies of
the time.
The N.S.W. Attorney-General and his
Department.
Op the Ministerial Departments of New South
Wales, one, that of the Attorney-General, seems
to have passed out of the range of public censure,
not because it has been purged of fault, b#t be-
cause it has passed even beyond the area of con-
tempt. The Department seemed to have reached
the very depths of error and incapacity under
previous Ministers, but under the mismanage-
ment of Mr. “ Jack” Want it has disproved the
allegations as to its former incomparable incom-
petence by beooming just a little worse than eVor.
Scandalous neglect of duty, varied by phenomenal
blunders comprises the constant recordas presented
to public attention, and proves either that Mr.
Want has a whole staff of incapables under him
or else that the officials have the misfortune to be
under a wretchedly inefficient head. Probably
those critics who know Mr. Want best will lean
to the latter conclusion ; those who know the per-
manent officials only will, on the contrary, incline
to the former hypothesis.
* * *
We have never heard Mr. Want accused of
concealing or, indeed, of displaying any great
political ability nor administrative talent. In the
Assembly Ms chances of approving his legal acu-
men have usually ended in disastrous failures ;
especially so when the Redhead Coal-mine suit
was under discussion, and when the legality of
the proceeding leading to the suspension of Mr.
Wisdom were questioned : nor can we remember
any one political action' of his which could be
quoted to show that association with the mem
bers of the incapable Jennings’ Ministry was
likely to injure his political reputation. Presum-
ably, he draws his Ministerial salary with scrupu-
lous regularity, and also pockets as his perqui-
sites some of the fees, amounting, perhaps, to
£BOO per annum, extorted by law from men who
have the misfortune to be inventors ; but it is
difficult to see where the equivalent return is
rendered to the State. Mr. Want does not seem
to consider that his Ministerial position necessi
tates his constant appearance in Court
to conduct prosecutions on behalf of the
Crown in such cases, for instance, as that
of Wright, Heaton, or the Mount Rennie
offenders ; on the contrary it is asserted that in
one instance he urged the claim of a colleague as
against the State of which they were each
Ministers Beyond the administration, such as
this is, of his Department, and the occasional
rendering of an opinion, it is difficult to see what
services Mr. Want performs for the public in re-
turn for his salary ; that previous occupants of his
office have made a more generous estimate of the
duties it involves does not appear to cause him
tribulation, nor does the daily proclaimed dis-
grace adhering to his Department avail to bring
him to repentance.
* * *
Sins of omission constitute the main burden of
iniquity chargeable against the Attorney-General’s
Department. Such glaring blunders as that
which, a fortnight ago, enabled some alleged fan-
tan swindlers to escape the just penalty of their
imputed offence, are more shocking to the public
but less disastrous in their effects than the con-
tinued negligence which paralyses the hand of
retributive and remedial justioe. Instances
of this neglect ocour constantly and con-
tinuously. Some weeks ago a solicitor
was charged by the Incorporated Law Society
with having participated in the alleged fraud of a
firm of Sydney tailors, and the three judges were
applied to for a rule calling upon the solicitor to
show cause why he should not be struck off the
rolls-for his share in the transaction. The Court
refused to grant the rule at that time, deeming
the charge to be of so serious a nature as to in-
volve the possibility of its investigation by another
Court. So far nothing seems to have been done
by the Attorney-General to secure this further in-
vestigation, and if any action is contemplated it
should long ;rgc have been made public. As
alfairs noyr stand both solicitor and clients are
hedjfecTabout with a suspicion that may, despite
''the freely expressed opinions of the judges, prove
to be utterly baseless and unjust. Magna Gharta
provides that justice shall be neither delayed nor
denied to any man. In this present instance it
has been delayed to these parties—presumably
innocent, as is every untried man—-and present
indications favour the supposition that hy negli-
gence it will be absolutely denied.
* * *
Numerous instances of neglect to take cognisonoe
of imputed crime will readily occur to the minds
of most newspaper readers. In the Mount Ronnie
case Judge Windeyeb was so convinced that
perjury had been committed by several witnesses
that he did not hesitate to make his opinion on
that point known publicly, and also to tho At-
torney-General, yet no action in the matter seems
yet to have been tuken. Tho delay has probably
rendered prosecution imi*ossible, for to the in-
dicated parties has been thereby given ample
opportunity of escape; and what is still worse
eacli witness for the defenco in that case will be
made the object of public suspicion, for as no
prosecution has been so far initiated it is i»npossi-
ble to separato those whom tlie Judge suspected
from those upon whom no cloud of just suspicion
may rest-. Again it is commonly known that in
another recent case a plea sworn in one - court has
been held to be utterly false in another court, yet
no hint of further proceedings in order to obtain
final decision of the point is given.
* * *
It would be futile to specify any out of the very
large number of cases where perjury flat and
deliberate has been wa* tonly and fearlessly com- I
mitted, without leading to any effort by the
Attorney-General to punish its perpetrators.
Neglect to prosecute in glaring instances has been
the very food of this crime, and so it happens that
scarcely a trial or an action passes without the
commission of perjury of a more or less atrocious
character. Laws there are sufficient for the
punishment of perjurers, and a Department main-
tained in great part for the enforcement of these
laws, but owing to the negligence or incapacity of
the head of that department, and the carelessness
or stupidity of his salaried subordinates, the laws
a r e of no avail, and the Courts of Justice are pol-
luted by this crime until they become cesspools of
perjury. It is in the power of the Attorney-
General to work the necessary reformation : if he
is unable or unwilling to exert himself to do so,
some abler or more industrious man than Mr.
“Jack” Want should be put in charge of affairs.
There is little reason for fear that any change
sanctioned by Parliament would result in the
elevation of any less able and less industrious man
to the very responsible post of Attorney-Gene®®
of New South Wales.
“• Our Daughters and our Wive«ftp
For these the clean living Evening X Emßßßjtft
troubled. For these, also, we oursehflHH
troubled, and not without reason when
journal proposes to put its protecting arm about®
its sheltering mu is above them. “For our'
daughters and our wtves > ” The News has for
years been tempting the daughters and the wives
of the whole community with almost every foul
and filthy bait (outside the letter of the Obscene
Publications Law) which a keen perception of
human weakness could discern, and strong finan-
cial power procure. Read the hideous half-column of
filth with which the first issue of the New Year
was seasoned—such stuff as no pamphleteer
would dare to publish—such stuff as should be
brought directly under the Obscene Publications I
Act of every English-speaking community. It isi
the account of the Colin Campbell divorce case,
and it Is headed “ The Scandal of the Century.”
It is simply the most revolting details of a filthy
law suit shipped from England, specially tele- \
graphed from Adelaide, and wantonly dished up i
in Sydney in all fts disgusting nakedness. A fullJ
and graphic and accurate report of a midwifery]
case would as fitly be classed under the head of]
decent literature and proper news of the day. I
It is stuff which can be published for no purposeJ
save one, which is—to bring a few
coppers tA) the pockets of the miserable
prietary who vend it. See the impish nev^|
b ys huddled together on a doorstep gloiH
ing over it, see the unkempt serving-maH
satisfying her morbid curiosity qs she readH
Watch the young tradesman’s wife familiarisinß
herself with things she should never know— nol
mark you, with any matters of philosophies*
interest or probable use in life, but with the ver®
dregs of moral and physical disease which lawyer®
and physicians handle gingerly and put out ofl
sight immediately they pass the court or th®
consult ing room or the hospital door. It is afl
.exposed in Hie Evening News— put up for sale,
advertised in bold letters. And not for the first
time. A study of any year’s issue of the New <
will discover columns equally disgusting, each
one calculated to do more for the actual inward
pollution of Che community than a Mount Rennie
or Mount Carmel for its outward shame—filth to
corrode the very wires, to soil the lightning!
muck that has all the essence of the obscenity for
which our legislators and “ moralists ” bid the
hangman prepare and wield the lash, differing
only in the outward form of expression. Middens
and ce°spits, morgues and brothels, flogging-yards
and divorce-courts have been explored and rolled
of their well-buried secrets by the News and some
of its contemporaries. In the treasures dug from
such localities they clothe themselves, and crying
—not like the leper, “ Unclean ! Unclean ! ’’—but
“Morality! Morality for your better pretection,
for your women and your children, your daughters
and your wives,” have forced their way with too
much success into the houses of this com-
munity. And why should we feel or ex-
press surprise ? Have not Lust and Blood walked
together since khe foundation of the world, and
was not a covetous greed ever content to keep
company to make profit of both ? They will sell,
sell, cry the News anil its imitators—the secrets
of the brothel, the tilth which a full fed uncurbed
licentiousness distills, the horrors of the gallows,
it matters dot which, only when the privilege of
either commodity is curtailed or threatened
do they squirm and storm. Yet let them rage.
“For ourselves, ourselves, ourselves l” that is
what tho News means, what indeed they all
mean. Honest, honourable, clear-headed, pro-
-1 perly informed men know that thoir daughters or
wives would bo safer in the wildest waste of any
wilderness about the city than in the liest-appointed
drawing-room in company with a copy of The
Evening News.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Railway Conservatism.
Conservatism may, as a general thing, be
summed up as that principle which serves the
few at iho expense of the many, which permits the
multitude to sweat and in order that well-
placed people may enjoy unwearied comfort and
repose* That there is a lot of such unnecessary
sweating and groaning and its usual accompani-
nientof undeserved luxury on the N.H. W. railways
veyylit'le experience of the longer lines will show.
Take the Bourke line any time between Novem-
ber and Christmas, look at the second-class
carriages, packed in every compartment ; men,
women, and children wedged together ; all
sorts of men and women too—blackfellows,
hinamen, and Hindoo cooks, shearers and rouse-
abouts in a fearfully unwadhed • condition, with


iit shop-keeping people, clerks, resoectable
anics, all to whom thirty shillings is a con-
ation, and “working the department” an im-
aility. Through the four and twenty hours
stew and suffer there together, and, as usual,
ir the luxurious travelling of “ those others.”
are those others ? Look at them banging
; on the padded benches, f our or five in a
artment, frequently only two, with half their
s at least in horizontal position, and fre-
dy, at no extra cost, recumbent the
3 right long. Who are they ? What
re iney ? A bagman or two, a representative
f some tinpot swamp journal, each with an
‘ arrangement ” which makes his payment less
han the second-class rate, a half-dozen squatters
nd decent gentlemen paying their way according
o their custom, and a half-dozen railway people,'!
tation-masters’ friends, or something of the sort
unniDg backwards and forwards past half-a-
lozen stations for a lark mo payment, of course,
for the larks). Count them all up on any day on
any long line, Bourke, or W T agga, or New Eng-
land, and the net results of the first-class carriages
will not he more than one-third of the second-
class. Yet their original cost —haulage, mainte-
nance,—are all more, at least 50 per cent. more.
Why it is thus unless by reason of the re-
spectable Conservatism of New South Wales ?
According to commonplace notions of honesty
each class on the railways ought to pay for itself,
Khave commonplace notions of honesty
li the provision of proper comforts for
leople ? It is a question which the liail-
missioner of New South Wales probably
■ considered. Common honesty is one of
3 which lie quite beyond the sphere of
le conservatism, which must yield when
and suffer when necessary, and make no '
protest.
“Alleged.” <
t papers of Sydney have a strangely in-
t style of heading, charges of crime. The
announcements concerning the Mount
orror, for instance, were headed in the
fpe “Brutal Outrage,” “ A Defenceless
Woman set upon and Ravished,” “ Bashi-Bazouks
Outrivalled,” and so forth. Yet at that time not
a word of evidence had been taken. Of course
there is nothing particularly wrong in this appar-
ent assumption of the very point that has to be
proved. Everybody knows that when a newspaper
report is headed “Murder,” or “Burglary,” or
whatnot, it simply means that a charge of murder
or burglary is preferred; and similarly great
latitude is permissible in the use of descriptive
leadings of accounts narrating the discovery of
Ipfrima facie is a crime. But surely every-
ought to be served alike. If the rough in
an is to have his case prejudiced, wny should
; be such refined delicacy where the accused
ens to belong to the black-coated fraternity?
e has been a great run lately on the
rfect form of the verb to allege; but
noticeable that the “alleged” offences are
riably those of “respectable” people. A
iey editor would be distracted if he saw the
Ls “ Railway Frauds,” or ‘ ‘ Land Office Frauds,”
Custom House Frauds ’ printed in his paper
out the prefix “alleged.” Such an egregious
sh of propriety would involve the infliction of
sharpest justice on the man responsible for
lapsus. The reason is plain Men guilty of
Is of this kind are usually men of substance ;
if there is anything on earth a Sydney editor
3 in high esteem it is a man of substance,
e is no valid objection to his having this
g, nor to his showing it, in season and out of
m, provided always he does not betray an
aathy which is the complement of it as a con-
jt and dislike of the much larger number of
le whose possessions in this world are repre
3d by zero. If the crimes of the rich are al-
3tobe “Alleged”until “Guilty’’isp onounced,
ast the same care ought always to ba taken in
ribing charges against poor and uninfluential
Politioal Tinkers.
Sydney Morning Herald wonders why so
y members of the New r South Wales Assem-
are resigning their seats, and in a column of
ious dubiousness fails to, find an answer to the
y. But with most of the resigning members
wonder is hot why they left the House, but
why on earth they ever entered it. Mr. L. F.
Hkydon, who was the first in this decade to lend
•espectability to the Protectionist cause inN. S. W.,
s an exception to the general rule with regard to
leparting members : his resignation is to the
general public as strange and mysterious as most
)f his political actions have been throughout his brief
md not unhonoured career. Mr. Russell Barton
n resigning shows true patriotism ; he
Lood. He
in record
t four-in-
and use-
ate repu-
desire he
aut save
road, his
een less
ane long,
r. Lyall
imanship
)support
his term
ing seen
template
VI r. Tar-
ii merely
lglorious
what arc
s credits
is known
ibited of
an of a
1' ARRANT
ic House
nr regret
lere are
sing through a cycle of political stupidity, and
Messrs, Lyell Scott and Co. are the meet fruits
of the season.
♦
The German Scare.
The late pronouncement of the Cologne Gazette
will probably lay the foundations of a new Jingo
scare in Australia. The leading journal of that
far-off city urges that Queensland should be over-
run by organised German emigration, with a view
to its ultimate absorption into the Fatherland as
soon as the connection between Britain and the
colonies has been dissolved, and this piece of
ghastly stupidity will, no doubt, be quoted far and
near as a proof that Australia must still remain
dependent on the mother country as the only
means of securing her own safety. To the ram-
pant journalist of distant Cologne the annexation of
these co’onie3 perhaps seems only a trifling under-
taking. Under the system of Australian Federa-
tion the conquest of Queensland or any other
colony will necessitate that of the whole continent,
but the population numbers as yet only some
4,000,000, and to Germany, accustomed to rely on
brute force and ferocity, this handful of enemies
seems beneath derision. Australia, too, has no
troops worth the name ; her fleet is insignificant
beyond description ; her land defences are almost
nil; and the Teutons, organised and drilled with-
in an inch of their lives, have a lofty contempt for
guerillas, militia, and volunteer soldiers. More-
over, the African goat-scramble, and the utter-
ances of the whooping maniacs who wish to go and
fight the Frenchmen in the New Hebrides have led
the kraut-fed tribes to set us down as a race
of boastful holiday warriors, a little bet ter than
the Fantees and a good deal worse than the Mexi-
cans, and the striking contrast between the sub-
missiveness shown towards the powerful Germans
located in New Guinea—almost at our very doors
—and the ferocious outcry raised against th°>
comparatively feeble Gaul who is stationed IJOO
miles away, has gained us a most unenviable re-
putation for cowardice and folly. But if the
Cologne Gazette is speaking on this matter as
the inspired organ of Prince Bismarck, that
statesman has made a mistake in taking us at our
own valuation. Queensland, it is true, is swarm-
ing with Germans, and the insensate policy of the
Griffith Government keeps up a ceaseless stream
of Teutonic emigration, but the men from the
Fatherland come to these colonies to avoid the
crushing military burdens of their own country,
and knowing as they do the full measure of
the tyranny from which ihey have escaped, they
would be the last to aid in rivetting afresh round
their necks the yoke which weighed so heavily
upon them at home. But even presuming upon
their loyalty to the Kaiser, the Anglo-Saxons are
more than three and a-half millions ahead of their
rivals in point of numbers, and at the present rate
of increase ha’f Germany would have to be poured
into Australia before it could be annexed by a popu-
lar vote, and ncit" er the talf nor the whcle of Ger-
many could take Australia by force. N» doubt
if we possessed an army we might be tempted in
some moment of aberration to stake our safety in
a battle with an invading force, and lose every-
thing at. one stroke, but being without one we are
in no such danger, and if an enemy operating from
a bast' 10,000 miles away, cared to risk his battal-
lio’s in this land of heat and drought and stupen-
dous distances, his insanity would be greute • than
could be contained in any asylum yet erected.
Napoleon 111. made some such experiment in Mexico
twenty years ago under n ueh more favourable
circumstances, and the French C.US A R was
ignomitiiously defeated in the very zenith of his
greatness by a race of mongrel guerillas led by an
Indian lawyer. Britain tried it in later times
in the Transvaal, and the 1 )übch farmers who
never owned an army or a navy wiped them out
in the ghastly massacre of Majuba Hill. Germany,
with these and a hundred other examples before
her, will never send her troops to be ground ex-
ceedingly s i all in a struggle with an almost in-
visible enemy in the vast plains of Australia, and
she will never get Australia by peaceful means
The new Jingo scare has been still-born, and
Jingoism must look round for another empty
weapon.
4.
Side Issues of the Mount Rennie
Controversy.
A great deal of what Matthew Arnold calls
the Philistine element in our race peeps out in the
conduct of ex-Mayor Young touching the Mount
Bemiie meeting. According to all precedent, Mr.
Young was, as Mayor, in duty bound to convene
the assemblage in question. The object sought to
be advanced was a perfectly legitimate one, and
the requisition w r as signed by numerous citizens.
Mr. Young seemingly tried to shuffle out of dis-
charging the Mayoral function at the outset, and
when unable to do this he forwarded vague and
contradictory telegrams ; the plain inference de-
ducible from one was that his name was to be
used ; and, finally, when he found that his name
had been used he entered a strong protest against
this being done without his authority. Compare
this hesitation and reluctance to give his official
sanction to the holding of this meeting, to discuss
the question whether six human beings should
poiish on the scaffold or not, with the avidity
with which the same functionary seized upon the
idea of inauguratin'? a triumphal entry into the
city of a victorious blacksmith-sculler, and the
Philistinism —the vulgar worshipping of worldly
success, ar,d scornful indifference to misery and
suffering—is painfully conspicuous. Mr. Jubilee
Young had no excuse whatsoever for refusing to
convene the meeting. He was bound to pre-
side ; and if he had presided his position w ould
have bet n that of an umpire—to see thc subject
debated fairly, and to decide as to how the voting
went. But he apparently does not eompiehend
the existence of such a thing as fair-play. He
was perhaps opposed to the objects of the requisi
tionists, and doubtless felt himself incapable of
performing the role of chairman without showing
the partisan. The citizens would do well
to let this functionary know that they re-
gard it as the duty of the Mayor to
for any lawful and legit ima'e pur-
requested to do so by an adequate
neighbourhood of the Town Hall after the vesti-
bule was tightly packed, and everybody in the
crowd was anxious to take part in the proceed- I
ings. It suits those whose idea of civilisation in-
cludes the gallows as a necessary adiunct to
depreciate the significance of any demonstration
that would rob tnem of their beloved throttling-
match. These same papers will probably make
money out of selling “ full, true, and particular
accounts ” of the execution—unless, indeed, the
Governor frustrates their plans at the final mo-
ment, The side issues raised by the discussion of i
the case of these unfortunate wretches are I
assuredly not without some importance in their I
way.
♦
A Ministry of Premiers.
Sir Patrick Jennings’ reason for continuing in |
oitice so long as he has done has been for a con- i
siderable time a dark and deep mystery which |
will never be solved in this world. It cannot be ,
that he covets the cash pertainirg to the Pre-
miership —he is too rich for that; it cannot be for
the honour of the thing, for the record of every
day increases the difficulty one finds in discover-
ing adjectives capable of expressing the inexpres-
sible contempt which is the only fit reward of his
Ministerial blunderings. A wild and unworthy
suspicion sometimes suggests that a title would
satiate his political thirst; if it v r ere so he should
be created Marquis of Mudhead, Baron Blunder,
or Prince of Pinchgut without a moment’s delay.
He reminds one most strongly of a gentleman
w r ho in the Scriptures is spoken of as having as-
sociated with sevm other gentlemen no better than
himself and to have finished up in a worse state
than he was at first. In private life he may be a
seraph, but in politics he is beyond description.
How anyone could hold office as Premier and sub-
mit to be alternately flouted and bullied by his
colleagues is afiogetlier inexplicable He is one of
a Ministry of Premiers, and among them all he is
the least. This is most clearly shown by the ex-
traordinary way in which Ministers deal with
their Departments' The recent extension of Civil
Service hours began with the Lands, then after an
interval of uncertainty was extended to other
offices. Next came the ukase relating to
the tenure of aldermanic positions, and not only
was this issued to different departments at differ-
ent times, but every now varies as to fis
terms according to the inter)(relation of such
minister, Dr. Renwick viitually defying the re-
mainder of lhe alleged Cabinet. Following this
latter prohibition came the notice of retrench-
ment in the sei vice, and here again Mr. CorGLA.Ni>
took a long lead in action, clerks in the Lands first
receiving tne unpleasant intimation Inat they were
to subscribe a port on of their salaries to cover
the Treasurer's deficit. The shameof this Ministry is
the di-graceof its leader, and the degraia ion of the
country, and the saddest feature of 1 he ca3e is that
a Jennings Cabinet is better than a Parkes
Ministry would be. And yet after all it seems
diflicuM, to conceive of any weaker, more wasteful,
and worse Cab net than this Jennings Ministry
of Premiers. Much as we loathe the prospect of a
Parkes -cum - Davies-cmu-Henson Cabinet, we
are almost inclined to wonder whether they could
afler all descend much lower into the regions of
contempt Ilian Jennings and Co. have already
fallen.
The deputation last week to Mr. Garvan, (he
New South Wales Minister for Justice, had a
I good-cause, and they received a brave answer.
They asked for the privilege of ullirmation, and
the Minister going beyond their request, declared
in favour of the abolition of oaths. This reply
should, cvento Orangemen, clear him of the suspi-
cion of domination by his ecclesiastical t eachers
But the Orangemen will have their revenge -
henceforth they will call him a Freethinker. The
oath is nearly doomed: even now perhaps a
majority in the Assembly would vote for its aboli-
tion ; that the Legislative Council will fight for
its retention will only prove the inability of the
members of that political morgue to comprehend
the progress of a living world. Men with free
minds have long ceased to believe that perjury
can be lessened by the invocation of Divine attes-
tation. The point has passed beyond the region
of dtbate ; even the parson-ridden Sydney Echo
admitting that oaths are useless If final proof
of the question be oquired.tho advocates of Bible-
kissing need only go into any of the Sydney
courts once or twice and listen to the testimony
given there ; and if such a person has any respect
for the Deity he will admit that it is an outrage
upon the Most High to put His name to perjuries
committed as they sometimes are even in cases
where less than a£s note is in dispute. Once, the
terror of the hereafter invested the oath with
real force, but now it prevents no one from com-
mitting perjury who would not have tpoken the
truth if he had been under no such visionary
obligation. The fear of beiog found out is all that
limits the perjury of liars, and they could just as
easily be checked and punished if they weie only
required t o affirm. Nor is even an affirmation
nece?sary if it be understood that liars in the
witness-box will suffer the punishment now at-
tached to perjury.
The Jennings’ Ministry stands a fair show of
suddenly becoming adorable in the c es of the
Sydney daily morning papers. For this sudden
accession of favour Mr. Lyne’s project of running
the Southern passenger-train alone is respoiu-ible.
This train used to start from Itedfern a 1 fi.ti a m ,
reaching Goulburn at 3.50p.m., and that arrange-
ment suited passengers admirably, but a change
is to be made and the time throughout made three
hours earlier. The immediite effect will be the
sale in the districts affected of a large number of
Sydney morning dailies whore evening papers
formerly were bought. Therefore the Herald is
jubilant and inclined to applaud Mr. Lynk. In-
tending travellers in that train will 10.-k upon the
matter in a different light. Why ptople, especially
ladies, who travel in the day because convenience
rather than time saving is an object, should have
to turn out at about 5 a.m. in winter, is a hideous
conundrum which neither the Herald nor its
.Ministerial pet can answer. Once before an ex-
periment was made by starting the train at 7 a.i i.
ihree days iu each week, bet the blunder was soon
conftssed and a return made to the old system,
vlr. Lynk dare rot now produce the statistics of
passengers by the two trains under that arrange
ment. He has made an ofiectivc bid for the
.support of the Herald and Telegraph, but even
with that support he will, unless very shortly
foroed i 1 > admit that i lie
of those papers may be too dearly bought.
A, ♦
) - i
are trying to get a commutation of the
sentence passed on the prisoners are in
sympathy with crime, and particularly with the
crime which they committed. That may be
described as lying straight from the shoulder. A
specimen of the lie artistic was given a few days
ago. In one of the morning and two of the evening
newspapers a paragraph appeared to the effect
that the Mayor of Goulburn had absolutely re-
fused to convene a meeting of the citizens to con-
sider the question of petitioning Governor Car-
ington to reprieve the condemned. Asa matter
of fact, the Mayor gave as his reason for his re-
fusal the circumstance that he had only been
asked by wire from Sydney to convene a meeting
and that he had not received a requisition from
any of the citizens of Goulburn ; but he added
that if such a requisition were sent to him he
would gladly accede to the wish of the signatories.
The Sydney newspapers in question had all this
information, but they withheld it, and in so doing
consciously lied.
+
Thousands of people have been wondering how
it happened that the convict Ddnnellan, who,
according to the evidence in Court, was one of the
very worst of the Mount Rennie gang, was fo
readily reprieved by the N.S.W. Executive. It
is well known that Donnellan has rich friends,
i', is certain that he is said to be distantly re-
lated to a personage high in office, and ii, is known
that large sums of money were spent in his
defence and in advocating his reprieve after he
had been sentenced. It is further known that at
a-dozen members of Parliament were most
strenuous in their private exertions on his behalf,
and that the news that he had been at once re-
prieved caused a peifect convulsion of surprise
among the counsel engaged in the case. In view
of all this, it is trusted that the Executive will at
an early date take the public very fully into its
confidence with respect to the reprieve of the
lucky Mr. Donnellan.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
aidress is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSP.
“S. James”: One can break the Ten Com-
mandments without going into training for the purpose....
*' T.C.”: Sketch not up to the mark “ H.J.P'”: Of no
general interest. W' ere on earth did a newspaper-man get
£3 to give to a cricket club? “G. W. Campbell”: The
same venerable old yarn. We can only hope that when next
some criminals lie under sentence of death in N.S.W. per-
haps the cultured Bennett family and the shareholders in
the penny journals at either end of King-street, Sydney,
will see that their hirelings are restrained from so osenta-
tiously helping to soap ropes for the common hangman It
is of course always a sad'thing to see Jack Ketch cheated,
and a damper so effectual put on the sale of the morning
and evening papers that Nosey Bob and the able editor
assume mourning together, and go arm in arm to buy crape
off the same r 011....” If you are really proud of being
a thief it is just about time you did leave Australia
‘‘ Thomas Campbell Kreetrade in N.S.W. is de.VI, but it
won’t lie down till aft-rtho nextgeneral elections from now..
“ Camera ” : Your best lines are those which refer to the
Beach reception :
All such fulsome How of fervour ever is, and ever was,
Fawning at a moment's notice with its show in ant/ cause
Where a man has been successful, whether in a wooden shell,
In a battle, in a pulpit, 01 in that smell of Hell-
lie’s successful, that 8 sulticient! Had he been defeated now
Wnat reception would have met him.— such as crowns a
vidor’s brow ?
.We’d have printed all your matter but for lack of space
“Anti-Humbug”: Many thanks for your noble letter, from
which we have taken some points. If all your brethren of
the cloth thought and acted with you they would tie
reverenced instead of being for the mist part despised...
".Kb.”: Wedon’t know about all Ainsricau Consuls being
"I'soft-hearted.” We have met some who were Soft-headed..
“T. Clifford Kitson ’’ (Ballarat): Many thanks —..” Aleck"
to hand “T. Campbell”: We cordially reciprocate your
good wishes, and agree to difTer “Thos. Morrison”: Yes,
he is, but you had better look out “A Bulletin Reader’
(Wall Bend): If George Dawson is anywhere about your neigh-
bourhood we would like to see the animal. Send him up....
“Buds" (Sydney): We got that “ little thing of your own,’
upon the drapery conflagration. You say :
“ So both agreed, as fortune favoured by a fire,
To reap an harvest by assumed ire.”
This- is ghastly wooden-legged metre, and the rest is worse.
We have an office-cat that eats poetry but it spat on your
stuff and put its back up “Ilobart": Dirt is fnot neces-
sarily wit, any more than wit is necessarily dirt. ...“W
Ashford ": Such a revelation does not by any means surprise
us “A. Holden” (Upper Paterson): Thanks; we have
already covered the ground “ K.M S.H.” (Victoria): Many
thanks “Thespis”: Write agair “R.W.”: You are
wrong. In America Judge Lynch often avenges virtu-
ous women—r.evi r street walkers, if he knows it.....
“ A.D.G," (Charters Towers): We don’t see any points in
your case that do not crop up in every other case when one
man sues another fo <• money and doesn't get it. And though
we have carefully perused your letter we don't perceive the
footprint of the hand of genius on itanywhere “ Hexam ’’:
May use... “K. Barton”: Yep, we can imagine a worse
offence than the Mount Rennie crime. The disregarding of
toe jury’s recommendation to mercy would amount to a
deliberate violation of the purest of all women, the goddess
of Justice.. “Henry Dick” (Bairnsdale): Glad to hear
from you, but your arguments have bee" anticipated ...
“ Dunde”: Will read your" Day of Judgment." We hope to get
through itere the last trumpHimndg .“A.'C.Pain”; We aren’t
surprised at the toue of Canon Selwyn's letter demanding the
execution of the prisoners. About nine-tenths of the Anglican
clergy are always for God and against the iieople “P. James":
Our answer is that the really healthy minded woman
dnttsn t want the protection of either the snivelling ecclesias-
tic or the typical Social Burist, both of whom are the friends
of i rudery and the deadly enemies of the truest'morality.
More than hilf of the grossest seductions take place amidst
so-called “ religious " surroundings, and your most con-
spicuous social purist ip the unctuous fraud who advantages
himself of his bogus saintliness to discuss with sinister
motives and with decent women subjects which less holy
men never dare to obtrude on the notice of the other sex.
The prize-ring is ten thousand times more moral and more
manly than the Wi ite Gross ariny...“ Don " (Mossgiel): We
are, in the expressive phrase| f the pantomime, strictly " on
the job,” with regard to this " Bastorul Association." This
compensation business is the most extravagant demand ever
made bv the speculators in pastoral properties....“Thos.
Campbell ”: Why do you wapte energy in writing to Tiie
Bi LLKTIN ? Why not continue to forward those extraor-
dinary productions whicn you denominate “ letters ” to the
Sydney Hek.vll) and DT. ? If you will get some one to ex-
plain matters, you will discover that in the "Expurgated
Bible” leader, we wrote not against the inspiration x»r truth
of that volume, but simply against its admitted indecency of
expression...." James Smith”: Sir Henry Barkes certainly
obtained iiermission for new leans, and possibly with a view
to cultivating the affections of mem rers who would bo
affected by tin 1 exp nditurc thereof ; but he did not permit
his Treasurer to tie the national finances into a knot, as the
present company of political profligates have done
” A lt II '' (Mittagong): The pulpit denunciation of The
Bulletin is probably responsible in some degree for the
big spurt the circulation has recently made iu yom district
Tbo time has long passed when the i;w tit. fit of a parson
availed to influence men in temporal concerns...." A ll.J.":
The conclusion is the best part of your poem. And if the
■ 1 1
Mh


The Referee
The public had rather a bad time of it on
the first day of Tattersall’s Club races at Rand-
wick. Unique at 3to 1 had the call of the Hurdle
Race, but he had to go under to Balmoral, who
had things all his own way after the second last
hurdle was negotiated. The outsider, Prince
Regent, defeated Raoul for the Flying Handicap,
and Faugh-a-Ballagh made an easy win of the
Selling Race from Lord Cochrane. Brown and
Rose started at 3 to 1 for Tattersall’s Club Cup,
and, coming up the straight, looked as if she was
going to justify the confidence placed in her, but
Tom Brown, with a plucky run, defeated her by a
length ; Highland Mary running into a place.
The 7 to 1 chance Moorhouse won the Lady
Carington Plate from Huntingtower, Abercorn
third ; and another 7 to 1 show, Stanley finished
the day’s spoit by winning the Ladies’ Bracelet.
* * *
At Randwick on Monday the attendance was
large for an olt'-day, and ladies were there in pro-
fusion. The New Year's Gift was a dead gift to
Spoilt Child, but nobody thought anything of his
chance, and he le'tthe paddock unbacked. Every-
one planked down the dollars on Albanus, but he
could get no nearer than seventh. For a solid
half-hour the horses were kept at the post before
Mr. Devlin found an opportunity of sending them
off, but after 29 false starts they got clear.
The Carington Stakes was, of course, the big
event of the day. Highland Mary was backed
down to 4’s to 1 and Raoul was looked upon as
the next best, but Kitawa won a magnificent race
by over a length from Keith, out of whom Billy
English squeezed all there was to be got. The
race was run in a second and a-half faster than
Ben Bolt’s time last year. Orange Blossom won the
Two-year-old Selling Race after a tussle with the
likely-looking| Bolingbroke. Bexley fell at the
turn and broke her leg, necessitating her destruc-
tion. Poor little J. Skehan fared badly, for his
head and chest were so much injured that
his recovery is considered dubious. The Free
Handicap fell to the 20 to 1 outsider Goldlake,
splendidly ridden by Fred Archer (for we have a
jock out here with the same name as the unfor-
tunate English crack) who won a good-race home
by a bare neck. The start was the most execrable
ever witnessed on Randwick.
* * *
Hutchens, the English champion sprinter,
could not have arrived at a more opportune period
at the antipodes, as it is many years since he
could have visited us with any show of getting on
matches with more than one man, whilst now
alleged splitters of even time are as plentiful as
blackberries. Hanlan came to Australia with the
idea that Trickett was the only man he had to
fear, and Hutchens no doubt thought when he left
England that Malone was the only one in the
colonies with any show of extending him. Hut-
chens is now matched to run Samuels, the Queens-
land black, for £5OO aside, on January i 5. To the
general public Samuels has never shown he is in
the same street as the wonderful Hutchens, what-
ever the darkey may have done in the way of
clocking for his immediate friends. Of one thing
we may be very certain, that if Samuels is to
make any show with the Englishman, he will have
to knock oil hisalleged habit of drinking whisky
and smoking cigars up to the day of the race.
* * *
The Lake Bathurst people may shake
hands with themselves over the entries they have
received for the All Comers’ race at their regatta
fixed for January 14. Should the Brothers Mat-
terson, Tom Clifford, Mess'engcr, Kemp, Nelson,
and some three others toe the scratch, the race
should prove a betttr one than Metropolitan
waters have seen for many a day.
# *
Merchant and Hutchens tire to run a 50
yards’ exhibition race at Parramatta. Steve Punch
in his day was a demon for 50 yards, and old |
timers fancy Steve was as smart a man as Aus-
tralia has produced at the distance. When Mer-
chant ran his first heat on the concluding day of
the Carington Handicap we put the watch on
him, and made the time the phenomenal one of
12 4-lOtli seconds. The writer thought he must
have made a slip, but on the strength of the time
he put a sovereign on Merchant for the final,
which the watch showed he ran in exactly the
same time. The "official” time was given as
13 l-sth sec.
• * *
Merchant, who won the Carington Athletic
Handicap, is, by the way, a oompositor or
“reader” by occupation. He had long held back
for a good start, but being impatient to get mar-
ried, determined to go for it in the big handicap,
and while he was running kept on saying to him-
self, “ This is for the house and furniture 1” He
won, but didn’t gain much in the way of wagers,
though his price was 50 to lon the ground. A
King-street bookmaker laid him £lOO to nothing
to run his best and put Hilliard down.
* * *
At Newcastle Regatta, Charley Messenger,
with the steadier of 401bs , won the All Comers’
Handicap, and in conjunction with his brother,
carried off the Double Sculls.
* * *
Matters were pretty lively at Foley’s
Hall of Science on New Year’s Night. The best
show was between the elder Fuller and McKenna,
the little ’un using his left with severity on his
big opponent. Slaven, who played with Fitz-
four rounds, is said to be the cham-
pion of Queensland. Great things are expected of
Slaven, a splendid specimen of humanity, standing
over six feet high, and, barring a rather “ flash ”
action of the left knee, the Queenslander shapes
like a tradesman.
* # ♦
Mr. J. A. Scarr has not been long in de-
claring the weights for the Anniversary Handicap,
they having been made public at noon on Tuesday,
the day after Tattersall’s. Silvermine’s Bst. 121 b.
should hold
benea! h him far a- hivrniiiiyj^^l
;
but going down the list we find Folly at 7st. 41b.
and indeed it would be folly to look any further
for the winner. Passing the little mare, the fol-
lowing half-dozen should have most to say at
the weights : —Toronto, Lord William, Invader,
Soldier, Wind, Sloth, and Spoilt Child.
* * *
It was old Sam Brown, of Boulia (Q-),
who went out shooting the other day with a new
Greener, a recent purchase in Sydney. “ How
did she act, Sam ? ” he was asked upon his return
with a fine specimen of an eagle-hawk. “ Well,”
said Sam, “ I couldn’t see any sport, and getting
full of the game was lying under a tree when I
saw, as I thought, a blow-fly buzzing about over
my head, and had a shot at him in place of some-
thing better, but judge of my surprise when this
eagle-hawk dropped to my feet some four minutes
after I had fired.” “ She’s a daisy,” said Sam,
“ and no mistake.” The Boulia people now say
the champion gun, and champion something else,
are travelling in company.
* * *
A. M‘Lennan made a best on record at
Manly regatta on Saturday by coming in first in
no less than five races. He won the handicap
skiff race, the maiden double sculls with G.
Eastes, the handicap senior outrigger race from
scratch, the pair-oar race with C. Banmington,
and the scratch double sculls with G. Eastes.
Connolly won the senior outrigger race, defeating
Ruwald and Brett.
* *
Backers complain bitterly at the owners
of Jewel and Silver King scratching their
horses on the morning of the Cup race, both horses
having been backed straight-out, and in doubles.
Mr. W. Gannon does not escape censure for leav-
ing in Arsenal until convincing day. Arsenal’s
dart will probably be the Sydney Gold Cup
* * *
On the Carington Running Ground none
were allowed to lay odds but those approved of by
the committee. How is it that all the most hang-
dog looking welshers in Australia are allowed to
ply their vcfcations at Randwick ?
* * *
Numbered saddle-cloths were used at
Sydney Tattersall’s meeting, and were found use-
ful by the public.
* * *
An ugly rumour is in circulation about
one of the most prominent and popular members
of a leading Gun Club, whose shooting of late has
been so phenomenally successful that it was sus-
pected that he used—by accident, probably—more
than the regulation 1 |oz. of shot. A meeting will
THE “BOB” THAT REPRESENTS A “SOVEREIGN.”
be held this week to determine whether he shall
be disqualified or not under one of the clauses of
the S.G.C. rules.
* * *
Signor Sali is exhibiting his feats of
strength at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne. He is
a gigantic “little” man with an iron jaw and a
self-satisfied strut which is in itself an evening’s
entertainment. We w ould not like to get a bite
from the Signor, after seeing him swing 1101 b.
weight of cannon-balls between his teeth, nor
would we like to get one in the eye from the
Signor after noting the manner in which he
coquetted with a 1801 b. dumb-bell. As a variety
show man this Italian Samson is all there, and
his feats (such as playing “ cup and ball ” with a
451 b. cannon-ball) are distinguished by a lot of
furrin frill and finish. When he comes to wrestle,
however, we fancy he will find that he is more at
home with cannon-balls than Cannon himself.
* * #
Hortense has settled her claim to be the
best two-year-old filly in the land by winning Ihe
Normanby Stakes at the V.R.C. Meeting on
Saturday, carrying 9st. 71b. in 1 min. 4A sec.
* * *
Tattersall’s Cup was presented to the
winner this year by Lady Carington. Mr. Skar-
ratt, treasnrer of Tattersall’s Club, received the
cup on behalf of Mr. Braekenreg, the owner of
Tom Brown, her ladyship simply remarking. “I
have great pleasure in presenting so handsome a
trophy to the winner.” This, we take it, is the
first reported speech made by Lady Carington in
the colony.
* * *
Hutchens again ran unsuccessfully at Par-
ramatta on Saturday.
» * #
Cannon appears to hold Sali pretty cheap
for their wrestling match of the 22nd. He ha«
consented to forego the hammerlock and agreed
to limit ground-wrestling to two minutes. With
two powerful men, -well matched, the whole pith
ai d marrow of Gneco-Roinan wrestling appears to
consist of “ hammerlock.” Omitting that piece of
barbarism, they might continue to roll around oiu
carpet till the Crack of Doom without al
appreciable advantage on t it her side being
V.\ idently, i hen, < '.union regards ihe Ad
thing.
' - ■■
towing the line after him, and reaching a boulder
he crawled to the top and, betraying no embarrass-
ment, proceeded to dry himself. He repeated this
performance every time I threw him in, and when
at last a trout attempted to lunch off him, he
boldly gave battle and frightened the trout away.
A friend informs me that this is not unusual and
that a large proportion of residents in the local
asylum are disappointed anglers.—Yours truly,
Ralph Aitkins, New Norfolk, Tasmania, Decem-
ber 23rd, 1886.”
* * *
The grab all policy of the Melbourne
Cricket Club is bringing it into general discredit
in Victoria. On all sides it is agreed that the
Committee have taken up an unwarrantable posi-
tion in assuming a right to export and import
teams at their own sweet will. The English
Marylebone Club, without whose support none of
the Australian ventures could have thriven, never
interfered in the arrangements of Murdoch and
Co. It was sufficient that “Our Boys” were
taking over a strong eleven to play matches that
would bring money to the exchequers of the Eng-
lish clubs. Messrs. Shaw and Shrewsbury stand
on the same footing as did the promoters of the
first four (and most successful, Australian elevens.
They are able to % et together a stronger combina-
tion than anybody else, and the Sydney Associa-
tion recognising this fact, and recognising also
that they conduct their business in a straightfor-
ward and satisfactory way, have invited them to
pay us a “Jubilee” visit. Now we are told that
the Melbourne C.C. intend to bring over their own
“mixedteam” next year, and are determined to
boss international cricket at both ends of the
world. That delectable organ of monopolies—the
Argus -has been decrying Shrewsbury’s men in
the interests of the local club, protesting that
amateurs would be more “ popular.” As a matter
of fact the public care not one jot whether players
perform with Mr. in front of their names, so long
as their performance is of an A 1 character. And
as our present visitors have secured some of the
best batting, and the very best bowling talent of
the old country, it is to be hoped and expected
that they will, for the second time, be able to put
the extinguisher on the Melbourne' Club’s ridicu-
lous pretensions.
* * *
Poor Donald Dinnie threatens to shake
the dust of this ungrateful country from his num-
ber 17 feet. As a climax to that litigation about
a horse (of which we spoke the other v eek)
Donald has been refused a renewal of his hotel
license, and he writes that in a few days he and
his partner wdl be “thrown on this country
almost penniless.” Under these painful circum-
stances the kilted hero must away to more hospit-
able shores unless Tom Cannon will consent to
wrestle him for “love” and gate-money. It
really looks as though we should lose Donald, and
our tears are flowing fast. According to his ac-
count, the police have marked him for their own,
and his “ ruin ’’ has been deliberately compassed
by the wicked men in blue. As Shakespeare
didn’t exactly observe : “ If ’tis true ’tis pity and
pity ’tis if ’tis true.” After all, it seems that
Cannon will wrestle D.D. for the gate.
* * *
A Mr. H. J. Wallace offers to skate any-
body for the championship of the world at a Mel-
bourne rink. There is a certain sublimity about
the impudence of tbis cballarge.
* * *
“Ipswich (Q.) has five aboriginal sprin-
ters.” The w hite men will soon be out of the
running.
* * #
At the cricket match at Wellington, N.Z.,
t'he Australian team having got their opponents
all out, left four of their men to do battle with the
local 22 while the remaining eight took advantage
of a cheap tripup country to enjoy themselves.
Was there ever anything more contemptuous ?
* * ♦
Mr. Hagon, a New Zealnnd sport, having
bought the racer “ Miss Woodford ” for breeding
purposes, an unco guid friend suggested it would
be desirable under the circumstances to change
the name to ''Mrs. Woodford.” This reminds us
of a moral man up Mudgee way who once won a
Maiden Plate with a mare called Lulu. Four
months after, he returned the prize money to the
race secretary with a note saying he regretted to
find his mare was not a maiden at the time she
won the stakes, as she had just foaled, but he was
totally innocent of any intention to deceive when
he entered her.
Andrew Town, the gnat
said Mr. Town. At last the oracle spoke, “i*§l
indeed —is— is he a stallion ? ” Mr. 'Mgl
didn’t kill him —he looked upon him
natural fool and perfectly harmless —
next stock-buyer will be closely watched.
Dear Bulletin—The papers are singing tH
praises of al3 1 trotting pony. I should not tH
you of a “ tattoo ” I had in india, if it were
that I am sure Capt. C (late 38th Foot), wl«
is in Sydney, will remember him. He was 12. H
high, milk-white, and wore a long mane and laH
His owner lost more than he could pay backirH
him to trot 17 miles in an hour, and he did it HI
1 hour 4min. I then gave 400 ks. for him and hil
cart and harness. We frequently did a mile ill
3. vO with two men, a deg, and two guns in thJ
trap. I sold him to an officer of the Rifle Brigadi
when I was ordered to Abyssinia.—Hiram Abifi^
* * * |
Before lie rode his last race, Archer spent!
a few days almost entirely in a Turkish bath, and
for 72 hours he took nothing except two glasses
of sherry and a few biscuits. He also swallowed
immense doses of wasting medicine, and alto-
gether went through a course of treatment that
would have wrecked the constitution of the great
sea-serpent. Then he collapsed. To be a good
jockey now-a-days a man wants to be built
originally as a rhinoceros, and then concentrated
after the fashion of Liebig’s extract of meat ; so
that he can carry all the good qualities of thaj
armour-plated beast in something like a featlidß
weight of humanity. If Merlatti would
the pigskin lie should make a pile, for he
for 50 days.
* * * immi
Charlie Mitchell, the gi>od-l<>< >kingHgfl
was recently married in London to a dau|H>df?:
“Pony '’ Moore, boss of the Moore and ■B||||f
Minstrels. “Pony,” when he gets
dozen whiskies, ha- a weakness for “sc
"it h an \ body who come-, hai.d\ , and nth flESfig
his burnt cork tenori double or quits
week's money. Calm on. too, are occasioHHH
vited to “ come on and take tne rare
pugnacious “ Pony.” His newest son-in-law wH
be able to put him through nicely. Rowell, tM
six-days “ wobbler,” was Mitchell’s best man.’
* * *
Mr. C. Absolon, “ the father of all
cricketers,” as he is called in England, was in
great form again last season for his old club, the
Turfnell Park Holloway United. For this club
Mr. Absolon scored 500 runs and took wickets in
proportion— a great performance for a man who
will be 70 years of age on May 30 next. For other
clubs, for which Mr. Absolon played, he has an
equally good average ; he scored 1075 runs—H
average of nearly 20 per innings, and he also toll
204 wickets. Mr. Absolon finished up the seasfl
by getting 45 runs and taking six wickets. bfl
was at the wickets nearly three hours, and
over 130 runs. In all, Mr. Absolon played
matches, and batted 62 times. Mr. Absolon has]
teen before the public for over 55 years, and has'
made an average of considerably over 1000 rails'
for the last 10 years. He retains his strength infjj
marvellous manner, and can still take the hall
Itundred weight on his little finger and make bl
mark 7ft. high. Mr. Absolon has been a totß
abstainer from intoxicating drinks and tobactl
for over 30 years, and has probably brought ouß
more good players than any man living. |
* * * I
“ Fred ” Archer, seems, by recent EngJ
lish letters, to have succumbed to a
tion of disastrous influences. His last race, whIH
took place at Brighton, when on Mohawk he wH
just beaten by Quilp, exposed his feverish aiH
exhausted frame to piercingly cold wind a 9
drenching fog ; and without allowing himsH
time to recover or recruit, he resorted to extrenl
means to reduce his weight to Bst. 61b., that l]
might ride St. Mirin in the Cambridgeshire. Even
these causes might not have sufficed to entail hil
tragic fate, but that the second anniversary of hil
wife’s death w r as at hand. When she died, it wiM
be remenfbered, delirium possessed him fdl
Borne days, and on the first anniversary similal
excess was only averted by a trip through the Eal
with Captain Bowling. Two days before tM
calendar recorded the fateful date, distressing
prostration seized him, and on the day the deli-
rium set in. His death was as tragic as his career
was extraordinary. Endowed with the strength
of his disease, he strode across the room, seized
the revolver which had been presented to him as
a memento of his Liverpool Cup win on Sterling,
and, overpowering his sister, who wrestled with
him for possession of the weapon, he ended with]
a too-accurate shot the life that the exactions of
his profession had already virtually terminated.
Frederick James .Archer stood sin. Bift. in his
socks, and quite recently has ridden BsL 41b. His
legs not being strong enough to sustain him
much walking, he was forced to do his wasting M
means of physic, Turkish baths, and starvation
and it is marvellous that his constitution forM
long withstood the fearful ravages which
in his case involved. Strangely enough,
race which most assisted his reputation, was nfl
a win but a second. Carrying 3st. 31b. deH
weight to bring him up to 9at. 61b., Archer roH
Andred, and was just beaten on the post by Eiifl
Lud. But, despite the defeat, he w r as seen
have got more cut of his horse than anyoi*
had previously done, and the immediate resul
was his promotion to the position of first jockey
Lord Falmouth’s stable. Another valuable raH
was his Derby win on Bend Or, when, with oH
l(g on tho horse’s shoulder, he shaved the TatteH
ham corner-posts with the saddle-flap brushii*
against each one. Still another oxtraordinarß
win was when on Valour, a non-stayer, he madl
all the running in the Manchester Cup. Taking]
the lead at the start, he raced for the first of thel
awkward comers, and then, steadying his horseJ
drew out so as to make ail the others run wide!
and then making use of his horse’s fofl
n and repeated tl m.u.o
long! h< ad vantage rack t i 1111 ..


SUNDRY SHOWS
Ileauty” .. .. p. 16
;ay ~
raun ” is again to
g uplifted this time
host of the much-
with a club and
who decline to ad-
e to anybody,
id the audience are
base sodden wicked-
ihose face looks as if
Chamber of Horrors
e, and they psss a
hould be sent down
under through all
They applaud fran-
meet their long lost
it, unctuous, badly-
whisky sepulchre
tangled wilderness
5 a moral sentiment
le time ; and when
nsable part of the
mders it impossible
position in society
m of bis perjured
eman awoke in cur
ms. Years ago we
leaded man, who
:ing small boys in a
s front name was
ensive, and corpse-
:rubbing-brush tied
e used to sit by the
his bony legs and
? groans. He is
ikes him wash the
[it wood, and turns
den. Such is life.
tors appeared at
i.” Mi\ Taylor, as
m and docked the
e was wonderfully
peasant performed
ing 800 lies in 800
the house. Miss
was more winning
Ir. Nunn took the
de that bright red
; and the other
ting than a dog
a dead cat. “The
be next production
it is owing to the
nagement can only
me, but we would
0,000 assorted sins
ispose of in lots to
ny curious inci-
er, and endured a
various di men -
known a good
ewuse the victims
ed about in conse-
ample, w r as a good
as elected to Par-
'd, liar, hypocrite,
id swindler in the
l his frantic hurry
p>te of the exer-
d a little doubtful,
gy of a man who
iff through a flaw
his horse by gal-
nother of our ac-
• and more blessed
cgeof wheeling an
ow, and he kept a
irecious souvenir,
o us occasionally,
k we are in love
e wish to
igs w r e ha .•? heard
sareer do not e»
of strange things
a,” w’hich is still
*
remarkable and
iters in this opera,
ling, soft-headed,
own and the lout,
is made his living
ifant-swisher in a
a frivolity that is
ie throws
d falls on t«WPa
ch is a and
Bakably imnoeing
brag of states and
i his own dignity,
nrprise, no mattor
a pot boy, whose
d slops, hails him
contempt uously T .
o of an elopement,
|ut he is hardly fitted for the billet. He is a
reshly-spanked schoolboy with a blue moulded
imbrella, a thin, toffee-chewing small boy who
ooka as if he had been brought up on the bottle,
brother Pelican, too, is grotesque to the last
degree. He is a whistling pantaloon who has
Eree-lunched himself into second childhood, and
bis religious views have been evidently steeped
:n liquor to keep them from turning bad. Mr.
(Seß'y.ftns the part of Pelican admirably, and be-
tween drinking and kissing his time is fully occu-
pied. Mr. Edwatd Allen i« very good as Arthur,
and Mr. Dean scores a success as Tancred, and
presents that festive lout in as good a light as the
nature of the animal will permit.
* *
We also present our blessing to Signor
Verdi. His Boleslas is a quarrelsome musical
bushranger who can light with two knives, a cow-
hide, a pistol, and an axe all at once. The only
brains he has are on the axe, and they were
borrowed by violence and bloodshed from another
man’s head; but still he sings nicely and that
covers a multitude of gore. Aid, ‘lastly, Miss
Emelie Melville as Falka is exceedingly attractive.
When she smile 3 it seems as if someone had
opened the gate of a churchyard ard shown us
the tombstones, and her teeth are like fork handles
at 7s. 6d. a dozen. Her voice, too, is refreshing
as a bucket of water to a parched and dried up
bear that finds itself located 100 miles from the
nearest waterhole, and her acting aided by the
gorgeous scenery holds up the opera which might
otherwise fall and break its neck in three
places.
## * #
“Mother Goose,” alias the “Sleeping
Beauty,” continues nightly to lay the egg of gaiety
at Sydney Royal. The saints and the drunkards
are all there, as holy and as drunk as on their
firstappearance, and theelephant,
in spite of the slop-made charac-
ter which marks the Beershcba
end of his knotty carcase, still
hangs together. In the original
representation of this pantomime
we believe Noah took the part of
the elephant, and Shem was the
goose, while Ham and Japhet
danced around in white chokers
andsplit-tailed coats, and showed
the antediluvian giants to their
seats. Occasionally they were
rushed by the small boys of that
early era, and in these days of
the -Anakim a small boy was
eleven feet high, and a fasting
girl weighed a ton, so that to be
skulldragged by these primeval
larrikins was a serious affair, but
generally things went pretty
smoothly. It says a great deal
for the piece that it should have
preserved its popularity so long.
3#: zfc
“Dick Whittington ’ and
that famous beast “the cat,”
form the attraction at Sydney
Royal Standard. The pair have
been hashed up and glued to-
gether again in new form by
Mr. Lance Lenton, and the result
is a marked success. We do not
know exactly how he hashed up
the cat, but we generally do it
ourselves with a tomahawk, and
when we have finished the job
we would defy anyone to put the
animal on the stage in less than
three pieces. The pantomime is
well mounted and has proved, so
far, a decided success, Mr. C.
Bovis, who takes the part of
Pussy, has a beautiful long tail
which he swishes round in a very
intelligent manner, and there is
an affectionate look in his green
eyes which is really touching.
The lay of his whiskers, too, is ex-
ceedingly elegant, and he is well
supported by the fairies, imps,
yellow dwarfs, rats, and assorted
goblins of the company.
# # #
We are glad to notej that
the Stratsburg Clock is still on
view at Market Street, Sydney.
The moral tone of the city is so
lamentably low that an exhibi-
tion which includes the devil,
several angels, and Death, cannot fail to prove of
great service, and there is an interest attaching
to this moral and religious agency which is sadly
wanting in the ordinary run of sermons. A small
fee is taken for admission in order to keep the
devil’s tail scre wed on, and liquidate other charges
connected with the mission.*
## # #
The perspiration streams off the ticket-
taker at the Sydney Academy as the infuriated
maniacs rush in. resolved to see tli9 Federals or
die in the attempt, and iLSide Horace Bent opens
his mouth like the yawning of a torn and shattered
continent. Keenan, not to be outdone, spli's
himself asunder when he sings and swallows the
scenery, and the o‘hcr meinbe s of the company
go one better by spreading their jaws right across
the stage. The “ Black Pantomime ” is still in
progress, and is the greatest success on record.
N.B. Part of the above is earkasm and the rest is
metaphor.
## * *
As the human soul may one clay get
wearied of hash or manna, or anything else, how-
ever agreeable, Mr. Rogers—who, by a gilded
figure of speech is supposed to manage the un-
manageable Tina of “My Sweetheart’’—lias
bought from Mr. St Maur the right to produce
Pinero's comedy, the “ Schaolmistress,” for six
months at Sydney Opera House. Mr. St. Maur
has also sold the New Zealand rights of “ Jim the
Penman ” to the Triumvirate for a season of 20
weeks.
=* # # *
S. Churchill Otton, the energetic
promoter if the Sydney promenade concerts |is
receiving a v.iii. earne( j compliment in the shape
of a monster ».nnefit offered him by appreciative
artists on Saturday i ex t at the Exhibition Hall,
where the elite of the rvdney artistic world are to
appear.
electrified and audience con-
tinues to stand up on end at Sydney Opera House
and the collar-stricken dude nov* swears by-
Minnie Palmer, because it is Hie fashi-, n ( Q do S0 ‘
and he is always in the fashion. gtage j
Minnie’s lovers follow her about with a «HtTened
wobble expressive of woe at the treatnieVj t j icy
receive from the little tyrant, who biff's their
dearest hopes into shivers and smites their hearts
as if she were a pile-driver and her orders „ ot
into arrear. Dr. Oliver enjoys one mj nient Q f
supreme bliss when Minnie puts her kittle curly-
head on his shoulder and flirts with un( j er a
highly-tinted parachute ; Dudley Rareourt goes
into a seventh heaven and cojyj'gg out 0 f gU( j.
denly when he is banged op'the head wilh lhe
watering-pot and gets a qutft of fluid poured into
his shoei; and Minnie s X ver s altogether have a
ghastly time of it. Mr. Roberts, as Tony Faust
has about the best show o ng the down-trodden
crowd. Mr. Brown taJsA thc part of the tight-
laeed swell, whi sverdone as a burnt
Ghop ; and Miss Ada Murray makes something
pretty good out of Louisa Fleeter, a lady who is
as knowing as a second-hand book-stall. Mr.
Lester and Miss Grey have a thankless position as
Minnie’s guardians, and nothing but their boiler-
metal constitutions saves them from an early
grave. “My Sweetheart ” is to go on at the
Opera House till the Day of Judgment; the
scenery alone is about good enough to carry it
through till then.
## # #
T. B. Appleby, who appeared as “ the
dear old man” when “ Fal-ka” was first produced
in Melbourne, is now playing old comedy parts at
the Strand Theatre, London Coming fresh on
the scene, Mr. A. is well spoken of, and his Moses
(“School for Scandal”) is described as “legiti-
mately funny.” When he has performed some 20
different characters, all in the one style, dramatic
crickets will change the tone of their chirp.
## # #
Theatrical competition is waxing fast and
furious in Melbourne. Pantomime is filling the
Royal (up to now), and Miss Fanny Robina is
knocking ’em at the Opera House in the London
success, “ Little Jack Shepherd.” “ Mikado” is
a safe card at the new Princess’s and George Dar-
rell is doing fairly well, and promises to do better
at the Bijou. Meanwhile Italian opera is flourish-
ing like a green bay tree, and looks healthie'st of
the whole lot. This all-round prosperity can’t
last unless the Melbourne birth-rate increases
rapidly. And if we had to back one house to
keep up its returns better than the rest, our little
bit would be put on the opera. Which proves
that “ culchaw ” is spreading in these parts like
the smallpox or a bush Are.
## # #
Mr. Aldred, wig-maker, of Launceston,
Tasmania, advertises in Melbourne Agk :—“lf
Mr. actor, of Company, does not return
my wig immediately he will hear more about it.”
Hang it, wby don't that actor square off
The bill—if to that wig he's wedded?
If not—well Aldred’s got his hair off,
And means to go for him bald-headed.
## * #
It is on the cards that Nellie Farren will
come to Australia next year under engagement to
the Triumvirate. Twenty years’ experience in
London burlesques have just about qualified
Nellie for a successful colonial tour, and she ought
to do well. Star actresses appear to regard this
as a kind of Promised Land—to be seen before
they die. In another quarter of a century we
shall get Adelina Patti and Ellen Terry, not to
mention Sims Reeves and a host of other juveniles
## # #
It is again rumoured that gifted “ Sally ”
Bernhardt, intends paying Australia a visit. Three
things are indispensable to the tragedienne when
she travels ; her pet dog, her coffin, and
her latest thing in male admirers. If anything
were to happen to the “divine one” over here—
supposing, for instance, that she succumbed to a
violent attack of “ soul ” —we could strangle the
male admirer and the dog, and send her back to
Yurrup in her own little box. It is unpleasant to
discusj these painful possibilities, but all flesh is
grass, doncherknow. By the way, there seems to
be very little grass on the angular scaffolding of
Sara, judging from her portraits.
/## # #
Listen to the calm way in which a New
York critic writes of Mrs. Langtry's Bosom (with
a capital B always) :
“ We do not allude to the secrets the Bosom hides—they
are the sole aud lawful property of the sole and responsible
Bosom—but to the superbness of its contour, the heaveniy
character of its heave, and its spotless purity. Carping
cynics may rob the Lily of every other attribute of beauty,
they may take away from her every feature and every grace,
but the Bosom, with its priceless jewels, remains there in all
its invulnerable, unscathable magnificence, l.et us, who are
not able to see much else about Mrs. Langtry to admire un-
reservedly, get down on our knees and oifer up thanks for
this one redeeming possession, which has, by the way, in-
creased in opulence since the lady last appeared in the metro-
polis.”
“ The heavenly character of its heave ” is just the
ne plus ultra of descriptive phraseology. Wo
have seen nothing equal to it since Phil. M'Carrol’s
baud—or was it Alfred Allen l —wrote of the
“soughing sweetness of a sigh.”
COMPARISON.
In the production of
the Christmas Num-
ber of “ The Bulle-
tin,” December, 1885,
63 TONS OF PAPER
WERE USED.
Over 13 tons weight
OF PAPER WERE USED
IN TIIE PUBLICATION
of tiie Christmas
Number of “ The
Bulletin,” Decem-
ber 25th, 1886.
The English Church and Stage Guile
which was originally started by some soft-headec
curates who wanted to meet soft-hearted ac
tresses, and soft-headed actresses who wanted t
meet soft hearted curates, seems now to hav
finally erupted. The immediate cause of collaps
was the secession of some actors who scornfull’
declined to associate “ with ladies who earne
their living by their heels (meaning thereby
whole lot of things unmentioned) rather than b
their heads.” Probably envy was at the base o
the trouble. These curates when they do go “ o
the mash ” are simply irresistible by Totties anc
Lotties.
#* # #
George Darrell’s latest—the New Bush—
has burst upon the w'orld at Melbourne Bijou
'l he world is not rolling up very freely as yet, fo
George’s old reputation as a playwright was (marl
that word was) a bit agin him. But when it i
whispered to the four winds, proclaimed froir
the house-tops, and murmured in the marke
places, that the “New Rush ” is Good, with a big
G, then will an astonished public plank its willing
pieces, while the welkin rings with notes of ad
miration.
Come what may
The truth shall out
Although it be surpris-ing—
George Darrell'j p’ay,
Without a doubt,
Is, taking one act with another,
And after making certain al'owances ’
And all that sort of thing,
Decidedly paralys-ing.
Of course the “ drammer ” has its weak points.
Mr. D. has served, himself, in the character of
Karl Caradoc, with too much fat, in addition to
an idiotic name. There are trying moments when
the rest of the company have to stand arourn
while Karl unburdens his chest of moral plati-
tudes and copy-book maxims. But there are
other and lively moments, when brickbats darken
the air and bold policemen bash an infuriated
mob ; when the villain shoves a woman into the
Yarra and somebody else pulls her out, when
daggers (pronounce the g soft) gleam and angry
passions rise. Oh, yes! a thousand times yes.
The “New Rush” is worked out in live acts ami
any amount of scenes. Karl C’aradoc is manager
of a Melbourne bank or building society, or both.
He loves to look upon the wine when it is red, tc
back the favouiite when it is stiff, and to rattle
dice caiefully loaded by the villain. Naturally
he comes to grief, ancTequally naturally lie ’bezzles
the bank or building society monies. Four years
penal is the penalty for this. Ilelea: erl’from qui d
Karl chucks the villain out of the window, and*
does another nine months. That’s because the
villain happens to have married Karl’s wife in the
dim past, and asserts a prior claim to the lady’s
’and and ’art. Then everybody goes off to the
New Rush (probably Teetulpa) and things end
pleasantly. Mrs. Karl’s supposed first husband is
claimed by a dissipated female fashioned after
“Lady” M , and gets annexed for bigamy.
The repentant Caradoc finds a nugget weighing
half a ton, and the curtain descends on promiscu-
ous alluvial happiness! All the minor parts in
this thriller are well -written and well played.
Social colour is skilfully introduced. Mounting
and stage management bear witness that George
has thrown his gigantic heart and soul into this
work. Old situations are imbued with new life
thanks to enthusiastic supers and the cunning
hand that directs them. The play never drags
except when the principals are preaching. But
aftei all, their dry speeches are only as small
desert islands dotted about in a bounding sea of
bustle. The chief faults of Mr. Darrell as an
actor are, tco much padding about the shoulders
and a habit of carrying his top half like George
Rignoid, while posturing his legs in a style pecu-
liarly his own. Then he had a habit of blinking
his eyes to express emotion, like a waiter taking
an order. With these drawbacks, Mr. D.’s per-
formance is manly, vigorous and earnest. Mr.
Philip Beck hampers the villain with a mongrel
foreign accent carried over from a former cha-
racter, and Miss Maggie Knight lacks “ go ” as
Mrs. Caradoc. Kverjbcdy else is first chop as
already mentioned, and the company is far and
away the strongest ever seen in one of the “ pop-
ular Australian author-actor’s ” plays. It deserves
to suoceed but for one circumstance : George
“dedicated” the “New Hush” to Sir llenrv
Loch. *
** # #
Of “Dorothy,” the comic opera which Mr.
Alfred Cellier, just now of Australia, musically
constructed, the Weekly Dispatch says :
“ One of the oldest passages in the ill-constructed “ comedy
opera” is near the close of the second act, when a bevy of
young ladies, brought on to the stage in their nightdresses—
quite sternly nightdresses, lie it acknowledged, and with all
sorts of coloured stockings instead of hare legs under them
suddenly hurry off to joinapaityof huntsmen who havo
chosen midnight for their sport. Hut this strange arrange-
ment hardly surprises the uudience in a piece that is made
up throughout of absurdities and anomalies.”
But the critic has nothing but toffee for the com-
poser.
## # #
Lady do Clifford, a representative of one
of the oldest families in England, is now doing iho
skin-t’ght business in a tecond-rate London
theatre. Her ladyship has lots of money, but her
ambition for appearing nearly naked before a
vulgar crowd makes her till a billet in which, but
for her. some poor girl might earn perhaps 10s. a
woei. Lord de Ciitford was travelling in America
and dodging the playful Rocky Mountain bear when
his wile took this latest craze, hut his lordship is
now hurrying homeward at streak-of-lightning
speed to kick the lady and put her in a lunatic
asylum.
#* # #
Theatrical managers of an economical turn
of mind and most musicians will be pleased to
know that the copyright of Wallace’s “Maritana”
will expire on the 15th of next November An
English critic extolling a portrait of Sara Bern-
hardt says that it is “an admirable likeness, being
full of life and character.” It must have been
taken long ago. Ever since we knew anything of
Sara she hasn’t had any character at all much
“There are no wretched supers brought into
‘Hamlet ’at the Franyais. The very Jii/urantcs
were carefully selected, and the young girls at
Ophelia’s burial were chosen for their maidenly
beauty,” eays the Paris correspondent of the
Weekly Dispatch. We wish t here was a little
more of this kind of thing in Sydn^j^


PEPPER
Salt
There are some men who have no luck in
this world, and Gitardo Campani, of Lyell (N Z >
was one of them. He was a navvy, and when he
was at work he jammed his thumb on an a\ 1 ‘age
three times a day. He tried to settle down- m We,
but his wife always had “ the gastralgia, and her
groanings cast a blight over his humble home.
His hens, too, went and laid in the next man s
garden ; the small boy round the corner laid for
his small boy every time he went out, and licked
him in one round; and his cow was always ill.
These things made existence a misery to Gitardo,
and one day at the beginning of December lus
woes reached such a point that he felt he could
endure them no longer. His cow had stopped lay-
ing altogether, and his hen had gone dry. One fly
more than his aching heart could endure had slid
into his beer ; the last straw—the one that breaks
the camel’s back —had turned up in the butter,
and he resolved to die. So he lay down in a
secluded spot, placed a great block of dj
mite on his chest and hit it with a
hammer. Then he felt himself going, and
in another second most of him was gone. His
liver was blown out through his back, his lungs
were deposited on top of liis he<id, and his stomach,
flew three miles through the air, causing a partial
eclipse of the sun, and was never seen again.
There was hardly enough of him left to be worth
a hie jdcctj and the funeral was of an unostenta-
tious character. A week or two later a na\ \ } on
the Logan (Q.) line started to follow his example,
and made a beastly mess of the job. He put a
dynamite cartridge in his mouth and then applied
a light as recklessly as if he were a heavily in-
sured kerosene store, and waited to sec his head
blow up. The latest news regarding him is con-
tained in a guileless item by an editor in the far
north, who says solemnly : “He is not expected
to recover.’ We should think not. I haraoh
must have about as good a show of being hauled
up from the Red Sea and restored by a Humane
Society man inflating his lungs through a blow -
pipe.
* *
Among other infamous libels fastened on
to an eloquent member of the New South Wales
Bar, w r ho may briefly be described as “ Sawndy,’’
is one which has Dubbo for its locale. Accoid-
ing to the legend, Sawndy, on one of his periodical
visits to defend the enterprising burglars of that
district, was invited to champion the very bad
case ot an embezzler, and the brief was marktd at
seven guineas. This seemed to the eloquent one
a very mean quiddam honorarium , so he went to
argue rhe matter with the by-no-means-penitent
thief. “ Seven poond ! ’ ai 1 Sawndy. magnani-
mously overlooking the ecu shillings, “ is a varra
poor sum yo ken for a mon of ma tremendous a
tainments, and with the badness of yer case, and
the outpouring of ma eloquence which it involves
I think saxty guineas would be little enough.'
The impenitent one protested that he could give
no more than seven guineas. “ I can no t ake it
for seven poond,’’ was Sawndy’s meditative
reply, “ gin ye wmnt ma persuasion of the juiy, ye
must e’en mak it eight ten. I ken v. eel
that ye stole seventeen pooqd and hawves is a fair
thing.'' They w r ent hawves and the jail yawned
in vain for its rescued victim.
* * *
Speaking of the recent find of a marsupial
lion’s jowl in a colonial cave the brilliant Brevity
man of the Evening Noose gives himself away
rather cheaply when he says—
The scientist of the dim future, when he discovers jaw-
bones in our haunts will find them to be those of another
animal than lions.
If that isn’t writing himself down an ass, what is?
* * *
According to a degrading old superstition
which is calculated to sink man down to the level
of the beasts that perish, it is the lirst duty of a
fire brigade to extinguish a Are. This, however,
is not coriject. If two biigades chance to meet
when the devouring element is about, their first
duty is 10 club each other’s legs and heads off,
and let every other consideration go bung until
their thirst for gore is satisfied. The other day
the town of Footscray (Vic.) was going to blazes,
and the tcototallers, who run a brigade of thei ■
own, sent out their men to assist. They did
assist. In 10 minutes they tore every spear of
hair off the heads of the borough fremen and
banged them all over the town with the hose and
ladders until there was hardly a m.n who had
not three or four legs broken and his spine
kinked round at an angle of 45 degrees to ho
horizon. Then the chief water-drloker of the
lodge fractured the head of the borough brigade
captain wdth a brick and was run in, while the
captain was taken to the hospital in a dangerous
condition. The Are was quite forgotten in the
excitement and no statistics are to hand regard-
Jng it.
The following item is concerning a Chow
and his moke. It was race day at Wodonga (Vic.)
the carnival being held in that hyperborean dis-
trict on the 2tlth December, and the Wodonga
Handicap was being run amid the whoops of the
free and enlightened citizens. There were live
horses in it, and they were turning into the straight
at the frenzied speed of a dog chasing i s ow n tail,
■when suddenly they came on acart containing five
Chinese and drawm by the wreck of an old hair
trunk on four legs. A large red yell rent the
atmosphere and told the Chows that sudden death
was coining upon them, and the five degraded
worms turned pale with horror. The yellow
jaundice who was driving grabbed at the whip
and flogged the hungry ghost in the shafts until
he w'ent off at a gallop, while hfs companions cried
oat &ith one voice, “Hi-yah,Chang a worg!” and
after a desperate race the Chows and their moke
came in winners by several lengihs. There is a
general impression about Wodonga now that the
live, hair-covered sausage is a faster animal on a
race track than was generally supposed.
* * *
In Northern Queensland, that poetic land
where the pensive alligator chews the homeless
nigger, and the enterprising miner spits and
swears, a strange experiment is going on. The
steam horse and the old meat bullock are laving
a race, and the bullock is far ahead. A now rail-
way has been constructed from Mackay inland at
a cost of £135,000, the traffic is almost nil
because the teamsters have flogged their walking
beef into a gallop, and have proved conclusively
that they can carry goods more quickly and
cheaply than the new contrivance, and with less
blasphemy on the part of consignees. A lame
Iri hman now proposes to wheel passengers in a
swi t barrow at cut rates, and thus wipe out the pas-
senger traffic also, and a sarcastic squattei has
offerei to rent the new railway line for grazing
purposes.
* * *
One of the brave defenders of N.S.W.,
around whose portly stomach Puck couldn’t put a
girdle in 40 minutes, stays at a boarding-house in
i Northern town, and the new uniform was re-
cently forwarded to him. As he was not at home
at the time, and the rest of the boarders felt
curious to know how \hc coat would look, they
hauled it into the backyard and tried it on the
water-barrel, which it fifed to ptrfection. An
inquisitive group of neighbours was also called
in, and just as the fun was at its height the gal-
lant owner of the coat walked up. One of the
iocular boarders now goes round wiih a beautiful
blue agate in the ccatre of his forehead, while
another wears a purple plush watch-pocket under
each eye.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Another Waterloo veteran has turned up
at Melbourne. Of course he was drunk.
John Pope Hennessy, Governor of Mauri-
tius, has been suspended. How we wish that
James Hennessy, Governor of Australasia, could
be suspended !
• The Due D’Auinale proposes visiting the
Australian colonies at the end of the year, with
the intention, so says rumour, of investing part of
his large fortune in land.
The happy “ Megrims,” the ill-used young
lady who was tried with Hall, the Timaru
poisoner, has been presented with a testimonial in
the shape of a cheque for quite a respectable
figure.
When Miss Mary Jane Hicks (who was
waiting in one of the ante-rooms of the Court) was
told that Sweetman the cabman had been sen-
tenced to 14 years’ gaol and 50 lashes she ex-
claimed : “ /s that all ?”
“ Well,” said Nosey Bob, the Sydney
hangman, one day last week, “ I ope all t he six
won't be hanged. I get my screw all the same.
But if I ’ave to work ’em off, I’ll make it my busi-
ness to see they go down 'quick.
Judge Cooper, of Queensland, whose
official travelling expenses are being docked, called
the statements as to his swimming in champagne
on the circuit, “ contemptible and cowaroly fic-
tions of the slavish disciples of the Government."
A CIVIL SERVICE QUESTION.
NOSEY HOB (the Hangman): “LOOK HERE, MR, DIBBS,
I’D LIKE TO KNOW IF I’M TO BE REDUCED LIKE
THE REST OF THE CIVIL SERVICE YE SEE, SIR,
BUSINESS IS GETTIN’ HEAVY IN MY DEPART-
MENT, AND I THINK I OUGHTER GET A RISE OR
BE PUT ON PIECE-WORK.”
MR. BIBBS: “H’M! WHAT’LL YOU CHARGE BY
THE DOZEN?”
Mayor Young declined to lend himself in
any way to the movement in support of the re-
prie>e of the Mount Rennie convicts. We are
surprised at this, seeing that the chavoo would
take place in the Jubhee year and wouldn’t cost
John anything.
Some unpunctual wretch managed to spill
Jubilee Young from a buggy the ether day, and
his late Washup was concussed considerably.
Providence no doubt meant this capsize and bump
to occur the day before the famous Jubilee gorge,
but its agent was behind time.
It is rumoured that silly Lord Cairns—
who jilted Miss Fortoscue and has been engaged
half a dozen times since—will shortly \ isit New
Guinea. Glad tidings, indeed! Perhaps some
wild untutored dusky maiden will eat his lordship
and dress herself up in his coronet.
Mr. Alfred Boyle, foreman of the jury in
the Mount. Iteimie ease, is a near relative of the
Farl of Glasgow. Mr. though of patrician
birth, scorns not to adapt himself to the exigen-
cies of life in Australia, and run s a snug tobac-
conist’s business not dissociated from “ the bar-
bering,” at Balmain.
George Barnard Harvey Drew, of London,
alias Laurence Adair, of Sydney, lately owner of
the steam-yacht Estrella, has been committed for
trial on a charge of embezzling £4082 of trust
money. A whole volume of romance might be
written concsrning lawyers—even Sydney law-
yers—and trust money.
The Duke of Westminster — considered to
be the mo .t substantially rich man in this world
—rejoices in a nonagenarian mamma. Lucky
dook 1 lie has £BOO,OOO a year (from freehold
property), a young and pretty second wife, and a
fair family prospect of living for ever or something
like it. Lucky dook! Eight thousand men
making roads or driving quills at £2 a week earn
altogether as muca money in a year as he draws
in the same line for doing nothing at all.
Tempora Mutantur — Times change, but
fortunately not always for the better. The cele-
brated Horne in his “ Mirror of Justices,” gives
a list of the judges who were, for various oppres-
sive acts in the administration of their functions,
hanged by command of Alfred the Great. In this
list there is an account of a certain judge who
was “ turned off” for ordering the execution of
a youth who was under the age of maturity. Ac-
cording to our own ideas, that judge was far ahead
of his age.
W. G. George, the champion runner, who
is shortly due in Australia, announces his deter-
mination never to appear again on an English
running track. He has accepted an engagement
with a New York firm of wholesale druggists, and
starts taking orders in May. This is an excellent
way of trading on a reputation, and suggests all
sorts of possibilities Beach, as a book-canvasser,
could make the fortune of any enterprising pub-
lisher, and Spoff. might bowl maidens till further
orders if he travelled in hair-dyes and scented
soaps.
A Sydney bank manager relates the fol-
lowing as his first experience as a teller. The
bank had just opened w r hen in walked an elabor-
ately dressed young man who requested change of
a £5O note—forty in ‘ singles ” and one “ tenner.”
They were given him. Having carefully counted
them he handed back a £2O note, observing, w ith
a flush of honest pride suffusing his handsome
countenance, that ‘‘there was a slight error.”
He received a “tenner” ic exchange from the
now flusteied teller and left. ’Twas afterwards
discovered that tin whole lot were bad.
There is in Sydney Domain a blind man
who sits beneath the trees and vends to the
passer-by planted copies of ;iocms of his own com-
position at 3d. each They a e indifferent poem?,
it is true, but then charity is much more wide-
spread than the critical faculty. A Bulle in
bard who reckons that he can write all round his
sightless brother has a big idea : to go into part-
nership w,t i ihe dcg-lcd pcct, the arrangement
being that l hk Bui i.etin man shall write verses
and the o bless singer sell them. Profits to be
divisible every three hours and dog’s meat to be
found by ihe firm. It will pay much bet ter than
writing for the newspapers.
The -lubilee disease <>f presenting State
schoo 1 children with testaments, bearing for-
geries of (jueen Vickey’s sig> at ore upon their fly-
leaves, is sp reading. It germinated
in Victoria, and now J. 11.
Angas, tt.e South Austra'ian
squatter, has got it badly. He
intends to pollute the young minds
of 10,000 little innocents with
the idea tha" Victoria and the
Scriptures are mixed up together,
and that the Lady takes a Jubilee
opportunity of expressing her ap-
proval of God’s word. No matter.
Verily, it is good fora man to dis-
tribute 10 000 Testaments in his
Queen’s name, and he shall have
his rewaid. Of such is the king-
dom of heaven and the Order
of St. Michael and St. George,
dear friends.
Our old spendthrffc - ac-
quaintance, the Duke of Edin-
burgh, is going in for all sorts
of extravagance since a graceful
nation acknowledged his Jdistin-
guished naval victories (on shore)
by making him into an admiral.
His very latest is a proposal to re-
duce the pay of Fleet divers.
Under present arrangements these
deep sea explorers receive a re-
taining fee of one penny per day
and two shillings an hour when
actually employed under the water.
There is plenty of loom for
economy here. The Admiral’s
screw could be cut in half and
divided among the divers, while
Edinburgh might be le warded
with a ‘ bob ” an hour when-
ever the flagship is in action. By
the way, why can’t he be em-
ployed under the water—for
good ?
Walch, the Mel
bourne journalist, is getting up a
neat little thing of his own, styled
a “ Brochure on Anniversaries,”
evidently a sort of pocket history
of the prominent citizens of Cab-
bage gardenopolis—J.’sP., M. ’sP.,
councillors, aldermen, policemen,
and such trash. He has sent
round a form, and invites all re-
sidents who deem themselves
prominent enough to fill it j*',
and “givoany pleasant eveoAs” —
he wants to details of qjscecutions
—“ which have occurred in
their lives or those of their families.'’ If you
don't think you are promineji't enough, use the
forrr. to light your gas, G.W. draws the line at
gaol-wf rdtrs. Here are a few of the questions
from memory : Date of -birth and colour of hair?
Cost of firewood for three months ? Number of
bunions convictions, children, wives, insolvent
cies, and domestic animals ? Amount of lip salve,
star-whisky, corn-solvent, hymn-books, sodas
stra'gii r, s'eak-and onions, and'porter, consumed
by the family in a given time? What ship did
you come out in ? What were you sent out for ?
Will jou buy a copy of my brochu’e?
An .American surge ) s, we read, just
]erform\d upon an eligib patient the extra-
ordinary operation of removing a stone from the
kidney. If a similar feat could be accomplished
on the hearts of the Sydney clergy as a class 1
William Taylor, a Melbourne labouring
man. enjoyed Christmas in his own way. There
was nothing in the house eavo a dead child—the
apccryphul “ good-will Aof men had overlooked
poor William. So ho foKnd peace on earth in a
deadly dose of carbolic acid.
POLTICAL
POINTS
The “Mahdist leader’s’' death is
Is the Czar, then, dead ?
Dibbs would like more commercial men lHg
the N.S. VV. Parliament, Let us sec. The
aide Franc's Augustus Wright was a
man.
It is cabled tliat Sir Saul Samuel has, actHß
ing under instructions, clssed the doors of
X S. W. emigration ollice in London. John Norto^mQ
has the key.
” The nust intelligent children "
larai Orphan Asylum are to he prepared
Civil service. Those orphans are ev^HHHj
lathered hy living politicians.
• lose|ih Cliamberlain told the SuHHBBH
. ihe re unices <>! I Ul'keJ hy foreiHHHH|
tal. The Sullen, no doubt, replied : “
tainly, see how happy Egypt is.’
The freight on a ton of goods from Engl^K^^
to Australia is about IDs., but the same
letters costs £1702. This calculation
trotted out in support of Henniker
scheme for a penny ocean postage. jBBHj
Mr. Andrew Lysaght, M.L.A., who
represents lllawarra in the N.S.\V.
confesses that he does not know what is meant
the “nationalisation of land.” Put, being
publican, he knows all about the best brands
whisky, so is well able to hold his place in
sat ion with his follow members.
Mr. L. F. Hey don, the N.S. W.
tionist chief, is uncerstood to have resigned
seat in Parliament on account of ill-health
I t.e necessity for attending to the extensive
ness of the firm of solicitors of which he is
member. Mr. Hcydon felt, too, that having giveHH
Protection a first-class start, he had
fair share of the burden and heat of the day.
Mr. Warton, the recently-appointed
torney General of Western Australia, has
subject to unmitigated slatings hy all the LondHH
papers. According to these authorities lie
seem to combine in his public character the IHHH
estimable characteristics of i avid Gaunson,
McKlhone, A. <h Taylor, .Judge WindcycrJHßßH
Nosey Poll, the hangman, without
of t lie atoning virtues of any of those gcntlcniflHH
The Sydney K\ kninc Nttws tried to tfIHH
out that (’denial Secretary Dibbs and IT(BflgjB
.Jennings had quart died because t lie hit t er
t o ask t he former to a dinner given by him to ('HBH
Justice Parley the other evening. This storßHj
possibly on a par with an absurd rumour
current to the elFoct that the Ev km no NnH|
wanted to quarrel with the Pnion Club because
bachelors of the latter didn’t invite certain
paper people to a certain ball.
According to the Board appointed Hlj
report on the advisability of retrenchment
Post mastcr-lic. rial's Department, Sydney,
thing like £7OO a year lias been sinfully s| cut
and above what was essentially
cleaning t lie premises. ’I liis docs not
chime in very well with the fact that
Seymour sunimciied the Telegiapli
for cre.»i ing a nuisance, and declared
outbuildings connected with the G.1’.0.
amongst the filthiest in the city. fflni
An Auckland paper ptib islus a cttbl
with the follow ii g names Messrs.
O’Brien, Harris, and Sehemery.” We
who Mr. fc’chemery is, but anyhow it's a
name for an M. P. The same paper lias
low ing straight from London :—“ M'llugh, WBm
Sligo champion, who was ai rested on a
inciting boycotting and with committing
outrages, has beam released from custody.”
Sligo Giiampion is a newspaper, not a disciplß||l
Larry Foley or Herbert Slade as our
temporary seems to imagine.
Lord Mayor’s Show in London
have been about as popular a ] ageant as any IBh
perial procession at St. Petersburg.
cavalry were stationed in by streets
charge t lie crowd incase t heir disgust
exuberant .while plain riot lies constable *#vvcrc sfl||
around to shout “hurrah”
simulate popular enthusiasm. Extra
laid on with instructions to drown all
“ Pule Britannia.” Finally, it is w hispered
tho great Lord Mayor was encased in
and chsin armour. HBBj
Mr. Actyc Douglas,
Tasmania, is about to resign his position. 1
it nets him £tiooo a year independent
anee t.o keep it up. 11 is allowance is I
Mr. I » agl a - I; 111 ’ > ho 'jlisidrrcil the
Ta-in.iiii m Parliament. lie lias a' 1 BjfS&SvfefS
and ;
a ver; resec table Conservative, with .”
drear,i in life than to stretch his legs as
-•possible under ducal mahogany. |||||||||
In Great Britain, in the decade
being a period when the capital punishmeflßtJh
inflicted for rape, the convictions were
cent.; hut in the decade 1854-1863,
death penalty was not inflicted, the
were 3!), 11, so that the convictions were
than doubled owing to the punishment being
c, arid Sir Fil/imy Kolly I who had filled nH
ollices of Attorney-General and Solicitor-General*
with a number of other witnesses of equally higlß
standing as judges and lawyers before the ltoyafl
l tell us “that since the abrogi 1
of thw death penalty the crime of rape has I
I
The Victorian Coalition Government is ufl
last beginn ; ng to show unmistakable signs oE
breaking up. (Jucm deux rult perdtre, priuM
d e merit at; and Mr. Gillies'autocratic
to the opinions of his colleagues almost amounts'
to a mania. With the one single exception of Mr.
Wrixon- as thorough-paced a Conservative as
himself—no member of the Cabinet is taken fully
into the Victorian Premier's confidence ; and it is
scarcely to be supposed that the most lamb like
place hunters will stand this kind of treatment for
any length of time. Mr. I)cakin, the recognised
leader of the Liberals and the Young Australian
party, is least disposed to put up with his chief’s


I.ty insouciance. The Chief Secretary is a
, acute, and ambitious man, only wanting
illies’ experience to be fully his equal, and
only biding his time to throw off his allegi-
,nd form a party for himself. Mr. Dow and
isor Pearson will follow whenever Mr. Deakin
)s to lead these are their instructions from
iGE head-quarters—and Mr. Nimmo, Mr.
;r, and Mr. Derhamare mere poliiical make
whose places could be filled at any moment
at the slightest difficulty. Doubtless Mr.
has made a splendid mark in dazzling the
)f the community with the Centennial Exhi-
, but it is questionable whether even the
ivity of thar proposal will carry the present
;ry through the next session.
want in the House,” says the Mol-
-3 Argus, in referring to the Chaffey affair,
-minded men, who will be pure in motive
elves, and who will suppose thal their op-
ts are animated by pure motives also.”
are just the sort of men the Argus does
-in the Opposition. It would be a much
game for the Government river-frontage
thropists then. The men who are wanted
be too pure-minded to think of robbing
deeding country on their own account—and
gh souled to suspect that their opponents
dream of doing so. This would work beau-
—for their opponents. It is a sweet idea.
ather Imperial plum has been greedily
ed by the British Royal Family, the Duke
naught having collared £lO,OOO a year with
vtly-acquired billet as Commander-in-Chief
Bombay Fresidency. This extremely lucky
man, whose military knowledge is nearly as
ive as the naval science of his brother
~ England’s Sailor Prince, already receives
0 a year in consideration of the singular
he has displayed in being born a prince,
liberal pension awaits his widow. It would,
jpose, be misprision of treason to hope that
in the interests of the army this pension may com-
mence at a comparatively early date.
The boss brute of a Cooktown
paper recently advocated the exterminate n
of the natives of New Guinea in order to enable
the white settlers to posses.*, tne land in quietness.
Tt seems fco us that there is a mistake about this
idea somewhere. It would be better for mankind
to exterminate the mean-spirited, terrified cur,
who, after helping to promote one of the g<eatest
steals on record, D so frightened lest the victims
of this huge land-embezzlement should retaliate
on those who have injured them, that he wants
to soak himself in blood and get rid of them. A
man with no more pluck than that is not fit to be
struck by lightning—he would dirty the lightning.
The Griffith crowd, who now rule Queens-
i land, are divided on the Protection question. The
Premier is reticent, Billy Miles is Freetrader or
Protective, according to the state of his liver, and
Dicksbn is respectably “ free,” for is he not an
■auctioneer ? As for the others of the Cabinet no
one knows or cares what they think. But it is
generally said that Sir Tummus MTlwraith will
L contest the Premier’s electorate at the next fight
lbs a Protectionist, and that many Liberals, in
Eluding Jack Hannear, are prepared to “ rat ” if
■he so-called working man’s Government docs not
■ive them Protection right out. Tummus will, of
Bourse, go in strongly for sugar reciprocity,
■nd the palmy days may come again. Sawmill is
fgoing— going. I
The following extract is from a speed i by
«,n inflated person named Robert Wilson, who
•orated lately at the Colonial and Indian Exhibition
with the politically bought—and sold—Berry in the
1 chair :
“ That Imperial emigration would reduce the pauperism
of this country was a fact which would hardly be contested,
.and surely this of itself was a desirable object. In advocating
| -voluntary emigration, however, the best clans of our worknu n
'left our shores, atul endangered the high reputation which
■England held for superior workmanship. It must be apparent
> that if a working man had saved sufficient to ray his own and
I his family's expenses, he must have been in a good position
• to do so, and, in fact, have occupied the position of a first-
class workman (and this was just the class of men that
-we wished to retain amongst us, if we were to maintain
tlhe position of superiority oner other nations we had till
lately held as regarded our manufactures.). In supplying
the colonies, on the other hand, with our surplus labour, the
wages paid would, of course, assume a steady proportion to
our own, and the temptation to our first-class workmen to
leave England would be greatly lessened : the high wages J
'offered in some of our colon ies would he lowered by the supply
f which we •would send. Thus Ho end would he gained; we
' -should people the colonies with men who could not but feel i
■grateful to the English Government which had enabled them
to leave the mother country at a time when they were on the i
•point of starvation, thus enabling them to realise by their
labour a degree of comfort for themselves which they would
•never have .dreamed of in England.”
Let us steep ourselves in holy joy. England is
’to keep her best workmen and ship to the colo-
inies all the tottering, imbecile, lazy, drunken
paupers who cannot pay their way even at stone-
breaking in a poor-house. We ought to be grate-
ful. *
BRIEF MENTION.
Nunqnam dormio —I never play nap.
The Ten Commandments reduced to one
—Don’t do it.
A devilled dish—A fried soul. Original
1 joke by Cardinal Moran.
The only persons left who are not afraid
"to enter the Melbourne Hospital—Death and the
■doctors.
The Australian small boy, when hit, acts
'in a strictly Scriptural manner : he always gives
'the other “ cheek."
“ Queensland for the whiter man,” has be-
■ come obsolete. “ Queensland for the tight man ’’
is the new battle-cry.
Low Koon is the name of a Chinese
gambler convicted at Normanton (Q.) There is
something in this name.
w lt doesn’t require a tailor to take some
people’s measure,” says the Melbourne Herald.
No, it requires a publican pretty often.
Two of the six men who howled for the
'blood of the Mount Rennie convicts at Sydney
•Town Hall meeting wore crape on their hats.
We have been reading the Sydney
Delirium Tremens articles on the Mount Rennie
case, and now understand D T to mean D
; ■fancy Marine Board has found that the
(iisaslcr \\H' d:i'- 1i O fa'll' ni i■'
■
tort.
BHHHlboume Salvation Army announces
'■':vLrv_, ..>.
BHHHHHHHHHHHHHHtkey away.
In a more civilised country that man would be
made a K.C.M.G. and the grinder would be
hanged.
Whenever an inquiring oif puts a Down
and Gumtrke question to a certain Northern
editor the latter invariably overcomes the diffi-
culty by answering “ God knjws.”
There is, we read, a hoy in Richmond
(Vic.) who has been rescued from drowning three
times. He will, no doubt, grow up either to be a
Member of Parliament or —to be hanged. Perhaps
both.
A fire has devastated the office of the
-Melbourne Advocate, but a local daily announces
that that organ of the Pope and purgatory will
appear as usual. Of course it will. It lives on
eternal cremation.
A Victorian clergyman, whose beat lies in
the Mallee country, is in the habit of riding 50
miles on a Sunday in order to grind out three ser-
mons. To what base uses can that noble animal,
th<j horse, occasionally come ?
Property-owning does not pay in North
Queensland. A Townsville man who owned two
houses valued at Ids. a week, returned home after
a year’s absence and found his agent gone, no rent
RANDOLPH ALTERS HIS SION.
available, arid the houses non eat. The tenants
had taken them up by the roots and carried them
off on a dray.
The spirit of a small boy .winged its way
to the angels from Burnby (Melbourne) the other
day. Cause—eating matches dipped in treacle.
Yet we always thought a mixture of brimstone
and treacle was healthy for.children.
We read of otto councillor calling another
a liar. Out of municipal circles it is only neces-
sary to call your enemy a “councillor.” Which
reminds us that the other day a larrikin went for
somebody who referred to him as a “ politician.”
The board and lodging business is in a
very bad way in New Zealand. A recent issue of
a Dunedin daily contained the following adver-
tisement under the heading of “ Board and
Residence”: —“Wanted, a few horses and cows
to graze. Apply,” &c.
A vigilant St. Kilda(Melb.) policeman saw
a small boy of 13 caressing bis little sweetheart
and promptly arrested the hardened criminal. He
was a verdant, officer and innocently remarked,
after being withered by the Bench’s sarcasm, that
“.he thought it was a court case.”
A statue in memory of the Latin poet,
Ovid, is about to be unveiled at Kustendje. Ovid
has been getting along without this statue for
some 18 centuries, but the recent epidemic of
fashionable divorce eases lavs directed special
attention to the author of the “Art of Love.”
The Bishop of Carlisle is sufficiently
liberal minded to advocate cremation. Most of
his brothers hi grace would prefer to have bodies
preserved for slow-roasting—in tJic great Here-
.after. It is a melancholy fact that the very best
men turn bad when they're been <Jvad a few days.
A N.S.W. paper alludes to fts rival in its
last issue as “a reputation-blasting lickspittle
production disfigured by the eternal brag of
Halleluiah George and the ignorant sweeps who
.are respectively manager and editor.” We reckon
the English language is still equal to all reasonable
requirements.
The Bishop of Liverpool (Eng.) has con-
trived and builded a prayer for the safety of
“those who go down to the sea in ships.” To
suit the oolODies the supplication will requiro re-
vision in the interests of those who come up from
the sea in ships. Australian ships are all right
enough till they try to get out a*id walk.
Extract from a Melbourne religious paper :
—“Atheism, with insulting effrontery, was doing
its best to break up our meeting, when Dr. Guin-
ness, seizing his cornet, gave the first familiar
notes of,” &c. Atheism was, of course, demo-
lished at the first blast. It takes Dr. Guinness to
bring out, the full destructive power of the cornet.
A good man in Queensland applied to the
Government to appoint an extra policeman to
Camdoweal in order to put down Sunday-tradii g
at hotels and the like. The extra bobby, however,
was only a few days on duty before he unearthed
a sly-grog plant in the good man’s house, and that
individual is now agitating for his instant re-
moval.
A London paper says that “ most of the
South Australian gold mines which pay vei y
handsome dividends have to be worked at a depth
of 3000 feet or more from the surface.” Relying
on this statement we have come to the conclusion
that South Australian gold-mines are worked up-
wards from the bottom, and that the shafts have
not reached the surface.
Rev. Fletcher, of Newington College,
Sydney, considers that the sensual crimes of the
Australian larrikin arc directly traceable to indul-
gence, not, in strong drink, but in strong meat.
This is not original. The famous Mr. Bumble
expressed exact,! y"t,he|same”sentiment over Oliver
Twist many years ago, though that youth got
little except a bone now and then, and was gener-
ally kicked six times a day and addressed «is
“ VTork’us.”
It refers to a late hour of the same evening. The
writer knows what it will be like —and so do the
police.
An eminent Maori doctor is in trouble.
He had a fever case in hand, and as he could not
understand the symptoms he tied a rope to the
patient and had him dragged through a river.
This was not a very wild experiment as medical
experiments go, but it is not. safe for a coloured
M.D. to fool round with suffering humanity.
P.S.—The patient is now dead.
Two journalists were talking together in a
bar-parlour in Melbourne. The subject of obi-
tuary notices in the daily papers was touched
upon. “ Well,” said one, “ you are rather a
neat hand at turning epitaphs. What could you
say abOu : me expiessing my character in one
line, yon snow l ” “He never refused a drink, ’
replied the other without a moment’s hesitation.
Twenty of the South Dunedin (N.Z.)
volunteers have been called on to resign. “ Want
of social standing ”is the reason. We always
thought a soldier was only wanted to fight, and
for the life of us never could understand why the
hangman's assistant, a gentleman with a beard
the colour of cobbler’s wax, was asked to resign
his membership of a Sydney battery t f volunteer
artillery.
At Napier (N. Z.) a Maori recently eloped
with another man’s horse. Before passing sen-
tence the Judge asked him if he had anything to
say for himself. The native replied that what he
had to say would be found in the book of Proverbs,
chapter 3, verses 3 and 4. Wondering what
Solomon had to say to a horse-thief the beak
turned up the passage, and having read it, re-
marked “ Just so—ahem three mouths with hard
labour. Take him away.” The Gospel dodge
didn’t pan out exactly as the wily aboriginal
expected.
Somebody proposes the erection of a grand
Jubilee Tower in London. It is to be 20ft. taller
than St. Paul’s, and the public are to pay two-
pence for the privilege of tripping up to the top.
This is something like a loyal scheme. Victoria
by the Grace of God will be able to sit on the top
landing and shake her sceptre at the four corners
of the earth, while if Bertie can only be induced
to mako the ascent he will find himself within
easy flying distance of the Kingdom of Heaven.
THIS WICKED WORLD
An escaped ferret ate out the eyes of a
seven-months’ baby at Hampden (N.Z.) Jam-
beroo (N. S.W.) is a queer place. At a debate
where the subject was the Chinaman, and where
his moral code was expatiated upon by a Mr.
McCaffrey, a correspondent of the local paper
) eared up and complained that there were no
ladies present! ! ! He is probably a clergyman...
. ..There is a doctor at Teetulpa, and two men have
already died Ballai’at Star places Toowoomba
ia Northern Queensland. Krishmish — hie —geo-
graphy Theodore Behrens, who suicided at
Auckland (N.Z.) lately, left a note directing that
his money, about £9O, should be divided among
three of his friends, and the letter concluded by
‘ damning this confounded country,” that is
to say the “land of the Maori and moa”
The amenities of Sydney Sunday journalism.
< ne of the Sunday papers alludes to the editor of
the other as a “ literary frog puffing and swelling
with his windy pride,” and describes an evening
contemporary as a “rotten King-street chameleon
1 hat bolsters up everything of a putrid nature,
&c.” Cider and perry are classed as intoxicat-
ing fluids. Yet no one over got drunk off Ferry
in Syd ney Domain on Sunday afternoons— though he
has made people very ill indeed The only
Chinese subscriber to theCooktown Independent
has withdrawn his subscription The Mayor of
Tauranga, N.Z., is the Rev. C. Jordan. They
don’t reverence his worship The coronial le-
-7 orter of the Sj dney D. T. occasionally holds the
inquest on the chief witness. Some one will yet
be holding an inquest on that reporter
“The Defenders of New Zealand” is
a new book. The “ Defenders ” are the heroic
white officers who slaughtered the Maories and
took possession of their lands “Poultry Farm-
ing in Australia” is the subject of lectures to be
delivered at Sydney Technical College. The lec-
turer is not Lord Loftus, but Mr. Walter Hope
Only £2,000,000 wor‘h of real property business
was done by Sydney auctioneers in 1886 Thos.
Walker, murderer of Mrs. Hampton, at Deloraine,
Tasmania, is to be executed on January 10 The
Tasmanian hangman, Solomon Blay, who has
executed more men than any hangman living, is a
grey-bearded old gentleman nearly 80 year° of age
... . An Irish landlord has just distrained upon a
eorpse for 7s. Od. due as rent At Melbourne,
some tender mother left her infant lying naked
on the Yarra banks where its eyes were eaten out
by ants Recently in Eastst. (Rockhampton),
a hearse with a horse annexed ran away. Look
i- g through the glass side one could see the coffin
bump ng up and down at a terrible rate. This
is the sort of thing the local prints describe as
“great fun.”
* * #
Another of Pasteur’s hydrophobia patients
has died. This, Pasteur says, is because the
patient did not follow his directions. Pasteur
7 robably directs them not to die. If patients do
not follow this, direction they cannot expect to
live Mr. John Morley says that Lord Ran-
dolph Churchill's policy consists of “paint and
wood and wire and squeak and Lord Randolph
says that Mr. Morley got his name up chiefly by
his old habit of spelling “God” with a small
“ g.” The very best testifier on record came to
ihe front recently in an English Court. He was
an agriculturist, and when he was asked if he
knew who made'him he said he was not quite sure
but he thought it was Moses The Jewish popu-
lation of Jerusalem is now 18,000, a total it has
never attained since the days of Titus. The
Hebrews are going back at last.. .A pepper-eating
contest is the last thing that money was staked
upon. The winner swallowed three spoonfuls of
cayenne, or of something that looked like it
In New York State affairs are run so economically
t hat the cost of 20 madmen in an asylum is only
equal to that of one policeman outside Crema-
tion is to be done by electricity. You have only
to lix the machine onto your corpse—or somebody
vise’s corpse if you like it better- and turn on the
battery. After an hour or so there is not even a
grease spot left Alderman M’Quod —M’Quade
vve mean— of New York will be out of gaol in
1893. He has also to present the U.S. Govern-
ment with 5000 dols. The alderman in Australia
that could bribe like him would probably receive
a £5OOO testimonial The Marquis of Bute has
spent over a million sterling in rebuilding and
furnishing the old family seat of the Stewarts.
’The house covers over an acre. The drawing-
rooms, panelled in walnut and with beautifully
painted ceilings, are, perhaps, the finest rooms in
the three kingdoms ; the grand staircase of Car-
rara marble is a sight worth travelling to Scotland
to see The Sultan is reported te have said:
‘ The English are dogs, and the Germans are
pigs.” It is wonderful bow a blinded heathen
could have picked up so much knowledge A
fashionable item. Her Gracious has again been
dropping a tear over the tomb of Brown In
“ Ammurika ” they have an odd custoim - «£a il
funerals. They insert the obituary : “crones died
at R , such a date. Please do not send flowers,”
or “ omit flowers.’
Writing on Christmas Eve, a N.Q. paper
says:—
11 But even at this early hour of the evening it is easy to
picture whatjt would be like."
He met a brother Imrd in George-street,
and wringing his hand exclaimed in a voice
broken with emotion, “ Kendall’s gone, old man !
And there’s only the two (hie) of us left now ! ”
Up North it has been discovered that the
Chinese are manuring their gardens with tho re-
mains of white men. “To what base uses may
we not come, Mickey?”
More Krishmish ! Speaking of the scene
at a recent fire, the Brisbane Observer says :
“ One woman who has lost heavily, while bewailing her
misfortune, suddenly attacked a person who was standing
upon the footpath with her tongue.”
This will probably teach that person that a
woman’s tongue is a dangerous weapon to meddle
with on a footpath. In addition to being as rough
as a file, it is no doubt as slippery as a banana-
skin.


“LET US HANG THESE SIX RUFFIANS FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE WIVES AND DAUGHTERS AND MOTHERS OF AUSTR AL IA. ”-Sydney Evening Newspaper Moralists.


That Dinner Invitation—An Exclusive Premier.
[?] DATRICK (thonghtfully): “YOU SEE YOUR EXCELLENCY, I’VE GOT TO ASSOCIATE WITH A LOT OF VERY ORDINARY PEOPLE IN THE CABINET, BUT THAI'S A MERE
[?] BUSINESS [?]WOULDON'T THINK OF INFLICTING THEM ON"
[?] SELY-EXAUTLY TO BE SURE-THAT IS TO SAY-OF COURSE-I PERFECTLY UNDERSTAND."


Society
Bollingen
[?]
The Sydney lady undertaker, we are glad
to learn, is still in full blast and prospering. She
has already buried two husbands, and is still pre-
pared to take the measure of a deceased at the
shortest notice. This enterprising female also
runs a fruit-shop, and with unconscious humour
she advertises her corpse-planting business on the
paper fruit bags. Consequently the customer who
carries home a packet of unripe bananas at mid-
night, and sits up to devour his purchase, is apt
to get a sudden shock that makes him grow stiff,
and then after reading the gruesome “ ad.” two
or three times over he tries to recollect whether
the fruit was handed to him out of a coffin, and
whether these strawberries and the accompanying
cream were dished up in a skull or a saucer. On
reciprocal principles this lady would no doubt
make the undertaking business advertise the
fruit establishment if that were possible, but un-
happily not even the cheapest funerals are per-
formed on the paper-bag basis, and public preju-
dice makes it inadvisable to send round a China-
man to sell oranges from a hearse.
* * *
To get a cup of tea at Naples costs half-a-
crown. It would not matter to us if it cost three
times the sum. Our thirst is not built that way.
* * *
A year ago a very good man named ( leorgo
Dawson, residing near Durham (Eng.), went bad—
as bad as,the wreck of a six months’ killed kan-
garoo. He was a hard-praying, hard-preaching
Methodist with a snutlle as big as Mount Morgan,
and he preached and prayed himself into the
affections of another man’s wife and fled with her,
leaving his own wife in the lurch. This good man
and the other man’s wife are now shining in Aus-
tralia, and an English paper publishes a letter
from him to a “ dear brother in Christ,” in w r hich
he complains that his Australian brethren won’t
take them in, “ because of his elopement being in
the papers.” Of such is the kingdom of eternal
slush.
* * *
What hostess was it said to Lord Bertie
at the door of a supper-room, “Go in, melud, go
in! There’s the best in there I could get at
Baumann’s?” Echo answers, “Who?”
* * *
The warlike soul of the Cornstalk is again
rising. Three officers of the N.S W. Permanent
Force want to go on full-pay to help in the Bur-
mese murder, and they also desire that their goat-
hunting billets may be kept open for them if they
desire to come back again and rest on their
laurels in the land where beer is cheap. The
Government, on the other hand, are quite willing
that they should go, but they don’t wish to insult
these heroes by offering them filthy lucre, and as
the heroes insist on the insult —in cash—a diffi-
culty has arisen which may save some poor little
nigger from being slain in cold blood.
* * *
A London clergyman, who owns a wife
and family, was shaken up a little the other day
when a woman rushed up his pulpit steps and
threw her arms round him, calling him her *' dar-
ling.” Some people thought for a moment that
the parson was a Mormon in disguise, but it
proved the lady was a mild lunatic. She had
gone mad years before over a little curate with a
moth-eaten eyebrow under his nose, and thought
she had found her victim once more. The curate
did not marry her, but he let her donate him
£lO,OOO and then cleared.
« * *
An eminent scientific beggar in London is
now engaged on experiments for rendering Afri-
cans white, and reckons he will one day make a
fortune by bleaching wealthy niggers. It now
transpires that the colour is caused by “ hydride
of silver ” in the blood, and he thinkj he can ex-
tract eighteen-pennorth of metal from each
patient in the process of whitening.
* * *
Our oullud brudder is coming to the front.
7A troop of Australian aboriginals have just given
•a sacre 1 in Melbourne The blackfellow
who is a Wesleyan, is a dreadful humbug.
* * *
In the Daylesford (Vic.) district a gay
young spark eloped recently with a girl, but af* er
a hot pursuit the young lady was captured by her
indignant father and brought home again The
gay young man also returned, and a few days later
he eloped with the girl’s mother. There was no
pursuit this time, for the injured husband was
I terrified at his foe’s persistency, and feared that
if he interposed again he might elope with the
aged grandmother and the house-dog and all tho
furniture.
* * *
A iacTy’-ofnious aspect presented herself at
the bath-houseTtfc-Je Aroha (N.Z.) hot springs the
other day, and asiced for a bath. Prior to dis-
robing she informed 'the female attendant that
she was a martyr to spasms and liable to faint
away at any moment. The attendant said that in
that case tho lady had better think twice before
venturing into the hot water, the immediate
effect of which was weakening. “Itisof no con-
sequence,” replied the invalid with a saintly and
slightly patronising smile ; “ lam not afraid : I
trust I shall be found ready when I am called.”
The bath-keeper, a practical woman, took her
holy visitor’s measure right there. “ Very likely,
ma’am,” she said with the utmost coolness, “ but
you see if anything happened to you in the hath it
might come as a shock to the other ladies. This
type of Christian is alarmingly prevalent.
* * *
A Prude, lately from England, objects to
the children who surround vessels in the Suez
Canal on the score of their “ indecent manipula-
tion of their clothing.” Ye gods ! Must the pic-
turesque be always sacrificed to the decent ?
* * *
Wo asked a Sydney bride on a hot morn-
ijig week if she would he afraid if a thunder-
storm came during the day ? “ Oh, no 1” she
lisped, “ not now. I would have been yesterday
because Willie was out, but he is at home to-day.”
We went sorrowfully away pondering if her Wil-
liam was an improved lightning-conductor.
An advertisement recently appeared in
the London Times worded in a way to touch a
tender chord in every reader’s heart. The ad.
was inserted on behalf of a young couple who
“ despair of ever being united unless they can
command at least £100,” and would like a few
friendly-disposed persons to plank down the
hymeneal coin and “make them happy for life.”
The claims of this young couple on the coffers of
the charitable are undeniably strong. It is annoy-
ing to be wanting to get married when you can’t.
We have experienced the sensation ourselves.
’Twas only a paltry “ fiver,” too, that stood ’twixt
us and domestic happiness. Yet it was all suffi-
cient. The thought of advertising never occurred
to Clara and us, and so —but these are sad
memories. There is one thing, however, that we
would impress upon the ardent minds of this
young couple. They won’t be able to get a divorce
unless they can command at least another £lOO.
Love is an expensive article in each of its stages—
from the altar to ths witness-box.
« m •
At a Sydney concert recently a red-headed
girl stood up, opened her seven-by-nine mouth,
and howled, “ Dear heart! I did not dream that
we should p-a-r-t ” (high Q). She ought to have.
Doubtless the lover proposed in the dark and
when he saw those hair and that freckles his
inner consciousness couldn’t act up to it. We
forgive him.
* * r *ry *
Here is an item for frisky old Australians
with dried-up wives. An aged satyr named
Grichois, residing at Paris, recently kicked his
tottering old wife into the streets and forced her
to make a living by begging. Thereupon a per-
verter of justice in police uniform came along and
wanted an explanation —and he got it. Grichois
simply said that the old lady was shrivelled and
skin-dried and that he would prefer a female who
could radiate a little more heat. She had lost all
her teeth, too, and mumbled and gobbled in an
aggravating way when she tried to talk, and her
feet—which she invariably planted in Grichois’
back at night —were always cold. The policeman
grew profane at this juncture and dragged the
Parisian before a Gallic beak who called him bad
names, and the pair are again living together.
* * *
Brisbane gossips are on “tip-toe” of ex-
pectation for the hearing of a big prospective
divorce suit, which may or may not come into
Court.
* * *
An engagement is out in London of Miss
Mary Sidney, daughter of Mr. Charles Sidney,
late of Sydney, to Captain H. B. Gundry, Itoyal
Artillery.
THOUGHTFUL SWELL: “I’M JUST GOING DOWN
THE HARBOUR, SO THIS SHOULD DO, THOUGH
TRAVELLING IS GETTING AWFULLY DANGEROUS
NOW. I WISH THE DAWG WERE A BIT BIGGER,
FOR I MIGHT HAVE TO TRUST TO HIM AFTER
ALL.”
The marriage of Mr. Edward T. Wise,
eldest son of the’late Mr. Justice Wise, of Sydney,
and Miss Aimee Vaughan Selby, eldest daughter
of Mr Pridoaux Selby, of Koroit, Croydon,
England, took place on November 10th at St.
Saviour's Church, Croydon, England.
* * *
Lord Colin Campbell and Lady Campbell
“ spooned ” only for three days before marriage.
Marry in haste and repent in the Court.
•
* * * :
“ Tho Woman’s Suffrage Bill will,” w®
read, “shortly bo again before the British Com-
mons.” They ought to throw it out. Every
married man knows what a woman’s bill means.
Mrs. James Brown Potter, the American
unprofessional beauty, writes :
“Of all my mementos of England, I value most
Mr. Robert Browning’s letters to me, aad the pins given me
by the Prince of Wales the highest.”
There is a very nice distinction here between
‘most’ and ‘highest,’ but we can’t exactly see how
it acts. One word would seem to express profun-
dity of veneration, and the other its sublime
heights. And apart from the mysticism of the
phraseology we are tortured with the base repub-
lican doubt as to whether they were really pins.
* * *
Bishop Luek, of Auckland, IST.Z., asked
the local Mayor to preside at a meeting to be held
to consider the question of rebuilding the Bene-
dictine edifice. The Mayor declined ; whereupon
the Bishop asked the ex-Mayor, who also refused,
giving as one of his reasons that when he solicited
subscriptions for a Protestant place of worship
quite recently the Catholics turned a deaf ear to
him ; to which the Bishop in effect
of course : —“ Catholics may receive money from
heretics for the building of Catholic places of
worship or for any other objects tending to
further the True Faith (this in huge capitals),
but it is against their religion to give either
money or aid for the erection of non-Catholic
churches,” &c., &c. And now the Auckland papers
fill with correspondence anent this well-known
peculiarity of our Roman Catholic fellow-citizens.
* * *
A lady who lectures on “ Woman’s Rights ”
in Victoria thinks that women ought to refrain
their maiden names after they marry. She retains
hers. But she, doncherknow, is not yet married
* ,■ * *
Many high-toned persons in N.S.W. will
be interested to learn that Ross Raymond, Esq., a
fat and pleasant gentleman who got into all the
Sydney clubs and swamped the upper suckles
with valueless cheques, some three years ago, has
gone to join the saints in bondage. He started
life in real earnest in 1872 at San Francisco, where
he edited the lies-and-blasphemy department of a
hard-hitting journal, till the advent of an actor
with a club induced him to clear out. He then
founded a paper in Virginia City with a gambler
to back him, and wrecked the man of aces in two
publications. At Cincinnatti, a person in the circus
business cast him down stsirs on his head and
shortly afterwards he retired to make stoves and
perform other useful work in gaol. In 1877, he
was again on the press, but a harrowing descrip-
tion of a railway accident, written purely from
imagination and followed by a whole column of
deaths and broken legs,
threw him out, and after
marrying a lady worth
10,000 dollars he went to
New York and joined the
Herald. Here he attrac-
ted attention by his de- •
scriptions of the shooting
of President Garfield,whom
lie filled up, on paper, with
an entire keg of bullets,
and represented as being
so much blown to pieces
that he had to be carried
about in a jug, and it took
the entire staff all they
knew to piece the mangled
chief magistrate together
again. Then he married
another man’s wife, having
left his own in the lurch,
and a little shooting en-
sued ; ho also published a
novel, the manuscript be-
ing BtClen from a friend;
and, finally,he fled,leaving
half the house* in New
York papered with his dis-
honoured cheques. He
started a news bureau in
England and got £loofrom
his partner’s sweetheart on .
the plea that both that gen-
tleman’s legs were broken
in about 16 places and could
not be mended for less, and
with this sum Mr. Ray-
moud departed for Egypt where he swindled Her
Most Gracious Majesty out of a goat-decoration
lie turned up ogam in the Sandwich Islands, artd
during his career ihere defrauded half the guile-
less natives of everything but a i\uist<floth apiece,
and then ho lectured in Sydney on his Egyptian
adventures for the benefit of a charity and got
all Potts Point to negotiate his paper, because ho
always ran short of money just after l»ank-hotirs.
After palming oil' upon the Evening Nmws a
“ ked ” and harrowing description of the lepei
settlement at Molokai, Sandwich Islands, he made
a bee-line for Paris, where he passed as Raymond
Bey, a sort of forerimner of the 'Khcdfivo. He
made bis landlord got togother about tiJUO worth
of victuals to ontertaiißMßMßßMßffllßß
the unsuspecting
on the stairs and gett inJ^HHBBHHHBBHBH
America he entered once mor^^HHHHHH^HH[
-
'V
JB
i'u i wii .-
interest!
* * *
’ r ' : Map r- ; ■ • ■. ;a! to o< i
a deocsu lK.nierhia ilie ridiculous. HHB
weeks ago a eenniu .’a .".o'.dry {‘crflHH
iimioiircd with ii.spei «.:.n l.y ‘' <lei mral '
rffiudau fame, who had 1 wo or 1
M: 1 on ids
M
fl
: V
n
. done beyond the bounds of N.S.W. B
spt y'\'j
M
A
■
* *
A
is n H
A
jH
A
Bj
a
m
for the wearing of the kilt. If it is delß "-V
tain the trews, we hope the regimental
_ will see to it that " improvers " are pro
unite one-third of the rank and file, who
lamentably deficient in i hal porl ion oft ho aiiat<A||
whieli ])oints east, when their noses are
the setting sun.
« *
Scene—swell dinner-}>arby at the eleganA
mahogany of Mrs. Malaprop,' of “the Pcint.’*
Kair Guest: This disli is really delicious, Mrs.*
M. I strongly advise you to try it.” Mrs. M.®
(who has been stoking herself freely during the
high-toned repast: “Oh no, my dear, I must de-
cline this time. 'i'here really is a limit to the ,
expansion of my corsets.” Fact.
* * *
Many people laboujt under the delusion]
that the Great Eastern iff the biggest ship which I
ever sailed the seas. But has it never struck 1
Australia -that, the boat in which William the J
Conqueror arrived in England must have been at 1
least eight times as large? Whenever, now-a- *
days, a pork-butcher or soap-boiler becomes rich
and wants to get into “ sassiety,” it is always his k
bqast that his ancestors arrived in “ the old J
country” in the train of the redoubtable William,B
whose passenger-list of reptiles and
generally must havo far exceeded old Father
Noah’s. Sixty Great Easterns wouldn’t have
sufficed to carry the ancestors of the Australian J
0 M.G.’s—for, you see, no C.M.G. will ever
acknowledge-when in England, anyhow—that
he is related to any other C.M.G.
* * *
The very latest about the representative
Australian in England is that one of the genus,
after having been shown over Apsley House, by
the Duke of Wellington, the other day, remarked
as he looked out through a hall window on tho i
never-ending at roam of traffic rolling past: “ The 1
)use is so convenient, too, fur yer Grace. Why, ,
you’ve got th’ hofnnibuses right agin yer own
door.”
* * * ;
The English globe-trotter’s very recent*
most fabrication is that while travelling in Queens- J
End he spent a night in a squatter’s hut (sic), and 1
was invited to tiy a rubber of whist. As he took \
his seat he inquired : “ What points?’, To which
his partner replied, in a tone of significant sur- |
prise at such a question : “Why, the usual game, I
of course—sheep points, and a bullock on the l
rubber.” Ananias was evidently a very much i
overrated performer In his particular speciality. 4
* * * \
Poor Lome ! This is the kind of thing
you road in the Ame idea papers : |
“ The Princets Louise has been hers (Aix-les-Biiins) for aB
month, varying her royal baths by a visit to Chamounix.! I
She has Miss Elarvey with her as lady companion, a maid I
and & valet -not a vexy royal equipage. A member of Par- 1
liament, named Halse, who had made £4OOO at the gaming
tables here, had the honour of accompanying her to
Chamounix, gives her dinners at the Villa des Fleurs, the
gayest of the casinos, where, before she went to Chamounix,
she and he, with others, danced Scotch icels and the High-
land schottische which to Preach eyes look very like the
oan-caD, the Duchess of Manchester, Lady Mandeville, and (
mnett assisting. The princess is a very 1
pretty woman, with beautiful teeth and a fair complexion 1
She has been married 14 yeais, and is abaut 38 years old!
She dresses simply but beconingly, and makes no preten-
sions to/oyal styte. Indeed, she is travelling as the Couhtess
of Cornwall.”
* * *
Mr. Farquhar, of Christchurch (N.Z.), is"a'"~
gay dog who has been trying to be jolly under very
adverse circumstances. Daring the last five years
his wife has obtained two protection orders against
im, her complaint being blasphemy, walloping,
and toe great indulgence in the flowing bowl*.
At last, towards the end of 1885, he took a fit of
remorse, and, settling some property on the re- -
mains of the shattered female, ho fled from the
scene. Last June, however, he returned to Christ-
church and attemp’ed to board with his wife, but
that lady having consumed her victuals In peaoo
for twelve months, liad grown powerful and
vipious, and the next thing that Fafrqwhar knew,
he was in the police-court for trespass. The de-
cision, however, was in his favour,'but just as be
was going back to camp on his wife’s premises
a new difficulty presented itself. The 'aadlord,
who seems to have been an accommodating man,
seized and Auctioned every stick of the lady’s pro-
perty for rent, and the assets were bought in by
Mrs. Farquhar’s brother, who placed Mrs. F. in
charge as his agent, and when Farifrthar came
along he was met with contempt, bfid language,
opprobrium, a bootjark, a bucket of watep, and a
dog, or words to D’at effect. Farquhar. however,
got possession for ‘24 honrs, during which time he
welted some of the furniture until its own mother
would not have known ib. Ab a result he spent
ten weeks in a pestilential prison, but boing ac-
quitted he brought an action for damages and
recovered £55! Then he stormed the premises
again, and thre w his hrother-in-law’s o*othes out
of the window mi
Jk
nli—liStfffl
vgfl t J Mg > To- ■ .i-M
■ - ■' ' -•- ' '
..«* it, > WmMMt slg§lAiiA&; P


uncertainty of British law bowled him
f\xt, and Farquhar is now in possession of his
establishment, while that lady is laying
dark schemes for throwing him out into the gutter
again at the earliest opportunity.
* * *
Of all entertainments under the sun,
surely the most dreary are experienced when re-
ligious folks try to be amused. An event of
this kind came off at Hobart a while ago, when
jome well meaning enthusiasts, who had 01 ganised
a reading-room for the city arabs during the
winter, thought they would finish the season by
entertaining their friends in the club-room. The
result was a theatrical performance which left the
audience in painful doubt whether a comedy,
tragedy, or animated waxworks had been in-
tended. The mystery was solved by one of the
performers explaining that it was an operetta
with the songs and music left out.
* * *
The pictures, tapestries, and other in-
terior decorations for the new Clarke palace on
the Wellington Parade, East IVfelbourne, are of
the greatest value and utmost magnificence. Mel-
bourne society waits impatiently for the comple-
tion of the baronial edifice.
* *
A charming example of consistency exists
down South in the person of a wealthy hop-grower
whose residence, servants’ quarters, and even
hop-kiln, are embellished in every possible way
with temperance texts and warnings against the
glass that inebriates. It is an undisputed fact
that until he essayed hop culture his name was a
bye-word for impecuniosity, though he now writes
Esq. after his name—even on the tombstone of one
of his wives.
* * *
Lord Deerhurst, the last imported Vic-
torian A.D.C., is already an immense favourite.
He has a happy knack of securing all the pretty
women and handsome men as his associates, and
is the life and soul of all entertainments he patron-
ises. He has managed to infuse a little fresh life
into the sameness of Melbourne frivolities.
The marriage of the
Hon. Charles Nelson,
second son of the Earl of
Nelson, with Miss Petty,
of St. Kilda, Melbourne,
is to take place on the
■ The
le oc
LBS E.
d the
niece,
d the
je ac
man,
Kellar
bride-
ir-pre-
-ldoin,
d l ia-
falgar, has no children.
Lord Trafalgar married
Miss Dalgety, of Mel-
bourne.
* * *
Mrs. Rupert Clarke’s
diamonds already out-
number and outvie those
Of any other Australian
lady. The young lady
is possessed of consider-
able talents and a good
deal of ambition, and
with the ball at her feet,
as it is, ought to find life
very fair. The wife of
the future baronet aspires
to take a prominent place
in English society on her
approaching honeymoon
tour. The cheque ior
£30,000 handed by Sir
William to his son cn
his wedding-day will
come in handily.
# « *
A rumour has been
current, the truth of
which, however, cannot
be vouched for, that one
object of the contem-
plated visit to Australif
of the celebrated H. Al.
Stanley w r as a matrimo-
nial one, as the distin-
guished traveler is said
to be engaged or about
to be engaged, to a young
Victorian lady belonging
to a leading family, who
has made residence in Australia a necessary condi-
tion for obtaining her hand. Even the charms f
becoming “ Queen of the Congo ” have no attraction
for this patriotic damsel as compared with her
own Western District.
* *
Thus snaps the Globe’s “ Madge ” :
“ The women dress to please the men, and if women are
foolish, men make them so.”
“ Madge ” must be a man. And a very verdant
one, too, for even Parson Jefferis knows that
women do not dress to please men, but to astonish,
to take the shine out of, and to raise the envy of
their own sex to bursting-point. So long as a
woman’s dress is neat, the average man doosn’t
care a dump whether it is made of cream satin
trimmed with azure blue Chantilly lace, or brown
holland trimmed with bombazine ; and he pro-
bably couldn’t tell the difference either, but it is
the other woman’s eyes that fasten on to fashion’s
latest fads, and flash like the deadly basilisk’s
whenever they see a costume that “ goes one
better ” than their own.
Sweet Madge ! your flim-flams to the fairies tell;
Us they deceive not—we know your sex too well.
* * *
Memo from Melbourne to Sydney, dropped
into a box by mistake “Dear Sydney, when you
are quite done with Lord Dudley p'.ease send him
on here at once. ” We are sorry to say this is no
go. Lord Dudley i» under age, and is still a ward
in Chancery, so that any fair Australian who
catches him before he has cut his eye-teeth will
be liable to be run in for contempt of court, and
sentenced to stand on one leg for 47 years, and
then to be eaten by a crocodile. This is a pity,
really, for Lord Dudley has an income of something
between £lOO,OOO and £300,000 per annum, and is
of the age when they hang people in N.S.W.,
though he is not old enough to be married in
England.
* * *
It is not every day that we come upon a
heroine, but Mrs. Cornelius M‘Andrew of Wai-
lerawang (N.S.W.) is the genuine article and no
mistake. A cow had been shot, and GOlbs. of beef
was missing, so the local constable visited the
humble house of Cornelius (be it ever so lowly
there is no place like home), with a view to
making inquiries. He was just in time to see
Mrs. Cornelius getting over the garden wall in a
hurry, and giving chase he found that lady sitting
down admiring the beauties of nature, but he
could not find out at fir-t what she was sitting
upon. She seemed, however, to be in considerable
pain, and tears of anguish rolled down her cheeks
as she told the policeman to leave her alone to die
in her misery. But that officious individual would
not abandon a British female in distress, and
when he had gently but firmly got her into a
standing position he captured a piece of beef, boil-
ing hot, and apparently just rescued from the pot,
It is not every woman who would sit on a scalding
blistering steak that felt as if it had been cut from
the cast-iron cow that grazes round the lake of
fire and brimstone, and though her husband was
find £3, it was worth twice the money to be ths
proud possessor of such a wife, even though she is
scorched a little.
BUSH PARS.
A N.Z. paper remarks in a casual way
apropos of Kimberley and delusions of the same
description, that there are still a few old pioneers
in that colony with large ragged holes in their
ears which they find it hard to account for. As a
rule they put them down to bullets, boomerangs,
misdirected spears, and the like, but their friends
talk sarcastically of a habit the early diggers had
of getting hold of anybody who started a “ store-
keeper’s rush ” and dragging him round by the
heels or th<* hair, and kicking him from Dan 10
Beersheba, and then nailing him by the head to a
bullock-dray. They generally left him alongside
the dray all night, and then in the morning when
the vehicle was wanted they would tear him off
by the legs. The opinion in these early days was
that this treatment promoted a healthy moral tone
in the community, but the tattered and dilapidated
condition of the old pioneer’s ears could never be
entirely cured, except by amputation.
THE RABBIT QUESTION—AN ABORIGINAL IDEA.
KING BILLY (to squatter): “WHAT FOR ME KEEP ’EM RABBIT WHY, WHEN ’EM ALL KILLED HOME PADDOCKS, MY BUNNY
FETCH ’EM BUDGEREE LOT MORE MONEY. BAAL ME SELL ’EM NOW."
“ The hart of breaking stones for metal-
ling roads,” said an old colonial in a bush bar,
“ speshally if you is a vvorkin’ for the Guvment or
for the City Council, is * ell worth studyin’ if you
wants to make it pay. When I was workin’ for
the Corporation last, all I had was three bob a
yard, but I used to knock out my four or five
yards a day heasy. Of course, if you want to
make good pay you must see as your stones is put
down for you on a proper piece of ground. Get
the drayman to hempty his load just where you
wants it. The best place is where there is a
goodish round hillock, so’s you can work without
bending your spine too much. Break your metal
on top o’ this little elevation. Make a square
he*p, level it well up from the side, and in the
course of a few days, if your hillock was big
enough to start on, you’ll have s’ficient metal
broke to be able to get a draw on it for a biggish
cheque. In course, if a Corporation surveyor is
mean enough to take soundings right in the centre
o your heap you may not get so much money—
you may even get the sack ; but you can always
get out of it by taking your solemn hatliidavy that
you didn’t put the hillock there, and was no party
whatsomever to the transaction. Oh, yes ; there’s
a good deal of ’igh hart necessary to be knowed
afore you can become a suekcessful stone broker.”
* * *
Most Government papers are of an excessively
austere not to say gloomy nature, but the N.S.W.
stock inspector sends the sunshine of mirth through
his official atmosphere, and gaily jokes with his
victims, the squatters, the while he transfixes
them on a cheveux-dt-frise of artful conundrums.
He asks them, for instance, how many cattle they
have, and then gives his jocosity its head as he
puts the poser, “ How many will be fit for market
next year ?” There is something gorgeously funny
in this riddle. If he had told them what sort of a
season was coming and what sort of grass there
would be, and about 20 other necessary facts,
some wild sort of a guess at the answer might
probably forthcomo, but as the query stands it is
about equal in answerability to the question as to
how long a prominent member of Parliament will
be in twisting round to Protection. And the in-
formation required as to the number ef sheep fit
for market next year can be just as easily esti-
mated as Daily Telegraph politics of the year
after next. But the gay stock-inspector dangles
his legs from the apex of humour when he asks
in his printed Circular, “ What is the -estimated
number of native dogs on the run 1” To a squatter
who is too careless to carry out a census of the
dingoes on his run, or even to yard them once a
year and earmark them, this question is simply an
invitation to insanity. And most squatters are
too lazy to muster all the dingoes on their runs
periodically. If they did there would probably
not be any dogs. Few native dogs would deem
life worth living after they had been earmarked
with a Winchester rifle. Which is, we estimate,'
the kind of earmarking the stock-inspectors would
get if the morose squatters were let loose upon
them.
* * *
The Gippsland blackfellow has ideas of his
own on the subject of Providence. A few Sun-
days ago two of the unsavoury sons of that driven
bullock, Ham, went out fishing on Lake Tyers,
though, having been trained to a knowledge of
the Scriptures by the episcopal baldheads of the
mission station, they ought to have known better.
As might have been expected, a great storm arose,
and they turned a kind of gray horse colour through
abject terror. “Oh! Billygoat, Billygoat,”
gr*aned the stupider of the two, “ we’ll be
drowned ! ” “ Shut up,” retorted Billygcat, who
might have been a gre*t man if he had been
white and had had some clothes on. “ Baal you
putten sech ideas in de Lord’s head.” Thoy got
safe ashore at last, and to the end of his dark
days Billygoafe’s friend will be thankful that he
I did not speak loud enough for Providence to hear
him. We have an idea that this originally hap-
pened in America.
* * *
We should all love thoroughbred Chris-
tians, especially when they are policemen. Let
us sing the praises of the Barwon “traps.” A
bullocky reported that he had found a camp empty
and that he had put the saddle of the supposed
lost man in a tree down the river. The constabu-
lary found file saddle and the deserted camp as
well as a small mob of sheep, carefully shepherded
by the absentee s dog They collared the sheep,
saddle, 6cc., and shot the faithful coble, supposing
him to be unregistered.
# # 2fC
rp, , . , . c . ...
Iho land business ot Australia IS getting 80
mixed that a man really does not know his own
„ . . \\ r c ii* n .1
name, hor instance, William Wall recently se-
lected some land at Attunga, and an objection
was raised by various parties who said his name
was Abraham. Wall declared he never recollected
having any other name than plain ordinary Bill,
“ but lately he had been told his name was Abra-
ham,” and a policeman who ran him in for horse-
stealing had used that patriarchal cognomen,
when he scruffed him into gaol. Wall's mother
also swore that his name was William, and when
a copy of the registrar was itroduced she was
rnnmzed to find she had been calling him by the
wrong name for more than ‘2O years. Another
child had been born either b* fore or after
this ordinary Bill, but she could not remember hie
name, and ho might have been Abraham or
Rabshakeh for aU sheknew. Then four witnesses
swore they all called the selector William, and
two testified then only knew him as “ Aberahum,”
and at last the ca io was postponed to give Wall
a chanc e to find out whether he was the child who
died in infancy or th§ one who grew up, or who
in thunder he was anyhow.
rn • . , i r • , i ii*.
rins tale bears such unmistakeable traces
of the solid truth on the face of it that we have
no hesitation whatever in presenting it to our
readers. A few months ago a shark swallowed a
diver in full dress off Port Macquarie, and a week
after that he swallowed a cow, and then chased its
calf seven miles. Later on his “ sharkship ” came
round to Barrenjoey and swallowed a horse and
two dingies. Last Monday he was rotating in
front of Foley’s baths, and while the crowd were
admiring his points a copy of that day's Kvwn
Ooze, on the first page of which was printed
“Circulation over 250,000 copies daily,” blow over
in front of his nose. The shark merely smiled
sarcastically, and firmly refused to swallow' (hat.
Ho drew the lino there, and shortly afterwards
left to spend his Christnuvs at Queensland.
It. was years ago,
when Sir Joseph George
Tjong Innes was as plain
as Plain Bill, and was
just making his dcMit on
the Queensland District
Court Bench, that that
eminent sender-up of the
wicked found himself on
horseback outside a pub-
lic house in the little town
of Itoma. Wishing to
get some dinner and not
seeing any place where
he could hitch the moke,
ho consigned the animal
to the care of a stranger,
and went in to have his
refresher. After he had
victualled himself he fell
into conversation, he also
had a smoke, and but
for the libel laws we
would say a drink as
well; and for three mor-
tal hours the judicial
mule and mule-holder
sweltered outside quite
forgotten. Then some-
thingdawnedon themind
of Mr. Joe Innes, and he
hurried out and climbed
into the saddle, giving
the man an apology and
a shilling. “ Thank you,
sir, thank you,” said the
Queens lander with iron
ical ell'usivems-’. “Ipaid-
a man half-a-crown to
take my place in holding
this moke while I went
and had my own dinner.
Thank you, sir.” The
Judge took the hint and
squared up the account.
After all it wasn’t mean-
ness that was the matter
with him, but he had
just come ftrom England
where a man. can hire
anyone lower than a duke-
for a shilling, and he
couldn’t understand how
that coin was despised
In Australia.
The average Salvationist is a whole ex-
hausted bullock team at logic and other exact'
sciences. Any one who doubts this will please)
read the following :
If Abraham had not gone to Mount Moriah just at thff
«xact time God wanted him, the ram might not have been
there And if Philip had stopped to kiss his grandmother,
whi n told to go to the south, the eunuch might not have
been saved
Just so. But we wonder what would hare hap-
pened if Dibbs had stopped to kiss Philip’s grand-
mother, and, to carry the investigation a little
further, how- the grandmother would have enioyed
it and how Dibbs would have liked the privilege ?
No doubt if Philip had stopped to embrace th®
old lady he might have missed the chance of
meoting a great African nob in a chariot, but he
might have dropped instead on a Philistino sun-
downer or a Ilittite swagsman and done a little
good among the poor. Kven the Salvationist,
whon ho is breaking the legs of logic in his efforts
to hunt up little Bible iwecedents, likes to quote a
case whore the obedient prophet is rowardGjJ.br
being allowed to present his card to a wealthy
and haugiity nigger.
The gaunfe, penniless, dusty crowd who.
arc 1 bidding hack from Kimberley, are evidently
getting demoralised, if we may judge from their
murder-record. It is pretty nearly fatal now
to travel that road with twopence in specie and
the vision of a drylmneby way of provision for
the owner of those things is set down as a bloated
monopolist and is straightaway “chawed up.”
Anthony Johnson has realised this fact. He had
£lll in cash, a tank receipt for ll2oz. of gold
and two horses, and his mate Horing put two
bullets through his head, and appointed himself
trustee to these effects. Then he buried the body
and went off siDging a hymn. But a few hours
latter another gaunt gold-lmntiug goblin came
along that road, and with his organs sharpened
by hunger he smelt meat underground and dug
Johnson uj>. Horing now assorts that Johnson
bred one shot himself, and then finding his suicide
a failure he asked Ins mate to finish the job which
he obligingly did, but the chances are that he
will be hung up somewhere through his frenzied
I anxiety to help a friend.
Little Johnny.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Little Johnny, with the golden
Hair, and eyes of tender blue
And ihe face, such as in olden
Years the saindy Sanzio drew,
Lay a-dying—ah the pity !
In the Children’s Ward he lay,
In that mighty southern city
Built upon Port Phillip Bay.
His blue eyes were opened widely—
Soon to never ope again !
And his little hands were idly
Playing with the counterpane.
On his bed the sunlight shons : he
Tried to catch its beam. His bright
Sun of lif« —roor little Johnny!—
Soon would set in endless night.
Five years old that day—aud dying !
Five short summer years of play,
Sure death could not, without sighing.
Bear that little soul away ?
Came a gentle lady slowly,
Sat her down beside his bed,
And her face was fair and holy,
And she kissed his golden head.
“ Johnny,” said she, and the dying
Child raised up his eyes of blue,
“If you saw an angel flying
Down from heaven here for you,
Tell me what you’d do.” She sees eyed
In his brain some thought occult
As he faintly whispers, “ Please I’d
Shoot 'im wivvne catapult /”


Maximum points
“Buckeye”
Hornsby
M'Cormick
O Ot Ot Ot
Clean Outing.
Ot Ot O' o«
Best Binding.
Simplicity of construction
Oi Oi o o
and Light Draught.
tc CO Oi Ui
Fewest Stoppages.
Ot Ot Oi Oi
Low Cut
05 Ot Ot
-I 05 O O
Total.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
WHAT TO GIVE t THERE S THE RUB.
THE VERY THING.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of over
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ beet, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. &3T It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family cirole, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophohe is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-fe^^gYDNEY.
OR A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., C.„.
“Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasur,
that the performance of the Watah man
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond N„.
which I have carried in my packet for a p„
six months, surpasses m excellence that of
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It
tains its rate even better than a fine box cl
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watchee which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronuinelers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSO.T,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every wa f ch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
None. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Key win ding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fine jewels,
open face £8 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewel*, p Rent pinion, &c. ... £3 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-case 3 15 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world £lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a noblo
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Sold. A legi-
timato use has bees f*snd for this nehle metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisittf de-
signs. Tlie Oriental Gold Co.,
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS
CASTLEREAGH-ST., Sydney, haa
largo consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling 3 eld Jewellery.
No ono caff detect the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one of tho fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,»s.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliantc) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 7s. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55., Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.j Ladles’Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co..
tlieseon approval. Ifthey don’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Mail, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.
Great national field trial of
REAPERS AND BINDERS.
SUPREMACY OF THE BUCKEYE.
The following article, taken from the Melbourne
Argus, of December 1(5, 1886, is specially recom
mended to farmers and all persons interested in
agricultural pursuits. It is not alone of ex
ceptional interest as an incontestable proof of the
immense superiority of the
“BUCKEYE” REAPER AND BINDER,
but it goes to show how very possible it is for the
most disinterested judges to make mistakes. The
“Buckeye” is an American machine, and has no
friends in Australia outside those who swear by it
for its own intrinsic worth and the enormous ad-
vantages it possesses over all other machines for
ECONOMY AND PRACTICAL UTILITY.
The “ Buckeye ” took the premier position in
this great struggle with ease, winning the Grand
National Gold Medal against two competitors, in
whose company on the showground it was not
even considered worthy of a place, by the highly
qualified judges who made the awards, and but
for the protest which was then entered by the
representatives of the “Buckeye” the public
would not have been furnished with this addi-
tional assistance in deciding for themselves the
relative merits of
THEORY AND PRACTICE,
in the art of judging.
The Argus says : —The field trial of reapers and
binders in connection with the late National Show
at Shepparton was held on Tuesday, the 11th in-
stant, on Mr. Guthrie’s farm, about two miles
from Shepparton. Owing to pressure of harvest
work, crops in all direction being ripe, the at-
tendance of farmers did not exceed 150, but great
interest was taken in the proceedings. As at tt e
late show the judges placed the Hornsby Machine
first, M’Cormick second, and the Woods third,
the “Buckeye” representative disliked being left
out in the cold, and demanded a field trial as pro-
vided by the rules, the M’Cormick also sharing in
the protest; so the prizes were held over pending
the field trial. The crop was ripe wheat, and the
land was so rough that none of the machines
could show very low cutting, and the jolting over
the hard clods was tolerably severe on horses,
machines, and drivers. Two o’clock was the hour
fixed for the trial, but as the “ Buckeye” was the
only machine then ready, a delay was caused by
the Hornsby and M’Cormick experts giving their
machines a preliminary run in the adjoining block
of crop, and a start was not made till a qifarter-
past 3. The five judges gave great attention to
their duties and were ably seconded by the sub-
committee appointed by the society and the
secretary, Mr. Harold B. Turnley. About two
acres were allotted to each machine, and they
finished in the following order: —“Buckeye,”
lh lOmin; Hornsby, lh 19 min; M’Cormick
lh 26min. The two latter machines were drawn
by three horses each, while two lighter horses
worked the “Buckeye” binder with equal ease.
The decision of the judges was based on j the
ollowing scale of points :
The judges (Metre. A. Kinkaid, II. Wilkinson
J. Grieve, J. MTntjre, and J. M‘Guinness) Ihus
awarded the “Buckeye” the first prize, with the
maximum number of points; Hornsby seeond,
with 13; and M'Cormick third with 37, adding
that the work performed w r as (he best they had
ever seen, and their deci-ion was cheered by the
farmers present.
rpiIE FUTURE OF NEW GUINEA.
The historian of the future, to whose lot it
may fall to write up New Guinea for the news-
papers of his day, w r ili be apt to compile a rather
comical account of it if left to his own devices.
The facts connected with the story of that
mysterious island are so scattered and discon-
nected up to date, th*t after the lapse of, s y,
another hundred years he will begin by wonder-
ing what the mischief Australia wanted with it
anyhow ; and why—after getting possession of a
\ iece of it —her whole army of land speculators
and syndicates failed to cut it up into snug
surburban building allotments before the Imperial
claw clutched it as a refuge for another consign-
ment of titled Tomnoddies, who had been through
the English divorce courts and had to be pro-
vided for somewhere at the cost of a credulous
people. If accident reveals to him the fact that
it was first annexed by Queensland as a political
dodge ; that Germany afterwards took as much
►as she wanted of the annexed portion ; that what
was left was annexed with great pomp
by Great Britain and Australia together, to show
that they were perfectly satisfied with the
arrangement; that many hundreds of lives were
sacrificed and many thousands of pounds spent
ver a series of years in keeping up this tinpot
farce of joint property-owners; and that, in the
end, it was left for Mr. Edward Stanhope to back
down on the agreement and back out of it al-
together because Australia declined to find money
enough to support some hundreds of English in
capables to misgovern it, and bleed her at the
same time —then this miserabie man, whoever he
i*iay be, will pause on the threshold of his work.
\s a purveyor of truth for ages to come—and all
historians are that —he will grasp the notion that
he has to unravel a tangled web of humbug and
deceit, which will tax both mental and physical
powers to the utmost. His researches will be
difficult, his dissapointments many, but he will
be sustained through all to a satisfactory termina-
tion by that wonderful elixir, Clausen’s Cham-
pagne Lager Beer, which is even now universally
pronounced to be the purest and most invigorat-
ing beverage for the brain or body-weary servant
of toil that h;is ever been brewed or heard of.
And it will still be the favorite drink in those
days as it is now and always has been since its
first introduction.
Weight sustained by vacuum —A big hat
on a masher’s held.
The Bulgarian throne is still vacant. We
nominate Beach. He can stop their row.
Sir Charles Lilley, Chief Justice of Queens-
land, hopes to see accused persons allowed to give
evidence. .
Sir Julius Yogel’s health is such that he
cannot live long. Sir Julius knows it, and says
so in public.
Oh ! Shemarbonee ! Society papers in
Melbourne will soon be run and read ODly by the
Children of Israel.
Says a Cooktown paper £< The Duke of
Sutherland added 4<2 to the population of the
colony.” The Duke is a steamer.
Angus Cameron stmds for Kiama against
Bruce Smi'h- Angus Cameron means Freetrade
and Parke?, Bruce Smith means Freetrade and
Independence.
In Cooktown (Q.) the Chinese municipal
vote holds the balance of power, so that the Mayor
THE CURLED DARLING OE THE CIVIL SERVICE.
AS HE IS REPRESENTED IN
“THE BULLETIN.”
AS HE REALLY IS.
is the choice of C'hinkies. There will soon probably
be a Chinese Mayor.
S. M.: “Have you anything to say?”
Criminal: “ Yes, your worship, this i* the fiftieth
time I’ve been up for vagrancy, and I thought that
perhaps we might now arrange a little jubilee.”
W. .1. Peall lias beaten all billiard records
w r ith a spot stroke break of 2413, at the London
Aquarium. This score was commenced one after-
noon, continued during the evening, and carried
over till the following afternoon. At its conclu-
sion, says the World, “Srir Robert Peel, unable
to contain himself, sprang towards the smiling
little player, and wrung his hand w th rapture
nd good fellowship.” What a picture ! The
notorious old roue who has devoted his hereditary
talents to devising r,ew dissipations—the man who
might have been Prime Minister, but preferred
the politics of night-houses—“unable to contain
himself ” over a billiard-break ! A sermon might
be preached about Peall and Peel. The one is the
son cf a publican. He smokes not, neither drinks,
but what his right hand found to do has been
done with diligence. The other is the handsome
son of the great Corn Laws Repealer, he has been
cut by his father’s former colleagues and given
himself over to systematic idleness. Since he was
Under Secretary for Ireland, and finally damned
his reputation, Sir Robert’s right hand has done
nothing more respectable than the arranging of
his cravat. The epitaph of this brilliant squan
derer of opportunities was written in the “Silliad.’j
a Once famous society satire :
“ Peelides, leader of the school
That dotes on Smallpage and believes in Poole” (fashion-
able London tailors).
It is to be hoped that Peall will play none the
worse for having “ wrung ” his hand.
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet roams tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60 i Hunter-street
Sydney.*
THE SAFEST AND BEST INTERNAL REMEDY.
It is safe to take Dr. Bell’s Bitters at any time, but to get
the best results, they should be taken on an empty stomach,
going to bed. It is well on the night you take them to eat
tittle or no supper. As no two people are affected precisely
the same by a like quantity of the same medicine, it is diffi-
cult to determine the dose, and it is something which must
be left to the discretion of the patients. We will say, though,
the average dose for an adult is from four to ten, according
to effect.
xhe British forces have successfully burgled
the Burmese ruby mines, and—hallelujah !—have
slaughtered a lot more of the irregular Burmese
soldiers, whom they arc pleased to call “ dacoits ”
(highwaymen).
£7OO is the nice little sum which a certain
Australian magnate will have to pay for the break
ages, &c., that occurred at the teetotal bachelor’s
dinner given by his son at a leading colonial hotel
prior to his marriage.
New South Wales’ brilliant win in the
Intercolonial Cricket Match with Victoria last
week is somewhat discounted by the fact that Mr.
Percy M‘Donnell, who scored 239, is a Victorian-
bred and trained batsman.
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —In March, 1788,
six soldiers were hanged in Sydney for at-
tempting to rob the Government Store. Could
ou not use your influence to induce the authori-
ties to hold over the execution of the six Mount
Bennie boys until the Centennial Year comes
round, that it may be shown how much more
civilized N.S.W. is now? Yours, &c., Fred J.
Muir, “ Waihola,” Darlirgliurst, 3rd January,
18S7,
-Astronomer Proctor “ feels further plea-
sure in Beach’s success because all accounts agree
in describing his stroke as precisely that which I
have advocated on theoretical grounds as the
stroke which must certainly be most effective for
the modern racirg craft—a strong grip at the be-
ginning, and the best part of the work done in the
first half of the stroke.”
Mrs. Grundy and the pilre though upper
ten of Melbourne will shortly have a sweet morsel
of scandal. Old age is supposed to be venerable,
but a certain young man of fashion had discovered
it to be adorable also ; for he was lately caught in
the very act of paying more than the usual com-
pliments of the season to a socie’y dame old
enough to be his mother.
l ' Ihe time may come when some Botany
Bay lacitus shall Tecall the crimes of an Kmperor
lineally descended from a London pickpocket, or
paint the valour with which he has led his New
Hollanders into the heart of China. At that
period, when the Grand Lama is sending to sup]
plicate alliance ; when the Spice Islands are pur-
chasing peace with nutmegs, when enormous
tributes of green tea and nankeen are wafted into
Port Jackson and landed on the quay's at Sydney',
who will ever remember that the sawing of a few
planks and the knocking together of a few nails
w ere once a serious trial of the energies and re-
sources of the nation ? When the history of the
colony has been attentively perused in the parish
of St. Giles, the ancient avocation of picking
pockets w'ill certainly not become more discredit
able from the knowledge that it may eventually
lead to the possession of a farm of a thousand
acres on the river Hawkesbury.”—Sydney Smith
in Edinburgh Review, ISO 3.
Certainly one of the most successful City Hotels, in respect
of nrst-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Chanlotte-pLace
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Wine !---Reliable Old Australian Wines, selected Wntages
for invalids, families, and connoisseuw. Only Sold bv
Hockings, 143 Pitt-street. *
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroy'ed by Mitchell’s Insect powder, fid., Is.
Is. 6d. ltigney, 141 King-street.


OVER EIGHTY THOUSAND
(82,560 COPIES)
Of ‘The Bulletin’ Printed Christmas Week
“ From Christmas Day till Wednesday is
a public holiday,” says a Queensland paper. A
spree is never completed in less than four days
there, and, as they only see 12 hours’ daylight in a
Bummer drunk, they call it one day.
Old Dryhasb, of Yowlamine station
(N.S.W.) is a Christian gentleman, but nowand
then he finds that some money can be made by
mustering on Sunday, so he tones down the im-
piety of the proceeding by reading prayers to the
men. His hands were bringing in fats on a recent
day of re9t, and at 11 o’clock Dry hash rolled up as
usual to lend a sacred character to the scene. The
men gathered round him on horseback, and he
had got as far as “We have done those things
which we ought not to have done”—when he
stopped to say, “ Peter, you gory fool, don’t you
see that—(consigned to Sheol) brute breaking
away there?” Then he was just starting again
when a cow skipped and her calf followed, and
Dryhash, seemingly quoVitg from the holy volume,
observed: “Here, you wretch, hold-the book
while I help that (shrivelled by lightning) mut-
ton-headed fool. You’re all a set of lazy br.’tes,
eating your gory heads off,” &c. There was a
chase, and the retreating beef was brought back
again, and then old Dryhash calmly took up the
parable where he had left off : “ And left undone
these things which we ought to have done, and 4
there is no good in us.” This patriarch’s services
are generally regarded as a success. They are
chock-full of pleasing and picturesque variety.
The Baron and the Shepherd.
A BALLAD TO BEWILDER.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Baron he sat in a studj brown,
In a study brown sat he,
Till the sun in the west sank slowly down
To his rest in the tranquil sea ;
But the brow of the Baron wore ever a frown,
And he murmured a big, Big D.
“ I have jewels and gold,” cried the Baron bold,
“And castles and lands galore ;
My family name is both honoured and old
(My ancestors waded in gore)—
But yon shepherd who driveth my ewes to fold
Is as as happy as I—ay, more.
“ For he singe th a song as he walketh along,
With never a thought of care,
I sigh at the sound of the banquet gong,
He enjoyeth his humble fare,
For his palate is clean and his pulse beats strong—
I’m a martyr to blank despair.
“ O ! to inherit that heirloom health,
Though born to a lowly lot,
Yon shepherd boy revels in priceless wealth
As he tramps to his humble cot —
Would that we twain could exchange by stealth
The treasures which each has got.”
The sunset reddened the ocean’s face
With a changeful crimson glow-,
But the Baron he sat in the same old place
And he rocked him to and fro'
last of his proud and ancient race
He w-as, we must let you know).
The cattle they low-ed on the distant hill,
The shadow-s swept o’er the lea,
Still he gazed on the landscape vast, until
No object his eye could s
The shriek of the night-bird was weirdly shrill,
But yet iii his chair sal he.
The shepherd he mused by the lone log fire
In his hut on the hillside cold ;
The bright gleams fell on his mean attire —
Most shockingly mean and old,
And stained with mire ; but he twanged his lyre
As, in basso, he gaily trolled.
“ O ! were I the Baron and he w-ere I,
For only a month or so,
With never a sorrow- and never a sigh—
Just wouldn’t I live ? Oh, no !”
And the tear-drop stood in the Shepherd’s eye
As he muttered the word “ Heigho 1”
“ I’d worry the servants and ride to hounds,
Or 101 l in my chair at ease ;
I’d have ’em at euchre for hundreds of pounds—
Also other delights like these.
Ah, to live in a castle where wealth abounds,
With only myself to please ! ”
The dark shades fell like a sombre cloak
Over ocean, and hut, and hill ;
While the shepherd indulged in a lonely smoke
All nature was hushed and still,
Save that, once in a way, on the silence broke
The splash of some restless rill.
•
The Baron still sat in his darkened room,
Nor spake he e’er a word;
And the spirit of Death stele through the
gloom—
No mortal his footfall heard.
He gazed at the Baron and breathed his doom
(In a moment this all occurred.)
To the hillside hut the spirit sped.
Swift as the w ind that blows,
And lo! in an instant the shepherd lay dead —
For Death has a scythe that mows
With unerring skill, as with purpose dread
To castle or cot he goes.
Baron and Shepherd are turned to dust—
Mere ashes, from which they came ;
For Death in his dealings is fair and just,
He lieedeth not rank or fame ;
The lowest, as w ell as the upper-crust—
He treateth them all the same.
Wild and weird is the night-bird’s screech,
The shadows fall o’er the plain ;
We sigh for the treasures we ne’er can reach,
And lose what we can’t retain—
Till one day the Mower comes round to each,
And sorrow's and joys arc vain.
Often we sit in a study brown,
As the sunset reddens the sea,
And the sands in our life-glass are running
down.
With a stealthy monotenee.
Oh, happy the Baron ! Oh, happy the c4owm !
Neither riches nor health have we.
THE MOUNT RENNIE EXECUTIONS.
Counsel Appeals to the Governor.
The following letter has been addressed by Mr.
T. C. G’Mara, barrister-at-law, to His Excellency
Governor Carington :
“ May it Please Your Excellency:—
“ At the late trial of the youths aceused and convicted of
participation in the Mount Rennie outrage .I appeared as
counsel on behalf of Robert George Read. At a critical
stage of the inquiry it became my duty to protest in open
court against the manner in which the trial proceeded, so far
as it affected my client. That protest I believe to be so well-
founded that I cannot rest content without prosecu-
ting it to the very last stage. Hence it is that I ad-
dress your Excellency, Be- is rarely that counsel obtrudes
upon the attention of the Executive that which he has
already had the opportunity of urging elsewhere, but there
are times when to be silent is a crime, and this I believe to be
eminently one of those occasions. To give a prisoner—par-
ticulaily one who is being tried for his life —a fair hearing, it
is not enough that the dry forms of our procedure, humane
as it is, be observed. The aceusedis entitled to much more. He
always receives much more. He is entitled to demand that
undue strain shall net be put upon the advccate in whose
hands he, so to speak, places his fife. He has a right to de-
mand that when his defence is submitted it shall not be
heard by a worn-out and jaded jury. He has a right to protes
that at an hour almost approaching to midnight on the fifth
day of a laborious and, to him, awful investigation, he should
not be called to enter on his last attempt to show a jury that
he should not suffer death, and for a most atrocious crime.
And when reminded of the value to the jurymen of their own
time he has a right to reply, as Read did through his counsel,
but without avail, that in the dete-initiation of an issue so
terrible to him the time of the jury is not for one moment to
be considered, except in so far as it belongs, forkhe moment,
wholly to him on the one side, and to the public, his accusers,
on the other. When the question is whether he is to die the
death of a cowardly ruffian, and when he asks, as he did, for
fair opportunity to show that he should not tedoonv dto such
a death, is it right, my lord, that he should le told that the
jury must not, if possible, be ‘kept over Sunday?’ And
is he to be further told that he has had a satis-
factory trial, when the mest solen n part of a
criminal proceeding, the judge's summing up, is delivered to
men almost drugged in sopie instances into a state of
stupor by the unreasonable exactions put upon the attention
which they were so anxioqs to bestow upon the case. Has
he not a right to demahcTthat from beginning to end of this
inquiry, so terrible in its consequences to him, his case should
be heard and decided by men whose faculties have never
slumbered for one single moment ? When before, my Lord,
in a British community, has it been seen or heard of, that jury-
men have slept, or rather, under pressure of nature, have bet n
compelled to sleep in open court duriDg an inqui-y so awful
in its character as to involve the lives of eleven men? And
yet it is a fact in this case jurymen did sleep—dead, at times,
in spite of themselves, to the very voice upon whose every
accent they were supposed to hang for guidance—that of the
presiding judge. It is demanded that Read be hanged be-
cause the crime in which he was alleged to have taken part
was unexampled in its atrocity. If that be so, then
let th ‘ care with which his guilt is proved, but,
above all, the patience with which his defence is heard,
be in proportion to the horrible nature of the charge levelled
against him. Do not tell him that those who try him must
not be ‘ kept over the Sunday.’ Do not tell him that he is to
make his last appeal for his life under circumstances which
compel him to make, and most justly, open and public pro-
test. Do not tell him that he was justly denied the request he
made, when he had been for five days in the dock, for a few
hours’ delay that the jury might again meet, refreshed and
more capable of giving that to which he was entitled as a
most sacred right the closest and most intelligent attention
to every one of the few feeble words that were about to be
uttered for the last time on his behaff. Do not tell him that
he was unreasonable when on the fifth day of a prolonged
and exhausting trial —a trial without precedent almost in the
number of men accused, without precedent in its awful
claims upon the attention of all concerned in it, because it
was without precedent in the nature of the crime charged,
he asked at 12 o’clock at night that those iq whose hands he
had placed himself—his counsel and the jury—might have
a few hours’ rest. He asked this favour, my lord, and asked
it, I regret to say, in vain. If there is anything, as your Ex-
cellency well knows, by which British criminal procedure is
nobly distinguished from that of other countries it is by its
humane and jealous protection of the rights of an accused
person from the moment of charge to that of conviction.
And this protection is mercifully extended to him, and not,
my lord, as some people appear to think, withdrawn from
him, in proportion to the enormity of the offence of which
he is accused.
“ Some years ago, when the community, terror-stricken by
the prevalence in our midst of a crime now happily extin-
guished, demanded the blood of an unhappy young man,
Sir James Martin addressed to one of your predecessors, on
behalf of the cause o» calm and temperate justice, a stirring
remonstrance which time has, *1 believe, more than vin-
dicated. I wish I could in the same noble language depre-
cate the unreasoning anger which in some quarters clamours
for the blood of Read, and which, because an awful outrage
has been committed, will only be t ppeased by a victim. It
is terrible that the daughters of our people should suffer out-
rage, but it is only less to be deplored that the passion there-
by justly excited should forget (as it appears to me to have
done in this case) the serenity with v hich English law loves
to deal out its just'pe—particularly to those unhappy beings
who are called upon to answer for their lives.
“ I have nothing further to address to your Excellency on
the merits of the case. As it concerns Read, it would be an
impertinence for me to speak if your Excellency is of opinion
that the manner in which he has been tried represents the
true spirit of that which we are all bound to vindicate, and
on behalf of which I haye presumed to address your Lcrdship
—British justice.
“ I have the honour to be, my Lord,
“ Ycur most obedient servant,
1 T. C. O -Mara.”
Mr. Dailey has appealed to the Governor of New
South Wales for the commutation of the Mount
Rennie sentences of death. So, it is believed, has
Sir Henry Parkes.
4
Perrotti and Gammonisi, two Italians,
went to fight a duel at N«wtown (N.Z.) with
knives. Gammonisi wanted the other fellow’s
daughter, and the latter objected. The duel was
a fiasco. Gammonisi is a good name in a fizzle.
“The petitioners for the reprieve hold a
brief for the condemned. The daily Press of the
city hold one for the community,” says the Globe.
Why didn’t the Globe frankly admit that the
Sydney evening Press holds a brief for the hang-
man ?
Last yoar in Queensland 410 persons or
firms were declared bankrupt as against lot, 108,
168, 245, and 247 during the five preceeding years,
and more estates went into liquidation than in all
the five previous years put together. One man
failed for £346,967, and a Chinaman “went up”
for £41,891.
“ The Protestant Church, with its Sabbata-
rian bigotry, leagued and united with the hang-
man, mutilated and disfigured by the ravages of
filthy vice, in a mighty Christian brotherhood of
blood! Imposing climateric!” —Bailey’s Sunday
News. “ The mawkish clergymen who adjure
other folk to forgive but never forgive anything
thanseivcs, just as they adjure other people to
give though they never give anything themselves.”
— Sunday Times. Queer, isn't it 1
Same old yarn that has done duty since
the deluge. London Life says :
“Rupert Carington, to the regret, it may without exag-
geration be said, of the whole of society, left London last
week for Australia, and will nass the winter with Lord
Carington, at Sydney. Mr. Caiington is going out to
‘ economise a little '—the pace having been rather hot
lately.”
The British swell never ventures to'assert that he
he travels to improve his mind. He only goes
out —haw —to that beastly place to economise,
don’tcherknow.
Rushworth (Vic.) possesses the worst lock-
up There’s scarcely a J.P., or
indeed any man of consequence round the district,
who has not a habitual code in de doze and a
plaguy rheumatic twitch in his spine caused by
the leaky state of its roof. The oldest resident
lately died in this crazy underground tank, and
the whole population of Rushworth is up in arms
demanding a more commodious and comfortable
dungeon. They are right. The prison that w-ould
kill an oldest resident must be quite unfit for re-
spectable people.
A Sydney D.T. correspondent suggests
that the Protestant churches should celebrate the
Jubilee by a grand amalgamation into one sect.
If he had thought for a moment ho would have
discovered that such a thing is impossible. The
very existence of a church involves formulated
doctrines, and so long as doctrines exist there
must always be hostile sects. The only po?sible
basis for amalgamation would exclude all doctrine,
thus learning the politicians of religion no cause of
division. Such a basis just now seems further
off than ever in view of the split among the
Anglicans.
That grand mining-property, the Comet
claim, Mavtown, Palmer River, North Queens-
land, has been floated in the London market for
£125,000. Tnis is how the money goes :
Cash £30,000
Paid-up shares ... ... 30.000
Brokerage ... ... 40,000
To w r ork mine ... ... 25,000
Brokerage, £40,000 ! But even that’s nothing.
We know of one company lately floated in Lon-
don for£2oo,ooo, out of which acertain noble duke
took £33,000 and a certain noble general £33,000
prom o tion - money.
A little sermon by “ Dagonet” :
“The Death of poor Fred Archer might with grim realism
be d,escribtd as a sporting event, bu’ it has a pathetic human
interest which extends far beyond its sporting surroundings.
If I had to write an essay on the subject I should call it
The Moral of the Winning Mount.’ It is a moral which
conies home tn us all, for we aie all jockeys, we are riding
races all our lives, and we too often sacrifice health and
happiness and the choicest of fife’s blessii gs in the process
of training down to the requisite weight. For how many of
us would it be fai better if our winning mounts were fewer!
What use is all the wealth and ail the fame wten the con-
tinuous struggle leaves no time for the enjoyment of either?
To many a profess'onal man, lighting the i erce fight to keep
in front, the story of Archer’s fafe com s home with
Nasmyth-hammer force. There are plenty of us rich,
successful, envied by the world, whose lives are void of all
delight, who know i either rest nor peace, and who pay a
penalty for success which makes the deadest of Dead Sea
fruit of that which locks so ripe and tempting to the eye.
It is a picture to gaze upon again and again—the picture of
the world-f »m»d rider, the adored of duchesses and dukes,
the darling of the mob, the spoiled child of Fortune, rolling
in wealth, alone and unrivalled at the head of hia profession.
Thepictuie is painted in harsh and glaring colours—there
are no shades, no mellow tints. The hero starves with
thousands at his banker's; with all the means for ease and
luxury, he endures torture and privation ; with the means of
gratifying every wish, he is a prey to grief and anxiety; in a
moment of madness and despair he ended his life. It is the
moral of the winning mount, and it should make the losers
more contented with their lot. Better to walk it with the
crowd again and again than pay the price which the law of
compensation demands for keeping at the head of the
winning jockeys of the year. O. this race for wealth and
fame and neglect of all the pure gold of life in the endeavour
to grasp the glittering false coin ! I never read of the death
of a great man in his prime from over-work but I think of
some verses written by a friend of mine in “The Dagonet
Ballads. ’ apropos of Le Quart d’Heure de Rabelais—p.iy-
t’me. The last two verses, if I remember rightly, are:—
‘ Who counts the cost when parsing by,
In all their vernal beauty,
The cool sequestered nooks that lie
Along the path of duty ?
Our joyless eyes on ear'h we bend
Through all the p'easant May time,
Till Winter meets us at the end
And croaks that it is pay-time.
Who counts the cost when straight ahead
The golden goal is gleaming?
Let every aim but that lie dead,
All others worthless deeming.
Toil on, toil on, from morn till eve,
Through night, and n ion, and day-time,
Till broken health shall pluck your sleeve,
And Death proclaim it pay time.’”
The National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia (Limited.)
A few weeks ago the seventeenth annual general
meeting of the National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia (Limited), was held, and the report
submitted showed an extremely satisfactory state
cf things for this notable Australasian Institution.
This condition of affairs is doubly satisfactory. It
shows first a capable management of an influen-
tial and wealthy institution, in which the people
place their hopes as well as their money, and
secondly it illustrates the steadily growing provi-
dent character of the Australian people. Looked
at from every point of consideration, life assur-
ance is a man’s first imperative duty, and it im-
parts such wide and general benefits that the day
cannot be far distant when life assurance will
cither be made general or politically compulsory.
The premiums are now so low apd so accommodat-
ing that sufficient to assure a man’s life for £2OO
or £5OO can be saved from even the artizan’s wage.
The risk of life is gr c at. We all run this risk at
work, or walking, or iiding, in travelling by cab,
rail, or steamer ; by the thousand and one diseases
or complaints which effect humanity. Yet whfle
we run this risk and while we hive wives ar.d
children dependent! n us, there are thousands of us
without the slightest provision against distress.
It is true—and this is the most telling feature in
the history of the Australasian people—that life
assurance is becoming every day more popular ;
men and women are awakening to their respon-
sibilities, and thousands of families who were
cnce at the mercy of misfortune are now secured
against it. A great deal of this new business has
been done with the National Mutual Life Associa-
tion, which, despite the great wave of trade de-
pression which has made the past year ever
memorable, has issued 4G82 new policies for a
total buslnes of £1,080,102. This must be re-
garded on all hands as very satisfactory, and as
showing that wide public confidence has been won
by the Association as a souEd and liberal Life
Assurance Institution. It deserves to be re-
marked that the National Mutual was the first
office in the world to apply the surrender value of
life policies in paying the premiums. This very
generous principle has done much to proclaim the
character of the National Mutual as really an
institution for the people. By means of this prin-
ciple a man’s payments made when he has money
stands him in good stead when he happens to run
short. Previously* when a man was unable to
pay his premiums all his previous payments w-ere
lost and he was no longer insured. Not so now.
His previous payments keep him going till he is
able to pay again. Altogether, the National
Mutual Association last year had 6311 pro-
posals for life assurance, and 4177 were
accepted or completed. In addition to these
205 Children's Endowment Policies amounting to
£31,975 were issued The increase in these latter
policies for children is a most satis f aotory feature
of the Association’s business. During the year
146 deaths occurred which, with bonus additions,
and endowments, absorbed payments to the
amount of £40,592. And yet after paying these
claims and all ether expenses, the large sum of
£92,441 14s. 7d. was added to the funds, thus in-
creasing them to £573,379. The extent of the
business done by the National is well shown by
the fact that the annual income at the close of the
year amounted to £212,081 7s. Id. There could be
no better proof of care'ul good management on
the one hand and large increasing public confi-
dence on the other. The policy adopted by the
directorate of adding so largely to the funds of
the Institution cannot be too highly commended.
It is worth noting that the new business men-
tioned as done was only the result of eleven
months’ speculations, owing to the new business
book being closed a month earlier than usual,
yet the accounts show twelve months’ expendi-
ture as usual. The actuarial department of the
Association are now engaged in a valuation of
the policies prior to a division of the profits for
three years ending 30th September, 1886, and a
satisfactory report is expected for the new year.
A great deal of this success of the National is un-
doubtedly its principle of business and its
management, which at one and the same time are
liberal and conservative—liberal in principle in
regard to the policy-holders and conserva' ive in
management as far as economy in the whole
working of the institution is concerned. In New
South Wales and Queensland the National Mutual,
owing to its soundness and its youth and conse-
quent light advantages, is making steady strides
and is fast becoming one of the institutions of the
people—the men identified with the respective
Boards being known men of shrewdness and in-
tegrity. The directors in Sydney are Mr. Edward
Chisholm, Mr. Alfred C. Garrick, Dr. Andrew
Houison, and Mr. Robert Saddington, the resident
secretary being Mr. Henry C. Evans. The offices
are at 32 Hunter street. The Queensland Board
consists of the Hon. Sir Arthur Palmer, K.C.M.G ,
the Hon. Justice MeiD, the Hon. Alexander Raff)
M L.C., Mr. George W. Gray, the resident secre-
tary being Mr. Alfred S. Bean. The offices are
150 Queen-street, Brisbane.*
THOSE TRAMS AGAIN.
To the Editor.
Sir,—No one can travel half an hour in our
clean tramcars without a grievance. Either
somebody tramples on his toes, or the conductor
is too surly or too fresh. Ifthe car is crowded he
is obliged to hang on the platform and get
squeezed against the rail, all the time haunted by
the horrible suspicion that somebody is picking
his pocket. There is a certain class of citizens
who are very disagreeable fellow-passangers on a
street car. They are a loud-talking, grinning,
boisterous lot, one of whom will not hesitate to
bellow an anecdote of how he got the best of a
brother dealer in the matter of 50 cases of over-
alls over a stranger's shoulders, and in regard to
pushing and jostling these ruffians are particularly
violent and forward. The only method of self-
vindication is to tramp on their toes. They are
nearly all martys at the corn and bunion shrine,
and when this punishment is properly administered
they will have no voice for anything but dismal
groans during the rest of the journey. The ladies
often distinguish themselves in the nuisance line.
If, when standing up and hanging on to the
straps, an unfortunate citizen chances to bump
against them they favor him with a ferocious
“ tell-my - big - brother - and - have - you - licked ”
glance, making no allowance for the awkwardness
of his position. Some read the papers and tickle
your ribs with their elbows, or suddenly choke
with laughter as they fall across one of the funny
advertisements of Summerficld and Company, the
well-known tailors and great juvenile outfitters,
235 and 237, Pitt-strcet who are showing start-
ling lines in boys’ school suits, at 7s. 6d. and
Bs. lid. Pretty drill washing sailor suits, blue
collars and cuff's, all sizes. ss. lid. for big boys
and youths, tailor’s-made suits from 21s. to 355.
I am, Sir, your brother-in-arms,
. laugh again.
The Climate of Victoria. —From its geo-
graphical position Victoria enjoys a climate far
more genial to Europeans than any other Colony
within the Continent of Australia, consequently
Consumption and many other chest affections do
not prevail there to the same extent as ia othe.r
parts. The popularity which Freeman s Original
Chlorodyne ha? obtained by the Colonists in the
treatment of Consumption, Bronchitis, Astmathic
affections, Croup, and Whooping cough, evidence
the sincere3t desire on their part to second the
great boon that Nature has granted them, by treat*
ing these diseases the moment the symptoms
evidence themselves. Insist upon having “Free-
man’s ’’ only. Trade mark, an Elephant,—Whole-
sale Agents For Victoria, Rocke, Tomfsiit &
Co., and obtainable from all chemists.


William Walter Chick, evt 14, of Ellalong,
near Maitland, was a youth whose keen sense of
honour would have certainly caused him many
hours of misery had he lived to succeed to man’s
estate. A few days ago he was accused by his
uncle (Mr. ) of some improper behaviour with
his cousin, a little girl about five years of age.
The boy protested his innocence, and declared he
would shoot himself. This being taken as a mere
bit of boyish bounce, the lad was not watched,
but he kept his word and shattered his skull the
same night.
Apropos of Dr. Creed’s motion for a Select
Committee on the registration of births, deaths,
and marriages in N.S.W., the following is a very
sample of the orthography of some of the midwives’
certificates submitted !
this is to crivete that i Ann Cea-'th of No 10 Kent steels
(lid derele the Wife of Burent Hopckd 25 day October of a
feamley child prlum'anly bern. „
Aar Charsth.
Another lady member of the Sairey Gamp profes
sion evidently graduated at the same night school.
She officially writes :
I’gh Mrs. Stinand Mid Wife confined Mrs Jandan of a still
Bawn I’eamie child on the first of Apurial 1886.
The spelling of “ Apurial” is very suggestive of
the subsequent burial of the “still Bawn child.”
and by the way, it is also proved that on j ust such
a certificate as the above, a child was recently
buried at Rookwood as “ still Bawn,” who was
afterwards proved to have lived for two month 3 . ’
T
HKA T R E
ROYAL.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ENORMOUS SUCCESS.
THE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION
THE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING.
Terminating in time for Suburban ’Buses, Trains,
or Trams.
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
Sydney Christmas Card,
THE GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY,
or Harlequin Mother Goose and the Seven
Champions.
Prices as usual.
JOE. BROWN, Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
COME AND SEE THE ATTENDANCE
EVERY EVENING.
THE ALHAMBRA HUNT CLUB PICNIC
is CROWDED with SPECTATORS eager to par-
take of the good things provided by the caterer to
this Variety Company.
Miss LETITIA RILEY joins the Company for the
first time.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
Is; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACIIED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
s
TRASBURG
CLOCK.
APOLLO HALL, \
Kidman’s-buildings, Market-street.
Open daily, frorii 2to 5 and 7to 10.
FIFTH WEEK FIFTH WEEK
GENUINE AND MERITED SUCCESS
Of the most
POPULAR EXHIBITION in SYDNEY.
The Wonderful Astronomical and Apostolic
CLOCK of STRASBURG.
The l)e»ial of Peter. The stealthy visit of Satan.
GRAND DIORAMIC PROCESSION.
OF THE 12 APOSTLES EVERY 15 MINUTES.
The Model is 12 feet high and G feet wide, being
one-fifth the size of the original, clock.
Admission Is. children Gd.
C. JAMESON, Proprietor.
WM. GIFFETT, Agent,
r
HURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “ Lipp Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
rjpilE RICKAIIDS-LEETE COMPANY.
Mr Hsrry Rickards, Australia’s Universal Fa-
vorite, supported by his powerful Company of 12
London Specialty Artists will open Launceston
Academy of Music, Monday, Dec. 27; Melbourne,
Ballarat, Sandhurst, to follow. Academy of
Music, Launceston, TO LET, from Jan. 10. Ad-
vance Agent, Mr. Sydney Hall ; General Manager,
Mr. Philip Stuart.
MAP SHOWING PASTORAL HOLDINGS.
MAP of New South Wales showing the
division of Pastoral Holdings on a scale of
miles to an.inch is now ready for issue, and can
obtained at the Sale of Maps-Branch, Surveyor-
neral’s Office, Gresham-streeff. Sydney. Price,
i. per copy. \ \
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS.
Surveyor. General.
Surveyor-General’s Office, \
Sydney, 21th December, 1886. ,
[THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869). ,
dd-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C. \
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Ooßford, Nyn-
g au, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and' Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street,
f London Bankers: The National Provincial Bank of
England.
£
he climax of perfection
MONTSERRAT
lime fruit juice sauce.
SOLD EVERYWHEF.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
Cairns and Herberton Railway — Section t.
TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
—in accordance with Plans, ?ections, Drawinga,
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbane, on and
after MONDAY, the 15th day of November,
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor-
mation can be obtained.
Tenders, e-ndorred “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail-
way," must be deposited at the Office of the Com-
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the 14 day of January, 1887.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
JOHN NOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL MALL,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEORG-E STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bithursb Streets.
[Established 1860.]
Ths Place for Bargains in EARTHENWARE
TOWN FOLK
Walk there.
COUNTRY FOLK,
Write there.
GLASS WARS
CHINA
CUTLERY
FURNITURE
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
CARPETS
FLOORCLOTHS
The best fLocked Emuorium in Australasia is
LAWLER’S, wnere everything wanted in a house
or about a house may be hsd at prices within the
reach of a' l . No puffing, or professing to supply
goods for nexr to nothing, but value simply un-
precedented, and if it is not so, then none need
buy. Manufacturer and wholesale importer,
turning over in the lines above-named as much
as all the other houses put together. Value and
straightforwardness, civility and promptness at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“TRIUMPH” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Everybody \PFME T T ’ Q
SHOULD USEJ I L 111 H L L O
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PLOUK!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE jis VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
d3l Ocnßoit-KTRicrT Svnwn
The only place where
pipes are Satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Buy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL. 1 Little Collins
Street, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dolorkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
I his Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
IoS agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street only.
PROVIDENCE
Heteelheoe who help themselvee. Nature has provided
h mo4 tor the oure of human ailments, and medioal
eoUnoS has discovered their healing powers, and the
wreper eombrnations necessary to conquer disease,
the result of these discoveries and combinations is—
Dr. BELL’S BITTERS.
FOr mamj years it has been tested in severe cases at
Kidney and liver Diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, In*
(hgestton, Weakness, Lassitude, A.c., and invariably it
has given relief and oure. Thousands of testimonials
known.
given, and is most' popular where best
DAILY AND HOURLY EVENTS.
Momdmohr. The stomach is disordered. Cleanse
end settle it with Dr. Bell’s Bittern
Indiar»tion. —Start the Seorstiens of the
with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
fwundlee— Blood poisoned by Bile. OerreeS the
liver by using Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
Bwse •/ ApprtUe. The Stomach is failing. First
OMmseit; then tone jvith Dr. Bell’s Bimrs.
Torpidity.— lnaction of Liver. Start it op with
pc. BeU's Bitters.^*
Reaction of BUe. Correct Stemaoh and
liver with Dr. BeU’s Bitters.
jCoinri<*. —Poison in the Blood. Purify ky etarttng
tie Uver with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
jf&rvouMnooa. —Deranged Stomach Fnnotlen. Oer
saot 'and tone with Dr. Bell’s' Blttera.
Fieki §w«ato. —Weakness. Strengthen and tone
Ibe system with Dr. Bell’s Bitters.
jfora.—Any poor Psrson, or the Manager ef any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s. Borne, may obtain
ibo Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
f the Gospel, oertifying that they are unable to pay
k medicine.
BELL'S BITTERS
Manufacturing Company,
wwm YORK, LOHBOB, CANADA,
PSW HAIAKD A AUSTRALIA.
I9TGHBR, FEHON & CO., Sydntj
Asm pen
Wwm Baath Waiaa and
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15a.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
IHK BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADB,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
c
*
* 4.
mm
f
MANUFACTURES
b IMPORTERS OF
hats Taps k
r — wr.- . xq/. *
438 CE„Q RCE ST
SYDNEY
fyrposi te McLssttCert
$
\jso
IB 1 E 3ST IDT E L 31. ■y ’ S
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
IS
263 to 209 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
• Q ORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
T. GAYKOS
Schnapps and Genovtf.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. For
terms, &0., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
rjIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GKORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able termsj, at rates which can be ascertained on
application".
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHa¥eMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
|> M . RILEY
" *'• (late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Rusiness Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
Dontidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of budh,
Damage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
In the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Mew Zealand, and established agenoies in all parts of the
dolv. he Is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
•xrtoitLn and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
attend to all business entrusted to h care.
fuD
OLPHO WOLFES
&X
SON
17CREMUN JjLC^ 7 s y /??
tyMßu C/ne/i
e#/< /w?/aauz s<?/2tce<^
tfe Qsweafoome'.
S-KMeAd &a£
ILLUSTKATION (in reduced size) of £,\ Order Co be to«nd la the
■LARGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.


VASELINE.
H
/
ORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
„ge assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
entlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
idlers’ Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
OLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLEI
IRONMONGERS,
b YORK ST., SYDNEY
A* 5 "
A v
t> v
i
SMITH & SON,
nufacturers and Importers
ATS CAPS,
302 v GEjO*IVG.E STREET,
3 Doors. Hunter-street.
L /HOL t&M MANUFA^TURI
CONFECTIONER
4-ZO George,
jSYD&JPY
JANES STEDHAN
Steam w<JrVs,Kent s t wear ErMine S t
}**♦s OH' W, <****>
'vo ft of n off SMOfrrdsr mcnct
yovrrntY 4 StffrrtKC ' Omptks fljjQßffif
it?
%
/ .
SINGER
ani Cb.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
363 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
T"E
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
•r nj
AND ALL CHEST AFHECTIONS
~ prCParl'o onlyßy ' <3
Thomas InSHam*
QQKHA M P T O
F.
R
A
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
' fragrance.
Three Gold Merabs—
PAIUS.IS7B; CAI’.GCTTA-jWI,
for preeminent excellence of quality
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
Jp l fp N &xfc“ G
and •ther well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lorMnsirOelightfifland lasttngedour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed tor its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to tire numerous
compounds sold under the same name
Of all lhalera, and of Ihe Manufacturers—
J & K ATKINSON,
21, OtrD Bond Street, London
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose'' on“ Golden
Lyre "
50RNILL0N & CO., Wine and Spirit
Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
a Sale —
ikies & Co. celebrated Whiskle
temy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, in
ilk and cases
i. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
art, &c.
.unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &c., &c.
C NEW SOUTH PROPERTY
ESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
[ Capital, £lOO,OOO.
fcerost as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
I)sitB for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
■ ARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
■ sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
layable on demaud. Offloes, 4 Park-st
1 J. V. WARHEAM, Manager
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS,
BEDSTEADS ALIN'D) IB IE ID ID I IN'Gh.
THE NEW FURNITURE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
p-.-.v, _ ,v lit tsTH m t * * f* a. <>.'(€>.'caKS^'v 7
o-i «'■' '‘°ix : i't ■
B§k->^
- -S* "*•'■ it-
&
0;
r :y- J ’(t ?.jr i c ; k,
i.O ‘ ppp - V
!«;
m
1 'c
*•/*!
L - --;
lM A?
(t?)
“ i
■fa
li '|<%* 01
i
O
.] pAa* »r
-■>
4r~_ A
£
-AS
If?
r
a.:
v.<?i=
.YeCrS
i)' 1 ?
;■ .In -
%*v
;i.r),
IP- • r <p
s/rffM
wse®
BE?
it
piss
I!
mm
c 3
I
i r- *i m
irfi
ns®
a
'jt'
-*
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE.
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
2ST ZEE A DrL HUNTER STREET.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
ro WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs from 2
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
(CENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Iftnff Marker
T I- £ <8
Manufacturing hatter
GEORGE: STREET
SYDNELY
?k3O
NEWEST SHAPES.
C'i
1 f at QUKKN STREET, BRISBANE.
a
g
*•
a
r ■ ->
lAursmn
4 u iUiinJ
Peerless
filcss.
■O?rrow,
VIENNA,
I ifcassßy H M)
lit }, st blacks nd
ftfMw Lifts’ui
SllUru’i Blit*
Sim, Saftsn ni
litcfal* iltl Ml
fcratftaj. Uvifl
gfm salWictl*
baaoßaitia
ITUIAUL"
G.JL. H AUTH A WAY * SOMt
Ul * Ul
M&N. U.B.A
LILAS
JTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Btreet,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match cos
tame* Hepalrs neatly executed
WJ O H N S O N,
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
GAUGING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES
M
ONUM E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on requas
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Mab>-arbt-strbet, Wynward square. Sydhbt
S
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
aHAUi
N MV
TREATMENT' 1
Dr. E. C. West's Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Pres t rat ion, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobaceo, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month's treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes T* cure ANY case. With each order le-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET BTREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any ease of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West's Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White .Swelling, Felons, Chilblainsf
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Prior Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY. CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
JgR AD LET, NEWTON, & WA,M 8,,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE 5
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS’
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS.-
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CURVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, aU
Cmatch.
lv:.
Sideboards of modem
designs and various dimen
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY,
WALNUT, ASH, and CEDAR.
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, »
O’Conne and Spring Streets.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
£35
PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome ease.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
a
WALNUT FALL.
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, comma
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets. 7
CHIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective designs.
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
r
Ct
t_L
Q
0
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
FURNITURE WaRKHOCSKMKN
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
C E
CHESTS
all sizes,
From 275.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any'material.
Excelsior upright
improved
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes,
From 455.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
s
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
Bedsteads, an sizes
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates?
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. *
SPRING MATTRASSKF
Woven Wire, bes
make; also, Spiral Sprin?
Price, from 14s. each.
BRADLEY. NEWTON an* LAMP.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Diawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s,
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMP


It/s runi'OurecC
rfi-a/' k-TK/\CKTZIXS
ctre To /^/oorZecl.
/n-fi SrTc TsrectTJßnfa/y
/ar 7Ae/>o<.r/>o*e of
Turr/z /nG o/-0 ur/j
v j
/yrjo/S- z ('o & ct - 9 roUn s) e
u/sy zytt-R, <^ e ”T- Ct y tovf’f
Jurr'/rLether , Tu-rn^eC
X. tie Zoofsfojscccefcarae^
fc> os e on - u $ ■
office or
Assisted Fmicrat!
SlrCooDuN- /fin- Jerry To
' S'/ct/e. aQccirL y ou YofiU ?rve on ACecoy<ictrs
you. toe re /o cfcOear Off " I
Af/' <Z)a duN /? n jo T dense cftOore Cf/cf off /' e I
oz 7/vctn- cc c/iarzee 7oyetod'r /css/)fyearly c/run f~ Cantye/” I
g € '/ fa tdorK a-$ ci it, . c 5-7-09.
\ <6ore;{
I fie ctnfj / m^ tchhtio^
IST /6 Pack To TusJrafia
/b ffi/stf ' To
rz
yfe £ CC rfosf'7/e 7?t&fi(s77Cert‘' S
" 5 -S' //?_ r * * K before
/~foe <S <&u/?e r-r/sto/2. Ac f Cam
/sy/c, Qfy> ec f Cccsf cSc(7ur-(lct.y
/foe f/ Azrfs of Z/ie /CLe/ro/befo/ct rt /oo\
(/C e c/tSJr/cfo, <J/cz/&e rz/yAp nc/ ct n/~ ofo foofoc € /c.
CCcZerecZ ccffo Acztzc/S /& Zfo-e /& <-* zn/jj. ,
Some Bright Ideas.
