

The Bulletin
CIRCULATION greater than that of any weekly in the southern hemisphere.
WA.IiTHA.ni WATCHES!
THE MAR YET,S OF THE AGE.
i* ALCOCK, Agent, Haymarket, Sydney, receives his consignments of Watches from the Manufacturers, Waltham, Mass&-
ig U.S.A., and they consequently reach the Australian public at only a trifle over manufacturers’ wholesale prices. There
a ddre See * handling. Three years’ printed guarantee given w\th each watch. A Waltham can now be sent per parcel l * post t@ sfeiy
88 111 Australasia, and T. M. Alcock, the Waltham Agent, accepts all risk till the watch is safely delivered.
r SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET OF WATCHES, SPORTING TROPHIES, &e.
Alcock, Jeweller, Waltham Watch Agent, Haymarket, Sydney
£5
er Quarter.
CHbBLAJTBTXT'OOI D IRRIGATED
5 ACRE
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers,
96 PITT STEEET, S"2'IDiTE"Er-
PAMPHLET, PLAN, AND PARTICULARS FORWARDED FREE.
HUNTER’S BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
■ The Largest, Cheapest, and Best-selected Stock of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
e Quality Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gei/tlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
lilies, &c., will here find the Stock of Boots larger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ Reaper.
an inspection of the quality and comparison of the prices is specially inyitkd.
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
GEORGE A XI) MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
The public are requested to note that John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
Brothers’ 22nd Great Semi-Annual Sale of Drapery & Clothing
now commenced at the New Premises, GEORGE and BATHURST STREETS, and at OXFORD STREET.
W great SEMI-ANNUAL SALES at RILEY BROTHERS are a fact. They are the regular half-yearly result of the
K* kl] ig of the system which has built up the phenomenal business of this firm. Every half year Riley Brothers re-sto#k their various
Wl IlC^'es ’ what i s disposed of at the half-yearly sales are not old goods but the residuum of the previous stock, and the whole
bin*? 06 beared at manufacturers’ prices. The Half-yearly Sale now commenced will give every householder in Sydney a rare oppor-
HihY ok sav ing money The stock for sale includes Calicoes, Sheetings. Dress Materials, Mantles, Millinery, Underclothing, Laces,
W °. ris > Cloves, Hosiery, Damasks, Prints, Men’s and Boys’ Clothing. RILEY BROTHERS have never before offered such
in each department.
_ RILEY BROTHERS.
Anglo-Australian Investment, Finance and Land Company, Limited.
Capital - £500,000 | Subscribed Capital
HEAD OFFICE : 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
£250.000 | Reserve Fund - £40,000.
I BANKERS : UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
To Receive Money on Deposit j To Make Advances on Freehold and Leasehold Securities ; To Invest in Freehold and Leasehold Property,
RATES OF INTEREST.
Deposits at Cap, without notice, 5 per cent. ; Deposits at 3 months, 6 per cent, j Deposits a± 6 months, 7 per cent. ; Deposits at 12 months, 7 ‘ per ee*t.
or n CURRENT ACCOUNTS BEARING INTEREST.
tawing Accounts are also opened with trading firms and private persons, according to the usual practice of Bankers, but with the important exception that interest is allowed on the daily
balance at sie rate of lIYE IMR ©ENT. per annum. These aecounts are operated-on by cheque-books, obtainable at the Office of the Company.
WILLIAM CLARKE, Manager.


AftK for COLONIAL-MADE
"WIR E
PKOOF
Oto/V/
©/V i
Netting!
BRAND.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BEOS., BIGG ft CO., 1
IRONMONGERS,
M ACHIEVER Y MERCHANTS,
518 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
O
VJ
o
s
IRONMONGERS
512
X
<p
o.
<9,
RES?
NT
H
9
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, ADjq Carta Light
BLECTRO-PLATED WARS, CUTLERY, TOO&S.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &C., &0.
imTnii
\£enpj£g W, P™ ZZ, ‘9NMSIJ
FLEMISH'S
■MAULS
BUGKMBS
misrr OHKAMS
STYLE,
quality,
u 4
HNIBH,
Dm by Aix the
mifr CttAwnu.
HOT H«W i
HFT HOW
,
k 2%:-
47 f ' r3} W<»_-‘~;\«g“§‘-;:;¢;§¢: .,‘_ J- -.:_ - ~
' :‘f ‘ ' 7-- K", " 553‘ V f}??? f:
E * ‘ J3. * C at” *i‘ MW“ $~ >1.
"lk ' . ‘. .1. {ﬂ‘K‘if’kl I f, “'z‘ 3?. ﬁ“ ‘ '_
é: I‘XMZ, _ \ R "I“ [171/ ‘L:‘"., 2533.":‘33 ‘. 1:; R.
=5 ‘Z‘zméﬁilll- \‘ . P". ‘ ,7; 3 ‘4" .
~ “ﬂ -‘bf'fw’ “h‘ :.J ' -'. ‘ -v .t. 0.. ..L
.‘c ' In\ V ‘ﬁ‘ﬂﬂ, aﬂm “4‘“ 5.‘ {I ‘3 ‘ ,
" 3 , , "15.4 :bé‘iinlﬁ {‘(‘1‘ -,{ i“
" ‘ 2 W I ‘ * . :_ w. a
1%“ 3:. “ ~_ ‘1 31‘ Ant," H AV."I"$0~.:‘~"\' "
m. “3+- " “ \w
F _ ..';—:_. ~. . . k f ,
R‘q—ér; d, ‘V
'ﬁt‘ ‘:._—‘-—=-—‘=§ ' ”‘
117—3513 u .
”L7; ‘T.;_~‘-..3.\L
FLEMING’S
WASBWSS
AND
Harness,
SfrooiaHy Injpoofeed
to suit
CQLONIAfc
MBQUnUBMHN'fiB.
WAGGON#,
with Side Spring*.
WAGGONS,
with LTkotto.
WAGGON#
an#
KAKKBSS
tor all pwaposes.
Call and lijprgCT
fMlHiimitiinrffpnffiitnfMUmufiTtinrnt
ANUFACTURERS
G#IMKSY*HfP/
AND
7ftCA£l£
xp/Mfm
mm
smmmum
infi
II IB
head Office & Factory. Newtown
Branch. Gsoatt Sydney
iHj&kng Jim require from Sydney
lORIWARDBB AT
COST PRICE.
NO COMMISSION OMARGBD FOR BUYING.
QooAb of aoru-eeoripfcion, forwarded free of all
•barges.
BRND FO AN ESTABLISHED CITY FIRM.
JOHN x. M'INNES & CO.,
•o MW MMUHHV, WMMf, N.B.W.
PAPER HANGING 8
HIGH-GLASS RABOICS, FRIEZES, and
BfiK)<MSA.TIQN!S.
House Decorator and
Painter,
6WLAS6 SILYHRHR, BEVELLHR fc EMBOSSBB
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merehairt,
281 Geough-stkeet, Sydney.
THE BfilON GTPON TTPE-WRIfBR
E“I
Saws labetw, statsomqry, and tinit, writing amch faster
than expert petwnen, aaSO rondenslng matter to less Hfean
o rue-ha If the «paoe occwjjjed by pen writing. Becmtitftd
ooptee may be taken usual nrarmer in tteietter-preea
Sold tt4*»l@Hale and reVaU by tiSe sole agents.
IMRAY & ©O.,
*lO Kenfc-street,
Z'C&vLnefc*
V:
baJven.
3
78
•*k
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO„
r_ fir. a. Roberts, _r. j. alcock, g. c. chalmsrs, r. g. watkins.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING MACHINES?
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS' PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS MNINU
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDER# MATERIALS,
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
4?
Is
i
•: ••
y
*
TP^ T 2
IRON
JW*lE==
"G FfVtZr&tJW*
YARD.
■■t»i f.^-i
BAR, PLATE, SHEET, and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and PLAIN
SHEET and PERFORATED ZHTO ; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD ; OILS, PAINIH.
BRUSHWARE ; FENCING WERE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES, BUILDERS Jit m
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FODSD ENGINES, VER A AXj fl<
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PJJMPS, LATHJJB, PJ/ANING,’:
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS FOUND**
LATENT ROLLBBD SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, fee. ■
Sole Agents for PARMER, ROBEY, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED PORTABLE STj*£ Si
ENGINES ; READING IRON WORKS’ AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATENT BULL®
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished oa application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.,
Head Warehouse
Iron
Balk
Yard-
. • 54 YORK STREET.
• • HAY and RNGINH STRKETS.
. • HARBOUR SffRHHT, DARLSNG
»-X-3DI^SD-3r-
London SfSee *
85 GRACEOHURCH STREET.
SACCO WORM.
SfDSCV.
MIK£OM * VO!**
91* SO
CONQUEROR
ir».ON * U
YANKEE DOODL&
91* SO ft *
5 I R R*o GE R
o»*>sofi * so*s »«.6*
NAILROD
OISSOH * SONS
CHAMPION^,
V>i*>cp» a sows **•»““ no* *
CUT.!, Tin PMMto.IM"
RC.R U BYJ&RTEMTAL WXTU#
CIGARETTE COLD LEAF.&ei fc
ORGAJNS
'Jrlliti
FOB
AfiKSWS
BOLB
Til
S
bruce & massed
PIAIiTO*!,
ORGANS, MUSl C '
IS7 Pitt-st., Sydney*
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
Ho all Affiieeed. with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloretux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Pack, or Hbab.
iVPhor Baffler those excruciating Pains when one
Ibottle
DR. SOUPHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant ReHef and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary I Xa Bottles, Is., 2s. 6<L, ee., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGRT,
ROSl’B CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
1 his Lotion is the Rest and Safest Remedy fer Bad
Eyes. It not orfly cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
las agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Paeuhy to bo the safest aud beat manufactured.
Prepared by the Sele Proprietor,
fl. JL MS, PliarmaGantlDal Ohemigt,
681 G®orge-sfere*4; only
IE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
r.TMTC FRUIT JUICB SAUCE.
bold EVERYWHERE,
The New Furniture and C&P 6 *
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson bros, & & 0 "
W CABTLKRKAttH STREBT-
ECONOMIC ART FURNITIJ^
LBSS THAN BNGLIBH PB 1
c* f
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABL# 3 ’
with three spare leaves, In ~
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and
tor
ROOMS, tSt .
At Hu KaeeeAimgiy Lew Price of &
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER S'
At CoHnespoodingly Lew Prices*
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY, .
THB DINING ROOM, „ n n#'
THE DRAWING*^
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEAD^’
in gpeafc raxieby,
—■■■ ■ riQ tf
Jones, Lawson Bros., and u
39 CA3TLEREAGH STREST*


The Bulletin
Vol. 8-No. 869
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1887.
trice., 6d.
■jht i
JArt&OHCy
\
V lf
V
'S,
-v/v'ir<oey£^
W\^ ot
'4
Of 1 H t
Pon T^vff
10t
Admirers of “ The Bulletin."


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OMCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-BTREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - - - - £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - O 12s. Od
Quarterly - O Os. 6d
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By tending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Poet Office Order, One-
pound Note, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you erery week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delirered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1887
Parkes—The Wilkins Micawber of
New South Wales.
Sir Henry Parkes, apart from his fanatical
devotion to Freetradc, and the worse than
weakness of his ragged regiment tailed off by
Cr.ARKKand Roberts, must stand condemned
in the sight of the country by reason of lis
utter inability to comprehend tho true sta e
of the public finances, and by his nonchnla
with respect to the enormous deficit, n
a ffct lK '3 i ding £2,700,000, and increasing at i ie
rate of £'120,000 per month. He dilates
the “ deplorable state of the public
counts ” only for the purpose of scolding t ie
Administration which allowed this burden
accumulate, and the futility of his qua
remedies of land-selling and pastoral rei
raising sufficiently proves that he feels not t ie
necessity of immediate and vigorous acti
to redeem tho floating debt of the colon
The sale of land formerly was a powerl
means of covering deficits, but that m
chievous expedient has lost its efficacy, n
only because squatters cannot now be forcec
to buy, as was the ease in 1878-83, but al
because there is so little land in the coloi
which buyers would care to secure. Mr.
Copeland, in 1880, was unable to sell toe
public estate by auction even up to the lim
of £200,000, and to prevent a recurrence o
similar failure in 1887 ordered the lam
olticers to allot £500,000 worth for sale
the hope of quitting two-fifths of the amoun
And further it is a matter within our know
ledge that laud has been offered by eircula
to pastoral lessees for purchase in virtu
of improvements six months after suci
privilege was by the Act of 1884 allowec,
and yet the offers were in most case
refused. These facts should show the ab-
surdity of expecting a large increase of pro
ceeds of auction sales except at greatly re
duced prices. With theirpresentfixedtenure
which Sir Henry promises to confirm, th
squatters will not buy the land, and pastora
rents are now as high as can possibly be paic.
But Sir Henry has other expedients ; h
will purify the Civil Service, and remove th
railways from political influence. Possibly
if these reforms are really carried out some
£300,000 annually may bo saved, but that
a mere trifle compared with tbe amoun;
necessary to be obtained to bring the expen
diture within sight of revenue. Beyon
these visionary proposals Parkes also advo
cates the introduction of Local Clovernment,
but it is certain no saving will be effected bv
such a measure for at least two years- after
its enactment. That he should be unawari
of this latter fact is not marvellous, for whei
he introduced a bill for the same purpost
three years ago, he knew so little of th
measure that he was totally unable to answe •
simple questions as to its proposed opera
tion. Viewing the public financial nccessi
ties and Parkes’ vague and utterly inade
quate remedies, even his devoted Free-Trade
admirers may well credit him with having
sustained Ins reputation as the Wilkins
Micawber of New South Wales politics. Or
rather as we should say he appeals as
another Nero, for while the evei-increasing
deficit is blasting the reputation of the colony
abroad, and paralysing it 3 enterprise at home
he sits on an eminence of presumption ano
pride, and sings an empty ode—a Murmur
of the Stream of political buncombe—in
praise of Free-Trade.
To realise the grave condition into which
the colony’s finances have fallen it is
necessary to go back to the former rei<m
of Sir Henry Parkes, which lasted
till January, 1883. In the four years
from 1878 to 1882 inclusive, land to the
amount of £3,783,103 was sold by auction or
other means, being at the average yearly
rate of £1,950,020 ! This, it will' be freely
admitted, was not “revenue” in any fair
senjse of the term, but it was used by the
Parkes Administration for the purpose of
paying current expenses, and Sir Henry
now has the impudence to claim it as a con-
spicuous virtue that he retired from office i
leaving a surplus of nearly £1,800,000 ! But
what of the other £7,700,000 I That
had all been wrongfully, or at least in-
judiciously, applied in liquidation of the
ordinary expenses of Government. During
these five years the total revenue from all
sources, including the public estate, was
£28,488,197, of which only £7,673,991 was
obtained by taxation. From all sources, ex-
clusive of laud, the revenue of those years
amounted to £18,705,094 ; so that if the
capital of the country, the land, had not
been applied in payment of current obliga-
tions, the reign of Pakkks would have ended
with a deficit of £8,000,000! It was only,
and this is the important point to notice now,
the proceeds of land sales tha f enabled Sir
Henry to delude the country with a Fool's
Paradise of surpluses. But with the advent
of the Stuart Ministry to power, auction
sales were limited, and roceipts from the
Department of Lands fell to such an extent
as only to reach a total of £5,501,147 from
’B3 to ’B6 inclusive, a total decrease for that
term of £2,325,333 on the av erage of the
previous five years. Hence it is clear that
the present deficit is not the creation simply
of the last year or two, but is the result of
the wrongful application of land “ revenue ”
under the Parkes regime and the subsequent
decrease of that “revenue.”
* * *
But this decrease of land-receipts only
partially accounts for the deficit and its pre-
sent rate of growth. Another cause of this
natural phenomenon is discerned in the rail-
way returns and the growth of the public
debt. At the end of 1882 the loan-ledger
showed a debit of £18,700,000, on which the
interest was £797,000, and the net earnings
of the railways paid all but £77,000 of this
annual charge ; but at the present time the
national debt is £41,000 000 and the annual
interest £1,676,000, ofwhichamount less than
£700,000 is furnished by the railways,
leaving very nearly £1,000,000 annually to
bo borne by the taxpayers. And with re-
gard to the increasing inability of the rail-
way's to clear their cost there is the ominous
fact that this arises chiefly from the heavy
losses on several of the recent extensions.
In 1882 there were only 1041 miles of rail-
ways running through settled districts, but
in 1885 the mileage had increased to 1732,
and most, of the added length is not likely to
clear working expenses for the next 20 years.
There are more such lines to be opened now,
and it is almost a certainty that Parkes’ re-
trenchment, if effected, will not more than
cover the loss on these additional vote-bought
branch railways.
* * *
It is useless now to blame Sir Henry
Parkes for having scattered the land sale
millions of 1878-82, and idle to upbraid the
succession of wasteful, incapable, and in some
instances corrupt Ministers who have frit-
tered away the public moneys since the latter
date. The point of importance now is that
the colony is £2,700,000 in debt, and is in-
creasing that floating dobt at the rate of
£30,000 per week. Our review of the past
nine years was made, not to show that
Parkes, the prodigal, is unfit on account of
past political sins to be again entrusted with
power—although we admit that to be an
irrefutable inference—nor to prove that the
voter who supports Dibbs is either a traitor
or a fool—also a fair inference—but to prove
that the present deficit is the result of
enduring causes, and must be treated as
such. Mr. Dibbs, w hen reluctantly acknow-
ledging the £1,000,000 deficit at the end of
1885, threw the blame of its existence on
Providence the drought, he said, had caused
it, the advent of a favourable season would
wipe out the debt—but Providence has been
merciful in the seasons vouchsafed, and yet
the deficit has increased by £1,700,000 since
Mt* Dibbs declared that no more taxation
was necessary—a sure testimony to his unfit-
ness for the office he held. He could net or
would not recognise the far-reaching causes
of the deficit the drought was all the reason
he would admit for the national shortage.
Nor ca» Parkes admit the operation of the
causes we have shown. “A wave of depres-
sion,” “return of public confidence,” “the
more favourable seasons now set in,” —theso
are the phrases he uses to explain the present
debt and the means of its liquidation. So
confident is this political Wilkins Micawber
of getting his promissory note bearing
the alleged endorsement of Providence
discounted that he is willing to at once
renounce Customs revenue to the probable
extent of £400,006 per annum, thus adding
£3.i,000 per month more on to the deficit.
Nor would this be the only result of ad
valorem duties’ repeal. Undoubtedly the
impost of o per cent, has had an effect in
stimulating local industry ; more capital has
been invested in manufacturing ; more em-
ploy men t for the working classes provided ;
and a slight stimulus thereby given to every
branch of trade. To repeal these duties
would be to bring about a stagnation in trade
sufficient to influence the public revenue to
an appreciable and unwelcome extent, unless
Providence is prepared to prohibit the opera-
tion of natural causes in this matter for the
special benefit of the political reputation
such as it is, of Sir Henry Parkes.
Even if we allow that Sir Henry Parkes
is able to save, say, £500,000 by docking ex-
penditure in the railway and other depart-
ments, and to raise even £500,000 more
from the land, this, after the repeal of ad
wiH ° nly leave » net gain of
£600,000, and the depression intensified by
retrenchment as well as by the paralysing of
native industries will subtract a large porti
of this gain from other sources of revem
The proposed property-tax will then
hampering trade and industry still furthe
add a new factor to the distress, and even i
we exercise imagination to a still great
degree by supposing this impost to yie
£BOO,OOO, there will not even at that be su
cient cover for the curtailed expenditur
much less reduction of the existing oblie
tion. Aggravation of distress, impairec
credit abroad, and an issue of greenbacks a
home are the necessary incidents of sue
political quackery as Parkes proposes. A
say Parkes advisedly ; the Hon. J.
Burns is Treasurer in name, but he is on
the shadow of his chief. Where Robinso
Crusoe Parkes leads, Man Friday Burn
must silently and submissively follow. 1
property-tax when stocks are booming am
business is good, is an infliction, but whe
stagnation and industrial disaster prevails
is a national calamity.
• * *
The alternative of the Parkes programm
is as attractive as the latter is repulsive,
a tax of 10 per cent, were levied on importec
articles of necessity, including agricultura
produce, and 20 per cent, on importec
luxuries, the Customs revenue would benefi
to the extent of fully £‘ooo,ooo, and othe
State receipts would, by the stimulus o
trade and encouragement of industry, large!
increase simultaneously. Then to make u
the revenue still required for current expei
diture, as well as to provide for the extinc
tion of the outstanding debt, a land-ta
could be profitably and easily levied. Lanci
owners whose property was advanced 20 pe
cent, in yearly value by the extension o
manufactures and the advance of agricultur
might reasonably be asked to give 10 per
cent, of that adventitious increment to the
state by whose policy it had been awarded
The advantages of such a tax, over a pro
perty-tax, have been too frequently proved it
The Bulletin columns to need further do
scription in this article. With a protective
tariff the retrenchment in the departments
capable of enduring curtailment of the staff,
would not necessarily entail any hardship
Dismissed clerks would find their services in
demand because of the revival in business
circles ; the victims of retrenchment undei
the scheme of Sir Henry Parkes would re-
ceive their notes of dismissal at a time when
the gloom of depression was gathering more
darkly round the commercial world.
.» • »
For the sake also of retaining the confi-
dence of the British investor it is absolutely
necessary that a financial programme more
vigorous than that of Sir Henry Parkes
should bo exhibited without delay, otherwise
the probability of floating another loan at
reasonable rates is, at the least, very remote.
To stop loan expenditure all at once—and
there is now but a small balance of the last
loan remaining—would, especially under a
Free-Tiade regime, be a cruel blow to the
numberless workers and business-men who
in late years have been induced to look to
that expenditure for their means of life : but
loan expenditure will certainly be stopped
unless a policy more vigorous, and less de-
pendent upon Providence than that of Sir
Henry Parkes, be at once initiated.
Forty Pounds per Head.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —A schoolboy can figure
out the following New South Wales is in ilebt
40,000,000 of sovereigns. The population is
1,000,000, Therefore, every man, woman, and
child in tho colony is this day £lO in debt. We,
the elders, will have to pay our proport ion, and oi
children will not only inherit the balance, but sue
further debts as coming necessities may dictate
The fact, however, is manifest that every marriei
man in tho country with three children is, to-da
committed to a debt of five times £4O or £2O
And there is no get out of it but by paying i
But, again, we must omit the bachelors, th
women, and the children. Taking the figure
that way, we shall find that the average wag
earner or interest-earner is not far from £750
debt, and the question is worthy serious cons:
deration whether it would not be cheaper an
more satisfactory to the British capitalist and th
citizens of New South Wales for the whole of th
latter to fix on next Anniversary Day, file the
schedule as one man, and give the Insolvent
Court something like a howling time of i
Let us press this consideration on Sir llenr
Parkes, who has some knowledge of sue
matters:—(l.) The first source of wealth i
the land surface and the sea-depths. Prom
these only is food obtainable. (2 ) The secon
source of wealth is in exchanging what has cos
one worker less in procuring than it would cos
another worker. And that is measured by th
quantity of certain rare metals discovered unde
the surface of the earth—at the present time bj
gold and silver ; in ten thousand years hence
possibly by iron, or by chunks of coal. This i
what is meant by wealth obtained by dealing, or
as the economists put it, "wealth gained’ bj
shrewdness and brains in seizing the best oppor
tunities for advantageous dealing.” Wealth ob
tained by gambling, by special artistic endow
ments, literary or otherwise, are only adispensible
fraction, and may be omitted in calculations of tho
bulk wealth of the world. (3.) The final measure
of all value whatever is the worth in food, clothes,
moral, physical, and intellectual training, for one
honest civilized ma n working a reasonable number
of healthful hours out o( every twenty four. .
These propositions are not stated in that fashion
in any treatise on political economy that w'e have
yet consulted; but they are, in outline, pretty much
the conclusions of every man who has the leisure
and capacity to turn from thebabble and jargonof
self-seeking men, and find out for himself what
are really the wants of the time. . . (4) Wealth
here means "weal'’—the well-doing of honest,
healthy workers. Tying ourselves down to these
definitions, we ask : Why does Sir Henry Parkes
now turn up as an old man, and propose to soli the
surface of the earth for cash, when that oash has
to bo raised by loaus from usurers 1 Why does hi
desire to mortgage the future of our children by
finding for a continent, so far only fringed with
population, a market, helpless in face of slop,
pauper, and Chinese and Indian labour, when
with isir almost compulsory centralisation in
cities, we dwell on a territory capable, after a
while, of swallowing up any number of foreign
millions and making them the useful ragpickers
Nature so far has marked them out for l A fre
port means nothing else than undue facilities fo
eucli traders. As surely as the sun shines, ther
are leading laces as there are leading men. Then
if the lands go by auction, they go to the higlies
cash bidder in to-dau's usury market. The mus
cles, or brains, or future necessities of our
children, have nothiog to expect from this far
seeing statesman. Who knows ? Through some
ass in power, purchasable by a gewgaw title
some Federation “ gag ” may be made binding
and we may find ourselves pounded to death by
handful of those ipfemal Kussian, German, or
French over-grown larrikin nations, and not have
the means of producing a pound of powder, a gun
a strip of blanket for our men, a pit ugh, a reaping
machine, a steel rail, or a locomotive by which to
send mon to meet a few regiments of the scum of
Europe, come down here for plunder, and to get
the first square meal of beef and mutton they ever
knew in their livos. And we shan’t have a home
made boot or a saddle, because the importers of
shoddy from old-world slave factories control the
market and will have their profits although the
rest of the people who make their property safe
may have to go to tho devil in consequence.
There is only one way open to an henest
man or a community to pay debts. It is to
reduce unnecessary expenditure and add to in-
come. Sir Henry l’arkes proposes the pawn-
shop solution of pledging land at a ruinous
interest for the ultunate redemption, and of crip
pling the manufacturing interests just struggling
into life. This is certain'y an old way of paying
new debts, and one discredited in every leading
nation of the earth. It is the way that has landed
New South Wales over head and ears in debt.
The land will increase in value with increased
population. We have no guarantee whatever that
the world’s market is to remain open to us. We
must find our market higher for a time, and such
moderate Protection as may now be granted will
prove infinitely cheaper than a free port that means
deprivation of freedom to all inside, and helpless
dependence on outsiders for our immediate wants.
Our lands, our foreshores, our river frontages,
and our mechanical resources within our own
boundaries are the cnly means we can rely upon
for squaring our forty pounds per head, and no
land auctions and no Civil Service cheese-parings
can aver do it. Nor can any other l’arkesian
“ fake,” fake he never so wisely.
J[?]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Freetrade Confession.
The stock argument of Freetraders against Pro-
tection is that it increases the price of commodi-
ties to consumers without giving any correspond-
ing ad vantage to them. The fallacy of this theory
has been clearly shown by the experience of
countries which have adopted the protective polic
but either through blind perversity or interestei
motives the advocates of Freetrade adhere to t
theory with as much tenacity as a limpet does
a rock. Let anyone road the addresses of th
N.B.W. Freetrade candidates for the presen
general election, and the articles in the Freetrac
newspapers, and he will see that the burden
their song all t hrough is that Protection necessari
overburdens the poor man, and that the only pe
son who benefits by it is the manufacturer. T 1
Protectionist has a complete answer to the asse
tion, but wc will not trouble ourselves to state
here; we prefer to give a crushing refutation 01
the theory on the authority of a newspaper whic
a few months ago nibbled at Protection, but no
advocates ultra Freetrade. In the Sydney Hail
Telegraph of Saturday last we find under th
heading '' Commercial” the following paragraph
“ Not much doing in candles, though cable advices iei>o
»n advance cit id. ri England. \V,th lighter stocks, mriiw
tke low prices of local makes, it now lemains to bo tee
whither the poisible ri-Dtal of present duties, as cronmed 1
the present Government, will, by checking local sum dies giv
au nurtased impetus to the imported article, under which cl
aumstances values might lie expected to adrance."
The duty on candles is one of the incidental
protective items contained in the existing Nov
South Wales “free-trade” tariff, and according
to this paragraph—the accidental honesty of whic
is calamitous to the R.T.—it has hat
the effect of so stimulating local production as tt
load to a considerable fall in the price of a com
modity which is a requisite in every household
but more so in that of the “ poor working man ’
than in that of his better-favoured follow. Repea
the duty, close the local factories, and then wt
may expect an increase in the price of the im
ported article ! This may be very sound policy ti
pursue in the interests of the “ mammoth mono
polist”—the importer—and the foreign manufac
turer who has no interest in the colony beyond
desire to draw its treasure from it; but wha
about the interests of the thousands of consumers
into whose pockets they will dip their fingers, and
those of the hundreds of men employed in the
manufacture of candles in the colony and thi
local tradesmen who benefit by the circulation of
their wages' The statement contained in the
paragraph which we have quoted will doubtless
apply with equal truth to many other commodities
which are manufactured locally. The rich in-
terested importers—the M'Millions tf Sydney—
who have everything to gain by Freetrade the
political charlatan who will advocate any cause
on which he thinks he may force himself into
place .and pay, a*d the superficial individual who
reads musty books dealing with but one side of the
question—the arguments being based on oondi-
tions which do not exist in New South Wales
and closes his eyes to the actualities of life which
surround him, may write columns of high sounding
phrases in favour of Freetrade, but they will fail
to refute the reasoning of this ten-line paragraph
which we now commend to the serious attention of
the electors of New South Wales.
Mr. M‘Millan, Gentlemen !
Or him the Sydney Herald says :
“He did net wish to enter political life at the present
Juncture; but he has yielded to the solicitation of his friends
irons a sense of duty, believing that in the existirS atite of
me ,\ wl i“ have any capacity at all for pu lie work
should not hesitate for a moment—no matter what the srrai,,
“he count?y“ ay be_in placing themselves at the disposal of
H ® W ‘ U , therefore appear on the hustings as a
political hero, a kind of Free-Trade Cuimus who
at ‘an alarming sacrifice ” is prepared to leap into
the cavity in the-national finances. He is worthy
of special notice, for, being a partner in the Inigo
importing firm of Messrs. M ‘Arthur and Co he
may be taken as a representative of the clasi of
foreign manufacturers’ agents commonly called
importers. They as a class have always been
considered the most selfish although the most
h'ghly-favoured in the country. No such
rcpiesentative importer has ever figured


at the hustings before in N.S.W. ; it is only when
Mr M‘Mili/on'B capacious pocket is touched by
ad valorem duties that, he concerns himsc’f about
the political ealvation of New South W ales. He
is, of course, a “staunch Freetrader,” just as
every geebung politician is a “loyalist, and yet
according to his own statement, the ad valorem
duties are a source of prolit to him, for he gays
that if 10 per cent be imposed the importers -o
per cent, (moderate profit th:'s 'or a foreign manu-
facturers’ agent !) must be charged against the
retailer, who in turn will add 20 per cent, more,
making the extra cost to the consumer at least lo
percent. This is the argument also adopted by
Henry George, but known facts overthrow this
contention completely. It is, for instance, a
known fact that the 5 per cent, recently imposed
in New South Wales is borne by the importers ; it
is a fact that foreign goods now do not cost the
consumer more, unless in a very few exceptional
lines than they did before the duties were im-
posed ; it is certain that every importer in Sydney
is violently opposed to ad valorem duties at all,
and it is beyond doubt that Mr. M Million
lias at great “strata" to himself been an-
nounced as a candidate for East Sydney. It is
time that this pretence of patriotism was stopped
from such Ereetrade candidates; it deludes no
one not even the applauding leader writers of the
morning papers. Let Mr M'Million announce
himself as an opponent of the importers bane
the ad valorem duties—and dila e on the fact that
the foreign goods depots, the Sydney importing
houses are made to renounce part of their huge
profit for the benefit of the State revenue-let him
do this and the magnanimity of his sacrifice in
going to Parliament to oppose those dudes will be
at once apparent. As it is now he doesn t got all
the credit that he U entitled to for his noble action
in thus sacrificing himself on the altar of- Im-
porters profits.
Dibbs a Freetrader.
Till'. Sydney Ereetrade press, in order to dis-
credit the Protectionist cause at the coming elec-
tion has done its level best to saddle the party
with Mr. G. K Dimis. Because he is opposed to
Parkes thev assume that he will be the Premier
of any future Ministry formed under the auspices
of Protection. This is a clever dodgo The
alliance while Mr. Thompsons acosation of
estimate-co iking is still unanswered, would be
enough to damn the best political cause on earth.
Bat it must he remembered that Mr. Dibbs is, and
always has been, ‘ a Freetrader to the back bone,
and if ever returned to Parliament again is much
more likely to he a colleague of bir Henry
Parkes than of any other leader. That the two
have reviled one another lately is not the slightest
reason why they should not become colleagues
if such a companionship assists either of them to
obtain cr retain office for a single dan . Parkes
now has.asbis Miuisttrof Land3,lhesameGAßßETi
whose continuance in the House he once
asserted to be “ a red-hot brand of shame that
would " never be wiped out,” while his Treasurer
is the same “ Cocky ” Burns wi li whom he abso-
lute) v refused to bo associated less tnan a year
„, 0 ‘ “ The dog that has returned to his vomit
twice will feel no shame in repeating ‘he perfor-
mance a third or even a thirtieth time. \V hen
the Parkes Ministry meets Parliament there
will be several portfolios, notably that of Justice,
and probably of Lands also, to be re-allotted and
fn the remote event of their being enough idiots in
the Murrumbidgee electora e to give Mr DnißSa
seat he will be about the most likely man to ac-
quire office. Still, for all that, any Protec-ic met
would be worth ten seats to the cause who would
go to Wagga as a professed opponent of Mr.
Hums. The lie ha 3 been told, and has been be-
Ucved and therefore should be effectually dis-
proved. Not alone among Freetraders, but among
sincere Protectionists also has the feir ob ained
thatfDibbs will lead the parly w. en victorious
into office We believe in men who vote accord-
ing to principle, but could forgive a man who
threw away his vote on a freetraderr evenJ n
Parkes himself, lo prevent G. R Hums from
again assuming office in New South Wale..
Carlyle and Country Newspapers
the Melbourne Age quotes with approval the
following passage from Carlyle:
“ ThPrP is no church, snyest thou? The voice of 1 . ophecy
There Jio cn iron, ven what I dispute ; but, in nny
F hJ^elf^n 1 eve^ C^Tla g r°a U nd h
winch* heevils “’wupaper. Th reupon he preaches what
mwtmomentous doct'rine „ in him far man . -alranon.
C vrlyle was either in an especially sardonic
humour when he wrote this or else he knew as
much about country newspapeis as ashovcl-footel
mole about theology. Now me do know some-
thing about country newspapers. \\ e purcha.ei
our knowledge with sweat and sorrow.
momentous' doctrine to a country editor Rail him
Preaching Eriar if you choose) is that which will
procure him the most steak and onions. W hen
he concludes to start a paper in a township he
immediately sets his majestic intellect to work to
find out the best way of raising the moral level of
Ms audience and uplifting them to serener am
Certainly. Rather. Of course. He is crammed
like a Christmas goose with noble principles and
lofty ideals. (The foregoing is sarcasm of a first
c’ass kind.) If he were real y to act In this
manner what do you think would become of linn ?
you don't know we can tell you. He would
either have to leave the town with a swag on his
back and go sundowning, or take an engagement
ftt one of the pubs as rouseabout, or be found dead
of starvation one morning with a half-Rmslied
article upon Spiritual Culture cutcheil in his
wasted hand. And he would bs ve y lucky if in
the latter case they gave him Christian bur.al.
The chances are too that before ha went away, or
turned rouseabout. or died, his readers, to show
their appreciation of his efforti to elevate (hem,
w ould h -ng him in effigy. But the country elite.,
to give him his due, is not built up n these lunatic
linen When he puls in his pegs and starts
h" en’ightenment Gunyah the first thing he
does s to feci the pulse of the district.
H he flmls that the great heart of the peop.e is
never stirred to its depths except bj the pig-and-
potato quesllon, then the pig-and-potato question
becomes to him the only thing worth living for.
It wffiesoutthedivinest philo opby and eclipses
of a future state. In course o
time it even becomes invested with a halo of
poetry and he really dees begin to believe when
writing upon it that he is labouring for the good
M mankind, and doing work that the world will
not Willingly let die. Long before this he has
cast his glazed eye around and found out the lay
of the land.” If ihe district in which he starts his
intelligence-mill is a selector's one, the cheerfu
Cocky prances through his columns as the apex of
iL«,ed things ' if a squatter's the Squatter is
pictured as a demigod and the selector as the
picturcu depravity in the whole range of
l 0 mted nature Most momentous doctrine for
a “ . salvaUon The most momentous matter
forlhe country editor is-Hash. We would like
to have seen Carlyle running a newspaper (he
might c e aU U a pulpit if he pleased) in one of our
Irstralian towns. He might not have starved
ing a Scotchman—but the world would have
en spared the reading of a good deal of mad and
jlancholy nonsense.
Lat Me Alone!
may not bv genera’ly known that the Prince of
irknes3 once owned a penny newspaper. It was
lighly moral little prin*‘ t too, and when it filled
i with gentlemanly garbage trimmed with gal-
vs it did so with a view of inculcating a valu-
!e lesson, and not from any sinful intent. The
oprietor rightly considered that the public could
t avoid committing the most atrocious sins un-
is they knew precisely what these same sins
>re, so he described them in full, and at the
me time he denounced them w r ith slimy unction
d cursed all those who in sheer wantonness
ught such wickedness. Tnis journal, we regret
say, is long since defunct, but we may note
at the sulphurous publisher was not forced to
e his red-hot, cast-iron schedule—he grew rich
Btead, and sold out of the venture and built a
i w Goh°nna with the profits. We quote this
tie story apropos of nothing in Heaven above
in earth beneath, or in the other place which is
ore beneath still, but somehow it was recalled
our minds on reading in the Sydney Echo the
flowing criticism on “ Neck for Neck” as pro-
leed at Sydney Gaiety :
''lf to pa-der to the very lowest tastes of the very lowest
tss, to provide it with sensationalism of the most revolting
nd, and to feed to the very utmost that craving for the
orbid which seems to be inhtrent in boys of a certain age—
this be to confer a benefit on the theatre-going public,
en the Vivians, who have just commenced a season at the
aiety, may fairly claim to have excelled all previous com-
ititors in that particular line. The most revolting thing
lout " Neck for Neck," however, m the gailoxs-scene. In
is diabolical piece of realism the whole painful scene which
as recently enacted at Darlinghurst with such terribl9
ality is gone over again.”
fe would ask by what mortal right the Sydney
Clio objects to the Gallows and the Gaiety 1 The
rama is understood to be the picture of exis-
snee as it is, not merely as it should he, and
lough there are some things in this world too
ideous to be depicted on the stage, surely the
ralFold and the noose cannot bo among them—
Ise why did the Echo vote for their retention?
nly a few days ago tint journal called for the
allows to inculcate a great moral lesson and
:rike terror into the hearts of the vilest of the
ile, then why should not Mr. Vivian bring the
>sson and the terror home to the vile, noisy, and
nkempt ruffians who swarmed in the gallery of
he Gaiety* to witness a hideous drama in
11 its loathsome and disgusting details?
n this case the actor and the journalist are
ravelling in the same path, but the journalist
unß amuck at the actor because lie wants the
ialh all to himself. His position is identically
hat of the individual regarding whom a homely
loet wro.e
" At everyone who went by that road
A stick or a stone that old cove throwed,
ALd venever he threw his stick or his stone
He raised up a cry of * Let me alone!'
‘ Let me alone, for I loves to shy
Them bits cf things at the passers-by.
I'm a ijuiet o!d cove,' he'd say with a groan,
‘ All I axes is that you let me alone.'"
The Bili.etin has a right to denounce Mr.
Vivian’s blood stained realism, for it has always
maintained th> gallows to be a curse and a dis-
grace, whether in the gaol-yard or on the stage.
I he Echo, hr weve:, can only throw its stick and
i s stone at the actor, because he has borrowed
its gallows, and intruded on its private road to
perdition, and its cry is, therefore, “ Let me alone!”
Ycr, when the dramatist desires to show the
course of retributive justice what would tho
Echo have him do ? He cannot crucify his vic-
tim in Itoman fashion, or smother him with
ashes in the old Persian style, or impale him after
the mariner of Bei.esis and Tiglath-Pileskr, or
break him on the whr el as tho good old German
Emperors did their victims; all these modes
would outrage the probabilities and expose him to
contempt. If he insists on depicting crime and
its punishment he must follow the customs of tho
day. The Echo ha 3 helped to build the gallows ;
let it stand by and admire its work.
The Etiquette of Flogging.
The Brisbane Telegraph has built a new
shudder in the realms of journalism by its late
essay on the etiquette of flogging. It is a parson-
ridden sheet with a profound regard for vested
interests of all kinds, and ihis is the way it dislo-
cates itself over one of the most atrocious and dis-
graceful perversions of law ever known under
Heaven: —
Not a word was uttered by Norton during the whole
proceedings, and when lie was unstrapped and removed from
ihe triangle his conduct icasjvst as it should have been l
We admire that sentence. If 10,000 cretins,
drunkards, morphia-fiends, and incurable maniacs
had worked ceaselessly tinee the commencement
of the Christian era they could Ii irdly have
evolved anything more striking. k ‘ H ■ conduct
was just as it should hare been." T ere is an
etiquette and a conventionalism, then, even in
flogging. A man who is stripped to the waist and
triced up in order that the skin may be cut from
his back in ragged strips, should never forget his
Cheilerfieldi m courtesy even in that exciting
quarter-o’-an hour, and however important tho
subject under discussion may teem, he must not
make rem.rksthat are unfit for Sunday-school.
We ar? not in'ormed whence that cold blooded
gospel-frog, the Telegraph writer, culled his
words of wisdom on this subject, but we are pre-
pared to admit that if he had been flogged himself
even unto seventy times seven, he crald not have
better explained the situation. But tho individual
who was ■’ whaled ” amid this atmosphere of high-
toned courtesy—this prisoner who was tied up and
took his skinning like a gentleman instead of like
a wild beast, was entitled to a little sympathy
on other grounds. He was working out a sentpnee
I of 14 months’ imprisonment ; he was set to labour
outside the gaol ; and then he yielded to an irre-
sistible love of litKiiy- that love of liberty which
at least under alio her circumstance i 3 the loftiest
and noblest sentiment implanted in tho breast of
man-and made bis escape. He was brought
back, however, by a warder, who said he had
been’kicked by North t in the struggle which
preceded his capture. The ease was also said to
have been afterwards tr ed by two justices, but
ai the proceedings were strictly private there is
nothing to prove that it was tried at all, and the
prisoner was ordered to receive 25 lashes which
he rook—let us once more moutli that memorable
sentence ” just as he should have done.
Years ago a Chief Justice of Queens-
land pointed out that escaping from cus-
tody was not a crime, there hsing no statute
aga’nst it, so the punishment was awarded under
a gaol regulation which allows cf the cat as a
penalty for assaulting a warder in the prison.
Norton, as it happened, assaulted him outside, so
the regulation was of no effect, and the decision
of the two justices was a disgraceful and ap-
parently illegal act., but that doesn't eeem to matter
much in the old convict-ridden city of Brisbane.
The code law of Queensland recognises that if gaol
officials, by negligence and bull-headed stupidity,
allow continees a chance to escape, the latter have a
right to avail themselves of it in obedience to the
noblest instincts with which God has endowed
mankind ; but, unluckily, the same code hands
the prisoner over to the tender mercies of these
same gaol official, with their triangles, their
scourger, and their cat. On a similar principle, we
presume, if Norton had killed the warder—or,
perhaps, if the warder had said that he had been
killed—the escapee would have been hanged by
the samo irresponsible tribunal, and the Brisbane
Telegraph would have testified that the attitude
of the obliging and gentlemanly corpse was “just
as it should have been.” That parson-trodden
journal seems to be satisfied all round —with the
two unaccountable beaks for ordering the punish-
ment, and the hangman for administering it, and
the prisoner for taking his allowance with such
refined dignity :
For tl ey were light to so decree,
And you were right,
And I was right,
And all was light as right can be.
It is a blessed thing to be contented—even when
I 4 he subject for contentment is another man’s
egging.
A Nowtown Outrage.
he offence recently committed at Newtown
mat be described as heinous in a high degree,
he offenders are the police and the stipendary
i.agistrates offlc'ating at that place. A woman
[ notoriously disreputable character charged a
umber of men with having criminally assaulted
er. She allowed over a week to elapse after the
rime was alleged to have been perpetrated before
raking a complaint. Her story on the face of it
ms evidently a pure fabrication. Nobody be-
eved a word of it from the first. Yet the ac-
used men, to the number of six. were arrested,
etained several days in prison, and then brought
efore a magistrate and rerranded for a week
rithout a tittle of evidence being adduced. Nor
s this all. On the prisoners being ar-
aigned a second time, a further remand
or four days was granted, again without
akiDg any evidence. Finally, when the
olice did condescend to go on with the charge,
he case at once broke down by reason of its own
nherent rottenness, and the defendants wore dis-
harged from custody. For about a fortnight
hese men, while perfectly innocent of the in-
nmous crime attributed to them, were incarce-
ated at the request of policemen who, if they did
lot know they were assisting to bolster up a false
barge, assuredly must be condemned as fools.
[he conduct of the police in this matter calls for
■ireful investigation at the hands of the Govern-
nent. As for the conduct of the bench, that
eems to require that an example should be made
>f the functionaries responsible. The stipendiary
nagistrates are in the habit of “ supporting the
police" in an wholly unwarrantable style. The
way in which remands are granted cn the simple
ipplication of constables is monstrous, aid would
sot be tolerated for a moment in any community
■ave Sydney. The present instance is too glarir g
i piece of maladministration, however, to he
passed over even by the Sydney public and a
Sydney Government. If the latter fail to call
these n agistrates to account, surely the former
will not neglect to remember the dereliction of
duty. If Parliament were sitting, no doubt the
else would be made the basis of an interpellation
with a view of securing the inflict : on of proper
punishment cn the officials concerned in this out-
rage upon the administration of justice. But the
Government should need no spurring on from
Parliament where the underlying right of citizens
accused of a crime to have the charge investi-
gated without a moment's unnecessary delay has
been thus fbgrantly violated by well-paid and
ostensibly not ignorant functionaries.
Another New South Wales railway fraud has
been discovered, and, marvellous to iclate, it is the
Department itself that has “ sprung ” the swindle
this time. And, by a strange coincidence, it was
the said Department that was unconsciously work-
ing the swindle also. From the evidence before
the Court it seems that whenever a new truck is
purchased it is at ones weighed and the weight is
legibly painted on either side, so that the “ tare ’
can be easily ascertained. These trucks are built,
at the start, of Oregon or some light timber, and
in course of time repairs become necessary. These
repairs are often considerable, and hardwood
being used for them, the trucks, after a couple of
visits to the repaiter’s fhop, soon come to weigh
nearly twice as much as they did at first. Some
astute official (who will probably be disrated for
his trouble) found this out and reported it, the
result being that every truck is now being
weighod afresh. In some instances a difference
of nearly a ton between the actual and the marked
weight has teen discovered, and farmers, wood-
men, and the like are now beginning to under-
stand how it was that two trucks, which ap-
parently conttined the same quantity of stuff,
should differ so mysteriously in weight. No
arrests have been made—excep' in the manu-
facture of light-timbered trucks.
I Perhaps the most cutiously-mixed case ever
heard in a police court was that of the Cornish
farmer against the local preacher in Melbourne
last week. The Cornish farmer was God-fearing
and pious, albeit he was living with "a strange
woman.” This is the first anomaly ; the next is
that he had £5OOO in the bank, and yet went to
work in a quarry at Bs. a day. Both statements
arc absolutely true, however inconsistent they
may seem. The next episode in the narrative is
more intelligible. The farmer was staying at the
Victoria Coffee Palace, Smyth also. They were
both walking through the hall, and were simul-
taneously stocked by the sight of men playing
cards. It was Sunday evening. They exchanged
look 3 and words and shortly after purses. 'i'he
preacher went through the farmer like a knife,
but in marvellously clean aid artistic fashion.
First he plumbed the farmer’s pocket, then with-
out admitting any testing-rod, disclosed the capa-
city of his own. He was a man worth £ll,OOO,
but had so overmasterieg a call to’ religion
that he permitted his capital to lie loosely around
and received Goo as the interest. He was going
to put £2OOO out to interest in Sydney at 8 per
cent., a heavy rate which he had scruples about
taking, but it would all go in God’s service.
Amen, said the farmer, and a week passed. Then
said the preacher in a casual manner. “ 1 do not
think I can take up that investment in Sydney—
would your conscience permit you to take 8 per
cent ? ” Farmer—we are now giving his
story —strained his conscience to the re-
quired extent, and drew a cheque for the preacher
to invest as desired. Then they prayed together,
and went to chapel together, and rebuked the un-
holy card-players, and by-and-bye the preacher
took a wood and coal business and sent the farmer
out to manage it, and all things went nicely
enough till “ the strange woman” discovered that
her farmer’s bank account was reduced by £3700,
and that the preacher wasn’t round as often as he
usod to be. Then the man who had been working the
steam-saw in the yard and striking the drill in the
quarry wished that he had all his tools together
I find the body of the preacher at his disposal for
half-an-hour. The police got tho preacher last
week, and this week Mr. J. L. Purves is dilig-
ently engaged in proving that all the moneys the
farmer paid over were for services rendered or as
subscriptions to established philanthropic funds ;
and the chances are that the farmer will work in
the yard in future and the “strange woman”
write all cheques, while the preacher will take a
run round the world, looking out for farmers in
every port, and thanking Goi> for making good
barristers and saving poor preachers from the u i
righteous orgies of the wicked.
If Parkes, after travelling so long on his hair,
cares now to travel on something useful instead, h’o
might invite his followers to hold a solemn gabble
over the mining laws of New South Wales. Half
thegcldfields of the colony are now of service only afi
’possum-roosts because of the vast areas held by
‘ ‘ companies ’ ’ and other s windles —areas on which no
work is done, or ever will be done, until a chance
is found to sell the property at a high figure to
one of those fools who go about at times of ex-
citement howling to be taken in. The working
miner prospects for the present generation of
haughty loafers, and a aristocracy is
gradually rising in the colony, whose claim to dis-
tinction will one day rest on the fact that their
ancestors have shepherded the same claim for so
many centuries. If gold syndicates holding, say,
12 men’s ground were compelled to keep six men
constantly employed, under pain of forfeiture, and
so on in proportion, there would be a boom in New
South Wales mining such as has not be?n known
for a goed many years. The present method is
about as sensible as would be a system of leasing
out the atmosphere in chunks to be held for sale
at a high figure on some future day when the
whole human race is choking.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS
“ P.W.” : If you want to learn GoverEor
Carington's reasons for coming to Australia, you had better
write and ask him. We don’t know—can’t possibly imagine-
“T. Campbell”: You fanatically state that the tisca
policy of Protection in the United States has caused abortion
to become a national crime. The Protectionists of N.S.W.
might a deal more justly ascribe the depravity of the lower
clas es of youths in N.S.W. to the Freetrade policy of the
colony “Strand”: Pendragon’s name isn’t “Charles
Simison,” but Henry Sampson “A. tlawkins" :Heis an
idol quite good enough for these who worship him
“Scotsman”: Thanks “Upper Cut” (Beech wo»th): You
are indeed an artful dog. You think to secure the publica-
tion of your calMcve verses by marmalading us, who despise
flattery. You warble :
“ I’d pray each moment you were near
I And sitting by my side,
Above all things that I would ask
That you were soon my bride.
“ Then ever happy should I be
When you were made my Queen,
No other pleasure would I ask
But the Sydney Bulletin.”
ive patience, dear sir. You see a pretty girl to-day ; you’ll
3 a still prettier one to-morrow, and if you ges married
u’ll see pretty girls bv the dozen—but only as the hungry
jre broker sees the pies at the other side of the remorseless
ite-glass window. Take our advice and don't get spliced
th the idea that even the Sydney Bulleteen can assuage
e sorrows inseparable from wedded existence....“ James
Wilson”: Thanks. We hope to re-print the article,
most in fu11...." P.P.”: The “ Holy Land ’* doesn’t neces
rily mean Palestine. It might mean South Australia....
Carl Paussen”: This is by no means the first time on which
stage-representation of an execution has taken place in
rdney “ J.D." (Wellington, N.Z.): Thanks ; may yet
:e the extract....“ Lemuel” (Melbourne): Neat verses
K. Dempsfy”: Under the circumstances the satire would
iss its mark. As a rule, ladies who take the trouble to
sit the poor and fallen have good heatts and don’t confine
lemselves to distributing tracts...“ W. M’Donald”: Thanks
ir extracts. But—now tell us truly—didn’t you write ’em
jurself ? “ James Hudson ”: The first thing to do is to
ike off the streets of Sydney every young girl whose conduct
nmistakeably indicates shat she is about to become prey for
le larrikins. We don’t know after all whether a great deal
icre good would not be done by the hanging of four larri-
inesses r-han by the hanging of four larrikins
W.W.” (Orange) : We have the very best authority for stat
ig that W. Clarke was absolutely forced on Parkes by a
umber of members ef Parliament; and we strongly suspect
aat Pai kes.when he took him in, consoled himself with the
Election that after all there was little chance of the- re-elec-
ion of this recreant protectionist.H. Roper”: You
ave not to far succeeded in conveying the undoubted humour
f the situation as to warrant the expenditure of a column....
Jense :We can't agree with you. We see no fault in the
tyle (f Parkes’ manifesto, which sti ike-3 us as coming
roni the hand of an able wri*er, some of whose flowing
-riods are beautifully balanced..J.H.” (Walltrawang) :
’he m»n you refer to is quite another personage—the
ephew of a Duke who lived blackfellow-fasbion with several
ither outcasts in Queensland “Spring M.” (Cooktown) :
'hanks for item. “ Mavis ” : Mr. Slattery is not a freetrader..
P. Wilton”: We have for a long time had a dark suspicion
hat Tennyson stopped writing poetry about 10 years ago.
.here seems to us to be strong internal evidence that the
toems bearing his name which have been published during
he last decade were really written by a hired man
’Parton”: Get vaccinated, and you needn’t be afraid. A
loctor when he knows he has been thoroughly vaccinated
mows no fear even when surrounded by hundreds of
‘black death” cases “H.L.”: ’Twould not be right to
;ay that—
“ Men who shunned him in the light of day
Gave grand orations o’er his senseless clay,'*
or, ns a matter of fact, the only man who spoke was a really
;ood friend to him while he lived...." Bulletin. Reader ”:
L’hanks “ Taga Arawa”: Many thanks. But how do you
Deco me possessed of such information ? “A. M'Allister”:
The Bulletin is controlled by men who are neither Irish
nor Catholics We don’t know, and don't much care, what
The Bulletin has been "charged” with “Par”: Too
ong. Augus Kiameron had better stand for Kiatna in the
publicans’ interest next time....“ Beltana" : Yarn as un-
grammatical and mournful as W. J. Hill’s address to the
Mepean electors “Straight”: If you have never read
Sola how is it that you venture to condemn him ? He is
aeither "salacious” nor “libidinous." He is a great genius
fvhom ignorantB cannct understand “ F.W.8." (Cler-
mont) : If, as you say, The Bulletin can’t be bought in
pour town for less than a shilling, it’s high time a level-headed
man took up the agency “Lunatic”: Thanks
“Oyster Johnnie” : We rarely have the space ' ‘Bill ’
(Brungle): Solomon in all his glory could not make out
what you arc drivii g at “Ratio”: Then why doesn't
Gillies declare war against Germany for annexing the
Solomons? “Geo. J. P.” (Roma): Yout put the matter
forcibly when you say that: “In the back slums of every
city we are breeding criminals. We breed them like a
squatter bree’s scrub cattle, and thm we deliberately
destroy them.” “ P. Scalein”: We don’t think much of
“ large and influential requisitions.” We could get 10,COO
people to sign a petition in favour of having us hanged, or
of having themselves hanged, without knowing what they
were doing. We know a leading Sydney official who once
unquestiomngly appended his signature to a document laid
before him by a sportive clerk. He afterwards found ou*.
that he had signeid his own death-warrant....“ Invisible *
Thanks for your calm suggestion.


The Referee
Wheu friendly rows
Result in blows
And smashing up of craft,
And ruby flows
From stricken nose —
The sculling world’s gone “ daft.”
Wagering on the V.R.C. Derby and Me
bourne Cup has already assumed vast proportion
Huntingtower, Cranbrook, Abercorn, Bedouii
Carlyon, Escutcheon, Moorkouee, Sumatra, an
Perfume have been coupled in doubles for all th
money available ; and the name of Hortense, w.h
unfortunately is not in the Derby, has been writte
for the Cup with all the above Derby nags. Mr
J. H. Giles, who was struck by a Sydney banke
for £5OOO over the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
has a £5OOO book on the great classic race am
Melbourne Cup.
Old Commotion is still kept in slings anc
is likely to remain so for the next six months.
Hon. J. White’s horses at Flemington ar
all in splendid buckle up to date, the three-year
olds especially, albeit the touts persist in th
statement that Trident goes very short in hi
work on the tracks. The same complaint was
however, made about him in the spring, but h
went long enough in the Derby when the colour
were up. Trenton, too, is doing satisfactory wor
at Caulfield, and Isaac Foulsham is sanguine o
“ a puttin’ Trident down ” in the Champion Race
The Newmarket Handicap, framed by Mr
Barnard, is regarded as his “ worst on record.’
William Tell is fairly thrown into the race, while
the owner of Hogmanay, whoever he be, has been—
well, deprived of any possible chance of winning.
Geelong Racing Club had fine weather
for their summer meeting last week. The Caul
field-trained mare, Camerine, was successful
without an effort, in winning the Cup, her im
mediate attendants being Sheet Anchor, Impulse
and the very much in-and-out, or else rank duffer
Recall. The ever popular Mick O Brien rode the
little mare, and thus had his revenge on Martin
Laughlin, who, at Caulfleid, a few days pre
viously had O'Brien before the stewards for strik
ing his horse Britisher over the head in the race
for the Victorian Club Cup. O’Brien unreservedlj
admitted thathe had struck the horse—accidentally
and apologised to Fallon directly they pulled up.
This, however, was not sufficient for Loughlin,
who insisted that O’Brien should be brought u{
before the stewards ; they dismissed the case aftej
30 seconds’ sitting. The Geelong Club takes the
cake for blindly permitting the most diabolical
swindles to pass unnot iced. The events operated
upon were the two selling races, in which almost
the whole of the competitor s were “ dead to the
world ” Bookmakers and the oldest of racing
men were heard to state that during the whole of
their experience such barefaced proceedings had
never previously come under their notice. Mr J.
Harper, the owner of Phoebe Walton, w-inner of
the first selling event, was unaware that nearly
everything was “ stiffened ” but his filly, and he did
not fail to let those present in the enclosure know
it either. However, she won, but it would have
served the undertakers rightly had she run inside
a post. It has been done cn many occasions.
The motion respecting six-ball overs which
was brought before the Victorian Cricket Associa-
tion at its last meeting, is to be made an inter-
colonial question later on. l’he change must
come, and the sooner it come 3 the better. An
extra two balls will suit alike bowlers “on the
spot,” and batsmen “on the ball,” making the
game faster either way.
Major Wardill, who took charge of “ Our
Boys ” in England appears to have benefited by
the trip. Playing for Victorian Artillery v.
Infantry the gallant warrior made top score for his
side in a style which was a happy coxibina* ion of
Grace and Shrewsbury. Major Wardrop (sugges-
tive name 1) totted up 50 runs for the Infantry, so
between them the Majors did the major portion
of the work. This joke is quite new.
* * *
No previous intercolonial cricket match
between Victoria and NSW. has been marked by
such “ sick ” cricket as the one just decided in
favour of N.S.W. In the second innings of the
Victorians the board showed five wickets for five
runs. But for the sturdy opposition of M’Shane and
Worrall the extraordinarily small score of nine
runs made by the Marylebone team against the
first Australian Eleven would have been cast into
the shade. It looked as if the whole team would
not get 10 runs.
The victory of N.S.W. was mainly due to
the superb bowling of Ferris and Turner. The
Victorian batsmen could not look at the young
left-hander. His “ break ” from leg to the off was
a caution. The way he sticks up the veteran
Blackham, notably a good batsman on a sticky
wicket, was most amusing. He morally bowled
him half-a-dozen times before the batsman retired
“ 1.b.w.” Blackham says Ferris is the best bowler
in the world. Phillips, the Victorian umpire,
gave it as his opinion that the English Eleven does
not embrace two such splendid bowlers as Turner
and Ferris. Tableau : Retire Spofforth and Evans.
Enter Turner and Ferris.
* * *
What a fizzle was Mr. Andrew Towns’
annual yearling sale ! Are the low prices realised
indicative of the badness of the times, or to the
fact that buyers considered it hopeless to compete
with the Hon Jae. White, who seems to have a
lien upon all the classic events in both colonies ?
Mr. White was not among the buyers. He is
breeding largely himself. ’I he bloodstock as far
as size and appearance went, were much inferior to
those offered at former sales at Hobartville, and the
form shown by many of the high-priced youngsters
sold last year was ot such a disappointing charac-
ter as to frighten a good few believers in running
blood. The outcome of the sa'e must have been
» decided loss to the enterprising squire of Hobart-
ville.
Bill Pulbrook, fho Orange baker, now in
Sydney, is the luckiest man in Australia. The
first two pounds he sent down drew him the
winner and second of Tattersall’s sweep. A
second time he drew the winner, and has never
subscribed to the consultation without drawing a
horse. But that’s nothing. At the recent S.T.C.
races he backed five winners, and, great Scott! he
backed Soldier’s Wind for the Handicap. What
a mozzle!
Mr. L. E. Myer 3 informs us he carefully
took the time at the Hutchens-Malone 250 yards'
race. He made it 14J or a shade over. This is
sark asm.
The date for the quarter-mile race between
Myers and Samuels has been definitely fixed for
March 29.
* * *
The Janet and Waitangi made a splendid
contest of the ten tons and over yacht race at the
National Regatta, but it was really pitiable to see
the erstwhile champion, the Magic, jogging along
like an old tub in the rear. That the old boat was
too much by the head there cannot be great doubt,
and the writer is still of opinion that the Magic
in o her hands could be brought out to beat the
Waitangi.
* * *
“Bill” Slaven, brother of the “coming
champion,” was the first to face the music at
Foley’s on Saturday night with Snow, who at
times landed him rather heavily, although asked
by Slaven to play light. Burgess and Fuller had a
slashing four rounds, the latter getting all over
Burgess with scarcely a return. Mulholland
showed his tremendous hitting power on a gentle-
man from Wollongong whom he knocked out in a
round and a half with a slashing right-hander on
the point of the jaw. Mulholland says he is
anxious to meet Jack Hall, but should he do so
he will find John a remarkably different man to
the run of cattle he has been facing lately. Hall
is a tricky and hard-hitting fighter, and Mulhol-
land’s “boring-in” tactics should suit him to a
nicety. We have heard of some strange “ crosses ”
amongst the boxers, but perhaps the strangest was
that acknowledged by Williams, a coloured man,
on Saturday night. He stated that Nixon, his
opponent, had promised net to hit him in the face,
but if this was true, then Nixon put the “double
cross ” on him ; anyhow, he brought the claret
pretty freely.
The English bicyclists, Wood and James,
are old hands at working up the agony, and may
give us something lively in the “ mixed ” race
next Saturday. The easy defeat of James by
THE NEW COOK.
PARKES: “ WELL. GUVNOR, I’LL DO THE BEST AS EVER I CAN, BUT IT BE
MORTAL HARD TO EXPECT A MAN TO MAKE A GOOD DISH OUT O’ THEM
ODDS AND ENDS AS HAS ALL BEEN COOKED UP ARF-A-DOZEN TIMES
AFORE.”
CARINGTON (sotto [?]oce): “YES, AND BY THE SAME OLD COOK EVERY TIME, TOO.”
Rolfe last Saturday rob 3 the contest of any excuse
of calling it a “test” one, and should the
N. S. Wales people refer the matter to the National
Cyclists Union there cannot be much doubt as to
what the reply will be. On one occasion, in
England, Wood and James ran two dead, heats in
a 25-mile race, and the third run-off was only won
by a yard.
* * *
“Man overboard!” was heard at least
twice on the N.S.W. National Regatta day. The
Sao lost a lot of time in picking her man up, and
the Dreamland nearly came to grief when her man
went. The tiller broke, and Doran, who was in
charge of the pickhandle, went plump into the
water, the boat running up into the wind and
nearly filling. The Aileen was close up, but it is
stated she went on her course and left Doran to
his chance of being taken down by his wet clothes
or a shark until the Carlotta’s crew picked him up
and placed him on his boat. The Aileen’s skipper,
however, did not gain anything by his alleged
Levitical conduct, as the Carlotta passed him com-
ing home, and won without her time-allowance.
It would bs well for regatta committees to lay
down a law that any boat passing a man or boat
in distress shall be disqualified.
The decisive victory of the Auckland-built
yacht Waitangi has caused rejoicing among the
inhabitants of the city on the pleasant waters of
the Waitemata. WaitaDgi—“ weeping water ”
is the name of a river in the Bay of
Islands locality, and on its banks the
celebrated treaty bearing its name was
signed. The late Judge Manrng
(“ Pakeha Maori”) of the N.Z. native
land court, gives a most graphic
account of the signing of the treaty in
hii “Tale of the War in the North.”
Largesse, in the shape of food and
clothing, was freely bestowed by the
Britit h representatives on the natives
assembled to sign away their indepen-
dence by the side of the “weeping
water.” The innooent-minded Maori
naturally became possessed of the idea
that the raiment and eatables were pay-
ment for his signature, and hastened to
put down his name that he might
quickly share the good things going.
If ever a treaty was made to be torn up,
that treaty was the treaty of Waitangi.
Clarke has beaten Hutchens at {
Melbourne, two distances out of three, •
in the usual wonderful times. However, !
people have grown too cautious to bet
on foot-racing to any ruinous extent.
The race for the Laidley sculls at
the N.S.W. Anniversary Regatta soon
resolved itself into a contest between
Connolly and George Brett. The latter
sprung one of his sculls and was beaten
by Connolly, who rows better every
time he appearsin public. He looks
like the coming amateur champion.
Mitrailleuse, a candidate for
Newmarket Handicap honours, has been
heavily backed during the past week.
She is notified at the V.R.C. office as
having been scratched on 20th January.
Another instance only of the possibility of Mr.
Miles making a mistake.
* * *
David Green, of Adelaide, is out with a
challenge in the Melbourne Argus to row Brett
of Sydney, for the amateur championship of Aus-
tralia and a side-bet of £lOO. The holy land
rowist, who is within 3J degrees of the natural
eoler worn by Samuels, the conqueror of Hutchens
runs a boxing saloon and athletic hall in Adelaide.’
A few weeks ago he boxed to a finish one Jack
Graham, and proved himself the better man
David also puts his bit on racehorses, and is a
staunch follower of the stable wherein resides the
great gun, Isonomy. We do not think Brett is so
green as to meet Green as an amateur.
Prior to the start for the January Handi-
cap at Elsternwick Park, an owner enquired of a
bookmaker what he was betting on. “I’m a
betting on the Janury ’Andicap— do you want any-
thin i ” was the rejoinder. “No,” was the
owner’s reply ; “and you are a blanked fool to
bet at all—do you know how many are trying?”
Bookie gave a negative answer. “ Well, said
the owner, “ I cannot tell you how many are try-
ing, but I know that about two hundred are not y
and lam one of them.” This coon has the repu-
tation of being one of the pillars of the turf.
At a recent Randwick race meeting the
winner of an event was owned by a man who has
at least £30,000 a year. The jockey who rode the
colt received £5 for his services. And yet profes-
sional horf ernen are expected to be honest.
Reducing it to a certainty. James Scobie,
the well-known Ballarat trainer and cros3-country
rider, owner of Blue Mountain the hurdle-
MR. R. QUARRILL.
Editor of the Geelong Advertiser.
racer, backed his mount at Flemington on New
Year's Day to win £BOO at level money. Blue
Mountain carried list. 31b. and waltzed in a
winner as the band present played “ The Blue
Alsatian Mountains,
How would this suit for an Eleven to re-
present Combined Australia against Shaw’s team
—Jones, Garrett, Giffeh, Blackham, Percy
M'Donnell, A. Bannerman, Moses, Turner, Ferris
Palmer, and Trumble, or Horan. Can you’ lick it i
* * *
The five-style wrestle between Cannon
and Donald Dinnie, brought off a week earlier
than was originally intended, resulted in a square
win for the younger man. Dinnie won the collar-and •
elbow and side-hold by the aid of his remarkable
legs, while Cannon downed the braw Scot in
catch-as-catch-can, Cumberland, and Grieco-
Koman. The catch-as-catch-can bout contrary to
expectation, was the shortest and liveliest of the
evening. Cannon had his man fairly round the
waist in two or three minutes, and flung him in
the good old-fashioned schoolboy style. In a
general way, catch-as catch-can resolves itself
into Grieco-Roman pure and simple. The impres-
sion carried away by spectators (who filled ail
parts of the Melbourne Bijou Theatre, bar dress-
circle) was that Dinnie succumbed to Father Time
and that Cannon is a good deal below the form of
poor Clarence Whistler. A match bet ween him and
Connor would be worth seeing.
* * *
Several of the nags competing (?) for the
Grand Stand Stakes, at Geelong meeting, were ss
stiff as a masher’s shirt front. However as four
5' to 4 on chances won on the first day, backers
didn’t have much to complain of. By the way
several improvements have been made on the
Geelong course, and if the leaven Hof unrighteous-
ness could only be introduced among the towns-
people things would positively hum.
* * *
Cricket has ever played second violin to
dollars in Sydney. How comes it that in the
middle of the cricketing season the bicyc’ists get
two Saturday afternoons all to themselves in the
N.S.W. Association Ground?
* * *
Malone has forfeited to Myers, who now
wants to run Hutchens a quarter for £250.
Moses’ failing is his inability to judge a
run. He seems to be in mortal fear of being run
out every time he makes a start. He might with
ad\ant a g e take a le3 s °n in run-judging from the
Englishmen. °
The two oatchcs made by Spofforth in the
first innings of the Englishmen, which dismissed
Barnes and Reed, were as brilliant as anything
ever witnessed on a cricket ground. S
Mr. R. Quarrlli.
Mr. R. Qdarrill, editor of the Geelong (Vic.)
Advertiser, whose portrait appears in this issue
was born in Kent (Eng.), and arrived in Sydney
in 1852. He brought with him a large manufac-
turing statiorer's plant, but the system of Free-
trade wrecked his business in its infancy, and a
year later he sold his machinery and started to
swing the pickaxe at Ballarat. In 1836 he joined
the staff of the Geelong Advertiser, where he
appeared as one of the first advocates of Protec-
tion in Victoria. From 1865 to 1869 he edited the
Castlemaine Daily News, which, under his con-
trol, became a power in the Liberal interest and
Ins services were publicly acknowledged by a
gross ca-h insult of £250. He was for some time
ass'stant editor of the Melbourne Herald and
was afterwards on the staff of the Age, to which
Russo Turki«h nbUtod t number of articles on the
. ™' T, klBh . "' ar - In 1877 Mr - Graham Berry,
£ , P " ■' ownei : of the Geelong Advertiser,
became Premier with a strong Protectionist fol-
owing and Mr. Quarrill took charge of that jour-
his Th^!. stead- He stiu retains this position, and
his abilities were recognised in 1882 by another
chain Mr 7 “If 6 , shape of a gold w atch and
steadily grow^ Uarn 13 nOW aged 54 ’ but he is


SUNDRY
SHOWS
That godless individual who wears the
outward garb of man has had a bad time in the
Sydney theatres this week. When the rain kept
coming down in drops as large as a shilling, and
some of them as large as Is. 7|d., the places of
amusement were like Turkish baths, and now by
way of variety, they are hot and parched like a
dry north wind blowing across a salt desert. The
too solid flesh of The Bul'eun representative
has been melting from his bones, and he has on
more than one occasion been compelled to swab
himself up with blotting paper. As regards the
shows themselves, though they hardly belong to
the domain of the Higher Cultchaw, they are
murderous than usual, and are not calculated to
sow wild oats on the human reputation. They are
attractive but not desperately so, and as they are
mostly known by heart the auditor does not re-
quire to organise himself into a committee of two
fools and a lunatic with power to add to their
stupidity, and examine the managers on oath to
find out what they are all about.
*# * #
“Lady Audley’s Secret” has been per-
mitted, by a blessed dispensa* lon of Providence,
to take the place of “East Lynne” at Sydney
Royal Standard. It makes a tolerably good
drama, but the moral is turned upside down with
Its feet sticking up in the air, and for this reason
we would love to smite the author with a shark’s-
tooth club, and spread her cerebral matter over
the footlights. Her heroine is a pretty and in-
teresting girl, with a drunken father and an in-
sane mother, and this lady gave her heart in early
life to a fellow with an oiled head and a corpsy
crmplexion who promised to be her guide and
guardian thenceforth and for ever. There was a
brief honeymoon era of plenty, and then the
deceiver informed her that he would have to
scavenge, or bowl a cat’s meat barrow for a living,
and drew a pretty picture of life in a back court
paved with deceased dogs and such, where they
would bill and coo in clumping boots and cor-
duroys, and seated on a brick apiece instead of a
sofa. At the end of this vista of life the swindled
wife saw herself, a wrinkled, dried-up old hag,
mumbling over a cheap pork-sausage for her Sun-
day dinner, and in her despair and misery bhe
uttered some plain English to the wind-galled
child of wrath who had brought her to this pass,
whereupon that insolvent thief fled to India and
left her penniless. Natural!y enough, in the
course of a few years, she CO ..eluded that he must
be dead. If Providence was capable of hitting
anything smaller than a desert any woman would
take it for granted that this degraded gorilla
would have been btruck down by lightning, and a
whole lunatic asylum hired to pile hyasna skulls on
his grave as-a suitable monument. Consequently
she married again, and then to her immeasurable
disgust her rampant lord and master turned up
once more.
He had not improved in his exile. He
was mean enough tow to cajole a guileless hog in
the hope cf being allowed to borrow its dinner,
and after the lady had tried in vain to bla .! some
shred of kindness out of his doggy little sou), she
threw the shrieking brute down a well. We would
have liked to throw him down 20 wells, and then
to have hauled up his wretched carcase a dozen
times over out of pure malignity and thrown mud
on it and dropped the hashed goblin down again,
and asked him if his mother knew he was out,
and our only regret would have been that we had
gone and polluted the well. From this point,
however, the lady was haunted by a fiendish pub-
lican who exacted hush-money, and a friend of
the departed who smoked in her’boudoir and
made allusions every now and then to the gallows,
and when in her despair Bhe set .these two ruffians
on fire we felt it served them right. But in
another moment a flshy-eyed mule clove his way
through the flames dragging the publican after
him ; the pair were saved, and their unhappy
victim committed suicide in her helplessness and
despair. And at the last moment her husband
turned up for the third time like an evil spirit
rising out of a bog ; the miserable burlesque on a
humsn being had been fished out of the well, and
had been going about with a broken skull and a
porous plaster on his hack ever since. This
arrangement is called poetic justice, but it seems
to us that the torpid old slab who was so mys-
teriously resurrected should have either been
thrown down the well again or sentenced to
snovel mud for 47 years. Nothing less would
have met his case. His part was filled by Mr.
Boothman, while Mr. Dampier took the character
of Robert Audley, and exerted all his talent in
making a success out of that thankless and venge-
ful lout. The interest of the piece, however,
centred in Lady Audley, who was represented
by Miss Dampier. She looked and acted the part
well throughout, but the theatre would fill better
if she would come down the chimney armed with
a log and brain her persecutors in the hour of
their triumph
** * *
The ever popular “Bohemian Girl” is a
success at Sydney Criterion, It commences aim'd
a lurid pomp of crimson rocks which ought to go
at least 2oz. to the ton, and behind these is the
splintered eld pine forest where the Count’s rude
forefathers are supposed to sleep. The after
scenes in Presburg show some ancient and badly
dra’ned but very picturesque city property
which ought to command a good rental, and the
view of the Count’s mansion convinces us that
Arline is not blowing when she speaks of dwelling
in “marble halls.” Signor Verdi has the part of
Count Arnheim, a character who Is evidently
meant to be attractive, though his exasperatirg
dulness would justify a scavenger in snubbing
him cn a very short acquaintance. No one but a
born fool who has been brought up to speak the
most crackjaw language known in Central Europe
would stand braying prayers when he knows his
little daughter is being stolen; a rational being
would hire a Chinaman to do the praying for him
while he piled his benighted intellect on top of a
horse and went off in hot pursuit, and though
Signor Verdi poked the slow old animal into a
certain amount of melodious activity, he couldn’t
redeem him from the suspicion of being the very
last possibility in the way of an ass. Mr. Forde
made a spry and amusing blackguard out of
Devilshoof, and dodged within three feet of the
Count while the latter was conducting divine ser-
vice ; and Mr. Beaumont as Thaddeus achieved a
success He was not our beau ideal of a Polish
patriot, for those whom we have known were all
artists who reeked of bad tobacco ; they suffered
very much, too, from scars on the legs which they
always declared were caused by whole kegs of
bullets shot into them by the Tartar liar who
bosses their native land; but Mr. Beaumont, de-
spite the want of bullets, tobacco-reek, and scars,
was an attractive object, and his rendering of
“ The Fair Land of Poland ” was worth hearing.
Miss Colbourne-Baber made a lovely
Arline She looked as fresh as an angel in a
shower bath, and her rippling song flowed forth
like curses from our head compositor when the
longed-for screed is not forthcoming. Miss Fanny
Liddiard had the thankless part of the Gipsy
Queen, a character which we are inclined to think
was modelled from the author’s fierce old mother-
in-law; and Florenstein, under the fostering care of
Mr. Johnston, became a seething ocean of comic
stupidity. Something really ought to be done
with Florenstein.
** * #
Minnie Palmer’s last week at Sydney
Opera House is being signalised by the tears of a
mashed and stage-struck city. A good many in-
dividuals who look as if they had never before
entered a theatre in their lives
sneak in to have a look, under pre-
tence that they thought the place
was a church, but as the perform-
ance goes on each meek looking
Wesleyan cuss absent-mindedly
drops the bundle of tracts which
he was flattening against his nar-
row chest and applauds like an
ordinary sinner. On February 7
the uncrushable George Darrell
comes along with an entirely
original Australian drama. Is
it we or our fathers who have
sinned that this should come upon
us ?
** # #
That great horsey drama,
“ The Flying Scudd,” continues to
meet with a certain amount of
success at Sydney Gaiety, and
is judiciously supported by many
sciatic old baldheads, who are ob-
viously charmed at the way the
wicked captain waits and wobbles
for the virtuous heroine. This
scaly customer and the horse keep
the play going. Without them
even Mo Davis’s lurid nose would
fall flat, and considering its pre-
sent sharpness and the war it
pokes into other people’s business,
that is saying a good deal.
** * *
The principal attraction at
Sydney Alhambra this week is
Fred. Garnett, the contortionist,
an individual who can tie himself
into as many knots as a ten-foot
worm. He is rather a favourite,
but some day we fear he will swal-
low himself and perish miserably
before he can get ont again.
#* * #
The Buffalo Minstrels have
now taken possession of Sydney
Academy. Their show has im-
proved considerably since their last
visit and a little scenery helps it out.
According to the bill their company
consists of 35 artists, but in spite
of the most vigorous and vocifer-
ous counting we could not lift the
number above 12. Some of the
items are new and some are as old
as Parkes’ hair, hut the perform-
ance goes pretty smoothly and the
house fills well. No human being
could well ask more than that.
** # #
On Friday we will have the
pleasure of sending round our
official wheelbarrow to cart
away the remains of the pantomime from the
back door of Sydney Royal. The obsequies will
be of an unobtrusive character. On Saturday the
widely-advertised Carrie Swain opens in “ The
Tomboy.”
#* # #
The “ Theatre of Varieties ” at Newtown,
Sydney, opened on Anniversary night, when a
whole mass of talent appeared before a tolerably
clean-faced audience. (N. B. —It had been rain-
ing all day.) The building is a roomy, oblong,
highly-decorated structure, and among the artists
were some whom we hope to see again, and many
whom we will never see again if we can help it.
The audience, however, appeared to be pretty
well pleased; perhaps they didn’t know aDy
better.
** * *
The Lynch Family of Bellringers, in spite
of having been hove out of a coach and other-
wise knocked about, have done a good season at
Grafton. They went thence to Lismore, and if
the “ Escaped Nun ” variety show left any coin
they mean to have it.
The Strasburg Clock is still visible. Any
one who takes an interest in devils and apostle 3
will p.ease apply at Market-street, Sydney.
Mr. Dalziel, of Chicago (U.S.A.), will
shortly stump this moral city of Sydney in con-
junction with Mr. Inigo Jones, with a new horsey
drama, “The Queen of the Turf.” Miss Julia
Esmond, a well-known English actress, will be
leading lady, and the company, which seems a
strong one, opens at the Gaiety on February 7.
TT 'TC "TT
Mr. Cecil Forrester, actor, mimic, humor-
ist, and vocalist, is now running an attractive
series of concerts on his own comic hook at
Manly Aquarium.
Gilbert and Sullivan revivals continue to
keep the pot boiling merrily at that high-toned
temple of art, the new Princess’s, Melbourne.
Certain of the triumvirate’s present company are
not always the right people in the right places,
and a suspicion of flabbiness hangs about some of
the dialogue. But for short runs business is
| pretty well as big as ever. “ lolanthe,” which
shows author and composer at their best, filled
last week’s bill. “ Patience ”is doing ditto up to
Friday, when the beauteous Nellie Stewart take 3
a hen. in “ Mikado.” This will be Nellie's posi-
tively la3t appearance “ in her natal country for a
very loDg time to come ” (vide ad.), and the great
dude world is confidently expected that night to
do its duty in the floral-tribute department To
waste any superlative on Miss Nellie Stewart is
like whitewashing the lily or putting yellow ochre
on refined gold. She is clever, melodious, dainty,
and divine, and warranted to kill at ten paces.
** * *
Miss Christie Fuller, the promising young
Victorian concert contralto, has gone on a flying
visit to England.
** * #
A lady from England avers that Sims
Reeves is a complete wreck —not worth listening
to, in short. At this rate we may expect the
great singer cut here almost immediately under
Ihe gentle chaperonage of—well, we will name
the persons for half a million cash.
Italian opera won’t gee in England, and a
company lately taken across to America by Signor
Angelo Zacchia died a violent artistic death.
But Mr. Martin Simonsen’s Melbourne show still
lives and thrives. “Un Ballo in Maschera,” pro-
duced last week, went like wildfire—or cold
chicken down a maiden’s throttle when no male
■ eye is upon her movements. This was a brilliant
work, brilliantly rendered. Signora Tagliavia,
who was handicapped with a flaxen wig in
“FausY’ here burst forth in all her southern
majesty, singing like a lark and acting—except In
the very last scene—like an artist. Signorina
Rebottaro trilled her sweetest, and Signor Santi-
THINGS WE SEE WHCN WE COME OUT WITNOUT
OVR GUN
NO 3
nelli kept the even tenor of his way in good style.
The star baritone of the company, Signor Pimaz-
zoni, has a big sing in this opera, but his stage
experience seems to be limited. Minor parts were
filled right up, and take it altogether “ Un Ballo ”
is the be3t thing done by Mr. Simonsen. Chorus
and mounting are now more than go:d enough to
satisfy modest needs, while the orchestra goes one
better each succeeding night.
In Melbourne several managers have been
fined for allowing their theatres to become over-
crowded, and with fiendish sarcasm they ask why
the police don’t look after the churches as well
and stop the frenzied crush there. In this respect
the bobbies certainly neglect their duty. We
have ourselves seen a church so disgracefully
overcrowded that a man was compelled to sleep
sitting up—there was no room to stretch himself—
and many places of worship are in a dilapidated
state and have no decent bar attached.
## # #
George Rignold brings out a new play at
Melbourne Theatre Royal on Saturday, and
“ Mixed ” is having another innings at the Bijou,
with Mr. Boucicault (from the Opera House) in-
cluded in the cast. All this goes to prove that
Australian theatrical managers are a happy family
who like to see one another get on. By the way,
someone or other i 3 loudly asserting that B. and B.
have no right to play “ Mixed.”
## # *
When will our dramatic u crickets ” ever
learn to gush like this ? SpeakiDg of Mrs. Lang-
try in “The Lady of Lyons ” a New York slop*
slinger says :
“ Lake 3 of Como glisten in her bland eyes, and her pearly
brow stands like Chillon over Leman's brow. Alabaster
lamps are swinging and music in the midst of roses exhales
while she croons. Bougereau, Titian, Paul Veronese—where
are you ? ’
Where are they ? A thousand miles at the back
of nowhere.
-if*
Miss Jeffreys-Lewis has been slating Aus-
tralia to a San Francisco interviewer. She says
“ The people don’t care for art, and don’t know what
art is if they did care.” This is cruel of Jeffreys-
Lewi*, because, generally speaking, we are whales
for art. Only not her art. And in speaking of
Melbourne Theatre Iloyal as “ hardly an excuse
for a barn,” the poor “star” is working out a
cruel revenge. ’Twas from the pit of aforesaid
barn that a free and independent Shilling critic
called out, “Go home, you can’t act!” just when
Jeffreys-Lewis thought she was knocking ’em:
The lady considered she was insulted—so did the
pittite. He was slung out.
** * *
At a theatre, where busts are bountifully
displayed and legs plentifully exhibited, an enthu-
siastic admirer of female development calls his
private box his “ anatomical observatory.”
** * *
From the Bat (London), a paper which-,
we notice, is very often quoted by the London
correspondent of the S.M. Herald :
“ Previously to her departure from New York, Miss
Violet Cameron received a tiittering offer from Mr. E.
Stokes, the man who shot Eiske, but escaped justice. He
is proprietor of the Hoffmann House, and it will be remem-
bered that when Lord Lonsdale and his fair charge put up at
this hotel that they were requested to leave for fear of a
scandal. Now the respited murderer is quite mashed, and
proposed—a house and a handsome income. Needless to
say that in the present unsettled condition of Miss Cameron's
affairs she did nob accept.”
** * *
Several Sydney artistes have written to
The Bulletin saying that, thank Heaven, they
are at last relieved from the tyranny of a certain
musical critic. "What do they mean ?
### # #
The Queen, in order to mark her womanly
sympathy with the poor and starving, will en-
gage all London theatres for a “Jubilee” week
and throw them open to the public. This arrange-
ment will be distasteful to the half-dozen or so
managers whose shows draw full houses on their
merits, but the rest of them will regard it as a
godsend. Every theatre will be paid for, pre-
sumably, according to its licensed seating capacity
at list prices ; there will be no deadheads, for even
the newspaper men (who are sure to get in before
time and jump the private boxes) will he charged
in the bill to their Sovereign Lady. When we re-
member that Drury Lane comfortably holds about
£540 per night, the thought occurs to us that the
royal “ greed” might be laid out in something
more filling at the price than this dramatic fare.
A man who hasn’t tasted food for 48 hours
can’t satisfy the pangs of hunger with an
opera bovffe, nor is such a play as
. “ Money ” likely to soothe the minds of those
who haven’t got any. But this is the sort of
tinsel benevolence with which kings and queens
have courted popularly ever since crowns were
invented. The unthinking mob, doing the theatre
on the cheap, will encore the National Anthem
and “ God Bless the Prince of Wales,” while the
dailies duly gush over these “outbursts of
loyalty.” Meanwhile, withths exception of a few
shaky theatrical managers, who stick up “stand-
ing room only ’ for the first time in their lives,
nobody will be any the better off. The same
dodge was practised on the night of the Queen’s
ccrosation, and the story is told of an old lady
protesting against an operatic “trio,” on the
ground that the artists were imposing on the
Queen’s kindness by singing all together, instead
of one at a time. But we believe this story par-
takes of the character of a lie.
** * *
The Lonsdale-Cameron Opera Company
burst up ingloriously, the peer and his partner—
we mean, of course, “business-partner”—being
compelled to compound with the company for the
immediate termination of their engagements. We
really pity Lonsdale. He has declared that his
only object in organising the company was a
desire to make money, and instead of raking in
dollars he has lost very heavily. He may yet find
that there is more money to be made out of
curates than cantatrices , and more solid profit in
his 41 church livings than in 241 opera companies.
jv- -if -Si- ji
“ Reliable authority ” asserts that Gilbert
and Sullivan’s new comic opera relates to the time
of George 111., and has for its chief characters two
noble brothers, the last descendants pf a family
distinguished for assorted atrocities. Their
estates are held on condition that they live up to
the family reputation, and the elder of the two,
feeling a distaste for such performances, runs
away and mashes a village maiden. This is only
the fiftieth time we have had the plot of this piece
described upon “reliable authority.” Good ex-
cuse for an ad., doncherknow Sydney play-
goers will regret to hear that Miss Nelly Monta-
gue (Mrs. W. Andrews) is lying ill in Mel-
bourne of paralysis. It is doubtful whether she
will regain the use of her right arm......
We regret to hear that Signor Pietro has
died at Christchurch, N Z., leaving his wife and
five children but poorly provided for. Luisetti, who
was well-born, was an accomplished musician and
a gallant gentleman who bravely faced terrible
misfortunes....'.M’Mahon and Leitch’s New Zea-
land tour was, we hear, most successful. The
lucky pair have accepted invitations to spend a
few weeks at the Bay of Islands and in Fiji
Dur edin papers have fallen in love with G W.
Anson’s impersonation of Mr. Poskett.
“ If they took Sir Henry Parkes name
out of the statute book of the colony it remained
a blank,” said Mr. Garland, at Care oar. (Tremen-
dous applause). After all the statute book woubj
look better as a blank than as a smudge.
Sir Henry Parkes, in his St. Leonard’s
address, spoke of “ that strange, curious-looking
creature, Mr. Luscombe.’ Luscombe effectually
retorts by satirically challenging Parkes to shave
his beard and let people have a look at his mouth.
This is a queer world.
N.S.W. has spent about £200,000 a year
-in assisted Immigration. In 1884, 7000 people were
brought out, but so many of these were forced to
take refuge in Protectionist Victoria that N.S.W.
got only 184 more than the sister colony as the net
result of her outlay. 184 people for £200,000 !
Mr. M‘Millan, the East Sydney aspirant,
has found a new reason for the N.S.W. deficit.
“ Its cause,” he says, “ is a certain want of moral
tone throughout all the institutions of the
country.” Isn’t that queer, now ? We have -all
along been thinking that it had someth’’ng to do
with revenue and expenditure.
“ Never mind what Mr. Abigail is per-
sonally,” said Sir ’Enry in the course of Ms famous
apology for his colleagues, “ he is -a man of large
and fast developing mental capacity.” This is
very good in point of theory, but wouldn’t it be as
well to get a man whose mind is already full
grown ? Goodness knows how much he may cos.t
the country for mental grub while he is growing.
A The Freetrade party are already preparing
a policy in view of the time when they are to hold
the reins of power. Mr. Wise, President of the
Free-trade Associ <tion, says : “ I will advocate a
measure for the better housing of the poor. ” If
Free-trade triumphs there will be a lot of poor and
they’ll want housing tadly. We hope to see Mr.
Wise get in. He is a statesman who looks ahead.


Pepper
And
Salt
Mrs. T. P. Hill, a lady who gives “reci-
tals” (under superior patronage) and drops into
poetry in the penny papers, has found a grievance.
Mrs. H. is naturally anxious to put a little thing
of her own upon the tombstone of her late son,
but the secretary of the Melbourne Cemetery
Trustees has rejected the gem in question as
heathenish nonsense.” Thereupon the indig-
nant lady “ invites the opinion of Christian and
literary men ” on her latest—
“ Whom the gods love die early,
Our Father knoweth best,
And it is wrong to murmur
At his high behest,
Sleep gently blighted blossom.
Sleep and take thy re3t.”
As an old established Christian and literary man
we must point out to Mrs. Hill that there are
Deities and deities. She seems to have mixed
’em, and that’s what worries the secretary. This
will placate the monster —
When the gods admire a creeter,
Then they take him straight—
Take him up to see St. Peter
At the Golden Gate —
Turn his gas off at the meter
Early —(Name and date),
or this is a Christian pome without any nonsense
about it—
Alfred Brandon Hill,
Death presents his bill,
And the debt of Nature must be paid ;
Blossoms bees have suck’t
Wither and are pluck’t—
Children in their little graves are laid.
Three score j fit's snd ten
ijive a lot of Mtffltf—
Such are not the chosen of the gods.
Early called, or late,
Quarrel not with fate —
When, or why, we wither makes no odds.
“ Bodies of men attended the churches at
Battersea, St. Pan eras, and Bermondsey, and
hissed the prayers for the Queen.” —
Hiss the prayers for the Queen —
What a shocking story !
To vent their lawless spleen
On their Sovereign Victoree 1
Clear it appears to us
Times must be disjointed,
When men like this presume to hiss
Tho name of God’s Anointed.
But perhaps there’s some mistake —
What seemed like sibi lation
Was intended for to make
A loyal demon-stration ;
For we cannot well believe
That Socialists (tho’ shady),
Could have the cheek last Sunday week
To hiss a Royal lady.
Yet if it should be true,
This very shocking story,
It proves the dif. anew
’Twixt Radical and Tory ;
In this year of Jubilee,
When Tories would be kissing
The royal toe, these Rads., you know,
The royal name are hissing.
A few drops of slush squeezed from the
“ London correspondence ” of the Argus : —“ The
fact is, the Prince of Wales has inherited from his
father a love of bard work, which makes the ease
and idleness of English Royal life very distasteful
to him. He seems ever restless in seeking and
Ending fresh work for his hands, while his brothers
have congenial occupation in their professions.”
Let us burst into a hymn of praise—
It was one sultry night in Melbourne about
a fortnight ago. The water had been turned off
for about 36 hours, and luxurious people who
wanted to wash themselves had to do it in the
manner permitted by the Prophet when water is
scarce—that is to say, with sand —or go about in
an armour-plating of dirt. The writer live 3 in a
quiet street in a quiet suburb. Opposite him
dwells a noisy Hebrew' mtecrean t who has a cont inual
thirst you could heat a flat-iron at. He never
comes home till the last hotel is shut, and then he
sits on the verandah with a two-gallon jug of
water between his knees, and curses at large.
Imagine a hippopotamus going for a stroll among
the rice-flelds and returning to find the river in
which he lived dried up. If you can you may
arrive at a pallid notio 1 of the way in wdiich that
chosen .unatic carried on when he came home on
the night in question and found the water turned
off. He tore up and down the verandah the whole
night long, cursing everything from an inch high
to an hour old, and now and then varying the per-
formance with a dismal and hideous bellow. o.:e
by one every window opened and bitter maledic-
tions were hurled at him. It is not too
much to say that, since the days of Gomorrah,
so much, and such varied, blasphemy was never
heard before in a given time in one block cf
houses. A frenzy of profanity seemed to have
seized upon every immortal soul in the terrace.
Highest among the vituperative voices was that of
a preacher, a good man and a pious, who has fre-
quently reproved the writer for using strong lan-
guage. But the son of Snansi across the way
paid no more heed to it all than if it were the
buzzing of gnats. The writer, while this terrific
racket was goiDg on, was calmly writing the
following address to the gnashing Hebrew, and as
soon as there was a lull in the storm, crossed the
street and sang it to him, playing an accordion
the while: —
O, festive He-e-brew !
Thou art not in the Ju-u-den Strasse
Nor in the Ghet-to—so we pray thee pass
On this in-fer-nal riot.
For To o-pheb’s sake ke-e-p qui-et :
For Abra ham’s sake too-oo
We are distressed.
So we beseech thee, O, most noble Jew-ew !
Give us a re3t!
Gi-i-ve us a r-r-est!
O, son of Shaitan !
Why cursest thou? What have we done tothee ee
That thou dost make the night an agonee-ee ?
O, gentle Jew, we're not thy debtors ;
We are a peaceful man of let-ters.
Mayhap as well as you-oo
We love our lit-tle jest.
But this is too much—therefore, gentle Jew-co,
Give us a rest!
Gi-i-ve us a r-r-est!
That fetched him. He said no more. He has not
been seen outside the house since. The people in
the street say that it gave him his death-blow—
not the song but the singing.
* * *
At a recent temperance meeting in Man-
chester, Bishop Moorhouse said that “ many
years ago he signed a conditional pledge, but that
towards the close of the second year he broke
do-wn utterly, and his doctor told him that he
THE BURDEN OF A MEDAL.
would hare to take some light stimulant with his
principal meals. He supposed he was one of those
who had not the power of easily digesting great
masses of food. He, however, observed a rigid
rule never to drink alcoholic liquor except at meal
times, and never to take nips or refreshers between
meals.” Great Scott ! Fetch us up a bard from
the cellar :
If Sir Julius Vogel’s
two uncertain leg* would
freshen up sufficiently to
car. y him into the golden
realms of thcEvermo:c,
before his glory has tiire
to grow dim, his name
would go down to future
ages as that of the one
great Australian who suc-
ceeded in painting a whole
colony red at the expense
of an English railway
syndicate. His last grand
coup —or kcop, as some of
his followers call it—has
been to arrange for the
building of the N.Z.
and West Coast railway
on the land-grant prin-
ciple, a million and a half
acres being the bonus
awarded to the sons of the
iron-horse-leech for doing
the job. But somehow
Julius seems to have got
the horse-leech family to
sign a contract without
seeing the land—a fact
which conclusively proves
that the N.Z. Treasurer
does not think with his legs—and when they do
see it the chances are that the syndicate will soon
have rot one solitary hair left on its betrayed
and deluded head. Mo3t cf the afiotrnents are
unsuited for pasture, for they are so steep that a
sheep would have to hold on to the grass with its
teeth to avoid sliding into the plains below, and it
is impossible to grow potatoes on them for the
vegetables would fall out of the ground. Where-
ever there is an unusually hungry mountain-peak
the syndicate gets it, and the treasurer seems to
have gone mile 3 out of his way to hunt up bare
rocky patches that look as if they had been
grubbed out of Tophet, and to search out glaciers,
and precipices, and scorched and blasted areas, where
the foul fiend has scraped off every vestige of soil,
and then put an old volcano on top to hold the
territory down. On fully half their property the
members of the syndicate would require to
hang on to a rope to save their lives, and then
■when the rope broke they would go down and
fly through space for a billion years before striking
against the other half. Sir Julius has done his
level best, it must be admitted, to fill up the co m-
pany’s frenzied craving for natural scenery. He
! has thrown in every kind of magnificent spectacle
! and gorgeous parorama that he could lay hands
on, to say nothiDg of every description of split and
crack and abyss that rends the surface of this
mortal earth, but this does not seem to be quite
what was bargained for, and the syndicate now
I "'ant Vogel to move the cliffs and chasns and
mountains off their land, and let them see what it
is like.
The truth of this story is vouched for by a
N.S.W. Minister. One Cramp, a country publican,
was nominated for a J.P.-ship, and the larky
phonetic wretch accepted the billet thusly
“ Dear Sir, This comes hopping it will find you quite well
and I liar grate pleazure in ackeeptin the position of Justis
ot the Piece, and shall eudeiour to coh .bit kordially with
my brother ncagietrats.’'
There was a signature attached like a fried gob-
lin in hysterics. On receipt of this a great effort
was made to shunt Cramp before it was too late,
but, alas ! Cramp had been sworn in, and was al-
ready “ cohabiting." Of course he meant “co-
operate.”
“Town Fall, Prahran. Friendly discus-
sion. ‘ Conditional Immortality.’ Geo. A.
Brown (G.A.8.) affirms; J. P. Peppercorn re-
plies.” We would like to hear v hat a man with
the name of Peppercorn lud to say upon Immor-
tality. We would also like to hear the opinions
of a cockroach upon the Copernican system :
Rather, 0, rather, let U 3 be
Wiped out! Rather, much rather, let us drown
In black oblivion, th in that we
Should share our immortality
With Peppercorn and Brown.
* * *
Referring to the late annual meeting of
the Wesleyan Conference in Melbourne, the re
ligious reporter of the Melbourne Daily Tele-
graph says with unconscious sarcasm :—“ A third
characteristic (of the meeting) is the reverence
and earnestness that seems to possess so strongly
these childlike hearts.” A few lines further down
THE NEW COMET—AN EXACT LIKENESS.
A comet is a thing that travels very fast and doesn’t stay long.
the president is reported as saying : —“ Many
people will not give to the church as a whole, but
only to their particular congregation’s funds, and
this even in jubilee year. ’Tis as if a man cele-
brated his wife's birthday by buying himself a
new hat.” This is a beautiful and touching speci-
men of the wordings of the childlike heart, as un-
derstood by the religious reporter of the Daily
Telegraph. The Wesleyan Church, after paying
his own particular congregational dues (which
you would think should be enough to fave his own
soul and the soul of at least one benighted nigger
is piously abused and held up to revererd ridicule
if he does not further ‘ 1 part ” to the “ church as
a whole. ’
“ These childlike hearts I ” It makes us grin,
This phrase. No arts
Have they ; no wiles for raising “ tin ”
“ These childlike hearts.”
Though you were keenest of your kind
In all the marts,
At scooping coin they’d beat you blind —
“These childlike hearts.”
Coin is a good thing, life a span,
Their little dart’s
To pile the coin in while they can—
“ These childiike hearts.”
Whom do they call the pious man ?
The man who ‘' parts ”
Freely. He's the saved Wesleyan—
Dem childlike hearts 1
• * #
The Rev. F. W. Goodwyn, who recently
withdrew his acceptance of the bishopric of
Bathurst, is eDgaged to marry Miss Thompson
eldest daughter of the Archbishop of York :
Typhoid fever is exciting a large amount
of attention in Victoria just now—especial'y
among the people who catch it. But nothing can
be done. The melancholy cow will continue to
slake her thirst at the ripphngopen drain, and the
prudent housewife will hurl antiquated vegetables
into the right-of-way as of y-ore. Town sewage
will wander whithersoever it listeth within legal
limits, nothing can te done. The Central Board
of Health declines to make a full investigation
into cause of this epidemic “because it has
no power to order the takiDg of evidence upon
oath."—
Two “ oldest residents ” of Taripta (Vic.),
Messrs. Tanner and O Shea, returning from the
funeral of a mutual friend, with the fire and fury
of the wake still upon them, entered into a debate
on the Future Siate. Unable to come to a satis-
factory decision, a “fight for it” seemed both
logical and conclusive. _ Without waiting to
appoint a chairman, they waded in and O’Shea
panned out; he was killed by the first blow.
What a surprise for the mutual friend when they
meet in the mystic Beyant!
A revolution in gold-mining affairs is at
hand. A Maryborough (Q.) carpenter was lately
riled by his plane 3 becoming dog-eared while he
was shaving away at a piece of timber. On look-
ing for the cause he found the wood was impreg*
nated with fine gold. The plank, a cedar one, came
from a Gympie tree, and was sentslcrg for assay.
lestead of sinking shafts into the entrails of the
earth the miner of the future will go aloft in
a ‘lift” and fossick about among* t the tops of
the b.ack butts end red gums, and the day may
yet ariive when cuttirgs from gold bcaiing trees
will be secured, and every man can sit beneath
the shade of his own bonanza-bearing tree. The
story of the golden apples of the Hesperides may
not be such a “ continental cablegram ” after
The nimble Bertie, in the purple born,
Abhors a life of idleness and ease ;
He’s up and doiDg at the streak of dawn,
And sniffs the fragrance of the morning breeze;
When the wee, witching hours of night are sped
He rises—from his chair, and goes to bed.
His restless Highness ever seems to seek
Fresh occupation to beguile the day
And night—the theatre twiee a week,
After the theatre, possibly the play ;
And, chief among his most athletic feats,
Consider all the many times he eats
The morning calls on interesting friends,
The “ taking chair” at regulation feeds ;
Ye gods ! How many hours His Highness spends
In stern accomplishment of doughty deeds
Here, there, in half-a-dozen places—
Ball, garden party, soiree , or the Races.
Denied the solace of congenial toil—
Like Sailor Alfred, or the bold Connaught;
Bert, keeps bis kettle always on the boil,
And scorns to squander useful time in thought;
The round of labour never seems to cease—
His duties with his waistcoat girth increase.
Oh, happy land ! rejoicing in a Prince
Who stands upon a pedestal alone.
The world has never seen his equal since
Great-uncle George was Regent on the throne ;
We would continue, but that language fails
Hip, hip, hooroo ! God bless the Prince of Wales!
Bishop Moorthouse
Of Moorhouse, the bishop, we sing,
A song that will ring through the ages;
His name and his mem’ry will cling
Like limpets to History’s pages.
The future for ever will ken
A Bishop so great and so good
Who suffered a martyrdom when
“ Digesting great masses of food.”
He did his devout level best
To abstain from all drinks alcoholic,
Blue ribbon he wore on his breast,
Though it doubled him up with the colic ;
For weeks and for months did he strive
To abstain as a Good Templar should,
But he found himself scarcely alive
“ When digesting great masses of food.”
The spirit was willing to ban
All spirits in wood or in bnttle,
But the flesh, that frail portion of man,
Wasn’t game to continue teetotal.
His doctor decided he must
With his grub some light liquor include
(Alcoholic, of course), or he’d bust,
“ When digesting great masses of food.”
“ Long-sleevers ” he ne’er could abide,
Nor nips at odd times, nor refreshers,
Indulgers in these would be chide
In sermons that thumped them like threshers.
And never, so help him, did he,
That Bistnp so holy and good,
Drink wine, ale, or spirits, ye see,
“ Except with great masses of food.”
Oh, Britain, Great Britain, in thee
While Bishops are guzzling and carving,
The poor in their hovels we see,
In millions, repining and starving.
But never let anyone dare
Complain or be ever so rude
As to hint that a bishop should share
With these his ‘ 1 great masses of food. ”
A Good Win for Goodwin.
Ah ! Goodwyn, now we understand
Why you wouldn't cross the water—
Twelve pounds a week in a distant land
Is naught be3ide the heart and hand
Of a mighty prelate’s daughter.
A Bathurst bishop’s road is rough
Compared with wbat y ou’ll travel ;
E’en though the lady brings no “ stuff,”
Promotion to it is sure enough—
A billet snug you’ll snavel.
Good Goodwyn, you have chosen well,
We guess you’re more than seven ;
The Bathurst folks may go to H— —,
While you at home in comfort dwell,
And book a place in Heaven.
The fever is raging in Melbourne town,
As is often its horrible wont,
The strong and the weak are alike stricken down,
Some of ’em die, and some don’t;
The Board, which should tackle such matters as
this,
Is scratching its head in dismay,
For’tis painfu’ly certain there’s something amiss—
The deuce of a dickens to pay.
Microbes and germs are careering abroad,
They are scattered all over the place,
But (like flowers that bloom in the springtime) the
Board
Has nothing to do with the case ;
Any evidence touching the wherefore ard why,
To accept it is properly loath,
For a witness is certain to tell ’em a lie
If he can’t be examined on oath.
The trouble increases with every hour,
The Boai d is still scratching its head ;
Alas and alack ! bu* it hasn’t tho power
To ask how the fever is spread—
To take evidence touching the wherefore and why
With a view to arresting iis growth;
Oh ! the whole of the people will probably die
Before they’re examined on oath.


This
WICKED
WORLD
A Napier (N.Z.) lawyer has sent a bill of
cists for £l2l to a client who engaged him to re-
cover £5O. The client has now to engage another
lawyer who will probably charge him a few hun-
dreds for this second case Carington has one
public-house to every 60 adult males. Carington
was until lately known as Bullock Island The
N.Z. Major-General and his staff recently reviewed
a force of 38 men all told A N.S.W. bullock'
shover has come in for a fortune of £3O 000
5,300 oz. gold have been bought at Tcetulpa by
the E S.A.C. Bank A N.Z. bookmaker named
Abrahams (we knew it) paid over £5 notes instead
of ones at a race. This is the first instance on re-
cord Sir Robert Stout told a labour agitator at
Christchurch to go and work instead of living on
his wife’s washing receipts A Cairns (Q.)
editor called the rival ink-slinger “ a moral young
man,” a libel which the latter resented with a
horsewhip John Kelso, of Dunedin, has got
£55 damages from a dentist who extracted a
wrong tooth from his jaw Harry Power, the
ex-bushranger, and ticket-of-leave man, is
now in Melbourne Hospital. He is a labourer
on W. J. Clarke’s Donny brook station
A North Queensland ferryman had a bad quarter
of an hour the other day. He lives in a shanty by
a river bank, and there in the dea4 waste and
centre of the night he was besieged by an alligator
which tried to flick the door open with its little
tail Even Carrathool, a small dreamy township
where a drunkard may sleep safely in the middle
of the main street for a week, now beasts of it s'
“ outrage.” The victim this time was a lady who
went to a river two miles away for an afternoon’s
fishing all by ncrself That aroful hospital nurse,
Miss “ Megrims,” was called on last week to give
evidence against her friend, poisoner Hall. But
all that could be got out of her w r as a series of
hysterical yells On the Western (N.S.W ) rail-
way line the “ fish train” runs to Mount Victoria
and back every day. The train never does carry
any fish except the tinned sardine of the humble
tourist, but acquired the name years ago when
“ Jack Herring” used to steer it between Penrith
a*:d Sydney. On similar principles, the Albury
passenger train ought to be named the gallows
because a man named Windeyer once stoked it.
The Evening Noose’s sensational paragraph
as to icebergs having been seen “ off tlie coast of
Tasmania,” is pure bunkum. What the captain
of the Bank hall reported was that he had sighted
icebergs wht n five days' sail (over 1000 miles)
from Tasmania.
The limited liability company trading un-
der the old style of Spiers ar.d Pond, made a pro-
fit of £78,000 in 1886, as against £52,000 in the
preceding year. The Indian and Colonial Exhibi-
tion contract had a lot to do with tbis, and the
greater paitofthat extra £26,000 profit was de-
rived from “representative Australians’ ” loyal
thirst. At a recent English wedding, tbe depar-
ture of the w'oddiog-parr.y from the church was,
in accordance with the common practice, greeted
with showers of rice, and the horses of the bride's
carriage, lesenting the salute, bolted tmong the
tombs, upsfct ing the party over a gravestone and
breaking two or three arms and legs Truth is
mighty and will prevail—exceptover the gas-meter
Mickey Meade, many years in the Mel
bourne Supreme Court, died the other day. In
his prime Meade was an adept with the gloves, a
capital swimmer, and one of the best shots in the
colonies. He deserves a verse :
Weep not, dear friend, for Michael Meade,
He’s reached the Golden Shore,
And there, from care and sorrow freed,
Poor Mick will cry no more.
When John Alexander Dowie was on his
faith-healing mission in Dunedin (N.Z.), a gentle-
man rose to speak, and the pastor asked him if he
had a sore any where—sores seem to be the holy
Dowie’s speciality. ' He said he hadn’t; he merely
wished to ask the healer to come round to the hos-
pital and set everybody on bis legs at once. Then
the parson rose up and said, in effect: “ Take that
insulting scoffer out.” The scoffer was taken out.
Colonel P. G. Ball ingall, of lowa, U.S.A.,
is the Lion of the day among the Melbourne
Licensed Victuallers. He wears a gold chain
ninety inches long, which was presented to him
by the hotelkeepers of lowa. On every link of it
is stamped the name of the donor and the name
of his hotel. The teetotallers have, a splendid
text here. Described as the Devil s Chain it ought
to make the theme of a very instructive and har-
rowing lecture.
Te Kooti had a narrow squeak for his life,
the other day. One of tbe survivors of the Mata-
wbero mass'acie, instigated by the Maori clrcf
named —23 Europeans w r ere killed on the occa-
sion having sworn to kill Tc Kooti, took
his ticket in the train hoping to come up with bis
ancient enemy on the way to Porongahau. The
police got wind of the business, however, and Te
Kooti was shipped otf to a quiet spot on an
island somewhere near the Waipawa town-
ship. However, the survivor is biding his time
and means to bag Te Kooti yet.
Kalakaua, King of Hawaii, is having a
high old time on the £400,000 loan lie floated in
the English market, and he could have had
£<,000,000 if he had wanted it. Tbe Hawaiian
budget show's a revenue of about £500,000 and an
expenditure of £BOO,OOO, so the money w r on’t last
very long, but there are plenty more fools w r here
it came from. It would be interesting to know,
howeverj why such an amount of bad language is
used regarding the securities of the Australian
colonies, when a nigger potentate, whose father
ate missionaries flavoured with banana-peel, has
only to write an 1.0. U. for £400,000 on the end of
his shirt and sign it “ Kalakaua his X mark,” to
get £2,000,000 of legal tender placed at his dispo-
sal in less than a week.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Parkes is going to the country. Will the
country go to Parkes?
Knapp will stand for a Sydney constitu-
ency ; -he goes nap on cold water and freetrade.
Gcschen, Salisbury’s renegade Liberal
Treasurer, has been defeated at Liverpool by nine
VOtG3.
The Parkes “ Freetrade ” Ministry is
composed of five Fieetraders and five renegade
Protectionists.
Sunday News Bailey is afraid that some
candidates for Parliament will lose their £4O each.
Burnt children dread the fire.
John Cash Neild’s election address con-
sists of hut five line?. Perhaps this is because a
man can’t write with his jawbone.
Four hundredand fifty menown 17,000,000
acres of land in N.S.W. ; IGOO persons hold in
lease or fee-simple nearly two-thirds of the entire
territory.
“ The Bulgarian Tangle ” is the descrip-
tive heading in a N.Z. paper. “ The N.S. Wales
Tanglefoot ” would be the aptest heading for the
political position.
We may hear more of a Franco-German
war on in Spring. Ge rmany has bought up all the
Australian corned meat in tho market, and France
has ordered 5,000,0001 b. from Chicago for fortress
use.
Mr. Garrett has been seriously “indis-
posed” ever since he tcok office in tho new
Government. So says tho virtuous D.T. 'Jho
THE DISADVANTAGES OF A CLUB,
nature of the “indisposition” is, however, care-
fully concealed.
Parkes promises the “ blessings ” of Freetrade
On New South Wales to presently bestow ;
But from the ballot-box will soon be won
Protection ’gainst Parkes, Roberts, Clarke and
Co.
Sir Henry Parkes has shunted all the
“private secretaries” of former Ministers. He
should at least have allowed his colleague, Mr.
Abigail, one. It will look so bad ia the Depart-
ment to see “refuse” spelt with two “o’s” and
an “i.”
A Mr. Garrard, writing to an Auckland
paper on the land scheme and the Lands Minister,
says :—‘' Mr. b is atshambd to address the Public
at aucldand on his land skeeme if the Gentleman
is not worth heeriDg the skeeme is not worthy of
support.”
In the appointment of Mr. John Suther-
land to the N.S.W. Ministry of Works, a suburban
paper sees the “di.ect intervention of Provi-
dence.” This is the v* ry first time we have heard
of the Bennett family being confounded with the
Almighty.
Judge Docker denies that he ever secured
Mudgee Taylor of corruption, and says that all
he told the N.S.W. Attorney-General was that a
witness had sworn in court th*t Mr. Taylor had
accepted money to procure the release of a con-
victed prisoner.
According to Lord Harris, the Primrose
League, which started in January, ’B5, with G 637
members, had in October, ’B5, 34,205 ; in January,
’B6, it had 102,289 ; in February, ’B6, it had 155,354 ;
in April, ’B6, it had 276,283; and in October, ’B6, it
had 455,865 members.
Happy N.S.W. ! Her Parliament will
low assuredly loose one of the most sottish
of its drunkards. However, there seems to be a
chance that the “ boozer” who takes next place
on the ladder of glory—he is a person who drinks
about two bottles of spirits daily—will next seision
inflict his odious presence on the Home.
The innocent Sydney D.T. affected, not to
see the point of Mr. Tcohey’s dramatic flourish of
a cheque-book at a meeting of his, and talks about
the insolence of flaunting his wealth before the
electors in that fashion. Mr. Toohej’s accompany
ing remark, “I might have been in the present
Ministry had I chosen—cheque-books are very
useful things,” explains the full meaning of his
action.
The easy virtue and extreme accessibility
of the Sydney D.T. is displayed in the fact that
that paper s[ calcs of Mr. Sutherland's “ fussy im-
becility” be 'ause he “ reversed evety progressive
alteration determined on by his predecessor ” —for
example, the running of a morning mail-train
which would admirably serve the intereits of the
morning newspaper proprieto s as against those
of Mr. Alfred Bennett.
Henniker Heaton, in a recent speech, at
which Mr. Service was p esent, declared that he
had been assured by several members of the
I French Cabinet that the ex-Premier’s New Heb-
ridean outpourings were causing great indigna-
j tion on the Contirent. Great Scott! Fancy dear
old Henniker being on speaking terms with the
French Cabinet! And nobody ever thought he
had got beyond, “ Avez-vous vu le dog de ma
tante?”
“The State carriage of the dethroned
King Theebaw of Burmah has been presented to
the Queen. Her Majesty graciously acknowledged
the present.” “ Mary Ann O’Rourke, an old
woman of 71 yeai*3, was yesterday sentenced at
i Bow-street to six months’ imprisonment for re-
ceiving stolen goods valued at 2s. Gd The magis-
trate regretted that crimes of this class so rarely
were detected and punished.” These two items
are from the same issue of one of our English
exchanges.
According to an article in the London
Economist, Freetrade is upending the agricultural
industry of England. The average annual value
of farm products for the 10 y. ars ending 1875 was
£121,000 000, but the next ten years reduced this
average to £105,000,000, and 1885 showed a further
shrinkage to £90,000,000. These figures dovetail
nicely with statistics recently published in Tim
Bulletin proving the migration of men from the
rural districts to the cities of England. In less
than five years Britain will levy duties on imported
grain, in order to prevent the whole country from
becomieg a picturesque desert.
Behold another twist by the Sydney D.T.
Referring to Sir Samuel Griffith’s poor apologies
of his Imperial-Conference-c'im-Mount- Morgan
trip to England, the Daily Twister sagaciously
remarks, “ Nothing could more fully illu?tra‘e
the peril of entrusting plenipotentiary powers to
politicians sont to represent the colonies on the
other side of the globe.” This is right down on to
Imperial Federation, for under any such system
politicians “ sent to represent the colony ” twelve
thousand miles away, must have “plenipotentiary
power,” or else be about as useful as a D.T. intel-
lect, and as dignified as a D.T. leader.
The absolute necessity for the adoption of
the payment of members system in N.S.W. is
clearly demonstrated in connection with the rend-
ing elections. There are in every electorate
capable, intelligent men who would make gcod
members of Parliament but they cannot afford the
expense which is linked with the honour of being
an M.P. When payment of members becomes the
law there can be no doubt that the Protectionists
will be victorious, and that the people will no
longer be misrepresented by a pack of selfish soft-
goodsmen and a set of unscrupulous lawyers—the
only persons who can now afford to spend their
time in Parliament.
The latest application of Freetrade in
England has been very warmiy opposed. Ihe
mails for America hitherto have been carried
entirely by Eoglish steamers, but the Postmaster-
General effected a swing of £25,000 a year by
employing North German L’oyds vessels as well.
This is a consistent Freetrade action. The Ger-
man vessels may be manned by paupers and sub-
sidised with German money, but as they can for
these reasons carry the mails cheaper, the Eoglish
Government by using them buy their services in
the cheapest market. But the most blatant Free-
traders object to so fair an application of the doc-
trines of Mill and Cobden.
More “ bluff” ! “An apolooy for absence
arising from Parliamentary bus'ness was received
at the annual meeting of the Local Option League
from the lion. J. Inglis.” At the time the “ tiger
slayer of the Punjaub ” was not a member of Par-
liament. We can imagine the guffaw which fol-
lowed the announcement at the Bagman’s Club
that the champion yarn-teller “ on the roads” had
associated himself with Henson, Hutchinson,
Madgwick, Knapp, and Co. Mr Inglis’ bogus
apology is particularly interesting when read in
the light of his election address in which he says :
—“ The country is sick of chicanery . . . and
the prostitution of place and power to subserve
private and personal ends.”
The Gippsland Times is looking hopefully
forward to a bright and happy future, when
“Australia, with her sister Canada, her elder
brother America, and the parent Great Britain,
will form an Anglo-Saxon confederation to put
down oppression, to protect humanity and ad-
vance the cause of freedom, and to rule the world
in righteousness and peace.” Ic is satisfactory to
reflect that we are all working in that direction.
Great Britam is investing a few more mil ions in
ironclads to put down oppression, Canada recently
s* ruDg up Louis Kiel in the facred cause of free-
dom, cur other sister, Soil'll Africa, pants to
let fly some more righteousness and peace among
the Zulus. Oh ! we are a Happy Family.
Sir Henry Parke s confesses that he has
formed an opinion extremely unfavourable to bis-
trict Court Judge Docker. This announcement is
exactly in keeping with Sir Henry’s previous per-
formances. He, like the S.M. Herald, waits
until the public mind has become thoroughly pos-
sessed with an idea, and ihea cautiously notifies
his approval of the unanimous sentiment of the
community. Everyone else in N.S.W. had formed
an opinion ‘* extremely unfavourable to District
Court Judge Docker” months and years ago
Parkes is getting on. lie wiil voice the public
sentiment next by saying that Judge Windeyer is
just about as well fitted to preside over a Criminal
Court as Frarncis Habigal would be to engineer
the Education Department.
The Balmainites ought to deal summarily
with Mr. Garrard at the forthcoming election.
Hitherto during his political career he has been a
consistent advocate of a discriminating system of
Protection, but now he says: ‘'Sometimes it is
better to lav one’s views on one side in view of an
important crisis, and, therefore, if returned, I
shall go in a supporter of Sir Henry Parkes. ’
And yet the issue put before ilie country by Sir
Henry Parkes is Freetrade v. Protect on ! In place
of direct Protection, such as Garrard has hitherto
advocated, he talks about assisting industries by
bonuses rather than by “ a dangerous experi-
ment.” In other words, ho wflll throw overboard
his old political creed rnd support the man who
helped to kick him out of office a little over 1
months ago!
In Freetrade England women are paid
apemiy a thousand tor cutting out and making
paper bags of assorted sizes. Match-boxes are
paid for at the rate of two-.pence farthing per
gross, the women who make them at that price
finding their own pas e. Good cabinet-makers arc
rather better paid. By working about 15 hours a
day every day in the week they sometimes make ;
as much as Bs. 9d. for 105 hours’ work. But it is
not every workman who can rake in that sum, and
none of them can do it every week. Under the
peculiar and lop-eared blessings of Freetrade,
N.S.W. mechanics will be afforded an opportunity
of competing with these industrious Londoners ;
but as they already have to compete with China-
men, the competition of these Londoners can
hardly be noticed.
If there is one thing which -the hairless
“ Wales” piides himself upon it is the elimy and
cadaverous tact by which he puts ey-erj body “at
his ease,” but surely his brain have be n
moulting, or e"se his refinement ha&.fcb.oii sent out
to grass when he alluded in a j*§ceDt speech to
Australia as one of the “ possessions” of England.
It was at a meeting of the stillborn Colonial Insti-
tute, and the Agents-General and a'l the other
clay-pots of poliiics applauded a* the bald and
guttural German put in his claim to own this con-
tinent. The former, at all events, might do well
to remember that they were sent to London as the
representatives of a people who are not among
anybody’s “ possessions ” f J heir business is chielly
to raise the wind—to put (he great colonial shirt
up the English spout, and generally to finance for '
this mortgaged nation, but as these colonies do
not owe Wales ” a single red cent, it would be
well when next that great man attempts to strike
oil in the great bore of his intellect that he
should be left to fill in his own applause.
Mr. E. Valentine Brown, who made a
little pile of money out of a libel action he took
against Melbourne Punch and then rubbed in his
revenge (much to the glee of the proprietors of
that journal) by publishing a Punch of h’s own—
which was received with rapture in the sausage-
shops—has now got into more trouble, out of
which, we have no doubt, he will again emejge
covered with glory ar.d slutted with bank-notes.
He has been suspended for “sas3ing” the Pre-
mier’s secretary. Mr. Brown is a long, thin, yel-
low young man, w r ho looks as if he wrote a good
deal of bilious poetry in secret and regarded his
present environment as a prison in which his
seething genius had no room to w r erk. Let him
take heart. He is not alone in his illusion. Mil-
lions of young men have similarly caracoled into
the arena of existence, and after being spilled and
trodden in the sand two or three times have come
to think in a similar way, but have generally
ended as contented citizens keeping a wood-and
coal-yard or a little public-house. I£ is only
foolishness for him to launch his little earthen
pipkin on the river among the metal-pots. Let
him keep with his kind, and who knows but that
one day he may become a C.M.G.
Strange that a poor man who loves
alcoholic stimulants is a “ miserable drunkard’
A. moderately well to do person with the same fail-
ing is “ his own enemy, or ‘' a good fell jw. with
only oue fault,” while a b andy and ctampagne-
soaked mil ionaire is “ ajo ly and gtnial gentle-
man, whose hospitality is boundless.”
Parkes’ announcement of the N.S.W.
Ministerial policy last week was the Dictator’s
method of exclaiming, “Alone I done it!” By this
early disclosure of the programme is proved the
fact that the only shire Sir Henry’s colleagues
had in that policy was giving a mute approval as
the price of their portfolios. The Hemperor's
policy may change to suit the times, but his con-
duct is ever the same. Bo has already taught his
colleagues that they meekly follow him, but his
effort to make the House learn the same lesson
was attended with conspicuous failure.
A South Melbourne man took a touch of
religious mania, brain-softening, unrequitted love,
and the D.T.’s, so he painted himself blue, hung
out his tongue, and started round town as a
crank. By and bye, the police were sooled on,
and the eccentricity betook himself to a house-top,
and, enthroned astride the smoke-stack, he bom-
barded the force with bricks, audience of
5000 soon collected, and the maniac amused him-
self by picking off his enemies with scraps of
chimney. The force lit a little Hades below,
and endeavoured to smoke him off like a ’possum,
but he dropped bricks upon them with a wild sad
laugh, and gibed at their high office A daring
young policeman w r ent aloft at last, and, sneaking
along the slates, grabbed the demented des-
perado from behind, and some spirited ground-
wrestling ensued out on that slanting rcof. But
virtue triumphed ; the daring young policeman
clapped the darbies on his prisoner and handed
him down by his ear. The wrongheaded man s
name was Parks. The gentleman who lately ac-
cepted the onerous office of forming a Cabinet in
N.S.W. spells his name P-a-r-k-e-s. We mention
this to prevent misunderstanding.


The Pro-Trade Free-tection Ministry.
P ARKES: "[?]HRK, YOU FBLLOWS, HAUL IN YOUR OARS. KEEP PERFKCTLY QUIET, AND ILL PULL YOU THROUGH.


An “Angel of Light ” —Gas-light ?
“On the one side in this conflict we shall have light; on the other darkness.” —Partes speech.


Society
The snobbery of the “loyal” Australian
public is indeed unfathomable. It is taller than
the gallows and meaner than leprosy. One Sun-
day, a littl® while ago, Lord Carington condes-
cended to attend a certain N.S.W. church, and
the man who directed the “box o’ whustles,”
though he had been lounging negligently on his
seat in the presence of his Maker, straightened up
immediately he discovered that he was also in
the presence of the deputy of the biographer of
John Brown’s legs, and at once thumped out the
old dirge, “ God Save the Queen !” Having wor-
shipped Carington first, the congregation went on
to worship God seemd. If the preacher had pos-
sessed any sense of humour he would have started
with: “Oh, Lord! I hope we haven’t kept you
waiting,” or have exclaimed, “Excuse U 3, Lord,
'while we do a little grovel!” but he didn’t even
'offer up that half-hearted apology, and no one
seemed to think it necessary. If Carington even
saunters round incognito in flannels to a cricket-
mac'h—a? he did last week—the attendant brass
band must needs bang out their obaisance on the
'gizzard of the drum, and toot their bowed-down
admirati n on the cornet, and they always spot
A Polite Evasion.
FOND MOTHER: “MINNIE ALREADY SINGS NICELY—DON'T YOU THINK IT WOULD BE WELL TO HAVE HER VOICE TRAINED?”
MR. BROWN: YE-E-S, I THINK SOMETHING OUGHT TO BE DONE WITH IT.”
the great man the instant he appears. Appar-
ently they keep an abject toady on the look-out
with a binocular so that they may not lose a chance
of showing their own vaulting snobbishness. We
don’t know the name of the insect who thus
shadows the Governor, but we have no hesitation
in telling him or anyone else who may be respon-
sible for this perpetual outpouring of cornstalk
gush that a squashed and trodden-on frog is a
nobler animal than any of them. It doesn’t try
1 to be nobler, hut it was born that way and can’t
i help it.
* * *
Still more Krismish ! An Anglican clergy-
man in one cf the Sydney suburbs was bidden to
i perform the marriage ceremony over two of his
flock on Christmas eve. Well, the wedding party
, drew up at the sacred pile only to find the said
pile enveloped in an awful gloom, no gas haviDg
been lit for the occasion. The minister ex-
cused the oversight by confessing that he had
“ forgott n all about them as it was Christmas
time ! ”
* * *
The friends and admirers—particularly the
'feminine admirers—of Mr. Burdett Smith, M.P ,
should at once endeavour to possess themselves oi
a copy of a record lately published in London “ at
the suggestion and request of friends at present
in England, for private, circulation only." Ex-
■ cept that this remarkable volume does not men-
tion the hour of Mr. Smith’s advent into this vale
of tears, and omits all mention of his boyish
eccentricities of genius, it is as a biography a
marvel of completeness. How the distinguished
gent’eman gracefully adorned the Commission of
nearly every Exhibition which the mind of living
man can recall, is fully expatiated on : the famous
banquet of April 3, 1886, with the illustrious
names of the committee printed on the menu,
\ stands out prominently ; and the speech of our
Regal Bob when he responded to the toast of the
■ evening, is far too brilliant and impressiv6 to be
reid all at once. And when Robert warms up
over the Soudan campaign and the prominent
part he had in dispatching the Goat-Brigade, a
thiill of pride and joy passes through every loyal
and well-orderei mind at the thought that Aus-
tralia will ere long te able to receive once more
into its social and political besom “ its legislator
of 1G years’ standing,” one of the most remarkable
men of the agr»
* * *
Says N.Z. PfifiLie Opinion : —A man of
70, named Charles Herrock, Who had recently
mar; ied a young Woman of 20, drowned himself
at Dalefield on Saturday.” The wonder is that he
didn’t think of it on the Friday, or before that,
even.
# * *
An elaborate Sydney personage has given
much offence in Anglo-Australian circles in Eng-
land by trotting round in high sassiety a lady of
the sort that, to quote Tennyson’s latest, prizes
the diamond necklace more than the golden ring.
She did not accompany, but followed, Hi 3 High-
ness to Hingerland.
* * #
A fascinating Government official in a
N.S.W. country town has just been inve3‘ed with
the ancient and honorable Order of the Sack for
having attempted to kiss a girl in a coach. Many
and many a good man who now stands on the sands
of temptation, will have his brain concussed by
the mighty breakers of morality that now sweep
over the land, and will be carried out to sea and
drowned by the undertow.
* * *
Cooktown (N.Q.) has washed itself and is
now hung out to dry. The new baths were
opened the other day by the Mayor in the presence
of about 60 men and boys and dogs,
and his Washup, after solemnly taking
off every rag that had hitherto disguised his
manly figure, jumped in, while an ill-bred pup of
low instincts tried to grab a mouthful of him dur-
ing his flight through the air. He swam across,
and theD, hanging on to the steps wet and shiver-
ing, he commencsd the inaugural speech with the
usual “ Ladies and Gentlemen.” Of course this
was a mistake, and considering the condition the
great man was in it was just as well.
* * *
Sir W. J. Clarke, Bart., and Dr. James
George Beaney, surgeon, have entered into gener-
ous rivalry in the erection of their Melbourne
domiciles. The town house of the former, for the
want of taste in outline that it already exhibits,
bids fair to rival in ugliness the “ Home of his
Ancestors,” Rupertswood, at Sunbury—which
estate, by the way, should have been
named Ruperts woof The festive Beaney deter-
mined that when the Russians bombard Mel-
bourne they shall have a good mark to fire at.
He is about to erect a red brick pagoda on a corner
allo’ment in Collins-street, and this temple of the
much-advertised medicine-man will be faced on
the two opposite corners by a Congregational and
a Presbyterian temple. There is one destiny, it
seems, reserved for all large buildings erected in
that quarter of the town, and we weep at the
thought that the homes of blue blood and aristoc-
racy and medical genius may one day bo turned
into Coffee Palaces.
* * *
Sir Anthony Musgrave, Governor of
Queensland, is evidently superior to the usual run
of hen-fancier 3 and broken-down, empty headed,
financial penitents who are sent out to “ govern”
the Australian colonies. He publicly stated the
other day that he once wrote a book which didn’t
sell much —and he had sent a lot of contributions to
reviews which had sometimes been taken to mean
just the opposite of what he intended. He also
edited a paper for three mon’hs, and during that
period learned more than he had ever done before ;
the episcopal hair fell from the local bishop’s epis.
I copal head in dismay at the contents of the sheet*
while the tlders of the church cut Sir Anthony as
if he were a leper. Furthermore he built up a
frozen coolness with a number of his beot friends,
and then the subscribers began to take leg bail,
and the editor resigned. Sir Anthony may take
comfort; he is about the only Governor in these
colonies who could elit an invoice for turnips
without being lynched.
* # *
There are complaints that certain of the
Wellington (N.Z ) Civil servants are untidily
dressed. The manager of railways lately sent a
memo, to two or three of them with a polite
request to wear ties, lace their shoes, and sport
clean linen during office hours. The lazy louts
facetiously passed the memo, rmncl to the swells
of the service, who, annoyed at the insinuation,
threatened a strike.
* * #
In a Divorce Court :
“The Judge: ‘Madams, there is no doubt that you de-
ceived your husband.’ The Lady (indignantly): 1 Deceived
my husband! Indeed I did not. He said he was
going a journey, and would not return for three weeks, and
he came back the next day! It is I who have be n de-
ceived ’ ”
* * *
A man afflicted by mosquitoes recently
euchred his torturers by getting into bed and
making in the curtain a whole through which all
the ’skeeters followed him. Then he jumped
nimbly out of bed, fastened up the hole, and slept
elsewhere. It has been related that by turning
suddenly in bed, that is, putting the feet on the
pillow, and vice versa—all a man’s vice is gene-
rally in his head—the insects will be for a long
time baffled until they discover the trick. This
feat must be performed in the dark, and it would
be as well to sleep with boots on, as hoof-boxes
serve to protect the sleeper’s extremities and to
disgust the mosquito. Rancid pork fat is also
recommended ; it is not to he rubbed on the mos-
quito, but should be smeared over the would-be
sleeper’s face and neck, and, if necessary, squirted
up his nose and into his ears during peaceful
slumber. Some of our readers would oblige by
trying these two last recipes and letting us know
the result-. They can write ; they needn’t ca 1, as
we are always very busy.
* * *
To illustrate the bad effect of sensational
novels, the following is apropos, A hoy in the
N.S.W bush spent all his time—spare or other-
wise—deeply buried in books of the “Jack Hark-
away ” and “ Robert Macairc ” school. One day
lately a neighbour met him perambulating
the bush attired in an abbreviated shirt and carry-
ing a tomahawk. When interviewed (at a respect-
ful distance) our hero averred that he was Bloody
Hand ’ and thirsting for scalps. The local medico
discovered that his brain had turned through too
much sensational reading. Fact!
* * *
Small yachts to be sailed by one gentle-
man and one lady arc the latest idea in England.
It is indeed asatire on the civilisation of the English
that it has taken them nearly 19 centuries to drop
an this gorgeous idea, which was old in Sydney 50
years ago.
* * *
A “ banker ” has got disliked in a certain
Northern (N.S.W.) township. There wero thea-
tricals on, and our manager was to take a part.
He studied it up and attended rehearsals until the
day of the performance when he sent word that
“ a 3 Mrs. B. was ill he could not,” See. Now,
here was a how d’ye do ! The performance was
to be a public one and the “banker’s” part could
not possibly be cut out. Well, the final rehearsal
eventuated at 3 p.m. and the stage manager waa
in despair. Down he sent to the bank with an
urgent message. No, Mrs. B. was too “indis-
posed.” Things being so, a fellow in the town
vowed he would learn the part, and did so. At
the performance that night the manager came
forward and said, “ Ladies and gentlemen, one of
our actors has been compelled to relinquish his
part owing to the illness of his wife, who is so
sick that he does not feel justified in leaving her.”
(Immense sensation amoDgt the ladies) “But,
ladies and gentlemen, as one of our company has
just now seen him adorning the bar of Smith’s
public house we can only guess at his motives for
throwing up his part.” He has never been popu l
lar since I
* * :fc
Diamonds will soon be as common as
cobble stones. The yield of the South African
field is, said to be at present something like a ton a
month. We publish this information for the
benefit of small bookmakers and fifth-class actors.
If they do not soon realise on their pins and rings
and shirt-studs they will find themselves money ,
less in a cold world, which cares nothing fer
Honesty and Genius if uncombined with Coin.
* * *
A terrible state of affairs exists at Ballarat,
where several young ladies in Y.M.C.A. circles are
(to put the matter as delicately as possible) about
to extend the area of statistician Hayter’s labours.
The trouble is almost coincident with the sudden
disappearance of a local saint.
* * *
“ Butler-valet. First-class at hunting
things. Aged 37 ; married. Address .” Tb l9
peculiar advertisement is from the P.M. Gazette.
We are not inquisitive generally, hut would give
the wealth of Atlas or anyone else to know what
“things” they are that this first-class butler
valet is anxious to hunt for.
* # *
Among tlio most effective dresses shown
at the international cricket match at Sydney
Association Ground, on Saturday, the 29th, w aS
that of Mrs. J. M. Purves, who wore cream lawn
deep cream lace tablier, and trimmings of palej
yellow ribbons and bows, small tulle bonnet with
gold ornaments ; Mr 3. Thorn (Brisbane) appeared
in a tailor-made gown of gray and black check
with bonnet and parasol to match ; Mrs. C. Hogg,
stylish gown of navy-blue and red, with soft white
waistcoat, high hat, with red and blue feathers.
* * *
Here is a pretty specimen of an obituary
back-hander. We take it from the Melbourne
Age. A daughter is permitted by Mr. Joseph Bym o
to refer to her mother, who had married the
second time before dying, in these line 3 s
“ Our home was once a happy one ;
Her children all together :
But when MMther took her place
Her children all did scatter.”
The rhyme here may not be all that a re lined cm*
would wish, but the Sentiment is remarkably
limpid. Too limpid, probably, for the bereaved
stepfather.
* * *
This is insinuating and demurely gay*
It appears in a Melbourne paper : —“Housekeeper,
respectable, widow, to bachelor widower, with-
out, with children.”
He’ll either raise Cain to get rid o’ her,
If he take 3 her —or we are much wrong;
Or else, sirs, that bachelor widower
Will not be a widower long.
+ * *
A lurid light is thrown on the doings oi
the English aristocracy by Lord Colin Campbell’ o
footman, who swore that he “always knocked bCj
fore entering a drawing-room ” when a Ute-a-t etc
was in progress ; “it was necessary to do so, a* lo
he always did it.”
* * *
Miss Maggie Watt, eldest daughter oi
Hon. J. B. Watt, Woollahra, was married on the
afternoon of Thursday, the 27th, at All Saints'.
Woollahra, to Mr. William Caldwell. The church
was crowded with well-dressed guests and specta-
tors, and the Governor was present. The bride


ked Quite charming in her superb wedding ’
p !^ e> the bridesmaids very pretty, too. Mr.
dwell s brother acted as best man. After the
, r ®“ on y the party adjourned to Kgnesbury.
icre light refreshments were partaken ef.
oneymoon to Parramatta and thence to the
ountains. Amongst the guests were Mrs. and
isses Busby-, the Mi-ses Knox, Mr. and Mrs.
. llh y> Mr., Mrs. and Mis3 Joseph, Mr. and Mrs.
Angus, Mr. Bloxsome, See.
We have at last discovered why a Sydney
su never by any possibility says “thank you”
n^ etl a 4 gentleman faces the wind and rain of the
8 knife-board in order that the girl may have
g The reason is that it’s not good form to
dura t0 a man to whom 5 011 have not bsen intro-
8d. And form is everything, donchsrknow.
* * *
It has been a subject of general remark in
lad'* 1 - 6 ” f ° r some da ys P ast that “ young widow
.. Ies w ho want gentlemen to share rooni3
vp more careful how they frame their ad-
ertlsements for the Herald.
* * #
Mr. Charles Metcalf, of Exeter, Macleay-
Potts Point, is engaged to be married to
( ss Ada Rodd, of Five Dock ; marriage to take
P‘ace shortly.
* * *
Mr. W. Mitchell, of Eltham, Darling
omt, is engaged to be married to Miss Edith
0re ’ of Manly Beach.
* * *
J**. Chief Justice Darley, of N.S.W., is
Wh 6 We arc afraid that Mr. Darley,
rnH° ni ’ n 0n the whole, we profoundly respect, is
ler fond of this kind of thiDg.
* * *
g Melbourne medico says : “ This corset-
lfezin8 is really a most stupid practice. The
bou a PUsked away from its natural place, is
othe • k ° in and abnormally swell some
m,.,, 1 ' Part.” Perhaps this accounts for the abnor-
large feet of the Cabbage Garden belles.
* * *
Mr. Foster Palmer, of Queensland, is to
Annie Grant, daughter of the late
of 1 - Grant, of Victoria ; and Mr. Kiddle.
Brook 6rina ’ * 3 t0 klC un lt e d to Miss Halliday, of
* * *
p worshippers at All Saints’ Church,
are afraid of becoming idolators. A
a ,i ss> candlesticks, and other emblems which
. lned the chancel have been exorcised from
P'ace. A banneret and some vases are to
touow suit.
* * *
Jhey say in Sydney that it’s quite worth
bar c rea king with a Queensland squatter for the
9 shadow of a chance of becoming an English
uu untes3.
* * *
A-t St. John’s, Darlinghursb, on 24th ult.,
W Mallack was married to Miss Martha
Ro' 1 ’ dau 8hterof Captain Walton, of Glenmore
riebi r * ? le bride was attired in ivory gros grain,
,1 ly triamed with crystal embroidery act)
brif] 6330 l aco > aQ d was accompanied by four
htu v maids , a H costumed alike in cream Indian
o 'slin, lace-trimmcd. In the evening a number
da ,fcst s were entertained at a dance at Nil ha-
* * *
g St. David’s Church, Surry Hills,
pf ne V. on 25th ult., a very quiet wedding took
' ce. The bride was that talented musician
Rob* EVa Thompson, R.A.M., daughter of Mr.
Mr son, Surry Hills, and the bridegroom
a Mason, of Braid wood. The bride wore
, costume of navy-blue cloth and velvet
jj, , tiny tulle bonnet of the same colour. The
e ymoon is spent at Katoomla.
* * *
the “Hermitage,” Woollahra, on
Part' 8da y evening, the 27th ult., “A surprise
t„ y (consisting entirely of gentlemen) was
the* 01>ed to Mr. G. E. Labcrtouchc. Contrary to
but Usua l custom the “ surprises ” arrived singly,
- Were effusively welcomed by their
°?° health was warmly drunk by all. A good
Sl cal programme was gone through.
* * *
m
to,.-, 0 re P resen tatives of well-known Vic-
Gep? n families were united in the holy bonds at
Ren ° ng ’ 0n Tuesday, February 1, when Miss
0{ ' ln ys consented to share the name and fortunes
T) lfi ler cousin, Mr. Lascelles (Dennys Lascelles).
Wedding was remarkably quiet.
* * *
■< p l le very latest from the salon (at the
wherein reigns the Madame Adam of
eld if Politics : “ Mrs. Blank is going to send ’er
college—she says she’s already sent
the perspective.”
the f 9 0Un terfeit Charms” (the “ make-up ” of
ing ( j l1r sex ) is the subject which has been agitat-
]Vj 0 j, 19 minds of numerous correspondents to a
W hos daily. We know one young person
a nd 6 boaut i es are the cause of gloomy doubts
her f misgivings to us, but she cannot count
° e t charms—they are over-grown nines.
. * *
love French daughter of a rich man,
down o I)00r su itor, but her father would not put
abler ths stamps.” So, despairing of ever being
a sj, u ?,married, they locked themselves up in
Wi tll aU room ami Paid their passage to eternity
ahouA-v a y coa l stove. There is a lot of sentiment
Vails; ■ L lis incident, but a general impression pre-
show m uei &hborhcod that the girl would have
8(,ov,," ! nore real grit if she had put the charcoal
tllC rcom where the stern parient
J> . .
y ear ‘ UlSla n and London society is said iso
tarfy ,V )r a s< yle of dancing just a trifle less Cion-
hnent] 111111 tlm t recBn tlf prevailing, and conse-
orig|n V avane > a dance said to have been
cock s • modelled from the movements of pea-
"Waq j 18 ra Pidly coming into fashion. This dance
Daail.pl ? rca .t vogue a few centuries ago, when
ec 3tas\- - *8hts used to indulge in its maddening
y ’ "Without removing the saucepans from
I their heads or the belted sheet-iron from theirj
bodies. Similarly, we suppose, the silver-tails of
this present year of grace will undergo its deliri-
ous delights without removing their ulsters or
bell-toppers.
* * *
The author of “ Lovers Five Unci Maidens
Four ” says that if a girl's nose is cold when her
lover gives her his first kiss it is a sure sign that
her passion is 18 Carat; otherwise, trust her not.
Would that we had remained in ignorance. Let
The Bulletin Bard yowl: —
Miss With, the latest fasting-woman, is a
New Yorker, and was a lyric artiste until corpu-
lence interiupted her career in that direction.
She has, like Succi, a mysterious nutritive fluid.
She fays that she discovered it while travelling
in Australia, where she was exposed to hunger,
and found that she could live a long time on a few
drops of the liquid without losing fle3h. An
Australian lady who has kept a hoarding-house
JAWBONE ON THE RAIL!
“Mr. J. C. Neild said that he would have to take time to consider whether he
would advocate the total abolition of Customs Duties.”—S. M. HERALD.
wants to fast also, we hear. She says she has gone six
weeks with only a little tea in the mornings. Sh
has no mysterious fluid, but relies solely, n
doubt, on the training she got in the regula
course of her business.
* * *
We are told that Lady Colin Campbel
“gave her evidence, attired quite after the
modest manner in which French ladies appear in
Court when they are anxious to faccinate the
jury.” This reminds us that the police and (lie
lawyers everywhere arc keenly alive to the force
exercised by costume in court. Jurymen are ter-
ribly human—and so are Judges. The Sydney
police, for instance, arc to be much congratulated
on the correctness with which they, the other day,
dressed Miss Mary Jane Hicks for her part; and
our felieitativc vocabulary would utterly fail were
we to try and give utterance to the admiration we
felt for the millinerial acumen of the foorce on
beholding that artful young bundle of hysterics,
Miss Grace Porters, in the witness-box at New-
town the other day. A red feather will often
damn the evidence of a woman who otherwise is
the very parsoniflcation of the lilies and langour
I of virtue; but just you let Policeman X or the
Crown Prosecutor substitute heliotrope for scarlet,
comb back Anonyma’s bangs, and plaster the result
flat on to her forehead with bandoline, and you
can safely leave the rest to Anoayma's modest
voice, downcast eyes, and shapely shoulders. We
once saw a Sydney barrister—he is not in
Parliament just now —“fake” the court-
toilet of a lady who, after spending half her hus-
band’s fortune in fizz for “the boys,” and the
other half in diamonds and sealskin for herself,
wanted to get a divorce. This little dress re-
hearsal all took place in the chambers of the limb
of the law. “ Ah, Mrs. , good morning—how
do you do ?” said the eminent counsel. “Pray
take a seat. Ah, by the w T ay, please stand up for
Ii moment and face me. Um! I must say that I
Lon’t much like your hat. It’s too high and your
reil is a shade too dark. You have a very clear
‘omplexion and good eyes, and while your navy-
slue tailor-made dress fits you nicely and looks
nodest but appetiicnte, you completely spoil the
vitness box ef ect by that atrocious brown fall,
svhich, I may tell you, is in any case too long,
you must go at once down the stieet, and get a
silver-grey silk veil—and now, listen to me, only
swo-tbirds as long as the cne you are weaving.
And I don't mind telling you that you’d better
put a quieter bird in your hat, for H.'s Honour ”
And so on. But to return to Lac y Colin :
“ She was dressed entirely in black, with a most becoming
French bonnet. She sat square to the front, faciDg the
counsel, and had her feet ccquettishly encased in patent-
leather boots—which were well “gummed,” and she kept
them always eu evidence. She is a swarthy-skinned woman,
with a good deal of the Jewish type about her, and wears
her black hair co.nbed over her forehead. She had a nasty
hacking little cough, and sipped occasionally from a glass of
water at her elbow, besides every now and then sniffing at
her bottle of salts. Whenever the judge made a remark she
turned her large dark eyes on him ; at other times she looked
at the body of the Court, and occasionally cast furtive
glances at the jury.”
A pretty woman who wants a divorce as a rule only
has to turn her large dark eyes on the judge.’’
Lady C. evidently knows her way about.
* * *
Some girls, at a little party, recently, got
up anew order, and wished to initiate the young
men into its mysteries They took possession of
the front parlour and closed the folding doors,
leaving one of their number on guard. The gentle-
mea found one youth had di-appeared, and won-
dered what had become of him. The lodge being
in readiness for candidates, one of the young men
was escorted into the room He found four
blushing maidens standing in a row in a corner of
the room, with a chair in front of them. Upon
this he was seatei and blindfolded, and then tolq
that one of the girls would kiss him. If he coulc
guess her name he would he privileged to repeat
the osculation. Of course, he made a miserable
failure; but instead of being allowed to retire, lie
was compelled to occupy a seat on the opposite
side of the room. Just imagine his feelings, when
the next victim was led in and had been prepared
for the sacrifice, to see the missing beard'ess youth
rise up, ghostlike, from behind the girls, imprint
a good, sound smack on the uplifted and expectant
lips of the candidate, and then dodge back to his
place of concealment. One after another the
young men were victimised. The fun of it was,
though, to hear some of them demand more than
one trial before the removal of the hoodwinks—
one, a well-known physician, not being content
with less than three kisse3. He was enthusiastic
over their sweetness, until the sweet was turned
to gall as he saw the boy salute his successor on
the throne of mystery.
* * *
At Birmingham, some months ago, a
cataleptic Methusalah took unto himself a young
girl of the period, and in the Deautiful language of
the Scripture they became one flesh —though one-
half the flesh was almost extinct from old age.
Before the marriage ceremony the grey-haired
gorilla told his adored one that his habits had got
kind of fixed, and he could hardly alter at his age,
and she assured him she wouldn’t dream of asking
such a thing.. But. when he took two cats and a
dog to roost with him she turned pale, and asked if
they were among the habits that had become fixed,
and when he answered in the affirmative she
broke the back of the wild beast show with a
poker, and threw it out of the window. The old
man sat up in his bunk and sobbed all night, and
the bride got what slumber she could on the table.
She woke up in the morning to call him a hydro-
phobiated old fool, and the aged one, who was quite
sloppy with grief, only wailed out, “ Boohoo, in
poor ca a a-a-ts !’’ Then the young lady became
irresponsible ior her actions, and walloped the
old man with the tongs, and a divorcb case is pro-
ceeding.
* * *
There seems to hare been something
crooked about the curious Scott-Sebright divorce
case. Miss Scott’s tale was that Sebright—after
involving her in money muddles —terrified and
tricked her into a marrisge. Sebright’s counsel
offered no real defence and the contract was de-
clared invalid. It is now hinted that Miss Scott
was not quite such a little silly as she represented
herself to be, but that Sebright accepted a divorce
in lieu of prosecution for fraud. Under these
circumstances the Queen's Proctor i 3 likely to put
in his spoke.
* * *
According to the S. M. Herald, Batten-
berg's IP tie pauper is to be named Albert Victor
Alexander Henry, &c.
AT THE CHRISTENING.
The Dean of Windsor (at baptismal font/: “Name this
child.”
Her Majesty: “ Alexander, Albert, Victor, Hen ——
The Dean of Windsor (aside to Assistant CUnjyinaiiJ:
“ Hold me up—a little more water, please.”
* * *
Business, like murder, will out-. Weeping
widow (as the poor dear corpse is being measured) : .
“ And, oh, Mr. Pineliner, he was such a good
man.” Busy Undertaker : “No doubt, no doubt,,
mum ; but a little wide —a little wide for the
general run ov ’em ”
WHY NOT?
kinds of things Victoria taxe3,
Or almost all, but she must be
Oompletely off her mental axis
T° let the best of all go free.
She gives her working-men Protection
Against the moon-eyed Mongol throng,
"Ut does not not see the disaffection
Her marriageable girls among.
should impose—it is her duty,
Seeing her daughters’ hopes—sweet jades!
Arc ruined by Tasmanian beauty—
A poll-tax on Tasmanian maids!
HOT AND COLD.
We kis3ed our girl—her nose was cold
As that of any pug,
So we whispered her the story old
And “ sealed it ” with a hug ;
We pressed her waist with trembling m,
As we thought of this advice —
To accept a maiden’s love as warm
Whose nose is cold as ice.
But soon there came a dreadful day
(Some week or two ago)
And now w r e brush the tears away
That, all unbidden, flow ;
Our Liz. and w r o are quite estranged,
We trust the darling not —
That day we knew her love had changed,
Because her nose was hot.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bret Harte is about to visit Maorilaaid and
Australia.
Parkes has still got his silvery hair on and
his colony is still in trouble.
Lord Carington’s filly, Esperance, “gets
frightened at the rustle of silk.” His Excellency
doesn’t.
After 4rcher’s death, Madame Tussaud
applied to take a cast of his face, hut it Was
rc fused.
Lord Colin Campbell bears a strong family
likeness to his brother, the Marquis of Lome.
They both look a good deal cleverer than they are.
Lord Colin Campbell personally had only
£lO,OOO to live on, and his wife, Miss Blood,
brought him a marriage portion of but £6OOO. So
he didn’t marry Blocd and money.
Shortly before Justice Windeyer left
Sydney on his voyage to England he complained
that he was growing quite deaf in one ear. If is
awkward for a judge not to be able to hear both
sides.
“ The irrepressible ” George Collins Levey
wrote from London offering his services to the
Victf r.'an Exhibition Commissioners. It was de-
cided that hi) letter required no answer. Think
cf tl at, now.
Mr. Michael Davit l’s bride, Miss Yore, is
SO. She is of fish bind, but hied in California.
Six years ago she nvr;cl hm ihrough a fever,,
and he naturally looked back with gratitude
to days of Yore.
The Auckland Star asserts that “the
Marquis of Hartington and the Duke of Yar-
chester propose to work together in the future as
they have done in the past.” Do they really mean
the “ Duke ? ” Ought it notto bo the “ Duchosj "l
Frank Weston, of Wizard Oil fame, was
reported dead the other day. Since then letters
have been received from him dated from Port
Elizabeth, South Africa. Men l ; ke Frank Weston
rover die. They disappear. As aiu e, however,
they do not takes the trouble toadvertbe their new
address.
Lord Charles Tbynr.e, youngest son of Übei
Marquis of Bath, has just been ordair.ed as oi
“priest in holy orders” by Cardinal Manning..
This aristocratic youth is 73 years old. Where-
priests have to be celibates, as in the Romish
church, it is a mistake to ordain England’s nobility
at too early an age.
Dr. Russell, of Christchurch, N.Z., who
has been arrested for procuring abortion, and who
has since attempted to commit suicide, has been
in good practice in Christchurch for many years.
He has been an enthusiastic advocate of teetotal-
ism, and frequently lectured on the evil effects of
the accursed drink with considerable success.
The editor of the Gladstone (Q.) Observer
requested his readers in a recent issue to excuse
errors and omissions. He was laid up, he said,
with a bad ulcer and was also suffering from ague
and acute rheumatism and a severe attack of
fever, and in addition he had been ill for several
years. It was generally considered that he should
be excused.
Dullard — Thomas James Dullard — is the
name of ihe printer and publisher of the Mel-
bourne Dairy Telegraph. He must have been
born expressly for the purpose of printing and
publishing that paper. There is no accident in this
appropriateness of name. It is a solemn and awe-
inspiring example of the eternal gravitation of
like to like.
According to the Sydney D.T., Lord
Augustus I-oftus has been doing Australia a good
turn by drawing attention to the Parnell gold-
smelting process, with a view to getting it adopted!
in the Kaboonga mine, recently floated in thw
London market. Perhaps the I).T. will modify
its raptures, however, on learning that the de
parted henologist is, or was until recently, a share-
holder in the no doubt very excellent process
aforesaid, and is only looking after his own
interests after all.
Sir Robert Stout, of New Zealand, did a
long agnostic preachment at Dunedin on Christ-
mas Day, in the course of which he said he didn’t
believe in heaven, and was prepared to eat Pur-
gatory with the hair on it, the remarkable result
being that the lccH Catholic bishop has written
seven letters to prove that the Premier may be
saved after all—thanks to his invincible ignor-
ance. We have since laid the matter before an
eminent sky pilot with a clean sh ,ve, and he in-
forms us there are two kinds of ignorance, the
first being divided into three sub-sections of cada-
verous stupidity. The following is the analysis :
" ' Ignorance' is, in Roman theology, the absence of know-
ledge in one capable of acquiring it. It is of two kinds,: ij.
Vincible (a) Simple, when some, but not suliicient, napaa are
taken to remove it; (b) Crass, when scarcely any means are.
used ; and («) Affected, when a person wishes to toe ignorant
in order to sin more freely. 2. Invincible, which is held to
excuse altogether from sin, since no moral guilt can bo in-
curred without an intention, direct or remote, of violating
the divine law.”
Sir Robert Stout is therefore to go to Paradise
through his abyssmal, hopeless, incorrigible ignor-
ance, and will be announced at the gate as “a
hopeless idiot from New Zealand.” Strangely-
enough, however, he is enraged at bearing that
he will be saved, an 1 is preaching sermons to
prove that if there is a Sheol he is going there
straight.


BRIEF MENTION.
A publican has disembowelled himself at
Ballarat (Vic.) contrary to the peace of Her
Maie3ty the Queen.
An enterprising North Coast son of Con-
fucius has christened his cabbage “ Callington,”
and charges 390 per cent. more.
Sydney Town Council has decided to sup-
press mange. We will back the corporation
against the dog-diseass—on the similia simil’bus
cur -antur principle.
Virtue M‘Nair is the name of a Presby-
terian 2din : ster in Melbourne. This is an affecting
example of making a virtue of a necessity. No-
bidy would have such a name from choice.
A young man has discovered in a cave at
Rangitoto, N.Z., what he te mi 3 “the lower por-
tion of the backbone of a large woman.” It is
probably an ancient substitute for the improver.
A constable found an eccentric old female
knocking at a door of the Melbourne gaol. When
taken before the bench she sail she wanted to be
flogged, aid had gone there to get a lashing. Old
maids always love the cat.
Advertisement in the Melbourne Herald :
—“ City of Fitzroy.— Notice is hereby given that
a goat-enclo-.ure has been provided by the City
Council ” Taey are. no doubt, ashamed of meet-
ing in the Town Hall any longer.
One of the N.Z. “ go3pel-tumblers ” who
cures by faith, says he never s?e3 women alone,
“his dear companion aud wife being always with
him on such occasions ” This argues well for the
dear wife’s precision of aim with the flat-iron.
The S.M. Herald, in a wild shriek for
morning mails to the country, wrathfully laments
that the Herald, under present arrangements, is
“ stale ” when it arrives at Goulburn. But they
can't blame the railways for thaL The paper is
“ stale” before it starts.
At the Central Police Court, Sydney,
Simon Habshurg, for assaulting I aac Abrahams,
was lined £3 or two months. We always knew
the Austrian royal family was going downhill,
but for a Habsburg to be run in for bashing Ikey
Abrabams is indeed dreadful.
In Rockhampt m when a drunk is fined
os. it goes to the llo3pioal Fund. If auy traveller
visi.ing the town desires to perform a genuine
act of cha?i f y let him giona “ howling t ’ar.” By
so doing he'D lay up crowns of glory for himself
and family in the Hereafter.
Sandhurst water, we hear, acquires an un-
pleasant sme’l after standing. Tnis suits ’em
down to the ground. Whe 1 a Sandhurst matron
says, “John, your breath is like a brewery,” he
wipes away the falling tear and murmurs, “My
darling h, watershgettinworshaneversh.”
The members of No. 12 (Botany) Battery
N.S. W Voluutesr Artillery have bian officially
warned that in the event of their being “called
out for service” their rendezvous will be Bare
Island. Wnen that happy juncture arrives Bam
Island is sura to be very bare indeed—o’ volun-
teers.
Nemesis which waits on crime takes
varied shapes, dear Mends. Patrick Fox, a Mel-
bourne pickpocket, was belting off with ano her
man’s propeity when he ran under a railway
engine and made hiaaself a suitable sabjeat for a i
inquest. Sinners usuaby get sat upee, in some
form or other.
Sydney Globe predicts that the N.S.W.
Freetrade League banquet about to be held will
“ prove a veritable Belshazzar's feast, and ‘ Mine
merit tiled upharism’ are already written cn big
walls for them.” df that quotation is correct, it’s
small wonder the Babylonian seers were stumped
for a translation.
The last absc ending bankrupt in N.Z. was
thoughtful enough to leave belrnd him a doctor's
certificate, stating that his health required him
to take a sea voyage and a few weeks’ complete
re3t. He is having c omplete rest now, having
been hauled by a policeman into a quiet and
shady spot where he has nothing to worry him.
“ Sum peepile haz moiuy, Butnobranes !”
From Pananaland this wail :
“ Miss Ella Dowling, who for two years has sent parcels of
religious tracts at regular intervals to 800 members of the
Victo ion police force, has died at Bundaberg, Queensland.
Her mothe r intends continuing the work."
Now we know what’s th 9 matter with the Vic-
torian “ tlirap.”
At Tarea (N.S. W.), on a recent Sunday, a
goat ascended the Wesleyan pulpit during service,
and standing on its hind legs beside the pastor
] joked over the rail. The reverend gentleman
was .just explaining how, at the last day, the
sheep would be placed on one side and the goats
on the other, and when he turned round and dis-
covered the rakish looking quadruped, its attitude
seemed to say: “ Hi-yah! shepherd, I’ve come
for you.”
The lowest depth of grovel has been bot-
tomed at last. In a recent Brisbane Telegraph
an incurable idiot, who signs himself “ Litteras,”
(he missed one “s”) advise 3 the Queensland Post-
master-General to honor the Jubilee year by intro-
ducing stamped envelopes, as he considers it dis-
respectful, in a measure, to “ lick the Queen’s
head.” There’s a silver knife and fork always at
that Jolxudonkey’s disposal vhenever he visits
Plain Bill, aud a straight jacket if he strays as far
a 3 Gladesville.
Mrs. Kirby, a lady undertaker, of 66-84
Hunter street, Sydney, has left 12 cards at The
Bulletin office, and requests us to pass them
round. The pasteboard states that “ having
always taken an active interest in tbs undertak-
ing business” she “ is prepared to furnish either
state or reform funerals on the latest principle*,”
and nothing but our preference for cremation pre-
vents U 3 patronising her. She supplies coffins ‘ ‘ on
the shortest notice,” but the present writer
reckons that his coffin will be wanted on such
verv short notice indeed that he may have to put
his ashes in a candle-box.
In Australia when a man burgles your
house you confide the secret to a detective, who
keeps it and gets another detective to help him,
and the two hold on to it like grim death till yon
perish of old age. They manage things differently
however, in China. Not long ago a missionary ».
earthly mansion was looted, and he informed a
head policeman, who merely said, “ Hi, yal !”
and went away. Three weeks afterwards, how-
ever, the man of God received a champagne-
basket containing six human heads packed in tin-
foil — no t necessarily for publication but as an
evidence of good faith—and a note from the de-
partment of truth and justice, stating that the
writer remained —Yours truly, Hen Yah.
An oysterman was brougL before the
Carlton (Vic.) Bench the other day on a charge of
stabbing another man. It is a curious thing that
oys ermen seem to be so peculiarly truculent.
Perhaps it is something in the oysters. Oysters—
and bottled porter—have been intimately asso-
ciated with wickedness time out of mind. How
many bright spirits have taken their first step on
the road to ruin at an oyster-supper ? The oyster
is wicked and nocturnal by nature, and fills those
who swallow him with similar villainy. On the
other hand, you will notice that he is not a popular
esculent at feasts, where good people gather to
gorge piously on all other dishes They have a
healthy terror of him. One sack of oysters would
be enough to demoralise a whole churchful of in-
cipient cherubim.
“ The political Pharisee of the team” is
the new name for Mr. Inglis.
J. P. Abbott has re-entered private life.
He waits for the fence to be broken down.
A Chinaman’s residence was carried away
by the floods at Ipswich (Q.). The Chinese must
go-
On clit that the affairs of a certain “ Life
Insurance Company ” are very “mixed.” Prosecu-
tions for obtaining money undu- false pretences
are on the tapis.
44 The "V agabond ” is sueing a Wesleyan
paper printed at Melbourne for £lO,OOO damages
for libel. If Julian gets a verdict in full the
Wesleyan flock will be shorn to the bone.
The Sydney Evening Noose, the “ work-
ing-man’s paper,” speaks:
‘‘lt is time the oporobioua term ‘black eg,’ as applied to
men wiling to do honest labour, we e abolished.”
Hi-yah ! Wouldn’t the Noose like also to abolish
the term “Chinaman” a 3 well. He’s another
man who is willing to do honest labour and
doesn’t care who suffers by it. Same remark ap
plies to the kanaka. Let’s abolish the name and
call him a “ cullud gentleman.”
The logic of the N.S.W. Freetrader is
indeed fearfully and wonderfully built. Mr. Wise,
speaking at South Sydney, said that “ excepting
honest Mr. Luscombe, they would scarcely find a
native gentleman who was a manufacturer here.”
Evidently the Freetrade system does not grow
manufacturers, and when any of the species do
find their way to N.S. W., they are men who have
b: ought the brains and the capital from a pro-
tected country. After a few years they have only
the brains to take back again.
Mr. Griffin, a candidate for the Hawkos-
bury electorate, says the D.T., “calls himself a
Freetrader, but favours import duties on agricul-
tural produce. He is an ardent supporter of Sir
Henry Parkes.” This is a “ non-independent ”
man after Sir ’Enry’s own heart. He favours
what Sir ’Enry mest emphatically condemns, yet
if he is returned he is to be an “ ardent supporter ”
of the new Government. Perhaps Mr. Griffin
will tell some of the “ old boys” at Windsor and
Richmond that ho and Parke 3 are in favour of the
flogging law. If he does he will require the
strength of a Griffin and the agility of a Samuels
to enable him to return to Manly with a whole
sk in.
In the Compbell divorce-case it transpired
that Lady Colin Campell and her husband we’e so
hard-up when they married that her ladyship had,
in order to get furniture for her house, to go round
and pick up bit by bit at auctions. This forms an
admirable illustration of what was said in the
article by Adam Badeau, lately re-printed in The
Bulletin, about the meanness of the British
aristocracy. Here is the brother-in-law of an
English Princess, the son of a mb3t wealthy Duke,
compelled to let his wife scour round among the
c ale-rooms, and write London letters for Austra-
lian papers, simply because he happens to be a
younger son. The elder brollier is “hung with
diamonds” ; the younger is kept in pauperdom
merely in order that the head of the house of
Argyle may glitter.
Improved Street Architecture.
The citizens are indebted to Mr. J. E; Reading,
the well-known, old-established dentist of this
city, for a new and most attractive introduction
to our domestic architecture. On a fine block of
land in Elizabeth-street, one door from Park-
s'reet, and right facing Hyde Park, the grandest
domain in Australia, Mr. Reading has had built
to his order two irw city residences whose ap-
pearance is a decided improvement to the eye 3.
The edifices are of a composite Gothic style of
architecture, and, as far as we know, are the only
buildings of the kind which have been put up in
Sydney. The facade is romantic and pictur-
esque, and while possessing a rich simplicity
of design so to speak are as free from overpower-
ing detail as the most .esthetic mind could desire.
Tbe buildings stand in from the street level some
distance, and even then stand in behind their
Gothic dornments. Within, the whole design is
four d to be free from basement to topmost floor,
and there is comfort, light, refreshment, and room
o r every hand. In erecting such buildings, Mr.
Leading, who by the way is very largely interested
i city property, has signally gauged an improved
<■ x-olic taste, and he is to be complimented on his
enterprise. The architects, Messrs Humphrey
and Gracknell, whose originality and ability are
shining in a great deal of our city architecture,
have made a decided hit in working out the
whole plan of these buildings, and it
would be satisfactory if Mr. Reading had
many followers in the new line he has with
the aid of his architects struck out for the city.
The contractor for the work is Mr. W. Baker, one
of the best-travelled and most experienced men
we have in the trade in this country. The edifices
have gone up without a flaw, and are sound and
solid from the very bedrock. We give a sketchy
view of the new buildings, and will give this
domestic architecture generally a little more
consideration than has hitherto been shown to it.*
Mr. John Nobbs.
OvE of the candidates for Parliamentary honors
at the Central Cumberland election will be Mr.
John Nobbs, of Granville, and doubtless on the
strength of his past years of services to the dis-
trict he will be returned. There can be no ques-
tioning the fact that Mr. Nobbs has done huge
service to the most populous part of this elector-
ate, distancing even the Parliamentary represen-
tatives in a watchful effort on behalf of the people.
Few men stand better with the public, as in addi-
tion to being a man of active public spirit he
is second to none in private and commercial enter-
prise. Mr. Nobbs was the founder of the Cumber-
land Independent, which paper he ran
purely in the public interest on a very
heavy private outlay. At Granville he has
been the soul of that mo3t prosperous centre, and
there can be no doubt that it was his activity here
which caused Parramatta to awaken from her
slumbers to become as she is now—a go-ahead,
prosperous inland towD. This work should stand
Mr. Nobbs in good stead. Nor should his per-
sistent work on behalf of the interest of the
Cumberland fruit-growers be overlooked. Mr.
Nobbs is a Freetrader and a staunch Liberal.
In the season of Sir Henry Parkes’ unpopu-
larity he had a staunch supporter in
Mr. John Nobbs, and Granvlle, Parramatta,
Liverpool, and, in fact, all parts of the Cumber-
land constituency were always true to ihe veteran
chieftain, mainly through the fidelity of the pro-
minent men of this constituency. Mr. Nobbs has
been a persistent opponent of the Dibbs-Jennings
Government, and holds them, and their supporters
responsible for the present financial danger of the
country. Mr. Nobbs is one of the leading Free-
masons of the metropolis, and one of the founders
of the Grand Lodge of New South Wales *
ANOTHER GREAT TRIUMPH BOTH IN
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
The famous St Louis Lager Beer, pronounced
by the best analytical chemists, both in Europe
and America, to be the puiest and most whole-
some Lager Beer extant.
The shipment of this Bottled Beer to Europe
has astonished the people of the Old World, as
will be seen by the following extract from the
Continental Gazette of Paris
“ The most surprising triumph for an Ameri-
can product at the Paris Exhibition was the
succ.fs of the Anhcuser Buscli famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, which eclipsed Bass, Barclay and
Perkins, Allsopp and Guinness, the world re-
nowned English brewers, as well as hundreds of
rivals from Austria and Bavaria. It is surprising
that a great sensation was produced when it was
understood that the experts reluctantly pro-
nounced the St. Louis Lager Beer superior to any
malt liquor ever drunk upon the Continent, and
th it all Pads is now seeking to quaff the Ameri-
can nectar. ’
The merits of this Beer are now becoming so
well known by the Australian pub’ic that its im-
portation in Sydney Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide is rapidly exceediog in quantity all other
well-known brands.*
New Zealand Insurance 'Company. —One or
two errors occurred in the report of the New Zea-
land Insurance Company last issue. The reserve
fund, again strengthened this year by a sum of
£lO,OOO stands at £135,000 ; and the re insurance
fund stands at £235,000 The latter great fund is
invested in first-class securities yielding steady
profits to the Company. Altogether the New
Zealand Insurance Company takes the form of a
national concern, and must continue to develope in
wealth and importance. At the annual meeting
held in New Zealand the general manager, Mr.
J. P. Pierce, who recently visited Sydney, Mel-
bourne, &c., spoke in most eulogistic terms of
the management of the Australian branches.*
OUR SAILOR BOYS.
We are showing a very beautiful lot of Man-o’-
War Sailor Suits, iu long trousers and knickers,
that we can thoroughly recommend, Fine
Estamene Serge, trimmed with gold, and blue
and gold, fancy Flannels, gold lanyards and
whistles, in all sizes from 0000 to 8; that is to fit
your little darling hope, aged 3. and the big
strapping boy of 13. Prices, 10s 6d. 15s. 6d. and
1 8s. (id. Value best ever submitted by Summer-
field and Company, the Great Juvenile Outfitters,
235 and 237, Pitt-street. Sydney.*
The Climate of Victoria.— From its geo-
graphical position Victoria enjoys a clima'o far
more gei-ial to Europeans than any other Colony
within the Continent of Australia, consequently
Consumption and many o’ her chest affections do
not prevail there to the same extent as in other
parts. The popularity which Freeman’s Original
Chlorodyne has obtained by the Colonists in the
treatment of Consumption, Bronchitis, Asmathic
affections, Croup, and Whooping cough, evidence
the sincerest desire on their part to second the
great boon that Nature has granted them, by treat-
ing these diseases the moment the symptoms
evidence themselves. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s ” only. Trade mark, an Elephant. —Whole-
sale Agents for Victoria, Rocke, TompaTtt, &
Co., and obtainable from all chemists.*
Premier ball-room decorators of New South Wales. Sale
and Dare, decorators. Ball and banquet rooms tastefully
decorated with flag and floral decorations, 60i Hunter-street
Sydney.*
She : Why, Charles! how can you call Miss
James plain ? I wish I was half as good looking
as she is. He : You are, Hattie, and you know
it. At last advices Hattie was endeavouring to
decide whether she ought to be pleased or
offended at the compliment, but as Charles
looked so charming in his perfect fitting £3 3s.
Suit, cut at the high-class tailoring establishment
of Summerfield and Company, Merchant Tailors,
235 and 237, Pitt-street. Sydney, it is safe to
affirm that she will conclude not to be offended.*
JgRADjRY, NEWTON, & LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TABL&,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY gHAIKO’
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, au
Cmatch. _
1mm}.
’— ,7
l‘.””,(}--itill 5329‘
I "w
‘ 95:?
153 wﬂ ,,
W
,, $3; 7
:21 H," “a
'n “1!; £23:-
§-1$" ‘
- .~
Sideboards of
designs and various dim®
sions, in OAK, MAHOGANY
WALNUT, ASH, and CEliAn*
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LA&B,
O’Conne and Spring Streets.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably y?'
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton*
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTOJV
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell
Spring Streets.
W f 11 7 '1
\‘1 Mdl§iﬁ$j1
’ =1 1 MD
. ff. 1:!
TE 1 ;§
'- a —
WALNUT
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelve?
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid"
ing Trays, Stationery Draw •
ers, revolving portable trip
Inkstand, Receptacles J°
Stamps, and Ruler and ” c
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into comP 8 * '
ments by movable partitions to admit of en^ar ?"
ing or diminishing the space when required. Lock®
automatically. One of the most useful, comm®
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to th
necessities of professional and business mf n '
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Sprms
Streets, N \
HIFFONIER WHATNOTS, effective design*’
Large choice. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb'
O’Connell-streef,
Z'\:y
mm
no
S 3
B
53
Drawing room cabi-
nets, Early English » n 0
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen’
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O'Connell and Spring Streets^
Drawing-room occasional chairS’-T
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s. 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lain®-’
IPlil
■KBiiaE
$375
PIANOFORTE’
guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compaq
Celeste Pedal, bril a rit!
tone, In handsome case>
Free at rail or wharves tot
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMI ORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
L---
C E
CHESTS
all sizes,
From 275.
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
LAMB.
and
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed'
rooms. New designs covered to order i®
any, material.
, ‘,;W}
Excelsior upright
improved
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes,
From 455.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant'and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
”3:155:
‘.1
1"“;
---~‘ ‘I I
"In - Sign
12-15: of” "
M \“t
Bedsteads, ail sizes
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and.
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
KDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates*
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
t
SPRING MATTRASSEfI
Woven Wire, bea
make; also, Spiral Spring
Price, from I is. each.
BRADLEY. NIC WTON ; and LAMP.
CHEAP FURNITURE^— Pine Tables, _ from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.J
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
Eli ADI BY, NEWTON, and LAMB.


THE WATCHES SO LONG IN THE
SPRING—TAR LA ?
a 3 welcome as flowers in spring— tra la, : n
It’s |. S ' , ’ alc h Ihey call Waterburee,
Po P ; a We sound as we’sing—tra la,
A n >\ 8 Perfect as perfect can be,
Thirtee 11 C -° StS yOTI but litt,c d ’ y ’ see—
een six, which is cheap, and that’s why w e
It 3w ‘ lng
Welcome as flowers that bloom in the spring.
I’ve w° tllC * engt h of iis spring ! tra la,
But I c ° Uud ’ and I’ve wound, and I’ve wound,
Tn ..» aU C bnd the end of the thing—tia la ;
So -»e, y°n see lam bound,
l‘m ar - lUu watch down to the ground.
On fhig 1 Val in t ra de, so the changes I’ll ring
°ne little trait—Oh, bother the spring !
Oh, both?
j US f . \ your growl at the spring !—tra la,
Y° u i oo Ue a turn or two when
You / ai be time, that’s a thing—tra la,
V 0 | o< ! n w iii & et used to, and then
b 7 ho „ 1 ° 8,11 sensible men
OWn \xr
waterhurys—you’ll say and you’ll
3 as welcome as flow-era that bloom in the
spring.
Don t growl v,
to W j nd v ' 1 because it takes a couple of minutes
w-hole w 'T y ° Ur Lou’t expect the
Pany tor Cd. The Watcrbury Com-
Chr °nomntl Clai , m t 0 give y° u an 18-carat gold
J-our a 61 3plit second, stop movement, with
ba.ng it 0 6 < nqrav ed on it, and a gold chain to
lon a g^ n ’ for M. But they do claim to give
that mor, rong ’ accura te, durable timekeeper for
less, am/ff’ WPd °h can he repaired for 2s. Id. or
Dopipauv Cn 1 y° u forget it. Water bury Match
v -~—^ ar S ar ct-street, Sydney.
IN CHARLOTTE PLACF
Among tj.p
R°n with 6 man Y prominent names in connec-
few are l 6 W * nc an d spirit trade ia this colony,
tfiapeotefi B^ 61 ' nown and none more highly re
an that °f Mes3r3. D. Allt and Co , of
lively qu . ace > s J'dney. Situated in a compara-
Gilding G thoroughfare, and in an unpretentious
oerned the* Cas *" as outside show is con-
thia fl’ rni oNle utof the business carried on by
a Ppearan 13 not meaBu reable by the external
B °mew] la ? e °* their Premises. The store, though
’tree flooi. narrOW ’ is of great depth, and contains
Ccll arag e 3 ,°, f large area in addition to extensive
1859 > bn Uv, lhe 1)113111699 itself was established in
onl e pre mises now occupied by the Arm
tft * a all th GleCte<i aboufc ,ive y° ar3 a K°> and con-
Vea ience s ° ?° 3t mo<lern improvements and con.
it is y er ’. The ®t°ck is not only a large one, tut
"‘W # ko c ' aried ’ f ° r ’ t 0 quote Mr - Allt’s words,
®Pirit a 0 f P ever y description of wine, beer, and
helie Ve ; n ?' ery brand worth having, for we don’t
c oin 9 i n „ ClD kunablo to supply any order that may
*tbply ‘ And an inspection of the premises
Bli Kht ac , PP ° rts Alr - A lit's statement. The very
5)08 8es 8e(1 l ? a!ntance with stimulants of any kind
t 0 Ca rry h- 5 the avera Ke reporter is not sufficient
1d 8 a l ot ’ m trough this inspection without ask-
tie r ° <lUes tior.s as to the contents of this or
6Ver nhi n ° f Caslis or pile of cases, representing
the a .^ r^Q hable, from the homely beer to
Plicate T ng '* queur > the democratic rum to the
aaov vri Uret or the ducal champagne. Every
Co ' ,r Se, ev * 3 apparently there, including, of
■*' a Ber g c et ybody’s favorite, Clausen’s C hampagne
, f a
l|Ua ntity annually, and with regard to
the host i° J ar<2 p!ease d to say 1 hey bslievc it to be
tcoin 41881 ' eer in the world, being absolutely
t*®B, h . h a ny intoxicating or deleterious proper-
eav «s no y in '' igorat iog and perfectly pure. It
C( ke w llh Unplcasan t taste in the mouth, as is the
evisto ° ttany other so-called La.ger beers
Prcfe rec c lrierS w ho have cnee had it, order it in
° fsu ch tp B .! 0 aCy brand in the market. The value
<lp Par ent 8 ini °ny from such a source is at once
V LPe c t ass °f business so successfully
B *&ht anif Me Alt and Co. dui ing the last
°Uh a j r years is of itself a guarantes
°Wi.io ns ? * lllate knowledge of the warts and
CaB tomer s ° aiid dislikes of their long list of
k. ! It is a great comforter, a plea-
h e 80 ' )tller ’ blue devils fly before its
He!!' *'> av <1 n ripens the brain, it opens the
tjr 8 anti „ . rnan who smokes thinks like a
t,. 0u 8htih , 8 k ke a Samaritan.” So, evidently
t er ° l be v '£ r Lytton when he put the words
4ir] 9, Bat j h cf . one °f his best drawn charac-
be r, °t a c j n addition to this, he meant —what ho
tj, °I thg ver —that the tobacco itself must
' 3 ty 0 j- t) Iy best description Disinterested tes-
“ J3j le highest character will prove that
0lc WELL’S BULL DURHAM
TOBAOCOS
lo any tobacco ever before offered to
Ch ' AUpTTo-r, the Public.
Cs mis t to nf T T. V0ECjCK:KR - F - R 'S., Consulting
o r ‘ (| ' aft ei . lle Royal Agricultural Society of Eng-
and u,lkll ‘g a thorough analysis of the
I’d! iU > o 1U0rganic P arts °f various samples of
BlTn c o fr„°’ says With regard to the Leaf
nin ftfl 4M- m which ‘ BLACKWELL’S BULL
ToK 18 rnanu factured, I find in this mng-
> C p a Ps, j s acco merely traces of Nitrates, which,
1(U hiild'}. n .° of tFe reasons this tobacco has a
Bidn * htvaff t v,’ for in a11 biting, strong Tobaccos
bon nr, ibly '. that Nitrates are present in con-
lirjj a ht Portion. Another and still more im-
hiiB that .y.hioh my analysis has brought to
tvjj. ’ "'hieh r thls T obacco contains so little Nico-
O Str 0nD , am inclined to regard as a good fea-
thr 'h mvi a in f er i° r Tobaccos are foun 1 to
Tk° ° r foil!-' l .. ni0Ie Nicotine, some as high as
fceh 6 Section , e8 as n)uch as I And in this.”
W °f horn, ,, th( r countr y known as the Golden
Of °ntir>e to which Durham is the
for 18 leaf ,, \ la specially adapted to the growth
*oh ttle P ick °f this growth is secured
-jm Cc os. anuf acturc of the “Bull Lurham ”
'^ot, n I )8 °n! tjH in Sydney by Messrs. Buist, J.
btu ’ a Pdmi, , es ’ h’oake, Simmons, Levy and
a , bleoro y k° had wholesale from A. W.
cu “go street. *
HOW HUMANE SOCIETY MEDALS ARE WON.
Bill Jones feels an almost irresistable inclination to remove the stone and rescue the hoy.'
NOTICE i — Bawnm nl’ yang Wine. Drink
July llmkings' Mail-class wheeled old vintages.
for invalidv. 113 Pitt-street."
A WEAK BACK.
Will: a. neon aching innit-neon mm the hips in a. sign of
‘i-onaod kidneys. tee iho but klrlm'y cnrutiru- known.
which is Dr. teli'e Bittexs.‘
Cockroaohes. Bugs. and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell‘s Insect powder. 6d.. 18..
is. 6d. Rigney. ill Kingetreet.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 1. 1887.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PLBIJO
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full Maoists see
rliovernment Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every pest-oﬂioe in the colony.
Tender-ere may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened. and the name of the Inooensrui
renderer will be announced. if possible. before the
lotion of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms at the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
:he lowest or any tender.
Dates t; which
Ten are
Future at Works and Banner. on be “when
at this oﬂice
Erection of Courthouse. Goreki
Erection of Police Buildings.
Bylatone
Erection of Bridge (exclusive of
supply of iron-work), Nnmoi Tuesday.
River, at. Wee 'Wee, li‘tlu'unry 3.
Ditto ditto. ditto ditto. dihiﬂ. m. 11 o'clock.
Landsdowno River. at Saw-ill“
Construction of i-‘oundauone
and File for 'i‘ravenaere for
Shops, Nos. 5 to 15. Eveieixh
Erection of Offices. &c.. Hoopl-
tai for Insane. Ulndesviiio
Additions, 8m. Wharf at Hull
lino. Richmond River
Supply of ironwork. Bridge.
imnedowne River at. SM'llleH.
Namol River. at. “’00 Woo.
and Bonnie Crock
Construct ion of Wharf nil
Raleigh. iieillzger River
Erection of Bridge. Swan Creek,
med Grafton to L'inmrm.
Erection of Rridke (exclusive of
supply of ironworki ow:
Bungle Creek. on null Fern-
mount, to Grafton I
Alterations. 8:0... Police Station.
Nnmndem
Erection Custom-hwse. Mnumn
Erection of Engine Driven:
Quurtom‘ Bathuret
Cormtrucilon of Sewer ihroughl
iinptiat‘e Estate
Ramiro, Signal Simian. 80ml: I
Read
Erection of Station Buildings. Tuesday,
Gesrord February 15.
Erection of Station Buildings. at 11 o'oloci'.
Blue Gum i“im.Wyong Greek.
er Uee Creek, and (300mm-
bung. Gosford to Wumiah 1
Railway
Construction of Bridge, Pndman
Creek. at Bye Park
Construction of four Silt Pants ‘
Supply and deliveiyntGunnednh
Railway Bunion of 2000 cubic
yards of Gravel Ballast
Supply and delivery at. Bay Sta-
tion of 10.000 bricks
Supply mud tioli‘vmy at. Grnn- Tuesday.
ville Station of 200 “men posts February 15.
and 600 mils fur. ll o’clock.
Supply and delivery in trucks ‘
Darling Harbor 0! 1000 mm
Blue M03111
Supply and delivery in trucks
Bn‘hurat Station of Sand and
Gravel required during 1387
Supply and deliveryat Beihun- ‘
gm. Station of 2000 fenee {oats
and 200i) fence mil!
Construction of Railway Lino.
{ta . Nyngan m (301m!-
Additions, Post and Telegraph Tues-day.
omce. Liverpcoi ‘ February 22,
Conan notions of Hydraulic I at 11 o'clock.
Pump. 8w... Newcusbio
Direction of Rum! Stand. Botanic I
Gardens
Supply of Locomotive Engines Tuesday.
(passenger and goods). April [3.
at. 11 o clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
s=sHvSn&gfeafo pj P.VLPTjru
JS'eucasC, Inomcum'— Ort-AiiMt, JSuvelly.
THs
&,
PATENT
DIA.a-OKT.A.L. ESAM
CORSET.
Patented in Empland and on tbe Continent, wm not split )n
the seams nor tear in the Fabric. Exquisite model. Perftct
comf' rt. Guaranteed wear.
Le Follet says: — A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.”
The Queen says: —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material i 3
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the seams have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
tod strong, and the workmanship all that could he desired.” Caution. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y i: N Patent Diagonal Seam Cornet, No. 116,” iu oval.
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition. 1882. Gold Medal. HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets. Condon
International Exhibition, 1884 LATEST AWARD ! Gold Medal, International Exhibition, Edin.
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
STOP RIG-HT HERB!
JOY FOR EVER t
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever.
C o
m
- *»**&*£
The Antophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and execute*
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, wmcn at present consists of over
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. &3T It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata-
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any of
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. Tt main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every w r atch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Notk. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting ease, ore silver, stem wind ng
patent lever, Willi compensating
b dance, jewelled in 7 holes
Do. do. (key wuder)
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Key winding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face
Same Watch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s ccmpensatiiig-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band cate, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pile it pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting case ...
Ladies superb gold le\cr watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world
£2 10 0
£lO 0
£3 0 0
£3 10 0
£3 5 0
3 15 0
£lO 0 0
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £lO 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
Is the latest triumph of
Science. It is a nofclo
GOLD
alloy, possessing the exact lustre, beauty
and ondurance ef sterling Sold. A legi-
timato use his been found for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
largo consignments of those lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
No one can detect the difference. Send Cur &\
Priced Catalogue, or for ono of tbs fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliant ) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, /3. 6d.; Pair Earrings,
Plain 55.; Jewelled, 75.6 d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
(£gg”Wesend tlieseon approval. Iftlieydon’t
please, return uninjured by the First
Hail, and we repay the cash, less post age.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels sent anywhere by post.


Cottages Ready Built.
A RARE opportunity i i now offered to people of the
artizan community to procure a ready-built cot-
tage for the purpose of residence in the suburbs of
the city. The Mercantile Building. Land, and
Investment Company, whose new ollices have just
been opened at the corner of Park and Cast ler eagh
streets, have had erected several neat and com-
fortable cottages on the very be3t situated land at
the marine suburb of Rockdale. These cottages are
faithfully and well built, and having five or six
ronns, with balcony, neat front garden, afford
ample accommodation for a family. The attrac-
t'on of the thing is that on the payment of the
snail deooslt of Five Pounds, any person
becomes the owner, and enters into possession,
33
the balance of purchase-money being paid to the
company as rent at the very low rate of from 11s.
to 15s. per week. This is certainly the most
liberal arrangement ever made, and ought to put
numbers of men into “ castles ” of their own.
Anyone who knows the locality will say that the
situation is capita). It is within a few hundred
yards of Lady Robinson’s Beach, and Saywell's
tram runs past to and fro between Rockdale
station and this glorious watering and bathing
place on Botany shores. Plans of the cottages
with full particulars, are procurable from the
manager of tie Mercantile Company, Mr. Edwin
J. C. Bryant, or both land and buildings can be
personally inspected, the company’s agent, Mr. H.
Cambridge, meeting visitors on Saturdays and
Wednesday’s 10.40 a.m. and 2.40 p.m. trams.*
Extensive Brick and Timber Enter-
prise at Newtown.
A VERY extensive timber and building enterprise
is carried on at Newtown by the well-known tirm
of Messrs. Tabrett and Diaper, whose manufac-
tures embrace the whole requirements of the
building and contracting trades. The two
branches of manufacture are carried al.ong on
different sides of the main road, yet in close
proximity to each other, and they both have the
advantage of first-class position. The timber
works occupy an area of nearly t \o acres, having
a frontage of just 200 yards to the Illavvarra rail-
way line adjoining the St. Peter’s station, with
facilities for a siding when required. The works
themselves comprise a lofty and extensive edifice
tmss
specially designed and built for the purpose,
affording splendid engine and machinery room.
The basement lias a separate department for an
engine room, which is furbished with a splendid
2oh.p. horizontal engine (supplied from a 35b.p.
boiler) fitted with huge fly-wheel and governing
appliances to ensure an even speed whether the
break downorthetennoning sawsarein operation.
The break-down and large circular saws are
situated so as to conveniently receive large logs of
timber from the yard. After being operated upon
here the lengths are passed along to other benches
on the same floor, or overhead to the extensive
joinery and flnislii'g dopaitments. Here the
capacity of the works is found to be great, the
machinery being of the very latest description,
including turning, planing, mortising, and mould-
ing appliances, and the entire w-ork of wood-
working manufacture is carried on, including
doors, sashes, mouldings, archi'rives, staircases,
show windows, show eases, mantelpieces, &c.,
&c. There can be no doubt that a
better equipped or bettor designed establishment
is hot to be found about Sydney, and there is every
room for its extension if required. At the southern
end of the works arc a tine range of stables for
the horse teams. Ihe brick-works are situated
on the opposite side of tire St, Poters-road, and
are known as the Ashford Steam Brick Works.
They occupy over four acres of land, and have an
enormous depth of about 70 feet of clay shale par-
ticularly suited for first-class bricks. The exca-
vations are deep and extensive, showing a mag
floent face, and the material is hauled on a truck
by steam machinery to the mouth of the mill,
Where it is operated upon and treated in the usual
way. The brickmaking machines are line ap-
pliances, and do grand work, keeping five large
kilns in full work; The engine is a fine 25 h.p.
vertical engine supplied from 30 h.p. boiler. The
capacity of the works is over 100,000 best hard-
pressed hard-baked bricks, and the average has
been 90,000 per week; working eight hours per
day. Upwards of 30 horses for the teams are
kept in constant work, and the whole system
and order arc first-class. It will be seen from this
that Messrs. Tabrett and Draper have a large
enterprise in their hands capable of enormous
development as the metropolis- extends. Their
position on the lliawarra Railway line gives them
command of the entire area of this glorious new
suburb, which is fast being built on. For the
brickmaking work the firm have material enough
for 40 or 50 years’ operations. Messrs. Tabrett
and Draper were the firm who, at the first re-
quest, granted their men the eight-hour system,
with the result that their staff of men in all
branches are the most willing and most prosperous
fellows that could be found in any employ in
Sydney. Both partners give close personal atten-
tion to the business, and are both well known and
well liked by the building trades community of
Sydney and suburbs. *
Mr. John Solomon.
The fine new theatre, the Criterion, just recently
opened at the corner of Park and Pitt streets, has
wonderfully improved this end of the ci'y, and
has tended much to widen the centre of busi-
ness, for this improvement the citizens are in-
debted to Mr. John Solomon, or as he is coloquially
known “ Jolumy Solomon,” the well known
theatrical and sporting man. Some few months
ago this corner was an ugly unoccupied block, but
by the plucky expenditure of a “'few ” thousands,
Mr. Solomon has given the city a handsome, reaf,
and comfortable theatre, which is always bound to
be a paying concern. No man de'erves more to
succeed than “ Johnny Salomon,” as he is a
genuine liberal man. When the foundations of
the theatre were being made a fatal accident oc-
curred, whereby a man lost his life and his family
left destitute. In a few days Mr. Solomon had the
woman released from want by liberally subscrib-
ing him .elf and collecting a considerable sum be-
sides among his friends. In hundreds of other
ways “ Johnny Solomon ” has made his reputation
with the citizens as a real good sort. Some years
ago he made a ton of money with his Egyptian
Hall business : and then became a kmght of the
pencil. One or two events at Randwick cleared
him right out, but “ Johnny ” sold everyiliing he
possessed, and showed up at Tatt’s squaring every-
thing. Then he went inland, coined the golden
doubloous again, and now he is to be found in his
old position among the sporting men, and proprietor
of one of the best paying thea 1 res in the colonies. *
Great Sucoess in Life Assurance.
OVER A MILLION STERLING BY THE AUS-
TRALIAN WIDOWS’ FUND LIFE ASSUR-
ANCE SOCIETY.
One of the best proofs of the progre33 of the Aus-
tralian people is undoubtedly the increased popu-
larity of life assurance. There is evidence on
every hand, that the old prejudices against life
assurance scarcely even linger in the mind 3 of
the Australian people ; and it is a fact that this
making of provision against death or the helpless-
ness of old ago is on every hand being recognised
as a first duty. No man can lay claim to a repu-
tation for providence whe is not insured, for both
old age and death are certainties, and few, if
any, of us are free from responsibilities that
must be looked to. The latest instance of
the steady growlh of this wise and humane
principle of life as3urance is the remarkably
cheering report of the Australian Widows’
Fund Life Assurance Society (Limited). De-
spite the admitted prevailing dulness, this
sound and economically-managed institution has
for the past year done new business to the amount
of £1,140,047, giving an annual income of
£39 630 14°. 9d. The first three years (ending
1874,) the Society issued 1001 policies for £244,140,
giving a nett annual premium of £Bll3, since
which time the business has so increased that now
for the last three years in succession it has
reached over a million sterling, the last year (end
ing 31st Ootober) giving 4854 policies for
£1,140,047. Quite legitimately do the directors
congratulate the Society on its success, and
this means something where the whole
business is done on the purely mutual sys-
tem. The investments of the Society’s funds
have produced the satisfactory amount of
£23,865 6s. 2d., being at the rate of over 7 per
cent, on the average funds. The accumulated
funds have bBcn increased by £78,329 10s. 7d., and
now totals over £375,000. That care is exhibited
in the issue of policies is proved by the fact that
claims on policies with bonus additions amounted
to £34,392, being an increase of only £3272 over
last year, which figures are rightly regarded by
the actuary as considerably below the expectancy.
NEW BUSINESS OK TIIE SOCIETY
for the three quinquennial periods—
The whole of this business is exceedingly satisfac-
tory, more especially as it is the end of the third
quinquennial period, and clearly indicates that
the Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance
Society is in the highest popularity with the Aus-
tralian people as a sound and economically-
managed Life Assurance Society. The Sydney
office of the Australian Widows is the
line handsome structure in George-street,
No. 263. The Board of Directors are
the following well-known men : —The Hon. Dr.
Ren wick, late Minister for Education ; Mr. Sydney
Burdekin, M.P. for East Sydney ; and Mr. Henry
Gorman, of Messrs Hardie and Gorman. The re-
sident secretary is Mr. G. F. Murnin. The vigorous
style in which the business has been conducted by
the Sydney office explains much of the remark-
able success of the institution in New South Wales.
From the resident Secretary the New South Wales
people can obtain all particulars as to life assur-
ance in this solid and prosperous Australian Life
Assurance Institution.*
A Gre*t Repository of Scientific In-
struments, &c. —W. M Donnell ano
Co.’s.
One of the treats of Sydney is undoubtedly an in-
spection of the establishment of Mes rj. W.
M‘Donnell and Co., the well-known electricians,
surveying and general scientific manufacturers
and importers, George and Bond Streets. For
years past this firm’s show-window was the at-
traction of George-street, when situated mid-way
between Hunter street and the Post-office. But
now their new establishment —corner of George
and Bond Streets—is the first house of the kind in
the Southern Hemisphere. In fact, it ma/ be
questioned if there is any more important estab-
lishment in London. Here are gathered the latest
designed or invented sc’entific instruments of the
day for electricians, surveyors, medical men,
sa
m
I- 1 » !U! Mi! g » 111 «
I! 11,
LJUM,
|fll
iTfrr.v
!ii;n
i •
'W
i
mmm
■
watchmaker?, or nautical men, the names of the
makers being those renowned in every quarter of
the civilised globe. An inspection of these various
instruments is a’most bewildering and gives some
idea of the huge advance made in the application
of science to the purpose of practical requirements.
Here are deposited a most valuable collection of
astronomical and landscape telescopes, micro-
scopes, barometers, rain-gauge3, &c. With regard
to surveying instruments, this house is the depot
of the colony, having a most valuable collection
of theodolites, levels, chains, steel tapes, levelling
staves, &c., and, in fact, every requirement for
surveyors. Next we find electrical appliances,
medical and portable batteries, galvanic chain
bauds, &c., electric-light apparatus, telephonic
apparatus warranted to convey a message over 100
miles. An interesting and most valuable collec-
tion of “physiological models,” the “ heart,” the
“eye,” the “ear,” &c., which illustrates in a
splendid manner the intricate parts of these
organs. Another important branch of the busi-
ness is that devoted to photographic app'iances,
cameras, lenses, &c , and all paraphanaiia, in
fact, for the gallery and the held —volunteer
officers' s words, dress swords, gold and silver
watches only of the most valuable description are
likewise included. With regard to optical appli-
ances—magic lanterns as they are better known —
the Messrs. M'Donnell stand as the house of the
colonies; their collection is most extensive and
most interesting, and we venture to say that if
the variety and cheapness were known to the
whole public there would be thousands more in
use. They are extremely simple in use and afford
both enteitainment and instruction to the home
and the school. The very catalogue is worth
perusal as indicating what a wide range of work
is accomplished in th's department of science.
The firm have elaborately illustrated catalogues
of the various branches, and these are forwarded
post free to any address. Another branch of the
business we must not omit to mention. Messrs.
M'Donnellhave for the past 35 years been the sole
agents for Mr. John Tann, of London’s celebrated
Anchor Reliance Fire Proof Safes and Strong
Room Doors. It is needless to speak of the quality
of Tann’s sa'es, as they are matchless. Messrs.
M’Donnell keep a large stack, an inspection of
which in the cellars is well worth making : they
vary from 24in. high for private houses to 7ft. for
banks, &c. Pamphlets and full particulars of all
the lines specified above are promptly obtainable
post free, on application. People visiting Sydney
should make it a special duty to inspect this
splendid scientific repository, for the creation of
which in this city great credit is due to the
founders.*
The Be3t Cigars and Bsst Tobacco.
It may fairly be stated that there is no firm in the
colonies who should stand higher in the estimation
of tobacco and cigar smokers in Australia than
Messrs. Heyde, Todman, and Co., of Wynyard
Square, Sydney. In the interests of pure articles
and genuine brands, these men have fought im-
portant battles in ths law courts of this country
involving the issueof some thousands of pounds and
the health of the general community. There are
brands of cigars, cigarettes, and tobacco, which
have justly won a high reputation all over the
world, and to pirate these brands and deceive the
public with injurious rubbish has bsen the aim of
unprincipled people for a long time past. But as
far as these colonies are concerned Messrs- Heyde,
Todman, and Co. have “ scotched” the pirates by
obtaining costly injunctions at law, and it only re-
mains for the public themselves to complete the
good work by exercising their ordinary caution
and always go’ng for the best. Through the in-
strumentality of this firm we have had secured
for Australia the two foremost of the world’s
brands of cigars, the Henry Clay and the Flor de
Murias, which are a make of Havannah
cigar pronounced to be the purest and
finest yet manufactured. The brands are
worth hundreds of thousands of pounds, and they
arc jealously guarded by houses of reputation in
every part or the world. Mcjers. Heyde, Todmaa,
and Co. are the agents for the Australasian
colonies, and a hugely growing trade is done.
Large shipments are recently to hand of qualities
ranging from £IG to £5O per 1000 wholesale. Thus
with regard to cigars, the Australian public have
an absolute guarantee through this firm of their
being able to obtain the purest and best cigars
ever made, and no toboconist or cigar-dealer or
club with any c'aim to position can be held blame-
less if they are not able to supply the best. Ano
less important announcement can be made with
regard to tobaccos. It is known that the firm just
mentioned have confined their main business to
world-celebrated Cameron Virginnia tobaccos.
When Cameron’s great works were destroyed by
fire some time ago, considerable inconvenience
arose as to supply, but the cable was used, and
the celebrated Virginnia brands came direct from
the Camerons’ works in America. Now, however,
the Sydney branch house has again got to work,
by stupendous effort, and Messrs. Heyde, Tod-
man, and Co. are now able to supply all kinds of
flat tobaccos, including the celebrated Lion,
signet, Venus, Two Seas, and early in February
they will be able to supply their constituents with
the Itaven and Navy Twists, Two Seas, and Lion
Nailrod. For the production of these celebrated
tobaccos the Camerons have got into their new
works, the finest michine y yet iavented, and
he article turned out is really superb. The busi-
ness done by Messrs. Ilcyde, Todman, and Co. in
Cameron’s locally-made Virginnia tobacco exceeds
£500,000 annuallv, and in Cameron’s American-
made over £250,000 annually. With regard to
tobacconists’ goods generally, it will suffice to say
that this firm s great house in Wynyard-square is
really ihe depot of all the best makers of the
world ; and their business is so extensive, their
prices for all lines—tobaccos, cigars, and general
good —is as cheap, and in manycases cheaper, than
the inferior goods placed on the market. The
firm do a wholesale business only, and will fur-
nish the public when required with the names of
the tobacconists and cigar-dealers who are sup-
plied with the superior lines mentioned by them.
Where trade is not done by retail men, Messrs.
Heyde, Todman, and Co. will supply samples to
any applicant. The firm invite communications
from all parts of the colonics, and, we observe,
cordially ask the assistance of the Australian pub
lie to build up a genuine business in these most
important articles of human consumption.*
TO THE ELECTORS OF THE COUNTY
OF GLOUCESTER.
Gentlemen, —On my return from Europe on the
21st instant, whither I had gone for the benefit of
my health, I was not at all surprised to find that
a dissolution of Parliament was inevitable, owing
to the inadequate measure 3 of the Government to
curtail the public expenditure.
A dissolution having since been proclaimed, it
was my intention, although renovated in bodily
health, to retire from public life being grievously
depressed by a severe family affliction.
The present state of our public affairs requiring
great exertions][and unremitting attention in the
expenditure of the public funds, coupled with the
urgent request of many friends, I am induced to
offer you once more my services as your re-
presentative.
Since you did me the honor of placing me in
Parliament some five years ago, you must, I think,
admit that my be3t endeavours have been suc-
cessfully used for your benefit and the welfare of
the district. Your roads have been greatly im-
proved, your postal conveniences extended, your
schools increased, and not a siagle petition from
various parts of my electorate which hss been
placed in my hands in any way neglected, but, on
the contrary, has received my fullest considera-
tion and support; and I intend to pay particular
attention to have the important timber trade of
your district placed upon a better footing.
When I found that my absence from my post
was imperative, I placed your interests in the
hands of a friend who promised the same attention
to your requirements and wishes as I should have
devoted had I been present.
Without reflecting upon the actions and omis-
sions of tha Government which lately ruled the
destiny of the colony, I must acknowledge 1 found
public affairs in a most lamentable condition, and
it behoves every future representative of the
people to curtail the public expenditure by the
strictest measures of economy without interfering
with the efficient conduct of the Civil Service, to
cause imposition of fresh taxes without militating
as far as possib e with the poorer classes, and if
practicable to raise a revenue from the lands
without injury to the squatter or the free
selector.
These are measures which will require great
consideration, and can be carried out only by
unanimous action on the part of the various re-
presentatives.
The extreme urgency of remedial operations be
ing enforced upon me at so brief a notice entails
serious consideration on my part, and if elected
once more, you may rest assured that I sha‘l be
daunted by no difficulties, nor turned aside by
any private feeling in dealing with so momentous
a question as the reduction of the enormous deficit
in the public Treasury.
1 have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
R. n, D. WHITE,
Sydney, 27th January, 1887,
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
53i GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
Country Orders receive prompt attention. TS


fJ'O THE ELECTORS OF REOFERN.
Gentlemen. —I have accepted the office cf
Secretary of Public Works in the Administration
formed by Sir Henry Parkes, and believe that you
regard with favour the responsibili'y I have thus
undertaken.
Under the present circumstances we mus all
feel the necessity for a strong and Unite! Govern-
ment, prepared with a liberal and progressive
policy, for relieving the colony from the difficul
ties in which it has become involved, and I think
you will recognise in the address of Sir Henry
Parke 3 to the electors of St. Leonards ample evi-
dence that this Ministry is prepared to carry out
a policy which is both liberal and progressive.
Parliament has been dissolved to-day and I de-
sire again to offer myself a 3 a Candidate for the
representation of your interests in the Legislative
Assembly. X will meet you before the day of elec-
tion, and explain more fully my views on the pre-
sent position of affairs.
I am, Gemlemen,
Yours faithfully.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.
Sydney, 26th January, 1887.
Theatric royal.
Under the Direction of
Me-sra. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
EVERY EVENING, at quarter to 8,
Messrs Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
GRAND XMAS COMIC PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Prices as usual.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprleto and Manager Mr. Frank Smith
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipf.
COME AND SEE THE ATTENDANCE
EVERY EVENING.
THE ALHAMBRA HUNT CLUB PICNIC
is CROWDED with SPECTATORS carter to par-
take of the good things provided by the caterer to
'this Variety Company.
Miss LETITIA RILEY joins the Company for the
first time.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stal
ds; Balcony, 6d.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
fpHURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “ Lipp Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
o
<”V
b o
'\ \ uS
rsil
ţ
f:
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORT£,RS#OF
HATSCAPSi
438 CEQRCE ST
SYDNEY \
P/opoiite jLtuseUers
d,
j-
<VJ
ť
w
0?
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotuhern
Colonies or New Zealand, may bo made to Arthur
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
E
c-r^fT' 1 THE
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS', COUGHS
T rfo *MA S° ?N* g" HjA M |
ROCKH A M BiT GN> I
Vi:-',
i.
E
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridue street, Sytney,
Hare on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whist le
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, In
bulk and cases
Yve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioj a Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, &0., &c.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, & RUGS
BEDSTEADS -A.3STI3 BEDDING.
THE NEW FORNITDRE AND CARPET WAREHOUSE,
i HI
r r, t' v-
iiir
Si
i
S'*
ra,
W
•<• •
/•*' ki
n
.. ii,ii
hez~>>>
j&
3T
P /»
1
1$
ft*
o -
r.<~>c~
So
CSS
THE GORDON DINING-ROOM SUITE.
39
CASTLEREAGH STREET,
N eah huntee street.
JONES, LAWSON BROS., & CO.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
NEAR HUNTER STREET.
fuDOLPHO'VVOLFE
SON
&C
Q/avuy /Sff#
/ * /f? (SZD /
7ia/
'e's/t/stf/w ?/&/'//’ xrt
" r
wz&y (& c isr/eufadme'.
ILLUSTRATION (Id reduoed size) ~>t £\ Order to be found In the
“ LA.HGE BOTTLES” OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
0
,V:
UNIQUE FLAVOUR and unsurpassed
Crispness distinguis Wilson’s Ame-
rican “Extra Toast" BISCUITS, For
breakfast, luncheon, tea, or dessert,
nothing equals them. Delicious with I
milk, superb with wine, and incompariblel
with coffee or cheese.
TURNER & CO.,
Sole Agents,
71 Sussex Street, Sydney,
LLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match cos
tomes Repairs neatly executed
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents I
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
W THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
Sxed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT.
»nd UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branoh, Payable on demand. Offices, I Park-st.
J, V, WABBEAM, Manager
ANM FACTURING HATTER
GEORGE STREET
s
Y
EY
AL
WEST
HAFES
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
0. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS and CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
M
0 N U M K N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on reqnes
J. CUNNINGHAM,
MAROABST-STKttT, WTKWABD-SQUAU, STDKST
S
Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among those who
have arrived at or are past middle age. It is declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths m
this country are either direetly or indirectly the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and those diseases are on the increase. Per-
sons are often seriously affected before they know of
it themselves, and thus these insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodg#
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, &e., are SfcCrg the many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defying the powers oftentimes of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no vymptsms of a
marked nature. This is one of the reasons why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinary
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of that
class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headache, Jaundice, Liver
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debility, Female Weaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and was never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold by all Druggists and Dealers in Patent Medi-
cines.
Note.—Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
MANUMOTUKING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales and Queensland.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
RTrv
EATM
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order le*
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
56100 Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box in stamps.
-w w -w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache 1 ,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects.
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO.
4.! _,"‘
. 7‘ (I (7':\
35%; i“
SINGER
and Co.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN DANES,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £1 GO,OOO.
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, E.C.M.Q., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank of
England.


The Patriotic MacMillion Rescues the Soft-goods Dog.


PEMtT 0
■SALE ©TIL
ŧ
t
ţ
ť
ŧ
ltdsifa
'-f
" r H£ PRO PR IE TOR*,
TOOTHPASTE
* Uflß'tyuEO S.® rr& /ufaaffrrc
prk) eLSAffsifte ptfOWTrEs .
.Mllhuish , Phaimaceoucal Cams/
t 34 Wan Am SI S YD N£ '
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes ;
Alas Manufacturers of
The Finest Quality op Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
woes
<£SO
WARNING!
utterly worthless imitation of that well-known preparation,
FUSE’S INSECTICIDE, is now being 1 offered for sale, and
lli order
to deceive the unwary, the word Kruse’s is rendered
1 ” on the outside wrapper. The public are hereby eau-
a S a i n st this imposture, and are advised that FIFTY
gusset
~ S REWARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
-4i } Qe as w dl lead to the conviction ot the makers amd vendors of
I! »purious article. The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
ftiav i ■ , ®
De easily distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE’S
U CTICIDI ' has a blue wrapper and large white directions
> With red band bearing the words “Kruse’s Insdcticide, sole
FELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne”
lnsecticide may be had of all wholesale ajad retail
Rlls ts, and vendors ot proprietary and patent medicine*
•' to.
.*» Knr ><e,
** AN * H'B MYAI
aOTJLET CHAMPAfflira.
TRAPP & BLLBS, 54 Mflurara»et-atr©ot, Agwnt* lor New Roach Walao.
HENRY LANCASTER,
'f*i J/v
v
P
ft* TKOVGtf
C^NOl
“E BROKE
&A*/vrjiA
Z CAt: V
era* T*©ue
FOR MANY YBABS
in »h«
biiA»;crr» WotiKSßocs
•r BarotuiND,
Lately £ jmtm with
Bsdaoa Bros,,
Manufttckowsr of
tf BOUGHT IRON
TANKS ft CISraHHB,
«f any aim or shape,
ter sHmteteM, woe l -
washed*, aa£ station-
owcer*.
Htaeee and Cattle
Trettfites,
ot every description,
wreught-iron pipes, a. s.
ftinmela, rertkilators,
Sit., Sc*.
Btetiinafces eheerftaUy given.?
REDUOJSQD PRICE LIRWi F U RNJBItJ9E>*QTf APPLICATION.
65 GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
flat 1 ! Fleur! Floor!
UON FLOURMILLS,
Kent st., Sydney.
Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Mieal, Cones, Bran and. Pel-
f always ob hand. AJB mads
Sle very beat wheat procurable,
4 at the lowest pwces.
L\ t M . R I L B Y
(late of the Detective Farce),
Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
-w, "'UtSf 6 ■ an< l wife deserters braced. and kinds of
tes«f Ce l PWiriea instituted Evidence obtained in
ti'iiS 1 * and ',u au d incendiary cases, for the legal prt>-
%?B*,n.r™' Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
hti u - itiij jU, death, obtained is any part of the worirt
sPeteni- opbeeted. From R. M. R.'* long es*ariBnee
gSft Vortoe of New South Wales. Vwfcoria, and
t*y. J'.hs io i?,’ a *d established agencies in aB p'srta of tiie
Mjf'bti ,n “ a PosiMfia to conduct all Inquiries with caution
attJJid, B JSfcteat secret, and bo faithfully aod
to% business entrusted to h care.
D“ RIDGE S
FOOD
fm INFANTS ANU INVALIDS
Bla.» am eQoraxmvtft. sale fca Xnfland
md is *b’# J*eing i»to th<
GoloimMi
Every Storekeeper shouW gel a supply,
as every wise will cert’ainlf
n tajse^ft.
EKLiRIDOE’fI WOYAE. FOCto MIJJLS,
LOtfDQW, jSNQJPJUHfc •
git
r lfoa only pia«e whaee
pip«s are safcisfaofceaHy
repaired.
CJUPPORT Colonial Industry ! Bay your Pipe
IO at S. .ROSENTHAL. 1 torn; Cotum
Strhbt, East (opposite Colonial Bank.
Manufacturer of real Meorsohaum . :nd Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
wmatrNmuxa'r’ti
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
306 PfYT SHEUBBff, send 118 CASTUMWSAGH
STREET.
Branch BetotiMsluaent: 66 Hvsnt B»bhot,
"W. OAKLING
♦PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & &eneral Live Stoek Agent
THE Liverr business is the largest hi Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene
rSjl sales are bpld of racing stock. Htgh-olaee
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi
ness eonnections with the principal stud and
bseed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended te
Best facilities for landing and pipping stock
Insurance (including marine risk) affected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
J9»)
.xs'. ‘
" i'ii‘w
v ‘1’; l I; "‘11
J ‘ .‘II‘ ‘ " “L
L ‘ ix ' ‘ ‘
H ‘7'?“ "‘13“
‘1 ml“
4 'f u
' ' m 1"“ 1‘11}
WNW i‘ ‘7‘].
'11:! 4‘ ‘i {H
i “”31“ I! “i. 1"“
Um ‘3: ‘11.“:
3! ‘ l. Ga 1‘” ‘ “
.. “El‘d‘k” _ i
263 to 209 Kent-atreet,
Sydney,
Hava always in STOCK, foi
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA
AND
EARTHENWARB
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents fer
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky,
• ®<ORIN and CO.’S
Cognao,
T. GAYSIN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHa¥eMONT & Go.
BBG to thank their numerous eKentse for £h*
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receire the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to ho hea-utifnl and
artistie. Inspectien is inrited to the chojjpe col-
lection at Portraiture now on exhibition in too
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Ar cede.
MR. THOMAS GLXATK,
who hah had toe honour ef Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Tiotodia, T.R.H. PMnee and
Prinooea mt Wales, Pninoe Imperial, &#., tee., will
piatoonally photograph each sitter.
Meades. C. and Co. respeetfuUy ask that ladles
desirous of sitting shemld make appointments i*
toe oariy part a t toe day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Boys! Arcade.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY MIASM,
At row of toe
iF mlm «*“ 080808 OTR “ T -
IrNSTRIJCTION given every day In Beering,
I Gymnasttoo, Wresiding, Fencing, ffio. .For
teams, Jte., apply to
L. FjOLBY,
Manager and kstauter.
: Ir t. O R I -'1 : 0A L
Ba *iMq. d,
i i
rX'vs-r c - ass A-VAR
: *
.it •
'->H ; . ! vl' ;HIT
&
, /
<•*
. ri*--' i V .'
«U .
ISfBE B£SjlMTB£ WORLD!!
NOME, OTHER BUT *
WAUCHS
f- " j ' r " 6"m>a 1.
IP R 4 t E W»EO A L : ' v
as »a as H
Everybody
SHOULD USB
PEMELL’S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
r LOU E!
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
Im a Mill replete with the newest and meet approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICK is YBRY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED TERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL.
881 SMWW.MVin. SVONKT.
r ATKINSON'S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
g«rpa!»aa all *th«n 8»r i«n lattblg aad natural
tragnuat.
Tnvw' Got* Mjbam—
FAAIS, 1*78; CAIX!UTTA,iBB4.
tor pre eml*e*t c»*el)e*e« at iftSUtif.
iTTLTMQ FLOWER!
JOCKEY CI.YB
XK.IOTE.OPX
jAsirnf
KAtNOI.IA
AtWasoa’s reaewaed
ENBiISH LAVENDER WA$»
and etksr Perfume* aruhtn-
ea salted f*rthoifdel4st»t?»4 a»d lss*4*if'M<»«r
ATKWMTS MMttfAl TSSTH PASTE.
Urtfiralled for «lea»«ing, koaistifyirak and
jK*e«erTi»ff th« Twmr and Oan#*^*
W‘ K
24, Ore Bon® frraeaT, J>n**W.
» Trade Mark—“T'tt»e U*«o” »»“ «*riden A
\L 1 - sre " s*
t'
==33^s3?=;
- ■
'??■ <•
*2 •--
££>•>?
*r i'waft'*
&wMfaM
WHAT IS YOUR HOBBY?
Moat people hare one of some sort. If yon don’t happen to have one. or if you have heea
indnl*infe in one which ret urns bat a poor satisfaction for yo »■ outlay, get rid of it a* soon as
poterible.
Better he without than teep a bad one ! If you have a taste lor Art: if you want a retmvnera
tive hobby— try Photography.
Instruments and materials are not the mostly toys they need to be.
Anyone ©an learn it; everyone can profit by it.
The oust of every requisite for a beginner Is so low, it tyill snrppfee you.
Fafesfy you»*«lf by a visit to the Wholesale Photographic Warehouse of
LICIITNER AMD CO.,
24 O’OONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 OOLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
Owtalogjuee poet free on application.
Special L* w Pri es given to Dealers.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS.”
angus Robertson,
PIS HABKGI' STRI/ET, SWIMTEY.
Lange stook of new and second-hand Books. Price of any book on application, 'Books sentfby
mall to any part of Australia,


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS ef
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksraithing, Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prick on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS for
T_ Fa,37“ < 2z> Co., Cin.cira.3n.a-tl
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated Machines. 2
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
1887. f PRIIsrCE OR 1 WALES HOTEL. 1887.
I s . ES. Xd^E3K:iET,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail
Wme and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of Vi INKS, SRItUIS,
BISERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure cases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
paokers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Sfceamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfem Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINKS and SPIRITS, containing
o rbaliiw 3 Bottles WHISKY 7 Bottles LOWNDKB BuBA
1 Bottle JAMAICA BUM I Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS; 1 Bottle OLD TOM
l Bottle PORT WINE 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
riven perfect satisfaction to purehasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free by nail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarbet
P.O. Price Lists poat free on application. Special re luctions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods.
P. 8, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STRESETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
| LLUSff RATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
W AIL APH BROTHERS.
LEA&PERRINS'SAUCE
-V-V-'
Mlt prRRiW””
/ n consequence of Imitations of THE WO RC ESI ER S FII RE
.SW UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pernns
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label an every bottle
bears their Signature thus —*
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE!
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PER A'.'.'v S'' Sauce , and see Name on Wrapper, Lahti, Hotel* and
Stopper,. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; trosst snd
Blackwell, London, Ere., Ere. ; and bv Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholesale Agents i Montefiork, Joseph 86 Co.; David Cohen 86 Co., Sydney.
;Hv
t
UOOT
<(f
\noe Ha “
25^ a Georjfe
■+J>ate JP&xtt curuiL flgrooi
OFFORD A CO.’S HATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
fNEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 GEOROE STBS 8*"
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Be twees Liverpool an A Bathurst Streets,
fEstablish. ;d 1860.]
The Place for Bargains in EARTHENWARE
TOWN FOLK
Walk there.
COUNTRY FOLK
Write there.
GLASSWARE
CHINA
CUTLERY
FURNITURE
BEDSTEADS
BEDDING
CARPETS
FLOORCLOTHS
The best stocked Emporium in Australasia is
LAWLER’S, wnere everything wantea in a house
or about a house may be had at prices within the
reach of all. No puffing, or professing to supply
goods for next to nothing, but value simply un-
precedented, and if it is not so, then none need
buy. Manufacturer and Wholesale importer,
turning over in the lines above-named as much
as all the other houses put together. Value and
straightforwardness, civility and promptness at
LAWLER’S 608 George-street, Sydney.
RAW VASELINE.
B
m
A
HORSE RUSS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Cellar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen's Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddled Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AN© SADDLER*
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
HOlfSUf MANUfjACTUR
ON FECTiONER
ttOfrvr/ycSf^
JAMES SIEDMAN
&CAf4: WoßijfMcit s l^ nlah'Ebwiiib 5!
UrOL-ha w-lflW, ouu>mu%A
—* ——- *—'»iJrr jlst mtrrtce.
Onodd AuMHnur /mourn
\+S*>rrt*c frocks fammr mam
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«4Air«IN« IN AM ITS BRANCHES,
ro WI NEGRO WEBS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSOH HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 100 gallons J
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
97 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Hrtween King and Market streeta.
PRIZt .«
SoH by SHOE DOtfRS, GROCERS and DRUGGISTS.
haut
BOSIO/J
HAUIMWf 5
OLD REl#*
PasrltS
A necessity
family,
polishes
Childteit’s 80 \
Shoes
“ If!
brushing. ■*
givessatrsfatW^
BOSTON-, 1869. * S C f T C . H no,”
VIENNA, 'lB7O. "TUP STAW fln
FrfU-A, 1676. ,nfc co fisl
C. lhauthaway^,
281 &. STBB Congress Street V
T
IHTC FRESH FOOD AND IC®
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 ROYAL AR
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Coooa,
lififht refreshment*.
00^
ge»
At this Bvanch, orders may be 1 eft W*
by their carts.
They have also taken over the A*?
“ KOUMISS. ” so highly recommended
nary complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND ICE 00.,
Head Office 21
Stables Liven#**'
Factory Mitta* oB *X
Guinness* Extra
FIRST
qUAI
uUd
BASS* PALE
SOLE PURVEYORS to ff,
COLONIAL AND INDIAN I.AH 1 **'
LONDON,
By Special Appointment,
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON V
Coium.r.lal ChamlMra.
Try POGONOWS 1
MUSICAL INSTRTJ^®*
'ColO 15
The Largest Assortment in the
705 GEORGE STB® 01 '
1«
Send for Price List.
FRYS MALTED COCOA 1
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney. j
"AN ORDINARY CUP OONTAINB MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OF MALT THAN A PINT OF THE BEST ALE OR PORTER.”— LanoeT.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
DERATED WATERS
COB DIALS, and BITTERS.
ROWLANDS
E
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
ONLY p
GOLD MEP^i
CALCUTTA
rshibition- J
