

The Bulletin
PTtV ✓
LATION GREATER than that of any weekly in the southern hemisphere.
C-A.-CTTIOLT TO TEES PUBLIC.
o* ■—■ -- "■ ■
it hau,' the intr <>duction of UDOLPHO WOLFE’S SCHIEDAM AROMATIC SCHNAPPS,
Market e * C trough. wonderful medicinal merits, the most largely consumed spirit in this
it therefore is not surprising that it has been imitated and counterfeited,
fettled use the greatest caution or they will hive a spurious and cheaper article
w 0 _ °u them as the genuine Udolpho Wolfe's Schnapps.
iIiTIOEL KIT Mil UH MO TOMT SOCIETY,
the
Fixed
t>Usi
350 PITT STREET.
deposits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
0 this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders receive 14 per cent, per annum dividend.
JAMES A.. TODD, Mana^b.
IERS BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
tligtest ai^es *> Cheapest, and Best-selected Stock of BOOTS and SHOES to be found in any house in Australia.
lilies, jJ Ua % Fashionable Boots for Ladies and Gentlemen, cheaper than ever previously reached. Householders, heads of
SWI here find the Stock of Boots larger than any other house in Australasia, and from ss. to 6s. in the £ cheaper.
In SPe Ction of the q UALITY and COMPARISON OF THE PRICES IS SPECIALLY INVITED.
Th
Publi
triTTES’S SOOT PALACE,
(THE ONLY ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KIND IN THE COLONIES),
CEORGE AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
0 are requested to note that John Hunter has nineteen branch establishments, of which particulars will be given
in a future issue.
•Ik
C ° a ie to e ' ICe ° f ‘ tS hav '
lr - 111 knowledge
IllUtations of the
« afe ] •
u ii Jln o palmed
V " PUbli ° V fi audu-
Ue i‘s ii
a y a sum
’ at W, , jf
rN or
h'O'M,!,,
Sso offend
AL LT * C(
10BERTS0N 6 SCOTCH WHISKY
IMT«
DUNDEE
THE ABOVE CELEBRATED WHISKY
»o be obtained from all respectable Hotel and Storekeepei
;hroughont the Colony and Wholesale firm
MESSRS. ALLT & CO.,
?tACS. STJ)»St


ASK FOR COLONIAL-MADE
IRE
PROOF
Kg£
m
$
PROOF
Pn
N
ETTING!
BRAISD.
Cheaper than Imported.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHN LYSAGHT, Limtd.,
PARRAMATTA RIVER, SYDNEY.
MoLEAN BBO&, RIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
|512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.]
c>
o
S
IRONMONGERS
5
2
X
c*
V
<9
v
REG?
%
S
SPECIALITIES i
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES S—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &G.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 and 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
gftT.IABT.H!
BUGGIES
FIKST »RADK
STYLE,
CDALIIT,
and
FINISH.
Gian by All cjio
mmaa* cuimm.
BTCt HOW CHEAP,
■UT HOJV GOOD !
Ik
FLEMING’S
WAGGONS
AND
Harness,
Specially Imported
to suit
COLONIAL
REQUIREMENTS.
WAGGONS,
with Side Springs.
WAGGONS,
with Hoods.
WAGGONS
and
HARNESS
for ail purposes.
Ca ll and Inspect
gd
mmm
T 1!
W?WT
yfiiii.lii< i iljimin iiimiiiirUMi nil mill mu ■
CJS3 , ——
SVJM/JJV
JJJVJhf/
OMtr
/T -WtaYUKI ITI n 111 ([ 11 tin u 11 u in ii i < r i u i ii i m ti I ( l i
AW ■^=E=l^=
m
ttUD Office & factory. -Newtown
BRANCH, C£ORC£ S T SYO/V£Y.
f
SINGER
and Oo.’s
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN HANKS,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
paperhangTngs
HIGH-CLASS DADOES, FRIEZES, and
DECORATION'S.
House Decorator and
Painter,
GLASS SILVERER, BEVELLER & EMBOSSER
Alex. Borthwick
Oil, Colour, and Glass Merchant,
281 George-street, Sydney.
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & GO.,
410 Rent-street,
2 Cab metis
btMjkervJ't
iPC
3
p
oshY/tLLIAMS\
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, & CO.
(J. A. ROBERTS, R. J. ALCOCK, G. C. CHALMERS, R. G. WATKINS.)
GENERAL IRONMONGERS,
IRON, HARDWARE, AND MACHINERY MERCHA^
Importers of
STEAM ENGINES, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and REQUISITES WOOD-WORKING
RAILWAY and other CONTRACTORS’ PLANT, AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
CRUSHING, and WINDING PLANT, PUMPS, COACHBUILDERS’ MATERIA" 8 ’
SQUATTERS’ SUPPLIES. &c.
RO
; KnXHA
S
ftOte
RON & MACHINERY
VFFfC-UrcHZ
STPHt
-HEAD
EN&NE
STREET
HAY :
ZWO/V
V :•
BAR, PLATE, SHEET and HOOP IRON ; GALVANISED, CORRUGATED and
SHEET and PERFORATED ZINC; TINPLATES; PIG IRON and LEAD; OILS, K
BRUSHWARE ; FENCING WIRE, WOOLPACKS, SHEARING SUPPLIES,
MONGERY, ROLLED H GIRDERS; PORTABLE, FIXED, and SEMI-FIXED ENGINES.
and HORIZONTAL BOILERS, STEAM and other PUMPS, LATHES, PLANING.'
SCREWING, and DRILLING MACHINES; STEAM HAMMERS; ENGINEERS’ BRASS *
PATENT ROLLED SHAFTING, QUICKSILVER, &c. M
Sole Agents for FARMER, ROBEY,
ENGINES ; READING IRON W T ORKS’ AGRICULTURAL
WM. TAYLOR and CO.’S Celebrated OILS and PAINTS.
, and BROWN’S CELEBRATED
RICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS and PATEN A
Price Lists and Catalogues furnished on application.
ROBERTS, CHALMERS, &
Head Warehouse ■ •
Iron and Implement'Yard-
Btflk Stores - • S
London Office ?
• - 5i YORK STREET.
• HAY and ENGINE STREETS. . f
. . HARBOUR STREET, DARLING
s'sriD3srE'sr_
- 85 GRACECHURCH STREE Ti
DIX'.iOHxSQNS
TOBACCO WORK*.
SYDNEY,
SSJCfcQft * SONS
l?SOw A SONS fk
CONQUER o **,
YANKEE DOOP*
SIR ROGjfjv
< A SONS r
N AILROD
BISSON 4 SONS ~
CHA^Pl£>
CUT.i, t)« he** Ki
ii
CIGARETTE GOLD LtAf* 3
Gi£Gr-AJN
H
BOLE AGENTS
FOK
Till
s
TH
BRUCE &
MA
2?i^_isro@->
ORGANS, M
197 PITT-ST.,
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with RhJ:umatic Gout Tio-
‘Dolorkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head.
*Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
Ibottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary 1 In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency oan be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I, A, ROSS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street only.
rjIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
gdf
gd
fg
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
POMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HiGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COS!
A
4
I WA
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED DOR 0
ROBERT COOPER
SOLE ACrE
Sydney:
lII', PITT STREET.
jviel vorjfi
king
22,
MON U M \
in Granite, Marble, (
1 run Tomb o» f J
Detiimc anrt Estimates forwar „>
orvvirv*;'i^ A >*
MAROAftaX-»TKXST, WINWA^


The Bulletin
▼oL 8-No. 371
SATURDAY, MARCH 13, 1887.
Price., 6d.
The Queensland Anti-Chinese Wall.
A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
“An anti-Chinese meeting was held in the Town Hall, Brisbane, on Saturday last, and resolutions were passed in favour of the total stoppage of Chinese immigration, and
that an annual tax be imposed on all Chinese in Queensland, and a trade mark be placed on all Chinese goods ."—Brisbane Telegram.


THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHED OIfCE A WEEK,
At 21 PITT-STRKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance).
Per annum - £, 1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly - - - - 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly - - - - 0 6s. 6d.
All money orders, cheques, and registered letters
payable to
J. M. HARDING,
to whom all orders for the paper, advertisements,
and remittances should be addressed.
NOTICE.
By sendlcg direct to The Bulletin Office twenty Bhiliingß
Bterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-
pound Net*, or stamps of any Australian colony—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is net open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
fere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 12, 1887.
The Problem of the Unemployed.
Two serious deficits await the attention o
New South Wales politicians—the deficit i
the national finances and the deficit in th
supply of employment necessary to sustain
the Labour awaiting engagement. The firs
deficit is easily reducible to its prime factors
extravagance and recklessness depleted th
Treasury, and, although the pi'esent debi
balance may not be wiped out without mud
difficulty and considerable sacrifice, still, a
wc have previously shown, there need be no
doubt whatever as to its cause. But to
trace the deficit of employment to its source
is not so easy. A dozen different reason
may seem at first sight to account for it
existence, but, on examination, these be
come divested of their potency, and then
the presence of the unemployed assumes the
aspect of a political phenomenon of doubtfu
origin. There are at present about 15(X
men receiving the State assistance of work
professedly allotted for the purposes of re
lief ; 800 more are awaiting similar assist
ance, and some 300 or 400 more unwilling
to throw themselves unreservedly on the
mercies of the relief authorities are awaiting
further developments of the situation. Nor
is the want of employment confined to those
who come as petitioners for employment to
the Colonial Secretary. Every department
of industry is notoriously overmanned at the
present ; in every trade there are mechanics
who look in vain for tho work which shoulc
afford them support. In the country as in
the town, on the stations as in the Sydney
streets, there are men wearily and deject-
edly expending more exertion in seeking for
work than the work itself would demand i
obtained.
Before we try to account for this pheno-
menon, it will be well to notice several rea-
sons which render the present lack oj
employment the more marvellous. First
among these reasons is the sparse population
of the country. Millions of acres of arable
and agricultural land are still unoccupied, or
at least are available at a low price to anyone
who wishes to cultivate or otherwise use
them. Thousands of acres also are known to
contain minerals and metals in constant
demand by civilised communities ; iron in
abundance, as well as the coal and limestone
necessary for its treatment, await the labour
which shall give it the form, place, and time
values which are necessary to make it an
article of national wealth. Nature awaits the
partnership of Labour, but Labour stands
aloof, and the profits of that partnership are,
for a time, lost. It is not because Nature is
niggardly, or because her wealth is im-
pounded, that Labour calls in vain for an
opportunity of profitable application ;
another cause must be sought to account for
the fact that industry is so sorely limited.
For that “ other cause ” we look in vain to
the prevailing hours of labour. In no other
part of the world do mechanics as a body
enjoy the advantage of such short hours as
in Australia ; the work is divided among
more persons than in any other country,
therefore the number of men out of work
should be proportionately less. Nor are
there any exceptional causes to explain the
problem. Excessive production frequently
causes temporary depression of producers in
the teeming centres of manufacturing indus-
try, but no one will venture to assert that
there has been any such over-production in
New South Wales. An era of industrial
distress resulting from the sudden decline of
the mining industry shadowed Victoria ten
years ago, but there has been nothing of
similar consequence in this colony lately.
New Zealand has experienced labour difficul-
ties, but these resulted from the sudden
cessation of loan expenditure, and in New
South Wales the expenditure of borrowed
money is as great low as it has ever been.
South Australia has undergone similar in-
dustrial distress, but this was induced by the
sudden decrease in the yield of her staple
products, wheatand copper, and a similar cause
is not sufficient to explain even a moderate
proportion of the lack of employment in
New South Wales. And, lastly, no yant of
industry, intelligence, or enterprise can be
alleged to account for the existing pheno-
menon of scarcity of work. On the contrary,
we have yet to learn that Australians are less
diligent and keen than men of other nation-
alities.
The problem that requires solution, it will
be gathered from the foregoing, is that in a
new, sparsely populated, rich, and fertile
country, where the hours of labour are ex-
ceptionally short and the profits of industry
applied to land should be large, an intelli-
gent and industrious people, who are en-
dowed with a large amount of borrowed
capital, are forced to admit that remunera-
tive employment is unobtainable by a large
number of willing workers who must there-
fore be sustained by opportunities created by
the Government for the relief of those who
are so distressed. An awkward and dis-
graceful problem truly to be presented to
an independent and self-governing people.
The two main considerations tending to a
solution of the apparent mystery are to be
found in the extreme shortness of the hours
of labour—coupled with the amount of pay-
ment justly demanded—and the compara-
tive backwardness of industrial under-
takings in the colony. Of these considera-
tions the first is by far the most important.
The comparative smallness of the amount of
labour deemed worthy of a day’s pay,
although tending to divide the aggre-
gate task among more men than would
be the case in any other part of
the world, yet has the undoubted tendency
to minimise the quantum of employment to
be so divided. If the w'orkers throughout
the colony were to renounce the privileges
of short hours and adequate pay which they
now enjoy, there isnodoubtwhateverbutthat,
for a time, no capable labourer would be in want
of work. Paradoxical as it may seem, the ex-
tension of working hours from eight to ten,
provided that wages wore kept at their pre-
sent level, would permit of more ten-hour
portions being taken out of the sum of
labour, than can be afforded by the eight-
hour system, the reason being that the de-
crease of wages would lead to so large an
increase in the demand for labour as to more
than counterbalance the extra work performed
by each man in one day. Every department
of industry would be stimulated if wages
were to be decreased ; while an increase of
wages would, by prohibiting or decreasing
the employers’ profit, necessarily lead to
restricted production and employment. The
case of Messrs. Hudson Brothers affords a
fair illustration of this truth. The directors
of that company, which employs some 500 or
000 men, found that at the current rate of
wages production in the face of foreign com-
petition had ceased to be profitable ; there
were only two alternatives possible —cessa-
tion of employment, or reduction of wages.
To the latter alternative the men submitted ;
they consented to forego 5 per cent, of their
pay, and the company were able to continue
operations. If the men would consent to ?v
further reduction of—say, 10 per cent.,
Messrs. Hudson Brothers could offer work
to the majority of the unemployed now
under the segis of State protection. The
high rate of wages prevailing is the prime
factor of the present wasteful limitation of
industry.
* * «
This conclusion is not to be set aside how-
ever without a clear comprehension of what
it really signifies. Within the colony where
these high rates prevail there is a certain
amount of work that must be done by some-
one. There arc services to be performed and
the wants of consumers to be satisfied. In-
dustry must be applied to certain natural
products in order that the demands of local
consumers may be met. The buyer
comes into the market, and the article he
desires must be supplied if he is able to bid
sufficiently high. If the market were occu-
pied only by local men the cheapest offer
they could make would be accepted. But a
third party, the foreigners, are able to come
between local parties. The home-producer
works, say, eight hours for 10s. ; the
foreigner is content with Bs. for 10 hours,
and, therefore, can, in many instances,
undersell his rival by something like
50 per cent, after paying freight. If
the native labourer is to hire out his
mind and muscle he must come down to
the terms accepted by the foreigner he
must bo content with lOd. instead of 15d.
per hour for his time. This is the full
meaning of the fact that the high rate of
wages now prevailing leads to a limitation
of the demand for local labour. Under the
eight-hour system, and the comparatively
high rate of pay, the colonial worker is hope-
lessly out of the race with the cheap-work-
ing foreigner in most avenues of industry.
Either the market must be reserved for the
home-producer, or else, in very many in-
stances, it will be monopolised by the
foreigner. And under a Freetrade system
Hindoo, Chinaman, German, and Belgian
may all compete on equal, or nearly equal,
terms, and the native worker must take
his place among them. Freetrade and
high wages are mutually destructive, one
must prevail—the other must fall. So loner
as there is such a thing as cheap labour in
one part of the world the continuance of
high wages in any other country which suffers
under the blessings of a Freetrade policy is
mcompitable with abundant employment.
The foreign invasion may proceed slowly,
but it will proceed nevertheless. How far
it lias proceeded in England the terrible
reports of trade depression fairly testify ;
how far in New South Wales the present
agitation by the unemployed will sufficiently
indicate.
* * *
The second main cause which we have in-
dicated is the comparative lack of industrial
development in Now South Wales. In every
industrial pursuit a completeness of system
and magnitude of operation is necessary to
full success. An establishment that is se-
curely founded on years of experience and
a wide basis may safely defy competition
which would crush a smaller factory out of
existence. Long practice and continued ex-
periment is necessary to complete economy
of working in any trade, for it is upon the
careful management of details that commer-
cial success mainly depends. Very few of
the factories of New South Wales have ar-
rived at this stage of perfect development ;
most of them arc still conducted on what are
to some extent experimental lines ; there-
fore they are handicapped by this want of
perfection as compared with competitive es-
tablishments. That is why Protection
is demanded even against Victoria where
high wages also prevail. The latter colony
has had a more or less strongly Protective
tariff for 25 years and her industries have
had an opportunity of maturing, and are
conducted on a fairly extensive scale. Pay-
ing the same wages, and adding the cost of
carriage to the first cost of the goods, her
producers are still able in many cases to
undersell the New South Welshman in the
market of the latter. This is notably the
case with regard to agriculture ; there are
lands in this colony as rich and as cheap as
in Victoria, and the climate is in most dis-
tricts equally good, but the Victorian is
enabled to get better returns because with
the certainty of obtaining a moderate price
for his wheat, and the advantage of using
suitable implements made by neighbouring
manufacturers he invests a larger capital and
works with better method. The New South
Wales farmer, on the contrary, has no cer-
tainty of getting any profit of all, however
plentiful the crop may he ; the market price
may be high when he desires to sell, or it
may be down to a ruinous figure ; he must
chance all that, and therefore it is that he
invests less capital as a rule, works on a
smaller scale, and uses less system than his
intercolonial rival. If the New South
Wales wheat demand were to be supplied by
local producers there need not be one man
wanting work from Bulli to Bourke or from
Tenterfield to the Tweed. But with all the
advantages of cheap and fertile land this ex-
tended cultivation cannot be undertaken, be-
cause it is in the power of the well-established
agricultural industry of Victoria to undersell
the local producer in his own market. The
land is here, the labour is here, but the profit
is at the mercy of foreigners, therefore it is
that New South Wales, employing labour in
every part of the world, cannot satisfy the
wants of her own people. They must go on
short allowance that foreigners may become
rich.
A False Comparison.
W ITH ignorance that seems to be too gross to be
sincere, some Sydney Freetrade oracles are tryiDg
to prove that because wages on the Victorian rail-
ways are lower than in New South Wales, the
Protective policy of the former colony is answer-
able for the difference. An “argument” like this
tells all against the side it is intended to support.
The Freetrade Press proudly vaunts the alleged
fact that the intelligence of the country is all in
favour of the “commercial freedom” policy, and
it is, therefore—assuming the boast to be true—
only fair to expect the soundest, and none
other but sound arguments to proceed from the
party which has this monopoly of political wis-
dom. Yet, on the contrary, we find such argu-
ments as this solemnly put forward and sincerely
supported. Heaven help the country if its loftiest
intelligence is capable of evolving nothing better
than this I
If there were any pretenoe that the labourers on
New South Wales railways worked for the lowest
sum that any men capable of doing their work
were willing to take, and that the same rule
obtained in Victoria, there might be some shadow
of justification for the “ argument,” but the re-
verse of this is notoriously the case. When the
last increase of sixpence per day was given to the
New South Wales fettlers and labourers it was
not pretended that men could not be got to work
for the rates hitherto paid, nor was any such pre-
tence put forward when a previous increase was
proposed. The additional pay in each instance
was a favour to the men, conceded for reasons
quite outside any question of supply of, or demand
for, such labour. The increase, whether deserved
or not, was one of those “leakages” which Mr.
Speight is so highly applauded for having stopped.
Let it be remembered that the Victorian railways
pay while those of New South Wales notoriously
do not, and a new light will dawn on these gay
Freetraders. If at the present time there were
any vacancies for labourers on the New South
Wales lines the applicants would be in the propor-
tion perhaps of 50 to lof the vacanoies. And
even if the rate were reduced by 33 percent.—from
Is. 6d. to ss. per day—it is certain that the posi-
tions need not be unocoupied for a single day.
For with some disadvantages there are also many
special privileges attached to these billets ; and
what makes them all the more desirable is the
consideration of continuous emplqyment at a fixed
rate. The man who gets ss. a day all
the year round is in muoh better oiroum stances
than the man who has to spend six months out
of the twelve In securing work for the other six
months at 10s. per diem. It is quite likely then,
upon the testimony of these facts alone, that the
average Victori in wage may be higher than the
average New South Wales wage, although on the
respective railways a lower rate of remuneration
is awarded to a particular department of labour.
If any proof were needed of the artificial
character of the wage paid to New South Wales
railway men it would be found in the fact that
500 of their number dismissed by the late Minister
for Works three months ago are still out of work
and are petitioning the present Minister for re-in-
statement. It must be admitted even by the Free-
trade intelligence of the country that if open
competition were allowed for the work to be per-
formed, or if a lower scale of pay were to be
offered, the servioe would still have suitable but
unsuccessful applicants for each vacancy in the
manual labour department. While there are, as
at present, several hundred men to whom the
Government is conceding as a favour that em-
ployment which they fail to find elsewhere, it
must be admitted that a benevolent, and not a
competitive, system is responsible for the rate paid
to permanent employees on the Government rail-
ways. The strange thing is that this benevolence
varies so much in different departments. When
labourers are taken on in the railway department,
they are paid 7s. per day; but when men of
the same class are engaged to clear Government
lands at Field of Mars for sale their claim to re
ceive not less than Cs. a day is indignantly denied.
Why should scrub-cutting bo regarded as less
worthy of a fixed wage than railway fettling ? Of
the 500 men dismissed from the railway service
many will probably be taken on at Field of Mars
but in that occupation they will bo compelled bo
accept however small a sum and under whatever
conditions the Government may propose. The
heoessity of the men is permitted to be tho index
of their pay in tho one set vico, while in tho other
the rato is quite irrespective, and rightly so, of
any such consideration.
If the Freetraders really wish to discover, in the
rates paid by Government for labour, an index of
the rate of wage and amount of employment ob-
tainable in each colony, their best guide, as far as
New South Wales is concerned is tho rate paid to
the Field of Mars scrub cutters. This rate taken
in connection with the disadvantages attaching to
the employment, and the numbers who are anxious
to obtain it, should give something like a true
estimate of the straits to which labour in New
South Wales is now reduced. If it be shown that
the unemployed in Melbourne are as numorous
and as greatly distressed as the unemployed of
Sydney, then the assertion that Protection does
not provide work profitable to the labourers and
to the community may be made with some slight
show of reason ; but any argument to that end,
basod upon the artificial rate which the State may
pay in a single department, must for the reasons
we have stated be subject to the suspicion of mala
ficUs on the part of its supporters. As well might
tho fact that a Victorian member gets £3OO a
year, while a New South Wales M.L.A. gets
nothing, be quoted as a direct advantage aocruing
to members by ’•oason of a protective policy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
What Will Her Majesty Give?
The various colonies have been asked what they
will give, English Parliaments all over the world
are to be asked what they will do, churchmen
what they will subscribe, and citizens how they
will help, to celebrate the Queen’s Jubilee. All
must do something or give something to calebrate
the occasion. An Institute is proposed, a monu-
ment projected, and huge gifts of valuable posses-
sions talked of, to signalise the golden wedding of
the Queen and nation. The nation must show its
gratitude, the Imperialists say, and pay tribute to
the singular virtue and talent whioh has enabled
the Queen to sit on the throne for 50 years. But
what will Her Majesty give ? The benefits arising
from this 50 years’ engagement of Victoria as
Queen have certainly not been confined to the
nation. Her huge salary has been regularly paid,
she has had no reason to complain of national un-
willingness to provide the coin for her sons and
other relatives whom she appointed to highly-paid
sinecures, nor have the Commons ever refused to
pay for the expense cf supporting in luxurious
idleness a gang of royal beggars from Germany,
none of whom in their own country were thought
worthy of receiving any encouragement to con-
tinue an aimless and useless existence. Ascending
the throne in 1837, without any fortune whatever,
the Queen has since then saved a huge fortune
out of the grants made to enable her to maintain
her position with dignity ; living a life for many
years past of comparative seclusion she has con-
verted to her own use the surplus grants so freely
made to her for State purposes by the nation.
She has ever received a Queen’s subsidies,
but even the fiercest of Tories admit that
she has not for many years performed a Queen’s
duties. It is not pretended that she has conferred
any very special benefits upon the nation. The
most that her worshippers claim for her is that
she has strong commonsense, and a numbor of
purely negative virtues. England has advanced
in wealth during her reign, but that oannot be
even remotely attributable to the Queen’s exer-
tions. And while wealth has been increasing, its
distribution has yearly become more unequal ;
there are perhaps 100 times as many millionaires
now as in ’37, but there are 1000 men on the brink
of starvation where there was only one then. And
during these 50 years the burden of raising
£500,000 annually for the Queen and her beloved
German loafers has pressed heavily upon the poor.
That huge sum for which there is practically no
return to the nation has had its share in the de-
pression of the people, and must be held account-
able for the destitution of numbers who will hear
of the Jubilee, and have to help pay for it, with-
out knowing why or wherefore it is celebrated.
The Jewish Jubilee was a time when mortgaged
lands were returned to their owners free of debt,
when debtors were relieved, bondsmen were re-
leased, and the burdens lifted from the poor and
distressed. What will the Queen give that
similar sucoour may be given during her
jubilee year to those of the poor who are
in the bondage of orime because they oannot


get honest work, to those who have mortgaged
their bodies to vice in order to preserve life, and
to the millions who are destitute and distressed ?
Assistance to such a work would be the noblest
incident of a National Jubilee, but it is not that
which the Queen -will give. She will give garters
to imperial crawlers, and imperial butchers ; rib-
bons to wealthy oppressors of the poor, to ostenta-
tious whisky-sellers, and to obsequious represen-
tatives of bumbledom ; and tawdry honours to all
who are mean enough to desire, and wealthy
enough to buy them. She will give anything that
costs nothing, and will take everything that is
worth anything, from a big African diamond to
billets for the little Batten bergs. Englishmen
will readily help along the hollow show, and Eng-
lishmen will greedily grasp the proffered
“ honours,” but Australians, whether native-born
or not, will prove themselves but little worthy of
a high reputation for intelligence if they join in
the unmeaning chorus before they get a more
satisfactory answer than has yet been given to the
question, “ What will Her Majesty give 1”
Freetiade in Canada.
When the elections were proceeding in New
South Wales, the Sydney Freetrade dailies made a
lot of capital out of the alleged fact that the Pro-
tectionists in Canada were certain of defeat in the
general election then proceeding. But now that
the Protectionists have come out of that conflict
with a solid majority of 45 in a House of 321
members, the dailies aforesaid, in chronicling the
fact only intimate that the Dominion “ Ministry ”
has triumphed, meanly concealing the defeat of
the Freetrade party there. The Dominion Minis-
try leads what is known as the National or
Conservative party, while the Opposition repre-
sent the Liberal party or “ Grits.” The title
“ Conservative ” is utterly incorrect, if considered
with reference to the English party so-named,
for it is by these Conservatives that the
Protectionist reforms were wrought This the
patriotic party—seeing that Canadian factories
were crushed out of existenoe by Yankee im-
porters who sold their goods in the Dominion at
a loss until the local industry collapsed, and then
reaped the huge profits of monopoly —introduced
a protective tariff which enabled Canadian indus-
tries to spring up and flourish mightily to the en-
richment of the community. This present majority
obtained by the Dominion Ministry would cer-
tainly have been much larger if the contest had
been fought out on a tariff question, but that
question in Canada is practically at rest, and even
if the “ Grits ” had triumphed on this occasion it
is extremely doubtful whether any proposals
would have ensued for the introduction of a Free
trade or more correctly a Revenue tariff. Just
as some American Democrats voted against
Freetrade, one of the planks of their political
platform, when the question of Tariff was pro-
posed for decision by specific motion, so the
Liberal leader would find his forces woefully
diminished if he ventured to propose any depar
ture from the national policy of Protection. A
parallel to the Canadian situation may be found in
the known fact that many of Sir Henry Parkes’
professed followers will rebel against him when
the proposal to repeal the ad valorem duties is
made. These New South Wales Liberals, like
their Canadian prototypes, are Freetraders only in
name ; at heart they are Protectionists, and when-
ever they dare will so approve themselves on being
submitted to a direct test. The history of Cana-
dian politics may well be repeated in Australia;
as American manufacturers were able to stamp
out the industries of the Dominion, so German,
English, and American manufacturers will be able
to stamp out a variety of Australian industries,
until a tariff barrier against such imports Is
erected. And as a patriotic policy pi omulgated
and carried out by a National party has made
Canada a prosperous and progressive people, so
will a similar but distinctively Australian policy,
banish the unemployed from these colonies and
give a fair and deserved assistance to the citizens
and workers of this oontinent.
Information About Australia.
That Australia is still a terra incognita for most
Englishmen has been abundantly shown already
on many occasions. But the following extracts
from a pamphlet recently published by Messrs. R.
K. Burt and Co , of London, surpass in stupidity
anything hitherto presented to the gullible British
public. The pamphlet in question, entitled “ The
Conditions of Success in Emigration,” was read at
the Conference of the Colonial and Indian Exhibi-
tion by Professor Leone Levi (who, by the way,
happens to be an Italian Jew turned Presbyterian),
the Baroness Burdett-Coutts in the chair. We
quote the following calculation at length :
11 Approximate average oost of living in the British
colonies on the basis of the ordinary average consumption
of a working man’s family of five persons in England, calcu-
lated at local prices :
Enoland. Australian
Colonies.
Prioes. Coat. Prices Cost,
lbs. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
Bread .... 28 .. 0 6 14 0 0 If 4 1.
Meat.. .... 4..08 2 8 0 4J16.
Butter .... 1.. 10 16 IS 15.
Cheese .... Of .. 0 9 0 44 0 11 0 SJ.
Sugar .... 3 .. 0 4 1 0 0 4* 1 1.
T«a .. .. 3.. 0J .. 3 0 1 6 2 6 1 J.
21 01 9
S 3 weeks cost £54 £25
10 por oent. for other things ..27 IS
£Bl £3B
Earnings for 50 weeks, at 335. .. £9O at 545. .. £136
Cost of living 81 • • ■ • 38
Surplus >i •• •• 08
Defloiency 1 * - - ■ u
The reliability of this Italian Jewish Presbyterian
Professor may be safely gauged by the evidenoe
of a slip pasted into the second edition of his
pamphlet as follows :
“ Erratum.
“ In the cost of living given at page 6, the oost of bread in
England is put down at 6d. per lb. instead of 6d the quartern
loa f • the weekly cost being 3s. 6d. in-tead of 14s Aooord-
ingly the total weekly cost of the articles named is 10s. 6Jd.,
or annually £27 8s 2Jd.. making a total with other things of
£54 Bs. 2id., thus leaving a surplus Income of £l6.’’
It is clear, therefore, that when this learned Pro-
fessor enlightened the Colonial Conference, and
forthreemonthsafterwards, he imagined that bread
in England cost 2s. per loaf 1 Nor can he even deal
correctly with flgfires, for in writing his correction
he makes another blunder by stating the differ-
ence between £54 of expenditure from £BO of re-
ceipts as £l6 instead of £26. Professor Levi says
that an artisan in Australia need only spend nine
shillings and ninepence a week in food for himself
and family, and therefore “other objects” will
only cost him five shillings weekly, i. e. , that in
Australia a man, woman, and three children can
obtain lodging, clothing, fire, and light, pay their
taxes, their expenses of education, travelling and
recreation for five shillings a week —and this in a
country where wages are higher than in any other
part of the world. In spite of these glaring errors
this pamphlet will continue to circulate in England.
What the English aristocracy and moneyed classes
dread above all is an era of Radical reform, and
they naturally seek to maintain their privileges by
shunting per fas aut nefas their paupers on to
Australia. By the system of State-assisted immi-
gration the New South Wales Government have
played their game so far, and the effect of this
system under a Freetrade policy has been to trans-
fer from London to Sydney a portion of the dis-
tress attendant upon the want of employment for
labourers whose only capital is their bone and
muscle.
Parkes and Prosperity.
With an acute appreciation of the fact that
Parkes is in power, the townsmen of many New
South Wales constituencies are worrying up meet-
ings and sending along deputations so as to secure
a share of whatever is going in the way of public
works. They remember how freely the money
was spent on roads, bridges, gaols, and other'
buildings when Parkes previously reigned, and
fall into the natural error of supposing that equal
results will ensue as long as the “ great Liberal ”
remains in office. But these enterprising towns-
men forget the wide difference between Sir
Henry’s position then and now. They are not
aware that at his accession to office in 1879 he re-
ceived a surplus of £4,726,000 from the outgoing
Treasurer, ol which all but 1,830,000 was dissi-
pated ere Mr. Stuart routed the Parkes crowd
in 1883 ; and they forget also that the land re-
ceipts in the former Parkes period averaged
nearly £2,000,000 yearly. Then Sir Henry could
afford to be liberal with public money. But now
the situation is entirely changed. Instead of an
enormous surplus Parkes has the damnosa
hereditas of the Jennings party, a deficit at pre-
sent - since the military munition accounts have
come in—but little short of £3,000,000, and the
land receipts are fully three-quarters of a million
less than in the ’79-’B3 period. And if these figures
do not sufficiently prove the impossibility of lavish-
ing public money upon grateful constituencies, it
will only be necessary to add that in 1878 the
revenue under the administration of Mr. Farnell
was getting ahead of the expenditure at the rate
of £1,000,000 a year, while at present the expendi-
ture is adding nearly, if not quite, £1,500,000 on to
the deficit in the 12 months. Parkes could easily
enough bring prosperity to the country when he
had a huge surplus on hand, but to revive trade
by adding to taxation and curtailing expenditure
will be found a much more difficult problem.
Similarly constituencies could be placated when it
was considered a virtue to reduce the huge surplus
In the treasury coffers, but a severe system of
economy will prevent such reckless expenditure
for a few years to come. Therefore these enterpris-
ing townsmen—even those who, in obedience to
Parkes’ mandate, elected his nominees—are
likely to be disappointed in their yearnings for
local improvements. The money is not in the
Treasury, and cannot be obtained, therefore con-
stituencies must put up with a disappointment
whose only consolation consists in the fact that
“ honest government and commercial freedom ”
have scored a victory at the polls. There is one
more fact to be considered in the light of the
financial contrasts above shown, and that is the
improbability of Sir Henry’s maintaining the
same majority in future as he did in the former
period. Members and constituencies alike are in-
clined to look kindly upon him who favours them.
Parkes, with a huge surplus, was able, honestly
and wisely, to confer deserved favours in the
shape of public works upon every district then,
but he could not, even if he would, do so now.
Therefore it is in the highest degree improbable
that his present reign will be equal to the former
one, either in prosperity, power, or continuance.
Sir Henry holds no Moses’ rod which can bring
the waters of prosperity out of the flinty rock of
Deficit; in weariness and painfulness the com-
munity now must delve down to reach the
prosperous stream, and in the heat of depression
which must now ensue, the keenest criticism of the
Premier’s acts must be expected. Parkes has
come in gloriously, but he will go out sadly, and
soon.
Protecting the Legal “Ring.”
The New South Wales Board for the Admission
of Barristers have made a wild plunge backwards
into the regions of Conservatism by placing new
obstacles in the way of admission to the close cor-
poration of the legal profession by ordering that
three years must elapse, after an aspirant has been
admitted a student-at-law before he is eligible for
admission to the bar itself. Unless a candidate is
a University graduate he is bound to pass three
examinations ; after receiving his certificate for
the first of these he is admitted as a law-student
and must thereafter confine himself to literary
work. He may take the second examination
whenever he chooses, but will not be admitted to
the final test until twelve months after the date
of his success at the first examination. The new
rule orders that any candidate who shall pass
his first examination after the 31st December
next shall not be eligible for the final examination
and subsequent admission to practice until at least
three years have followed his admission as a law-
student. Thus the difficulty and expense of ob-
taining permission to plead at the bar is largely
magnified ; the restrictions being greater less can-
didates will come forward, and of these many will
succumb under the burden of their three-years’ pro-
bation. It Is not pretended that greater efficiency
will be secured by the new regulation ;it is not
stated that any new mental or moral qualifications
of applicants will be required or ensured ;on the
contrary, the sole object of the change appears to
be the protection of the privileges of those who
are already protected by an imposing array of
useless exactions and obsolete traditions. The
effect of the rule will be to make the present mono-
poly of the qualified few more valuable and
more strict. It is a further protection of an
already over-protected ring of barristers ;
it is the creation of a new-corner in briefs. That
this accession to monopoly is utterly foreign to the
spirit of Democracy is abundantly certain : it is
the exercise of arbitrary power for the advantage
of established practitioners and the wealthy few
who will in future be enabled to overcome the
barrier imposed against poorer candidates. The
equal right of all men to aspire to a position at the
bar will in future be denied to those who have not
the necessary means to enable them to live for
three years In enforced idleness. Under such a
rule Mr. Beal, the eminent Queensland barrister,
who ten years ago was working at a carpenter’s
bench, would have been denied the right of assert-
ing his surpassing qualification for his present pro-
fession, but the fact of his being kept out would
have permitted Noodle and Boodle, the eminent
imbeciles, to obtain a position miles above their
merit in the law courts. Every unnecessary
obstacle thus imposed inevitably tends to deterio-
ration of the personnel of the profession. The
possession of money being accounted the first
qualification, the possession of brains necessarily
becomes of secondary importance. There is one'
other matter in connection with this edict that
deserves attention. Among its signatories are
Mr. F. M. Darley, C.J., and the Hon. W. J.
Foster— two of the men who are about to endea-
vour to reform legal procedure in the Supreme
and other courts, the former being chairman of
the Commission. The sort of “ reform ” they will
favour may be estimated by their action in this
instance. As in the one case they have proved
themselves to be devoted and extreme Conserva-
tives, it is not likely that any Radical and pro-
gressive ideas will be entertained by them in
the coming enquiry. Their proposed work may
as well be abandoned at once: men do not
gather figs from thistles, nor are they justified
in expecting progressive legislation from the
Darleys and Fosters of the legal profession.
Burton Bradley on Larrikinism.
A month or two ago a Mr. Burton Bradley
announced to the public that he intended to dis-
cover the causes of larrikinism in Sydney with a
view to devising remedies for what he assumed
to be “ a vast and growing evil.” The qualifica-
tions of Mr. Burton Bradley for the task he set
himself were not made the more conspicuous by
this assumption, at the outset, of the very point
at issue, yet it was thought to be possible that he
might throw some fresh light on a subject that
had hitherto been monopolised by the police. It
now appears that Mr. Burton Bradley has
finished his labours. He has at all events
issued what seems to be his final report—has not
only reported all he has discovered touching the
causes and extent of larrikinism, but has stated
exactly how the “ vast and growing evil ” is to be
minimised. His method of inquiry is of the
pleasant unilateral kind so dear to the hearts of
ancient ladies. He started with a definite con-
clusion, and apparently adopted the best
means of strengthening his foregone conclu-
sion as he proceeded. Armed with creden-
tials from the Colonial Secretary and the
Chief of Police, Mr. Burton Bradley
visited the several sectional police officers, and
obtained from them a mass of information, all, of
course, going to support the theory that larrikin-
ism in Sydney is “a vast and growing evil,” “ a
menace to socie y," and other dreadful things,
although, according to his report, there are only
258 larrikins in Sydney and its suburbs. He
apparently did not interview a single larrikin, to
see whether there is any other point of view
besides that of the constabulary; and thus his
investigations add nothing to our knowledge on
the subject. Everybody was acquainted with the
opinions of the police authorities. Mr. Burton
Bradley has given us a rechauffe of those
opinions, with a little fresh and decidedly original
seasoning of his own. Here is a sample of his
original matter :
“I gather that climate and diet have au influence in
making larrikins; the open sir, in mild seasons, has of itself
a grett charm for those engaged all day in factories or
offices, while the stimulating influence of the large quantities
of animal food consumed in this colony is no doubt a fruit-
ful cause of some of the excesses, though climate alone can-
not be charged, inasmuch as the South of France and Italy
and Spain, having like climates, have no larrikins; there,
however, a purely vegetable diet, coupled with severe labour,
places a control upon passions here unbridled. That
climate, however, has its share of influence appears from the
fact that Canada has no larrikins, though the diet is more
generous than in the countries of Southern Europe re-
ferred to.”
No larrikins in the South of France, Italy, and
Spain ! Has Mr. Burton Bradley ever witnessed
the extreme grossierete of the lower orders of
Marseilles ; has he ever seen or read of the Laz-
zaroni of Naples, or the larrikins, half-mendicants,
half-footpads, of Madrid ? We suppose he has
not. If not, his ability to deal with the question
is not conspicuous. So far as Canada is concerned
the subjoined extract from a Montreal paper,
taken from a description of a recent riot of such
serious dimensions as to require the calling out of
two i egiments of soldiers to quell, may be taken
as an indicant that larrikinism in Canada is of a
worse type than in Australia :
** The most dangerous excesses as regards both life and
property were those indulged in by the dimerous roughs
who infest the city, and whose delight in lawlessness is
wholly unconnected with partisan feeling. Of course these
thieves and iocendiaries hastened at top speed to their lairs
when they caught sight of bristling bayonets.”
We are evidently better off than one city in
Canada. There they have rioters who have to be
put down with bayonets, and another class of
roughs, infinitely worse even than the partisan
rioters. But it Is waste of time to discuss Mr.
Burton Bradley’s “facts.” One of his “reme-
dies,” however, may be noticed. He attributes
much of the larrikinism of the existence of which
the police told him, to Freethought lectures. Such
lectures, he declares, “are in my estimate in-
finitely more dangerous to the best interests of the
country than garrotters (sic); the remedy which
proved effectual in one case might be tried in the
other.” The man who talks calmly of flogging a
Freethought lecturer and his audience as he
would a garotter, is evidently not to be regarded
as a reliable or useful social reformer. We venture
to remind Mr. Bradley that intolerance of the
rights of others is the essence of larrikinism, and
that this same intolerance is not altogether absent
in the calm suggestion he has made in the above-
quoted sentence.
“ For the Protection of the Australian
Trade.”
“ For the protection of British and colonial trade
we must have Imperial Federation,” epigramma-
tically remarks that mean little London publica-
tion, Imperial Federation. The epigram like
the majority of its class, contains just enough
truth to redeem it from absolute and utter false-
hood—that is the best that can be said in its
favour. It sounds well, but “pans out” very
badly. For Imperial Federation implies a perma-
nent and complete union of the colonies with
Britain ; a political welding of the heterogeneous
particles into a homogeneous national mass.
Every part of the Empire would own the same
flag ; every part would be jointly responsible with
all other parts as far as other nations were con-
cerned. Herein lies the particle of truth contained
in the quotation, for if all the colonies and depen-
dencies were thus federated common action for
the protection of national trade would be neces-
sary. But to assert that Federation must ensue,
in order that colonial commerce may be protected,
evidences a disregard of facts that by the exercise
of charity may be hesitatingly ascribed to the
densest of ignorance. For colonial commence in
time of war would be most surely protected, not
by a closer union with, but by absolute separation
from, Britain. It is not strange that this rea-
son for Federation is urged only by Tories. The
Declaration of Paris, signed in 1856, which by its
first clause abolishes privateering in the laconic
sentence, “La course est, et demeure, abolie ,” has
always been hateful to the Tories, who, if in
power, would, in the event of war, certainly con-
travene its provisions by issuing letters of marque
against an enemy's merchant fleet, thus entailing
reprisals on their own commerce. It is the Tories
who are likely to lead England to war, and by
their action also the Australian coasters and Aus-
tralian goods in English bottoms would be liable
to seizure by any pirate whose vessel bore the
letter of marque of a hostile power. This if Aus-
tralia were still united to England. But if separa-
tion had been achieved Australian vessels and
Australian goods in any vessels would be as safe
from seizure as they are in time of peace. A
European war would be to the colonies as profit-
able as each European war of the present century
has been to America. Vessels flying the flag of
the latter nation have been in war time engaged
in conveying goods other than contraband of war to
the ports of belligerents, and have profited hugely
by the absence of a competition which restricted
profits in time of peace. Briefly the case stands
thus : Australia separated from Britain would not
need protection of a commerce that could never
be endangered ; Australia federated with Britain
would need a protection greater than any that
could possibly be afforded for the security of her
goods and her vessels. For the protection of
colonial trade it is clear that Separation is the one
complete and only safeguard. Imperial Federa-
tion would involve disaster which it would be
powerless to avert.
The Differential Railway Fares
Project.
The N.S.W. Railway Department has evidently
conceived it necessary to do something in the
nature of reform before Parkes’ measure for re-
forming the department itself out of existence is
matured. Mr. Goodchap and his brilliant assis-
tants have accordingly hit upon the idea of insti-
tuting differential passenger rates in favour of
travellers who do not happen to be Australians.
Tickets are to be issued at the various European
ports of departure at a great reduction on ordin-
ary rates, by virtue of which the holders may
travel from Adelaide or Melbourne to Sydney and
break the journey as often and for almost as long
as they please. The benign object of these railway
geniuses is to enable tourists from Britain and other
European countries to inspect the interior of Aus-
tralia without incurring any considerable outlay.
Doubtless it was considered by the officials that
sines the railways have been built and equipped
with foreign capital, foreigners ought to enjoy ihe
use of them at a cheaper rate than Australians.
Yet Australians have to pay the interest charge,
and will ultimately have to repay the capital, so
there is some difficulty in perceiving the logic of
that plea. If there is any wisdom whatever in
reducing the cost of travelling by rail between the
different Australian capitals, and in allowing the
journeys to be broken at the pleasure of the
travellers, assuredly the convenience should be
extended to all persons alike, and not confined to
tho»e who chance to start from foreign countries.
At any rate the making of invidious distinctions
between Australian and foreign travellers, to the
advantage of the latter, cannot be viewed with
any other sentiment than one of indignation by
the people whp, singularly enough, have thus to
pay more than outsiders directly, for the use of the
thing they are indirectly taxed to support. Here
we obtain a glimpse of the spirit that underlies
Freetrade—the insensate desire to disfavour our
own citizens to the benefit of citizens of other
countries. Whether the local Assemblies will
confirm this adoption of the principles of Freetrade
remains to be seen, but we don’t think they will
be foolish enough to sanction any such scheme.
Judge Decker, Again.
At the Forbes Quarter Sessions, last week, Dis-
trict Court Judge Docker had an opportunity of
showing his judicial hatred of offences against
property. He sentenced one man to five years
penal servitude for horse stealing, and another to
twice that term for a like offence. For obtaining
goods under false pretences he sentenced a third
convict to two years, and for a larceny a fourth
was ordered 12 months' hard labour. These sen-
tences are all severe enough in themselves, but
when contrasted with Mr. Docker’s leniency
towards offenders against the person they seem
simply monstrous. One William Howell pleaded
guilty to wounding with intent to do grievous
bodily harm. For him Mr. Docker considered
one month’s hard labour sufficient punishment.
Two others were convicted of indecent assault
and were each sentenced to three months’ hard
labour. According to Mr. Docker, therefore, to
S'eal a horse is just 120 times more heinous ja
crime than to grievously harm a human being,
and 40 limes more heinous than to commit
an indecent assault. Yet this extraordinary
judgo resents the interference of members of
Parliament with his sentences, and even looks
with disfavour on the inquisitiveness of the
Minister of Justice himself touching the rationale
of the terms of the punishments he inflicts. Evi-
dently with such Judges as Mr. Docker Executive
interference in such matters is an absolute neces"
sity. Just as equity grew out of the need for
softening the asperities of the civil and common
law, so the work of the Department of Justice in
New South Wales will grow to enormous propor-
tions in correcting the injustice of judicial senten
ces, unless the Docker system is crushed by
Parliamentary condemnation. Ten years for
horse-stealing is not much better than the trans-
portation accorded Margaret Catchpoi.e for
that offence, under a punitive system that has
long since been consigned to the limbo of things
unfit to form part of a civilised polity.
The Imperial Institute “ fake ” has fallen as flab
as the “ Wales ” testimonial. In England there
is still a suspicion amounting to certainty that the
whole thing is proposed in the sole interests of the
firm of “ Wales,” Cunlieee Owen and Co., and
the British public treats appeals for sympathy
and support with mingled indignation, derision,
and contempt. In vain is it announced that there
is a surplus of about £30,000 on the late Colonial
and Indian Exhibition, instead of, as previously
announced, a small deficit. The very readiness
with which the official estimate of the financial
results in this case is changed gives rise to new
suspicions. The accounts are as closely kept as
those of the Salvation Army; no one knows or
can find out what money has been received or
paid away, and the amounts paid to the promoters
are beyond discovery. Jobbery; gross and shame*
less, is exhibited in every revealed transaction in
connection with the show ; to erect an Imperial
Institute with the same directorate would be to
place the seal of public approval upon, and per-
petuate, similar shady transactions. And just at
this crisis when it is necessary for royal purposes
that the nation should be beguiled, an inquiry has
been started by the papers as to the application
of £60,000 collected some years ago for the erec-
tion of a monumt nt to commemorate the recovery
of “Wales” from a dangerous illne.s. Where
the money has gone nobody knows ; it may have
been put on Gaudaur when he pulled Beach, or
it may have been donated to the impecunious
Bah, but however used there is no account of
its expenditure. It is necessary that this little
swindle should be explained before the Imperial
Institute swindle is started.
“ The Civil Servants,” quaintly remarks the
Sydney D.T., “generally hope that the Govern-
ment will revert to _ the old system and fix the
hours of duty at from 9 to 4.” And then it con-
tinues, “ This hope has sprung from some remarks
dropped by the Premier during the recent electoral
campaign. . . . Up to the present the Cabinet
have not considered the question at all.” This is
one of the incidents of “honest Government” by
“ the politician with the clean record." When
elections were approaching the Civil Service vote
was doubtful; the one political reform which the


Civil Servants desired was a return to the old
hours of attendance at office. Parkes, the evan-
gelist of “honest government,” “dropped some
remarks ” which caused the employes of the Civil
Service to hope and believe that he intended to
shorten their working hours. They therefore
voted for “ honest Government” and 9 to 4, and
having assisted to give Parkes the power to make
the concession commended to their hope by these
“remark* dropped during the recent electoral
campaign,” they now find that the Cabinet ba9
not yet considered the question, and does not
seem at ell villing to keep the promise implied by
the remarks of the “ politician with a clean re-
cord.” From these facts it is clear that some at
least, of the Civil Servants have been induced to
give their votes under a misapprehension as to the
purpose of the Premier. It may be that they have
been the victims of self-delusion ; their hope may
have been father to the thought leading them to
infer more than ever was intended by the remarks of
Parkes ; but, however, or by whosever fault the
error has arisen, it is certain that the Civil ser-
vants, or at least many of them, did give their
votes under the influence of what is now proved
to have been a false and baseless hope. Which all
goes to prove that Sir Henry committed a consti-
tutional wrong in stumping the country “ in his
capacity as an elector of the constituency.”
Whether in this particular case he was grossly
misunderstood or not is immaterial, the fact re-
mains that the Civil servants believed from some-
thing said by Parkes in an election speech that
“ honest Government” and 9 to 4 were the attri-
butes of the present Premier. Now they find that
one at least of these boons is foreign to his inten-
tion. We pity the Civil servants a bit in
this affair ; if any of them have corruptly given
votes for the purpose of securing what they
deemed to be a promise of personal gain, they
deserve to be foiled in their base schemes, but
what we want to emphasise is the fact that such
thiDgs are not concordant with good and honest
government.
“ Honest” Frawncis Habiglk, by the grace of
Parkes, Minister of Mines in New South Wales,
has not yet sent in that cheque for £25 which he
promised to anyone who would convict him of
having ever advocated “ Purtection,” and which
The Bulletin earned several weeks ago. Ac-
cordingly, a deputation of two went down to the
Habigle grindery establishment to collect the
amount on behalf of the Sydney Soup Kitchen,
and after some travelling about, the Charitable
Grinder was unearthed at the office where he
slaves on behalf of an ungrateful country for a
miserable pittance of £ISOO a year. At sight of
the account the small statesman seemed to be
smit with an inward pain ; he choked several
times, and looked as if he wanted to set a dog on
somebody, but when he recovered he said feebly :
“ Leave, please, leave,” and his visitors, taking
this to be an equivalent for “ Get out, you hog,”
took their departure. Theofficial who admitted them
shortly afterwards had a brief interview with his
boss, at the conclusion of which he went down the
stair, six steps at a time. Perhaps he had been pro-
moted. The zeal of the deputation aforesaid, not hav-
ing met with complete success, renewed application
n another way, must, for the sake of Sydney
charities languishing for want of funds, be made
on an early date. For particulars of such appli-
cation see future issues.
There is at least one paper in Australia
that can fall six times successively from a three-
storey window and hit the imperishable truth flat
every time. We allude to the Southern World
published at Brisbane, and we base our remarks
on the following sultry par. “ The body of Mr
J. A. Hope, late of Farnallen, who has been miss-
ing from Yulabilla, has b*en found in the Conda-
mine Biver. The arms wore bound, and a bag of
stones was tied round the neck. It is evidently
a case of determined suicide.” We will know a
“ determined suicide ” next time we see him.
When we find a body buried in a gully and a head
among the ashes of a camp fire 100 yards away
we ll frop a tear over the strong-minded man who
cut off his own organ of thought and left it to
cook while he w r ent and interred himself. Also
w’e will entertain feelings of solid respect for the
shipwrecked mariner on some lonely island who
tiei himself to a tree and then splits himself down
the back with an axe, and is afterwards eaten by
the natives ; though for energy and perseverance
we must give the palm to those Burmese soldiers
who were not shot by the British, but who bor-
rowed a cannon and fired it off, and then jumped
round to the muzzle of the weapon in time to be
blown to shivers by the shot as it came out.
There is a great deal of determination and ac-
tivity in this w orld ; also a great deal of stupidity.
And there are a few l'es into the bargain.
The Referee
On Saturday night at Foley’s hall Nolan and
Ivo Bligh were booked “to a finish,” but Ivo did
not put in an appearance. During the evening
Fogarty and Nolan mounted the stage and talked
fight for some considerable time, when ex-champion
Foley came forward and said if they meant
businpss, and would fight then and there he would
give the winner a pound for every round fought.
This they agreed to, and for eight rounds Nolan
had all the best of it, and Fogarty looked all but
knocked out. At the commencement of the ninth
round Nolan went in to finish him off, when
Fogarty in sheer desperation fought him right and
left, and getting in a lucky one brought Nolan to
the stage. Upon Nolan rising they again went at
it viciously, when Fogarty brought his opponent
down with a terrific left-hander under the right
eye, and Nolan being unable to answer the call at
the termination of the allowed ten seconds, the
fight was awarded to Fogarty. Young Aitken
was billed to a finish against Dickinson, and he
duly knocked his man out. Aitken is a deter-
mined and clever lad, improving weekly in
physique and science, and should he take care of
himself, will in all probability be heard of later
on amongst the lightweights.
Jack Hall, who has been in Tasmania re-
cently, wants to box the American “ young
Mitchell ”to a finish for £5O or £lOO. The meet-
ing of “ young Mitchell ” and Murphy for the £5O
offered by Larry Foley will give a line as to the
Yankee’s capabilities, for if he cannot beat Murphy
out of hand he cannot stand a show with Jack
Hall.
The N.S.W. intercolonial eight-oar selec-
tion committee have made a start with the crew.
Higgs is not class enough, and it is only wasting
time to attempt now to knock him into form. He
should not hcvve been picked in preference to
Robertson and Pickering.
Sculler Hanlan, since his return to America,
has been holding forth to his countrymen on the
cause of his defeat, and informed them that he
would beat Beach the next time they met. The
failure of Americans in their recent contests with
Englishmen he attributes to the better training of
the victors. While, says Hanlan, the American
scullers are “like a lot of schoolboys at play,’
the English are governed by strict rules. They
row steadily in practice and are never allowed to
spurt. The Australians are even more strict than
the English. That Hanlan was in no condition to
row in his first race with Beach we have always
maintained, but in the second race, under the
mentorship of Elias Laycock, he went through a
steady and perfect preparation. But he was ner-
THE SAD FATE OF A “BULLETIN” READER.
| vous and a beaten man before the race started,
as his pallid and anxious face, whilst waiting for
the word to go, only too clearly proved.
“Bob” Sutton, the “English” book-
maker, whose tongue is an unruly member, has,
for certain reasons, closed his little volume pro
tem. At the late Flemington meeting Robert’s
melodious voice was not heard offering “ sixty to
foitrty on the fie-e-ld.” He was out of the hurly-
burly, and w r ent about, in resplendent garments,
backing ’em.
The Glebe Rowing Club regatta proved to
be far and away the best conducted club reunion
of the season. With the exception of the winners
of the senior double sculls, H. R. Cox and G.
Robertson, the rowing was of the poorest descrip-
tion, and if Saturday’s show is any criterion of the
Club’s strength, their chance of winning any outside
races is meagre indeed. The trial fours was the
only event to raise any enthusiasm. At Jarrett’s
Point the crew stroked by Mr. Williams, was
leading by a length, but in the home stretch Mr.
Smith’s crew gained foot by foot and won on the
post by half a length. The Balmain Club made
an easy win of the open race, the maiden fours ;
W. H. Stuart won the senior single fours ; and
the Italian, manned by Mahoney and O’Rourke,
won the maiden double sculls.
Mr. Hutchens, the gentleman from Putney,
is, without doubt, a flyer when he is right, but it is
so seldom that he is right, that the Australian
public were beginning to lose faith in him, and it
was rather a limited crowd which turned up at
the Ca ington Grounds to ste him run his third
match with Samuels, the Queensland black.
Hutchens won from start to finish in lLJsec., and
the darkie’s quality may be judged from the fact
that he finished within two yards of the Putney
man, running the distance in three yards under
even time.
The ding-dong struggle up the straight
between Nelson and Trident in the Australian Cup
was something to remember. Only by sheer pluck
MR. JOHN MUSGRAVE,
Editor of the BRAIDWOOD DESPATCH.
did the V.R.C. and A.J.C. Derby winner put his
head in front, and, without disparaging Brown,
we may echo the commonly-expressed opinion
t hat Hales could have got home on either of the
leading pair. The All Gold division are to be
commiserated on having fully exposed their
horse’s form for nothing better than a £5O third
prize. If rumour speaks truly, the winning jockey
would have done well if All Gold could have
squeezed out an extra couple of lengths and actu-
ally come in first. Mitrailleuse compensated her
friends for the Newmarket Handicap disappoint-
ment by pulling off the Bourke Handicap on
Thursday. The coiip wa3 quietly managed, and
the mare —who attracted little observation when
she was saddled—started at B's and 10’s to 1. Mr.
Macdonald’s protest was founded on ‘ trifles light
as air, ’ and most of the ready money books parted
before they were aware that an objection had been
raised.
His Excellency Lord Carington and party
did well at Flemington, on the Australian Cup
day. They pm their noble little “ pots ” on Mr.
White’s brace of winners. By the way, it is
noticeable that the Hon. J. White is in great re-
quest among the “ uppah ten ” when he owns the
favourite for a big race.
* * *
While a hearse was waiting outside the
Commercial Hotel, llizabeth-street, Melbourne,
to bear away the coffin of poor jockey M’Leod,
the photographer fiend was on the job. He fixed
up his camera on an adjacent roof and took some
splendid negatives of the hearse and motley crowd
gathered around. The deed was quietly and
reverently accomplished. Mr. Artist—with a
modesty which did him credit—refrained from
grouping his subjects, and never so much as asked
the mutes to “ look pleasant.”
Twenty to one on Trident was tbe extra-
ordinary state of the betting market in the Vic-
torian Champion Stakes on Saturday, but even
that amount of public support was not able to
make the wonder go slow, and he waltzed in
lengths ahead of Blairgowrie in omin. 52|sec., the
slowest time since 1873, when Leo took smin.
59sec. to measure the distance. Since noting this
latest performance by Trident, we have no hesita-
tion in asserting that he is the best horse of his
year—an assertion which somehow dees not seem
to be alarmingly new.
Cricketers are to be again deprived of the
use of the Sydney Association Ground for another
Saturday, the management having let the ground
for the George-Myers contests. This is rough on
the various clubs who pay £25 for the supposed
use of the ground.
* * •
Perhaps we say it as oughtn’t, but the only
two defeats sustained by the English cricketers
during their late tour weie inflicted by New
South Wale 3.
The Melbourne Cricket Association are
desirous of the co operation of the New South
Wales Association in bringing out a really repre-
sentative team of gentlemen and professionals
from England during the next season. As the
trustees of the Sydney Association Ground howl
ever, have arranged dates with Lillywhite and
Company, difficulty is likely to ensue. I
In Victoria, aristocratic eyes are just now
upturned in horror at the sacrilege committed by
one Robert Sutton, better known aa “The Eng-
hshman,” who, during a betting dispute with
Lord Deerhurst, wiped the back of his plebeian
- lght hand acres; the aristocratic visage of his
lordship. In the good old days his lordship would
by his hahdame, have “ spitted him like a spar’
row or cleft him to the chine,” but in place of
Z C^' he , took his £ ruel hke a lamb, and
told his anything but massive assailant to ‘ con-
sider himself under arrest. ’ It is scarcely neces-
nntfri°fh dd /- that th ® J ? ckeJr Club under whose
notice the frames was brought have expelled the
plebian, who is not taking his groats quite so a
quietly as the aristocrat. He has taken out a
summons against Lord Deerhurst fer assault and
'thU^(“hZdayt 8 iQ * Melb ° Uroe P ° Hce P ° Urt
n n POr f rait of Mr - Chas - Turner, the
N S.W. bowler, in last week’s issue, was taken
from an excellent portrait by Messrs. Charlemont
and Cie of the Royal Arcade, Sydr.ey, who seem
to have succeeded in .jamming into the portrait
the full measure of facial beauty of which
Charles is the possessor.
Mr. John Mupgrave.
Mr. John Musgra've editor and proprietor of
the Braidwood (N.8.W.) Despatch, whose nor
(FnR fin IMt ed 'a thi3 Sketcb ’ Waa born ! at Kendal
(Ene.) in 1834, and came to the colony at the age
of five years. He received his primary ediir»t-inn
at St. Philips School, where Mr. G. Iff Dibbs and
many other towering geniuses also made the*
S hf l rH m and af terwarda took to the law. Ho
shortly afterwards backed out of this degradation
and entered the Government Printing Office from
which, a few years later, he removed to thp r»m
of the Umpire, but when PaiClmpoHed his
famous gang of niggers Mr. Musgrave thought
time to leek fresh pastures, and found decent
'.'"S'™ 4 fOT a white man on the Herald staff
In 1860 he purchased an interest in the Braid
wood Dispatch, and a year later olrtained entire
control of the paper. hrom 1860 to 1868 the dis
•net was pamc-stricken by the Clarke gang of
bushrangers, and the Lespatch did its level best
o induce the Government to take strong measures
for their suppress,on-a course of procedurHX
nf th e « r r ,‘ y suddt “ d eath at the hands
hLi t w,tt 118 i tra w a ,v Ishmaell| es, Mr. Musgrave
had better luck than some of his fellow-colonials
and for the last 18 years he has lived in poaeo’
He ,s now aged 53, and both he and his paper se,m
to be good for many y ears to come.
The Sydney Freetrade Association which
accorcmg to the letter of Mr. B. R. Wise had
incurred £5OO of liabilities up to the 3rd Februar y
has been going ahead so much since as to be now
in possession of a£7oo defleit, towards the liquor
tion of which subscriptions are “ earnestly In-
Sfti. no?s™ h m ° re th6y #PeDt bMid « thi.
Foiit Sydney commercial gentlemen—
Messrs. Gallagher, Thomas Hammond Josiah
Mullens, and the Hon. E. Viekerv— l? “
appointed by the shareholders of HuL bS
Co., Limited, as a committee to enquire into the
causes of the losses the company has lately sus-
tained. As this is not a Civil Service job, and the
gentlemen selected are painfully interested in the
business themselves, they will probably have the
honour of handing in one of thefew specie com
mittee reports woith even the paper on whi«h
they are written. wnien


SUNDRY SHOWS
Wc have no
desire to be per
sonal, nor do we
aim at putting our
copper-toed boots on anyone’s
feelings, yet we have often won-
dered— apropos of nothing in
particular why some people
take to the stage at all. There
are a good many surer paths to
fame, many of which are as yet
quite untrodden. A man may
become great, for instance, by tying a string to an
emu and towing the animal overland from Sydn-y
to Perth, or by cheeking the Governor, or by
backing himself to eat corned crab stuffed with
old boots faster than another maniac can eat a
cab-horse and a dowager hair-trunk, or he may
even, if he has a very original mind, be a good
man in a bank and keep honest. There is more
certain fame for a good many tragedians in any or
all of these dodges than on the stage, and we trust
this little hint may lead to good results.
## # #
There are, we believe, in Sydney quite a
number of disgustingly ignorant clowns who don’t
understand Italian. The stupidity of these peop’e
is utterly beneath contempt, and we wouldn’t
hire them to hold up a horse-trough even
if we got them for nothing with the horse-
trough thrown in. Italian is the language of the
poet, the organ-grinder, and the organ-grinder’s
monkey, and its progenitor, Latin, was the mother
tongue of that great race of hard-shell thieves
who walked over half the globe carrying a
hundred weight of spears and boiler-plates apiece.
These blood-stained tramps wrote nearly all the
history that was written about that time ; they
filled their crabbed pages with lies about their
own courage and genius, and a bland and childlike
race has ever since taken them at their own valua-
tion The ancient race has long since passed away ;
the brutal sharks of the Roman empire now bloom
only in Paradise ; but they have cast a glamour
over Italy that will last long after Joe Smith and
other modern perverter 3 of the truth have been
entirely forgotten. The present writer, by-the-way,
never learned any Latin, also he knows about as
much of Italian as a Cherokee does of ancient
Hebrew slang, and, barriDg one single instance,
when he helped a Genoese to haul in a catfish,
he never had a chance of acquiring even the rudi-
ments of the noblest language of Sou i hern Europe.
The Italian Opera Company made a good
start at Sydney Royal with “11 Trovatore.” The
house was well-filled, and the local Smith, Brown,
and Jenkins, in their frenzied determination to
show that they had forgotten more Italian than
Verdi ever knew, fairly howled with enthusiasm
whenever they got a chance to put their muffled
oar in. To stay anything about the plot of the
opera would be regarded as an insult to the Mayor
and Inspector of Nuisances, so that may as well be
passed by in silence Through the kind offices of
the bill we learned that Signora Emilia Ciuti filled
the part of Leonora, and from personal observa-
tion we are prepared to a'sert that her clear
soprano notes were as refreshing as a squash to a
lost soul. Signorina Cavalleri, as Azucena, proved
her ability to roar up to notes as high as a fire-
tower, and, what was more to the point, she
knew what to do with the notes when she got hold
of them. Signor Lazzarini hired out his fatal
beauty in the character of Manrico, and made a
success. The critic of a daily paper, we note,
points out that his voice is “ broad,” and as we can
assert confidently that it is also long we reckon it
fills the bill. The only other dimension it could
have is thickness, and a sober man doesn’t want
that. The other parts were very well filled, and
the scenery and the orchestra were as good as any
white man need ask for. There was every possi-
ble convenience, too, for obtaining light refresh-
ment between the acts, and under these circum-
stances —the latter circumstance especially—the
opera season at Sydney Royal should be a great
financial sucoes.
“Leah,” as played at Sydney Gaiety, is
embalmed in the inner recesses of our memory—
we felt it was necessary to embalm it, or the thing
would not have kept good. A piebald savage who
once professed to be our friend, said he regarded
the performance as a rather good one, and we
take this opportunity of informing tbe degraded
imp that we pity and forgive him—he is obviously
too low for contempt, too idiotic to be kicked, and
too depraved to bo hung. The first three acts of
the tragedy did not excite us to any appreciable
degree, but we braced up at the commencement
of act four, for our own choice taste in cursing
always leads us to take a deep interest in this rart
of the performance. We felt that something
was coming—and it came. An object that
looked like a baby’s bare leg was stuck
out from behind the scenes—this was Leah’s
extended arm, and presently the Jewess
followed, snorting. She was dressed in one old
cl o’, and she had a gaunt, empty look as if she
had spent the ni fe ht on the tiles and the worldly
cats of the neighbourhood had been walking over
her. She sat down on a large plate and wailed
and flapped her hair. From ihe remarks of this
Shebrew we learned that she had come out to
mash a Christian, and as we had just caught
sight of a pair of white stockings ai.d ready-made
boots cantering into a cow-house, we guessed
that the man she wanted was in there Presently
she got up and glared into the oow-house, and
then arose a shriek—and such a shriek 1 It was
made up of jackass fried alive, young pig under
the gate, crack rf doom, and the last yelp of a lost
fiend, and it fetched out the Christian, who blandly
said he thought he had heard something. We
should think he had. He held in his hand a red
shirt rolled up into a wreath, and he waved this
in a jerky way as if he wanted the Jewess to note
that he had got it washed, but she embezzled the
tog, and then she dragged out the skeleton of a
dry old curse and Lung the bones all over him as
if she were slinging sausages on a tombstone. She
called on Heaven to turn the whole ten command-
ments into broken bottles and put the fragments
under him when he sat down; she prayed that
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob might make his hen
lay in the next garden, that he might drink sour
beer with Parkes, that he might hiccup in church
and have no visible means of support, that his
baby might swear, and the twins use obscene lan-
guage from the cradle. Then she grabbed the
under-clothing and did a graceful Hebrew slope.
* * *
Five years later she turned up in the same
old clo\ and her enemy’s wife, in the fullness of
her heart, gave her a drink out of a common white
jug. She would not accept any solid refreshment
—not even a carrot—but she relented and gave
back the shirt, and the Christian husband threw it
at a stack. Then the unhappy Jewess lay
down to die, but a crowd of larrikins poured in
thirsting for her blood, and she rose up and howled
one last anathema that might have withered even
a book-agent and left enough over to wreck a
cast iron stove. The leader of the mob a long
man in short yellow pants—curled up like fallen
leaves under the shock, and was dragged away to
be chained up in the cellar, and the curtain came
down before the audience cou’d make their escape.
The performance was a very even one throughout,
the dead level of dank, unwholesome misery being
interrupted only by Miss Marie Wilton who de-
serves rather better fortune than she is getting.
It is unnecessary to trouble about the rest of the
names—the management with great presence of
mind have put them in the bill so that the visitor
may pick out the particular individual whom he
wants to slay at his leisure until the whole com-
pany is consumed.
## # #
“ The Royal Pardon,” which occupied the
Royal Standard stage last Saturday, is a recherche
screed which is worthy of a passing bruise in the
eye. It was played for one night only, and our
great object in writing this notice is to keep it
from ever being played agaiD. If we succeed in
this lofty aim a grateful nation will put a slab
over our grave when we go to join our perished
ancestors and the spring blossoms, watered with
the tears of worshipping millions, will bloom
above our holy dust. And the inscription on the
tombstone will tell the world that beneath their
feet lies an immoital genius, the crusher of two
penny-gaff Hottentots whose stupidity larded the
lean earth and filled whole lunatic asylums with
drivelling victims. The scene of “ The Royal
Pardon ” is laid on the coast of Knowhere, and the
trouble in caused chiefly by a tragic lawyer’s clerk
whois weary of hisdrudgery and plaintively if
he is a do-horg that he should be used thus. The
hero of the drama is a red-headed mortgaged
fisherman ; he is deep in the power of the clerk's
boss, a frivolous spider with a glass eye, and when
that gentleman tries to collect some money, the
TIPNIS WE SEE
WHEN WE COME OUT
WITHOUT OUR [?]N.
fisherman squashes him flat f gainst a cliff and
makes him feel as if he had been whopped by
seven elephants and finished up by a swordfish
and a bee. Furthermore, a hopeless drunkard
with a coat split down the back, wanders aim-
lessly through the great desert of the
screed and says he can’t sleep because a
caterpillar is crawling over him. There is
a murder next, a mariner who is loaded with
wealth being hit on the head with a bcotjack and
hurled into the deep, green, caterwauling sea, and
by the old, old buDgle the wrong man’s liberty is
sworn away by a perjured black-and-tan brat, and
another red headed victim is sent to penal servi-
tude for life.
By this time we have got down into the
very bowels of the subject, but not even Baal and
Ashtaroth and all the cat-gods of the ancient
Egyptians could trace the story much further. If
the author had moved his brains up a little
further to the front he might have picked his bosh
out of the mud even at this late hour, but he
merely slings in one or two fresh murderers,
and with a dark and haughty aspect sits down
on his hat-box and waits to see how they will get
out of their scrape. He takes a long shot at the
red headed man and tries to kill him in a ship
wreck, but the hero turns up again ; as far as we
can remember he swims to the nearest land 100
miles distant, carrying a ton of railway iron in his
teeth, and a stove pinned to his back hair, but we
are open to conviction on this point. Men jump
wildly in and out of a ruined building ; women
come in by the door and leave hurriedly by the
window with yells; bullies, drunkards, long-lost
mariners, and dudes fly round and get between
each other’s legs ; beautiful gpls fall into the ker-
lutches of a vile ke-howard, and finally the affair
ends in a burst of gorgeousness and a low, gutteral
man is carried out. The white-winged angel of
hope is kicked by the dark mule of despair, but we
are glad to report that the cheerful bird ulti-
mately revives.
* * *
Mr. Dampier as the drunken schoolmaster
and Miss Lily Dampier as a beautiful girl with
some money, made the acting a little better than
the drama. We were unable to trace the identity
of a hard hearted gentleman who had grown an
absence of hair, but considering the unpleasant
job he had on hand perhaps he will be glad to re-
main incog. Pity for a suffering community has
since led the management of the Standard to
substitute “Michael Strogoff” for the “Royal
Pardon,” and as there is a certain amount of
healthy excitement about the gallant “ Courier of
the Czar ” the change is for the better. Miss
Dampier plays the heroine, Mr. Dampier takes the
part of Michael, and Mr, Stoneham does the
heavy villain, Ogareff.
** * *
The writer may possibly incur a suspicion
of being low and brutally vulgar when he admits
a preference for “La Fille de Madame Angot’
and the sweet warbling of the birds of song at
Sydney Criterion, to the roar of Italian opera and
the high-toned company he gets among at the
Royal. The latter, no doubt, is more stirring, anc
reminds the hearer of the
“ —plentiful outpouring,
When the lion is a roaring,
And the tiger is a-lashing of his tail,”
but he likes it better when the lion roars in a
whisper and the tiger lashes his tail in a language
which he can comprehend. In this respect “La
Fille de Madame Angot ” not only fills the bill,
but hangs over at each side. Clairette, the
daughter of the brassy fish-fag who went up in a
balloon, makes a good heroine, though we can’t
help thinking that her guileless innocence, as
displayed in the first act, is partly bogus, and the
other part sham. Miss Emelie Melville plays the
character admirably, and in spite of a strident
ring in her voice she sings it well also. She frisks
like a little pet kitten among the hideously-dre'sed
louts of the market-place, and these individuals
suspend the trade in gritty codfish and grub-eaten
apples when her little fairy footsteps slush
through the gutter. The Sunday togs of these
market people loom up like the shadow of a great
sorrow, and make us feel as we did when our aunt
died, but we presume they are historically correct.
Mr. Armes Beaumont is a tolerably good
skunk, by which we mean that he plays the
shady Ange Pitou, a poet with a clean fried rag
on his bosom, about as well as
we expected. Mr. George
Dean’s Trenitz, is an old ac-
quaintance dished up again.
Unless we are much mistaken
he appeared as a harmless
waiter wearing a pinafore decor-
ated with grease and crumbs,
in “Falka,” or if he was not
the individual he has borrowed
the waiter’s hair and oiled it
up afresh. His most remark-
able feature is, not his acting,
but his activity. When his
gang of eleven curly-haired
conspirators, armed with logs,
is broken up he pursues his
nose to a place of safety lest
a perfect stranger may land
him in the eye, and his
jump is something that should
be put in a museum. Mr. Edwin Kelly-
plays the shrivelled stock exchange bull Larivau-
diere, and Miss Fanny Liddiard makes a brilliant
success of Madame Lange. She looks as pretty
as any one lady of her size can well manage with-
out working overtime, and her singing and acting
in this part are better than we have ever yet seen
them. The street in old Paris in Act I. is getting
monotonous, but the view of the city by night in
the final scene is a very attractive picture and
does a lot to make up for the badly-drained archi-
tecture which we have seen so often.
** * *
“ Hide and Seek ” is doing a second week
at Sydney Opera House. Mr. Craven, as Andrew
MacGillicuddy, holds up the farce, and but for
him it would double up like a wet rag, or like
Abigail hit in the wind by someone trying to col-
lect that £25. The houses are not very brilliant-
in fact, they are a little—just a little —worse than
the piece deserves.
## * *
Signor Agrati’s company is running without
much change of programme at Sydney Academy.
Wainratta performs on the invisible steel wire as
before with perfect sangfroid and creates a, fur ore
(these two little scraps of Choctaw are culled
from the cultured bill). He is a great favourite
and th e ptuple who have handed out their specie
to see him, create quite an emeute , while a few
larrikins who haven’t paid try to look in at the
fenatre (we are not going to be beaten in foreign
languages by any darned bill in Christendom).
The show promises to run for some time with pro-
fitable results.
** * *
The company at Sydney Alhambra seems
to grow stronger every day. So do the songs, and
by this time some of them have become just about
strong enough. Hosea Easton and Sam Keenan,
however, make up for a lot, the former’s banio
business and the “ Water Melon Man,” and the
“Farm Yard Echoes” of the latter covering a
multitude of sins. A “ Grand Concert Spirituel”
every Sunday night lends a tea-meeting shivoo
aspect to the establishment which commends it to
the pious.
** # #
Mr. Pain’s last donation to local charities
amounted to £6O 55., and we reckon that his
cheques are now capable of atoning for more
crimes than the average M.L A. has committed.
Thursday’s (10th inst) show is in aid of
the hospital (and Mr. Pain), and no complimentary
tickets will be available. Deadheads who want
their fun gratis must take it out by getting a leg
cut off on the cheap with part of the proceeds.
The “ Roller Coaster,” a car which travels
without motive power, is now on view at Belmore
Park, Sydney. It goes up hill and down with
equal ease, and as there are electric lights and a
band thrown in it ought to be a success. Possibly
the “Roller Coaster" may be the beginning of a
solution of the perpetual motion problem, and if
so the inventor and The Builetin are likely to
strike oil in this matter simultaneously. So far,
our efforts to get from Habigle that £25 which he
owes for the production of his famous Protection
speech come as near to perpetual motion as any-
thing on record.
** * *
“ The Harbour Lights,” a five-act melo-
drama by Sims and Pettitt, is having a good time
at Melbourne Princess. This is a dish of very
old-fashioned fare, spiced with thrilling incidents,
and served up in luxurious style. There is not an
original bit of character writing in the whole play.
The strongest situations are outrageously false in
conception. But the authors have relieved their
big daubs of impossibility with small touches of
nature, and gone in for tricky effects that catch
the careless eye. The dish is toothsome and the
picture pleases. This is a mixing of metaphor
that is quite allowable in speaking of such a pro-
duction as “ Harbour Lights.” Miss Isabel Morris,
an actress new to the colonies, appears as th
heroine and most natural individual in the pla;
She is described as a favourite London actresi
but we fail to recollect any occasion on whic
Miss Morris has set the Thames on Are. Anyway
however, the lady is a long way in front of som
of the Triumvirate’s recent importaticns. A goot
appearance, fine voice, and graceful manner, ar
backed up by genuine force and passion. I
she can do any better, with better opportum
ties, Miss Morris is a great artiste. The heroi
naval lieutenant, who enjoys the privilege o
paying successful court to this divinity, is playec
by Mr. Philip Beck with fair success. In th
comedy parts he has an airy, juvenile way wit
him, which suggests a life on the ocean wave anc
a wife in every port. When occasion demand
that he shall get very excited Mr. Beck talk
with a foreign accent, and shakes himself like
dog after a bath. He is too evidently a discipl
of Mr. Charles Warner. Miss Louise Davenpor
makes her re appearance in the character of a
captain’s daughter betrayed by a bad, bad man
Our well-known courtesy to ladies forbids us to do
more than recommend Miss Louise to study
“ Ingleesh as she is spoke.” The “betrayer" i
Mr. Herbert Flemming, and his double in sin
Mr. H. \ incent, both of whom deserve sympathy
The one is murdered on account of a giddy
escapade which is a mere nothiog nowadays ; the
other poor fellow is so idiotically wicked that he
muat be afflicted with villainmania, a complaini
quite epidemic in uppah suckles. The upper circle a
the Princess howls its scorn at Mr. Vincent, how
ever ; Mr. Elton is funny in a low comedy part
and Miss Pattie Brown, who supports him, wouk
be very nice but for a pronounced “ colonia
twang.” Minor characters are well filled, and
the mounting of “ Harbour Lights ” is superfine
as already hinted.
Shakespeare’s “Tempest” will probably
pay expenses and a bit over, at Melbourne Royal
A roaring good storm at sea, much tender land
scape painting, shapely legs, and some grotesque
comedy acting keep things fairly lively. If the
serious scenes were curtailed and “ The Tempest’
billed as a “ fairy extravaganza, by John Smith
Esq.,’’ it would attract many soulless triflers who
associate the name of Shakespeare with weariness
of spirit and a headache. Mr. Gordon has painter
and arranged an “ Enchanted Island ” good enougl
to make the fortune of a pantomime, and, if it is
still in the Mediterranean, the P. and O. Company
might do worse than run cheap excursions there
twice a week. But the liberties which the Im
mortal Bard takes with geography and history are
quite notorious. As the eccentric yarn of “ The
Tempest ” is 300 years old and ought to be familial
to everybody, we will accept it as read and say a
word or two about the Royal cast. In the liumai
animal character of Caliban, Mr. George Rig-
nold strikes out in a new line with startling
success. Ilia ghastly make-up harmonises witb
the sluggish brutality of his every word and ges-
ture. Caliban drunk is the incarnation of all
that is worst in Wooloontooloo. Mr. Stirling
Whyte and the evergreen Greville back up the
monster well, as Stephano and Trioculo, Few ol
the other males are more satisfactory than they
ought to be. Mr. Walter Everard, a dashing
young spark in farcical comedy, delivers the lines
of Ferdinand in a “ dontyersee, by jawve 1 ” style,
which offends the ears of the oldsters, and Mr. J.
F. Cathoart makes Gospero a long-winded nui-
sance. The “legitimate ”is well enough, but it
ought to be brought right up to date. As Mr.
Cathcart has all the say in the last act, a lot of
people go home, forgetting that they were amused
in the earlier part of the evening. Miss Kate
Bishop is a graceful and idealic Miranda, and the
part of t-he airy fairy, Aiiel, is sufficiently well
tripped through by Julia Simmons. It is difficult
to play a spirit. We ody know one individual
who looks like one. He is a C.M.G.—the personi-
fication of spirit overproof.
** * *
“ Dagonet,” G. R. Sims, it is said by
American writers, walked up and down the
Thames embankment the first night the “ Lights
of London" was played, with the determination of
committing suicide if the play was not a success.
Our Beautiful Harbour is ample, cool, and acces-
sible, in every way more invitingthan the Thames,
ana unsuccessful plays are produced in disastrous
abundance, yet we wait in vain for anyone to fol-
low the example of G. R. Sims.
* '* # #
From the New York Dramatic News we
learn, with a regret that borders on despair, that
Mrs. Langtry, in filing her answer to the “ Green-
wall” suit in the U.S. Circuit Court, “admitted
making the contract to go to Australia, but claimed
that plaintiff violated its terms by assigning it to
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove, of Sydney,
under whose management she was unwilling to
act.” Another injustice to Australia and the
Triumvirate.
** * *
“ Ruddy-gore ” is the name of Gilbert
and Sullivan’s new opera Carrie Swain goes lo
Europe to open in grand opera next season und( r
Colonel Mapleson’s chaperonage Henry Irving
says that if a fire breaks out at his theatre during
a performance he will “go on acting and play the
people out.” To fully understand how people can
best be played out of a theatre Henry should visit
some of the Sydney shows. The only possible
hitch in the demonstration would proceed from
the fact that there are very seldom many people
to be played out An English actress, almost
unknown to fame and the playbills, has issued a
writ against a nasty newspaper reporter who in-
cluded her name in a list of “ tarts.” It will be a
lengthy business explaining to the j udge and jury
what style of young lady a “ tart ” may be.
Hitherto the name has been used to express the
idea of real jam femininely incorporated, but the
lawyers will make it eloquent of expr< sdon if the
case ever com* s into court Miss Nelly Power,
the London burlesque and variety actress, has
just died of congestion of the lungs, aged 31.
Those whom the gallery gods love die young
“ Faust,’ at London Lycsum, has been played for
thethree-hundremhnight. Tbinkofthat,yeSydney
managers who have to iam three plays into a
week, and refrain from breaking the Tenth Com-
mandment—in its latter section we mean—if you
can Mrs. Conover lost £51,000 during her three
years’ management of the Olympic Theatre,
London Messrs. Hayman and Cowan, together
with Mr. Nunn, are now travelling through the
New England district with a comedy entitled
“ Three Hats Mixed." The bucolic half crowns
are coming in with tolerable freedom.
This side up—with care. Mr. Arthur
Gunn, manufacturer, of Leicester (Eng.), was
found prone in the gutter the other night, and, on
being fished out, a label was discovered tied to
his coat. It bore this inscription :—“ I'm out for
the night. When I’m boozed tie this label to my
buttonhole, and send me home. Name, Arthur
Gunn, 28 Tichborne-street ” He had been duly
labelled, but the man who was sent in charge of
the parcel found it was so unsteady and so heavy
that he couldn’t shore it up so he left it in the
road.


Peper
and
Salt
Owing mainly to a subtle joke on the sub-
ject of nourishment, Mr. Orlando, of Hobart
(Tas.). has passed away and sleeps with his
fathers. His corpse does not lie on the gory
battlefield, nor did he perish chased by snakes and
bad rum ; there was nothing striking about his
last words either, but he died at his post with a
knife stuck in the back of his head, his hair torn,
and his collar utterly ruined. To use a pathetic
figure of speech he has put out the cat and re
signed his portfolio and gone to rest. This result
was produced by his wife, who got excited when
Orlando said he wouldn’t give her any breakfast,
and straightway proceeded to upset the hash and
paint the boarding-house red with his gore. The
lady was a noted whale at fighting, but, as she
had always previously restricted herself to the
poker, she was regarded in well-informed circles
with an amount of esteem and confidence which
the coroner’s jury now regard as entirely mis-
placed.
The Rev. Gideon Smales, of Auckland, is
a humble wallower —wemean follower—of Terewth
and has a moke which is distinguished by a sore
six inches by two ; it is also raw on the shoulders
and badly galled under the girths, and is ex-
tremely deliberate in its mode of progression.
The saintly Gideon, however, kept this poor, tot-
tering animal at the full jump in his eager pur-
suit of Terewth, and it can only be hoped
caught up to the good cause much more fre-
quently than his miserable beast caught up to a
bushel of oats. But on one evil day last month
when the pious preacher was driving—by deputy
—and his wretched quadruped was
walking feebly in the way of sinners,
the animal became deadbeat and sat
down in the seat of the scornful, and
when Gideon tried —by deputy—to
haul him up for more work in the
vineyard, a crowd of coarse, unsaved
individuals gathered round and called
out * Shame” till their yells brought
along a policeman who took the poor
wreck out of the shafts. One gross,
inhuman wretch even said that he
had a good mind to “ smack ” Gideon.
The good man’s defence consisted
chiefly of a little anecdote about a
Fenian who had knocked a cow’s eye
out, but the afFair cost the Rev.
Smales £5 and the customary exs.
none the less, and the language used
by the case-hardened Pilate on the
Bench was a caution to snakes.
A reverend Anglican in Staf-
fordshire (Eng), who had his wife up
recently for sitting on and wallop-
ing him and then chasing him all
GATEKEEPER: BUT YOU ARK NOT IN UNIFORM: ON
WHAT GROUNDS THEN CAN YOU CLAIM FREE ADMITTANCE
ON ACCOUNT OF YOUR CONNECTION WITH THE SOUDAN
AFFAIR?"
CITIZEN: “WHY I’M THE MAN WHO CONTRIBUTED A BOX
OF SOAP TO THE EXPEDITION, AND IT DOES SEEM TO ME”
(Has to be forcibly removed by the police.)
ov er the parish with a cricket-stump, is again in
trouble. The expounder and his wife, it seems,
have divided the vicarage between them, the lady
having the sole use of the upper rooms, and the
spreader of truth occupying the ground floor, but
the female now sits all day at the top of the stairs
and spits on her husband whenever he passes
through the hall. She also spits on anyone who
comes to visit him, and on account of this and
her choice gift of swearing a prejudice, has arisen
against her in the diocese. But unluckily she
can’t be dislodged. Her afflicted guide and boss
reports that he did on one occasion go up and
attempt a remonstrance, but the flying handicap
which ensued downstairs between him and a
portable stove was one of the most remarkable
sporting events of the century ; the stove came in
a winner, and the parson, on his hands and knees,
was a bad second. Then a well-lighted spiritual
lantern in the shape of the bishop endeavoured to
mediate, but he also had cause to spread his wings
on the blast and do a hurried episcopal scoot, and
when a fierce policeman gor, up and hauled the
lady before a beak that old judicial flick said he
could not interfere The further developments of
this case promise to he the death of somebody and
a vacancy in the fold is confidently expected.
The gentlemanly blandness of the aver-
age young man “ in the drapery ” has gained him
a reputation for mildness, which wipes out the
turtle and leaves the cooing dove miles in the
rear, and the idea of ferocious cruelty by a party
in the ribbon department eeems wildly absurd.
But though Colin M‘Donald, of Melbourne, was
on 3 of the meekest-looking individuals who ever
sold a bright red handkerchief to a guileless
chump from the country, it would appear from
the evidence that the same individual, when busi-
ness hours were over, was an altogether different
kind of whale. At all events his wife has got a
divorce on the ground that the baby-linen man
blackened her eyes habitually, hit her over the
hands with his riding whip and broke her fingers,
beat her on the head with an umbrella, cut off her
hair and wiped up the floor with it, and for some
time kept her awake all night, and made her work
at sewing all day. Mrs. M‘Donald had some 15
years of this fun, and then she resigned her port-
folio for the home department, and fled from the
festive scene. She has since earned her own liv-
ing, and in her present humble home the floor is
not wiped up vdth her hair, while her husband
hasgotanother woman
to take running kicks
at, and a new umbrella
to flog her with
English papers are
beginning to comment
on the disappearance
of the bright blooming
girls who used to de-
corate the Salvation
Army. The spring
chickens of that holy
band are almost all
gone now, and their
place is taken by an
assortment of the
toughest and stringi-
est old hens on record.
This is evidently the
beginning of the end.
The attractive Hal-
lelujah lasses have
been worried out by
the uncouth love-mak-
ing of such saints as
Ash Barrel Jimmy and
Dead Cat Thomas, and
now these apostles
amuse themselves in
a dreary, listless way
by mashing the elderly
yellow girls who still
THE “GRAND
PATRIOTIC DE-
VICE.”
To be “included in
the programme.”
remain true to the cause.
The elderly girls enjoy
this, but to the apostles
themselves it is as insipid
as cold soup when com-
pared with the gorgeous
fun of the good old days,
and many of them are
dropping off and going on
the burgle again.
It is only at rare in-
tervals that we find a
corpse coming back wet
and shaking to argue a
point with his heir con-
cerning the disposal of the
deceased’s estate. In fact
our fixed resolve not to
bulge the truth compels us
to acknowledge that we
never did actually see such
a thing. At Tuapeka
, (N.Z.), however, the corpse property difficulty
seems to be actually in existence. Ah Mug, who
| resided there, lost some money, and it preyed on
his mind so much that he resolved to go and seek
| solace in eternity. Accordingly he bequeathed his
sticks to a cousin and walked into the cold and
slimy creek, but when the wild waters began to
swirl round the legs of this child of nature he
changed his mind and came out. By this timely
precaution he kept his shirt dry and it was as well
he did—there is no knowing what effect the un-
accustomed fluid would have had on the garment
—it might even have made it blow up. When he
got back, however, he found that in one short half
hour his cousin had boned everything under his
will, and when he went into his own house to dry
himself he was called a thief, a corpse, and an
idiot, and thrown out. He had even to borrow a
nether tog to go to law in, and the result up to
the time of writing is uncertain.
* * *
Mr. Large, of Cooyal, N.S. W., is enjoying
himself in his own dreary one-horse way while
a ghost is throwing bricks at him and his family.
Rocks and boulders come pouring into his house
in some mysterious style, sometimes drifting
through the roof, sometimes through the window
or down the chimney, and his horse has gone off
its feed through fright. Except the horse, how-
ever, no one is any the worse. Neither the
roof nor the window are damaged ; the stones
don’t hurt anybody, and except that they come
down on tbe floor w(th that “ dull, sickening
thud ” so familiar to readers of the Evening
Noose they make no noise. Now and then a
few chunks of mud lend variety to the scene, but
up to date the ghost hasn’t thrown anything use-
ful, such as legs of mutton, soup, boiled ham,
fowls, hash, or pants. This is only another in-
stance of the besotted stupidity that marks the
ordinary goblin on the loose.
The Rev. Mr. Chalmers, who long studied
the human form divine of New Guinea natives,
has been reading a paper at the London Colonial
Institute It seems that top-boots and blankets
for the heathen are not the leading feature of
Chalmer’s creed. He is opposed to rigging the nigs,
out in European fashion, “ except in those cases
where they would look perhaps a little more de-
cent in a loin cloth.” Observe that word “ per-
haps.” Even the question of a loin cloth makes
SOUDAN FIREWORKS.
MR. MOSES (to ex-member of
the Contingent “VELL, I CAN
SHUPPLY YOU MIT A GOM-
BLETE UNIFORUM FOR VON
NIGHT FOR FIVE SHKILLINGS
UND SHXPENCE I-SHWORD
UND ALL! MITOUT DE
SHWORD FIVE SHILLINGS!”
EX-CONTINGENT: “LET’S
SEE. THE REG’LAR PRICE OF
ADMISSION TO THE FIRE-
WORKS IS A SHILLING. I
THINK I SHALL GO AS PLAIN
BILL AND SAVE FOUR BOB.”
Chalmers pause, and he is convinced that a nigger
can die in the odour of sanctity without having a
shirt on. Phthisis lays its dread hand upon the
artless children of the forest who take to tourist
suits. “ Clothing natives,” says Chalmers, “is
nearly as bad as introducing spirits among them.”
We believe it is worse. In choosing between
strong drink and garments many bright geniuses
go right out for the rum and pawn their Sunday
pants to get it. Clothes are only vanity at the
best, while rum is a strong, burning fact. When
he classifies it as “bad” we must close our ears
to the voice of the Chalmers, but on the other
subject—tip us the trombone
He must be a sin-soaked scurrilous scoffer
who doubts the “ Church’s power for good ” when
a real live Archbishop arrays himself in the whole
armour of Righteousness and gets fairly on the
job. Few of you, dear friends, have any notion
of the good which a high placed churchman can
accomplish with a stroke of his pen. Away at
Beverley, Eng., is a tereweth factory run in honour
of St. Mary. Beverley seems to be a careless, go-
as-you-please, first-come-first-served sort of place,
and the churchwardens of St. Mary’s have allowed
worshippers to scramble for seats on the Sabbath
Day, under the heathenish impression that all
men are alike before God. The good Archbishop
of York—may he grow in grace !—was informed
of these goings-on, in a vision, or by post card,
and promptly called upon the erring wardens to
do their duty in that state of life, &c., and allot
seats to the parishioners “ according to their de-
gree.” Think of that ? Through the blessed
power of the Church to save, Beverley will now
pull itself together and stand upon its holy dignity.
Every man in the town wiH look into his own
heart, and ask himself where he ought to kneel
before the Throne of Grace. And when the opu-
lent grocer, or the butcher, who has succeeded to
the business ot his ancestors, takes up a promi-
nent position under the pulpit, he will gaze rever-
ently into his hat and murmur: “O, Loard! I
thank Thee that I am not as them hinferior per-
sons in the back seats.”
* * *
That poor flattened worm, the country
editor, is in it again. A South Australian genth -
man who wished to encourage local talent entered
into a contract with an agricultural celebrity wit 1
a genius for polished fiction, and started to lighte
the pages of his Archimedean lever with a thril •
ing tale. By the time the second instalment was
completed the characters in tho story consisted o:
six blonde inane females, as many young me
with moustaches, about ten moonstruck villains
and a good young man with consumption, an(
then the brain of the author gave out and he lef ;
his heroes standing. It took the editor thre
weeks to hunt up an airy sketcher who woult
undertake to continue the novel, and when th
new author reviewed his stock of 23 born fools h
found he could do nothing with them, sa he ran
t hem all into one room and opened a volcan
underneath and let them down. Isaiah Cohen
please copy.
* • *
A curious relic of byegone colonial dayslie
in the Campbelltown (N. S.W.) graveyard in th
shape of a tombstone erected to the memory of James
Ruse, who was the first man to sow a 6eed in th
oolony. From the inscription on the stone w
learn that this father of farming “ departed thi
life |September sth, in the year of Houre Lore
1837 ; natef of Cornwall, and arrived in the
coloney by the first fleet. Aged 77.
“ My mother reared me tenderly,
With me she took much paineß,
And when I arrived in the coloney
I sowed the forst grain, and now
With my Hevnly Father I hope
For ever to remain.”
James was evidently a worthy man, but he
couldn’t spell any better than a C.M.G. or
modern Minister for Mines.
A scientific correspondent writing to the
Melbourne Herald incidentally unearths a spark
ling idea for which he deserves to rank on the
top shelf amongst other philanthropists who have
done wonders to better the condition of their
fallow men, and leave this mundane mud bank
brighter and better than they found it. npeaking
of the sinful wastes that make woeful wants, am
keep the prices of useful commodities up higher
than a spire, he hits out thus-wise : “ Not only are
moonstruck fish, deceased dogs, stale vegetables
and other sources of incalculable treasures allowec
to wander a-down the fragrant Yarra, unheeded
as dross, but the bodies of our defunct relations
are also squandered by an improvident generation.
A man and a brother dies, and we, straightway
dab him into a hole where he can be of use neither
to man nor beast, and where he usurps valuable
hotel sites and cottage blocks. Thiß is a scanda-
lous squandering of raw material; by a simple
scientific process called dry, destructive distilla-
tion, those bodies, those moonstruck fish and stale
greens, and those dead dogs, could be turned into
an excellent, inflammable gas, and stored up for
illuminating our hearths and homes, and lighting
the city streets.” None but unreasonable, wrong-
headed corpses would object to being distilled into
a useful, combustible vapour and laid on to boil
the kettle, and fry the early chops, or supply mid-
night light to the weary scribe. Ail that is wanted
now is a limited liability company to take the
business in hand. The alcohol distilled from
dead poota, alone, would pay working expenses, if
a system for saving it could be applied. “ Tilly
turn on your Aunt Jane ; mother-in-law burns but
poorly to night.”
* • •
Ah Goon, an aged Celestial at the
Chinese camp, Wangaratta (Vic.), when mooning
about, lost in pleasant reverie, the other day
planted one of his splay-feet upon an irascible
black snake, which promptly turned, and bruised
his heel, according to scriptural dictum. The
Chow bruised the serpent’s occiput, ditto, ditto,
and then spread himself upon the sward to make
his peace with Joss. His friends and countrymen
gathered about him, but instead of loading him
to the muzzle with over-proof rum, and dragging
him in procession round town by one leg to the
martial strains of the kettledrum and the big
trombone, they minoed up the dead snake, and
poulticed the wound with the sausage meat, that
being, according to a hoary tradition of their race,
the only reasonable remedy for snake bite. But
Ah Goon gradually inflated, and died ere the mid-
night chime, a woeful monument of the ineftlcaoy
of pre-Adamite nostrums. He does not leave a
small wife and large family totally unprovided
for.
Thera are a good many new ways of collect-
ing middle-aged debts ; some of them are agree-
able to both parties, others are not. A few months
ago, for instanoe, a wealthy and exceedingly pious
Edinburgh lawyer had a tenant who was consider-
ably in arrear. He sent for this individual, but
instead of making any direct allusion to the
account, he read and expounded a chapter from
the Bible and then kindly offered his debtor a suit
of clothes. When the unlucky individual had
taken off his old suit, but before he had time to
put on the new one, the lawyer further asked him
to engage in prayer, and the fresh and verdant
youth knelt down beside a ohair, in his unolad
condition. Then, instead of offering up a petition,
the lawyer grabbed him, tied him to the chair,
and solemnly swished his exposed anatomy with
the patient’s own braces until he looked like a
map of Euiope with the outlines done in red.
This device, however, did not briDg in the rent, so
it must be set down as a failure. Another Scotch-
man at Auckland has met with better luok.
He was a small tradesman ; he was long, thin,
wrinkled, and tough ; he had a high respect for
the “ Sawbath ; ” and his accent was as broad as
the moaning, moist, malarious sea. One of the
nobs of creation had gone broke, and though there
was no sign of a dividend he resolved that his bill
for one and fourpence should be paid in full. Ao
oordingly he hung about his creditor’s office until
he saw him thrsugh the glass door engaged with
three gaudily dressed ladies, and then entering he
said,;’ Please, sir, can't you pay me that one-and-
four.” He was chucked out by the clerk, and the
ladies asked who that horrid man could be, but he
rolled up again when six gentlemen were present
and wailed, “ Oh, sir, surety you oan spare one-
and-fourpence.” This time he was lifted down
the stair in a dishevelled Scotch heap, but later in
the day the directors of a mining company were
holding a meeting in the offloe and he entered
snuffling, * ‘ Oh, Mr. , for God’s sake give me
Chalmers, we agree with you—
Every word you say is true
As the Gospel which, for many years, you’ve
preached ;
No sadder sight we know,
In this weary world of woe,
Than the wild, untutored savage newly breeched.
It were better he should drees
In a loin cloth, or less,
As he did before the missionaries came :
He is going to the dogs
Ever since he started “ togs ”
(Father Adam, you’ll remember, did the game).
So, we’ll let the native pray
In the good, old-fashioned way
Which provoked the holy missionary scorn—
Minus hat, or boots, or vest,
He shall find eternal rest,
And die as lightly clad as he was bom.
And Chalmers, by the bye,
Their is little reason why
Your doctrine shouldn’t spread among us all,
Till “ togs ” of every kind
Are abandoned by mankind,
And we dress as Adam did before the Fall
Yea, converted let us be
By the natives, Mr. C.,
And live upon a better sort of plan :
F or flannel next the skin
Cannot keep a cove from sin,
And the tailor doesn’t make the Christian man.


that one andfourpence.” He got half-a-orown ;
this time, and as this dividend amounted to about
38s. in the £, which is good enough for anybody
in these hard times, he called at that office no
more.
* * * j
When the s.s. Hauroto loft Auckland at *
the close of the annual races a few weeks ago she
was filled up with frowsy-looking spielers on the ;
hunt for fre-h flats and greenhorns new, and these
shifty thimble-riggers and billiard-sharps started
as usual to make their passage-money out of their
thick-headed fellow-travellers Accordingly, they -
brushed up their morkey and put new vigour into
their goose, and througn the cantankerGusnes3 :
of these scheming beasts, who always picked out s
the marble that nobody had bet upon, they gra- j
dually cleaned out the crew until there was only j
one nickel watch chain left among the whole j
crowd. Then the sons of the briny deep flung the '
monkey overboard, and he heaved his last leg .
beneath the bounding billows. Also they spiic j
the goose into the rolling billows, but the un-
happy bird swam after the steamer and raised an
unseemly row until the captain came up to inquire
into the matter. He gave the spielers live minutes
to return the coin with the alternative of going
overboard to join their gong bird, and when they
had squared up, the total profits of the trip were
not worth talking about..
He had filpd his schedule, and he came up
for examination with the bland smile of a man
who has been taking the oath hot with a lump of
sugar in the tumbler. His statement of accounts
looked like the footprints of a kangaroo which had
been scared out of a mud-hole and had lit on a
dinner table, and when the judge turned them
over he found the papers had been travelling in
the same pocket with an orange and a fruit pie,
and had been sat upon. He gave it up in despair.
“ Look here, Mr. Bigphool,” he said, “ can’t you
make an offer ?” “ No, shir, can’t poshibly do it.”
“But I cfm’t see how you got to be so dreadfully
involved,” said the judge, “ Can’t you show
some kind of a synopsis to explain where the
money has gone to?” “ Show yer a shnopshis,”
said the debtor with his widest smile. “ Does yer
llon’r take me for a bloomin’ patnyrammer?
Kount’s all p’f’kly krekt. Whatdyewant more ?”
He got his certificate. The way of the bankrupt
is easy in these colonies.
A Collapsed Panorama.
Some years ago an enterprising firm, consisting of
a one-eyed Jew and a demoralised Yankee, used
to flit through Victoria, from one liitle pokey
township to another, with a gorgeous panorama,
exhibiting their instructive and amusing show
wherever they thought there was a probability of
a draw. It was a worldly-wise firm, and had on
hand two sets of views—one a series of scenes
from the lives of the prophets to suit the godly,
the other a sort of variety exhibition of extremely
droll pictures calculated to make the thoughtless
sinners writhe and double in laughing h} steria.
This latter entertainment pandered to the tastes
of the unrighteous, and was best patronised when
shown in the billiard-room of a pub. On such oc-
casions Ricketson and Marks (the firm) posed as
sparkling low comedians, and knocked the
yahoos silly with their ungovernable hilarity.
But it was upon their chaste array of Bible patri-
archs that they chiefly Belied, a truly moral and
touching display, representing Moses, a tawny,
shaggy veteran with a fiery eye, and a probosis
that gleamed and glowed like the crimson dawn,
arrayed in a patchwork quilt; and the other patri-
archs, brilliant curios, in purple and gold. This
show was much admired by the back-block Press,
and well patronised by the clergy and laity of the
little one-horse towns, so that Ricketson and Marks
seldom had to resort to the profane slides to re-
plenish an exhausted exchequer. The scenes from
the lives of the prophets were always trotted out
in Sunday School buildings, and were usually
advertised by the local parson. Then the gifted
management went into seedy black suits and
boiled shirts, and were becomingly staid and
reverential. But the firm had one regretable fail-
ing, it was addioted to beer. Ricketson and Marks
looked on .the ale while it frothed, at times, a
weakness which escaped the knowledge of their
god-fearing patrons for some years, but which
eventually precipitated a calamity that ruined
their prospects in the role of Scriptural panorama
artiats. They were billed to exhibit the prophets
in the Wesleyan Chapel of a holy village near
Ballarat. The show was to be under the distin-
guished patronage of a J. P., a parson, and all the
chapel elders; and the gifted management antici-
pated a big house. So Ricketson drank good luck
to Marks, and Marks drank good luck to Ricketson,
and vice versa, and so on till the gifted manage-
ment was decidedly squiffy. Pjjofessor Marks faced
the crowded and discriminating audience that
night with his knowledge of Bible biography
shrouded in a haze of alcoholic fumes, but
he posed himself with the gravity of a stuffed
owl, in his wonted position, his blind side
towards the sheet and his hand thrust be-
tween the buttons of his vest. The audience was
composed chiefly of Sunday scholars, and their
pas and mas, a solemn and austere crowd. An
intelligent small boy, hired for the occasion, doused
the glims, and rang a hand-bell, which was the
signal for Ricketson to stir up, and start to reel
off the scenery, which that gentleman did in a
sleepy, careless way. The first picture that
flashed upon the canvas pourtrayed a highly
ooloured Moses travelling down a perpendicular
grade, with a colossal tomb-stone under each arm.
Marks, who knew the whole show by rote, and
never troubled to glance at a pioture, shook him-
self up, and said : “Ladies and gentlemen,—Our
first scene is an artistic and trustworthy delinea-
tion of the patriarchal Moses descending the
mount, with the tablets of stone upon which were
graven the Commandments for our guidance and
well-being in this fleeting sphere of sin and
sorrow, and he launched out into a
monotonous oration, while hushed expres-
sions of approval came from the spectators.
Swish! and. another picture occupied the sheet.
Marks cleared his throat, and continued in the
same cadence : “ Here we have a beautiful illus-
tration of an incident in the life of Moses. He
hhd been commanded to take from each of the
Princes of the children of Israel a rod, and set
them in the temple, and it should come to pass
that the nod of the man whom the Lord should
choose to still the rebellious Israelites would bud
and. bloom ; and it come to pass that Aaron’s rod,
among all the rods of the tribes, only flourished.’’
There was a good deal of apparent uneasiness
amongst the audience before Marks had got this
far ; the patrons shifted in their seats nervously,
and sighed heavily. Something was out of order.
The drunk and incapable mud-head behind the
scenes was evidently getting mixed. The picture
which glared before the shocked audience repre-
sented a grotesque caricature of a pedagogue
dangling an abnormal headed youth across his knee,
and dusting the bust of his pants with a willow -
switch. The youth squirmed like a skinned
eel on a hot plate, and the solemn matrons in the
crowd had to spank their kids to keep them from
grinning out loud in the heat of their feelings.
But Professor Marks didn’t notice anything shady ;
he finished his piece about the rod that flourished
with dirge-like solemnity and due effect, and
when the bibulous bat behind whisked in another
slide he let out again : “ This, ladies and gentle-
men, is a magnificent work of art ; it represents,
with touching realism, the story of Balaam and
his ass,” and the professor ambled through his
dry. old well-worn rendering to the bitter end.
Not a sound came from the musty pietists in
front, they stared before them with a stony stare,
and appeared about as dumbfounded as a tom-cat
with his head wedged into a salmon tin. The
gorgeous illustration on the canvas displayed a
lank, lean mule in the act of kicking a corpulent
nigger exactly in the bosom, with spasmodic
action. The next slide shadowed forth a wily
house-father of Hebrew caste and peculiar build
secreting a length of machine belting up his back
and endeavouring to decoy his wayward little boy
within mauling distance. Moss livened up again,
cleared his neck, and sailed in : “ Here Joshua is
depicted ordering the orb of day to tarry in its
wondrous course. The commanding attitude of
the Prophet is .” But it was too much for
those staid old Puritans. The parson and the J.P.
and the elders upended, and after informing Mr.
Marks, with awful impressiveness, that he was an
iniquitous scoffer and a blaspheming infidel stalked
solemnly out. This struck the orator as peculiar,
and he swung round to bring his solitary eye to
play upon the view, and gazed for a moment like
one smitten, then uttering a wild wail of bitter
profanity he streaked behind the scenes and
clutched his drowsy partner by the hair and
held him up, “ You gory drunkard !” he howled ;
“Is that the prophet Joshua commanding the sun
to stand still ? Is that Bible history ? Look, yon
miserable wretch! —look 1 ” And, forthwith, Marks
struck Ricketson a one-er on the nose, and the
firm went at it; it thumped, and clawed, and
foamed, and swore, ft rally careering through the
scene, off the stage, bang on to the floor, where
the partners were soothed by a remnant of the
audience. That was the last time the firm of
A HAPPY CHANCE FOR LARCEVISTS.
STREET ARAB No. 1: “GO IN BILL AND NAB SOME OF THEM SMOKES. THEY
CAN’T DO NOTHIN' TO YER UP AT THE COURTS TILL THEY GETS MORE
JUDGES.”
“The present Judges of the Supreme Court aver that some cases must stand over indefinitely
unless more Judges are appointed.” —Sydney Globe.
Ricketson and Marks exhibited their highlyinstruc-
tive and chaste scenes from the lives of the pro-
phets. The feud was never healed, and the com-
pany sold its property and disbanded, but the
incident remained in the memory of the resi-
dents of that holy little village near Ballarat
for many days.
The ruthless iconoclast is on the warpath
again, and that grand old institution, the Aus-
. tralian shearer, seems likely to be wiped out in
one act. A sheep-shearing machine has been in-
vented by a Mr. Wolseley, of Victoria, and a trial
gallop at the new notion was recently given at
Euroka station before a large assembly of Shep-
herd Kings. A number of jumbucks underwent
the operation, which occupied from 3 to 4J
minutes, and each animal was turned out like a
I clipped horse without being injured in the least.
| There is no second cut required, every particle
coming off whole and clean. A unanimous vote
of approval of the invention was passed by those
present.
In New Zealand, the drink bill which, a
few years ago, amounted to £2O per head of the
population, has now decreased to £3 10s. per head.
Another return shows that in the same colony
there is an excess of 43,572 males over females.
Does this preponderance of males account for the
phenomenal sobriety of the colony 3
A correspondent writes : “ Dear Bulle-
tin, —During the polling day at Carcoar, that able
diplomatist, Mrs. Garland, wife of one of the can-
didates, made herself unusually conspicuous by
appearing in a somewhat fantastic dress with the
word ‘ Freetrade ’ embroidered in large green
letters across the breast! —Yours, &c., H.M.”
This fact goes a long way to account for Garland’s
majority. When lovely woman grips the polit’cal
situation it must give way or bust.
In England there are 429 building societies
which own up to deficits aggregating £120,000.
A Sydney paper exults over the fact that no looal
societies “ show deficits.” Of course they don’t
show them ; no more did Dibbs show his product
in that line till it couldn’t be hidden any longer.
The fastest postal time on record. A
letter containing a cheque for £75 addressed hy i
the Revd. J. S. Alnnough, to the Revd. E. S.
Bickford, of Daylesford (V.), over eleven years
ago has just been discovered in the General Post
Office, Melbourne. It appears to have slipped
| through a crack in the sorting table. Since it 3
discovery the floor has been worn away under-
| neath that table by the vigorous brooms of the
[ disgusted sweepers.
Imo Pectore.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A knot of dead roses crushed on her breast,
Crushed ’mongst the lace of her ball-room gown;
A bunch of red roses in sweet unrest
Rocked on her heart throbs up and down.
And I stood in the garden and watched her there,
Queen of them all with her turquoise eyes,
And banded tresses of golden hair,
Bright as the sunlight— soft as sighs.
And X envied the roses their favoured place,
Crushed to her throat so soft and bare—
Crushed in confusion amongst the lace
With one or two blood-red buds in her hair !
And I envied the roses their sweet abode
As I stood on the lawn with the moon above,
While inside the strains of “ Auf Immer” flowed
In their throbbing cording of hopeless love !
When out of an open door she stept
She bade them leave her—just for a whim,
And strolled where the fountain sprayed and
leapt,
And laughed and leant on its marble brim.
And I stept from the shadow into the shine,
And fell on my knees at her lightsome feet,
And I trembled as one who is drunk with wine,
And I murmured only “ My Love'! my Sweet!”
And a blood-red rose fell out of her dress,
As she touched me with her gloved finger tips,
And raised me with a half-given caress
On my bowed down head, with her crimson lips !
And I envied no more the favoured place
The dying red roses held on her breast
Crushed in the torrents of filmy lace,
Rocked on her heart in a sweet unrest!
INA M. W.
THIS WICKED
WORLD
Things are booming in Queensland, and
next year every inhabitant of the colony, from the
premier down to the freshly arrived twins, will he
called on to pay £3 as his or her share of interest
in loans. We reckon some great men will have to
go without boots A cow in the Bega (N.S.W.)
district has just produced three calves at one
birth. Is any further proof of the conspicuous
benefits of Freetrade required? Let the Vic-
torians trot out a protected cow that is able to
produce triplets if they can Townsville (Q )
has a Mayoral deadlock. There are six aldermen
for one candidate and half-a-dozen for the other.
What’s the matter with the dice or the euchre-
packs up there that they can’t come to a deliberate
decision on the question ? An advertiser in the
S.M. Herald wants information as to the where-
abouts of Ann Drinkin. In the case of a woman
with a name like that he ought to apply at the
house of some respectable licensed victualler
The Lancet says that rheumatism can be cured
by putting the feet inside an oven. But what’s
the use of telling this to a Melbourne girl ? The
Lancet did not take the size of a Melbourne girl’s
feet into consideration, or it would have substi-
tuted “liot-house” for “ oven.” The Melbourne
coroner, assisted by an assorted dozen of intelli-
gent and enlightened eitizens, had just put the
finishing touch on an inquest over some male re-
mains which were found drowned. They had
brought deceased in guilty of suicide with intent,
when a relative of the found-drowned’s galloped
in with a document from a well-known local
medico, certifying that the man died of apoplexy.
A Dunedin woman sold her wash-tub to a
party of riflemen for a target. They paid her for
it, and after they had gone home she went out
into the field and brought it back as good as ever
it was.
“ It is understood that Miss 8., of St.
Louis, who eloped„a fortnight ago, is making a
pedestrian tour of New Hampshire,” wrote a
Chicago journalist who had witnessed the fresh
footprints of Barnum’s Jumbo “ Violet, dear-
est, do you play that tune often ? ” asked Hugh
Montressor of his affianced. “ Yes, pet; and
when we are married I’ll play it every day.” Then
Hugh went out and shuddered himself to death.
A Newcastle (Eng.) fishmonger advertises for
“a boy to open oysters 15 years old.” Any self-
respecting oyster would open itself years before
that age Young lady (in bookseller’s) : “a.
volume of poetry, please.” Clerk : “ Yes, ma’am.
Er—what author?” Young Lady: “Oh! I don’t
care anything about the author, but the cover
must harmonise with a table with a red-plush
top.” “ Mother, it is no use ; I can never love
Mr. Sprowler.” “ Well,” said the mother, look-
ing at her with surprise, “ that is no reason why
you should not marry him.” During 1886 the
number of paupers in Irish workhou?es increased
by 12 per cent., and the number of those in receipt
of outdoor relief by 50 per cent. The actual in-
crease of paupers for the year was 264,357. Nice
place Ireland The New York courts have de-
cided that trade rino'S to keep up the price of any
commodity are illegal, and that any partners can-
not be called to account by the other partners con-
cerned So strong is the anti-German feeling in
France that none of the chief Parisian toy-shops
will now purchase toys made across the border.
But French patriotism is not proof against German
beer which still finds a ready market The
American Maxim gun, upon a recent trial, fired at
the rate of 666 shots a minute . The bullets are
Martini-Henry size, and have a long range
A yacht race across the Atlantic is projected, the
course to be from Sandy Hook to Queenstown.
A New Jersey (U.S.) man left Henry George a
legacy of £l5OO recently, but he refused to accept
the sum on hearing that the widow was not suffi-
ciently provided for “Thompson—murdered,”
is the brief inscription on a grave in Tennessee
(U.S.) “ Parkes—bowled hout,” is another that
will soon be wanted in N.S.W Lady Miles and
the rest of the Colin-Campbell crowd are being
immortalised in comic song. ‘‘ I made a note of it
in my prayer-book,” is the refrain of the new
music-hall ditty Some London students recently
pelted their examiner with the eggs left in last
year’s nest, because he succeeded in plucking
them at examination “Church carriages” arc
to be added to railway trains on Sunday in Russia,
to enable railway officials and others to attend
religious service on those days. They are getting
on in Russia “To take food is no crime,” is
the formula of the latest addition to the London
Socialist’s creed. The police have a lot to say in
opposition to this doctrine at present, but so far
assertions of the principle have not been severely
punished Winkelmeyer, the Austrian giant, is
Bft. 9in. high, more than a foot higher than Chang.
Smith (with effusion) : “ Hello, Brown, is that
you? I heard you were drowned.” Brown (with
sadness): “ No, it was my brother.” Smith
(thoughtlessly) : “ What a pity.” The pews in
Henry Ward Beecher’s church were auctioned in
January for £5565, an increase of £l7O on last
year’s rates From these figures we conclude that
Henry must have rather a good billet An
English defendant has been cast in damages for a
libel written on a postcard asserting that the
police were chasing the plaintiff From the
’Frisco Judge :—“ A Chicago clergyman says he
would as soon go to a disreputable house on in-
vitation as to the opera. There is a frankness of
confession here which is greatly to be regretted.”
lt is the poker player who carries everything
with a high hand The Jubilee of Railways is
to be celebrated in France this year with much
grandeur and imposing effects. That is, of course,
in the absence of an invasion by Germany The
English Radicals are going to hold an anti-jubilee
demonstration this year. The precise form which
the affair is to take has not yet been decided
An authority on the cuisine says that duck ought
not to stand long after being roasted. Probably
it would do no harm to let the duck sit up if he
isn’t too tired, but it shouldn’t be allowed to swim
in the gravy Man was created first. Woman
was a sort of recreation.


CANDIDATE FOR THE
OPPOSITION LEADERSHIP
P“ TT ;
MelVilLE
Decause of
C,I?EAT OEI3ATIKC^
v POWERS
/pOL" A' >
011385.
\
*
llx J
k
y . Al/ss / an\ rne PK> f
/ Cone fitot* A
W'j/ih
Wau(ek .
BECAME I
PARKtS HEAD OFF
AT VY'ALUSENI)/''
j m
IW ra»|
wy mak w »
CffcvrD. EVEM CLARK6V
, i mii >
mmm
ig&(
HSUne
HHBtyAK-r
Mpfe
5^


feMPf 8^ 11 '
only
Ti IE BAR
'Me aenuS AczrrrA//,
* tie o/ modem
cMoAement T.ffatT /o<Aeed™dd.
/ X ' S ZS^ti^or^tiryti
tieons „ you no i o „ >c /The ad
tieetii O'Ao d ecO J 3 ,
Ortr/nq fa de raTAez Sr r /<rreyu/a•'<>/*s.
" T/re crAsen ce o/ ha ren tin f Confwl /"
a//eases Teems Oo faeor /he 0/Cense
cor Ay arArcPfourty Oac/s use Therr O/herOy.
drs Teems To A am/' 7b The eemtr/y
"TO f/rears ti me tiaArrt many Cases fie ed-
UcJL o/ CtMrc* «4~e
P a r e„Os das /W. tiy „
Co Cen/emfad *fa
tiOrS. do, fofan/s /> c/r rec/ron /
nemer/y.
Lfa ffa J\ Uj'Uer f/it /mpress/on /ha/'
V3> <T- —i rAe SerctO afforded mMe
csuesAu/j o//Jre Cr/y /ae/rretq
p/ucesfor /A e M/dcAteytM/S, l A a'fe
b/S/Aef frtrmel C/ncT tire
Oe rfA Oor/iryoc/ o/- fae/rrrre
fafj i/A tic c/zc/tt/- Uee no /u r //A/nS
/O' UOe nr s 7~oe / 3 cr*
fe/y ,0/e « / ,/yU. /- a
> j/cr r /~*> d /ey
atir/rr s/l c/u S 7ffaf Can// /fa a/e $
facerjy e/y /a /fane of /a r/yfa-/ffS,
f /far/,$ 7/rCt y fae /7(C e 4c t 7-ey CO-cf
i*oe/s J
' Dapc/rif tin farm 5
Shou/d tie dosed, or/fa
ati/ofed fa yt/m/e.
fert/or Mew tiers of
fa e/roface dtioatdtie j
aufaorfaec/fa fa/tie
Ctiarye
mates under /% |
yaerso/dye cotio
faurutifatiefaere
found urzaceo/nM
tied tiyufaureu/.
red 77ui/~ ■ ?
/rers down oa?*rof//ng and dtc <**t*y6
f/a.l jbamstome/t S' of ctfraoho/i of y.
TyZnt A m ff'fff
J^/orloo
,*o*o*7 u rtt art /a On, cj
'C/W/e/y mere c7an ? *r* i/ s 7c ftc 4 es/-
trr7ere//S a/ 7A e roan/ry /4« r,
k /7 /e r emedy „ ‘S^
co/7/c/> /r/orec/ cffce/ctctj try ~
One case rm*/]A Are frvet/
rr>7/,e o77jer
> <*W tu me ftese rfe/ctS/* eft**/** <**”*»*
/eft'cer? /arr/A/nnm /O 7se sAee/s an*/ Zar7r4m/Jtrr
/> rfe Ttfer// *. Tnenfcry CAu-rft-AfX
7 J-r.r, <,».?» ft- A*,*n 7}>‘"t*97/
"fts e&*Uvs /"/&rn ce
Z/pAZas a c/e/errenZ Za*
fuceesZec/ ft • ,
'' cc/77 yc /arfoer eyt*&-
Jiff ye 7rf*>/~ /arr/fr"* Ze
ficrtt /i>e//e</ 7b carry ft r e <7
&n.<a£
fav'/tOfrs JZuM ft *>«,//-
Conte/ j/T/ftci ,/mo cthtqsfment - tvAeTher
k'/S/Zo 7-j f/roaicj/>ro t ''*? e v&k. rrrusrt, £\>rcC
Om u sem* > nfj c<re znarfers cf&/cc/t t __
Mr. Burton Bradley on Larrikins.


Society
Dress suits as worn in Paris now are made
all in one piece. The waistccat has no baca, the
ahem, shirt has nothing except front and one set
of buttons fixes the whole suit on This arrange w
ment has the merit of keeping the various por-
tions of garments in their right places, and the
further advantage of ease in disrobing when the
gentle dude has been overcome by th’heat of sh
evenish.
Lady Colin Campbell has scornfully
denied the report that she intends to go
on to the stage. This seems a strange de-
cision. The use of giving publicity to a huge
domestic shine i 3 not apparent, if the fame ac-
quired is not to be chopped up afterwards in lots
to suit theatrical purchasers. Mrs. Langtry
would never have made her rocket-like rise in the
profession if imputed indiscretions had not given
her a magnificent thing in the free ad. line. Lady
Colin is throwing away a real good thing As
heroine in dramas of a severely moral character
she would take well and give pleasure to all the
bald-heads in London, and in Sydney she would
just be a national rapture of blizzard like inten-
sity. * * *
A well-known Sydney judge, while on
a recent circuit down North, fell in love with the
housemaid of a local pub. With this charming
creature his Honor made an appointment to meet
him “in the gloamiDg” in a paddock adjacent to
the township. As this most excellent judge
has a lively reputation, a young man who was
engaged to the girl did not quite see the eternal
fitness of the arrangement, so he got himself up
in dress, bonnet, veil, &c., met the amorous pre-
server of law and order, and knocked the eternal
stuffing out of him in one round. P. S. —This is a
sporting item.
We quote from London Life : “ Her
Royal Highness the Princess Beatrice and the
Empress of Austria have accepted copies of Lady
Burton’s edition of the 4 Arabian Nights.” What
a Zola-esque picnic these two young persons are
about to enjoy ! This particular edition is war-
ranted to be free from any expurgation whatever.
* * *
As the hirsute prophet is not without
honour save in his own country, so the Australian
politician is not without the title of “ Honorable ’
save and except when he remains within sight
of tho wig-warns of his forefathers. Mr. R. B.
Smith, of Sydney and the Macleay, is a case in
point. He was haloed w.th no title so long as he
remained on Australian mud, but the aristocracy
of the universe insisted on dubbing him the
“ Honorable ” as soon as he landed in England.
That’s what comes of having the appearance and
deportment of princes. Mr. Smith must be con-
sidered as eminently lucky in escaping the
title of Marquis while on his foreign tour.
To be dubbed Baron Smith was certainly the least
he could expect, but the exponents of culture in
England with a moderation that ever accompanies
good-breeding seem to have been satisfied to allot
the title of Honorable —without the colony—to
their favoured guest.
Naval men possibly finding the salt sea
too frigid, have a singular and remarkable apti-
tude for getting into hot water. The Victorian
service, conducted under colonial auspices, has
hitherto been kept within its proper hearings by
Captain Thomas, between whom, however, and
Captain Fullarton, of the Harbour Trutt, Com-
mander of Naval Brigade, there has always ex-
isted a strained relationship, if not hostility. On
the departure of the first named officer for Eng-
land, Captain Fullarton, next on the list, was of
necessity deputed to his place, although Com-
mander Collins was clearly indicated both by
character and acquirements for the post. Captain
Fullarton will be fortunate if his impetuosity
does not land him into some awkward trouble
before he resigns the reins. His latest ex-
citement is the contention for a plot of land on
which he is in the habit of drilling his men, but
claimed by a local body of sportsmen, and the
curious spectacle was recently afforded of an officer
holding the Queen’s commission harangiiing his
men, and claiming their support in the event of a
fracas likely to arise from a dispute as to the
meum and tuum of this ground.
The professional etiquette of the musical
world is a science in itself, but it does not equal in
soul-destroying rigidity the etiquette of the medico-
military profession. Victoria furnishes an instance
in proof of this estimate. One of the compara-
tively few doctors in Melbourne, properly qualified
to affirm his prefix by the affix of M.D., who is
also Brigade Surgeon to the Forces—a title as-
sumed by him in preference to the magic initials
P.M.0., recently applied for nine months’ leave of
absence. “Very well,” said the commandment;
“ but pray, Dr. Fulton, how are you going to pro-
vide for the discharge of your duties during your
absence i” Now, it unfortunately happens that
the Surgeons-Major of the Militia are, with one
exception, the junior on the list, either non-resi-
dent, incompetent, or old fogyish, or all com-
bined. Under these circumstances the Brigade
Surgeon naturally nominated the only man who
•had any knowledge of ambulance work, and dire
is the confusion existing in consequence. The
nominee, disgusted at the professional antagonism
he encountered, has declined to serve ; none of his
seniors are available, and no member of the pen-
sion staff can be appointed, it being laid down in
the Queen’s Regulations that such an appointment
can only be made from the staff of Surgeons-
Major, the person on whom it ia conferred having
served six months Thus it seems possible that
the “boss” of the medical staff may have his
leave refusfd after all, and have to go on physic-
ing his patients as heretofore instead of lounging
in the Row, or setting a good Victorian example
in the Ladies’ Mile.
Her Majesty, having considered the con-
duct of General Butler in connection with the
Colin Campbell case, is said to have determined
that he has “ done nothing to call for any ex-
pression of royal displeasure.” For one thing it’s
not so long since Wales was mixed up in a cause
less clean than celebrated, so that the Queen oan
scarcely afford to be too particular about these
affairs. The Duke of Cambridge, on the other
hand, is much displeased with the General’s con-
duct, and will express his disapproval officially.
The pure and brilliant record of the Duke has
made him a censorious critic in the matter of
social lapses.
* * *
An “ad. ” from a Sydney daily :
“ JJOARD and Residence.—E. A. 8., Box 911, adver-
tising yesterday, wishes to know whether good
food can be guaranteed ; does not care much about
piano or splendid views, but is anxious to live in a hose
(sic) where his wants and health a e studied.”
E. A. B’B. colossal intellect sticks out a foot. He
evidently knows that victuals are the basis of all
true greatness, that three lakes and a waterfall
arc nowhere in comparison with a hard-boiled
egg, and that a panorama of heavenly beauty is,
for all practical purposes, worth considerably less
than an earthly pork pie. The world is full of
shams, but of them all there is none that can be
compared to the boarding-house with a piano and
a splendid view. It is there that tho flies get into
the milk, and the baby’s morocco shoe turns up at
the bottom of the hash. The footprints of the cat,
too, are visible on the butter, the kitten inserts her
saving clause in the meat, the landlady is always
dyspeptic, and the boarder is mashed and winked
at by elderly yellow girls of 65. E. A. B. is
evidently not going to be gobbled up by any of
these aged virgins who drop on a man when he is
rendered irresponsible through hunger and carry
him off in a spring-van to the altar, and his ex-
cited reference to hose leads us to suspect that
a good, plain fifteen-bob-a-week establishment is
more in his line. A man who talks publicly of his
stockings isn’t fit to live in a place where there is
a piano and a splendid view.
* * *
A recent cable says : 4 ‘ The Earl of Dun-
raven will visit Australia in the Spring.” Natur-
ally enough everyone is excitedly asking : “ What
has he done? Who is the plaintiff?” Beyond
the fact of his being an ex-Under-Secretary for
the Colonies we know nothing whatever against
the Earl. The cause of his intended visit is there-
fore enshrouded in Mystery.
It appeared in the 4rgus, along with
much other matter equally exhilarating “ A
governess wanted, matriculated, ladies’ school,
Latin required, home accomplishments , £l5 a
year.”
POOR BOY!
'-Rom Th£ S . M H.March
The police at the Dartingburot Station are anxiou*
»o lcaro tile address 0/ Mrs. J. V. Hall, l ate of Auck-
land. Now Zealand, her #ou Harry Smith, a bov
about 43 years of age. haring arr.vod from the colony
aamod in a destitute condition, a few days ago.
i m<, Pom'fjTuf
r Hc Hopes That
° F t\\<- Fft W fvjAY
i HIM-
Lord Carington arrived in Melbourne per
express about 11 o’clock on Thursday morning.
He spent the day at Flemington races, and the |
evening in study—of the odds, and other things. I
Friday was devoted to visits and acquiring
“information” of a useful character —from lead
ing horse-owners and others. On Saturday he did
the races again, and returned to Sydney by the
evening express Considering the work His
Excellency gets through, it isn’t surprising to hear
that the home authorities intend to send out more
colonial governors of “ Lord Carington’s stamp.”
Some rather queer names are mentioned as being
on the list, by the way. Lord Disgustus only fed
chickens, but it may be found that the future
representatives of the Crown will be men skilled
in plucking “ pigeons.” This has no reference to
Haron Bob. There is nothing of the chicken or
the pigeon about him.
* * *
When Lord Carington and the attendant
’orty noblemen arrived in Melbourne the other
day, Black Maria, the prison van, was drawn up
by the station in waiting. His Excellenoy ac-
knowledged the oompliment, but preferred to
walk. Thanks, very much!
The next Intercolonial lawn-tennis tourna-
ment will start on Sydney Association Cricket
Ground on the 2nd of May.
Mr. H. Romilly, C.M.G., Miss Romilly,
and Earl Cairns are in the R.M.S. Garonne, which
will shortly arrive In Sydney.
Mr. and Mrs. Skaratt, Carlton, Summer
Hill, gave a most enjoyable dance at Nlthsdale on
Thursday last in honour of the approaching mar-
riage of their daughter, Miss Emily Skaratt, with
Mr. Fred. M’Quade. Between two and three
hundred guests were present.
* * *
The members of the Australian and Union
Club, Sydney, intend giving a Benedicts’ Ball some
time in April, probably in the Easter week.
Bishop and Mrs. Barry with the Bishop’s
Chaplain (the Rev. R. Relton), and the two
Masters Barry, left Sydney on Friday by R. M. S.
Carthage for London.
The 4 ’ Zither ” is to be the popular musical
instrument of the near future. Residents of the
suburbs are loading their little shot-guns so as to
be in due readiness.
Wanted, a governess, tidy and neat,
Grounded in Greek and in Latin,
She must peel the potatoes and dish up the meat,
Then sit down to table in satin;
She must teach the piano as well as the harp,
To a score of fair pupils bewitchin’—
And rise every morning at six o’clock sharp,
To make up the fire in the kitchen.
Wanted, a governess ! Write out the ad.,
And let it appear ina" daily”—
Lots of young persons are only too glad
To get such a job in Australy ;
Would W. Shakespeare ask “ What's in a name?”
Nowadays, when a lady engages,
As “ govern ess,” one who does more t han the same
As a servant, for half of her wages ?
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Herr Krupp is the richest man in Prussia.
His income is set down as £250,000, and his yearly
donation by way of tax is £7475.
Ebenezer Ward, Chairman of Committees
in South Australia, has been declared insolvent.
Ebenezer is a good man, however, and will soon
be on his feet again.
The wife of a Williamstown (Vic.) man
has presented him with triplets, in commemora-
tion of the 50t.h year of the reign of Her Most
Gracious Majesty the Queen.
The jury in the Colin Campbell case by
their verdict assert that the parties must continue
to live together. This isn’t quite so bad as being
burnt alive, but it’s a terrible punishment.
Lord Randolph Churchill and Mr. Henry
Chaplin were not reconciled when the last English
mail left. They indulged in some specimens of
oratory ala Parkes on the 17th January, and
sulks supervened.
Lord Cairns, according to a London society
paper, is going out on a whale-hunting expedition
duriDg the year. The same iournal says that
“ whales are very fine and very large off the coast
of New Guinea.” This is very true, but they are
a very long way off.
Baron Hilton, of England, was the last to
follow the ancient fashion of keeping a profes-
sional fool on the premises. It would be a good
thing if the practice were revived. It would at
least afford remunerative employment for the
younger sons of England’s aristocracy.
A few years ago a gallant British Rear-
Admiral emigrated to Dunedin (N.Z.) and in-
vested £16,000 as a partner in a plumber's and
gasfltter’s business in that city. He has since
succeeded in dropping nearly the whole of the
amount, and gone back to England to betake him-
self to his own old trade.
Lady Harberton is again on the rational
dress rampage, lecturing in London on the evil
effects of ladies’ dress as at present worn. Lady
H. would excite a lot more enthusiasm if she de-
voted her attention to that portion of ladies’ dress
which is not worn ; we mean the part that is left
at home when evening dress Is de rigueur.
The “Hon.” Shirley Baker, the tyrant
of a section of the Tongese just now, has a solid
reason for his hyginx amongst the Wesleyans, for
somewhere in the remote he was a follower of
Wesley himself, but, owing to some unseriptnral
conduct, he was politely requested to resign. The
Wesleyans most probably lament in sackcloth and
ashes now, because they didn’t overlook his eccen-
tricities.
The Melbourne Presbytery has risen up in
its wrath and suspended Pastor Dods—the Indi-
vidual who said his parsonical brethren had not
even the common instincts of gentlemen. The
Presbytery, however, did not sling its official dead
cat at the lighting brother until he was far away
on the bounding billow, and hitting a man after
he has gone is about as mean as hitting an orphan
when the fatherless one is down.
King James ll.’s brains have turned up in
Paris, and it is suggested that the British nation
ought to buy up the relic and plant it in a
museum, or make a jubilee present of it to Prince
Albert Victor, who is sadly in want of something
to finish off his bottle-shaped shoulders. Some of
the late monarch’s digestive organs are also to the
fore and will be thrown in with the brains. The
balance of James is missing, for it seems he was
buried all over Europe, and except an apocryphal
hind leg the rest of him can’t be traced.
Billy Miles, the Queensland Minister for
Works, is not a lawyer—not even an amateur
one. He was trying to prove the other day in
Court that a gold-mining company (of which he
was a section) wanted a lease to erect machinery,
&c., when the lawyer on the other side asked him
was there a clause re selling the property. “ Why,
you ought to know when you drew it up,” said
William. ‘‘That’s what I want,” chuckled the
lawyer, “If you hadn't mentioned that I couldn’t
have touched on it.”
An interesting history of the life of Verdi
the composer has just been published in England.
Verdi’B first operatic success was “ Nabucco,”
issued in 1812, and although he has lived an
average life-time since then he is still at work on
his latest production “ Otello.” As it pavs him so
well it is not much of a wonder that he keeps
going ; Verdi is the son of an innkeeper, and from
the time he could toddle his life seems to 1 have
spread itself on music. He is now seventy-two
years of age and resides chiefly at Genoa.
M. de Lesseps, in spite of his .81 years,
his Canal schemes, and, above all, his large family
does not seem to tire of the good things of the
world he has done so much to alter. At a recent
reception in Paris he was the gayest of the gay,
and remained among the revellers until the local
purveyors of liquid chalk and typhoid were filling a
long-felt want in the jugs of the neighbourhood.
His baldness is getting to be a bit more pro-
nounced ; that is the only sign of declining vigour
discernible in him, and this probably does some-
thing to account for his flying round at receptions
and concerts.
Her Gracious, it is reported, is about to
publish a novel which she commenced before the
Prince of Wales was born, and at which she has
plodded steadily for something very near 50 years.
The amount of antiquity which has thns been
spent on it will, she hopes, keeps it from resem-
bling these gems which Bill Holloway dashed off
in such a hurry, and which unhappily went down
in the Ly-ee-Moon, but most of her friends think
she should follow the example of the gifted gen-
tleman just quoted, viz., put her manuscript on
board ship, and then let it sail about till it gets a
chance to sink.
Mr. John Wood, of Wingenbah, Merri
Merri Creek, recently came to the conclusion
that life is not worth living, and he accordingly
died at the early age of 108 years. He was a
native of Scotland, and his faculties were sound in
wind and Jimb to the last. The name is not likely
to die out for some time, however, as he has left
two children, 19 grandchildren, 69 great-grand-
children, and five great-great-grandchildren to
mourn his untimely end. The strangest feature
of John’s life was he never once asserted that he
fought at W aterloo, or that he had shaken fins
with George 111., and he used to openly declare
that he couldn’t tell Nelson from Julius Caesar if
he were to see the pair together. No wonder he
died. Such a man was too truthful to live long.
According to all accounts we shall soon see
the Chosen Race “ flocking through the gates of
the New Jerusalem.” Mr. H. W. Monk, of
Ottawa, Canada, has formed a company for the
purpose of buying up Palestine, and establishing
the capital of the world in that fertile region. The
President of the United States is on the board, and
Queen Victoria is a lady patroness. That circum-
stance alone ought to make the oompany boom,
and send up shares to a premium. Moreover, the
Banner of Israel has written up the scheme in
a pious leader. Nothing now remains bat for the
Jews to grow long beards, pop on sandals, and
conduct their dark-eyed Rachels to the Holy Land.
One half of the inhabitants of the new oity can
start dealing In old clothes, cigars, pictures, fruit,
and jewellery, while the other half lends them
money, and lays the odds.
Recent scandals, home and colonial, have
so hardened our heart that we can assist at the
burial of almost any high-toned “reputation”
without troubling to drop a tear into its un-
honoured grave. The news of another duchess
gone wrong affects us but little, and we can listen
to the story of an earl’s peccadilloes without turn-
ing a hair. But there is no good purpose served
by “trying back” for giddiness and robbing dead
’uns of a good moral character. Nobody thought
any the better of Mrs. Beecher Stowe when, many
years ago, she published a horrible yarn about
Lord Byron ; and the Hawaiian, who has contri-
buted the “true story” of poor old Captain Cook’s
death to the London Times, is certainly not likely
to get many thanks for his trouble. The
Hawaiian’s narrative runs thus :—“ At the time
he landed, the island priest predicted the coming
of a god and mistook Cook for their deity. Cook
took a fanoy to the sister of one of the chiefs, and
attempted to carry her t» his ship. The chief
seized his wrist and twisted it. Cook groaned,
and the chief finding he was human, as no god
was supposed to feel pain, instantly killed him.”
It won t do. Australia is loyal to the memory of
the gallant Captaie, and refuses to believe that he
was evoked under thoee circumstances. Mariners
do carry on at times, according to all aocounts
but a whole regiment of Hawaiians cannot per-
suade ns that Cook was built that way. Probably
some old inhabitant, whose father knew a man
who said he saw the navigator take a fancy to the
dusky maiden, started the libel. In another cen-
tury or so it will be confidently asserted that
General Gordon ran a harem in Khartoum.
The European monk is not quite the use-
less lumbering animal that many suppose. A few
days ago a dozen Piedmontese brigands crossed
into France and made a night entry into a monas-
tery, but the holy men, though quite unarmed,
feather-bedded their mountainous carcases against
them and fairlysquashedthemoutat the front gate.
As long as the church militant keeps up its fat It
will continue to fight the good fight with marked
success.


POLITICAL
POINTS
A hitem hot great hinterest—Habigle’s
twenty-five pounds.
“ The Jumbo of the Jubilee ” is the jeer-
ing name fitted on the Imperial Institute by
scoffers. We rather fancy that the name has an
insidious reference to the royal promoter of the
proposed establishment.
Mr. Burgoyne of South Australia has a
very small opinion of the value of local land.
He modestly wants to know where the colony will
find “ hundreds of thousands of lunatics to give £1
an aore for her waste lands.”
A Parramatta paper libels Sir Patrick
Jennings by asserting that “ by flattery Sir Pat.
could he induced to do anything.” We would re-
mind this journal that everything that was said
to the ex-Premier was flattery.
“ Jonathan Charles Billing Pockerage
Seaver ” is the name of the new member for Glou-
cester (N.S.W.). No wonder he went to the top
of the poll. Lite is too short to permit an elector
to put his little pencil through such a name as that.
H. M. Stanley is fairly off on his “non-
military ” expedition to relieve Emin Bey in the
Soudan. He is averse to bloodshed, hut his force
is armed with Nordenfeldt guns all the same. Now
supposing Stanley had been bloodthirsty instead
of peaoeful, we wonder
. what he would have been
armed with.
This par comes from
the P. M. Gazette, and
is with deep humour and
shallow hypocrisy headed
“ The pacification of
Burmah : ” “ Mandalay,
Jan. 18. —Sir Frederick
Roberts and General
White, embarked this
morning for Kyan-Nyat,
whence they wilfgrocced
to the Ruby Mints, re-
turning here at the end
of next week.” The
italics are ours. What a
noble gift humbug really
is I This “paCTtcation
of Burmah ” (ruby mines)
is about the best gag
English Jingoes have
struck since the cheery
little fable about the
“ secret of England’s
greatness” was knocked
out in one short round by
Sir Henry Ponsonby.
Judging by the in-
tervals which occurred
between the appearance
in the Sydney papers of
the letters of Dr. Creed
on the subject of th etor-
pedo stores and the re-
plies thereto by Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Cracknell
—in the first instance ten
days, and the second
three haying elapsed,
it will nottjfbe unfair to
adopt ’’Sydney Smith’s
joking 'Commentary on
the poet'Rogers to the
epistolary efforts of the
latter gentlemen. To use
the simile of the witty
divine it might be said
that the gallant officer’s
letters are the result of
lingering labour, and
that when they safely see
the light, he sends for
ehe nurse, has the knocker
tied up with white kid,
and the street laid down
with straw, the servants
reply to kind enquiries
being that Mr. Crack-
nell “ is doing as well as
can be expected.”
That Sydney Echo Is at it again :
” Queensland Loan—Tenders at the maximum price re-
ceive 88 per cent., and above that in full.
It was kind of the Queenslanders to fix a maxi-
mum ; but a wful mean to go back on their word
and accept super-maximum prices.
The Dubbo Dispatch tells the tale of a
oonsoientious candidate who, being asked by an
independent elector if he was in favour of a cer-
tain measure then agitating the public mind,
ooolly replied, “ Privately I am, but publicly I am
not.” That sucking statesman had evidently
heard of Carlyle’s advice to politicians: “Have
two opinions always—one public, one private.
The prospectus of a new “ Life of Queen
Viotoria ” has just been issued in London, One
sweet sentence in it says : “ The work will show
how profoundly the momentous events of the past
half century have been affected by the character
and influenoe of Her Majesty,” Which reminds
us that Her Majesty’s uncle, the First Fool in
Europe, always declared he won the battle of
Waterloo.
Parkes to the Cootamundra electors
“ He would be very glad if he had an opportunity of stay-
ing a little longer In the district; but, unfortunately for him,
while they were free he was a slave. He must go back to his
work, which would be very hard, and he could *.°\ { °*
neglect it. Therefore he would have to leave their town that
evening, and he honed peace and happiness, and every kind
of prosperity, would long abide with them. (Applause.)
Brethren, let us pray 1 Pray for Parkes, the slave
of —the Freetrade party of New South Wales.
The new measure for coercion of the Irish
is to be called the Conspiracy Bill, and will include
the power of punishing for almost every act of
patriotism that a distressed people can be guilty
of. In fact, it is difficult to see how any of the
Liberal party, much less Home Rulers, will be
able to speak on the question with such a law in
force, so wide are the clauses relating to sedition
and “ incitement to active discontent.”
Freedom may come from heaven’s right
hand but if North Queenslandera get separation
their liberty will have been materially aided by
rum. An anti-separation petition canvasser hav-
ing got a number of Griffithites to sign his charter
went and imbibed, and his petition “ went to a
picnic.” Anyhow it never reported itself at the
next meeting, and the disciple of Bacchus pro- j
mised to get a new one signed. They have 40 |
over-proof rum waiting for him next time.
A P.M. Gazette correspondent truth- |
fully asserts that ‘ 1 in every disagreement of late
years between England and a foreign power the
Australian press has uniformly been more Jingo
than the English press.” To which proposition
we accord an unqualified affirmative as far as the
Australian daily press is concerned He further
and correctly alleges that while the Soudan war
was universally condemned in England it was j
madly applauded “to the extent of material
assistance by Australia.” All of which we do |
sorrowfully admit to he true.
Diplomatic relations between Britain and
Venezuela (South America) have been suspended,
and fears are entertained lest strife may ensue.
The Venezuelan President is a peaceful man at
most times, but if he gets mad and mounts his old
war-bullock, with its horn growing into its eye,
he may tread down the neighbouring British
colony of Guiana before the Anglo-Saxon knows
where he is. The calm Hispano-American is apt
to be dangerous if a foreign power threatens his
guano deposit ; Peru, for example, drenched two
countries in blood when Chili tried to lay a sacri-
ligions hand on her stock of fertiliser ; and
Britain has been sat upon so much lately that she
should not provoke foreign nations in this way—
it only results in them riding the high cow over
her in the end.
Mr. Clarke, the N.S.W. Minister for Jus-
tice, has a rough and rugged idea of the meaning
of retrenchment. He doesn’t take much stock of
details,but in a wholesale agricultural manner deals
with Civil servants in the gross. His latest fad is that
assistant clerks of petty sessions are useless and
must be abolished. The fact that many of them
really do perform useful and necessary work does
not relieve their class from the general ukase.
Retrenchment carried out in this clumsy style is
COUNSEL’S OPINION AT BOURKE (N.S.W.)
BOURKE J.P. (reading from" Bulletin” “Plain English" 12th Feb.): “HONESTY AND LINDLEY MURRAY DON’T ALWAYS GO
TOGETHER. HAS THE “BULLETIN” HAS ALWAYS SAILED A TRIFLE TOO CLOSE TO THE WIND, AND I’LL BE
SHOT IF THERE’S NOT A CLEAN CASE OF CRIMINAL LIR[?]L HERE. FOR THEY AS GOOD AS WRITE DOWN THIS
HERE LINDLEY MURRAY (DOES ANYONE KNOW WHERE HE’S MEMBER FOR?) A GORY ROGUE. WHOEVER HE
IS, IF I WAS IN HIS PLACE I’D GO FOR ’EM.”
certain to be more costly than the maintenance of
the present system We have not yet heard that
reduction of the salary of Ministers is part of the
Parkesian programme. In the Department of
Justice the assistant clerk will be slated, but the
chief Clarke will continue to draw full pay.
A bankrupt who went up to be frescoed
at Greenock (Scotland) last January, said he
accounted for his disaster by the fact that during the
year he had sold £120,000 worth of shares he didn’t
own, and bought £119,000 worth that he couldn’t
pay for We are inclined to think that man didn’t
know even the A B C of his own profession.
One of the surest ways on earth to make money is
to go on the stock exchange and buy properties
that don’t exist from a man who hasn’t a cent,
and pay for them with money you haven’t got;
then you rig the market and sell out at an ad-
vance to an insolvent who died without shoes ten
years before and pocket the difference. There is
nothing so simple and easy as stock exchange
speculation when a fellow knows his way about,
and lots of men get rich on it and hardly know
how they did the trick themselves.
Mr. Howard Vincent, a gentleman whose
chief employment seems to lie in hosannahing
about things he knows nothing of, has just pub-
lished a few interesting figures referring to inter-
colonial trade He says that during 1886 the
British colonies exported to each other goods to
the value of £45,000,000, and imported in the same
way to the extent of £41,000,000, and with all due
deference to a man who, as a head policeman, was
the biggest failure on record, we would ask how
this was managed. As the same goods have to be
counted In both instances it seems to us that in
effect Howard pays ns sixpence, and yet we only
receive from Howard threepence. Mr. Vincent,
by the way, did a globe-trot through Australia
not long ago, and when he went home he told a
listening world that the colonies were absolutely
boiling for Imperial federation. He seems to he
full up in every branch of obtrusive and select
ignoranoe
The proudest boast of the Freetrader’s life
to-day is that he won all his recent electioneering
victories without spending a cent, more than his
actual necessary expenses. And it is a proud
boast, too, but - there is a but in everything, from
an Act of Parliament up to a goat—Mr. Wm.
Frazer Martin, the elect of Shoalhaven, in his
Nowra hustings speech told a different tale. He
said :
“ Mr. M'Millan, who was returned as one of the mem-
bers for East Sydney, came to my office and asktd
me to go in for West Sydney, but I told him I would not
stand for the'place. They asked me to go to Gloucester to run
against Mr R. fc£. D. W uite, but I refused to go there. In
the reeenn West Sydney election they went, with £750 to pay
expenses, and begged of me to stand and letrieve the great
blunder which had bsen made in my rejection; and thpy also
wanted me to stand for Morpeth, but I refused,”
If the Freetraders could afford to pay £750 for the
legitimate (?) expenses of such a uni-equine
champion as Wm. Fraser Martin, what in t hunder
would they give to secure the return of a Parkes,
a or, if necessary, a M‘Millan himself.
£750 ! Truly electioneering money has become
marvellously plentiful.
According to Mulhall’s “Dictionary of
Statistics,” the wealth of France per inhabitant
in 1880 was £5 gold and £lO 103. all money ; that
of Belgium—another Protectionist country—
j being £7 12s. all money ; whilst that of the United
Kingdom was only £3 10s. gold, and £5 6s. all
j money. The revenue of France under Protection,
in spite of the tremendous augmentation of the
War Budget, is constantly increasing year by year ;
whilst that of the United Kingdom, without any
similar proportionate drain on its resources,
has not increased for the last three years. The
population of France in 1881 was only 39,672,048,
whilst that of the United Kingdom in 1883 was
35,631.290. England has had no great war since
the Crimean war (which only cost her £69,000,000,
I whereas it cost France £93,000,000), while France
| has had two great wars, viz. the Italian campaign
of 1859, which cost her another hundred millions,
and the German war of 1870-71, which, including
j the indemnity, cost her the stupendous sum of
] £371,515,250, not to speak of the expeditions
'to Mexico. Tonquin, and Madagascar and
1 other burdens imposed on the national
exchequer, and in view of these facts the greater
wealth of France is all the more remarkable.
Thiers once said, “Were I an Englishman, I
would be a Freetrader, but being a Frenchman I
would be a Protectionistthat wa his opinion at
a period when England was the one great manufac-
turing country in the world, and under such circum-
stances Freetrade was her best policy. But times
have changed since then, and the vast improvements
made by France, Belgium, Germany, and America
have pretty nearly proved that if England desires
to supply even the Home demand some check
must be imposed on the import of foreign goods.
Sir Henry Parkes is continually pointing
out that some members of the late Ministry were
rather rough on the travelling expenses racket,
but he conveniently forgets the charge made
against him in 1868 by “dear” Sir Saul Samuel
to the effect that he (Sir Henry), while Colonial
Secretary in the Martin-Parkes Administration,
had been paid £l5O, £lOO, and £285 6s. on the sole
note of the Treasurer, and out of these amounts
only £332 19s. had been accounted for by vouchers,
the balance having been met by a charge for
travelling expenses made by him—the said imma-
culate Premier Parkes. When Sir Saul scarified
Mr. Parkes over this the latter urged in extenua-
tion that the Government were every day placing
money in the hands of road trustees, and if these
common persons were trusted he didn’t see why
the Chief Officer of the Government should not
enjoy equal confidence, especially as his business
was a matter of secret service, the payment of
which ought not to have been made public ! Sir
Henry should learn that little lesson about the
mote in his brother’s eye and the beam in his own,
and remember that those who live in glass houses
should pull down the blinds.
The first issue of Henry George’s new
weekly, to be run on land nationalisation lines, is
noticed by recent exchanges. In his “ salutatory”
he thus introduces his venture :
“ The generation that abolished chattel slavery is pa-sing
away, and the political distinctions that grew out of that
oontest are becoming meaningless The work now before us
is the abolition of industrial slavery. What God created for
the use of all should be utilised for the benefit of all: what
is produced by the individual belongs rightfully to the indi-
vidual. , The negleot of these simple principles has brought
upon us the curse of wide spread poverty, and all the evils
that flow from it. Their recognition will abolish poverty,
will secure to the humblest independence and leisure, and
will lay a broad and strong foundation on which all other re-
forms may be based. To secure the full recognition of i hese
principles is the most important task to which any man can
address himself to-day. It is in the hope of aiding in thi
work that I establish this paper."
If private ownership of land and a protective
tariff are capable of being abolished from the
States, Henry George is just about the right sort
of a man to take the contract In any the
paper will make a big splurge not only in America
but wherever its articles are copied, as they will
most probably be throughout about one-half of the
world.
In a breezy little circular addressed to the
members for Bourke, Mr, E. J. Bloxam declares
that Nature and the railway terminus point to
Bourke as the coming Chicago of the colony, and
all that is required to send it booming along to
glory is the “ starting of the great industry of
slaughtering and chilling meat.” This, he con-
siders, the aforesaid members should agitate for,
as he plainly says nothing can be expected from
the squatters, for it would be easier for oil and
water to mix, or John Davies and Jim Toohey to
start a new brewery together, than for the squat-
ters to combine for the benefit of themselves or
the country. Being a squatter himself, Mr.
Bloxam’s words are worth attention, especially
when he tells us it is just as well that the squat-
ters do not pull together, and when he asks—
“ What would be the position of this Government if as a
sequence upon the ruinous rentals now being fixed, we took
a leaf out of the book of our first cousins, and refused the
payment of any rent at all; would the State then become the
working tenant as well as the landlord?”
We venture to think this is one feature of the land
difficulty which has not entered into the realms of
Sir Henry Parkes’ philosophy.
A former owner of a station in Victoria
running 30,000 sheep and cattle has applied to the
committee of the Otago Benevolent Institution for
relief. They allowed him what is called an out-
door order for one week’s necessaries, which order
I is of the value of 4s. s^d.
A Melbourne clergy-
man lately preached an
eloquent sermon on ‘ ‘ The
cry of the children.” Can
it be that the reverend
and dignified parson turns
from his downy couch at
the midnight hour to
gambol round a draughty
room with a frantic howl-
ing infant, just like any
common man ?
A gallows goa k.
“ Gentlemen,” said the
party who was about to
jump the Rubicon, to the
reporters as the execu-
tioner placed the knot
where it would do the
most good, “ will you
grant me one last re-
quest before I die ? ”
The reporters declared
to a man that providing
it was nothing about
borrowing money they
would. “ Much thanks,”
said the doomed man,
“ all I want you to do is
to say I was simply
hanged not ‘ launched
into eternity.’ I’m none
o’ yer demed dudes.”
Even Lord Tenny-
son, weeping drivelling
to the Royal family,
cannot strike much
fresh jubilee; it takes
the representative Aus.
tralian to do that. The
last suggestion that has
come to hand—and we
will bet a little brown
frock that it was Morti-
mer Franklyn who
started it —is that the
occasion should be graced
by a gathering of the
Queen’s dusky subjects
from all quarters of the
globe, “all in their na-
tive costumes and sing-
ing their native songs.”
The motley horde would
include Caffres, Hin-
doos, Kanakas, Austra
lian blackfellows, Hot-
tentots, Eskimo, Fijians,
Digger Indians, and Pro-
vidence only knows who
besides, and they would
certainly make a grand
feature in the show.
The one depressing circumstance, however,
is the “native costume.” The grease out
of one pork-pie is sufficient togs for a whole
family in many cases, and unless the Hottentot
could be delicately shaded off by some new adap-
tation of perspective or else exhibited in a close
shower-bath his appearance would present a re-
markably awkward problem.
An English paper has just been slated for
libelling a man by saying that he was not fit for a
member of Parliament. That would not be an
insult in New South Wales, but it would be a
£ lO,OOO libel to say that a man was fit to become a
member.
Poor Burdett Smith. Hear what a
Macleay paper says of him—“We fear Mr.
Smith’s Parliamentary orations (?) are responsible
for much of the inebriety of members of Parlia-
ment.” They forget that Burdett was mashing
around princesses when the slogging propensities
of N.S.W. members were at their worst.
At Tewkesbury (Eng.), an aged gardener
who had. spent 10 quiet uneventful years in pick-
ing snails off the cabbages, grew tired of his 12
hours’ a day and his Its. a week, and resolved to
slope for the sweet by-and-bye. He did it by dig-
ging a hole in an outhouse, filling it with faggots,
which he soaked with benzine, lying down on the
pile and applying a light. When the performance
was ended he was at death’s door, but was so
much swelled with smoke and gas that he couldn’t
get through.
From the agony column of the Even
Noose :
‘ ‘LITTLE WOMAN, who parted with Old Alligator on
Randwien-road, Saturday.—Write or wire, stating
when and where he can see you.”
Even the alligator is getting civilised. Instead of
being satisfied with prowling around lonely regions
and chawing up the putrefying dog and the unne-
cessary nigger he walks into town and advertises
in the Noose fora plump and juicy female. Why
can’t he try his teeth on the sheet-iron hide of the
immortal Parkes.


BRIEF MENTION.
The real “distressed unemployed”—the
Sydney Junior Bar.
A Balmain man calls goats “ voracious
vermin.” That man has no soul. He has no re-
spect for the “ Soudan.”
Sydney Primrose League is advertising for
a secretary. Unless he is a very energetic youDg
man the secretary will be advertising for a Sydney
Primrose League very shortly.
Sydney News last week had a leader on
“ Perjury.” Strangely enough the article con-
tained no reference whatever to cablegrams from
special correspondents in London.
“ Harry St. George Sloan, of Queensland,
was indicted recently for stealing eight shillings
from his mother-in-law! ” "We are glad to state
he was discharged. Most judges are married
men 1
The Oamaru Mail (N.Z - ) says that the
“ white city" of Oamaru can boast of as good an
assortment of drunkards as any town in New Zea-
land. Now there really is something to brag
about in that fact.
Under-Secretary Wood says that the 942
feet artesian drill recently sank near Bourke
“is the greatest bore in New South Wales."
What have Dr. Jefferis and Jawbone Neild dore
that they should be slighted in this manner i
“ Prohibited drunkards should be per-
sonally introduced to all the publicans,” thinks a
North Queensland magistrate. This is absurd
Why can’t the publicans go to the meetings of the
local Councils and take their own observations.
According to a Sydney daily, Maty Jane
Hicks is going to bury her spotless soul in a con-
vent. The Southern Would (Brisbane), with a
greater regard to the fitness of thiDgs, says that
she has been shoved into a reformatory as incor-
rigible.
A bold burglar broke into the Melbourne
Crown Law offices by mistake one night last week,
and after scattering the mouldy old statutes about,
he discovered where he was and promptly slid,
taking nothing. “ There is honour among thieves,’
he said.
A Sydney grocer complains that sugar is
sold so cheaply now that there is hardly any [ ro-
flt on the article. He believes it will soon be
used in preference to sand for buildii g purposes.
This will only be fair. Sand has been sold and
used as sugar long enough.
Mr. Inglis, N.S.W. Minister for Educa
tion, when visiting the Vernon boys last week,
promised that if they were very good he would
come again and lecture to them. Matters have
come to a pretty pass when a Minister goes round
inciting boys to wrong-doing in this style.
This is the hexperience of a Goulburn
Salvation Harmy Sister : ‘ Once Hi uster be very
gay an’ fund of th’ world an’ all ther fash ini. I
liked silks, an’ satins, an’ ribbons, an’feathers, an’
all sich, but I found they were a-draggin’ me down
to’ell, so I give them all tew me sister.” bice
look-out for the young lady’s sister.
A lot of fuss is being made about the fact
that the younger son of a duke is employed as
stoker on the Northern r .ilway line. We don’t
see why the other employes should object to this
young man so long as he stokes a 1 right. They
should not be too particular as to a man’s parent-
age so long as he does his work squarely.
The Wasp (Frisco) thus writes concerning
the Mount Bennie quartette :
“ And these were youths who-e ages ranged from 16 to 22,
and were the exact prototypes of our hoodlums, there called
‘ larrigans' (a name evidently derived from the French)."
Evidently derived from the French! Bedad,
thin, an’ it was that same, and it’s moighty smart
thim Yankees are findin’ out these worlds, be-
gorra!
The P.M. Gazette quotes as solid fact the
account of a Brisbane hailstorm published by the
Australian Christian World. If the P.M.G.
had ever been in the Southern Hemisphere it
would know that to place implicit reliance on the
facts about hailstorms as published in religious
papers, is evidence either of deep credulity re-
garding such occurrences, or else deep ignorance
concerning such papers.
At Cunnindroo (N.S.W.) a man aged 55
burst open the door of a house and informed the
inmates that he had come to take possession.
When he was run in he gave his name variously
as John the Baptist and the Duke of Rothsay,
though we are inclined to think that the latter
was his correct name, and the former only an
alias. When one man takes possession of another's
property there is always reason to suspect that he
is a duke,
Mr. Broad, a blue ribbonite, of Christ-
church (N.Z.), went out for a walk the other even-
ing and saw a pretty girl entering a public-house
with a jug. He waited outside that he might
reason with her when she came out, but a con-
stable knocked against him, and while he was
fuming at the active and intelligent officer the
attractive female streaked past him with the beer,
and the opportunity for inculcating a great moral
lesson was lost. Then Mr. Broad told the blue
functionary that the police, the publicans, and the
magdalenes were all in league to shield each
other, and the officer threw him into the gutter,
and while he lay half stunned among the garbage
a dog walked over him. The policeman has since
been dismissed, and as the result of this righteous
decision anybody in Christchurch who wears a
blue ribbon may now wobble all day outside a
public house and run after girls without hindrance.
The good cause is progressing.
HThe N.S.W. Commissioner for Railways
promises to try and introduce some system of
averaging the weight of fruit carried on the rail-
way. Of course. The system of averaging as ap-
plied to wool was such a bri liant success.
Mr. G. Milner Stephen does not seem to
be building a fire under the Thames by means of
hjs miraculous red-flannel-and faith physic. The
Pall Mali. Gazette hazards the conjecture that
his marvellous curative power has been dropped
overboard on the passage to England.
The Dean of Sydney has applied for further
leave of absence until the beginning of 1888. The
Bishop has just departed to join the Dean in Eng-
land, and yet the diocese does not seem to be per-
ceptibly agitated. So long as the man with the
collection-box slay 3 at his post matters seem to
stand a fair show of booming along with quite the
usual success.
The Ameer of Afghanistan, it is reported,
is about to proclaim a holy war, and is going to
fight the deuce knows who in jungles the dickens
only knows where- The Afghans, by the bye, as-
sert themselves to be the lost Ten Tribes. We
forget who it was who found them again, but we
think it was a prophet named Higgins.
Banana Culture in Queensland.
A North Queensland correspondent sends
this little sketch, and as inhabitants of that region
divide their time between the pursuit of truth and
the culture of the succulent banana of commerce
we think that his facts deserve to be recorded.
He writes as follows :—“ The banana cockie ii
usually a Southern tenderfoot who has been lure(
into selecting Northern land by the somewbai
fallacious hope of amassing a colossal fortune by
some mysterious process of agriculture in the
Torrid Zone. Fact and fancy, lies and literature,
have. assisted binr to build his gorgeous castle in
the air. \ ague visions of miles of waving sugar-
cane, immense mills, lordly residences, punkahs,
retd sangaree, and troop 3 of attendant slaves, float
across his excited imagination. The reality is
rather different. Having selected his land and
paid his money, he repairs to the scene of his
future labours, lubricates his hands, and proceeds to
make the wilderness blossom as the rose In
furtherance of this laudable object he fells some
acres of scrub, and regards the result dubiously,
wondering whether it would not be as well to clear
out and start afresh in some place where timber is
not quite so abundant. But “ Hope springs eternal
in the human breast, ’ and with but slightly
diminished ardour the selector clears sufficient
spacr to erect a fairy-like structu e of galvanised
iron wherein he may rest from his labours. By
this time the sun is well on his way routh and his
ardent glances make that selector burrow under
his metal mansion like a rabbit, seeking coolness
but finding none Necessity is the mother
of invention, so he excavates a cellar where-
in he finds dampness at least, if not
coolness. He places his dampers in the house
above to bake. This saves fuel. A spell of some
weeks now ensues while the felled scrub is drying
and he meditates during the interval upon what
an ass he was to come to such a climate, arid
thinks how much better it would have been had
he invested his modest capital in the purchase of
ENOUGH TO MAKE HIM WORSE.
PHYSICIAN IN CHARGE OF MR. HALLEY: “BEEN READING PARKES NEW BOOK
OF POEMS, EH! WELL NO WONDER YOU HAD A RELAPSE. THE ONLY
WONDER IS I FIND YOU ALIVE AT ALL, THIS MORNING.”
“The Right Hon. W. B. Dailey, who is still staying at Numantia, has had a serious
relapse, but is now recovering. ” —Sydney Paper.
a diving-bell, and selected somewhere off the
coast in 50 fathoms of water. The timber being
sufficiently inflammable, he lights it and it burns.
During this part of the fun he leads an amphi-
bious life, emerging from the creek only at night
to administer to the mosquitoes that nutriment
which is so essential to their moral and physical
welfare. When the smoke clears away there is
presented to his gaze a blackened waste of charred
logs and stumps. To root holes in this and stick
banana-plants into them is not a very fascinating
employment, but as the sugar-mills are as yet
lying dormant in the womb of the future and
make no sign, the selector having no means of
grinding cane except with his teeth, considers
banana culture the only course open to him.
Knowing that Satan finds some mischief still for
idle hands to do, he pegs away gaily in a tempera-
ture of about 250 deg., only retiring to his hut at
intervals to quench the flames when the sun
ignites his shirt or to remove the rougher and
most protuberant portions of the crackling into
which the heat has converted his skin. j- erse-
verance finally has i s reward, and in a few
months his plantation is in a most flourishing con-
dition-flourishing with weeds and wild bananas
which grow in a manner perfectly astounding, but
somehow the tame bananas appear to have gone
crooked. The wild banana is a pleasing variety
that grows spontaneously, and attains a height of
from 60 to 70 feet in a few weeks. FDoes it now?—
Ed. 8., somewhat incredulously.] It bears no
fruit, but atones for this slight defect by squelch-
ing any useful plant planted within a radius of
half a mile of it. This lawless plant respects not
the rights of priority, but jumps up beside the
meek and lowly tame banana, and evicts it with
nearly as much promptitude as a chivalrous
English nobleman of the present day evicts an
aged widow who cannot pay her rent. The net
profits of ten acres of bananas cultivated in this
manner are sufficient to array the performer in
sweat and make him curse the day he was born.
By this time any little stock of morality the
cookie started with is knocked into a cocked hat,
I and his conscience would pat him approvingly on
the back while he robbed a church. But ther
are no churches within 50 miles of the banana
cockie, and if there were they would not be wort]
robbing, for the most flourishing properties per
taining to a northern church are the building
debt and the rarson’s overdraft. Bis fellow cockies
are steeped in such abject poverty that to rob them
would be a feat besides which that of taking the
breeks off a Hielanman would sink into insignifl
cance. The only two courses open to him are sui-
cide or retreat. If he is wise he prefers suicide.—
Bushman, Daintree River, N.Q.
English manufacturers, it is cabled,
complain that the N.S.W. Government invites
tenders from the Continent for the supply of
locomotives. This is a new demand for Protec-
tion ; the Britishers want to be protected in the
colonial markers against other foreigners. No
wonder they clamour for Imperial Federation
with Protection for the Empire against the rest of
the world.
I From a Southern correspondent: —“ Dear
Bulletin, —The death of the man Jackman in a
cab in Melbourne reminds me of something similar
in Corowa. A boundary-rider’s wife took her son
in to the doctor, and, as he had fever, no hotel
would admit him or her. She was actually shoved
out of one, but the P.M. gave an order for a room
for her wherein her son soon died—killed by being
hawked about. I could not but admire the
mother, however, who (being Scotch) remarked to
me, ‘ They canna pit him out o’ whar he’s gane
tae noo.’— Scotty.”
Mr. Inglis, N.S.W. Minister of Education,
has suddenly become unpopular with a section
of the ofticials by his refusal to attend the banquet
to Mr. Johnson uid r-secretary to the Depart-
ment. If Mr. login never does anything more
blame-wor hy than that he may for ever be re-
garded as a | attern Minister As a rule, presen-
tations and bauquets to officers in the Service are
worthy of all contempt, and a Minister who does
not wish to promote them does well to avoid
attendance at shivoos which, like this picnic to
Mr. Johnson, are unexceptionable in character.
The customary insanity of supposing that
Civil servants take an overpowering interest in
everything concerning the N.S.W. Parliament
was allowed to influence Ministers as usual, and
the entire service was released at 2 p.m. on Wed-
nesday la9t in order that they might attend the open 1 "
ing of the session. Why this hoary old farce
should be observed is a lurid mystery. The Civil
servants don’t attend as alleged—there would be
no room for them if they did, and they would not
benefit any if there was. But still the tradition is
observed, and we suppose it ever will be, so long
as the Civil Service vote is a consideration in city
and suburban electorates.
Two succeeding N.S.W. Governments have
decided that nothing short of compulsion can
meet the case of those property-owners who want
a fair price for their land situated near the Sydney
Post-office and required for the formation of a
new street. Why this departure from ordinary
procedure is necessary there is nothing in the cir
eumstances of the case to show. A means fcr
settling all such questions as to the value of land
resumed is contained in a special Act, which has
been formerly found sufficient for all purposes. It
contains complete machinery for settling all claims,
and has been proved efficient in numerous
instances, notably that of John Lucas, and there
does not seem to be any reason for departing from
the usual practice—except the fact that tyranny
could not in former cases have been
while in this instance the brute force of executive
authority promises to yield a profitable return.
To coerce the owners into giving up their land,
the Colonial architect has been instructed to build
an iron wall on the Government land so as to
render the frontage of the coveted blocks useless,
and so long as that wall remains it will be an elo-
quent witness to the tyranny of the “ honest
government ” party.
CORRESPONDENCE
Ibe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when th
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desir
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are no
responsible for the preservation or transmission of sue
MSS.
Verity Sans Peur ” : Your proposal to pay ol
the N.S.W. deficit by abolishing State education has th
merits of originality, and alluring simplicity. It is
pity that you did not discover it a few weeks ago. Then yot
might have gone to the country—the back country, the mor
“ back” the better—and have made a bid for the Premier
ship. (2 ) Heavy tax on land-values, and moderate Protec
tive duties constitute the best prescription for wiping out th
2A missing millions “Ernest Wilton ” (Auckland, N.Z.]
Clever parody. Will probably be printed in an early numbe
.... R.B.F. That Mr. Garrett should be Minister fo
Lands while a gigantic and subtle intellect like yours is wait
ing to take a collar-and-elbow grip of the land question
generally, is another proof that democracies do not always
elevate the best men to p’aces of authority. The fact tha
you are a girl does not do anything to up-end the immorta
truth of your the-riis ..“Catholic”: We cannot permi
anyone to call a member of the Anglican Church Association
tt a &8S ’’ You see we have niver heard him bray
Lover of Justice ” : Like your lost watch you have a hare
case, but there is now but little chanoe of your getting re
dress. The matter is too long buried.... “ Muse ”: Poem go
burnt. It was not a very good 0ne....“ Received
Will take a month 8 holiday and try to discover what the
strange hieroglyphics you employ may mea« “R. 0.8.”
Not suitable. Out of curiosity we would like to know you
profession. Say, are you a lawyer or a publisher?...
Elinor”: That joke about “matrimony,” and “matter o
money ” was played out before Lewis Scott bent his energies
to the task of writing pantomimes “ Mabel”: Sor y tha
we can t accept your poems, although you say you “ wouk
give almost anything to see them in print.” Take warning
by Parkis; he felt that way once, but now he would give
quite anything to have their memory wiped away entirely anc
forever....“ J. Roby”: We regard the statement that
Henry George stole his ideas on the land question from the
MS. which, as a compositor, he was employed to set, as being
a malicious misrepresentation. In the first place, German
writer 3 do not generally employ English oompositors
secondly, each comp, only gets a small portion of the MS. of
a book ; and, thirdly, “ Progress and Poverty ” on every
page shows depth of thought and clearness of style which
prove tha*. the writer was dealing with original arguments...
C. H. Mooney ” (Tam worth) : You can’t surely suppose
that the egg was ahead, for if s j it would have to be laid by
a shark or something, and a horse would have required to sit
on it and hatch it out. No, my friend, the hen came first,
and immediately after it came the excited fool who built
that conundrum....“ Reserve ” (Narrabri): You seem to be
one of the many innocents who fancy the civil servants be-
long, body and soul, hide, hoofs, and outfit, to the Govern-
ment. Your idea of drilling them and turning them into a
military force js idiotic, tyrannical, and outrageous. Who
do you think would look after the country’s business when
all the officials, from Habigle down to the office-boy, were away
fighting the Russians ?....“ J. H.” : We can’t see that there
is anything in it; in that respect it differs from the w.p.b. in
the which it has been carefully bestowed “ H.S.”
(Mexico, Q.): We received your enclosure—viz , a badly-
written, badly-spelt letter from a stockman who wanted a
marriage license. Your own writing is a little better than
his, though even it is nothing to kick up a dust about. We
trust you came down with your accustomed liberality on the
happy occasion “ Fozio”: Commonplace in subject and
treatment, but of merit as mere verse. We would point out
however that "cheese ” is not usually spelt with a “z” in
this office “ T.C.”: Such a theme requires very strong
treatment; your lines are as weak as a second cup of tea at
our boarding-house “A Wager” (g s Lfcura): You have
the ear-marks of genius and will be a great man some day.
As you say the English sovereign is 22 carats fine, and there
is always a great career open for a man who can bottom on
the reef of imperishable truth as you have done in this in-
stance '* Fairtrade ” (Grafton) :In these days of political
excitement men don't handle the question with the mildness
of curates discussing the theory of original sin...G.R D ”•
Can’t publish little friendly jars at anything less than cur-
rent libel prices “ John Collins” : Not up to the mark....
“ Linda ”: You want to know how to become a true poet.
It’s just as easy as keeping four bank accounts. First, you
must get a lofty soul, and a specially-inspired intellect. After
that you only want writing materials and rum....“ Morti.
mer": Mr. R. B. Smith, M.L.A., is not entitled to affix the
title “ Hon.” to his name. Nor would he desire to do so
Any title short of “dook” or C.M.G. would be too mean and
paltry for him. (2). No. A lady does not gain the title
“ Hon.” by the fact that her brother has acquired such a dis-
tinction “ Arthur”: Thanks. Such excerpts always useful.
....“ Jaoques” (Crossley, Vic.): We really can’t answer your
question, copyright being one of those things which no fellah
can understand. Here i 3 our straight tip, however: If there
is anything to be gained by the work go ahead and take your
chance. The probabilities are all in your favour R. BW ” :
It is quite true that certain books belonging to Henniker
Heaton were lately offered for sale to Sydney School of Arts
but the committee passed a motion declining the offer in
about half the time that it takes John Davies to write
January...." Chutnee ": We will t ke your word for it....
“A. Apsey”: May use sections of it ..“Wagga”: You
are indignant because a relative bought and carried
home a coffin before the patient was dead, and call
this “an outrage on our so-called civilisation.” But who
ever accused Wagga of so-cal'ed civilisation? “p. H
Kelly (Peat's Ferry): Items useful. Will probably publish
document referred to on an early date....“ K.J.8.”: Your
letter does suggest a lot of things. It suggests lunaoy, jim-
jams, kerosene, matches, and our basket “ Arthur O.”:
You overlook the one point involved. The question is not
whether the ammunition ordered by Dailey will be of any
use: that is immaterial as far as he is concerned. What he
hae.to prove is that he acted within the Constitution in giving
the orders, and within the duty of a Minister in subsequently
neglecting to reveal his action...." H. 8.”: Matter already in
type...“ G. R.”: Mortimer Franklyn ran the World and the
Federal Australian in Melbourne. (2.) Tiey were not
eminently successful “Bar”: Serjeant Ballantine was
married and leaves one 50n....“ P.H.” : Tennyson’s “ Sixty
Years After ” is 60 miles after Locksley Hall as a poem.
Even in point of metrical merit it suffers by comparison with
the latter ..“F C.” (Ravenswood) : We regret that your
sketch is “ not thought worthy.” “R. G. S.” : Will re-
quire some alteration “Morbus,” “J.R” (Silverton)
“H.A ,” “Isaiah,” “Sufferer,” “John Gilpin,” “Hiram
Abiff,” “Oyster Johnnie," “Cyro,” “G.R.A.,”and a host of
others : MSS. received with usual amount of gratitude.
From the Sydney Mail “ The police at
the Darlinghurst Station are anxious to learn the
address of Mrs. J. V. Hall, late of Auckland, N.Z.
her son Harry Smith, a boy about 43 years of age,
having arrived from the colony named in a desti-
tute condition, a few days ago.” Now, who is it
that thus makes sport of an uncomplaining public ?
Is it the Herald reporter, the police at Darling-
hußst, or little Harry Smith, “a boy about 43
years of age ? ” Or is it all simply a Krishmish
item,


“THE BULLETIN.”
ADVERTISING CHARGES.
One
Insertion.
Per Inch, Single Column, ordinary £lO 0
Paragraph or special matter at double rates.
A series of insertions by arrangement.
Advertisements of a questionable nature not
taken at any price.
ALL ADVERTISEMENTS TO BE PREPAID.
No Agents.
CAUTION.
Printed Receipts on the light-green paper
upplied to its collectors, are alone recognised by
he Bulletin.
Romance.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He said, “ Tbe rose is bright of hue,
And full of heavy scent,” he said.
“ Lake girls’ soft hands its leaves are, too,
Crimson or jaune or white or red,
Yet I will pass it by,” he said.
He said, “ The lily’s face is white
And drooping like a bride's,” he said,
“ It gleams like marble in the night
When sunlight on the hills is dead,
Yet I will pass it by,” he said.
He'said, “Gardenia’s passion scent
Wafts like Faustina’s love,” he said,
“ Like love, by passion torn and rent
W ith all its pureness gone and fled,
Still I will pass it by,” he said.
He gazed upon them and he went.
He never craved to pluok them down,
For he was full of discontent,
And all his life was bare and brown.
“ Learn not to woo when hearts are dead,”
He said —and hid his pallid face.
“ My heart is cold and still,” he said,
“ Altho’ I move from place to place ! ”
“ANI.”
A drunken Warwick (Q.) policeman tried
to arrest a sober man. The sober man arrested
the drunken trap instead.
4 k 4 Can a Roman Catholic be safely allowed
to take any part in Government ? ’ Decided in the
negative, Prayer was then offered! Meeting
adjourned.” This is an extract from a Y. M.
Christian Association’s minutes in Adelaide.
Anyone who wants to see the “ Falls ” of
Niagara had better hurry up or they’ll be late.
The water is rapidly cutting away the rock, and
it is confidently asserted that in a few years the
falls will have disappeared, and the water will
simply run down an inclined plane to the channel
below.
From a Nevada death ad.: —
“ Little Johnny filled hi« stomach
Chock-a-block with apple pi**,
When c mvulaioDß overtook him,
And he Winged his flight on high.”
This style of verse has the advantage of being
pathetic, hopeful, and historically accurate. It
has also the appearance of strict originality.
One noticeable fact at the meeting of the
N S. W. Assembly on Tuesday was the gravitation
of members to the Ministerial cross-benches, noless
than 51 representatives taking their places there.
From these seats to the Opposition cross-benches
is but a step, and it is one which several members
will not be slow to take.
It is cabled that an English company has
been formed to work the Australian coasting
trade. This almost certainly means the employ-
ment of coolie labour in the trade, as otherwise
the company will have no ohance of competing
with local and well-established companies. Coolie
labour means a strike, and a strike means heavy
loss, therefore it is pretty certain that the gay
shareholders of this concern will find that they
have undertaken a bigger contract than the funds
will stand.
The University of London is going to
celebrate the Jubilee in a manner that, so far, is
unique. The celebration will consist exclusively
of the adoption of a motto, and the motto chosen
is “Spiritus intus alit,” which may be translated
as “ Rum nourishes the innards.” The decision,
like the motto, is received with unmeasured deri-
sion, but the economical jubilators may console
themselves with the reflection that they have not
so completely and comprehensively proved their
loyal lunacy as a lot of other peop'e who have
decided on commemorating the longevity of Her
Gracious.
The Moruya Pastoral and Agricultural
Association received the following valuable sug-
gestions from a high authority regarding their
annual show: —
“ The Park, Moruya, Feb. 12, ’B7. Missa Robert Mort,
Eaq., Prenident A. and P. Society. Massa Robert,—You and
your family always budgery fellows along a poor blackfellow.
Me make a light plenty fellow sit down at Coomerang;
get’em honey, get'em fish, get'em bark, get'em duck, get'em
ebbery tiDg—good time —likee that. Mine God good fellow
tim«; most all blackfellow gone now—only a few, me and
Sally, and Judy, and Annie, and Walker, and Peterman,
poor fellow altogether now No prize for poor fellow likee
me or Sally—only white man—poor fellow blackfellow alto-
gether. Massa Robert, you good man, you tell'em give prize
to poor blackfellow ; £1 best blackfellow ; 10s. beet dressed
gin. Good fellow you.— Michael (his x mark) Connors,
King of Gundary.”
Michael is only a distant relation of Brian Boru.
Brisbane has been moved to affirm that
the yellow heathen from the Land of Eternal
Flowers shill not, under any pretence whatever,
he considered available for export to Queensland.
But passing motions against the Chinese is very
like the acceptance of a total abstinence pledge by
a N. S.W. M.P., or the formation of good resolu-
tions on New Year’s Day—there is generally a
lamentable lack of adherence to the programme.
So long as John sells a cabbage for 20 per cent
less than a Christian would take, so long will
there he purchasers of the esculent. Prohibitive
legislation may be invoked, but we have a horrible
suspicion that the Chinese question will not be
finally settled until the exponent of European
civilisation is permitted to stand on the sad sea-
shore with a bowie-knife to welcome the dark-
browed Mongolian.
Here are some extracts from accounts of
recent evictions in Ireland given in the English
papers :—“ At one house the tenant s infant child
was dying, hut the agent refused to allow the ten-
ant to remain, and nailed up the door. The
woman crying piteously laid the dying child in
the pigsty in the yard, and procured straw to form
a bed there." Again. “ The first eviction was
at the house of a man named Keardon. The roof
was at once set on fin?, and the agent's men
knocked down the walls with crowtars. The
tenant has a family of eight children, and no stock.
In another case “ The family of six, the
mother of whom had long lived by begging,
having been evicted, the house was destroyed.
The bailiff could not set the thatch on fire, and
the house was pulled down, and the half-naked
occupants left amid the murmurs of the crowd.”
Yet another instance, “ The" eviction was at the
house of two men named Diggin, whose joint fami-
lies amounted to 18 persons. An offer of some of
the rent was refused, and the house set on fire.
The money had been sent by a daughter who was
in service to save their home. Patrick Diggui an
old man of 70, left the house with his grandchild
in his arms, and his aged wife fell down in a
swoon,” How long, Oh Lord, how long !
We have already heard Parkes on a good
many things. We have hart Parkes on Freetrade,
Parkes on culture and underclothing, Parkes
on higher education, Parkes on religion, beer,
and consistency, Parkes od the loose, kissing girlsin
America (only in visions and in poetiy, of course),
and now we are in a fair way to hear something
about Paxkes on prayer. The great man has re-
ceived a petition from Bathurst (N.S.W.) urging
that the daily cuss in the cornstalk palaver house
should be opened with devotion, and as the
Premier is what the late Mr. Jerry Cruncher
would call a “haffable gent,” especially when re-
ligion is involved, the chances are three to one
that he will adopt the suggestion. But we hope
the misguided man won’t insist on leading the
choir himself. We don’t mind hearing the gray-
headed eagle when it is his day out to scream,
but Parkes with his large feet planted on the
place of supplication and praying publicly for
less hair and more grammar and brains would he
too too ** hutter.” We wouldn’t like to listen
when the Australian Moses asks a blessing on the
“withered tarantula,” when he calls down a
shower of benediction on the “poodle-hearted
creature ” in the corner, and asks that a few drops
may fall on the “ thieves, crimps, and blacklegs ”
who made an Aunt Sally of him, and threw the
harmless, necessary cat at his head in 1882 ;
we don’t want to see his stifled rage when the
drunkard of the Assembly asks, “ Whazzermazzer
wiz zat praying cove over there,” and adds that
he’ll “ shecond ze moshun and we desire not to
be about when Parkes loses his head at last and
swears at the Almighty and Billingsgates the
saints and the apostles. We can stand Parkes
on etiquette, literature, and philosophy, also
Parkes on pleurisy, schnapps, and hogs, but a de-
votional Parkes would require to be abolished.
This little letter, the production of the
mighty intellect of a N.S.W. provincial parson,
shows that if the cause does not progress as it
ought the fault does not rest with the men who
have the work in hand. This earnest apostle
writes to one of his wealthy and aged parishioners
as follows
” Dear Sir,—l enclose for your perusal our general balance-
sheet for the year 1886, in which you will fee receipts and ex*
penditure. My object in writing to you is to ask if y u will
be good enough to send in the small amount—[the small
amount was £5 ! —En. B.]—promised by you (as per tn-
closed) at the beginning of the year 1886. Services have
been held and pastoral visits paid to both by Mr
and myself during the past year, while nothing has been re-
c ived for the whole of that time. Even the amount pro-
mised is altogether only small in comparison with the means
with which God has intrusted you. Can you not in return
give something to Him and His cause ? I smcerely trust you
will not take amiss what I have just said, but I am con-
strained from a strict sense of duty and am writing from no
other motive. You do, I know, v due religious ordinances,
and are well acquainted with the Word of God; in that
Word we are told that God’s people gave regularly
a tenth of what they possessed to Him, and they were 1
abundantly blessed both in body and soul, Think
then, I beseech you, of the good you could do if an adequate
amount of your income were given hack to the Great Giver
of all, and to whom all belongs. I am sincerely thankful
that God has been pleased to restore you once more to a
measure of health, and I can assure you of the com
fort it will give you “ before you go hence and be
no more seen” to devote some of your possessions
as a permanent memorial of your gratitude to
God for all His blessings. The people are about
to build a church, other centres in this parish are doing the
a vme. They are also s'raitened for funds in other ways*
I trust you will feel moved to render some ass’stance. You
may think me eccentric, or even presumptuous, in writing in
this strain, but I am a minister, and is it not the duty of a
faithful minister to speak what he considers to be the truth ?
And lest you should think anything personal should have in-
duced me to write this, I promise that, if my appeal should
prompt you to a feeling of sacrifice and constrain you to
make a liberal offering, that not a pei ny of the amountshall
be devoted to my own personal benefit. Wishing you God's
blessing and further restoration to health, believe me your
faithful friend and pastor,
What a nice, devotional letter ! The parishioner
who could think such modest requests “ eccentric
or presumptuous ” deserves nothing of the good
things of this world.
W. G. O’Neill, of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.),
is dead, and, of course all further communicat’on
with him is “ interrupted.” When in life, how-
ever, he had a tale to tell—a ta'.e of the good old
bushranging days, when trembling travellers
thought every bush an outlaw, and when sleek-
haired buBhmen, with cabbage-tree hats cocked
jauntily on three hairs, sat round a friendly
“ cocky's ” Are and defiantly yelped out the praises
of “ Bold Ben Hall, so brave and ter-ue, and
Johnnie Gilbert, blithe and gay.” In those days
W. G. O’Neill was Sub-Inspector of Police at the
Black Springs, near Gundagai, and as the boys
were hovering round that district things were
decidedly unsettled at the station. One fire day
it became necessary for Sub-Inspector O'Neill,
Sergeant Parry, and Constables Roche and M’Lach-
lan to start out on escort duty for the purpose of
guarding the gold, Her Majesty’s mails, and the
still more important item of the personal safety of
Mr. Rose, the Police Magistrate of Gundagai.
Before they had travelled far, Ben Hall, Gil-
bert, and Bunn suddenly swooped down and
gave the order to “bail up.” Sergeant Parry
at once started to show fight but wa< shot dead
before he could raise his weapon. Constable
Roche slipped out of the coach on the opposite
side from the bushrangers, and stood not on the
order of going, but cleared for the scrub at a pace
that would have left Hutchens 50 yards behind
nowhere. All the rest of the party were promptly
captured by the “ rangers,” and then Dunn kept
guard while Gilbert ransacked the coach, and ihe
late Mr. B. Hall, on behalf of himself and his
friends, thanked the tub-inspecter in a few neat
remarks for the very handsome present of valu-
able firearms which he had provided for them.
O’Neill subsequently prosecuted Roche for cow-
ardice, and the attorney fur the defence drew
the Bench’s attention to the fact that his client
saved at least his Queen's arms and ammunition—
which his superior did not, nor anything else that
could be seen excepting his life. The deer-footed
Roche was “broke,” however, and later on Sub-
Inspector O'Neill was similarly rewarded.
Important Business Arrangement.
One of the chief business successes of the year is
undoubtedly the move made by Messrs Joshua
Davies and Co., V Barrack-street, Sydney, im-
porters of drapery, millinery mercery, and cloth-
ing, who have decided by a novel hut sound prin-
ciple of trade to reach the great mass of the people
of this country. This firm, one of the largest of
our drapery and clothing importers, purchased, at
the close of the past year, the whole of the well-
I elected stock of the late John Tait, junior, and
/0., which stocK has since been considerably
ugmented by subsequent shipments of some of
he most choice and seasonable goods, all of which
oshua Davies and Co. are offering to the public in
etail qualities at actual wholesale prices. It is
n every sense of the word “a new departure”
,nd as such they describe their new business. In
ither words, this firm intends to give to the pur-
chaser of a single article, or a single yard of
naterial, the same advantages as were hitherto
;iven to wholesale purchasers. For instance,
etail storekeepers, or retail clothiers, carrying on
msiness in the city, subuifts, or country, would
jurcbase goods (say) to the extent of £lOO,
vhich they immediately put a profit of from 50 to
<o 100 per cent. Now, Messrs. Joshua Davies
ind Co. have evidently arrived at the conclu-
sion that the general public would certainly
lerive great benefit from this “new departure,”
md we learn from the many enquiries already
nade that this enterprising firm are meeting with
:he greatest success, which is daily increasing as
Jie fact of their existence becomes more known,
rhe firm’s premises at 7 Barrack-street are
specially adapted for the class of business now
carried on, and are situated next above the
Savings Bank. They make no outside show, and
bhus avoid the expense and losses usually caused by
si system of window-dressing, apart from the fact
that many ladies have a very great objection to buy-
ing and wearing articles which have probably been
exhibited for some time in a shop window to the gaze
of all passers-by. A walk through their establish-
ment will agreeably surprise our readers, and con-
vince them that the public are fully alive to the bene-
fits derived from the change. The stock consists of
clothing of every make, shape, and quality (the
same description also applies to their stock of
shirts* collars, ties, gloves, and hats) suitable for
men, youths, and boys’ household drapery ;
women’s and girls’ dresses, dress materials, and
underclothing ; millinery, hosiery, &c., &c. —in
fact, everything in drapery and clothing required
for the house or the individual is here to be found
at an enorwous discount on the prices chargeable
in retail houses generally. A visit to the place at
any hour of the day will show that the public ap-
preciate the huge benefits of this change of busi-
ness, and that proprietors are bound to find it re-
sulting a colossal triumph.*
df
Australian Loari, Discount, and
Financial Company (Ld)
One of the most successful finance companies or
ganised in Sydney in the interests of the public is
undoubtedly the Australian Loan, Discount, and
Financial Company (Ld.) The Company’s suc-
cess deserves to be described as remarkable, as
though only of recent formation it has done great
business, the transactions per day reaching some
thousands of pounds. This company, which is
nothing more nor less than a people’s company,
the subscribers being all of the general class, was
formed to take out of the hands of the money®
lender class the huge money business done in
Sydney and through the country, and any-
one who has had the slightest experience in
trade or financing will at once agree that an
enormous business can be done in this way by a
company charging even very low rates. Thou-
sands of men in business and others pressed by
circumstances are often in need of money, and
their cases don’t receive the slightest considera-
tion from our banks. Refused here, these men
have been forced to deal with the 60 per cent gentry,
cut of whose hands they seldom come except at
the cost of ruin or crippled energies. Between
these two lies the grand fieli for profitable and
beneficial business which the Australian jLoan Dis-
count and Financial Company (Ld.) now occupy.
And it is not surprising, as already stated, that its
career has bee n equally successful, with evidence on
every hand of jet greater results. The capital
of the company is £lOO,OOO in as many shares of
£1 each, Is. on application, Is. on allotment, and
the balance, if required, in shilling calls at intervals
of one month. A great portion of the shares have
been subscribed for, and the remainder is daily
being taken up all through the country at a
slight premium per share. Ihe business of
the company involves the discounting of trade
bills, advances on merchandise in stores or bond,
shares in banks and public companies, bills of
lading, deeds, bills of sale on all kinds of real or
other property. In point of fact money is advanced
by the company on any adequate security, and a
low rate of interest is charged. To men on
our goldfields and elsewhere, who have
a little capital lying unproductive, the
company offers good inducements in regard to
deposits. Money placed with the company repay-
able at call without notice is allowed per cent. ;
deposit for three months, 6 per cent. ; six months,
7 per cent. ;12 months, 8 per cent. Those depo-
sitors who renew their deposits after 12 months
an addition of 1 per cent, bonus is allowed. The
active oirectory of the company consists of well-
inown Sydney commercial men, Mr. J. H. Nathan
aeing the chairman. The offices, a sketch of which
is herewith given, are situated at the corner of
York and Market Streets, Sydney, to which ad-
dress all communications may be sent.*
k, k, DEBNEY & CO.,
13 Hunter Street,
SHIRT MAKERS.
Sydney Roller Coaster.
m
m
I
m
ifii
■ ■'•• J
BELMORE PARK, every Afternoon and Evening,
REAT SUCCESS. Thousands riding every
vDT day! Greatest scientific novelty of the
age ! Car travels up-hill without motive power.
Bring your family, and enjoy yourselves.
BELMORE PARK, Belmore Park. Beautifully
illuminated with Electric Lights. Band Concert
each evening. Polite attendants; iced refresh-
ments. Single ticket-. 3d.; or 5 tickets, Is.
R. H. DONNOLLY, Manager,
PAIN’S FIREWORKS and ILLUMINATIONS,
IN THE DOMAIN,
In aid of the HOSPITALS,
TONIGHT. TO-NlGHT.—March 10.
HOSPITAL THURSDAY,
HEALTHIEST
and
GRANDEST AMUSEMENT
IN SYDNEY.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSOR OIL preserves,
strengthens, and beautifies the hair ; it contains
no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now be
also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden haired children and
persons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS' KALYDOR is a most cooling
and refreshing wash for the face, hands and arms,
and is perfectly free from any mineral of metallic
admixtures; it disperses freckles, tan, prickly
heat, redness pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS' ESSENCE OF TYRE produces
immediately a perfect change in red or grey hair,
whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and permanent
brown or black, which colour neither washing nor
perspiration will remove.
A«k any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 2u Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elt.iott Bros.,
E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 8, 1887.
Tenders tor public works and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offlce in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Additions, &c., to Post and Tele-
graph Office, Balranald
Cartage of Railway Materials
Erection of Bridge over Bowan
Creek, Road Cargo to Cudal
Erection of Residences for Offi-
cers in charge of Store Creek
and Mumbil, G. W. Railway
Supply of Sleepers, Great North-
ern Railway
Purchase of Old Boilers, Dredge
Buckets, & c., at Fitzroy
Dock
Erection of Retaining-wall,
Nelson’s Bay Lighthouse
Bridge over Coombing Creek,
road Blayney to Five Islands
Supply and Delivery of 2000 tons
of Blue Metal at Granville Sta-
tion
Construction and Supply of two
Equilibrium Ball Valves,&c. —
Water Supply, Newcastle
Erection of Biidge over Piora
Creek, Road Casino to Tabu-
lam
Alterations and Additions, Post
and Telegraph Office, Narrabri
Erection of Signal Staff, Cape St.
George Lighthouee
Erection of Timber Bridge over
Namoi River at Wee Waa
Taking down and re-building
Macquarie-street front Free
Public Library
Bridge over Stony Creek, road
Tumberumba to Welaregang
Bridge over Goodman Creek,
road Mudgee to Cobborah
Bridge over Broughton Mill
Creek (exclusive of supply of
ironwork) road Gerringong to
Broughton Creek
Bridge over Broughton Mill
Creek, supply of iron vork
Erection of Residence for Officer
in charge at Coolabah, G. W
Railway
Alterations to Pyrmont Bridge
Supply of Locomotive Engines
(passenger and goods).
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office
Tuesday,
March 15,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
March 22,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
March 29,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
April 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
April 12,
at 11 o clock.
JOHN SUTHERLAND.


| J OMK FOR HONORS
There is many a good tune to be got out of a
old Addle, and many a wise notion out of an ol
song. The statement about the Addle may be lef
to musical and other critics to decide, but abou
the song there is no doubt. In Europe at th
present moment, something like twelve million
of men, armed with
REPEATING RIFLES,
a variety of religious sentiments, dynamite shells
melanite bombs and a lot of other pomps ant
vanities of this world, are getting ready for the
great
INTERNATIONAL FIREWORKS JUBILEE,
the celebration of which appears to be inevitable
And the situation is a forcible reminder of the
old song, in which the fair Jeanette laments the
necessity for her best young man going away to
Aght about something in which he had no persona
interest, beyond the possible acquisition of
beautiful cockade and an utter forgetfulness of her
many charms. And with an amount of wisdom
far beyond her age and the requirements o:
domestic service, she plaintively sings :
Oh ! If I wtre Queen of France,
Or, still better, Pope of Rome,
I d have no Aghdng men abroad,
No weeping maids at home.
All the world should be at peace,
And if kings must show their might,
I'd have those who make the quarrels
Be the only ones to Aght.
Yet in spite of present earthquakes and probable
wars,
THE REPRESENTATIVE AUSTRALIAN
crams his little grip-sack with emu eggs and starts
for the scene of the festivities without a though l,
or a tear for all he leaves behind him. He frets
not about the deAcit, for his faith is in Parkes ;
he trembles not for the good government of J his
colonial home, for he leaves a two-thirds majority
on paper in favor of freetrade. He knows that
his
WIVES AND FAMILIES
who lives across the water will be safe, because
the traAic on the bosom of his beautiful harbor is
regulated by the wisdom and sagacity of the Syd-
ney Marine Board, the members of which are
weaving their names into the history of the colony
and the hearts of the pesple. As monuments of
brilliant intelligence, official lucidity and sailor-
like decision in the performance of their duties ;
in analysing wrecks and collisions, and in giving
judgments such as Solomon might have wondered
at, he knows they appropriate
THE WORLD’S CONFECTIONERY.
But more than all this, he knows that go where
he may he will never be deprived of his favorite
drink. As the guest of the Queen or the com.
panion of the Czar, secluded by sea sickness in his
own cabin, or seated at a poker party in his club,
he has but to give it a name and be at once re-
vived, invigorated, and practically boosted up in-
to the seventh heaven by that truly excellent
beverage so dear to the hearts and palates of all
Australians,
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
He knows, too, that Salisbury, Bismarck, Church,
hill, King George of Tonga, Parnell, Barnum,
President Cleveland, Peter the Great, John the
Baptist, “Tummy,” John Norton, Bob Ingersoll,
the Battenbergs, and thousands of other crowned
and uncrowned heads all take it, and invariably
reply to the well-known query with
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
Every dog has his day, but only the best brands
And buyers. The world’s choice of beers is the
six-barrelled C.N.Y.C.L.B. It is the only one not
found wanting in one or other of the attributes of
a first-class beer. It is peace, Perfection, and
LINGERING, LASTING HAPPINESS.
FOR BRIGHTNESS AND PURITY
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
) RINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR FREEDOM FROM SEDIMENT
DRINK CLAUSEN'S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR DELICACY OF FLAVOR
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR A NUTRIIIOUS STIMULANT
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGgR BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGftR BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR A REFRESHING BEVERAGE
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
FOR HEALTH, HAPPINESS, AND
CONTENTMENT,
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
DRINK CLAUSEN’S LAGER BEER
Kept on ICE by all the principal Hotels in the
colonies. Call for it and take no other.
Don’t be persuaded any other is as good just
because Clausen’s N. Y. Champagne Lager don’t
happen to be at hand, or because a bottle of some
other brand is open.
Agents for New South Wales—
WALKER, LEMON, and CO.,
56, Margaret-street,
Sydney.*
The Dean of Manchester is plunged in
grief because the church offertories don’t seem
strong enough on their legs to keep level with the
cost of conducting services. His only consolation
arises from the anticipated invasion by Jubilee
visitors who will, it is expected, largely add to the
ordinary church revenues. From what we have
seen of distinguished colonial representatives we
don’t think that Manchester church funds will
benefit much by their presence. Colonials doing
the grand tour through England do spend a tre-
mendous lot of money, but it is not on churches
that they spend it.
It is evidently not worth the while of any
sober man to become a Mayor in N.S.W. by shak-
ing two dice in a hat, or by tossing up, or any
similar dodge. Mayor Dunn, of the Glebe, owes
his billet to this system, and Alderman Turner has
obtained a rule n isi calling on him to show why
he should not be scruffed out, For our own part
we don’t care one kettle-mender’s anathema which
of the two has to look after the drains and smells
of the Glebe during the coming year, but we
would like to know whether Mr. Turner objected
at the time or merely rounded on his dear old pal
when he found the luck had gone againet him.
THE TERRIBLE STRAIN
Whioh scrofula has upon the system must be arrested, and
the blood must be purified, or serious consequences will
eußue. For purifying and vitilizing effeets, Dr. Bell's Bitters
has been found superior to any other preparation. It expels
erery trace of impurity from the blood, and bestows new
life and vigor upon every function of the body, enabling it to
entirely overcome disease.
Diarrhcea Dysentery, and Colic. —It ought
to be more generally known throughout N.S.W.
that Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne
is a specific for these prevalent Colonial Maladies.
Many years ago Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired
a very high reputation for arresting and curing
these diseases. It is easy to understand, there-
fore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now regarded
by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most
inexperienced men can administer it with perfect
confidence. Freeman’s Chlorodyne, if given when
the earliest symptoms of these maladies manifest
themselves, at once arrests their further progress.
Insist upon having “Freeman’s” only. Trade
mark, an Elephant.—obtainable from all chemists
and storekeepers.*
Cockroaches. Bugs, and all other insects
destroyed by Mitchell’s Insect powder. 6d., Is.,
Is. 6d. Rigney, 141 King-street.*
When Mr. Goschen was taken into the
English Cabinet Sir Robert Fowler, ex-Mayor of
London, was offered a peerage so that his vacant
seat might afford Mr. Goschen a chance of getting
into the House Sir Robert, for some unexplained
reason, refused the offer at the time, hut he will
probably regret his refusal now. No one would
have dared to accuse a peer of the realm of con-
niving at the distribution of “ boodle ” among
members of the Commons. There’s a divinity
doth hedge about a peer, but it doesn’t always
prevent a vulgah bookmaker from slapping the
peer over his cultured cheek.
An English tenant whose landlord sued
for rent was permitted to deduct from the amount
due the cost of doctor’s and undertaker’s attend-
ance upon her child which typhoided in conse-
quence of the bad drainage of the locality.
SIR HENRY PARKES VERSUS SIR
PATRICK JENNINGS.
THREATENED ACTION FOR LIBEL.
Sensation ran high yesterday when on ’Change
and the clubs a rumor was current that Sir Henry
Parkes had issued a writ for £lOO,OOO against the
ex-Premier for libel. From what we can ascer-
tain of the matter the facts are simply these. On
the 23rd of last month Sir Patrick met Mr. Dibbs
in Macquarie street, when the latter asked him
whether it was true that Sir Henry Parkes’
principles of Freetrade were all bunkum and
only hatched, that he, Sir Henry, might once
more hold the corruptible position of Premier.
Sir Patrick gave it as his solemn opinion that
such was the case. Naturally Sir Henry was
much chagrined at such an unwarrantable state-
ment, and to vindicate his high and untarnished
political character, he threatened an action if the
offensive words were not instantly withdrawn.
Sir Patrick metaphorically placed the thumb of
his right hand to his nose with the remaining four
Angers formed into something of the shape of a
lady’s fan, when he declared that Sir Henry could
search the law courts, the judges, or even the
power of the Press to relieve him of the stigma if
he liked, but he, Sir Patrick, would not budge
one inch from the stand he had taken. air
Patrick’s couch and bosom friends, Mr. Luscombe
and also Mr. Merriman and Mr. Melville, it is
believed, interviewed the ex-Premier and brought
their influence to hear on him which culminated
in Sir Patrick’s withdrawal of the offensive in-
nuendo, he paying also the sum of £lOO to the
funds of the Freetrade A ssociation and undertak-
ing to supply the new Ministry with the famous
St. Louis Lager Beer during the whole term of
their reign. St. Louis Lager Beer, you see,
quenches even political feuds.'*
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prioes,
STOP RIGHT HERE!
JOY FOR EVER!
CONSIDER THIS.
An Autophone costa but 30a. and is a joy for ever
r.c
■■
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrumen
which, while it weighs less than three pounds hs
tAe lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and execute
its music with absolute precision and perfec
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in thro
keys, and all the pai ts of most difficult music. O
it a child can correctly play, without instruction
any of its music, wnich at present consists of ove
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. I
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits ai
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe
cuting very lively pieces. tW It is pitched for th
voice, and has a little card holder for convenient'
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for oountr;
churohes, Sunday schools, the family circle, an
also for dancing. The music is compact, and fa
cheaper than that which is made for any organette
The Autophone is like every other good thing, th
longer you have it the better you like it, and a
new music is being published every week it has ai
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS,
Three tunes given in with each instrument.
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for Cata
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
WATCHES.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“ Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘ B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any o
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure, tc
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balanoe for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the watch, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer,
Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you oan afford we
meet you by reducing the prioe of the case. Wo
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Note. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Hunting case, ore silver, stem winding
patent lever, with compensating
balance, jewelled in 7 holes ... £2 10 0
Do. do. (key winder) ... ... £2 0 0
Elgin National WatchCo.’sKeywinding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band oase, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 flnejewels,
open face £3 0 0
Same Watch in hunting case ... £3 10 0
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal faoe, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pitent pinion, &a ...£8 5 0
Same Watch, in hunting-ease S 1§ 0
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting ease ex-
quisite jewelled movement. No better
in the world ... ... ... t > gjQ q q
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-oased
watches at ascending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
ORIENTAL
is the latest triumph of
Soience. It is a noble
GOLD
alloy, possessing; the ezaet lustre, beauty
and endurance of sterling Sold. A legi-
timate use has been fossd for this noble metal, by
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de-
signs. The Oriental Gold Co.,
has
large consignments of these lovely goods, which they
sell at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Sold Jewellery.
Wo one can detect the difference. Send for »
Priced Catalogue, or for one of the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches,Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliantc) Brooch, 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, 73. 6d.; Pair
Plain 55., Jewelled,7s. 6d.; Locket
ss. .Jewelled, lOs.; Ladies’ Alberts
15s. P. 0.0. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
[ggp-We send tlieseon approval, irthey don’t
1 please, return uninjured by the First
Mai I, an d we repay the cash, less post age.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
OASTLEREAGH STREET.
PaToela sent anywhere by post,
The Holy Bible in the Melbourne City Court is a hump-backed, water-logged, grease-
bespattered wreck. A man objected to putting his lips to the unsavoury Word the other day,
fearing all the diseases known to science, and Mr. Call, the pious and haughty Police Magistrate,
set up his back at once. “Take up the Book, Sir, and kiss it, or I’ll send you to gaol I” he
snorted. The man ventured to think it ought to be fumigated and expurgated, and then carefully
burnt he preferred to affirm. But the lordly P.M. insisted, and reiterated his determination to
imprison the dainty aesthetic if he did not obey the time-honoured custom of his fathers, and kiss
the Book. There was no help for it, and, after carefully looking up a text that wouldn’t taste
like a sundowner's old clay, the man osculated. “Now,” said the erudite Call, “you have sworn,
but I wouldn’t belive you on your oath—that’s the opinion I’ve formed of you.” We in our turn
have formed an opinion of this wise and temperate beak, but libels are too costly in the summer
for the poor journalist to indulge in them.


3l<>tier to Visitors to the .Vmericau Exhibition
of ISB7.
50,592 English Miles have been covered since Oct. 11, 1880, by
THE “WONDER”
which last season carried 1978 passengers in perfect safety.
Dr. Rumney (of “Ridge’s Food” fame) will, to prevent
disappointment to American and Coloni wl visitors, again run
his celebrated six-horse Stage Coach, THE “WONDER,”
between London and St. Alban*, leaving Hatchett's Hotel,
in Piccadiny, London, tvery morning at 10.45, returning to
Fiecadilly at 6.15 p.m.
Ample time is al’owed at St. Albans for lunch and for
paesengers to irsj-ect the CATHEDR AL, which is one of the
FIN* ST and OLDEST IN THE WORLD.
The trip is one of the most delightful that can be taken
and the price charged for the return tare is 203.
For time Cards and other Part iculars apply to “ WONDF R’’
Coach Office, Hatchett’s Hotel, Piccadi ly, London, England
gd
Aw
4*
vV
r s il
ARTHUR MARTIN & COMPANY
(ESTABLISHED 1860),
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS, HOUSE, LAND,
AND COMMISSION AGENTS.
Our Mr. M. B. Gannon is the Government Auc-
tioneer for Brisbane.
Any enquiry about Land, &c., from the Sotubern
Colonies or New Zealand, may be made to Arthub
Martin & Company, City Auction Mart, Queen-
street, Brisbane.
Robert butcher & co.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Town Hall, Sydney.
OT Country Orders receive prompt attention.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the soience of self-defence.
Classes now open.
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley’s you
HAVE NOT SEEN THE CITY.
High-class Dentistry
at Reform Prices.
AKTIFICIALTEETH
CO«-SSET
b-X-5. d
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas, daily.
. ..
LsjS
~«S
raj T'Jl
To Weak, Jfervous Invalids, and oihm
seeking Health and Strength.
/M.A., 0x0...
\ M.R.C.S., England.
DESIRES to publicly announce that he has
permanently established himself in Sydney,
and may in future be consulted at his rooms, Nto.
7 Spring Street, FREE OF CHARGE, by that
increasingly large olass of sufferers whose nervous
complaints can only be competently dealt with by
an experienced specialist. I Cure every case un-
dertaken. When I say I cure. Ido not merely
stop them for a time and then have them return
again, I mean a radical cure. I have made those
ailments, which are the result of negligence, a
life-long study, and can safely warrant a cure
after personal consultation. Carelessness in many
cases has brought about a state of weakness that
has reduoed the general system so much as to in-
duce almost every other disease, and the real
cause of this scarely ever beiDg suspected, people
have been doctored for everything but the right
one. Notwithstanding the many valuable remedies
that medical science has produced for the relief of
this class of patients, none of the ordinary modes
of treatment effect a cure. During my extensive
hospital and private practice in England, I have
discovered new and concentrated remedies, and
with the use of my extensive Galvanic Appliances,
am in a position to guarantee a cure in every ease
undertaken. Consultation costs nothing, aad I
will tell you at once whether your case is curable
or not.
DR. RICHARDS, M.R.0.5., England,
7 SPIRING STREET (off Pitt-st., Sydney.
Ftsw people are aware oI the alarming prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, espeelally among those who
have arrived at or are past middle age. It is declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths in
this country are either directly or indireotly the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and these diseases are on tho increase. Per
sons are often seriously affected before they know of
it themselves, and thus these Insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodge
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, &e., are the many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defying the powers oftentimes Of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
inourable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no «ympt®m* of a
marked nature. This is one of the reasons why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr. BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinary
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of that
class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headache, Jaundice, Liver
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debility, Female Weaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and wa* never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold by <M Druggittt and Dealer! <» Patent Modi-
vine*.
Non*.—Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BELL’S BITTERS
. MAUTJf AOTUEING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO., SYDNEY
AGHNTB TOR
New South Wales and Queensland,
fg
■ *5
MANUMfctllfttßJ
& IMPORTERS OP
fci tiil*. wJ*
HATS CAPSic
f 0 -*-* ■— " : ’ •
438.CE0RCE ST
SYDNEY 1
op/>O]iti Aailtt&jq
A
df
Tv*
&
r* E
5 y
fit 0
LLA3
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame* re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Briekfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasol* made te match ooa
tumei Repair* neatly executed
Theatre royal.
Under the Direotion of
Messrs. Williamson, Gamer, and Musgrove
Lessee, Mr, Sam Lazar.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
IL TROVATORE.
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY,
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.
Prices— Dress Circle, 7s. 6d.; Orchestra Stalls.
55,; Stalls, Is ; Eamiiy Circle, 2s.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
SURPRISING SUCCESS
SURPRISING SUCCESS
EAQH NIGHT. EACH NIGHT.
The great HOSE A EASTON, Banjoist and
Comic Artist, appears in this hall, in coniunction
with Messrs. JOHNNY COWAN, SAM KEENAN,
the great Soprano Miss BEATRICE JAMES, and
the other members of the company, numbering
30 Artists.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, 6d.
Grrtnd Sacred and Classical Concert every
SUNDAY EVENING, at 7.30.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
Dr. E. C. West’s Nerve and Brain Treatment, a
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fits,
Nervous Neuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused by
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression,
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading to
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each box
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes for
255., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price. We Guar-
antee six boxes to cure any case. With each order re-
ceived by us for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we will
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund the
money if the treatment does not effect a cure. Guarantees
'issued only by
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
Pills, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction.
Large boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN 0. WEST & CO.,
66 Market-street Sydney, N.StW.
Sent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. per box In stamp*.
“W “W w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
Infallible remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout, Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache,
Mumps, Hip Disease, White Swelling, Felons, Chilblains
Whitlows, Chapped Hands, Frozen Feet, Bites of Insects,
Sore Throat and all diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Ib, and 2b. per Bottle.
JOHN C, WEST & CO., Sole Proprietors.
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS Or ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
EQUITABLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, Limited.
89 OOLLINS STREET MELBOURISrE.
Direct Importers, Merchants and Manufacturers.
Every Household and Personal Requirement under One Roof.
Branches —Chapel-st., Prahran ; Brunswlck-st,, Fitzroy ; Bay-st., North Brighton; Dundas-pl., S.
Melbourne ; Burwood-rd., Hawthorn ; Nicholson-st., Footscray.
London Office —20 & 22 COLEMAN ST., E.
WRITE TO THE SECRETARY FOR MONTHLY CIRCULAR, AND REDUCE HOUSEHOLD
EXPENSES 30 PER CENT.
y /f? /
'/Oj <
ILLUSTRATION (In reduoed sin) 7f £1 Order to be found in t&e
“LARGE BOTTLES” OP WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
iUD
PHOMOLFES
bON
8c- 1
B
RAD jIL Y, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites tor dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, aU
to match.
ELF-AD JU STING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
aa
Thi3 choir adjusts its- If to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the Lumerous ositions
that can bo obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. H3T We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB (only).
Packing in canvas, if required 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up-
holstered, at all prices. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Furniture Importers, O’Connell and
Spring Streets.
gd
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by| movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell and Spring
Streets.
fg
Drawing room cabi-
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streets
j
_£► O ST PIANOFORTE,
3600 guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, bril ant
tone, In handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only,
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by the MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
df
ICE
CHESTS,
all sizes,
From 27»,
Bradley,
Newton.
and
Lamb.
g
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms. New designs covered to order in
any material.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful, a specialty. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
dfg
"J3KDSTEAD97 all sizes
■U Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Qreat variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest rates.
BKADLBY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
df
SPRING MATTRASSHB
Woven Wire, bee
make; also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from lis. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON) and LAMB,
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 lCs,l Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,


The Disadvantage of Being an Australian.
"Arrangements are about to be made by the N.S.W. Government by which persons in America, in London, and on the Continont can book by the various mail routes
at reduced ates, their tickets embracing the use of intercolonial railways and allowing them to stop over for a week or more at each capital."-Sydney Daily.
TICKET-SELLER PARKES: "OH NO, YOU MUST PAY THE FULL RATES. IT IS ONLY SUCH FOREIGN VISITORS AS SIR WILLAIM SYKES AND LORD ST. LEOARES
THAT WE CARRY AT A LOSS, ONE OF YOUR AUSTRALIAN PRIVILEGES IS THE CHANCE OF PAYING FOR WAHT IS LOST BY CARRYING FOREIGNERS."


E,
&ALICYL
5 yin, exquisite
2oJUty
Sr THE PROPRIETOR,
&
TOOTH PASTE
*UfJMILLED ?of{ ITSfif/l/SEPTIC
juJd CLEA/JsifiG PROPERTIES.
.MELHUISH pHARMACEKTJCAL CHEMIST
J 34 William ST, SYD N£ Y
00 TS
DOTS
T WILLIAMS & CO.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & {Shoes ;
Also Manufacturers of
Ihk Finest Quality of Goods in the above Links.
27 b and 4i. 2 George-st., Sydney.
S3OH
$ 3 OH
£5O ESIE’W-A^ID-
WARNING!
jqw-j. n utterl y worthless imitation of that well-known preparation,
iu US E’S INSECTICIDE, is now being offered for sale, and
u j>. deceive the unwary, the word Kruse s is rendered
boa S 011 le ou Uide wrapper. The public are hereby cau-
*> oUv ~ this imposture, and are advised that FIITY
dea REWARD will be paid to anyone giving such evi-
thi lead to the conviction ol the makers and vendors of
? llr^ OUS ar Ecle. The genuine KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
eaSlly Distinguished from the imitation. KRUSE S
labe l has a blue wrapper and large white directions
pro re D band bearing the words “Kruse’s Insecticide, sole
FELTON, GRIMWADE, & CO., Melbourne.”
Ru se s Insecticide may be had of all wholesale and retail
1 J T •
’ ail d vendors of proprietary and patent medicines.
g
m
''v'v
PVT
Bv Special Appoint#^
•v,\
' B "‘ oe or V
ANd HI S ROYAL
Gi-E GOULET CHAMPAGNE.
it-street, Agents for New South Wales.
Ap P & ELLES, 54
SENRY l, ajs t ca ster,
• CAL l/A/V/ '
m
it
»0A
S^JSSf^S
mot
App ecT
MOT WATER
lie Y LINDE R l|
srifoAN
WEft THER
IS
aSKE 6 Trouch J&T--
C<^M
1
°E Erqi
W!?» '
FOR MANY ¥EARS
engaged in the
Leading Workshops
of England,
Lately 5 years with
Hudson Bros,,
Manufacturer of
WROUGHT IRON
TANKS & CISTERNS,
of any size or shape,
for squatters, wool-
washers, and station
owners.
Horse and Cattle
Troughs,
of every description,
wrought-iron pipes, s. c.
funnels, ventilators,
&c., &G.
Estimates eheerfully given.
\jy REDUCED PRICE LISTS FURNISHED. ON APPLICATION.
a ° r k.a :qq GEORGE STREET, WEST, near Railway Station.
Nouri Flouri Flour I
LI 2&OURMILLS,
ST., SYDNEY.
TwA lte ®’ Fine Seconds Flour,
aif?®®** Cones, Bran and Pol-
n lo the v yS 0D an< i. All made
Ud atthn i y best procurable,
Ge lo west prices.
aa , 0
* Qata R I L K Y
v *te Iaq ul ° f the De tectlve Force),
Rusln^* B ?®® friends, and General
*2 B OY a 88 Ag ency Office,
(gjSggb*. a na ARCADH - SYDNEY.
traced, and all kinds ol
§^*>ia u , ri .i? u d, and Evidence obtained in
g®.%6 |*t or' t i lerR ’ Con nd J ar ?,? aBea - for the I#gal l’ ro '
. h? **>(l . or ce (if’v5 ro s? M R.’s long experience
is i,,' &t >d estahi;^i? w , South Wales, Victoria, and
-h boBiti o ,, .‘' 3 hed agencies in all parts of the
F StteA,? Btoi C i ~A 0 B °nduot all inquiries with caution
to allh”. heresy, aud to faithfully and
“Harness entrusted to h care.
D 1 * RIDGE’S
FOOD
fw INFANTS anii INVALIDS
Eias art enormous sale. in England
and is now being introduced, into the
if.oi.'iues.
(Every Store Keeper should get a. supply >
as every wise mother will certainly
4* use it.
DIL RIGGERS ROYAL FOOL MILLb,
LONDON. ENGLAND, a
dfg
Th* anly place where
pipes are satisfactorily
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry f Buy your Pine
at 8. ROSENTHAL, l Little Collins
Strekt, East (opposite Colonial Bask.
Manufacturer of. real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale aud retail,
H
l
k
(» w *3^ The
nuEEN SOLANO
HI
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFRECTIONS
PREPARED ONLY BY i
Thomas Ingham,
,—R O C K H AM P TO
df
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street. Sydney,
Have on Sale—
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whlskle
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brand>, In
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Branay
Ca. Vincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clare is,
Port, &o.
The unequalled A.V.H. Gin, Sto., &o.
MASON BROTHER^.,
g
LIMITED,
263 to 26© Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, ana
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
„« «*ORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
». T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHaUmONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Hot
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
l'riees: C.M.Y., 155.; Cabinets, 50s. per dozen.
C. H. SMITH & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HATS “d CAPS,
302 GEORGE STREET,
3 Doors South of Hunter-street.
dfg
1 ° U GH^ kt
OBTAIN Efi A
vbT Ct.AU 'VA..A
a*
A .fcffft:
•• ••u s
$
• f
!»■* ! -
*tw>
ISTH£ BEST INTHE WORLD IS
NONE OTHER BUT 'll
df
&AWUfACTURED BYJaME S CIAHHtIN
M aki outu $* Sv on & »
Mb/All C?»c*r»«*sr*nkt«ptf*
RIJSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES,
Simon's Roller System or Flour Millinq,
Sole Agents:
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO. }
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869),
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund,
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C,
C. Rolleston, Esq,, C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretart
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redtem, Goaf or d, Nyn
gan , Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, Bt, Leonard’*, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-atreet.
London Bankers The National Provincial Bank of
Bngiand.
MT THB NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTJf
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch. Payable on demand. Offices, 4 Park-st,
J. V. WIRBIMM. Manager
a
mm
q
km
"<■ -
VA
%
u*' - $C
r
~~.
m
w?
Neat, Compact, and admirab y adapted for practical use, are the
LADIES* CAMERAS,
which arc now becoming so popular.
They arc beautifully made, and perfect in every inspect; and they leave little to be wondered at
in contemplating the rapid strides made by photography of late in the public favour.
When the preparation of plates made it a dirty, messy, and expensive amusement, it was left
almost entirety to the men; now, with the aid or these attractive little instruments, their sisters, their
cousins, *a»d their aunts are, in many cases, more than a match for them.
LICHTNER AND CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND 37 OOLLINS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
have just opened a recent shipment carrying all the latest Improvements.
SPECIAL LOW QUOTATIONS TO DEALERS.
Catalogues post free on application.
“BOOKS.” Any Book You Want. “BOOKS."
ANGUS ROBERTSON,
119 MARKET HTKKKT,
Purge stools of- new and secondhand Bootes. Price of any book on application, .Books sent,by
mall to any part of Australia,


ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, <sso.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Aft Metal Work, Coppersmlthlng, Blacksmithing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE," and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prick on Application.
WOOD WORKING AND SAW MILL -.MACHINERY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Are SOLE AGENTS far
T_ -A.- IT&.-y <s z> Co., Ci33.ciia.xa.suti
And carry a Large Stock of their Celebrated MaohineaZ
EVERY REQUISITE FOR WOOD-WORKING AND SAW-MILLING IN STOCK.
Send fob Catalogues and Prices.
Offices and Stores: 17 PITT STREET, Circular Quay, Sydney.
PBUSTOB OF WALES HOTEL. ISB7-
ISS7.
IMPORTER OE WINES & SPIRITS,
In order to meet the demand for Increased Accommodation, and to ensure the prompt despatch of all
Orders entrusted to him, has completed further Extensive Additions to his Wholesale and Retail
Wine and Spirit Stores, and having made large purchases of the best brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
BEERS, &c., is now in a better position than ever to cope with the rapid growth of this branch of his
business.
COUNTRY ORDERS carefully packed in strong secure cases, by a thoroughly efficient staff of
packers, for carriage by Railway, Coach, or Steamer, and delivered free of charge at Redfem Station,
or any Wharf in the City.
The FAMOUS £3 CASES of Assorted WINKS and SPIRITS, containing the following i—
-8 BottlM BRANDY 3 Bottles WHISKY I Bottles LOWNDES* RUM
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM 1 Bottle WOLFE'S SOHNAPPffi 1 Bottle OLD TOM
1 Bottle PORT WINK 1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
Total 18.
The articles contained in P.R.L’s assorted cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. Securely packed and forwarded carriage
free by rail or steamer. To prevent delay, please make Post-office Orders payable at the Haymarket
P.O. Price Lists post free on application. Special reductions to purchasers of Cases of Wines and
Spirits and Bulk-Goods.
F. R, LARKIN, Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant and Importer,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL, GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS, HAYMAKET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 778 and 780 George-street, Sydney.
WALLA3H BROS.’
3STESW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
IiLLUaTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
SAUG
£s«es7»«w!!£
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every hottls
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERS JURE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Ea&tie an,4
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester :; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, &c., &•£.; and by Grocers and Qilfnen throughout the World,,
fc — ■ 'I ' lII.K ,■■■...■■.lll ■■■■■—l. Ii I ■ ■HIM .Ml.—
Wholesale Agents : Montejtiobk, Joseph & Oo.j David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
*o* ...tt
.V s * 5r
5j
gd
|
'Shoe Bal*
252 a Georjfe
JLate jpixxtt fZ/uH* £ar<ootffL*
OFFORD & CO.'S HATS
LIGHTEST, BEST, and CHEAPEST.
NEXT TO ROYAL HOTEL, and at 652 SEORfIU! STR B *^
Lawler’s 608 Lawler’s
GEOEGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
FREETRADERS AND PROTECTIONISTS,
Voters, wherever ye be, bear one principle in
mind, and that is that wherever ye find one who
may safely claim to be a public benefactor stand
by him.
608 GEORGE STREET Is the address,
LAWLER’S THE
Value the power and the secret spell.
Furniture, Bedsteads, Glasses, Chairs, and
Bedding, at extraordinary low rates.
Ironmongery, Glassware, and China. Kitchen
and Household Utensils, at prices that compel ye
to buy.
And several lines of White Shirts at from 3/11
to 9/- each, which simply astounds those who
view.
Note.— There is ONLY ONE LAWLER-S,
and that at
608 O-EORG-E STREET, SYDNEY.
RAW VASELINE.
B
52*
HORSE RUSS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and 44 Inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladles’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &c.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE" SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGER®
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
HOtESALE MANUFACTUKI
ONFEGTIONER^ra^
JANES STEDMAN
§TJkAIf WOi«S,KCNT S* NCAfi Eumns-S?
Too*t>*n_o* inoirriisT matte*.
WJ O H N S O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
11 PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and' Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
CAITCINC IM Alt ITS BRANCHES,
/HO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
X G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to *OO gallons J
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, -Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from
gallons and upwards.
COOPERAGE.
87 KENT STREET, and 17* SUSSEX STREET,
'R«rtw«et! King and Market atroeta.
fgdfgdfgdfgd
PRIZE MEDALS.
ss
1 V
V
m
ysijfsL
WATU=i
6.SONS.'
are. BOSTON
BOSTON* IS 69.
VIENNA. 1870.
PHIU., 1870.
HAUTHAWa
old fit
* " ecessil !ffl
family.
polishes if"
Chlliirs nS f
Sho l S, f will'
Satchels,
brushing
“THE
C.t.HAUTHA-- #WJSS _
S3l &233 Congress
T
!HE FRESH FOOD AND * C ®
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOX
AT
No. 23 ROYAL AB
where they snpplf i
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, CooO*'
light refreshment*,
—— f 4#
At this Branch, orders may he I®*®
by their carts.
They have also taken over the
“ KOUMISS." so highly recommend
nary^complaints.
FRESH FOOD AND lOE 00„ U J
S^?f
Head Office
Stables
Factory
Guinness’ Extra
FIRST
• «D«
BASS' PALE A
SOLE purv:
COLONIAL AND INDIAN
LONDON,
By jcial Appoin—
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH * - V'
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTO^^
Commercial Chambers,
Try POGONO^ 9 /
MUSICAL INSTRI
The Largest Assortment In fc h®'.
705 GEORGE y
List*
Send for Price
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“AST ORDINARY GUP CONTAINS MORE ACTIVE PROPERTIES OP MALT THAN A PINT OP THE BEST ALE OR PORTER. , ’-LanoiT.
Manufacturer
OF ALL KINDS OF
DERATED WATERS,
CORDIALS, and BITTERS.
E, ROWLANDS,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
ONLY
GOLD M&P
CALCUTTA
