

The Bulleti n
Tel. 7-No. 801.
SATURDAY, JANU A RY 1, 1887.
lH
“The Bulletin” New Year Card.
1887 (pointtng to noose): “LOOK HERE, MR. '86, IT'S ABOUT TIME YOU WENT, BUT YOU MIGHT AS WELL TAKE THAI THING WTTH YOU. I DON'T WANT


[?]
■
N.S.W.
gp!
■l
Ilk
- O 6a.
chc r ;:;:-:
■ M. HARDING,
|Bdera for the paper, advertisements,
His should be addressed.
■ NOTICE.
■ect to The Bulletin Office twenty shining,:
■ you may pay by Post Offics Order, One-
W stamps of any Australian colony— you can
Flletin posted regularly to you every v- - r r
I net open to residents of Sydney. In that city
in is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in
fur carriers, with whom we do not wish to inter-
[?] WATER MARK.
Jation ok “The Bulletin” Christ-
IR IS THE LARGEST EVER REAI TIE I)
■RALIAN NEWSPAPER. EIGHTY-TWO
riVE Hundred and Sixty (82,560)
to been printed; and the entire
BULLETIN.
IRDAY, JANUARY 1, 185.7,
[?]ailes versus Wales,
tg Victorian city of
returns three mem-
at ’the last election
sewtatiy.e a thriving
lailbs. Some nights
Parliamentary j»ro-
:c of Wales to visit
ling Exhibition, Mr.
concerning tlm-fleriw
l n ev er
[Jed forth a roar of
sequently repented,
ews he was unfortu-
ain regarding the
ir. His constituents,
o consider and con-
ve’s outspokenness,
before us, opinions
ided between con-
Some of the views
sin their way. A
[aynard, said that
jesty nacl the greatest love and
in the old country,” while her
, whatever his indiscretions might
loved by the people of England.”
lm observed that “a republic is
ed on a monarchy excepting
rrents of blood.” Various other
iailarly profound character
before the crush and up-
djournment to the street,
derable confusion and clash
Heir-Apparent’s character
vindicated, and a vote as to
the monarchical system was
it the Mayor thought re-
ity—considering that, only
wd voted against it.
* *
lies of hereditary rule and
ty to an hereditary ruler
1 hand in retarding where
m the world’s enfranchise-
t they are so unsound, and
irnicious in practice, that it
r men can to-day be found
“ What, then, is the great
grievances V demanded
which Pym replied : “ The
e us their true history and
secret of every national
The answer did not cover
It was the truth, but not
To complete it the words
-hy ” were necessary. In
ikind there is no bloodier
er than that filled by the
, by those puppets before
•ir blindness and in direct
lon’s warning through the
ervant Samuel prostrate
turns with disgust from
g how brave men gave up
ire women their virtue to
ist of those whose actions
from the Newgate Calen-
hould go on their knees at
nger still that they should
mortal to bow before;
choice should so
the basest of their kind,
dable so long as heredity
re not for the sadness of
>uld be matter for infinite
do presented by a nation’s
3re the foolish or \ icious
iriminal parent. It is not
see men kneeling at all.
aieeling before a fribble
dr subserviency 1 Ugh ! I
5 that has been witnessed I
;he world over, and in no J
than in our own. Nor
is there the least prospect of its disappear-
ance until the mischievous fiction of heredity
in Government is- presented in its proper
limbo of exploded shams.
* * *
are far from saying that under the
present system of tv hat a recent writer aptly
able and even wise prince may not occasion-
ally come to the throne. Because a man
happens to be a monarch it by no means
follows that his children must necessarily be
fools. Still, this does not much mend the
matter. The harm that may be done by one
incompetent or dissolute ruler may outweigh
the good to be derived from the guidance of
a long line of able and decorous ones. Take
our own George 111. for instance. Judged
by the standard of his day he was not a
naturally bad man. In his narrow-minded
intolerant way he aimed at what he'thought
was the good of his people and the so-called
gloiy of his country. True, he was quite
vnfit to govern, but as the laws of the land
demanded that lie should fall into the place
vacated by his choleric little grandfather,
George 11. he fell in. His grandmother,
Queen Caroline, said of Frederick, Prince
of Wales— George lll.’s father, and her son
- —“ I will give it you under my hand, if you
;ire in any fear of my relapsing, that my dear
first-born is the greatest ass, and the greatest
liar, and the greatest canaille, and .the great-
est beast in the whole world, and that I
heartily wish he were out of it.” He went
out of it, thus making room for his son, who
ruled for sixty years. Yet this Frederick,
this ass, liar, cariu.illc and beast as his mother,
who no doubt knew her son’s accomplish-
ments, called him, would have become King
of Great Britain, France, and Ireland, and
Defender of the Faith but for death’s early
summons. To return to his son, Farmer
George. This man, as we said, was ob-
stinate and despotic. In him were combined
the education of a scullion and the intoler-
ance of an inquisitor. He had intermittent
fits of madness during which his. son and
successor tied his legs to a bed-post andjdren
strolled dowm to Brooks’s to carrvfflge the
company by mimicking tUuTJ King’s jabber-
ings. In all Fngb'.lid there could scarcely
have beenfo’diid a man more obviously unfit
to rule. He threw away 50,000 lives and
£140,000,000 in futile attempts to make the
Americans return to their allegiance, and
£1,000,000,000 and innumerable lives to
elective principle been in vogue he would
have had a less chance than one of his valets
of being chosen to rule. But he was a King
by right of “animal succession.” Christian
blasphemously taught that he was God’s
delegate. So to-day the starving poor of
England are paying for this madman’s
\ agaries. Compare him or his successors
shop to guide the young Republic through
its early struggles. Yet the far-seeing
citizens of Sandhurst applaud in their wisdom
accomplished sons, and may give us a Seventh
Edward, while they thank God for their
freedom from a method which might burthen
the country with a Washington, a Jeffer-
Take ; Charles 11. again. . But for
Oliver’s short-sighted violence neither’he
nor his would have again plagued England.
1 hey would never have had a chance of sub-
jecting British ports to outrage from Dutch
cruisers, of making the country of Hampden
and Milton accept the contemptible role, of
a French vassal. For the four years (1(549 —
necessary, burthensome, and dangerous,”
the fame of England spread wide over land
and sea. But the coming of the Stuarts
The sedateness and seemliness of social”life-
changed under the “ Old Goat the name
by which the Lord s Anointed was familiarly,
known-to a wild debauch. If a period is
to be judged by the character of its litera-
ture the world has never seen so foul an
orgieas Charles’s reign. Those who are
unacquainted with the writings of the third
Stuart’s m/lme have no knowledge of what
literary filth means. The poems of Roches-
ter, one of the Court’s gallants, can hold
their own for pure dirt against anything
ever committed to paper or papyrus. Men
lewd eyes on their wives or daughters.
Charles himself accounted for the plain-
ness of his brother’s mistresses by jocularly
by his Father Confessor.” Old Pepys, cir-
cumspect and royalty-loving as he was, gives
many entertaining facts, among others :
Harris tells me ... he was among
quarter of a century of national degradation
and domestic licentiousness, be it remem-
hijjh ecclesiastics of the dominant church
said no word to indicate that the Court
doings were foul either in the sight of God
or man. Cosily enjoying the good things
previous century, they went on preaching
the benelits of the hereditary principle in
( mvernmeid -*md the impiety of Rep
canism. If any Bailes of the period pre-
sumptuously hinted that the life of the
Monarch or of the Heir- Apparent might
have been a little cleaner, he was quickly
brought to his senses by both the spiritual
and secular powers.
* * *
Thus we might wander down through the
various reigns from the “ Old Goats ” to
that of our late Sovereign, “Silly Billy,”
with the firm assurance of having eyes and
ears offended by the actions of our Heaven-
sent rulers. When sexual depravity was
absent, ignorance, incompetence, lunacy, or
arrogance took its place. If then a tree is
to be judged by its fruits does not heredi-
tary rule stand condemned? How vafti -i
man who is true to himself be lovff to an
institution which the smirched records of
centuries show to be rotten ? admit-
ting all the apologists for royalty Wy in
favour of the present reign, to what does it
amount ? a hat the Sovereign of the EHi^i ro
is a good woman. Has it, then, come to
this that well-behaved English matrons are
so rare that when one is found her country-
men invite the world’s attention to t£ e
fact ? There are surely hundreds G f
thousands of British homes presided ov> r
by wives as chaste and mothers as kind. At
least, if there are not, then so much tli»
worse for England. Nor should it be fort
gotten that an income of £619,379 ayear.i§
a material aid to virtue. As for ability, it
will not be disputed that during the present
reign some Englishwomen have been heard <jf
who, so far, at least, as writing books is con-
cerned, might fairly claim a place scarcely, ff
at all, second to Her Majesty’s. In tjj e
opinion of competent judges, Mary Somer-
ville’s “ Connection \of the Physical Sci-
from my Diary in the Highlands,” while the
analytic faculty brought to bear in
the motives thatjjsayed Hircharactekvl.-
h lMd •Middlemarch ” is not far
crac>;S oft]u la-c MV. V m JUmvm
*
proving that our coming King, notwithstand-
ing that circumstances seem a little
against him, is a man of the highest probity
and morality -one whom any subject would
gladly introduce to his handsome wife 01
daughter. The Prince is susceptible,
no doubt, but only in an amiable way like
his great uncles. How the Sandhurst folk
secured so much trustworthy evidence in
H.R. Highness’s favour, considering the
amount of contrary testimony there is float-
ing about England, is but a further illustra-
tion of the proverbial fact that, to obtain re-
from home as possible. But in their attempts
to prove that he is very clever also, it must
be confessed they failed. This is rather odd,
conclusive as for his innocence. So well
known is this in England that a living writer,
not too favourably disposed towards the
Guelphs, honestly admits that, even if
monarchy went under to-morrpw>' tt.R.lfc
would have no great difficulty in securing a
place as cabman, or some equally responsible
position. The lessons to be drawn from the
Sandhurst indignation meeting are these:
(a) The elderly and cultivated people sided
Bailes; (b) Personal loyalty, so far as growing
Australians are concerned, is dying or dead ;
(c) This southern soil is not congenial to the
growth of hereditary honours or government
—the person who aspires to rule must do so by
depend too much on the accident of birth or
the shady actions of shady progenitors.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Australian Title Craze.
English travellers in America are wont to laugh
at the punctiliousness of the people there in the
matter of titles, and their high appreciation of
Mister Jones, and Mister Robinson, to even their
intimate acquaintances; while if one can laj
claim to a designation of greater eminence, such
as Captain,” or “Colonel,” or General,” his
friends never omit to bestow it on him even in
have a habit of dropping titles whenever it can be
conveniently done. In New South Wales the
reverse of this ludicrous peculiarity is to be ob-
served. Mr. Dalley, for instance, is usually
called “ Dalley ” by his intimates, and some-
times, perhaps, plain “Bill.” But the moment
that gentleman’s name in a newspaper, he is “ the
Right Honorable W. B. Dalley. P.C.” A sub-
editor on a Sydney daily who passed an omission
of the cabalistic P.C. would probably get
stjpersc*sptxbix> qf e&ptticiM dqggtyitob. =;
the same papers speak of “Mr.” Gladstone and
“Lord ” Salisbury, not of Die Right Honorable
W . K. Gladstone, P.C., See., &c , Sec., nor of the
Most Honorable the Marquis of Salisbury. The
list of guests at the banquet given by Sir John
Hky ‘OvMPMK <gjti
reading. The host himself was no less than “ the
Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M G., President of the
Legislative Council.” One of the guests was “ the
Stephen, C. 8., G.C.M.G,and every one present
except Governor Cakington and Lord Stafford,
i lie nicest regard for details W'as, of course, shown
in the case of Mr. Dalley. So that the public
might not be mistaken as to who was present,
affixed to his name. He must needs have the fact
advertised that in addition to being a P.C. he is '
'' ,V; '' ! ' 1)10 wr
was t° prevent any mistake as
tended. Thus, it is not easy to
eld friend Dr. Maw cellar in ■
Charj.es Kinnaird Mackellar,
Nie whole thing is absurd, but it
keeping with the fashion of the day.
readers of these papers can tolerate such fIHH|
is hard to conceive ; but what passes all dB
standing is how on eaith some of the
habitually described in the manner referred W
who are not lacking sense, can keep their hand!
off the \\indpipes: of editors oppressed with sucll
execrable taste. This stupid beslavering of decent
people with titles is comparable only to the sillv
weakness of “Buffaloes,” who dub themselves
K nights, orand Brunos,” and similar high-sound-
gnaUons, and are said to inflict small
>cr who neglects to be‘AT
J
... • is clearly an evidence of that
fatuous corNd non of the mind yclept snobbishness.
W e can forgave it m the case of individuals, but
V heii a res; 'ectable institution like the Press is
attacked by, it, a sensation of utter disgust is in-
duced. 1 heb leader writers in the Sydney dailie<=
cannot mention a legislator without styling h m
the honourable member” for some place and
50,110 01 ; he , se f entry wore mightily pleased when
an empty-bcad.cd hanger-on of the Anghcan
C hurch in Nev. South Wales proposed to have
Bishop Barry entitled “Archbishop of Sydney ”
Similarly, when 1 Disraeli had Queen vfcTOßnv
created Empress of India,” by Act of Par-
liament, more Chan one “leading” Australian
ZZ a^Tv eTIO ' riSly argued that «he should also
> r dubbed Empntss of the Colonies. The Cana-
dian I ress showe T more sense and ridiculed the
,dea ‘ Condition s and circumstances are not
altered by the sm pie process of changing names
nor is a personage invested with additional
power or authority by the mere bestowal of a
more pompous titkv. Peo ple now-a-days are no?
tobefrightened in.to obedience and subordination
by titular expressions. Least of all is their re-
That it r flhnnm / hlCn ' ased by s «ch means,
il.at it should Ae necessary to mention these
v’,"" ; f, u;r won dcr, yet such is the fact.
W hen addressir/g yourself to very silly people it is
impossible to 'avoid dealing in what has long
ui(( passed lvho the region of platitude, if you
require to rc/ch the level of their understanding
f —♦—
.... ii Dismal Demor stration.
Sn-. S u, r^ e « a 4 Syd,iey Town Hall,.Sir Alfred
' n ,, ,: " a ’ the Hon. J. B. Watt, and eleven other
re 6 - a / ,d i,eaped oology on the man
Stanley. It is strange that the audience, exclu-
sive of the two whom we have named, should
haie boon eleven, f Q r that, it may be remembered
Wmirn T? • nnm f bel ' 0f persons arrested for the
frnm nie l OUlrage where Stanley earned his
tame. i his however, can be nothing more t ban
a mere coincidence. Furthermore, it is remark
able that the Telegraph andpther dtr'dies did not
mention the fact that at the appointed time of
meeting there was no one present, and that only a
r ® d0 ® were gathered after an hour's inter-
\al. t hat the audience was so rare, and that the
tact of its slenderness was not noticed by the
tELEGRAPH is another remarkable coincidence,
w / f , audience Was away the speakers did
neff this fact discourage them ; and though
their hero Stanley was not absolutely either a
saint nor a Wink ixried they did not hesitate to
describe him m terms that would be gross flatterv
when applied to either of these latter. The
Mayor was satisfied to call Stanley “ a pluckv
fellow, and Sir Alfred Stephen was content to
\ indicate eternal truth by asserting that Stanley
had shown the highest gallantry and courage ”
and had been struck .on the head by 18 or 20 of
the darkest class of ruffians.” If this latter state-
nient bo within cooee of the real truth, we think
that the hardness of the hero’s head is a proper
subject for scientific observation. Mayor Bn fy
°'J de r nt ! y roso wi A th intention of going one
better than Sir Alfred, and his bid for the
championship in the art of eulogy was comprised
in the statement that many men who wore the
\ ictona Cross had won it by a lesser exhibition of
bravery than Stanley had shown. But even
this romance is poor and weak when compared
with the utterance of a Mr. W. Russell who
posed the 12 with these conundrums :
thousands of colonists from all parts
met " illiam Reach upon his recent return from England
but what had Reach s services to the country been as com’
pared wth the action of this man Stanley? [A*voice •
Nothing ] Or what had been the service of the Soudan
Contingent in comparison to Stanley's act?” aan
We are quite prepared to admit that St'vnley did
better service than lie could have done by merely
capturing an Arabian goat, but we never have
been able to discern the merit of that achieve-
ment. And after listening to the discourse of
Russell the meeting departed in not unreason-
able haste. But it is pleasant to notice two
things: first, that the committee has limited
donations from men to 10s. and from ladies to
?*• (,d -- tkas averting the danger certain to ensue
if subscribers were permitted to involve them-
selves in pecuniary difficulties by donating all
then- worldly substance to Stanley ; and second,
that the collectors of this testimonial <w e to be re-
munerated. It would be sad indeed if collectors
were forced to wear themselves out gathering
these half-sovereigns and half-crowns, and as theff
reward to be merely kershawed by a gift of 00 per
cent, of their collections. Why Stanley should
see ; he did nothing more than any other man of
average qualities would have done, and those
surprised at the effort to foist him into a position
of fame. And these things being so we are
forced to believe that the real motive of some of
the thirteen was simply to make a demonstration
in opposition to the anticipated appeal for a re-
prieve. To wildly applaud Stanley was inferen-
Lally to cast further infamy on the condemned
SIX - ' Jkls was Plainly .evident from various
pu i ished speeches. It was a demonstration
against reprieve—a demonstration of thirteen
and a dismal demonstration at that.
Mr. Alfred Boyle, one. of the jurors in the
Mount Renme trial, writes to the Evening News
to explain the cause of Judge Windkykr’s frantic
go-as-you-please in that famous case. He says :
•A think it is only fair to the Judge who has been "so
attacked to point out one reason for this. There was one
juryman who was breaking down under the strain. Had the
case occupied, say, two more days, and he had become so ill
a- to have caused an adjournment or a new trial those who
are cavnling now would probably be raisai* the cry ■ Why
was the case not pushed on and finished ? There cannot tie
any doubt but that the Bar and Judge did what was per-
fectly and incontrovertibly right.” ai was per
This is logic with a vengeance. According to Mr.
Alfred Boyle, nine human beings were found
guilty and sentenced to death in a hurry because
aj uiyman was incapable. If the case had gone on
a little longer that juror might have become a
corpse and a corpse can’t give a verdict ; there-
fore, Ihe trial was hurried on that it might be
concluded while ho was only b-oken diwn-poi-
siblv while he was stupefied and hal.-.nsen ible
and almost unconscious of the fact that he was


dooming nine boys to the gallows chiefly on the
testimony of a young lady who admitted that she
had ost her virtue, a shabby person who told
cock-and-bull tales about having been kidnapped
and ai’ried off to Newcastle, and an individual
who admitted that he had been in gaol fer theft.
Even those who defend Judge Windeyer’s mid-
night gallop to the gallows admit that one, at
east, of the twelve good men and true was rapidly
approaching a state in which he could not have
sat up in the box, but as he did manage to sit up,
and had enough voice left to say “ Guilty ” they
are satisfied ; whether his reeling brain was
capable of comprehending the meaning of the
word they seemingly do not care to inquire. We
are a great people.
“ The Mount Rennie Outrage : Latest Particu-
ars,” is still a standing title in the Australian
dail papers, and very strange and gruesome these
particulars are. Outside the gaol-walls all the
world professes to be rejoicing ; inside, the new
patent double-barrelled gallows is being erected
under the supervision of the noseless executioner,
and the doomed men can hear the clang of the
lammer as each nail is driven. Only a wooden
door divides the condemned cells from the yard
where the work is going on, and the long drawn-
out agony of the preparations is to the living dead
within like the slow torture of the Spanish Inqui-
sition —but, of course, there is no Inquisition in
Moose South Wales. It is only cold-hearted bung-
ling that adds this refinement of mental anguish
to the sentence passed by a weary and worn-out
judge, on the verdict of a half-dead jury, in the
gray dawn of a summer morning, and though
many might prefer cruelty to stupidity the two
things are different —very different indeed. Some
well-meaning relatives of the doomed six struck
the idea of providing them with a last Christmas
dinner, that there might be some faint shadow
of rejoicing even in the condemned cells to re-
mind the inmates that the world outside was
celebrating the day which is supposed to herald
peace on earth and goodwill to men, but they were
crushed in one act. Legislators have found out
that bread and water starvation is the best pre-
paration for eternity, and the thoughtless official
philanthropist who supplied murderer Reynolds
with his last plebeian British breakfast of beef-
steak and onions has been “ reported” and sternly
censured for the act. As for the prisoners them-
selves, they are, we read, sunk in the deepest
dejection, broken only by momentary bursts of
something that is half cheerfulness and half in-
sanity combined. Hill sits for hours together
scratching his head in deep thought, “until his
nails have worn through the hair and skin and
penetrated almost to the bone,” but a youth who
is shortly to be hanged on a six-barrelled gallows,
and hanged, too, on the slenderest evidence, must
really be allowed to have something to scratch his
Read for.
“ Cock-a-Doodle-Doo !” This statesmanlike ut
terance came from the leader of the Victoria
Opposition lately in reference to some remark
made by the Premier. It is cheering to notic
that the public men of Victoria are becoming mor
broad-minded and liberal every day. Net conten
with conducting their debates in the language o:
the lowest classes, they have incorporated the in
articulate but expressive speech of animals in thei
Parliamentary vocabulary. The sounds made b
cats, cocks, geese, hogs, dogs, p'gs, goats, an
every species of domestic animal, tbey have mad
their own till one hardly knows when they ar
speaking in the character of a hog, a dog, a pig, o
a goat, and when they are speaking as human
beings. Perhaps they don’t know themselves
This will account for a good deal of their legisla
tion and much of what seems incongruous out o:
a Lunatio Asylum in their language. There are
people who would say that this constant imitatioi
of the voices and conduct of animals may be dan
gerous; t hat those who practise it may end by
losing their identity and becoming mentally—as
indeed, some of them are now—that which they
imitate ; and that the issue of it all will probabl:
be that the Victorian public will And themselves
represented by creatures in the shape of men who
will have all the vices and none of the virtues o
hogs, dogs, pigs, and goats— ct hoc genvs omne
Let them say it. Our advice to the Victorian
M.’s L. A., and to a good many of those of
New Soath Wales is to go on in the course they
have marked out for themselves. Let them not
be deterred by the sneers of people who talk abor.l
the dignity of manhood and a’l that sort of rub-
bish. There are a number of useful locutions to
be got f om animals outside the domestic circle.
The howl of the hytena, for instance, might be
employed with effect when a speaker with pre-
tensions to common sense gets up to talk business.
Then there is the croak of the frog. A dozen
members husky with raw whisky could get a lot
of fun and some valuable waste of public time out
of this if they croaked as one man—or rather as
one frog. And—thunder —why shouldn’t one of
the loud-voiced members learn to trumpet like an
elephant ? This would be a Anal paralyser to the
common-sense crew, and the others could then
lightly give each others the lie, gaily accuse each
other of every crime in the decalogue, play shuttle-
cock with each other’s reputations (.assumed to
exist for the sake of the game), and generally
flgjlt, Jjowl, yowl, baa, yelp, and bark themselves
into exhaustion when another meeting of the
Witanagemote would be declared satisfactorily
concluded. It has nearly come to this already.
with one or two new members of the right riDg-
tailed kind, this Circe might try her enchant-
ments on the Victorian Parliament in vain. She
could transform it into nothing lower.
»
Whatever may have been the immediate cause
of Lord Randolph Churchill’s secession from
the British Cabinet, it is certain enough that the
I'eal necessity for the rupture arose when he showed
bis determination to leave the camp of old-time
kj'oryiAM!. Crust. u Torn. - *,r the t;-. i.i-nt i:v and
■ ■iiaim.in brand viewed his coquettings with
Democracy with an aversion that was only veiled
Churchill was to them a heretic and a traitor,
but they still feared to break with him lest he
should turn and rend them. For the sake of his
reputation it is well that the pretext for resigna-
tion was made by the demands of Jingoism. This
S jives a reality to, and is to some extent a confir-
mation of, his previous professions. In this, as in
>ther acts of his Ministerial career, he has either
hown consistency or consummate skill. Either
t is the climax of a clever scheme, or else new
vidence as to the sincerity of his recent conver-
jon. lie became a big man politically when he
public estimation when he forced his views upon
an unwilling Premier: but by the mode of his
resignation he has laid the foundation of enduring
power, Jingoism has male in him a new foe,
tfill lead to a settlement of parties which has long
t een inevitable. The Hartingto.ni an Liberals who
are the Tories, and rank Tories in all but name,
will go over to the party which has long had
all their affections, and then England will
know her enemies. Toryism will lose Churchill
and gain Hartington, an exchange which means
defeat the more disastrous the longer it is delayed.
The Conservative journals, it is cabled, “ condemn
the action of Lord Churchill in resigning at this
juncture.” They have reason to dread as well as
condemn. Lord Randolph has shown himself to
be the master of a Tory Cabinet, now he stands
the professed foe of those whom he previously
swayed. It is the beginning of the end of Toryism
in England.
♦
Patrick Coghlan, of Oakleigh, Melbourne, was
arrested lately on a charge of smashing a bottle
of beer ovdr the head of James Crawley. It
appears the two were engaged in a religious dis-
cussion, and James disagreed with Patrick upon
a small point of doctrine, Patrick filled with
holy ire—and tanglefoot—laid him out with one
blow, for which the said Patrick now runs a
chance of getting several months in gaol. Why
don’t they arrest the leading spirits of the Mel-
bourne Presbytery ? Poor Paddy Coghlan,
carried away by his zeal, only broke a bottle of
beer over the head of his opponent—a sort of
rude baptism as it were—while they did their
bitter best to wreck the lives and fortunes of two
men of one of whom at least it may be said they
were not worthy to take the dirt off his bluchers.
Why should there be one law for them and another
for Paddy ? His offence was certainly nothing as
compared with theirs. The reason why it is—we
speak in grim seriousness now, as well we may
with such a theme—that Melbourne is ruled by
Presbyterians. The dour and bitter ones are not
numerous, but they are compact and make up in
gold and gall what they lack in numbers. It is
they who keep the Public Library and Picture
Gallery shut on Sundays. It is they who refuse
to allow sacred concerts to be held on Sundays.
And this, mark you, against the wishes of nine-
tenths of their fellow-citizens. How this can be
done in a free community may seem strange, but
it is nevertheless true. Money is the secret-
money, and determination, and solid fanaticism.
This combination is able to do anything in any
age or country—except good.
4.
At Kiama, Bruce Smith is opposed by C. A.
Aitciiison. Mr. Smith, who avers that he
stands on the independent ticket, is an able man,
a first-class platform speaker, and an uncompro-
mising Free-trader. Having the support of the
retiring member, he is, rightly or wrongly, sus-
pected of favouring the present Ministry. On the
other hand, Mr. Aitciiison is a Free-trader who is
a strong Parkesite, and is chiefly remarkable only
as a man who has long endeavoured to get into
Parliament. We hope to see a strong Protectionist
nominated and returned for the constituency, but,
failing this, as we know the political opinions of
Mr. Bruce Smith and are not quite so sure about
those of Mr. Aitciiison, we shall be glad to see
the former successful. The devil you know is
always better than the devil you don’t know, and
as the curse of New South Wales so far has been
personal politics and the lack of a strong and well-
marked division of opinions on national questions,
the Kiama electors, even the Kiama Protectionists,
will be foolish if they throw away votes on Mr.
Aitciiison. Paiikes and all the other old fogies
must now be finally abolished, and the people of
New South Wales mu3t be taught to take sides
under one or other of the opposing banners of
Protection and Freetrade. If Bruce SMiTH be
elected, he will be found in the Free-trade camp,
no matter who rules there ; Aitciiison, on the
other hand, is a member of that shifty party
who may be relied on to be in one camp by day
and in the other by night.
The evidence in the case of Proudfoot v
Proctor, M.L.A., wherein plaintiff successful!
sued defendant for breach of the 28th clause o
the Constitution Act of New South Wales, re
vealed some very peculiar facts. It was proved
for instance, that £lO,OOO of the retention money
on account of Logan and Proudfoot’s contrac
was refunded in April, ’B6, by the Department on
the application of Mr. Proctor, although on the
27tli November Mr. Whitton, tl o Engineer
in-Chief, absolutely refused to sanctioi
any concession. In the interval be
tween these dates the prospects of satisfactory
performance of the contract certainly had not im
proved, and as the rights of the parties were
under review in the Equity Court, the Depart
ment must have been aware that completion at
the stipulated time, June, ’B6, was extremely im-
probable. As a matter of fact, the contract is
not yet finished, and the penalty on account oi
delay is running up to an imposing amount, with
a fair prospect of going up for some time. Other
peculiar facts were that Mr. Proctor, a solicitor
of considerable experience, believes that cancella-
tion of an assignment is best effected by tearing
the signatures and seal from the document, and
that he has a clerk, one Mitchell, who, accord-
ing to his employer’s testimony, has been known
to draw out an absolute assignment containing
also an irrevocable power of attorney when his
instructions were not such as to warrant his doing
anything of the kjnd. Mr. Proctor has resigned
his seat in the Assembly, and in the event of his
seeking re-election the voters of New England
will do their manifest duty to the country, the
legal profession, and also to Mr. Proctor if they
refrain from imposing any legislative duties upon
him. It would be well for him to have some
spare time so that he may learn such things as
the right method of cancelling assignments and
the safest method of securing a railway con-
tractor’s bank account. And it would be well for
New South Wales if Mr. Proctor should pursue
his studies in the comparative privacy of an un-
official life.
4
Judge Wixdevbr left Sydney for Europe by the
mail boat on Christmas Eve. His Honor has, un-
fortunately for himself and for the apathetic
community that hires him to dispense what it is
pleased to accept as justice, lived all his life in a
colony which within the last hundred years was
founded on a basis of convictism. He will now
for the first time in his career have an opportunity
of inspecting, among the older civilisations, the
effect of humane and enlightened laws, the result
of thatradlcal reform and thought unt rammelled by
superstition which in other lands are the birthright
of the nineteenth century of tho Christian era.
In the interests of New South Wales, we sincerely
trust that Judge Windeyer will learn much while
in Europe and that he will permanently settle
there and give that continent the benefit of his
newly-acquired knowledge.
4
While Australian journals are continually com-
plaining that these colonies are underrated in
England, it is evident that the said journals are
chiefly accountable for all the trouble. Under
the heading Another Distinguished Visitor,”
we find a Melbourne paper saying that a Mr. P.
McCarthy “expressed himself greatly pleased
with the wonderful progress of tfie colony and
the intense vitality of the people as evidenced by
their institutions.” Pagh ! Nobody knows Mr.
P. M'Cartiiy or cares one button about his good
or ill opinion, yet this is the sort of slush which
is slung. When any tenth-rate mediocrity comes
along, the daily Press trots us out before him, and
asks him to pat our little backs. If the tenth-
rater is a man of sense he accepts the childish
grovel as being degrading to us rather than com-
plimentary to himself. If he is an inflated fool
he returns home and blows about the go-ahead
people who received him as a “ distinguished
\ isitor. He exhibits a few miserable newspaper
paragraphs to his friends and acquaintances, and
then his friends and acquaintances reckon us up
as semi-savages— something more than blacks and
less than whites. Thus is Australia belittled by its
would-be champions of the Press,
+
The Sydney Morning Herald is mightily
indignant with a London newspaper for mention-
ing that the Sydney prices of butter, e*gs, rind
milk are higher than in England, and, after first
disputing the facts, argues :—“ Besides, anyone
knows that the difference in prices between fne
country and anotheu is simply the difference in
the value of monty. ’ Here we get an explanation
of a host of commercial phenomena. Work is
dearer in England than in Australia we now know,
because money is cheaper there, not, as the
economists say, because of the existence there of
an abundance of skilled and low-priced labour to
manufacture it; and bananas are dearer in Mel-
bourne than in Fiji, not because of tt e cost and risk
of transport, but because of the excessive scarcity
of coin in Melbourne a 3 compared with the state
of the money market at Levuka. The theory does
not explain these tw;o phenomena in exactly the
same way. But never mind. The great Sydney
teacher of political economy must be correct.
Pulsford and Co. might probably go “off their
kadoovas” if (hat were disputed; therefore,
purely out of regard for the mental equilibrium of
Pulsford and C'o., we refrain from casting the
shadow of a doubt on the Herald’s generalisa-
tion.
4
After waiting a few days in order to catch
the spirit of Victorian popular opinion on the
Bailes-Wales question, the Age deemed it advisable
to warm up some of its long-time discarded Repub-
licanism. In a recent leader we find that un-
stable journal saying “If colonial Parliaments
did their duty they would protest against the
practice of conferring titles upon colonists. . . .
A Democratic community like this, founded in
accordance with modern ideas, is impatient of
the introduction of this shadowy vestige of
feudalism, and is disposed to resent it.” This
passage is acceptable as proving that -words of
truth can flow from the mouth of such a jour-
nalistic Ananias as the Age. But the reference
to “ colonial Parliaments” is puobably intended
for s ark asm. It is from the ranks of our glorious
politicians that K.G'.M.G.'s are mainly selected.
Ihe home authorities, with the avowed mission
of spreading the doctrine of grovel in these
colonies, naturally hope to attain their end by
first converting the people’s chosen representa-
tives. And, while the people continue to fill the
Assemblies with “ representatives ” whose
miserable ambition is bounded on the north by
free feeds, on the east by lucrative land jobs, on
the west by a Government billet, and on the
south by a tin-pot title, thqre is little sense in
talking about what Parliament ought to do. Un-
douotedly Australians in the mass do form a
grand Democratic community, and do resent the
introduction of the aforesaid vestige of feudalism.
But they make no sign. They are content to ad-
dress any inflated booby as Sir Tom or Sir Dick.
They permit the world to assume that every Aus-
tralian is necessarily a self-seeking worshipper
of royalty In fact, they have allowed the greasy
scum to accumulate on the surface of our social
stream till the purity of its depths is not sus-
pected,
Another Year.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fill up the glass, drink Father Time’s good health
Best of all friends, staunchest of comrades true
Are you now poor? Perchance he’ll give you
wealth.
Do you now grieve? Yoer grief he will subdue.
The down-crushed wretch bemoaning his hard
fate,
The widowed wife wh* mourns a husband dear,
Have hope still left—then let them watch and wait
Another year.
All sorrow dies ; this life it is a span :
No cloud so black but soon will break and pass :
Day succeeds night as Time, the Grand Old Man
\\ aveth his wand—and so, fill up your glass ;
Wish him God speed upon his endless way—
E’en though you know your end be drawing
near,
And grizzled locks show thicker streaks of gray
With every year.
Where is the man so happy in his lot
But could his cup of pleasure fuller fill,
And—gffted with the magic power—would not
Defuse to bid old Father Time stand still ?
Though loud his laugh and gay the song he sings,
Though clinging children whisper in his ear
He lays him down and dreams of better things
Another year.
The lover, happy in his fair one’s entile,
Longing looks forward to their wedding-day :
The faithful swain hopes in a little while,
To turn the gentle, doubting Nay to Yea ;
The maid forsaken feels her heart gr ow light
As, brushing from her cheek the furtive tea*
She draws vain comfort from the thought ‘Hie
might
Return next year.”
City men, gamesters, doctors, prie3te, or bards—
Join in the toast, fill high your flowing bowls ?
Dealing in poetry, produce, stocks or cards,
In cure of bodies, or in cure of souls,
Fortune’s the goddess whom you all adore ;
Though Time has proved her sadly insincere
You woo her, wondering what she holds in store
This coming year.
Make the most of it, men and women all,
Enjoy the sweets of dawning “ Eighty-Seven ” :
The Present’s our 3, the Past beyond recall,
And “Eighty-Eight” may find us—well, in
Heaven ;
Work we successfully, or seems life’s toil unblest,
Still must we labour on and never fear —
Good Father Time may give the weary rest
Ere ends the year,
Gehazi the Genius.
(By E. F.)
Gehazi Jones was long and thin
And ugly—like his kith and kin ;
Hut all the ladies did declare
He had an interesting air.
Though low and narrow was his brow,
Most courtly was Gehazi’s bow ;
And when he spoke, in voice subdued,
He always struck an attitude.
bo, somehow, it the node became
To reverence Gehazi's name ;
He was the ladies’ guiding star
(Like Bunt borne in the opera.)
As painter, novelist, or bard,
r I hey held him in supreme regard ;
The reason why was rather quaint—
He didn t write and didn’t paint.
No gathering of the elite
Was over voted quite complete.
Unless—for just an hour or more—
Gehazi stood around the door.
The maidens followed him about
At Cinderella, soiree, rout,
And when Gehazi did the Block
He shepherded a dainty flock.
Ah ! languidly he loved to quote
Good things that oilier fellows wrote,
Observing—“ people might suppose
That I, myself, had written those.”
So though he always made it known
Those quoted bits were not his own,
Gehazi (it was understood)
Had thought of others quite as good.
Our hero had a soulful way
Of running down the modern play,
In drama-writing, he confess’t,
His pen took lit lie interest.
He’d give a little angry start
At any very touching part,
And say, “ An inharmonious line—
I’d alter that if it wore mine.”
Or sometimes ho would shake his head
And run the players down instead ;
While todies would bewail the fact
That dear Gehazi didn’t act.
But as a painter shone he most
Among the fair, admiring host ;
The all-observed of every eye.
He sauntered through the gallery.
The want of “ breadth ” in Someone’s style,
Gehazi noted with a smile,
And then he scattered little hints
Of how he would arrange the tints.
About the art of long ago
Such secrets did he seem to know
That damsels murmured with^dclight,
His method is pre-Raphaelite.”
Compelled by candour to allow
Gehazi never painted now ;
They on his merits would insist,
As artist, poet, novelist.
The “ Morning Muddle” sang his fame—
The “ Evening Horror” did the same.
They cited him as one of those
M ho could do wonders when he ehose.
When stniggling authors’ works appeared
The critics and the ladies sneered —
Suck writers they at once agreed
Were poor compared with Jones, indeed.
Aspiring artists they would crush
With leaders on a “ fuller brush.”
And essays on the “ tender tones ”
Of giants like Gehazi Jones.
And as the years went rolling by
The young took up the ciders’ cry ;
Gehazi still preserved his place—
The hero of the coming race.
The things Gehazi didn't write
We*>e spoken of as erudite,
And rumour kept the memory green
CM pictures none had ever seen.
If idle scoffers threw a doubt
On books they’d only heard abeut,
Gehazi’s friends would merely hint
Those volumes now were out of print. I
Before a picture by “ Unknown ” 1
They’d imuse and in an undertone ■
Remark, " To tell the honest truth, M
Jones dashed it oil' in early youth.” M
Years muy come and years may go,
But witli them Jones' fame will grow—
For distance lends enchantment to
The many works he didn’t do.
Yes, when the present race has paid H||
Its mortal debt land goes decayed)
New critic* will arise to And
In Jones a marvel of mankind.
And lovely verses which have been
Otec published in the "in I.I.YTKKN. mBR
.May treasured lie in future homes
A s dead ti cl i a/.is minor pomes.
Just ns a certain party says
That Bacon fathered William’s plays—
'Tis likely, in the course of time,
They’ll credit Jones with all our rhyme.
For, oh ! the fame that never dies
Is frequently composed of lies,
And heroes are the people who
Look qn at what the others do.
it*..
Dear reader, would you he esteemed
The deepest bard that ever dreamed—
An artist, novelist divine l
Let paint alone, nor write a line.
But cultivate a courtly bow,
A bilious look, a narrow brow.
And whisper low to everyone
Of clever things you haven't done,


The Referee
At the A. J.C’s. Summer Meeting at Rand-
wick last Monday the attendance was immense —
perhaps the best on record. Thanks to the late
copious rains, the course surroundings looked their
best, but there is still room for improvement on
the course proper and training tracks. The Vice-
regal party were present during the whole of the
afternoon ; Lady Carington exhibiting a delicious
old-time costume of creamy muslin dotted all over
with what looked like little bunches of roses—
crimson silk vest, and black jet bonnet adorned
with white tulle and golden ospreys. His Excel-
lency’s colours were worn for the first time at
Randwick, but failed to show to the front, owing
to the fractiousness of the filly Esperance who
carried them ; however, had she been on her best
behaviour and left the post with the remainder of
the field, it is just possible she would have got
home first.
* * *
The Flying Handicap opened the day’s
racing and attracted a very mixed field of 22. A
pronounced favourite was discovered in Soldier
Boy, whose party put the money down so freely
that he touched 3to 1 before the flag fell. The
winner, however, turned up in the comparative
outsider, Raoul, who struggled home gamely from
the lightly-weighted Faugh-a-Ballagh ; the latter
would have won had he not lacked pluck. Ninety
per cent, of the layers managed to escape touch-
ing the winner, hut included in the remaining ten
was the popular owner of Cerise and Blue, who
peppered Raoul to the extent of a monkey to a
pony.
* * *
Out of an original entry of 21 for the
December Stakes, only eight ventured to oppose
Huntingtower. But once again the backers erred,
as the favourite, who (though he had run unkindly
from the start) looked like winning easily a fur-
long from home, collapsed altogether when Kelso
applied the whip. Of course his backers blamed
the jockey. Huntingtower is not so well as he
was at Melbourne, and it must not be forgotten
„rtrat he met an unearthed glutton in Abercorn,
who, as his pedigree shows, is related in blood to
the defunct Morpeth, and Hexham. In all his
work on the training track, Abercorn invariably
and will be heard of in the next V.R.C. Derby
quotations should he keep well and train on.
* * *
The Hurdle Race was contested by a field
of ten very moderate animals, victory falling to
the favourite, Unique ; yet had Whitefoot not
dropped at the last hurdle but one from home the
positions might have been reversed. Unique
struck the last obstacle heavily and nearly came
down.
* * *
Murrurundi had no difficulty in appro-
priating the Selling Plate, after which the Sum-
mer Cup came on for decision. The field was
strong enough numerically, but a sadder lot of
cracks, with one or two exceptions, never aspired
to Cup honours. Ben Bolt could hardly raise a
gallop in his preliminary ; the favourite, Hex-
ham, broke out into a sweat an hour before the
race started, and is evidently one of the unreliable
sort. Industry, though showing improvement on
her Melbourne form, was many removes from
well, and of Willeroo, the least said the better,
but we were surprised to see him one of the
starters. Nothing stripped in better condition
than Sorclla, Dagobert, and Highland Mary. An
even pace was set from the start and continued
throughout. At the Leger stand, Dagobert, who
was nicely ridden by Steeper, came away and won
cleverly, if not easily. Sorclla ran well for a mile
and a quarter, then died away to nothing ; but
Highland Mary, Lancer, Silver King, and Industry
were never dangerous.
* * *
The victory of Aberdeen in the December
Stakes was sufficiently pronounced to establish
Perfume an even-money favourite in a field of 12
. tor ilw Nursery Handicap. Backers mode no
| mistake either, for although the favourite got
■At the post Hales discovered that some of his
Beads were loose. He therefore carried them in
j s hand. The racing terminated wit h the A. J.C.
for which a field of 15 started, the
turning up in The Wreck, a 6 to 1 chance.
white asserts that Turner is the best
they will have to meet in Australia, but he
confident that 1 1 is team will make 300 runs
the Carlton crack in the the next match.
the execrable performance of Hurt on
■Mid the sticks in the recent match against the
Eleven, the N.S.W. select inn commit-
show most pointed favouritism if they
him in tin- next match. O'Hanlon ni (lion
'' seems now to he Ihe best N.S. \V. exponent
-keeping. hut an\ of the other seniorelnh
llllllHrc better than Burton, wlm should never
thought of.
BHM
--iKMlat thews, the pugilist, unites to the
BHp'in saying 1 hat Pcttcngell. now in Australia,
\Oioeall' himself the champion of N.X.. has no
right to that title, as when challenged he failed to
come forward and defend his claim.
* * *
A Melbourne journalist kindly says that if
Beach were defeated to-morrow he might slide
quietly into a pauper’s grave, and no one in Aus-
tralia would care two-pence about him.
* * *
Consequent upon the increase of the
N.S.W. Civil service hburs the attendance at the
various crieket-praqtiee grounds is now very
limited.
* * *
The Hon. Secretary of the N. S. W.
Cricketing Association, and the managing trustee
of the Association, had a “bit of a turn-up” at
the recent English match. ■ Mr. Gregory
objects to Mr. Sheridan’s demand that
he should pay to enter the claims
the right, in virtue of his office, to enter any part
of the ground whilst a cricket match is in progress
under the auspices of the Association. The matter
is to come shortly before the Association.
* * *
Where is Bonnor ? is the question just
now asked in cricketing circles. He missed the
steamer, and it is feared that he has been annexed
by a Russian Princess.
* *
There was plenty of excitement about the
two last days’ play in the M elbourne International
match. It was rumoured aboard that the English-
men intended to follow on their innings and were
confident of victory. “We shall set them 150
runs,” said one of the pros., “and these chaps
can’t make the score when we’re trying all we
know.” This prediction was fulfilled to the letter.
The Englishmen’s second innings put them in a
majority of 171, and the Australians were all out
for 114. It is hardly too much to say that the
professionals’ fielding in this innings was the best
thing ever seen in this country. From first to last
they were all over their opponents, and towards
the finish the batsmen were positively afraid t®
attempt a run. On the other hand it is evident that
the English batting is not as strong as it looks on
paper. Barnes and Briggs seem to have lost all their
old style, Flowers is somewhat in the same case,
while the “ great Gunn ” makes very little use of
his commanding height, and plays cunning balls
like a novice. But Sherwin, be it observed, is
not by any means the duffer that people assume
him to be. He and Lohmann fight for the last
wicket with more nerve and dash than anyone in
the team, bar Shrewsbury. The stand that was
considered a “ fluke” in Sydney, was repeated in
Melbourne at a very critical moment, and the
confident manner in which the burly wicket-
keeper played five bowlers on the last morning,
gave much joy to the groundlings. A lot of
“feeling” cropped up towards the finish re-
specting Phillips’ decisions in the Australians’
favour, hut as “ feeling ” seems to piit
devil into the game, perhaps just a little
of it is rather to be desired. On New Year’s
Day the same teams meet again, and if the pro-
fessionals fail to acquit themselves well in the
hatting department they may get beaten. But it
the Fifth Australian Eleven are ever called upon
to make a decent score on the pinch against the
Shrewsbury crowd it will be 3 to 1 against them
doing it. These are the words of wisdom, for we
“ know something.” The Englishmen’s poor dis-
play against N.S. W. in the first match can be
fairly excused, and it must be remembered that
there is no Turner or M’Donnell among the
demoralised “Our Boys” team. By the way, it
would be better for Blackham to take command in
the next match. The general idea was that
Garrett bowled too much himself and changed the
other men injudiciously.
BRIEF MENTION.
Off the rail—J. P. Abbott.
Off the line—that dismissed railway man.
The (Sydney) Bulletin, the smartest and
most sincere of Colonial papers.” Modern
Society (London).
“Vengeance is mine,” saith the Lord.”
There’s some mistake here. Vengeance belongeth
to Mr. Justic6
A stowaway is reported to have been on
the Keilawarra. That man can be said to
have died in his sins.
The Bulletin is a candidate for Alfred
Bennett’s prize for the best new name for Noose
South Wales. “ Trianglia” is our nomination.
Local government is a huge sucorss in
Sydney. Said a Sydney alderman to another at
last Council meeting : “ I’ll heave you out of the
window."
The Sydney mail-bag to Burrowa was
missing last week. It is supposed that the weight
of crime it contained sank it into the bowels of
the earth.
The editor of the Charlesvrlle (N. S.W.)
Times complains that his customers are holding
over the leading article. This is tko latest way
of inviting them to “ ante-up.”
“ The gaol is too full, your worship,” said
a Sydney solicitor when all other argument hiul
failed for his client. ’1 he Bench doubted this, so
he gave the benefit of the doubt to —the gaol.
A man died suddenly in Church the other
day. “ Deceased was a regular attendant of the
Little Bethel,” says the Age. And would you be-
lieve, they are wondering what the dickons could
have killed him.
Improvements are being gradually effected
in the N.S.W. military system. A case of gaiters
has been sent to the Queanbeyan volunteers. This
will make Bismarck “show his hand” a dcrncd
sight faster than M'lver ever made him.
The Warwick Examinhk has poured out
a noble Keilawarra sentiment. It says : “ Aye,
and had not the steamers collided there would not
have been the loss of life there unfortunately
was.” If there is a mendacious wretch in all
Australia who will deny that, then trot him out.
“A to mi without a hospital,” says
Cardinal ManDinv, “is like the sky without the
sun.” Quite so, your Eminence. Similarly, a
Noose South Wales gaol without a gallows is like
a member i f Parliament without a share is a rail-
way contract, or a church without a colloetion-
plate and a mortgage.
Swectman, the cabman, has escaped hie
first flogging. V hen it came to a question of 11
years and 50 lashes trie Almighty interposed, and
when the day came it was found that the mist
rable wretch was too weak to have his back
skinned. Anyhow, that’s how wed put the mat-
ter if we were editing a " religious ” paper.
The shoo'.ing of the Victorian cadets at the
Williamstown butts was remarkah’y gord last
year. This is encouraging news for the propiie-
tors of evening papers. The bank-managers and
burglars of the future will, we may reasonably
expect, be able to throw a little more tragedy into
their encounters than the present degenerate re-
presentatives of these professions.
“lam anything but bloodthirsty,” writes
“ Husband and Father,” a sanguinary hunter
after gore, in the Sydney D.T., apropos of the
Mount Itennic case, and then he adds : “ I think
three years, with 50 lashes every six or 12 months,
administered in public, would soon be appreciably
beneficial.” If this is how the D.T. animal goes
on when he is calm and not bloodthirsty, we
reckon that when lie docs get bloodthirsty he will
tear down the gaol wall and go in und cat tko six
prisoners alive, and then lunch on the hangman.
He is just the sort of person who would like to Lie
a man to the wall and slowly chew hie leg oir.
ORRESPONDENCE
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MSS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we desire
those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that we are not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of such
MSS.
P. Mar cal le As far as we can make out, a
colonial “High Church” parson is a clergyman who unre-
servedly loves the fair sex. A “ Low Church ” parson is one
who is constitutionally virtuous and affects sodawater and
mid-day prayer-meetings. The “ Broad Church ” ecclesiastic
is known by his partiality for late suppers and whisky. P.S.
—You can’t be very Broad Church unless you smoke. “ High
Church, more wine ; Low Church, more wiiikles.”.... “ L.fe.”:
He is a gentleman by Act of Parliament—and otherwise....
“ Septimus”: Mr. James Farnell was premier of N.S.W. and
Secretary for Lands from the 18th Becember, 18T7, to the
20th December, 1878. We don’t know what you mean by
asking “ whether he went through the prescribed form for a
Minister.” If you mean the Insolvent Court, we reply “no.”
“Ernest Wilton”: Soarcely suitable for publication
“ Thos. Regan ”: You Champion Liar? We don’t believe it-
Which of the evening papers are you on? “ Postulate":
We will post-u-lata concerning our views on the subject
“Democrat”: Members of the N.S.W. Parliament are not
paid by the Slate. Usually they pay themselves “E.
M’Culloch”: Suggestion will probably be the basis of an
Illustration....“ Christmas Boxes’,: Publieation could do no
good, unless names were given, and if names were given a
libel-writ by the guilty husband would at once result to our
cost “ T.” (Rewa, Fiji): Will consider “ Rudolph C.”:
Many thanks....“ La Mart”: Your suggestion must indeed
be a eoramon-sense one : it has reaohed us from half-a-dor.en
quarters....“ Pipes ”: Thanks.... “Yarraman”: Please «all
on editor “ L.L.” - They would no doubt lie to save them-
selves, but why should they tell lies of which others would
reap the benefit? The convicts declare that Newman, Hill,
and Read are innocent, and their assurances at such a
moment are at greater value than all the evidence tendered
in the midnight hours of the trial, before a wearied judge
and a somnolent jury....“ T.C.”: if you prove to us that
more criminal assaults on virtuous and virtuously-acting
women are committed in N.S.W. than in other parts of the
world, you will justify your present argument, which, how-
ever, meanwhile goes for nothing. Womanly honour must
be held as precious as human life, but we don’t see why men,
however degraded, should be hanged to protect female vice
instead of female virtue. Bring forward a case in which a
really honest woman has been brutally outraged, and, while
capital punishment is retained in the code, you may, so far
as we aro concerned, hang the aggressor or aggressors as high
as Hainan “ P.J.”: We don’t see why he shouldn’t Wagga
Wagga his jawbone. We know the joke is very thin
“ Occy ” (Sale): Have used one item. Thanks “0.P.8.”:
Yes, we do “believe in Contagious Diseases Act.” What
can’t be suppressed should be regulated,...." J.H.S.*
(Townsville): Many thanks “P. Barkley The Bul-
letin has never called anybody “ Esquire ” since the mar-
riage of the eldest son of an ex-high priest of Venus Cloa-
cena, " Esquire," was announced in the Sydney daily Press.
• ■••" Truth” (Wellington, N.Z.): We note with interest
that your bald-headed friend goes to Westminster Abbey
“ P. Parslow ”: We believe that should the cty at next Sand-
hurst Parliamentary election be " Bailes or Wales,” Bailes
will have a majority...." Wagga’’: Sorry your account of
Jawbone Neihfs meeting did not reach us until too late
“Barnaole": Ask us something easy—for instance, "who
invited Jawbone Neild to Wagga ?"....“ P. W Cairns”: If
you emasculate men guilty of such offences, why.not cut off
the right hand of the chronic forger and amputate the
“ lightning left ” of the pugilist who wantonly bashes his
fvllow-man ? There are evidently many aspects of this ques-
tion undreamt of in your philosophy “J.M.”: Do yon
want a libel action ? If not don’t ever again write that any
man “ does nothing eise but stand round and take tip."....
“ Ci«6ar ” : You are sarcastic probably in presuming that you
“cannot write up to the level of our lofty intellect.’’....
“Lunatic”: Shall be glad to accede to your request....
Young-Noodle”: The “ Old Boodle" referred to describes
any judge whose favor in his own court assists a shallow-
minded relative practising as a barrister. And we may
regretfully add that the term indicates a genus, hot an indi-
vidual “Barcoo”: Your verse may be shortly described
as “ Barcoo rot”. ...“No sympathiser with Crime”: We freely
admit that in some respects Noose South Wales is leagues in
advance of all ether nations in har treatment of oriminals.
It has, for instance the nicest and most comfortable gallows,
and conipletest set ef triangles in the whole w0r1d.... “K ”:
You may possibly be capable of believing when we draw your
attention to the ciroumstanoe that the reputation of Wagga
barmen is a matter of comparative indifference to all the rest
of the world, except perhaps Bungaboo Gnlch, and Tin Pan-
nikin Hollow. There ore no points about your barman no
more than about any other barman, and as, in the usual order
of things, he will probably be a Potts’ Point nobleman and
Member of Parliament inside of five years, we really don’t
see why we should ruthlessly offend him...."Ez. Harmer":
We do not “ wildly sneer.” Judging from the tenor of the
various orations at that particular meeting of the Y.M.C. A.
we should spy there are very few godly people Sydney.
One of the regenerated, we observe, thought that no smoker
could by any stretch of ohasrity be accounted a Christian.
Another at the redeemed hinted pretty broadly that liquor
and hie particular brand of the Gospel didn't agree. A
third—the greatest gun of all—wanted to know whether
Christ used trains on the Sabbath day. No? Clearly, then,
no persoH who did so in these days could bo a Christian.
Can you wonder that so many revolt agaifist the Christianity
of" the age in view of facts like these, and in view also of the
circumstanoe that you can always find a hundred parsons to
bless judicial munlerto one whom you can get to ask for mercy?
. ..“Charles W.”: The Atlas article on Governors Gipps and
Fitzroy teere written by Sir James Martin. If not, how oame
it to happen that Sir James did not deny their authorship
when it was ascribed to him by Mr. Barton in his book?
Later on, in newspaper articles written to show that the late
Chief Justice had in early life written many hot libels, ex-
tracts from the diatribes iu question were given and Sir
James waa again publicly named as the writer. Yet he did
not in any way deny the impeachuirmt. You Bay Lowe
(Lord Sharbrooke) wrote the articles, but how do you know?
So for, all the evidence is on the other aide....“ R. A.P.”: A
neat little sketch in verse, but for present purposes not
worth a “ RAP.”....“ H.E.W.": Whew 1 A smart, but
too tropical little story "Aramii": Received
“M.C.” (Wagga): Good style, but you must bo more concise
in writing for The Bulletin “11. Barton”: All the
Sydney people are just now out of town—except the hang-
man. ...“ Wellington" :We have missed the passage. Why
not clip newspaper extracts and mail same in envelope?....
" T. Campbell” : For heaven’s sake come one day and let us
have a look at you. The best time for you to call will be
precisely at 2.25 a.m. on 24th December, 2087. Ring the bell
twioe and knock once and beware of the dog- also take care
of the soap on the stairs and don't in any way annoy either
the pugilist on the first lunding er the oue-eyed strong inau
with the broken nose and bad temper whom you will jro-
bably bud grinding someone's skill wMi a brick at ttw foot
ef the top steps.
N. S. WALES JUSTICE.
THE MOUNT RENNIE EXECUTIONS.
The fate of the six youths—their average
age is under 18 years—condemned to death for
what is known as the Mount Rennie outrage is
now absolutely in the hands of Governor Caring-
ton, who, despite the recommendation made to
him by his Ministers, still enjoys under his in-
structions from the Imperial authorities, a com-
plete and independent power of reprieve. The
Bulletin contends that His Excellency must, in
the interests »f justice, commute these death-
sentences, if only on the ground that the men
have never had a proper trial according to the
spirit of the British law. Most of them were
defended by unpaid junior counsel assigned by
the Crown, and, monstrous to relate, the Court
by which they were sentenced sat during the fol-
lowing hours :
Monday W a.m. to 9 p.m. !
Tuesday 3 a.m. to 11. 4) p.m. !
Wedgißsday 9 a.m. t» 6.30 p.ns.
Thtfmtay 9 a.m. to 6.4 S p.m.
Friday - 9 a.m to 3r38 a.m. !
Saturday. 9 a.m. to midnight. !
On Wednesday and Thursday, the only two days
on which the presiding judge adjourned tho pro-
ceedings at a reasonable horn’, he calmly went t®
semi-public dinners at Government House and the
Royal Hotel respectively. And yet, though His
Honor found time to spend in festivity on those
two nights, on the two fallowing days and nights
he kept the Court sitting almost continuously. In
oilier words, with the ejoccption of an
of five hours only, Judge Windcyor kept jury and
counsel at week from nine o'clock <xn Friday
marrying until twelve o'clock on Saturday night !
in the middle of the hot season and in the fetid
atmosphere of a crowded court. The unnecessary
protsractednese of Monday and Tuesday’s sittings
was hardly less disgraceful when we come to
oonsider what happened on the two succeeding
days.
* * *
And what was the consequence ? The
natural one : that certain jurors, who had than
been in custody for close upon a week, utterly
broke down, and, according to the statements of
several members of the bar, were, during the last
stages of the trial, dozing, if not actually a'Sleep,
in the jury-box! But it happens that the
testimony of counsel in this respect is altogether
superfluous, inasmuch as Mr. Alfred Boyle,
one of the iury, who writes to the Etenin«
News a letter commented upon in the “ Plain
English” oolumn of to-day’s issue of Tints Bulle-
tin, roundly states that the case was galloped
through ‘ because a juryman was breaking down
under the strain.”
* #
In drawing His Excellency’s attention to
this violation of the first, principles ®f justice, wo
may remark that the prisoners might just as
well have been tried before a jury which was
partially drunk as before a jury which was wholly
exhausted and partially asleep. The S. M.
Herald has admitted that the manner in which
the trial was conducted was open to stoong abjec-
tion, and The Bulletin is prepared now to name
a number of gentlemen who will prove to the
satisfaction of any unprejudiced tribunal that the
exhausted condition of the jury was such as t®
render it impossible that they conld in a proper
spirit approach the discharge of their awful ro-
sponsibility—a responsibility which, apart fnom
midnight and all-night sittings, was in itself suffi-
cient to shake the nem os of any sentient being.
* *
In conclusion, Tub Bullrtin asserts that
the execution of criminals convicted under sue]
circumstances will disgrace the British flag, and
send a thrill of horror throughout tho civilized
world.
Sabbath observance. The wily aonstablcl
watching a pub. on Sunday. 1
“ Girls’ Gossip ’ now occupies a column
in the K< no. It was necessary to give it this
caption to distinguish it from the ‘"Old W oman’s
Chatter ” in the balance of the paper.
Melbourne Weekly News says “ it was a
common practice among the Romans to recline at
length while writing.” We can see nothing won-
derful in that. It is still a common practice for
evening journalists to lie at length while writing.
There is nothing new unde* the sun—not even
this remark.
THANKFULNESS.
Sydney, 523 Gkokum St. (N.S.W.), May IS
1886. —I suffered very much with pains across
back, down the inside of my thighs, together with
severe headaches, cauring dimness of sight-
Could not rest at night, having a desire to urinate
without being able to do so. I was advised t<|
try Warner’s safe cure. I had not taken morfl
than one bottle when I began to realise I had al
last found a cure for what I thought an tacur&bM
complaint. lam now quite cured, and feel I eanl
not say too much in favor of Warner’s safe card
and Warner’s safe pills. —C. J. JACKSON. J
WHEN PHYSICIANS FAIL. j
Petersham, Cobar St. (Sydney), N.S.W,, Mayl
19, 1886. —For the last four years I have boon getJ
ting worse and worse, suffering from pains in nJ
back, which at Limes were excruciating. U I
stooped it was with the greatest dilHculty 1 ooul
raise myself up again My urine was dark a J
cloudy, and my appetite poor. I called in medieß
advice, but was lame the bettor for it. OnemeiH
cal man candidly told me I might take
baths, tvs nothing else would do me any good. V
gave up all other medicine and commenced WaH
ner’s safe cure uml Warner s safe pills ; by til
time 1 had takon six bottles, 1 fell a great changl
1 hare now had sixteen bottles, and am wefl
solely through using Warner's safe remedies."l
BDWIN DAVIS, Govt. It. It. v> orks. I
WARNER’S SAFE REMEDIES CURE IN- J
DIGESTION. J
Adelaide, S.A., 63 HendleySy, June 30, 1S»
—Having been a severe sufferer for some tvl
years with lirer complaint, and having beel
under the treatment of several medical Then I
this «ity without receiving ary benefit, I was il
duoed by a friend to try Warner’s safe euro. I
can say I have received very great benefit by I
doing, taking in all fifteen bottles regularly wil
Warner’s safe pills according to directions. I fel
*i duty bound to make this fael known to all wll
are suffering from severe indigestion caused ll
the disarrangement of the liver.—M. I.
MON, Auctioneer, A


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Theatre Royal— “ The Sleeping Beauty" .. .. p. 15
Alhambra Music Hall —Minstrelsy
Ajpollo Hall— Stratsburg Clock ~
The temperature at Sydney Opera House
when Minnie Palmer made her debut was like
unto that of a swindled pawnbroker in the stoke-
hole of the seventh Gehenna. All this end of
creation seemed to have rolled up, from the Premier
to the habitual drunkard, and from the Reverend
Prayologist to the Chinaman, while among the
intermediate grades there were horse-thieves,
wooden-legged men, idiots, bush-missionaries,
hypocrites, Members. of Parliament, niggers,
rheumatic patients, men whose heads had been
knocked flat in infancy, swells who lived on their
parents, tightly-laced ladies with red hair, and
many other sorts and descriptions of publicans and
sinners. Unto this vast and husky assemblage
Minnie unfolded her tale, while a fat, fierce old
woman threw potatoes at a Dutchman, and a
number of other people fooled round. When she
had finished there was only one opinion in the
erowd —She was as unique as a brass god that
chews tobacco, and as airy as a N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary lie. But without her “My Sweetheart ”
would be an elephantine fraud. It was only built
to hang Minnie on to —we trust the young lady
will excuse that gallows figure of speech—and if
anyone els'e were hung on it instead, it would let
her down with ‘ a crash that would turn her into
a pillar of salt and the tiokht-taker might, go and
pick up of the wreak seven basketsful.
* * *
It is very hard to disentangle the inferior
characters. Minnie’s aged mother, who weighs
a ton or thereabouts, comes out and tries to flog
an orphan asylum with a haystack, and Minnie
sasses her within an inch of her life, yet nobody
seems to have any sympathy for the corpulent vic-
tim. An aimless doctor, who ought to be grinding a
glorified pestle and mortar up above, so woefully
good is he, leans up against a mansion for pigs,
qnd hints to the public that he has resolved to
grasp the gentlemanly cow by the spikes that
stick out from the front of its skull. He adds,
however, that he is very much afraid the other
woman is the same one that he saw before, or if
i#ie isn’t she is so like the previous woman that
he fears she is a regular bad lot iust as the former
woman was. Next, there is a dude whose scented
handkerchief Minnie puts under a shower-bath.
He is a fearful old dude, too, choked up with
_i»norance, and so tightly laced i» that he can’t
even stoop to pick up his own delirious hat. No
word has yet been built that would fully describe
the fatuous gobble which this maniac thinks is
conversation, Lastly, there is Tony Faust, a jolly
young German, who absolutely whoops with good
natus-o and howls with j oy. His smile is like the gush-
ing of clean shirts out of a burst carpet-bag ; his
hair sticks up on end, his coat-tail floats round
like a poem, and his legs are an opera. Minnie —
whom, by the w r ay we should have described as
Tina —bosses him as she does all the rest, and,
thanks to his imperious little tyrant, his life is
like that of a driven bullock —but he doesn’t
know it.
# * *
“My Sweetheart” is not a melodrama
after all. Neither is it an opera, or a circus, or a
tailor’s establishment —in fact, we don’t know'
exactly what to call it. It is as undefinable as a
blue dog in a dark entry, but Minnie pervades it
al, sussing everybody,making comicgrimaoes at the
pious young doctor, raising perennial Cain upon
the tight-laced dude, bringing her mother’s grey
hairs with sorrow to the grave, and generally lay-
ing waste the fertile field of the human intellect.
Kho is well supported by the other members of
the company, but with her usual monopolistic
tendency she has taken up so much of our space
that we must postpone them until next week,
when our seething brain will be let loose in a
newly -stuffed and upholstered condition for the
benefit of Minnie’s long-suffering colleagues.
## # #
“ The Woman of the People ” at Sydney
Gaiety is the same old beer-crusher that we have
know* and hated so long. It is one more insult
to the whiskyfied, down-trodden working man,
and was evidently written by some yellow',
shrivelled, teetotal dummy, who would fain
make mankind walk around its dry as so many
wooden gods. Roughly speaking, the piece is a
tUlirium tremens broken up into three snakes
and a comprehensive pink dog. Mr. Sheridan,
the hero, takes to drink on his wedding day, and
travels dowmhill like an eel on a greased incline ;
w'hile Ims friend Gheval—or Horse, as his name
would read in English—vainly tries to hold him
bask. The latter is a patient and long-suffering
individual, and he sticks to his work like the grim
okl Horse that he is, though his mission is a
thankless one at the best. His peculiarity is that
he is always on the spot, When Bertrand is gazing
on the beer while it is browm, Horse is there to pray
for Win —and the beer. When Bertrand, under
the controlling influence of drink, starts to perpe-
trate some new job of ugliness. Horse is there
ho pray for him—and for the job. When the
broken-down wreck of the young husband is wau-
fcdering about in the snow—dirty, unshaven, and
■as tight as a whale staffed into a cab—we may
ftafdv reckon that old Horse, though not
Kctually visible, is sitting on a doorstep
■round the comer and waiting his chance.
■And at tlvc conclusion, when temperance triumphs
land righteousness comes out this side up with
Earo, wc may imagine that there is a halo of glory
llbmdHorse, and that after dragging his omnibus
till al! is bhre, he at last
meets his just reward. But we must drop a tear
and pass on. This paper isn’t a stable or a
menagerie.
* * *
Mr. Sheridan was better as Bertrand than
in many other characters he has assumed, and we
hardly think he left anything undone in the way
of alcohol. When the little pink dogs with the
green eyes got hold of him and were chasing him
into the swamps of Tophet, he was really excellent,
and he performed this part so well that we almost
think he should have continued drunk for the rest
of his natural life. Miss Davenport, too, was un-
usually good in the part of Madelaine, the drunk-
ard’s wife, and in the scene outside the Foundling
Hospital her realistic acting brought down the
house. The piece might be almost a good one if
it were not for tho cab mission and revival shivoo
element which chokes it up, hut at all events it
was played in a manner that made it about as
interesting as it was in the nature of the animal
to be, and the audience, of whom there were more
than several, was unanimous in its applause.
# #
The Sydney Criterion opened on Monday
night with “ Falka,” and a big crowd, and his
Excellency—described in the bill as the Right
Hon. Charles Robert Baron CariDgton, P.C ,
G.C.M.G. —to get behind things and give them a
shove when they stuck in the ditch. Outside the
house was a howling mob who had been unable te
gain admittance, and who overflowed from the
pavement to the gutter and from the gutter to the
public-house at the corner, and inside the promises
were crowded till the air was like the blast that
arises from the bottomless pit when the lid is
taken off. Miss Colbourne-Babcr opened the per-
formance by singing the National Anthem, and
then the curtain rose to show an old Hungarian
city with q\iaint, lop-sided houses that should
have been shovelled away before the Board of
Health got hold of them. In this town lives an
old military delusion of the first magnitude, who
hardly knows a regiment from a comet, or a
comet from the dog-star. This gentleman sends
for his nephew, but the latter gets kicked and tied
to a tree en route, and drops into a matrimonial
engagement with the sister of an unwashed but
picturesque and nmrderous comic thief. When
at last he arrives, instead of calling on his wealthy
uncle he gives way to temporary insanity and takes
a billet as waiter at the local public-house, where
he goes about with a dirty napkin over his arm bawl-
ing in Hungarian, “ Sherry sir, yessir ; d’rectly,
sir.” Meanwhile the sister of this youth elopes from
school and is chased by a fat monk known as
Brother Pelican. The pursuit gets hot and sultry,
and the girl in despair disguises herself in pants
and passes off as the misguided wretch who is
shovelling out hash and small beer at the inn.
Then she is fa'llen upon by the sister of the
dirty and picturesque thief, who wants to marry
her ; the waiter at the inn falls into a coal cellar,
and iff he doesn’t break any bones he ought to ;
and things got as confused and miserable as a
funeral with the dead gentleman drunk and going
round trying to find out something “agin Abigail.”
Shortly after this, the girl in boy’s clothes
is bowled out, and the miserable boot-polisher
from the hotel casts aside his flunkey garb and
reveals himself by means of the strawberry
mark on his left arm, while the old military
uncle gets wild at the tricks that have been
played on him. The hoot-polisher’s sister is
put in gaol, and her lover is loft to wail in a ditch
and lay schemes for her rescue. While she
languishes in a dungeon the ex-waiter makes pre-
parations for getting married, hut his bride shunts
him at the last moment, and the sister of the thief
who tied him to the tree at the beginning of the
story takes her place in disguise. The imprisoned
lady is then bailed out, and they live happily ever
afterwards. There is a certain amount of good
music in the opera, and “ Falka,” so long as it
has Lord Carington to help it through, should be
a considerable success.
** # *
Trot out the man who will dare to say he
does not like a Christmas Pantomime—that he does
not absolutely worship the frothing drivel of the
nursery rhymes, and long to abase himself before
the gilded cretins and incurablo large-lieuded
idiots who form the chorus. Let us see the grovel-
ling reptile who ventures to think that a goose
with apple sauce, and an elephant, and seven
saints and ten drunkards, and a baron named
Bottlewascher, and a bilious old fool of a King
with a comet at the end of his nose, are not high
art —just let us sec him, that’s all. Let us whisper
the reply. We are the grovelling reptile in
quostion. We arc. And anyone who Wants to
revel in the above catalogue of joys with the
Faust Family of acrobats, &c., thrown in, will
find the set at Sydney Royal.
* * *
“ The Sleeping Beauty,” however, has
every advantage that magnificent scenery can
confer, and the whole crowd from King Downi-
dumps the Hungry, down to Mrs. Harris, Pap
Mixer in ordinary, look as gorgeous as the bailor
can make them. The piece has been fixed up by
Mr. Alfred Maltby, and that gentleman is as ver-
satile as a circus. He is a poet too, in proof of
which we quote these Cockney lines :
Which, blefts her little gums—
I dropped her bootee down a neighbour’s hairy,
Which hit took me and Mrs. Gamp—that’s Sairey,
To ’ook hit hup—there was no p’licepian ’andv,
(asidej Which tho’ we met one where » e got the brandy.
(aloud} That’s why I’m late, your wash’up. bless her’art.
This forms part of a dialogue between
Mrs. Harris, who is half drunk, and the old king,
who looks as if his hair had been chewed off by a
goat. A good deal of Australian stuffing has
been put into Mother Goose, and this takes well
with the audience ; and there are lots of jokes
such as—but no, we won’t quote them. It is
sufficient to say in passing that the pantomime
absolutely bulges with them. Anyone who really
adores pantomime, and doesn’t care though one
of the leading actors forgets his part half the
time, can’t do better than visit Sydney Royal ;
and the enthusiastic howl of the accumulated
mob shows Shat the piece is appreciated, at aH
events. Also we would suggest that the visitor
had better g>o early.
*# # #
We babe bo slight anyone, even a nigger,
and we would not so much as east a cold, arrogant
glance on a fowl for fear of hurting that fowl’s
feelings. Therefore we hasten to apologise to the
Federal Minstrels for our inability to give them
the notice they deserve. We arrived late at the
Academy, and though we charged the hind quart-
ers of the crowd with insensate fury and a batter-
ing ram, we were unable to obtain even standing
room in that synagogue of joy. From this piece
of circumstantial evidence, however, we presume
there was something particularly good going on
inside, and when we jumped in the air in order to
get a glance over thd head of ;i Brobdignagidßi
monster in front wo saw one black nmn seize
another by the heels and throw him up till his
head bumped agamet the roof. When he «tme
down with a dull, sickening thud, another nigger
grabbed him and threw him up again till there
was hardly even a bone left of the mangled victim.
The rest of the performance, we understand,
showed the same ratio of activity, and if the
Black Pantomime was not a success then the bill
must have been an atrocious hyperbole and a dis-
grace to human morals.
## # #
The Manly Aquarium was opened on the
23rd inst. by Plain Bill, late of the Soudan, in the
presence of a large crowd and a lot of fish. The
tanks are numerous, and present quite a sea in
miniature, the oDly feature which is wanted to
make the scene complete being the presence of a
couple of captains butting each other down with
their sea-coffins into the briny deep. There are
marine animals of all descriptions, as well as
ferns, rockwork, stalactites,- shells, a refreshment
bar, a few alligators, and, in short, everything
that the heart of man can desire, and if under
these circumstances the Manly Aquarium is not
a success our faith in human nature will undergo
a reduction that will be like compound Hebrew
interest turned upside down.
#* # #
Mr. D’Arcy Read’s Ghost presented its
spectral card to the Australian public at Sydney
Princess’ on Monday night. This ghost is very
numerous —in fact, it is a whole collection of hob-
goblins of all shapes, sizes, and descriptions, and
in various stages of deadness. It is a musical
shade, too, and runs a whole howling programme
on its own spectral hook, so that it ought to
become popular with that class who are addicted
to spirits.
AA. AA. AA. A/,
•TV* 'TW 'TV* 'TV*
The lyrical Lynch Family are making
“Merry Christmas” on the bellring through
Kempsey and adjacent cities, picking the golden
plums out of the bucolic pudding, with the ability
which is ever indicative of solid genius. A bloom-
ing maiden of some 45 searing summers is reputed
to have ecstatically remarked on seeing them at
Wingham, “Ah, those dear Lynches, they ought
never to die !” And we don’t think they will so
long as this universe contains a solitary bell that
can be rung when by ringing it a single front seat
can be sold.
# '# # #
At St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, Signori
Agrati and Lessero are experimenting with a
rather high-class variety show. The muscular
Italian athlete, Sali, flings about a few tons
of iron, and a Mr. F. Harvard makes a lady
“ vanish ” through a table. Several well-known
stars from London music-halls have been secured.
Miss Alice Conway and Miss Ada Vinetta, beauti-
ful to look upon and listen to, warble about rip-
pling streams and kissing till the dudes in the
front seats positively perspire with joy. But the
feature of the entertainment is Wainratta, who
was crowned “ King of the Wire ” some years ago
and continues to keep the billet. In evening cos-
tume and a heavy moustache Wainratta strolls
about on a slaek wire stretched over the heads of
the audience. There is such an air of easy confi-
dence and quite-at-homeness about this gentleman
that one can sit underneath him without feeling
perturbed in spirit. As a silent humorist Wain-
ratta stands alone in—or on —his particular line.
Ladies who haven’t blushed for years find the
warm blood rushing to their dear little cheeks
when the masher above their heads deliberately
proceeds to undress himself. We blushed our-
selves until it dawned upon us that the black
moleskin trousers covered pale pink fleshings.
Then we breathed again, and observed that the
ladies’ alarms had melted into dimpled smiles. A
very good orchestra has been laid on, and the hall
fills with “superior” company at prices in keep-
ing with their quality.
*# # #
A nauseating dose of “God Save the
Queen” and other grovel had to be swallowed at the
opening of the new Princess Theatre, Melbourne.
The 1000 horse-power “ loyalty ” of the triumvi-
rate was strained to its uttermost. Proceedings
opened —immediately after the Governor’s arrival
—with that exquisite piece of tomfoolery, the
National Anthem, warbled by the entire Btrength
of the company. Then some weak-minded crea-
ture in the amphitheatre (specially engaged by the
management for this night only) called for three
cheers for Sir Henry Loch. All this seemed to
please the “circle,” and as the circle had bought
its seats at auction for a high figure, perhaps it
was entitled to enjoy itself in its own way. For-
tunately, one theatre can only have one opening
night, and a free and enlightened public can now
patronise the Princess’ without loss of self-respect.
Glowing accounts of the magnificence of this
newest of theatres have been published in the
Melbourne papers Without imperilling our im-
mortal soul, we can take an affidavit that there is
no other such house in Australia ; there are few to
beat it in the whole wide world. It is rich in
marble steps, peacock-blue plush, mimic water-
falls, refreshment-rooms, and Neapolitan ices—
not to mention an open-air lounge and a sliding
dome This latter arrangement enables one to
gaze at the blue canopy of heaven and make
astronomical surveys ’tween acts. When the
dome slides it is like being at a picnic, without
the ants and earwigs. A revival of “ Mikado ”is
to pay for all this magnificence, and looks
Mke keeping the boards for some few weeks.
#* * *
Like all other civilised communities, the
Japanese Villagers have been luxuriating in a
little social scandal. A few nights ago one Jap.
chased another Jap. through the Melbourne
streets with a naked scimitar, all on account of a
fair but frisky fellow countrywonmn. The rest
of the Village came to the rescue and no blood
was spilt. Explanations followed, and everybody
returned home without u stain on their characters.
Nevertheless this little incident has invested the
lady Japs, with fresh interest —a kind of Lady
Colin Campbell charm —and provides visitors
with pleasant opportunities for spicy conjecture.
The Village keeps up its business in all weathers,
and the ala aerial flight is as popular as a public
holiday. But soon the whole show will emigrate
to Tasmania, leaving naught but Oriental memo-
ries behind.
** # *
Mr. Joubert is unable to obtain a wine
and spirit license for the Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
bourne. According to Graham Berry’s delectabje
Act no fresh licenses can be granted within the
city, except to buildings containing 30 bedrpoms ;
so, until Mr. Joubert turns the pit into a boarding
house or fixes up 30 rooms at the back of the
dress circle, his patrons must get happy on lemon-/
ade. Such Is the law, dear friends.
**# # /
Mr. Martin Simonson’s Italian opera
spec, bids fair to falsify all sinister predictions.
t lie si rengl h Of “ subscriptions ” amOUgQng to
something under £2OOO, Mr.
what at first appeared a hopoh«rfjOE» But he
sta.'t'vl Linder conditions mor® favourable than
was generally suspected. Really high-class
artistes were obtainable in Italy on terms which
did not spell bankruptcy for the boss, provided
that the general public accorded him fair and con-
sistent support. It certainly seems as though this
will be forthcoming. The nightly aspect of the
Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne, is cheering on off
nights, and “ brilliant in the extreme ” when the
local royalty, personated by Sir Henry Loch and
his good lady, lends its august presence. As the
Governor is likely to attend about once a week on
an average, Mr. Simonsen may be said to have
got sassiety on the hip. And what is of more im-
portance, the unfashionable masses who judge a
show on its solid merits are giving it a good name
out of doors. Whether the present enthusiasm
will keep at boiling point is a conundrum which
can only be answered in two guesses—yes or no.
After this week there will be five first-class
theatres and a couple of halls spreading their
nets for the Melbourne fishes. Some of them are
bound to have bad luck. But all this is, by the
way, as it were, doncherknow, “ II Trovatore ”
and “ Lucia di Lammermoor ” are being ad-
ministered in alternate doses for the opening
fortnight. A separate company appears in each
opera, and the principals, without exception, find
favour. Signori Emilia Cinti and Alice Robottaro
are soprani that don’t hang promiscuous from the
branches of trees. The former has a volume of
voice which floods the capacious Alexandra with
silvery music, and the latter sings not quite so
well, but equalises matters by acting rather better.
Signorina Cavalleri backs up a light contralto
voice with a good presence and plenty of dramatic
power. No such tenor as Signor Lazzarini has
previously warbled in these sunny shores. Every-
body says so and everybody ought to know.
Signor Santinelli runs him fairly close in the same
line, and Signors Pimazzoni and Eduardo Cerne
(how trippingly these names leave our pen) are
first-class baritones. Signor Tomaso De Alba re-
joices in a splendid basso profundo which occasion-
ally descends to double Z. Other members of the
company will probably get a good word when they
have larger opportunities in other operas. All
are good with the solitary exception of a Miss
Flora Graupner, whose manner and appearance
are out of harmony with Grand Opera. The
orchestra, under the baton of Roberto Hagon, is
30 strong, well together, and just a little too vigor-
ous at the drum end. No vast amount of money
has been invested in scenery, nor is extravagant
mounting possible from a business point of view.
Nevertheless, it is unsatisfactory to find a “ Hall
adjoining the Chapel of Castellor” furnished with
a five-shilling table, a two-shilling tablecloth of
Bradford manufacture, and a painfully modern
bent-wood chair. These little matters will pro-
bably be attended to as the tide of success flows in.
The chorus is unassuming in the vocal department
but appears to be well drilled. There is an ab-
sence of life about their movements, and we should
respectfully recommend a straight drink all round
before they commence their labours. But, take
it for all in all, Mr. Simonsen deserves the thanks
of every man jack who hath music in his soul.
#* * *
Even the much-puffed Minnie Palmer
seems to be a little behind in the matter of advert
tising, or else that fluffy little darling’s husband
and manager is not doing her full justice. Another
Minnie, whose hind name is llauk, has been
starring in Arizona, and her man of business
states that after her first appearance 12 Apache
chiefs went out and roosted on the fence and
drew lots who should marry her. The 11 losers
promptly committed suicide, and the winner
fought 17 rounds with the ticket-taker before he
abandoned his claim. Now, if the stiffened
corpses of 11 suicides cotild be found in a row
outside the Sydney Opera House, what an “ ad.”
that would be for Minnie Palmer !
Messrs. Brough and Boucicault disdain the
use of the “gaudy and highly-coloured window
lithographs and pictorial posters so much irTuse
of late. ” Haw! or “he-hawJ”
#* # #
Miss Carrie Swain has turned out to be by
no means too high toned for the Cabbage Garden.
Of her performance in “The Tomboy,” the Age
writes : “It ought not to be a recommendation
to an act ress that she can kick a hat off a gentle-
man’s head.” Miss Carrie, it appears, also wears
a “ ragged petticoat ’ and ‘ ‘ turnj somersauits. ”
What more do the bald want ?
#* # *
The Rev. Alexander M‘Cully, of Mel-
bourne, is attracting some little attention as a
public reciter. A few years ago Mr. Mac. tried
his luck as a super, nt the Melbourne Theatre
Rojal. Promotion was slow, and the ambitious
banner-beai er went off to Dublin and took holy
orders. He found it easier to get a decent screw
as a parson than as a hactor. For one thing, a
reverend can have a beD. whenever he likes by
sending round the plate. Then, again, “ trea-
sury ”is a dead certainty in the church. One
ghost walks when the other ghost doesn’t. Thisi
joke needs thinking about. £
A North Queensland paper replies
correspondent’s query thus: “Goldsmith
nut a clergyman ; he was an Irishman.”
“ What doth it protit a bishop to gain
wliole world if he loses his own soul ?" ThH§§
> a-i 1 \ nnswercil - .€lllOO a year or 1 hercahouts.^Bgl
l'p North at a recent execution,
l lie man was about to he launched into
hi- clerg\ man kindly bade him. "Go in
sin no more.”
The lb'\. Mr. 1 bit 1), boss WeslcvflHj
Victoria, is ciispiciioii - in <•.mnection w^Rp^ff
cad. (Juke nip: 'lew will < <rr. i i 11 1 \ be in
by a Path.
Si vend liau-ol victuallers in 11
horoueu di t ; I\' i«•_ . have decided
their licenses/' This is not go much
increased vigilance of the police there as to thei^
increased capacity—for free drinks.
The !ast report of the Victorian Board for
the protection of aborigines concludes by saying
that-t' 1 the conduct of the aborigines on the differ-
ent stations had been of a satisfactory character.”
This means that about 15 per cent, of them have
bdeii buried during the year.
COMPARISON.
In the production ok
the Christmas Num-
ber ok “ The Bulle-
tin,” December, 1885,
tons ok paper
WERE UBED.
Over 13 tons weight
OF PAPER WERE USED
IN THE PUBLICATION
ok the Christmas
Number of “ The
Bulletin,” Decem-
ber 25tii, 1886.


Pepper
And
Salt
After all death is only a joke, a grim little
satire perpetrated by a dancing skeleton with a
scythe, who grins as he sheves "his victims into
the labyrinth of the Dim Remote. There is fun
in it, however, if we only knew how to extract
it ; there is gaiety even in a corpse, and subdued
laughter in a tombstone, and hilarious joy in a
coffin, and the humorous aspect of a funeral is
something that is calculated to convulse a horse
with laughter. Nor is there anything surprising
in this. There is granite in the petals of a rose, and
the rays of the morning sun contain the materials
required for the construction of a cannon-ball or
a dog, and mud is filled with the elements of com-
bustion, so why should there not be laughter in
the dry bones of the dead ? But the process of
hanging is not replete with gaiety. It was ob-
viously the invention of a solemn, heavy-headed
clown, and men who appreciate the requirements
of the human race call for some comic style of
murder that will interest alike the corpse and
the corpse’s mother-in-law and all his friends, as
well as the Government House set who come to
learn a solemn lesson from judicial slaughter, and
the licensed noseless assassin who “works off”
the victim. The Germans are ahead of us in re-
cognising this long-felt want, £nd Saxony is even
now considering the advisability of adopting an
amusing contrivance which will make death at-
tractive to all parties concerned. Outwardly it con-
sists merely of an iron chair, on the back of which
is perched a figure of Justice, with the scales in one
hand and the sword in the other, and looking like
an old metal rooster just about to crow. But
Justice, as usual, is hollow, and its inside is filled
with electrie wires and sudden death. When the
criminal is brought out he is planted in t he chair
with the image behind him, and then a pompous
official takes his place alongside this carved libel
on a great virtue, and proceeds to read the judg-
ment in the booming snuffle peculiar to such func-
tionaries. The prisoner listens, and each dull
sentence marks his approach one step nearer to
death. At last the reading is finished, and there
is a moment of solemn silence. Then the execu-
tioner slowly folds up the death warrant, and
places the still’ parchment in the scale which Jus-
tice holds in its out stretched hand ; the arm of
the balance descends, and as it does so it closes
the electric circuit, and in the fraction of a
second all is over. In the face of such an inven-
tion as this, who will deny that even murder can
be made amusing and picturesque ?
* *
Melbourne cabmen are protesting against
the granting of driver’s licenses to Chinese. A
resolution, approving the righteous protest, has
been carried unanimously in this office
Poor old Baron Tennyson, whose last
sparks of genius were smothered by a coronet, has
ground out a pome about the importance of
building some more torpedo-boats. This great
kwork, according to an Age telegram, “is based
Ion the remarks contained in the paper read before
Bhe Royal Colonial Institute by Sir Graham Berry.”
Breat. Scott !
mgm-d '
bu ' -
I 'own Son; ii .1
k, ami ' I
g§ \ I patient bird was h.v • ;. d . hi;iL-
the n«ck of the wronged quacker,
results. It was killed shortly after-
wards, and its carcase being opened the e&gs were
taken out and hatched in the usual course, but
each duckling had a mark like a 'Hake OP its
head. Apropos of lies in general we may add
that the sea-serpent recently came ashore on\a
coral island in the South Pacific, and ate foiV
shipwrecked sailors, taking one each night. in
was 75ft. long, and in the fight which attended its'
last visit it threw several men a dozen yards in
the air, broke two legs, a collar-bone, and fouri
ribs belonging to the captain, and smashed nearly
every bone in the crew. Its bite was venomous*
and everybody who was touched with its teeth in
the scrimmage was slewed —w r e mean slain.
* *
Just about this season of the year the
roystering Sunday-school picnic seeks the leafy
solitude to revel in tarts and cream, pouni-cake,
and sinful worldliness ; and the bull dog ant is
i5pe and ready—he, the jovial, mercurial insect
vtfth his fund of pointed humour and world of
practical jokes, nothing that livetb and has beimr
I
knocks more fun out of a laborious existence
than does the light-hearted, heady inch-man. We
have studied his life and works closely and know
him well. When the rollicking roundelay of a
Methodist meet disturbs the holy quiet of his
solitary haunts, he rears on to his hind legs and
peers through the grass chuckling soft and low.
He keeps the flighty throng in sight, and after
they camp to rend the ropy sandwich and battle
with the crumpet spread round on the verdant,
flower-spangled banks ’neath the blossoming
gums, he creepeth in among them and playeth his
pranks. Jolly, cheerful sprite, we love him
dearly. A preacher of “ Trewth ” at . Smeaton
(Vic.) once took his flock into the wild woods to
commune with Nature and consume light whole-
some repast. They were a goodly company, and
their pastor was sanctity embodied —pale and
poorly, with a dim, remote gaze in his dark, un-
fathomable orbs ; earnest, yet lank, ethereal but
bilious, he was much respected and sought after.
His wife was of sterner stuff and stouter build ;
she could lift him by the ear, ’twas said, and she
often enough made times lively for that interest-
ing and promising young clergyman. When the
rural recreators tired of
currant-buns and thin, im
poverished tea, the j uvenile
section broke off in couples
and sought seclusion, while
their elders coiled in the
shade and rested. The
parson and the blonde girl
who taught Sunday-school
had gone away to hunt for
botanical specimens; his
wife slept in the shelter of
an extempore mia-mia, and
all was calm and bright.
Silence reigned save for the
hum of insects and the oc-
casional twitter of a gorged
parrot up amidst] the blos-
som. But presently there
rose on the air, like the
wild clang of an iron bell,
a maiden’s yell jroceeding
from the forest. A gain and
again it rang out sharp and
shrill, and 50 shining lights,
pillars of the temple, set
out to see the trouble, Mrs.
Minister in the van. In a
beautiful secluded spot upon
the green sward, where a
clump of saplings lent re-
freshing shade, they found
their pastor and the blonde
girl who taught school. The
latter was kicking out in
pig-jumps, while the guiding
star w r restled with her and
looked scared enough to die.
Before any explanation
could be tendered, a tower
ing female with her hail
loose reached out of the
crowd, took the rev. gentle-
man by the wool, and pro-
ceeded to plough and har-
row with his holy anatomy
two acres of the gladsome
wilderness. He was banged
up against trees and welted
on the ground, and mauled
and maltreated till he resembled an impecu-
nious dead-beat who had had an accident
kwi'h a winnowing machine* The tow
Lng fenm ®, you may have con-
jectured. When she hml wreaked her vengeance,
sisters discovered it was only a bull ant after
;,i] * a hull-ant that had got down the back of the
b!on\° creature But the picniccoui ln<
the sHtfN'k- a wet blanket descended upon it and
it returned heme gloomy and morose. The parson
held 11]iyds head never again in that diocoße, and
shortly o will to a distant land,
- —TheJ^ ev - Charles C. Currey,-of Lismore,
(N,STW7)isa parson who absolutely bulges with
humor. How on earth he holds the amount of
drollery with -which he is crammed no one can tell.
To get a wolf into a tea-cup, or a horse into an
egg, doesn’t even begin to bear any comparison to
the tightness of the fit in his case. He was sum-
moned as a witness regarding the recent riots,
when Edith Chiniquy O’Gorman, alias Auffray,
and the baby-holding professor had such a rough
time of it, and after describing himself as a
“clergyman of the holy order” he spake as
follows :
“ McGuire came on to the stage and attempted to make a
speech, do not remember what it was; i ordered him to leave
the stage, and he did so; think he was more sinned against
than sinning; he was most respectful to me; he said die
would protect me.”
Of course. McGuire might or might not be abso-
lutely hungering to biff the inside out of every
other Protestant in the shanty, but ‘‘ he was most
respectful to Me,” and consequently this parson
thinks he was “more sinned against than sinning.”
Perhaps Mac didn’t like to tread on a crushed
worm. “I did not leave until I finally left,”
added the witness, from which we understand
that he didn’t slope till he departed, and when he
stayed away permanently
he didn’t go back. A little
farther on he explained that
“ the reserved contingent
protected the platform, who
numbered about 25 or 30,
and were armed with the
armor of righteousness.”
And yet while these lay-
men were trusting solely in
Providence the Rev. Currey
admits that he rolled up on
the platform armed with
the handle of a fire-shovel
—an instrument feet
long, wLh a knob at the
end ; rather a nice sort of
weapon for a man of God
to sling around. “ The re-
serve contingent,” he ex-
plained, “ were warlike in
a spiritual sense,” but Mr.
Currey himself seems to
have been warlike in a more
literal and knobby interpr-
etation of the word. Per-
haps, however, the shovel
must be regarded in a
spritual sense also as a sort
of 30-inch iron parable with
an allegorical nullah at the
end ; but in that case the
reverend gen We man’s subtle
andfreshly-upholstered joke
has missed fire, for he is
now universally set down as
a clerical hard-hitter and an
awkward customer to
tackle. It is true he did
not actually strike anybody,
but then he was so ob-
viously ready for any em-
ergency, and so calm and
collected amid the raging
tumult around him that he
is regarded as a party of.
the btreak-of-liglitnJng de-
scription, an individual who
would never hit twice
n the same place be-
cause when he had hit once there would be no
visible place left. For our own part wo are
almost afraid Mr. Currey is ruined. That shovel
which he wielded in the front of the battle has
done away for ever with his reput ition as a man
of peace.
* * *
A priest from New Zealand arrived in
Melbourne lately, and fell among policemen. He
was staying with friends who missod him over
mid did not discover him for four days.
\Vhenttv«y found him he was in the lock-up on a
charge of vagrancy. There was a time when that
lock-up and all the policemen within a radius of
several miles of it, would have been struck
with Ughtnirg for this sacrilege, and there
wouldn’t have been so much as a brick or a butto™
left to tell that they once existed. But those daysl
are no more. A policeman would think nothing!
now of arresting the Pope if he didn’t “ move on
when he was told to do so. Joseph Symes is tol
blame for most of this. Well, thank Heaven!
there is a Hell. I
* * * 1
Is there no balm in Gilead for the un-
happy wretch who is doomed to drink Sydney
water ? We have studied the habits of this de-
moralising liquid from every point of view, and
we have come to the conclusion that it is sufficient
to account for every crime committed in the
N.S.W. capital. We have bathed in it and shud-
dered ; we have consumed it inwardly and been
smitten with physical anguish ; we have smelt it,
and examined it, and cursed it, and at last we
have had it analysed. As a result, we have found
it to be the following weird and infernal
compound: water, 50 per cent; essence of
poisoned rabbit, 4 per cent.; oxide of cow
(deceased), 4 per cent. ; sulphate of departed
horse, 5 per cent.; disintegrated sheep, 8 per cent.;
mud, 10 per cent.; grit, 7 per cent.; iodide of dog,
6 per cent.; live animal, 2 per cent.; fungus, 2 per
cent.; something too horrible for inspection, 2 per
cent.; with traces of chloride of cat and peroxide
of prehistoric egg. And yet there are pious gen-
tleman who go about with hats that are too large,
and picturesque misfit boots that are too small,
who call on us to ab'ure whisky and rum and other
incentives to progress on the trunk line that leads
unto perdi .ion—and drink this animal, vegetable,
and mineral liquid instead ! Perish the thought !
* * *
A few days back the “ converted ” and
regenerated Chows of a Melbourne mission gave
a free lunch to their spiritual masters and the
other Europeans of the district who are grafting
to lead the long-headed Celestial to grace. “ Jus-
tice was done to the good things,” says a reporter
who w r as on the spot. We have witnessed a Mon-
golian theological banquet. The viands w ere a
hideous mystery. Animals and birds were there,
skewered and twisted and knotted out of all rea-
son, polished up like a doctor’s sign and reeking
with grease. Dishes of vari-coloured hash stood
about—drab, green, and yellow hash, fearful
medley in-which perchance the limbs of an aged
w'orld-worn feline commingled with the interior
works of a pioneer rooster and fragments of ill-
fed rats. Fish, shrivelled and black as a dis-
carded boot, littered the table along with grotes-
que slabs of something like steaks from an Afri-
can mummy. Little bilious cakes with which
you might have oiled your hair lay sullenly in
dishes, and there were piled in bowls—heads,
necks, livers, hearts, crops, feet and other miscel-
laneous scraps of poultry, all coated with a dark
brown slime, and looking fit to kill a dqzen white
men right away. We did not partake, lend when
we read that “justice was done” to the banquet
of the Melbourne yellow monkeys we shuddered ;
but a reporter, backed by an assortment of tea-
meeting devastators, is good for anything that
oan be chewed.
Obituary from the Melbourne Age :
“ Our dear little Sammy has gone to rest,
For the Lord he knew that it was the best,
For he has never, never known a sin,
So they opened the gate and let him in.”
These lines are probably intended to console the
friends of Sammy for his premature departure.
But we think they have not got quite the hang of
the thing. Let us try our hand :
’Tis said there is in heaven more joy
Over a sinner—man or boy—
Who’s sorry, than o'er ninety-nine
Just ghosts who coine to toe the line.
So then if Sammy knew no siD,
He hasn’t such a great “ throw-in” ;
And angels unto him will shove
A very small back-seat above.
But perhaps he'll be a cherub—then
Of course he’ll want no seat. Amen.
# * *
The Queen has requested Sir Saul Samuel
to thank the Government of Noose South Wales
for the nugget of gold shown at the late Exhibi-
tion which has been presented to her Majesty.”
There is more joy in the Royal Family over that
one nugget than over 99 loyal addresses. A few
lines :
Let each man now with glee be filled,
And bless himself, _s
That we've some gold yet left to gild
The Guild of Guelph.
A few more :
If to our gracious Queen be given
Leave to take with her up to Heaven
The gold she Ims amassed down here
She will be able—’tis no jeer !
This theme too sacred is for laughter,—
To take the contract —and receipts
For paving the celestial streets,
For the remainder of Hereafter.
• •
The young son of a Melbourne Railway
official stole liis father’s holiday-number family
pass, and, congregating a horde of unkempt
urchins, he led them to the station to partake of a
country excursion at the expense of Johnnie Go-
vernment. One of his companions in crime was a
fair, frail child, with a mildewed face ; another
was podgy and black, very black ; a third bore un-
mistakable traces of Celestial origin ; while a
fourth was as red headed as a feather-duster, and
as Oirish as the Jaynil Dan. A choice variety of
other stocks accompanied them—fourteen of a
family in all. “ Are yez, ivery won, th’ chilther of
Misther Blank ? ” queried the Zulu porter, cast-
ing one horrified eye upon the pass and the other
over the horde. “Yes, Zur,” said one kid.
V Then, be Jabers,” gasped the public servant, “ I
loike his style ! The whale !” The kids didn't
take their trip that day, though.
* * *
The noble English investor will, as a rule,
swallow almost everything', but the ‘‘Anticosti
Land Company Limited ’ promises to be too much
even for him. Anticosti is an island in the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, measuring 20 miles by 150, and
regarded as an abandoned, craggy, splintered,
fire-doomed heap of utter desolation, it has hardly
a parallel on earth. The shores aro surrounded
by high cliffs, and along five-sixths of the coast-
line there is no lnnding-placc. It is occupied only
by bears, and they are sodden with rain and
drawn out so thin by sheer starvation that they
are fast degenerating into snakes. The place
would have made a good amateur Gehenna if it
had not got too wet, but now the idea 19 to float it*
into a company for agricultural
it up into farm;-. Slil 1 ! Mi:
mine, or h promi-ing chj^f
On Sanitary Grounds.
Ah Sin he grows our watercress
In streams that are impure,
He rears our beans and cabbages,
He makes bad furniture ;
He waits on us with fish and fruit
And opium-flavoured tea,
But shall he drive the Melbourne cab ?
Ah no ! it must not be.
W e let him wallow in his filth
In holes (to say the least)
That would not give a shelter to
Another kind of beast;
We let him pilfer Christiam pelf
At fraudulent fan-tan,
And wa’h our clothes (if not himself I
The cheerful Chinaman.
But possibly we’ll want to drive
Through Melbourne, by and bye,
And in a cab that’s “ all alive ”
It were not meet to die ;
Why should we hurry on our fate
(This life is but a span)
By sitting to the leeward of
A fragrant Chinaman ?
To put in dreary verse the views
Expressed by Graham Berry—
kSuoh work for Alfred’s failing muse
& Is suitable, yea, very !
looking round for themes sublime,
■ Here’s one a little newer—
Kord Alfred might prepare some rhyme
the Bondi sewer.
better still, a ballad sweet
tuneful terms explicit,
how wc best could meet
HHir terrible deficit.
MORE TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. Justice Windeyer’s Hunter River
tenants presented him with an address on the
occasion of his departure for Europe last
week. We have been favoured with an
alleged sketch of the little souvenir by which
the adulatory parchment was accompanied:—
We have also received a copy of an address with which Mr. Justice Windeyer’s other tenants
(of Darlinghurst Gaol) would have presented His Honor but for the present unfortunate strin-
gency of the prison regulations :
TTo A\ r cjuj tic/Vv^/Dy Ca,,. Ippf[j
T~\
Zh<i <93 davlxjarZ
/£lou.f aiuT'Shcl £ r.'Jty/ 0 /
3 OI?? e o«an ? sfa.)Ciaf rdde 7 ce of Out
J/ea<7; on tt,* eea/e of y ou d r fo
, jeetj a 7?,ui~cb nttdtc\ jTffeyby
TDe Ope) khifr J?e bCrryayiyt (ayre aV/c to
at pcvrhc) oJ e NO
'Re you !)V f),i u\ a f'ttf
a itif uper ftp o-y) ptder iff
1 rate ip (Oufyfoo d>,T W
**«V <w tyxyaZ toVe^
preset ycuv Hfivor (0 lH> 1b 7 / /
Coicb you r
JA.cihop Of your Ce 9 r,f bite Y 7
Wiy a) o- li Coo» b «'7<f
Ojyuur Cfyaye. i To f»?e j £ orfc/ p erU p <4l
lae dopt 9° <Wc ?v*eti> s*-
-f—- P o 'c,ca\MM Citce.
VERY LIKE A—WAI.ES.
When he comes here across the foam,
And leaves for our adoring view
The print of his majestic shoe
Upon the sand, great Wales,
What thought will strike him first, now say ?
Why this, of course—to rush away
And visit, in his Sandhurst home,
The merry Mr. Bailes.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
HMu>ckhampt< >n is the joyful possessor of
called M‘Allrot.
■■Caffrey, the Great Barrier criminal, once
with a circus in France.
I®“Hon. G. R. Dibbs goes to England
Shortly ! Why, he’s Bft. tall.
The Rev. William Barnes, the Dorset
Mpoet, is dead. We are never sorry to hear this.
f The Russian Czarewitch has taken to
’ epileptic fits. Another lunatic qualifying for a
throne !
y Sir Robert Hamilton, the new Governor
v of Tasmania, is connected by marriage with a
leading Tasmanian family.
lt is reported that Town-Clerk Woolcott,
of Sydney, has been offered £BOO to iesign. If he
holds out he may get twice as much.
“ Lord Tennyson,” it is cabled, “ has
written a poem on the British Navy,” It is to be
recited to the music of self-bursting guns.
Lord Lonsdale says there is “nothing de-
moralising about the stage.” True, there is
nothing that could demoralise his lordship.
The present Lord Enniskillen dejure, the
direct descendant of the Cromwellian lord, is a
cowherd in the service of the Lord Enniskillen de
facto.
Demosthenes Palmer is the name of the
Anti-Chinese Sec. at Cooktown (Q.) He is, in all
human probability, a distant cousin of Uan
O’Connor.
An ex-Postmaster-Ceneral of an Austra-
lian colony was fined among the drunks at Sydney
Police Court a few weeks ago.
Chao Pha Chulaloukorn, who does duty
'for King in Siam, was christened in 1851. His
name when translated is Chaos Pharaoh Chuck-
thehullotout.
Thomas Julian has appeared in Melbourne
Insolvency Court. Evidently the “ Vag.” is suf-
fering reverses. Peer into this item very closely
and you’ll sec the point.
Trinder would rather run than make a
speech. In this respect he differs from J. C.
Neild and Dan. O’Connor, who would rather
“spout’’than “sprint.”
The Sydney Salvationist organ reports
limily is rapidly being saved.
re, are still in the bond of
uity.
y the recent Adams v.
ult of which has just been
f Justice Coleridge married
:ean steamer,
on) :
'olinileries ring has teen boasting
f, and refused it. When I think
o makes this boast, I feel that
,el and George has indeed sunk
r ,left only from £lOO,OOO
m devised to his infant
it altogether robust, will
)',OOO, with reversion to the
sguided friends is writ-
> contain a full, true, and
)f his Highness. We are
st be edited by the cabman
t night.
to P.M. at Thursday
is Sir Thomas MTI wraith's
British flag in New Guinea,
y much disliked at Cairns,
Magistrate.
the stump lately in the
alking about the land laws,
Out “ deferred payment. ’
me of his auditors, “you
I man.”
n has been examined, by
g Drink Commission. The
” remarks concerning the
len published, be accepted
! Australian humour.
son, the S.A. Governor,
ble decoration from Bat
f Siam. We may mention
aloukorn’s name is Phra
idr Maha Phra Chula Chom
is in it again. His
iator of the ocean penny
3n' publicly ridiculed by a
ays the notion was started
arly 40 years ago. There’s
sun.
as, “ The Vagabond,”
id from Europe, passed
reek. We regret to hear
of late suffered from a
■h will necessitate his in-
mplete rest.
veiling for his health,
ttor of the England w. Aus-
ne. Two of the brothers
in converting the Chinese
might take advantage of
the aborigines.
“ Women of England ”
ueen with a Jubilee offer -
i it. The class of ladies—
assume to represent the
iter are always panting to
—fxo.n a weak-kt e:d Lord
iment by John Young,
tiono, jun., to be City Cor-
mt opposition. And Terry
begat Jack, and Jack begat
•y John, junior, and so on
,t base uses may we come
exhibition was closed
early half a dsy while the
toon after the Princess
pretty, intelligent child —indeed the most amus-
ing baby we have had. " It is now hoped that the
strain has not degenerated, in which case the Bat-
.tsnberg baby may prove a humourist —it may
even be a clown.
Acting - Judge - until • the-arrears-of-hanging-are-
got-up Stephen made an awful blunder recently.
He had two prisoners, and he fixed his eye on them
lest they should escape, but somehow his optic
became unfixed, and as he could not focus them
again he sentenced the Crown prosecutor and the
foreman of the jury.
The wife of the once famous “ Sir Roger ”
Tichborne i 3 now singing at a concert-hall in
New York in order to keep the pot. boiling for
that corpulent and down-trodden wretch. This is
not his oxiginal wife, of course ; she was getting
old and ugly and awfully vulgar, so she w r as
divorced and shunted into a wmrkhouse, and Sir
Roger married again.
The Cootamundra Herald reports that
“Sir John Robertson and Bishop Barry are
of the six Mount Rennie convicts.” If that paper
had only added that Cardinal Moran was carrying
a banner in the Salvation Army procession, and
Mr. Bibbs raising the hymn at a Baptist prayer-
meeting, the item would have been complete.
The Dublin people gave poor Fred Archer
an immense reception when he made his first
appearance on the Curragh only a few days before
his death. The Lord-Lieutenant, whose horse
Archer rode, never got a cheer from the mob, but
the English journals misrepresented the facts and
turned the Archer furore into a “ loyal demonstra-
tion.” Perhaps Freddie committed suicide in
sheer disgust.
Mayor Young, of Sydney, has “ declined
to contest the constituency of Lithgow.” John
COXSTANT READER (to member of .staff): “LOOK HERE! I’VE TAKEN ‘THE BULLE-
TIN' FROM THE VERY START, AND NOW, FOR THE FIRST TIME, I FIND YOU
HAVE ACTUALLY GOT OUT A NUMBER WITHOUT ANY PICTURE ABOUT
PARKES IN IT. WHAT DO YOU MEAN, SIR!’
STAFF: “WELL, THE FACT OF IT IS, WE ARE GIVING OUR PARKHS’ ARTIST A
HOLIDAY.
has just got married, and, but for the fact that the
lovely woman who has been so fortunate as to
gain his undivided affections is widely known to
be the most amiable and peaceful of her adorable
sex, Tub Bcui tin would be inclined to remark
that Mayor Young has got quite enough to con-
test at present.
Mr. Hailes (the Victorian hot “ member”
who docsn t believe in royalty, runs a whisky-
mill at Sandhurst. Thus a little Melbourne rag
Wales to visit Sandhurst as would atone for all
the scandal he has been mixed up in.” This is a
phase of royal usefulness which has been over*
looked. Grovel promotes the consumption of
grog.
Sir Salmon Wilson has retired from
min Benconsfield. The latest about Sir Salmon
mentions that he is negotiating for the purchase
of Holyrood Castle and trying to secure a burial
allotment in Westminster Abbey. But that’s
nothing. As member for Canterbury, Hennikcr
Heaton is exerting his local influence, and making
arrangements to be buried along with Thomas
Hell. He recently said that “ any man who be-
monster." This seems about right, too; for,
away safely and brought 'no women with them,
and now their motto is, ‘Don’t talk,’ for if they
talked they would give themselves away.” This
sounds rather savage, but when wo remembe
that only one woman was saved we are inclinec
to think it is very near the immortal truth.
L. L. Smith took advantage of his trip t(
Yurrup to undergo a course of treatment from th
best London tailors. The famous expanse of shir
front has been curtailed, the corsair collar is ironef
into an upright masher, and, generally speaking
the Young Man’s medical advises turns out in
condition of subdued splendonr.
The following comprehensive demand ap-
pears in a Bowen (Q.) paper :
“ TO MRS. E. J. -
“ Madam, —If no apology for the insulting and abusive
language you used to me on the 24th inst., also accusing me
of theft from your dwelling at the time of my attendance
during your husband’s illness, also getting good* at a certain
store in your name for the use of ay family—l am a native
of Queensland, and always bore a sober, straightforward,
honest, character up to the present, and although poor’
honestly inclined - I shall certainly put it as far as law will
allow.—M. E. Dutton.”
M. E. Dutton is evidently a woman.
The London correspondent of the Sydney
E. News says :
‘‘lt is generally understood that the Queen contemplates
a wholesale disti ibution of titles and honors on the occasion
of the Jubilee, and the names of several prominent colonials
have been mentioned as lively to receive marks of Royal
favour. I have even heard it whispered that her Majesty
would like to make Sir Saul Samuel—a gentleman, if
possible."
Further on we read :
“ Mr. Heaton certainly does contrive to make poor Saul’s
life fairly miserable ; and, in return, the latter spends most
of his time in disparaging the member for Canterbury iu
every possible way. His dislike for Mr. Heaton is something
extraordinary—it amounts to a positive mania—and it would
go hard with him if examined professionally upon this point
i by Forbes Winslow or any other mad doctor.”
We respectfully ask Mr. Alfred Bennett whether
he doesn’t think that the private spites of the con-
nections by marriage of the Bennett family have
now been sufliciently aired through the convenient
medium of the “London correspondent ?” We
also grovellingly venture to suggest to the Ben-
nett family’s solicitor that the malicious matter
quoted above is close upon the verge of a first -
class libel.
There lias been considerable discussion
among scientists of late years aj to what the c >use
of earthquakes is. Every navavt has a different
theory. We have one too. Some of the old
philosophers held that the earth Avas a huge
animal. So do we, and we believe when it quake 3
it is simply sick—sick of carrying mankind on its
back and trying to vomit them otf.into space.
And who can blame it ? We hold this theory to
be the best yet formulated. We intend to write a
book to prove it one of these days if we have luck
and can manage to get somewhere where we will
be quiet—say the debtors’ prison.
Up at Singleton (Is.S. W. ), when they
want to pay tho debt on a church, they are net
limited by a narrow sense of what is proper and
lawful in the ways of money-getting. Anything
short of robbery under anna would seem to be
permissible. Recently a show was held to wipe
g ’• !•••' hot.’-I be !.:iM-i"vd in i]im|
POLITI CAL
POINTS
“No rent ” in the Irish cloud.
Randolph Churchill may yet lead t
Radicals.
“ Rumonia is the latest proposed nan
for North Queensland.
Sir Henry Parkes is on the brink of tl
grave— the grave of Freetrade.
“The local Minister for Defence sa;
\ ictoria is ready for war.” With goats, we su
pose.
Parkes is touting for the political suppor
of the younger ladies. He has already securec
the old women.
“ There isn’t one man in the Parliamen
of X.S.W. who is my beau ideal of a statesman
—The Caulfield.
N.S. W. Parliament is to meet on the 181
.January, and members are already brushing u
some new language for use on the occasion.
A mock-trial was the leading entertain
ment at the Victorian Parliamentary picnic. Wi
nessc3 were sworn on The Bulletin. Theyb
often sworn at it.
The Czar of Russia is said to be “off h
chump.” In N.S.W. political circles, when the
want to say this about a man, they remark thn
he is “ on the stump.”
“ Why does not our Legislative Assembl
set an example to other public houses ?” pert!
asks a Victorian paper. Doesn’t it? It keep
open all night whenever it can.
The T. and C. Jernel, which is going 1
change the name of Noose South Wales, has
last fixed upon a new appellation for our belovec
mother colony—“ Convictia.”
“ We never saw daylight except on Satu
day nigbt and Sunday,” said an Illawarra mine
when describing the condition of English mine
before the unions were formed.
The S.M. Herald thinks that the Oppo
sition members have been keeping themselve
in training.” This means a desperate strugg
for the Jaw-bone championship next session.
The \ ictorian Parliament has been discus
sing the advisability of establishing a home fo
suspected idiots, their disgraceful intention bein
no doubt to quarter themselves still further upo
their bleeding country.
From Wellington (N.Z.) comes the new
that the Opposition will show greater “ politica
activity ” after the New Year begins. This, w
presume, moans that the men selected to ge
drunk, sit in the Speaker's chair, danco on th
table, and look up the slang dictionary, ar
already appointed.
The only fault that Mr. W. Sandford find
with the Soudan expedition is that the ship whic
conveyed them was not built of native iron. Iti
to be hoped that native-built vessels will neve
convey a lot of volunteers to murder niggers anc
slaughter a goat. There is too much “gooc
iron” here for that.
The president of the Geographical So
ciety of Australasia has received a communict
tion from Governor Carington to the effect tha
the Quoen has been generously ploased to confe
on the society the title of “ Royal.” ' Sir Edward
Strickland says this was the one thing needful to
make the exploration of New Guinea a trium
phant success.
The appointment of Mr. J. M. Mills a
one of the Board to inquire into the working o
the Public Works’Department is hardly to be com
mended, seeing that Mr. Mills is understood to be
at present engaged on a heavy contract for the ver;
depaitment lie is to criticise, viz., the I’rospec
Reservoir, the contract price for which is some
thing over £400,000.
Now that the Mongol poll-tax has been
suspended in the Northern Territory for tht
benefit of the rail way-contractors, that country if
a grand one for the little yell ow men, and they
promise soon to overflow'. One enterprising agent
advertises that he is willing to supply Queensland
sct tiers with 5000 Cliin'se ccolies, thoroughly ac-
climatised and no taxes to pay. Hi-Yah !
Protection is wanted somewhere. Last
week a man at Mudgee (N.S.W.) wrote to his
Sydney agents to arrange a sale of wheat, and
was informed that it could not be disposed of,
the market being already glutted with the duty-
free Californian article. When it becomes im-
possible to dispose of local produce it is evident
that protection is wanted, and wanted badly.
In the Victorian Legislative Assembly
during the late sitting on the 9th inst., when the
Chaffey Brothers’ irrigation scheme was under
discussion, Mr. Pent called Mr. Dow “a rogue
and a liar.’ The House should have roared
( hestnut ! at the hon. member with one voice,
for this disgraco to the race of market-gardeners
has been calling all and sundry rogues and liars
from time immemorial.
Her Most Gracious, Ac., has been
ple;}3ed to create a new decoration, which is to be
allotted to naval and military officers “ at home”
and in the colonies for distinguished services. In
future, whenever there is a chance to perpetrate
brutal and wholesale murder on some unfortunate
black foreigners who are not in a position to de
fend themselves, our gallant ePpendiary man
butchers will howl thcmfcelvc3 hoarse for war.
The' Germans have annexed Choiseul,
IsabCe, and Bougainville, three of the largest,
islands of the Solomon group. They were all
discovered and named by Frenchmen, but if
Franco had annexed them. Berry and Griffith and
all their gang would have bobbed up serenely to
curse and yell. The same individuals, however,
don’t protest against German appropriation—hi
Indian polit i- ian pretends
r kraut crowd come
i. l ■... i i.i,
jj - ■ * ~ - l: ' iug army. In I he cablegram:.
1 ’ * rl 1,1 1 ''lull. 1- I)|r, i
' 1 1 ' ! be I lei 10-i. !’. r -<c
{Continued on Page 13.)


tom¥X:
h? tM
l A ,J kA
msot
mvi
tf 0
y sty
It
a C (S /en cl cl 7~_.
Some Seasonable Notions.


A* V E K~TO t\E. trv
lovte.r. street
( tr St '*
e r\r/r r


Society
The dance which was to haver' delighted
the guests at Government House, Sydney, on the
evening of the day upon which the Executive
Council decided to hang six of the Mount
Bennie convicts was postponed as soon as the
dqoisiqn y/as- announced,. Lady Oarington, thus
Djhovriiig her shuddering compassion for the con
ctarhnes— or, at least, a becoming disinclination to
dance on a solid floor immediately after six men
had been ordered to dance Bft. above anything.
That this graceful compassion does not universally
prevail among aristocrats is sufficiently proved by
the fact that cards are out for several dances at
Potts Point on the 7th January, the day fixed for
Noose South Wales’ carnival of hanging. It will
be quite a festive occasion, a sort of second
Christma?-3u»i-Queen’s Jubilee with the aspiring
dukes and duchesses of the coming colonial
peerage.
* * #
Htomftch-adhe is il\ future to be called
*’ ’ The old narrtp sounds mean
and vulgar, and is too suggesti* e of cheap claretj
J?ie, salmon, unripe fruit, and reckless indulgence
in the ghastly cucumber, whereas the new one,
like “ that blessed word Mesopotamia,” has a fine
rolling sound that recommends it to the high-
toned multitude,
* * *
J>ve,” say? the Globe’s, lady contribu-
tor, ‘"is best treated with counter irritants.”
Ye?, with bar-counter irritants.
* * *
We arc curious to know on what pretext
Lord Carington refuses his patronage to Mons.
Poussard ? The transparent official excuse—of
absence at Moss Yale—is exploded ; but as the
Governor graced a fashionable concert at the
Podssafd Hall two nights previously and a
SUhdol “shdri off ” in an admitting street on the
bight, gomB : otffbr reason rhust be
assigned for refusing to the violinist of European
celebrity, who has five times played “ by com-
mand” before the Queen, that vice-regal patron-
age which was extended to the music-hall per-
formance of the late defendant in a notorious and
very dirty slander case. We are loth to account
for the contradiction by vitiated taste, musical
ignorance, or national prejudice, and can there-
fore only surmise that some secret antagonistic
influei'Pe,guides the “ Vfheols Within wheels ” of
vice legal court life. Report says that some
classical chamber concerts are being organised
whereat Monsieur and Madame Poussard are to
be chief performers. It remains to be seen
whether our Queen’s representative will ca’-ry
9dt the tfddifions of a sing’ulariy musical royal
fitmily by offering personal encouragement to
this dtteriipt to raise the Sydney musical tone:
* 4 _*
It is sdmetmies difficult even for ins besi;
fritends to recognise the “‘representative Australian
Wiierl he feturris ffom Yurrup. The other da
crie of thb travelled gang turned up in the Yic
vsrien, Assembly, where he used to sit with
ei’ilmpied shift and a dissipated hat, and fron
wffiicli he used to rush every few minutes whe
the U3her w ispered in his ear that an anguishec
patient was i waiting outside, having been be
by an advertisement beaded, “ Don’t yo
Prt y ctl,,younft man ?” . Now, however, he wor
a High collar that lotikba like d white-welshed wal
—nd a giraffe, and as there was a shindy on
sn he entered he asked sadly, “ What the wow
about.” He sat down languidly and pre
ed his stately demeanour for about flv
uto3. At tho end of that time anothe
nber had growm weary of him, so he rose and
ed that the lisping wanderer was a miserable
d. Then there was a fearful tearing sound a
giraffe dollar Split asffhder. There was a yel
‘ miserable bully!” and the stately individua
ed to his feet arid began to dance and gyrate
he.Wl fdrtb frepried utterances and shake his
like a whole barrow-load of baboons. One
nd ended the work of years, and of the pain
/ acquired cultchaw of Yurrup not a vestige
remained.
# # #
More ! What does “S.L.’
&tftnd fori we asked ourselves on first seeing
those mysteridus letters attached on d concert pro-
gram nle to, the name of that distinguished ama
feur; Mr. f’eref Jones; We liave now learnec
ihat the letters represeht “ Sydney Liedertafel.’
What next ! Probably that readers at the Free
Library will be F.L.’s, habitues of the Botanic
Gardens B G.’s, and all good disciples of Mrs.
■Grundy M.G.'s.
* * *
It doesn’t look well —even at Middle
Harbour, Sydney for a number of “young
ladies/’ accompanied by male companions, to rur
about the bush on Sunday afternoons in a style of
Cost'Jiiie highly siiggcsUvb of opera-boil ffe;
* * * N.
There is in a small Victorian township a
young unwed preacher of the gospel named
Mackerel. Moth rsofmarriageabledaughtersdown
there ostentatiously rattle six coppers into the
plate every time and murmur, “A sprat to catch
a Mackerel.”
* * #
A man, described as a “ veteran of the
Soudan wa I *,” was brought up at the Car. ton
(Melbourne 1 Police Court the other day on a
o’iarge of wife*de3ertion. He is not the only
wife-deseiter by many yardsful who w’ent fer h
to do battle aga'fist the Goats. The Honourable
Plain Bill may be a very glorious perse nige, bi t
he has m my a bust-up domestic establishment to
answer for.
*
An officer in the Sandhurst militia, who
was hoard to malign hi 3 Queen when on parade
the o he" day, is to be csurt-martialled. The ex-
treme penalty for this orime in Victoria ia to
blow the culprit from an eighty-ton gun,,fetch
him back and hang him ; then give him six years
so it ary confinement, with 100 lashos every altcrj
m e month.
* *
At. every fashionable concert some hun-
dred folks are asking this same conundrum—how
many people does it take to cook that peculiar
hash miscalled at a certain daily newspaper oiiic
musical criticism ? We ourselves have notsolvec
process at musical entertainments. The results
however, arc apparent to all, and illustrate th
old adage concerning “ too many cooks.”
Mr. Arthur Sebright, of London, has gone
a little too far, and society has cast him out. lie
was a hard-up man, and when in 1878 he made
the acquaintance of a girl of 15, the daughter o:
Lady Scott, and found that she would one day own
£26,000, he fell in love with her at once. When
she was 16, he “ proposed,” and he kept on pro
posing till she was 20. Then he travelled on the
broken-down, wailing dodgfe, and, representing
that he hardly knew where to get a dinner, he
moved the young lady to sign what she thought
was an expression of sympathy, but which proved
to be a bill for £5OO. Next he threatened exposure,
and got bills for £3OOO more, and in a few months
after this Miss Scott was haunted and driven
frantic by writs and bankruptcy proceedings, and
hook-nos,ed brutes with bits of blue paper, until
dhe spent all lier spare tirtie in tears and misery,
finally Mr. Sebright told her that b f signihg soffie
document at a registry office she would get out of
her difficulties, and while she fancied, in a dazed,
terrified way that she was doing some legal hocus,
she got married to a man whose sole assets were
her own bills. This was the last straw, however.
Miss Scott fell back on her mother, and her mother
fell back on Judge Butt of the Divorce Court, and
the judge fell upon Sebright and threw him into
the middle of next week, where he now lies, a
grovelling, bankrupt spectre of misery and dis-
grace!
* * *
In Melbourne a man has been fined £5
with £5 costs for saying “Hello, my dear,” to a
married We mention this fact fora lot
feaSomj*
SHE: “HOW LONG WILL THE NEXT TRAM BE, GUARDI”
HE: “OH, USUAL LENGTH, MUM, TWO CARS AND A HENGINE.”
.Tudgb weflt t<i England as
fellow-pass6nger Of another dristocfdt the Mar
quis of Stafford. The latter will be a Very luckfr
man if he reaches England without finding him
self under sentence of death or something.
* * *
“ What is home without a mother ?’’ Thi 8
question is being continually asked iD obituary
versos printed in the daily papers. But we have
never yet seen one asking what home would be
without a mother in-law, Perhaps no man who
has had his mother in law living with him has ex-
perienced Mdiat it is to ho without her ever after.
In the nature of things she survives him. But
that is no reason why he should regard her with
such a fiendish hate. It is passing strange that
while he loves the daughter he should detest the
publisher of her being. But there is no logic in
men.
* * *
Somebody in the S.M. Herald, speaking
of the Keilawarra affair, says that such things go
to make “widows and orphans.” Judging from
tne style in which the men in the late wreck
jumped into the boats and left the women to
drown, we should say such things go to make
widowers.
# * *
A correspondent of the Aoe suggests that
a burglar's alarm of some kind should be in every
house. If he is afraid of being robbed we can toll
him of a firot-class plan we hit upon lately. We
had a brass-plate put on our front and back doors
with our namo on it and underneath, “Jour-
nalist.” No burglar has ever visited us since.
1 *
%Simps< >n Simkin.
nan’s of the ditl'erent parties to a marriage cere-
mony -celebrated in Melbourne lately. It was
hardly worth all that expense and trouble in
changing the i nines. The parson should have
made a reduction in his foe, anyhow.
THE CREATION OF WOMAN.
The Lord from inorganic earth made man for toi
and strife,
And moulded then from living clay young Adam’
lovely wife.
* * *
“ Raatz. 0 be joyful, for unto us a chilci
is born ! On , the wife’ of Eugene Raa’z o
a daughter.” This appeared as an advertisemen
in the Melbourne Aoe p> short time ago. The
simple enthusiasm of it prov es that the mfan
referred to is the first in that family. Whefi R
comes to the ninth or tenth the announcement oi
the fact will probably commence with “ Rough
on Raatz.”
* * *
The announcement by her relatives in the
Melbourne Acle of the death of an old lady 82
years of age winds up with the line, “At rest
at last.” Do they mean her tongue ? It reads
very much as if they d'id. There is a
thankful sound about the words which suggests
that those who had them inserted would have
liked’to add, “For thisfrelief much thanks”—only
a sense of decorum stopped them. Poor old
Ipdrt} 1
* *
Life seems to be rapidly defretfsing in
value lately, judging by the number of suicide's?
reported every week. A few days ago the body
of a young man was discovered on the beach at
Brighton (Vic.) with its throat cut. A pocket-
book was found on the body. The following was
found written on the fly-leaf: “Forged cheque
and am going to commit suicide. Taken a bottle
of chlorodyne without effect. Expect to be ar-
rested by police, and wish to die.” It was subse-
quently discovered that the deceased had forged
the name of an hotel-keeper for £3. He was out
of work and was unable to pay his way. Peihaps
he is better dead. He wa3 evidently unfit to cope
with the cares of life. What had he to look for.
ward to ? With such a t’nder conscience he could
never do any good as a bank manager or railwaj-
contractor, or even as a cashier to the Young
Mens' Christian Association. Why didn’t he owe
the money instead of forgirg a cheque to pay it?
If he had taken this simple and popular course he
would now have been alive and happy and —well,
it was at the option of the other man to commit
suicide. People who commit suicide nave_no
savoirfaire anyhow.
* * •
A New Zealander touring the States re-
cently made the acquaintance of a Boston girl and
after a few clays’ scientitlc courtship married her
and took her to Niagara to spend the honeymoon.
The third morning after the wedding, however,
he got up early, took £lOOO of his wife’s money
and skipped. N.Z. is evidently looking up.
* * *
The tale is told about the Princess of
Wales and an English provincial Mayor, at a
Mansion House hall. The Mayor solicited the
honour of a “ kerdrill,” and the Princess said,
“Some of my children are only just recovering
from the measles and you might take them." “ I
should be proud to take anything from such an
august source,” murmurei the Mayor. This is
mentioned as a hint for our dudes. If they have
the good luck to attend a Government House kick-
up when Lady Caringt >n has a cold, the proper
thing will he to request “ the honour of catching
your ladyship’d influenza.”
• * *
That noble guinea-pig, the Duke of Man
cheater, is touring in India with his duchess. The
Marquis of Hartington is not accompanying them.
Therein consists the pith of this paragraph.
* *
They wore chatting over several things—
and two drinks—in a hotel in Bourke-street.
much cooler in Melbourne during the summer
than in the other Australian capitals ? Thd
difference in latitude doesn’t altogether account
for it.” “Ah ! but you must remember,” replied
the other, with a face as solemn as a sphinx, “ we
have the Ice Works here.”
* * *
An obituary advertisement in the Mel-
bourne Age winds up with the statement that the
deceased “ was known to many as an honest,
hard-working, and sober man.” Good faith, what
then? Was that any reason why he shouldn’t
die i r l here were strong men before Agammem-
non. Ther9 were sober men before Rechab. The
relatives of tftrs deceased person seem to think
they have good £rodnds. fo* an action against
Death for taking him off he happened to
be honest, hard-working, and dobfei*. AH' the
more reason, this, in our opinion, should!
die. Life could have held very little fun rdf
* * *
Sit William J. Clarke, the Victorian-
manufacts.red baronet, is descended fam an an
cestor of that name, who was settled in the
manor of Greinto*), somewhere in Somerset, in the
reign of Queen Elizabeth —according to Burke 'S
Baronetage. It is well to know this ; otherwise
there daDger of our mistaking him for an
offshoot of the How r ards, Guelphs, ©v
a lineal descendant of the Montmoreneies or
Chfe / a!ier Bayard, whom Sir Billy, the butcher’tf
son, in every respect so strongly resembles. We
must confess to a dfs’app Mntment on finding that
this illustrious line extended no further back than
the days of Queen Bes?. Why stop there ? Wg
quite expected to find that a gentlemen of the?
pre-Adamite period was the first progenitor of
this pillar of the Empire, whose golden eloquence
won him hi* title. We can hardly refrain from
dropping a tear over the inveterate plebeianism
of the baronet’s late father, whose blue blood did
not prevent his following the humble calling of
a retailer of dead meat, and wlio was
never known to mention his Elizabethian ances-
tor. How r ever, Sir Pooh Bah has now atoned
for that little oversight.
* *
A Betlotfin woman upon finding that Eng-
lishwomen wore «?taV3, exclaimed in a tone that
was at once sympathetic and indignant; “What
bad, wicked men your hiis&mis wust b« to fasten
you up in that way !”
44 Lady” Munro is now in Melbourne
anxiously aWaiting the arrival of her alleged nephew
Lord Dudley. When last seen by our reporter
the muddled Munro was dancing a hornpipe on
her best bonnet. This is a sassiety item.
* #
In the first paroxysms of widowhood Mrs.
Ilodgson, of Melbourne, gave an Ofder for an en-
larged coloured photo of the deceased Mr. H. It
was duly turned out. There w ere the brown hair,
the blub eyes • the expressive mouth, and the neck-
tie as per pattern. When the work of art came
home Mrs. Hodgson repudiated it as ‘ not a bit
like,’ and the photographer took out a summons.
The careless fellow had forgotten to fill in a pai?
of wings and a halo.
* * *
Among the prettiest features of the first
England v. Australia match at Melbourne were those
of Mrs. Spofforth. The “ Demon’s Bride ” is a pale,
petite, graceful, brown-haired fairy, who looked
refreshingly cool in a dainty white costume and
parasol. Excess of happiness appears to be put"
ting flesh on Spofforth and rounding off the de
moniac corners.
* * *
In a Sydney daily a personal “ad.” ran
thusly : “ Baby, Have arrived.” We are a single
man, but we believe “has ” is the right word to
use.
* # #
Lady Loch, tire other day, visited
Catholic scholastic establishment in Richmond
near Melbourne. On her arrival the boys’ cade ;
band played the National Anthem. When she
proceeded to the girls’ department these young
women sang the National Anthem. When he
ladyship took her departure the girls, the boys
and the cadet band combined in one mighty
effort to impress the National Anthem on thei
unhappy visit or. Lady Loch has a good memory
—she may recognise the air again when she
hears it.
* * #
“All my white friends are invited to the
ball,” is the notice of a Queensland publican. I
is supposed he lives by blackfellows.
* * *
Mr. Rupert Clarke, the future baronet
doncherknow, met Miss Camming at a Melbourne
altar last week, and was made a happy man. The
young couple will honeymoon in furrin parts for
two years, provided the moon holds out.
* * *
£'lo,ooo is to be “jobbed” away in im
proving Melbourne To vn Hall, against the Royal
Bertie’s hypothetical visit. Mayor Cain, the
moving spirit in this noble enterprise, happens to
be in the building line himself, doncherknow, and
offers to supervise the alterations free, gratis, and
for nothing. That shows the advantage of having
experts in a town council. If next year’s Mayor
is connected with the wine trade, he will move
the erection of free whisky-fountains in Melbourne
streets and will kindly undertake to sample tho
liquor. A soft-goods man, on the other hand, will
be for draping the Town Hall in white satin, and
volunteering his services in the selection of the
stuff. If an undertaker wears tho chain of office
—but the thought is too dreadful.
* * *
“ Truth is infinite and we cannot clasp it
in our finite arms,” says a man with a red head.
We once knew a girl called “ Truth.”
* * *
Matrimonial engagements of long dura-
tion are no longer considered proper form. As
soon as the man proposes, and is accepted, the
lady’s friends set to work to/nake immediate pre-
parations for the wedding.
* *
They were going to the opera. He was
quito ready, while she was still at her toilet. “ 1
say, my dear,” ho ehoutod impatiently from the
foot of the stairs ; aren't you nearly dressed ? ”
“ Yes,” came back the response ; “ I’ve only got
to take a few more things off.”
* * «
A girl, aged twelve, has been sentenced at
Berlin to eight years’ imprisonment for murdeiing
a three-year-old baby. The little urchin spirted a
pretty pair of earrings, and the juvenile assassin
That girl will be of a nice marriageable age when
she conies out of gaol.
• * *
At Normanton, N.Q., Miss May Smith
hasrecovertd ten guineas damages from Major
Smith beoause he smacked her on the head. The


OVER EIGHTY THOUSAND
(82,500 OQ?IES)
OF THE BULLETIN PRINTED LAST WEEI
have voted £450,000 annually for three years as
sufficient for the maintenance ■ of the army cn a
fully efficient peace footing.” Why, the little
British army costs about 15 millions a year, not to
speak of the forces under the control of the
Sydney ‘ war office,” which stand N.S.'vV. in the
respectable total of a quarter of a mi'dion.
If free and fiery political writing of veff-
dict-and-costs tendencies is desiderated, West
Australia is where it shoo id be sohglit. Mr.
John Horgan, a candidate for the local Council, is
just now a conspicuous contributor to this depart-
ment of literature. About the finest s nter.ee in
his election address was that wherein he erro-
n ously described some administrators of justice
as “mulish, wrong-headed and corrupt buffoons.”
This pretty well covered the whole ground, but
Mr. Horgan had to cover a verdict of £lOO and
costs in recognition of his emirenco in libel-
slinging.
The proposal to pension off Peter Lhl-.p:
the Victorian has been shelved for
awhile. EJr. Laior’s salary is £l5OO (about £lB
for every night he occupies the Chair), and as the
Eureka hero has held the billet for a good many
years, several independent Government supporters
insinuated that there was no call for the hat to
come round. The argument is unanswerable in a
House which refused a grant to the family of Mr.
mainly by men who would give any amount of
public money to get a disciplinarian, like Peter,
out of the way.
In a lucid moment Premier Gi.lies sat on
an insane proposal to send 1000 little Victorihh
u'Chins to England Us representatives of tne
“ ihiiitary strength ” of the colony. Worthy George
Coppin protested that the loy,l demonstration
would only cost £30,000, of which the public would
joyfully subscribe £15,000 “ to ,how the people of
England how the boys of,the colonies are being
trained.” Sublime faith in “ Our Boys ”is one of
ths mo.t amiable characteristics of venerable
George. But why go to the ex ense of sendin*
home 1000 cadets ? A contingent o* 5o carefully-
selected lnrrikihs would show ’em how we train
the idea in this part of the world.
A monster public meeting to protest
against, the deportation of French recidivistes to
the New Hebrides was held in Melbourne a little
while back. When the doors opened, a lank, dis-
tempered mongrel that had been waiting impa-
tiently stole in and hid under a form ; half-an*
hour later a gentleman of neglected appearance
under the intlucnce of half-and-half also 'hypr- d
in and remained Where ,he ffill; then came two
Germphs ahd a how who took up front seats ;
four other doleful citizens and an Italian minstrel
appeared later, and then the meeting wont on.
It ga\ e I innee beans for flooding
southern shores with loathsome criminals, and the
Auous afforded the spirited and unanimous con-
ference a half-column notice.
The Victorian Government are going iti
for a piece of political behfevbifenfe by" issuing
railway pnCfos to ex-members of Parliament,
nearly a hundred have rolled up to claim the
privilege, and the seedy, broken-down, battered,
booze-stricken aspect of many of them suggests
that a soup-kitchen ticket would ako be a bless-
ing. One gentleman put in his application by-
letter, and the eternal paste-bemd had to be seht
care of the governor of the gaol, as ho is doing d
little sentence on his heed. T)r.b or tVo hrorb iirb
in lunatic adyldms ; (i flew are billiard marking ih
lffti'ikih salbons, SeVetal are shovelling greg ih
bttek slum hotels, and all told about 50 per ben 1 :,
have gone to the dogs. Parliament had denffi'-
i’aliged (hem,
TheiAi 1* hi least one good patriot and true
loyalist in Victoria, and he is going to drive his
sword into the carcase of Bailes who traduced
Wales, and when l}'e has finished hr
work the gore of Baiba will sport upwaids
to the blue ethereal arch above. He
lias written a letter to the Member for Sandhurst,
in which he requests that gentlemen to meet hiiri
in the Kichmond paddock at the damp and
dispiriting hour of 5 a.m., and fight with pistols
sabres, or any other honorable weapon, with a
view to being left on the field a mangled, down-
trodden eorpso. Bailee will easily recognise th©
stranger, because he will wear a felt hat with i*>d
feathers I and if the little phblicah does not go lo
get himself corpsed he is to be horse-whipped oh
the steps Of Parliament House. So fnv Bailes has
not accepted the invitation.
u An Australian” V*ri'es lo ike Sydney
£jf. F N. S.W. should not assume a
ui-the-manger attitude with reference to the
proposed Victorian Exhibition, and we rise to
second him. If Victoria feels that the worm is
preying on her damaged cheek, and iffi't an Exhi-
bition will help her in any Wfty, let her have it W
aU means, The pcO,h of N.&W. mm- think ih
!ho deep recesses of their corn-stalk intellects tha v
exhibitions are rather s' ale and e‘V< n 3 ive’ anti
serve chiefiy to attract d lot of lords who are
marr e to bahet girls, but they don t mean to
grudge their neighbours the pleasure of «ecing
these parties any more than they would grudge
them a corn, or a bunion, or any other kind of
reliable toe-barometer. “An Australian” must
surely fancy that his fellow-colonists resemble the
small boy who howls with envy betaa-o ti e ,:> ,ji
boy next door lias got the mea Vi,
added to tli*' list of N.£ \\ member?, Mr. Steven-
son being returned for Wollombi, and Mr. Colls
Ercetl-d ‘ inn r i of ‘be fate of
k- n x - ca n dldate3 at Ihe general election At
W ollombi, the Freetrader, Mr, Vivian, who has
carefully nursed the constituency for years past
but was beaten by l(i voles. We don’t want, to
disparage his opponent, but still believe tha; tube
beaten by him is about equal to defeat in a si oil
ing eontest with the Fonetic Ifabigle. At Yass
L iaiD /-' „ Colonna close was killed by Freetrad*
opponent than Mr. L. F. Hey don, yet Mr
could not get so near to the former now as he did
to the latter 12 months ago, thus showing that
Protection has gathered strengrh in the interv ■[}
Ihe hreetrade dailies have endeavoured to
explain Lhr fact of tlioec IVbtcction victories
\\ hich is wise.
major pleaded as extenuating circumstances that
-May had used fearful language and thrashed him
'With, an umbrella. Upon this he pushed her off
'the verandah, and then', seemingly, peace was for
Wre moment restored, fo\r when the curtain rises
■again we Fr.d. the lady.-asking the gallant major
for a of \gakrerf This he appears to have
jgiven her iursTbucket, just as if she were an ignor-
•ant tiorse or some other brute beast, and May
straightway pounded him with the bucket.
j>Jext, she pushed him with a clothe3-prop and
walloped him some more, and, lastly, she finished
up again with the umbrella and then went and
took out a writ. JudgiDg from these facts we set
the major down as an ill-used man.
Scene : Grand-stand, Yabbaville races, up
North. Conversation between four or five
headers of the ‘Hfy best set. Mrs B. : “How
cruelly plalr those Mis 3 C.’s are ! It is really
‘quite a misfortune fer a girl to be so ugly as the
eldest ohe i*.” Mrs. P. : “ Yes, poor thing, that
’is tCte one, too, who is engaged to young S ,
*l# it net ? ” Mrs. B. : “Yes, they arc engaged,
but he is just ordered to Blankcown, and I hear
he applied for the removal to ge-t a«ay from her.
He’ll never marry her —they say he was drunk
when he proposed.” Mrs, G. : “ Well, one could
hardly blame him if he never does. Poor girl, it’s
bad enough to be a 3 ugly as she is, but her mother
is even a worse infliction.’’ (Mrs. C. and her
mother have been sitting era tty one scat behind
•and have heard every word.) Mrs. C. (who has
«. particularly clear and penetrating voice) to her
•daughter i “My dear, some of the people in
’front know all our affairs a? well as we do our-
selves. My poor darling, they pity you for your
"ugly face. And Mr. S is not going to
(marry yets aftsr all ; he has applied for
'the move to get away from U 3. Ah, well,
•every family has its troubles. You see Mrs. B.
7 Her sister ran away with a married man—
■jf&ct, my dear. You were a child at the time it
And when the injured wife appeared
W actually shot him. He borrowed the
from your papa to pay the doctor. I really
knew whether it isn’t better to have a plain
than such a sister. . . . And Mrs. A .
Geok at her! Plenty of money, but she drinks
Pike a fish, . . . As for Mrs. G . the whoP
•town rings with the scandal about her and that
llanky person in the bank. Well, well, perhaps
it’s better to be ugly and have a dreadful mother
an infliction than to be” (here four seats
suddenly became vacant.)
* * *
Lord Colin Campbell’s' diver'ea case has
eeme to a lame and impotent conclusion, the jury
having thought it best to whitewash the whole of
the questionable crowd concerned. As far as
•could be judged from the evidence, Lord Colin
ftiimself is a fascinating dog, with Capricornian
(morals, but he was found not guilty, for want of
sufficient proof. Lady Campbell also got the
benefit of a similar verdict after long hesitation.
•Colonel Butler, a particular Court favourite and
eminent member of the“Wolseley gang,” who
was one of the four co-respondents, did not turn
up to answer the charges against him, but the
other three swore hard and furiously. Among
them was the Duke of Marlborough, who no doubt
gave his testimony with the injured dignity of a
man who had never kicked a broken-hearted wife
i» his life.
* * *
Tli3 Princess of Wales, we read, still sel-
dom swerves from her favourite close-fitting
bonnets and hats, and evidently has but slight
•favour for wide-spreading, heavy-topped head-
sear, however much it may be in vogue. Ultra-
artistic people have sometimes daj-ed to wish that
the “Princess coiffure” looked a trifle less'set
and bee-hive-like in outline, but no doubt "this
important subject is best understood by the fair
wearer.
* * #
A reputedly wealthy new-chum, who two
years ago wooed and won the daughter of one of
the most prominent of Victorian colonists, has now
skipped with a Melbourne barmaid, leaving behind
him a deficiency of over £‘20,000 and a lamenting
wife, whose very wedding-presents will be auc-
tioned.
* * *
There is a little commotion «in English
aristocratic circles just now. A young and
lovely peeress with a statesman husband and
throe charming children, turned up at a ball
suffering from a rush of lire-wate-r to the legs, and
insisted on dancing. She had a hiccup that would
have racked the vertebrae of a boa, her
breath was like a bar parlour with a billiard-room
behind, and her utterance was as dislocated as a
snake beneath a ton of bricks, but she insisted on
stayihg, and gyrated in a beery hop until she was
carried out. Then she was shot into a carriage
and taken home in disgrace to wake up with a
fearful head on her in the morning and wonder
how it was that the peerage was going to the
dogs.
Subscriptions are invited from the benevo-
lent in aid of Alice Cornwall, the friendless ocean
waif who was save d from the terrible wreck of
the Keilawarra. The unhappy little girl, whose
position is additionally saddened by the fact that
she has lost an eye, is an orphan, and has but one
sister, who is in poor circumstances and married
in Far Northern Queensland. The kind-hearted
proprietors of the Town Had Coii'ee Palace, Syd-
ney, have for the present taken the unfortunate
girl to their own home.
* * *
In a certain up-country township, the
other day, the local “ banker ” got about as tight
as they make ’em in that district and rode up and
down the main street halloaing like seven deviis
and the Harmy. After a bit he redo straight
through a house into the kitchen and chased the
terrified help all over the place, and ended up by
being pitched from his horse into a creek. And
yet the/ say things go slow at M no, you
don’t.
*
Great indignation has been expressed at
Wellington (N.Z.) at the conduct of the Minister
of Justice, who, in travelling from Wangunui to
We lington, monopolised a large railway carriage,
while many passengers who had-.paid their fares
could not get scats in the train. Something of
t le same kind may be seen any day on the Sydney
suburban tramways —policemen, transit commis-
sioners, ct hoc {terms oniac , tako up a large pru-
p irtion of the deck seating in the cars, and politely
a’low paying passengers to scratch their backs
ajainst the end boarding—on foot.
* * *
For pure, unadulterated twaddle, a letter
sigied *’Tict )cia,” in a Mclbourno daily, surely
litting way of celebrating the Queen's Jubilee, the
whole cadet force of Victoria —about 3000 boj.s—
paflttTin ry^jjw^-
Nc. “ Victoria” says: “It is easy to prophesy
the waves of enthusiasm that would spread over
England on the publication of a telegram from our
Premier — 4 Victoria sends 800G of her children to
honour the great, Queen Mother.’” We find it
much easier to prophesy the green seas of ridicule
that would moisten the inspired idiot who would
attempt to execute such a plan. ‘‘Victoria”
wades deeper in bunkum as the letter proceeds,
and after telling us that ' ‘ our beloved Queen has
rendered herself dear to us,” amongst numerous
other good qualities, “ by her talented conduct of
her national duties.” —which was news to us—
goes on to speak of the effect the display would
have on the average Britisher, and concludes by
asking the question, “ Would not the foreign am-
bassadors, plenipotentiaries, &c., open their
eyes ? ” eyes ? The cadets’ eyes, the
“average Britisher’s” eyes, or “ the ambassadors’,
plenipotentiaries’, &c.’s ” eyes? If the former, wo
can’t say. We fear that it would make “the
foreign ambassadors, plenipotentiaries, Sic.,” tired
to open 3000 cadets’ eyes if the hours appointed
for the experiment were anything between G a.m.
and 8 a.m., even if oyster - knives were employed,
unless bribery in the shape of candy were per-
mitted. If the question refers to “ the foreign
ambassadors’, plenipotentiaries’, &c.’sown optics,
we answer unreservedly—Yes. Not only would
they open their eyes, but those Organs would pro-
bably stand several inches from their respective
owners’ heads in their effort to realise the exist-
ence of such a community of lunatics as the carry-
ing out of “ Victoria's” suggestion would prove
the Victorian people to be. The writer of that
letter shouldn’t be allowed off the chain,
* * *
A young Sydney girl whom we will call
Tottie has had rather a time of it lately. Some-
where back in ’83 she fell in love with and be-
came engaged to a gay spark. They corresponded,
exchanged locks, half-coins (ire prefer whole ones),
and swore eternal “love.” One day, however,
Tottie was surprised to hear that her “ ownest”
had flown from his native land without apprising
her of his intention. Tottie possessed a faithful
nature—refused two offers of connubial bliss—and
remained true to her Jack, whose whereabouts
still remained en cachetic.. Somewhere in ’85 Jack
turned up again from o’er the sea, without any
watertight reason for his d & ht, and coolly took
up his wooiiwr where he had left it off. Things
reinstated themselves and it was all as before.
Jack got another billet in Sydney, and a wedding
was on the tapis. Tottie was blissfully preparing
for love in a villa, and the marriage-bells were
almost ringing when Jack, without consulting
Tottie, or in anyway preparing his bride-elect for
the shock, again made himself scarce, and in just
as mysterious a manner, and has not been heard
of since ! This is a true bill. Tottie now quietly
avers that she thinks men are a little more incon-
sistent than women 5
* * *
“ What may h&ppfen to a man in Aus-
tralia.” The overseer of a Lachlan run, who had
just married a charming Sydney girl, took his
wife up to the station to live, and as the bride was
something of a horsewoman, hubby used to let
her go with him on bis t jurs One evening on the
way home they called at a bou adary-rider’s hut,
and the skipper of that little pttradise, who was
anxious to ingratiate himself with the boss, in-
vited them to stay for tea (damper, salt-horse,
&c.) The b ide, w r ho, after the example of all
Sydney girls, desired to make herself agreeable,
readily accepted the invitation, and prevailed on
her worse half to do likewise. The meal went on
well for some time, the host doing all possible to
make his guests comfortable, but suddenly in the
middle of an interesting tctc-a-teU the Counte-
nance of a dissipat ’possum (the boundary-
rider’s only pet) made its appearance through a
hole in the ceiling, and its owner saluted the
company with a loud “ quaak ! ” The bride, who
had never before teen a ’possum, called on
heaven and her hubby to protect her, gave a
piercing shriek, and fell fainting on the floor.
The boundary-rider took the whole thing as an
immense joke, and had to stick a wedge of damper
down his throat to stay a hilarious outburst.
The overseer’s sense of humour, however, differed
from the boundary-rider's, so without waiting to
pick up his wife, he landed the humorist one
in the dexter eye. A pitched battle then took
place, and half an hour after, when it was over,
ail that remained of the once-festive boundary-
rider might have been carried away on a dust-
pan.
* * *
Whafc might have been a nice, breezy,
blood-clotting tragedy was sadly bungled and
ended in an inglorious R.M. Court fizzle, the
other day, at Hawera (N.12.) A married couple
on a station and a, young squatter of breezy morals
were the principals in the atfair. The woman
accused the squatter, who w-as also her own and
her husband’s employer, of being a second calf-
bound edition of Charlie Uilke. Her husband,
who is a liery celt from Lochaber with the usual
Mac to his front name, on hearing the particulars
swore a feud against his master there and then,
and seizing a leaded rifle declared he would
“shute the wretch, aye becod as dedd as a de-
ceased rabbit, s'help me bob but £ will.” There-
upon he marched oil and fired several consecutive
volleys at the first man ho met, which proved,
however, on closor inspection, to be hie master’s
brother. Apologising handsomely for his mistake,
he told the brother (whom he had fortunately
missed) to inform his master that he was on his
trail and that he had only two days to live. On
hearing this the young squatter took a trip to the
Hot Lake district, where, notwithstanding the
eruptive and carthquaky state of the locality, he
judged he would bo safer than at home till the
other crater’s dander had subsided. The brother
however, put the matter in the hands of the
police, and Mac. has since been committed for
threatening to pit a squatter—a mere bagatelle
not worth Mac ing a fuss about.
* * *
TO HEBE.
(By a Grateful Swell.)
I do not love you for your eyos, so sweetly, clearly
blue;
I do not love you for your hair, like a half
sovereign’s hue —
The reason why I love you, dear, just why I love
you so
Is, that, when I hiccoughed “ Marry me,” ycu
said, “ Oh, really ! no !”
* * *
The marriage of Mr. Albeit Fisher with
Miss Murt 'ey, younger daughter of Mr. W
Mortiey, Mayor of Ash field, took pluce at St!
.(ohn’s V-hfiel 1, on the loth inn. Mr. Montague
Y unge - presided at the o gan. The church was
gaily decorated for the occasion, and was filled
vxi ha fashionable audienci, including nearly a
fiia ired invited guests. 'Ihe pretty bride looked
i t bast as j-ha entered the church leaping on hep
al ters arm and followed by seven bridesmaids,
ler dress, which came from the artistic hands of
draped with lace, caught with bouquets of heather,
orange blossom, and jessamine. The bridesmaids
wore cream crape trimmed with Bengalese silk,
bonnets to match, trimmed with narrow velvet
and lace. Some very handsome costumes were
worn by the guests. The bride’s .travelling dress
was of navy blue nun’s veiling, with hat to match.
The honeymoon took place at Mount Victoria.
* * *
In Sydney, recently, a man fell in love
with another man’s wife. Concealment of his
love, however, did not prey on his bloated cheek.
He decided to elope with the lady. So he waited
until hubby had cleared out to his daily toil-, and
then went to court his flame. This reads like a
French novel. His affection was reciprocated said
a new dead in honeymoons wae arranged and
carried out. They fled—oh the airy pinions of
love—to Melbourne, leaVihg the customary note
pinned on th'e pillow-case. But now comes the
comedy. Bubby had also found a fresh charmer,
and was meditating a departure from the laws of
the Decalogue on his own account. So when he
arrived and found a deserted hearth he did not
curse the destroyer but simply howled for joy and
took his girl to the play that very same nighu!
A North Queensland Cure for
Malarial Fever.
A Correspondent in the Far Noi'th sends us the
following quaint ebs&y “ Any one who has
V/olkCd in the humid malaria-laden air of the
Northern tropical coast scrubs knows the periodical
feeling of languor and depression that overcomes
one. With a new chum this means incipient
fever, with the acclimatised old hand derangement
o the liver, the traditional cure for which among
the bullock-punchers and cedar-choppers who in-
habit the widely scattered lordly palaces of gal-
vanised iron that gleam through the Umbrageous
foliage of these romantic retreats is a regular spree,
otherwise known as a “ howling tear.” So much in
favour is this system of recuperation with some of
the old hands that it might possibly be imagined
by evil-disposed persons that some of the said old
hands accused their livers of derangement oc-
casionally when those much abused ora-ans were
in very fair order. Howsoever this may b'e, a
camp, of which I was member, having disposed of
a booming raft of cedar, resolved in solemn con-
clave that the liver of the community was out of
order and that to avoid a very bad attack of fever,
an adjournment to the nearest shanty for physic
was imperatively necessary. Upon this resolution
being unanimously passed, the camp was incon-
tinently abandoned to the Chinese cook, much
to the dismay of that celestial worthy who
loudly expressed his disgust in pigeon Eng-
lish, ahd his apprehension of being converted
into nutriment for some wandering myall. The
only consolation the almond-eyed one received
was a proposition from one that he be instantly
shot to save him from fear of death and an urgent
request from another to go to Hell s'of Ins
yabber. (Please don’t ”sv the revised version
here. The nVvV Word seems to me to be void of
all saVbhr. For instance, (jo you think that if
even a parson, while yoking up bullocks, received
from one of those docile quadrupeds a gentle ad.
monition in the shape of a kick on the shin that
peeled the bark off, I say do you think that even
a parson would And balm for his weary soUl by
ejaculating Sheol ! Not much. He would re-
quire the full use of the aspirate with the aid o?
any adjectives that happened to be lyihg droUnd
loose at the timu, to express hirrtstelf under those
blissful circumstances. And it is probable that
his remembrance cveh with these artificial aids
Would be regarded With serene indifference; hot
to say contempt, by the Offending Animal, if th
animal in question Wa 3 ± North Queensland work
ing bnlK*ck, for tho profane vocabulary of
Northern bullock-puncher is like the nectar hi
soul loveth, calculated to take the skin off uny
thing sensitive. Nor is the proficiency in profanity
an art, as some might think, to be lightly acquiree
in a day. It requires years of patience anc
reverential study before the neophyte can attain
the summit from which he can pour forth tha
sonorous Hood in all its fluency and
Why should the word ‘hell’ be tabooed to al
except parsons? They tell Us glibly enough thn
the majority of Us are going at a hand gailUp
down the broad road that leadeth to 'deHrttction
and that they and their dock haVe a monopoly o ’
llca\ en. Surely they don't want a monopoly o
hell, too ?) However, to return to our lost sheep
the ced*r-eoppers and bullockies. Taking to the
boat's with joy and alacrity, and making the soil
tude around hideous with songs, they pull gsulj
down the river, calling at two other camps on the
way, and the procession is soon swelled by other
votaries of Bacchus with disordered livers
arriving at the shanty 1$ in number, that number
being greatly augmented by Ihitlnight. I was
then quietly initiated Into the Northern Queens
land cure for malarial fever. No hard and
fast rube Was laid down as to the description 01
quality of liquor one drank. The on. 1 thing neces
sary was quantity, and the favourite liquor Port
iMiu kaj rum, with a slight suspicion of tobacco ii
it. By midnight the physic had somewhat obscurec
my vision and I sought the retirement of a bunk,
but no repose is allowed during the operation of
the cure. The next jtart of tho programme con-
sisted of being dragged out of the bunk to assist at
the obsequies of a dead (drunk) man by torchlight.
The victim was stripped to the skin, painted all
over with ripe pawpaw (a fruit, I may mention to
those who have not seen it, about the colour
and consistency of pretty soft custard), and then
interred in a shallow grave dug in front of the
shanty, with only his face above ground. More
rum ensued, then a few single combats. Another
dead-drunk having been discovered In a bunk, a
well-grown calf was caught and made ftlst by a
rope tied to its tail nnd the victim's feot. Someone
suggested it be made fast to his neck, and a con-
rjjYftph jMfcffaTO&.ftacamßr
this proposition was not carried out. Everything
being secured, the calf was started and calf and
man disappeared like a flash in the darkness, fol-
lowed by all who were able to stand. The re-
mainder fell down in the attempt. Oblivion stole
o\cr me at this stage, anti I woke in the mornii g
with an unaccountable headache and nervousness.
vaunted cure had been tried and found waiting,
and->tiat it was not what it professed to bo in the
matter of restoring tone to tfre system.”—Brsii-
MAX, \


Maximum points
“Buckeye”
Hornsby
M‘Cormick
C Ox w'. SI
Clean Cuting.
Ox Oi O* Oi
Best Binding.
»-» H-*
Simplicity of construction
Ox Ox O O
and Light Draught.
tO CO Oi Oi
Fewest Stoppages.
Oi Oi Oi Oi
Low Cut
CO +- Ox Ox
-i co c c
Total.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.,
TAILORS,
478 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SPLENDID STOCK OF SPRING GOODS.
Fashionable Garments to Order at Moderate Prices.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
WHAT TO GIVE ! THERE S THE RUB.
THE VERY THING.
An Autophone costs but 30s. and is a joy for ever.
d as
is an
w
1
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument
which, while it weighs less than three pounds has
the lungs of a full sized parlor organ, and executes
its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect. It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three
keys, and all the paits of most difficult music. On
it a child can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of ewer
300 selections from hymns, oratorios, operas,
waltzes, polkas, marches, popular songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, but also has wonderful power in exe-
cuting very lively pieces. B2H It is pitched for the
voice, and has a little card holder for convenience
in singing. It is entirely well adapted for country
churches, Sunday schools, the family circle, and
also for dancing. The music is compact, and far
cheaper than that which is made for any organette.
The Autophone is like every other good thing, the
longer you have it the better you like it, and as
new music is being published every week it has an
endless fund of amusement in it.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Three tunes given in with each instrument. 1
Additional tunes per last mail. Send for C
logue. Extra music sent on receipt of price.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand :
ORIENTAL GOLD CO., No. 12 POMEROY
CHAMBERS, CASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
OR A WATCH.
The Elgin National Watch Co.’s Watches are
the best in the world. Read this :
“Elgin National Watch Co., Chicago,
“Gentlemen, —It gives me pleasure to state
that the performance of the Watch manufactured
by you, and marked ‘B. W. Raymond No. 19,201,’
which I have carried in my pocket for a period of
six months, surpasses in excellence that of any of
the fine watches I have hitherto tested. It main-
tains its rate even better than a fine box chrono-
meter by Negus, belonging to this observatory.
I have intended, when I shall have leisure* to
make a complete test of the isochronism of the
balance for poise and temperature. So far as I
can judge by the performance of the wateh, these
adjustments appear to be nearly perfect.
“ Permit me to congratulate you upon the
successful manufacture of watches which are
equal in performance to the pocket chronometers
by Jurgensen, Fordsham, and other celebrated
European makers.
“JAMES C. WATSON,
“Astronomer.
“ Observatory, Ann Arber.
January 28, 1870.”
Remember each and every watch manufactured
by The Elgin Watch Company is a Patent Lever
with compensating-balance. No horizontal or other
inferior movements.
If three pounds is more than you can afford we
meet you by reducing the price of the case. We
can’t and won’t sell you a debased movement.
The Elgin Company does not make such things.
Notk. The Elgin Watch Company states. Ore
silver is a new white metal, manufactured and
controlled by ourselves exclusively. These cases
are to all appearance and in wearing qualities the
equal of silver.
Elgin National Watch Co.’s Key winding
Patent Lever, in solid silver patent
dust-band case, with compensating
balance, patent pinion, 7 fln^jeweis,
open face
Same Wq,tch in hunting case
Stem-winding (Keyless) Elgin N. W.
Co.’s compensating-balance, patent-
lever, open crystal face, in solid
silver dust-band case, with 11 fine
ruby jewels, pitent pinion, &c. ...
Same Watch, in hunting-ease
Ladies superb gold lever watch mag-
nificently engraved hunting case ex-
quisite jewellod movement. No better
in the world
We have not space here for further detailed
quotations. We can, however, offer silver-cased
watches at aseending prices up to the finest in the
world at £4O 0 0
OR FOR A FEW SHILLINGS
ORIENTAL GOLD JEWELLERY.
£3 0
£3 10
£3 5
3 15
£lO 0 0
ATS TPTCTT A T * iBth# lito,t tr i oin P hof g
UXvlilllN X■■ JLl* Science, is & noblo I
AA J alloy, possessing the exact lustra, baauty I
wULJJani endurance of sterling Sold. A legi- I
timate use has been found for this noble metal, by I
working it into Jewellery of the most exquisite de- I
signs. Tlic Oriental Gold Co., |
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS
CASTLEBEAGH-ST., Sydn<*r, hM
hrgo consignments of these lowoly geods, which they
sen at a fraction of the cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery.
rNo ene can detent the difference. Send for a
Priced Catalogue, or for one ef the fol-
lowing samples, all of Oriental Sold—
Brooches.Bs.; Jewelled (Parisian
Brilliants) Broocti. 7s. 6d.; Gent’s
Albert, Vs. 6d.; Pair Earrfngrs,
Plain Jewelled, 7s. 6d.; Locket
55., Jewelled, TOs.; Ladies’Alberts
15s. P.o>o. payable Oriental Gold
Co.
send theseon approval. If they don’t
please, retnrn uninjured by the First
Marl, and we repay the cash, less postage.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
12 POMEROY CHAMBERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET.
Parcels seat anywhere by poet.
GREAT NATIONAL FIELD TRIAL OF
REAPERS AND BINDERS.
SUPREMACY OF THE BUCKEYE.
The following art icle, taken from the Melbourne
Argus, of December 1G, 1886, is specially recom-
mended to farmers and all persons interested in
agricultural pursuits. It is not alone of ex-
ceptional interest as an incontestable proof of the
immense superiority of the
“BUCKEYE” REAPER AND BINDER,
but it goes to show how very possible it is for the
most disinterested judges to make mistakes. The
“Buckeye” is an American machine, and has no
friends in Australia outside those who swear by it
for its own intrinsic worth and the enormous ad-
vantages it possesses over all other machines for
ECONOMY AND PRACTICAL UTILITY.
The “ Buckeye ” took the premier position in
this great struggle with ease, winning the Grand
National Gold Medal against two competitors, in
whose company on the showground it was not
even considered worthy of a place; by the highly
qualified judges who made the aw’ards, and but
for the protest which was then entered by the
representatives of the “Buckeye” the public
would not have been furnished with this addi-
tional assistance in deciding for themselves the
relative merits of
THEORY AND PRACTICE,
in the art of judging.
The Argus says : —The field trial of roapers and
binders in connection with the late National Show
at Shepparton was held on Tuesday, the 14th in-
stant, on Mr. Guthrie’s farm, about two miles
from Shepparton. Owing to pressure of harvest
work, crops in all direction being ripe, the at-
tendance of farmers did not exceed 150, but great
interest was taken in the proceedings. As at th e
late show the judges placed the Hornsby Machine
first, M‘Cormick second, and the Woods third,
the “ Buckeye” representative disliked being left
out in the cold, and demanded a field trial as pro-
vided by the rules, the M'Cormick also sharing in
the protest; so the prizes were held over pending
the field trial. The crop was ripe wheat, and the
land was so rough that none of the machines
could show very low cutting, and the jolting over
the hard clods was tolerably severe on horses,
machines, and drivers. Two o’clock was the hour
fixed for the trial, but as the “ Buckeye ” was the
only machine then ready, a delay was caused by
the Hornsby and M'Cormick experts giving their
machines a preliminary run in the adjoining block
of crop, and a start was not made till a quarter-
past 3. The five judges gave great attention to
their duties and were ably seconded by the sub-
committee appointed by the society and the
secretary, Mr. Harold B. Turnley. About two
acres were allotted to each machine, and they
finished in the following order:—“Buckeye,”
lh lOmin; Hornsby, lh 19 min; M'Cormick
lh 26min. The two latter maehines were drawn
by three horses each, while two lighter horses
worked the “Buckeye” binder with equal ease.
The decision of the judges was based on the
following scale of points
The judges (Messrs. A. Kinkaid, 11. Wilkinson,
J. Grieve, J. MTntyre, and J. M’Guinness) thus
awarded the “Buckeye” the first prize, with the
maximum number of points ; Hornsby second,
with 43 ; and M’Cormick third with 37, adding
that the work performed was the best they had
ever seen, and their deei-ion was cheered by the
farmers present.
rjIIIK FUTURE OF NEW GUINEA.
historian of the future, to whose l®t it
may fall to write up New Guinea for the news-
papers of his day, wili be apt to compile a rather
comical account of it if left to his own devices.
The facts connected with the story of that
mysterious island are so scattered and discon-
nected up to date, that after the lapse of, siy,
another hundred years he will ;begin by wonder-
ing what the mischief Australia wanted with it
anyhow ; and why—after getting possession of a
piece of it—tier whole army of land speculators
and syndicates failed to cut it up into snug
surburban building allotments before the Imperial
claw clutched it as a refuge for another consign-
ment of titlod Tomnoddies, who had been through
the English divorce courts and had to be pro-
vided for somewhere at the cost of a credulous
people. If accident reveals to him the fact that
it was first annexed by Queensland as a political
dodge ; that Germany afterwards took as much
as 3he wanted of the annexed portion ; that what
was left was once more annexed with great pomp
by Great Britain and Australia together, to show
that they were perfectly satisfied with the
arrangement; that many hundreds of lives were
sacrificed and many thousands of pounds spent
over a series of years in keeping up this tinpot
farce of joint property-owners ; and that, in the
end it was left for Mr. Edward Stanhope to back
down on tho agreement and back out of it al-
together because Australia declined to fin 1 money
enough to support some hundreds of English in-
capables to misgovern it, and bleed her at the
same time —then this miserable man, whoever he
lOisV be, will pause on the threshold of his work.
\s a purveyor of truth for ages to come—and all
historians are that—he will grasp the notion that
he has to unravel a tangled web of humbug and
deceit, which will tax both mental and physical
powers to the utmost. His researches will be
difficult, his dissapoiatments many, but he will
be sustained through all to a satisfactory termina-
tion by that wonderful elixir, Clausen’s Cham-
pagne Lager Beer, which is even now universally
pronounced to be the purest and most invigorat-
ing beverage for the brain or body-weary servant
of toil chat has ever been brewed or heard of.
And it will still be the favorite drink in those
days as it is now and always has been since its
first introduction.
JUPITER PLUVIUS: “ FIRST THEY WANT IT TURNED ON. — (Ruminating): THEN
THEY WANT IT TURNED OFF. AH WELL, HERE GOES—HALF-COCK.”
SOMETHING NEW, IMPORTANT, AND
VALUABLE!
AN EGG PRESERVER.
Eggs kept fresh all the year rortnd, preserved
in perfect condition. Retaining all their original
properties to a degree which has stood the closest
and severest tests by experts and others. Every
egg kept perfect through the warm slimmer
months, and perfectly preserved, at a cost of only
2d. per dozen. Buy eggs when plenty and cheap,
and preserve them by the only preservative yet
discovered that will keep eggs in perfect condi-
tion. They can be used for all purposes equal to
newly laid eggs. Send for circular, Butcher,
Fehon, and Co., sole agents, 111, Pitt-street,
Sydney. *
Certainly one of the most suecessful City Hotels, in respect
of first-class Wines, Spirits, &c., and with regard to Lun-
cheon, is Hanney’s Great Northern Hotel, Charlotte-place.
A first-class Luncheon is provided from 12 to 3, which is
patronised by the commercial men in this part of the city.
Just make one call, and we are sure you will be satisfied.*
Sheep-Farming in N.S.W. —Wool, which is the
staple production of the country, is according to
the latest statistics, being sent away in larger
quantities than ever, showing that sheep-farming
has considerable attractions. Formerly the pur-
suit was attended with a certain amount of risk,
and the great distance from the station that a
doctor could be found necessarily increased the
danger when illness occured. The introduction of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne has dispelled this
alarm, as the sheep-farmers know this invaluable
remedy to be a compendious medicine chest in
itself, and a specific for all the diseases incidental
to their following. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s” only. Trade mark, an elephant.—obtain-
able from all chemists and storekeepers.
AN OFF YEAR.
This is going to be an off year. No political boom* for
“Plumed Knights” or “ Reform " will help to keep up the
health and strength of the vast multitudes whose faith is
pinned on the glowing party promise* of election year.
Multitudes of such will need a reliable tonic to tone up the
system, a purifier to work off the bad blood, and a sure
remedy for lame baejjs, rheumatism, biliousness, &c. Such
a remedy is Dr. Bell's Bitteps. It has long stood at the
head of the list of kidney remedies, and it receives the
highest praise from all that use it.
THOSE TRAMS AGAIN.
To the Editor „
Sir, —No one can travel half an hour in our
clean tramcars without a grievance. Either
somebody tramples oh his toes, or the conductor
is too surly or too fresh. If the car is crowded he
is obliged to hang on the platform and get
squeezed against the rail, all the time haunted by
the horrible suspicion that somebody is picking
his pocket. There is a certain class of citizens
who are very disagreeable fellow-possangers on a
street car. They are a loud-talking, grinning,
boisterous lot, one of whom will not hesitate to
bellow an ancedote of how he got the best of a
brother dealer in the matter of 50 cases of over-
alls over a stranger’s shoulders, and in regard to
pushing and jostling these ruffians are particularly
violent and forward. The only method of self-
vindication is to tramp on their toes. They are
nearly all martys at the corn and bunion shrine,
and when this punishment is properly administered
they will have no voice for anything but dismal
groans during the rest of the journey. The ladies
often distinguish themselves in the nuisance line.
If, when standing up and hanging on to t-he
straps, an unfortunate citizen chances to bump
against thorn they favor him with a ferocious
“ tell - my - big - brother - and - have - you - licked ”
glance, making no allowance for the awkwardness
of his position. Some read the papers and tickle
your ribs with their elbows, or suddenly choke
with laughter as they fall across one of the funny
advertisements of Summerfield and Company, the
well-known tailors and great juvenile outfitters,
235 and 237, Pitt-street whs are showing start-
ling lines in boys’ school suits, at 7s. 6d. and
Bs. lid. Pretty drill washing sailor suits, blue
collars and cuffs, all sizes. ss. lid. for big boys
and youths, tailor’s-made suits from 21s. to 35b.
I am t Sir, your brother-in-arms,
LAUGH AGAIN.


: '-uA
f. '■
•fV
“jri j- S
%
3
V /<
Messrs. Dillon, Burrows and Co.’s
Confeotionery Works.
Resident Partner, Mr. J. H. M’Phillimy.
A Great Australian Enterprise.
DALGETY AND 00. (Limited).
ExffiLian files recently to hand give considerable
prominence to the report of the operations of
Dalgety and Co. (Limited), whose second annual
meeting was just previously held in London. The
report of the Company was regarded with the ut-
most satisfaction by that increasingly large number
of flae British public who prefer the Colonies to
foreign countries for the investment of their
capital. The report must likewise give satisfac-
tion to all interested in the welfare of these
colonioe, as it, indicates that there are good open-
ings here for the employment of new' eapital, and
that it only requires competent and honest man-
agement to make such investment mutually advan-
tageous. It is only a fow months ago, so to
speak, that the Australian press referred to the
formation of the Dalgety Company for the manage-
ment of large squattages and large pastoral and
financial business in the various colonies, and it
was then predicted that a great future lay before
the Company. These results, despite the terrible
drought, now happily gone, have been the outcome
of the two years’ operations. Tho report shows
that the £500,000 irredeemable debentures have
all been subscribed, and that terminable deben-
tures for £427,511 had been issued in June, since
which time they hod increased to £535,600. The
elear profit for the year, after paying all expenses,
was £115,076 Bs. Out of this amount the
company paid an interim dividend at the rate of
6 per cent., leaving a balance of £5076, from
which a further dividend of 8 per cent, clear of
income tax was declared. Of the balance £40,000
was carried to the reserve fund, raising it feo
£BO,OOO, and the remainder, £5076, was carried to
next year. With regard to the operations of tho
company Mr. F. G. Dalgety, chairman, made the
following jbservations. He said “ Gentlemen,
it is a matter of sineere congratulation to your
directors that after a year of much anxiety and
many drawbacks they are enabled to lay before
you the report of the second years’ operations of
the company just read, and which they trust will
be deemed satisfactory. The net profits for the
year ending 30tk June last show an increase of
£14,172 os. 2d. over the previous year, justifying
the recommendation of your directors to declare
an increased dividend of 1 per cent, for the current
year, and to carry the same amount to the credit
of the reserve fund, as was carried in the previous
year, viz., £40,000, thus raising that fund to a
total of £80,00(3, and leaving a balance of undivided
profits of £5076 Bs. to be carried forward. Every
one connected with Australia must be aware of
the serious losses sustained by stockholders
through tAie long continuance of drought, the loss
in sheep being estimated at not loss than 10,000,009
to 12,000,000 head, and in cattle and horses
3,000,000. This, combined with the lew prices
realised for wools durißg the year now under
neview, led to a feeling of alarm amoDgst many
connected with pastoral interests hi the Colonie-j
that diffused itself in a more or less degree to
every other Colonial interest. Happily this
drought, which,has extended over a longer period
wndcmbraced a larger area than ever knswnbefore
has terminated, and we may look forward hope-
fully to .he immediate future for a cycle of good
seasons, and also for a revival in trade to support
the rise lately established in the value of that
staple article of our produce— wool. If theee
hopeful results are realised enhanced values for
stock and pastoral properties will rapidly follow,
and should no unfiorSeen adverse circumstances
arise we may look to the future with confidence
and say, “ Advance Australia.” The several
items in the balanoe-sheet point to satisfactory
progress. Our debenture issue has steadly in-
creased, thus enabling us to tafce up new and
safe business, and to meet the requirements of a
large constituency. Ample cover is held against
any doubtful dependency, and our investments
and advances are well secured. We are indebted
to our managing directors in London and in the
colonies, to our boards of advice, and to the staff
generally, for their energy and care in conducting
the business of the company through critical times,
and they merit our best a-nd warmest thanks.
Contracts have been taken to erect substantial
and commodious warehouses for the storage and
sale of wool and other produce on tho company’s
jawl at Newmarket, near Melbourne ; also suit-
able offices, which are much needed, on the
Bourke-strect frontage of our city property in
Melbourne. These outlays are necessitated by
the increase of our business and the growing wants
of our constituents. Your directors believe the
outlay will prove remunerative and advantageous.
Some additional expenditure has also been made
in plant and in improvements at the wharves and
wool-stores in Sj dney. I have alluded generally
bo tho items in tho balance-sheet, but if any share
holder seeks further information or explanatic n I
will be bttppy to give it him. This meeting, after
adoption of report ef the directors and declaration
of dividend, will be made special for tho purpose
of carrying a special resolution restricting the
board from issuing debentures or debenture stock
redeemable or irredeemable in excess of tho share
capital subscribed and remaining uncalled and un-
paid at the date of the issue of the debenture or
debenture stock aespectively. Objections having
beefTmised by the general investing public, in-
olfidlng several insurance companies to the omis-
sion such a restriction in the articles of associa-
tion it has been deemed advisable to assimilate our
articles with those of kindred institutions.” It
appears clear that with the present bounteous sea-
son the company’s operations for this year will be
yet mere lucrative. Only one thing remains to
assist i.ta development into a vast and profitable
enterprise. The land law of this century, as re-
gards our Western division of country, must be
altered —there is a consensus of opinion that this is
r«ceseAu\y, and it is pretty certain that we will
have onrr groat western pastoral enterprises on a
fipmev basts than they ever were before**
Subdividing a Sydney Estate.
It is satisfactory to find that the National Per.
manent Land and Building Society, to whose con-
stitution and solidity reference was made just
recently, have been able to secure the Salisbury
Estate, virtually city lands, being situate midway
between the city and the glorious shores of
Botany. It is satisfactory, as far as the public is
concerned, that the National Society have secured
this estate and cut it up for sale, for the reason
that the Society holds to the one unalterable prin-
ciple of doing business on a fair and equitable
plan. This Society has been offered numbers of
estates, but though the purchasing price was
tempting, they were declined because the land
was badly situated—it was either low-lying or
had bad surroundings, and purchases would inevi-
tably work out badly. The other plan is the one
adopted by the National, They secure estates
that must improve in value, and consequently
their patrons must continue for all time to do
business where they make their profits. The
Salisbury Estate which the Society have secured
is one which they strongly recommend, yet eno
which they let the public judge and speak of for
themselves. Nearly half the Estate has already
been sold, many of the purchasers being people
who have made their way in the world with the
assistance of the National. The Sooiety disposes
0
of this Estate in suitable building blocks with only
s®s. deposit, and the balance extending over ten
years, the payments thus being made not to
hamper the artizan or other small purchaser, but
rather to ensure his carrying the thing through.
Ar d here it deserves to be neted that almost
without exception where this Society has given
such long terms for paymeiit, the purchase has
been completed in loss than half the time, the
purchase been found to be honestly so good and
the increased value so cheering and satisfactory
to the holder. Here with this Salisbury Estate,
the Society gives full ten years, but in the great
majority of cases the purchases will be completed
before half the time. A grand feature df the
National is that it gives assistance to build, but
not on farced values. It gives high percentage to
a man who is about to build, but it makes its
own valuations, and has no dealings with cgp-
tract builders. The Salisbury Estate blocks
would be a valuable New Year’s gift for the mem-
bers of a household. Money needn’t be expended
to improve. The train is carrying hundreds of
families out in the direction, and Sydney, is bulg-
ing out there quickly. With this article a
vignette of the Society’s new offices in Pitt-street
is given. At present the offices are at 38 Park-
street, and the manager is Mr. Jas. A. Todd.*
Mr. W. H. Jennings, Contractor.
Accompanying this article is the portrait of Mr.
W. H. Jennings, the well-known contractor, who
has now in hand some very great undertakings.
Mr. Jennings arrived in this eolony at the age of
16, and first worked as a mechanic on the new
Post-office. Soon after he started business on his
own account, and before he was 20 years of age
built the Parramatta Gas Works. At the early
age of 18 he married, a step which, instead of re-
tarding, found him entering upon contracts which
required both elaborate calculation and great
determination. His work from the date of start-
ing, and he is now only 36 years of age, includes
several of the largest stores, warehouses, and
buildings in Sydney, lighthouses and Government
buildings, and at the present* moment he has three
great contracts in hand —Her Majesty’s Theatre,
St. Patrick’s College, Manly, and Messrs. David
Jones and Co.’s establishment He has GOO men
in work, and his weekly pay-sheet is between
Hi ■
m
#_*■
y
m:
>\
’■. V \\\\2
w
tzt^cz.
£l6OO and £l7OO, and no man stands better with
his men. He holds to the right of employing tho
best, whether Union or non-Union mtn, and he
pays even higher than the ruling rate.. Mr.
Jennings does the whole contract work himself.
Hie extensive workshops in Jlathurst-street ore
devoted to the Joinery. Cabinet, Moulding, Paint-
ing, Gas-fitting, &c., the best designers and
artisans procurable being kopt in constant em-
ployment. The joinery and ornament work for
the new theatre and Messrs. Jones’s seen hore is
elaborate and of splendid workmanship. Mr.
Jennings carries on all his work with even results,
and having the facility of proceeding with i lie
various branches at the one time, accomplishes
results with great expedition, and always bo time.
His success is the result of rare Bolf-oonfldenee,
high faanky for planning, and pluoky enterprise.*
Paris House est le seal Etablissement eii Aas-
tralie qui ait an eachet essentiellement frangais
Soa Proprietaire, qai a plas de vingt ans d’experi-
ence dans les principales maisons de Paris, n’a
recall devant aacan sacrifice poar monter an
Etablissement, qai, comme arrangement general,
material et personnel ne laisse rien a desirer.
Le Service da Restaarant sera fait dans ane seri
de salles particalieres, comme cela se fait dans les
grands Restaarants de France, et toat l’Etablisse-
ment sjera exclasivement tena h la Frangaise.
Paris in Sydney.
Titerb lias been planted right in the heart of
Sydney something that will become a boon to
epicures and all people of epicurean tastes. That
something is a high-class French Restaurant, con.
ducted on the best lines, only to be gained from a
long and varied experience. We have tried it
and have been most agreeable surprised. Just
think you gourmits and epicures, eight courses
with all aocessories nioely served by polite and
attentive waiters in the cosiest ®f cosy rooms,
handsomely furnished throughout, nicely carpeted,
and teble furniture simply palatial, all for one
half-crown. Smile ye Bohemians, for here can a
coterie of jovial friends spend a pleasant hour over
the choicest of viands, &c., cooked in purely
French style erf cooking and enjoy perfect quiet
and seclusion. There are ninoteen rooms, all
fitted in the above style, where guests will be
served either table d' hote or a la carte.
After the theatre what can be more enjoyable
than a party of friends or family party, Seated
together here, enjoying all the comfort and
luxury of a strictly first-class French restaurant.
Paris House being in close proximity to the lead-
ing places of amusement, families cannot do better
than having a recherche dinner there. Paris
House is equal to any on the Continent or America
the chef, Octave Desneux, having had continental
as well as American experience—having been
chef at the Monopole in New York, and the
Palace Hotel in San Francisco, both being the
largest hotels in the world, and noted for sumptu.
•us dinners —visitors to Paris House can feel
assured that nothing will be left undone by Mons.
Desneux to make this resort a success. The
kitchen is fitted with all the latest and
best uteasils, and a large French range
imported expressly for the Palace. Everything
in the kitchen is as bright and clean
as possible. Rows of bright shining copper kettles,
pots, and pans in neat array, the tables white and
clean, and everything in complete order, we pro-
diet for the Paris House an immonse success.
Being centrally located it cannot fail to become
the favourite place of rendezvous of all profes-
sional and commercial men. The Paris House is
at 173, Phillip-street, next to the corner of King,
street.*
Important Gold Mining Proposal.
A very important gold-mining proposal, concern-
ing one of the richest auriferous centres yet dis-
covered in N.S.W.—or prbbably Australia-has
just been put before the Sydney public. A cent
pany of £20,000 in as many shares of £1 each is
proposed to be formed lor he purchase and w. rk-
ing of a three-acre block of land, the Adeline-road
claim, at Fairfield. This property divides the
Adeline Company’s claim, which is proving to be
of fabulous richness, the claim now being valued
at £96,000, according to the purchasing figure
ruling at the Sydney Exohange. Mr. W. Nicho-
las, F.G.S. states that the three great gold crush-
ings made by the prospectors wos from the stone
got within a few yards of the boundary of this
Adeline-road claim, into which the run of gold
strikes direcl. This gold-bearirg formation is at
least 60ft. in width, and is said to assay up to
hundreds of ounces to the ton. The Adeline
Company crushed 360 tons for 851 o«; , and an
assay o< the tailings showed tha» they had lost at
the rate of 2oz. odwts t» ibe ton. This 60!t. belt
of gold formation is proved to be a 30ft. depth in
the Adeline, and it is presumed to carry right
across the Adeline-Road Company’s claim, and
the profit on the first 30ft. is estimated at £8.5,000
It is ©onsidered probable that this gold-beaiing
dyke may go down to an interminable depth. The
owners of the proposed company’s land have got
up to soz. 12dwts., and all that is required to
ensure a great outturn of the stone is capital for
machinery, and it is proposed to get a battery of
20h. and four Berdan pans now under otter for
£2OOO. By this means the company can carry on
crushing operations for the field, as well as
mining on its own account, and those who know
the land are confident of great success. The pro-
prietors put tly) subscribing public on fair ground.
They ask £4OOO cash and 6000 shares paid up to
15s. The remainder of the shares 14,000 are
offered the public paid up to ss. at 2s. 6d. per
share on application, 2s. Od. on allotment, and
the balance, if required, at la. per share at in-
tervals of not less than one mouth. It is not an-
ticipated that more than 10s. will be reqmred,
but if so all shares contribute alike, a very fair
arrangement which sounds genuine. The direc-
tors of the company are Mr. A. C. Lee. M.P.,
Tenterfield ; Mr. Robert Donaldson, Tentertield ;
Mr. E. P. Simpson, solicitor ; Mr. Chas. Bath,
Mr- M. E. Kir wan. The secretary is Mr. Joseph
Page, and the brokers are Messrs. Clive Smith,
«ud Mathoson, 75 Pitt-street, Sydnoy.*
T
HEAT R E
ROYAL.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ENORMOUS SUCCESS.
THE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION
THE GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING.
Terminating in time for Suburban ’Buses, Trains,
or Trams.
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s
Sydney Christmas Card,
THE GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY,
or Harlequin Mother Goose and the Seven
Champions.
Prices as usual.
JOE. BROWN, Manager.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith
Business and Stage Manager ... Mr. Edwin Shipp.
THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON.
EVERY EVENING
THE ALHAMBRA HUNT CLUB PICNIC
is CROWDED with SPECTATORS eager to par-
take of the good things provided by the caterer to
this Variety Company.
Popular Prices : Orchestra Chairs, 2s ; Stalls,
Is; Balcony, Gd.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
A Grand
SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT, at 7.30.
s
TRASBURG
CLOCK.
APOLLO HALL,
Kidman’s-buildings, Market-street.
Open daily, from 2to 5 and 7to 10.
THE ONLY PERFECT MODEL of the
GREAT ASTRONOMICAL, MECHANICAL, and
APOSTOLIC CLOCK OF STRASBURG
ever constructed.
Grand PROCESSION OF THE APOSTLES
every 15 minutes.
THE DENIAL OF PETER.
THE STEALTHY VISIT OF SATAN.
The Model is 12 feet high and 6 feet wide, being
one-fifth the size of the original, forming the most
marvellous and interesting Exhibition ever pre-
sented to the public of Sydney.
Admission Is. children 6d.
C. JAMESON, Proprietor.
WM. GIFFETT, Agent.
T
HURSDAY ISLAND SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Large and Commodious Hall and Stage; also
Handsome “ Lipp Piano.
For Particulars and Terms apply to
J. W. RAYMENT,
Hon. Sec.
T
HE RICKARDS-LEETE COMPANY.
A£r Hsrry Rickards, Australia’s Universal Fa-
vorite, supported by his powerful Company of 12
London Specialty Artists will open Launceston
Academy of Music, Monday, Dec. 27; Melbourne,
Ballarat, Sandhurst, to follow. Academy of
Music, Launceston, TO LET, from Jan. 10. Ad-
vance Algent, Mr. Sydney Hall; General Manager,
Mr. Philip Stuart.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 24, 1886.
ENDERS for PUBLIC W'ORKS and
SUPPLIES.
TENDERS are invited for the following PUBLIC
WORKS and SUPPLIES. For full particulars see
Government Gazette, a file of which is kept at
every post-offlce in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the Ten-
ders are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration unless
the terms of the notice are strictly complied with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Supply of Steel-wire Rope, North | Tuesday,
Shore Cable Tramway January 25,
I at 11 o clock.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNK.
MAP SHOWING PASTORAL HOLDINGS.
. \ MAP of New South Wales showing the
; \ division of Pastoral Holdings on a scale of
16 miles to an inch is now ready for issue, and can
be obtained at the Sale of Maps Branch. Surveyor-
General’s Oltico, Gresham-street, Sydney. Price
20s. per copy.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS.
Surveyor. General. -
Surveyor-General's Olllce,
Sydney, 21th December, 1886.
WJ O H N s O N
• COOPER, SURVEYOR,
and
LICENSED GAUGER,
II PHILLIP STREET, and at CLEVELAND
STREET, SYDNEY.
Wine Casks, Beef Tierces and Kegs, Tallow
Casks, new and second-hand; also, Wine and
Spirit Kegs, at lowest possible prices.
«AI/«IN«; I\ ALL ITS ItUAY


THE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY
(ESTABLISHED 1869).
Paid-up Capital, £300,000. Reserve Fund, £155,000
Directors
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman,
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.C.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary
Hector Allen.
Branches : Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gosford, Nyn-
gan, Bourke, Manly, Parramatta, St. Leonard’s, Newcastle
and Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
London Bankers : The National Provincial Bank of
England.
Flour! Flour! Flour!
LION FLOUR MILLS,
KENT ST., SYDNEY.
Town Whites, Fine Seconds Flour,
Wheat Meal, Cones, Bran and Pol-
lard, always on hand. All made
from the very best wheat procurable,
and at the lowest prices.
fJIHE CLIMAX OF PERFECTION
MONTSERRAT
LIME FRUIT JUICE SAUCE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
T. JOKES & CO.,
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS
[By Examination, London).
Medicine, Perfumery, Toilet Articles, and
Druggists’ Sundries of the best quality
supplied at the lowest prices.
53 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY ;
CROWN STREET TRAM TERMINUS, SURREY
HILLS; and SUVA, FIJI.
Prescriptions Accurately Dispensed.
G
ENTLEMEN’S CLOTHES REPAIRED AND
CLEANED
AT
139 CASTLEREAGH STREET
Near Market-street.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head. )
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary! In Bottles, Is., 2s. Gd., os., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHTJ
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
1 his Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
l„s agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
fl. A.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
HOSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 Georgo-street only.
TO WINEGROWERS AND OTHERS.
G. STEPHENSON HAS ON SALE
WINE CASKS, 250 to 400 gallons ;
also,
Rum, Sherry and Whisky PUNCHEONS.
Hogsheads, Quarter-casks, Spirit Kegs, from 2
gallons and upwards,
COOPERAGE.
«7 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
UrttwAon Kina’ and Market! etreotn.
Newest Invention’- Greatest Novelty.
THEE
o x
DIAGONAL
PATEE3T
SEAM
COESET.
Patented in England ar d or the Continent. Will not solit in
the seams nor tear in tbe Fabric. Exquisite model. Perfect
comfort. Guaranteed wear.
Le Follrt says:— A novel invention in Corsets admirably calculated to
prevent the very disagreeable occurrence of split seams. The cut is very
good and becoming, and may be adapted to any figure with advantage.”
The Queen says:—“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is
cut on the cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally,
the Hearns have no strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat
and strong, and the workmanship all that could be desired.” Caution. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped “ Y & N Patent Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Gold Medal. Nsw Zealand Exhibition. 1882. Gold Medal, HIGHEST AWARD or Corsets. London
(ntemation.d Exhibition, 1884 LATEST AWARD ! Gold Medal, International Exhibition, Edin.
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS, N. AND C.
DIVISION,
Cairns and Herberton Railway — Section t.
TENDERS are invited for the Construction of
the Second Section of the Cairns and Herber-
ton Railway—in length fifteen miles twenty chains
—in accordance with Plans, Sections, Drawings,
General Conditions, and Specifications, which may
be seen at the Offices of the Chief Engineer,
Cairns and Townsville, and at the Office of the
Commissioner for Railways, Crisbane, on anc
after MONDAY, the loth day of November
1886, where also forms of Tender and other infor
mation can be obtained.
Tenders, endorred “ Tender for Construction of
Second Section of Cairns and Herberton Rail
way,” must be deposited at the Office of the Com
missioner for Railways, not later than Four o’clock
p.m. on FRIDAY, the 14 day of January, 1887.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily
be accepted.
WM. MILES,
Secretary for Public Works.
Railway Department,
Brisbane, Bth October, 1886.
Under the-Patronage of His Excellency,
Lord Carrington.
J O n N lOAKE,
TOBACCONIST,
HAS just landed 200 dozen well-assorted
STICKS from the principal manufactory in
Paris, and offers them to his patrons and the
general public at prices suitable to all.
GOLD, SILVER, and NICKEL MOUNTED,
in great variety, and even the most fastidious
cannot fail to be suited.
H I Wl
Establishments :
446 & 320 GEORGE STREET,
AND
PALL IMLAILL,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
BEDDING I BEDDING !
BEDDING
The same old saying—You Can’t Beat Lawler s.
THERE YOU CAN GET a Hair Mattress, and
no better BOX SPRING MATTRESS was
ever made than those made by LAWLER.
It is literally a mass of spiral springs, heavily
webbed, and thoroughly upholstered in best curled
hair.
Note.—No wire mattress ever made affords
such refreshing rest or can be depended upon as
can the Box Spring Mattress turned out at
608 GEORGE STREE~
soft as Eider Down, at “LAWLER S.’ f
None but the celebrated “ Samarang’’-grown
Java Kapox stocked.
No second quality of Kapox at “ Lawler’s.”
Flock and Fibre Mattresses, ready for daily
delivery, at Lawler’s.
Wire Mattresses, all sizes, by all makers.
Palliasses, from best long-cut straw three
qualities.
Purchasers will save money, and, In the end,
worry, by buying at
LAWLER’S 808 George-street, Sydney.
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’S
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MACHINES.
Simon’s Roller System of Flour Milling.
Sole Agents i
E. C. ELLIOTT & CO.,
547 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Everybody \r>I?MT7T T’Q
SHOULD USE J I L JJI If JU L 10
EXTRA SUPERFINE
3T Xd © TJ
T
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
New Process Machinery,
The PRICE js VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL,
831 GEORfIE.RTRWWT. RmNIT.
The only place where
pipes are satisfactorily-
repaired.
SUPPORT Colonial Industry! Ruy your Pipe
at S. ROSENTHAL, 1 Little Collins
Street, East (opposite Colonial Rank.
Manufacturer of real Meerschaum and Briar
Pipes, wholesale and retail.
MAGIC LANTERN DEPOT.
AMUSEMENT FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
718 George-street, Haymarket.
MAGIC LANTERNS, including 12 slides,
about CO views, 2s. Gd., 4s. 6d , 7s. 6d., 10s.
6d., 12s. Cd. 155., 17s. Gd., and 255. each. These
Lanterns are carefully packed in boxes, and can be
sent to any part of the colonies.
NEW \ORK NOVELTY CO. have in stock a
splendid assortment of novelties in useful house-
hold and personal requisites, fancy goods, jewellery,
&c. Our goods are all fresh, and of the latest
designs, as the proprietor has just returned from
the home markets ; and as we buy direct from the
manufacturers we are in a position to supply the
public at bottom prices.
NEW \ORKNO\ELTY CO. have the largest
stock of tricks, puzzles, and conjuring apparatus,
in Australia, to suit either stage entertainments
or parlor amusements.
Genuine Waterbary Watches, 10s. each.
Hawkers and Stores supplied 25 per cent, cheaper
than any house in Sydney. Note the address—
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, Haymarkjet.
H. L. HUTCHINSON and 00.
Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence of
Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among those who
have arrived at er" are past middle age. It is declared
on good authority that fully one-half the deaths in
this country are either directly or indirectly the
result of Kidney or Liver disease of some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age are
afflicted with some sort of affection of the Kidneys or
Bladder, and these diseases are on the increase. Per-
sons are often seriously affected before they know of
it themselves, and thus these insidious disorders get a
good foothold before anything is done to dislodge
them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease, Incon-
tinence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder, Albu-
menuria, &e., are the many forms of these
diseases. Most of these are very difficult to cure,
defying the powers oftentimes of the best physicians
obtainable, and are pronounced by many to be
incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in diseases
of this form oftentimes there are no symptoms of a
marked nature. This is one of the rja’sens why they
are so difficult to cure.
Dr. BELL’S (Kidney and Liver Bitters) is a Specifio
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and Urinary
Diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and all of that
class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Ileadache, Jaundice, Liver
and Stomach troubles, Dyspepsia, Constipation, and
Piles.
It cures Intemperance, Nervous Diseases, General
Debility, Female VVeaknesses and Excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended,
works promptly, relieves at once, and was never
known to fail.
USE IT AT ONCE.
Sold, by all Druggists and Dealers in Patent Medi-
cines.
Note. —Any poor Person, or the Manager of any
Hospital, Asylum, or Old People’s Home, may obtain
the Bitters gratuitously, upon written application to
the Agents, accompanied by a certificate of a Minister
of the Gospel, certifying that they are unable to pay
for medicine.
BEIL’S BITTERS
MANTJf AOTURING COMPANY.
NEW YORK, LONDON, CANADA, NEW
ZEALAND & AUSTRALIA.
BUTCHER, FEHON k CO., SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
New South Wales and Queensland,
The New Furniture and Carpet
Warehouse
Jones, Lawson Bros, & Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
ECONOMIC ART FURNITURE
AT
LESS THAN ENGLISH PRICES.
EIGHT-FEET EXTENSION TABLES,
with three spare leaves, in
SOLID OAK, WALNUT, and MAHOGANY,
for
DINING ROOMS,
At the Exceedingly Low Price of £5 15s.
SIDE-BOARDS and LEATHER SUITES,
At Correspondingly Low Prices.
FURNITURE for
THE BEDROOM,
THE LIBRARY,
THE DINING-ROOM,
THE DRAWING-ROOM.
BLACK AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
in great variety.
Jones, Lawson Bros., and Co.,
39 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
manufacturers
& IMPORTERS OF
•A.
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY f
0/yyosi te jLassetCcrf
%
r,
f/
HORSE & CATTLE BAZAAR
206 PITT STREET, and 149 CASTLEREAGH
STREET.
Branch Establishment: 68 Hunter Street.
W. GARLING
(PROPRIETOR),
Auctioneer & General Live Stock Agent
THE Liverv business is the largest in Sydney,
and the Sale Yard the only one where gene-
ral sales are held of racing stock. High-class
horses disposed of privately and by auction. Busi-,
ness connections with the principal stud and
breed owners in the colony. Correspondence
relative to state of market, and all matters re-
garding horses and cattle, personally attended to.
Best facilities for landing and shipping stock.
Insurance (including marine risk) effected on live
stock, rates for which can be obtained on applica-
tion.
MASON BROTHERS,
EXlilt
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE. i
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
• and CO.’S
Cognac.
». T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
FOLEY’S SYDNEY GYMNASIUM,
At rear of the
WHITE HORSE HOTEL, GEORGE STREET.
INSTRUCTION given every day in Boxing,
Gymnastics, Wrestling, Fencing, &o. *For
terms, &c., apply to
L. FOLEY,
Manager and Instructor.
rjjjlHK BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SYDNEY BRANCHES ;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE-STREET,
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund 675,000
The Bank has Agents in all tho principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
and CANADA and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial
and Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting-Manager.
HIGH-CLASS PHOTOGRAPHY.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT & Co.
BBG to thank their numerous clients for the
liberal patronage shown to them.
Their PHOTOGRAPHS receive the highest
praise, and are acknowledged to be beautiful and
artistic. Inspection is invited to the choice col-
lection of Portraiture now on exhibition in the
vestibule leading to their Studios in the Royal
Arcade.
MR. THOMAS CLEAVE,
who has had the honour of Photographing Her
Majesty Queen Victoria, T.R.H. Prince and
Princess of Wales, Prince Imperial, &c., &c., will
personally photograph each sitter.
Messrs. C. and Co. respectfully ask that ladies
desirous of sitting should make appointments in
the early part of the day.
GROSVENOR GALLERIES,
Royal Arcade.
T> M . RILEY
(late of the Detective Force),
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce- libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
■n:\rriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
In the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
Vew Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
glote. he Is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
MPHUti~n and strictest secresy, and to faithfully and
Drcaapi- » attend to all business entrusted to h care.
w
o>
o
Q-
O
kll
/5%9
' l 7“ /f? .
■st# Av?/&&
y<y
do Qy^e&k
w/Mies.
w
u?
<rn
ILLUSTRATION (in reduced size) of Order to be found in the
LARGE BOTTLES" OF WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.


RAW VASELINE.
7,
m
A
HORSE RUGS, Pack Saddles, Horse Clippers,
Collar Check and Serge, 40 and ii inches ;
Large assortment of Buggy Harness, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Saddles, Spurs, and all kinds of
Saddlers’ Ironmongery, &o.
BLACKBURN & CO.,
WHOLESALE SADDLERS, AND SADDLERS
IRONMONGERS,
125 YORK ST., SYDNEY.
s^*V'
■ I
O v
5 rR
r
6t°"
>P C r
C. H. SMITH & SONf
Manufacturers and Importers
OF
HA.TS and CAPS,
302 . G E STREET,
3 Doors SQut& jfl' Hunter-street.
holesale manu factu Rll
ONFECTIONER
JAfttSSTEuMAti
Steam works.lUnt s t near Erbaine ST
C&&U4 OM' 4)Om£, OMd-HUxZ V
tookokr om *no Brest mance .
CouHTny 4SM>rrv*C Cfcbua fay/imrmem
A
\\\
SINGER
and Go.’B
Bicycles
AND
Tricycles
Selling off Cheap
JOHN HANKS,
863 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
iIi^SS^CUREfOR
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFRECTIOMS
v-r prepared ONLY BY t
Ingham;
H A M P t o r-sf
p
j
R
A
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Meals—
PARIS, 1878; CAI A' LTIA, 1881,
for pre eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson's Newest Perfunns
FAGR.32A & CYMBIJinjW
arc ert rare and peculiar fragrance, ana Heine
registered can be obtained only of the |
Inventors or their Agents
ATKINSON'S I
CELEBRATED FAU DE COLOGNE
is unequalled for its strength and dellglulul
odour It far surpasses the numerous com
pounds sold under the same name I
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally tine periume for the hand
k reluct, distilled from the choicest exotics I
Of nil Dealers, and of the Manufacturers — I
j: ,* K. ATKINSON,
21, Old Rond Street, London.
Trade Mark —“White Rose" on" Golden
S. Lyre.” jt
ECORNILLON & CO., Wine and Spirit
• Merchants, 22 Bridge street, Sydney,
Have on Sale —
Mackies & Co. celebrated Whiskie
E. Remy Martin & Co.’s Centaur Brandy, In
bulk and cases
Vve. Martin and Fils Squirrel Brandy
Ca. Yincola del norte de Espana, Rioja Clarets,
Port, &c.
The unequalled A.V.H. Qin, &c., &o.
KT THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED).
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT on
fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on demand. Offloes, 4 Park-st,
J, V, WARHEAM, Manager,
invite inspection of our LARGE and WELL-ASSORTED STOCK of all classes of
Furniture, Bedsteads, Crockery, Glassware, E. P.
Ware, Ironmongery,
ASD
GENERAL FURNISHING DRAPERY.
BEDDING
of
every
DESCRIPTION
at
EXCEPTIONAL
PRICES.
QUALITY
the
BEST.
o>
U
irr.
;! «
rr.
u
_a s
-*pgi
7 -
GREAT
REDUCTIONS
in
BEST WOVE WIRE
MATTRESSES.
2ft £0 18 0
3ft 10 0
3ft. Gin. ... 1 2 0
Ift, 14 0
4ft. Gin, ...150
DOUBLE FOUR-POST BRASS-MOUNTED BEDSTEADS, WITH EXTENDING
FOOTRAIL, £2 ss. U
Write or send for our revised 78-page Illustrated House Furnishing Guide.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Royal Hotel).
m
.
■I v* fi*&/
W)
( ih h<
m
©
\ ,
\'y
-L
\• v 1
«\ i
i'\\
\
y i r*
V«
-4
e m
i
>
s;
IP
&
rA
w
a
-T
Mein Gott, dot ain’t a man, und tunnervetter,
you preak my glass, too. Veil, it’s too pad ;
but I got it insured in de
Mutual Plate Glass Insur,
of Australasia, Limi
m
Capital .... £25,000.
Head Ofitice : 80a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The only Local and Mutual Company, and
the largest in Australasia.
Directors
Francis Abigail, M.L.A. | John Graham, Esq.
Jas. H. Walker, Esq. (Walker, Lemon & Co.
John J. Wood, Esq. (Sec. Hudson Bros., Lim.)
Wynn Roberts, Manager.
£3T Plate Glass Fronts, Mirrors. &c, of all
descriptions, covered against risk of breakage,
at lowest current rates.
GEORGE STREET
■ £v
NEWEST SHADES;
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Vlisa K291X1 1
mwmn
s
r
f 1 : r
fLk3& £ 1
-to*
im&i
A'
asw.
W|l
•I«ii
Pill*
fa ut.™j t«n
tn»gi,Bsjji||s3
fn jKgrj uqsyad
irn sj j
■ssoig
uu
imnatii
»orroi% ns«, hpv;;j .4tn
BBSS' &V IB OHM,"
C.L.MAUTHAVYAYft£OVI«L
Wttii Coifrr, Btewl, £«:**
MAS#.
LUw
-9
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match oos
tomes Repairs neatly executed
M
ONUM E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Design! and Estimates forwarded on requel
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Maboabet-street, Wynward square, Sydney
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
N I RV
treatment
® r - p- WKr-T’s Nerve and Brain Treatment,
guaranteed specific for Hysteria, Dizziness, Convulsions, Fiti
Nervous Jneuralgia, Headache, Nervous Prostration, caused b
the use of alcohol or tobacco, Wakefulness, Mental Depression
Softening of the Brain resulting in insanity and leading t
misery, decay, and death, Premature Old Age, caused b
over-exertion of the brain, or over-indulgence. Each bo
contains one month’s treatment. ss. a box, or six boxes fo
zos., sent by mail prepaid on receipt of price! We Guab
ce l ived E hl I L B ? XEM T \ CUKE ANY CASE - With each order ie
ceived by ua for six boxes, accompanied with 255., we wil
send the purchaser our written guarantee to refund th
issued only 1 £y reat,Qent does not effect » cur#- Guarantee
JOHN C. WEST and CO.,
65 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Circular sent free on application.
£lOO Reward!
We will pay the above reward for any case of liver com
plaint, dyspepsia, sick headache, indigestion, constipation or
costiveness, we cannot cure with West’s Vegetable Liver
riLLS, when the directions are strictly complied with. They
are purely vegetable, and never fail to give satisfaction
Barge boxes containing 30 sugar-coated pills Is. For sale by
all druggists. Beware of counterfeits and imitations. The
genuine manufactured only by
JOHN C. WEST & CO.,
65 Market-street Sydney, N.S.W.
Bent Prepaid by post on receipt of Is. in stamps.
w w w
West’s World’s Wonder,
OR FAMILY LINIMENT.
r J f " fall i ble remedy for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Lumbago,
Gout. Sprains, Cuts, Burns, Scalds, Bruises, Headache
WhX«i i^h D,Be Tf l W £ ita ~ BweUiHK ‘ Kelon ", Chilblains
Knrl ThrLt Fr,,Zen ««*, of Inse<-tB,
and aU diseases requiring external application.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers.
Price Is, and 2s. per Bottle.
JOHN C. WEBT & CO., Sole Proprietors,
SYDNEY, CHICAGO and
TORONTO,
JgRADjEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and C’CON NELL STREETS.
: W--^ ar>rY v _
- .
SR**::
4? PIANOFORTE.
d&Oll guaranteed
sound, strong, and durable
Trichord, full Compass
Celeste Pedal, brilliant
tone, in handsome case.
Free at rail or wharves for
cash only.
Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
IMPORTERS of PIANOFORTES by tho MOST
CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Con
nell-street.
Austrian chairs
in Great VARIETY.
BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell
streets.
OOD h URNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment, just opened, many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb.
sa
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
ARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS all’
Cmatch.
I)
w
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES'
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
lh: tnimixjT^n
SIDEBOARD 3 of
_ designs and various dimen^
A large selection, at all
prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTQN, and
LAMB,
O’Conne and Spring Streets,
W A1 ±L GAMUT'S for Choice China, ” &c.
\ ERY ELEGANT. Bradley, Newton,
ana JLamb. ’
XT OVELT IES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
rvr SI (i I T ES ; Bradley ’ Newt °n, and Lamb,
0 Connejl-street. *
aGTmirbORS and BRACKETS, noveltiea
in Plush and Velvets, and in all Woods,
rrom ss. 6d. each.
LEGANT VENETIAN
enamelled, in colours,
and Lamb.
MIRRORS, richly
Bradley, Newton,
m
□□
D
toe
Drawing room cabi.
NETS, Early English and
Chippendale designs.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,-
Importers of High-art
Furniture,
O’Connell and Spring Streeta
Drawing-room furn itur a - The latest
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid Wh
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are new on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of insrjxartSo* i*
solicited. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMH.
Manufacturers, Spring and O’Connell streets.
a a;
IASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bed
1 rooms. New designs, covered to order in
material.
Bedsteads, aii sizes
Nickel-plated and Black
and Braes. Great variety.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB,
Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
B
KDDIN°.— A U descriptions at lowest rates*
| BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
RIPPING MATTRASSKH
k? Woven Wire, bes
make; also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from lig. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON and


“The Bulletin” Christmas Tree.
