

The Bulletin
feeth! Teeth!
HIGH-CLASS DENTISTRY
I AT
HEFORM PRICES!
k—-
k
ulcanite Sets
?°ld and Vulcanite do.
P
u ne Gold
£5.
£lO.
£l5.
i Painlessly Extracted Under Nitrous Oxide Gas Every Morning.
teed.
XTote -^d.d-xess:
Marshall Brothers,
k.
ELIZABETH STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
k
I*.B.—Country People need only stay in Sydney a few hours.


lU.OSTRATED CATALOGUES ft PRICES POST FREE-
a
W.H.PALINO&(s UM "
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
Organs Music Importers.
largest Greatest Variety in Australia - slvin£ the
babiicthe Widest possible choice.- PIANOS from£4o, ORGANS from £l2-
* PAYMEtfI *Y MONTHUV INSTALMENTS TO SUIT Aa CUSTOMERS
PALING 10 PULING hQ>
ard man Bros.
r>«>ifnttutinp"
iifHMiiiiii
GSKMimiQiiD®'»! aiipTOHr
m*D Office k Fact off y. nfwtowh
Branch. Ccorgi SI Syohfy
/6
GoufffifSr**?/
TRCACI£
RffMfRS
esro
/ess
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY.
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE :
"CORNER of MARKET and YtRK STREET?,
SYDNEY.!
{JCORFORJLTKD BY ACT OF EXECUTIVE OOUNCII .
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
RESERVE, £36,718 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
Yhe Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mat hey, Esq.
The dividend declared and paid to the Shareholders a the
last Annual General Meeting, held on the 28th July last,
iu >i follows
Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate o 12j) per cent.
per annum ' -
foam paid to Depositors of 12 months (2 per cent.)
ii ■■ 6 „ 11 per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business.
Darrent accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and
makes Advances upon all kinds of Commercial
Be rarities.
Atencios In London and throughout the worlds
OYFBDRAFIB GRANTED AGAINST DEPOSITS
OF DEEDS.!
Deposits Received.
interest Allowed :
At Call, 4 per cent.
8 Months, 5 per cent.
6 Months, 6 per cent.
12 Months, 7 per cent.
WITH BONUS ADDITIONS TO DEPOSITS.GF
SIX AND TWELVE MONTHB. ; •
<_ im r
Daposltors can arrange to withdraw the whole
•r portion of their deposits without notice.
The Share Register Is still open, and intending
Ihueholders oan obtain upon application any
Information they require, also printed copies of
tap art, minutes, forms of application for shares,
fco. fee.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
H. M‘NAMARA,
SECRETARY
THOS. BUUKLAKD,
MINING. MACHINERY, AND GENEBAI iC>) El
Charters Towers.,
Agent for Rotey and Co., Engineer*, Llncc.lt 1
■■ i, Langlatd’t Fourdjy Co , Wdlcorr,
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGII-5,
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENBIABD.
UMBRELLAS
RE COVERED.
gTUDY
ROOMOin
and
H*ie jour Umbrella Frames ri
covered and roar
Faraioli re-lined and made eqna
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’!?,
s*l George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Batburit Street
Faraioli made to r,
tamei Banaln naathr exaantr
w
ILLS' HOTEL, Mackay, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor.
Travellers and Families will find the old well-
saown reputation maintained.
JMPERIAL HOTEL, TCWNSVILLF.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
te of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton,
dV Flrst-olass Family and Commercial Hotel.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings The “Western Cham-
pion" says t “ I oan recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends.' |
LEICHHARDT HOTEL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Proprietress—Mrs. J. GIBBS,
(Late of Westwood.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
USE MOONEY’S CORN EXTRACTOR,
A SAFE AND SPEEDY CURE.
HAS NEVER FAILED.;, ’
w &K' '
Price, 2s. 6d. per bottle.J
Posted te all parts of the colonies free on receipt
If stamps. ..
——-j
MOONEY, Chemist, Cootarrmndra, N-S.W.I
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments,
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
jgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
Zo &Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE 3? on FLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by Usa Bole Proprietor!
i, i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
081 Goorao-atreot only.
SW ALDER, Tent, TarpauJiD, Oilskin Maker
• 296 Pitt-streefc.
Ch'.£\
SgffWTr _
7'rs* ati# ftcc.MvKt»
ea6A.»sr-
Marquees on Hire.
THE ORIGINAL
DAK INC
\\W
p ow
n\\£
%
WAUGHS
f?
ANO
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
°p ;
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHEBEST INTHE WORLD.!'
NONE OTHER BUT
WAU C H S
receiveothe international
p R I Z E M ELD A L
Manufactured byJamesChahnou
JHaRBOIIR S T 'SYONRjr
Sold by AO Crocars and sfQreEetpgfs*
m
\
w
ftn
a
iv ij i 1
Vm-XU
3i;
«
C '
XSOMxSONS
BACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
T'VIXSON & SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTORY
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES THE
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF imported
into New South Wales, and hence the great sale
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPION
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURB.
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No l machine made,
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian lcM
and Paris rice tissue. size sold by
retailers at 3d. per packet of 1° cigarettes.
a^oarsz’s
MEW ZKAIANDj
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
Corps; alao from eminent Doctors and
Studenta.from Sydney Hospital
.—
1513,17 w
£3211.“ “I,“
§?.=‘$:j
3:22.. : eA 411’
i‘aizg‘ﬂ
3‘2}. "':‘b— :‘V
r; :" :ijégj‘
as: m. #2:
. :{gw‘ngé‘g‘ :25?
'te—‘s .-
V“‘.=‘e‘éZ'-_‘-;-?~-i
~ 547%» ~ _ ‘1‘: :35? if":
; 3W; aigfsaza ~ .
Wm {sf-x13: 3-.
f 'n“ W 7% ' 7-1: “ "
‘ ‘\ w LiTzﬁ-M'Z'» . k-
\ gag-12:: u \_‘ “v“
if; \Jﬁiﬁy‘. ‘5". -' "‘ W \\ >§;\‘3-“\'"“\“§$ -
:~'.\, - / ‘ v: 4;»; ‘.‘,'\"*" .s‘;-. tad ”g u -
' $2.6M,‘xgmt§v\.;,‘;;{;ioﬂ:\F; ‘
MONK’S
P«IE MIXTURE.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It an invaluable cure. See testimonials.
MOZfcsTIK/'e
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhose Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemlate.
2b. 6d. per bottie.
JvroisrKz^s
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2b. 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents i
MATHEY, NATHAN & CO.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY:
AND
ii Little Collins tbeet East,; Melbourne,
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room,
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private aiding
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alco'ok’e). Flrst-olass chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr,, Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Hoad Officej Townsville, N. Queensland.
G. S. CUKTIS,
Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
MR. BOLTON (of the Arm of Lowry ani
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerou
friends of the Firm and the travelling public tha
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge n
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henoeforO
be oarried on under his personal supervision
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally Bituated
and facing the oelebrated Mountain. Persons visit
Ing the oelebrated Mountain will flndevcry cOmfor
»nd convenience to greet them on their arrival
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THI
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aocommoda
_?l.° . hlrfcy Horses, and a good PADDOCI
within five minutes' walk of the Hotel. Coaohei
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
J°* *« r,rm Of Lowry * Bolton),
SUNBURST HOT
fc&r~> MOUNT MORGAN.
E
f| IHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITE!
flare. labour, itatloaery, »nd time, writing mnoh hite
“SLK?*® oeonpled by pen writing. Be&utifi
2STi^!. Uke 2 ta ! I *S S» n,kl ■“•‘W ,n the letter preci
gjiold wholwlc kdA retail bf the iole igeubi
IMRAY fc cxm
u 110 Kentoatroofcl
7
c
9m
kiahufactuhers-
* IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS At
I**** 1 " —■" - »
438 CEORCE $T
SYDNEY
4
f/
6®tf
or
GRAND HOTEL,
BUNDABERGh
Under New Management.
FINEST SAMPLE ROOM IN THE COLO#*'
PLUNGE AND! SHOWER BATHS*
Good Stabling, and Lddße Boxed fdr Bdoc
DRAWING-ROOM FOR LADIES.
Having engaged a firat-olaas chef, I am «*»
to «sater for the public in a first-class style*
ALP. P~THOMAS, ,
Propb*** 01 ’
RUSTON PROCTOR & CO.’ l
PORTABLE ENGINES,
TRACTION ENGINES,
“ TRIUMPH ” THRASHING MAOfl*N® B '
Simon’s Roller System of Flouß
Hit#* 1
Sole Agents I
E. O. ELLIOTT & 00.,
54T KENT STREET, ST
THE GREAT NORTHERN
OHARX.OTTK-PLAOK AND a*OBG*-STB** , _V - q
K. HANNEY^
1 DOZEN O -A.O# 1
OF ASSORTED
Wills, SPIRITS, and HALT
DELIVERED ANY PART OP CITY
Carriage free by Rail or Steamer. Order tbe ldo*.
yon please from the Hat of low price* a* under jV**’ jg
val Blend Scotch Whl«K e * (| tt
Robertson’*, Walker or
Danville'* Shamrock
Brian Boru Whisky „
Hennsssy’s * Oognao „
„ “*
Square Qln _ _
Jamaica Ram „
Red Heart do. ~
Platks Brandy and Whiskies
- Cjjl
- : a 8;
: - o."
:
English Ales and Stout, best brands I*. or 111- M- P® g«.
Port Wine for oonnoisseura and invalids ** fl
Port Wint and Sherry from .. „ ~
Best brands Whisky or Brandy from 20s. per gall° p '
AS CASE ALSO A SPECIALITY-
Superior ACCOMMODATION for Traveller'-. d idl«;
attention afforded to Visitors from the eaunWFv*'
rooms are oonduoted under the supervision of tb>' „
late of Wellington (N.Z.), which will be a guaran' t0 o rsO d» "
Gueit* will reoeive every attention. The Bes« Ze* l ' o
Wines, Spirits, and Beers always on hand. ■
papers sept on file.*
ic/
MACHINERY
[LAUD
AND
3&RIN E
ENGINES,
FILERS
PUMPSo
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
newest desicns
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COST!
cra#*^
an®
hoist'*
EHCI^
L/lW*
mowe^
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUNCHES,
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE-
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER
INSOLE AGENT
Sydney:
111, Pin STREET
Melbourne'
, KING STR* eT


The Bulletin
' 7 oJ. 8-No. 410.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1887.
Price., od.
The Imperial Naval Defence Scheme.


“THE BULLETIN,"
m National Australian Newspaper,
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
■; THE
CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
+
t!0 AGENTS ANT > REAVERS.
'the SPECIAL NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” for Christmas, 1887, is now
in preparation, and will eclipse anything yet
produced in Australia at that so-called festive
season. The issue will be nearly twice the
Usual dimensions, and trill contain a splendid
collection of tales, verse, Ac. , by the best Aus
tralidn authors, together with an immense
number of high-class illustrations. A special
feature trill be an exquisite pictorial sup-
plement, printed at “ The Bulletin” Office
from a, drawing by that well-known artist,
Mr. Phil. May—one of the best efforts
which his pencil has yet produced. Regarded
as a work of art and literary genius, the
CHRISTMAS “ BULLETIN ” will con-
fidently challenge comparison with any journal
in existence, and trill yield precedence to
none.
Agents and advertisers are requested to send
in their orders at the earliest possible date, as,
owing to the immense edition to be published,
it will be necessary to go to press several clays
in advance.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10. 1887.
Government House Grog.
The cash salary paid to the G overnor of
New South Wales Is £7OOO a year
—a sum equal to the aggregate wages of
about seventy “ common ” workmen. Let
not the taxpayer, however, fool himself, as
Cocky Burns has done in his Budget, with
the idea that this represents more than a
small fraction of the emoluments attaching
to the vice-regal billet. To estimate what
Lord Carington’s salary really comes to, we
must consider as by far the biggest item the
interest on the value of the two residential
palaces that the colony has to provide him
with. Cocky does not dare to pub this fairly
and Equarely before the public. In these
days of retrenchment, considering that lots
of taxpayers cannot get the shelter of even
a single roof for their own half-starved car-
cases, some disloyal brute might suggest that
they be relieved until times mend of the
burden of providing Lord Carington with
any more mansions than one family can oc-
cupy. This would relieve the country of a
pretty stiff tax, but it would be certain to
get Cocky into bad odour, and, perhaps,
cause the Downing-street people to offer
him only a miserable C M.G. ship instead of
the Centannial title that he, as a loyal
and distinguished statesman, no doubt con-
siders himself booked for. The same old
misleading statement as to the amount of
Governor Carington’s salary, which, at a
rough guess, might be set down as really be-
tween fifty and sixty thousand a year, is, of
course, maintained in the current estimate*.
* * *
What is the character of the services
which this enormous wage purchases for the
people of New South Wales ? In a political
or governmental sense, they are absolutely
tfd. The less the Governor interferes in
the business of government the better does
he discharge the functions appertaining to
his office. He is paid to leave things
political severely alone, and the less force or
individuality of character he shows the more
of a “ constitutional ” Governor does he ap-
pear. In inverse ratio to his power as a
man his worth as a Governor diminishes.
His duties are to register the decisions of
Parliament, and not seem to know the wise
decisions from the unwise ones. As they
don’t legislate over-fast in New South Wales,
the labour of affixing his signature to statutes
is not very fatiguing, and, between them, he
and E. W. W aldington, Esq., get through
the business —Mr. Wallington doing the
“ bullocking ” part —without much loss of
sweat, and without the slightest expenditure
of cerebral tissue.
* * *
If it were not such a left-handed compli-
pliment, we would say that Lord Carington
makes a first class Governor. His political
personality i 3 of the kind which wipes out as
easily as a chalk-mark from a wet slate. He
never meddles with law-making, and
he evidently signs a death-warrant only
as Nosey Bob greases the rope—according
to orders. That is the sort of man
to achieve success as a Colonial Go-
vernor. Hia business is to act the part of
a constitutional lay figure, and in that ar-
duous role Lord Carington proves almost
as good as if he were made of sawdust and
calico instead of flesh and blood.
* * *
But one would think that, in a world where
noodles of all kinds are so plentiful, the
talents of Constitutional Governors would
not be at such a tremendous premium. There
is only one character of a man which would
be positively unfit for the Governor of a
British colony. Any class of intellect is eli-
gible for the position, except that of a
Lycurgus, a Justinian, or an Edward 111.
We can stand a mild lunatic, if need be, but
never a law-giver. Well, are men who are
not born law-makers, so hard to get that in
the open market their talents fetch the salary
commanded by a mere combination of yawn
and moustache ? Such a question will not
bear even patting. Common-sense rules it
out of order.
* • #
If we wanted a man to perform the poli-
tical duties only which fall to a Governor’s
lot, an advertisement in a morning paper
would bring five hundred eager applicants
offering to do the work thoroughly without
the help of a single private secretary or aide-
de-camp, for a salary of thirty shillings a week,
and find themselves. Fact is, the salary is
not paid for the gubernatorial work at all.
We don’t even pretend that it is. A Gover-
nor is expected to dispense ‘ ‘ hospitality,” and
the sum paid him in salary is not to reward
his governmental services, but to enable him
to feed and entertain the snobocracy and
wealthy groveldom of the country calling
itself “Society.” The Sydney Morning
Herald, as the organ of this class, lays
down the doctrine that a colonial Governor
should have sufficient funds provided for
him by the taxpayer to “grub” all the
titled tramps who come this way in search of
fresh amusement. This, of course, is in
addition to the usual “ hospitalities ” which
he is expected to extend to local “ Society,”
and the money for which the taxpayer is
also bound to provide.
* • *
An honest-speaking Treasurer would put on
his Estimates, under the head of vice-regal
establishment, a sum of thirty or forty
thousand a year to provide entertainments
for “ Society.” The taxpayer would then
be given a square look at the thing. What
does the “ hospitality ” of Government
House mean from the common taxpayer’s
point of view ? Has he any share in or
benefit from it ? God help his crass headed
innocence ! His share in the “ hospitality ”
is the privilege of paying for it. He is never
a guest, but always a host at Government
House entertainments. When the shearer
and rouseabout throw their contribution into
ilie taxgatherer’s hat, if they care to think,
they may have the satisfaction of knowing
that it goes to provide “hospitality” for
the squatter. Their master is drinking “gold-
top ’’ with the Governor, and their master’s
daughter, with naked bosom and rouge on
her nose, is languishing to delirious music in
the arms of some of the well fed gold-
epauletted idlers whom an hospitable
Governor is supposed to always keep
about him for the sole purpose of waltzing
with “Society.” And the Herald, which
goes to Government House and Dr. Jef-
feris’ church, wants all the stray lords
caught on these shores hired at the public
expense to assist in this arduous national
duty. Don’t you feel a glow of something
or other warm up that dull bosom of yours,
you dolt, delving there into that rock with
a Corporation pick, as you reflect that the
greasy alderman who has just splashed you
with the mud from his carriage-wheels will
also be amongst that rout, and that you, too,
are one of the hosts of the night ? You have
had to go without your glass of tanglefoot for
the want of the threepence, but what is that
to a man who can entertain “ Society ”on
champagne ? Your little pallid daughter is
gasping this hot summer at Waterloo, in the
foetid hovel you call home, for want of a mouth-
ful of God’s oxygen, but are you not labouring
that that voluptuous young “ Society ” lady,
naked to the very “dugs,” may have music
of the sweetest to time her fairy footsteps as
she whirls through the waltz in the arms of
her titled cavalier, all provided for her at
your expense ? But perhaps you have never
thought of this. You thought you were
poor, lowly, miserable, despised, when all
the time you were entertaining earls and
giving dinners to dukes. Again we say,
“God help you, wretched fool ! You are
without comforb because you neglect to read
and properly understand your Sydney
Morning Herald.” If you did read it, and
did undtistand it, we wou’d si y “ God hf lo
tie Herald !”
The First Gun of Land Nationalisa-
tion.
THE N.S.W. “FREETRADERS” AND THE
LANDLORDS.
ENGLISH LAWYERS AND AUSTRALIAN
RADICALISM.
“The Bankruptcy Bill was taken through in the NS. W.
Legislative Council Committee, but Mr. Salomons (Q.C.]
consented to re-commit clause 50 for further discussion c f a
proposal made by Mr. Webb that a landlord s preferential
claims for rent shall include sixjaionths, and not, as proposed,
only three months rent.”—Daily Paper.
The fate, so far, of the proposals made in various
of the Australian colonies to abolish distraint for
rent goes to show that it is time that we, like the
Americans in another direction, threw off the
galling yoke of outworn English precedent. It is
not sufficient when advocating a measure in the
United States to say that such a measure already
obtains on the other side of the Atlantic. The
individual Yankee may be a plagiarist of British
fashions or British manners, but the genius of the
American people does not impel them to like
thing merely because it is Eaglish. Nay, because i
is English is a reason— unless some good contrary
reason is opposed to it—for not liking a thing
simply because the word “English” has become
with Americans a synonym for effete usage. The
Yankee confines his imitation of things English
to the cut of his coat or the hang of his trousers
the twirl of his moustache or the style in which he
sucks the knob of his walking-stick. But in
matters legislative not Richard Cobden but
Thomas Jefferson becomes his grand exemplar
• * *
In regard to the advisableness of the abolition
of distraint for rent, higher vantage-ground must
be taken than that of the parson’s clerk with a
keen eye for the niceties of parish politics. This
proposal to attack landlordism in its own strong-
hold is the firing of the first gun of Land
Nationalisation; but its echo is not heard in the
hearts of the soi-disant “friends of the people.’
At the signal all the a'leged “ Freetraders ” fling
down their boarding-pikes and cut for cover.
The signed and sealed Australian “Freetrader’
has been weighed in the balance and found want-
ing. He has distinctly and unmistakably an-
nounced, by his action in regard to the recent
proposal to abolish distraint for rent, that he is
not in favour of the principle of “ I he laud for the
people." The argument set forth by certain para-
sites of landlordiim in advocacy of preferential
claims has not a leg to stand upon. It stands
upon crutches, worm-eaten at best, and crumbliog
to the core with the dry-rot of antiquity. The
only claim which should take precedence of all
others is the claim of the labourer for the pay-
ment in full of his hire, and all legislation popu-
larly presumed to be directed by a representative
democracy should be for 1 lie protection of labour
only—not for the conservation of the spoil of the
non-producer, the appropriator of the results of
other men’s sweat and drudgery. At present the
law permits the landlord's bailiff to leave his
debtor’s Eervatt girl without her hard-wrung
wages, and the most monstrous money penalties
with the alternative of long imprisonment, are
frequently enforced fin Australia under the aegis
of an antique Engli-h statute for the removal of
goods from a house in arrears of rent.
# * *
The other day, in the Legislative Assembly of
New South Wales, Mr. Thomas Walker moved
the second reading of a Bill fir the abolition of
this appalling modern anomaly—distress for rent
— and expla’ned that the measure he sought to
make law proposed to give each and every credi-
tor an equal right in recovering what was due to
him, thus doing away with the preferential claim
now enjoyed by landlords, who would not be able
to distrain for rent except under an execution ob-
tained in a court of law. At present even the
labourer, who is defrauded of his hire, has to go
through the regular forms and has only prefer-
ential right of satisfaction of his claim in the
event of insolvency, and then only under certain
conditions. The Bill, in fact, broadly proposed
that the landlord, who had the best security pos-
sible, ehould not be accommodated with the addi-
tional advantage, unshared by other tradesmen, of
making the State a shield between himself and his
own bad debts.
* * *
Bernhard Ringrose Wise, a judge's son,
-Attorney-General of New South Wales, Oxford
graduate, barrlster-at-law, and Cobden Club
prize-medalist—we quote all these titulary dis-
tinctions in order that the democracy of Austra-
lia may see the sort of men who wear them—Mr.
Wise, then, said that a radical alteration was pro-
posed by this measure:—
“In a large, important, and ancient portion of English
law. No reason had been shown for this change, and the
mover of the bill did not seem to understand the fall bearing
of it. The persen chiefly affected by the measure, and in-
juriously so, would not be the landlord but the poor tenant,
and the poorer the tenant the greater the injury that would
be inflicted. If the hon. member introduced a bill for
limiting the power of distress and exempting still further
the goods of third parties he should be prepared to support
him, but a revolutionary measure of this character he felt
constrained to oppose and to do all he could to prevent coming
into law."
Mr. Walker replied, but the second reading was
unceremoniously negatived without division Not
another soul thought it worth while to speak.
* * *
“ Measures, not men,” la at least the motto of
The Bulletin, though apparently not the motto
of the gaDg who voted against this Bill to abolish
distraint for rent, pimply and avowedly wholly on
account of a sentimental objection to its intro-
ducer, though, in other directions, this same mer-
cenary crew is, or pretends to he, swayed by the
above-cited principle. When, however, an indi-
vidual, whose “ respectable ” name is a synonym
for chronic, and not altogether transparent insol-
vency, fetters a Bankruptcy Bill upon the neck of
the commercial life of the mother colony, the
colony’s aggregate senility does not sneer at him.
Yet, if the man is so mixed up with the measure,
if his private life and domestic finances are so in-
termingled and cross sewn into the warp and
woof of his public career as to render the one un-
disting uishable from the other, it may happen
that the best argument against the measure is t he
added power for evil which its passing would give
its proposer. But this applies not in the present
case.
* * *
The fact remains that a good measure was de-
feated, and its defeat defended on account of a
sentimental objection to the man who moved its
second reading in a House of Legislature in which
the representatives of the people are supposed to
be not a set of cantankerous old women, but the
intellectual bone and sinew of the country. One
daily paper sneered that
“ Mr. Walker’s first attempt at legislation was a signal
failure.”
Why ? Because it came Walker l But
their fine scorn rebounds back upon themselves,
and shows them as enemies to the dearest
aspirations of the Democracy. It helps Walker
in the 1 nj ran by u i ing wi f h his name a blow
directed against an over-.ed system of land.
lordlsm. Another daily paper allowed its
writer" to indulge in one or two little s®®
which he encouraged the habit of extending
measure in itself good disapproval of its a
—the mere instrument which introduce! m
journal said
“Mr. Thomas Walker had charge of this, which ens^^ e
it a deaf ear ficm the House, no matter what it rns
been. t dltet
It then defends the Bill, although it disci:
and apologised for the discredit heaped *
proposer. But this is done in the course o
comments upon the political debate, the p
question devoted to this great subject , n< ? j D j on ,
no authoritative expression of editoria
On that important day it was consioci
highly pregnant and presting que3tiOß _
leading columns of “ Cliristiani'y a na.
and the “New Z3aland Financial H’ j O ' S
Thus does the Press bolster up a so-calle d an
parliament which rejected on the v Ol go
enormous majority—the House refused e
through the farce of a division on ihe , j yaD co
Bill to abolish distress for rent—-t.* ie jjr.
mar h of Land Nationalisation— bee
Ringnose Wise said it would he un-h>U
Un-English! Exactly so. The Engh^ t 0
which the capitalistic rings are so a - a nd
maintain in Australia, is handle rlisnfi V - e tion
simple, with its attendant outrages, ’“L a jfr.
brutalities, and its bailiff ruffianism- t it is
Wise in England and in the Govern
Salisbury s Government and not j re i a n<i
which would conmund his allegiance, a . xfr ci? 2
would furnish fc rth a fitting ficli f° r ( 1,10 er c las3
of his philanthropic concern for the P .ofor®
of tenants.” The chief objection to uP on
Australia is from the imported _ sP° => g { a r-
Australia—the legal leech -and his ® tro .jr ; 0 u®'
gument against anything good i 3 tha; g o u?b
English, The Attorney-General of-
- made use of his “un-English gprsl®’
simply because he is English. His sp Hve® eßS
patch was forced into hot-house produc of
the soggy, sealing-wax-odoured atino3P r 3 of
English University, and whatsoever glass’"
mentality coma to sickly maturity in bO fc '
cally-manured soil are English U®v s fcies
house flowers—to livers tenea h A . t j ß g i®‘
hardly worth the gathering. The h o jj|tti 0 '
fluence of the English University is fa
brained men. It was fatal even tohy® j pee 1 ’ 0,
the would-be founder of a“oolonial Hon
And Mr. Wise is not a Wentworth.
* * , Vs*, this
New South Wales Attorney-General v
ginger-bread production of the legal P re flni®&'
tralia, wanted rather strengthening tn- gtra iiß
He should have been sent into the wi : , lßtr all a ® l
bush with his tutor—and a wild A t. a th-h rlC
that—and rubbed down with a men ta , Uci ve ,’
instead of being perfumed with Ost ceb 8 \
aity patchouli. He should in his adoies oli a t
been fed on intellectual mutton and a j. a cftC L
not upon the lotus leaves of the narrow i
mtcal cult ia England. Yet Mr. WiS* jle
take care of himself in a certain sens • • oa a
little or no reverence for the classical ‘ . wS°.
Oxford. He is simply a narrow ® 1 cor tai® 0
limited and never very definitely "'j
enthusiasms, with a red tape-bound leg a pprcd
a cast iron habit of thought, an i ut ®, D . lc tl |o !,.q
tion of his own merits, an incita O piiu o!
seldom loudly published contempt f° r ' n® 1 ' 1 ’ 0 ,,.
of all those not educated in the 8 _ ROS
circle as himself, a mild toleration f° n( i a!® 3 ’’ ‘ $
bery brand of liberalism, and a pro® f going
tion for thi lgsas they at present ° xlS , B o"' ,
tirough a cint’naa.ce of the system - ‘ 1 °, g .
tuns a fat judgeship or something c e p gyer! 0
ably fall to “his iespoctable ” lot with 11 .ggpeP .
tantdate. He is no dreaming student se jj c
thean solace in draughts of clissic.’ 0 • pit
a keen eye and a comfortable igo a»u<! ti (
level-headed regard for the legal lo»v ,j ( C r
and no foolish perturba' ion about ad jjnP rl
things for trodden-down humanity 01
ticable belief in its accomplishment. # . - 0 p
Therefore Mr. Wise opposed ths in
distraint for rent. He opposed it be ; n th° 00 tb®
first place he is not an Australian, a® _^. er is e
place because he is a law , or. 'U® j j -tbd
prop and tlie counsellor of the landlo’ , e
dogs of the same kidney arid run lC p c
letsh. The landlord is an enemy ( ’ ; n st °* { e s<
directly-the lawyer indirectly, n -. n ilai' spe^ c ial
veterat ly. They are vermes of aBl |Ji9 e j.jfl
They batten and breed like .maggots 10 0® . 0 y
cheese. They fatten and feed like ( ]iC
s.cial corpse—and they never lch' n,be®, lIU .pid
tiring they feed upoa until the sap aII pfili®'l (0
have been sucked, out of it and the l > jo
the muscle perishes, ad the viscera fi' I ” e i g c
thrice-picked tissue. They are _ a ug''' j,eii'
active and angry competition . 1 ,, yet
that threatens to wrc3t a dainty ®° ‘ _ v vbi®%»t
hungry maws. Touch but a bone lip ste d >" , o ,ig'
remain some savoury remnants ot_v ' st . oJI ,
and they swarm forth from thou y, o pj<l® 1
holds and spit and spume in spitetu
* # t- gpeci®! fi°l
One of the Attorney-Generals .Ld-
ments against the abolition 01 eS tftbl 18
rent was that it was “ old a® l n ct&’
He might just as well upC l n <jO 7
defend an incurable eczema, the ,P l - • ’ , of
or trial by ordeal and justify A l!B n , c) pro l '
ton’s challenge to Mary ashfoh t j lo ® vil) g
the practice of his own brethren > .jftci’ 11 B ui"
breaking a contract to defend a .’fugbt ot *, n i’ o> l
received a fee. What would be tin p c®®^ je®
geon who refused to extract an ;iru cst®. \f
the ground that it was an “old* 1 ~
cancer,” a “most respectable ( jie
headed cancer,” standing in the hg 1 # , fl
* * is
Mr. Wise’s defence of landlords’ 1 ent 1,1 ' o ce® t
the extreme. He losc3 bis pivot m ju pis
for his pet social cancer. H° BiU
speech:- t ev^ ei JX
“ When they found that a practice J’jfdVb*® [he
most remote period that law had exist W 0 rs“,- it
that it had been confirmed from time t ti]'‘L.uid.Lr>'
ture of the land, they were justified m s® g a i‘®j f o
alteration in it took place unless there u pleS» re to »
by a large proportion of the population, n 0( p
tion was thoroughly considered. He ” uot^ O> A
cate the interests of the landlord, 4tc.
Is this the spirit, then, in whhj bl°° d 'f,!il ?!
General approaches a revision or jc J ? ' I®
code of New South Wales, w nllß ld® re '
argued, has been thoroughly c tb o c rl deb ‘ !
stringing up of children, perhaps oie 1 %
of forgers and perjurers, for
civilised countries would be vis
imprisonment, and the floggmb «, vve®
whose offences, according to the f a ci<’ o>g o >g
the indictment'sheet, were ■ a jl ’ ' ’. O
of insanity, are now established e
according to the Now 80atm '■ — 0( tn® Jig o
legal mouthpiece he Legisi®' lftW g 1 0 *
justified,” not i 1 remodelling ® «jn 6® e 0 t vl 0
progressive spirit of the time, b uD‘* . f f [ \
no alteration” in them “took P port y(J i}
war ad mand for it by a la r * 0 a ri- e
UopulaLion,” and the demand 1


the wlDg3 of a panic to be met with supercilious
indifference by the man who represents that
“England’s” greatness of which Mr. Ringnosk
Wise is so fond of boasting. Elsewhere in the
same speech Mr. Wise made these illogical re-
marks :
“The landlord would be moat stringent in insisting upon
his right of re-entry and security, or payment in advance, or
a bill of sale, which would make the unfortunate tenant his
slave. The lion, member seemed to think that the Bill
would apply only to towns, but it would affect the country as
well, and would lead to serious inconvenience."
• # *
The law of distress which is now, and has been
for ages past, in active operation is necessarily
and absolutely a landlord constructed law, and it
must, of necessity—legislating specially for only a
favoured section—be one of the outposts of vested
interest first attacked by a landless democracy
when it begins to make laws, not for a special
favoured section, but for the good of the whole
community. The landlords and their parasites,
of course, oppose innovation, but—simple minded
philanthropists I—they oppose it in the interests
of the “ poorer class of tenants.” The proposal to
abolish distraint for rent was, in short, simply a
proposal to place the landlord on exactly the same
legal footing in regard to recovery for debt as the
grocer or the supplier of other perishable or non-
perishable articles of human requirement. Mr.
Wise’s argument that the landlord would, were
such a proposal to become law, he compelled to
secure himself by rent paid in advance, or by a
bill of sale upon the furniture in the rented house,
&c., is sheer nonsense. Other tradesmen do not
do so, and surely Mr. Wise does not argue that
landlords are less commercially competent than
they. Indeed, the law at present justifies the ini-
quity of the other tradespeople paying the rent of
a defaulting tenant by tie compulsory saleiby the
landlord’s bailiff of their unpaid-for goods. The
landlord, meanwhile, even in the event of losing
a little rent, has, at least, the property upon
which further speculation in letting can be prac-
tised, while the defrauded butcher has not e ven
the shin-bone of a joint supplied to levy upon, for
that, too, is the landlord’s. The landlord has
with his property that unearned increment value,
for which he is not at present taxed by the State,
created by agencies in which he has no active
share, save in taking care that he receives his due
extortion for said increment. And as for the
argument about the landlord being the payer of
taxes, the level-headed landlord is careful to
make the tenant pay them indirectly, and pay
them he does, and the fact that he pays them has
at last been recognised, at least in Sydney, in the
passing of O'Connor’s much-debated and long-
blocked extension-of-franchise-to-ratepayers bill.
* # *
Says a Sydney “ Freetrade ” daily
" Bet Mr. Wise give us Freetrade in land—Land Na-
tionalisation—towards which [this Bill to abolish distress for
rent is one of the first steps. Freetrade in land will involve
free competition, and free competition is what the landlord
fears, not th poor tenant.”
But the Australian “ Freetrade” party will do
nothing of the sort. Not a member of the red-
rag-driven gang of legislative incapables came
forward in the interests of Democracy. Not a
member of a Ministry whose own chief was the
first to violate one of its pet measures dared to
advocate a principle which might affect the
security of recovery by land-shark auctioneers or
governmental speculators in human necessity.
They sat and blinked at their legal mouthpiece,
the Attorney-General of a land-jobbing Ministry,
one of whose constituents is the advertised head
of a pawn-shop, that charges a carter 130 per
cent, per annum interest on a blood-sweating
loan, Cobdenite lawyer —and because a
lawyer and a Cobdenite, the enemy of the working-
man in Australia—had all the glory of pleading
the cause of the hard-pressed and injured land-
lord,
# * #
In every Australian colony the Democracy must
nush forward all legislation in the direction of
Land Nationalisation. From this principle there
is and should be no divergence. It is easily seen
how the expedient Protectionist is a land-national-
ist, simply because the brand of “freetrade”
which comes to us from England—and should be
called not freetrade but Cobdenism —is the steady
and remorseless foe of the people. Under its
regime the entrails of Australia’s wealth go to
England, if not in the form of money, in the form
of wool, for which we get no substantial return,
or, indeed, any return at all save shoddy goods.
The soft-goods houses in various Australian cities
are mere branches ; in them the resident partner
is generally nothing more than a life commission-
agent with a salary and as much as ho can make
upon his sales. They are not prosperous because
they are drained to keep up the credit balance of
the house across the ocean, and they are not con-
sequent to prosperity to us because they return
nothing of v r alue to our commercial vitality. The
bogus “freetrade” of some of the Australian
colonies—not yet wise enough in their generation
to adopt protection—taxes food-products which we
cannot grow, and pu's an excise tax upon articles
of local manufacture. Real freetrade means the
abolition of the customs-house and the obtaining
of revenues from a tax on land values, but the
freetrade ports of Australia are cordoned round
with customs-houses, and land taxes are scouted
With vehemence and furious alarm. “ Freetrade ”
in Australia is simply indiscriminating protection.
It protects the foreigner—the Frenchman, the
German, the Chinaman, the kanaka, the Yankee.
It protects everything and everybody but the local
Workman. It is of all nations except Australia.
It is the friend of the landlord, because mono-
polised land means cheap labour and the impossi-
bility of profitable competition. Colonial Protection
Australian Protection —is honest. It is not a wolf
in a fiscal sheep’s clothing. It will lead to Land
Nationalisation simply because it provides an
alternative, which Freetrade does not. Anomal-
ous as it may seem—opposed as it may seem to
the doctrine of Land Nationalisation—Protection
still points the way. Land tax or a revenue
tariff. And it must be always remembered that
uot in Freetrade England, but in young, vigorous,
Protectionist America the land movement is
strongest. Wallace, the Englishman, may in-
deed be the prophet of Land Nationalisation, but
Henry George, the American, is its Allah. If
the contentions of alleged Freetraders be correct,
'his must be so. 'W ithin a few years, they say,
Protection eats its own heart out. Very good.
Then let the next move be a tax on the land. Not
as in England, with land taxed at a v aluation
assessment made two hundred years ago, and a
nation of starvelings groaning under an unequal
and anomalous revenue tariff which enables the
foreigner to come across the Channel to pick the
industrial eyes out ef the country.
* * *
“ Freetrade ” teaches us to grow accustomed to
abuse. For revenue purposes it places absurd
taxes upon articles of food which we cannot grow
in Australia, hence men in time look with no dis-
favour upon charges of an almost prohibitive
character, but which they must pay, or go with-
out articles that use has made almost necessary
m them. For instance, a standard of value, in-
culcated from our cradlohood upwards, con-
eiders 6d. for a plug of tobacco as not at all ex-
orbitant, while the commodity itself is intrinsi-
cally worth not It is all a question of custom.
Just as the English waiter is contented with a
penny tip, but a colonial waiter looks askance at
any of less purchase-value than sixpence. Free-
trade, so-called—Australian or English—is indis-
I criminating protection, or .it discriminates too
well in the interests of the foreign producer.
When, as “Freetraders” tell us, a protective
tariff no longer furnishes revenue, the people will
demand the obtaining of revenue from a tax on
land-values—such revenue as will shortly be
raised in America, Not being accustomed to the
“ freetrade ” expedient of taxing commodities of
wide-spread local demand incapable of being
locally produced, they will look with consterna-
tion at any such proposal as taxing such non-
loeally produced articles. Hence Protection will
diverge into Land Nationalisation, and hence also
a “freetrade” regime will never favour Land
Nationalisation while imports can bo taxed for
revenue purposes in the interests of the shoddy
ring of alleged merchants and actual land-sharks
whose representatives claim to be the chosen of
the workmen, but who take the first opportunity of
strengthening the right hand of his enemy the
capitalistic landlord as soon as ever such a ques-
tion as the abolition of distraint for rent comes to
the surface politic.
We are Snobs!
For how long are our eyes to be tormented, ant
our common-sense outraged, by the guahin
columns of receptions, banquets, and other junke
ings which the newspapers tell us are bein
vouchsafed to the most noble Marquis and m;
lord the Earl 1 Why are we such fools as to spen
our money and time on these people ? There
no land under the blue heaven, except this broac
Australia, whei’e any special notice would b
taken of them. Elsewhere, they would be allowed
to travel pretty much as ordinary people trave
but here we must feast them with onr best, w
must applaud their vapourings and assure them
(with gush) of our loyalty. And what do we ge
for it all ? When the most noble returrs to hi
haunt 3 in Club land he speaks of us to his frienc
as “A very good kind of people, you know ; aw
fully vulgar and coarse, but anxious to please ! ’
# * •
The truth is we are unmitigated snob’, some o:
us. Our snobbery bursts out in all manner o:
places. We love to hear an “ aristocratic
tongue sing our praises, and to secure this w
stimulate the aristocratic palate with the bes
champagne and the most seasoned dhhes we ca
procure. When we become very rich, Australi
ceases to be good enough for us, and we hasten t
England with the fond delusion that those nobl
ones, to whom we showed hospitality in th
colonies, will condescend to know us at home,
we send a newspaper-man to London to write u
letters concerning an important public event, w
are satisfied with his discharge of that duty when
he tells us of the Dukes he has rubbed skirts with
and sends us the tattle which he scraped from
aristocratic kitchens. He knows we are snob 3
he treats us accordingly, and we acknowledge h
is right. Our Prime Minister and leading states
men go to represent us at an Imperial Conference
hut the cod-fish smile of a distinguished per
sonage, the dinner of a titled statesman, th
supreme physical beauty of a magnificent Prim
rose dame, the glitter of a star, the shimmer of
ribbon upon the throbbing breast, send them bac i
traitors to Australia and willing in heart and sou
to “ grace in captive bonds the chariot wheels ” o
imperialism. And yet we will return them again
a ud again to power !
* * *
We are snobs, and it is through cur snobbery
that Imperialism has power over us. When wi>
people recognise the fact that this young giant
land of Australia is being manipulated in the in
terests of an effete Imperialism which will live
(if allowed) upon the fresh bounding life, the ye
untapped resources, the brawn and the strength
of the country, until nothing more is left but ruin
and blight ? Look what Imperialism has done in
the past ! Roman Imperialism degraded civilised
mankind and opened the doors of the world to all
the horrors of the dark ages. Ottoman Im-
perialism changed the most fertile lands of the
East into the grim wilderness of to day—passing
over them like a hot pestiferous wind from hell,
scaring and burning and blighting wherever its
sulphurous breath was felt. French Imperialism
so corrupted France that we are forced to behold
just now the hideous sight of a young and
vigorous Republic manifesting all the putres-
cence of an old and vitiated State.
• •
•
And then behold British Imperialism ! See how
it has sucked for a century the life-blood of India;
how it has ground its iroa heel into the vitals of
Ireland ; how its influence in America bred tu-
mults and misery until the Union flung it off for
ever, and Canada compelled it somewhat to relax
its grip. And this is the thrice-blessed thing our
snob-statesmen would establish here ; for this is
what is meant by their subsidies to the Imperial
fore ss, and the establishment of
military and naval oligarchies in our midst,
to be supported by Our money. Yes, here
in the midst of free, Democratic Aus-
tralia where some of us thought we should
never have to smell the corruption of noble lords
and their works and pomps, we find the old
blight appearing, and some whose “ bicod burns
at the corruption and villainy of men,” have to
grind their teeth with rage, because our Demo-
cracy is too careless to heed the plague-spot, or to
apply the remedy,
* * *
Nero fiddled while Rome was burning. Our
young men are backing the favourite and talking
“ Beaoji and Hanlan,” while snob-statesmen are
running Australia in the interests of the Colonial
Office.
The Board appointed to inquire into the misman-
agement of the Sydney trams is one of those little
jokes which prevail in New South Wales. It con-
sists of Roberts, traffic-superintendent, Midle-
ton, locomotive-superintendent; Thompson, boss of
the permanent way ; aod Rf.ed, railway traffic
manager. Pig inquiring into bacon wasn’t a cir-
cumstance to this, but a little thißg like that
amuses a New South Wales Government. A few
years ago there was a prisoner under a life-sen-
tence inParramatta gaol, anda piousold lady whose
intellect was on its last legs fell in love with him,
and used to gain admission regularly to his cell,
for the purpose of giving him spiritual consolation,
Finally he and another prisoner quarrelled orer
her withered smiles, and somebody was haif
killed. A Board was appointed to inquire into
the old lady’s goings-on, and to find out who
was responsible for them, and two-thirds of its
members consisted of the Governor of another.gaoi,
and the Inspector-General of Prisons! Quite
naturally, the results did not amount to much,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trafalgar Square.
THE RULING CLASSED AND THE ENGLISH
POOR.
Why the Workman is a Socialist.
Below we print, side by fide, two extracts from
papers which have reached us from London by a
recent mail. Is there a man whose blood does not
boil on reading of the brutal insults deliberately
offered in a court of law by the unsympathetic
representative of English “justice ” to the
hungry toiler—is there a woman who is not
ashamed from her heart at the cold blooded waste-
fulness end selfishness of her sex in face of the
awful misery amotg the London poor during the
cold and pitiless winter
From London Daily Tele-
graph, Oct. 13.
At Bow-street Police-court
yesrerday an intimation was
received to the effect than a
deputation from the meeting
of the unemployed in Traf al-
gor-square would attend
fore Sir Jas. Ingham. Chie:
Inspector Neyland, witli a
number of the reserve men o
the E. Livision, were placet
in charge of the court.
1 arge crowd assern bled, heat
by a banner bearing the wort s,
“We will have bread
work.’
Chief Inspector Neylan
addressing Sir James In
ham, said a deputation lr
the meeting was desirous c ’
addressing him.
Sir James Ingham : C
tainly.
Five men were then at -
mitted.
Sir James, addressing 1 te
leader : What is your r ante
Thomas Walker : I am
cabinetmaker. A meeting o
3000 or 40000 of the une
ployed was held in Trafalg
square this morning Th
object was to draw the atte
tion of the Government o
the general distress in t ie
country. They wanted som
work. They had tried
work, and could not get
They had expressed a wis l
that if you would give the
three months’ imprisonmen;
they would sooner accept tha.
than walk the stieets anc
sleep about Trafa!ga>-squa
Sir James Ingham: Whi
cf them ? What is your nam
(addressing ar other man)
Alfred Bold well,
Where do you live? —: 26
Ormonde-stveet, Newcross.
What are you ?—A paint
and paperhanger.
How long have you be
out of work ?—A fortnigh ; ;
but I may say I have been ou,
of work as different times du
ing the summer.
Have you applied for relie !
at the parißh ? I don’t wa
chanty, I want justice.
Sir James Ingham : I
asking you a question. (' ’o
another man): What a
you sir ?—A painter.
What is your name?
Pearson.
You are out of work ?
Yes.
How long have been ou ; ?
—A month.
Sir James Ingham: Tie
summer time is general r
when painting goes on ?
Yes, but we have to li
through the winter.
Is this a time when the
is much painting ?—No.
In the winter time do yo
do anything ? When I ca
get it.
You must knew that is
of the risks of your emplo
ment. It is generally in tl e
summer season that som
thiug is done, and somethin
else must be done in th
winter. That you mus i
know ?—That is the work
have beei brought up to.
Sir James Ingham: Yo
do nothing else, and you ex
pect that painting must g
on in the frosty weather t
suit your convenience. Hav
you applied for relief to th
parish ? No, and don tin
tend to.
Sir James (to the nex;
mai): What are you ?—-A
barter. I cannot get work i
the winter.
Sir James : Why not
People want attention.
Applicant : The peopl
do not want their hai- cut s
often. I have a wife atu
three children, and they wan
something to eat.
Have you applied to th
parish? No; and I don t. in
tend to. I apply to you to
give me three months im
prisonment.
Sir James Ingham : You
know perfectly well that i
all nonsense.
Applicant: We don’t intenc
to starve.
Sir Jambs (to another
man): Wnat are you ?—A
trouserspresEer.
Are you out of work ?
Yes.
How long?—Eight weeks.
Have you apnli'd to the
pari?h for relief?—No, J
thought I would sooner come
here and go to prison, as you
are treated better in prison
than in the workhouse.
Sir James Ingham : I am
sorry to say that each one of
you knows, and you must
have been aware, that it was
out of my power to comply
with your request. You
know perfectly well that no
magistrate can send a person
to prison who has not richly
deserved it by some crime or
by a contravention of the
law. Your coming here is
merely an empty phrase for
the pnrposs of making ■ a
theatrical exhibition. My
answer to you is this : I have
no power to deal with your
case. The law provides a
sufficient maintenance for
persons who (.horse to avail
themselves of it. If you like
to apply to the parish for
relief they will be bound to
investigate your case. If
the parish authorities find
you really are destitute they
must relieve you in a manner
which has been settled ac-
cording to law. That is the
only answer I can give you.
You will be kind enough to
retire.
Walker: I want to ask
you one more question.
Sir James; Wei!, what is
Walker : The unemployed
were of opinion that you
could not send them to prison
without committing some
crime, such as sacking
bakers’ shops. If they got
sacked would you give them
imprisonment?
Sir James Ingham : I
hall express no opinion on
From I ondon Fashion
Paper, October.
The State Ball, as a milli
nary show, was very pleasing
The Duchess of Tuck's lovely
gown was of cream and golc
brocade, and nasturtium-
c loured velvet trimmed with
gold. The Grand Duchess ol
Mecklenburg - Str e i, i tz
wore a dress of ruby velvet
over a petticoat of brocade,
with raised velvet flowers of
the same shade; the front
the body being entirely covered
with diamonds and sapphires,
tiara and ornaments of sap-
phires and diamonds. Isa-
bella, Countess of Wil-
ton’s dress was of cream-
coloured brocade wrought
with gold and silver thread;
the front was a mass of gold
embroidery encrusted with
pearls; at each side a hang-
ing chainwork of small pearls
strung upon gold thread at-
tached the rich embroidery
of the front to the brccade
of the back and side dra-
peries; the space between,
over which the chains of
pearl 3 and gold carelessly
lay, was filled in with folds
of soft cream coloured crepe;
the bodice, of brocade, had a
soft berthe of tulle and a
vest of embroidery, which
was almost hidden beneath a
mass of diamonds; little epau-
lettes were formed of hanging
chains of pearls and gold
drooping gracefully over the
top part of the 'arms. Julia,
Countess of Jersey, wore a
dress of white-flowered and
striped satin brocade, draped
with fine old lace, and
with branches of green fern
and varied velvet foliage
placed here and there t o hold
the folds of lace. The Coun-
tess of Itosse had a petticoat
of gold and train and bodice
of old-world reseda brocade,
shot with various golden har-
monies, and with a design of
raised roses in subdued
colouring. The Countess of
Bandon wore a dress of white
satin duchesse and silver-
striped gauze, trimmed with
fine Chantilly lace. Lady
Penrhyn wore a very rich
dress of mauve poult de soie,
draped with crape and trim-
med with bouquets of pansies;
the front of the dress having
a tunic, handsomely em-
broidered with gold and large
pearl drops. Lady George
Gordon-Lennox wore a
distinguished toilette of white
and black; the bodice of the
richest white moire antique,
striped with black velvet; the
jupe of white tulle striped to
correspond, arranged with a
hands jme moire antique sash
on one side, agraffed with
quantities of white ostrich
feathers. Lady Helen Ddn-
oombe, in white, with pearls,
wore a skirt oi white silk
tulle, falling iu long broad
pleats from the waist, over
white satin, to which these
pleats were attached by chain s
of fine pearls in a very ori-
ginal and most effective way;
her bodice was of white satin
flowered brocade, soft silk
tulle being pleated in tiny
ridges nearer the wearer’s
neck, caught with chains of
pearls. Lady Jennings (of
Sydney) wore a such gown of
black . satin de Lyon, pro-
fusely trimmed with cut
jet looped with ivory-coloured
ostrich plumes; train-lined
with cafe-au-lait satin ; dia-
mond ornaments. Lady
Oust wore a handsome
toilette of rich black corded
silk, trimmed with mauve
gauze, and veiled with fine
black Chantilly lace; cor-
sage to correspond, trimmed
with gauze and lace. Lady
Rumbold wore a drets of
grey tulle, thickly covered
with pendant drops of quick-
silver, over pink silk; the
polished surface of the pen-
dants caught every ray of
light, and made them dance
and shimmer as the dress
moved in a way that was most
fatcinating to watch ; the
bodice of grey silk, wich the
quicksilver studded tuile
folded round the neck- and
shoulders, looking like liquid
light as it sparkled and trem-
bled when its wearer mored.
The Hon. Mrs. Algernon
Mills wore a skirt of white
satin, veiitd with white tulle,
looped up with poppies,
wheatenrs, and bows of red
velvet; the front was a gleam-
ing mass of silver embroidery,
in which setd pearls were set,
that seemed to give out the
shimmer of the silver with
the creamy softness of their
own smooth and changeful
surface; the bodice, of satin,
had a vest of embroidery and
a spray of poppies, wheat,
and grasses mingled with red
that, and I think it is an ex-
ceedingly impertinent thing
to ask.
Walker: We come to you
for advice, and you tell us to
starve.
The deputation shouted,
We refuse to starve."
Holdwell : Your advice
is that we are to starve ! We
are not going to starve.
Sjr James Ingham: You
don't deserve any compas-
sion. Please leave the court.
The deputation then with-
d>ew, and joined the men
waiting outside. They
marched quietly away.
velvet loops on one shoulder
The Hon. Mrs. Ashley Pon-
sonby’s dress was a harmony
in maize, gold, and silver;
the way in which the tones
were blended and the general
effect was a triumph. Mrs
Campbell - Bannerman
wore a lovely gown of white
tiger-lily brocade, with a front
of cm. roidery in glistening
metallic threads of pale ana
delicate colouring Mrs.
Staveley Hill s dress was
composed of aconite brocade
and Victoria velvet, with tine
point gaze and brown velvet
ribbons.
However, the day will come I
The Finances of New South Wales.
Treasurer Burns’ financial statement reads like
the pathetic protest of a monetary Dogberry,
who asks that he may not be too hurriedly written
down an ass. The glowing promises of the
Parker Government have been falsified, every
one. The deficit left by Treasurer Dibbs was to
have been promptly wiped off, and it remains jußb
where it was, only more so; the assets, in the
shape of arrears of pastoral rents, which Mr,
Dibbs bequeathed as a set-off to his shortage,
have been seized upon as current revenue; the
Protective duties imposed by the late Government
have been religiously collected by their Freetrade
successors, and the temporary inflation of the
revenue whioh resulted has been held up as a
proof of the advantages of a Freetrade system ;
and, with all this, the £900,000 surplus which was
to have stood as a lasting monument to the glory
of Parkes’ “ honest ” Government has vanished
into air, ard in its place appears a deficiency of
£106,000, with every prospeob of a larger act of
insolvency next year. In other words, the dif.
ference between the promises and the perform-
ance of the Parkes’ Government amounts to over
£1,000,000 per annum. The revenue for the year
has reached the magnificent sum of £8,456 225 or
£900,000 more than the total received by any
previous Treasurer, and this increase, which was
owing almost entirely to the policy of Mr, Burns'
despised and [rejected predecessors, has been
fooled away in jobbery and expensive grovel in
providing for the erection of a costly Charnel
House in a dismal swamp in which to inter the
eminent financial bunglers of the future in
buying at enormous prices from influential
Government supporters land which the nation did
not want, in financing a Centennial drunk, and an
Australian navy over which Australia’s enemies
the Imperialist?, will have full control, and In
paying high salaries to the brothers and cousins
and aunts of the Government, that they might
study the manners and customs of the fast-
increasing rabbit. It is a sign of the terrible
straits to which the Parkes Ministry is reduced
that they propose at last to lay a sacrilegious
hand on the sacred ark of “proputty,” and by
tWs device they hope to realise, during 1888
£550,000-enough, probably, to pay for the Dead
House in the swamp. For the rest, a process of
hap-hszard confiscation among the lower-paid
members of the Civil service is expected to
yield the amount required for the Centennial
drunk, and all beyond that is chaos. Even
P»rkes’ friends of the daily Press have unani-
mously turned dog upon the aged muddler who
promised so largely and collapsed so miserably •
and Sydney D.T. has commenced to institute com!
parisons between the insolvent colony of Mew
South Wales, with its bankrupt dictator, its re-
venue of 8|- millions, and its £156,000 deficit, and
Victoria, with its income of little over Beven mil-
lions and a surplus of £604,000 on a single year’s
operations. The lordly contempt which Sir
Henry has so often expressed for the dull, sordid
virtue of paying 20s. in the £, is written large in
every line of the financial statement, and after 12
months’ experience of the Government which was
to inaugurate a new era of reform, New South
Wales has nothing to show for hor endurance
except a fresh history of jobbery and Parliamen-
tary blasphemy, and one more 1.0. U. to Btick on
the file among the accumulating records of her
lost prosperity.
Prime Ministers of England, when they go down
to the Mansion House to eat corned beef and cab-
bage with the Lord Mayor of London, usually
communicate a few Cabinet secrets over the mug i
o’ beer. The practice is becoming colonial. Las ■
week Minister Sutherland and Attorney-General
Wise, of New South Wales, went up to Redferj
to be present at the great national and Centennial
event of laying the foundation-stone of Mick
Simmons’s tobacco factory, and there Her Ma
jesty’s Attorney-General gave an exposition or
the Government policy to the aristocracy o '
Waterloo and Strawberry Hills. These events
will now be looked forward to with breathless
interest by the whole community. When Parked
goes over to Woolloomooloo to open the new
pawnshop of Moses Aaron, Esq., or Abigail
proceeds in state to Miller s Point to lay the first
stone of John Smith’s new two-hundred-per-
shent loan-office, the colony will be all agog
in expectation of the Ministerial utterance. Wnen
the Dead House is erected in the Dismal Swamp
Ministers will divide their time between post
mortem panegyrics over dead Ministerial sup-
porters aud Government deliverances at the
opening of new grocery-stores and butchers'
shops.
♦
How far off is the Social Revolution ? it cannot
now be very distant, considering that the follow-
iDg letter appe&rs in a London Tory naner tuq
italics are The Bulletin’s ' Ane
Ifc is very Bcid tb&t thor6 should bo rnnha r»f thn
ployed, and that they should find nothing better todo th!?’
riot in Hyde Park. But it is quite uselesl preaching on this
topic. Gabble never yet was a remedy for antthino „
least of all for great economic evi's, havffig thej? root in th«
very basis of society. Probably, in the stone age, there were
food and employment for everybody; but, since the growth
of civilised communities, economic difficulties there hive
been, and always will be. It is lamentable, of course thlr
men sh uld starve, but it is quite in accordance with
own law that they should do so Nature cares nntwi!f 8
the individual, aud very little for the species. freat
convulsion like the Lisbon earthquake, or the still 7,
catastrophe that occur-ed two years ago to L? i”
thought nothing of s y eping away fifty or a hundred thou-
sand persors at a stroke—and think of the nonXti™ „
nuallv struck down by pestilence ! I(> can't an '
selves to promote the survival of the ur, fittest, and thtslsJie
category to which these mobs of the unemployed belong a'
the rejuse of the social machine, the wheels of which grind, rr
lentlessly and irresistibly. But nothing is i ost in Nature's
great scheme 1 hese rioters are failures as men and mZis
but Nature has plenty of use fur them. Let themreturnto it i
great laboratory, and emerge therefrom in a new chemical
bmation In other words, Qu Us crevent! This is Nature’s
remedy for our population. Why should we, poor mnn,
mortals, attempt to defeat her designs i V ' IUhJ
Just below, in the same issue of this organ of
aristocracy we read :
Among the diamonds owned by the Princess of Wales is a
set of beautiful stones for fixing in the centre of flowers
used to trim, dresses. The dress is made and th-. flowers
attached.eitherlooping up thedraperyoradorning the bodice
At the last moment a trusted attendant puts the gem centres
into the flowers and firmly secures them there The eRe-t
is most visible when the Princess is dancing, as thev snintii
late with every movement. 8 ' * fcintil-
Again we say it: Lt Jour Viendra !


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
It cannot be too strongly insisted upon
that the enduring effect of the convict system on
the public spirit of the older Australian colonies
is traceable not so much to the convicts them-
selves as to their gaolers. This is a significant
fact which writers on Australian subjects have
venally ignored. It is now time that these
mercenary wretches were gibbeted for the scorn
of honest men.
• * #
The early stage of settlement was bad
enough, but it was reserved for the New South
Wales Corps to discover a yet deeper depth Two
years after Phillip landed, Major Grnse made a
proposal to the Secretary of Stare to enlist a force
for service at Botany Bay. He offered to raise
two companies without expense to the Govern-
ment on condition of his receiving a Lieutenant-
colonelcy, failing which be proposed io enlist re-
emits at bare cost to Government, in return for
his having the right to nominate the captain and
subordinate officers and receiving the levy-money.
.His letter h»s this passage :—“ I vill exert myself
to the utmost to recruit them with as little ex-
pense as possible, atd with as much expediti >d as
it is in my power." Maj r Grose kept his promise
His recruit ing sergeants scoured the hulks and
the prisons for likely men. The Savoy, soldiers’
hulk, furnished a large contingent of men under
punishment. Bad subjects who had been con-
demned to service in I- dia were reprieved on en-
listing in the new company. “ Characters who
have been disgraceful to every other regiment in
bis Majesty’s service,” wro’e Governor Hunter a
little later, “ have been thought fit and proper re-
cruits for the New South Wales Corps.” And. in
another place: “We find among these, men
capable of corrupting the heart j of the best dis-
posed, and often superior in evet y species of in-
famy to the most expert in wickedness amorg the
convicts.” Thirty convicts, who had bren
soldiers, were added to the force. Such were the
chosen watch dog 3 of Phillips peaceful Arcadian
flock.
The officers were fit associates of the men
they commanded. They were common gaolers,
hired to do gaoDrs’ duty. Tney had every quali-
cation for the work. The British officer of the
period was not likely to engage in the scramble
for a commission in this glittering corps These
commissions, therefore, became the spoils of a
set of wolfish jackals, who, with few exceptions,
were no better than the men themselves. The
Irish political prisoner, Holt, speaks of them in
his memoirs as “ those old tailors and shoe-
makers, staymakers, man-milliners, tobacconists,
and pedlars, that were called captains and lieu-
tenants.” No jackdaw-staff of a militia corps in
a burlesque ever approached this. Yet these men
were the founders of the “ first families” of at
leasb New South Wales and Tasmania. A cowardly
slur on the national sentiment cf YouDg Aus-
tralia is of en hated on the fact that the colonies
were originally convict settlements. The best
apology th at has been made is that it is not the
fault of Young Australia if its ancestors were
sent out by the best judges. But even this is
hardly true. Major Grose kept his engagement
only too well. It lies open to serious question if
he did not recruit the founders of our first
families with too lit le regard to expense, and with
rather more expedition than was either necessary
Or desirable.
Wolves eat wolves’ flesh ! It is a carrion
that no other beast of prey will flesh its fangs
upon. But the wolf has no sentimental fueling in
the matter, and neither had the officers of the
New South Wales Corps for the caged human
wolves they so eagerly offered to guard. We
have arrived at a chapter of our history where no
combination of invectives or epithet can reach
low enough to do justice to the foetid squalor It
dosortho3. But It has been too often glozad over
bo be lot alone now.
In Jannary, 1791, the first contingent of
the corps, consisting of 171 men, with a captain
and two ensigns, brought 1900 male and 150 female
convicts to Botany Bay. They lost no time in
getting to work on arrival. It is essy to under-
stand that men reprieved from the hulks would
enter on a season of enjoyment under the circum-
stances. So we presently find Captain Phillip
complaining of his little beagles. “They were
observed to be very intimate with the convicts,
living in their huts, eating, drinking, and gam-
bling with them, and perpetually entitiDg the
women to leave the men.” They fraternised with
the populace, as it were. Strangely enough, the
populace objected to the intimacy. It would be
invidious to aek why; but, doubtless, a natural
jealousy of experts who were “ often
superior in every species of infamy ” to
themselves, bad somethb g to do with this
ebullition of honest ptida But the King’s uni-
form was not to he insulted in this manner. They
took what Hunter violently dpsc-ibed as the
“ very unwarrantable liberty” nf destroying the
dwelling-house of one John On a
previous occasion “ the grea: est t a tof the de-
tachment left their barrscits with their bayonets
to attack an unarmed peoole,” and continued tn a
state of “open and avowed rrntiny" for four
days The whole detachment, with the except! n
of the non commissioned office's and five or six
of th s privates, took an t atb to 1 1 and by each
other and not to suffer a so diet to be punished
for whatever crime he might commit against an
inhabitant One of tha Governors orders puts
the matter in this feebiy-depr catory form “ It
is natural enough in every inhabitant of this
colony to entertain apprehension for tha safety of
tbeir persons . . whenever any private soldier
shall think proper to consider them as persons
deserving chastisement.” It was bimply a reign
of terror, dominated by an armed ruffian horde.
But where were the officers responsible for the
behaviour of their men all this time ?
* * *
These astute “old tailors and shoemakers,
stay-makers, man-milliners, tobacconists, and
pedlars, ’ who called themselves captains and
lieutenants, wire engaged tn another direction.
The officers of this glittering corps had other cats
to whip, and o.her fish to fry. We shall see what
they were at presently. Meantime, when the
Governor called on them to protect him and the
inhabitants from these ruffians—complaining bit-
terly of “ the insults which have been offered to
me ’’—the officers resented his interference. He
belonged to another atm of the service. He re-
torted that if tha soldiers expected him to “con-
sider them by the very honourable appellation of
British troops, it must be by their bringing for-
wa d the ringleaders of their shameful conduct.”
And eventually, in a fine burst, he wrote to Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Paterson in these terms : “ I must
declare to you, sir, that the conduct of this part
of the New South Wales Corps has been, in my
opinion, the most violent and outrageous that was
ever heard of by any British regiment whatever.”
It is Hunter who writes thus. Here, again, his
feelings were too strong for perspicuity.
* * •
The officers were jealous of what they
called, imaginatively enough, tha honour of their
corps. They relented interference with their
privileges b3cause it checked their action in the
furtherance of private schemes. For we find that,
as soon as they reached Sydney, they at once em-
barked in trade, almost to a man They evi-
dently regarded the money paid to Major Grote
for their commissions as an ord ; nary trade invest-
ment. So they at once put themselves in tha way
of securing returns. They robbed their men and
the inhabitants with easy indifference, and carried
on a shameless and usurious trade about which
we will have something to say in its proper place.
To secure their influence they interfered in ell
public concerns in the ad minis ration of such law
as existed, and in any and every measure cf a
social or commercial character intended to further
the interests of sett’ement
* * #
Let us gibbet a few names of officers of
the New South Wales Corps. Besides Major
Grose, we find Captains Nichols, Nepean, Hethe,
Paterson, and Foveaux. The first and the two
last acted as temporary Governors, and Foveaux
achieved an infamous reputation la er on as
Governor of Norfolk Island. Then came Li u-
tenaiit M’Arthur—a colonial Machiavelli who will
take up much of our attention as we go on—
Lieutenants Tlmmpeon, Abbot, Beckworth. Pren-
tice, Rowley ; afterwards came Captain Kemp, a
later Van Pieman’s Land worthy, who survived to
above the age of 90 ; Piper, Laycock, and others
came after. Not all of these were equally in-
famous ; but, like the husbandman in iEiop’s
fable, we will hang up these foxes with the others
for the company we find them in. Of all the
characters that Dickens has painted, next to Ui iah
Heep, that of Claypole was perhaps the most con-
temptible. That rank youth yearned to give
some one a flogging, and arrived at his ambition
at last, in becoming a turnkey in a gaol. These
early officers were the Noah Claypole3 of Aus
tralian story, with all that worthy’s penchant for
safe petty luroeny superadded. Theob-erver of the
pioneers of the first fleet might well have thought
that the world at large could not produo* a set of
wretobet more lost and degraded than those. The
arrival of their gaolers of the New South Wales
Corps discovered a yet lower level. But to de-
grade the degradation and cap the wickednpgs of
the rank-and file we must look to the officers
themselves. To paint their characters from their
own records will be a task as easy as it is repul-
sive. Yet it is necessary to revive the history of
the past to get a clear view of the anomalous
position of the Australian social and political
systems of to-day.
* * #
Changes had been going on while these
events were taking shape. Phillip had made re-
peated applications to be relieved of his change,
rendered doubly odious by the conduct of the
offi es. He succeeded in getting away in Decem-
ber, 1792. He received a pension of £4OO
foe his services. Australian writers have
taken a delight in printing much tiresome rubbish
about his benevolence and his forbearance —his
temperate, judicious, liberal, patient labour. Had
he been a Washing on instead of a common gaoler
of felons, his eulogists would not have apotheo-
slsed his memory more. Himself and h’s assis-
tant warders had a more just conception of the
position they occupied. A convict, on arrival, pre-
sented a letter purporting to come rrom Baron
Hotham, asking consideration for the bearer. The
clumsy forger had addressed Philip as “your
Honour !’’ The fraud was at once detected, says
Captain Tench ; for no one but a cor vice could
have used such a mode of address to his gaoler.
When the officers of the corps assumed the
Governorship, no title short of “Excellency”
would serve their turn. Lot us see how they
used their power when it, came.
“ n.”
CORRESPONDENCE
“ S.S ” : Of all the miseries in life, the worst is
to be pestered by the Flaneur. He will neither work him-
self nor allow his victims to do 50... Competitor: Will
enqnire....A Marley: Yes, considering that, in a good
American hotel, a whisky-and-soda costs two shillings....
S L : The “ b hentver^ y u-see-a-red-haired-girl-look-round-
for-a-wbite-horse ” so-called superstition may be easily ex-
plained by the fact that white horses are more common than
girls with red hair, and one can hardly look anywhere
in the streets without seeing a white horse, though he
may stare a long while ere he sees a flame-headed girl ...
J. Makin: It is the law that is to blame, which applies
physical degradation to political offences, and popular senti-
ment, will correct it by decreeing that in Ireland physical
degradation does not exist....L.M. (Queensland): Please
sei.d address that we may write you... .Republican: Will
look upDebrett Hia ti tnt S 3 for a clerical billet is amply demon-
strated by his political opinions.... A. Rickard: But do you
think the rich people of Australia will give moieyto buy
bread for the starving London poor ? Not much, while there
is a lord between Cape York and Cape Otway to be stuffed
with chicken and champagne.. Helix: Good story. Writo again
...JB. (Montagu Island): (1.) Thanks for subscription in aid
of Roy (2) Tn England the Queen can make anyone an
admiral whether he has expedience or not.... South Sea
Rat: Please send address....E M.A.: It is untrue that
Dibbs ever upheld Chinese labor Gael: In the words of
the American humorist, Stranger, we shouldn’t like to call
you a liar, but if we were to see you walking down the street
arm-in-arm with Ananias and Sapphira, we should say that
yau made quite a family party... .C.S.: The Parliamentary
reports in the daily papers are villainously partial and give
you absolutely no idea of what really happens. Buy and
read one copy of Hansard, the official report, and then tell
us, after reading the newspaper reports of the same debates,
whether rou are not absolutely astounded. ...Little William
(Albury): Good. Do. Will you guarantee originality?....
H J.S. (Hobart): Never take a joke seriously. All the mis-
understanding has arisen because you aren’t a humorist....
Wanderer: There are fine lines and fine images in your
“ Wine Song," but it is very, very groggy in,metre... .Way
farer : The “ Swagman's Eate” is not yet decided..,.H.
M'Harg: You’re a failure as a narrator of "Facts"; try
your pen on fiction next trip... .Inkpen: Thanks. We have
dozens of similar letters from all parts of N.S.W. anent the
iniquities practised to raise money for the same fund ...
Geo. Black: Parkes will hardly persist seriously with the
Bill, as the withdrawal of Queensland (to whom the thanks
of Australia are due) from the rest of the colonies materi-
ally alters the whole question of the naval vote....
Nemo: You are hardly qualified to hymn praises
to the Great Discoverer. You cannot spell his
name. Were you thinking of Cooke, of “ Universal
Letter-writer" notoriety ? Vacancy: We shou’d think so.
Your poetry implies it Thos. Hdloran: See future issue.
....Solicitor: Thanks for your capital letter. Will
prob.b'y publish Hillston Stock Route: Will give
the substance of your grievance by-and-bye
Religious Unemploye: What in thunder does it all mean,
anyhow? C.H.L. (Pitt-s 1 reet): Thanks.... Teacher : Next
week.... Subscriber (Wellington, N.Z):It does not signify
very much one way or the other... Anti-flagellator: Will
attend Parks (Terara): An old, old, weary, gray-headed
gag W. R. E. Durrant: The crystallization of our own
Btntiments. [Many communications held over.]
The William Roy Fund.
Some further donations to this fond are thank-
fully acknowledged :
Amount already advertised, £142 8s 6d. Per P. O'Leary:
P. O’lieary, 103. ; G Kemp, ss. ; J. Ritchie, 5s : Burgess,
lO.v ; “ Tare<y £l. Collected by J R. Thompson, Mount
Romeo, Q : S G., 10s ; J.R B , 10s ; J. Pender,
5s ; P. Melville, ss. : O. Hogwood, sa. ; W. Deelly, 5’ ; O
Borns, 53 ; J. Spence, sa. ;O. Leslie, ss. G Flowers, ss. ;
Republican, sa. : J. Doyle, 53.; T. Shephard, ss. ; W.
Scandeu, ss.
The veteran Sir Saul Samuel, N.S.W
Agent-General, has been granted six months’
leave of absence. He returns temporarily to Aus-
tralia owing to a lamentable event, the death of
his son, Mr. Louis Samuel, a brilliant young civil
engineer, who died of peritonitis in Sydney last
week, after a veiy short illness, at the early age
of 26 years, leaving a widow and child to mourn
their loss.
Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., we are in
formed, did not vote for the Soudan Contingent.
He was not a member of the N.S.W. Legislative As-
bly till eight months after that vote had been
taken. The only part be took in the Soudan con-
troversy was to write three letters to the Press,
showing the “ primary cause of the Soudan war”
to have been an effort to suppress the Blave trade
in the Soudan.
“Gumboil” Cairns has not been left a
million. All he has is the interest of £150,000, the
sum settled on his father by the latter’s rich
uncle, to enable the late Lord Cairns to assume
the Chancellorship. Gumboil’s great uncle, Mr
MCalmont, who died the other day, left£4,ooo,ooo,
mostly made in Mexico, and the bulk of this goes
to his nephew, who is in the Scots Guards. He
bequeathed £lOO,OOO to St. George’s Hospital.
The N.S.W. Art Society’s dinner, held
last Saturday evening at the Society’s gallery,
was a real success—especially considered as a
means of impressing the claims of art upon the
crass souls of the politicians. Mr. Julian Ashton,
the president, occupied the chair, having on his
right the Minister of Justice, and on his left
the Minister of Education. The Press gang
were in great force, and after dinner took the
opportunity of favouring the company with
various unwritten leading articles as to the re-
spective influences of art and journalism. Our
notice of the Society’s Exhibition stands over till
next week.
Australia isn’t much of a place for a poor
man now. It is good enough for a lord or a duke,
but if the Carpenter’s Son came back to earth in
N.H.W. there is hardly a squatter or an alderman
left who would stand Him a pannikin of flour and
let Him turn His horse into the paddock. We
mean no irreverence by this ; we are merely try-
ing to expound a fact. Down at Young (N.S.W.)
the other day a miner built himself a bark-humpy
on a piece of waste land three quarters of a mile
from the town and within the limits of a pro-
claimed goldfield, and he was fined 20s. and costs
for erecting the struo ure in a populous place.
Having do money he had to go Co gaol. A deli-
rious Council, it proved, had dubbed this par-
ticular desert a “ street,” though there was no
street there, and the population consisted of a
goat trying to eat a jam-tin on the edge of the
horizon. Blessed are the poor in tpirit l
The Referee
fcfle*
Beach’s off hand banding over p etor
sculling championship to his “ «ld 'jf the
Kemp,” is nothing, if not amusing. 8 ,'g_wbid>
championship had been a portable ar,
it isn’t any more than the Premiership y g j a9 t
might just as well have handed it over _ jjl
born, or his grandmother, or his
ihe claim Kemp holds to it. The W& 6
over” will be looked upon as a huge J ~ u <jaUTi
sculling world. Hanlan, Teemer,
Bubear, Trios ett, and we do not * afl pro-
many more scullers can, in all h
bability, beat Peter Kemp, so that ffl anF
appear that Australia, afrer holding 1 ua ticS. f'
years a prominent place in the world s h a bid
at last without a sculler capable of ge oo8 ’
for the championship. However sin i n tehtioo
may be at the rresent time in his state ffoU ]dn c '
lo retire from the racing track, « venot-
mind taking a shade of odds that w
seen the last of him in a racing-shell.
Hanlan, of coarse, holds up CU f '
idea of any race he may row with K e jin
ford, having the Championship . r 0 r V&\
articles, but says he is ready to r ° w^ 1 1)f f or d
for £5OO a Bide. Both Kemp and A,^pi® ioD 1
been compelled by the force of public
signify assent. #
* * jjgpk 0
Beach is to be referee in the I o aD d»
match. Beach knows nought of the g eX cOP 1 ’
worse selection could nob have bach® noti° 0
of course, as a draw for “gate." ”, fha t eith® 1
the way, that Burke only “ believes , fl f a rc 0
he or Foley will be knocked out. ”
Hiddleston’s performance v- neX t te aDl
team has earned his nomination for the
going to England. #
* * . i 0 the
Charley Bannerman says St°^“® rßia n
best batsman he ever saw. As ® a aryO noio 0i0
himself a batsman, and has seen eVO * g
world bat, perhaps he is a judge. * oo b Ol
ntight add a remark of Dave Grego i’
asked his opinion of W. G. Grace e o |d A IB e
li-h champion first appeared on tn ' p*
Ground. “He’s a clever one," 08 . h
“ but I think Banner man equally g°°
* # ahlV BUf '
W. W. Read said he was g
prised at the result of the first ia ,
Englishmen, and that Turner and goo to 7 oU
any better than other bowlers. B oo ' *
Evans is unquestionably the m °
cricketer in N.S.W. If any ° ta ® n
Evans, with as few claims to select Qn i& n ..
put in the team what an outory th o *. pop lU %
been! Bub “the boys" a ro » f ptt® to
seem to think, good enough to gKfl '
Englishmen through, and the V „ no e ‘L®
see “ Teddy Ihs Shepherd," the afl ftif>t a
screw bowler,” in the team for old ff bf Bo
sake, although there are plenty oflll-
- been in before him.
* * * A^ig
Up to the present, Mr. Waited 0D0 y.
given the M.C.C. much fun for their q3( j bf ~
shapes at the wicket as though opP o ef'°
weight cf his engagement-fe o , a
anxious to justify it. . ,
. . .
Beaumont, Bates and
took one wicket for 216 runs b0 n „ider
N.S.W. Bad generalship there, c <,q j-p ll3 ’
S tod dart, who took one wicket for
only put on for 15 overs. „
* - r ted
The defeat of the M.C.C.’s i»P ° tbe co^ gt ,
can’t be exou3ed in the same waU tb 0
of Shrewsbury’s men. They w
knocked up a big score on a
were then unable to prevent N.S.W* . fl a # { o‘
it by 68 runs. This result bears oy ’ tb o , \>l
measure, Lillywhite’s contention . e „gtb 0 f o ppO'
fessional” eleven could nob he® t e or
baking in any members of the ‘ a
sition, a statement which has W W K
ridiculed by the M.C.C.’s own P a j- in ioß °]
The Bulletin has expressed an op t)J0 f
team In Australia can make
400 against Shrewsbury’s men ’
are fit and trying all they , ]job gO
include four bowlers— Briggs r 0 b®, 0
of course, for choice—who
far behind the best Austra t »r® pp«f
Peel, Attewell, Bates, and Bern* . hah®
their best form. And they are ., n >7 a s
wifh such a decided batting “ t a “. 0 { tb 0 £o pf,j
pets, though, in this respect, ho r oa ,Ae<b L
combinations are weak. If, then, _ P* c fl f,u r f h ,
sentative All England Eleven i s Sb r ® 9 l ‘ P 3
should comprise at least eight- paid
lot, with Smddart, Peel, and W. 7 ' )oX er- " v
stitutes for Braun, Newham, and gug 1 '* ‘ r c3 t ’ l |
nice professionals are put into gi , af 0 yo 0
wouldn’t bbck them at 6to 4 agu n \ fl( rbt l0 ®
taGve “ Aus ralia ’—there is t '_ K oO<l
English amateur cricketers are n° ®
out a close finish. * iU* t
* * niOll® hl^
Beach has resigned the t olP^.b oo
in time to save his laurels , ° at
away—in other words he haB i >a «oha. ° f J c
a week ago Messrs. Tost alld ln si.e
street, Sydney, dealers in stun a( g X <jd
spears, scalps, and brass g° dB ’ 10 o d, A
doorpost an offer to row our
championship and anything np g oiik cb IP d, “ja
stead of coining to the sorAtoo- () f w
The firm, being elderly aad „ 8 an d »° c w,ul d
never having had any training „ioH 0 ~,
to swim, stimulated that the 0 ord
in a New O; iaea catamaran 1 pjobftbu
things about equal, and this
William


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Roval—“Li MascoUe D- H
Criterion Theatre —" Liah" >•
Alhambra Music Hall—Sacred Concert n
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
Domain—Pain's Fireworks
Her Majesty s Theatre.— “ My Partner ......... ■<
Academy—Maccabe n
The Giant Family, which is now exhibiting
its adipose tissue in George-street, Sydney, is a
combination which lives on its own fat. The pride
and glory of the 6how is a girl who owns to 16
years and weighs 26 stone—in other words, she is
sweet 16, and probably has never been kissed, for
any rude admirer who tried to embrace her would
run the chance of being featherbedded to death
when she fell against him. When she rises it is
suggestive of Chimborazo taking unto itself
legs ; and when her brother, another vast moun-
tain of human wobble, elevates his noble bulk
beside her the effect is stupendous and the noon-
day sun is eclipsed. There is no deception about
this pair. The visitor is invited to feel the boy’s
legs and the girl’s shoulders, and he needn’t be
afraid of tickling the young lady while experi-
menting, for before the sensation has time to go
through her fleshy tabernacle he is in the next
street. The rest of the family are thin and or-
dinary, and, as is usual in this world, the thin
ones are servants to their fat relatives. They not
only wait upon them, but are subjected to the
further ignominy of having to grind the barrel-
organ, and while they are grinding thefatgirl basks
at her ease. She can’t “ overcome the flesh ” ; she
has too much of it. The father and mother com-
bined only amount to one-nineth of her, and sink
into insignificance in comparison. We did not
wait to see the young lady fed, but if her dinner
isn’t up to time when slie is hungry we wouldn’t
be her thin brother for anything. We walked
half round her, bub when we arrived at her fifth
rib we were tired out, and sat down in the
cool shade of her imposing back view to think.
Ultimately, we resolved that this eleven hogs-
heads of girl is a political conspiracy. She comes
from Gippsland at a time when Parkes is arrang-
ing to annex Australia, and the chances are that
the Victorians have sent her over to collar N.S.W.
She is big enough to take it away under one arm
and Parke sounder the other, and if anybody gives
her any cheek, she would jfprobably grab the
deficit as well. All true patriots should go and
see the fat girl.
«U. ■M, AA <U.
'ft' W TV* W
Solomon Lob
Lost his nob,
And all for the sake of martial glory.
“ England’s Honour,” a tale of martial
glory, opened last Saturday at Sydney Gaiety,
and the hard-blundered Crimean campaign was
dished up again in all its military wretchedness.
There is a good deal of “beware ! ’ in this story, and
several times we are informed that “ a time will
come,” and in the first act we meet our old friend,
the Protestant villain, who has made an informal
marriage with a Catholic, and then casts her off
when he is tired of her that he may marry a lady
with a fortune. In the second act Mr. Gordon
carts out all his characters by main force to the
Crimea, though several of them have no more
business there than a snake has in a synagogue,
and drags them violently through a sea of
troubles, (till at last his wicked parties
perish with their heads resting on a snow-
ball and a baby-smile on their features as
they lie clutching a treasonable despatch
on a foreign strand. There is much hoorayiDg
for the Queen in this third-rate drama, and the
heroine, who marries the wrong man and doesn’t
find it out till she is getting old, has her hair
nicely done up in a knob at the back. Mr. George
Lash Gordon plai s the part of a war correspon-
dent, who is, in some respects, a tolerably accu-
rate copy of Verne’s Alcide Jolivet, and Miss Lily
Dampier makes pretty nearly the only success of
the piece as an arch little cha r mer known as
Penny Wise. Messrs. Leston and Stoneham break
out strorgly in places when the drama gives them
a chance, the latter being especially good where
he hauls down the Russian flag with an evil grin
on his unpromising Adsige. The rest of the
aggregate calamity does net amount to much.
## # *
The man who fixed up the “ entirely new
and original version” of “Leah,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, deserves consideration —under the heading
which provides that if an ass fall into a pit on
the Sabbath Day it shall be straightway pulled
out. There are no particular points about his
version as compared with the old, original story ; lie
casts no new lights on the misery of Judah, and—
“ The slow, slow go of every woe that everybody
feels ”
Is still the prevailing feature of the play. The
new versionist has merely put an old narrative
into his head to steal away his brains, and when,
after three long hours of lofty misery, the ancient
tragedy comes barking up the home-stretch and
reaches the winning-po3t, it leaves behind
it an impression that it was hardly worih
while writing a fresh edition, which is so
remarkably like the oil one. There is the same
blind three-ball Abraham out in the ram without
any umbrePa— the same abandoned 100 per shent
roiming through the land, seeking bread and
getting a club, and there is a miserable, draggle-
tailed, broken-backed storm with second hand
lightning that, on the face of it, is the ordinary
property moonshine cut into strips. If it was
worth while hashing up the eloquent dismalness
of “ Leah” to depress the spirits of a loyal people
—which by the way, we very much doubt—it
might at least, have been done in a way that
would take off a little of its dire solemnity. The
Jewish maiden, for instance, might be turned
into a horse; Nathan might, with advantage,
be transposed into a bookmaker, and Abra-
ham could serve as a tout and lie low in a
ditch watching Leah as she made a time-trial.
Then with Rudolf as a policeman, and Father
Herman as an Italian organ-grinder, and Hans as
his monkey, and the Styrian forest cleared ana
stumped so as to make a decent racecourse, there
would be, for once, a fair chance of making
“ Leah ” a lightsome entertainment. The curse
in the third act could still be retained, but it
might be launched by Sarah, disguised as a Sun-
day-school teacher, and directed at the villainous
bookmaker, after which Rudolf could move her
on We present these suggestions gratis to the
man who got up the new version of “ Leah.”
Miss Essie Jenyns made a beautiful and graceful
Jewess, and her acting was, in spots, unexception-
able but she was wildly excited, and in her
moments of terror she occasionally stood at a
slope of 45 degrees to the horizon, and we submit
that this angle is a pretty considerable strain on
the daughter of Judah. Mr. Greenaway was ex-
cellent the microscopic part of Abraham, and
Mr Hodson picked the Apothecary with spirit, but
the other characters, who are mostly required to
look like commonplace prigs, did not seem
happy. Neither did wt>.
The glamour of Maccabe’s old-time repu-
tation brings crowded audiences bo Sydney Aca-
demy, and there is still sufficient fire in the
remains of the ancient vent riloquist to keep his
listeners in good humour. Seme portions of his
entertainment show considerable traces of decay,
and others are more melancholy than comic, but
his representation of the husky troubadour—a
very different individual from the one who sang
gaily as he returned from the wars—is as good as
ever, and the “ Temptation of a Good Man ”
brings down the house. Mdle. Minna, as a
Spanish dancing-girl, a statue, and various other
things of a generally useful character, is an able
assistant. The Academy hai been re-painted and
decorated in a dizzy fashion, and the alterations
have left space to swing a oat where there never
was room for any cat before.
* # #
“La Mascotte ” still runs at Sydney
Royal, and there is mirth and gladness in the
ticket-man’s eye, and suppressed affluence in the
quiver of the managerial back hair as the crowd
goes up the gorgeous stairway. Maggie Moore,
Elton, and Co., are all daisies, and the chorus
makes us glad we were not born a black, be-
nighted nigger beyond the refining influence of
the Royal Comic Opera Company. Also “My
Partner” continues to earn a vast amount of
well-earned gush at Her Majesty's, and when ib
retires on Friday to make room for something in
five acts called “ Siberia,” it ought to leave the
stately George with enough money to start a new
bank-account.
## # #
Frank Psmythe—this is the new London
spelling of the time-honoured name of Smith -is
already spreading himself at Sydney Alhambra
with a view to the approach of the festive season
when men eat more pudding than is good for
“THE MARCHIONESS.”
them, and his programme this week approaches
the confines ol the utter. The “ Legs pd,” as
warbled by Miss Beatrice James, is too lovely for
anything, and Percy Shannon, Sam Keenan, and
Amy Morelli are all in good condition abo itthe
vccal tubes. Will. Stevens, a new recruit, is also
an awfully nice young man, and “ Call at 3 ” is
an elevating moral farce to wind up with.
*# * *
The Bondi Aquarium has taken a new
lease of existence under the mansgament of Mr.
Taylor, who is also a member of the proprietary.
The skating-rink is now in fine working order, the
big shark is healthy, the seals are in good spirits,
and the fireworks, which have lately been laid on
with a lavish hand, have proved an immense
attraction.
#* # *
The Ashfield Recreation Ground promises
to come out strong on the 17th December, when
a series of bicycle sports are to be held under the
cold glare of the electiic light, with fireworks to
,follow, aleo skating rink, two billiard-tables,
dressing-room, refreshments, andother attractions
calculated to paint the premises red.
#* * *
Very few weeks ago, a careless jingle was
introduced into a Bulletin notice or “ Mixed ”
at Melbourne Bijou—
“ The roses bloom and the roses fade,
The grass now green soon withers —
But may the hour be long delayed
When Night shall cast oblivion’s shade
O’er Day—and Bosco Blithers.”
At that time the gifted comedian was “ calling
about a hat ” in quite his best form. But the
shades fell rapidly; Phil. Day’s long night has
come, and his ecoentric oreation, Boaco —“ Bosco,
beloved of my soul”—will leer across the foot-
lights never again Poor Phil, made his final exit
at the Alfred Hospital, Melboilrne, early on
Saturday morning. Remembering him as Bosco
Blithers, Dan’l Jalkes in “ Silver King," and as
that extravagant old Doge in “Estrella,” no one
can question Day’s genius for character-acting,
within certain limits. A native of Ireland, he was,
oddly enough, least himself in Irish parts. It
is a common complaint against actors that
they have no natural bias towards the business
they laboriously learn. Most provincial Hamlets
are good butchers wasted ; few stage lovers could
pour forth acceptable passion except in the lan-
guage which sundry authors have put into their
mouths. But Phil. Day had a soul of his own,
and served the public in the capacity to which he
was born. Sydney saw comparatively little of
this accomplished artist, but his Melbourne ad-
mirers were so many, and so enthusiastic, that
there should be no difficulty about raising funds
sufficient to guarantee his wife and children
against want, and to ereot a modest monument to
the memory of Bosco Blithers.—
In many a part, in many a play,
We greeted you with warm “ Good !” Day.
But now, alas! the plays are o’er—
Your art shall shake our sides no more ;
Right well you strove to make life bright,
So pleasant dreams ! Good Day—good night!
JL .jf, OL
'n' Tv* # TV
“ First Class,” a four-act melodrama in a
few dozen scenes, contains enough crime and
strong language to keep Melbourne Royal filled
till Christmas. As far as can be made tut at one
sitting, the heroes of this play are a vererable
old burglar who hasn’t tubbed for years, a cleaner
specimen of the fraternity named Nosey, and a
purple and fine linen villain who mashes the
daughters of the aristocracy by day, and sneaks
their jewellery a'ter sundown. The dirt-encrusted
old gentleman has a virtuous daughter, and when
she jibs at putting on trousers and effecting
strange entrances into strange premises, her pa
pulls her round by her bonny brown hair and
locks her up in a dark cellar alone with her rebel-
lious spirit and the rats. The plot also includes a
gray-haired jeweller, with a fatal propensity for
getting robbed of his pocket-book, a superior pair
of lovers, and a commercial-traveller who per-
vades the “ situa’ions ” in the Interests of
virtue. This character gave Mr. George Dar-
rell a chance to show how uncommonly well
he can act in a part which hasn’t been
written for himself by himself. He was happy,
unaffected, and manly right away through.
Next time George writes a fframa he must fix
himself up with plenty of heroio light comedy, and
leave the attitudinizing to some other fellow.
Then he may realise that dream of his life, and
score a big London success, for when a man of
George’s energy gets into the right track there’s
no stopping him. Mr. B. N. Jones was unex-
pectedly powerful as the untubbed ancient; Mr.
Flemming won gallery groans as the villain
First Class, and there was now and then a
show for Miss Watt-Tanner, Mr. Beck, and Miss
Patty Brown, whose manner and accent have ac-
quired tone of late Peggy, the virtuous gal who
is sent to roost among the rats, fell to that sterling
actress, Miss Isabel Morris. The sublime
absurdity of “First Class,” from a critical point
of view, is atoned for by the humour of its,vil-
lainy and good scenery. It “knocked” a full
house on Saturday.
## # #
“ H.M.S. Pinafore ” went in fair style be-
fore the usual brilliant and distinguished audience
which fills Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday
nights. Bat It is about time that Gilbert and
Sullivan had a little rest at this house, for there
are indications that Gilbert’s acrid wit, set to
music of oratorio character, is beginning to re-
mind people of something they heard the week
before. Messrs. Lemnane, Federioi, and Howard
Vernon, have all been better than they are in
“Pinafore," and the resources of the company
don’b run to a “ star" performer for the all-impor-
tant Captain. Miss Alice Barnett has a firm grip
of Little Buttercup, but her song about mixing
the babies up finished amid awful silence on
Saturday. As for Miss Braham’s Josephine, it
would have been a sweet thing entirely, only she
was too indisposed to appear. When she does,
and the others put more “go” into th'ir work,
“ Pinafore ” may seem irresistible. “ School for
Scandal ” is not likely to break up yet awhile at
the Bijou, and the Opera House “ Combination ’
might keep combining for weeks if they were nob
booked for Sydney on the 17th. Sundry other
shows are in a healthy state.
## * *
Mr. Robert Brough has been on the point
of leaving this earthly stage for good two or three
times lately, but the latest news is reassuring.
According to all accounts, Mr. T. N. Fitzgerald has
achieved a be3t on record in connection with an
abcess in Mr. Brough’s interior. The tidings of
“ School for Scandal’s" continued sinoess should
help along the patient to an early convalescence.
It is even said that his Illness will leave him a
better man than ever, but we guess the original
Brough can’t be Improved upon much, anyhow.
#* # *
The Adelaide Royal has been occupied for
three rights by an amateur opera company, over
which we draw the door-mat of silent charity.
Tommy Hudsrn is doing wonderful basiness at
Garn r s Theatre, and is now in bis 16th week,
with crowded houses. “ All," the latest attrac-
tion, has proved a big draw. The rest of the
shows consist of We3leyan services and special
prayers for the Improvement of the morals of
deacons, bank-clerks, and Y.M.C A. secretaries.
** # *
To’make a fuss some folks attempted,
About the way onr halls are emptied,
But those who take the entrance shilling
Are more concerned about their filling.
## * #
Monty Browne, who has played many
parts in his time (choice gem from Shakespeare,
deceased), has now become a blessed variety
artist, and la about to visit Sydney with the
“Greatesb Show on Eart h’’ (this lie was con-
cocted in the office), Frank Clark’s All Star
Speciality Combination. This talented oat fit
starts In the local Opera House on the 17th De-
cember.
BRIEF MENTION.
Australia —Asstralia.
Beach has lota of sand.
The Naval Forced Bill.
New name for N.S.W. —Parkeatrayliar.
Another new name for N.S.W.—Nine Cat
Wales.
A man’a a man for a’ that deficiency.—
Burns.
On the Relief Works—The Parkes and
Queen’s Funds’ Committees.
Battenberg’a baby is at once to be made
a full-blown British admiral,
Man named Allbut suicided recently at
Portarllngton (Vio.) Allbut dead-
“ Our Army and Navy ” is a played-out
toast. “ Our Army and Subsidy ”in future.
Imperial Federation ia now virtually
realised. Australian Federation is still a dream.
Parkea’s Chinese admirers have agreed to
pay his poll-tax, if he will plait his hair int) a pig-
tail.
Lady Carington will unveil the Queen’s
statue. Always provided a Bulll widow can't be
got.
The eternal fitness of things.—West
Botany aldermen discussed the merits of soap last
week.
Queensland is to assume the title of
Hadesla, and West Australia is now to be called
Purgatoria.
Qaeen Victoria’s bull-pup has just died
His name was Noble. Let us oall New South Wales
“Noble" Land.
Beach having handed the championship to
Peter Kemp, nothing remains for him to do now
exoept to start a pub.
Abigail is in favour of the Naval Defence
scheme. He fears the bombardment of his 120
per shant establishment.
The Melbourne Presbytery has thundered
its loudest against the sinful Australian practice
of “shouting." Scotch, isn’t it?
A Hawkeßbury journalist observes that
times are tight. The oountry editor always envies
the times when they are that way.
The Mayor of Collingwood (Vic.) openly
sympathises with the Chinese. Chink makes the
May or to go—out of oflloe, on his ear.
More money coming in for the Beach
testimonial than for the Parkes tribute. Bub
then, Beach has al ways rowed straight.
William Shakespeare put up as a candidate
for the Waitemata (N Z.) Council. William will
now, we presume, learn to yell “ You’re a liar ! ” |
A snake got into a Mudgee parsonage, the
other day. It probably went to complain that
Haynes, M.P., was running a Sunday newspaper.
If the Assets Realisation Company (whose
prospectus ia just issued) had been floated earlier
ib might have bought up Parkes at some sorb of
price.
“ Chinese cooks are becoming very com-
mon in our hotels."—Southern Paper. “ God
sends meat and the Devil sends cooks.’’—Old
Proverb.
We hear that on and after Centenary Day
professional drunks will be compensated for the
loss of time involved by their having to attend the
Police Court as defendants.
A small boy who was out birds-nesting the
other Sunday at Majorca (Vic.), found asix-ounoe
lump of gold. This should be a solemn warning
to those boys who go to Sunday-school.
M‘Carthy 0 Callaghan was up for vag-
rancy at Collingwood (Vic.), the other day. A
man with such a name should not be at large.
His name alone would hang him in Ireland just
now.
M. Pasteur, the great French specialist,
proposes bo eradicate the Australian rabbits with
“ chicken cholera." Chicken collarer i Pasteur
would force every pestiferous, slant-eyed Mongo-
lian to beoome a rabbiter. This is a gorgeous dea I


PEPPE
Salt
The warm weather has fairly set in, and,
after all our fears to the contrary, domestic
poultry promises to be ripe for Christmas revels
Frugal housefathers should now select the
matronly hen for the Yuletide sacrifice, groom it
well, place it in the sun, and encourage the
bird with kindly words and the offer of a meet
reward to flourish and grow buxom. The barn-
door fowl waich i laid aside and held over for
slaughter during the coming festival should be
nurtured with especial cars. To be taken from a
wild, free life in the open country, where activity
and diligence were necessary in order to compete
in the struggle for exlstencs with the tame duck
and the voracious sparrow—a life of ceaseless toil,
of delving from dawning till dark for worms,
grubs, old nails, shirt buttons, and the garden
seed of the profane neighbour—and at once hobbled
with a log, cut off from social intercourse, its only
exercise confined to monotonous excursions in
a regulation circuit, and fierce and fitful endea-
vours to tow the family wood-supply after a pre-
datory beetle, is not a course of treatment calcu-
lated to improve the condition of a sensitive hen,
or exalt her standard weight many degrees;
therefore her health should be watched with a
powerful glass, and on the first indication of
staggers, white-swelling, glanders, or phylloxera
send for a notable doctor ; meanwhile apply Paris
plaster, and administer an emetic. Ignorance of
the soulful nature and complicated working parts
of the domestic hen leads many men to oonjeoture
that she would be cheerful and debonair in cap-
tivity if supplied with three meals of seven courses
per day, and would remain robust and able-bodied
and increase her bulk till it became extensive enough
to afford a Christmas feast for a grown family of
nine; the physical debility and deep relig ous
melancholy of the fowl so saved up are sufficient
proof that this system of training is a rank failure.
To build a Christmas hen of satisfactory proportions
and healthy tone, care should be taken to divest
the bird’s mind of any notion of its ’pending fate.
Nothing has such a depressing effect upon poultry
as the knowledge that its obesity is being culti-
vated merely to afford a brief gratification to a
carnal-minded monster. The songster Bhould be
let off the chain at least once a day, and taken for
a run round the square. Tepid foot-baths, and
light, farinaceous suppers before retiring wifi be
found beneficial. Toast and light boiled eggs for
breakfast, and a simple, who’esome, hot dinner of
not more than five dishes, is the most salubrious
fare for an able-bodied hen. It is advisable to
keep a groom, o’herwise the fowl is apt to become
saualid shed her coat, and acquire various skin-
diseases. A medical man of light and leading
must be in constant attendance, and the bird s bed
should be aired regularly. I? this prescript on be
accurately followed, a fine, big-boned, upstanding
hen may result, and when Christmas eve comes,
and it is stolen by a Chinaman, the legitimate
owner can congratulate himself with the proba-
bility that the heathen will be choked.
Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, who was as
modest and retiring as the shrinking violet for
Borne considerable time, popped up again last
week with an idea. Goe thought that, consider-
ing the marriBge connection existing between the
Crown Prince of Germany and her Good Gracious
Maiesty (not to mention “Tummy” and Batten-
berg) it was about time that the clergy prayed
for Unser Frits in his serious illness. The Bishop
wouldn’t take the liberty of squeezing Fritz in
along with the Royal Family (as little David Cop-
perfleld did with Miss Shepherd), but had his
name mentioned “in the usual place provided in
the prayer for ‘all conditions of men.’” From
this it would seem that a prince isn’t any condi-
tion of man, and it’s necessary to bring his case
under the immediate notics of the Almighty.
Poor Fritz ! With half-a-dozen physicians in at-
tendance he has a better show to live than most
of us, but if we thought our prayer was any good
he should have it, and welcome. Walter Besant
is generally accepted as a pretty good man, and a
passage from his novel, “My Little Girl," seems
to fit in just here. The captain of a doomed ship
tells his lady passengers that, if the wind doesn't
change, only the Lord can help them. “And,’
says the captain, “I don’t think the Lord will
help us.” Just a verse ortwo.—
Edith O’Gorman, the “ Escaped Nun,”
says that the Orange organisations of N.S.W. are
he best and strongest she has ever seen. We
don’t exactly know whether to call this a compli-
ment or not. We have ourselves been in some
places where the snakes were of a very high class,
and we have a friend who says that on the old
farm where he was born the skunks are unap-
proachable, but it never occurred to us to compli-
ment people about those things.
Dear Bulletin,—Many years ago,
when the world was younger than it is
now, there lived a man who had 25
mules fall down his chimney, and he declared, in
bitterness of heart, that the experience was mono-
tonous. The dreary sameness of Parkes some-
how recalls the memory of the 25th mule. During
his long career of intellectual barrenness, the
THE MENU CARD AT THE N.S.W. ART SOCIETY’S DINNER.
hoary dictator has existed solely by borrowing the
ideas o* others, and has garbled them in the bor-
rowin , and when the muddles of his dotage are
contrasted with the muddles of his middle-age, it
becomes apparent that the great African desert
of his intellect is growing daily more and more
sterile. When, a few days ago, he first pro-
pounded the idea of stealing the name of an entire
continent, and with it re-christening the colony in
which he has been so often insolvent, the majority
of his hearers imagined that an elephantine joke
was in progress, butlator proceedings have sho *n
that there is a method even in Parkes's mad-
ness, and that he saes nothing but sober earnest in
a proposition which will leave the fifth great divi-
sion of the globe practically nameless. Somewhere,
in the dim cbscnrity of the past, it is alleged, New
South Wales once held exclusively the r ame of
“Australia,” and after acquiesir.g for many
years in a nomenclature by which her f inner title
became the common designation of all of what
was once New Holland, she is now to take back
the old name by violence, and leave the Con-
tinent of which she is but a small part to be de-
scribed by pronouns or by deaf and dumb signs,
then the name of Western Australia will be bor-
rowed to define the rabbit-infested regions be-
hind the Darling ; and Riverina, by virtue of its
geographical position, will call itself Sou h Aus-
tralia, aud thus even the local name i of more
than half the Continent will be appropriated in
one act, and the whole geography of t"ro gr at
colonies wilt be butchered to moke a Darkest e
holiday. Possibly, however, this difficulty may
be got over. Victoria, as Premier Gilt.ies sug-
gests, may adopt a new title as “ Tne Southern
Hemisphere Tasmania can call itself Euro -e,
and South Australia, Asia. We tern Aus-
tralia can figure as South America, and
Queensland can start afresh by cal ing itself
“ The British Empire ; ’ while the nameless
Continent can be re-christened “The E;rth.”
By this arrangement one term, which semis to
have been unaccount ably overlooked —the name of
Par kestralia—will bs left open for future use, in
order to keep fresh the memory of the aged
muddler who is now earwigging knock-kneed
politicians in dark corners, and obtaining their
written pledges of support for the crowning folly
of a senile politician, whose age alone will pro-
bably prevent him jumping the Imperial purple
and dying the Homporor of a newly-created
Ausiralia - Scotty.
TO THE BISHOP.
Good Bishop—prayer, as we’re aware,
Availeth much, but it’s
No use to call on Heaven to spare
That fine upstanding Fritz ;
The matter you would thus arrange
TFe will not dare to mince ;
To you ’tig strange, but God won’t change
His laws for any prince.
Though parsons may the livelong day
To steadfast prayer devote,
Their plaintive pleadings cannot stay
A cancer in the throat ;
There are no flaws in Nature’s laws
To appeal against on earth—
They rule the proudest of bashaws
And men of lowly birth.
Bat, every year folks disappear
For lack of surgeon’s skill—
Poor mothers mourn the children dear
Who should be living still.
The ailing poor are at your door,
A pallid ill-clad band—
Pray for the “ all conditions" more,
And keep them in the land.
That nasty Naval Forces Bill
Sounds pleasant to the Tory,
Who swears by evil courses s' ill
And prattles on of “ glory"—
Most fruitful of all sources ill,
Whence issue troubles gory.
But spare us further lace and gold,
And British domination ;
We soon shall take our place and Inld
Our own ’gainst any nation,
Unless, meantime, fh's race is sold
To Imperial Boederatlon.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Michael Fennelly, Hon. James White’s
late trainer, left £12,318.
Sir Psalmyell Griffith was born in Wales,
and educated at Sydney, and live 3, as every
Queenslander knows to his cost, in Brisbane, Q.
A suburban editor remarks that a tame
parson has coma to be considered a neces Q ary
adjunct to a well-conducted newspaper in Sydney.
“Sir Charles Dilke has been received
with extraordinary co'diality by the Sultan.
The Lord of the S?raglfo probably recognised in
his guest a kindred spirit.
Premier Griffith has two decent qualities
in him, and a 30,000-power microscope can’t find
the bacillus of any more. He believes in the Con
tagious Diseases Act, and he is fond of Swin-
burne’s poetry.
Dan Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel,
has been compelled to settle up a libel'case by
paying £25 to the Queen’s Fund. This, under all
the circumstances, is the lowest depth of animal
and Chinese abasement that a white man can well
attain.
William Henry Cholmondeley Tartker-
ville-Bennet, Esq., late secretary of the N.S.W.
Primrose League, is now living on locusts and
wild honey. He has got an appointment as Church
of .England catechist in the howling back-block
wilderness.
It is cabled that Lord Lyons, late British
Ambassador at Paris, who was lately seized with
paralysis and is now in a critical condition, has
been received into the Roman Catholic Church.
Paralysis generallpmeansbrain-disease. What does
the ’version amount to ?
Bishop Moore, the B.C. leader of Bal-
larat, who has been industriously pncket-mining
ia his episcopate, as a result takes 1000 sovs
minted from Bsllarat gold to lay at the feet of his
Holiness the Pope. The holy father is technically
described as a “ well-defined leader, bearing
gold.”
Princess Beatrice’s latest infant makes the
thirty-sixth grandchild of the Queen, thirty being
still living. Half a century hence, there will, in
the natural course of events, be almcst as many
princes and princesses as peers. Half a century
hence, however, there may bh neither princes nor
peers, as such.
Sydney Evening News takes strange
liberties with the Q teen's English. It hardly ever
prints the name “Louisa” now without omitting
or transposing the “ i,” and this name happens
to ba just the very one whi oh can t stand such
liberties. Poor Louise Davenport is the latest
victim of this exasperating eccentricity.
Norton, one of the leaders of the Queens-
land Opposition, is a quiet, methodical sort of
“ family man,” who has devoted himself to Par-
Ham >n a-y business for years, and (It ia a fact!)
made no hing out of it He is a poor man and bat-
ters hn head with leader-work in the Courier.
Australia could do with more like him.
According to an English paper, “ the
Duke of Westminster is brother-in law to his own
daughter, his sscond wi'e's brother having
married his daughter.” What we want to find
out now is, euppo?ing Parkes's son married
Haynes’s second cousin’s grandmother, what rela-
tion would Parkes s creditors be to Thomas
Walker 1
According to Sir Julius Vogel, a certain
very high official of the N.Z. Parliament Is so
nopoless a drunkard that he has been forced to
sign and place bis resignation in the hands of the
Government ready for use at any time, like a
patent fire-extinguisher. The Auckland Bell
goes one better and deliberately names the wine-
bibber in question.
If good old Dr. Lang can view pre-
sent proceedings from the Golden Shore, he
will be much exercised at the evident determina-
tion of the Australian people to got rid of .John
Chinaman. It was the Doctor who got the first
poll-tax abolished, and in a spirit of thankfulness
to him f our hundred Chinamen, in European cos
tume, marched to his funeral in precession.
The British Press is exulting with the
British artists over the hideous effigy of the Queer,
vhioh Boehm, who is a German, and to whom the
work was giver, has put in the Jubilee coinage.
Ve have just seen a Jubilee sovereign, and agree
with the British Press and the British artists that
it is pretty hideous. But the likeness to Her
Gracious is remarkable.
Sydney Evening News, the special organ
>f that fine old Tory, ye Henniker, reports that
tier Gracious measures Yl\ inches around the
salt ! Tais item, we presume was printed with a
iew to increasing the respect in which Her
racious is held among her luvin' subjects of
Pott’s Point and Toorak. There is nobody like
: our Australian Imperialist for bowing down to*
ny thing that is fat.
When ex-Senior Constable Hoey, of Mel-
bourne, who acted as orderly to Coroner Youl, for
a quarter of a century, met with a purse-proud
ipstart, he has been known to admonish the par-
venu thusly “ Take care, me boi! I knew in
me toime as big men as you that had lots o' shtuff,
nd, after all, olve started their last thruppeny-
bit from (heir weskit-pocket with the hose down
j ondher in the Morgue.”
When John Cathie—the Victorian M.P,
—was first elected, he went down to the 'Ouse (as
he called it) clad in his undertaker's suit of woe.
On the first pause in the proceedings, he got up
and blurted out, “It would be a good thiDg for
the country if the members and supporters of the
Government were all dead.” “ Good thing for
you, you mean,” replied Aspinall; “you might
get the job of burying them."
James Munro, the Victorian teetotaller
and member of Parliament, is a native of the
county of Sutherland—which, by the way, seems
to be the home of the Munroe, who, if history is to
be trusted, were a wicked and a bloodthirsty clan
with no higher ideals in life than cattle duffing
and drinking Ecaltleiu— another name for boiled
whisky. There is a tradition that at one time
hey lived further South, but after the edict of
Malcolm 111. punishing drunkenness with death,
they fled to the fastnesses of Sutherland. It was
well for the Victorian Alliance they did, as it is
doubtfal if, otherwise, there would have been any
James Mnnro, teetotaller. A band of them went
to join the Karl of Mar in 1715, and on their way
crossed a stream on a Friday. They never re-
turned. Since then the Munros have been
divided on the subject of whisky and water. Some
say water was the cause of the trouble ; some say
whisky. Each party backs up its opinions vigor-
ously. There is still another party of moderates,
who split the difference, and pin their faith to*
whisky-and-water.
One of the best-known men in Melbourne
t j immigrants and emigrants is M'Donough, the
itinerant bsokseller, wfio sells light and heavy,,
leligious and non-sectarian literature on the piers*
*nd wharves. The other day a Melbournite was
getting on board a steamer at the wharf to come
10 Sydney. It was his first time to leave Victoria
t-ince he had arrived in it from the old country-
Just as he was stepping on the gangway, he was
stuck up by Hibernian Mac., who temptiEgly bald
out to him “ A Vdlage Commune.” The emi-
grant invested half-a-crown in it and had a little
book of prophecies thrown in (Mac. is great on*
prophecies). “Well, Mac exclaimed the vendee,,
as he pocketed the Lovel, “ flve-and-twenty years
ago, when I landed on the Saudrldge Pier, I
bought ‘ Lady Audley’s Secret’ from you for two*
bob. Miss Braddon had just then gone out. Now
j ou present me with a book of a woman who has
been born to literature and made her name in the*
meantime 1 You wore the first man I met in Vic-
toria, and now you are the last I am going to part
with 1’ And then they embraced, and went
downstairs. M'Donough has accumulated much
wealth by hawking books about in this way. He
owns terraces of houses in the city.
Henry Taylor, who, a quarter of a century
ago, was leader of the reporting staff of the Mel
bourne Age, is still to be seen about Melbourne.
For many years after his retirement from the
press Taylor held a responsible position in*
the office of the Master-in-Lunacy—a billet given
him by Justice Kerferd when he was Attorney*
General. A couple of years Bgo, however, he re-
t*red on corupensation. Where is now the staff
that Henry Taylor led twenty years ago 1 Gilbert
Roberts died on one of the South Sea Islands
John Davies expired in New Zealand; Harrj
Collier departed this life a few months ago m
Melbourne—died from the Age office, where, after
having been sub-editor, he Bpent the lasb years or
his life as proof-reader ; the clever and eccentr
Herbert Palmer is on the Melbourne Herald ,
Bob Whitworth is a free-lance writing prosei ano
poetry and plays for the million; Phillip n• ■
Barry made away with himself by poison ; t o
is in Sydney ; Billy O Hea died out on the Aramao
in Queensland ; and M. B. Stark is a clerk in
Melbourne City Police Court. Come, Robert
Whitworth, and sing “The Graves of a House
hold.” Or perhaps some of the elegiac and ep
taphical poets of the modern Age will oblige i
When the late Justice Fellows first arrived
in Melbourne he found no opening for a
at the Bar, and made application to be ,f p P? r , n0(il
a common constable in the “foorcA
heavens I you don’t mean to do that, , ~
late Dick Ireland, Q.C. ; “ come to my chamo
and we’ll try and get some pleadings fo >
draw. I can guarantee you three ® „ So
a week, anyhow, to keep the pot bo jJ“& mole ,
Fellows went to In lands chambers in le® P lo
Court, and his pleadings proved 80 d be
ihat the attorneys began to run to hi ,
stepped into a big practice before he koewwh
fie was. It was also Dick Ireland who took tne
pre sent Justice Wil nuns, of Viciona, F t
hand. Williams’ father was a *=uP re “ e f
Judge at tfie time, but terribly lazy , too if &
perhaps too dignified even to giva his °w“ ° d
leg up. But Mrs. Williams had more ««** * to
ambition, and she got her friend M . wa
help her boy, and young Hartley, like fae
proved to be such a capital pleade too k
got a chance to sbow what he could do, he too^
tfie attorneys by storm. The next
who made his appearance at th - . by
was Henry Hodges, introduced to
J.L. Purves, who, in lue turn, had bei®
out years before by the far-seeingandin u t
Ireland. Madder and Hodges will be the
Judges. Dr. Madden has made his now gf
rivalled portion at the Bar by sheer f
sterling ability without any extraneous aia.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Victoria’s politicians are all gillies.
Sugar Bounties— Abigail’s 200 per shent,
Py gracious !
Having resumed' that Circular Quay pro-
perty it only remains for the Parkes Ministry to
resume Australia.
Three Public Works constructors are do wn
On Premier Parkes' last schedule ! viz , A. and It.
Amo3, £530 ; Jame 3 Angu% £270 ; and Robert
Hudson, £3OO.
“How shall we celebrate our
hundredth year ?” asks Henry Halloran.
Well, a poet and C.M.G. ought to
know that much.
According to Fred. Gibbes,
M.P , who seem 3 quite an authority
°h anything wet, England is a patch
°f land moro or less moist.
Ifc is cabled to the Australian
dailies that Lord Salisbury proposes a
fair divide o" land, and wealth in all
its forms, every Saturday night.
Parkes is keeping his promise,
at the East Sydney hustings, that civil
®oi’v.mts would regret tho day they had
turned him out of that constituency.
The N.S.W. country press pro-
nounces against the proposal to change
the colony’s name to “Australia.” It;
a Do denounces the Imperial Naval
scheme.
Parkes now says he neither
w ants the support nor the acquaintance
of Hayno3. M.P., tho Mudgee Geo-
hhagist John has no money for the
* *r&es Tribute.
Tae N.S. W. daily Press doesn't
?oem to seo what Parkes has in view ;
i* this Imperial Naval Bill is carried,
J 1 ® will go for a Baronetcy. At one
time he was a Chartist!
Premier Parkes asserts that “the
Rational Debt is England’s glory.”
Toohey, M L.A., remarks if that ar-
gument is sound, the Picmier must
he a being.
In. Honolulu every man “who
c *n read and comprehend a news-
Paper ” ha’ a right to vote. In N.S.W.
thsy don’t bother about that. They
know that nobody can comprehend a
® M. Herald.
It is whispered that Parkos wil 1 ,
°u 2Gth January, 1888, by a coup d'etat,
a hnex to N S W. the who’e cf the Aus-
tralian colonies, and assume toe title
of King of Australasia and Emperor
°f the Pacific.
It is said that the reason why the
Catholic voters of Willi imstown (Vic )
s Upported Miram3 instead of the other
uandidam, Croker, win is a Catholic,
' Vf is that Mirams gave £2 to the Home
“ule Fuad.
PERHAPS.
When Mudjack Haynes shall be cut off
In the cauliflower of youth,
These word 3 will form his epitaph—
He ever told the truth ! ! !
Lord Middleton owns 1,005,741 acres of
the soil of Great Britain, and the Duke of Suther-
land. l 208,000 acre 3. Thus they, between them,
® w n one-thirty-sixth of the whcle land of Grea 1
Britain and Ireland 1
The Queensland General elections will not
come of! till April or May nexi y ear, when the rain-
soason is over. Bad roads, however, will put
a °atop to the “ stumping” nuisance, which will be
rampant as usual.
Chief Secretary Balfour has ordered that
®very man who attends a proclaimei meeting in
Ireland is now to be prosecuted, and at the last
°no 10,000 parsons were present. This looks like
a comprehensive contract.
By a majority of 50 votes to 14 the N.Z.
legislators havo carried a little Bill to reduce
their own salaries. What we want to know now is
Whether Parkes contemplates introducing a mea-
gre to take something off his screw and put it on
his veracity.
Mr. Melville’s disgust at a glass of spirits
being placed before him amused the N.S.W. As-
sembly, but wh9n the Chairman of Committees
Sympathised with him it was too comioal. The
honches groaned beaea’h the heaving side 3 of tho
merry politicians.
Parkes’ proposal to change the name of
the colony to that of ihe Continent has been more
than anticipated by tho Pall Mall Gazette.
Six weeks ago that journal referred to the conse-
cration of Dr. Camidge to the Bishopric of
Bathurst, Australasia,
At a recent Adelaide aatl-Chinoso moet-
mg, one Way Leo made an earnost appeal on bo-
half of his countrymen, and at once and unani-
mously the meeting resolved that “ the Chinese
have a tendency to dogrado our civilisation.”
Ihat’s the effect of Mongolian oloquenco.
Sir Henry Parkes, when 50 years of ago,
in his intellectual [rime, was chalrmm of a
H.S.W. Parliamentary Commlsuon which ro-
Ported, “ History records no instance of any young
c °untry being able to establish looal industries
Without the aid of a jadiciou3 fiscal policy.”
, Judge Innes, of N.S.W., said, when pass-
es sentence of four months’ imprisonment on
Dan. Mayne, of Bathurst, for an assault on J. K.
Jonkin, now M.L.A : “ Society must be consi-
dered ” Mr, Attornoy-Gonoral Wise is of the
B mno opinion in Pruen’s case, though from a very
different stand point.
Tho Cook’s River (Sydney)gardon Chinkies
ymi'k for 9d. ■ \y, whloh makes os. 3d. a week.
D does not >ny white gardeners to gather most
their veget • A white man asks os. a day
; u gather poau or - sans. God ble33 the froo trade j
u labour that wohld make an Australian work 12 i
hours a day for ; 8 , t
Large quantities of Queensland sugar go to
Hong Kong for refinement. Why? Because
Chinkie labour at 3,000 miles off is cheaper than
the struggling home manu'ac urers whose head
Freetrade resolutely ducks under water. More
Aus ralian money for our brother in Imperial
Feceraticn, the poor starving Celestial, please !
"When it comes to signing the N.S.W*
Naval Forces Bill we may expect to see Lcrd Car-
ington put on his Court-suit for the job. like
Governor Loch. And cannons will boom our joy
ti the four winds of Heaven. We started this
paragraph with some idea of trying to make it
funny, but must stop right here and be violently
sick.
Uider the Anti-Leper Bill introduced to
tIeN.Z. Parliament by Mr. Dick Seddon, any
Chinkie sneaking into the colony on the “No
saves” principle is liable to have his tail cut off
and be mulct in a fine of not less than £lO.
Chinese naturalised elsewhere are not to be ad-
mitted on their papers, and the naturalisation fee
is increased from £1 to £lO.
Remarked the high-toned Mr. Hely Hut-
chison, M.P., in the N.S.W. Assembly : “ He had
read somewhere that God repented Him vhen He
had made man, ard he believed Mr. Melville was
that man.” Then Melville rose with his engaging
HOO KI LAH!
smilo and said ho reckoned that the person who
made Hutchison had knocked off before tbo job
was finished, and felt very sorry he had ever
commenced.
A Victorian M.L.A. owns 10,000 acres of
splendid land in the Not them Territory. He will
neither Bell nor improve, nor let out the soil. He
intends to realise on the boom of other people’s in-
dustry, ard i 8 floating a land compaoy on the
force of it. The day will come when a ground-
tax will stir up persons like this, and our sons will
yet see obstinate keeping waste of land met by
confiscation after five or ten years.
That respected old journalist, “ Garry-
owen,” who writes ancient history for the Mel-
bourne Hekald, suggests that N.S.W. should be
re christoned Albert, “commemorative not only
of Her Majesty’s deceased Consort, but of the
Heir-Apparent to tho Throne, and a probable
future race of Albertian kings." Without intend-
ing it, poor old “ Garryowen ” has thrown off a
funny bit of grovel. Call the colony Albert, then—
by and-bye strongcr-oonstitutioned Victoria will
buy ib and absorb the estate.
There’s a Liberal Unionist alderman in one
of the suburoan Councils of an Australian city,
who, whenever any repairs ir improvements in
“ Uladstone-streeb ’’ are proposed, persistently
stonewalls it. The other night this worthy sug-
gested that a new street should be called “Palis
bury Parade,” whereupon Alderman Hooligan,
J.P., said that, bejabers! he’d move as an amend-
ment that it be called “ Parnell Place.” Both
proposals, however, were lost, and the thorough-
fare was called after a local butcher.
Last week tli9 Argus professed to have
been advised by cable that the Colonial Office
people have expressed disapproval of Parkes
“ Australia ” rubbish to their dear friend Grab am
Berry. Judging from past experience it is very
unlikely that the Colonial Office wou’d profess to
know anything about the matter until it was put
before them “officially.” These advance warn-
ings hoodwink nobody outside the little handful of
fossils who still swear by “ our leadirg journsl.il
and they only incite poor Parkes to persevere n
his folly.
Julius Vogsl has been censured by the
NZ. House of Representatives; but he’s confi-
dently expected to survive the operation. A
similar process was once about to he sdoi ted in
the case of Rcbert Burrowee, M.L A. for Sand-
hurst, when he was accused of keeping a
“ Tommy-shop’ in connection with a Minister of
the-Crown interested in a waterworks’ contract.
Bob took the wire edge off the vote by saying :
“ With all due respect to this hon. House, I was a
grocer before I entered it; I’m a grocer no w
and I'll be a grocer whether I'm censured or not.
Bob was shortly afterwards a Minister himsell !
From cllicial report of N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary proceedings :
Mr. Melville : There urc two Sunday newspapurs pub-
lished in Sydney. Ono of them until recently was owned by
Mr. Bailey; but, In cousequenco of his kicking one John
Sh-phcrd from hia ollice into the street, he found himself ex-
pelled The illustrious member fur Mm)gee wub then in-
stalled as editor of Bailey's Sunday News, or, as it
should now be called, ‘ Haynes’ Filthy Bag.’’ This iagap-
peared last Sunday with one of the foulest falsehoods
Mr. Haynes ; It is not a falsehood, it is quite true !
Mr Melville : It is the foulest falsehood it is posßibla
for human brain to eonceive, and it could only be conoeivea
in the brain of a dirty reptile similar to that which crawls
amongst filth, and is known cs a maggot.
Mr. Haynes : That is an insult to the Cardinal!
Griffith’s unscrupulous efforts against the
North arc bearing fruit In England. lie every-
where gave it out that, If the North gained its
self-government, it would at once enter upon the
thorough naturalisation in the country of a bystem
of slave-labour. Hence tho Pall Mali. Gazette
speaks of Queensland as “the smallest and mostsus-
pectof the Australian colonies.” Asforslze, Queens-
land Is six times as big as all Great Britain and Ire-
land, anyhow, and, as for bad character, we guess
coercionizlng England, with ono hand on tho
throat of Ireland and the other on tho throat of
the Democracy, had better drop perorating on the
slave-question a bit.
The Imperial Government has made haste
to ■wire a congratulatory outpouring to the Vic-
torian Ministry over the passing of the Naval
Defence Bill. The cringing loyalists of Australia
have never tired of calling this measure “ a
good bargain for the colonies,” but, jndging from
the joy in Downing-street, it is evidently regarded
there as a tolerably good bargain for England
also. And so undoubtedly it is. The principle of
taxation without representation, which, when at-
tempted in America last century, lest Britain a
Continent, has been accepted by Victoria as if i--,
were a precious thing, and the Melbourne Parlia-
ment has howled itself hearse oyer its new-found
slavery.
Hon. members of the N.S.W. Assembly
were not unreasonably astonished and alarmed f
finding the S.M Herald describing their late
eccentricity as a “ Disorderly Scene.” Had theso
words appeared in any other journal— not except-
ing the holy ones—they would have been smiled
at: but, coming from the Herald, they hit very
hard indeed. Considering that the ordi-ary
usage of that journal is to say : “ The accused ex-
hibited lather bad taste in knocking his wife
down and jumping on her, and it is questionable
whether he was fully justified in subsequently
terminating her existence with a meat-axe,” hon.
members are under the impression that they have
been cruelly dealt with.”
Premier Parkes explained in the N.S.W.
Assembly the other night that Captain Airey,
of the New South Wales Permanent Forces, had
beeu promoted over the heads of two of his seniors
on account of his “gallant conduct in the field.”
The captain, it will be remembered, went oil 1 to
Burmah and butchered an awful lot of niggers,
but what N.S.W. has got to do with his “ gal-
lant conduct” in a foreign country, and in aid of
the British army, Parkes failed to show. It seems
to us, semehow, that Britain ought to have done
the promoting in this instance, as the captain
seemirgly neglected Lbo business he was paid to
do in N S.W. in order that he m'ght go and shoot
skinny Asiatics for the Tories.
The large holdings of land in N S W.
have, accoi ding to the Government statist, ir -
creased in a retraikable degree. At the close of
188(5 there were 10,700 hoidiegs of more than 400
acres, compared with 6938 in 1878, or an increaeo
of 55 per cent. At the end of 1886 there were
552 holdings of more than 10,000 acres each, com-
prising together 21,104,498 a.. 18,307,635 a., of which
were freehold, and 2,796 863 a. held under loasa
from private persons. This large extent of terri-
tory forms about Bix-tentbs of the occupied lauds,
exclusive of what is held under lease by the
tenants of the Crown, and represents more than
half the entire alienated lands of the colony.
This enormous area is in the hands of only 552
persons I
Mr. Tom Slattery, M.L.A., should be to-
day a proud and happy man. Fourteen mor.the
ago (on 3rd September, 1886), this eminent gent lc-
man led the van in the great procession of drivel
and human abasement by bringing forward (ho
following motion, and after beiDg despised and
rejected of men he at last finds his grovel bearing
fruit after its kind :—“ (1.) That, in the opinion
of this House, this colony, as well as all British
dependencies enjoying responsible Government,
should each contribute an equal sum annually
towards the expenses of the army and navy of
Great Britain and Ireland, in order, not only to
relieve the taxpayers of the Mother Country from
further payments by them for and on aeoount ot
the inestimable services rendered by the army and
navy in the protection of the iivc3 and properlh s
of Her Majesty’s subjects in this and the said
dependencies, but as a just contribution towards
such expenditure from a loyal people.’ - It is sad
to think that Parkes should cadge Tom Slattery’s
stupidity and not even acknowledge where he got
it from,
A recent inhabitant of Newington Asylum—that
establishment for destitute old women, over which
Minister Garrett’s relative, Mrs. Hicks, pre-
sides—writes complaining bitterly of the usage
experienced by the inmates. Their treatment at,
the hands of certain of the wardswomen in particu"
lar, she describes as brutal in the extreme, and she
denounces these ofticials as beiDg coarse, unfeeling,
and, in some cases, ignorant even of the alphabet.
At Newington Asylum the old women do noti
lovingly caress the matron’s portly countenance at
present. They only did that when Parkes tr
some other Minister was standing by, and prt •
bably with a view to possible consequences after
his departure if they d'dn’t. The report of the
Commission which revealed every orime short of
sudden murder in the alleged charitable institu-
tions of N.S.W, seems to have gone to the Parkes
waste-paper basket, and to have left behind it
very little trace of reform In these hells-upon-
eart h to which the poor are relegated as a hideous
punishment for their ago and poverty.
The retiring Moderator of the Victorian Presby
teiian Assembly has been preaching the necessity
of payipg attention to the “countless thousands ”
of blackfellows in the back bush. “Countless
thousands” is good. Besidop, if 1 lie numbers
make the Importance, why don't they first attend
to the quite as countless millions of their own
race, and help them out of the way of temptation
by removing the unnatural social conditions, such
as the appropriation of the land, which ought to
be as free as the air, or, say, as a goldfield to the
holders of miners’ rights; and the ocinpotition of
yellow savages who put both themselvos and tho
civilised men to the devil, while those mission-
maniacs aro preaching the latter individual to tho
envious denizens of the North-Polo '! But, there,
wo aro talking blasphomy. Of course, tho main
thing is for a few pot-bellied hoathon to talk
about Jonah Instead of “Jumbo," and tho con-
ditions which Influence tho morals and tho lives of
innumerable thinking beings are suoh worldly
trash that a parson could not even think of them.
That globe-trotting Evangelist, Mi-. Albert
Spicer, of London, stated in Sydney Y.M.C.A. hall
t he other night, that “Looking at it from the lowest
commercial motives, he did not think a man could
make a better investment than tho acceptance of
Christianity." Many a rubicund, proporty-owning,
land buyiDg parson will gladly corroborate this
statement, thougli It is nevertheless in direct
contradiction to that with which tho Founder of
the movement inspired His followers. Tho wordß
wo have italicised read most remarkably in con-
junction. Shades of Jud/" Thcaiuot, Ananiab and
Sapphira, why were e so previous? Had you
only delayed your earl ly debut till the nineteenth
century, you would all do highly respected, and
necessarily woalthy members of tho “ Church,”
and therefore honoured with the porsonal friend-
ship of tho unctuous godly.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1887.
1%
it
l %t
t^f £
"vv.4 m
-jpm
* a
gst A*
>-a->
f -=*
~i
** • Jk
k 0
n
'^r
<c
cr
jV
CL)
S e
<r— *- v
*L O
V\ £*r C=r
O r u D-
V" o , >
or gn


Ipg
U"
"zr
~=!
\d_
O'
o
11/
u
Under the Lions in Trafalgar Square.


SOCIETY
The Earl of Buckinghamshire has been
shoved np two steps in the peerage by a Mel-
bourne Hera>d reporter. This genius-selected
to attend a conversazione at the Grosvenor Gal-
lery, on account of his culchaw-referred to the
noble Earl as “ Hla Grace.” Which reminds us
of the North of England bookmaker who roared
out to the Duke of Hamilton —“ Take my five
‘monkeys’ your Riyal ’lghne3S !’’ And when
somebody told the bookie that Hamilton wasn’t
quite a Highness, he said, “ I thort the was a
dock,” Fact. If you were to twit the Herald
nob eman with his little error, he’d say, “ Aint
Buckinghamshire a real earl, then ?"
* * *
e They say that some of the noble visitors
at Melbourne Government House are staying
longer than they were expected, and dear Lady
Loch is rather put out about it. Similar troubles
crop up in far humbler households. For instance,
our mother-in-law
• * *
Speaking at one of the many feeds to
Lord Carnarvon, our other distinguished visitor,
the Earl of Buckinghamshire, “ hoped that the
exhibition of pictures which he had brought to the
colonies would be of advantage in upholding a
high standard of art in Austsafia.” Not a bad
way of getting an ad. for his lit ie shilling show,
and we respect the Karl for keeping his noble eye
on the main chance.
He’s a Grosvenor-Gallery,
Works for his salary,
Fair on-the-job young man.
Also his family motto is “The giver
makes things precious.” Buckinghamshire
is just now giving Melbourne an exhibition which
wouldn’t seem half so precious coming from a
party of the name of Brown.
• * *
Duncan Gillies, bachelor, was interviewed
last week by a bevy of beauty, representing The
Women's Christian Temperance Union of Vic-
toria This Union, it seems, is composed of ladies
‘ consecrated ” to the work of elevating mankind,
and the spiritual expression of Duncan as they ex-
plained the scheme, was something to be remem
bered it ages to come. The ladies announced
their intention that ‘ ‘ public houses shall be con-
verted into Coffee Palaces, opium retreats into
pleasant parlours, and smoking-rooms and cars
into public aud private oratories.” To all this the
distinguished bachelor smiled a meek assent, and
though he didn’t faithfully promise to introduce a
Regeneration of Humanity Bi!l, tfce ladies grace-
fully withdrew, thanking Heaven for graming
such a Premier to Victoria. After which, Duncan
retired to the little oratory where he always keeps
a bottle on the chimbley-piece, and proceeded to
liquor and light up. He knew of one man who
required elevating, so he consecrated himself to
the good work in his own little way.
* * *
A certain C.P.S. of a certain Western
N.S.W. township was also the Registrar for
births, deaths, and marriages. One day at the
local hospital a nigger, about 6ft. 4in. high, died.
It was summer time, and the rule out West is to
have a speedy burial. The contractor for “ plant-
ing” the dead from the hospital got a coffin,
screwed the nigger down, placed the corpse in a
cart, and sent his assistant down for the usual
burial order. Now, the C.P.S. that day was not in
a very good temper, and refused then to give the
burial order on the ground that the application
was made after-hours. The assistant returned to
his boss and reported progress. “ Won’t give a
burial order, hey ? ” said the boss. “Very avail,
then, we’ll see.” He drove straight to the private
residence cf the C.P.S. “Mr. Blank not in, is
he?” queried he of Mrs. Blank. “No.” “Oh,
very well,” said he, “I’ve got a box for him.”
(N.B.—The “ box ” was covered up with a cloth).
“ I’ll leave it on the verandah.” So the pair of
worthies left that “box” on the verandah, and as
they were leaving the “boss ” put his head in at
the window and sang out: “There’s a dead
nigger in that box—shall I lay him down flat or
stand him up ?” Mrs Blank yelled, the cart drove
off—but the C.P.S. had to sign the burial-order,
and he has never since put on any more airs or
talked about the bother of signing certificates
“ after hours.”
• ft #
The champion meanness is said to be to
take a threepenny-bit off the plate of a blind
beggar. Something very much like that has just
been done in Sydney in the name of Her Gracious.
The poor blind inmates of the Asylum on the
Newtown road, who are living on cta-ity them-
selves, have be?n compelled to give a concert in
aid of the Queen’s Fund ! Thirty pounds has thus
been extractid fcom the poor aud sightless. What
next ?
* * *
Woolcock, Premier Griffith’s private secre-
tary, who went with him to the Federal Council
and to England, is a very high-toned young man
indeed. He has come back from the dear old
home smelling of du ; ts and marquises, and his
frock coats, bell-toppers, pumps andst'-aw-colored
gloves are the admiration aud despair of Queen-
street. The country pays him a thumping screw
for his services, but that is merely a detail.
* * *
The Johnsonian Club in Brisbane used
once to be a unique institution. It was genuinely
Bohemian. You could hear real good talk there,
and the fourth Estate ruled the roust. But they
have changed all that! All the local big-bngs
belong to it now. It is “ the thing ” in Brisbane
“ sassiety ”tobe a Johnsonian. Premier Griffi h,
elaborately got up as a Bohemian, leafs in there
occasionally, and talks shop with the barristers
and doctors and school-masters who have appro-
priated the place. Nothing could he more re-
spectable and stupid. Feilberg, an ex-President,
once asked a certain clever man if he would care
to become a member. The reply was : “ What
screw will they give me to?” A year Bgo they
proposed to let in Pressmen more cheaply than
others! But the Pressmen said “No, thank
you," and another good place has gone wrong for
ever.
* * *
Governor Carington’s monstrous salary is
not to be reduced, but £3OOO is to be saved by
cutting off the allowances to up-country (N.S.W,)
Schools of Arts and free libraries. Grovel versus
knowledge.
* * *
Kyardinal Moran is disgusted with the
dilatorlness of the Manly Beach Council. He has
expendt d £60,000 of Bridget the cook and Patsy
the coachman’s hard earned savings on his palace
and seminary, and yet “ the Council have not
thought it to be their duty to make a decent ap-
proach to the building.’' His Imminence's own
words are : “ I may say that it would be next to
an impossibility for me to have my carriage driven
from my residence to the wharf.” My carriage!
Shade of St. Peter, the fisherman ! The Devil !
* * •
There is a station down South where they
have a Jackaroo, and this festive youth has been
making things very lively for himself. He went
to a ball at a local town, and fairy turned him-
self loose. He proposed to six girls, telling each
one how much he loved her, and that he was a
poor orphan and had a dear old grandmother in
Europe who had sent him out to buy a station for
himself. So some of them accepted him beoause
they loved him, others because of his grand-
IT DEPENDED UPON CIRCUMSTANCES.
TEACHER (to Pupil): “HOW ARE YOU GOING TO SPEND YOUR CHRISTMAS HOLI-
DAYS, GEORGE?”
GEORGE: “PLEASE, SIR, IT ALL DEPENDS"—
TEACHER: “HOW, WHAT, WHY?”-
GEORGE: “PLEASE, IF THE OLD MAN’S NOT JUGGED IN CHRISTMAS WEEK, I’M
GOIN’ UP TO PENRI[?]H, BUT IF HE GITS SHOPPED, I’LL HAVE TER STOP
AT HOME AND MIND MOTHER.”
mother, and othera again beoause they thought it
might be their last chance. A week later he went
to a ball in another local town, and went through
a similar performance. Some of the ladies to
whom he proposed were on the shady side of
thirty and some only fourteen, but it was all the
same to this British Ananias whether they were
thirty-four or only fourteen—he could wait any
number of years beoause she was the only girl he
ever loved. Then the girls got taking one another
into dark corners, and whispering little con-
fidences about their prospects, so it all came out,
and things were mixed with a vengeanoe. How-
ever, they have had some small satisfaction in
bearing what ha 3 since happened to the gentle
Jackaroo When caught by a thunderstorm, the
other night, he dismounted from his horse took
the saddle off, and tied the animal up. Then he
tried to c-ver himself with the saddle to keep off
the lightning, and, in his fear, he “ dieretnem-
bered " his hors \ and started to run for home.
He got los% and nened up at the woolshed at all
hours of the n*s,ht It is understood that he con-
templates a trip i o Europe to see his grandmother.
» * *
A “ Centennial Fair and Exhibition of
Women's Industry,” with Lady Carington as
president, and all the superb millinery of Potts
Point on the committee, is mooted for next year.
This time Bishop Barry appears to stand out.
Perhaps he has discovered at last that the cl ,-rgy
are only regarded as ladies by the sterner sex.
* * *
The case of Lord Forth, heir presumptive
to the earldom of Perth, who died in poverty in
an American hospital recently, was a remarkable
one in this age, when truth and honour are not
controlling qualities among the so-called nobility.
With pressing offers of restoration to fortune and
family favour if he would cast off the woman
whom he had made his wife, he preferred to work
sb a common labourer and remain loyal to love
and the marital pledges by which he had bound
himself. His brief career, although very humble,
was oae that ennobles nobility and does credib to
human nature.
. *
Victoria has a lower marriage- rate than
any other of the Australian colonies. Her
death-rate is therefore lower than that
of N.5.W.—14.94 per 1000 as against N.S.W.’s
16.55. N.S.W., being a colony run on Social
Purity principles, has naturally the highest
illegitimacy rate—4.2o as compared with 3.60 in
Queensland, and 2.15 in New Zealand. Between
1871 and 1886 there were in N S.W. 18,406 illegiti-
mWs births, and darirg the last flee jearj one
omld in every eighc bjrn In yyd<ny was lllegiti-
mate! Victoria is now, acoordlng to Mr. Ooghlan,
the N.S.W. statist, 3000 less In population than
N.S.W., and the proportion of the native-born to
the imported population of NSW. has risen
45.68 (in the year 1861) to 61.96 in 1881. N.S.W.
has now a male population of 175,473 between 20
and 50 years cf age as against Victoria’s 168,444.
The N. S.W. death-rate is 16 55, that of Victoria
only 14,94 ; South Australia’s is even less (14 60),
while Queensland's is 17 83, as against 21 5 in
Great Britain, 27 1 in Germany, and 23 6 in
France, and 30.8 in Austria, “ The rate at which
children of tender years drop into the grave,”
remarks Mr, Coghlan, “ is a pathetic commentary
on N S.W. civilisation.” In 1875, out of every
1000 children under five years in Sydney, 106 died.
Bad drainage, homoeopathy, and baby-farming, no
doubt.
* * *
Lord Carington has been left £20,000 by
his relative John Smith.
* * *
The Yictorian Australians are not so cer-
tain, after all, that an increased fleet will Becure
our—beg pardon, P arkes !-Continent against
capture. Those artful Russians will be
mean enough to land on Melbourne Cup day,
when all the ships are being “ overhauled,” and
all their officers are fighting against fearful
“ odds ” at Fiemington.
He was aged 20, and rather green ; she
was 17, and knew a heap. They were passing
down a dusty street, and he expre sad a fear that
rer dainty boots would be defiled. She assured
him that she could get through without getting
even a speck on her patent leathers, and then she
rested her gloved paw for a second on his shoulder
«hile a convulsion went on among her skirts, and
he thought she was tryirg to trot on one leg.
When the convulsion had finished, she exclaimed,
“See, there!” and showed him two spotless little
boots whose glitter male him feel more in love
with her than ever. And it never once dawned
on him that the earthquake among her petticoats
had been caused by her wiping each boot succes-
sively on her stockings. It takes a woman to do
this trick. The man is not yet born who could
walk down the street on one foot and wipe the
other on his coat-tail.
* * *
From Hiram Abiff :—“ Now that the
swell has gone home to see his Lordship his
brother, I’ll tell you how I used to play it upon
him. He wore a clean white coat in the woolshed
every day and used to lean against a certain post.
I knew his he'ght and put a dab of tar just at the
proper elevation. After four coats had been
epauletted, ha changed his post. I fixed it up in
the new spot. It took 12 dusters to prevent his
leaning at all, and six pairs of pants to stop him
sitting down. But he had us at last. He bought
a camp-stool.”
« « •
Rev. T. J. Curtis, late Presbyterian
minister at Redfern, Sydney, who took such a
laudable interest in the fate of the Mount Rennie
convicts, and who is a firm believer in the legal
innocence of most of them, has accepted a “ call ”
at San Francisco. In his letter of farewell to his
1 ite parishioners he says :—“ I have decided to
stay here . . . and because I want to save
the passage money towards paying the debt due
on the Church to the City Bank, for which I am
liable. This amounts, lam afraid, to nearly
£3OO, and I quite determined bo do no more beg-
ging. So I must pay it myself.”
* *
The Blayney (N.S.W.) bench of magis-
trates recently sentenced a woman to six months’
gaol for stealing—draw in your breath—sixpence !
We suppose -as she was a woman—the flogging
was remitted.
* •
A Timaru (N.Z.) clergyman hay struck
home at last. In the course of a sermon recently
preached he said: “ Dearly beloved ” (and so
forth) “ it would be a good thing for us if we all
could oftener forget all mankind in the aggregate,
and think more of the individual units that are
close to us. Never mind about all mankind being
embraced in your scheme of love, dear brother,
but what about the servant-girl in the kitchen?’
That’s just the point. Oh ! holy man, what about,
her ? We pause, &c.
• • «
Dear Bulletin, —After people are dead
you hear trivial circumstances of their life. I
mean if the persons were famous or notorious.
Now, in case Col. F. Hughes Hallett should die
after me, just record what I knew of him. He
was in my regiment and was a universal favorite.
Cn a “march out” from Woolwich, in larking
over a hurdle he had a great smash and was para-
lysed (?) from the hips downwards. I think he
was one of the first cares by magneto-electricity.
Bome doctor in Biighton mended him. He had
the audacity to oppose Gladstone for Greenwich
(his, H H.’s, first parliamentary essay) ; and, as far
as I remember, got three votes inducing his own.
1 am more sorry to hear of his late social downfall
han I was of the above mentioned cropper, which
we thought fatal.—Yours, Hiram Abiff.
* * *
There was quite a lot of fun in a certain
doctor’s household, the other day. For some time
past his wine had been mysteriously and con-
stantly disappearing So, at early morn, a full
decanter of hock, well loade l with tartar-emetic,
was put in its usual place. The sickest among
the whole retinue of servants was a housemaid
who had always professed teetotalism.
* * #
At the Caledonian Society’s dinner in
Melbourne the chairman thought he was butter-
ing Lady Look by describing her as “ one who re-
flected so m ich Her Majesty's own graces.” This
was tolerabiy rough on dear Lady L ch. Her
Majesty’s principal graces are said before and
after meat.
* * *
The fast-decaying Continent of Europe now
boasts of one useful monarch—a king who takes
in washing, and half the inhabitants of his capital
roll np to see O.to of Bavaria labouring at the
vash-tnb, with h's cro *n doped oj taa pack of
liW head and hi) sceptie standing up alongside the"
“ I'll get married as soon as I come across a gentleman
who doesn't drink, nor smoke, nor nlay billiards, and who
gors to church regularly." The fond pipa solemnly replied:
“Ahmyg< o i child you are but a stranger here. Heaven is
your home. ’ Y, uwn make a home heavenly by purchasing
your Chin a&c at Bray Brothers, in Ueo .e-street,.*
FRECKLED A.NE is an infallible cure for Freckles, Tan
Sunburn, and every description of Ephelis and Lentigo, and
effects a cure by chemically changing the coloring matter
deposited under the epidermis or scarf skin, which is re-
absorbed into the system and carried off by the natura
excretory channels. Frecklebane does not injure the skin or
complexion. Sold by all chemists. Special city agents:
W. H Soil and Co., Pitt-street. Price 2j. lOd , post free,
from F. M Clemexts, Chemi t, Newtown, N.B.W.
A NARROW KSCAPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nellie M‘Fee was tall and slight.
Tall and slight was Nellie M Fee,
Her cheeks were red aud her eyes were bright,
Her figure was juit what it ought to be ;
But, somehow, it) happened that Miss M’F.,
Though fair to see, was uncommonly deaf.
We sit together one dewy eve,
We sat outside on a garden seat;
At the rustling touch of her silken sleeve,
My pulses beat and I felt t heir beat;
To that lithe form I drew me near,
And told my tale to a heedless ear.
“ Nellie,” said I, “ by the stars above,
By the stars that shine in Heaven ! I vow
That never I knew what 'twas to love!
In my life biforeas I love you now.”
Her silken sleeve by the breeza was stirr'd—
But Nellie M’Fee didn’t answer a word.
“ Nellie,” said I “ have you nought to say—
Nought to say to my ardent vow ?
Others may woo in some winsome way—
Would that a fairy might teach me how !
Yet these plain words are at least sincere ’’ —
(I really imagined the maid could hear,)
I squeezed her waist with my strong right arm,
With my strong right arm in a nervous grip :
And Nellie looked up in assumed alarm
As I snatched a kiss from her tempting lip.
Faint heart never yet fair lady won,
So I gave her a dozen before I'd done.
No angry light lit Nell’s brown eyes,
No tear-drops dimmed her eyes se brown ;
But she whispered low in mild surprise—
“ What were you saying ? Please write it
down.”
Then I remembered that Miss M‘F.,
Though fair to see, was uncommonly deaf.
May Heaven forgive the ta’e untrue —
The tale untrue I concocted then !
Liars are many, and good men few,
And I am not one of the good young men.
Miss Nellie had suddenly lost all charm,
So I wrote : “ I remarked it was rather warm."
Happy the lovers whose vows are heard—
Heard and answered in accents dear ;
But all must admit that it’s most absurd
To breathe your love in a deaf girl’s ear.
A cynical moral to end my verse—
There’s many a lover might do much worse.
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISHER.
LOVE MAKES THE BURDENS LIGHTER.
“Let me carry your pail, my dear,
Brimming over with water! ”
“ No ! I’ll take hold and you take hold,”
Answered the farmer’s daughter.
And she would have her o wn sweet way,
As her merry eyes grew brighter ;
So she took hold and he took hold,
And it made the burden lighter.
And now they’re at the eve of life,
While the western skies grow brighter
For she took hold and he took hold,
And it made the burdens lighter.
ANON.


fahf e s'j'^ ok ’ •A- few weeks ago he became in-
rally* a f at who helped round gene-
1, it, !? r °y al kitchen, and for several weeks
T., adG ardent love to her while she banged the
orrio pans about with a hideous clatter in
, r tG drown bis remarks. Then he climbed up
tha 6r ° edroom window one n’ght, and serenaded
timp 30 !? 1 Blave y on a trombone. It was the first
h a 86 b ft d ever played the instrument, and he
Dipk°? G< * ber feelings to such an extent that she
vr , ed her clothes and went home to her ma.
hi “ ® oril ing the King resolved to do her work
C"ow *’ anc ! ah 3ll lll o’clook he was found in his
b Bd n and robes of state solemnly making the
stair sleeping up, and rushing up and down !
bed 8 - Wltb buckets and brooms He made all the ,
tial 8 la tlle Palace, and then he sacked the pala- j
shirt Was h er woman and started to clean his ,
he xT, 9 ‘ , 1° the course of a long day’s work
that ed the Government dirty linen, also
also ° f a h°tel and several houses near by, and he
whi r L an am ateur patch on a pair of trousers
Nexh i t 0 bis optical eye, seemed to be going,
and ° aay he was seized with a maoia for patching,
had ® Verjr hody who canoe in sight was ordered
thaf C n? ain cf h oa, h to send in his pants in order
coin m >Bht affix a square piece of a diflierent
this” 110 t * le roar. He probably reckoned that
OnopPf ooBBB would impart durability, and when
that pa t°hes the pants of a high officer of state
hi . lnan has got to wear them or be indicted for
R ; rl treason. Otto’s grief for the less of his fat
now 68 Eomew hat diminished since she left, but
then tllen 1161 memory returns to him, and
tromh 6 8088 out and blows sounds through the
*vith 0° tbat reraitld hi) hearers of a cat fighting
a nip a tbe P arts of speech at once. He is rather
®xcanA OUDg man an( l makes a very decent King,
that vT tba, k sometimes he is taken with an idea
best i 18 a hlrh, and then he begins to make a
hun-i n ,? n em Pty room and sits down on about a
firgu e £gs which he invariably squashes at the
* * *
“ ]M Ver tlseme n t from Melbourne Argus :
H. ® a3t Melbourne. Morning, Rev.
aty a ,‘ v ,, °ll&8ton. Anthem: “It is high time to
ham 6 ‘ This strikes us as beiog unchristian and
bv a ° n r ’ Wollaston. No doubt it was inserted
captious churchwarden.
* * *
for w su S2 ested tba " th e N.S.W. Minister
bavin r^B should celebrate the Centenary by
tho « l be cars on the Blue Mountain line
Roughly washed.
• * *
in i/ 1 * 8 tiuth should be axiomatic. Fall not
mai^ 8 'yhb very young girls. They are to the
~heart what green apples are to the stom-
or boys.
* * *
for i we read, is the sasslety term
o a) , t 9 butantes of this season. Damsels who came
o n . , a * ew years ago are styled “ tabbies those
thfi s belf get the name of “tarries,” because
expected husband do.h tarry.
* * *
A visitor to Sydney, who went over to
bieh f V^ew to see ’■be Jesuits College (where the
the i. toned B.C. youth are educated) remarked to
havn ector I *’ Toia is a perfect Paradise—but you
l ai) B POt Eve in it ” “No,” replied Fath*r Now-
' oat we have sevcal little canes.”
Co ° r an enviable state of moral simplicity
®om*h us t 0 fbe Itland of Rodrigues, in the
don r n IndiaQ O ccan . f-rmerly in the occupa-
be n R the French, where, on a tombstone, may
burtA,( ved the following affectionate but damag-
Uv e . tlmoo y to the memory of a departed rela-
To the Sacred Memory
OF
mademoiselle ULAIRE ST. .
Tiiii. Tablet is Erected
AS A TRIBUTE TO HER
Virtues
By Her Sorrowing! Childern.
18
* * *
a i lu Uc h is fame !In England, the other day,
Phlnir e worker in the Vineyard stood up in his
th a ; f’ aQ d—reading from a paper—announced
bron, i* u d received a letter from “Our deah
t o ju Ba b—the Rev. Dash Blank—Bathurst.” The
ca, m “ere came to the initial letters N.S.W. and
gl Qa , tG a dead stop, too. Then a marvellous
bis hr • lucidit y fcbot aoros3 the dense blank of
deah V 1 - n ' pan ’ and bo re-commenced : “As I said,
d ?ar friends, I have received a letter from ocr
tothah the Rev. Dash Blank —Bathurst
« ColL South West." The proceedings olosed with
e3 ti°n in etid of the Melbourne heathen who
leave preac bor said—went about dressed in palm-
-8 and h id several wives apiece.
Sb * * *
aai d . palled up the pret'y servant-girl and
here'," ' a,n ver y terry to part with you, but
Can „ 8 ? month's wages, and I have no doubt you
b B ,y flnd a bettor place.” The girl, over-
Sbq j. grief, pleaded to be retained, asking if
‘‘ y 0 always been faithful and industrious.
barfi/ 1 ,ve indeod,” said the mistress, “ and I
you J , ° ff bow to get on without you. But
tealJv 8 nw bttle freedom of action I have-I
y cannot discharge my husband.”
rr, * * *
te bt . ltE Bulletin respectfully directs tha at-
-o’Sm° p of tbe Anti-Chinese League to this : While
bo Ua Uvau and the rest are toiling to prevent
foqU. ’j 10 yellow hawkers, the clergy are to be
k ly gf attonising in Quong Tart’s tea-rooms.
)Sq r ’ by thunder! there are some nice little
th G c , atl S’rls there, too Which may aocount for
CUr„ ( <m9tanfc Pressnce of silken-moustached young
ea in these private bars.
B * * *
It dl (aboriginal), second son of Barney
(ahaVt 8q ’’ of Baugo Gully, married Jenny Mary
Can .„T lu al), of Balbomba, at Rockhampton
,' UBe bitely. This kills the notion that
a Ses are made only in Heaven,
I) •* * *
chee/f^, 11 Victoria, there is a doctor who
for a ’' *y revealeth facts concerning lady toachers
tbe fee—at least, he used to do it, but
lo Port Vernment bas quarrelled with him, and his
the Ed W bl be stowed away in the pigeon-holes of
ai ° 3 o th Cati ° n f )a P attinont no more. The trouble
Hi y.° Ug b a pretty little echoolm'stress who
nf i a general sort of a way) and needed
and UbBoDca - The doctor 1' indly certified to
*eq uiB . d sta'el that a two months’holiday was
> C ° ln fortav,i and tbo matter had just been settled
w ben a deputation of indignant
•bat thn Came alon g> and explained to the Minister
la be^.. y ° un g la dy was no better than she ought ,
h' 1 01 : 0 . now I Then the Minister demanded
nation, and the doctor said that if he had
aborn f° ol be would have understood
b lean t by iho certificate, and the De-
fnCtB, ana tha t it < , not want euphony but
* th e a a memo .ndum would be made
of future Ministers, to the effect
that this particular gentleman’s certificates would
no longer be received on account of the haziness
of their veracity. The doctor, however, had the
last word. He sent a post card in which he ex-
pressed a hope that the next Minister might not
be quite so stupendous an ass as the present one,
and the correspondence closed. The pretty little
schoolmistress is now weeping for her lost billet.
* * *
The exquisite Captain G. F. Bartrop,
Clerk of the Peace at Melbourne—the pride and
glory and marvel of St. Kilda, East Melbourne,
and Toorak —has been made a Police Magistrate.
What a treat to hear Bartrop give a thief
three months for larceny from the person !
“ Aw, prisonah, you—aw—have been guilty of a
most dawstawdly offence—stealing—aw (what is
the property ? yaas !) a knife, a clay pipe—and—
a sum of money—quite so ! twopence-halfpenny —
the property of this unfortunate man, while he
was—in fact, intoxicated. I am reliably in-
fawmod that this class of offence is vewwy com-
mon amongst men of youah class, and is known
amoug-t jou as * turning ovah a dead-head.’
Yaas ! Now, you shall go to gaol for—aw—three
months, and you sh ; 11 have had labour for your
maintenance there. Yaas. Next case ! ”
* * *
In Carlton (s£elb.) lives a Jewish g ntle-
man named—Ryan I After this, we arc prepared
to hear of Mr. Michael O’Rafferty being elected
president of the Sydney Synagogue.
* * *
Mr. John Young, the great contractor,
has been crnshingly defeated in his campaign for
a Sydney aldermanship. Not the only recommen-
dation of his successful opponent, Mr. W. P.
Mannicg, was that he didn’t celebrate Queen Vic-
toria’s Jubilee a year in advance. Such is the
brutal ingratitude of the Sydney 1 jyalists! How-
ever, we don’t quite see what Mr. Manning wants
in the Sydney Corporation. So far as is known,
he has never either taken a contract, kept a
butcher’s shop, bossed a Queen’s Fund nor run a
whisky-mill. Neither is he renowned as a knife-
and-forkman. He suffers not from the municipal
complaint of stomach on the chest, lie has never
been fined for keeping insanitary premises, nor
even for killing a calf in his back-yard.
* * •
Business in the N.S.W. backwoods. They
were nearly through their lengthy talk, and with
a yawn the senior partner turned over another
leaf of the ledger, and dictated to his junior:
“ Now for old mother Short. Leg of mutton, 41b3.
steak, 2ibs. of steak, dibs, chops, ." Coming
to the end of the litt of chops and sausages, he
glanced over hi 3 mate's shoulder, and inquired :
“ What’s that you’re sticking down about pork
chops ? They hain’t ’ad eo pork chops.” “ Oh,
that’s only a few extras I j ast slung in.” “ D
your extras ! I was putting in the extras myself
as I went along.”
Australian society will learn
with regret that the Princess Maud,
Wales's youngest daughter, is bo-
gie ning to cut up rough. She is
aged 18, and is the only handsome
member among a decidedly ugly
array of brothers and sisters, all
dressed In ihe seediest of old
clothes. The other day she was
requested to attend a garden party
in a washed-out frock of grand-
motherly pattern, and she entered
a protest by applying a match to
tha tail of the robe, which was
speedily burned to tha ground. As
she is too old to be fpanked her
distracted mamma didn’t know
what to do.
* * •
We rise to speak a few
warning words to gentlemen din-
ing out. On no account intro-
duce into your conversation tha
Dame of the just-deceased Mr.
Ridley, of South Australia. If
the ladies should press for parti-
culars ooncn'oing Mr. Ridley, how
can you look straight into a pair
of clear, blue eyes and say
“ Oh! he invented a stripping-
machine." Why, even a curate
couldn’t do it without blushing.
* * *
Governor Carington opened
the new gymnasium at the Vic-
toria Barracks, Sydney, last Fri-
day. His Excellency looked in
good condition, and was tolerably
fresh at the finish. On Saturday
Miss Parkes distributed the prizes
to the successful shootists of the
Rifle Association while his Excel-
lency looked on with his accus-
tomed grace. On looking back
we find there are only two “ His
Excellencies ” in this paragraph.
The following are a few extracts from an
American criticism on English actresses :
When Ellen Terry was here she astonished the people fre-
quently by running across from Dam’s Hotel to the front
door of the Star Theatre in one of her superannuated doc-
tor s robes she wore as Portia and a pair of Borneo-pointed
shoes that had probably carried the impassioned legs of
Irving up the property balcony to Juliet. She was a darling
with a pork-pie hat of the present century perked on twenty-
six hairs and a far-off look of the Elizabethan era in her
tragic aye. . . I thought Ellen Terry was quite on top of all
the fashion plates I ever met till I ran into Mies Eastlake in
Tiffany’s one day. Her uncombed mane surrounded her face
like the aureole of a saint. The baby stare she affected at all
times was more prominent than usual. She wore a faded green
gown of some sort of mousseline de soie that wrapped r >und
her unpetticoated legs like a Scotch mist. That dress was cut
like Johnny's pants—with a circular saw. It was jagged and
baggy ; it was half-low in the neck, and a beautiful lacs
fence was thrown up on top. A large bunch of heather was
pinned on her shoulder, and must have tickled her ears in
its e ffort to look like a young cat-willow bending over a
brook. Exactly over that spot where her diaphragm
separated her beating heart from her useful liver she was
bound with a plaided ribbon about four inches wide.
As long as it went round her body it was quite wide
enough; but when it commenced trickling down her
\ !' ea f von wished there was more of it A loose pair of yel-
lowish gloves on her generous English hands and a turban
frame wound about with some sort of cream colour and blue
gauze -that suggeetsd a hot summer in India, and a hard
winter in New York—completed the funniest figure that ever
broke on Yankee vision. . . There s Sophie Eyre. She
will sit down outside Par»dke in a robe that will strike
Sc. I eter blind;; and pe haps get taken in for a new style of
tomato omelette, for if that woman doesn’t go to heaven in
a red and yellow gown it sbecause she 11 wear 'em all out on
earth.
It is no wonder that each of the actresses in ques-
tion has seat out her four husbands and her six-
and-twenty mashers to bring in that critic alive or
dead.
* * *
Last week an irate Melbourne mother,
whose little Willie had been flailed on the butt
end of his legs till he could not sit down on any-
thing solider than a custard without watering at
the eyes, charged bis schoolmaster with assault
and battery, committing grievous bodily harm,
and damaging private property. The Bench was
of opinion that William would be improved by a
similar dusting three times a day, Sundays not
excepted, and discharged the tutor ; whereupon
the angry mater and a lady friend plucked ac-
cused by the curls, and banged him on the jaw
with a loud report. When the bat le was over
the Js.P. sent the weaker vessels up for contempt
of o rurt, end the dominie dusted himself down
and went forth to raise cane once more.
• * *
William White and Frances Brown were
married in Melbourne on tfce 16th of last month.
The bride changed colour at the altar.
* * *
Lord Carnarvon, the Anaus’s particular
pet, does not find the colonial papers over anxious
to tell the truth. His Lordship has been made to
te l the truth by one KDglish paper, though. At
a banquet, once he proposed the health of the
clergy, and said that in these days parsons are
expected to have the wisdom and learning of a
Jeremy Taj lor. Next day a journal of light and
leading accredited him with having said that in
these days cle> gymen are expected to have the
wisdom and learning of a journeyman “ taylor.”
* * •
At a swagger wedding, in Melbourne, the
other day, the bride gave in her age at the
register-table as 22. Twenty-eight, my love,”
corrected her father, an absent-minded old buffer.
The bridegroom sighed woefully, and the bride
clenched her teeth with a snap that would have
decapitated a hammer. This is giving the bride
away with a vengeance.
• * *
On the wedding journey. He (senti-
mentally) S “ Darling, do you love me better than
your first husband ?” She : “ Certainly. He’s
dead! ’
• * *
Proud mother (haughtily) : “ You allowed
yourself to be won altogether too easily, Edith ! ”
Edith i“ I suppose I did. But, as Albert is
rather bashful, and I am nearing 30, I thought it
only proper to make it jast as easy as possible fo:
him.”
* * *
The noble British aristocracy should stay
in England and be admired from a distance.
They shouldn't come to Australia and let us see
that, after all, Lady Yere De Yere may be
nothing but a very fat lady with a beard,
A New York photographer prints a cir-
cular containing eight “ Suggestions to Sitters,”
and the following valuable advice “To the
Ladies.” When a lady, sitting for a picture,
would compose her mouth to a bland and serene
character, she should, just before entering the
room, say “ bosom,” and keep the expression into
which the mouth subsides until the desired effect
in the camera is evident. If, on the other hand,
she wishes to assume a distinguished and noble
bearing, not suggestive of sweetness, she should
y^^THO'JT OUC
say “brush,” the result of which is infallible. If
she wishes to make her mouth look small, she
must say “flip,” but if the mouth be already too
small and needs enlarging, she must say “ cab-
! bage.” If she wishes to look mournful, she must
say “ kerchunk ” ; if resigned, she must forcibly
ejaculate “ s’cat.” Ladies, when having their
photographs taken, may observe these rules with
some advantage to their appearance.
* * *
At St. Peters’, Melbourne, last week, the
youthful widow of the ‘ ‘ Fakir of Oolu ” was
married to Mr. H. J. Kingsley. When Dr.
Silvester took to himself a Taunanian bride some
ton years ago, lie was running his show at St.
George’s Hall, Melbourne, and his chum, J.
Edwards, the Younger, “ the CollingwOod
Chicken,” who was always good for a lark, got
up an impromptu deputation to call at St. George’s
at rehearsal-time and congratulate the Fakir. The
Doctor was keeping the “event” as quiet as
possible and when the object of the deputation
was explained by Edwards he called oubto the
supers, to throw the lot down that terrific flight of
stairs leading to the hall, He, however, counter-
manded the order in time to save a few lives and
—ordered whisky instead of blood,
* * •
“Ad.” from a Queensland paper :—“ J.
B. , General Storekeeper, Commission Agent,
&o. Teeth carefully extracted. Board and lodg-
ing for four person?.” Sort of gonerally-useful
man to have about the house. Reminds us slightly
of the early days when we earned a precarious
livelihood at anything which turned up, aud when
our card eet forth that we were a combination of
coal-merchant, licensed surveyor, and professor of
the dead languages, consumption cured iu three
lessons, and horses taken in to grass, also fresh
eggs always on hand, >and the advertiser prepared
to run any man 100 yards for £5O and a silver cup.
Highest price given for old clothes. “ Teeth care-
fully extracted,” of course, goes well with “board
and lodging for four persons.” Taking out the
teeth of the boarders, before allowing them to
make a start, means a considerable saving in
victuals.
* * *
Thus that offensive Democrat, Jos. Symes,
in a recent number of his fly-blister :
Mr. Henry Howard Molyneux Herbert i 8 now starring it
in Melbourne under the nickname of Lord Carnarvon. He
is staying, we believe, at the Cadge- s' Refuge, where he is
the guest of the governor and governess of Victoria. The
papers and pulpits are iu raptures over bis visit. He Is a
Freemason, and has violated the principles of his craft by
begging for the Imperial Institute since he has been here.
Mr. Herbert, alias Carnarvon, is one of our distinguished
visitors ; and the governor and governess, we are happy to
state, are to be repaid for his board, lodgings, attendance,
and laundry expenses while he remains with us. May the
Lord add His divine blessing ! Amen.
* * •
Naim, this: —“ Widow— young, respect-
able, desires situation housekeeper. Single gentle-
man preferred. Housekeeper, S. Melbourne,
P-O." This appeared in the Age, the other day.
Very naive, eh ? Kiss us for our mothah 1
* * *
The Marquis and Marchionesa of Drogheda
arrived at Government House, Sydney, on the
30th ult. -This accounts for the fine weather the
city of the Beautiful Harbour has had of late.
Divine Providence thinks twice before It soaks a
marquis,
A baby was born in a Melbourne cab a
few About five million people have
been borne on the trams during the year.
Personal item. Very personal. A North
Queensland editor states that the literary staff cf
a certain Townsville paper hasn't washed itself
since childhood's happy hours.
The total average bank deposits of N, S.W.
for the last qua-ter were £29,128,910, against Vic-
toria’s £34,671,512. The little Southern colony
is evidently in want of a Good Government of the
Parkes pattern to speed her on the wallaby
towards insolvency.
Judge Quinlan, who has just let off the
Geelong swindler, John Henry Stauronghi, with
nine months’ confinement, once sentenced a lad
named Thomas Clarence to only thirteen years’
imprisonment for stealing a few trifling articles
from a R.C. Church.
Melbourne Argus figures in Francis
Adams' little shilling dreadful, “ Madeline
Brown's Murderer,” as “a British paper, run on
British lines, in the British province of Victoria,
by a little knot of played-out, fossiliferous British
journalists, and is the most admirab’y foolish
newspaper just at present in existence.” Pass the
trombone for a variation on the everlasting
terewth.
Phil. Gulletfc, late editor of the Suburban
Times, Sydney, has donned ths wig and gown at
his native Lancefield, Vic., where he defends
drunks at the Police Court, and then publishes
their names in his newspaper. This latter is the
udkindest cut of all. The other day, a client, who
was pulled to the court for usirg obscene language,
offered Phil. 233. (id. instead of a guinea on con-
dition that if he was convicted his name shouldn’t
appear in the local paper. Phil. Indignantly re-
pudiated the insinuation,
Chevreul, the French savant, has just
celebrated his one hundred and first birthday.
When asked t he secret of his longevity, he replied,
“ There is no secret; there can be no rule of life ;
wbat is good for one may not be good for another.
We must study what is best for us individually.
For example, my parents lived to be more than
90 years old, and they drank wine; from my
chlldhocd wine has been disagreeable to me. Like
Locke and Newton, I have never cared for any
beverage tut water, and yet I am president of tho
Wine Society of ADjou.”
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —l leave you (o
dral with the following in your own way. The
su joined clipping from the Herald purports lo
be a narrat ve of truth, I suppose. Being
one of tbe meetirg, just from idle curiosity,
I raw and heard without making a
remark. The i lain truth is, that meeting was not
held in the public Town Hall, but in a email
chamber where the Town Council conducts its
bu'iness. A “unanimous vote of sympathy”
was not passed. I think about exactly a third of
the meeting held up its hands against a resolution
of f-ympathy. The meeting was orderly, and Sir
Henry’b friends jvere the same crowd you might
eee playing kips-in-the ring and distributing buns
and tracts at a Bible-class picnic. Instead of £2OO
being subscribed, all that was gathered in tbe
room was £l2 (twelve). The meeting was, in a
true sense, a hole-and-ccrner affair. The rags of
papers here w on’t publish oriticisms dealing with
euch crawlers as they merit. Yours truly,
Gregory. [Here is the clipping alluded to
‘‘The Parkea Tribute Fund.—Wollongong, Saturday.— A
public meeting of the leading citizens was held in the Town
llall last Dight, Mr. John Biggar in the chair, to express
sympathy with Sir Henry Parkes in his present financial
difficulty. Owing to the inclement weather the attendance
was limited. An unanimous vote of sympathy was passed,
and it was decided to support the action of the metropolitan
committee. A strong local committee was formed to carry
out the object iu view. £2OO was collected in the room."
There is an extensive Chinese mission in
Otago (N Z ), which is run by the Presbyterian
church, and two revererd gentlemen—Messrs.
Don and Kwook Wai Shang—who seem to boss
the movement, present an annual report of their
labours. For saddening wretcbcdnoßS wo never
met anything to equal that report. The hat is
passed round among the flock, and it Is a gala
day when It comes baok without being embezzled,
and when tho congregation don’t borrow all the
minister’s spare cash to boot. Tbo results for
1886-7 amount to the conversion of one Chinkie,
who died immediately afterwards in tbe hospital,
and to Kwook Wai Shang being chasod by the
Hock with a view to being bambooed. There
were no tea meetirgs, no enthusiasm, no fund for
building a new church ; Sunday after Sunday
ten wooden-looking Chimunon jabbered at each
other while Kwook pounded the Word, and when
he preached loud enough to interrupt them they
arose and went out. Or if it was wet they stayed
in and smoked, aud oxpectoratod, and told
Kwook in Chireseto “dry up.” When he declined
to dry up they hunted him out with the aforesaid
bamboo. Sometimes ho button-holed them out-
side, and then they asked him for eixpenoe, and
if he hadn’t got it they simply said “ no savee.”
Newly arrived Chinamen fancied Kwook was ad-
vance agent for a circus, and grew pick because
ho didn’t turn somersault,* ; elderly Chinamen
regarded him, from a wooden point of view, as a
kind of lunatic ; and festive Chinamen threw
things at him because he had no pigtail. But
stili Kwook Wai Shang struggles on, and draws
his salary, though his one convert has gone to be
with the dead Tai-pings in Heaven, and his wail-
ing little report is duly filed away once a year
among the archives of the Presbyterian Synod.


“The Queen measures seventeen and a
half Inches round the calf of her leg.”—Court
Journal. Humph! How much does this saving
lady measure round the “stocking " 1 A yard, at
east.
The Tichborne Claimant is now liquor-
selling in New York. His hair and beard are
White, but he still weighs 3001b5., and he says he
will ’ave another fight for his hestates.
PAIN‘S FIREWORKS.
PAIN'S IN THE DOMAIN
MEWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN'S IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN’S IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS NEXT IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN‘S IN TEE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS GRAND IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN'S IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS DISPLAY IN THIS? DOMAIN
PAIN‘S IN THE DOMAJN
FIREWORKS Thursday. IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN’B IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS December 15. IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN'S IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
PAIN'S IN THE DOMAIN
FIREWORKS IN THE DOMAIN
JAMES PAIN.
CRITERION THEATRE.
50“ handgun: m. John Solomon
14th. AN D 11th.
14th. LAST WEEK 14th.
Nth. BUT TWO 14th.
of
W. J.HOLLOWAY'S
BRILLIAN?‘ SEASON
0
LEGITI’A‘ILTE DRAMA.
MISS ESSIE JENYNS
LEAH 1
LEAH
LEAH J
as
The
JEWISH
MiIDEN.
f LEAH
LE A.H
[ LEAH
The Box Plan at Nicholson's music warehouse.
Bus. Manager for W. J. Holloway, W. H. Manning.
MONTY BROWNB, Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
THIS MINSTREL and BURLESQUE COMPANY
COMMANDS PAR EXCELLENCE the PREMIER
POSITION IN THIS ERA OF MINSTRELSY.
EVERY EVENING,
this
POPULAR TEMPLE
of the
GREAT MULTITUDE is
CROWDED, CROWDED,
and Laugh and Rejoice over this Great Success,
THE BEAUTIES IN THE AIR
Popular Prices :
Orchestra Chairs, 2a.; Stalls, Is.; Baloony, 6d.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 8. ; Carriages 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
MY PARTNER
or
MATES ON THE GOLDFIELDS.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.'s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal
Under the Direotlon of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Muagrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
AT 7.45 PRSCISELY,
LA MASCOTTE.
LA MASCOTTE.
Prices as usual.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway'sHotel.
Academy of music.
Lease and Manager ... F. E. Hiscocks.
House Crowded from Floor to Ceiling
TO WELCOME
THE ONE AND ONLY
FREDERIC MACUABE
in his FAMOUS MUSICAL atd VENTRILOQUIL
ENTERTAINMENT,
“ BEGONE DULL CARE.”
Box plan open an Nicholson s,
Manager for Mr. Macoabe, F. H, POLLOCK,
jy/J-OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QNEENSLAND.
Under the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
cellency Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Accommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
the balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
and mail coaches daily from Rockhampton and
Ktbra railway-stations. W. MONCHTON, Pro-
pritor, of the firm of Monchton and Co.
Custom House Hotel,
BUNDABERG.
First-class Accommodation for Squatters, Com-
mercial Travellers, and others.
MT Private Suites for Families. TSd
Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards.
Buggy meets every steamer.
HARRY McCANN, Proprietor.
fd
m.. n
equalled
fDNEI
either tor
RICE or QUALIT
CEORCE S
REMOVED TO 408?,. NEXT DOOR.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxXXXXxXX
X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XH
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
rjlHB TORRID ZONE,
VERY CALORIC.
Wearenowgoing tosettledowntoour
steady warmsummer weather. Bepre
paredno wifyouwant adree sinahurryand
can’t wait to hayeitmade. Seeour
thousanandone costnmes oneofwhich
issureto fltyouwell orwithalittlealtera
tion PERFECTLY WELL. Nowlistento
this Wehavetho asandsof SatinMerveil
leuxDresses inthelatestFrenchstyles;
also boatingandtennis costumes ine very
variety blacklaceskirtsat 13s. 6d.; just
fancy (seethem )
AlsoLibertySilk Costumesinthe new
Eucalyptaand Goblinshades. Twine
lace costumes inthe new Heliotrope
shades; alsotwinecoloredtrimmedwith
bro wn Indi an silk. Frenchmadeplain
colore dcashmeres, Black Met veillexand
BrocheCostumes (verycool) trimmed
lacewitbjetpanels, fourguineasa very
nice Xmas. present. Zephyrandprint
costuniesfroml2s.Gd. (yestwelveandsix
foradress )
NOTICETOSTRANGERS.—OurpIace
of businessisin PITT-S 1 REETin the
midstof allthefashionable andcrushof
peopleyet thereislots of room in ourplace
of business (becauseitls builtlike
Noah's Ark.) Find Kingstreetand
thenaskfor Hordern’sinPiF-street. Any
onewilltell youwhereitis..
HOR DERNBROTHE RS,
203 to2ll PIT T• 8 TRE ET (ONL Y).
NOWHEREELSE.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXVXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxvxxxxxxxxxxx
“AUSTRALIA’S” GRAND CONSULTATION.
SUMMER CUP, Monday, December 26, 1888,
3000 Bubs, at £1 each. First Horse, £l5OO :
Seer nd Horse, £6OO ; Third Horse, 300 ; Starters,
£3OO ; Non-Starters, £3OO. To be divided amongst
them.
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP, January 26, 1888.
5000 subs, at £1 each. First Horse, £2500 ;
Second Horse, £1000; Third Horse, £5OO. Starters,
£500; Non-Starters, £5OO. To be divided amongst
them. Subscribers are requested to apply early
that the fortunate drawers of horses may have
time to hedge. Persons making application for
Tickets are requested to register all letters to en-
sure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes for reply and result.
Address: “ Australia,” care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconist, Victoria Cigar
Divan, 315 J George-street, Sydney.
rpo PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything in Sydney, send to
R. GIBBINGS & Co.,
GKEBJSritIIR.A.ILj AGENTS,
OF
323 GEORGE STREET.
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED AT
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
a!“ ”if-t1?!“
‘ '0' "Jr 1/ Li'r‘ “gs-511‘
:zt-é’f v; 7 Elwin”
o‘j‘w.‘ Wm”)- “HAIL???" Jun y
“u ”'1‘ [H WW 33%;;
‘ ‘; i‘f‘ ,“J'r‘ff'ﬂﬂ ‘ Ja/ .
I1“ I "WV/"V "1’75“" ‘5’ ‘(If‘
“I“; D’v‘i ‘ “cu 51", 1 h
3‘9“” W" 1/, ‘ ‘7
.,‘ ,1“! W ’3":
”u / "WW “ “I“u‘} ‘
1:71”! I 9‘15“" 3‘ $3ch
AI. ‘ a “"43;ng
: ( ' 3’} L‘ ‘V‘J‘L’u‘wfx ‘
\ ‘ I”) (/Hﬁl‘v‘m
"' (l V “HA, 1‘
\(KE' 'I kiwl 31%,! r”
‘ "WY ‘ ,
\a a . WM 91»
\ ,4 ‘ W,
\. ‘ rajlr‘_1‘€""
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corots I have triea."
Signed Marie Roze.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y & N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,”
in oval.
Three Gold Medals!!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
Belle Vue note*,
IB-
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Oar fit ai,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOB BA,
A Waiter Msets Every Steamer,
Lett rs and
prietor,
telegrams please address Fsc
s. m. coiiLina.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
Fibst-olass Accommodation for Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E. STEWART, Proprietor.
High-class Dentistry 1 at Reform Prices
ART IFICI ALT E ETH
roMPLETESFT
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELI ZAB EtH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas daily at 11.
Alhambra music hall,
George-streefc, Haymarkefc.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
A Blessing in every Family
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action is at once recognised. s
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
i3T Purchassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
tyjSydneiJ.
J£NOLAN"CAV£SmU£iMOUNrA/NS I &
HuntlrST*C.P.&
QTTHIEIISrSXji-A.JSriD.
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office. —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency,—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Manager ... Alfred Wyburd.
SUMMER HILL BICYCLE CLUB.
First Annual Face Meeting—Saturday, Dec.
17. To be held by Electric Light. Com-
mencing at 7 p.m.
PROGRAMME.
(Under the sanction of the N.S.W. Cyclists' Union.)
One Mile Maiden Bicycle Race (to be ridden on
roadsters, minimum weight 351b).—First prize,
value 5 guineas ; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas.
One Mile Open Handicap.—lst prize, value 7
guineas ; 2nd, 5 guineas ; 3rd, 3 guineas. Half-
mile 2nd class Scratch Race. —Ist prize, value 5
guineas; 2nd, 3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. One
Mile Club Handicap (open to members of Summer
Hill B.C. only).—lst prize, 5 guineas: 2nd, 3
guineas ; 3rd, 2 guineas. 440yds. Foot Race (open
to all amateurs).—lst prize, value 5 guineas ; 2nd
3 guineas; 3rd, 2 guineas. Entrance Fee for each
event, 2s. 6d. E. NICHOLLS, Hon. Sec.
ZMIOTTUSTT HVTOIR.Gr.A.IN'-
QUEIHSLUJD TiTIOSAL HOTEL,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitor?.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprietress
Loss and Gain.
CHAPTER I.
1 1 was taken sick a year ago
With bilous fever.’
4 ‘ My doctor pronounced me cured, but I got
sick again, with terrible pains in my back and sides,
and I got so bad I
Could not move 1
I shrunk 1
From 2281b3. to 1201 I had been doctoring for
my liver, but ib didme no good, I did not expect
to live more than three months. 1 began to use
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. Directly my
appetite returned my pains left me, my entire
system seemed renewed as if by magic and after
using several bottles, I am not only as sound as a
sovereign, but weigh more than I did before. To
Hop Bitters I owe my life.”
Dublin, June 6, 'B6. R. Fitzpatrick.
CHAPTER 11.
“ Malden, Mass., Feb. 1, 1886. Gentlemen—
I have suffered with attacks of sick headache,”
Neuralgia, female trouble, for years in the most
terrible and excruciating manner.
No medicine or doctor could give me relief or
cure, until I used IT. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
• ‘ The first bottle
Nearly cured me;"
The second made me as well and strong as when
a child,
“ And I have been so this day."
My husband was an invalid for twenty years
with a serious
“Kidney, liver and urinary complaint,
“ Pronounced by Boston’s best physicians—
“ Incurable ! ”
Seven bottles of your Bitters cured him and I
know of the
“ Lives of eight persons ”
In my neighborhood that have been saved by
your Bitters,
And many more are using them with great
benefit.
“They almost
Do miracles ?’’ —Mrs, E. D. Slack,
How to Get Sick.— Expose yourself day and night ; eat
too much without exercise; work too hard without rest ;
doctor all the time ; take all the vile nostrums advertised,
ai_d then you will want to know how to get well, which is
answered in a few words —Hake Dr. Soule's American Hop
Bitters.
tar None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
the bottle. Beware of all the vllepoisonoua stuff
made to imitate the above.
ROW'S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the Quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen, —I ae great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
Buffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21,1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have bo unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
R
ows
EMBROCATION
ROW*
EVERYWHERE
3/6
Row’s Steane’s Wine
is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
Row’s Eteane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It’s
only a pure tonic. Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW’S
‘STEANE”S’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any in-
jurious chemicals, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They ehould become a favorite drink in
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row s Steane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-Invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
48, IS, *7, GEORGE-fSTREET, SYDNEY,


Centrally
situated
0 AND
ACCESSIBLE
TOAUTHELEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL'S IMPERIAL HO
m
'fiunm'Jlim
imliHl'
ttf
a
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OF THE/
EQUATOR
EL
sinnr^
m
O'
e>f DAN IE Ll
l*U=E
ns
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
s TAT]ON
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. W* COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. C. H. DANIEL!.
‘TL' EA=8§4PTER RWS‘SAUCE
SAue
In consequence §f Imitations «f THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which art calculated m deceive the Public » Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers m that the Label m every hoith
hears their Sigmtmm thm~^
withmi which m httk @f the original WOMCMSTERSHIMM
SAUCE is gmuim ,
Ask for LEA and PERRINS’ Same, and see Name m Wmfiper, Label) JBMs ms>
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Cress# m 4
Blackwell, London, &*c., mnS hy Grocers and Oilmen thrsmghmt the World*
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore Joseph & C 0. ,: David Cohen & Co,, Sydney.
SMOKE AND CHEW
m m m nn
Lib PKT
MIXTURE
m L
i
c /leCauy qA
TO OUR TOWN AND COUNTRY FRIENDS.
On receipt of P. 0.0. for £1 Is. we will forward you 31b. of our celebrated VULCAN MIXTURE in
£’>b packets, which we can highly recommend as being the best in the market ; with this a SILVER-
MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE and a first class TOBACCO POUCH.
For 6d. you can buy the LARGEST and BEST
PLUG of ohoice TOBACCO sold in the Australian
colonies, made from the PUREST and BEST
AMERICAN LEAF.
The attention of squatters and storekeepers in
the country is particularly drawn to the ARMY
and NAVY brand of Tobacco, which we can sup-
ply wholesale at price which defies competition.
AMERICAN LONG-CUT RUBY.
Ditto ROUGH-CUT RUBY.
Is. 6d. per. Jib. PACKETS, our own cutting
om best AMERICAN GOLD BLOCKS.
Guaranteed the Purest American Tobacco.
Our CELEBRATED VULCAN MIXTURE In
Jib. PACKETS, a successful blending of the
finest American Tobaccos, producing one of the
best smokes extant.
Is. Per PACKET of Jib. FULL WEIGHT.
All kinds of Sterling Silver-mounted BRIARS
and MEERCHAUMS always on hand. The Cele-
brated VULCAN BRIARS, CHERRYWOOD
PIPES, etc.
VULCAN, RUBY, AROMATIC TWIST, and
POCKET PIECES are the finest quality of Ameri-
can Aromatic Tobaccos imported. One trial will
suffice to prove their superiority to all other brands
of Aromatlo Tobaccos in'the market,
6d. and Is. Per PLUG.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
680, 682, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Depoi for Camerons, T. C. Williams, and all the Best
Imported and Other Tobaccos,
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33 _ ETTGKEUSriEPS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
As the most central and well appointed of any in
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.), '
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
WILL Mrs. E. BRUNTON, late news agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney.
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPLOYMENT AGENCY
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable in-
formation.
79 E izabeth-atreet,
BRISBANE.
,MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY:
IMPORTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
at QUEEN STREET. BRI3BAN*
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King Of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the solenoe of self-defence.
Classes now open,
When in Sydney, if you miss Foley's you
Have not seen the city.
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR ° f PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
231, CLARENCE-STREET.
GBD. GBD.
We hare Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shlpmec (looming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
THE EMPIRE HOTEE,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Gaests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTlN,Proprietor.
This'BEEB}:
awarded at:
Adelaide Exa
hibmon FIRST:
sznGowMBmL
Cooper & McLeod’
India Pale
Ale.
IBID I NBUBGH'.
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
In bulk
and case.
Bent BEER
In the Market.
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TZEEIIj EIRIG-lE-ITOIDT OUT 3ST.S-W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers. Private Dinners, Evening Pities, &c, are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a, -iost recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country •
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picrih, r »ioies provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminater to make her visi-
tors comfor: able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony. ‘ '• - * 0 »* n
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, UANL


AN ELECTRIC SHOCK.
The Belfast (Ireland) Labor Advocate pub-
lishes a remarkable letter from Mr. John M. Camp-
bell, proprietor of the Adair Arms Hotel, Italy-
mena. Mr. Campbell writes that for years he was
a great sufferer from rheumatic gout When he
had despaired of finding relief he tried a recenc
medical discovery. On the first application his
limbs seemed to experience an electric shock, and
the rapidity with which a cure was eflected could
b8 considered nothing but marvellous. The remedy
is St. Jacobs oil, and he has, he says, also used it
for cramps and croup in his children, and found it
most efficacious. The Advocate adds that many
citizens of Belfast have found St. Jacobs oil an
absolute cure for rheumatism.
“The Waterbury.”
CHLICHTCHI[?] DOVE.
HAVE YOU DECIDED
What you are going to give your boy for a
Christmas Box ? He is already asking himself
this question, and his mind is quite made up as to
what he would like, so you might just as well pay
him the compliment of consulting him on the
point. Taking it for granted that he is a sensible
boy—as most Australian boys are—he will proba-
bly have given the subject his best consideration
for weeks past, and if he has not yet become the
possessor of one, there is no doubt but that he has
deoided upon having a Waterbary Watch in pre-
ference to anything else you could offer him.
That is where he is going to show his good sense,
and it is just there he will giva you an opportu-
nity of showing yours. Once past the days of
babyhood, he is too old for the toys and lollies
which have so far done goodservice in persuading
him to cut his teeth with the air of a martyr, and
keep his 'bockers clean until the last guest had
vanished through the back gate. He has already
got a whip ; he would be a most degenerate scion
of the race if he hadn’t owned one ever since he
could toddle. He is old enough to scorn the
ownership of a wooden horse with a true Austra-
lian instinct in favour of the live animal, and he
has a bat and a ball, a yapping little dog, which
howls all night to the distraction of the neigh-
bours, and a “shanghai” with which he can
knock explosive expletives oat of a vegetable
John with deadly accuracy anywhere within a
hundred yards. When you come to ponder over
all this, and then take a casual glance into the
corners of his room and under his bed, you will
feel astonished at the extent ot his
ancient and modern, offensive and defensive. But
he really d 033 want a wa'ch, and a Waterbury is
the very best present you can make him, for
several reasons, including the following :
You mu3t give him something because it is
Christmas.
That something ought to be u-eful, as well as
ornamental ; economical, as well as valuable.
The Waterbury Watch fills the bill. Every boy
in the land should own one as wall as his father,
and the Waterbury Watch Company is pledged to
continue it’s great civilising mission until that re-
sult is accomplished.
You know from experience that the Waterbury
is a keyless, reliable, durable, accurate, perfect
time-keeper, which can be regulated to a minute
a month. Rarely, if ever, gets out of order, and
when by chance it does, it can be repaired at a
nominal cost at the Waterbury Watch Repair De-
pot, 56, Margaret-street. It can be bought
wholesale from Messrs. T. Willis and Co., Feld-
heim, Gotthelf and Co., S. Hoffnung and Co.,
and generally from all dealers and storekeepers
throughout the colonies. Then, consider if it is
not direotly advantageous to your own interests,
and calculated to advanoe your boy in life to de-
cide upon the Waterbury as a Chr’stmas present.
A boy at Guildford, Vic., fell one hundred
feet down an abandoned shaft and only sprained
his foot. His father thinks he was born to hawk
sewing-machines.
At Adelong (N.S.W.) the other day a
horse ran away with a cartload of Chinamen, and
a local scribe joyfully wrote that it was a pleasant
break in the prevailing monotony.
HE (facetiously): “THEY OUGHT TO CHARGE FOR LADIES LIKE YOU BY WEIGHT."
SHE (acidly): “IF THEY DID THAT, THEY WOULD NOT STOP TO PICK YOU UP.”
There was an enthusiastic crowd of twelve
at the Parkes relief meeting recently hell at
Tamworth, N.S.W. This is two more than the
little niggers who swung on the gate.
The Royal Geographical Society’s expe-
dition party discovered a large hollow tree full of
human bones in New Guinea. The shook-headed
Papuans were pretty smart in pirating Parkes’s
Centennial dead-house scheme.
Dean Sheridan, of St, Francis’, Sydney,
is going back to Ireland on a twelve-months’
holiday, after an absence from the ould sod of
forty years.
Lord Carnarvon says he hardly knows
whether to congratulate Australia or not upon the
prospect of sharing “ Imperial labours and dan-
gers.” We would suggest “ not ”to his lordship.
Parkea once narrowly escaped colliding
with a travelling locomotive. The old man says
he was never nearer being dead-broke, so yon can
guess it was a close shave.
A pig bit a Chinaman’s finger off at Bal-
larat. Pigs are not very particular in their diet.
But it was a just retribution. Many a time had
that Chow bitten a pig’s trotter off.
PROFIT §1,200.
“ Tosumit up, six long years of bed-ridden sickness, costing
§2OO per year, total §1,200. All of this ejpsnse was stopped
by three bottles of I>r. Soules American Hop Hitters, taken
by toy wife. She has done her own housework for a year
fince, without the loss of a day, aud I want t very body to
know it, for their benefit.” N. K. Farmer.
The 11 Moldacot.” The sales of this wonderful pocket lock
stitch Sewing machine, have been enormous, s : nce their
introduction in this colony, and no wonder for such a per-
fect mechanism. Call and see it, next Paling’s George-
s’ r t et.*
New South Wales.— This colony at the present time
assists a larger number of Emigrants from Great Britain
than all the rest of Australia put together. The climate be-
ing hotter than in other parts, disease here assumes a sub-
tropical character and we find Fevers of all kinds, Diarrhoea,
Drsentery, Cholerine and Cholera p-evail at certain periods
The Chinese in New South Wales have long since learnt,
thanks to a kind-hearted nobleman who employs many
hundred Celestials, that the ea'iest and most successful
method of cutting short and curing these diseases, is at once
to take a dose of Fresman’s Chlorodyne which in the majority
of cases arrests the further progress of the malady, or to con
ti->ue is aocording to the directions until the disease is cured.
—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies, lns'st upon
having “ Fr.-emau’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.*
One of the beßt managed and largest hotels In Sydney s
he Great Northern, corner Charlotte Place and George-
street. Having been thoroughly renovated, Travellers will
find l the cosiest place in Sydney. The shilling lunoheon
i ra nse.*
Tattersall's Monßter Consultations.—Rosehill Handicap,
run November 12, 2000 subs, at 205.; also, Sir Joseph Banks
13th Grand Handicap, 5000 subs, at 20s. each, now open, and
filling rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-
street.*
A PRETTST BARMAID.
How beautiful she was 1 How wild!
Pure as the water plant this child.
Grown tall in shadow ; beautiful ear
To hear them call for at. Louis Beer,
Stop still, my friend, and do not stir ;
Stand close to me and think of her.
My friend sang sweeter, for her face,
Her lifted eyes were like a grace,
The rippled rivers of her hair
Make every thought you now despair,
That ran in wondrous waves somehow,
Flowed down divided by her brow,
And mantled her within its care.
The St. Louis Beer was always there.
At her bar you all must know
St. Louis Baer is all the go.
Many peop'e refuse to take Cod Liver Oil on account of its
unpleasant taste This difficulty has been overcome in
“ Scott s Emulsion of Cod Livf,r Oil with Hvpophos-
FIIITES. It teing as palatable as milk and the most valuable
remedy known for the treatment of Consumption, Scrofula
and Bronchitis has caused Physicians in all prts of the
world to use it. "I have found 'Son's Emulsion’ of
great benefit in the treatment of phthisical and s rofulous
ciseases. It is extremely palatable and does not upset the
stomach, thus removing the great difficulty experienced in
the administration of the plain Oil.
D. P. Kenna, L.R C.S.,
Surgeon, St. Vincents Hospital Dublin
Large and small bottles at all Chemists.*
Summer ! Hookings and Co., have Australian Wines
from one to two guineas, d0z.—143 Pitt-street,*
GRATEFUL WOMEN.
None receive so much bane fit, and nine are so profoundly
grateful and show such an interest in recommending Dr.
Soules American Hop Bitters as women It is the only
remedy peculiarly adapted to the many ills the sex is almost
universally subject to. Chills and fever, indigestion or de-
ranged liver, constant or periodical s'ck headaches, weakness
in the back or kidneys, pain in the shoulders and different
parts of the body, a feeling of lassitude and despondency,
are all readily removed by these bitters. Courant.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
HENRY THORPE, Proprietor,
Late of the Baden Baden Hotel, Coogee,
THE most elevated and central position In Sydney, at Top of King-street, adjacent to all Law
Courts, Macquarie-street, Hyde Park, Domain, and the Botanical Gardens.
Private Suites, Ladies' Drawingroom, and good airy Bedrooms.
The Hotel is replete with every Convenience, Baths fitted with hot and cold water. Telephonic
communication. Telegraphic office in Hotel,
The Hotel ow under entirely new management, and the present proprietor trusts by oareful atten
Men to business to maks The Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or Residents of Sydney-
THEY’LL I!E LIVELY
PRETTY SOON.
MO3QUITOE CURTAINS
and
MOSQUITOE NET
q’l who
at pres9nt occupies the attention or
object to the tuneful “ bu/, ’ of the p’ayful skeete
Hence our
REMARKABLE PRICE LIST.
Remember, plea'.e, that all
LAWLER’3 NET CURTAIL
are made from 120 in. Net, no other width
ing for shrinking.
allow
For—
Half-tester Batfsteads 2ft. (lin. x 6ft. Gin.
3ft x G’t, 6in.
3 ft. Gin. x 6ft. 6m.
4ft. x 6ft. Gn.
Ifo. GiD. x G’t. Gin.
sft. x G'". Gm.
THAT EXCELLENT WASHING NET
LAWLER’S.
For—
Four-p'st B.'dateads 2ft. Gin. x Gft. Gin.
3 ft. xGf.Gn.
3f . Gin. x Gft. 6>n.
4f-„ x G’b Gm-
in. Gin. x 6ft Gm*
s[-j. x 6fu Gin.
s.d.
10 o
u 6
13 G
11 0
14 6
10 G
OF
e. d.
!) G
10 G
11 «
12 6
13 G
15 G
BUY ONLY
LAWLER’S LONG NET CURT A ’ V
MADE FROM 120 in. NET.
For —
Cots, Half-tester
Four-post
4ft. x 2ft.
4ft. G’n. x 2ft. G n
sft. x 3ft.
4 ft. x 211.
4ft. Gir. x 2ft. 6 r.
5 ft. x 3fo.
s.d-
-4 H
5 9
' 0
9
0
6
Ladies in town or suburb ne'd only
post card or memo., and ihe Net or the
will be despatched the same day.
4
5
6
drop
Carl® 106
1000 SETS MADE UP AND REAR y
ALL SIZES.
il d 0
Ladles in tire country have only ee ” 1)r tain 8
their money-order and away goes the
and Net.
a 8h« aJP
If you are in the bush, and have omv
or a French Bedstead, and are troubled
quitoes, send to Lawler's for bis Net 4,u
which are made upon a circle of cane, » n
suspended to a hook or a pin overhead, ffl0 f
easier thau to suspend them from tent- top j o r
of shanty. Prices 9d. extra to those <l ut)
Ha’f-Testers.
The Nat 1201 n. can be had 1/2,1/3, l/ 4 > „
- -- --- 1/4,1/"’
The Net 120 in.
The Net 120 in.
The Net 120 in.
The Net 120 in.
The Nat 120 in.
1/2,1/3,
1/2, 1/3, l/ 4 > 1 ’’
1/2, 1/3.1/ 4 - l/ (
1/2, 1/3, l/ 4 - ]!'
1/2, 1/3, l/ 4 > ’’
And great as the bargains in these
TAINS and NET undoubtedly are, they
the bargains so general in
but
fO
If 0
LAWLER’S
BOOT DEPARTMENT.
LAWLER’S
CLOTHING DEPARTMENT.
LAWLER’S
HAT and MERCERY DEPAR T]V[ J
LAWLER’S
BEDSTEAD DEPARTMfItf 1 ’
LAWLER’S
FURNITURE and CARPET
LAWLER’S
IRONMONGERY DEPART^
CALL or WRITE.
X3TABLI3AED iB6O.
L A "WLE^'”
k <ioB GEORaB-STRBBT,
SYDNEY.


lascxpoxtarit I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OISTL-IT
mcsisal insteomei
direct supplt
association,
674
®>RGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
to inform their many patrons and the public
a s as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th; they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
o
a °co Rd
®ONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/
S Pecialir . 26/ ‘* 3C/ -’ 40/ -> fco £6 ‘
cy : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
Kt bellows, 27/6.
” Patent German Silver Reeded Ac
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
’ 6 /8, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/
Genuine - 3 - 0/ '’ 35/ '’ 40/ "’ up t 0 £l5 -
1 Lachenal Anglo German
steel notes
S pe . 7/G> 10 / R . IS/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
a ty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
W, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-,
Ipeoi up t 0 £l2 12a ’
aityj Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
3/R v 6 /6. 6/6, 7/6, 10/., 15/-, up to £7 10s.
"PColaHh ° out 20R different sorts in stock.
•cyi 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
> FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
K CELEBRATED
til VU STEMS,
° a ® be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 8/6, 4/-, 4/6
5/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
Banjo Strings.
8ll Ver Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
a hdCopper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. Sd. each.
Also,
KVERY KIND OF STRINGS
(biU for the
lar » Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &0,, &o.
and Drum and Fife Bands
hirnlshed throughout.
h Ordg R Minstrel troupes fitted out,
‘ 6h, "i attended to, and all lnstru-
om efu^y packed and sent to any part of
C!; 168 a P fcen ded to by return nt post,
r ders to be made payable to
SIMONSEN,
*' 4 GEORGE STREET,
KIDKXTTi
(Inicura
TM:': 1
// m »
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
joi]
Scrofula on Neck
PI M PLES to SC ROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Earning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cutioura Soap and a single application of
Cuticttra, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bcalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
Of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
•icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and god
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.!
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood!
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Town* & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin,
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
i.id.gTfts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
/ScA.ud. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fi.yj: Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
Ufti Jc/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pci bottle.
Prepared et the
Potter Drug & CUemic&l Co., Boston, U.S.A.
I#
!•?
m
m
mm
m
W
The
‘ POTSHOT’
Camera,
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up, and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT" Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as DETECTIVE Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars oan be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AND CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’DONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
It
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-fltreet,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHEN WARS
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00. B
Cognac.
». T. GAYEN’S
Sohnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
O N u M K N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Raillngi.
Dailfini and Ultimate! forwarded on raqnu
J. CUMMIFGHASa,
asAaxs-snxxi, wnrwAKJ>-*«uA*B, Btdxxv
XXTK can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
▼ ▼ tins: Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and olgars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-sbrent, six doors from
Queens street. A, COOPKR, Proprietor.
ZBEOOHSTSiF'IIEIL.ID HOTEL
(West Beach),
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
THE above beautifully-situated hotel hag re-
cently been greatly altered and improved,
and is now reedy for the reception of guests.
Situated immediately on the shores of the Bay,
yet it is within five minutes’ walk of the St.
Kilda Railway Station, sd that visitors, while
enjoying the luxury of a sevside residence, can,
within 20 minutes, be in the busy centre of Mel-
bottrne. Convenient access has been made to the
extensive promenade on the roof, from which
magnificent views can be obtained of the Bay
and Shipping, Government House and Albert
Park Lake, Mounts Macedon, You Yang, and
Dandenong Ranges.
E- A. COOPER, Proprietress.
PERCY GIBBS, Manager.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
NBURPASSED accommodation for commer-
u oial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make oomfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor,
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 presorlp]
bions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address i Doctor W. K,
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bcurke and
Elisabeth Streets. Melbourne Via
Miffl
Brad iai riwiqi, m lamb
(In liquidation),
FURNITURE ana PIANOFORTE
W AREHOUBEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
BPR NG and C’CONNELL STREET
of PIANOFORTES byThe
MOdl CELEBRATED MAKERS, *
BOARDS, Portable, variou
-_n . ﬂ -—
3’ \M
Canvas folding
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasiona
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES
" Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o.
Full suites for dining-room.— side
*J?? ARD ’ DINNK R WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, »1
to match. ’
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, frnm fi W „„ J . x »
w
r da l/dIUIIIQ
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.|
ALNUT TELESCOPE DINING TABLES
with two flaps, strongly made, £3 10s.
4-. ,
(1 ;1 111-111111’1
’1 A 1. "*1 /’
4‘.- y~-" Ajﬂil".
‘ .31“: ‘7. EVE-Rf.“
AUS
CHAIR
In
GREAT VARIETY.
And a complete asaor
menb of Bent Wo
Furniture the best make
only.
Ci °‘ ca
I^ O SUITHS SlnßoUdolr BO ™DOW
W A and BRACKETS, noveitieß
f^fcK£.“ ay * I " te, “ 4 *" W ° M >'
Elegant Venetian
enamelled, in colours.
MIRRORS, richly
BEjI
□□
m
D
RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS,
EARLY EM GLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
Drawing-room furniti re.-The lates
development of fashion, ROSEWOOD and
SPANISH MAHOGANY, artistically inlaid wito
coloured woods. Exquisite examples are now on
view in our Showrooms. A visit of Inspection is
solicited. Spring and O’Connell streets
\ :V- I
W;
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS. -Handsome-,
fashionahle designs in black and gold, with
side shelves ; also, in oak and walnut wood, at
all prices.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Bee»■
rooms. New designs covered bo order la
any material.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest'
ful, a specialty.
‘l ’5'!-
I‘:
r r “if"?
> H "n.4, =1 $1: - 1
I; .‘H 1er \ ‘J {‘5‘
til |lig|
Nlokel-plated and Blaok
and Bran. Great rarletr,
Bedding,—All descriptions »t>
lowest rates.
ďfd
SPRING MATTRAS3K*
Woven Wire, be if
mnke | also, Spiral Sprint •
Price, from lie. each.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, & LAMB,
(in liquidation),
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING & O C SNNBLL STREETS


Joe Thompson will shortly deliver a lec-
ture under the auspices of the Melbourne
Y.M.C.A., entitled “ What I ewe to good books.”
Mr. Vernon’s Eleven play 18 juniors on
the M.C.C. ground—dates, 10th and 12th Decem-
ber. The juniors are expected to make a very
strong show.
It is rumoured that the Australian Eleven
to visit the old country next summer, will pay
their own expenses, decline invitations to ban-
quets &c., and devote all the gate money to the
Imperial Institute fund.
The champion boxing amateur of Austra-
lia, Mr. Seale, is now threatened with two at-
tacks : cn one side from Mr. Buck, of England,
with whom he will fettle matters about .Anniver-
taiyDay; on the other from Sandall, the Auck-
Bust !
land (N.Z.) butcher-boy.'who is being ooached* for
the fray by Black Jackson.
Memo.—Never play euchre against two
telegraph operators, or against one whei a second
oan see your hand. It’s the ticking that does it.
Curse Morse.!
As a step towards the regeneration of the
turf, the V.R.C. propose to make the following ap-
pointments, viz.: Rev. Dr. Bevan, handicapper;
Rev. Alex. Dowie, judge; “Col.” Barker, clerk
of the course ; and Bishop Goe, starter.
George Fordham, jockey and gentleman,
died worth over £50,000. A week before his
death he called his family together and distri-
buted among them his rare collection of costly
presants—the result of many popular mounts.
The Jubilee Juggins again. Says a Lon-
don journal:—“ Mr. Benzon was at Aldershot
yesterday, and had a small gamble. He accepted
a bet of 1500 to 100 that he won three races during
the course of the afternoon, and did it by taking
the last three races right off the reel.
The rather notorious Corbett, late a Mel-
bourne police-sergeant, and now a full-blown book-
maker, was robbed of his betting-book and £l2O
at Sandhurst races. How the West Melbourne
larrikins will grieve over their old friend's loss !
A genuine touch of pathos came to the
surface at Foley's boxing saloon the other even-
ing. It was a challenge night, and a long series
of Game Chickens and other warlike heads of
poultry walked successively into the ring, and
volunteered to fight sundry other bruisers at early
dates, and then the other bruisers arose and
guaranteed to stoush their challengers at the time
mentioned, and all was harmony, till one long in-
dividual sloped at an acute angle on to the saw-
dust, and said he was ready to pulverise a certain
party in a month from date. The other man re-
plied that he was at present on a peace-footing,
and four months was his limit, and then arose a
howl of derision from the assembled multitude.
“ P’raps you’ll fight him in 40 years ? ” suggested
one child of wrath. “ How’d next Jubilee do?”
groaned another ; but the peaceful man stood
firm. “ Looky here," he said calmly; “my
brother died last week, and out of respect to bis
memory I m d d if I’ll fight any man under
four months.” The “ boo-hoos ” died away, and a
yell of applause arose, while the long man again
sloped abruptly into eight. “If I'd knowed his
brother was dead I'm d d if I'd have axed him
to fight,” was bis brief oration, and then the two
pathetic pugilists shook hands warmly and
retired amid great cheering. Even the
Game Chicken is at times a man of senti-
ment, and hitting under the belt is prohibited
for fear of landing him one on the feelings.
Poor old Stonewall Jackson, the erstwhile
champion boxer, is now in the sere and yellow
1 eaf. The other night he was Induced to stand up
atFoley'srooms.Sydney.agalnsthlsblacknamesake
the present champion, but his wind gave ont at
the second or third round, and the audience
showed symptoms of a desire to “boo-hoo” at
the collapse of the old fighter of the past. Stone-
wall Jackson, however, was a good man in his
day, as many a professional pug. and many a
“rorty” native can testify. In the old, hard-
drinking times, when the Australian shearer was
a raging lion who filled the desert with strange
oaths and blue ruin, the flash “ ringer ” was a
standing institution in every shearing-shed. He
was bigger and had a better horse than anybody
else, and he nsed more hair-oil, and could shear
faster and swear louder and fight harder and kick
up more rows about his food than any other man
on the station, and he wanted more room for his
elbows and more space for his feet than all the
rest put together. He was always under the im-
pression that somebody wanted to crowd him up,
and when he wasn’t whaling the cook for not
preparing his tucker to his entire satisfaction, he
was cheeking the boss and telling him that for
two pins he would break his back and hang his
carcase on the fence. One of these loud-mouthed
pastoralists in particular grew so troublesome
thpt the bruised and damaged cook (he was the
eleventh) resigned, and the overseer in despair
engaged Stonewall Jackson, who had just arrived,
to boil the mutton incog. Stonewall wasn’t much
cf a cook, but he reckoned he could make dump-
lings to the satisfaction even of the boss shearer,
and when that warlike party came round the first
Sunday, and asked with 15 oaths and a blast of
fearful rage what the future condition of misery
and sorrow these blessed cannon-balls were meant
for, he gazed at them with surprise, and asked if
they weren't good enough. Then the fighting
man of the shed lifted him out by the ear and
kicked him several times, and the submissive
Jackson, in a half-hearted, feebly apologeti
asked him if ho wanted to fight. He <”“• pr 6.
just what he was hungering for, and he
pared to knock any blanked cook to E ** c ® d w ith
t hat he would never come down fS®* 11 ’, rnnr ipg
this he rushed on the new cook like a a
pestilence, and was hit hard un tflo
jaw six times. After the last aß d
damaged ringer sat on the grou
gazed out of his swollen vissge
enemy, and Jackson asked him to „ aß ger
opinion about ‘' them there dumplin’s. 1 h®' , c ft
native rallied at this, and stated they w
to give to a dog, but when, after this tr waS
belli, he rushed in on his antagonist. y QU
floored several times more. “ NoW» j aC £.
think them dumplia’s weren’t so bad. s da( j )
son, persuasively. “Well, the/ wero
and that’s a fact," was the reply— ana 7? dum'
shearer went down again. "P’raps tn
plin’s weren’t quite so bad now T’ obser l, ere only
son, and the boss shearer said they ecOo-
- whereupon the scrimmage
menced, and the terror of the shed bit tD . Tira plin'o
one act. “Now, don’t you think those
were pretty good?” said Jackson, a* gra ßB
rounds more, and the pastoralist ou ahatte res
snuffled out through the remains of his
nose that they were the best dump no j
ever tasted, and he would like to eat a
them. Th 6 proceedings then closea
prayer.
The Mount Morgan appeal case c< ® e 0 8 jd is
in London shortly, and the mountain
tottering. for a
“ I think it is little short of trea3°
mam occupying a responsible position „(
country to give utterance to any so® l , lm0( ' -
disunion with England at the present
Attorney-General Wise, of N.S.W.
Walgett (N.S.W.) News man ' d
“ This week two patients died in the ® oB £ r y ( and
their remains we conveyed to the c ® :no J c er®'
placed under the sod without the slig®
mony or sympathy." o9o d
The E. Nooze not very long »g° n oW
Ihe Queen of stealing some teaspoons. n jc
we hear that a special police-officer na
puted to look after Her Gracious. wr
power of the Press 1 oJ#
John Ragg, of Melbourne, sta^cr9T?led
home to attend a church meeting, bu-® ® atl icld®‘
under a bridge by the way and commit®® ft li
No reason is given for the rash act, his 1 w tb®
averring that he was not forced to »
meeting.
- ----' — jggy,
BOURKE, 15th September. * $
IN November, 1825, my family were ITehe^ei 1 Te he^ ei
Nyngan, and my wife and I were W’P oi 9
on the charge of having damaged the d® s uU 1 '
neighbouring blacksmith, but the case tr ial °° r
mately dismissed. On our committal f? ygarSi
two boys, aged respectively 10 and f t e u P 0
boarding at an hotel at the time, were gydo®?'
session of by the police, and sent away to train* 11 ®
being placed on board of the Vernon c )jildr®®
ship. At the time of our misfortune t®
were being educated at the Convent lD M paf
and I hold certificates from the Sisters a , . oJI in l '
ment of fees and nature of the instru tt®
parted. After the children were se ? 0 i a c
Vernon, the younger was removed an pjjiidr®® 0
the hands of Maxted and Green, of the pyaC'
Relief Department, Paddington. ® ’ jj 0 bo tD
solicitor, applied to the Government w on
were on the Vernon, but could not g® c jjypg 9 ®
account of the adverse report of t® o
police. I applied personally to Dr. R 0 Yto( j a®®
the elder boy on the Vernon and to M*
Green for the younger. I have ® co upt r '
30 years in Riverina, travelling t® o gfl ,ddl® r '
or working in the towns »s a . r e le*’ e ;
and had my headquarters in Nyngan r j tf 9 ®
months, my family residing there w®* jjgtri® 11 '
working at my trade on the stations in tao 0 tf®
Maxted and Green demanded payment 0 y J®
by letter for the support of the y° ur, 2® 0 in 9
1886, and early this year, getting from r sp‘
i hree payments of £2 10a each. On f ur , to®*'
plication for money they were refer* - ®. po*
legal adviser, since which time they ® T®“
troubled me with any further den* a ® t®
first letter I got from Green, who stated /juipg®
rule of his department was to pay fl v ® t jj 0 p t®,
per week for each child for six months, o yid 0
child would be returned to his parents
they had a home to put him in. I nrg® l a .to <*,
school the child properly, and he P rolol jjof
so, but Mrs. Hogan’s interview with tn w ta t
her to believe that this matter had a^rn0 *he d®*,
been neglected, and on advertising f°® jpg b .
lately to find out his whereabouts, I ®® t iio
come acquainted with full particulars or t 0 pe*
treatment he received when sent or let o jid*
sons by the Relief Department, can enter
hopes of his having received any *® gjrd®"’,
whatever. Mrs. Hogan lately went to gUC pw
and applied to Mr. Inglis, Dr. RenwicK ®
sor, but was by him threatened with tn goo t®
and refused admission to the Vernon m
elder boy. Maxted adopted another con { te_
she applied to him for the younger ljo^' c para c
ing her to get from the Bourke police a 0
for herself and husband for the P 1 a9 e( jh of vp
months, after procuring which he refer 1 ®
the Vernon to get the elder boy
would hand over the younger to her. t pe
great influence she could not possibly 8® , k**v
from the training-ship, and well 0%
this, hence, in all probability, this shunb® B oll t
Ihe Relief Department has been g $
child to several parties, and among ot f u ted JJ
farmer at Wollongong, who was pros®®" pa 9,
ill-treating him, having beaten him on *® pp®%
breast with nettles and crippled one of ® eJ
Mrs. Hogan was also put off with
on each of her visits to the Relief dyi
Maxted telling her at one time that _r oj .
would be handed over to her, and an ° hiB hvjf
that there was no possibility of ® j o t ® j
given up to her. On one occasion ® f»tl>%j
know very plainly that he did not like
having advertised for the child in t®® \l
News. Seeing it useless to remain in “A * e
longer, she returned home to Bourke, a ® .pt %
matter is to be brought before Parlia® 00 ' »» '(■
next sitting. My ease is a very hard 0 0 j t
elder boy was, at the time of removal t> ;
non, receiving a better education at th . 0
than he would be at all likely to get o» o'
he had also partaken for the first
Sacrement as a Catholic, and was i® 0 to »c® j?
getting on to the entire satisfaction c£ i o tt® f L#
This can be proven at any time, and a ® f e ® >
oeived from the Relief Department ® in
carefully put an one side for product!
dence when required. Not wishing .
than I am able to prove, I place this if
before the public, and all who read 1®
their own inferences.
MI C HAKL HOGAN.
Saddler.


CJO.
jcfjxcjh*-, jssjcgmsf ar
IRONMOWGJERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SIS GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY,
o
C
6
IRONMONGERS
12
5
X
H/
o
3
REG 1 ?
Or
H
b
SPECIALITIES |
Darts’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos flre-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
RLECTRO-PLATED WARK, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
BAB COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER’S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fco.. fto,
TTTTT T ,T A.l\^g , S
fein BUI FOWDEB
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE* FOR ‘YEAST.
TEA-CAKES, PASTRY, &Cc,
ARB
light, wholesome, and digestible,
WRenimadeewiM
Viliams’ Australian least Powder.
IFOR [THE TOWN, THEJ;BUSH, ANDjTHE SEA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
V S ° LD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF POUND 1 .
4
MaeaAAarCil
been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver rostorer and toautifler of
human hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, of «lmli most hair
Wstorersaro composed and which ruin the health (vido Silica, papers), wil keep fresh ana
•Weet in tlio hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouipict ofroses, it i'rennUl hair
Jailing off or turning grey, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandnn, anarenaers ne
hair soft, silky? curly and glossy; it also sti:nulntos the growth of whiskers moustaches,
is especially rocommendod fur children as forming tho basis of a beautiful head of hair, and
ca “ also bo had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
tssw tsa as ssssat
*OB. o«l.: and double i hat size. *219.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDDR is a healing and refreshing preparation for
»ho face, hands and arras: it eradica'tos freckles, tan, sunburn eczema, redness and ronghnOM
the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., aud produces a beautiful and delicate
e «nplcxion. 1
, ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay.
ife n £t,hens tho gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
ROWLANDS’ articles, of 20. ilattou Garden. London, and avoid spurious imitations unde
rjp •'ittilar names.
“Oleßale and Retail Agents— Bixiott Bbob., and F. Probseh &' Co., Sydney
4
2ots
T. WILLIAMS & 00.,
IMPORTERS OF
British & Foreign Boots & Shoes £
Alio Manufacturer, of
rus: Finest Quality of Goods in the above Lines.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HOES
WOE
ink soda water.
T-EIEJ
rated Mr Go.,
HILL, SYDNEY.
Purity Guaranteed.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
life," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent free, sealed, for six penny
stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches!
04 PITT-STREEf, and 538 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... M ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oia! and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application
N F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CHL A
%
&
v
&
%
PATENT
S
PILLS
£
.Af» admitted by tiwa-
Sands to b« worth a
titiihea a Box to r bilious
and nerteus disorders,
such as wind sad pain
in the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dimness
and drowsiness,- cold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
ness,scurvy, blotches cm
the skin,disturbed sleep,
fiFijfhiful dreams,and all
n6rv6ti* afifl trembling
sensations, fee first
dose will give relief if*
tojS'c/ Mdxratfts, Tbia is no fiction, for fcney have
iIjSLS it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
invited to try one box of these PfllHn and
wifi b® acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BCJA:
fiw of all ages these Pills are Invaiuabl*,
aw a ffisw doses of them carry off all gross humours,
mm all obstructions, and taring about all that is-
No female should be without them„ There
te 313 medicine to be found to equal BBiECBAM’S
MOLM for removing any obstruction or irregularity
afi &® system. If taken according to the directions
siv®m mth each box they will soon restore females of
sail to sound and robust health.
S*o!f » weak stomach, impaired digestion and ail
disorder* of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC/ 5 and s
g®w doses will be found to work wonders upon fch®
most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whol* muscular system, restore the
!©u®4oat complexion, bring back the_ keen edgelof
B®p®ti4«, and arouse into action with th© ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of th® human
fmm« r These are “ FACTS ” admitted by taousands
(Bmbiwing all classes of society; and on* of the
best guarantees to the nervous and deouuated is,
Bescham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the World.
HICHAM’S MAGIC COUGH FILLS.
As, a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
®atty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, lightness
mnfl 'Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these
Fill® stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
amy of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
Malta© for Asthmatic and Consumptive Goughs,
H©&si3©n©BS p and Oppression of the 'Cbesfe _ They
Vjr. lev. ”i£lr 'j JA-UJ-g TV *y ~ ~ X -
Xhey give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
«t®di, dangerous complaints. Bet any person, troubled
with any of the above complaint* give Bkisohajs’s
riEW® Pills a trial. ,
yh® most violent Cough will in ft Sh« tsm® be
.€AWHOJf.--The public are requested to actio® that
dh®'words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens," am® on the
Qovemment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If act on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St„ Helens,
iwimcashire, England, in boxes at Is. lid, and 2s. 9d.
*ach, —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
P®ftlers throughout the Colonies.
' MJ?.---FuU directions are given wife oaA feox,
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony. Price*
reasonable. Sample Boom.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Bath*,
Mrs. W. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PA HIS. 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
fot pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
la unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far furpasbes the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world renowned soap is superior to all
others tor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J & E ATKINSON,
21, Old Hond Street, Loudon
Trade Mark—" White Rose’’ on" Golden
Lyre.”
E
VKRYBODY \DI7MI? T f ’Q
SHOULD USEJ I IJ ill JJ Jj ii IJ
EXTRA SUPERFINE
LOU
i
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
Nkw Pbooksb Machinery,
The PRICE Is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
Is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
111 Sioßsa-DTiin. Sronr,
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY]
»
WWW.?
I \\\Wi9M
*!
$
ytiTTii
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLS PURVEYORS 10 UlO
COLOMIAX AMD IMDIAM BMIBIIBiBi
LONDON,
By Special Appointment]
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTOK ft CO.,
Civserdil Chamber., Sydney,
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, See.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Bebween King and Market streets.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W,
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every train,
j. e. patterson;
Proprietary
Good Sample Rooms.
OBERT BUTCHER & CO,
ft; Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
502 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, In and ont Of
|Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Phopkiktob (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the Bame principle as Utt
great Melbourne Coffee Palaoe. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows6s. per diem, All meals Is. M,
5
1
Sp'TA l
rAstHMA.BRONCmTTS^^
PREPARED ONLV BV ~OV.
■] T WM'AS INGH A M. £
g
THE MOST WELCOME DISCOVERY
of Modern Times. A Cure for Pulmonary
CONSUMPTION.
TO the Consumptive, and all who suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, coughs, colds, hromorr*
hage, and all affections of the lungs, indigestion,
and diseases of the liver and kidneys, this notloe
Is of vital importance, for this remedy is genuine,
having cured, and is curing, the most stubborn
cases of the above diseases. ftHJ
The afflicted need have no fear of it, and must
not regard this notice as the ordinary advertisement
of some quack medicine. The qualities of the
preparation are cleaning and healing, causes easy
and copious expectoration, and heals the lungs
through the blood, promotes digestion, and thus
aids the stomach to digest and assimilate nourish*
lng food for the formation of pure vitalising blood,
to repair diseased tissues, and maintain the vital
powers. References and every satisfaction con-
cerning it given on application.
The Consumption Cure sent all over the colonies.
Also ST. VITUS’ DANCE perfectly cured within
eighty-four hours.
The above remedies are obtainable only from
Wili IAM Ford and Company, Office, 1 Australia,
street, Newtown, Sydney.
BRIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and
§
INVALIDS
an enormous sale ,n England,
nd irmow'belng introduced into lb*
Colonic*.
use It.
BRJRIPGE’S ROYAL JFOOP
LONDON .XMGLAND.
TEI UTIDIAL IBDUIOT HI UII Mil IIfESTH! SOCIETY,
250 PITT STREET.
.. ■ '■■■"" ■ ... ■ .1
Deposits received at best Current Rates, 0 per cent, being allowed for moneys at Call.
of/ this Society has increased fourfold in two years. Shareholders reoeive 1 4 per oent. per annum dividend.
JAMILB A. TODD.


r
rus->-
RDYAL
m'-H?
LTT- - ..lit
pus
2Jyfi«X
■ T-
if?
R
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss &; Co., Sydney
N.S.W.
P. 3E&. LABKm,
IMPORTER,
Family Wine and Spirit Merchant.
"
PICNIC and WEDDING PARTIES supplied with the Choicest Brands of WINES, SPIRITS,
and BEERS at the most Reasonable Prices, ALL RETURNS BEING ALLOWED FOR,
* -Notwithstanding the Heavy Customs Imposts, P. R> L. still sells the Best Glass of RUM,
BRANDY, or WHISKY 111 THE CITY FOR THREEPENCE
*"*' The SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the Loading Brands of WINES,
SPIRITS, &0., whieh are sold by the SINGLE BOTTLE AT WHOLESALE PRICES,
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 & 780 GEORGE STREET, SOUTH,
3 - rX>'iS'l3'TT.
WALLACH BROS.’
nhw
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London,
' M 3? ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH FRIGE LIST, FREE OH APPLICATION,
WALLA OH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI VIOL
For Arristic Posing and Effective L**|? g
combining softness and brilliancy.
Photographs of,
CHARLEiaHT & m
ROYAL ARCADE,
STAND PRE-EMINBNTL? Al/ggA-
GO THOU AND DO IIKBWIS* I
S
3R, with its beat, ana* l ““Ajf-nxoS*
s, is on ns, andono of tbegreat |
lioyjis a delightfully cool an<l *. Hnß of *
UMMER,
effects, is
we may enjoy|isa delightfully iw* —s-urion-
bath, made more luxurious by the » jireodOO*
little “Sea Foam Shampoo.” Follow tn 1
and you will And it a most beneficial a e jM
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them ae*s f
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, ‘'jjig&e**
head, and has the endorsement 0l (l „ Jo#®
medical authorities. The words
Shampoo” are registered, and any o° ftuj
imitation of same will be prosecuted _ M •*"
extent of the law. Sold by ah of
dealers in toilet articles at the low P g( Jl*
shilling per packet. Please try one pao*
will never regret it.
THEATRE ROYAL-
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above is the only Licensed ®® e# | |l
Rockhampton for bolding ™ _.•«& W 6
ge«n
m-atrie* 1
can be
other Entertainments, and
any term upon application to _ „.a®,
CHARLES NA^gi,
The fonfler of tlie AP
ijJOiiVlxxiN »D.U uUQSt vvvA/t' _ sJe
\_y awarded First Prize at the
tionfor their PURE VOLATILE -nd #"
OIL. The only known cure for Ast wjna - ®”*
affections of the chest. We have m ° pa®*
testimonials than any medicine before
This is a genuine article. Posted to * 2s. ® '
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d. a TW jgO<J'
Agents, Hoffnnng & Co.; Elliott ® ro V_^-sss
ASK YOUR GROPER FOB
FRYS MALTED COCOAI
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"AH ORDINARY OUF CONTAINS MORS AOTIV* FROFSRTIBB Off
THAN A PINT OP THB 88855 ALH OB FOKMR. H -liAK«»*
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter,
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, CoppersmltMng, Blaoksmlthing, Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatlo Bell-flttlng, of every description,
BOULTON’S "FLUSH," "VALVE," and "PAN" CLOSETS, "VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &0,
Bale Agents fer Verity Brea., Patent Afar Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cewls, «as PCres, Mentors,
Warmers, <*«,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
Full Particulars and Prior ck Applioasiof.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
Qo>
130 COLLI NS-STREKT, WEST,
Melhourne,
91 PI'jDT-STREET.
Sydney.
BREWERS and iErated Water Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on Brewing
making. Dr. Griefendorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Griefendorffs Bohemia® V
Dr. GriefendorffsDandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorff s Quinine Wine. Utica and M u .j„jn g '. 8 ,
Bitters, Hop Aroma, Corklßg Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignozote
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saccharometers, J®* giu®
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, n
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of xTn apo
* THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND *
TRADE REVIEW.”
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE.”
GRAND BOOKS FOR PRESENTS AND SCHOOL PRlZ^*
CHB'STMAS c AND I °L
MUSlC—Newest Pieces, Sows, Dances, Glees, Christmas Carols, Anthems, Part Music, and Presentation Volumes.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET.
BLACK’S LABOUR BUREAU,
6 CORRIDOR, TATTERSALL’S BUILDINGS,
Hunter and Castlerkagjj Streets,
Sydney.
Householders, Hotelkeepers, Stations, supplied
twelve months for ONE GUINEA. A Com-
fortable Waiting Room.
FXTZKOTT HQTB&,,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
mr FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath,
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge,
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation,
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor,
Clgrax Divan.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLKRKAGH STREET.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN,N.S.W.
17HRST • CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms.
0 flple rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor,
AGENTS WANTED
To handle our fast selling linea Special induce-
ment offered to first-class salesmen.
Full particulars on application to
6 BRIDGE-STREET/, SYDNEY.
M,K M B X
(i&te of toha DeteoblvajForce),
PflYsta Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
IS ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absoonders and wife deserter* traced, and all kind* of
lonfidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
livoroe, libel, fraud, and inoendiary eases, for the legal pro-
tssslon and others. Oopies of wills, certifloates of birth,
carriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Kent* and debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
In the Oetoctive Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
&8W Zealand, and established agencies in all part* of the
Slobs, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution
SSjitteitiMi and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully, and
attend to all business entrusted to h care,
MHWMffifigi
oeforb Moustache »nd Whiskers. 'tSroRS afteh
m
Copyrighted.
.Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thin.
\ iitd will do it on either, bald
'head or bare face Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails ,20,(XXV
young men already wear full
Copyrighted,
beards t having used 1 to 3 pkts. Ao injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, U. (id. each, 3 for 35. Gd., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation. Address, Frank Douglas. Sole Agent,
Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney, N S. W.
:
HIGHt-V NUTRITIVE
mav be osTAmen m ukuedtub or packets th»ou«homt
T. E. WIESENER, 334 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jia
WATCHES. Jewellery, Instrument?, for Christmas presents. Watches for ladies, gentlemen, and boys, at all prices. Jewellery, the latest styles and designs in $ j o^\
at very low prices indeed (quality being in allcases guaranteed), Opera and Field Glasses, Drawing-room Clocks, Thermometers and Barometers. For P. 0 B 0
men, Microscopes, Mathematical Instruments in presentation cases, Telescopes, &c. For Boys studiously incliued, similar instruments at moderate prices (always in ro gt.
capital present, and lead their tastes into good, and keep them out of bad channels. Buy from the Manufacturer and direct Importer, and Bave middlemen s v
established name is sufficient guarantee for quality and good value. Ploise remember WIESENER’S Steam Factory and Shop—<
334 GBOBGEI STREET, IDISriEI'Sr,.
■4
